

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 58.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1881.
Price—3d.
§u(letin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1881.
Wanted, an Opposition.
There is no mistake about it. A man does not
require to have an analytical mind to discover
that the country is not getting from Parliament
the amount or quality of work it is entitled to
look for. The Legislative Assembly is settling
down to a comfortable, sleepy, jog-trot. Its
members have, in the absence of any constant
stimulus to exertion, drifted contentedly into a
sort of Government-stroke which is very humiliat-
ing. The members of the Ministry have evidently
allowed themselves to be influenced by the feeling
that they hold a monopoly, and can serve the
public just as actively and as well as suits their
own dispositions and inclinations. When we say,
Wanted, an Opposition, it is not in our thoughts
that the use of the thing, when obtained, should
be merely destrucive. We do not see that an
Opposition is particularly required for the purposes
of turning the present Ministry out of office. It
would be equally bad temper and bad taste to
grudge Sir Henry Parkes his present promi-
nence, or to cavil at the position held by Sir John
Robertson. It is possible to be-
lieve that Sir Henry is neither so
good nor so great a man as he be-
lieves himself to he, and yet to
do full justice to his merits. It is
possible, we conceive, to deny that
Sir John Robertson is the won-
derful benefactor he invariably
claims to be considered, and yet
to admit that he is intellectually
several sizes above the average
politician. A s for the balance of the
Ministry, nothing need be said, good
or bad. One might shake all the
more experienced Members of Par-
liament in the hat, and pick any
half-dozen at random, who would be
no better and no worse.
But what the country has reason to
complain of is that, having two of
its ablest men in power, assisted by
colleagues of average capacity and
more than average docility, it doesn’t
get much out of them. Ministers
appear to be extremely snug and
comfortable, and it is quite certain
that no private individual upon
whose shoulders rested responsi-
bilities so vast, and opportunities
so illimitable as are imposed and
afforded by the management of the
affairs of a great colony, and the
shaping of the future of a nascent
nation, could be either snug or com-
fortable. The task to be discharged
demands the most strenuous exer-
tions of the highest industry and
largest capacity. The responsibi-
lities devolving upon Ministers are
such as would, if properly recog-
nised, keep the grandest abilities
continually at their highest tension.
No one will venture to affirm that
the course or the promise of legis-
lation as transacted during fhe last
few sessions, and projected for the
session to come, have afforded any
indication that great minds have
been engaged in large conceptions.
The parochial character and hum-
drum mono’oiiy of recent Parlia-
mentary proceedings, except when
broken by mischevous episodes of
which remind one of the proverb
about Satan and idle hands, has
become absolutely oppr* ssive. Still,
no one regrets the bad old times
when Parliamentary proceedings
were little more than a series of
manoeuvres addressed exclusively to
the ousting of this or that party
from power. No one probably
would willingly exchange fhe de-
pressing, but humbly useful, routine
of to-day for the see-saw alterna-
tion of Pabkes and Robertson
which so long prevailed to the
exclusion of all other business what-
ever. Nor would anyone desire an
Opposition which would only be the
embodiment of quite a different
thing—obstruction. W hat is wanted
m a spur, not a stonewall. It has be-
come a matter of vital need that the
colony should find some men or party
capable of touching the amour-propre of its nodding
and somnolent lea dm s. A generous rivalry in out
doing each other in feats of power and usefulness is
the need of the hour. This but too often has been
perverted into an enormous anxiety to prevent
a nva, l from accomplishing any great work which
would gain for him the right to claim the gratitude
and confidence of the public But after all, as an
eminent astronomer has pointed ont, stagnation
is decay, and motion of any kind, even though it
involve for the moment a certain amount of de-
structiveness, is the parent of fresh births and
fresh developments.
Mr. David Buchanan, M.P.
Notokiety is not fame. The most notorious man
that ever lived was probably the ignominiously
distinguished Ephesian named Erostratus, who
burnt the temple of Diana —about two hundred
years before the Christian era—merely to eternize
his name by a transcendent sacrilege. The desire
of notoriety is the dominant vanity of weak minds.
We have had many of the variety herein Sydney ;
but perhaps not one who ever pursued the “ bau-
ble reputation” more persistently than the gentle-
man whose somewhat grim visage looks out of our
first page to-day. It is a pity that Mr. Buchanan
should have in his adult days such an inordinate
gasp for ephemeral popularity, because he is not
devoid of qualities which, if fairly exercised and
duly developed, would have enabled him to lay
the basis of a solid public reputation, and do
something really useful for a community in whose
trust and confidence he has largely participated.
Energetic, occasionally genial, liberal in his senti-
ments, it is surprising that his natural gifts did
not more* fully irradiate his path of duty years
ago, and enable him to avoid many of those quag-
mires into which he seems to have often volun-
tarily tumbled. In his self-accusings he must to
confronted with these facts: he never joined a
party that he did not desert; he never sided with
a chief whom he did not leave in the lurch ; he
never fought for a political issue that he
did not degrade; and he never attacked
a foe without besmearing him with obloquy. His
literary efforts are rendered futile by a dash of
audacious self-assertion, and his polemical essays
read like rant, because a logical base does not
underlie his arguments One might be disposed
to condone the faults of his mind, in view of the
generous impulses of his nature, but it is hard to
get over that character of mere scold that he has
made for himself in the Legislative Assembly and
on the public platform. He has had splendid
chances of success —not merely in a pecuniary
sense—if he had only subordinated his somewhat
tempestuous nature to the demands of propriety—
we had almost written, to the exactions of ordinary
political and social life. But no! he must be
epic in his hates and regards; he must edit a
newspaper, and confound rational reform with
firebrand radicalism; he must be-wig Shakespeare’s
“ Hamlet,” and make a guy of the philosophic
prince; and, in a word, he seems never to enjoy
himself so much as when he is at the throat of
that rough Hyrcanian animal from the Hunter,
whose hug cannot be very agreeable either in love
or war. Mr. Buchanan’s way through the world
has not been always smooth —not always bright.
Tke chequered shadows of life have fallen
on it ; still the story is not without
a moral. Let us tell it briefly. Mr. David
Huchanan was born in the city of Edinburgh some
fifty years ago, and seems to have received a
pretty fair elementary education. On his first
entrance into public life, he could not be said to
be cultured: his ideas were crude, his language
inflated and inelegant, and his manner awkward
He improved as time progressed, but he never
shook off the effects of early rude habits, and
ia ely ever tried to soften the asperities of his
character. He is reported to have knocked about
the world pretty freely before immigrating to
Australia (in 1852), and even then his “lines”
were not always cast in pleasant places. That bold
natural eloque ce of his attracted the attention of
the independent electors of Morpeth, and they re-
turned him to the Assembly with an enthusiasm
that ought to have taught him to aspire to a purer
popularity than that he has since pursued. His
first experiences in Parliament were not of a plea-
sant kind, and he was gl d to change the divan of
debate after a short time for a small billet under
Government. He did not long retain the “ situa-
tion,” and soon after his resignation sought the
approving voices of the electors of East Mac-
quarie, whose confidence he retained for three
years (from 1863 to 1866). During a portion of
this time he edited the Nation newspaper
in Bathurst, one of the most extraordinary speci-
mens of the hybrid newspaper ever published in
Australia. The aim of its editor was to rely on
“slashing leaders,” and he certainly published
some of the most curious—both in point of political
doctrine and literary execution —we have ever seen.
In the year ’66 Fortune favoured him, and he went
to England to study for the Bar, the examination
in Sydney having been made specially severe to
prevent his admission. He had previously in
Parliament exhibited his want of tact by attempt-
ing to establish free-tr.tde in all our Courts of
Justice —law agents instead of lawyers. He was,
however, admitted a barri-ter by the benchers of
the Middle Temple, London, and soon returned,
full-fledged, in wig and gown, to Sydney, where,
as a criminal lawyer, he began the practice of
his profession with very signal success. He was
elected tor blast Sydney in 1870;
and on this successful move in his
public career, he might, if he had
had the requisite qualities—self-con-
trol, studious habits, nndbonhommie
—have made a good and permanent
impression on the House of As-
sembly ; but, unfortunately, the old
style and temper were too deeply
and thoroughly ingrained in his
nature to enable him to adapt him-
self to the exigencies of the high
position he had attained. He after-
wards had to betake himself to the
Western Goldfields electorate, for
which class constituency he was
twice returned, although he never
signalised himself by any special
efforts to legislate for the gold-
miners. He was not returned at
the General Election in 1876, but
succeeded through a petition in un-
seating Mr. Rouse for Mudgee in
1879, He was returned to the re-
formed Parliament last year for
the latter place as one of its three
representatives. One of the most
remarkable of Mr. Buchanan’s per-
formances as a gymnast on the
political arena has been his sudden
conversion to Protectionism as a
sound fiscal policy. He engaged in
public discussion on this subject
with Mr. Reid some time last year,
and preyed how little he had studied
the subject before he grappled with
it, and with what fanaticism a
pervert clings to a heresy. He
was unable to point out what in-
dustries needed protection what
amount of employment those in-
dustries would give—what capital
they would attract —what would
ba the effect of a change in the
country’s fiscal policy on the trade
of the po t. In a series of exag-
gerate! political characters he
sketched while in England, nothing
was more grotesque than his glorifi-
cations of Cobdeu, Bright, and
other Euglish Liberals. Mr. Bu-
chanan is not yet hopelessly outside
the influences of common sense.
He can redeem the past if he will:
he has onlj to control those wild
impulses that have hitherto sent
him on his precipitate career, and
try to work with men who, he must
know, have the good of the country
at heart. His style of elocution
and composition has latterly im-
proved, being now often terse, vigor-
ously (without being ludicrously)
metaphorical, and occasionally
brightened by apt illustrations.
His Shakesperian studies have
evidently improved his mind —as we
hope the writings of John Stuart
Mill will sooner or later affect his
politics. A last word of mingled
caution and at vice. Let him es-
chew “ scenes ” in the House of
Assembly; and above all, not
arou-e the whole devil in Mr. John
McElhone. Verb. sat. sap.
The amount of the libel verdict obtained by
Mr. Thomas Robertson against Thb Bulletin has been
paid by the proprietary jointly, and not by Mr. Heaton
personally.
MR. DAVID BUCHANAN, M.P.


SOCIETY AND FASHION.
And yet another wedding. End of D awes’
’Point.
The fair daughter of a Maitland pressman will
shortly marry.
Darling Point will shortly lose three daughters
of an ex-M.L.A.
A return ball is to be given shortly by the Camp-
belltown bachelors.
The eldest daughter of one of our merchant
princes is engaged to aNarrabri gentleman.
One of the oldest bachelors of Newcastle is
about to be married to a North Waratah lady.
A well-known and accomplished Lands official
will shortly lead to the altar a dark beauty from Bar-
wood.
A Tumut blonde is engaged to a squatter hail-
ing from the same district. Great preparations. Wed-
ding shortly.
The daughter of one of the leading auctioneers
of Grafton is engaged to a popular Richmond River
bank manager.
A Jewish maiden, who is soon to be led to the
altar, will wear on the occasion white satin trimmed
with lace and ostrich feathers.
It is not true, as was stated in our last issue,
that the fourth son of a Maitland clergyman is about
to be married to a Newcastle lady.
Equitation is becoming a favourite amusement
with the ladies of Murrumburrah. It would be well
were some of them to practice in their back yards
before appearing in public.
A wedding, the immediate cause of which is a
young lady wno was acknowledged without a dissentient
murmur to have been the belle of the last hyspital ball
at Hill End, will take place shortly.
Although marriages have been frequent at
Maitland of late, there are still 137 almost despairing
fair ones consoling themselves with the melancholy
words, “ While there’s life there’s hope.”
A Chinese wedding in high life was celebrated
at Little River, Braid wood, a few days past. The usual
Chinese ceremonials, in the way of kissing the bride
and examining her muscles, were heroically endured by
the Christian visitors.
At the Garden Palace concert, on Saturday
afternoon, a very pretty dress was worn by a beautiful
brunette. It was of cream Indian silk, with heavy em-
broidery and fringe; bonnet of cream lace, with
shaded pansies. Massive gold bracelets and locket
were also worn.
One of the most elegant dresses seen here for
some time was worn by a lady at a wedding at St. John’s,
Darlinghurst, last Saturday. It was composed of violet
satin, with a very long train, elaborately trimmed with
stamped velvet. A bonnet and parasol of the same
colour completed a very handsome costume.
Mr. W. E. Campbell, M.L A., of Trigamon,
Warialda, eldest son of Robert Campbell, formerly
Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales, was married,
on the 2ith February, at St. James’s Church, Sydney,
to Miss Eglantine, daughter of the late Sir Edward
DeasT-hompson, C. 8., of Barham, Sydney. Miss
Deas-Thompson is a grand-daughter of Governor Sir
Richard Bourke.
A happy couple were married at Tumut the
other day on the fifteenth birthday of the bride. At
8.30 a.m. the bridal party proceeded to the Presbyterian
Church, where they were duly united; but as they
wended their way homeward they were followed by
showers of missies in the shape of old boots, some of
which struck the bridegroom and barely missed the
father-in-law’s bell-topper, specially donned in honour
of the occasion.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
The British are about to evacuate Candahar.
Numerous reports of Irish agrarian outrages.
The Graeco-Turkish frontier question still
unsettled.
Export of arms from France to Greece forbidden
by the Republican Government.
The Dutch inhabitants of Natal have been help-
ing the Boers with money and otherwise.
General Sir Frederick Roberts, G.C.8., of
Afghan fame, has been appointed to the command
vacated by the death of Sir G. P. Colley, and takes with
him to the front three regiments.
Home Rule members now obstructing the con-
sideration of the annual Estimates in the House of
Commons. Government are determined to demand
supply on the ground of urgency, and also the passing
of the Carrying of Arms Bill now before Parliament.
Why Parnell went to Paris. —It is the intention
of the Irish Land League to make the French capital
one of the principal centres of the organization, in
order that the heads of the League may issue decrees
without incurring the risk of arrest at the hands of the
Irish authorities.
Prince Frederick William Victor Albert was
married to Princess Victoria, of Holstein-Augustenberg,
on Feb. 26, at Berlin. The city was en file. The pro-
ceedings were of a most brilliant character. The
Prince of Wales and Duke of Edinburgh, uncles of the
bridegroom, were present on the occasion.
A very large force of Boers stormed Sir George
Colley’s position, at Spitzkok, on Feb. 27. For seven
hours an incessant and desperate struggle was main-
tained, the British soldiers fighting heroically, and only
giving way when their ammunition was exhausted. In
retreating, the British were able, by means of one or
two guns, to check materially the pursuit of the Boers.
The survivors are straggling into the camp at Mmmt
Prospect, an important position nearLaingsnek, which
is considered safe for the present. The enemy fought
splendidly. Sir George Colley and many of the officers
were slain.
A Sketch at the Lavender Bay Baths.
Last week we made some reference to the efforts
of Professor Cavill to encourage the art of
swimming among the fair residents of this city
and its suburbs As already indicated, much
success has attended these efforts, and the healthy
exercise has become quite popular. Professor
Cavill, it is almost needless to say, conducts the
baths on the days set apart for ladies with the
strictest regard to privacy and propriety, and it is
satisfactory that this kind of management has
been perceived and recognised by all the leading
families of the North Shore, &c. The latest de-
scriptions of bathing suits, &c., are supplied, and
the Professor is assisted by members of his
family in giving instructions in the natatory art.
Remarkable progress has been made by the
ladies, and in almost every case the bathing has
been attended by improved health for those who
have patronised the baths. Our artist gives a
sketch of the scene on a ladies’ day.
An unscrupulous young fellow, who hails from
that land of flowers, fruit and Chinamen, Melbourne,
has been deceiving some of our residents with forged
letters of credit. He introduced himself to several of
our leading people, and, being possessed of a very gen-
tlemanly appearance, a fine flow of language, and a soft,
sweet voice, it couldn't be wondered that he was re-
ceived by the “ upper ten.” Among his pranks are
passing cheques not worth the paper they are written
upon, and purloining any valuable articles that might
happen to be lying about during his visits. However,
his little game has been officially detected.
THE FASHIONS.
[BY THE “MAN-MILLIN[?],”]
Plash and cachemere go well together.
Bridal bouquets have grown to an immense
size.
Nuns’ cloth is the new material for evening
dresses.
Sapphire and old gold are a charming com-
bination.
Birds are seen in abundance on all the new.
millinery.
Four o’clock teas are getting more fashionable
every season.
Plaids are again in vogue, and are becoming to
most tall figures.
There are thirty new styles in hats and bonnets
for this coming season.
Nuts and berries made of plush and velvet are
new and elegant for dress trimming.
Suede gloves in white or cream kid, with twenty
buttons, are the correct thing for evening.
The hair is worn very high or very low on the
neck. Flowers are again seen in the hair.
Toilettes adapted from the types of the 16th
century are much in vogue and greatly admired.
When plush gloves are worn they must match
the colour of the costume to the utmost perfection.
Chenille cords and tassels are worn on dresses
everywhere. It is possible to arrange them with taste.
Chenille fringes are to be much nsed for trim-
ming polonaises, and are extra effective when hanging
over a velvet skirt.
Fancy feathers, birds’ wings, heads, and breasts,
are seen on everything in the way of millinery. They
look warm and stylish.
Cloth of gold is much worn at home, and is
introduced into almost everything ; for the street as
well as for the ball-room.
Dresses for evening are almost covered with tiny
unmounted roses. Daisies and buttercups are also
worn on black net or lace.
The pig and the elephant are contending for the
place of first favourite. Some think the snake will
reign supreme the coming season.
The latest evening tints are blush pink and deep
red, maize and heliotrope, China-blue and coral, cream
and pink, ruby and grey, and ivory and old gold.
The Agnes Sorel hat is second favourite this
season with young ladies. It looks well in plush,
trimmed with chenille cord and shaded feathers.
A snake made of plush is the latest ornament
for the hair for evening. It is worn coiled round the
head and nestling in tiny roses and diamond pins.
The mama for plush still rages at home. The
leading French and English modistes say it is absolute
perfection, and may be worn by ladies of haut ton.
Loose trains are more in fashion than ever ;
they are worn to fasten to the waistband by patent
hooks. One black velvet will do with almost any
dress.
High-heeled boots and shoes are fast disappear-
ing. Several eminent doctors have written against
them as being most injurious, especially for children’s
wear.
Bouquets of natural flowers are worn on satin
shoes; for evening buckles are disappearing. The
favourite flowers for this purpose in England are violets
and pansies.
The poke bonnet is still much worn ; but it, in-
stead of turning up, has now a tendency to turn
downwards, and has been re-christened “The Kate
Greenaway."
Lace fans are just taking the place of feathered
ones. The former look light and soft, and are some-
times mounted with gold and silver vignettes and
monograms.
Black Spanish lace dresses are new and elegant.
They are generally made on a foundation of bright-
coloured satin, but look well on black satin foundation,
or on cloth of gold.
The newest thing in lace is after the Spanish
style. It is now seen in gold, cardinal, blue, cream,
and black. The latter has threads of gold woven
through it, and looks very elegant.
In Paris and London, the taste for tiny animals
in diamonds still continues. Cate, spiders, owls, and
snails are all worn in brilliants. A very questionable
taste, which, let us hope, will not reach this side of
the globe.
Muffs to match hats and bonnets are much in
vogue, and seem to be taking a firm hold in Sydney
amongst the fashionables. Nearly every lady wore her
muff and bonnet to match at Government House on
Saturday.
Crinolines, it is feared, are coming into fashion
again, and are now assuming large proportions. It is
thought they will develop into the old style of 1861 and
1863, and thus lead to an increase in ladies’ tram and
omnibus fares.
Upright collars, composed of rnchings of lace,
through which fine wire is run as a support, and
trimmed with velvet or plush to suit the dress, are
reigning favourites for evening. They are sometimes
called the Bernhardt collar.
The toilettes at a fashionable wedding lately
were rather simple—dark green or dark prune cash-
meres over plush petticoats a shade or two lighter;
jackets or mantles of the latter material; light-looking
bonnets, with muffs to match. Those dainty muffs are
now worn in the ball-room, tied on to the side with a
narrow satin ribbon.
No lady should be without a black cashmere
fur-lined cloak. They are most useful, and becoming
to all figures and ages. They are comfortable for driv-
ing or walking, and make a very elegant wrap (by
turning the fur lining outside) for the theatre, or going
to and from balls, &c. A good one, lined in squirrel or
Russian rabbit, can be had for about £3 3s.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“G.H.H.” (Wallerawang); Appears to have
been despatched regularly ‘‘F.M.”: No, decidedly
not. “P.S.”: Story not good enough. “ G.S.”
(Melbourne): We don’t deal in such things. Read
The Bulletin, and see for yourself. “ M.8.G."
(Blayney) : Thanks for your kind wishes. “ T.C,”
(Brisbane) : We gladly avail ourselves of the infor-
mation. “ K.P.L.”: Glad to hear from you. Try
again. ‘‘Nero ” (Mudgee) : Thanks. We ‘‘get it”
in a double sense. “X” (Adelong) : Received.
“C.R.H.”: We don’t understand your paragraph, and
therefore do not insert it. “John Collins” (Bris-
bane): Thanks for the extract. “T. Hawken " :
You cannot expect us to take notice of a
letter written in a hand obviously disguised.
“P. Mackay”: Matter very good “Ida” (Surry
Hills): Many thanks. “C.W.": Uninteresting per-
sonalities “ M.P.” (Pynnont); Re “ Data.” Not
good enough. “J.M.”: Thanks for the drama,
which, we can readily believe, is founded on fact.
“J.P.8.”: Your bush stories are very good and highly
acceptable. “E.J.” (Surry Hill): Much obliged. We
do not, however, necessarily print everything sent us.
“X.Y.Z." (Cobargo): Try again. Obliged for local
information. “B.B.” (Gladstone, Q.): Spiteful.
« M F.” (Newcastle): In such matters we must always
have the name of our correspondent, as a guarantee, to
some extent, of bona fides. “ W.M.”: _ No; we must
have your full name. “A.M.G.”: Did they? How
nice I “ J.H R.”; Thanks. “F. Hough”; Please
cill. “Cigarette”: Your note unfortunately mislaid.
“D.M‘F.”: Overlooked. “M.C.S.”; Very kind,
but can’t accept. “ W.R.D.”: Not “in our line.”
Big Ben.
Big Ben (not he of Yaamba Creek, immortalized
by Brnnton Stephens, but Big Ben of the Barron) is no
more. Ben was an alligator, 18ft. Bin. long, and a
“ terror.” His habitat was the first crossing over the
Eiver Barron, near Cairns, North Queensland, and he
has been known and dreaded by travellers ever since
the discovery, or invention, of that fearful mountain
path to the Hodgkinson, “ Douglas’s Track,” over the
Bellenden Ker Bange. A favourite trick of his was to
wait until horse and rider were pretty well out of the
stream and struggling through the mud at the
river’s edge; then he’d grab Bucephalus by the
thigh. The consequeice was that every man who
had heard of Big Ben crossed the Barron navy
revolver in hand, and looked behind him rather
anxiously from time to time. Well, Ben was
often fired at, but never seriously hurt. A few weeks
ago, an ingenious Cairns man —probably Dr. Myers—
bethought himself of poison. IJdwt. strychnine was
carefully sewn up in the entrails of an ox, which were
deposited at the river brink. Ben pluckily accepted
the bait, and was found floating on his back, dead,
about a week afterwards, to the great joy of every one.
He was duly opened, and found to contain, among a
great variety of other useful and interesting articles, a
quantity of human bones, and the undigested pigtail of
a Chinaman. Peace to his ashes — we mean to
the alligator’s. Having got so low as eating Chinamen
it was, perhaps, time for him to die.
In the Humpy.
At the last Wangaratta (Victoria) show, a pony
bucked four successive riders off, when Jim O’Brien, of
the Springs, put his kangaroo on the saddle. The dog
sat six bucks and then dismounted. This dog is, with-
out exception, the best trained canine in Australia.
He is an old white-headed Eiverina man. Thus
“That mare, sir, could jump higher between timber
and sky, dive deeper and come up drier, than anything
between the two rivers, with all the hack creeks
chucked in. And in the bush nothing could get away
from her. I never wanted a yard ; an old hollow gum-
tree or anything would do. I could run ’em into it. I
reckoned myself a good rider, but I tell you she went so
fast that I had all I could do to sit on. One day my
stirrup broke and she gob away and could never be
yarded since. But the saddle stopped on her, and,
would you believe it, grew on her back, and the young-
sters tell me that her foals had always the mark of that
saddle on their backs. They tell me that old men blow,
but I don’t believe it.”
Introduce us to your neighbour, and ask him to
subscribe.
In another column, the Wertheim Sewing
Machine Company issue a challenge for £lOOO.
Every correspondent who addresses the editor
of this journal, should sign either his or her real name
or a nom de plume.
There is a probability of the famous war corres-
pondent, Archibald Forbes, who is expected in Sydney
next May, being sent to the Transvaal, if the Boer
rebellion continues.
R. Fairweather and M. Howard pulled a double-
scull race in Woolloomooloo Bay on Tuesday afternoon,
against A. Croall and D. Fletcher. The latter won
easily at the finish.
Another win for the Waltham Watch Company.
This time at the Melbourne International. The result
is a first award, and the Waltham Company is the only
single exhibiting or manufacturing firm that has taken
such a prize.
A match was played on Saturday last between
Dixon’s factory and the Orient C.C., which resulted in
a victory for the latter by three runs. Dunn batted
well for victors, and Woodcock, P. Carroll, and J. Par-
nell for the losers. The bowling of Campbell for the
winning,! and Delprado and J. Parnell for the losing,
side was also good.
LATE THEATRICAL.
The Austrian Band are in Newcastle.
Mr. J. L. Hall appears at the Gaiety shortly.
Verdi has popularised the song, “ Fair Mom.”
There is no falling off in the ‘ ‘ Operatic Pinafore’ ’
audiences.
Long rehearsals of “ The Pirates of Penzance ”
are held daily.
Mr. Edwin Kelly, of Kelly and Leon’s Minstrels,
will arrive in Sydney next Monday.
T. Bergin’s song at the opening of the second
act of “ Pinafore ” is always encored.
M‘Lean’s Troubadours are playing “ Struck
Oil” at St. George's Hall, Melbourne.
There is to be a new and grand attraction at the
Queen’s, commencing on Saturday night.
Miss Maggie Moore will appear as Buttercup
on Saturday night, for the first time in Sydney.
Beaumont, in “ Pinafore,” shows himself to be
still possessed of a great amount of vocal and physical
vigour.
A new contralto, who is very highly spoken of
by good judges, will make her dtSbut in The Pirates of
Penzance."
George Gordon is engaged all day and a good
portion of the night, in painting the scenery for the
“ Pirates of Penzance.”
Williamson’s “Pinafore” chorus is the best ever
got together in Sydney, in opera. Giorza conducts with
the most brilliant success.
The cost of producing selections from the Rev.
Dr. Torrance’s compositions in the Melbourne Town
Hall, was double the amount of the receipts.
Amongst the singers at the Burns anniversary,
at St. James’s Hall, were Sims Beeves and his son,
who promises to become almost as popular as his father.
Miss Christian, the best oratorio singer in Aus-
tralia, and who met with a warm reception in Melbourne
after her brilliant success in Sydney, has received
several offers of engagement for Good Friday.
The chesnut horse, to be given away by Mr.
W. H. Thompson, on the occasion of his benefit, is by
New Warrior out of Chieftainess. In alluding to this
magnificent gift, we are only too happy to congratulate
Mr. Thompson on the success of his season here, and
to express a hope that before long he will again return
with his beautiful pictures, and once more shower
pianos, suites of furniture, and thoroughbred horses
upon a smiling community.
How is this for high ? The Buffalo Express,
speaking of the appearance of Mary Anderson in tights,
has the following“ The fatal but hopeless sigh which
swept over the house like the south wind breathing on
a bank of violets, as lon strode down the stage in
doublet and hose, did not come from the emotional
ladies in the audience, but from the susceptible young
men. Pour hundred and fifty of them had simultane-
ously discovered that the divine Mary is irretrievably
knock-kneed!"
The Premier Dramatic and Comedy Company
made a very great hit at Auckland in “ Queen’s Evi-
dence.” Miss Flora Anstead won much merit as Kate
Medland. Mr. G. P. and Mr. W. C. Carey were also very
successful in their impersonations. The benefit to
Mr. J. W. Dodge, the enterprising manager of the
theatre, resulted in a big house. At the conclusion of
the last performance of the season, Mr. W. G. Carey
was invited to adjourn to the Exchange Hotel, where
he was presented with an address in acknowledgment
of the manner in which he had discharged his duties.
To-morrow (Friday) and Saturday an important
event in the theatrical world will take place at the
Gaiety Theatre the benefit of Fred. Marshall.
Mr and Mrs. Marshall, during their sojourn
amongst us, have made themselves deservedly
popular, and a full house on either night of their benefit
may confidently be expected. So far as we are con-
cerned, Mr. and Mrs. Marshall have, on their de-
parture for Melbourne, our kindest wishes, and we
trust before long to see them and “ Quilp ” again
amongst us. The programme for the two nights will be
found in our advertising columns.
We are soon likely to have a series of captive
balloon ascents in Sydney. The Minister for Works
has granted L’Estrange (the Australian Blondin) the
use of the Domain for the purpose of allowing an
ordinary balloon ascent, by which the enterprising
aeronaut expects to be able to realize a sufficiency for
the arrangement of captive balloon ascents. Mr.
1/ Estrange's last exploit resulted disastrously in a
financial sense for him, and*during the last couple of
months he has been working as an artizan in an engi-
neering establishment in Sydney, devoting his spare
time to experiments and preparations for a series of
captive balloon ascents. Mr. L’Estiange has won the
confidence of a large number of tood men in this city
who are glad to see him through his undertaking.
“ Pinafore,” at the Royal, has been as great a
success as ever. Both Verdi and Beaumont have been
very successful, imparting to the piece a delightful
vitality, and giving the rich gems of the opera in a
style never heard here before. Mr. Rainford has given
a capital representation to Deadeye, and having to sing
the taking song, “He is an Englishman,” has sung it
well, and won encore evening after evening, Mr. J. J.
South has been a thoroughly droll and humorous
boatswain. Mr. Williamson has continued the role of
the Admiral, and has acted the part with a faultless
conception of the author’s idea. Miss Maggie Moore
was compelled, on Thursday night, to refrain from
taking the part of Josephine, which character she had
made completely her own. An affection of the throat,
which greatly endangered her voice, was the cause.
Miss Josephine Deakin, a new aspirant to operatic
laurels, assumed the role, and on Monday night made
her debUt. Miss Deakin proved herself the possessor of
a rich, sweet, and powerful soprano voice, and she
acted the part with charming grace and effect. All
that is wanted in her performance is action. The Hebe
has been as attractive as ever. Neat figure, nice style,
and pretty little voice. Miss Annie Taylor, as
Buttercup, has been very entertaining.
Australian Eleven v. Combined Eleven (Victoria
and New South Wales). The authorised Scoring Card
for the above match will be printed en the ground by
the undersigned, so that persons arriving after play
has commenced, by purchasing a card can see what
batsmen are out, how out, and the score obtained by
each. J. and G. Hyde, 187 Castlereagh-street.— [Advt.]
Gaiety Theatre.
It will be a cause of satisfaction to the Sydney public
that the “ transcendental ” pianist, M. Kowalski, will
appear on Monday next at the Gaiety Theatre, under
engagement to Messrs. Bavless and Solomon. This
gentleman has gained enconia of the Melbourne Press,
unsurpassed by the great Ketten himself, and the more
interest will attach itself to the performance from the
fact that the two pianists, while being equally brilliant,
are of an entirely different school. M. Kowalski’s
“ Marche Hongroise ’’ is said to be a most extraordi-
nary piece of fingering, quite distinct from the noisy
school of the now departed and fascinating Henri. The
interest which will attach to this performance will,
without doubt, be great—perhaps unprecedented in the
musical annals of events in the colony.
Messrs. Harper Brothers, of New York, have
established a branch house in London, and are now
issuing a European edition of their celebrated maga-
zine, the circulation of which, we are sorry to have to
say, has h therto not been extensively pushed in Aus-
tralia. All things considered. Harper’s Monthly is
the best and cheapest magazine published in any lan-
guage Its literary matter is of the very highest class;
while the woedcuts with which it is embellished have
never been equalled in any other publication. Harper’s
is the magazine which, above all others, is worth pre-
serving, and its glorious illustrations should find a
place in the scrap-books of those who, while fond of
art, may not be in the habit of collecting and preserving
the serials of the day. We hope that Messrs. Harper
Bros, will have Australia represented in the pages of
their magnificent publication.
De mortals nil ni-
Si bonum. —E.I.P.—
No more upbraid him ; —
Nay, rather, plead his cause,
For Ben exactly was
What nature made him.
Not radically bad.
He naturally had
No leaning sin wards;
But Nature saw it good
One life-long crave for food
Should rack his inwards.
According to his lights.
And to the appetites
In him implanted.
He did his “ level best ”
To feed —and all the rest
He took for granted.
Ere birth he was laid low,
And yet no man I know
For high birth matched him :
Apollo was his sire.
Who, with life-giving fire,
Ab ova hatched him.
Just over Capricorn
This same Big Ben was bora ;
A feeble lizard ;
But with the years came strength.
And twenty feet of length—
The most part gizzard.
By Fitzroy’s rugged crags.
Its “ sawyers’* and its snags.
He roamed piscivorous.
Or, watching for his prey.
By Yaamba Creek he lay.
In mood carnivorous.
Unthinking little hogs.
And careless puppy dogs,
Fitzroy-ward straying.
Were grist unto his mill. . .
His grinders now are still.
Himself past praying.
Whether in self-defence.
Or out of hate prepense.
Or just for fun shot.
Are thingsjbeyond my ken —
I only know Big Ben
Died of a gunshot.
It was a sorry cise ;
For Ben loved all our race.
Both saint and sinner ;
If he had had his way,
He would have brought each day
One home for|dinner ; —
Loved with that sort of love.
Such as is felt above
The Southern tropic:
Small chance was ever his.
But his proclivities
Were philanthropic.
There arc who would insist
He was misogynist—
’Tis slander horrid;
For every nymph he saw
He would have liked her—raw,
From toe to forehead.
Then let his memory be;
No misanthrope was he;
No woman-hater;
But just what you may call.
Take him for all in all.
An alligator.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
The proceeding's against Alphonse Bechet for
still unfinished.
The railway line from Jnnee to Narandera was
opened on Monday.
The Mount Browne excitement is driving the
Temora people crazy.
The Government has declined to strike off the
Immigration ofiicer’s salary of £2OO.
One hundred and thirty-one tons from the Crown
claim, Gympie, yielded 2191 ozs.
Big meeting at Temora on Saturday night, to
consider the water supply question.
A landslip has taken place at Blancheton, on
the Eiver Murray. 100 yards of cliff fell into the water.
Mr. Caspers, of Goulburn, has some capital
photographs of the late Gerard Kretft. The likeness
is very faithful.
Arrangements are complete for the establish-
ment of a branch in this city of a French Bank—the
Comptoir d’Escompte de Paris.
Heavy gold found at Temora during the week
by Pinlan and party, the Unknown, No. 2 North
Tynan’s, and Keating and Hayes.
The Irish citizens of Sydney have decided to
celebrate St. Patrick’s Day by a public banquet. The
affair promises to be a most successful one.
Protection! The Victorian Manufacturers’ As-
sociation declares that Chinese immigration is not un-
desirable. Pine country for the working man!
Mr. E. S. Smythe, now business manager for the
Williamsons, was the first manager that ever took a
company of artistes to Natal and the Orange Free
State.
Mr. W. H. Hunt, architect, writing to a con-
temporary, says that the City Council ought to be dis-
solved on account of its corruption and mismanage-
ment.
The extension to Narandera is a branch of the
main Southern line of sixty miles. The terminus is
distant from Sydney 283 miles. The line is called the
South-Western.
It is now believed that the gold stolen from the
Tarama was taken by a passenger, whose portmanteau
was noticed at a Melbourne boarding-house to be re-
markably heavy.
Death’s Paddock, King’s Plains, has been
opened for gold-mining. Several parties sinking, and
others awaiting result. Between 400 and 500 men
already on the ground.
Maafu, the great Fijian chief, is dead. “ Pos-
sessed of a gigantic body, unfaltering courage, and
unusual skill in diplomacy, he was fitted to be a king of
men, and a king of men he was from early manhood
until he died.”
The Eev. W. Corrie Johnston has resigned the
managership of the Colonial Publishing Society. He
goes on a preaching tour at the end of a month. An ad.
in the Herald invites applications for the billet, at
£350 per annum.
A Wangaratta policeman was caught in the act
of committing a burglary at an hotel the other night,
and when discovered! attempted to arrest and take to
the watch-house a man who had been watching him.
“ Committed for trial.”
Mr. Menton, formerly managing man for Yonng
and Lark, who has had large experience in the highest
departments of fashionable millinery in England, has
purchased Mr. E. Webb’s business in Pitt-street, and
intends launching out in grand style.
The Agricultural Society, into which new life
appears to have been infused, asks the Municipal Coun-
cil to grant the use, for show purposes, of the unoccu-
pied land on Moore Park east of Eandwick Eoad and
south of the cricket ground. Council favourable.
The clergy of the diocese of Bathurst have
erected, in the chancel of All Saints’ Cathedral, Ba-
thurst, a tablet in memory of the late Archdeacon
Gunther, who laboured in the Western districts for 42
years. The work has been beautifully executed in
encaustic tiles by Messrs. Lyon, Cottier, & Co.
Several claims have been jumped at Temora,
owing to alleged non-compliance with the Mining
Regulations. Amongst the shares are—the whole claim
held by Gyrie and party, Agnes No. 1 East, two shares
in Gibbs and party’s claim, half a share held by John
O’Neill in Bourne’s reef, and several others equally
valuable.
At Charters Towers, the Town Clerk and Eate
Collector stand committed for trial, for conspiring to
defraud the Municipality of a paltry sum amounting to
a few shillings. Some people say the prosecution is the
result of petty spite, others call it “ fearless execution
of an unpleasant duty.” Quion sate ?
It is gratifying to learn that the hall of the
Sydney School of Arts will probably be not much longer
let for public entertainments, being required for objects
connected with the institution. The Melbourne Athe-
nseum relies to a very great extent for its income on
letting its best room for public entertainments and
other objects not connected with the institution.
Sydney Municipal Council asks Government to
introduce a Bill permitting the raising of a loan of
£lOO,OOO. Sir Henry Parkes requires an undertaking
from the Council as to repayment before moving in
the matter. The Bill, in view of paslf mismahagement
and present maladministration of the Council’s affairs,
is likely, when introduced, to be very actively opposed,
if not rejected, by the Assembly,
A Dunedin (N.Z.) magistrate, named Watts,
recently sentenced a number of boys charged with
apple-stealing to be whipped, six hours’ imprisonment,
then be kept in the Industrial School for terms rang-
ing from six to three years. It caused great indigna-
tion. There was a painful scene in Court with the
parents, some of whom had to he removed. The
magistrate stated the sentence was the only way in
which larrikinism could be put down.
A coach left Wilcannia on Monday with fifteen
passengers, for Mount Browne. Cobb’s coach followed
on Tuesday. Some well-known residents of Wilcannia
have returned, and brought with them some fine nug-
gets purchased at the rush. Latest news from the
diggings says that the water supply will be exhausted in
a fortnight unless rain falls. Hundreds have left
Temora for the rush. Experienced diggers pronounce
the appearance of the country to be like that of the
Palmer.
A terrible occurrence took place at Eodmyre on
on Saturday night, when the mangled remains of Miss
Charlotte Fanny Bray, aged 17, the daughter of Mr.
Thomas Bray, J.P., were found on the railway line.
The unfortunate young lady had left her home, at Bur-
wood, at 3 p.m , but nothing had been heard of her up
to the time (10 30 p.m) at which the shocking
discovery above m-ntioned was made. The police
having deemed it necessary to make the most searching
enquiries into the melancholy affair, the inquest has
been adjourned.
The Sydney Infirmary elections took place on
Friday last. The seven gentlemen elected Directors
polled as follows:—John Harris, 661 votes; H. E. A.
Allan, 642; Eobert Fowler, 636; Sydney Bnrdekin,
584; John Pope, 573; El ward Hordern, 534; George P.
Wise, 485. Dr. Cecil Morgan, the unremitting zeal and
high professional skill displayed by whom during his
last term of office, are thoroughly appreciated by the
subscribers and public, was elected honorary surgeon
by 514 votes. Dr. Craig Dixson, elected honorary phy-
sician, received 506 votes.
The Wagga Wagga Progress Committee are
waking up the railway department on the subject of
railway rates. They point out, among other things,
that fencing wire and woolpacks for persons living
Wurty or more miles north of Albury are carried from
Melbourne to Wodonga at 40s. per ton ; woolpacks for
tlie same people cost 84s. 6d. per ton from Sydney to
o agga Wagga, and fencing wire 105 s. per ton. Sugar,
ander the same conditions, costs 655. to Wodonga;
‘ roi n Sydney to Wagga Wagga it is 105 s. Eoofing iron
tor the same district is carried from Melbourne to
Wodoigd for 655.; from Sydney to Wagga Wagga it is
4055. pot ton.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Poole is not Poole to Parkes now, but Cool.
The Forster banquet promises to be very suc-
cessful.
When Mr. Kidd rises, the other members do
likewise.
It is stated that Mr Patterson has his eyes cast
on the Victoripn Premiership.
The cost of printing for the Legislative Council
during the session ending July 13, 1880, was £32qB
12s 9d.
A certain member has got the “ needle ” over
the Kenny Hill scheme. The Premier now complains
that his Withers are unwrung.
Sir Henry Parkes said he never had any hesita-
tion in declaring his opposition to the remission of in-
terest on conditional purchases.
When the position of Agent-General was vacant
some time back it was offered to Sir John Eobertson,
Mr. Alex. Stuart, and the Hon. Saul Samuel, the latter
of whom accepted it.
Mr. M‘lntyre has been selected to contest
Maldon, Mr. Service’s constituency. Mr. Walker will
retire. Mr. J. J. Casey has not yet made up his mind
whether to be a candidate or not.
Oh gallant legislative son !
The Goulburn Aroub “ lays it on ”
Thinks, without the slightest flattery.
The coming planet is—Tom Slattery.
Mr. Murray Smith, the recognised leader of the
Opposition in the Victorian Assembly, said the other
day, in course of a speech, that nothing could be done
in the politics of that colony without a compromise.
The Elections and Qualifications committee
are to inquire whether Major Holborow, the mem-
ber for Argyle, legally holds his seat, he being a
volunteer officer in receipt of a salary from the Govern-
ment.
The representatives of two adjoining electorates
in Queensland have died suddenly within a few days
of each other. Eockhampton is the next electorate
southwards, but so far uo one has been able to induce
Ehyming Eay to to take a sea voyage, and so keep the
thing going.
In Victoria, a member of Parliament cannot take
a position, with a salary, right off. There must be an
interval of six months between his resignation and his
appointment. Mr. J. B. Thompson, the member for
Queanbeyan, resigned one day to fill, the next, an
office under Government to which a salary of £6OO is :
attached. Unhappy Victoria! Glorious New South 1
Wales!!
Mr. Garrett intimated, on Tuesday night, that
he intended to move certain amendments in his Press
Bill, now before the House. Should the second reading
of the Bill be agreed to, he proposes to abandon the
11th clause of the Bill, which provides that in any libel
action it shall be necessary for the defendant, in his
plea of justification, to show that the alleged libel was
published for the public benefit.
In Sir Henry Parkes’ “ Murmurs of the Stream,”
a work which is to be found in all the libraries, on the
hack shelves —the following occurs in an effusion
headed, “A Passing Ehyme:”—
Here men leap forth, the statesman of an hour.
With one untutored bound, to highest place.
Who yesterday had never dreamt of power.
Whom none had named for mad ambition’s race.
And yet John Davies sits with the Government!
At the banquet to the Hon. James Service, at
Melbourne, on Tuesday night, 450 persons, including
all the leading Constitutionalists, were present. Mr.
W. K. Thomson, head of the firm of J. M’Ewan and
Co., occupied the chair. Mr. Service was received with i
great enthusiasm, and, in responding to his health,!
defended his conduct in the leadership of the Opposition
party. He stated that had he compromised on his
Eeform Bill, as certain of his critics thought he should
have done, his Ministry would have gone down all the
same, but with dishonour and disgrace, instead of j
marching out with all the honours of war. On going to |
the country in July they had a prospect of securing a
majority, but were defeated by Eoman Catholic tactics, j
Mr. Richard Skelton, one of the oldest and most
widely known of Australian compositors, died on
Thursday last, after a long illness. Mr. Skelton was a
general favourite with the profession, who looked up to
him as an authority. He was one of the leading spirits
of the mechanical department of The Empire in the
old days, and had been attached to the staffs of sever al
Victorian and Californian papers. He was employed
on The Bultetin from the date of its establishment up
to the time when, a few weeks ago, be left the office, to
“set up" no more.
BRIEF MENTION.
Sub Boer gruel. We’ve adother cold id our
doze.
What was done with the cask of beer sent by
Mr. Toohey for the railway demonstration at Dubbo ?
A Transformation Scene. —Churchwarden jump-
ing out of his surplice every Sunday, at Waverley church,
just before the collection.
j We are much obliged to the Penny Morning
Etjm for the graceful compliments so generously
showered upon us in its second leader of Wednesday.
We can only regret that the advertisement in question
didn’t appear in a paper with a respectable circulation.
The Herald has now quite established its
reputation as a comic journal. It says that while Mr.
| Gladstone, “ on his return from a drive, was in the act
of alighting from his carriage, his boot caught, and he
he fell heavily forward, his head striking the carriage-
step with great force.” Now. how could a man
“ alighting from a carriage" fall against the carriage-
step? We can understand a man falling against the
step of a carriage into which he was trying to get.
We notice that it is the custom in Sydney for
ambitious young doctors to read the S. M. Herald as
they go their morning rounds —not to see anybody, you
know, but merely to be seen. Now, especially in view
of the fact that it is perfectly well known that they have
plenty of time to stop at home and read any paper they
like, we’d mildly suggest to these young people that
it’s more than sufficient to blast the character of any
white man to be seen reading the Herald publicly.
The other day, on Yass racecourse, a commer-
cial traveller was looking on at a wheel of fortune, and
was urgently pressed by its owner to give him a turn.
Eeply: “Can’t; I’m dead broke!" Monte: “I’ll
advance you a £ on your watch-chain." Commercial
(taking his watch out and hesitatingly unfastening the
chain): “ A £ seems very little to give for it." Monte :
“ I’ll make it two,” and threw down the brace of notes.
Commercial (handing over the massive albert) :
“ Thank you; good day; I gave 3s. 6d. for it at the
Melbourne Exhibition last week.” [The notes were
bad.J Tableau.
He was a well-dressed, mild-looking youth, and
a civil servant. It was the first of the month, too.
The day had been scorchlngly hot beyond all precedent,
anil he felt parched enough, as Dante beautifully ex-
presses it, “ to lap Narcissus’ mirror up.” Besides,
the “ stringy barks” had a devilish tempting look about
them that was perfectly irresistible. Such was the
inestimable youth’s excuse to the policeman who, with
a bull’s-eye lantern, peeped cautiously through the
back gate, and succeeded in pulling our young friend
from the body of a dilapidated spring cart, where he
was melodiously snoring in a dreamy slumber.
The Distress says;—“William Freeman has
been brutally murdered near Penrith by Eobert Wil-
llama, who is in custody.” Poor Billy ! He’s always
getting into some trouble. It was only the other day
that he treated the members of Tatt.’s to a few flowers
of oratory, and resigned. And now—
We’d drop a tear upon yonr grave.
For, Billy, we loved you!
Did we not know that you have ta’en
A pub. in Wool’mooloo.
This verse wants the “ hang ” of the true elegiac. But
this time we have only half turned on the metre.
We don’t want to say any more unkind things
about Mr. Inglis’ book, “Our Australian Cousins,”
which from various journals has received the “ gruel ’’
it deserved. However, we can’t help complying with
the request of a Queensland correspondent, who points
out that Mr. Inglis. while stating that natives of New
South Wales are called “ Cornstalks,” and natives of
Queensland “ Banana Men," says that young Victorians
have been given no nickname. Now people shouldn’t
write about the colonies unless they know enough of
them to be aware that a Victorian native is a “ Gum-
sucker” —which term, it is said, was first applied to
youthful Tasmanians.
The Ancient Damsel of Saturday has the
following advertisement: —“ The public are cautioned
against giving my wife credit, as I will not be re-
sponsible for any debts she may contract after this
date. —Joseph , street,” &c.
Onr advice now, sweet Joseph, is this :
And we’re disinterested—that’s sure—
Give the lady “ a love of a kiss,”
And she’ll vow she will do it no more.
Then both go to the Circular Quay,
Take the boat—or else ride in the ’bus—
Have a day at Manlec or Coopce,
And —ah! — won’t you be thankful to us !
A complimentary banquet was given by the
nurserymen and seedsmen of Sydney to Mr. George
Anderson, of Anderson and Cos., seedsmen, Pitt-street,
on the occasion of his departure for Europe. The
banquet, which took place in the Masonic Hall, was
attended by about thirty gentlemen. Mr. P. L. C.
Shepherd officiated as chairman, and Mr. Joseph
Graham as vice-chairman. This was really an ex-
ceedingly seedy affair, and therefore, as might have
been expected, the speeches were most fiowery. The
chairman rose, and wished the guest a pleasantfuschia,
and trusted there would be no dahlia about his return.
The meeting then broke up, each man wishing to
return home violet was fine. Volumes could not say
more.
“ During the hearing of a case in the Carlton
(Vic.) Police Court a witness came into the box in his
shirt-sleeves, just as he had left his work. The chair-
man of the Bench, Mr. O’Grady, severely rebuked him
for presenting such an appearance, as it was wanting in
respect to the court, and told him he had rendered
himself liable to a month’ imprisonment.”
Says the Weekly Times :—“ The new beverage
which Parisians are offering to their afternoon callers,
is called “ cerises a 1’eau de vie,” or “ punch a la Cham-
bord.” This punch is concocted as follows Take
three bottles of champagne and boil it; on the instant
of boiling add two glasses of Jamaica rum, some cin-
namon, vanilla, and the rind of one lemon.” It’s no
wonder that murders amongst the higher classes are
on the increase in the modern Babylon. A certain Mel-
bourne family read this item a few weeks ago, and one
Sunday afternoon, when they were all assembled, a
bowl of the Chambord punch was produced. Next day
three workmen came in to do the repairs, and the
hired man was hunting all over the town for clock-
shades.
The Gundagai Times has a correspondent
who signs himself “ Momus,” and who is about
as funny as a railway accident. Here is a sample
of his style:—"Fishing for trout. —A miner
named Trout was robbed of £150 while asleep
in an hotel at Temora. A person named Picker-
ing (another piscatorial ap Deflation) and three
others were arrested for being engaged in this fishy
transaction." Now, we knew a young man who used to
do this kind of thing for a Queensland paper. Week
after week the people read it, but they said nothing.
One day he got “ tight," and lay by the roadside. By-
and-bye a bullock-dray came along, and
He was buried, by the Sheriff’s bailiff, in a pine coffin
with tenpenny nails—and a handsome subscription was
got up on the night of the obsequies for the bullock-
driver.
Mr. Read, the Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol,
causes the prisoners engaged in mat making to work
into their patterns the word “ Salve,” which, as every
one knows, in Latin means "welcome.” Sometimes
the word “welcome” in plain English is worked in,
and occasionally, in mats intended as samples, the
words “ Darlinghurst Gaol.” Thus it is that at our
periodic industrial exhibitions wa sometimes see,
staring us in the face like “ writing on the wall,” the
legend, “ Welcome, Darlinghurst Gaol.” By the way,
"Salue” was placed over the main entrance to the
great exhibition of 1851, and when Holloway, of pill
and ointment fame, saw it, he went and offered the
commissioners several thousands of pounds for per-
mission to place over it the word " Holloway’s,” so as
to make it read “ Holloway’s salve.”
“ Anglicanus,” in The Australian Church-
man, has made a joke, the first premeditated joke
we’ve yet seen in an Australian religions paper,
"Anglicanus” refers to the fact of the Secretary for
Education having intimated to a bachelor teacher that
unless he got married within a “ reasonable time,” it
would be necessary to remove him from his school,
and adds :—“ The next thing we shall hear of, I sup-
pose, will be something of this kind—‘ Sir, I beg to
inform you that as a married teacher is no longer
required, you will, if within a reasonable time yon fail
to get a divorce, be removed, in order that a divorced
teacher may be appointed to the school. I have the
honour to be, with the highest expressions of morality,
<kc., your most obedient, and all the rest of it ’ —and
this is training a teacher in the way he should go! ”
If you send to one of the suburbs a single tele-
gram of 10 words it costs 6d. only. On the other hand,
a suburban telegram of 20 words costs you Is. 4d. That
is to say—for a shilling you can send two separate tele-
grams, amounting in all, with addresses and signatures,
to perhaps forty words, and necessitating the despatch
from the delivery stations of two messengers. But one
single telegram of 20 words, with say 10 words added
for address and signature, and only involving the de-
spatch on delivery of one messenger, costa 4d. more
than the first two messnges. Now when we want to
send a suburban telegram of over 10 words we always
split it up into two, and give the officials twice the
work. Certainly the country has to pay for this, but as
we by thetransaction save the price of a libation and
a copy of the D.T., we’re not much troubled. Mr. Crack-
nell is requested to explain.
And so the son of the Crown Prince of Prussia
was married last Saturday, to little Princess Whatser-
name. Well, well! We trust they got our little pre-
sent all right. It was something that Joe Eokford
would call very "rekerke.” We sent it by Morton
Tavares’Jdelivery, and gave orders that it was to be
given into no hands but those of young Wilhelm him-
self. When we do a thing, in this office, we like to do
it properly, and therefore our minds are easy as to the
reception with which our present will meet at the
hands of their Eoval Highnesses. Of course our readers
are dying well, there, we’ll let out the secret. We
sent a copy of Mr. E. Combes’s Report on the Light-
ing, &o., of Schools, as it contains infinitely more about
the Kindergarten system than the Germans know them-
selves ; and the information may be useful to the young
people when—but then this is anticipating.
Miss Kennedy, the daughter of the Governor ot
Queensland, offers a prize to the boys attending the
Toowoomba Grammar School, to be awarded to the one
who shall make the most graceful bow. Any opulent
Toowoomba father who may want his son “ coached ”
up in the bowing business should apply to the Hon. J.
J. Casey, of Melbourne, who has on hand a special kind
of bow, which he got ong Paree. Casey, who exhibited
his incomparable salaam to great advantage on the
occasion of the opening ceremony of our defunct Inter-
national, is a fat little man—so fat indeed, that he
might be called podgy, were it allowable to apply so
vulgar a term to so sacred an individual. J. J., we hear,
is just now sadly in want of something to do. He has
declined to contest Maldon in the Berryite interest
unless his election expenses be paid. Anyone wanting
lessons in deportment should therefore apply to him.
“Ebenezer Thome, J.P., charged with stealing
a cow, was remanded until this afternoon." —Evening
News.
However, we hope to hear that he’s not guilty—which
will doubtless be the case. “ Once accuse a man of
crime and people will be ready to believe him guilty.”
The Dramatic Club, consisting of members of
the Press and others, held their first meeting a few
evenings back at the Foresters’ Hall, for the purpose of
enrolling members and electing officers. We have
not, unfortunately, a verbatim report of what took
place, but we are given to understand that the first
piece played—just to show that they are modest
beginners—will be Othello. The cast will possibly be
as follows :—Othello, Mr. Alfred Bennett; lago. Father
Leonard; Cassio, Mr, Mackay; Eoderigo, Mr Ruby;
The Duke, Dr. M'Gibbon; Brabanto, Dr. Garran;
Clown, Mr. W. H, Hicks; First Super, Mr. E. Cyril
Haviland,; Second ditto (with banner), Mr. Frank
Bennett. Desdemona, that giddy “Gipsy;” Emilia,
Miss Philip Dale; Bianca, Bewitching " Bam.” The
proceeds of the entertainments to be devoted to those
charities which begin at home. Come now, talented
Thespians; you can’t say we haven’t given yon a
start. But then —we’re always doing some good-
natured thing or other.
A clergyman in one of our suburban churches,
in reading the Lesson, read as follows: —‘ Blessed
above women shall—Joel, the wife of Heber, the Kenite
“Lines to an Owl.”
Supposino that there happened to be in the Assembly
a man who studied how to make his personal appear-
ance a libel on the handiwork of the Deity; who
mutilated the English language; who constantly used
pig-jobbing expressions and Billingsgate metaphors;
who delighted in startling disclosures, and revelled in
the wrongs of the "pore man.” —supposing, we say,
that the Legislature of this colony numbered among
its members a man who habitually made against civil
servants wild accusations having for their sole bases
dirty scraps of paper handed to him by loafers in the
lobby; who, with a brutality unprecedented in the
annals of any country, and with a vulgarity belonging
to the shambles which he left to ascend the forum,
made unoffending women in private positions victims
of vituperation such as has never before been addressed
to anybody or anything but refractory moribund hogs,
would we soil our pages by reproducing his remarks ?
No! we would simply inscribe to him the octosyllables
which follow: —
Why roar’st thou still ?—We’ve had enough.
Hoarse Bull, of thy rampageous stuff I
When mute, thou’rt not a lovely sight;
When howling—Caliban outright.
What gestures—mouthings ! —what a pose f
Ye gods! and what a suit of clothes!
With ev’ry phrase, Tautologist!
Why must thou shake thy blackened fist t
Why must thou stamp and rave and roar.
And rancour and vile lies outpour ?
The answer comes both swift and true:
Because it is “ thy nature to /”
There is a right—there is a wrong;
To which side, Goth, dost thou belong ?—
Thou who, in mail of priv’lege clad.
Each night in some mad rant art glad
To plunge—brave hero that thou art !—
In some poor breast thy venomed dart; —
Well knowing that thy "poisoned breath "
May wound a woman unto death I
There is no man upon this sphere.
In whom thou could’st impart one fear;
For in this land —aye, ev’ry part—
All know thee, and know what thou curt;
But if some dull bucolics will.
In spite of all, bear with thee still.
If these exist—by heavens ! then.
They cannot bear the name of men.
How much less, Ruffian—mark this, now—
How much less of a man art thou! —
Yes, thou, whose coarse and ribald jeers
Call forth a woman’s burning tears.
Make cold the hearts of suff’ring wives.
Cast shadows over children’s lives.
And scatter grief for evermore
Where all was happiness before.
And this for what P for some great aim.
To gain him and his country fame ?
To benefit a starving throng ?
To bravely right a cruel wrong ?
No motive does this man possess.
In causing all this dire distress ;
No motive has this “ fearsome wight,”
Save gratifying venal spite;
Yet ’midst our rulers long has sat
This MONSTER —Heavens ! think of that.
“ The Festive Board.’ ”
“At a meeting of the board of directors for the
Sydney Infirmary, held yesterday afternoon, Alderman
Hordern, the newly-elected director, created some
consternation amongst the older directors by asking
the president some questions about financial matters,
and more particularly as to who paid for the feeds the
directors indulge in at the annual elections, and as to
the banquet provided for the directors by Compagnoni
and Co. on Friday last. The president replied that
they were provided for out of the funds of the institu-
tion, whereupon the worthy alderman denounced the
practice in strong and well-chosen terms, and protested
against the money which was subscribed for the sick
and afflicted being expended in turkeys. &c., &0., for
the directors, and stated that so long as he held the
position of director he would not allow such an im-
proper use of the charity funds; and if he wanted a
feed he would pay for it out of his own pocket, and
suggested that the other directors should do the same.
Several of the older directors kicked at the prospect of
losing the annual feast, but Alderman Hordern insisted
on his protest being entered upon the records of the
meeting.”
What matter if the patients die ?
What matter if the public bleed ?
Philanthropy is “ all my eye;”
Directors royally must feed.
The poultry must be tender too,
The driest of champagne must flow,
The caterer his best must do.
For they are “ epicures,” yon know.
The best, and nothing but the best.
What matter if the cost be dear ?
Their consciences are set at rest.
When wallowing in regal cheer.
The man who gives his guinea-cheque
To heal the sick —from out his hoard,
That man, perchance, does little reck
This money will regale the “ Board.”
The clerk, who puts his “ five bob” in
The box outside th’ Infirmary.
Don’t think, perhaps, his little “tin ’’
Will go to purchase Burgundy.
The tradesman, who is waited on
For his subscription annual.
But little thinks his coin has gone
To gorge an Hospital cabal.
The patients lie and hunger there,
Dream of cool fruits the live-long day;
And, turning from their meagre fare.
They heave a sigh—and pass away.
“ A little fruit 1 ” will often cry
A sick girl.in the women’s ward;
“ There is uo fruit,” is the reply,—
“It is all wanted for the Board.”
Out with all maudlin sympathy!
(A few words more, and all is said,)
Let ev’ry patient rot and die —
But let the noble “ Board” he fed!
O’Grady’s a Melbourne J.P.,
And once a small butcher was he,
A et he threatened, this cit,
A man to commit.
Who appeared in the court
(His time being short)
In bis sleeves:—
It so shocked that once chopper of beeves!
Ebenezer, how
Could you be so silly.
As to steal a cow ?
Oh, it’s awful, really!
Ebenezer Thorne,
Sure ’tis you’ll be very
Cast-down and forlorn
Over that “ Straw-berry.”
Tap of Fortune’s wand—
Presto! hokee-pokee!
Then, you understand,
J.P. is in chokee.


be blessed shall she be among men in the tent." Fact.
This is the result of no glasses.
No Prospect of Kenny-Hill.
Taken to the life —life-Boyd.
Babies’ favourite poet—Tickell.
You can half-kill a child for .£l.
You can always tell anew editor by his wheeze.
There is to be a weeding-out of the J.P.’s. Hoe,
dear!
“ An Island King.”—Dan O’Connor at the
Glebe.
When Mr. Meyers rises, Mr. Beyers falls —
asleep.
Fitz says Ninny talks to the order of his con-
stituents.
Two P.M.-ships vacant, and G. E. Maclean
twice forgotten ! I
“ The three Parliamentary Browns.” Ask
M’Elhone how he distinguishes them.
A well-known city beauty has lately dyed her
hair yellow. Te of the hempen rope, beware!
Query. If a man “ have no soul ” will he go to
heel ? We pause for a reply from Dr M'Guven.
The truth of the Herald's article in Saturday’s
issue on the Town Hall foundations is Garranteed.
The master-curriers of Sydney hold to the ten-
hour system. So they won’t curry favour with the
men.
At a recent banquet the representative of a
contemporary was vociferously drunk—his health, of
course.
Is the Taw worth News edited by a lady ? We
only ask the question because it seems in love with
Garrett.
It is definitely decided that Trickett shall follow
Hanlan. Of course he’s done this already, but we mean
to Canada.
When the collector of a certain holy paper don’t
get in the "monish” for the advts. he is straightway
admonished.
Ever since the Duke of Manchester dined with
the Tambo Corporation, the Mayor has said his Grace
before every meal.
The champion big-footed man belongs to the
Survey Department. He wears large tens and com-
plains that they pinch.
The Tamworth News says, “ Generally
speaking, but nominal damages are given against
journalists.” Indeed !
A certain M.P. attended his first banquet not
long ago. Now every day his family ask him when he’s
going to dress up like a waiter.
“ Derailed” is what it is called now when a
train is thrown off the line. This word will sometimes
be handy for tram passengers too.
The Adelaide Bulletin says: “Eumour is
generally a liar.” And yet Skefflngton’s rag is the most
rumourous handbill in the antipodes!
The hide of the rhinoceros fetches a good price
in London. This support? the idea, altogether, that
M’Elhone is of no profit in bis own country.
The Aborigines Protection Association gave Mr.
Gribble £2O on Monday afternoon. Now the only thing
in the cash-box of the Association is the key.
There is a man in Sydney who has taken so
much magnetised water that he says he is irresistibly
drawn every Sunday to the church of Dr. Steel.
A man who was reported cured of rheumatism
by a Sydney newspaper is now tearing round the town
in search of the writer, as he wishes to remonstrate
with a clnb.
The Evening Grammar asks ; “ Where does
the fault lay ?” We don’t know for certain, but we
should say it lies in the early education of the man
who wants to know.
The oldest inhabitant has just died at Denili-
quin. When discovered lifeless he was clutching in
one hand a copy ot the Pastoral Times. No inquest
was deemed necessary.
Says the Lithgow Targett “ The Bul-
letin has a picture delineating the faults perpetrated
at the Sydney Town Hall. ‘ Jobbery, Swindles, &c.’ It
is a true bill.” Thanks!
Mr. M’Elhone said he had never been invited to
Government House. Never mind, John. Keep your
pecker up. When there’s something wrong with the
drains, they’ll give you a turn.
The new rule of the Coffee Palace, No. 1, is
that the waitresses, after being on duty from II a m. to
11 p.m., are to find their way home at the latter hour
to different parts of the suburbs.
A Jimbonr (Q.) selector, it appears, has, after
some observation, come to the conclusion that the
Duke of Manchester is a man. Previously, it is to be
supposed, he thought him merely a duke.
John Davies’s life has no logic in it. The Kenny
Hill scheme would, they say, give us more water in less
time than any other, yet the great temperance advocate
objects. There’s something in Prospect.
When a man sends a letter to the editor of “ The
Bulentine,” and we, on opening it, find the contents
labelled “Poetry,” we put it into the wasre-paper
basket or send it round to the editor of the Mail,
A schoolboy at one of onr city schools was asked
by the master why he hod not brought anew drawing
hook. The younester replied that his mother couldn’t
do it, ’cause old Pid. had stopped supplies. Pact.
A Melbourne pressman (Argus) met a Sydney
pressman in King-street. " Good heavens ! how thin
you look,” cried the Melbourne scribe. "Ineedn’t
ask what paper you belong to. Come and have a square
meal.”
When Mr. Buchanan has emptied himself of his
ideas, he goes home to tea. When Mr. Koseby has
spoken, he placidly slumbers. ’Tis thus they avoid the
vituperation of honorable members in reply. Ingenious
creatures!
Old George Gilbert, of intercolonial fame,
applauded Alick Bannerman’s play at the Association
and took the hat round. The idea was well received by
those in the pavilion, who subscribed £lO 15s. Vive U
sport! — helas!
A man has been found dead at Pomereng.
"The clothes of the deceased,” says an exchange,
"held the bones together, and a copy of the Evening
News of a date in October last was also found on the
remains.” Fatal paper!
An Auckland homoeopathic physician calls his
house “ Liverpool Villa.” It has been remarked that
" Liverpill Villa” would be more appropriate ; and, as
the doctor is a homoeopath, some people say that it
ought to be “ Liverpiliute Villa.”
It is the fashion in Gonlbnrn that when a man
catches a thief stealing anything from his house, he
takes him to the deserted lockup, and courteously
requests him to wait until he can find a policeman.
The prisoner generally doesn’t wait.
This is how Carroll, of Adelaide, writes in his
paper of the Dean of Westminster “ A paltry word-
twister named Dean Stmley pronounced his fiat against
the proposal." And yet to think they put up with this
kind of thing in Adelaide! Alas I alas I
The question of the acting-P.M.’s salary has
cropped up in the House, and the general opinion is
that the amount is insufficient. In any case, we see no
sufficient xeason for all this stalk about a Crane. Think,
and you will see all this derrickly. Phew!
Talking of a runaway horse, the Newcastle
Hekald says: —“It slipped its halter coolly (nc), as-
cended the doorstep, and finding the front door open,
proceeded te interview the table.” We are always
calling attention to the want of night schools.
Villikins and his Dinah—
Wilkins’s Ultipomatum,
"If,” says Wilkins, “ yon don’t marry
In six months, why then, sir, you’ll
Underst.and you cannot tarry
Any longer in this school.”
The Brisbane Torpedo Corps is still in existence.
It cons’sts of eighteen torpedoes, two galvanic bat-
teries, and two lieutenants. The torpedoes and one of
the officers have been apparently made on the sam >
model. There is nothing like uniformity in military
matters.
The editor of the Shoalhaven News adver-
tises thus in his paper:—“ Wanted a youth with brains,
as an apprentice. Apply News office, Shoalhaven.”
We hope he got an answer, for never was a youth “ with
brains ” more wanted in any office than in that of the
Shoalhaven News.
A Cobargo poet sends us an ode opening thus; —
“ When temperance odes distract my mind
Till my poor heart is bowed with grief,
’Tis then, and mostly then, I find
That brandy brings me sweet relief.”
We can assure him that his complaint is very common
down here too.
When a certain editor lately died, the managing
proprietor was asked by the subeditor who was to suc-
ceed him. '• Well, I don’t know but what I won’t do it
myself,” said the M P.; and he gazed with some compla-
cency at the first slip of his first leader, which lay on
his table before him. It was headed, “ Sines of the
times —a leeding artekul.”
The fellows who sneak round the back way
into Brisbane “ pubs.” are not convicts escaped from
gaol, but civil servants going for their “ nips." A regu-
lation has been issued to the effect that any civil ser-
vant seen in a bar will be liable to dismissal. The Gov-
ernment think the publicans have fattened on the poor
misguided clerks long enough, and in future civil ser-
vants aie not to be allowed to waste their munificent
salaries in debauchery.
One of the “ pillars” of one of the churches in a
southern town a short time ago withdrew his insigniti-
cant financial support and also his ’umble presence
from that church because a couple of trees growing on
its grounds were cut down without a consultation (not.
in a sporting sense) among its attendants. Congrega-
tionalism, consistency, and Christianity were all re-
nounced for those trees. This is treason with a ven-
geance. We regret they did not “ax” him before they
tackled the timber.
The Invebell Times and Herald have buried
the hatchet. They now smol e the pipe of pence in the
same bar-parlour, and sit side by side at the local
muffin-worries When the Times man gets a quarter’s
subscription in pumpkins, he sends half of them on to
the Herald office, and when the other takes out
a double-column ad. in plums and tomatoes, he sends
the bruised ones and his compliments to his redoubt-
able friend. All this, of course, is very proper and
pleasant; yet such is the perverseness of this world
that the Inverell people all long for the feud again, and
subscribers to both papers have just thrown out hints
to that effect. It’s very hard to be virtuous—and to
get rich.
The will of the late Barnet Lazarus, a mise-
owner at Sandhurst, was proved in the Supreme Court
Melbourne, on Thursday, the estate being sworn at
£105,000.
Over a hundred thousand pounds !
Lazarus was able
To prosper out of the fragments, zounds 1
“ That fell from the rich man’s table.”
It came out in Court, the other day, that a
“ newspaper editor man ” up in North Queensland had
made over his paper to his mother-in-law. The question
instantly arises whether this is not a deep scheme of
revenge on his part. Does he intend to entrap her into
an action for libel, or a horsewhipping P Is not a news-
paper a dangerous thing to entrust a woman with,
especially if that woman be your mother-in-law P The
editor had better order his footsteps carefully, or all
the world will hear his family history one of these fine
mornings.
The twenty-five magistrates who took part some
time ago in the Dimond licensing case at the Water
Police Court have, it is stared, been called upon by the
Colonial Secretary to explain their conduct. We can
imagine the whole twenty-live ranged up in front of the
Premier, and one by one they make their excuses till it
cemes to the immortal John Hourigan.
Then John, just with a little cough.
Link’d with a look half shy, half coy.
Would say, “Och ! plaze, sor, let me off.
It wam’t me, but the other bhoy.”
This is the way they do it in South Australia.
The husband is, say, at Port Augusta, a “ broker,” and
the wife in Adelaide. They wish to be re-united, but
as the fare is £7 or £B, it is impossible. The husband
winks to the wife through the post; the wife goes to
the Superintendent of Police and takes out a warrant
for wife-desertion. The husband is then arrested at
P.A., and brought down in custody. His better-half,
of course, does not appear against him, so he is dis-
charged, the twain are happy, and the Government
mulcted of some £2). N.B.—This is a good “family
item ” —may be useful even here.
The Dubbo Express asks— “ Does any one
know what has become of our new police magistrate P”
We’ve no idea, really. We might, however suggest
that as P.M’s. seem to be taking to wandering, it would
be as well if the Government made some regulation
which would effectually keep the stipendiaries in their
districts. How would it do to bobble them—or, better
still, handcuff the P M. to his clerk of petty sessions ?
We won’t raise the price of the paper on account of
these suggestions, though we are sure the Minister for
Justice will at once perceive their value. And, talking
of the Minister for Justice, we trust he may remain
Long Innes present honorable position.
From the Old Lady :—“ I will not be responsi-
ble for any deb. s contracted by my wife, Eliza Privett,
after this date, February 21, 1831. —(Signed) W. E
Privett,—2, Alston-terrace, Eedfern-street, Kedfern.”
This notice is paradoxical. It is both a public and a
Privett communication.
Adelaide is going for the erection of new baths
in different parts of the city. One bathing house is to
be constructed, we understand, in the lower end of
Hindley-street—the worst and most immoral part of
the city. This will be a great improvement, for, don’t
you see, what was once wicious will now be wash us.
A fair correspondent wants to know why Mrs.
E. Lynn Lynton’s novel, “ Under Which Lord ?” is in
such extensive demand at Darling Point and Darling-
hurst. Now, this is a subject we don’t care about
touching on. All we can say at present is that every-
one should read the book referred to. Even a clergyman
might do so with advantage.
The superior education and cultured tastes of
many of our country police have often been a subject of
remark among new arrivals. There is at present in a
northern town a member of the force said to be an able
and constant contributor to the Press of the day, and
who plays delightfully—is, in fact, a perfect master of
execution—on the barrel-organ.
In France, in the Middle Ages, a person con-
victed of being a calumniator was condemned to place
himself on all fours and bark like a dog for a quarter of
an hour. If this custom were adopted in the present
day M’Elhone, M.L.A , would bark so much tor past
offences that in future he’d never have time to slander
anybody, politically or otherwise —in fact he wouldn’t
even have sufficient leisure to make application for a
free railway pass to Breeza or any other place.
Writes a correspondent:—“ Whose fault is it ?
A certain northern (tin) mining township, with about
800 inhabitants, has had a Post Office about four
months, but that institution is still without the re-
quired stamp. The consequence is that on the arrival
of each mail (7pm. three times a week) between 200
and 300 persons, most of them from long distances, are
kept waiting an hour or more until the postmaster
writes the name of the place and the day of the month
and year on each letter.
“ The Mayor and Aldermen of Sydney have
paid a very graceful compliment to Mr. D. O’Connor,
M.P., as officially notified in Wednesday’s Herald.
Little Abercrombie-street shall henceforth be known as
‘ O’Connor-street.’ ” How much better form is this
than the eternal emu-egg inkstand, or the purse in
which every coin could tell a tale of the mental
“ sufferings” of the subscribers. We are glad to see
Dan’s name up at the street comer —very glad ; and we
are delighted to see him snuff out old Abercrombie.
Why, Sir Balph was only a general who let his coun-
try’s armies to victory, while dear Dan is a hero of a
very different class—alderman, patriot, and orator.
More power to him, and—may pork go up.
Among the many celebrities of Rockhampton is
a cabby who is to be seen, both night and day, driving
his cab with the reins and an umbrella in one hand, and
a fan in the other. He wears a military coat buttoned
up to the neck and a white helmet. When cabby feels
the heat getting too much for him he sits inside his
cab, and requests his fare to “ take the box,” which
request is usually complied with.
The cablegram about 600 Irishmen having
sailed from New York to assist the rebellions Boers is
simply absurd. Of coarse they could not land at any
British port in South Africa, and if they succeeded in
landing at the Portuguese settlement of Delayoa Bay,
there would probably be a deal ’o gore shed before they
reached the Transvaal, to say nothing of the ravages
which fever and other diseases would cause in their
ranks Besides all which, if they have only just left
New York, the rebellion will be crushed out long be-
fore they reach their destination.
Nick Tooth, Mayor of Maryborough (Q.), is the
politest man north of Brisbane. He publishes a notice
in a local paper, headed “To Owners of Goats,” and
proceeding thus:—“Ladies and Gentlemen, —Upon
inquiry I find there are but twelve goats registered for
the current year. I am led to believe there are more
than this number within the municipality. Please
take notice that on Tuesday next I intend to instruct
the Inspector to enforce the by-law by summoning all
parties found with unregistered goats in their posses-
sion and to destroy all goats found straying about.”
Hia Grace the Archbishop ia getting a little
loose in his clipping. In this week’s Distress we read
that “Mr. Leopold de Rothschild, who is about to
marry Miss Perugia, will be the lessee of the Empress
Eugenie's residence at Chiselhurst, on her Majesty
quitting, at Lady Day next, with the option of pur-
chase within a certain period.” Now, it was only the
week before last that we congratulated the young
people, and apologised for not being in time with our
fl-di slice. We respectfully recommend his Grace just
to cast his eye over his Bulletin before taking the first
snip out of his Whitehall Review.
People who aren’t horsey, and who suddenly
find themselves rich from any cause, should get some
reliable person to pick their pairs for them. It really
doisn’t look well to see attached to a neat and wel-
padded laud > n an animal of the Gothic order of archi-
tecture, and so angular that yon could hang up a
cabbage-tree hat on any part of his body. A really
elegant-looking man can perhaps afford to sit behind a
weedy, bald-faced chestnut, with a head like a violin-
cello, ears like cabbage-leaves, a body like an empty
potato bag, legs like those of an ichthyosaurus, and
feet which would cover a 610-acre paddock. But less
distinguished persons should be got up accurately.
The Shoalhavrn News, a little curl-paper
which has all the appearanc -of having been written by
the hangman, and printed with the type and press of
the Original Caxtou, contains, amidst its blurred con-
tents, the following paragraph:— “The Bulletin has
gone smash. It came to an untimely end on the
* Bridge of Sighs,’ not even waiting till the 10th June 1"
Now here is an item absolutely swimming in schnapps.
In the first place. The Bulletin «o r»r from going
“smash," is, as the mau who wrote the above well
knows, in the highest tide of pr sperity. This, how-
being a matter of which the ,'HOai.haven News will
probably hear further, we will content ourselves by
admitting that we cannot, by any combination of
thought and study, connect the Bridge of dighs with
the 10th of June. We should be giad of an explanation;
also information as to the exact quantity of turpentine
and beeswax he imbibe! piior to iaw,ing the item!!
We wonder who edits the Ec to ? This is the
sort of bosh he puls in. A lit' .e g.rl seeing her gran pa
making “pot-hooks and hangers, ' thus addresses
him: —“Grandpa, how long have you been writing in
this way ? Ever since I was a little dot, you have been
writing, writing, every time I come; did you always
write just so ?” To this guileless question the old
gentleman replies as follows: —“ The first piece that I
ever wrote for the New York Observer was printed in
that paper April 7,1838 From that time to this, about
forty-three years, with a brief interval, I have been
writing every week, and almost every day, for the
Observer. It is curions to see how much one writes
in snch steady work Suppose a minister writes sixty
pages every week in making bis sermons (less than ten
pages a day, and he can easily write ten pages in an
hour or two), he will write 3000 pages in a year, 30 000
in ten years, and 120,000 in forty. I have written on an
average more than five columns each week for forty
years, or 10,000 columns in all; at least 100 volumes of
400 pages each." The little girl was, of course, much
impressed.
In speaking of the London Times, the editor of
the Stdnet Daily Shee-oke hath spoken as follows:
“ The leading paper of the world is, as regards expres-
sions of decisive and firm opinions, mere milk-and-
water —especially water. Its policy is to have no
opinions, and it has never, within the memory of the
oldest inhabitant of her Majesty's dominions, expressed
one which it did not either qualify or contradict—if not
in the same, in a subsequent issue.” Now, we all know
the Barrack-street mau is great, yet why can't he be
merciful? But it’s not in him. He can’t show any
quality of mercy without straining himself. Man of
adamant that he is, he has no consideration for the
feelings of anyone. Now, only just, imagine the flatter
there will be in Printing-house Square when “the paper
that always is—right ” is opened by one of the editors!
How they will wince when the iron enters their soul!
How—but, perhaps, we are anticipatory. We are not
quite sure that the proprietors of our morning contem-
porary would condescend to exchange with the Times.
If they’ll kindly let us know, we will continue the par,
in onr next issue.
We are pleased to see that Goulburn is getting
on. The Southern Argus says, alluding to a prize
fight in the main street of the city:—“ The fight,
which was for £5 a-side, was conducted according to
all the rales of the ‘ring,’ and seventeen rounds were
fought. No police disturbed the proceedings. Ad-
vance, Goulburn! ” On Sunday, in William-st' et, the
lovers of the “noble art” can always be gratified by
the sight of several pugilistic encounters during the
day, and embryo lexicographers can derive a con-
siderable amount of instruction. The polee,
respecting this pleasing evidence of the march
of civilization, show their good sense by never
interfering with the spirited combatants and
their following; therefore the religious people who go
to and from their places of worship are continually
reminded of the glorious time to come, when all the
churches shall be converted into skittle-allej s, all the
cathedrals into concert halls, and when the “ Icono-
clast” shall be supreme Dictator over over every
English-speaking community. Advance Australia! Ad-
vance civilisation! Bradlaugh and Besant for ever!
Whoop! Hurroo 1
He came over from —well, never mind where —
to Sydney, in search of his wife, and looked for her in
vain. Then he got a private detective to look round—
also in vain. But one very wet morning he saw a
pretty blonde step out of a fashionable restaurant in
Upper Pitt-street, and recognised in her the lost one.
He thought he saw exactly how matters were —that’s
to say, he knew that that nice dear little pony phaeton
standing at the sidewalk, and the elegant accessories
hadn’t been paid for out of her own slender private
fortune. He followed the phaeton, but he wasn’t rich
enough to pay for a cab, and she (unconsciously, for she
didn’t see him) gave him the slip for that day. Well,
he soon found her again, and interviewed the “ other
man,” who was at first verv angry, but afterwards
began to talk coolly, and showed him a marriage
certificate issued from the vestry of a very swell
suburban church only fourteen months back; also a
five-months’-old baby, and various other things.
Husband No. 1 has now cleared out. £SOO was the
amount paid to square the matter, and part of this is
now being spent in a holiday trip to Tasmania, where,
it is said, the gentleman who has thus simply and
expeditions! v been divorced ini-ends selecting another
wife. But this isn’t all A fellow wbo knows, yon
know, can take his affidavit that the blonde is a
polyandrous little minx who was married less than six
years since to a very prosperous and still nndeceased
furritr who lives and has his being in Bond-street.
Now, who is she ?
Writes a Melbourne correspondent:—“ A rather
good story has been going round medical circles here.
An epileptic subject, who had consulted a large num-
ber of local doctors without obtaining relief, at last
visited a practitioner who prescribed a mixture con-
taining, among other things, half a drachm of bromide
of potassium to the dose. The patient didn’t like the
‘ pot-brom ’ —said it ‘ left a nasty taste in his mouth,’
and that he wouldn’t take it, whereupon the doctor
muttered that his cantankerous patient might ‘go,’
Ac. Then the sick man went along to a homoeopathic
practitioner, who, by judiciously ‘ soft-sawdering’ him,
induced him to take, for three weeks, a couple of
drachms of his pet aversion—bromide of potassium—
daily. Sick mau got well, and has not since had a re-
turn of his malady. When he got w-dl he was naturally
overpowered with joy anfi gratitude. He took the
wonderful prescription to a newspaper office, and re-
lated to the editor the history of the marvellous cure,
asking that a statement of the circumstances and a
copy of the prescription should he published. The
editor said he’d ‘ see about it,’ and as soon as the
* perfect cure ’ had left the place the man of news-
papers went round to see a medical friend who was
supposed to be a ‘homoeopathic’ doctor, and asked
whether it wouldn’t be a good thing to say something
in prim about the affair. The man of pillules read the
prescription, held up his hands in horror, and ex-
claimed, ‘ a drachm of pot. brom. for a dose 1 For
Heaven’s sake say nothing about it at all. We’re sup-
posed to give infinitesimal doses—and yet there’s not
an allopath in the country would give a drachm dose of
such a drug to start with.’ From which it is to be
gathered that soma ‘homoeopathic’ doctors practise
allopathy occasionally.
“The Bulletin” Libel Action.
Fob some time past a slight misunderstanding has
existed between the proprietors of this journal and Mr.
Thomas Robertson, the well-known solicitor, in respect
to an article which a i tie while since appeared in T he
Bulletin. After some preliminary negotiations, it
was agreed to reftr the matter to four arbitrators, and
His Honor Sir James Martin, out of respect to The
Bulletin, kindly consented to act as referee. The
matter having been fully and fairly discussed in the
Banco Court on Friday and Monday, an amicable ar-
rangement was soon arrived at between the parties;
and late in the afternoon of the day last named it was
announced that a financial gap of about £1,600 existed
between ourselves and Mr. Robertson. The sum in
question will be apoortioned as follows: —£1,000 to the
Sydney charities (instead of, as originally intended, to
Mr. Skuthorpe, the discoverer of Leichhardt relics);
the balance will go to defray the personal expenses of
professional friends who kindly took part in arranging
the little difficulty.
A SYDNEY BELLE .—(See “Society and Fashion.”)


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Allan does not play with the combined eleven.
Soberts was run out on Saturday—so Charley
lost his wager.
Walsh and Priest race 150 yards at Maitland
shortly, for £lO a side.
The yacht Madge was the winner of the Corin-
thian Purse at Hobart. a
The Australian Eleven made a draw in their last
match in Zew Zealand.
The Canterbury team beat the Otago team in
one innings by 232 runs.
A Jockey Club has been formed at Cudal, with
every prospect of success.
The New Zealand yacht, “ Taniwha,” has been
sold to a Victorian gentleman.
There were 12,000 persons at the Intercolonial
cricket match on Saturday week.
The Mayo-Agnew match is causing some excite-
ment in Maitland athletic circles.
The Ada won the second-class yacht race at
Adelaide without her time allowance.
The booths, &c., for the match against the Aus-
tralian Eleven realised a sum of £l6O.
Victoria has won fifteen intercolonial orioket
matches, and New South Wales eleven.
Grahame, the champion middle-weight wrestler
of England, purposes visiting Australia.
A match is on the tapis between the first eleven
and the next fifteen of the Warwick Club.
The Sydney bred horse, King Quail, well pays
his way at the second-class N.Z. race meetings.
Bnrnes won the six days’ go-as-yon-pleas'e tour-
nament with 247 miles; Climes second 245 miles.
Suwarrow is scratched for the Australian Cup,
and Totalisator and Bavenswood for the Handicap.
Seven have accepted for the Gnnnedah Town
Plate, and ten for the Gunnedah Jockey Club Handicap.
The Wagga Wagga Autumn Race Meeting has
been fixed for Wednesday and Thursday, 13th and 14th
April.
The Thorntons beat the Union C.C. in a match
played at Moore Park, on Saturday, by one burnings aad
IS runs.
Sir George won the two big events at the Marl-
borough (N Z.) race meeting, and Grey Momns the
Hurdles.
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus has con-
sented to be patron of the Grafton regatta on Queen’s
Birthday.
The London Sportsman offers another enp for
the Championship of England, to be rowed this time on
the Tyne.
Messrs Elliott and Edwards were the umpires
for the match on the Association Ground on Saturday
afternoon.
The boat race at Melbourne on Saturday be-
tween British and Colonial exhibitors was won easily
by the latter.
Mr. P. J. Clark is coaching our representative
eight for the Intercolonial. It is untrue that Anslow
declines to pull.
The Stragglers’ Club, on its return to Adelaide
after a Victorian tour, was defeated by the Hindmarsh
Club by 14 runs.
"Big hits cannot be expected from Spofforth and
Bonnor, as while they are in Sydney they are always
doing the Block.
The committee of the Woolloomooloo Bay Ama-
teur Regatta are making strenuous efforts to bring the
affair to a successful issue.
Pigott will ride Sweetmeat; Hales, Grand
Flaneur; St. Albans, Progress; and Yeomans, Suwar-
row, for the Australian Cup.
Mr. Doughty’s orew won by three lengths in the
row-off for the races of the trial fours in connection
with the Glebe Bowing Club.
A swimming club has been formed at St. Leon-
ards, and an aquatic polo match with the Port Jackson
Swimming Club is on the tapis.
McLaren, who recently defeated Wrightson in a
11-honrs* walking contest at Sydney, is .open to walk
any youth under 23 in the colony.
A team of aboriginal cricketers from the South
Australian Mission station are playing with ranch suc-
cess against a local European team.
Mr. Arthur has been chosen captain of the New
■South Wales -crew. Mr. Lord will row stroke.
Tkeir first spurt was a very satisfactory one.
A race is to come off at Campbelltown shortly
between two well-known local horses for a high wager.
The event causes great interest in the district.
The Carooar races have been postponed until
tbe 29th and 30th March, on account of the dates pre-
viously fixed clashing with the Molong race meeting.
Mr. Quirk, champion bicyclist of England for
1378, is at present in Christchurch, N.Z., preparing for
the champion bicycle contest which takes place there
shortly.
The Hon. J. P. Bell’s horses —Canary, Leger-
demain, Wheatear, and Emulation —who take part in
the Hawkesbhry and Raudwick meetings, have arrived
from Brisbane.
t>n Saturday last, in the cricket match, Iron-
ojaus against Singleton, for the Waddy Challenge Cup,
the Ironclads won by 40 runs, —making the seventh win
for the trophy.
At the races at Kensington Park, on Monday,
Express won the Hurdle 'Race, and Wild Bose the
t ebrnary Handicap, with Langulac second, and Maid
of Honour third.
We are sorry to hear that Mr. Elliott, the
< iotcrian wicket-keeper, is subject to heart complaint,
ad that his medical advisers recommend him to give
i he game up altogether.
Sweetmeat is first favourite for the Sydney Cup,
;*t both Grand Flaneur and Progress should finish in
trout of him. After the Flaneur’s Leger running,
'•♦thing should beat him.
At a special meeting of the Australian Coursing
* mb in Melbourne it was finally resolved not to accede
' > the overtures of the Victoria Coursing Club for the
:• Msigamation of the two bodies;
The eleven selected as the Combined Team of
* mtoria and New South Wales ought to give the Aus-
tralian Eleven some trouble in beating them. If Allan
played the result would be doubtful.
, A match was played on Moore Park on Satur-
-ist between the Pioneer C.C. and Australian Surrey
'.C., which resulted in a victory for the former by five
rwas. Score—P.C.C., 20; A.S.C.C., 15.
-i match for j£2o, distance 150 yards, has been
n ranged between Pedley, of Ipswich, and Scott, of
The race takes place on 16th March in the
j lll . lllO Gardens. The affair is attracting attention,
lg generally considered a sure thing for Pedley.
The Dunedin Cup race, usually the big New
Zeah nd event, was a perfect farce this year, owing to
the few Anal acceptances. The bookmakers have it
mostly all their own way in Maoriland.
A ploughing match is to take place at Gulgong
on St. Patrick's Day. Messrs. Lassetter and Co. con-
tribute a silver cnp, Mr. C. B. Young £5, ana a good
many townspeople subscribe a guinea each.
A lively match was played last Saturday at
Lavender Bay Reserve, between the Young Oxford and
Shamrock elnbs. Che result was a win for the Y. O.
C.G., by 3 runs. The ground was very bad.
At the meeting of the N. S. Wales Cricketing
Association, on Monday evenings, Mr. J. Swift was
appointed umpire, and Mr. Weller scorer, in the match
Combined Team against the Australian Eleven.
Eush and his friend Pearce meet at the Clarence
on the 17th March in a match for £lOO a side. The
affair is genuine and a sharp contest may be expected,
though victory appears certain foj the northern man.
The highly successful yachting season at
Adelaide will be closed by a race, for which Sir Thomas
Elder gives a 50 guinea cup for first prize, and the
Grlenelg Club a 2d guinea cup for second prize.
A footrace took place at Brisbane on the 19th
nit., between Pedley, the well-known Ipswich ped., and
Lang, a Brisbane amateur, for £5, Pedley conceding
Long 10 yards’ start. Pedley won easily, by yards.
Only four members turned up for the second
Carltons against the second Newtowns, on the New-
town ground last Saturday. The Carlton team was
filled up by outsiders, and they won the match easily.
The Glenelg Yacht Club Regatta waa a very
successful affair. The principal race for forty miles,
for the fortv-guiaea cup, between Sir Thomas Elder’s
Edith and Mr. Honey’s Zephyr, was won by the latter.
A private race between the Snowdrop and
Liszie for £2O aside, manned by amatenr crews came off
on Saturday, and resulted in a victory for Snowdrop,
with 53 seconds to spare. The race was well contested.
Progress may be regarded as a second Tim
Whiffler. Had The Barb been out of it, Tim would
have won lots of races. Progress is in the same diffi-
culty with Grand Flaneur, who wins in any condition.
A private match was pulled on Saturday at
Grafton, for £lO a-side, by Stuart and Matthews, which
resulted in a dead heat. At the conclusion of the race
Stuart fainted, and it waa nearly an hour before he was
brought to.
Commodore Gilchrist left on his European touff
on Thursday last, by the Peshawur, and numbers of
aquatic men were present to wish him bon voyage. He
has resigned his official position in the Royal Sydney
Yacht Club.
Trickett says he wonld like to have another
match with Hanlan next year. He also says that he is
by no means satisfied with his last defeat by Ross, and
would like tp poll him again as soon as his health
will permit of it.
A match was played at Petersham on Saturday
last between the Etedfern Cambridge and Petersham
Leichhardt C.C’s. The result was an easy victory for
the former The scores were Leichhardt, 16; Eed-
fem Cambridge, 52.
The reason that a certain player has not been
chosen as a member of the combined team is that the
selection committee have at last oome to the conclusion
that during big matches his internal arrangements
sometimes get rather mixed.
There was great disappointment among the New
Zealand public at Le Loup being scratched for the
Dunedin Cup two days before the race. He was one of
the first favourites, and those who know say he could
have won it had he been sent.
The contest for the Electric Telegraph Morse
Cup on the Upper Yarra, resulted in a victory for J.
MacKsnzie’s crew after several well-contested heats.
The crew were Messrs. J M icKenzie, (stroke), C. W.
Bartlett, G. Moon, and S. Schlian.
The entries for the events of the Orange Turf
Club meeting are good: 16 for the Stewards’ Purse, 6
for the Champagne Stakes, 20 for the Town Plate, 7 for
the Three-Year-Old Handicap, 12 for the Plying Handi-
cap, and 19 for the Jockey Club Handicap.
A programme of sports has been arranged
f«r the Bathurst Cricket Ground on March 17.
The principal events will be the St. Patrick’s Handicap
of £4O; first prize £25, second £lO, and third £5. The
tatal amount of prizes to be given is £55.
The final race for the Brighton Challenge Cnp
waa sailed in Hobson’s Bay last Saturday afternoon,
and resulted in a victory for Mr. Moriarty’s Alarm. The
oup was won by the highest number of points in three
races. Breeze was second, and the Aletha third.
Some clerks in the Post Office have been
fortunate enough to draw five horses in the famous
Melbourne “ Oracle." Unfortunately, four out of the
number are scratched j and now all their high expecta-
tions are centred in the performance of the Ragpicker
A match was played at Moore Park, on Saturday
last, between the Clifton and E-mond (late Nonpareil)
clubs. The result was a draw, decidedly in fa -or of
the Cliftons, who scored 74 runs. Their opponents had
nine wickets down when time was called, and 22 runs'
to catch.
The Balmain Collingwood C.C. and the Waratah
C.C. met at Balmain on Saturday, when the former
won by 1 run. P>x and Booth batted very well for the
former, and Julian and Pordham for the la’ter. The
bowling of Kaehler and Hegarty for the B. C. C.C. was
very effective.
A. Pitt, of the Woollahra Victoria C.C., is a
coming cricketer. In a match the other day he scored
?7, run out, and while bowling obtained 8 wickets for
three runs, getting the last 4 wickets in 4 successive
balls He shouU be looked after by the Association, as
bowlers are scarce.
Three return matches of the seascn for the
Victoria H >nse C.C. (F irmer and Co ), were played la it
month—with C. Newton and Co., C C.,on the Sth.Brisc >e,
Drysdale, and Co , C 0 , on the 12th, and Prince, Ogg.
and Co., C. 0., on the 23th inst. Curiously enough, each
match resulted in a tie.
Ned Sheridan has not been lucky this season.
He ran himself out very foolishly. It was not his call,
yet he ran straight for the other wicket though his
fellow batsman did not move. A young cricketer might
be excused for this mistake; but with such an old bird
as Nea, it is unpardonable.
Mr. P. B. Walker, a most generous patron of
the noble game, has offered two trophies of the value
of £5 each, one for the highest scorer in a siugle
innings, and the other for the best average bowler who
bowls more than 60 bills in the match. Combined
Team v. Australian Eleven.
The results of the second day’s racing at Tam-
worth are as follow Nursery Handicap: Old Gold 1,
Recovery 2, Drummer Filly 3. Innkeepers’ Purse:
Reindeer 1, Bulgaria 2, Janitor 3. Epsom Handicap;
Bulgaria 1, Whirlwind 2, Jupiter 3. Forced Handicap :
Empress 1, Darkie 2, Reindeer 3.
At the Regatta on the Saltwater River near
Melbourne, J. Stratton won the Challenge Sculls, the
Banks crew won the Maiden Eights ; Melbourne, no-
where. The Hawthorn crew won the Leader Challenge
Cup, beating two other crews. Footscray (the present
holders) won the Clarke Challenge Cup.
The weights for the mile and a-half and two mile
events of the Gootainundra Tnrf Club Meeting hu e
been published. The same list is entered tor both
events, and the weights for the two mile event show
an almost uniform reduction of 21bs on those for the
mile and a-half event. Tattoo heads the list with Bit.
121bs. and Bst. 101 b.
The Newtowns had a picnic on the Association
Ground last Saturday afternoon, when the Warwicks
made up a total of 187 before the last wicket fell, Ned
Gregory scoring 85, McDonald 27, Hiddlpstone, A.
Bannerman, and Riley also securing double figures. 5
of the Newtown wickets fell for 25 runs, Downes
securing 4 wickets.
A committee meeting of the New South Wales
Coursing Club was held at the rooms last week, Mr. W.
Lamb in the chair. Mr. Lamb stated that anyone de-
sirens of obtaining a trial could have several on the 9th
April, for the benefit of Cunliff, the slipper. General
regret was expressed at the illness of Mr. H, H.
Gardiner, one of the Committee.
The results of the second day’s events of the
Tass Jockey Club Meeting are as follows : —Ladies’
Purse—Strathearn 1, Hubert and Nobody dead heat;
Town Plate—Macaroni 1, Tattoo 2, Robin 3; Consola-
tion Stakes—Knave 1, Sampson 2, Ariel 3; Forced
Handicap—Kembla 1, Verity 2, Robin 3 ; Farewell Han-
dicap—Ariel 1, Lucifer 2, Coquette 3.
Every inducement has been held out by the New
South Wales and Victorian Rowing Associations to the
South Australians, who are, however, unable to accept
the challenge to take part in the Intercolonial eight-
oar race. Our representative crew have commenced to
practice from the North Shore Club sheds in boats lent
by the Sydney and Mercantile Rowing Clubs.
Says the Liberty : —“ Many Christchurch
people won’t admit that the local team were whipped
on their merits. It was suggested by au evil-minded
person that some of our men had actually too much
champagne. This is pure nonsense. The score would
have been much larger if it had been the case. A man
who saw two balls, could surely hit one of the two.”
The Carlingford C.C. met the Ashfield C.C. on
Saturday last, and scored a win, the scores being 62
and 42 respectively. Brodie’s bowling and batting were
the only features of the match. The 2nd Carlingfords
defeated the Randwick C.C. on Saturday week, the for-
mer scoring 67 to their opponents' 27. Leary made 26
in good style, and H. Hughes got 6 wickets for 10 runs
for the C.C.C.
Aliok Bannerman is to play with the Australian
eleven in the forthcoming match with the combined
team of Victoria and New South Wales, with the view
of putting the same eleven in the field which battled so
gallantly against the pick of England. The eleven will
be strengthened by Spofforth—which is making a big
difference. Bonnor may be unable to play, his leg not
being near well yet.
Everyone to his taste. Here is a paragraph
from a N.Z. paper:—“The races for local horses yes-
terday were very successful. In the first heat of the
Coal Fields Handicap the mare Princess ran amongst
the crowd, kicking a boy and inflicting a gash in his
head. The lad is in a precarious condition. In the
second heat’ Mosquito fell and rolled over his iockey,
but without injuring him.”
Charley Bannerman got out very unluckily in
the match, Carltons v. Petersham, on Saturday, on the
Petersham ground. He played a ball, and in trying
to recover his footing, kicked the ball on to the wicket.
The match resulted in an easy win for the Carltons,
Geary and Wearne bowling as they never can bowl in an
Intercolonial match. This is the first time this season,
we believe, that the Petersham Club has been defeated.
The first of four races for a 16 feet dingy
trophy took place on Saturday afternoon. The entries
were: Regina, J. Middleton, scratch; Nereid, D. W.
Raymond, scratch; Ouida, A. Carmichael, scratch;
Ettie, S. Wilson, 11 minute. The course was from
moorings in Farm Cove, twice round Shark Island, to a
boat moored off Fort Macquarie. The Ettie won
without her time allowance, with Ouida second, and
Regina third.
The results of the Cooma races on Friday and
Saturday last are as follow First day : Maiden Plate,
Miss Whiffler 1, Archeress 2 ; Produce Stakes, Rivers-
dale 1; Members’ Cup, Reckless 1, King Tom 2;
Shorts, Wild Harry 1, Unity 2; Selling Race, Greenbale
1. Second day : Cooma Handicap, Miss Whiffler 1,
Dean 2 ; Nursery Handicap, Archeress 1, Riversdale 2;
Mayor’s Cup, Dean 1, Archeress 2 ; Forced Handicap,
Reckless 1, Greenbale 2.
A return match was played at Double Bay on
Saturday last between elevens of the Alexandria and
St. Stephen’s C.C.’s, resulting in another victory for
the former by 73 runs. The visitors went first to the
wickets, but through the excellent bowling of H. Ellis
and J. Macintosh were quickly disposed of for 26. The
local team scored rapidly, putting together 99, of which
T. Ridley contributed 25, T. Pearce 22, G. Stephen 14.
and W. Galbraith 14 not out.
A return match was played on Saturday on
Moore Park between the Perseverance and Young
Australian clubs, which resulted in another victory for
the former club by five runs, the scores being 61 and 56
respectively. Chippindale, who always performs, and
is a promising bowler, scored 19, and Jacobs 12 for the
P.G.C. The bowling of Chippindale and Waller was
very good—the former securing six wickets for fifteen
runs. The bowling of Turby for the Y.A.C.C. was very
fair.
The results of the first day’s racing of the
Victorian Racing Club Autumn Meeting are as follow:
—Hurdle Race, Sir Peter I, President 2, Dhurringile 3.
Port Phillip Stakes Sweetmeat 1, Dean 2, Lord
Burghley 3. Ascot Vale Stakes, Royal Maid 1, Somer-
set 2, Darebin 3: time, Imin. 20}sec. Brunswick
Stake®, Nightmare 1, Wandering Jew 2, Napper Tandy
3: time, 2min. lOsec. St. Leger Stakes, Grand Flaneur
1, Progress 2: only two starters. Time, 3min. 16£sec.,
the fastest recorded in the colonies. Keilor Slakes,
Wellington!, Western Princess 2, Mulattos.
The Grafton Regatta committee have arranged
a programme of twelve events for the forthcoming re-
gatta. The principal event will be a champion out-
rigger race, with a prize of £lOO, and a second prize of
£10; but if there are not two starters from Sydney or
from another colony, the first prize will be only £5O.
For the all-comers’ race for pair of sculls in light
skiffs, handicapped, the first prize will be £l5 and a sil-
ver cup, and the second prize £5. For all comers with
two pairs senile, in light skiffs, the first prize will be
£2O, and the second £5. For the sailing skiff race there
will be a prize of £2O.
A match in outriggers for .£lOO a side has been
arranged between Michael Rush, the Clarence River
champion, and H. Pearce, of Sydney, to come off at
Rocky Mouth on March 17. A match is also under
arrangement between D M'Donald, of the Clarence,
and H. Pearce, for £5O a side, to be rowed on the
Clarence a few days after the Rush-Pearce match
Pearce’s friends are very sanguine as to the result, and
such is their confidence in their mau that it is quite
probable a challenge will be issued to Laycoek when he
returns to the colony. This will depend upon how the
above match results; if Rush shows him the way,
Elios is not likely to be tackled—by Pearce.
The programme of Woolloomooloo Bay Amateur
Regatta which is to come off on 12th March is pub-
lished. There are thirteen events, some of which will
prove interesting to our rowing clubs. There are nine
sailing races, and the rowing events comprise a race
round Pinchgut and back far junior sculls, and a race,
the same course, for all senior scullers who have never
wou a senior scullers’ race. The last event is a race
for all comers, pulling a pair of sculls in light skiffs,
handicapped The first race starts at 1.45 and the last,
4 30 The Committee are working hard, and upon the
success of this regatta depends the probability of
re-establishing the Annual Regatta in Woolloomooloo
Bay.
The first of the series of Intercolonial hand-
ball contests took place on Saturday afteru ton at the
hand-ball court attached to the Rising dun Hotel,
Elizabeth street. This will be the fourth contest that
has taken place between VictoriaandNaw South Wales,
two or which have re ulted in favour of Victoria.
The first match which took place on Saturday after-
noon was a single-handed one, between A. Dillon the
champion hand ball player, and J. M’Namara, of Vic-
toria. This was a hollow contest; M N a mar a was
greaGv overmatched, and Dillon won the first four
rubbers easily. It was only in the fourth rubbi • that
the representative of Victoria had any show, but it was
apparently on sufferance from his opponent.
The second class yacht race for Vice-Commodor ■
N.-wton’s prize, under the auspices of the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club, for which the starters were Guine -
verc, scratch, Harpy, scratch, and Pleades, 5 minutes
terminated in favour of Guinevere, the official timing
being Guinevere, 4h. 355., Harpy 4h. 2im. 5
Pleiades, 4h. 42m 24s The third class yacht, lace tVr
trophy presented by Dr. Mackellar, for which the fol-
lowing were the entries. Australian, scratch; Mabel,
2 minutes ; lone, 2 minutes ; Doris, 8 minutes, resulted
in favour of lone. The third race for a club trophy was
sailed for by boats of the fourth class. Bronze wing and
Petrel were the only starters, and the latter having
given up at Manly, Bronzewing terminated the race
alone, Mr. J. C. McDonald was Commodore for the
day.
Everybody was glad to hear that Ned Gregory
came eff on Saturday last. He played with his old 'lash
and freedom and hit up 85 in a very short space of time:
he succumbed at last to a tempting slow from the Scud.
Ned showed that he is still in the front rank of firs -
class cricketers, and that he is worth watching by
future selection committees- Ned’s time is, however,
so much occupied in attending to the Association
Ground that it is impossible for him to keep up his
practice unless he is allowed an hour or so by the
Trustees on various afternoons. It would be a fitting
end to this present brilliant season, to give him a
benefit on the ground upon waich he labours so hard to
provide good wickets for practising clubs. A match,
say Civil Service v. All Comers, would prove very at-
tractive ; Ned’s popularity ought to insure a large at-
tendance.
The Tasmanian Jockey Club’s Bummer Meeting
at Elwick on February 15, 16, and 17, attracted over
10,000 visitors. At Launceston, the Tasmanian Turf
Club have not got up a meeting this year, but the
southern gathering showed no signs of diminution of
interest, either on the part of the racing or the general
public. The most popular wm of the meet was
Monarque’s victory in the Hobart Cup. Although run
in the name of F. Long, the trainer, the horse belongs
to Mr. E. P. Wilson of Hobart. Monarque came in a
length and a half ahead ot Mr. A R- William’s Cynic
(Melbourne). Time, 3m. 14secs Eleven started, as
compared with six last year, when Avernus won. It so
frequently happens that a Melbourne horse pulls off
the cup that a local win is particularly gratifying. In
the next best race, Welter Cup, worth 50 sovereigns
and the sweepstakes, Mr. C. S. Agn- w, another local
sportsman, scored a win with Pyrrhus.
The Treasury and Audit offices played an Inter-
colonial (it., three days’) match ta-t week, on the
Windsor C.C. ground, the game commencing each after-
noon at 4.30 p.m. The match was won by the Treasury
by 9 runs, though had the top scorer in the first in-
nings for the Audit office been present for hie second
innings, the result might have been different. The
Audit office had 61 runs to get to win in the second in-
nings, and it looked a moral when D. Gregory and
Ironside had put together 30 without losing a wicket;
but after the fall of five wickets for 50 ruus, the remain,
ing four were disposed of for three runs only, the
batsmen -succumbing to Oatley’s insidious slows.
Ironside, who is just in his teens, and who is a son of
“Mr. Fred. Ironside, the well-known cricketing au-
thority, and author of the “ Manual for Cricketers,”
bats wonderfully well for a youngster, and under such a
preceptor as Dave Gregory, bids lair to be enrolled in
some future Intercolonial Eleven. The return match
is to be played at Manly Beach on some Saturday after-
noon when the players are disengaged.
SWEET CHUTNEY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Mrs. Browning: A woman’s pity sometimes
makes her mad.
Balzae; The man who can govern a woman can
govern a nation.
Balzac : Woman la an idol that man worships,
until he throws it down.
Anon: Women love always; when earth slips
from them, they take refuge in heaven.
Montaigne ; There is no torture that a woman
would not suffer to enhance her beauty.
Malherbe: Of all things that man possesses,
women alone take pleasure in being possessed.
La Bruyfere: A beautiful woman with the quali-
ties of a noble man is the most perfect thing in nature.
A. Dupuy: Before promising a woman to love
only her, one should have seen them all, or should see
only her.
J. J. Rousseau: A woman who pretends to
langh at love is like a child who sings at night when he
is afraid.
Anon; We meet in society many beautiful and
attractive women whom we think would make excellent
wives—for onr friends.
L. Desnoyers: We censure the inconstancy of
women when we are the victims; wo find it charming
when we are the objects.
A. Dupny: Women are right to crave beauty
at any price, since-beauty is the only merit which men
do not contest with them.
Swift: The reason why so few marriages are
happy is because young Indies spend their time in
making nets, not in making cages.
Balzac ; It is easier to be a lover than a husband
for the same reason that it is more difficult to be
witty every day than now and then.
Rochebrune: Women dress less to be clothed
than to be adorned. When alone before their mirrors,
they think more of men than of themselves.
Rochefoucauld:
In their first passion women love their lovers.
In all the others they love only love.
Madame de Girardin: It is not easy to be a
widow; one must reassume all the modesty of girlhood,
without being allowed to feign its ignorance.
Anon: The highest mark of esteem a woman
can give a man is to ask his friendship; and the most
signal proof of her indifference is to offer him hers.
Madame de StaM: However old a conjugal
union, it still garners some sweetness. • Winter has
some cloudless days, and under the snow a few flowers
still bloom.
Retif de la Bretonne ; At twenty, man is less a
lover of woman than of women : he is more in love with
the sex than with the individual, however charming
she may be.
Edouard About: There are two things in this
world which a man (does not often find away from
home—the first is good soup, the second is disin-
terested love.
A. Karr: If men knew all that women think,
they would be twenty times more audacious. If women
knew what men think, they would be twenty times
more coquettish.
Ouida: If yon want a truth (which is not very
likely, for it is a ware that is never saleable), take this
one: A woman guilty for the sake of gold would be
guilty without gold, from sheer love of guilt.
Ouida : It is a terrible thing to corrupt a
woman ; aye, so it is, bat it is a more terrible thing
when Nature has made a woman so corrupt that no
fiend, if there were one, could teach her aught of evil.
Anon; Women of the world never use harsh
expressions when condemning their rivals. Like the
savage, they hurl elegant arrows, ornament* d with
feathers of purple and azure, bat with poisoned points.
Reflection of a profound and pessimistic philoso-
pher-. “The first man was duped; the first woman
deceived her husband; and the first son turned out a
murderer. Such were the origins of humanity, and yet
people affect to be surprised that the world is no better
than it is!” •
The Wool Trade of N.S.W.
Improvkd facilitits of transit are marked this season
by a very large increase in oar wool receipts, and there
is no donbt that, now we have the railway running to
Narandera, the season of 1881-2 will show a yet greater
increase in this direction. That Sydney will become
the great wool emporium of the colonies appears from
the statistics to be only a question of time. The
figures are interesting The Victorian increase for the
past season is 35,746 bales, and of New South Wales
39,656 bales. But these numbers do not fairly represent
the increase of the respective colonies. The average
of the Melbourne greasy bale is 3501 b , and of the
Sydney 4501 b., and of the fleece wool 2751 b. and 3501 b.
respectively. Therefore the 35,746 bales exported front
Melbourne represent in round numbers 11,000,0001 b.,
while the Sydney increase represents 15,800,0001 b. In
other words, if the Melbourne export were placed in
bales of the same size and weight as ours, the increase
of 35,746 bales would represent 27,700 bales, as compared
with our 39,656 bales.
Estimated population of Australasia, time
millions.
Yirgoe, Son, and Co’s Lome whisky has become
a most popular ai tide of consumption.


Tailors, Drapers,
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HO US
358, 360, 362, GEORGE £
SEEING nove:
In consequence of the great incn
their importations this season excet
FIFTY THOUSAND P
THEY are now making their first dh
early shipments in all dep
THOMPSON AND G
having purchased these goods in t
the world, are marking them at pric
CHALLENGE COMPE'l
The same quality of material canm
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES*
MELLINEEY.
(•THOMPSON A
opened their e
of Millinery, w
exhibiting in t
all choice goo<
snred that the
with an inspec
gratified at the
now displaying
comprise an ex
of British and
made especially
Giles by the
London and
trimmed Bonn
18s 9d. Ladi<
Feathers, H<
i ments, &c
CTHOMPSON a
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPAETMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES*
COSTUME
DEPAETMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PAEASOLS
and
. UMBRELLAS.
TLES, FICHl
—We wish to
attention of t
Department, a
the finest lot <
Capeletts, and
ever been exl
Our Stock con
designs in shap
variety of Brai
lid to 30s; M;
trimmed, from !
Cashmere Mant
Large lot of Pi
chased very mu
prices; some vr
at very low pric
Jerseys, to la
every colour a
dren’s Jerseys,
every size.
THOMPSON a
TUME DEPA1
first houses in
in every style,
can select in ac
vidual taste,
from 42s to 6 gi
signs and trimn
variety of Was
cambrics and
printed sateei
Galatea stripes,
from 15s to 30s,
well made,
tumes, in a vai
. other fabrics, <S
THOMPSON a
ING FABRIC
plain and prrr
Materials is m
bracing all sty
both French a
and Linen Tex
and colourings
best efforts, a:
affirm that a t
ment of choice
has never bee
colonies. Brit
to 8|d; Frenci
to 14d; Frenc
to 18d ; Plain I
lOd to Is 6d;
Galatea Cloth,
talea Cloth, in
to 14d; Frenci
and plain; Bril
a:
SOLS and V
have received
designs in Pane
will find novel
description coi
ness. Our pr
lid, 4s lid, 5s
26s. We have
of 5000 Paraso
New styles am
Satin, Sateens,
embroidered, a
handsome Br
shapes at mode
Umbrellas; a_
Business Announcer
[_LEGAIi. j
s
HOETEE, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, I
Mr. Shorter, Notary Pa
Legal.— Mr. t. m. sl
SOLICITOR, has comt
practice of his profession, at 18
PITT-STEEET, opposite th«
News Office.
*
w.
MAGI
FOETEAIT PAINT
225 BOURSE STREET, WOOL]
Y
ICTOEIA VAEN1SH
ALEX. BOETHWK
OIL AND COLOR MERC
Importer of Paperhani
Oils, Colors, Varuii
White Lead, Glass, Bn
Marble and Enamelled Slate '
Penders, Tiles, and Gr
Room and Picture-Frame M
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STRBI
T H A E
• WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER. &e.
Hay and Engine Stei
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DEATS, S
BUSINESS CARTS, LORI
Railway Contractors would find it to
inspect the large stock of seasone
able for Dobbins and other Ra
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Stn
gANDEE LA Z A E US
General Importers
AMEEICAN HAEDY
CHINA, GLASS, EAETH
E. P. WARE, CUTL1
STATIONEET, CLOCKS, J
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GO'
INDENTS EXECUTED LOW
YORKSTREET
G. C H U E C
IMPORTER AND MANUF
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER. S!
AND
SAUSAGE SKIN
147 YORK STN
Q AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIME
16 Ekskine Stbee
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, I
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at 1
QHEAPEST AND BEST
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID
JONES AND
COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAYID JONES AND COMPANY
Birect special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen's Promenade suits.
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac buits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well ■
cut and finished in the
beet manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
JJAVED
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
The latest shape; a use-]
ful and durable suit [ 35s per
for business and ordi- r suit,
nary wear. /
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In light Homespuns and
thin Cheviots and Ban
nockburns. for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND . COMPANY'S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental
'Tweeds, excellent for
general wear, in neat
checks and mixtures.
48s 6d
per suit
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Light and';
Durable, the materials I gg s „
having been well } V
shrunk before being j
made up. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
fin Superior Oriental']
I Tweeds, cut in the „ M
latest style, and \ J~ 8 ~
finished the same as per suu ‘
L orders clothing. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
/'Beautifully light in']
Orient 1 Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
Serg Suits. 1 colour and very dur-1 per suit
L aide in wear. )
D
■AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
out, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
8.8. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
('Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
- the best value, and }• Orient
most perfect in sule I Clothing,
and ftnsh procurable |
k in the colony. J
('ln Superior Tasmanian N
3 Flannel, thoroughly f lgg
j shrunk. T
fChlna Silk Coats 15s fid each.
Military Duck Coats. 14s fid each.
Pine black Alpaca coats, 12s fid each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s fid each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
'ln fine Black Alpaca, 22s fid each
I In Super Black Merino, 265.
I In Blue Sergerette, 15s.
(.In Black Sergerette, 455.
("In fine Black Alpaca, 27s fid.
■] In Black Merino. 30s.
T In Super sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s fid.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s fid.
>f „ in Fancy Colours, 8s fid.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s fid.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
("In Superb-' all - Woo!"i
} Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
(, finished. )
'A Special Dress Over-']
I coat, silk trimmings, |
| and facings, beauti- !►
fully tight, and agree- |
L able to wear. J
66s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
(.rents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
ring and Summ* Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
id most suitable materials.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, See.
JB. Y O U D A L E,
• FANCY AND GENEKAD DEAPEK,
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just- below TJverpool-et.)
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid <rat on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OR POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OP BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DRESSMAKING.
MILLINERY.
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN'S
(the “ Hordern ” of the city I. LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for 8*d PEE
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
608 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
1HE BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL
482 (late 481) geobge street.
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Estabmshkd 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
ter All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
AT
HSRDERN’S
PITT STREET
IN
Yon can buy CARPETS @ 1/U«
FLOORCLOTHS @ 2/11
(seasoned).
Every description of FURNISHING —
not Furniture.
Remember:
J. L. HORDERN,
In PITT STREET-
-211.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 50s.
R.C.H AGON’S
fashionable
TAILORING ESTABLTSHENT,
27 KING STREET,
Where you can be fitted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern. to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Saits, to Order, 60s
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Bannockurn T veed Suits, to Order, 50s
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order 50s
Trousers to Order Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16s 6d 16s 6d 16s 6d
West of England Twe-d Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Canadian Two d Trousers, to Order, 16s 6s
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s fid
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
N.B.—Gentlemen should inspect this stock of choice
Scotch Suitings, as t he above prices for Suits to Order at
50s are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address—
127 KING STREET.
Ii
ABOUR BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 233. 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840.
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole < f the stock has*been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that. Furniture, Carpets, H msehold Utensils, Ac., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
rate than at any other house in the colonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO..
Manufacturers and Importers.
pi E I N T IN
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and FairfaxJ.
A1 o,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of "THE BULLETIN.’


Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL.
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WADES.
WM, TANNER, Proprietor.
(Date Club House Hotel, oba. n a b.)
Situation Central Terms Moderate.
c.
W. E 0 B E B T s,
MARKET STREET,
EOR -FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
J C. W A L K E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
JCRATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Hotels, &c.
rO H N A. WILKINSON,
WINE GEOWEE & MEECHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’a Wharf. Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PEICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra flue quality, 425. per dozen.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
SUPPLIED IN ANT QDAJfTITT,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office —24 O’CONNELL STREET.
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
Ho. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
Manufaotured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o Eh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
* Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853 j London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili) 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the ln«v.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Julichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE
SENTED TO BE?
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuncoloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staioer,
“ Analytical Chemist,”
Agents:
■EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street,
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-streot,
R. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Ro&d, Paddington.
30BERT BUTCHER & CO.,
_ml (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY,
Coohtet Orders Rbcsivk Pkompx Attention.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cnisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER S'JEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
WEHLOW’S WOOLPACK HOTEL,
PARRAMATTA.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES.
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the very beet brands, at
moderate charges. First-class Rowling Green for the
use of those who are fond of recreation.
FJIO ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
-V'
CE
DE
or
S.MUHLEBACH
mm-.
i
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACII & GEYMULLEH,
PROPRIETORS.
\ R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND OIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street)
And
Daxlinghurst Road, near William-street,
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wihe and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Havmarket.
GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Habbis-stbkbt, off Qbobgk-stbeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
8, Q. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. Q. Las also always in stook a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
7ans, Drays, Ac., Ac.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSO N,
tanis-street, near Railway Bridge.
Hotels, &c.
F O S T E K.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MEEGHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
* AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
'feQMZSt,
Sola
.Proprietory
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully co upared, as Urge quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMAEKET.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
•F
0 W L E E’S P O
AND
TTE R Y
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDEE,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
R,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
gOOTS!
BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BEICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS. JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THU
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimulant
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may mow be obtained of
all storekeej era and respectable hotelkeep rs. One
trial will prove it superior to the common we.ik tmma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
&
S
sc
%
Q
o
m
&
o
$
i
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isnot the clearness ->r condition alone of Bull Dr
Ale that preserves this ' rai d first in public es i-
■nation. Common bitter 'rude beer s are made very fine,
but no other brand has t-no same n eliow vinous cbarai •
ter, the fulness on the palate, a’d the great keepb g
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are then-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bnll Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO.. So'e Agents,
m
m.
vs.
rk
* I
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
B
Th ; a favourite brand of
T O U
elected with great care from the best of the brew.
1 of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To he Procured Everywhere.
J R. CATTBLL and CO.,
Sole Agents


"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
the[?]cal profession.]
Lotti Wiltnot is in Napier, N.Z.
New Zealand is praying for new shows.
Alfred Dampier—a hit at the Surrey, London.
De Mnrska is travelling the English provinces.
The Siraonsen Opera Company are in Welling-
ton, N.Z.
Eiceardi is an immense favourite in New
Annie Pixley at late dates was playing “ M’liss”
in Richmond, Virginia. -
Adelina Patti is receiving .£4OO a night during
her engagement in Germany.
Miss Alice May is playing at the Globe Theatre,
London, with her usual success.
Herr Beuno Scherek lately gave aseries of piano-
forte recitals in Dunedin (N.Z.)
A Mdlle. Mena Murielles has been playing at the
Theatre Royal, Wellington, N.Z.
J. J. Kennedy was the recipient of a benefit in
Christchurch (N Z.) a week or two ago.
New Zealanders think Edwin Browne is as good
a “ specialty" actor as Grattan Riggs.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons, when last Californian mail
left, was playing in Bradford, Pennsylvania.
Jeannie Winston, last heard of in Philadelphia.
Her Boccaccio draws like a. mustard-plaster.
Miss Adelle is playing with Grattan Riggs in
Auckland. So are Burford, Mnsgrave and Clinton.
Maoriland theatre-goers like “ Pinafore.” The
Simonseus have made an immense hit in that opera.
Levy, tie cornet-man, is with Emma Donaldi s
concert company in the provinces of Massachusetts.
A good waxworks show was lately exhibited at
Dunedin, N.Z The local papers are loud in its praise.
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Tavares are about to
visit North Queensland townships on a professional
tour.
Joe Jefferson, supported by Mrs. John Drew,
is playing “ The Rivals " in Indianopolis to crowded
houses.
Maggie Knight is in Auckland, on a visit to her
parents. She was warmly welcomed back by many old
friends.
The Bandmann-Beandet Dramatic Company
played six weeks in Dunedin. They have also appeared
at Timaru.
Our old favourite, saucy Catherine Lewis, is en-
acting the title-role of “ Olivette," the new sensation,
in London.
Professor Haselmayer and wife drew well at
Wellington, N.Z , and at latest were playing at the
Wanganui Theatre.
Mrs. Walter Mill and a scratch dramatic
company, at latest dates, occupied the Theatre Royal,
Christchurch (N.Z.)
The Empson family gave three very successful
performances at Thornton’s assembly rooms, Cooma,
during the race week.
Madame Simonson’s benefit in Christchurch
(N.Z ) was largely attended. Good houses were the
rule during the season.
Zitella (late of the “Froliquea”) has been and
done it—that is to say, got married to Mr. Edward
Casey, of San Francisco.
Eugene Harding, the well-known “ Signor
Blitz," of sleight-of-hand fame, has accidentally shot
and Killed himself in New Jersey.
The Carandinis lately appeared in Newcastle.
Dear old Madame’s tresses are as luxuriant and raven
as ever. She says she will never dye.
Mrs. J. K. Emmet has taken a French flat on
Broadway, Albany, N.Y., for the winter. Her son is a
student at one of the academies there.
A second dramatic club, to be known as “ Our
Boys’ Dramatic Club," has been established at Parra-
matta. Mr. James Watt acts as hon. secretary.
The entertainments given at the Victoria
Theatre, Newcastle, by Mr. and Mrs. Fairclough (Miss
Elsa May) were, we are glad to hear, a great success.
The following saving-clause announcement for
the appearance of our friend, Fritz, is from an Ameri-
can paper:—"Philadelphia, Jan. 10. —If sober, Joe
Emmet.”
Billy Wilson (of Georgia Minstrel fame) has
formed a troupe in N.Z., called the “ Court Minstrels."
A novel feature is that they appear in full court costume.
How nice!
W. W. Cole, the circus man, is the wealthiest
showman in the business. He owns large real estates
and valuable property, apart from the great show which
he exhibits.
The heir of one of the oldest baronetcies in Eng-
land has offered his hand and heart to pretty Kate
Lawler, the fair manageress of the London Royalty
Theatre. The family are furious.
Miss Kellogg was called before the curtain at
the Imperial Opera House, in St. Petersburg, one even-
ing twenty times, and in order to empty the house it
was found necessary to tnrn out the lights.
Louis E. Cooke, the business agent of Cole’s
Circus, hts gone to the country in search of native
birds and animals to take back to America with the
mammoth show, which returns to that country by the
s. s. City of Sidney.
Haverly, the American manager, has a new
advertising dodge. He publishes a genuine certificate
from a well-known personage, who was cured of chronic
dyspepsia by a fit of laughter at witnessing the comedy
of “ Widow Bedott."
The prolific author ef “ Onr Boys ” has written
for Toole, the famous low comedian, a screaming farce
called “ The Light Fantastic,” in which the latter
enacts the part of a dancing master —all postures,
pumps, and shirt front.
Mr. and Mrs. Hewitt have been very successful
at Mudgee in the comic operetta, “ Gip." Overflowing
houses. Ditto at Dubbo. Tne Mudgee people are
putting up a hall for amusements, which will he about
the best in this colony out of Sydney.
Mr. D’Orsay Ogden and Miss Beatrice and
their company, which includes Miss F-anny Rogers,
Messrs. Patterson and Inglis, and the Misses Lister and
M* Donnell, have met with great success at Gym pie.
“ East Lynne ” was the opening piece.
A certain very clever opera-bouffe actress whom
we all know used to say that the stage kiss was a “ cold,
•lim, pale phantom unsatisfactory, elusive, and
empty.” And whenever she said this it was noticed
that she was just about to change her tenor.
Mr. Sims Beeves has announced his retirement
from the stage, to take place in 1882, when he will be
sixty years old. It is, however, nearly fifteen years
since the glory of his voice departed, and he was
obliged to have all his music transposed into a lower
key.
A great concert is on the tapis. Mozart’s
Twelfth Mass, by the Catholic choirs, assisted by the
various choral societies, with the Austrian Band as
orchestra This, for the benefit of St. Mary s Cathedral
Building Fund, ought to attract a large audience at the
Garden Palace.
People have not yet forgotten Ernest Boulton
and his friend Park. Well Boulton is now known as
Ernest Hyne. He and his brother, who call themselves
“ The Wonderful Bynes," are giving entertainments in
the English provinces. Ernest still prefers to go m for
female impersonations.
The members of the Woollahra Musical Asso-
ciation intend giving a complimentary concert to theii
conductor, Mr. D. J Wnitwam, on 23rd March, prior
to his departure for Europe. The association will
produce on that occasion (the second performance in
Sydney) Romberg’s “ Lay of the Bell."
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Byers did not, we hear,
succeed in Rockhampton as well as they could have
wished. At their last performance, the other night,
“ The Stranger ” was produced —Mr. and Mrs. Byers
being supported on the occasion by Mr. A. B. Clinton,
and several of the best local amateurs. Financially, the
show was a failure.
When manager Abbey announced his intention
to produce the Passion Play in New York, he intimated
that the play had been prepared by a Jew with the
special view of preparing a drama which should not
give offence to the Hebrew community. “No connec-
tion with Oberammergau ” was publicly announced—
“that was Christian —this is wholly undenominational.
Lotti Wilmot got into another slight trouble
when in Wellington, and this time amongthe " sports.
During the race meeting there she held a spiritualistic
seance, and gave the “ straight griffin ” that Lady
Emma would win the Cup. A number laid their money
out on the mare on the strength of Lotti’s assertion,
but they were of course “ had.” They vow veageance.
This is how the musical critic of the N. Y.
Tribune writes: —Mme. Marie Louise Swift sang, with
the chorus, an “ Ave Maria," by Mariam. This lady s
singing recalled the story of the old negro who was dis-
covered energetically kicking his shins against a fence.
“ Why. Pompey,” said his master, “ what are you
doing that for ?” “ Oh, massa 1 it do feel so good when
you leave off!”
Herr Bandmann had an immense house at his
benefit in Dunedin. During one of the intervals, he
came to the footlights, and stated that he had travelled
all over the world, and had been in many towns in
Germany. England, America, and Australia,- but could
not mention a single town where he had ’been received
with a sincerer feeling, with a more enthusiastic
kindness than in Dunedin.
Capt. Walkley’s “ Mammoth Mirror of Great
Britain and Ireland," which, we hear, is a capital show,
opens at Yass on Tuesday, Bth inst. Among the
collateral attractions of the concern are Miss Maggie
Sultan (soprano); Mr. Crowley (tenor); Mr- Richard
M'Donald (barontone); Mr. J. H. Clifford, elocution,
ist; and the Cottier Brothers, song and dance and
character artists. Mr. E. C. Osborne is the agent.
“ The Tamworth Amateur Dramatic Club and
Matrimonial Encouragement Society" is flourishing
like a young bay tree. The only two lady members were
married to two gentleman members on the night after
the last performance; and following this movement
it is saidithe secretary has already received applications
for membership from over fifty spinsters in the district
—ages ranging from 20 to 45. England expects every
man will do his duty.
Cole’s great Circus and Menagerie, which is to
open in Sydney on the sth April, is said to have travelled
over 37,000 miles within the past year, and paid out some-
thing over £90,000 for transportation. It takes forty
double trucks and carriages to transport the mammoth
show over the N.S.W. railway, and two steamers are
required to carry the outfit to the Newcastle district.
These estimates are quite sufficient to establish its
claims to superior greatness.
At a ladies’ fair, recently, in New York, Gerster,
the prinva donna, took charge of the flower business.
She had scarcely seated herself when the rush for
bouquets began, and rosebuds and carnations were sold
off almost as fast as she conld handle them. The price
was half a dollar for a flower, half a dollar more for
pinning it on, and from one dollar to five dollars for a
bouquet, and there was a general tendency to forget
about the change. In an hour she had taken £4O. She
did almost as large a business in the autograph as in the
flower business.
Harry Le Clair writes thus to a New Zealand
friend“ I have made a big ‘ hit ’ here, and the recep-
tion I received on my opening night showed that they
had not forgotten me. I leave for New York shortly.
They have been playing to moderate houses only
at the Bush-street Theatre. Emilie Melville, who is an
Australian favourite, has been playing to poor houses.
The same can be said of the Standard; Phil. Kirby, I
hear, has gone to Arizona, but I have not seen him for
some little time.”
Madame Favart ia in rehersal at Melbourne
Opera House. Fred Mervin says that HarWood’s
character is, to his mind, the first comic part ever
written for an eccentric comedian. The “ Tambour
Major " is an enormous success. The young ladies look
distractinglv beautiful. Mervin and Miss Laverne are
good ; Miss Hope is pretty; Miss Gray rather “ larri-
kinish;" but Harwood and Wallace as the Duke and
Bambini are simply “immense.” “I’-m here, dear
Duke,” is the'recognised bar-room witticism just now
in the southern metropolis.
The Kelly and Leon Opera Company wound up
their Rockhampton season on Feb. 19, when a crowded
house assembled to witness “La Fille de Madame
Angdt” and “Chilperic," which operas were excellently
produced without a single hitch. “ Les Cloches de
Corneville” Was a great success Miss Emma
Wangenheim and Messrs. Edwin Kelly and Lester are
firm local favorites. Mr. Martyn Hagan, a young
member of the company, and comparatively a beginner,
delighted people with his “ Baillie.” The company left
for Maryborough on the 22nd.
Our correspondent at Auckland, in a letter dated
23rd February, writes The Lydia Company
appeared at the Theatre Royal for six nights to fair
houses. With two or three exceptions the members
of the troupe are a poor lot. Grattan Riggs, supported
by a fair company, have drawn payable houses during
the past week, “The Irish Defective,” and “The
Yankee Farmer,” being the pieces presented. “ Shin
Fane ” now occupies the boards. There is no doubt
that Riggs is a clever actor, and it seems a pity to see
him throwing away his talents on such American bosh
and one-horse plays.
Sara Bernhardt has received so many flattering
notices respecting her phenomenal thinness that all
the stout actresses about her district are as mad as so
manv wet hens, and anti-fat has gone up in the market
to such i pitch that nothing short of a revolution can
ever get it down again. One wit puts Sara gently away
by observing that she generally walks with_ a small
cane; but as the cane doesn’t wear a sealskin jacket
and hat, there can be no excuse for anyone mistaking
the stick for Sara. Giorza saw her once, and on being
asked what she was like replied, “ She was hev more
lean in her than the Tower of Pisa.”
We clip the following from the Auckland
Observer " A most affecting incident occurred at
the theatre on Monday evening last, when that “ sweet
little bit of jam,” Miss Adelle, stepped on the stage.
In the dress circle sat a fond admirer, who, oblivious to
the fact that we are not all suffering from an attack of
“ spoons ” in that direction, commenced to applaud
frantically. After indulging in a hearty “round" the
amorous youth suddenly discovered he was’the only
person clapping, and his confusion was much increased
by sundry hearty but heartless “ ha ha-s ” from the
stalls and pit.” You naughty creature, Edith.
' While on his way from America to England in
the Arizona, Kyrle (or, as Australian pressmen, of
whom he wasformerly one, knew him, Harold Dominick)
Bellew, the actor, met with a serious accident. He
was thrown by a violent lurching of the vessel across
the smoking saloon, breaking the woodwork of the
settee, and was carried below insensible. Happily no
bones were broken, but there was occasioned a slight
injury to the spine,'which, however, the doctors say,
will have no lasting effect. By the way, Kyrle has
completed an original play, which has been accepted,
and will be produced shortly at a provincial theatre.
If Mr. Bellew prove as good an author as he is an actor
■(says the Era) we shall have to congratulate him on a
big success.
While playing King Lear, at the Surrey Theatre,
London, recently, Mr. Creswick was heavily handi-
capped by his hoarseness, but he acted well on the first
night. Not liking the way in which Creswick declaimed
his lines at the end ot the first act, a pitite hissed
loudly, and King Lear, evidently annoyed and confused
finished his declamation in great haste and with much
mental perturbation. The act drop descended, and
then Creswick came before the curtain and addressed
the audience. “ Ladies and gentlemen," said he, “ I
cannot possibly proceed with the play until that ruffian
has - been removed.” Thereupon each stalwart son of
Great Britain arose in his might, and bounced that
“ ruffian ” very quickly. The fellow protested his right
to hiss if the performance displeased him; but the
audience, for the time being differed from him, and out
he went “collar and elbow fashion,” as they say over
at Birmingham. The man was soon avenged, however,
for the very next evening Creswick had to give np
entirely, and the curtain was rung down on an un-
finished performance.
The Civil Service Musical Society may now be
considered to be the most complete and successful
choral society of Australia, and this is principally
owing to the untiring exertions of the hon. secretary,
Mr S. M. Mowle, the hon. treasurer, Mr. Eames, and a
zealous committee. The next concert wUI take place
on the afternoon of Saturday, the I2th instant, when
selections from Meyerbeer’s beautiful opera, “ L’Etoile
du Nord,” will be given. In consequence of the en-
gagement with Williamson’s Optra Company of the
society’s conductor. Signor Gioraa, his evenings not
being therefore at the society’s disposal, the committee,
rather than postpone the concert beyond the usual
date, and being desirous that the beautiful selections
which have been in practice some time should be
rendered forthwith, have accepted the inevitable alter-
native of giving the concert on Saturday afternoon.
The society’s orchestra will be strengthened by the aid
of professionals engaged at the theatres, and the after-
noon concert ought to be an additional inducement for
those residents along the line who are unable to attend
an evening concert. The choir of the society com-
prises some of the best vocalists in the city, and with
an orchestra of increased efficiency, this concert should
prove ohe of the greatest musical treats ever offered
to its members by this society.
The great Ketten having taken his departure,
the Austrian Band is again thrown upon its owj l
resources which, as experience proves, are manifold.
On Friday evening a delightful programme was given,
commencing with an overture to “ Hnnyady Lasylo,
Iby Edkel, which was played here for the first time.
The music is in the style of the modern fantastic
school, the orchestration being intricate; the placing ot
the drums at different parts of the building, was very
effective. The *• Blind Player and his Child,” was a
duet for violin and French horn, with orchestral accom-
paniment, and was followed by a beautiful Romance
for ’cello and harp, “ Je voudrais etre," by the great
Oberthur. A terzetto, for bassoon, harmonium and
'cello, by Koch, was encored, the beautiful tone of the
bassoon being much admired. A French horn solo,
«Longing,” concluded the first part. The “ Faust
Potpourri” was splendidly played by the whole .band,
and a part of it had to be repeated. Herr Kotracek’s
solo for clarionet, with bond accompaniment, was also
encored. It is a brilliant series of variations on a single
theme, and the Herr’s execution evoked rapturous
applause. A harp solo. “ Melancolie,” followed, %nd
then Gounod’s “ Ave Maria,” for ’cello and harp, which
contemporary critics will persist in rhapsodising as
the famous “ Ave Maria," which Gounod has arranged
from one of Bach’s Meditations. It is, however, similar
in character, and we are not surprised at the error being
made by others than musicians. The favourite gallop,
“ Chasse du Lein,” which we have already noticed in a
concluded tlie concert. With, such a host of
soloists, it is not surprising that the general perfor-
mances of the band should attain such excellence;
each is a master of his instrument, and when we reflect
how rarely it is we hear a French hom, bassoon, or
oboe, even in an orchestra in Sydney, and find in the
Austrian Band first-class soloists on those instruments,
we are surprised that the attendances are not even in
the slightest degree commensurate with the merits
of the entertainments.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The Hon. William Forster will arrive about the
Bth of March, and if any one thinks our purgative poets
are going to let William slip in without shelling him
with their triumphal odes, and other fooleries, he is
very much mistaken. Already we have received three
van loads of these soul-stirring combustibles, and we
regret the accommodation of our asylum prevents our
publishing all. We have much pleasure, however, in
inserting the best verse from the best poem, and it
jolts along as follows :
“Twopenny” represents the proposed Ade-
laide Exhibition. This is good—because np to the pro-
sent time other colonies have spent upwards of 30s, in
these monster shows, and yet not one of them has
realised 7s. 6d. on their monster speculation. Whilst
wishing Mr. Twopenny all success in his suicidal ven-
ture, however, I’d like to pass him over a small junk of
good advice, and it is thisIf the Adelaide show must
have an organ, let it be a mouth-organ. A mouth-organ,
I admit, is not so disfingue-lhoking a musical wreck as
our own box of whistles, but if is easily leamt, and it
will occasionally blast out a tune or two that can be
heard even at a distance of seven yards. If anyone
says our organ can equal this, I beg to refer him to St.
James, who says: “ He’s a liar —and the truth is not
in him."
If there is one thing that spoils onr athletic
sports more than another it is the fact that we make
them too scientific. Foot-racing is now brought to such
a pitch that a man with two corns on one foot and three
on the other is completely overbalanced; Hanlan has
to part his hair exactly in the centre or he immediately
gets the gastric fever; and a cricketer can never hope
to rank higher than a muff unless he reads Tyndal on
“ Force," and studies triangulation. I like the primi-
tive stvle of cricket best. Things were very much
simplified when pre-Adamite man picked out his eleven
to play an intercolonial. The players merely ad-
journed to a paddock, a wicket was built up out of old
kerosene tins and coats, and then a small primeval man
shouldered half a paling and sailed in, to the bowling
of a 6ft. fellow with a rag ball and a stone in it. The
small primeval man would paste his large opponent
until the latter got pretty full of the business, upon
which he would playfully land the stone and rag ball in
the pit of the small party’s stomach, and bring on a
severe attack of jim-jams. The small primeval man
would then tear down half the wicket, and chase the
bowler round the paddock for an hour or so, until the
latter fell, and then the former would belt in his head
with an energy worthy of a better cause. By this time
the rest of the team would be on their way home, and
the evening papers would deal out advice and lies that
would do credit to a rag of the 19th century.
First leader of fashion, Mrs. A.: “ Shall we see
you at the concert to-night, dear ?” Second ditto,
Mrs.B : “Oh decidedly; lam completely wrapt np iu
that dearKetting; what does he play, love?” Mrs. A.:
“ Oh quite a novelty to-night—Sonata Pantastique Op.
72; awfully beautiful, I can assure you." Mrs. B.:
“ Ob a charming piece—I remember it well; but let me
see—who is this it’s by ?” Mrs. A. : “ Schubert, love.”
Mrs. B.: “ Of course; how stupid; Schubert—that’s
the dear old gentleman that managed our Exhibition,
and sent us all free passes. Au revoir ; keep a place for
me, love." And so Jonbert has musical greatness
thrust upon him..
There was a piano for sale in Woolloomooloo
last week, and a Herald advertisement coolly informed
the respectable portion of our community that it was
“ the property of a young lady with handsomely carved
legs, and patent percussion action. Same newly tuned,
and thoroughly done up.” Exactly 37 minutes past
breakfast on the morning the above appeared, no less
than 23 Young Men’s Christian Association believers
went “ full tilt” for the piano, but never a one had the
pluck to buy it. The owner of the Herald saw the
advertisement, and hasn’t paten any breakfast since.
The Champion Light Weights have commenced
operations again for a short season, and one suburban
baker has brought the science to such a pitch now that
he can make a 22oz. loaf pass muster for 21b., and still
find leisure enough to whack his wife and read the
Family Prayers, as nsual. His cart has likewise been
newly painted, and of course customers can’t a
bronze-coloured cart with zebra wheels to jolt their
dough about without a little sacrifice on their part also.
Charity covereth a heap of sins, but Brother
M’Elhone says on meeting days the Town Hall “ can
give Charity 50 joints out of a hundred, and trounce
her blooming head off.” These are his very words, and
his old bob-tailed charger says he quite coincides with
the opinion of his honourable rider. These are the
bob-tail’s own words also ; but the words of the con-
tractor and his merry men are totally unfit for publica-
tion. Speaking of this, reminds me that Charles Bright
thinks there is something in the Bible after all. The
first thing that jostled Mr. Bright’s faith was the
account of Samson pulling down a four-storey meeting
house by simply banging the pillars together and letting
his hair grow. Charles couldn't see, at first,-how this
thing could be ; but he is of opinion now that if the
foundation was jobbed up like that of our own Town
Hall, it was simply necessary for Samson to lean up
against the wall and sneeze.
A Lands’ Office clerk addressed a note —a serious
note —to a young lady on whom he appears to be
“ awfully struck.” By some means or other, the note,
with all its corrections, blots, interlineations, novel
spelling, etc., has come into our hands; and as every
young fellow has not "The Model Love Letter Writer”
at his command, we give publicity to some portions of
the effusion, so that they may serve as a guide in such
matters, enabling many to pen love letters that ladies
would read with interest, and afterwards pass on to us.
Le void ;—
“ Dearest Bell, —
Think of me
My love my love Oh think of me
When I am far away
for I have Cherished thoughts off thee
To moose on day by day
And when flirtation tempts you dear
Oh then try to subdew
Remember one who loves you dear
And one who doats on you
And once again I asked of yon
all others to decline
For many thou art sure to see
But be thou only mine.
How is your Uncle William
Oh Bell if you would only that yon would wate for me
nntill I am in the position to h ive you I will be true to
you if yon do I may get under sekretery yet—They
were all like me once You are old enough to give up all
foolish notions of flirting, make up your mind now and
settle down for ever.”
We have just received from the publishers a
copy of Mr. B. Disraeli’s latest work, “ Endymion, or
the Man in the Moon,” and although we are ever loth
to discourage young authors, or to cast obstacles in the
way of aspiring talent, still, in common justice to the
general public we are bound to say this is simply a very
weak novel, by a still weaker politician. The spelling
is certainly correct, and there is not a single line in the
book which would raise a blush ou the cheek of a boiled
sardine, but the diction is merely one long string of
grandiloquent verbosity, and the foundation of the plot
is about as rotten as the carrying out of a corporation
contract. Asa specimen of the “gush” in Mr. Dis-
raeli's work, we will take the scene where the heroine
swings dn the front gate whilst Endymion makes love
from the footpath. He is standing on a brick for eleva-
tion, and his voice is broken by emotion, caused partly
by the knowledge that the old man is putting up a
stove in the kitchen, and may dart upon him at any
moment, and partly from the fact that the house dog is
smelling round Endymion’s heels in a manner not at all
calculated to inspire confidence. Presently, however,
the dog steps across the road to talk the Irish Question
over with a wall-eyed poodle, and Endymion, holding
on to the gate, exclaims, “ Carena Mia! Thou knowest
that the god-compelling passion whose appellation is
love (Latin amo) is that co-ordinating power whose
mysterious influence rules our destinies with sovereign
sway, and causes each heart to beat, aye from the apex
of its sub-clavian artery, down to the lowest point of its
inferior vena cava, with sweet responsive throbs, and
which creates in an amorous pair that double-faced
unity whose psychological organisation inseparably
conjoins every spiritual and physical attribute and the
completeness of whose transcendental individualism is
an axiomatic self-evident truth as unfathomable as it is
incomprehensible, and as incomprehensible as it is un-
fathomable.” Fancy what a show a lover like that
would have with a Sydney girl! Never says a word
about taking her to the Austrian band, or the Gospel
Tent, or the circus, and never hands her over a cake of
taffy, or the last Bulletin. However, the book has a
nice cover, and will look well on any table; bnt the
author is evidently in the same hole as the small boy
who, being pushed off a fence, feels in duty bound to
turn round and throw mnd at the fellow who capsized
him.
A certain journal burst forth like anew comet
in our midst some time back, and the editor announced
that he would be most happy to answer all reasonable
questions which the public mind might yearn to ask.
The first query received was, " Sir, can you inform an
’old subscriber when you are likely to hand oVerthe
15s. he lent you four years ago to save your being
arrested for a board and lodging bill ?” The old sub-
scriber got his money, but the frost got the corres-
pondence column.
We have just received from the talented com-
poser, Mr. John Young, a copy of his new “ Evers of
Thee." The air is set in the shiirps. and after struggling
along for a few bars it modulates into A flat minor,
lifter which the former trouble is renewed, and the
whole converted into a presto allegro in C sharp. The
words are very beautiful also, and remind us of Phil.
M‘Carroll’s happiest efforts. One couplet will be
enough; perhaps too much to satisfy our readers—
• Morn, noon, and night where’er I may be
Fondly I’m dreaming Evers of thee.
Mr. Young is now engaged on a cantata, which is to be
given on the occasion of the opening of the assembly
room in the new Town Hall. The title of the cantata
is “ Ali Baba, or the Forty Thieves,” and we predict
that it will take well.
Who in the name of Lucifer is the Irish editor
now on the Evening Nooze ! Is it Timothy Fogarty
or Parnell, or Dan O’Connor? Last Wednesday’s
loader on Telephonic Communication positively reeks
of the potheen and shamrock, especially the shamrock,
and if the brilliant writer can only keep up the style he
will shortly be able to retire on a handsome inde-
pendence, and perhaps wear clean shirts on week days.
“ We are not romancing,” observes this Joe Miller,
“when we say that we expect eventually to hear by
’elephone the great orators of the old world addressing
the House of Commons, or a Patti assuming the
"riucipal character in the works of the great masters
of song.” Now, that’s all right, and doesn’t annoy
anyone’s feelings, but in the very next sentence he says,
“ These things may not take place in our time." If
they don’t how ou earth can we hear them ? We pause
for a reply—by telephone.
In Brown-street, Newcastle, lives a Mr. Pierre.
Well, last Sunday morning he was seated at his break-
fast table,with his family around him, just commencing
to read prayers, when he was startled by hearing a
noise which was a cross between an earthquake and the
tones of M’Elhone at high-strung concert pitch. Turn-
ing the family prayer-book in his agitation face down-
wards on the oleomargarine, and telling his blanched
family in tremulous tones to sing “ The Gate’s Ajar”
until he returned, Mr. Pierre tottered out into the
passage, fully confident in his own mind that Mother
Shipton had struck it after all, and that he was about
to be served out with the regulation trump and orange-
colored halo. Once fairly outside the room, he found
ha had been premature in his anticipations. Yet, he
didn’t feel quite comfortable ; for, standing in the
hall was an immense black draught horse. The
ap-pierre-ance of this animal in his domicile naturally
aroused the landlord's indignation, and seizing him by
the halter he endeavoured to “ back" the quadruped out
of the front door. It was no use. The animal though
perfectly good-tempered, politely, though firmly,
refused to[depart. Mr. Pierre then, after tagging at
the horse’s halter until he was nearly as black in the
face as the horse itself, let go in despair, and haying
enjoined his family to take refuge in the hired girl’s
room up the ladder, stood by, armed with a shovel, to
await results. The horse stood still a minute, and then
seemed all at once to experience a vivid interest in the
hat-rack, taking a large semi-circular bite out of Mr.
P.’s best bell topper. After chewing this morceau
meditatively for a few seconds he, finding the glue
disagreed with him, spat it out, and slowly advanced
towards the dining-room. “ Woo-a-a ! good old horse,
said Mr. Pierre, coaxingly. The steed neighed plea-
santly, but continued to advance. “Gee-back!” yelled
SALUTATION ODE.
To the Hon. Wm. Forster, by his sincere well-wisher,
Henry P-k-s, author of “ Mnrmnrs of the Wool-
loomooloo Drain,” the “ Impounding Act,” Ac.
“ Oh, Willie, is it you, dear,
Safe, safe at home ?
P’raps now we’ll get the cue, dear.
Why you chose to roam.
And why those cheeky letters
You dared to write to me.
And why you snubbed your betters
From that land beyond the sea.
Oh, Willie, is it you, dear,
Safe, sound, and well P
We never wanted you, dear.
And wish you were in—Petropaulovski.
There is a ring of genuine affection sounding through
every line in the above, and we are greatly mistaken in
Mr. Forster if he doesn’t do something to elevate the
bard who could jerk off such a fitting welcome to him.


Mr. P., retreating hnrriedly backwards. Then his
heels caught the edge of the cocoa-nut fibre mat; he
went over backwards —and knew no more. .....
The following articles will shortly be sold at auction at
y£r. Pierre’s residence : the key-board of an Ascherberg
piano, together with the strings complete—the latter
suitable for a Chinese puzzle—one dining table, perfect
with the exception of two legs and the centre “leaf,”
the splinters of seven chairs (including baby’s ditto),
the frames of two splendid mirrors, also the remnants
of a number of other valuable articles, which will be
sold by the heap. To the largest buyer a cart-load of
bricks will be thrown in; and finally, a large amount of
horse-hair will be gratuitously distributed amongst the
purchasers. Mr. Pierre now says that Heaven is his
home.
The meanest people in this world live in Mel-
bourne. Finding that they can’t get at Sir ’Enry on
the subject of railway rates, the southern, newspapers
have taken to reviewing his “ poetry-book ” entitled
“Murmurs of the Stream,” and published in 1857 by.
“ James W. Waugh, 139]George-street.” The piece out
of which the southern rascals have apparently got
most fun is eutitLsd “ Geelong.” Sir ’Enry seems to
have met with some pretty girls on the banks of the
liarwon in those 1 times, for he writes :
“ And maidens rivaling E i in’s blooms
Shall breathe in hall and cottage bower
A glory through thy pleasant homes ;
And mothers shall be thine, to store
The dawning mind with Milton’s lore.
And fan the heart.”
In verses a little further on he anticipates the birth of
a numerous crop of poets, for he promises that—
“ And poets yet in many a lay.
In strains which Shakespere’s soul would own.
Shall sing to me of fair Corio’s Bay—
Of Barwon’s banks, and of thy zone.” &c., &3.
\yell, now, the fact is that the only poet Geelong has
produced np to the present, bar Sir 'Enry, was a fellow
named Stitt Jenkins, who is now dead. It is true that
he was a better poet than Sir ’Enry ; but, on the other
hand, he wasn’t clever enough to become a Chief
Secretary. Jenkins was for many years in the employ
of a wool firm as storeman, and when there were no
bales to dump he used to sit down and write poetry—
sometimes to the moon, praising it up, and more times
to Graham B ary, praising him np. Well, when Graham
at last got a firm grip of office he “ sent for ” Jenkins,
and made him his private secretary, turning out poor
Eicoiotti Garibaldi (son of the Italian Liberator), who
had been private secretary to the preceding Premier.
Then when Berry gob anew son-in-law, in the person of
a rising young coppersmith, he of course turned out
Jenkins, and gave the son-in-law his billet. Poor
Jenkins has since died—of a broken heart, I believe.
He was a well-meaning man, but the only piece of his
poetry which still lives in my brain is a fragment of an
ode addressed to Sir James Martin, when the latter was
Premier of N.S.W
“You’ll find by-and-bye
It’s all my eye
And Betty Martin, too.”
And, by the way, it’s a curious thing that in the
“ Murmurs of the Stream ” Sir Henry always winds np
his refrains—which range in character from the joyous
and sprightly to the pathetic and melancholy and even
weird—with a reference to “my heart.” It’s evident
from his allusion to the girls on Barwon’s banks that
he had a heart in those days; hut there are lots of
people in Sydney who say that now but no more on
this subject just at present.
In the Assembly, Mr. Badgery said he “ had a
desire to see all the young men of the colony have a
military education. He did not know what country the
hon. member for Shoalhaven belonged to. He had
always very grave doubts whether he was an English-
man or an Irishman; all he hoped was that he did not
belong to the colonies.” Thank goodness, we are in a
position to instruct the hon. member for Monaro on
this point. Mr. Roseby is an Arab. The Arabs, it will
be remembered (so our Pinnock tells us) have always
been celebrated for the beauty of their horses and the
elegance of their horsemanship. Now, you have only
to watch the member for Shoalhaven clattering down
Pitt-street outside his Rosinante, and you will see at
once that he is an Arab. His steed has a magnificent
frame—a frame like those of the Steinway pianos—
warranted to remain sound in any climate. Archi-
tecturally, Mr. E.’s steed is perfect, and were it not
useful as a horse, it would be invaluable as a hat-stand.
Its facial expression is sad even unto melancholy, and
the hue of its coat (and indeed the general appearance
of the Bucephalus) lends colour to the belief that it is
fed on tombstones. To see Mr. Roseby astride his
charger, with short trousers, shoes, and cloudy white
socks, is indeed a treat. The affection between master
and steed is boundless. There we have the Arab again.
When Mr. E. goes to the coffee palace, the horse is
taken round to the back and regaled with the crust of
yesterday’s pies, ginger-beer, corks, cheese-rind, and
toast-crusts. Then when man and beast are refreshed,
there is a polish to be observed upon both of them, and
a gallant show they make as together they go clattering
through the sunshine towards the stone-yard. On
these premises, therefore, we can safely come to the
conclusion that Mr. Roseby is an Arab. Not, perhaps,
a pure-bred Arab—we think better of Arabia than that
—but a kind of festive Bedouin, with a dash of Dalston
draper. The horse of course is a street Arab, his
appearance being typical of the present social con-
dition of his country.
I notice of late that the immense show windows
of Victoria House are one gorgeous blaze of nothing
but ladies’ extremity covers of every colour, shape, and
make that the eye can see or the human heart can
wish for. Apart from the questionable nature of this
exhibition, there is another fact I have noticed, and it
is this :—When yon see two young persons of antago-
nistic sexes standing in front of the window, joking,
and poking away at the hosiery, and guessing their
heads off as to the probable age, weight and colour of
the wearers, yon can solemnly swear that these parties
have been married exactly two years ten months and
four days. But when you find a young couple turning
their faces to the street, and endeavouring to look as
thoroughly unconscious of the attractive show behind
as ifjit were stuck up in one of Jupiter’s moons, you can
bet your !a.st farthing that that pair haven’t even
“ squoze” hands or devoured ice cream together. How
to account for this thusness I hardly know. Professor
Huxley says it is all owing to • the semi-automatic
spiral movement of the molecules in the human cere-
bellum ; but Archbishop Vaughan says it’s the weather.
Of the two opinions, both are equally correct, es-
pecially the Archbishop’s.
“ A Sunday-school teacher,” writing in the
Presbyterian, draws the attention of her “ Dear
Young Friends ” to the evils of dancing, and says that
the first time she’ accepted an invitation to a dance
“ was the first time I had openly showed I was among
Satan’s host, and was marching with them along the
broad way that leads to destruction. With what sorrow
i now meditate on that misspent part of my life! My
tears cannot recall one single moment of it, nor can
blot out the foul stain in the pages of my history,” &c.
The “dear young friends” are further informed that
they “ cannot indulge in dancing without straying far
fir from God ” Then follows this logical proposition :
“ There is a heaven and a hell. If dancing will not lead
you towards heaven it must have a tendency to drag
yon down to hell.” The most comical part of the
article, however, is subjoined: “We read in the Bible
of Miriam and the other women dancing, bnt we do not
read that they had men for partners. David danced,
too, but he did so aXone.” Now, I notice that nothing
is said by the writer about Uriah or Mrs. Uriah. In
conclusion, the “dear young friends” are thus exhorted:
“ Dearchildren, heed a solemn warning. When tempted
you will find that the flesh is weak ; then
‘ Ask the Saviour to help you, comfort, strengthen, and
keep you;
He is willing to aid you. He will carry you through.’
—Yours affectionately. A Sunday-School Teacher.”
fibh February, 1881.” Now, what most people will want
to know is how it happens that so easily-tempted a
creature is teaching in a Sunday-school! and writing for
so spicy and snored a paper as the Presbyterian.
This is the stuff on which the “ religious ” organs live.
Surely it isn’t necessary in this centurv to bolster up
the Christian religion tiy such sickly drivelling cant
and weak-kneed blasphemy.
The character of Dogberry is one of the most
a nusing of Shakespeare’s characters. Some urge that
tie doings of that “master constable” so border on
the farcical as to detract from themeritof the dramatic
c ’cation. Until lately, indeed, wo have been cpt to
coasider Verge’s companion a gross exaggeration ; but
at the present time we are commencing to think that
prototypes of Dogberry are numerous in our midst.
This conviction is forced upon us by recent and ludi-
crous decisions which have been recorded at the police
courts in different parts of the colony. We will, how-
ever, content ourselves with one case—that of a mur-
derous virago beating her step-son, a pretty little boy
aged seven years, until, to quote the constable’s evi-
dence, “ he icos black and blue from head to foot, and
covered with wales and bruises .” The woman absconded
when summoned, but was arrested at the Paterson
brought back. Now, the bare cost of this inhuman
wretch’s arrest must have amounted to £5 or £6, and
yet, to quote a newspaper report, when brought up,
“the magistrates said defendant’s conduct had been
heartless in the extreme, and she, instead of doing her
duty to her step-son, had maltreated and cut him about
the body. Taking the circumstances of the case into
consideration, they would, however, deal leniently
with her, and inflict a fine of 20s. and costs, or, in
default, fourteen days’ imprisonment.” We make no
comment upon this hideous farce, farther than is em-
bodied in the following couplets:—
How dare they sit upon the Bench,
Who from their lawful duty blench ?
How dare these blockheads sit on high.
Whose living life’s a living lie ?
A “ lie ” —for justice all they swore
To mete out —neither less nor more!
These owls that perch aloft all stand
A jest and by-word in the land.
A mark for ridicule is he
Who damns a good name with J.P.!
J.P.—alas ! unhappy fate
That mokes a man —a magistrate!
V.
A Model Jury;
OR, HOW THEY DO IT IN KAMSCHATKA.
They had retired. Twelve of them. And it was some
hours after Sol had trembled on the meridian. “ Well,
what d’ye say ?” enquired the foreman of a gentleman
who was engaged in taking a Brobdigaagian bite out
of a Brobdignagian sandwich. “ Oh, don’t bother,”
replied the sandwich-man, with his mouth full, “let’s
have a feed.” The foreman here produced a flask and
sausage-roll. “Well,” exclaimed an aged juror, who
was wrestling with a sheep’s tongue, “ X like the
Kamschaxka Chronicle.” “So do I,” echoed the
foreman. “ And I,” chimed in the sandwich man..
The fourth juryman, a sour-faced fellow, said nothings
Some verses on his aunt had years back appeared in the
paper—causing her to die intestate. “What’s th.
damages laid at ?” enquired the sausage-roll devonrer
“A million!” replied the foreman, gurgling at his
flask. “ What ! only a million ?” enquired the nephew
of the deceased aunt. “ Can’t we find for more than
that ?” “ Well, I don’t know,” rejoined the foreman ;
“ the Kamschatka Chronicle amuses me. I read it to
my missis every Sunday afternoon when we have a lay
down, and the neighbours have worn out my doorstep
coming to borrow it.” “ The Chronicle’s my salva-
tion,’”here chipped in the man with the sandwiches.
“ Before it came out, I believed in nothing; now I
believe in anything, except -what appears in the
Morning Meddler. It is a paper that caused my
mother-in-law to die of laughing. I’ll only award a
farthing for this libel —one solid farthing, and
a square meal for the defendant’s clerk. “ The
Chronicle’s the only civilised paper that ever I read,”
exclaimed the sausage-roll worrier: at least my wife
says so —and she knows most things. If I don’t bring it
home on the very day it comes out, there’s an
earthquake np till 2in the morning.” Then the four
jurors laid their heads together and considered how
much ta award. “ I’ll tell you what we’ll do,” cried
the foreman, at length—“ we’ll give the plaintiff
£lOO,OOO, just to give the paper a start.” And it was
put to the twelve and carried unanimously.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
(BY SHANGHAI.)
There are ways innumerable and various in
which to obtain honours and distinctions. For instance,
if you wish to be placed in the category of disrepu-
tables, yon have only to enter Parliament—at least, out
in these regions. Again, if you are ambitious enough
to seek to be enrolled in the ranks of some learned
society, you have only to pay fairly well for, say, an
essay written by some ingenious but impecunious son
of the pen, and attach your name to it, and so become
an author, and as such an acceptable member of the
society in question. Yon may fancy that this picture
of mine is not according to “ Cocker,” but it is, never-
theless. We have living in one of the colonies a titled
individual who became a PeMow of a certain ancient
society through a pamphlet bearing his name—and
nothing more. If you have any inordinately ambitions
gentlemen, with an ample supply of coin, in your city,
you have only to introduce them to me, and I’ll put
them in the way of securing all their hearts may desire.
There are a great many letters to choose from —
F.R.G.S., F.L.S., &c., &c.
In these prosaic days, it is positively refreshing
hear an outburst of genuine sentiment— to read that
there lives in this enlightened age a sonl so untram-
melled by ordinary and starched usages that it can give
effect to its feelings without regard to appearances and
conventionalities. Such a one is doubtless in the
possession of the young woman who here the other day
wept over the corse of one whom she had evidently
loved, as it was being carried *in its coffin to the
hearse. The story of that love was a sealed book to
the family of the deceased; and only the mourning
heart left behind can tell the anguish of the long part-
ing—the, perhaps, for ever parting—with the object of
its idolatry. This is a strange world, my masters ! It
is decidedly “mixed,” as our American cousins would
remark. Oh! how true are the lines of loving, tender
Tom Hood :
“ There’s not a string attuned to mirth
But hath its chord in melancholy.”
But lam getting maudlin. Excuse, oh! most prosaic
Editor ! this momentary lapse into sentimentalism.
Such luxuries are only for women—or rather, for those
of them who do not believe in Woman’s Rights.
The theatrical world here is dragging its weary
length along. The Opera House still draws with the
Tambour Major ; and, as there is lots of “ leg,” this is
not to be wondered at. At the Royal, that miserably
dull pantomime, “ Sinbad,” is still kept on the hoards.
Indeed, Coppin is thoroughly conservative, and dis-
likes change hence the monotony reigning in his
theatre. He certainly is about to bring forward a Star
—I can’t say of what water, but it is to be hoped not like
our Yan-Yean, in the person of Mr. Leake. After all
said and done, Lewis is our best theatrical showman, and
consequently the Bijou is a favourite resort—which will
be a hundred-fold more the case when Fred Marshall
appears on its boards. lam told he will do so shortly.
If Lewis is wise he will secure just one or two with as
much genius as Fred, and he may always rely upon
filling his coffers. The public here are most discrimi-
nating, and they won’t swallow performers because they
are labelled “ stars as most of those who are brought
out by “ the Dodger ” are. It is said that a wise man
knows when his day is gone, but there are men who
think themselves full of wise saws, and who are not so
discriminating. “ More’s the pity.”
The world has wondered, and very naturally so,
at the manner in which France has thrown off the
indemnity load placed upon her back by that ruthless
Prussian commonly known as Otto Bismarck, prince,
etc. Indeed, she has not only recovered, but is actually
wealthier now than ever she was. Money is so plentiful
that outlets have to he sought, and ene and chief of
these is Australia. I am reliably informed that,
apart from the French bank which has been started in
Melbourne and Sydney, several large French mercantile
houses and manufactories will establish branches and
agencies throughout these colonies. These, in time,
with the assistance of a direct steam route from
Marseilles (which will shortly be a fact) will encourage
skilled immigration, so much wanted here, which will
advance our wine-trade and other industries. All this
enterprise and activity is mainly due to the clear head
of the French Consul-General for Australia, M. Belconr,
who, besides having the “go ’’ of his nation, has had
the benefit of many years’ residence in America in a
consular position. Let our vignerons, sericiculturists,
etc., take heart and join hands with the foreigner, who
is ready to become an adopted son of this virgin soil.
Though enemies for centuries, there has always been
an affinity between the Gaul and the Englishman.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY BON[?].]
diggers at St. George’s Hall.
Palladini, the tenor, has gone to China.
Does G.B.W. mean the Great Baby Wonder?
Melbourne Punch has “taken to” Jack Gar-
again.
Verdi is going home to bring out a new opera
company.
“ Victoria in 1880” has appeared and the Gar-
net is happy.
“ Our Boys ” at the Bijou, and “ Our Boys ” at
the Princess.
Amateur dramatic performances are all the rage
in Melbourne.
The Bank of New South Wales in Collins-street
is crumbling to pieces.
Now in the press, and to be published shortly,
" Byron Moore on Dolls,”
The Exhibition is swamped with country folk.
The fashionables clear the track.
Kowalski is transcendental, Ketten divine. A
.distinction without a difference.
The Collins-street drapery stores display in then-
windows everything except drapery.
Mnsgrove, the lessee of the Opera House, is an
old Melbourne Grammar School “ hoy.”
At Parliament House they are going to dispense
with “ gas” and substitute the electric light.
Ladies complain, through the Argus, of the
want of comfort on the overland journey to Sydney.
Mortimer Pranklyn is going to “bring out”
a new paper. Too many irons in the fire, Morty, old
boy.
“ Go-as-you-please ” at the Hippodrome—the
castellated absurdity in Exhibition-street—does nor,
pay.
Thorne’s eyes are the most comical portion of
his body. He uses them to much advantage in “ Onr
Boys.”
Are they Yankees ? We refer to the two girls
who have taken up a position in the American court
near the Fernery.
Little Ada Willetts, the Ballarat musical wonder,
was unable to play at the Howitz benefit. Her baby-
brother had just died.
Ketten again, Town Hall again, Nobili again,
and Java and the East again. If the concert is a suc-
cess it will be also a gain.
Kowalski is going to Sydney. So is the Marche
Hongroise. So is the Galop di Bravoura. Oh! Sydne-
ians, we envy you the treat.
The dwarf now being exhibited is an abortion.
It is a sickening sight. It is Wilkie Collins’ Miserimus
Dexter, minus the latter’s intellect.
The ordinary fashionable Exhibition promenade?
of whichever sex, knows not of the wonders of
Keramic ware nor of the beauties of French bronzes.
Very little enthusiasm was evinced in Melbourne
at the victory of the Victorian cricketers over the
New South Welshmen. Is cricket played out in Mel-
bourne?
The latest thing affected by Berryism is the
Yan Yean water. A recent inspection of the reservoir
proved that an hotel drain emptied itself into it, and
that it contained other extremely objectionable
matter.
Barnard Lazarus, the wealthy mine-owner, oi
Sandhurst, who died the other day, left £4.0,000 to each
of his three sons. Should the vonng men, however,
marry outside the Hebrew faith, they lose the whole of
their legacy.
The Babies (we mean Lewis’s) are in Adelaide.
This is their last intercolonial tour. We sincerely hope
they will take to their pinafores in Melbourne again,
and leave the sawdust and spangles to babies of a more
mature growth.
George Crisp, the aged jeweller, can still sing a
good song. Ask his neighbors what they think of “ Let
Me like a Soldier Fall P” We should have thought
that “ Rich and Rare were the Gems She Wore ” would
he more in George’s way.
David Blair resides in the only “ nook” that can
be found in the whole of the painfully regular-streeted
city of Melbourne. The house is situated on a hill to
the west of the city, and the streets adjoining have a
decidedly “ Dick-Deadeye-ish” angular-like appearence.
Somebody has caricatured the Berry Ministry as
the “ Italian Brigands ” from the picture in the
Victorian National Gallery. The painting hangs ir
Allan’s window, and attracts immense crowds. The
idea is good, the execution poor, and the caricature
stale.
Street tree-planting in Melbourne is a partial
failure. The dust nuisance in the streets of Melbourne
is a curse. The idea of making streets of macadamised
stone, which becomes dust in summer and mud it
winter, is just what one might expect from such a pig-
headed body as the Melbourne City Council.
Larrikins again “on the rampage.” Only one
person can cope with them, and that is Judge Cope,
who has ordered a batch of them to receive the punish-
ment of the lash. If our unpaid justices of the peace
would copey the example of this rosy old judge, larri-
kinism would soon be trampled out.
We are informed by the genial Mr. Smith (who,
by the way, is the Athenaeum) that the institution
purchased eight copies instead of three of Dizzy’s
latest novel, “ Endymion.” If such be the case, then
we withdraw our former remark, and make the amende
honorable. “ The Smith a mighty man is he.” (Long-
fellow).
Washington’s birthday. Its memory honored in
the American Court at the Exhibition. Kowalski
played divinely, Kowalski sang tastefully ; Annie
Montague carolled ni ghtingail-ly ; Turner tenorised
Beanmont-ly ; Commissioner Pickering was all there,
and so was the crowd. Here’s to Washington, the
great Englishman !
At last, Dr. Dobson, of the Legislative Council,
has brought under the notice of the representative of
the Government the fact that performances are being
given in a leading theatre by children of tender years,
and asks whether means will be adopted to suppress
the same. Bravo, Dobby! What will Doctor Newplace
think of this? But sub rosa. [Note. —This is'not
exactly meant for a pun on the name of the dark-eyed
directress.)
Why are the Doctor’s criticisms so incompre-
hensible ? The phrases are so terribly disjected,
and the periods so jerky, that it takes an ordinary
■ reader ten minutes to understand one sentence. We
have of late positively refused to cut that portion of
the Australasian devoted to theatrical criticism, for
the very reason that we do not wish to mar our Sunday
enjoyment by vain attempts to unravel the Doctor’s
English.
To our Headers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all tunes be gia.
to receive information from correspondents livin'; i
town or country or the other colonies on subjects o:
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communication’,
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on onr space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column th ; r -
tentien of onr readers is specially directed.
INTAGLIOS.
My Lovers Twain.
My lovers twain —my lovers twain,
I pray you let pie be !
To wed you both I would be fain.
Only that may not be.
One lover is like music sweet.
That steals my heart away.
And one is like the trumpet blast.
Which calls me to the fray.
One is of gentle, courteous mind.
To low and high degree :
And one is stem and harsh of mood.
And melteth but to me.
One is so strange and lovable.
That but to touch his hand
Do women kneel—before the one
Do men uncovered stand.
And if this one I do not wed.
He never wife will seek;
And if that one I do not wed.
He sorroweth a week.
My lovers twain—my lovers twain.
Ye should have let me be;
I love the one with all my heart —
The other loveth me.
Fancy’s Chances.
Come, brothers, let us sing a dirge—
A dirge for myriad chances dead;
In grief your mournful accents merge—
Sing, sing the girls we might have wed.
Sweet lips were those we never pressed
In love that never lost the dew
In sunlight of a love confessed;
Kind were the girls we never knew.
Sing low, sing low, while in the glow
Of fancy’s hour those forms we trace.
Hovering around the years that go—
Those years onr lives can ne’er replace.
Sweet lips are those that never turn
A cruel word; dear eyes that lead
The heart on in a blithe concern j
White hand of her we did not wed.
Pair hair or dark, that falls along
A form that never shrinks with time —
Bright image of a realm of song.
Standing beside onr years of prime.
When you shall go, then may we knew
The heart is dead, the man is old;
Life can no other charm bestow
When girls we might have loved turn cold.
Between.
BY S. J.
I hear the wailing of the sad night winds;
I see the gleaming of the waves upon the shore;
I think how wide and deep the water lies between.
And toward you reach my hands—
My helpless bauds that cannot clasp thine own.
So wide, so deep the water lies between;
The ocean, with its mocking silver crests
Kissed by the moonbeams’ sheen.
I cannot but be sad—so much I love.
So much I long, dear little heart, for thee—
To think that ether eyes, to-night, may win
Ttye smiles you kept for me.
I send you kisses o’er the tossing waves.
Kisses that can ontsail the swiftest ships;
But they are driven back by fickle winds.
And never reach your lips.
But if I knew, to-night, yon thought of me,
And could around me feel your love unseen,
I think, dear heart, I should not mind so much
The moaning waves between.
An Epilogue.
[BY A. L. GORDON.]
When, with satellites round them, the centre
Of all eyes, hard press’d by the crowd.
The pair, horse and rider, re-enter ••
The gate, 'mid a shout long and loud.
You may feel as yon might feel, just landed ‘
Full length on the grass from the clip
Of a vicious cross-counter, right-handed.
Or upper-cut, whizzing from hip.
*******
Do I bore you with vulgar allusions ?
Forgive me, I speak as I feel.
I’ve ponder’d and made my conclusions—
As the mill grinds the com to the meal;
So man striving boldly but blindly,
Ground piecemeal in Destiny’s mill.
At his best, taking punishment kindly.
Is only a chopping-block still.
♦***■. * * *
“ How came they to pass, these rash blunders.
These false steps so hard to defend ? ”
Our friend puts the question and wonders.
We laugh and reply, “ Ah ! my friend.
Could yon trace the first stride falsely taken.
The distance misjudged, where or how.
When you pick’d yourself up, stunn’d and shaken,
At the fence ’twixt the turf and the plough ?
“ In the jar of the panel rebounding!
In the crash of the splintering wood !
In the ears to the earth shock resounding J
In the eyes flashing fire and blood!
In the quarters above you revolving !
In the sods underneath heaving high!
There was little to aid yon in solving
Such questions—the how or the why.”
“ And destiny, steadfast in trifles.
Is steadfast for better or worse
In great things, it crushes and stifles.
And swallows the hopes that we nurse.
Men wiser than we are may wonder.
When i he future they cling to so fast.
To the roll of that destiny’s thunder.
Goes down with the wrecks of the past.”
*******
The past! the dead past! that has swallow’d-
All the honey of life and the milk.
Brighter dreams than mere pastimes we’ve follow’d
Better things than our scarlet or silk ;
Aye, and worse things—that past is it really
Dead to us who again and again
Feel sharply, hear plainly, see clearly
Past days with their joy and their pain ?
Like corpses embalm’d and uuburied
They lie, and in spite onr will.
Our souls on the wings of thought carried,
Revisit their sepulchres still;
Down the channels of mystery gliding
They conjure stange tales, rarely road.
Of the priests of dead Pharaohs presiding
At mystical feasts of the dead.
Weird pictures arise, quaint devices.
Rude emblems, baked funeral meats.
Strong incense, rare wines, and rich spices.
The ashes, the shrouds, and the sheets;
Does our thraldom fall short of completeness
For the magic of a charnel-house charm.
And the flavour of a poisonous sweetness,
And the odour of a poisonous balm ?
And the links of the past—but, no matter.
For I’m getting beyond yon, I guess.
An 1 you'll call me “ as mad as a hatter,”
If my thoughts I too freely express;
I subjoin a quotation, pray learn it.
And with the aid of your lexicon tell ns
The meaning thereof, “ Res discernit
Sapiens, qua* cmfund.it oselltts.”


Public Companies
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARLIAMENT, 187 S
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund. £115,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hem. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hob. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Seroggie, Esq,
H. E. Conen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A, Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street,
dONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helehs.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Bankers to the Government op Queensland.
A BRANCH of this BANK, under the management
of MR. JOHN SOUTTAR. will be opened at 99 Pitt-
street, in the first week of March.
E. R. DRURY,
General Manager.
General Manager’s Office,
Brisbane, 11th February, 1881.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A, LLOYD AND CO,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OP AUSTRALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors : "
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THREE YEARS. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
G. CHUROHWOO
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAN DT, and CO.
>ork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Jutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
w
H . ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-street, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Triletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co,’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
c
OALCLIFP COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—234olb.
net, not onL in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals However, houesl and punctual- dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur,'clinker or splinter. Therefore, as ail engineers
well know, boilers, lubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
Coalcliff
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines J
235. Ditto double-screened 1
225. Ditto single ditto j Newcastle
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
Public Companies
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
J SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848,
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want,
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office — “9 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Yonl, Esq., C.M.G.; P. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales. —Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbell town. Cannon bar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coiaki, Coonamble, Cootamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kompsey, Kiama, Lis mote, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoal'haven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Wood uni, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of bouth Australia, the
National Bonk of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide. ,
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The Loudon and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Cueland ; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India. China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
dxed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney,
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery. Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEOEGE-
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors :
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J Chapman, Esq., J.P. E. J. Ruble, Esq-
T. R. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMEN T.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BO TH FIRE AND LIFE AS LO* r
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate In the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY.
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices. 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
E
XCELSIOR LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and ail other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
WEDDING PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS, BRIDAL TROUSEAUX—
The most Fashionable and Stylish class of Goods in the City of Sydney.
Peaprs and Shaw are now making a Grand Display of
NOVELTIES for PEE3ENTAT10N, SUITABLE to the SEASON, as follows
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
IN
BEAL AND IMITATION
LACE GOODS.
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
BEAL SEALSKIN
AND
PLUSH BAGS AND
'PURSES.
LADIES’
SIL V EE
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOEOCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BUXES
SPEING BOOK SLIDES
EUSSIA LEATHEE BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CAED CASES
NE PLUS LEATHEE DESKS
ASSORTED SCENT CASKETS
EOYAL CABINETS OF GAM.ES
PEESIAN FITTED WOEK CASKET
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARRINGS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING CASES
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRACKETS
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET GLASSES
LADIES’ PANS POE DRESS OR PROMENADE ;
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS HOLDERS
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF BOXES
CKIBBAGE BOARDS AND ROULETTES I
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING BAGS
BOUDOIR TIDIES—A “NOVELTY"
COMBINATION JEWEL CASES
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAYS
CARVED WOOD BRACKETS
COMPENDIUM OF GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO. ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
&c. &0.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CELEBRATED
“ FLORA” KID GLOVES
Six Pairs for 18/6,
in elegantly scented sachet.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
COSTUMES
Are celebrated throughout
the colonies.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CHASM urn
MILLINERY
CANNOT be EXCELLED
ANYWHERE.
Do you want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentleman?
If you do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
44
f
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY s
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting- Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &c. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is tree from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
k. A. M. & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition. Sydney,
1879-80.
■>
LEA
; AtKWOWlSSmSSB TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
\&A»iunieritSi£D er W. DA¥l£S& Cf go a ls urn ASM
mhe best paint in the world
'4>
*
CLASTfC
m
&s
M
'SJe 22^1$
&
THE PACIFIC KUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and I gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly roaches
as“Woollahra. August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
md Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it aboutlo months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC KUBBEE PAINT
vill cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
ipplication. Packages of any size required are
•..-w-iWImI daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge,
URPHT AND SON,
IMPORTERS OP
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (Sat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Geld and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Bmshware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac,
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
Gr.
A. SMI
88 KING STREET
T
(Prom Rotherham’s, London),
H.
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under Q. A S.’s
supervision.
|N.B. —Brunch also at 91 OXFORD STREET


Business Announcements
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
G,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
’ HARMONIUMS
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Sonflato’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’a),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blao
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
RAiAEWWOjsf
REDGATE’S
FjSIT£KT
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■•ld by nil Croeen *»d StoNkeswni
E.
AND F. W.. MASON,
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
RON AND BRASS BED S,T EADS
Pitted up with
Palliasses. Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Shc<»c,s, Bu.nkefs, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
tlosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
manufacturer and importer
60S George-street.
Tobacconists
J A
M E S EYE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands,
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN ’TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
/r
2*
a.
Manufactured ty
T. S A Y W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
rjl H O S. J. B 0 W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSPINISHEBS,
Importers of
3AS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES'AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
Jgj CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Chemists and Druggists
m
IK.I
mm&m
■ ■
ÜBL I C
NOTICE.
THE following Hist of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rhetunatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can bo obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu.
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
, 581 GEORGE STREET.
HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Neae Hyde Paek Coener.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE. LIEUT„
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
■ a£> e &
■?! a
W, D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
Important Testimony
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sims and Paekes,
Sirs.—lf it is any benefit to you, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time, you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlarge-
men of the Liver and Spleen, withal’ the accompanying
pains and aches. For FOUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, but my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, as a Last
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE,
Grose-Street, Camperdown, N.S.W,
October 27,1879.
SIMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies, on receipt- of Cash and Post
Office Order. Address—
-240 GEORGE STREET, opposite Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
COUGH WHILE YOU. CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, <you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TI.CKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
: .‘™ ,MEN F DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-SPREET-
. Pamphlets gratis- &
Chemists and Druggists
T
A K E NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do yorf SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randersoa’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do yoti Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES I
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? Yon
can safely give Orem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
ter Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales,
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Soros when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’e
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasir •<
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anythin*
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green eolo.
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is mad ,
and totally free fr«m any and all deleterious and p
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—!,
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY,
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
Try BUSHELL
FOR
S I GN S.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
MPEOVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE,
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia :
AH Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
„r a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon yon
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award atfch
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4,
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £b
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and kev, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTARD-LANE, 3TDNIT,
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
N ELEGANT CHRISTMAS
YISIT
PRESENT.
o
%
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENTS
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand P'anos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASI
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUSNEEBEIN, Jun.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CO
Lki
CD
oc
o
u
CD
o
55
o_
55
o
CD
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But foe Cash —Ws Sell foe Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
SHIRTS! SHIRTS! AT MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
GOWING BROTHERS,
Haring bought (at a very large discount for cash) a consignment of Gentlemen’s White Shirts,
are now selling the same at manufacturers’ prices.
J. E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET, Half way between Post Office and Hunter Street; and
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George-street, Opposite Central Police Court.
GENTLEMEN’S FRENCH SHIRTS,
FINE CAMBRIC BODIES,
PURE LINEN FRONTS AND CUFFS,
MILITARY FRONT, BUTTON BACK.
4s. 6d. EACH
OR
SIX FOR 255.
Gentlemen are respectfully invited to inspect the above, as we are convinced they are the very best
value that has ever been offered in the Sydney market. The same goods
are usually sold at 84s. the dozen.
* # * See Shirts in Window, 332 Gkobok Street. J. E. GOWING, Men’s Mercer, Outfitter, &c.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s. lid. military front, open back, White Shirts, are unrivalled.
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Central Police Court; and
J. E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET,
HALF WAY BETWEEN THE POST OFFICE AND HUNTER STREET.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and OEANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness,
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the abuse of alcoholic
beverages; Gout, Rheumatism, &c.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Soiall Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece—Man. Eemember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
A PPEOVED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
- “ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“Mr. W. Q. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
The Australian Chuechman says:
“ It is a
MOST EEFEESHING EFFERVESCING DEINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d,), of
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bro«. and Co., Brisbane.
r A
A Y W/\TCh| P/UJT
NjADE JO
pi/\IN F\lCij fW DEplcdjS.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND’GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY’'.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
N J O Y L i i E.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest t > enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every dav to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY', HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPE PSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
T EY
H. HOOKINGS & CO.’
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
■A
TO SQUATTERS, HORSE BREEDERS, AND
OTHERS.
THE SYDNEY TRAMWAY" AND OMNIBUS CO.,
Limited, are purchasers of
. GOOD UPSTANDING HORSES,
4 to six years old, fit for coaching.
Apply—Hoad Office, 66 King-street, Sydney.
XIOYAL FURNISHING AE6ADE.
HOUSES FUR-
NISHED
throughout in
the nicest and
most economical
manner. Full
particulars post
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EYEEY WED-
NESDAY, we
keep open until
nine o’clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend during
the day. The
SHOW-ROOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
LARGE
AMOUNTS OF
money have been
saved by pur-
chasing at the
Royal Furnishing
Arcade, which
has from time to
time been ac-
knowledged a
great boon to the
pn hlic.
EFFORTS TO
make the Arcade
a centre attrac-
tion have to the
present time been
most successful.
Visitors feel such
a pleasure in
walking through
the Show-Rooms
—they can do so
without being
worried or even
expected to make
a purchase.
SAVE MONEY
by purchasing at
the ROYAL
PUNISHING
ARCADE,
426, & 423,
Geoege - Street,
Next the
Royal Hotel.
THERE CAN
be no better proof
of the increasing
popularity of the
Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade than
the last month’s
record of
ness transactions
If you are about
to furnish pro-
cure a copy of our
Economical
House Furnish-
ing Guide. Yon
will find it very
suggestive, and
consequently a
great help. All
classes ef g<x>ds
are kept. It is
our constant
study to buy in
the cheapest mar-
and give our cus-
tomers every
satisfaction.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B, Campbell),
„EOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEOEGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
M A N 1 T 4*
BEACH.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGEAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS.
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry. Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
o
NCE USED AIWAYS USED*
HUDSON'S EXTRACTofSOAR
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly ” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
Al yAYs
ViStQ
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD. Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS EE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Sweet Home —A beehive.
Civil rights—Obliging answers.
The Irish Question —“ What will y6z take to
dhrink ? "
A murderer we know says his wife was cut up
when he left her.
Socrates never drank, on account of his Xan-
tippe-thy to drink.
“ Darling, this potato is only half done.”
“ Then eat the done half, love.”
A certain Germantown resident always swears
by his boots—it’s the biggest oath he can take.
The oysterman’s golden rule is, “ Stew unto
others as you would have others stew unto yon."
An old toper says that “ when a fellar has
reached a certain pint in drinking, he orter stop.”
Is there a word in the English language which
contains all the vowels ? There is, unquestionobly.
Is it fair to assume that a drunken man who
takes np his position at a bank door has an over-draft ?
The man who looks for big peaches at the
bottom of a basket is too confiding for this wicked
world.
A physician has discovered typhoid fever germs
n.ice. The safest way is to boil your ice before using
it. This kills the germs.
A cement manufacturer, named Knight, died
recently in England, worth £500,000. The result, of
course, of sticking to his business.
A well-known resident of Burwood returned
from the South without his side-levers. A strict
investigation is now being held.
Gum arabio dissolved in whisky will keep the
hair curled in damp weather. A little sugar dissolved
In it has the same effect on the legs.
The man with the little brown jug has to watch
it now-a-days or his wife will paint it Si up, and store
it away on the mantelpiece for a “ ceramic.”
A man who is true as steel, possessing an
iron will, some gold, and a fair proportion of brass,
should be able to endure the hardware of this world.
A German life insurance company, Der Lebena-
verisohangsgeschellschaft, complains of the irregularity
of the mails. Yet one would suppose it got all its
letters.
At Victoria the other day, a Mr. Beer was
married to a Miss Watters. The officiating parson was
a staunch good templar, yet he didn’t hesitate to turn
Waters into Beer.
An undertaker in the County Down has been
*’ Boycotted,” every man in the neighbourhood having
entered into a solemn engagement “ not to ride in the
.laggard’s hearse.”
Accepted.—He: .“ And now my own Popsy,
vopsy will you name ’’ She (blushing): “Oh!
really, you take me so by surprise—well, dear, the first
must be Adolphus.”
When the conceited curate remarked to her that
he was afraid he had been preaching to a congregation
of asses, she inquired whether that was the reason he
called them “ my beloved brethren."
Said a certain well-known open-air preacher :
“ Brothers and sisters, nest Sunday, the Lord willing,
t here will be a baptising in this place, the candidates
being four adults and three adulteresses."
A reward of ,£200 has been offered to
the amateur fisherman who shall omit all reference to
the " speckled beauties ’’ —meaning the fish, not the
aaidens, that make glad the sylvan solitudes.
“What the devil is the matter?” asks an ac-
quaintance of D . “Your face is a yard long." “I
rediscovered that my wife is false to me.” “ Heavens I
you look as serious as if it were your mistress.”
It is true that a woman can’t very often get a
seat in a tram, but she avenges herself by the way she
spreads herself, her goods, and her chattels over four
eats in a railway car, every time she gets a chance.
Pugilism is becoming a practical institution at
Adelaide. The following advertisement appears in one
of the local papers :—“ Wanted, an active lad, for
closing and blacking, at Mr. Fisher’s, Leigh-street."
There is an instance on record where a lion, so
affectionate in nature, devoured his keeper, rather
ohan let him join an opposition show. The poor
fellow couldn’t bear the parting. Of course we mean
the man.
Hera is a choice couplet from the “ Cabinet
Poems ” of E. H. Monday:
“The youth is borne from battle's brunt
With seven bullets in his front.”
Such is—poetry !
Says the BabwGn Argus:— “The Central
Australian has secured a “ special correspondent "
from Brewarrina, who lies with all the ease, grace, and
fluency of the editor of the paper himself. Words of
raise can go no further.
At the Eoyal in West Maitland—a fellah!
In a joke took a chap’s umbrella.
Who talked of police.
Till the joker cried “ Cease,"
And then sold was that Narrabri seller.
Says a gympie paper :—“ Whilst the fortunate
shareholders of No. 1 North Phoenix were pleasantln
engaged in getting their 2736 oas. of gold smelted oy
Monday last, there was an unfortunate wight in the
chemist shop next door growing in agony whilst a tooth
was being extracted from his jaw.
A well-known Hobart man who has “ toured,”
says he always carried a hammer with him to chip off
comers and prominent portions of those old buildings
iteople make so much fuss about. He has a large collec-
tion from the Colosseum, Pompeii, &c., but having
omitted to label them they have got rather mixed.
Several times the parson, looking in the direc-
tion of the engine-driver’s seat, asked “ Saul, Saul, why
pegs ecu test thou me ?” At last the engine-driver’s
daughter, whose father’s name was Saul, began to think
Aat the text had a personal application.* So she looked
up into the face of her parent and said—” Don’t mind
him, father, he has been drinking ?”
It is unlucky — To fall out of a third story win-
dow on Monday. To meet a red-headed woman on a
Tuesday—especially if you owe her anything. To
break a £20 mirror on a Wednesday. To dream you
see red snakes or green monkeys on Thursday. To get
hung on Friday. To lose a £5-note on Saturday. Or
to get locked up on Sunday. Paste this in yonr hat.
The circulation of London Punch is said to
•ft 50,000 copies.
Juniper gin has an increasing sale all over the
colonies, but particularly in this colony and in this
city.
The Dutch are further advanced than we. A
notion for the re-establishment of capital punishment
;n the Netherlands has been rejected by the Second
Chambers by 41 to 20 votes.
While the Avon stream
Eippled in the breezes.
At a window she
Ironed some chemises;
As the heater flew
O’er the snowy linen,
Faith, I thought a kiss
There would be no sin in.
Holding up the steel
Close enough to smutch me.
She said “ You'll get it hot
If yon dare to touch me."


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Judge Gwynne, of Adelaide, has resigned.
Commodore Wilson has been very ill for nearly
a month.
Hon. W. J. Clarke is with the yacht Janet at
Hobart, entertaining right royally.
Jay Gould is truly a “ railway king.” He now
owns or controls no less than 9649 miles of American
railways.
Commodore Gilchrist, of the Sydney Yacht
Squadron, left for England on Thursday by the
Peshawur.
Lord Augustus Loftus left Sydney on Tuesday
for Mount Victoria, where he intends remaining for a
fortnight.
Professor Andrew D. White is writing a life of
Thomas Jefferson, and Professor Goldwin Smith a life
of Washington.
The Rev James Contts has offered .£lOO,
towards a Sailor’s Home for Newcastle, providing £2OOO
more can be raised
Sir William Martin, once Chief Justice of New
Zealand, is dead. He was an intimate friend of Bishop
Selwyn and Bishop Patteson.
Mr. Joseph Storey, one of the members for
North Melbourne, is very ill. Mr. Storey recently
visited Sydney for his health.
M. Sylmain St. Etienne, the well-known French
novelist, has been instantaneously killed by falliug
into an open sewer, a depth of thirty feet.
J. M. Knight, of the well-known firm of Knight,
Sevan, and Sturgess, cement manufacturers, London
and Northfleet, is dead. He left £590,000.
Chief Justice Stawell, of Victoria, who has
been spending his vacation in N.S.W., was the founder
of the first four-in-hand club iu Australia.
Mr Edward Fairfax, one of the proprietors of
the Herald, returned to Sydney on Friday, the 25th,
after a tour of over twelve months in Europe.
Young Wilhelm Bismarck, the son of the
German Chancellor, is about to marry Countess Irma
Andrassy, the daughter of the Austrian statesman.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, junr., son of the great
writer of that name, though still a very young man,
has already artained considerable eminence as a lawyer
At a recent dinner party in Paris of twelve
fentlemen of high distinction in the scientific world,
ve of them were above the age of 83 The conversa-
tion is described as having been extraordinarily
brilliant, marked by wit, wisdom, fun, and repartee of
the freshest description; and one of the very brightest
of the company was 97 years old.
Fronde is to write
the life of Thoo as
Carlyle.
Rumours are gain-
ing ground that a cer-
tain missing person is
rather a “giddy old
boy.”
The Hon. Saul
Samuel, C.M.G., onr
Agent-General in Lon-
don, has a salary of
£2OOO a-year.
Miss Braddon is
writing another story
called “Asphodel.” It
appears in All the
Year Round
Mr T. A Browne,
the new P.M. for
Dubbo, arrived there
on Monday week, and
was warmly congratu-
lated upon his ap-
pointment by the
Mayor and leading
citizens.
Lncretia Mott,
the most famous of
American women, and
Lydia Maria Child,
who was also a vice-
president of the Free
Religions (Free-
thought) Association,
are both dead.
Colonel Roberts
has been nominated to
the Military Defence
Inquiry Commission.
Surprise was ex-
pressed that his name
did not appear in the
first list of appoint-
ments.
Sir Joseph Whit-
worth has offered to
alibis work-people the
opportunity to invest
their wages in his
business guaranteeing
them the same divi-
dend as he himself ob-
tains.
The Irish Home
Rule leaders, Mr. Par-
nell, and Mr. Shaw,
are Protestants. Mr.
Isaac Butt, formerly
the leader of the party,
but now dead, was also
of a different faith to
that held by the mass
of the people.
Mrs. Estella Ann Lewis, who wrote letters from
Paris to the S. M. Herald under the nom de plume of
"Stella,” and who was the daughter of Edgar Allan
Poe, has just died in London.
An application was on Tuesday made to His
Honor Mr, Justice Windeyer to make absolute the de-
cree nioi granted in the case of Mr. Richmond Thatcher,
who is sued for divorce by his wife, Mrs. Maria
Thatcher. Iu consequence of the notice of motion not
having been published three times in a daily paper, His
Honor adjourned the matter for a week, in order that
the application might be sufficiently advertised.
The poet Longfellow has been nominated as
Mayor of Cambridge, Massachusetts. If carried into
effect the nomioatiou will certainly contribute at least
a little towards making municipal life respectable. If
we could only get a poet, say the poet Meaden, to accept
the Mayoralty of Sydney! That would be too much
joy for any city. We’d really like to read some of the
Collingwood bard’s hobbling iambics—say on the sub-
ject of the Town Hall foundations.
On the occasion of the recent railway demon-
stration at Alhury, Mr. Thomas Boyd, the first white
man who ever crossed the Murray, passed unnoticed
through the crowd. However, sajs the Albert
Banner, “ had proper steps been taken to make known
his arrival, there are many who would have been only
too glad to make much of the first white man who
crossed the Murray; and we have no donut that
Ministers also would have been glad to shake hands
with the pioneer of civilisation in this part of the
colony. As it was, no one seems to have known that
Mr. Boyd was here during his stay in town.”
Sir George Pomeroy Colley, Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of Natal, defeated and killed by the
Boers of the Transvaal, served in the Caffre war of
1856-60, the China campaign, and the Ashantee war, and
was chief of the staff to Sir Garnet Wolseley in the
late Zulu war. He was a man of sound professional
knowledge, an insatiable reader, well versed in general
topics, and of most commanding presence. He was
the close ally and friend of the ill-fated Sir Louis
Cavagnari, whose capacity he was one of the first to
discover. Lord Northbrook, when engaged upon army-
reorganisation, trusted him fully, and later on invited
him to go with him to India; Sir Garnet Wolseley also
*?? . a most valuable assistant. Sir George
attained to the rank of Major-General when still
scarcely forty-six.
It is stated that Warden De Boos is to be ap-
pointed to Mount Poole, and Mr. Morri-ett is to suc-
ceed him at Temora. However, Mr. G. G. Tompson,
of Bourke, has been sent forward as Warden to the
new rush.
Mr. W. F. A. Rucker was the first person ever
criminally prosecuted in Victoria for libel. It was in
1839 He was found guilty, imprisoned for twenty-four
hours, and fined £5O He is still carrying on business
in Melbourne.
Field-marshal Count Von Moltke recently
attained the ripe age of 80. He kept the day in the
privaev of his own family circle. By the way, a
nephew of his, bearing the great marshal’s name,
recently visited Sydney as an officer of a German
vessel of war.
Mr. Bailey, of the Temoea Herald, applied
aconite liniment to the coating of his stomach the
other day, in mistake for “ some other medicine,”
which wasn’t for outward application However, we're
glad that our friend W. H. L. B. didn’t die, but was,
as per information by a late wire, progressing satis-
factorily.
Mr. Francis Ormond, founder of Ormond
College, Melbourne, who in the first place gave a
donation of £lO,OOO towards the cost of the building,
and £2571 towards the erection of the tower, has now
given £lO,OOO more for building purposes, and £lOOO
towards founding bursaries, making in all a splendid
total of £23 571.
Sir Archibald Micbie, who in Victoria, of which
colony he has been Attornev-General, is a Q C., but
does not in N. S, W ei joy that title. In the
Supreme Court of this colony he consequently does not
“ wear silk.” The anomaly should he remedied, more
especially in view of the fact that the Intercolonial
Conference declared in favor of reciprocity of admission
to the bar.
Judge , of Queensland, is, or used to
to be, a rather “ giddy boy.” At the time he was Crown
Prosecutor he was very attentive to a well-known Bris-
bane landlady. One day the husband, suspecting the
flirtation had gone far enough, or further, said to the
barrister, “ Look here, Mr. , supposing I was to
try for a divorce—what would you do then ?” The man
of law turned his cigar meditatively in his month;
then, after a pause, said, “ I suppose I should appear
for the co-respondent ?”
Last week it was announced that Mr. W.
Tytherleigh, ex-M.L.A., had be-m given work as a
compositor in the Government printing office, Mel-
bourne. Mr. Tytherleigh, whose celebrated coffee-
escapade in the assembly most people will remember,
represented a western constituency and was formerly
proprietor of the Albion, published at Coleraine, a
town the name of which will be familiar to all who
used to take an interest in the Great Western Steeple-
chase (now abolished) or who have read poor A. L.
Gordon’s •* Hippodromauia.” The Albion ceased pub-
lication a few months ago.
The Hon William Morgan, Chief Secretary of
South Australia, says that his recent visit to Sydney
has very much strengthened his Free trade views.
Having passed through Melbourne, he was able to
contrast its condition with that of Sydney, and he
states that he has not the slightest doubt that we are
making rapid strides in advance of the Protectionist
city. His observations lead him to say that there is
more vitality in our industries, and that we are
attracting the best workmen and artisans Irom the
adjoining colony.
A great many people in New South Wales and
Victoria will be sorry to hear of the death at a com-
paratively early age of Mr. John Harris Duff—“ Jack"
Duff, as be was familiarly known—which occurred last
week, at Maytown, Palmer River (N Z.) Mr. Dull, who
was a native of Melbourne, was one of the pioneers of
the Palmer, and took an active part in opening up that
splendid goldfield. In conjunction with his partners,
Messrs. Callaghan, Leslie, and Edwards, he for several
years supplied most of the cattle consumed on the fields
of the Par North, He was a man of gr at energy and
personal courage, had undergone hardships such as
few men experience, and was deservedly one of the
most popular m-m who ever set f>ot on a goldfield. A
good many old Palmer diggers will read this paragraph,
and not a few of them, remembering the generosity, in
the wild “first days" of him who has just gone, will
join in the hope that Jack Duff may rest in peace.
In 1873 W. C. Little, J. Owens, and other “ old
identities" of Charters Towers, took up the Day Dawn
claim, Towers. They crushed 40 tons, averaging loz.
15dwt. In those early days such a return was looked
upon as “no good ” and the claim was thrown up. It
was taken up soon after by Pfeiffer and party, who
stuck to it, and crushed, up to 1877, about 617 tons of
stone, for 500 or 600 ounces. Mr. Pfeiffer is now the
only one left of the original shareholders, and he has
profited by sticking to the claim. During 1889 the
claim crushed 4520 tons 6 cwt. 3 qr. of quartz, which
yielded 12,5180 z. 13dwt. 18gr.—averaging nearly 3oz
The output of stone for the last two years has been
from 160 to 200 tons ptr week, and this has averaged
2oz. The deepest workings are 600 feet, and a body of
stone is i ow in view roughly estimated at from £BO,OOO
to £lOO,l 00. The yield per week is irom 160 to 200 toi s
of stone, and, taking the latter figure, and es imatirgit
at 2oz. to the ton, w j get 4900 z per week w lieh, at £3
10s. an ounce, gives a weekly income of £lBOO, cr
£93, OOj per annum.
Mr. A. M. Topp’s article in the Melbourne
Review on “ English Institutions and the Irish Race”
has created quite a furore. Its author has acceded to
the request of his admirers, and has published it in
pamphlet form, price 6d.
“ Ouida” is sueing Mr. Laboucbere, the editor
of London Truth, for libel against her in connection
with an article respecting her last story, “ Moths," a
work which has been removed from many of the
English and Scot'ish libraries.
There are a few Australians who find an interest,
however small and melancholy, in George Francis
Train, who u--ed to be a Melbourne man. The latest
about George Francis is that he has made a written
application to the New York Park Commissioners for
permission to put his feet on the seats in Central Park.
Captain Charles, formerly member for Kiama,
has returned to Sydney. He toured throughout the
United Kingdom, France, Italy, the United States,
and Canada, the trip occupying just eight months.
Capta ; n Charles travelled with Mr. Gray, also formerly
a member for a south coast constituency, but they
parted company at Geneva.
Herbert Spencer, the English philosopher, is 60
pears old. He was privately educated, and was at first
a civil engineer. His forehead is high and he is quite
bald. His faee is long, and though his features are not
small, he has an unpractical and almost effeminate
appi arance. His portraits represent him as resting his
head against his hand, in the Washington Irving style.
Dr. Lang and Sir John Robertson were very fast
friends, but there was one point on which they were at
variance. It was “ Riverina." Dr. Lang gave the dis-
trict of the three rivers that name. Sir John would
never recognise it, and he has never been heard to use
it. The reason of the difference is found in the fact
that Dr. Lang was a separationist, and Sir John
Robertson was not.
The services of Mr. T. E. Macnevin, Chief Clerk
of the Department of Justice, in compiling two valuable
manua s for the information and guidance of magis-
trates and othdr law officers of the colony, have been
suitably recognised. An address and a purse
of sovereigns were presented to him a few days
ago by a number of legal gentlemen. Mr. Crane, the
acting P.M., spoke in very high terms of the usefulness
of the books, and of the thoroughly reliable and prac-
tical way in which they had been compiled.
Mr. S. H. Terry has again proved his fitness for
real practical legislation by introducing and passing
through the Lower House his No-Liability Mining
Companies’ BiU. This measure aims at facilitating the
development of the mineral industries of the colony, and
giving the working miner a voice in the control of his
company’s operations. It is rather strange that Sir
John Robertson, under whom Mr. Terry blossomed into
a useful politician gives no support to the measure,
and has virtually handed over the piloting of it, in the
Council, to Mr, Darley, who appears to agree with the
spirit of the Bill.
The Dean of Adelaide, the Very Rev. Mr.
Russell, has forfeited the esteem of all honest men.
He has written, and what’s more, published, a volume
of poetry. The book is called “ The Seeker, and
other Poems,” and in the preface Mr. Russell, in
speaking of verse generally, states that it was only
during the last year that he got to know how to make
it, but that now he loves it dearly, “ The Seeker ”is a
very gory piece. Here is an extract
“ Hatred may have its bloody carnival.
And in a Reign of Terror scare the world;
But wait, if you would judge, and see the end.
’• he pale Robespierre could glut with blood
His vultures; but his day was very brief.
The love of blood he had himself evoked
Demanded his, and so that horror passed.”
“Pale Robespierre" is good. Well done, dear Dean;
persevere, and you’ll be a poet one day—Doomsday !
At a certain Turkish bath in one of these
colonies, the other day, a slight misunderstanding
occurred between one of the shampooers, who is
invariably courteous and a member of Parliament who
is as invariably bearish and nngentlemanly. The
legislator threatened to pull the nose of the sham-
pooer. The latter, thougn stones lighter than his
distinguished client, politely invited him to “try it
on," declined to “ dirty his fingers on him any more,”
and instructed an assistant to finish what one,
judging from external appearances, might imagine
to be a rather disagreeable task. The bulky bully,
though in puris naturalibus, and consequently in good
fighting trim, was quite cowed by the slight wiry man
who, also “in his pelt,” stood up and faced him. The
moral of this is : Don’t be frightened of a man because
he roars at you. If you happen to haye a heart, and
know how to hit out straight, get your legislative friend
into the open, where you can have a little ding-dong
mill. Don't let him hit you first, catch yon by the
throat, and jump on you. Stand out.
The Bulletin, 3s. per quarter, post free to
auy of the colonies.
These are Sir Arthur Kennedy’s words to some
schoolboys “Never descend to tell an untruth—scorn
the liar; above all let me impress on you to keep clear
of all government billets. A boy who goes in to sit on
an office stool is in my opinion a great muff.” Of course
Sir Arthur’s words apply to Queensland exclusively.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Yass R. C. bazaar has, so far, netted ,£650.
Bishop O’Qninn, of Brisbane, Buffers severely
from rheumatism.
Moore College, Liverpool, has been robbed of
its communion plate.
It is announced that Mr. White, the esteemed
minister of Adelong Anglican Church, leaves the dis-
trict shortly.
A presentation has been made to Dr. O’Connor,
the Roman Catholic Bishop of Ballarat, who is proceed-
ing to Europe.
The Lenten Pastoral of the Victorian R. C.
Archbishop reiterates the protest against the continued
operation of a purely secular system of education.
The Presbyteries of Sydney and Goulbnrn have
nominated the Rev. Andrew Armstrong, M.A., of Tam-
worth, for the Moderatorshlp of the next General
Assembly.
The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Dublin
wisely reminds the people in his charge that O’Connell
once told them that liberty was not worth a drop of
human blood, if shed in crime.
The Marquis of Bute intends to erect a Roman
Catholic monastery for English monks on his property
in Jerusalem, flans for an oratory, to cost several
thousands, have been prepared.
The Blayney Presbyterian congregation, who
have been for same time without a resident pastor, have
at a meeting (the Rev. Dr Geekie presiding)
decided to give a call to the Rev. Mr. Dandy.
“They have a new way of carrj ing on church
meetings in Tumut among the Presbyterians. Last
week, after a church meeting, they adjourned to
Mackay’s Hotel, where a champagne dinner awaited
them —and not in vain.
At Kempsey, on Sunday night, the Rev. Maurice
Gray, Wesleyan minister, preached a sermon at the
Church of England in connection with the decease of
the wife of the incutm e it, the Rev. James Paterson,
who took the first part of the service.
The expelled Jesuits who went from France
into Spain and Portugal, have not been allowed to re-
main Old laws, adequate to the occasion, were found
by the governments on the statute-books. It looks
now as if the order would find no asylum except in
Protestant countries.
The exposure of the poor salary allowed to the
Rev. R. T. Hills, at Maitland, has drawn special atten-
tion to the equally distressing position of various other
Ministers with families, in the metropolitan and pro-
vincial districts. In many cases, the result has been
satisfactory—a very fair and very acceptable increase
in the offerings.
The Spanish Gov-
ernment is expelling
from its territory all
priests who introduce
political subjects into
their sermons.
It was recently
stated in the Synod of
the Free Church of
Scotland that the
limited income of the
ministers virtually en-
forced celibacy among
them.
Large numbers of
Nonconformist minis-
ters and candidates
from Nonconformist
colleges are applying
to the Anglican
bishops in England
for ordination.
Bishop Ryle, the
new Bishop of L ver-
pool, Bays it is useless
to deny that there is
“an organized con-
spiracy tor Romaniz-
ing the Established
Church of England.”
Dr. Torregiani, of
Armidalo, is credited
with being the most
active ecclesiastic in
the c domes, not
excepting even those
remarkable men, Dr.
Moorhouse and Dr.
Vaughan.
Lord Beaoonsfield
condemns the Jesuits
and writes thus :
“ The J isuits never
fell except from con-
spiracy amongst
them. It is always
the affair of sover-
eigns and statesmen,
of p diticians; of men,
in short, who f. el that
there is a power at
work, and that power
not favourable to their
schemes of govern-
ment.*' Speaking of
Democracy, the aris-
tocratic ex - Premier
says:—“ There is more
true democracy in
the Catholic Chnrch
than in all the
secret societies of
Europe.”
The charge brought by the Bishop of Ballarat
against a police constable, in regard to his trotting a
horse over a crossing, has fallen through, as the Bishop
failed to attend, and said he could not prove the
charge. The Bishop wrote to the Bench on the sub-
ject, and the Police Magistrate commented on it as an
improper proceeding.
Dr. Church, Dean of St. Paul’s, recently made
a very grave statement in a letter to the Times on the
present difiioulties of the Established C hurc h He said-
—“ If an Established Church is what Parliament makes
or ,. a J lows ** t° he, and nothing more, then the
Ritualists are indeed rebels; but the English Church
is not what rehgious men of all schools. Churchmen
and Nonconformists, believe a Church to be.”
In a certain country town the stipend of an
esteemed clergyman, with a family, has been at the
magnificent rate of £l5O per annum. Nor is this all.
There is a deficiency at the end of every quarter
Those whose lives should be exemulary spend most of
their week days in “poker" and “ tambarooras." and
Sundays in cockfighting. The clergyman has now
resigned. His successor has not yet been informed of
the eccentricities of the flock of which he is to be the
shepherd.
Several Ritualistic clergymen in England, having
in mind the Oberammergau Passion Play, have deter-
mined to represent the Passion on the white sheet
the chancel gives them every arrangement they would
desire. They can place the magic lantern near the
altar and erect a sheet where the rood screen migh t be.
The choir, retaining their places, sing hymns during
the performance. The priest gives an explanation from
the pulpit, like a reader at the Polytechnic. This is an
entirely new phase of “ Church and Stage."
The Presbyterian Assembly of Victoria on Tues-
day la-t proceeded with the case of the Rev. C. Strong
of Collins-street Church, in reference to his article in
the October number of the Victorian Review, on the
subject of the Atonement. The matter was submitted
by the Rev. D. S M'Eacharn, who said he desired that
as the article had caused serious uneasiness to many
ministers and members of the church, an opportunity
should be given to Mr. Strong for an explanation. Mr
Strong said that he could not reply, as he had been
unable to learn the charges against him He asserted
that the action was irregular. After a longdiscussion, a
committee was appointed to examine the articles com-
plained of.
A SKETCH AT THE LAVENDER BAY BATHS.


SINGER’S SEWING ]\
THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTURE
Have opened a Depo'
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARI
HARBOUR BTRE
s
INGBR’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
s
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLES
s
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of neai
s
INGER’S, THE BEST F(
Have received 160 First Pr
s
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for ci
s
INGER’S, BEST FOR I
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACH
s
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. w
s
INGER’S THE BEST I
See the New No. 4 Ma
s
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition i
s
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-
-8
INGER’S SEWING
HAND OR TREAD
8
INGER’S, The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work, :
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6c
8
INGER’S, THE BEST;
LEARN. New Improvements
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
8
INGER’S, THE BEST A:
Sew finest muslins and he
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8
INGER’S THE BEST and W
Will last a lifetime in co
8
INGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TI
SINGER MANUFACTURE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hai
CINGEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street. Hay mar
have been appointed agents fo:
machines.
Call and see them —Mouth’
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cas
SINGER’S SEWING Mi
SINGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is *
GER MACHINE. See th
dark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.— I
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGEE’S MACHINES. —I
Cast iron imitations. Onl
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer <
INGEE’S SEWING MA(
cent, discount for cash, or on
8
8
YDNEY.—Prom TURNEI
GEORGE STREET, opposit
INGER’S SEWING MACH
but 160 FIRST PR:
The embryo lawyers respect
the firms of Messrs. M'Carthy, R
and Stephen, Laurence and Jaqc
match at Botany on Saturday li
There are 140,000 more women than men in
Ireland.
Corporal punishment is not allowed under the
new French educational system, bad marks, reprimand,
only partial privation of recreation, detention after
school hours, and temporary exclusion, not exceeding
two days, being substituted. Sundays and Thursdays are
holidays.
It is announced that in preparing the Christmas
number of the London Graphic, the work of artists,
engravers, and authors cost £3OOO, the paper £5OOO, and
the printing and electrotyping £6OOO. The gross weight
of paper used for the number was upwards of 120 tons,
and 400,000 was the number of copies issued. Net
profit, £25,000 The paper was sold in Sydney at half-
a-crown per number.
“ Stanmore. —To Messrs. Edward Eowe and
Co., Sydney.—Dear Sirs,—Being convinced that a good
safe Family Medicine is a great boon to Parents with
children, and believing from my own experience that
the introduction of Kanderson’s Podophyllin Lozenges
is one of the greatest improvements to my mind in
medicine, there being no disagreeable taste with them,
I have pleasure in stating that I them a safe
and useful aperient, and recommend them to all need-
ing such a physic with confidence. —Yours very truly,
L. Morgan.—Sydney, April 28, 1880." —Advt.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodore Staiger, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The police have made several more captures of
persons engaged in stealing oysters from the Hunter
Eiver beds. A man of dark complexion, about sft.
llin. in height, and said to have come from Ballarat,
has been found dead at Willara. A Queensland J.P.
has been committed for trial for stealing a cow. The
Beform mine, Lucknow, it is stated, has had a splendid
new vein disclosed during the week, showing gold esti-
mated at SOOoz. per ton. The wooden pavement from
George-street to Pitt-street, in King-street, cost
£1985. The holders of the Bonnie Dundee reef,
Parkes, crushed 250 tons of stone for a return of 301 oz.
retorted gold. John Kirkpatrick, tramway guard,
died from effects of accident caused by the pole of a
'bus running into him. Mr. Alexander Young, of
Gundagai, has grown a bunch of grapes weighing lifts.
The Mayor of Sydney has condemned 400 rookeries
to demolition. At Eyansville, near Goulburn, the
other day, an old man kangaroo, when run down and
bailed up by a party, took one of them in his arms and
walked off with him towards a waterhole. The un-
lucky huntsman unavailingly belaboured the kangaroo
with his fists; but the “ old 'un ” was soon killed with
waddies. Marsupial’s tail weighed 22tts. A con-
stable in the far interior followed some horse-stealers
400 miles, and captured them near Wilcannia with their
plunder. Messrs. Ward and Winkler, of Solferino,
have struck a rich pocket of gold, estimated to yield
between 300 oz. and 400 oz A ship’s lifeboat, with
the words “ Adonis, Sydney ” painted on it has been
picked up on the Teewater Beach, about 10 miles north
of Noosa Heads. The five French escapees from
New Caledonia have each been sentenced to six
months’ imprisonment, with hard labour, for
vagrancy.—Sergeant Porter, drill instructor at the
police barracks, Eichmond (Vic ), was killed by falling
downstairs. Two men were drowned in the Murray
on Wednesday whilst crossing on their return from
Lake Bogan races. Several public schools have been
appointed by the Government “superior” schools,
under the provisions of the Public Instruction Act of
1880. A woman named Isabella Contts has been
fined 20s. and costs for brutally ill-treating her step-
son, aged seven years. The trial of Kubale for the
murder of his daughter at Edithburg, South Aus-
tralia, is postponed until next sittings of Criminal
Court through the illness of an important witness.
Shipments of Indian tea to be sold in the Sydney
market shortly. Bandwick and Bedfem tramways
great financial success: Government promise early ex-
tensions to the various suburbs. Government asked
by metropolitan hrickmaking companies to reduce the
price of the carriage of coal from the moun-
tains to 7s. Bd. per ton; Government favorable.
Sir Henry Parkes says the Government had
some time back decided on measures to prevent
any such thing as a water famine in Sydney.——Sir
Henry Parkes expresses grave doubts as to the truth-
fulness of the alleged discovery of Leichhardt’s
remains. The Lady Bowen passed safely through
the channel out on the upper flats of the
Fitzroy Biver. Cummins’ drapery establishment,
Eockhampton, burnt; insured New Zealand office.
Phillips, a Temora miner, robbed of a £3O cheque in
Melbourne Three Ormond College scholarships,
one thousand pounds each subscribed. The Roman
Catholics of Grenfell formed themselves into “ a work-
ing bee," and unitedly cleared their local cemetery.
The capital of the Southern Insurance Com-
pany (Victoria), is to be reduced one half The
engine-driver, Newman, responsible for the Beaufort
collision, has been committed for trial. The
Victorian Coachbuilders* Association refuses to accept
the prizes awarded at the Melbourne Exhibition.
The Kiama Co-Operative Company, for the exportation
of colonial produce, is about commencing operations.
Strong deputation from Mudgee in favour of local
waterworks. Apollo Candle Company, of Mel-
bourne, purchased a valuable site on the Brisbane
Biver, Bnlimba, for the manufacture of stearine;
works, costing £6OOO, to be erected. Terrifically
severe thunderstorm in Sydney on the night of the
25th. Disastrous fires on selections at Belfast, Vic.
Farm produce from Victoria is arriving in Sydney
in large quantities. No duty. Six men killed on the
Northern Kailway Extension within a week. Vic-
torian railway receipts, owing to Exhibition attractions,
show a great increase. Kefreshment room being
erected at Yass Kailway Station, and to have a license.
Alleged murder of aboriginal gins, Herbert
Biver (Q.), officially denied. A selector in one of the
country districts, who had but twenty trees in his
orchard, made £3O clear profit by drying and selling his
fruit. Homoeopathic hospital to be erected in Mel-
bourne. New Zealand revenue satisfactory,
Brisbane Mayor’s salary £5OO a year. Tramways for
Brisbane proposed. Suggested to light the Victorian
Exhibition by electricity. Gas is at a discount.
The representative of a firm of Scottish oatmeal manu-
facturers has arrived at Dunedin to start a branch.
Tha gold and tin returns have largely
increased the Tasmanian revenue. The rabbits in
the Wimmera district (Victoria) have driven the
selectors away.- The Burra copper mines, S.A.,
with plant, &c., have been sold to some English capital-
ists for £lOO,OOO. Some Melbourne capitalists have
leased a good area of land at Stony Creek, South
Gundagai, for mining purposes, and they intend to
erect £4OOO worth of machinery.—Newcastle coal
export for the week ending the 25th, 24,900 tons.
Good returns received from crushiags at Parkes; new
line of reef discovered. Large numbers are
leaving Temora for the Wilcannia diggings.
Mr. Henry Hagon, an old and respected Tasmanian
colonist of fifty-one years’ standing, died suddenly last
week at Hobart of heart disease. He has a son in
business in this city The Campbelltown medicos are
at last going to law. Three Camden clerks, on a
recent Sunday, ate between them 161bs.|grapes. One of
them nearly died on his way home. At Melbourne,
on Tuesday week, a well-known individual gave a
woman in charge for striking him in the face. He is
determined to put down cruelty to animals. The
blacks have been spearing cattle wholesale on the
Laura Biver, near Cooktown and the Springs, since
Inspector Stafford resigned and his troopers deserted.
A Cooktown correspondent bitterly complains that
the local carriers and police marry all the available
young women, and cautions the weaker sex from
migrating to such a hot climate. Contracts amount-
ing to nearly £200,000 have been taken for erecting the
dome and front of the Melbourne Parliament Houses
with freestone from an untried quarry. Sub-inspec-
tors of native police in North Queensland are frequently
charged with murdering myalls. Investigations con-
cerning such affairs are, however, invariably farcical.
The Government know all about the “nigger battues,”
and supply the officers with rifles, revolvers, and
thousands of rounds of ammunition annually.
A Volunteer corps has been formed at Mackay, and one
is on the tapis at Charters Towers. The Bowen
“ Amateur Musical. Dramatic, and Literary Club” has
been started. The police have been raiding the
Chinese fan-tan houses in Cooktown, Queensland.
A 20th share in the No. 1 North Phoenix claim,
Gympie, has been sold for £l4OO. 355. per share,
according to the Gympie Miner, has been offered and
refused for a parcel of the shares. Some of the share-
holders say they will not sell under £3 per share. This
is estimating the mine to be worth £60,000. A big
civic dignitary at Charters Towers will, it is said, be
presented with a silver cradle during his term of office.
At Braidwood. the other day, a porcupine was
found to have swallowed a snake 3ft. long. Atten-
dance at the Australian Museum for the month of
February, 1881 Weekdays, 4075; Sundays, 2203;
total, 6,278. Mr. Hercules Contts has been
elected Town Clerk of Townsville, Queensland.
A quantity of nuggetty gold has been brought into
Eockhampton from Mount Wheeler. At Eockhamp-
ton, Henry Thomas has been committed for trial for
keeping an immoral house. The Townsville Munici-
pal Council have voted £l5O to the Mayorfor “ personal
expenses ” during the present municipal year. There
are 15 Chinese miners now on the Coen, who continue
to average about 255. per week. They cluster together,
scratching away on the borders of the old diggings,
being too much afraid of the blacks either to separate
or to venture far into the bush. The three European
miners are making “ poor tucker,” but hope for better
times. Fifty acres cane at the Chinese sugar planta-
tion, Cairns, will soon be ready for crushing. The
Comet Company, Maytown, has crushed 154 tons of
quartz for 430 oz. gold. The Port Douglas Gazette
says they had two marriages in one week, and that
“speaks well for the enterprise of our townspeople."—
The Palmer Chronicle, describing the wedding of a
Mr. McCaw, says a soiree took place in the evening.-
A man named Crane was lost on the Annan some time
ago. Search parties were sent out, but failed to discover
him. He is supposed to have been eaten by alligators.
The gold yield of Charters Towers has been over
6,000 ounces monthly for the last seven years.
The »etnrna are increasing steadily and surely.
The ex-Mayor of a South Coast borough was fined Is.
for riding on the foot-path. A gas company will
shortly be formed at Wollongong A Wollongong
dignitary, in returning from Melbourne, procured a
brick from the remains of the Glenrowan Hotel t
Keeping same as a relic.- A parcel of money, contain-
ing £460, was dropped by Mr. Kennedy between Bulli
and Coal Cliff, but was found again. Five big fires in
Rockhampton since Christmas, most of which were at
large places of business. The Rockhampton marriage
rate has gone up since the completion of the Bridge.
Another rush on the Burdekin. The other night, a
Gympie editor got into an election fracas at a local
hotel, and had to order a fresh pair of inexpressible*
when dragged from under the table. The Cairns
Chronicle and the Cooktown Herald in the market.
The Port Douglas Gazette is also likely to change
hands, and some other journals are dragging on a
shaky existence. Tin mining at Herberton (Wild
River) has excellent prospects. Mr. J. V. Mulligan,
prospector of the Palmer, has organised another ex-
ploring party for the purpose of prospecting countrv
I'or gold which he had previously passed over.
Another consignment of blankets for the “poor
blacks ” has been received by the authorities at Cook-
town, bnt through some oversight, no doubt (says the
local paper) the tomahawks have been omitted. A
more seasonable and civilising present would be a case
of refrigerating paint. There were 25 applications
for the post of census-taker for a town not far from
Braidwood. The son of the P.M., a youth, it is said,
not more than 16, has been appointed. At Highton,
near Geelong, a resident named Barraclough gave a
party in commemoration of the 33rd anniversary of his
birth, and on the occasion of occupying a new house.
During the evening the host stood np to join in a
dance, but fell rather heavily upon the floor. As he
was rather under the influence of stimulants at the
time, no particular notice was taken of it. He was
removed to his room, and next morning was found
dead Two young children, named respectively
Robert Wallace and Exelene Sharpe, have been
drowned in an underground tank at Conargo.——A case
of salting stone with lead, in the Scandinavian reef,
Maryborough (Vie.), has been discovered. The Ger-
man gunboat Habicht has arrived at Melbourne from
Wihelmshaven. A young man named Joseph Hicken
was killed at the Glebe cm Friday by a kick from a
horse. George Wymer, aged 52, was killed on Friday
last by falling down Mort’s dock and fracturing his
skull. Euphorbia pilulifera, a Queensland weed, is
credited with marvellous powers is cases of asthma,
bronchitis, and other pulmonary diseases. It is like-
wise a soporific. The expenses of the production of
Dr. Torrance’s musical works at Melbourne on Tuesday
night were more than twice the receipts. At Ballan,
Victoria, the boiler of a flour-mill burst and killed the
proprietor, Mr. Dodds. Four Hill End larrikins, for
cutting and wounding a Chinaman, fined £5 each.
The Mining Department has issued a sketch map,
showing the position of the newly-discovered goldfield
near Mount Poole. During a thunderstorm at Coolah,
on Thursday week, the electric current made a lane
right through a flock of 9000 sheep, killing 800 of them
instantly. The Union Steamship Company’s steamer
Taupo, which was snnk in a gale two years ago at
Tanranga, has been successfully raised.
GEMS FROM GORDON.
The Roll of the Kettledrum ; or, the Lay
of the Last Charger.
******
Scoff, man! egotistical, proud, unobservant,
Since I with man’s grief dare to sympathise thus;
Why scoff ?—fellow-creature I am, fellow-servant
Of God, can man fathom God’s dealings with ns ?
The wide gulf that parts us may yet be no wider
Than that which parts you from some being more
blest;
And there may be more links ’twixt the horse and his
rider
Than ever your shallow philosophy guess’t.
Your are proud of your power, and vain of you courage.
And your blood, Anglo-Saxon, or Norman, or Celt,
Though your gifts you extol, and our gifts you
disparage.
Your perils, your pleasures, your sorrows we’ve felt.
We, too, sprung from mares of the prophet of Mecca,
And nursed on the pride that was born with the milk,
And filtered through “Crucifix,” “Beeswing,”
“ Eebecca,”
We love sheen of scarlet and shimmer of silk.
We. too, sprung from loins of the Ishmaelite stallions.
We glory in daring that dies or prevails;
From counter of squadrons, and crash of battalions.
To rending of blackthorns, and rattle of rails.
The Sick Stockrider.
’Twas merry in the glowing morn, among the gleaming
grass.
To wander as we’ve wander’d many a mile.
And blow the cool tobacco cloud, and watch the white
wreaths pass.
Sitting loosely in the saddle all the while.
’Twas merry ’mid the blackwoods when we spied the
station roofs.
To wheel the wild scrub cattle at the yard,
With a running fire of stockwhips and a fiery run of
hoofs;
Oh! the hardest day was never then too hard!
*******
I’ve had my share of. pastime, and I’ve done my share
of toil.
And life is short—the longest life a span ;
I care not now to tarry for the corn or for the oil.
Or for the wine that maketh glad the heart of man.
For good undone and gifts misspent and resolutions
vain,
’Tis somewhat late to trouble. This I know—
I should live the same life over, if I had to live again ;
And the chances are I go where most men go.
The deep blue skies wax dusky and the tall green trees
grow dim.
The sward beneath me seems to heave and fall;
And sickly, smoky shadows through the sleepy sunlight
swim.
And on the very sun’s face weave their pall.
Let me slumber in the hollo w where the wattle blossoms
wave.
With never stone or rail to fence my bed;
Should the sturdy station children pull the bush
flowers on my grave,
I may chance to hear them romping overhead.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Band of Hope—An engagement ring.
Tantalization; Trying to kiss a pretty girl
through a sheet of plate glass.
It is now fashionable in Carcoar for the fair sex
to raise their hats to the young gentlemen.
The reason why a big fellow has a better chance
than a little one is that the girls like Hy-men.
Kissing a girl on the cheek is like eating the
skin of an orange and throwing the juicy pulp away.
Two girls recently made a wager as to which
could dress the quickest. The winner’s time was
3.15.42.
The very latest co-operative scheme in the
modern Babylon is an association for the supply of
artificial teeth.
“ A Blighted Life” is the title of the latest
novel, hut the name of the lady who failed to get the
new bonnet is not given.
There is a difference between the lips of a
young man and the lips of a young lady—but sometimes
it is a mighty small one.
A movement is on foot in Adelaide, with which
the Governor and Chief Justice are identified, to start
a coffee room in Adelaide for young women.
She sent an order to the music seller’s for the
“8100 Danyoobe.” Added she: P.S.—“You must
eskews this letter, as I pla by noat, but spell by ear.”
Someone says that kissing on the stage is no
fun. Of course it isn’t. There’s none of the feeling
that you’re doing something that you ought not about
it.
Miss Annie Hand, whom alii old Hodgkinson
miners will remember with pleasure and respect, was
the other week married toiiMr. Tilley, of Charters
Towers.
The Minister for Education has given an un-
married male teacher in the Albury district one month
to marry or “ leave.” He’ll marry, he says, if the girl
will give him leave.
It is rumoured in London society that there has
been a serious rupture between the Queen and the
Princess Louise. The most “romantic” reasons are
given for the family jar.
The latest development in Ireland is the taking
of a pledge on the part of the young unmarried men
against marrying the daughters of “ landgrabbers."
Thus are the girls “ Boycotted” in the green isle.
The new professional beauty, Mrs. Thornburgh
Cropper—who, by the way, is an American—is now
giving sittings, as well as Mrs. Langtry, for separate
portraits, te the celebrated etcher, Mr. Mempes, of
Fulham.
In view of the approaching visit of Cole’s circus
it may be mentioned that blondes should wear heavy
veils when examining the electric light. Its action on
the skin is like that of the summer sun, producing
sunburn and freckles.
“ Here’s my wife and I,” said a husband, with
much complacency, to his silver-wedding guests, “ who
have been married five-and-twenty years, and in all
that time haven’t had a single unkind word with each
other." “By Jove!” exclaimed one of the guests,
“ what a stupid time you must have had of it.”
Ladies will discover in Lord Beaconsfield’s
“Endymion” a new mode of showing their regard for
dead husbands —a mild form of suttee. The heroine
cuts off her long hair, which reached nearly to her
feet, and ties it round the neck of her husband in his
coffin. The idea is original, but it has not muck else
to recommend it.
Embonpoint is fashionable just now in Mel-
bourne. So much so in fact that an editor of a local
paper says that “ Now, every time we meet one of those
closely-trimmed, well-developed matrons, or damsels,
we cannot help wondering if the form we see before us is
all real live flesh and blood, or whether a very consider-
able portion of it is composed of horse-hair, straw, or
dried seaweed.”
The Almanach de Gotha, just out, has
“ been obliged to omit the Czar’s new wife, because he
has not yet had his marriage officially notified, and
because the lady does not belong to the ancient stock
of the Dolgorouk of Eurik’s royal lineage, but to a
modem house of Dolgorouk, in no way related to the
former. But it gives the empty title of hereditary
Prince to the Duke of Cumberland, as Duke of Bruns-
wick and Luneberg.
Beauty.—According to the Spaniard’s idea of
female loveliness, a woman, to be beautiful in their
eyes, must possess many tripartite excellences. She'
must have three thiugs white—skin, teeth, and hands;
three things black—eyes, eyebrows, and lashes; three
things red—lips, cheeks, and nails ; three things long
—waist, hair, and hands; three things short—teeth,
ears, and feet; three things wide —breast, front, and
brow; three things narrow—mouth, waist, and ankle;
three things large—arm, hip, and calf; three things
fine —lips, hair, and fingers; three things small—head,
nose, and bosom.
A lady writer in the Atlantic Monthly thus
slanders blondes : “ I have found the worst feminine
qualities almost invariably allied to the blonde style;
not the green or grey-eyed blondes, with straight
abundant hair and fresh coloring, but the sallow or
pallid being, with light-blue eyes and limp or waving
hair —an innocent-looking creature, with feline man-
ners, pattes de valours, and such claws I These are the
women who delude and destroy men; who never forgive
an injury or forget a slight; who smile and talk sweetly,
and put on airs of meek piety and high art and refine-
ment, but under all are scheming, unprincipled, false
to the core. Did not Lucrezia have golden hair ? ”
In Paris, recently, two brothers, employed in a
glass factory, quarrelled over a cook, whom each wanted
to marry. They agreed to fight a duel to the death —
with rum. Two bottles of that spirit were accordingly
procured, and Auguste Bemi, the younger of the two,
gave a yell of pain and fell senseless on the floor.
Andre, the other, then arose and, with a smile on his
face, turned to leave. Scarcely had he reached the
door of the cabaret when he threw up his hands and fell
senseless. He was quickly carried to the hospital, but
died shortly after reaching it of concussion of the brain
and paralysis of the heart. Auguste Bemi, crazed by
the rum he had drunk, recovering from his faint, ran
madly through the streets, and is believed to have
drowned himself.
At Cambridge University, ladies are now ad-
mitted to the Tripos Examinations. A jealous Mel-
bourne man, who writes for the papers, says that
“ there is nothing ridiculous, believe me, in the
predictions of London Punch on this matter. We shall
have the men nurse the babies, while the women play
billiards or gabble about the affairs of the nation.
There is a country, I believe, where, whenever a lady
gives an item to the world, her husband takes to his
bed for a season ; and really, what with men women and
womanly men, I believe in course of time it will be
change about, and that we shall yet read the announce-
ment: ‘On the 20th instant, Mr. William Smith of
twins.’ And this education of women will tend to this
evolution.”
Writes a correspondent: “Is it quite con-
sistent, with that due regard to the externals of
worship that one naturally expects to find at a
cathedral church, that the choir boys at St. Andrew’s
should so very frequently appear with dirty surplices,
and always with untidy-looking and ill-fitting ones —a
big boy with a small surplice, and a little boy with a
big one ? Nor is this confined to the boys alone. As the
procession passes in, one cannot fail to observe the
want of care and attention to appearances ; the variety
of colors in coats and ties, and trousers, which might
be avoided by the wearing of cassocks. It is such a
contrast to the well-appointed choirs about the suburbs,
especially, for instance, All-Saints, Petersham—the
surplices and cassocks worn there being particularly
well made and fitting. Surely this is not a question of
High Church or Low Chureh, but of decency and
order. The cassock is thought to be Popish by the
eminent authorities of the Deanery. Do they know
that the Established Church of Scotland wear it?
This Popish craze at the Cathedral is bordering on the
ridiculous.”


fJIHE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
I ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot he too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
j parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
H E A T E E royal.
Lessee Mr. Sam], Lazar
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman
BRILLIANT SUCCESS OP THE GRAND REVIVAL.
SECOND WEEK OF OPERATIC PINAFORE !
with the
STRONGEST OPERATIC AND DRAMATIC CAST
ever witnessed;
neither the London nor the New York Pinafore Com-
panies equalling the present combination, either
musically or dramatically.
Engagement of the most Popular and _ Successful
Artistes that ever visited Australia,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE
and
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON
Fourth appearance of the young Prima Donna
MISS JOSEPHINE DEAR IN
(who was again enthusiastically received),
in conjunction with
ARMES BEAUMONT and SIGNOR VERDI
as
Ralph Rackstraw and Captain Corcoran,
of the world-famous Opera,
H. M. S, PINAFORE!
which
THIS (SATURDAY) EVENING, March 5,
will be presented by
WILLIAMSON’S OPERATIC PINAFORE
COMPANY.
SPLENDID CHORUS of SIXTY PICKED VOICES
and
DOUBLE ORCHESTRA.
Conductor, Signor GIORZA.
Leader, Mr. J. W. Rice.
Entirely new Ship Scene by George Gordon.
POPULAR PRICES.
DRESS CIRCLE. ss; STALLS, 3s; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s; PIT. Is.
Seats can be secured at Elvy and Co.’s, 321,George-st.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
FRIDAY, 4th MARCH
Under distinguished patronage and by express desire,
THE DANITES
for positively the last time, being the last appearance
of the Great American Combination
SATURDAY, sth MARCH,
the grand mimic spectacle,
BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR,
and the stirring panorama of the sea trip to the
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY EXHIBITIONS.
ILLUSTRATED by FIFTY TRAINED JUVENILES.
Also,
First appearance of the talented young tragedienne,
JENNIE WATT TANNER.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
On THURSDAY Evening, March 3
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL’S BENEFIT
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES prior to his de-
parture for England. MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL
will appear as DANIEL WHITE in H. T. Craven’s
Domestic Drama, MILKY WHITE and A MIN AD AB
SLEEK in Morris Barnett’s Comedy of SERIOUS
FAMILY, assisted for the occasion by Miss EDITH
PENDER and the members of the Gaiety Company.
On FRIDAY Evening, 4th March,
and last appearance but one, BLOW FOR BLOW.
CHARLES STRAGGS Mr. PREDK, MARSHALL.
SATURDAY, March 12, Mr. J. L. HALL.
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s, George-st.,
where tickets and seats may be secured. Prices as
usual.
Holders of ORCHESTRA CHAIR TICKETS can
reserve seats on application at the box office.
M. L. Salamon, business manager for Mr. F. Marshall.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson.
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
ZULU
FOURTH WEEK
of
Thompson’s Colossal
MIRROR OF THE WAR IN
ZULULAND!
The excitement still unabated.
Large audiences nightly attest by _
their applause the excellence of this
Unique Entertainment.
The Colossal Distribution
of
Costly Presents
EVERY EVENING
during the week.
PIANOS,
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES,
GOLD WATCHES, &c.,
will form the leading Presents
EVERY EVENING.
Recipient of Suite of Furniture on
Monday Evening,
Mrs. HUNT, Crown-strett.
On Tuesday Evening,
Mr. BEANY, Macquarie-street.
Admission :
3s, 2s, and One Shilling.
Doors open at 7’30. Overture at 8.
SATURDAY, MARCH 5.
GRAND MATINEE for CHILDREN,
commencing at 3 p.m.
Every child attending will receive a
present.
Tickets for all parts of the house
can be had at Kirby’s, bookseller,
Pitt-street.
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
WAR
Sole Proprietor and Lecturer, Mr. W. H. THOMPSON.
PHILIP STUART. Agent.
ATHUBST CEICKET GROUND.
CELEBRATION OF ST. PATRICK’S DAY.
THURSDAY, 17th MARCH, 1881.
GRAND PROGRAMME OP ATHLETIC SPORTS
at Bathurst,
To Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day,
including
ST. PATRICK’S GRAND HANDICAP,
Prize £4O,
to be rim for in three events, at 100, 125,150 yards.
Entrance, 205.,
And a number of other interesting events.
Entrances for St. Patrick’s Grand Handicap will
close on WEDNESDAY, the 9th March, at 7.30 p.m.,
to be sent under cover to the Secretary, at Stapleton’s
Hotel, George-street, Bathurst. Competitors to send
their performances for the past twelve months, and to
name their colours Handicaps will be published on
Saturday, the 12th March.
JAMES KELAHER,
Hon. Secretary.
|HE BULLETIN BALMAIN AGENCY.
Subscribers to The Bulletin, residing in Balmaiu,
who have hitherto received The Bcllktin through the
Post Office, will in future be supplied through Bell-
ridge’s News Agency, Darling and Ann Streets,
Balmain.
RINGER’S
JEWING
jyJ-ACHINES
j^INGER’S
JEWING
jyJ-ACHINES
QEWING
"jy/J" AC HINES
Ringer’s
JEWING
'jyJACHINES
RINGER’S
JEWING
jyj"ACHINES
gINGER’S
JEWING
]yj-ACHINES
RINGER’S
JEWING
jy/|-ACHINES
gINGER’S '
JEWING
-jyj-ACHINES
UNPARALLED DEMAND
MORE POPULAR
THAN EVER!
OVER 500,000 were SOLD in the
TEAR 1880, beine at the rate of
1600 for every Working Day,
and three-fourths of all the Sew-
ing Machines sold throughout
the World.
THIS IMMENSE SALE is the
RESULT of the World-Wide
REPUTATION OBTAINED by
THESE MACHINES.
UNEQUALLED for Superiority of
Workmanship, strength and
beauty of stitch, and adapta-
bility TO EVERY CLASS OP
SEWING.
10 PER CENT.
DISCOUNT
For CASH.
EASY TERMS,
2s 6d Weekly,
WITHOUT ADDITION
TO THE PRICE.
CAUTION!
BEWARE of PERSONS who, hav-
ing no good trade repute, resort
to Impudent Puffery, and do
thereby deceive the UNWARY.
COUNTERFEIT MACHINES of
inferior Construction and Manu-
facture under various fanciful
names, are being, with HUGE
EFFRONTERY, offered to the
public as superior to the genuine.
S
s
M
D
INGER’S
EWING
To avoid DECEPTION, buy no
Machine that has not “ The
Singer Manufacturing Com-
pany,” printed upon the arm,
and impressed upon the brass
TRADE MARK.
E P O T 1 N SYDNEY.
ACHINES
NO. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS FREE !
The wonderful wertheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking for basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width,’"'make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimaeassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OP CHARGE. Price lists and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY. George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a WERTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT, WITHOUT
INTEREST.
IHALLENGE FOR ONE THOUSAND
1 POUNDS!!
A BITTER PILL FOR THE YANKEES.
As a further reply to untruthful and AD CAPTAN-
DUM advertisements, we hereby offer to submit
•the
WONDERFUL WERTHEIM MACHINES,
under challenge for £lOOO a-side, in competition with
all or any YANKEE and GLASGOW-MADE machines,
falsely sold as American; the contest to be decided
in public by English fair play, and not by Yankee
smartness. The terms may he ascertained at our
offices, in Market Buildings, by any agent who chooses
to compete.
BEALE and COMPANY, Agents,
George-street, near Market-street; and
612, BRICKFIELD HILL.
Hunter-street, Newcastle.
Howick-street, Bathurst.
SAMPLES, Circulars, and Catalogues FREE BY
POST.
Professional Addresses
M
M
R. S. LAZAR.
ADDRESS ;
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private—“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
R. J. R. G R E V I L L E.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
M
R.
L.
M. B A Y L E S S.
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
b. Fe ed. Wa rsha l l.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
MR. & MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
M
R.
M.
S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Misses alice and Constance
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS;
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
M
R. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu Wae).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
H
I L I P STUART,
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
M
R. J. C. WILLIAMSON,
ADDRESS :
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
ADORN YOUR BEDROOMS by purchasing
from THE CO-OP. CHEAP DRAPERY HOUSE.
ff g erythm g necessary to SURROUND THE HOUSE
and y et consistently with STEICT
ECONOMY. The Household DEAPEEY SHOW at
THE CO-OP. is very attractive to CAREFUL HOUSE.
WI VES, and it is now well-known that customers are
faithfully and honestly served, and that UNLIKE some
unscrupulous traders who mark a few little things
cheap and make large profits on the remainder,
EVERYTHING IS EQUALLY CHEAP at the CO-OP,
For the guidence of YOUNG HOUSEKEEPEES,
MATRONS, and Others who have not yet paid a visit
to this cheap mart.
We are selling large quantities of the CHEAP LACE
CUETAINS received a few days ago at the following
prices:—
Lot 1,2 s lid; Lot 2. 3s lid; Lot 3, 4s lid; Lot 4,5 s
lid; Lot 5,6 s lid; Lot 6,8 s lid; Lot 7,11 s 9d.
The 8s lid line is usually sold at 12s 6d; the 11s 9d
line at 16s 6d.
Scarlet and Black Table Cover, 2 yards wide, 5s lid
Embroidered Table Covers, 2 yards square, 5s lid
each
Mosquito Net, 100 inch wide, 11-|d
White Dimity, handsome pattern, 7|d
Chamber Towels, 2s lid per dozen
Hearth Bugs, 5s 9d; Door Mats Is lid
Crumb Cloth, 2 yards wide, slightly damaged. Is OJd
White Table Damask, 2 yards wide. Is lid
Blankets, per pair, 4s lid, 5s lid, 7s lid, 8s lid
Splendid Large heavy Blankets, 15s 9d
Quilts, unmistakably cheap, eveay size, from 3s lid
Marcella Toilet Covers, 10|d; Zephyr ditto. Is
Pure finish American Longcloth, 5s 6d per dozen
Short Blind Muslin, 2Jd; ditto Lace, from 3fd
Pillow Slip Laces, every width, from 2 to 7 inch, from
Is 8d per dozen
Toilet Fringes, lid; Curtain Loops, B|d; Card, 6d
per dozen
Some very choice things in NIGHT DEESS CASES.
BEUSH CASES, HANDKEECHIEF and
WATCH POCKETS, for Bedroom use in Art
Designs. Something quite new.
THE CO-OP. CHEAP DEAPEEY HOUSE.
568 GEOEGE STEEET,
CHAELES LANE.
<ya
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Maekets,
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ENLAEGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
LBERT S. MANDERS AND CO.,
(Late Grant, Mandebs and Grant),
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE.
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can supply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers with Articles, Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram ;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind of business transacted in Melbourne by applica-
tion to us.
The above Firm have Agents in all the colonies, from
whom they get all the earliest Sporting News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels, Clubs, &c.,
with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Hourly Telegrams op Principal Cricket Matches,
&c., SUPPLIED.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any part of the Australian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the termi-
nation of the day’s sport.
Special arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania.
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TYPOGEAPH. Send for Circulars. Will print 5000
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Music, &c., on permanent
paper, and on any paper. No washing-out required.
P. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOEEST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOEBST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 King-street, Sydney,
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Melbourne.
JJRIGHT
BROTHERS
have removed to
NEW OFFICES
93 Pitt-street,
Opposite Oriental Bank.
&
CO-
£JITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO.
OFFICE—3 WYNYARD SQUARE.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
*** They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOR GAS OR
KEROSENE.
o*o
*3
*
4
\W
w
ih
i
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &c.
HARWELL AND FISHER’S DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MARKET STREET.
WINE GROWER AND MERCHANT,
is selling his PRIZE WINES at
Is. per quart, and 3d. per glass.
WINES from 3 to 24 years old, from 12s to 42s per
doz. Country orders receive prompt attention.
Office and Cellars :
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 22nd February, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees pay the rent due on the under-
mentioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty days
from this date, it will be cancelled.
E. A. BAKER.
No., C. A. J. Henry; J. G. Forbes, and J.
Thompson; Portion No., 26 on : Centennial Reef, parish
of Bindera ; Date of Lease, 20 May, 1878 .2 acres; Ap-
plication No., Copeland 29.


SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
PLOUGHS.
Single-furrow Ploughs, We have the largest assortment of Ploughs in the colony, and can suit the
requirements of every district. Farmers, write US for information. We post Illustrations and Price Lists Free.
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
HOWARD'S New Pattern Ploughs, just brought
out, and shown lor the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
RANSOMES* New Pattern Ploughs, all sizes.
RITCHIE’S “Colonial-made” Ploughs. Nos. 1, 2,
and 3. This is a favourite make in many districts.
We invite Correspondence, and furnish every
information promptly and free.
"5.
HARROWS—ZIGZAG, DRAG, CHAIN,
We recommend HOWASD’S as the best Harrows of their class, but
have other makes, some of which are in good demand in several districts.
Howard’s 'I Also,
1 Nos. 14,12,11,10.
2Slg«ag > Width 8J, 91,10, 10J ft.
Weight lj. 1|, 2J, 2J cwt.
Harrows, j
Our Stock of Harrows includes all the best known makes. We have all
sizes. Write us for information.
LARKWORTHY’S,
PAGE’S,
RANDALL’S, &c.
MARTIN & FAIN,
■389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ulachet and Davy.
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents fob Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. J apan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANES,
IMPOETEE OF
Plumbers’ and J Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Bead Pipe, &c.
119 BIYEEPOOB STEEET, SYDNEY.
3
the 1
_
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL .
ALLWOOL AtWEEH
TWEEPjIiP| SUITS
to J USf^^»MEASURI
»»»
ios.bcf. ,wrnt
CUTLENCTHS
.ATWHOLESALE PRICES/
aOOOFATTERNS'°CHOOSE FROM
H LSUMMERFIELD
PITTSTSYONEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OP
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E. 0
EEEE AND CO. ’S
PEI z E
ALBUKY WINES.
Bed Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Mai bee
White Wines:
R'iisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CEBBAES:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the PropnetOM.
John Haynes and J. F Arc hi bald, at the Offices w
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
TJEISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.
■“"* 397 Gboegb Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
IRONMONGERS, IRONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied ; and comprises all the lates productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Ceach-builders’ Material, Eims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, 4c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, 4c. 4c.
Squatters' Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacke,
&c., 4c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., 4c., 4c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MEEICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
M
A C
E R
Y,
H I N
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., 4c.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
STREET
KING
SYDNE
JAILOR nj
m
m
Oq
fo*GV
s /A'-
a m
it
i
POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
-J®' TO ORDER.“^H
FIT GUARANTEED!
fill 6RK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
OR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
quinetum wine.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. TAYLER $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
OA N S GRAN T E D WIT HOLT DELAY, at
moderate rates, on all kind^o^seKnrity^^Bop^-
moot* to suit convenience of burn were
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagb-street, next oormer
King-street. Established 1859.
[?]
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A LAEGE YAEIETT IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
E Y £ S
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATER T
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From, Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should he patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnongh, M. A., Ashdeld :—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney : —Jeyes Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. It, Mvdgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2$ years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney :—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London, Agents wanted for the Country.
RINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWIN G
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES—.£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —5s. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
. The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(Cue Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
O
u
oc
PRIZE
Cocoa
CO
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufact ures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
BUY
CD
oS
DC
PRIZE
FA
DC
UNIVERSAL
H £
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine, The
Exhibition J adges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up."
CO
R. GORDON,
HCMCEPATHIST,
No. 2 Hyde Park Terrace,
171 Liverpool-street,
Eradicates hereditary diseases
in the young, and chronic com-
plaints in the adult, and holds
references for the cure of
Typhoid, Bilious, Intermittent,
Scarlet, and Rheumatic Fevers;
Bronchitis, Asthma, Consump-
tion, Pleurisy, Scarlatina, Croop,
Wbooping Cough, and Dipthe-
ria; Heart, Liver, Stomach, and
Kidney complaints; Cancers,
Ulcers, Erysipelas, Scrofulous,
Dropsy, Opthalmia, and Urinary
complaints. Terms for chronic
complaints, £ 1 per month, pay-
able in advance; consultations
5s. No letters answered unless
the monthly fees are paid in
advance ; and patients at a dis-
tance are requested to be very
minute and particular in men-
tioning the symptoms of their
complaint.
locestich sewing machine
ifove you not beard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates-Repairs done-Machmes exchanged.
Inspection invited.
Qg KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
