

THE BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 96.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1831,
Obscene Obsequies.
Thk debate on Thursday last in the Legislative
Council, on tho Balmain Cemetery Bill, should
help in some small degree to awaken the public to
some of the Iniquities of the prevailing fashions—
they are nothing more—of disposing of tho mortal
remains of onr dead. It seems a ghastly thing
that there should be any speculators so sharp-set
as to make it their dart to realize a profit by
Belling attraotively-situated allotments—7 by 3
commanding a fine view, for the construction of
residences —perpetual—of corpses. It was alleged
by Mr. Lucas, In the course of a debate, that the
Balmain Cemetery-jobbers bought their “ God’s
Acres” at .£2O or £3O per acre, and sold them again
at rates which amounted to something like £lO,OOO
per QoD’s-aore.
« • «
It seems, now, that so seductive are these rates
of profit, that tho proprietors of this speculative
charnel begrudge the loss of a foot of area in their
so fruitful ground. The Balmain Municipality,
more concerned about the health of the living
than about the profits of traffickers in graves,
passed recently a by-law to the effect that no body
should be buried within 100 feet —not yards—of
any street. This has been felt by the Cemetery
dealers as a serious invasion of their rights—and
prospective profits. Besides, it creates complica-
tions. They have sold graves much nearer to their
boundaries, and the purchasers might, on having
farther interments to make, adduce claims which
would be embarrassing. We do not misapprehend
the cogency of the latter plea. The Cemetery
speculators might feel it hard to have to offer to
their customers as compensation an allotment
more remote from public streets, but still worth
some £lO,OOO per acre, besides having some
£40,000 or £50,000 worth of marginal land
rendered unsaleable. But, apart from this,
sentiment enters largely into the question. A
mother, dying, leaves to her relict the sacred
charge that her remains shall repose and mingle
in the same grave with those of her dead child.
The husband desires to bo interred beside his dead
wife; the brother with his sister, and so forth.
These are considerations deserving of respect.
Mr. J. B. Watt’s proposal that the Municipal
by-law, while receiving tho endorsement it merits,
should be so modified as to preserve the rights of
purchasers, would effectually meet the case. Tho
Cemetery Company deserve no mercy at all.
Although apprised of the passing of tho by-law,
they persisted in continuing to sell spaces for
graves within the prohibited limits. It is difficult
to know in what terms to characterise their action,
whereby bereaved and heart-sore relatives were
brought, without knowing it, into collision with
the Municipal authorities, and were exposed to
the liability, at any moment, of being subjected
to the horrors of an interrupted funeral, or a
peremptory instruction to disinter or remove their
dead.
• * *
The entire funeral system demands reform. It
is a horrible mockery and an abominable grimace.
The sleek and sad undertaker, who is not sad ;
the mournful assistants, who do not mourn : tho
block horses, which are not black, when the soot
is washed out of their hides, the costly coffin,
which is not costly, except to the relatives ; the
ostrich plumes, which are not from the ostrich ;
the white handkerchiefs, which are held to tearless
eyes; the solemn sentences, the frigid mummery
of words, over "onr dear brother,” about whom
the reverend reader —surfeited with dear brothers
and sisters departed—cares not a jot, beyond the
amount ef his fee: all these grotesqeries merely
sicken the observer, and servo to hamper the
resources of the surviving widower or widow.
Who that has passed a funeral in onr streets has
failed to note the demeanour of the occupants of the
heterogeneous vehicles which make np the funeral
procession ? One mourning carriage—itself the
rattling skeleton, the wretched remains of what has
once been the convenience of pleasure—is occupied
by weeping relatives. Another follows, freighted
with friends of tho deceased, decorously staid, but
not unhappy. Then succeed vehicles conveying
acquaintances, who chat and discuss current sub-
jects. There are some who are laughing at the
good story of a companion, and, toward the rear,
indifferent parties who enjoy their cigars and
make no more pretence to grief than does tho
whistling cabby who drives them.
• * *
Why should the living submit to be fleeced by
tho carrion-tribe of undertakers ? Because that
trade, like all others, has its shameless arts. The
art of the prostitute, who, with a pretence of
dignified scorn, shames the greenhorn into
reckless orders for champagne, finds its proto-
type in the artfully scarce-suppressed contempt
—half insult, half-simulated surprise—of the
undertaker who considers the order given
for trappings loss expensive than tho social
position of the customer might have led him
to anticipate. Why should the living bo thus
shamed into providing high-prie'ed coffins for the
worms to perforate?—costly shrouds for the corpse-
robbecs to filch—and gloomy pageantries for the
profit of the secretly-sneering trader in mortuary
trappings P To this day the Jews, who fold the
body in a cloth and oppose the fewest obstacles
to its speedy decay, are wiser than tho Christians
who enclose mortal remains in wooden and even
leaden and iron boxes; for the longer you with-
hold from mother-earth her own dead children, tho
worse it will be for tho living ones.
• * •
The entire tribe of undertakers needs sweeping
away. Their calculated mummeries—their simi-
lated griefs—their preposterous impositions—con-
stitute a disgrace to modern common sense, and
are*an arraignment of modern decency. The
lowest of them make themselves a scourge to tho
respectable poor, whom they fleece without mercy
or conscience at the very time when all other men,
not hardened by custom to regard_ woe as an
invitation to plunder, would fain assist and treat
with tenderness.
Commodore John C. Wilson, Ad. C.
The cable recently informed na of tho appoint-
ment of Commodore Wilson to the rank of Rear-
Admiral, and we have much pleasure in presenting
our readers this week with a portrait and brief
sketch of the career of that gallant officer. It
may here bo mentioned that though raised to the
rank mentioned. Commodore Wilson, whilst in
command of the Australian station, retains
his former title, such being the custom of the
service, as an officer retains his inferior rank on
promotion, unless ho receives a separate appoint-
ment in tho rank to which he is promoted. Com-
modore Wilson has rendered distinguished service
since his connection with tho navy. As mate of
the Algiers, he was present at the capture of
forts at Bomarsnnd, in the Baltic, in 1854, for
which ho received the Baltio medal. Ho was
present at the operations in the Sea of Azoff,
including tho attack on Taganrog, when he
commanded the first launch of the Algiers,
and was mentioned "in despatches. As acting-
lieutenant of the Spiteful ho was present at
tho attack and capture of Kimbnrne, for
which he received the Crimean and Turkish
medals (Sebastapol and Azoff clasps, fifth-olass
Medjidie). Having become Lieutenant of the
Chesapeake, in 1857 he landed with a diving party
on the coast of Ceylon to recover treasure from,
tho wreck of the P. and O. steamer Ava, and in
five weeks recovered ,£40,000. As aoting-gnnnery
lieutenant of tho Chesapeake, in 1859, he was
engaged in blowing np and cutting the booms
under the Peiho Ports ; in the Opossum, during
the action with the forts, and subsequent landing,
and the attempt to storm them ; also in all opera-
tions for recovering or destroying vessels sunk or
stranded during the engagement. For these
services ho was several times honourably men-
tioned in despatches. Then as acting-commander
of the Fury he took part in the China war of
1860, acting as Beach Master under Captain
Borlase, C. 8., at the lauding cf the army at the
Petang River, and commanded boats of the
squadron clearing away obstructions between the
forts at the Peibo River after they were captured
by the troops (China medal, Takn clasp). Next
he was for three years actively employed as com-
mander of the Gorgon, in the suppression of the
slave trade on the East Coast of Africa, He was com-
mander of the Bombay when she was destroyed by
fire in December, 1861, and was specially promoted
for his gallant conduct on that occasion. He has
since served three years as Flag-Captain to A drairal
George Ramsay, C.B. (Lord Dalhousie), and eight
teen months Flag-Captain to Admiral the Hon.
C. G. J. B. Elliott, C.B. For three years, he acted
as Inspect or of Training Ships, and was severely
scalded on board the Thunderer, owing to a boiler
explosion which caused the death of 45 officers and
men, in July, 1876. In December, 1873, Commo-
dore Wilson hoisted his flag on the Wolverene, in
Farm Cove, Sydney. Our engraving is from a
portrait by Freeman, of George-street.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Consistency.
The admirers of Mr. William Forster aro wont to
attribute his involved and singularly analytical style of
speaking to his sensitiveness on the score of consist-
ency. His action with regard to the Milburn Creek
affair will hardly help him. When Mr. Baker was on
his trial In the Assembly, Mr. Forster made a decided
hit with his retort on Mr. Salomons. The celebrated
speech of Mr. Forster’s before the Colonial Institute
in London, In which he had much to say touching the
venality of-colonial legislators, was the subject of a
patriotic outburst on the part of Mr. Salomons, who
strongly -denounced the then Agent-General for his
slanderous statements respecting the personal morality
of the New South Wales senate. With a sarcastic
chuckle, Mr. Forster drew attention to the faot of one
of Mr. Salomons’ first public acts on his return to the
colony being an official enquiry into alleged corruptions
of members of Parliament; and the sequel of it to
cause him to endorse much of what Mr. Forster had
said, and which he so stoutly had denied. The
former had his old opponent somewhat on the hip;
but what of hii subsequent course of action ?
He simply sot himself to work to devise any method to
step the Parliament from purging itself of the stigma.
When the Premier turned on tho stream to cleanse the
Augean stable, Mr. Forster stood by with a shovel to
damn it back. Wo are left, as wo usually are when Mr,
Forster takes matters in hand, to ponder over his own
ambiguity. He either did not believe that there was
any corruption exhibited; or, if he did, that tho Parlia-
ment, of which he is one of the leading members, was
fit to deal with questions in which its own honour
was at stake, that it one member wont wrong all did
not suffer with him—which latter doctrine is exactly
what Mr. Forster denied in Englan d. The House may
be a very unsatisfactory tribunal before which its own
members are to be arraigned for dishonourable dealings;
but clearly its honour ought to be in its own hands. If
it is so corrupt that it is not fit to deal with such cases,
surely a high-soulod man like Mr. Forster has no
business in it. IE it is fit, and does its best to clean,so
its own house the immaculate Mr.jFoRSTER, after his
English jeremiad, ought to have been the last to
thwart it.
Who Next?
Many scholars will remember Virgil's famous lines
wherein, with old Roman disdain, he consigns to others
the moulding of brass and the cutting of marble, and
fprensic and astronomic ability, and that line by which
ho fixes Home’s concern—
“Tu regero imperio popvlos, Romanc, memento. ”
The lines suggest the inquiry for what the youth of
these colonies, and. of Now South Wales in particular,
are growing up. The oldest of these Austral colonies
has not yet had one hundred years of whito dominion,
and certainly not yet fifty yoaro of a national Ufa ; so
that perhaps the colonial populations are too young to
produce great artists, or scientists, or rulers. While
the youth manifest greater concern in the fortune of
a cricket match, or rowing contest, or horse or foot
race than in the triumphs of scholarship, of eminent
ability in any walk of public life, how can wo but feci
alarmed for the time when the destiny of these great
lands shall be confided to hands so weakly strung and
brains so little matured by the great culture of study ?
We are ruled, and taught, and led, by men who have
derived mental and physical stamina from far distant
lands, but the time must come when these will fail—
then, who next ? Must we call upon England to send
us statesmen and priests and master-workmen, and
upon Italy for musicians and painters and sculptors,
and upon France for the elegancies of social life ? It is
good’ for our youth to bo athletes, hut not good *that
they be only athletes ; good that they be students, but
not good that they bo only student?. Yet, how are
they disciplined to those higher ends ? Can we be quite
sure that the conditions are present under which we
shall in time produce men suited to our special needs ?
COMMODORE JOHN C. WILSON.


HOP BiTTERSI
ABE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and!
in addition, contain all the best and*
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Fkysioian.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine over made,
and no person or family should be mtla.
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If yon are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties ;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work,
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If yon are suffering from over-enting
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the ease.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
It you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton.
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting,
Hop Bitters is What You Need.
• _ If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach,
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with .
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTEIJIORE, STUART, A CO.,
fe PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
VAN HAAGEN’S TOILET SOAPS.
manufactured by
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO., PHILADELPHIA.
U.S.A.
BEST, FINEST, AND CHEAPEST
FRENCH MILLED TOILET SOAPS.
These soaps arc made of the purest and best material
and are unrivalled for
DELICACY OP PERFUME,
AND SUPERIOR LASTING QUALITIES. *
Fine Rose
White Pond Lily
Prairie Bouquet
Oat Meal
Palma Ro*a
Honeysuckle
Fine Honey
Turkish Bath
American Toilet
Pure Palm
Laurel Bouquet
Lilac Bouquet.
Naples Bouquet, etc. etc. etc.,
FOB TOILET, BATH, and NURSERY USES.
FOE SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIOEE, STUAET, & CO.
JJENJAMIN BEOOKES'
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
Irons, and all kinds of Cntlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is nneqnalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great .saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIOEE, STUAET, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,;
OP. GEEGOEY & CO, ’S
• SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOiSACCOS,
bearing our Brands,
“ORIENT” and “SOUTHERN CROSS.”
are unequalled by any Tobaccos ever imported into
these Colonies.
MONTEFIOEE, STUAET. & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
It is useful to know the derivation of words.
Both “ cocoa " and “ chocolate ” are of Mexican origin.
The word “chocolate'' is derived from “chocolatl,”
the sound produced by the primitive stones used to
bruise and mix the coooa with the sugar; whereas
“oocoa" is the name under which the unadulterated
beaus of the “ theobroma cacao ’’ of Linn ecus are im.
ported into England. Those who wish for cocoa abso-
lutely pure, should ask for the Coooa Essence originally
prepared by Cadbuht Brothers.—Ady.
It is to be feared there is not that interest in high
vocations in these colonies which impresses yonrg
men with a desire to attain them. Of course genius
makes its own road; but when you put special obstacles
in the way, you make a demand which not every genius,
but only the robust, will respond to and satisfy. The re-
ligions say young men will not volunteer for the Ministry
No ; they will have to spend years in a ftudy, very dry
and disagreeable to most natures, and then success will
be—not so much of a salary, as a position of hard work,
discouraged by others’ apathy and their own inability;
tormented by do iA)t, and seeing themselves pilloried as
the representatives of all ecclesiastical mismanagement
and abuse. So in politics. Those who are fitted for
tho task of governing a people turn aside from that
high work, lured by ease and private gain. Tha
artists devote themselves to the conventional in place
of tho natural; for tho first is in esteem among tho
many, and ia well paid for —the latter, not so much.
Perhaps ILecenates will arise here, and under their
fostering care genius will be developed and matured,
aud led into paths wherein it is moot for it to go. The
miserable oxtpnt to which our yonth devote themselves
to high work is depressing, but it is very significant to
those who will give themselves the trouble to consider
it.
The Distribution.
How >£3ooo of it wont—
Mr. , M.L.A £lOOO
Mr. , M.L.A 810
Mr. , M.L.A 637
Mr. -, friend of an M.L& 450
Messenger 20
Mr. ————, professional gentleman 217
;£3114
Leaving only £856, to be accounted for. Now who got
lhat f
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Amateur ” (Kiama): Many thanks. Of conrso
we had to condense a little, but the items just suit.
Send along more “W.J H.”: Thanks “D.M'Coy”
(Walgett): Thanks; will do something “R.R.”:
Thanks for tho par, which wo hold over for a week......
“ Humphrey Clinker”: Mach obliged. See “Brief
Mention." “Boss” (Balala): Vide “Pepper and
Salt." Yon haven’t quite got the hang of satirical
verse yet, but you ave getting near it. As yon seem to
bo rather strong on the libel jury question, try your
hand at an odo on our foreman —but mind you make it
complimentary. A trifle on Sullivan, tho Now Zealand
hero, you might also send in. It would look well on
the same page “ Fiat Lux ”: There’s less lux in the
dust-bin. You certainly have on idea of humour, but
it’s not meant for publication “ J.L.": You’re a good
follow, but you should really get a spider that isn’t
knock-kneed to write for you. Get Mrs. J.L. to lend you
a hand next time. We can’t make it out “ H.A.C."
(Qympio): Our par was correct as regards professional
lamping, the previous best high jump being E. Vardy,
sft. llin.; and wide jump, S. Mair, 20ft. Sin. At the
University sports, in 1876, Mr. M. J. Brooks cleared
6ft !Hin., and at the Dublin University sports, in 1874,
Mr. J. Lane covered 23ft Hin. in a running wide jump.
These ore the best well-authenticated amateur perform-
an cos on record “ Via Ragis ”: Received ; first rate.
“Junius": Eight..,.„“ A.W.": Wo hod previously
received particulars of one ofthe affairs concerning which
you write. We are much obliged for the information,
and shall bj very glad to hear from you again
•* Ram" : Yoar contributions are moat acceptable
“W.H.W.”: Bight you are “Ego": Thanks..,’”
*• O.B." : The plant enclosed is not a fern but an intro-
duced species of grass “ Hopeful No. 1": If you
can’t send us anything better than this, you will have
nil the hope on your side. Try again by all means, but
it your form does not improve, wo shall have, however
reluctantly, to hand yon over to tho Herald
“Hopeful No. 2": It is impossible you can read
The Bulletin, or you wouldn’t waste postage on such
utter rob. What do we care whether tho landlady’s
married or not, or what length and colour the counter-
jumper’s moustache is 1 You would seem to care a
great deal, though, you giddy girl. No; what wo want
is something that will interest everybody. Although
your world may consist of a public-house and a black-
smith’s shop, it’s not tho same with others. Persevere,
however, and send us down something every week, if it
is only an advertisement or a report of the work-box
presentation to the school-marm “Stockwhip"(Con-
dobolin): Very good—
That nice par. of yours, dear boy,
Is original, we trust;
Thau print a joke that isn’t so
We’d a great deal sooner bust.
Glad to hear from yon always—even if you wrote your
copy on a second-hand slab with a rusty crow-bar
“ Cooee ”: Certainly.......“ Hobart ” (Goulturn); We
cannot give you a special heading, hut we shall at all
times be glad to hear from yon “ C. 8.": The verses
in question have boon “ done to death.” Besides, wore
we to publish your lines, they might jar on the public
ear, for a most unfounded impression is abroad that
we "row in the same boat.” “A.J.F.” (Charters
Towers): Splendid “ W.M.”: Not gopd enough,
either in ideas or words “R.H.L.”! You should send
your name “ J.P.”: Much obliged. You’re evidently
not a Justice of the Peace “Boss”: Your smajtly-
writteu verse contains a double entendre, for publishing
whioh we’d never bo forgiven. Send us another speci-
men ; you can do much better if you try “ Rose-
bud”: We have not the slightest clue to any of
your allusions, and aro unable, therefore, to
arrange-in onr usual good style." We can only
gather from your note that someone has been having
a real good time." “M.C.F.": You have forgotten
to send your name, which as a guarantee of good faith
is in such cases indispensable “Crioketer": Match
reports mast be in by Tuesday afternoon, at latest
"Cockio”: Deeply indebted. Could, however, hardly
insert it as written. £500,000,000. You know what we
mean “ Cnlla Mulla Capital matter. Will have a
show next week. Send along an account of tho social
affair “Norrabri”: Held over “A. 8.": Thanks.
“ W.W.E.": Kindly arrange that yonr items, which
we shall always he happvt.o have, reach us by Tuesday
evening at latest “ W.H. W.’’: Happy to hear from
yon always “W.M.8." wants to know why such a
fuss is being made about a paltry £17,000, anent the
Milbunx Crook scandal, considering that there are hosts
of Government contract arrangements which are little
different from Tammany rings, and require rooting up
by some uncompromising man line Julian Salomons;?
Well, “ W.M.8.,” “as if yon didn’t know? ’’ It’s no
crime to rob the colony. But to ho found out I Faugh 1
“C.J.H.”: Just a little late. Send us a note from
time to time “ Quilp”: Received late “Rambler”:
Must send name. Otherwise, such communications
lose all point “T.F.W.": Thanks. Next issue
“Anchor”; Decidedly Irreverent “Tight Little
Island ": Will insert some of yonr matter next, issue.
We regret, however, that most of yonr paragraphs are
bettor adapted to the columns of any one of onr
numerous imitators than to our own “A Constant
Reader ’’ wants to know why a charge of one shilling
entrance-fee is made by Nat Thomson to each member
of the teams competing for his junior cricket challenge
eup. Our correspondent points out that tho ground
is tree, the matting not new, and the cost of advertising
small—expenses consequently should bo merely nomi-
nal.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Shah of Persia again visits Europe, next
year.
The Queen has ten grand-children. She is
shortly to have another.
Vale, late Victorian Attorney-General, goes to
N.Z, to practise at the bar.
Ex-President Hayes states that while at White
House ho was threatened with assassination seveval
times.
Burnand, editor of London Punch, has had
thirteen happy thoughts. The latest is a girl, we
believe.
A memoir of the late Dr. Tyrrell, thirty-one
years Bishop of Newcastle, has been published in
London.
Tho full name of Oscar Wilde, the rcsthotio
poet, is Oscar Fingal O’Flaherty Wilde. O’Flaherty 1
Horror I
The Hon. Alexander Hay, of Adelaide, has made
an investment of £30,000 in Sydney (Bridge-street)
property.
Mr, Lorimer E. Hamas has been appointed
secretary to the Friendly Societies’ Commission,
Hallelujah 1
Archibald Forbes, who comes to Australia in
due conrso, was expected to reoeivo a semi-royal recep-
tion in Canada.
Mr. Gullett, proprietor of the Tatura (N.Z.)
Herald, is dead. He was a brother of tho editor of
the Australasian.
| |3ir William Fox said an extraordinary thing the
other day. He alleged that the 2000 grogshops of Now
Zealand each killed a man a year.
America is the freest country in the world. It
is the only one, too, that has lost two rulers by assassi-
nation during the last half century.
Mr. J. J. Brown, proprietor of the Yass
Courier, one of the most enterprising of provincial
journalists, died at Yass on the 21st instant.
Gnitoau can get no leading counsel to defend
him, but it is stated that George Francis Train volun-
tarily offered his services. George Francis was once a
citizen of Melbourne.
Tho appointment of Mr. Herbert Gladstone as
a Lord of tho Treasury recalls the fact that it is now
nearly forty-seven years since his illustrious father ac-
cepted a similar position.
There resides in a Northern township the grand-
son of the late Sir John Hunter Littler, late Governor
of one of the states of India. Ho is employed as bar-
man at an hotel in town. Fate!
Out of the period of forty-four years during
which tho Queen has occupied the English throne, she
has spent about twelve days in Ireland. Her last visit
took place twenty years ago, in August, 1861.
President Garfield’s life was insured for about
£lO,OOO. One of the first letters Mrs. Garfield received,
after the death of her husband, was one from a New
York Assurance Company, containing a cheque for
£5OOO.
This was old man Cicero’s chat 2000 years ago :
“ I’d rather err with Plato than bo in the right with
others.” And this is Sir John’s to-day: “ I’d rather
share Garrett’s disgrace, than Parkes’s glory." John’s
just as good a man as ever Tally was.
Apropos of the late President, it is said that
Quitoau’s mistress was a niece of Laura Keene, who was
on the stage when Booth shot Lincoln, and thus that
well-known American actress has been more or less con-
nected with tho assassination of two Presidents.
Fronde, the historian, is likely to become a
Peer. He is the man who wrote to David Buchanan,
complimenting him on hia “ good sense and feeling.”
We all know that David is a first-rate fellow, but we
never heard mnch before about his “ good sense."
Marshal Moltke rode in front of the Imperial
cavalcade at the recent review of the German army.
Ho sat erect, silent, and thoughtful. Though a younger
man by several years than the Emperor, age and care
seem to have more deeply impressed themselves upon
his face and form.
London Truth hears that Lord Charles Scott,
who commands tho Bacchante, is engaged to be married
to an Australian lady, whom he only met daring the
visit of the Detached Squadron to those parts. Miss
Ryan, daughter of Mr. Ryan, of Ryan and. Hammond,
Melbourne, is the lady alluded to.
President Arthur is a tall, handsome man, with
tho massive shoulders which American ladies love to
look upon. Remarkably good shoulders, however,
always inspire tho suspicion of padding; and it is said
that critical belles sometimes probe them with a pin
during the maddening whirl of the valse.
What a soft-hearted fellow that Guitean was.
“ I did not shoot the President in church as I at first
intended," says he, “ because Mrs. Garfield was with
him, looking so thin, and clinging so tenderly to his
arm." The Czar should take the hint; keep his wife on
a low diet, and never appear in public without her.
The following, from an English paper, is written
of Garfield: —
His sun’s gone down! Sadly we watched it sinking.
With tear-dimmod eyes, across the western wave.
Now, east and west, one griet in sorrow linking.
We stand one people round a Saxon grave.
Oscar Wilde has a languishing face, long light
hair, and blonde complexion. Ho drosses in a long
coat, so tightly buttoned as to display a profusion of
wrinkles. He is a large man, has big feet aud hands, is
conspicuous in a crowd, and has a deeidedly animal
expression of face, which, however, is not so much
noticed when In conversation; and he occasionally
says some good things.
Juries do queer things in California, too. A
man named Kenn, who had carved hit wife to pieces,
was found guilty of murder in the second degree only.
Young Kalloch, who, like his father, is a Baptist
minister, slew Charles Ds Young, of tho S. F.
Chronicle, in cold blood, aud in a most cowardly
manner, yet-he was acquitted, and has since waved
his bloody hands in benediction from a pulpit.
Mr. M. Murphy, who will be remembered as
the Richmond (Vie.) bowler, who performed so sensa-
tionally against Grace’s team, has been suffering for
some time from the effects of a severe accident, which
had well-nigh proved fatal. Mr. Murphy was fearfully
gored by an infuriate cow, tho beast inflicting such
terrible injury that tho worst fears were at first enter-
tained. However, he is now progressing favourably,
although very slowly.
Mr. W. A. Guesdon, the popular owner of Dare-
bin, got n big reception when he returned to Hobart.
In the train that brought him back there was a certain
colonel of Volunteers, who thinking that the military
strain, “ See the conquering hero comes,” was intended
as a compliment to himself (he having completed a very
satisfactory inspection of the Launceston contingent),
gravely and graciously doffed his beaver, to the great
glee and amusement of the initiated.
Lady Wynyard, a leader of society, has died at
Auckland. She was the wife of the late Lieutenant-
General Wynyard, who will be remembered by some as
commander of the naval and military forces in New
Zealand about twenty-five years ago, and as Lieutenant-
Governor of the North Island from 1851 till 1853. He
was subsequently administrator of the whole colony
from January, 1854, till September, 1855. The name of
Wynyard will always be associated with early N.Z.
history.
David Buchanan was retained in a case wherein
one Adolphus Blank was called as a juror. “ Chollenge
him!” shrieked David, as soon as ho heard the name.
“ Why? What’s the matter with him ?’’ enquired the
solicitor from whom David took his instructions. “A
man wi’ a name like Adolphus,” replied the member
for Mudgee, “ must bo a acoondrel.” “ But," argued
the attorney, “ the poor devil’s not responsible for his
name—his father was accountable for that.” “Such a
contention only makes the matter worse," replied the
learned counsel, “it shows that the rascality is
hereditary."
A case of the most delicate complexity is soon
to occupy the French law courts, of sufficient interest
to gratify the extremest craving for sensation. Madame
de Son Antonio Is petitioning for a divorce from the
Comte de San Antonio, on the ground that he. is, or
rather, he is not,—at least, we mean—that is to say, she
says—ahem!—in short, that her husband is of the
wrong sex ! She may bo mistaken, but under the cir-
cumstances, she ought to know. There has evidently
been a blunder; whether the Conato made a mistake,
or Madame, or even some of their ancestors, we can’t
just now say.
Mr. Walter, of the Times, on hie arrival at
New York, was instantly interviewed. He said the-
circulation of the Times is between 59,000 and 60,000.
The reporter asked if it be true that the Times alwt.ys
tries to follow public opinion, never to lead it. “ The
Times,” Mr. Walter replied, “professes to give that
view of public affairs which has been gathered from the
most capable, the best informed, and most long-headed"
men in England, and sometimes it has views of its
own.” In the latter caa», it probably transfers its
confidence from “ the moat long-headed” to the most
long-eared men in England.
The tremendous sell given by a writer in the
Brisbane Courier who, a couple of years ago, wrote a
grave skit descriptive of a process of freezing live stock
for conveyance to England, to be thawed and revived at
the end of the voyage, has been brought afresh to
memory through the alleged invention by a Mr. Kelly,
of Rochester, N.T., for freezing salmon under the same
conditions. The Courier’s skit was written by Dick
Newton, brother of Mr. Newton, of Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, of this city. The London Times republished
the Brisbane article without comment, but the Dailt
Telegraph, and a lot of. English provincial journals,
commented rapturously upon the wonderful scientific
discovery.
Judge Cope, of Victoria, tells some funny
stories. Here is one, which, as wo think of our numer-
ous libel cases, makes tears rise to our eyes, while wo
try to smother a forty horse-power sob. A case, in-
volving important issues, was heard before his Honor.
On plaintiff’s side was the cream of the Bar, compris-
ing all the most gentlemanly and expensive of the
Q.C.’s, backed up by the smartest cross-examiner
from the criminal law contingent; on defendant’s, a
barrister, who could hardly bo called a
practitioner, in that he had never held a brief before.
Yet the poor defendant won. “Well, I am surprised ;
how ever did you manage it!” exclaimed a friend of the
victor. To him the latter : “My dear fellow, I hadn’t
much money to spend, so I spent it on—the jury.”
From the World: —“ The stalking in the Bal-
moral deer-forest is reserved for members of oar own
and other Royal families, Mr. John Brown, and, as a
rare attention, for a specially favoured Cabinet Minister
during his somewhat weary spell of attendance . . .
The construction has lately been finished of a residence
which the Queen has built for Mr. John Brown within
the grounds of Balmoral, but which that fortunate
subject has not yet occupied.” Now, if a Darling
Point widow gave her butler only halt such a soft
thing ns this, people would begin to say that there was
something in it. What a bad-minded people we are, to
be sure I J.B.'s income, by the way, is £350 per annum,
in addition to the £2O a year his decoration brings him,
which ho got for saving her Majesty from the unloaded
tint pistol of the desperate young bandit, Arthur
O’Connor.
Another addition to the royal family of Spain is
expected shortly; the officials are ail excitement, and
everyone is anxious for a male heir to the throne. But
these things are very difficult to manage; just a little
too much anxiety, and the whole thing is overdone at
once. Everyone knows how King Ferdinand, in the
Ingoldaby Tales, who hod been married six years, yot
didn’t “ sea nay signs of an Infant of Spain," called all
the grandees together to consult how he should obtain
an heir, because, as he said, " every monarch, yon
know, should have one of his own." Naturally, the
hidalgos, though they might have had their own ideas
on this delicate point, were rather diffident about
advising his Majesty, and the difficulty was only got
over by the astuteness of the Archbishop, who sug-
gested an aulo-da-fi, and while the King superintended
the burning of the Jews, he would hold a private inter-
view with the lady, her Majesty the Queen, and see
that she was pnt in a proper state of spiritual prepara-
tion. The plan succeeded admirably, and in a little
lees than a year a royal family ccmmenced its exist-
ence. There was one little hitch, though ; for, whether
it was that the King made some blunder in burning the
Jews, or whether the Archbishop and the Queen made
some mistake in their prayers, no one knows—but the
1 Royal Family, instead of an heir, consisted of two
remarkably fine Utile ladies. However, let us hope that
Alfonso, in the present case, will manage things better.
! “ The Vagabond,” who has just arrived by the
i 'Frisco mail boat under the improved style of Dr. Julian
i Thomas, appea'B to have contributed, before starting, a
, few notes on Australian affairs to the S. F. Newsletter.
He is pretty rough on Sir Henry Parkes and the Parlia-
f ment of N. S. Wales. Of Sir Henry he writes that “he
resembles the Second .Charles, in that no man relies on
. Ida word. Ho is a man of ability, but of no education
i nor moral principle. Born in a peasant’s cottage on the
| Stoneleigh estate in Warwick, he early imbibed a pro-
found hatred for “haristocraoy," as he calls it, which
! would have done credit to Denis Kearney. He was con-
| nected with the Chartist movement, but when that flz-
• z led out emigrated to Australia, where he became a leader
of tho working men, got into Parliament and wormed
himself into office. Ho has learnt to speak well, but
can never understand the proper use of the poor letter
H. A short time hack a wealthy Australian farmer
visited England. After paying a pilgrimage to Strat-
ford-on-Avon, ho stopped in Warwick some time, and
dined at the farmers’ “ordinary" on market days. On
one occasion, when conversing, with tho aid of loriy
Brosolys and gin and water, on short horns and top-
dressing,'an old yeoman said to him: “Mister, you
come from Australany? Did you ever hear tell of a
chap named Henry Parkes ? He was born in our parts."
The colonist acknowledged that he had heard of such a
man. Tho old farmer took a puff at his rape, and then
propounded the startling query, “When was ha
hanged ?” That is tho estimation in which Sir Henry
Parkas, K.C.M.G., is held by those who know him in hia
' yonth. But some cynics may say that a man of that
character is a fitting leader in a Parliament largely com-
posed of the decendants of old “ lags.” After this, all
that can be wanted is a little information with
respect to the writer of tho above, especially regard-
ing his own descent and antecedents and the estima-
tion in which he is held by those who knew him in his
youth. Wh ois this follow, who thus deliberately insults
tho Parliament and people of the colony, and sneers at the
honest, if humble, extraction of its loading man P A man
who can scoff at a lineage derived from honest English
artizans, must of course be sprung from an elevated
and unpolluted soutco. Let him speak out, whoever he
may he, and give the public a chance of comparing des-
scents and careers—his and Henry Parkes’; and let ns
know whence he derives his lofty license to defame the
Premier and Parliament of this colony ? It would be a
relief to have an assurance that the article which ap-
pears over the signature of “ The Vagabond” was not
written by that Julian Thomas who owes so much to
these colonies. If tho Ban Francisco News Letter
has forged the Vagabond’s name—and stylo—tho sooner
Julian Thomas announces the fraud the better.
Will wood burn P That’s an easy one Let’s
try again. Will wood bum allotments ? Give it up?
Well, then, will Wodoburn allotments be procurable at
all after Saturday next ? Go full Batt and ask Rodd.
At tho Oddfellows’ Hall, on Wednesday, IGth
instant,_ a return complimentary ball was given to Mr.
A. Q. Churchwood by the committee of the Master-
Butchers’ picnic. Dancing commenced at nine o’clock,
the music being supplied by Mr. Bailey’s band. At the
supper, served at twelve o’clock by ihe Compagnoni
Catering Co. in good style, Mr. John Walsh was chair,
man and Mr. A. M’Neill vice-chairman, and the
toast of “Our Gue t" was duly honoured. Several
vocal and instrumental selections were rendered by
ladies and gentlemen, and the dancing continued till
daylight. Two sisters from Surry Hills looked charm-
lug—one in pale blue sateen, trimmed with cream lace,
being adjudged “belle;” her sister wore a light pink
sateen, trimmed with white lace. Another ladv from
Surry Hills, wearing a black satin dress, trlmjned with
white lace, with a wreath of palepink flowers, was much
admired. A lady with a fawn-coloured silk, trimmed
with cream lace and dotted with small flowers, looked
pretty; as did also a lady from George-street, in a black
velvet dress, set off with gold fringe. A maiden in
cream sateen and lace, and pink silk, “took" well
A lady in bine silk and white lace looked very nice • and
a young widow was as dangerous as young widows
always are, in cream sateen and madras muslin under-
skirt. Everything was jolly, and they didn’t go home
till morning, 6


w.
HOWABD SMITH and SONS’
LINE OP STEAMERS,
Leave STBUTH'S WHARF, foot of King-atreet,
for MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY.
For BRISBANE,
iOT MARYBOROUGH,
and ROCKHAMPTON.
On TUESDAY and FRIDAY.
FARES and FREIGHTS at Greatly REDUCED
BATES.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
7 Spring-street.
Steam to London—orient line.
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
♦he ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
fIiIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
VION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
i”'-turned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
• Jjf T u the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
And the service will be maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the Journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a month; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas. Sues Canal dues
8e in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the lino i or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
267 George-street.
KIENT LINE OF STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con.
vcyance of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line of
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will bo received at this office, and receipts
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date of
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For further
particvdars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient Line In Australia.
267 George-street, Sydney.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER!
LATIN, FRENCH, AND WRITING
TAUGHT,
THROUGH CORRESPONDENCE,
by
DR. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S.L,
PRINCIPAL OP UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
TERMS, STRICTLY IN ADVANCE,
TWO '2) GUINEAS PER QUARTER
FOR BAGS SUBJECT.
JJR RODWAY also guarantees to prepare per
mail, and pass, every country candidate he sends np for
his Matriculation. Law, and Civil Service Examina-
tions.
"ees for either Matric., Law, or Civil Service, THREE
GUINEAS per Quarter, payable strictly
IN ADVANCE.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor
awarded at the conclusion of
each Term.
N.B.—DR. RODWAY’s system is easy and efficient,
and he guarantees proficiency and success to every
student he excepts.
ALL LESSONS CONDUCTED' THROUGH
THE POST.
ADDRESS.—
DR. RODWAY,' M.A., F.R.S.L.,
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
WOEMALD,
112 OXFORD STREET.
N
M
i
cENXHAU|»
-T;7snrc“* Wii
■i=r K~.~~T’i PLAI
I A A W K,
i
oa ?'- —A- .
§
“- ■ - _
a iL"S
fits
ALL
WMSSStissm
mm
13B^B9Ki
es
ilipllllsl
flu
Ik \
mi
s
m
:* ;
as
Q KW
sa=
s
ibi
,-C
I I
SflTftAL
«
a
f-sp-;
ALARMING SALE OP BOOTS] AND SHOES
NOW ONI NOW ONI
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you aro about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOB ONE MONTH ONLY,
In the Assigned Estate of G. A. Smith.
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOUNT OF £2OOO.
TN order to dispose of the above Stoek, we have made up the undermentioned parcels, which will be
found very cheap, and consist of the following, viz.t—
[heoisteeed.]
If the event of these goods not giving satisfaction, they can be exchanged or tho money returned within a month.
EVAN JONES, 9 & 11 HUNTER-ST.,
Having purchased the above Estate, all Letters should be addressed, and Post Office Orders made
payable to him. Sent post free to all parts of the colony. 83 KING STREET.
$0
##
Ak
DEPOT
FORWAUHAM
LEVERS,
i%"£
A. J . HUFTON
rm.
•ms
S 3
as
1
ip.
illcld r p
0000 Don
q_®
TT3W
m
Gfeyu
TO PERSON’S IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re-,
cover your debts or obtain the best solicitors' advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
WANTED, SUBSCRIBERS to the Std*
net Bulletin. V/. Eownet, Bookseller,
Nows Agent, and Stationer, Queensland, Brisbane.
XT A. ABBOTT.
BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STREET. SYDNEY,
(FIVE DOCKS FROM PITT STREET).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
W A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Having secured the services of Mr. JEFF. BUCK,
LAND, well-known in Victoria and Riverina as a Live
Stock Salesman, I besr leave to assure my friends and
all interested in the SALE of FAT or STORE STOCK,
and STATION PROPERTIES, that every attention
shall bo directed to this branch of the business; and
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite sure that the prac-
tical knowledge, attention, and straightforwardness
which have made my Wool and Produce Business such
a success, will entitle me to the confidence of all who
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and in the City twice
a j ’ a ll° wanees mads on all Stock or Stations in.
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales handed over twice
a week, or when required on days of sale.
Further information if applied for.
. JOHN BRIDGE,
MASON BROTHERS,
14 8s 1G Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
AWASCjfIg— X
AVINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.*
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and OO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A, MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
i
D
£ g
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-strest.
O,
felilpi
.iu; i
) if i
iMIMr
iflfM
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS. by
BEARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO,
BEEDEN and
TEOST
AUCHER,
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class 'Makers, ia elegant Rosewood.
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO„
And other Renowned Makers.
H A R MON I U M S,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PURE et FILS, and othaif
First-Class Makers.
W. H. PALING,
852 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREB
SYDNEY.
B
UEKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBEOKEES,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And OSANGE.
s
EEEIDAN & PULLPOBD,
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS,
94 PITT-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hksr? A. Shbbidan, formerly Manager] of the] Com-
mercial Bank, Maitland.
James Fulleokd, of West Maitland.


Public Compnxiea
JUIE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK. I
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO.OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Wolford,
Esq.; W. A. Lor.fr, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Ruudle,
Ft-q.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Fncnd, Esq.
Geseeal Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Eodftrn,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: IS King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Alhury, Armidale, Ball! no, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Buudarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deuiliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbm’n, Grafton, G»ai-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hiilston, luvcroll,
Kempsey, Lambtou, Maeleay, Mcuindic, Mtilwig,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Paxkes, Kaymond Terrace, Hockley, iiylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, iemora, Tcntcrfiel', Ul*vv. Ip,
Uraua, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburo, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, A Horn, Bowen, Charters Towers, Cloi moot,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswiob, Mackay, Maryborough,
Havens wood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpc, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian C denies and throughout
the World generally.
’HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEILAMENT, 187 S
Paid-up Capital ...,...£300,000
Reserve Fund.. ~..£116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.0., Chairman
Honry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm, Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip GicUov King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jus. Scroggio, Esq,
U, E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Georga-street Brickfield Hill, and Eedforn.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helena.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool anfi
other orodneo shipped to England for sale.
gCOTTISH
IMPERIAL
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ...
INSURANCE
... £1,000,000.
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEST RATES.
NIXON & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
L ION
FIRE INSURANCE
Limited.
COMPANY,
Chief Offices—s LOTHBURY, LONDON, E.C.
Subscribed Capital £1,000,000.
Paid-up Capital, £200,009. Reserved Fund, £50,000.
Annual Income £150,000.
FIRE INSURANCE on every description of property
in town and country, at LOWEST RATES. Losses
promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney,
New South Wales Branch :
QUEEN’S CHAMBERS, 20 BRIDGE ST
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
Department of Mines,
tydr.ey, 15th November, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Gold-mining T eases within thirty days from
this date, they will he declared void.
ARTHUR EENWICK.
Peel and Uealla Mining District.
No. 235; R. Oram; Portion No. gl 22; County of
Durham, parish of Mo on am ; 2a.; Application No. Scone
30-1,
Tambaboora and Tubon Mining District.
No 232; H. Jolferee and others; Portion No 1225;
County of Wellington, parish of Tambaroora; la. 3r.
22p.; Apjdication No. Hill Eud 1379.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, November 11th, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will bo declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
No. 1092 CEdward Cassidy and others ; Portion No.
98; County of Gough, parish of Scone; 20a.; Applica-
cation No. Vcg. Creek 436.
No. 1093; Edward Cassidy and others; Portion No.
93 ; County of Gough, parish of Scone; 20a.; Applica-
tion No. Vcg. Creek 438.
No 1121; Jacob Hunt and others; Portion No. 32;
County of Arrawatta, parish of Lockerby; 20a.; Appli-
cation No. Veg. Creek 402.
No. 1143; H, W. K. Hammond and another; Portion
No. 213; Counties of Clive and Gough, parish of
Romney ; 40 u ; Application No. Veg. Creek 395.
No. 1033; John Rossi; Portion No 7; County of
Clive, parish of Bates; 20a.; Application No. VCg.
Creek 451.
1 57; Robert Wa’mslcy ; Portion No. 51; Con;Py~
of Gough, parish of Strathbcgie; 20a.; Applicati n No.
Ve -. Cr :ek 367.
No. 1061; John Forsythe; Fortioa No 177; County
of Go >gb, parish of strathbcgie North; 20a.; Applica-
tion No. Veg. Creek 417.
No. 1125; Rolland GBson; Portion No. 63; County
of Gongb, parish of Wellington Vale; 20a.; Application
No. Veg. Creek 453.
No. 1156; J. W. Hall and others; Portion No. 115;
County of Gough, parish of Arvid; 20a.; Application
No. Veg. Creek 413.
No. 1157; J. W. Hall and others; Portion No. 116;
County of Gough, parish of Arvid; 20a.; Application
No. Veg. Creek 414.
Business Announcements
ILsflix.j
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slatteey,
SOLICITOR, has commonood the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evxxiso
News Ohicj.
LEGAL— N. W. COOKE, Solicitor. OFFICE :
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth Court. PRIV t-'J E
ADDRESS : 16 Sir John Young’s Crosent, Opposite
Domnin, Woolloomooloo.
G.
AND S. PEEDDEY
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ebskisi: Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timbet,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves
Morldlugs. Cases, Turnery, Ac., a* lowest mt«a
R.
K
L A R
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N,
BRANCH STORES—
-18 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghnrst Rood, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Mxrchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
Stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE. NEW
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
Come and inspect onr largo STOCK of Austrian
FURNITURE at lowest prices in the city.
U. LEVY & CO.
WE FURISH HOUSES on Time Payments,
from £lO to £lOOO, at the CENTRAL FUR-
NISHING ARCADE, Nos. 29, 31, and 33. Park
street.
H. LEVY & CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, NEW
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31. and 33, Park-street-
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call the attention of the
public to their laree and magnificent stock of nscfnl
Household FURNITURE, at prices that defy com.
petition. Every article marked in plain figures. Goods
carefully packed, and sent to all ports of the country.
H. LEVY A CO.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT of PIANOS by
the beet makers—Errnrd, Richter, Ac. Ac., ou
time payment. CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
IL LEVY A CO.
N
OTICE OF removal.
THOMAS WERE & SONS,
GLASS MANUFACTURERS,
and
IMPORTERS of EVERT CHINA
and EARTHENWARE,
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVED
to
2G9 GEORGE STREET,
Next but One to the Mercantile Bank,
A magnificent selection of Now Goods now opening.
JgASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s, TEA,
which will he found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
IP WALTER SATCHELL GIBUS, formerly
of Adelaide (who has relatives in Birmingham),
will apply to the undersigned, he will hear of sometlJfhg
to his advantage. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with BRAY and
SHERIDAN, Solicitors, 71 King William-street, Ade-
laide.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 11th November, 1331.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of theundermentien’ed
Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date,
they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Tambaroora and Tttron Mining District.
No. 216; Bernard O’Neill and another; Portion No.
gl 25; County of Roxburgh, parish of Broinbun; 2a.;
Application No. Hill End 1314.
TF you are asked To buy a MACHINE not made
by “ The finger Co.,*' xmt recommended to you as
being on the “ Singer system " or “ Singer Principle,”
take I'ukch's advice to those about to marry—Don't.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
AKE MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.B A.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 FOSTER LANE, LONDON.
Dep6t for New South Wales;
No. 1 DAB LING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
BTDKKT.
S
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
HAVE
Ail the Latest Improvements.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
for
Largest Variety of Work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Strength and Beauty of Stitch.
SINGER’S SEWING-MACHINES
for
Embroidery, Braiding, and Quilting.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and Prilling.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Kilting, Cordiug, and Ruffling.
s
I
N
G
E
R
Singer’s Sewing Machines against all competitors at
all the World’s Shows,
FIRST PLACE 160 TIMES!
CAUTION 1 CAUTION! I CAUTION! 11
See that our name and trade-mark is on the Machine,
without which none ore genuine.
. Ten per cent, discount for cash.
23. 6d. WEEKLY, 2s. Cd.
From all Agents, and from
THE COMPANY’S DEPOT,
No. I DARLING STORES.
HARBOUR STREET SYDNEY.
S IN
GER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
AEK THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS!
2s. 6J. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2a. 61. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE " SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 Qeorge-street.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
O
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE, a
INERT HEIM, /
HOWE. / q
Ac., Ac. / Ns
The
Light
STANDARD
O'
V
&
*r/
/ Running
V s *
Xj /
O / 2s. 6d.
cf * por t? - cok *
PSeodlss, Oils,
end pnrls for all
Machines. .
GINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 Georgo-strect, Hay market, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for theso coloornted
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per ccut discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
DTTO ” SILENT GAS ENGINE.
No BOILER,
full POWER
AT A MO-
M ENT’S NO-
TICE.
No Trouble
i with Coal,
I Ashes, Smoke,
flusurance.
Water, or
Att/ ndanca.
Cost of Go?,
lid per herse-
power per
.... j hour, with go«
P “
iGHT, and CO., Agents, OiPitt-stroet.
SW
'
*6SSS
. i- i-
Chemists and Druggists
CAUTION. —In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature —rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boschee's German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a largo doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introdveed into London
two years ago, where thousands of oases were cured
—and one year in Sydney ; and some of the worst oases
of Rheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will care.
Acnte Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
80 WATERLOO-EOAD, LONDON;
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
8. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor,
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STEEET, SYDNEY.
MANZ A-NITA FRUIT PILLS.
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints,
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
noss, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 80 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STEEET, SYDNET.
8. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AQ{ENTS.
PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to oostiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Bolt Proprietor and Manufacturer—
f. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And Successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach.
Most famous as the Only Tonic Aperient that never
fives cold, and
The most delicate of either sox, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be Orefnl not to got Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
43d GEORGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
HENRY’S COLONIAL OINTMENT, AND
AUSTRALIAN WORM POWDERS.
Prepared only by the Inventor and Proprietor, J
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750 George-street, Haymarket,
third door from Commercial Bank.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson's American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctns, you will net be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
miCKLB YOUR APPETITE with the Aua-
M trallan Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
CHARLES GIBTZ,
(from Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bakers' Ovens,
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sydney.
piANOS.
PIANOS.
AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
AMERICAN ORGANS. ’ MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
bog to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises,
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE,
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms os
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board. Aucher, Ac.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STEEET, SYDNEY,
JJAY OR NIGHT PORTRAITURE.
The elegant Studio of
THE ELECTRIC PORTRAIT COMPANY,
205 OXFORD STREET,
(Opposite to the Court House, Darlinghurst),
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the Morning till 10 in the
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.;
Architectural, Mechanical, and Landscape Photographs
in the highest style of art to order.
The Autotype process also practised in all its beauti-
ful varieties.


\ FBURN DOWNS ESI
G
REAT CLEARANCE S
RESERVE.
s
ATURDAY, 17th DECEi
GROUN1
ALLOTMENT M
rillTLE,
TORRENS’. TI
AS BFFOI
JgATT, RODD, AND PUR
C
ASH PRICE LIST OP WI
SPIRITS.
Claret
Dal wood
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz
Seisling
Dal wood
Hock
Madeira
Bouflier’s Piuoau..
Brown Muscat ...
COLONIAL WI
RED.
per doz.
.. 9s Od
.. 10a Od
.. 10s Od
.. lls Od
., 12s 6d
.. 13s Od
WHITE.
.. 9s 01
.. 10s Od
.. 10s Od
lls Od
153 Od
13s Od
J. T.
Adola
(ric
AdoS
59s Od
71s Od
45s Gd
45s Od
463 Od
42s Od
383 6d
8s Od
lls Od
8s Oa
10s Od
6s Gd
9s 9J
Linde
cat,
Tokai
roui
flav
Linde
vini
FOREIGN WIN
Good Port ... 21s to 36s Od [ Good
SPIRITS.
Hermessy'g • Case
Brandy
Hennessy's
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Burke's ••• Case
Whisky
Other Brands Irish
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od
ALES AND STO
per doz
Bulldog Ale, qts..., lls Od
Bulldog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, (its...
Poster's Ale, pints.
Aitkeu's Ale, qts...
Dryborongh’s Ale,
pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts ... ...
«P Country Orders for Ales am.
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of
6d. per dozen extra will bo charged
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottl
sent on receipt of 15-i. by Post Otlie
All Goods delivered carriage fro
town or to the Wharves or Redfe
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on givii
T. VIViTn~EAU(
WINE & SPIRIT MEE
65 Pitt-street, Syd
fJHE PAINLESS COR1
A Sore Relief, and in multitudes
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Ch
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Ellic
ney and Brisbane j and sold by t
vendors.
ASK FOE HANDB1
Rum,
Rum,
Jan
Rum,
Jatr
Brand
Cas'
Gin,
15 I
size
Gin, ;
15 I
size
Wolfe
Boar’i
pint
Fosto;
Pig ”l
quai
Pig I
pint
OVERS OP GOOD
We beg to drt. ? y
PARTICULAR ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEi
Packod|in pounds and half
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA.
PURE CEYLON TEA.
PORE JAVA TEA,
2s. and S
2s. 6d. ai
2s. 6d. ai
2s. 6d. ai
Special Quotations given to Wh
ON THE BLOCK.
‘ That will do Parker ” Imagine these words
addressed by a personage of distinguished mien to hia
coachman, and figure to yourself a splendid baroucho
drawn by a pair of five hundred guinea steppers pull up
a few yards north of the Post otiles; and you will hold
in yonr mind’s eye the arrival of ourselves when we
went in search of material for the airy sketch you are
about to chuckle over. It was a sunshiny, breezy
afternoon—one of those days when ozone and dust are
both equally plentiful, and the thoughtful student of
the boots and shoos worn by ladies in the present de-
cade is afforded an admirable opportunity for pursuing
hia researches. As we drew up in our luxurious cquip-
age, we at once perceived that the Block was crowded.
The hour was four o’clock—a part of the day that is
much in favoar with the fruit purveyor and the ice-
cream man—and borne upon the southerly hise, high
above the roar of the trafic and the buzz of the pedes-
trians, was the nasal yell of the demoniac nows-boy as
ho announced for sale the Evunooze and The Bullaet’n.
With a grace which a long experionca of the manners and'
customs of the great has made peculiarly our own, and
which we oonld see with calm satisfaction was the
admiration of passing spectators, we descended from
our carriage, and having flicked off with a monogram,
embroidered silk bandanna a few specks of dirt which
had accumulated upon our armorial bearings (genuine,
because braud now out from the Herald's college last
mail) we bade our stipendiary slave, in hanghty tones,
to there await our pleasure, and proceeded at once to
take the Blookists “ out of winding.”
• • «
Considering the size of Sydney, we should say
that its popular promenade, extending as it does only
from Punch's corner, to the chemist’s at the intersec-
tion of George and Hunter-streets, is about the worst
in the world. The side-walks are narrow, the architec-
ture of the buildings is by no means remarkable for splen-
dour, and the shops, with a few notable exceptions, are
small in size and primitive in aspect. Tel there is plenty
of life in every part of the promenade, and the narrow
limits to which the flaneurs of both sexes are confined
is advantageous in enhancing the facilities for critical
view of persons and costumes. Punch’s corner, being
historical, is always interesting. James—genial, gener-
ous, old Jim—has soared above it, it is true, but it
must be some satisfaction to him, in his intervals of
hymn-chanting and trump-blowing, to look down and
see that the glories of the spot which his name made
famous are by no means departed. Le roi esl mart, vive
le roi; one Punch down and another one up. Thus the
hostelrie at the corner is still a popular monument, and
inside and ontside the 11 talent ” daily congregate—the
assemblage having decreased with time neither in num-
ber nor variety.
• * •
Aa we pass, a number of men are either leaning
against the side of the hotel or lounging on the kerb-
stone. Some of them are what the French would call
d'une mine n egligie, their inexpressibles being but in-
differently braced, and the seams of their coats showing
signs of that dramatic decadence to whieh all earthly
things are subject. Others, on the contrary, are smart
in their attire; mounting astonishing “bangers” of
sporting cut, and terrible trousers, the colours and
patterns of which are suggestive of thunderstorms and
conflagrations. Horse-shoe pins appear to be de rigum*
with these gentry, and very large watch-ohains ex-
tremely popular. Well-dressed or ill-dressed, there is
a family likeness between all the Punch’s comer fre-
quenters. They have all the same jaunty way of wear-
ing their hats, and the one peculiar maimer of expec-
torating. And there is not one wall-polisher there who
would not fight you ‘for a fiver, give you the quoted
odds against the favourite, pull you far your jewellery,
or play you crib or billiards for anything you like to
put a name to. At times this battalion of the "fancy”
is swollen by a choice collection of dramatic flowers
culled from the lower orders of the profession. These
ohoioe exotics are noticeable in many ways, but chiefly
so from their eccentric costumes and demeanour.
That gentleman, now, who is standing near the door,
chewing the stamp of a cheap cigar, while the
ambe’r-drops of his last long beer yet glisten
upon his ragged moustache, is clad in the
surtoat of the stage process-server, the pants
of General Damns (act ii.), and the boots and hat
of the “ Crushed Tragedian ” in the opening scone.
The one glove which ho holds in his left hand is that
with which Tigg Montague does so much business In
“Martin Chuzzlewit,” and the property watch he
carries in his vest pocket is the one by which the heavy
nnole times his niece’s elopement in “ Wrecked and
Rained.”
The King-street portion of the Block is, by
reason of its being almost entirely monopolised by
aheap drapers, dear to the hearts of female flatterers.
They assemble here daily in great force, and remain
long hoars in blissful contemplation of rustic hats
that "have just been opened,” and multi-coloured
dyess pieces, that have been " expressly selected by our
lion Ion buyer." ’lha shop-haunting Blookist is a dia-
tinct specimen in itself. There are usually two of them
together, and they are chiefly noticeable for the tight-
ness of their pullbacks, and the bulbous condition of
their boots. Bat though drapers’ windows have for
them a terrible fascination, they seldom or ever;, seem
to buy anything. Their costumes, however, though
worn and faded as to material; are usually fashioned in
the extrema of the prevailing mode, which fact leads
one to the conclusion that they taka their ideas from
the goods in the windows, and accomplish the rost at
home with the aid of "mother” and the time-payment
“ Home Shuttle." Usually to be found in the imme-
diate vicinity of these young ladies, is another fre-
quenter, whom, however, we will also celebrate in
anapaests :
It is, however, George-street that is the prome-
nade proper. Standing on the Post Office steps, the
view is quite kaleidoscopic. Let us take now these two
sisters that have just stopped to speak to a young
gentleman in a new-chum hat and pointed boots—an
exquisite bearing a strong resemblance to a gifted youth
who, not many months ago, startled society by
appearing at the Blank Theatre as—well, anything you
like—for one night only, his strikingly original inter-
pretation of the port being the constant topic of con-
versation in gilded circles fox many months after. The
young ladies with whom he is conversing are both above
the_ middle height, and have figures the symmetry of
which is somewhat marred for the critical eye by an
embonpoint prononcS. Their costumes are a delicate
combination of black and yellow silk, with enough cords
draped about the skirts to hang the whole of the Kelly
gang. One of the principal charms of these ladies lies
in their feet. They are admirably chaussies ini little
French shoes, so contrived as to exhibit a large amount
of embroidered stocking and a bewildering extent of
bow and buckle. Both brunettes, their feat ires, though
not classically regular, are, collectively, handsome; and
if it may be considered an advantage for them to bo
aware of that fact, let us lose no time in crediting them
with it. Behold, now, this tall, foreign-looking gentle-
man, who salutes them in passing.
Just a few steps further on, we drop upon
another type. This is a short, stout girl, who is stand*
ing in front of a jeweller's shop, ostensibly looking at
the dazzling wares exposed in the window, but in reality
waiting for the advent of her errant swain. You can see
this by the furtive glances she casts d droite et d gauche,
and by the interest with which she studies the infallible
clock over the watchmaker’s doorway. She has waited
a quarter of an hour already, and will wait half an hour
more, at the expiration of which she will go home dis-
appointed to her mother, and pour into the ear of that
credulous parent an account of the pleasant afternoon
she has spent with auntie. Next day she will bo on
hand again at the same place, and her trouble will be
rewarded by precisely similar results. Poor girl 1
Tha creme de la creme of Sydney society (we are
alluding to the female portion) do not, as a rule, walk
on the Block at all. They confine themselves to their
carriages, and do their promenading in their own
demesnes. When mingling with the world on shopping
expeditions, the demeanour of these ladies is beauti-
fully calm, and admirably subdued. This tranquillity
of bearing is not natural, but acquired; and none know
this bettor than the cook, when the dinner is a little
bit late, or the master of the house, when he has been
detained at the office all night, on important business,
the nature of which “ would take too long to explain.”
Let us tick off the carriages as they drive past. The
old lady in that sad-coloured heavy vehicle, is the wife
of a very important personage indeed, and is a groat
authority on servants. She has sampled the greater
part of the domestics now in the colony, with various
results, aad is now anxiously looking out for the next
ship-load. The handsome barouche that comes next,
contains an ancient gentleman, whose features arc of
Oriental cast. With him are two remarkably pretty
girls, both also of the chosen rase. Ah! they all get
out at a we’l known establishment, and enter, the ladies
being probably on pink silk stockings intent. The next
vehicle contains a tall woman, with high cheek-bones,
and a month the lines of which expresses much deter-
mination. She is alone in her glory, and while she
waits for the return of her footman, who has gone in
quest of a piece of music, we will sketch the lady in a
pretty measure—
Ah, whom have we here, leading a little golden-
haired child by the hand, and who is clad in violet
velvet, with hat, gloves, and stockings to match. Greatly
like a certain Dutchman’s daughter, surely. Ws
cannot bo positive, though, until we hear her laugh.
The little girl speaks to her, and she does laugh. Doubt
vanished; it is she 1 Off comes our Lincoln and Ben-
nett in homage to true art. She doesn’t perceive
us. A graceful salute thus thrown away. But, no
matter. Though she was unconscious, our grace will
be acknowledged by future ages. Here now, in com-
pany with another young lady, who bears unto her a
strong family likeness, is a girl who for many reasons is
qnite a study. Her face is no less remarkable for its
singular transpareney of tint than for the almost
perfect Grecian typo of the features. She is attired in
a pea-green skirt, and a velvet jacket most elaborately
embroidered. Her tournure, hat, dress, boots—every-
thing is perfect Without enlarging upon the social
status of this little lady, we remark that she is sosthatic
in her tastes, and will, unless we are much mistaken,
acquire before long much fame ia connection with a
craze which, in this colony at all areata, ia at present
but little understood.
Juat as wo wero about to re-enter our gorgeous
chariot, it came on to drizzle, and we bade our hireling
to restrain the ardour of the foam-fleckod Arabs, in
order that we might watch the effect of the shower on
the Blockists. It was Worth waiting for. Young ladies,
who had been playing at waiting for their carriages,
picked up their skirts and took the threepenny 'bus
with great expedition ; languid Civil servants became
immediately fall of life and activity, tacking up the
bottoms of their pants and rushing frantically away to
catch the tram, regardless of appearances. The tenors
and instrumentalists took refuge in the music shops,
and contemplate! rain-hunted humanity from the door-
way. In a few moments, all but the ordinary basy
boos had vanished. So there being no more to see, we
gave the signal, and were whirled away to our own
palatial abode, where the tripe was cheerfully bubbling
in the sauce-pan and the toasted cheese was browning
m the Duch-oven.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A man’s arm is rib-band for a woman.
The boss whim of the world —“ Worn ”-en.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts-Aahmead-Bartlett
is a capital dancer, and more than an average actress,
and has a voice equal to that of any other lady of the
age.
“You won’t show my letters to anyone,” she
whispered as they parted at the station. “No," h«
answered. Adding reassuringly, “I'm just as much
ashamed of them as you are,"
Henry Ward Beecher’s latest deliverance is that
11 three-fourths of the inhabitants of Heaven are women."
If this is so, and Beecher gets to Heaven, what a scream-
ing scandal they will have there before long.
.Report says that economy is so completely the
order of the day in Russia that the Czarina now has her
dresses repaired, and made to last ns long as they con-
yeniently can, in tend of ordering a constant relay of
now outs.
At Warwick, England, a diverting breach of
promise case. Lamb v. Fryer, was tried in August last.
The gentle Lnmb (a lamb of 30) sued the holy Fryer
(a curate of 28). Over nine hundred letters had passed
between the parties, and the defendant had actually
written a poem of eleven stanzas on a pair of socks—
latnbswool, no doubt—which the plaintiff had made for
him. Verdict for plaintiff, £lOOO.
A reverend bridegroom, a giddy old man of
seventy-two, was abducted the morning of his wedding
by some persons who wished for a burlesque. Here's
how the event is passed down to history :
“ Some conspiring persons wore highly afraid
That the Eev. Kennard would marry Miss Bade,
So the bridegroom was forcibly taken and hidden.
And a wedding that should have boen/oi - Bade forbidden ."
A line about the ex-Queen of Spain ! She ap-
peared at a charity-ball, given recently at a French
watering place, in a blue dress with pink hollyhocks in
her hair. The following morning she bathed, though
the breakers were very high. She had two bathing-mon
and a bathing-woman to take care of her in the surf;
but his majesty the ocean had no respect' for her
majesty the queen, and sent her and her three attend-
ants sprawling on the beach.
We take the following from ft rec ent number
a London society paper:—"A friend of mine who has
returned from accompanying his wife to a French
watering place has revealol to me secrets which are
calculated to destroy tho illusions appertaining to the
nymj hs that disport in French wares. He went with
his wife to buy a bathing-dress in Paris. There he dis-
covered that beneath the tight-fitting jersey, which is
now tho fashionable dress for the water, stays are worn,
and many other appliances to aid iu fashioning a beauteous
figure."
“ An historical student ” is good enough to send
us some verses on the Lot of the young ladies he has
observed on tho block. He commences:—
“ Lift them up tenderly.
Handle with care.
Fashioned so slenderly,”
lines which somehow appear to be familiar to us, and
then he goes on to remark;—
“And, O, it is pitiful to see a whole city full of
Big-footed girls;
Look at tho maiden’s shoes,
Look at tho shoe laces;
Laces like clothes lines.
Pass through the holes."
And a good deal more to the same purpose. We don't
quite know what it is all about, but we print this much
just to encourage him. He may bring some more verse
round himself. Then will the world breathe freely
once more.
“ A vulgar prejudice,” says “ Rambler,” in the
Parisian, “ considers feminine perfection to consist in
the smallness of certain parts of the body. Nothing
could be more absurd. The beauty of a woman consists
in the harmony of all parts of her body, and in the per-
fect equilibrium of their proportions. Her hands and
feet must harmonize regularly and mathematically with
her arms and legs. A big woman must have big hands
and big feet. The beauty of each member lies not in its
dimensions, but in its special form. A young and
pretty woman ought at all times to take care of her feet
even more scrupulously than of her hands. The once
celebrated Giulia Barucci used to say: *lt is shameful
and more disgraceful for a pretty woman to have a corn
or a bunion on her foot than to deceive her dearest
friend without cause.’ A woman’s boot or shoe ought
to be soft, yielding and easy. It ought to fit the foot
like a glove. A woman who desires to be well shod
must, in the first place, have a well-made foot; and in
the second place, she must not listen to the ridiculous
observations of her boot-maker. Ladies’ boot-makers
are nearly all profoundly ignorant. They are without
ideas, without taste, and generally unlettered. They
rarely rise to the level of their trade, and they deform
and mjnre the feet of their most charming customers.
The only material admissible for walking boots and
shoes is kid. Full dress shoes may be of satin or
taffety, of the same colour as the dress. Velvet, cloth,
prunella, and other stuff shoes make the feet appear
broader and larger than they are, and must therefore
be carefully avoided—no woman having a right to dimin-
ish the charms which nature bos given her. High-
heeled slippers cannot be made too coquettish or too
elegant; all kinds of stuff, embroidery, and lace may be
employed in their composition. They may be worn a
little large, so as to permit the wearer to amnse herself
by slipping them on and off, and juggling with them.
There are two kinds of stockings worthy of well-turned
legs, namely: silk and Scotch thread. Garters should
be invariably put above the knee, and not below; a
woman who put her garters below tho knee is not
worthy to live. Garters should be as elegant as if every-
body could see them. As regards these delicate ques-
tions, while asking pardon if my remarks are considered
indiscreet, I will quote the reply of a marquise of the
old rdgime to one of her friends, who expressed astonish-
ment when she heard her order a pair of diamond garter,
buckles. ‘What is the good of spending money on
things that are never seen ?’ asked the friend. * Qui
eait J' replied the marquise, on pourrait rencontrer ttn
insolent.’ "
He’s an actor of a ttyle
That is very versatile.
He can play a Spanish Don,
He can take a banner on;
And yon bet that he’s the lad,
Teo, at writing out an “ad."
He can just inform yon some
Where the largo caps ought to como.
Though a little bit in-kneed,
He is good for juv’nile lead;
And, with paper in the “ flies,”
All the gods he can surprise,
When he causes it to snow.
Oh, most terribly, below.
When he acts you must admire,
Or aroused is quick his ire;
Though ho doesn’t, he will bray,
•' Care n and n what papers say."
Yet rebuke this noble soul.
And his yellow eye will roll,
In a frenzy fine that we
Deem most terrible to 3ee !
He's on actor of a kind,
That to bis defects is blind;
And the critic e’er will be
His most deadly eueiny !
So that he can weekly earn,
A few pounds, ho will not learn.
But will rant along until
Comes death, and that voice is still.
There’s the horrid little snob
Who the Block does by the hour.
And who with his thirty bob
Bays each morn a three-p’nny flow’r.
Ton can mark him from afar;
With his horrid rank cigar;
His umbrella always shut.
For he cannot get it up;
His cheap punts, of cut so odd.
And his shoes all iron shod.
See him insolently peer.
With an idiotic leer—
Like a monkey in a glass—
At the ladies as they pass.
And at times, this seedy spark
Will let full a lewd remark,
*1 hat’s intended for the ear .
Of a lady passing near.
Mark the cloudy, pallid face—
True type of the snobbish race;
Mark his beard, of hairs a score.
And his hat “ wrong side before,”
There it’s coated, if you please.
Just a little leas with grease.
If you choose, the snob, you may
Feast yonr eyes on any day.
About half-past four o’clock.
Ho is always on the Block.
Dark is his face, and swarthy (that
Expression, sirs, not harsh is):
Dong’, well-oiled, raven locks—a pair
Of bandolined moustaches.
A little cane, small shiny shoes,
A fine embroidered foglo;
An eye-glass through which he can give
The true Parisian ogle.
A lot of charm lag teeth; in sooth,
A quite first-class 11 assortment; ”
A Turveydroppiah attitude—
Perfection of deportment I
Straw-coloured kids, that fit those hands
Artistically, oh, so 1
And there you have the portrait of
The gay Block virtuoso.
She is waiting—draining ever
To the dregs the bitter cup j
Her Lothario Beams never
To be willing to 1* turn up.’*
It’s the same eternal story,
All the poets at us hurt
Faded for him is love’s glorjr.
For he’s got another girl.
On the cushions she is leaning, with a pride that’s over-
weening.
And her common physiognomy does bear.
As her splendid prancing cattle their gold-plated
harness rattle,
An acquired hind of supercilious stare.
Yet the date not few can quote, sirs, when riflrered in a
petticoat, sirs,
She was cooking on the diggings, understand.
Now her tradesmen mast approach sirs, that throe-hun-
dred guinea coach sirs.
With a humble look, and always hat in hand.
Her attire in texture such is, that the rent-roll of a
duchess
Could not purchase garments richer than she’s-got;
Yet the dark thought haunts her ever, that despite her
riches, never
Can she hope to be what Fate has made her not.
In her pride (and 'tis but dawning) all her old friends
she is scorning—
Yet the people she would worship, her disown;
So she lives in princely splendour, yet most surely will
she end her
Poor existence, hated, friendless, and alone.
This ’witching maid peripatetic,
An once you see’s a true {esthetic 5
A sort of lovely little thing.
That "drooping” would 11 despair" and " oling."
A creature of a higher “ sense,"
Who's quite "ideal" and most "intensej"
One of theso dainty birds that flutter,
la spheres "ethereal” and "utter."
A thing of “soul," one whom you’d guess.
To be a fairy shepherdess.
So lightsome she—of wind a puff
To waft her up would be enough;
And yet—though " soulful-eyed,” withal—
She’ll make a pound of steak look small.
Hot her eye on a.cake-shop range,
And then good-bye to all your change 1
Ice-cream propose, thou with a stern
Heart you will hate all those that “ yearn."
It’s wondrous what the true {esthete.
However "limp," can always eat!


rp h
EAT E E
Lessee
Treasurer..,.., ............
E O T A L.
Mi, S. L&zar,
■ Ml, Q, L. Goodman,
THIS EVENING
PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
SATURDAY EVENING, November 26.
Gilbert and Sullivan's New Esthetic Opera
PATIENCE.
Admission—ss, Bs, 2s, Is. Doors open at 7.15, com-
mence at 8.
QPEEA HOUSE-
Lessee and Manager Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Stage Manager ... Mr. E. B. Boothm&n.
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 26.
First appearance in Sydney of the Charming English
Actress
| MISS MABSTON LEIGH. |
First appearance in Sydney, for seven years, of the
popular favourite
| ME. JAMES CARDEN. |
Supported by a First-class Company of Artists.
The opening piece selected is Tom Taylor's powerful
Drama
THE FOOL’S REVENGE.
Admission—Dress Circle, 55.; Orchestra Chairs, 35.;
Stalls, 2s: PIT, ONE SHILLING. Box plan at
Hnenerbein’s Music Store, George-street, next Lasset-
ter’s. Tickets for all parts of the bouse at Johnston's,
tobacconist, next Stalls entrance.
Y 1
C T €> E I A HALL.
CABTLEREAGH STREET,
opposite St. JAMES'S SCHOOL
(near King-street),
POE A SHORT SEASON ONLY,
Commencing—
MOVNAY, NOVEMBER 28.
BEN ALLAH.
PREMIER VENTRILOQUIST of the WORLD.
GRAND CARNIVAL OF CECESUS
Upon the
OPENING NIGHT
Every one entering the Hall will be given
AN ELEGANT AND COSTLY PRESENT,
bought during the recent panic,
at an IMMENSE SACRIFICE,
the Management'![having' expended Thensanda of
Dollars for this very purpose, and when they
are gone cannot be replaced
for THREE TIMES the MONET.
Bear In mind, NO BLANKS.
First Night, an Elegant and Costly Present
to everyone attending.
Dress Circle, Bs. t with Card; Stalls, 25., with Card .
Back Seats, Is., with Card.
N.B.—Upon these Cards are written plainly the very
article yon are to receive.
ASONIG HALL
COMMENCING
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26,
GRIFFITHS, AND BRAZIL’S,
PANORAMA AND DIORAMA,
THE WORLD!! I
A Panorama and Diorama unequalled in the Australian
Colonies.
A MARVEL OF MECHANISM.
200,000 beoFle IN 12 months,
tßepireßontlng'£2l,doo)
HAVE WITNESSED THIS TRIUMPH
OF tHfi
SCENIC AND MECHANICAL ARTS.
Look in the window of Mr. A. Huenerboin's Music
Warehouse, 411 Qeorgc-street, and read our
Posters, and you will see
THE GREATEST GIFT DISTRIBUTION
STBS KNOWN SINCE
THE WORLD WAS CREATED.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Children half-price.
MINTON N. GRIFFITHS*
Manager.
VICTORIA HALL.
CASTLEEEAGH-STREET,
(Near King-street, close to Tramway and Omnibus.)
TO LET NIGHTLY, ON TERM, or LONG LEASE,
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS.
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for 800
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES,
WINGS, Ac., and is in all respects equal to the Hall ©t
the School of Arts, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
Je
P. SCHOLEE, . .
107 Castlereagh-street.
Theatre royal, geafton
OPEN FOE ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe,
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATBB.
Proprietor.
jp E O S P E C T JJ S|
or THE
PATENT ASPHALTUM COMPANY 6P fofeW
SOUTH WALES (Limited),
to be registered under the Limited Liability Com-
panies' Act of 1874, with liability limited to the
amount of the shares. Power will he reserved in
the Memorandum and Articles of Association to
increase the Capital to meet increase of business.
Capital :
£30,000 IN 30,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.,
Calls.—2s. 6d. on application, 2s. 6d. cshaXlbftuant,
Cd. in three months, 2s. 6d. in six mcstths, and the
remainder at discretion of the Directors. The whole
to be called up within 12 months flst December,
3831. The Provisional Directors others have ap-
plied for, and will bo allotted ia full, their shares,
amounting to nearly one-half oA tho proposed Capital-
All other applicants will bo allotted shares prorata-,
’the sharo list' will be dCjicd .as soon as the list IJt
complete.
Pr,,Oi£3IQKAL, Bieectors :
Russell Barton, Esq., M.P., Robert Hudson,
(Messrs. Hudson 3res.).
Thcmasßowe, Esq., Architect. W. P. Faithful Ssq>,
Barrister -afe-law.
Or. Harman Tarrant, M.P. T. H. Keigwin, Esq.
ISainual Gray, Esq. E. C. Ba-tb, Esq.
(Messrs. Batt, Eodd, asdi Parses )
General Manager:
W. B. M'CLURE,
BROKERS
Messrs. T. J. Thomson, and' Son, Plfet-strca*.
Mr. C. J. Backhand, Exchange.
This Company is farming for tho production of the
various articles of manufacture, in which Asphaltum
forms such a prominent ingredient, in England, America,
and othoy countries at the present time. A bare enu-
meration of these would occupy more space than can
bs compressed within the limits of a Prospectus. Its.-
use is now applied to .very many of the requirements of
civilized life, and its adaptability and popularity are
constantly increasing.
In the manufacture of Paving Elects for street traffic-
in many important cities tho consumption is large, witls
increasing demand. The proper laying down of those
Blocks would form part of the Company’s operation,
with even larger profits being derived therefrom
than are gained from their manufacture. The
Asphaltum preparations of the Company are- the hes' j
material known for Tiling, are without odour, absolute' iy
impervious to damp, and being prpof against aheatta' j)j a
of rats or vermin, as also spark-proof, are thus profe n-gq
and largely used for lining powder magazines, ’ on rial
vaults, granaries, cellars, paying stoaea, base ments,
conservatories, public bjifldiaga, stables, carti' ig e and
other out-houses. In the sheet form, it is mie.d exten.
sivoly for garden paths, tenifis and recreation grounds,
drill grounds, school, play grounds. The, Tiles can bo
made in diversity of sine or pattern, and are being pre-
ferred to other competitors.
Bqing specially adapted for conserving the purity o
wafer, it is invaluable in such a country as Australia
as a durable lining for tanks, conduits, and reservoirs •
vfhilo its damp-resisting qualities secure it preference in
foundations of buildings, lining sewers and tunnels, and
tor many other similar uses.
The refining of pure Asphaltum by the different
methods, to suit special purposes, has also proved t
bo a lucrative branch of manufacture; this may be seeft.
at a glance, by reference to only a few of these speci-
alities For instance, coating for iron pipes, gird jw,
bridges, or other iron structures—this coating, is-a.-
durables and effective preventative of corrosion ;
blocks are made for foundations of buildings, se^.walls,
and harbour or river works; a superior
for bricks or porous stone, rendering them water and
air-proof, thus fitting such materials for üba in sewers
and cesspools, also coating sleepers and wharf piles;
Asphaltum Cloth is also made for bunders’ use, to
make walls damp-proof, and for roofing & a substitute
for galvanized iron, Iseing cooler, cheaper, and as
durable; Resides also the refining cf warranted brands-
for sale and use in interior towns,'and in many other
wavs.
No less than twenty-two companies have been formed
in the United States of America, and are now being
successfully worked, and earning good profits in t> 6
above business. Works of a similar nature are ru©
about to be established in London. Two sots of
plete works have tieen ordered by the Spanish Q<
Jnont, tho endurance of Asphalte work in
Moorish buildings leading that Government +
Rise in this industry the revival of a hitherto ’ -rt "
“ft*** 1 ”. i !,i 6 L a s^ ta ’ Mis bed and
pushed, and has the support of French e
Agineers and
the certainty of success, printed an'.
evidence is in possession of the Bro‘ f to
pauy, which affords indisputable prr [ f pr ofl t able ,
business whicn must accrue to tba comply whan
formed; and. on application. a ll inspection will be
ofr the reliability of’
every representation new au T J
yJrtWnas toe Into-° pwly ° f London md New
Tre of tb thesc national Pavement Company,.
*s®, - Vinous processes of manufac-
ture, and are the same for the purposes
B J likenature p p°
T:. *nro is their sole representative and
ail 8 ** alia > and it is proposed to purchase
from him all ma rights of title and interest in this
Colony, ana B<3curo his services as manager and-
organiser the affairs of the Company. He will ac-
cept the Aum of £l5OO in cash and £2500 in full paid up
Piiares r jf the Company, for all his Patent rights in the
Colony of New South Wales. An equitably Royalty tO i
the International Pavement Company exists on those
rights, only applicable however to the Block and Tiling
'manufacture. And for a salary agreed upon, Mr
M’Ciure undertakes to manage the business of t’je
Company until the Company is competent to manr -go
its business without his supervision.
There can be no competition, as-the manufactur e is
protected by several Letters Patent.
The Patentrights and powers of attorney have been
examined and found correct and ample by a le adintr
Solicitor. 6
The International Pavement Company has agr jed to
furnish all reqnisite machinery at prime cost.
After long search a property suitable for the w orks of
the Company has been found, which can be bought or
rented as desired on reasonable terms, and a j which
property nine-tenths of the materials required for the
manufacture are obtainable.
The balance of Calls, after paying broke- /age and
incidental formation expenses, will be app’ Bed to the
purposes of the Company such as purchase of i naehinery
ejection of works and plant, procurement o « material*
aad payment of wages till works are re- productive*
which it is estimated will be in eight mont from the
formation of the Company.
Large offers of work have already be made but
cannot be accepted until the Company is formed *
The probable profits on the proper Capital are
estimated per cent, whilst men Ase( j Capital as
the business enlarges—will show ev- a higher per-
■ centage of profit. B
It is sufficisnt to say that gentler aen ot intelligence
have satisfied themselves with reg- to the evidence
submitted to them ; and any perse n who is desirous of
fuller and more[ particular infer nation on any point
connected with the present Com- is referred to the
Brokers, or to Mr. W. B. M’Clu aEt
APPLIC/ ,TION.
To Messrs. T. J. Thompson r L SoNj and Mr _ c j Buck .
, T, . rar-rv-T, . S?? TGr3 for tho
‘•PATENT ASPHALTU M COMPANY OP NEW
SOUTH WA XES (Limited)’*
QeSiTLEMENj
I hereby request to- you wiU allot me shares
in the above Company and now enclose 2s. 6J, per
share as deposit, and / hereby undertake to accept the
•above shares or any p ortion thereof that may be allotted
to me, and to sign t; ,e Deed of Settlement when called
upon to do so.
Dated this day of 1881.
Nar Je in full
A 0 .dress
Occupation ;
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTILITY TOGETHER!
'T/l/kEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or what can resist them? All three are
* * the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES aa feroof both positive and certain of
the soundness of those principles upon which their business is based. The people in aU ranksol
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OP THE GREAT PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We are now showing daily
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. Yon may profitably spend a few momenta
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A VISIT to the PALACE EMPORIUM
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, Ac.
MtESSMAKINCf.
MANCHESTER
goods.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
L I JDIES & CHILDREN
*1 AN TLBS. COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERS', &o.
« FANCY •* GOODS.
YOUTHS' and MEN'S!
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ORLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immense assortment at la 6d, Is BdL
and la lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAUBERT 6ROS GRAIN SILK
there are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 2200 at 2a 3d; 10 pieces at 2s 6d per yard ;
10 at 2a 9d s and 10 at 3a. There are 3 cases, the prices ranging from 3s 6d to
10s 6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GROS GRAIN, known as BONNET’S
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s fid, 4s 3d, ss, 6s 3d, up to 12s fid. Our
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty itself. Once see them, and
it will bo long before you fofget tbena. There is COLOURED SATIN ; also,
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per yard. There is every shade.
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE, all wool, all shades, 7£d a
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA COSTUME CLOTH, at 9d.
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkably cheap and good; and there
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT, turning out
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet carefully.
There are CALICOES in all makes and at low prices. There is DIMITY
FIGURED from sid; TABLE DAMASK from Is 4d; LINEN DIAPER at
ail prices, and COTTON DIAPER at fid; GREY SHEETING from up to
le 3d; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging from 7£d to ls7£d; and Twill
fro.m lOd up to Is 9d. There are TURKISH TOWELS, each; and
h 6 NEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9d; PRINTED, from 4a lid;
and" the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 2 Is, may be obtained.
Tins is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods are either button, elastic, or
laced- They are durable and fashionable. You may get anything here, from
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADY’S COURT SHOE.
Thoro are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and JACKETS. There are 300 superb
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shape in STRAW HATS and BONNETS.
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight in itself.
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all colours, all prices. Therl is LACE,
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BBETONNE, &o>* The PALACE KID
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumerable.
There is a continuous stream of Customers for onr SUITS for Youths and
Boys, and for our well-known cheap and fashionable TROUSERS, VESTS,
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, COLLARS, SCARFS, and NECKTIES
for men.
And the great point to be Observed is this, that we have ONLY ONE
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, onr card of business being simply
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
Mark.
Trade
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
(ONLY.)
SYDNEY.
KEROSENE 150* TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS ITEEY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning 1 .
NO SMOKE 0 E SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety In carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and
packed expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed, this oil should be tried by
EVEEYC * " *
who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to an? part of
the City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
E. LASBETTER AND CO.
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WILSON’S GBEAT WOELD CTECUS,
HAYMAEKET EESEEVE,
every EVENING at 8,
and
every WEDNESDAY & SATUEDAY afternoons at 2.30.
THE MOST GIGANTIC EXHIBITION.
THE GEANDEST ENTEETAINMENT.
TTHE MOST MERITORIOUS
PEEPOBMANCE
EVEE WITNESSED IN SYDNEY,
and is so acknowledged by the Popular Favour of the
Public, the Press, and the Profession.
There is no limit to the attraction and amusement
set forth for the delectation of our
Patrons.
LOOK OUT FOE OUE NEXT GRAND CHANGE
of
PBOGEAMME.
FIFTY LADIES, GENTLEMEN, AND HOESES
in the
GREAT STEEPLECHASE.
A NEW EEA IN AEENIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
THE GREAT HURDLE RACES.
THE GREAT STAG HUNT.
THE GREAT 12 FOOT WATER JUMP.
THE FLIGHTS ON HORSEBACK OVER CASCADES
16 FEET HIGH.
These daring and adventurous scenes have never been
presented by any other company in Australia.
Haymarket Reserve, Every Evening at 8,
WEDNEDAY and SATUEDAY AFTERNOONS
at 2.80.
G
HAND INTERNATIONAL
CEICKET MATCH.
Under the patronage and in the presence o( His Excel*
lency the Governor.
On the Parramatta Alfred Cricket Ground.
WEDNESDAY and THUESDAT,
7th and Bth December,
Commencing each day at 12 o’clock.
Admission i —One shilling; Stand, two shillings.
a/haTBS DIE ) Joint Hon. Secs.
go N D I BEACH, BONDI.
BONDI PACIFIC PAVILION,
Open every SATTTBDAY AFTEENOON from 2to 6
o’clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey’s Hzcelsior Brass Band and efficient M.C.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIEST-CLASS BILLIAED TABLE.
The finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies.
J. HEINZ, Proprietor
N.B.*—Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
MR. EDWIN PALMER, LEADING and
CHAHACTEE OLD MAN, GAIETY THEA.
TEE, NIGHTLY.
MBS. EDWIN PALMEE, HEAVY LEAD, and
LEADING OLD WOMAN, AT LIBEETY. Address :
Tenby House, Wynyard Square.
M B -
- MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
ZULU WAE.
ADDEESSs
Hobart, till November 1&
New Zealand to follow


The Highland sporta are to bo the attraction for
Now Year’s Day.
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman offer a number of
ocean.view building sites at iCoogee Heights, on Satur-
day.
Ben Allah opens the Victoria Hall, Castlereagh-
street, on Monday evening, with an entirely now class
of entertainment.
The beautiful collection of flowers exhibited at
the Paddington Flower Show, seems to have missed
its way. The Infirmary did not get a single bunch.
“ The Mirror of the World ” is to be shown at
the Masonic Hall during the week, and a list of valu-
able prizes, to be distributed to the audience, is an-
nounced.
When it was first proposed to lay down wood-
block pavements, in London, Punch suggested that if
the aldermen would only lay their heads together the
thing would be accomplished. This is precisely what
our city fathers did a little time ago, when they laid an
experimental wood pavement, after having had opportu-
nity of ascertaining the excellence of the compressed as-
phalte block pavement in George-streot—so efficient,
despite insufficient foundations, and constant reckless
tearing up and relaying. However, a local company is
now about to enter into the manufacture of asphalto
blocks, and a change may bo hoped for. By the way,
there are in Paris asphalte pavements which have been
down thirty years, and have daring that time cost little
or repair.
“ Ho who fights and runs away
May live to fight another day ;
But he, who is in battle slain.
Will never live to fight again.”
Nor will he bo able to go to Hamburger Brothers and
Co.’s, 375 George-street, opposite the new Arcade, who
are retiring from business, and sell their own imported
slock of Watches, Jewellery, Clocks, Fancy Goods, E. P.
Ware, Guns, &c., at English cost. Get price list and
compare. Cheaper than all—so per cent, discount and
assigned sales. Inspect and judge.—Advt.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“The Pirates” has been running at tbe Royal
to splendid business all the week, and the local allusions
and songs appear to fetch the audience in no small de-
gree. Miss Alice Bees is a young lady, who, like saner-
krout, improves upon acquaintance ; and when she will
have smilingly accepted the “straight griffin” with which
we presented her last week, she will be quite too charm
ing. Mr. W. H. Vernon’s Major-General is a good grin all
through, but somehow ho does not make a hit in " Tor-
mented with anguish dread,” the music not apparently
suiting his voice. Maggie Moore is the life and soul of
the opera, and the great “ J.C.” is highly diverting as
Sergeant Murphy—his local gags being nightly shrieked
at by an intelligent and discriminating pit. The
choruses are admirable, and this result ii due entirely
to the unwearying efforts of Signor Giorza. All the
girls (and it is not to be wondered at) love him dearly,
and expand their lungs to the utmost at his slightest
gesture. Paolo, however, is obliged at times to be a
martinet, and there is not one of the Major-General’s
daughters who does not shed copious tears when she
sings sharp and Giorza jaws her.
» • •
On Saturday, “Patience.” This opera will be
magnificently mounted, and the Sydney people ought
certainly to be grateful to Mr. Williamson for giving
them the first chance of sampling this, Messrs. Gilbert
and Sullivan’s latest production. The more one studies
the libretto ©f “ Patience” the more its extraordinary
literary merits impress themselves upon the mind.
What now could go nearer to tho perfection of comic
cynical verso than this, which is sung by tho Colonel
(Biccardi) in the first act :
“ When first I put this uniform on,
I said, as I looked in the glass'
• It’s one to a million
That any civilian
My figure and form will surpass.
Gold lace has a charm for the fair.
And I’ve plenty of that, and to spare,
While a lover’s professions.
When uttered in Hessians,
Are eloquent everywhere 1*
A fact that I counted upon.
When I first put this uniform on I”
Perhaps, however, Bunthome’s song, in which he " goes
back ” upon cestheticism. is entitled to be called the
gem of the opera. As a sample of the skilful manipu-
fation of anapasts, we consider portion of this ditty to
be unique in the language
“ If you’re anxious for to shine in the high asthetic
line as a man of culture rare,
Von must get up all the germs of the transcendental
terms, and plant them everywhere.
You must He upon tho daisies, and discourse in novel
phrases of your complicated state of mind.
The meaning doesn’t matter, if it’s only idle chatter of
a transcendental kind.
And every one will say,
As you walk your mystic way,
• if this young man expresses himself in terms too deep
for me, , ....
Why what a very singularly deep young man this deep
young man must be 1*
Bo eloquent in praise of the very dull old days which
have long since passed away.
And convince ’em, if you can, that the reign of good
Queen Anne was Culture’s palmiest day.
Of course you will pooh-pooh whaterer’s fresh and new,
and declare it’s crude and mean.
For Art stopped short in the cultivated court of the
Empress Josephine.
And every one will say.
As you walk your mystic way,
* If that’s not good enough for him which is good
enough for me.
Why what a very cultivated kind of youth this kind of
youth must be 1' ”
But it is not only in eccentric verse that Mr. W. 8,
Gilbert shines. The sestette, for instance, at the end
of the second act, is a singular proof that no style
comes amiss to Dr. Sullivan’s talented collaborates.
This stanza contains in itself a charming little idyll,
and as the music is in every way worthy of the verse,
this song will doubtless be often heard floating from
the opened windows of suburban drawing-rooms. Listen
to it:—
*• I hear the soft note of the echoing voice
Of an old old love, long dead**
It whispers my sorrowing heart •* rejoice
For the last sad tear is shed—
The pain that is fill but a pleasure we’ll change
For the pleasure that’s all but pain.
And never, oh never, this heart will range
From that old old love again!”
We have quoted enough in this and previous Issues to
prove incontestably that the libretto of “ Patience is
far and away superior in humour and satire to that of
either “Pinafore” or “The Pirates,” while it also
leaves “ The Sorcerer,” which, from a literary point of
view, is superior to either of these, very far indeed
behind. The production of this opera, in the splendid
style in which we are to witness it, is a great and
plucky venture ; and we have no hesitation in saying
that Mr. Williamson is justly entitled to expect a
liberal support from the public. And he will get it.
* * * *
As we write this, we, now and anon, glance
furtively down to see whether any gore is adhering to
our finger-nails; and as wa snuff doubtfully at the air,
faint traces of sulphur and saltpetre seem to float upon
the morning breezes. We have requested the third
footman to place the dado-screen at our back, in order
that the current of our sparkling thoughts may not bo
diverted into other channels than those of airy criticism
by the sight of the villain lurking in the corner with a
pistol; and the cook has received emphatic instructions
to herself largely partake of the steak and onions prior
to our “ wolfing” the same, in order to avert all possi-
bility of our falling a victim to nux vomica, and thus
causing to the country a national loss. The foregoing
can be explained in six words:—We have aten “A
Boyal Parddn ” at the Gaiety.
# * *
Mr. Alfred Dampier is an exceedingly clever
actor; but he, in common with the greatest of men, is
only mortal. And, being mortal, Mr. Dampier, like
the rest of the world, is apt to make an occasional
error of judgment. The* production of “ A Boyal
Pardon” (one of his imported pieces) is, to our mind,
an experiment which, without being a grievous error,
is, at least, a dramatic essay which could not be, with
advantage, repeated. In “ Never Too Late to Mend,”
Mr. Dampier, in our opinion, went to the utmost limit
in melodrama which he could do in a theatre like the
Gaiety. Mr. Charles Eeade’s play is melodramatic, it is
true, but, at the same time, it must not be forgotten that
the dialogue throughout the piece is marked with great
ability, and that the motif of the play is excellent in its
general tendency. With “A Boyal Pardon,” however,
it is different. The place of Charles Eeade is taken by
Messrs. Pettitt and Conquest, and the moral lesson
taught by the play is infinitesimal. We could, however,
forgive this if the drama were skilfully constructed;
but it is not. Messrs. Pettitt and Conquest’s piece is
nothing but a series of threadbare situations strung
together by means of a dialogue which is as bald as an
emu’s egg, and is as old as the “ jester’s" wheeze in an
up-country circus. Of literary merit, it has none.
There is not, in the whole of the four long acts, one
line that directly finds an echo in the heart. Written
for “ transpontine” audiences, who love and understand
nothing but clap-trap, it is clap-trap throughout. A
“Surrey” drama, it appeals to none but Surrey
audiences; to the thoughtful or educated observer,
it is a monstrous dramatic nightmare.
• * *
The plot can be seen in any “ dime novel,” and
there is not one single sentiment or situation in the
whole play that can claim a fragment of originality.
Mr. Dampier impersonates four characters—or
rather one character, and three disguises—a School-
master in a smashed hat and a tattered
swallow-tail coat, a Crushed Tragedian in a make
up with which Mr. Wybert Eeeve has made
us pleasantly familiar, a stage Frenchman, and a “De-
formity” of precisely the “Duke’s Motto” type.
That, in the interpretation of these characters, Mr.
Dampier displays great histrionic ability, goes without
Baying, Indeed, it is only fair to state that in some
parts of the drama—notably in the Ist and 3rd acts—he
was quite phenomenally successful. The gods, indeed,
rose at him at frequent intervals throughout the piece,
and, at the end of the third act, he was vociferously
recalled. The Schoolmaster, however, who rants and
quotes Shakespeare, bears too much resemblance to
the " Crushed Tragedian,” who quotes every known
dramatist; and as the Deformity, Mr. Dampier has
little else to do than to make np as “ Jim Greenwood,
a deformed boatman," and' to Are a pistol. But these
things Mr. Dampier did as, perhaps, few actors could
do them ; his magnificent voice serving often to invest
utter balderdash with a charm which only such a
splendid organ can impart.
• » •
Mr. Sam Poole gave a very clever impersona-
tion of a part which is simply Danny Mann taken
bodily ont of the “Colleen Bawn,” and jammed, with-
out acknowledgement, into Messrs. Conquest and
Pettitt’s drama. Mr. H. W. Emmet played the
injured man, who is wrongfully accused of the murder
and “ lumbered,” as well as could be expected ; hut the
part was such a wretched one that we were rather sorry
that otherwise when he was released from limbo before
his time had expired by means of an expedient which is
cribbed, holus-bolus, from a remarkable novel called
“Bred in the Bone," which originally appeared in
Chambers’ Journal. Mr. Harry Sefton was effective
as the villain; but why he made his face up as though
he had just “swore off," after a prolonged “bust,"
we are unable to conjecture. Perhaps, however, this
is laid down in the drama. Very likely. No additional
eccentricity on the part of these demoniac authors
would surprise us. Mr. A. Boothman enacted the part
of a money-lender, but he was apparently («md it is no
wonder!) unable to “get the hang" of this extraordi-
nary creation, which is like almost every character in
the whole range of the British drama except that of
a usurer. Mr. Tasman was a captainlin the merchant
service, who is feebly murdered in the first act, and
would have looked the character to the death, had he
not borne an equal resemblance to a Grafton steamer
steward. Mr. “Norman Yane” played the part of a
gentleman, and appeared first as an aquatic star in a
football guernsey and a pair of cricketing trousers,
and afterwards as a “ swell," in a long banger and a
pair of Kurtz’s trousers.
* * *
The parts assigned to the ladies were of a most
shadowy description. Miss Melrose was the heroine,
and looked so bewitching in a pink costume and sky-
blue gloves, that we wished her, from the outset, a
more lively lover. She had. however, very little to do,
and did it nicely. Miss M. A. Melville (of whom
we nocturnally dream) played the part of a landlady,
in a short dress and shoes in the first act: and it is but
bare justice to her to chronicle that her ankles were much
admired. Afterwards she appears as the wife of the villain
who has murdered her husband with a brand new adze,
and in some of the scenes—wherever she has the chance,
in fact —displays much lire and pathos. Miss Melville
is an artist of great ability, and such a part as Helen
Markham is all, in her hands, that it can over be —and
that is not much. Miss Maggie Forde played Peggy,
who is a “ friend of the family " in the first act, and
then mysteriously presents herself as housemaid to the
murderer in the second. And it is but fairness to
her to remark that no one could possibly have mistaken
her for the conventional “slavey" had she not been
the positive presentment of a Columbine e i travestie
waiting behind a waterbutt for the advent of the Harle-
quin.
• * •
This piece was fairly mounted and appropri-
ately dressed. It is not, however, the kind of play one
expects to see at the Gaiety. About this there can be
no question whatever,
* * * *
We went to see 11 Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” the
other night, and it made ns so holy that wo have been
singing “Hold the Fort" ever since, and when our
landlady ladles us out the third plate of boarding-
house stew, instead of “ thank you," we invariably
ejaculate “ hallelujah." The drama has been put on
the stage with great care, and Mr. Wilson’s scenery
(as ever does the work of that excellent artist) exhibits
exceeding care and finish.-Mr. E. B. Boothman as George
Harris is on the whole satisfactory, but it is to be regret-
ted that having played the part for so long in Victoria, he
should have brought his mannerisms with him to Syd-
ney. We are very fond of Mr. E. B. Boothman —very
fond; but ns we can meet him on any day in King-
street at 10 o’clock, we should like to be treated to a
little more of George Harris. Mr. C. Lewis’s “ Uncle
Tom” is a performance fully equal te that of Hoses
Easton, and the manner in which he coughs up texts
all through the evening was fully recognized by the
audience. As Topsy, Miss Maggie Oliver exhibits groat
ability, and fully sustains her reputation as a first-class
comic actress. We are, we may inform our readers,
to see this lively little lady i* the Theatre Eoyal
pantomime at Christmas, in silk tights and a blue and
gold doublet, ns per usual —a sight which we look
forward to with feverish expectation. To return to
“ Uncle Tom," wo may remark that Little Ettie Sher-
wood makes a charming little Eva, and prattles about
Heaven and the angels as naturally as though she had
served her time to the wing and trump business, and
was working on full wages as a journeyman for St.
Peter. All the other parts were well filled, and the
niggers sang holy glees with involuntary variations in
a way to be strongly commended.
• # *
Last night (Wednesday) ‘‘The Slave’s Revenge”
was produced, but too late for a notice this week. On
Saturday, Mr. and Mrs. Carden open in “ The Fool’s
Bevenge," and as the performances of these artists
are said to be of a powerful nature, their appearance
will no doubt attract a large section of the theatre-
going public. We shall, in the next issue oCThe
Bulletin, notice the new comers at length ; anu we
trust we shall be able to say all the pleasant things
about them that we—in the good-nature of our hearts—
pant to say about everybody.
* * * *
Bad weather was powerless to mar the attend-
ance at Mdlle. Charbonnet’s concert on Monday night
last The fair pianiste herself succeeded in eclipsing
tbs stars with whom she had surrounded herself, her
rendering of an arrangement frrm “ Faust,” by Liszt,
being altogether delightful. Mdlle. Charbonnet has
lost nothing of her superb technique, notwithstanding the
inroads which teaching must make in her time for prac-
tising. We have had in Sydney several pianists of the
first force since Mdlle. deserted us for Melbourne, three
years ago, but the young lady has suffered m no wise by
comparison.
• * *
Signora Fabris made a good score by singing
“Inquesto simplice” (Donizetti), and won a shower of
beautiful bouquets. The string accompaniment to the
6th Concerto of Henri Herz was not quite what it would
have been had it been played by the Weston Quintette
Club; but, perhaps, it is unfair to compare the per-
formers on the occasion with such players, especially if
(as is stated by one of our contemporaries) they are all
amateurs—yet, surely, this is a mistake, as at least
three of the names are well-known amongst profes-
sionals Mr, Charles Huenerbein accompanied the
songs 'admirably. Mdlle. Charbonnet sensibly con-
eluded her very pleasant concert before ten o clock an
example which might with advantage be followed by
other concert-givers.
* * * *
A number of connoisseurs assembled, by invita-
tion on Tuesday evening last, at Mr. A. Huenerbein's
music salon, George-street, to enjoy a first hearing of
Signor Giovanni Vittorini, a young Australian
vocalist, recently returned to his native land
after pursuing his musical studies at Milan.
Signor Vittorini was supported by Miss Long,
who sang a couple of ballads in her usual
charming style, and in the unavoidable absence of Miss
Hyam, Mdlle. Charbonnet, who was in the auditorium,
gracefully volunteered to perform a pianoforte solo, a
delicate trifle, rippled off d merveille. Signor Vittorini
undertook altogether six numbers of those on the pro-
gramme, selecting, with the exception of one English
ballad, pieces of the Italian school. Signor Vittorini
has a voice of considerable range, and, in the lower
register, great power. The culture which it has re-
ceived has not been in vain, and the reception accorded
him was very flattering. As an addition to the number
of our leading singers Signor Yittorini’s will bo ex-
tremely welcome.
* * * *
Wilson’s Circus, with its cool, lapping pavilion ;
its prancing steeds, and acrobatic wonders, is the
pleasantest place in Sydney. A sight of the audience
is alone worth more than the money to the student
of human nature. The entertainment, considered as a
hippie spectacle, is the best circus wo have had in
Sydney since we can remember. All the performers
are artists of first-class calibre, and the trick-horses
are certainly marvels of training. Prince Auguste is
almost a cirons in himself, his act is so full of wonders;
and ever since we have gazed upon the graceful gyra-
tions of Miss Victoria Cooke, we'have longed for a
tramway accident to render us widowers. The clowns
in Mr. Wilson’s show would get the sack from a
country circns after their first appearance; their jokes
have actually never been heard before. None of them
ask you how you were the day after to-morrow, or
propound to a tortured ring-master the time-honoured
conundrum about Moses and Hair on. One of them—
the clown in the swallow-tail coat—is quite a genius,
and if only for his entries, the circns is worth while
riding twenty miles on Roseby's steed to sample.
The people flock in crowds to the tent nightly, and
all through the evening the Newtown people are
popping tbeir heads out of windows xo look for the
storm-clouds, mistaking the applause for coming
thunder. We are glad to find that Mr. Wilson is
doing well. But with the fine treat he nightly gives
the people, it could hot well be otherwise.
** * *
Cary’s opera company (writes our Auckland
correspondent by the last mail) is doing splendid busi-
ness at the Theatre Royal. The “ Pirates of Penzance”
is well put on, but two or three of the principals are
unequal to their parts. Miss Murielle’s Mabel is]the
gem of the cast, and Mack. D. Alexander makes the
most of the Policeman. Miss Leaf plays Ruth pass-
ably. Cary is a fairly good Pirate King, but Went-
worth’s Major-General and Morley's Frederick are just
so-so. The chorus is good, and there is any quantity of
“leg” among thej female portion. “Los Oloches do
Comerille” has also been played on several evenings.
** * *
Lotti Wilmot ia again distinguishing herself in
N.Z. Being refused the key of a country hall in the
jrovinoe of Christchurch, which she had hired for a
eoture, she assaulted the secretary of the hall company
with a supple jack.
** * *
All genuine lovers of music will bo pleased to
hear that the Melbourne Liedertafel are to give a series
of concerts during Christmas week in the Garden
Palace, and Mr. Miller, one of the oldest and most
active members of the Liedertafel, has been in Sydney
during the week, and has succeeded in making the
necessary arrangements for the (estival.
** * *
The Civil Musical Society’s concert was not so
successful as usual. The piece- de-resistance, Gounod’s
11 Gallia,” was well rendered, and would be welcome on
a programme at a future concert, as a relief from an
operatic selection. The overture, “Le Roi d’Tvetot,"
was nicely played, a polka chorus was very accept-
able, and some of the miscellaneous items were worthy
of commendation—notably, “ I fear no foe," “ There is
a flower,” and “Douglas,” which may be considered as
the most successful efforts of the evening. The aria
“ Alla Stella ” was beautifully sung, but the effect was
marred by the very slow tempo and the violoncello
obligato. The soprano of the society was not so suc-
cessful as usual in her solos. The trio from “ Lucrezia"
was murdered, and the “ Miserere ” scene from “ Tro-
vatore ” was an utter fiasco. The “Faust” chorus was
well done, though the time was not according to tradi-
tion. A baritone gave a very intelligent rendering of
Leporello’s song in “ Don Giovanni.” Mr. 0. B. Foster
ably fulfilled the duties of conductor, and any successes
achieved were due to his efforts. Mr. Thomas Banks
presided at the pianoforte with his accustomed ability.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
The Timaru (N.Z.) Theatre Boyal ia being made
one o( the handsomest in that colony Cary’s Opera
Co. have been indulging in a cricket match at Auckland,
and Bent and Batohelder’s Minstrels trying their skill
in a four-oared gig at Christchurch Bent’s “ Pin-a-4”
(in black), now being played by his troupe in N.Z., is
cast as under The Left Hon. Sir Joe Half-andtHalf,
K.C.8., W. Horace Bent; Captain Cork O’Ram (Com-
mander Pin-a-4), H. A. Williamson; Ralph Haystack
(able seaman), C. S. Fredericks; Dick Deadeye (able
seaman), William Ball; Bob Billstray (boatswain),
Beaumont Bead; Beck Bobbit (carpenter’s mate), G.
Glider; Tuck Tommer (chief cook and bottle washer),
W. Leake; Little Butter-tub (an orange won.an), Chas.
Hugo; Hebe (Sir Joseph’s first cousin), Edwin Rowley;
Josephine (the Captain’s daughter), Miss Amy Rowe.
The Canterbury Times is informed by a reliable
correspondent that J. C. Williamson is to commence
his New Zealand tour at Auckland about the middle of
April. Definite arrangements have been made for Mr.
Williamson to open the new opera house in that city,
which Mr. Abbott expects to have ready for occupation
at the time named “Les Cloches de Corneville,”
“Olivette," “La Fille du Tambour Major,” and
“ Madame Favart,” have now been registered under
the New Zealand Copyright Act, and Mr. E. T. Gillon,
Wellington, is authorised to grant licenses for their
representation Herbert Flemming had a big benefit
at Christchurch, N.Z. He successfully played Claude
Melnotte to Louise Pomeroy’s Pauline on the occasion.
Flemming made his d6hut on the stage at Christchurch
five years ago Messrs. Moore and Burgess have pro-
duced an “ Esthetic musical sketch,” by Messrs. Ernest
Warren and Wallis Mackay, entitled “Da Do Dum."
It is mounted with unusual elaboration “ Twelfth
Night” was put on at Christchurch, N Z„ for Louisa
Pomeroy’s benefit. The theatre was packed, and the
stage after the last act looked like a flower garden.
Hoskins also benefitted in the same town. At our last
advices the Pomeroy Co. were doing big business at
Wellington Royal. The show does not visit Auckland,
in consequence of the price asked for the theatre
by Monsieur De Lias The Montague-Tumer Co.
opened at Dunedin, N.Z., on Nov. 12, under De Lias’s
management; theatre crowded The Bent-Bachel-
der Minstrel combination did fairly well at Christ-
church, N.Z Instead of visiting New Zealand, as
expected, Henry Irving passed his holiday in Ireland.
De Lias has re-engaged what is known as his “ Aus.
tralian Speciality Co.” for a tour of N.Z., com-
mencing at Wellington in December. There was
about £25 in the house at a benefit he received in Auck-
land lately. How theatre-goers must love him in that
town! Messrs. Hoskins and Holloway purpose bring-
ing a first-class dramatic company to N.Z. in August
next, owing to the success of the Pomeroy Co. there.
They will bring several new comedies and suitable
scenery. The repertoire will include “ The Comedy of
Errors,” for which Messrs. Hoskins and Hollo-
way have secured perfect doubles for the twin
brothers, Antipholus and the two Dromios
Hi S. Towle did immense business at Christchurch,
N.Z , during the race week with his amateur opera
company. Solange Navaro played Lange in “ Madame
Angot,” Miss Towle, Amarantbe, and a Miss Lo Gassiok,
Clairette Horace Bent benefited at Christchurch,
New Zealand. Poor circle, fair stalls and pit.
Harry Lyons’s Tourists continue to do indifferently
in N.Z. They won’t have his snap show at any price...
J#e Emmet said naively to a reporter, who inter-
viewed him on his return from Europe:—“ Drunken-
ness, sir, ia undermining the vitality of all the pro-
fessions (in England), and there does not seem to be
any remedy for it but total abstinence. The whole
business of tippling in bar-rooms, clubs, and at private
dinner tables, must bo discountenanced by our best
people before we can get a healthy sentiment on the
subject.” Emmet ought to know... New Zealanders can’t
stand Amy Johns in opera. She is playing with Cary’s
Co A company, including Messrs. Johnny Hydes,
Kennedy, Love, D’Elmaino, Alexander, Martin, Miss
Bessie Vivian, Miss Madge Herrick, and Miss Hettie
Lambrette, lately visited several Canterbury (N.Z.)
districts Billy Wilson and Hosea Easton are
not getting rich in N.Z. country districts
Rose Hers e a made her re-appearance in Eng-
land, after her Australian tour, on October 3, as Gilda,
in “ Rigoletto,” at the Lyceum Theatre, and had an
enthusiastic reception. The critics say that her voice
has lost little of it freshness, while her execution is
even more graceful and finished than of yore, and in
the expression of passionate feeling she has acquired
the powers of a great artiste A. T. Dunning, of
Dunedin, has lately been in Melbourne, endeavouring
to secure the copyright of “ Tambour Major,” “ Billie
Taylor,” and “ Patience,” for N.Z R. W. Cary has
formed a Juvenile “ Pirates” Co., and will produce the
opera in about five weoks....Pollard’s Juvenile Co. did
first-class biz, with “ Les Cloches,” at Dunedin, N.Z,
They play it particularly well Maggie Knight ap-
pearea as Ruth for one night, with Gary’s “ Pirates,”
at Auckland. Miss Leaf waa cast os Mabel, and Barry
O’Neil did the Major-General with an Irish accent!
The Pomeroy Co., travelling in N.Z., will break up at
the end of November, and be re-constrnoted Hol-
loway opens the Ballarat Theatre about 26th Deoeml'O".
on his own account, and has engaged for twelve
months, Hoskins (from Feb. next), Jewett, O’Brien,
and J. J. Kennedy. Jessie Grey also leaves the Co.,
and joins Fred Marshall for the pantomime season.
W. H. Leake fills Holloway’s place Speaking of
Hoskins’s ‘‘ben.*’ there, a Christchurch writer re-
marks:—“ In connection with the veteran actor (I am
very full up of veteran actors), I have often wondered
what he will do in the future world. Paradise would
never be thought nice by Mr. H. unless he could secure
the services ef a company whom he oould work econo-
mically; and if, as is more probable, he will be relegated
to a warmer locality, when securely there, it will be
quite impossible for him ever to take “ A Farewell
Benefit.” Preliminary arrangements have been made
by Messrs. Hamilton and Willis for a three months
lease of the Christchurch (N Z.) Theatre Royal, dating
from the close of Mr. J. C. Williamson’s season in Feb-
next Dick Kohler’s waxworks and curio show, at
last accounts, was being exhibited at Timaru (N.Z.);
Christchurch to f0110w.......The London World has
been taking in vain the name of little Louise Beaudet,
the actress. It says;—“ Young ladies who are desirous
of changing their names before adopting the profes-
sion of the stage cannot be too careful. A debutante
thought it a clever thing to call herself Mile. Leda.
She dropped it when some one showed it to her in a
Mythological dictionary. Now I read in the New Zealand
papers that a young actress has been starring under
the name of Miss Louise Baudot. Perhaps if she had
known that this is equivalent to Miss Louise Donkey,
she would have preferred to have remained plain Jones
or Smith, as the case may have been." The Wobld is
mistaken. It is not Baudstf but Bcaudst,.. r. Richmond
Thatcher is in Melbourne making arrangements for the
advent of Wilson’s Circus...... Mr. Johnson, the physiog-
nomist, was billed to appear in Wollongong, on
Monday last, but at half an hour after the time an-
nounced for commencingthe lecture, no one had putin
an appearance but the Professor himself Mendels-
sohn Quintette Company did well at Rockhampton.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Badly wanted —a branch Post-Office in Bridge
street.
A shipment of American grapes by the mail
steamer from 'Frisco, found a ready market in Auck-
land (N. Z.)
Judge Shepherd (Townsville) recently refused to
try one Michael Mullane for murder, because only thirty-
six jurymen could bo mustered, and three dozen of these
were Irishmen. Bather rough on the Land Leaguers.
Sergeant, who went to the house of his ancient
enemy, James Munro, M.P., and smashed the piano,
&0., with a crowbar, is now a Sergeant in charge ot
Melbourne lock-up. He has been committed for trial;
£l4OO bail demanded.
In Melbourne it is openly alleged that the re-
velations in respect of the Bank of Victoria will “ pale
their ineffectual fires," when those are made concerning
another institution, in which, it is hinted, the officials
from top to bottom are concerned. At present, an
attempt is being made to hush the matter up.
At a country hotel fire in Christchurch (N. Z.),
the landlord was awakened by a dog bursting open his
door, and dragging tbo clotbos off his bed, othorwiso
he and the inmates would probably hare been de-
stroyed. The building was burned to the ground in
a quarter of an hour. One man saved himself by jump-
ing from the window, and another was only awakened
with difficulty, and dragged downstairs unconscious of
what it was all about till he was outside.
Progress in South Australia! The execu-
tion of Nugent for the murder of Trooper Pearce was
carried out very quickly and completely. The old hang-
man’s knot was discarded on this occasion, and a new
arrangement used in London adopted,. The end of the
rope is spliced round a ring, through which the other end
of the rope is passed, this making a slip noose. A piece
of leather round the rope behind the noose prevents its
slipping backwards. The weight of the man falling
suddenly on the noose is certain to cause instantaneous
death.
It is stated by a London paper that a Sydney
cattle dealer named Matthews, who was sentenced to
two months’ imprisonment for assault, gave a man, who
had been sentenced to a month’s incarceration on the
same day at the same court, £lO to exchange names
and sentences with him. At the expiration of a month
Matthews obtained his liberty, having only served half
his proper sentence. Bat the affair leaked out, and ho
was re-arrested, so that he will, no doubt, ore this have
served his original sentence besides being £lO out of
pocket.
Persons who intend paying Bananaland a
visit will be interested to know that before leaving the
Sydney wharf they will be politely requested to wait
one hour for a visiting doctor. On this gentleman's
arrival, all the passengers will be yarded off and counted
up like sheep ; after which, they will be required to put
out their tongues, and then be asked to read a Herald
leader. They will be then passed on; and the same
solemn farce is to be repeated at Brisbane, Keppel Bay,
Mackay, Bowen, and Townsville—only they do these
things better in To wnsville.where, instead of waiting one
hour for tho “ faculty," the passengers hare frequently
to hang around for ten.
Tho Celestials of Dunedin (N. Z.) had a set-to
in the Cemetery there the other week at their yearly
feast over the remains of their dead countrymen. Tho
trouble was in regard to the tin dish, on which was
placed the, roast pig, common to Chinese feasts and
funerals. One of the party endeavoured to get posses-
sion of the cause of ill-feeling, the dish on which the
feast was served, and the others opposed him. This, as
a necessary consequence, set matters going; and with a
view ot at once settling the dispute, those in favour of
retaining tho dish and those against it commenced
pugilistic proceedings in the orthodox Chinese style-
stones, gravel, punching, adjectives, and pigtails; tho
poor roasted pig itself being also brought into requisi.
tion as sinews of war. The scrimmage lasted soma
time, until the police arrived, when the various com-
batants took to their heels.


PEPPER AND SALT.
He tvaa a sporting publican from Hughenden
(Q.), and he sometimes swore consumedly; it fact, on
the slightest provocation he would go in for ornamental
blasphemy in a way that made the surrounding atmo-
sphere assume a lavender tint. To him a pious ac-
quaintance, “M , I hoar you use very strong
language, sometimes.” Ho admitted the soft impeach-
meut in the charapteristic words, “ Yes, I reckon when
I got filed, I keep the recording angel’s hands out of
his (adjective) pockets.”
* » •
Whaling on th« Murrumbidgee. Scene, road-
side inn. Gentleman arrives in buggy, alights, enters
bar, and drinks, makes some inquiries as to the road.
Barmaid cannot furnish information required. Mur-
rumbidgoe whaler arrives, dona Bluey on verandah,
sees prospects of a drink, and addresses gentleman :
“Aren't you Mr. ?” (most popular man on the
river). Gentleman: “No." M. W.: “ I could have
swore you were Mr. . I was dog-poisoner there for
two years. That's the station : the best of tucker,
ooffeo for breakfast and currants in your browuy ; and
Mr. never meets me out, but he says ’Hallo, Mick,
is that yon ? Will you have somethin’ to drink P* An'
faith, you’re just like him." Gentleman thinks this
too straight, aud asks, “Can yon tell me anything about
the road to ?” W.: “ I can." Gentleman :
” Better have a drink. Is there any chance of missing
the road, or is it a main road all the way?” M. W.:
“ Main road I faith it is ; it’s the maiuest road ever I
travelled in my life. They wouldn’t give a man a feed.
Bad luck to misfortin’, fhat did I lave the Murray
for?”
# # «
“John,” said a Darling Point lady, newly
imbued with the aesthetic craze, to her hired man,
“Just have the goodness, will you, to draw down that
rose-coloured blind, and to place the dado screen
between my chair and the window. The glare of the
horrid sunset is too much for my poor eyes.” And yet
to think that this was the same person who “ whopped”
a Cornishwoman on Gulgong for accusing her of shaking
an old tin dipper.
« « «
She had just been introduced to the Baronet,
and was walking with him in the direction of her car-
riage, ha having accepted an offsr to be set down at hia
club. Just as they bad nearly reached the vehicle, a
little man in a dirty silk duster, with his face stream-
ing with perspiration and a flower-pot under each arm,
come running up, and exclaimed, “Here you are,
Marier, here’s them two fooshers wot Jack Gorman
promised me, but as yor aunt wants to stick it on for
them fowls, I told her to bo blowed and keep ’em,
I’m just off now to Jobkins’ sale to seo if I can’t pick
up a second-hand box-iron." When he had trotted out
of sight, the Baronet said, “ Haw,—who, now, is that
funny old fellow ?” She had vowed to love, honour, and
obey him, but the trial was too great. She was only
mortal, so she said he was the head gardener.
• « *
At a recent meeting of “ little heathen ” care-
takers hero, a coloured brother, named Benjamin, made
n few remarks, and amongst other chat, observed that
he didn’t want to go’to the bad place (Solomon Island
edition name for Parliament), and that he “supposed
there were plenty more of the same opinion." Another
thing, he said, surprised him much, and it was that
since he had landed at Sydney, and during the time
he had travelled in different places in the colonies, ho
had not seen a woman smoke, which he thought was
strange. Ho finished by saving that that was tne end
of his speech, and it was “ quite time they were all
asleep." That Inst remark of Ben’s evidently proves that
ho possesses a shade more candour than most isi-isiou-
nriis do when alluding to their own sparkling speeches.
• • •
The lock-up at Cootamundra ia situated exactly
Opposite the Wesleyan chapel, and wo are pleased to
learn that the choral services of the latter establishment
have lately been most material y assisted by the vocal
efforts-t»f Signor Jim Kellv, from La Scala Strathbogio,
aud Herr Wild Wright, of Glenrowan. Both of these
gentleman have been staying at the Government re-
frashmont rooms for the past few weeks and the punc-
tuality with whioli they chimed in with the faithful
revellers opposite, was alike creditable to their hearts
and lungs. “ The Gate’s Ajar ” was Jim’s favourite air,
hut unluckily for himself aud his friend, oue particular
gate was by no means “ ajar,” and that’s where the jar
came in on the pair of sweet singers. Herr Wright is
now learning Alfred’s “Old New England Home," and
when he masters this chef d'ceuvre, the authorities intend
to order him to sing it in the cells of all refractory
criminals. This will save our aesthetic friend, Mr.
Howard, the trouble of coaching it off to flog ’em.
The Newcastle Herald is entitled to praise
at our bauds. Though we cannot conscientiously award
It kudos on the score of the literary brilliance of its
columns, we can at least respect it for its good nature.
Not long ago, a scullery-maid announced through the
advertising columns of that journal that she was in-
solvent, and the “ cheek" of the lady was much ad-
mired and discussed in the circle in which she moved.
Jealous, no doubt, at the fame her bankruptcy hod
brought her, another servant girl of the same name
inserts an ad., stating that she is not the person whose
affairs are in the hands of the official assignee. The
Newcastle Fletcher then writes this local:
“ Insolvency.—Mary Sobers.
“We are requested to draw our readers' atten.
tion to an advertisement in another column,
explaining that the above insolvent is not the
Mary Rogers for some years in the service of
Dr. Richard Harris, of Watt-street, in this city.
As a wrong impression is calculated to injure
the advertiser, who is greatly respected in the
sphere in whi?h she moves, we have much
pleasure in assisting to dispel it.’*
As humble items of this description appear to “ fetch ”
the editor of the Newcastle paper, we have much
pleasure in informing him that onr cook plighted her
treth, last Friday, to the baker; and that the nurse-girl
and Mrs. Mulcahy’s boy went to see the dwarf on
Saturday afternoon. There are also rumours that the
honsemaid at No. 3 in the Terrace has sanctioned the
addresses of a Towns’ Wharf coal-lumper, but this
report lacks confirmation. We just send along these
little items for a start; but by next week we shall
probably bo enabled to pick np for onr go-ahead con-
temporary sour ©thing abont the elopement of the wood-
carter’s nephew with the dustman’s daughter.
• • •
From the Gundagai Times we learn that
“ Mr. M’Beath, the contractor for the erection of
additions to the Gundagai gaol, has commenced the
work.” Surely this can’t bo our own M’Beath, of
glorious memory I If it is, prisoners will go down on
their bended knees, aud shriek to be “ boosted up " at
Gundagai. When they’re fall of the gaol, all they will
have to do is to lean np against the walls, and then—but
bold on. Case postponed.
The life of a country postmaster is evidently not
a happy one, as the following notices very clearly show.
Notice the first comes from a Queensland town, and
tumbles along in this wise :
NOTICE.
1. No letters upon which postage is ie be paid will be
delivered until the cash is duly planked aud tested, the
postmaster having discovered, by sad experience, that
the practice of “paying op some other time” is just
about as lucrative as that of accepting Tommy Dodds,
or being carefully robbed by a nest of burglars.
2. Funny people are requested not to let loose more
than one ton per day of their om flowing wit on the
notice cards or walls of this office, and all telegrams
sent in for transmission on the “call to-morrow and
settle principle " will be carefully held bock until the
said to-morrow comes.
Notice the seoond is from another alligator town a
little further on. With a Job like sigh the weary
official says:
1. This office will now bo opened dav and night from
the present date until the Day of Judgment. The
public must, therefore, no longer hesitate to report the
postmaster if he is one second away from his post, or if
he refuses to give unlimited credit to any josser who
who likes to troop in and impose upon him.
; 2. The said postmaster regrets that he has not spare
time enough to deliver exactly all the letters and papers
personally; and that his limited salary will not allow
him to stand.liquid refreshments, and the use of a 70-
guinea piano, a skittle alley, and the flies of every paper
published for the use of every loafer who likes to come
straight along aud patronize bis show.
3. Furthermore, the said postmaster regrets that the
cushioned (seats for the front verandah have not yet
arrived from Brisbane, but they are expected by the
next boat; and, in the meantime, the general public is
quite welcome to the use of the whole of the post-
master’s private furniture, and at perfect liberty to eat
his victuals, drink his beer, smoke his pipe, kiss his
wife, and spit all over his best carpet.
• • •
A correspondent from Balala, whoso sympathies
in our crusade against harbour-harlotry and Bay
Bacchantes we have been successful in eliciting, sends
us a poem which commences:—
“ Three men sat on a libel case,
I think the three were tight;
I’d set them on another one—•
A case of dynamite.”
And then he goes on to say that ho would apply a match,
with the usual result expected in such cases. Our cor-
respondent means well, no doubt, but his remarks are
evidently of a thoughtless character. Why, supposing
jurymen were exterminated, what would become of the
joor people who keep the picnic-grounds and dancing.
• • •
Let na put the matter thus :—Suppose that
while travelling from Albnry to Sydney you find your-
self alone in a compartment with the most lovely of
creatures; and suppose that when night comes on, she
manifests no inclination to clear out to the sleeping
carriage. Suppose, further, that the gas goes out;
what should yon do ? Well, this was the case iu which
a man found himself lost week.
* * *
There has been another preat police victory, in
which the valour of the officials engaged in the combat
was nearly equal to that of those intrepid heroes,
O’Connor, Sadleir, and the Sherritt’s-hut constables at
the Battle of Olenrowan. The etene is laid in Queens-
land this time, and wo hear from the Rockhampton
papers that an inspector, two constables, and a sergeant
went out. near Springsure, to arrest a Kanaka who was
wanted for the murder of two of his mates. They found
him at the top of a mountain, unarmed, save for a few
stones with which he threatened the officers. Nothing
daunted, however, these brave follows secured their
quarry. And this is how they effected his capture.
They withdrew out of reach of his stones, and then
riddled him with rifle and revolver ballets. Thus
justice was satisfied. We have not yet heard what
reward the Queensland Government is going to bestow
upon these Bayards, but we are prepared to offer the
authorities a suggestion. At least, we would be open
to do so, only for our wholesome dreed of juries of four
and picnic policemen. We may risk the assertion, how-
ever, that these men are lost in this hemisphere. They
ought to be leading regiments to battle in oth« r climes
or shooting tame ducks from behind a waggon-wheel.
• • •
There was a row in Parramatta, the other day.
Senor Don Cavaliero Honriquos Ibbetts caught II
Conde Johnny Webb walking with his girl in Parra-
matta Park. So be gave Lilly a back-bander, and her
spark one straight from the shoulder Henriques was
fined a pound, and in court were produced the letters
she hod written him. Here is a sample of one :
“My own dear Harry,—l hope you are well.
I cannot be happy when yow are a way so long,
what do you think Mr. Atkins cams back to
Parramatta on Sunday morning. I told him I
was ingaged. I will tell you all about it on
Saturday he has gone back up country again
come np early dear harry (four kisses) your
cousin Sarah was down to see your mother bat
has gorn back. lam not at all well. Believe
me dear harry ever yours
“LILLY WALKER."
(Sixteen ikissts.)
Another says :
“ June Bib, 1881.
" Dear harry,—Why are yon treating me so
cruely If you have changed to me
who you basked to be your wife come and tell
mo so Father basked me wat was
the matter with you, —Believe me ever true,
“ Lilly Walker.”
(Two kisses.)
We are sorry Lilly has had her teeth loosened ; but we
are game to wager that even after Henriques’ ferocious
assault, they are not so loose as her—spelling. Escaped
another libel. Whoop 1
• * *
We have to again apologise for delay in onr
” revised edition,” but the fact is Biblical subjects
induce a bibulous temperament, and it takes ns all our
time to get our revising editor "oft it.” However,
here goes No. 3“ A meeting of the twelve was held
last night in the new Apostolic Hall, which is situated
in the street that is facetiously known as the straight,
and which leads out on the way to Joppa. His Lordship
Simon Barjona was in the chair, and the subject for
debate was • Are we doing our duty to the heathen ?’
The Rev. Mr. J. Iscariot opened with on able speech, in
which he gave it as his opinion that we were doing a
confounded sight too much for the ‘nigger’ family.
All Lis flock could muster for his own support this
year was a paltry £750, and he would like to know how
could any apostle preach the filth, and keep a ‘ker-
ridge,’ and take bis wife and family to ‘Yourup,’ or
oven to the Melbourne Cup. on a paltry screw like that
For his part, he was ‘Jack’ about this nigger biz., in
toto, and wouldn’t vote another dump for the whole
caboodle. The Rev. Mr. James of Alpbeus then rose
and said the Tabor Times was nothing better than a
saveloy wrapper Canon Philip said the Times was one
of our leading journals, and if that old Alphous swab
was game to come outside, he’d shift his ear in about
two twos, and don’t-you forget-it. The Rev. Mr. Bar-
tholemew tnen rose to order, and said he’d like to
know the name of that skunk who wrote to the Jeep-
Salem Evening News, and said he ran a gas company
Dean Matthew replied that if his worthy fellow-worker
in the Lord’s vineyard meant him, he’d beng his nose
as flat as a squashed banana. The Hev. Simon Zelotes
arose just here amidst great confusion, and declared
that there were a couple of mndheads in that assembly
who wanted to work him out of his billet, hut he didn't
give a tinker’s cuss for the whole gang. He never held
shares in Milbutn Creek; he never drank shandy-gaff
out of a bucket; and he never tickled a parishioner’s
wife under the chin, which was more than seme of his
friends could say, without they took to lying. Mode-
rator Mark said he rcgrettei to find such disagree-
ments amongst the chosen few, although it certainly
warmed him up to find the members of the Synod so
nice and frisky, but the fact still remained—they had
evidently lost eight of the original question, * Are we
doing our duty to the heathen ?’ The Rev. Mr J.
Iscariot then observed—’ D the heathen,’ and the
meeting broke up with the usual row and benediction."
[N.B.—Our readers of the “revised” will note that
there was a little difference in an apostolic "meet** in
the good old times and in those held of our own
enlightened days.— Ed. B.]
Lots of Zulu stories are out. Poor women
poor lads! Fourteen widows, ten working men, have all
won their thousands. Here are our little lines;—A
Cr woman residing at Woolloomooloo pawned her
img glass and smoothing-irons, and went into the hi*
sweep. She drew-a blank. Thirteen lads in a boot
factory snbsanbed for a ticket between themselves, and
drew-Wheatear. A clerk in a largo store in George-
street took £2 out of his master’s till to invest, hoping
to be able to settle other old scores. He took two
tickets, and got—two months. Four men in tho bush
instead of settling up for the paper, took two tickets •
they got nothing; now their paper is stopped. A poor
woman, with a husband and fourteen children, drew
her last £lO from tho bank, and took ten tickets—five
for herself and the remainder for the others; she got a
(blank) good hiding. A Presbyterian clergyman, who
said he d never have anything todo with the sweeps (not
meaning the bookmakers), took two tickets— out lor
himself and another for his deacon—who now refuses to
stump up, Ac. &c.
~ The courtesy of the Now South Wales railway
officials reminds the travelled stranger of the hoave-'arf-
a brick-at-him welcome which used to attend the
respectably-dressed visitor to the English mining dis-
tricts. A few nights ago, when the mail train arrived
at Mayee, it was found that one first-class and one
second-class compartment were unlighted. On the pas-
sengers in each carriage demanding lights, they were
furnished to those in the first-class compartment, but
not to those in the second. On this, the latter pas-
sengers again requested to be supplied with illumina-
tion. Then the following dialogue occurred
Ist Passenger : Hi, porter !
Ist Porter: Well, what’s the matter with you?
(Passes on.)
Ist Passenger (to second porter): Pcrter, pleaie
bring a light here.
2nd Porter (who is giving a policeman off duty a pipe
of tobacco): Ob, dry up; I’ve had enough graft for one
day.
2nd Passenger: This is disgraceful I (To Ist porter) i
Here, kindly give us a light.
let Porter ; What do yon want a light for P to admire
yourself in ?
Ist Pas*cngcr : Here, porter.
Ist Porter: Oh, dry up, you fellers; you're all Jaw.
(Whistle, and train departs )
• • •
Tho Hahndorflcorresponddnt of the Adelaida
rag which has arrogated to itself our title, has dropped
in for a bit of bad luck, if tho following paragraph from
our morning contemporary is to be believed :— •* A sen-
sat ion was caused at Hahndorf this afternoon by the
publio castigation of tho author of a scurrilous para-
graph appearing in the Adelaide Bulletin concerning
residents of that township. Is was found, after careful
Inquiry, who the correspondent was : and ha was tied
up and publicly flagellated by the indignant parties con-
cerned.’* This intelligence will, we conceive, be read
with very lively satisfaction both in Adelaide and in
Melbourne—cities which have circulating in their
midst “ Bulletins ’* which are not only an insult to
common-sense, but a disgrace to civilization. Of the
Melbourne chronicle of the doings of tho tag-rag and
bob-tail we had a melting notico last week ; and as the
South Australian edition of pot-boys’ personalities and
scullery-maids’ memoranda has thus brought itself
into notice, tho least we can do is to give it the farther
publicity of a notice at our bands, as then the proprie-
tary will have no grounds for accusing us of favouritism.
From the number before us, we see that the editor is
DAVID THE DESERTED.
A SYMPATHETIC ODE.
“ Afc the Water Police Court, an application was
made for the transfer of the publican’s license of the
Royal Oak Hotel, South Head Eoad. Paddington, to a
building situated in Stewart-street, Paddington. It
was stated in Court that the hall was the property of
Mr. David M'Beath, J.P. The application was unani-
mously refused by a bench of twenty magistrates.”—
News.
Eafused by twenty I and yet you
Made all that “ restitution
We sympathise, dear Dave, with you
In this dire “ persecution.”
Think how you have the Templars served 1—
■? At least, oh, Temp’rance brother.
They might have called to mind that “one
Good turn deserves another 1 ”
How thou hast toiled and slaved for them I
How on the Bench you panted
For years—no matter what the cose—
** I move it be not granted t ”
And after all these services.
To think ijou should be scouted I
And your own nominee, good man.
Contemptuously flouted 1
No earthly happiness is yours;
Your own mob scorn yon, even j
So now's the time—Elisha-like—
.. To soar up into heaven.
Maofoozle’s plate yon’ve long hump’d round;
(That’s on hia ipse dixit) ;
So tip the wink to him, and he
Will doubtless quickly fix it.
But ere you go, just let us know.
And we will be your debtor;
For old acquaintanceship we want
To send Jim Punch a letter.
MR. ALDERMAN ROBERT FOWLER.
THE SUNNY SOUTH AGAIN.
As on we journey through the throng
Of life, we often smile
When some good brother has gone wrong.
Or fallen into guile.
To see how he will get along
And mount each awkward stile.
Once in a city of the south *
A holy man did dwell;
Good words proceeded from his month.
And he his flock would tell
The best way to avoid that drouth
That parches tongues in hell.
And in that city lived a maid.
Some deemed she was d vine—
All day behind a bar, her trade
Was selling blood-rod wine;
And many an amorous man, 'tig said.
Did worship at her shrine.
Among them came this prelate bold,
Oh ! human weakness dire;
For carnal thoughts had taken hold
And burned with fierce desire.
One evening from his home he strolled.
But not in priest's attire .
But, ah! while thus disguised, he sang
And laughed with this dear maid.
An “Elder" entered—oh! the pang;
And oh ! the fuss he made—
The air with exclamations rang.
The parson—well, he prayed I
And now, oh 1 what a change we see—
The parson’s gome is o’er—
His flock, for peace, let him go free:
Of course, we know what for.
And now that darling girl and he
Will flirt again no more.
“THUNDER” IN A BALLAD.
Along the road to Double Bay,
There’s thunder in the air;
So down goes in our own mild way
The gist of the affair.
The hero is a jovial card.
Fond of a glass and grin ;
And when we found him, it bcfel
Ho had the painters in.
Ho loved the theatre dearly, and
Oft, when ho went at night.
He’d manage to got on the loose—
Which meant, of course, get tight.
On those occasions his fond spouse
A certain mode adopted . . .
Bnt we may merely mention that
'When he was caught, ho "copt it.**
He’d seen the " Pirates ” —sampled, too.
A quart of whisky toddy ;
So when he reached his home, he was
As drunk as anybody.
He looked up grimly at the house—
From sad he then grew sadder;
Prepared to ring, when, 10. he saw
Upreared a painter's ladder.
He hiccupped out a cry of joy.
Dispelled quick was his gloom ;
The top just reached the window of
A little lumber-room.
Once there he could creep softly to
Hrs room, get the clothes under.
And thus escape the usual dose
Of dread domestic thunder.
Ho mounted up the ladder tall,
Raised up the window-sash.
Slipped in . . . and then, ef crockery
There was a fearful crash I
Then shrieking white-robed forms arose.
To loudly yell began :
“ Oh I Missis I murder! Are! thieves I
Here is a horrid man 1”
A light was brought—She bore it, and
In freezing tones she said
** Don’t stop to talk about mistakes—
Bat please to come to bed.”
They’d changed the rooms, those painters had
Thot’s quite all, we declare;
Tot, on the road to Double Bay
There’s thunder in the air.


“Mr. Fred Harvie-Linklater,” and that gentleman
takes the opportunity of announcing through the
columns of his journal tint ha la. about to start in busi-
ness as a solicitor. As it may be surmised, when writ-
ing of himself the editor would be at his best, we have
much pleasure in clipping a portion of his metrical
announcement
“ Fred Harvie-Linklater,
A learned debater,
A deep cogitator.
An equity prater,
A common-law slater,
A forensio-potater.
An uncommon-tater,
A prove ’om-all-wrong I
Conceive him if you can,
A nisi prius young man,
With a terrible frown.
And a big wig and gown.
And a penchant for qui tarn 1" (ale.)
We trust Mr. Fred Hirvie-Linklater knows a little
more about law than he d.oos about versification. If he
doesn't, we wouldn't employ him to defend a black-
fellow for being present at a dog-fight.
« « •
It was tho night of the Melbourne Cup, and
there had been a general skinner. He was tall, and, as
the police reports have it, of good address. He entered
a small hotel, and, sitting down, ordered an expensive
dinner. When he was through with the solids, and
was well into the nuts and oranges, he said, “ Waitah,
give my compliments to the landlord, and ask him if
be will take a bottle of champagne with me." The
landlord expressing himself delighted, the Boederer
was ordered, and daring its consumption, the conver-
sation was general. When the last glass of the gold-
top was poured out and drunk, tho stranger said, “ Now
landlord, supposing a stranger came in and dined as I
have done, and then declined to pay the bill. What
would yon do?" * Whv, I should kick him out, sir,”
said the boniface emphatically. “Then,” said the
gentleman, rising deliberately and opening his coat-
.. tails, “I'll trouble you.”
A new paper has appeared in Oobar —the Cob ab,
Ntmaoee, and Louth Liberal— and is about the most
presentable first number of a rustic rag we have seen
since theTiNOHA Banner burst upon a startled universe.
In a leading article the editor broadly states that he
is going to “ court no man’s favour and four no man’s
frown " Poor fellow I We remember when we started
a country paper, and said tbo same thing ourselves;
and yet wo recollect one night, under the cover of dark*
ness, creeping round to the butcher’s, and telling him
that that satirical poem on "The death of a broken-
hearted cow," was not intended to reflect upon him;
after which we called on the bellman, and explained
that the par. which alluded to the fact of his possessing
a chronic hiccup was inserted without our knowledge.
The Louth Liberal (we have no space for Gubar and
Nymagee this trip) is excellently printed, and the items
are really well selected. There is a novelty, now, about
this extract from their report of the Bathurst Criminal
assault case, which is singularly refreshingDrs.
Bas Sett and Cortis, and two other prisoners who had
slept in the same cell as prisoner, and the bead gaoler
gave evidence, and the jury found Omobooo, sane."
Altogether, we are inclined to think that the Liberal
will be a boon to the neighbourhood in which it is
published, if only for the fact that its cleanly appear-
ance will be the means of forcing the rival rag
to invest in a new gardon-mower to machine
with, and to discharge the black gin and
Kanaka, who appear to be, at present, setting up the
paper.
From the Evening Lyre of Monday, wo cull
the following item of fashionable intelligence“ The
friends of the worthy landlady of the Hotel,
foot of street, will regret to hoar that she has
been confined to her room for some time, suffering fro a
a serious attack of erysipelas.’* We are awfully sorry
for the " worthy lady of the - —,** of course, and
sincerely trust she may soon get better. At the same
time, although she is a “public" character in one sense,
she can hardly bo termed so in another; and however
important it may have been to the reporter to secure
the insertion of the item, it cannot fairly be termed of
general interest. But, however, we must remember
we have bad rainy mornings lately, and a glass of
whisky is comforting when yon cmie off a damp ferry.
Besides, this kind of journalism is undoubtedly appre-
ciated by the lower classes. We know a young man in
the produce line who wants his new spring-cart noticed,
and has already saved up a side of bacon and a mutton-
ham towards that object. When he can conveniently
■pare a bag of flour and a pair of ducks, he reckons that
the dream of his life will be realised.
In a town that lies about a hundred miles, say,
due east, of Sydney, there is a Government pluralist,
who, not living in the odour of sanctity, is wicked
enough to think that the Sabbath is made for man, and
who therefore uses that convenient day for making np
bis accounts. The local parson holds a different idea.
He believes that man was made for the convenience of
the Sabbath, so he preached a pungent discourse on
the wickedness of doipg anything on that day, except
Binging hymns and seeding bibles to the heathen. As
a church is not a place where people can call one
another •'honourable liars," the pluralist, whooccupied
a prominent position, naturally objected to having
accusations thrown at him with deliberate emphasis,
and felt like a man being bit while his hands are tied.
He baa been carefully absent since on Sundays, and it
is supposed that be has established a pretty stiff
vendetta against the holy man, who says ho has no
chanoe of joining the white-robed throng unless he
gives up Sunday arithmetic.
BRIEF MENTION.
Sic transit—the small-pox waggon.
Spencer, the dentist, made hia “sugar” by
dabbling in sorghum!
The report of the Victorian Police Commission
occupies 720 printed pages. The Melbourne cheese-
mongers are in ecstasies.
Queensland socialility! Eighteen cases of whisky
were consumed at a ball on the Isis River, recently.
Several of the ladies remained sober.
An Annandale paper draws attention to the
legal necessity of collars for dogs, and then adds: “ we
give this timely notice to our readore."
Thomas Brown, cabman, was nearly drowned in
a gutter in Melbourne, being swept down the stream a
long distance. This reminds us of "Tom Brown’s
cool days."
Most people will bo glad to hear that the Vic-
torian Presbyterian Church declares firmly against
gambling among the yonth. This ju»t leaves the
clergyman free.
It costs £ 15,000 to build a post and telegraph
office at Goulburn, but £3300 is suffljieut to do the
same for Tam worth. At least, that’s the way tho money
is voted. And why is it ?
Here’s news ! An agitator speaking recently in
San Francisco on the great Land Question said that
** Parnell’s name was a guiding star even to tho poor
convict working in tho Australian mines."
The Australian, the Brisbane Roman Catholic
paper, gives a long notice of James Barry, the Cork
painter. We don’t enthuse much about a cork painter,
ourselves. Had it boen a cork drainer, now
Thus the Grenfell Pegged :—“ The amorous
couples who patronise our front do»r-step, for the pur-
pose of witnessing tho splendour of 4he morning star,
are informed that, in order to keep pace wijh tho times,
our palatial establishment has become the recipient of
a new coat of paint. However, rather than cause dis-
appointment, the editorial sanctum may be pressed
into the service; key on application." This is con-
siderate to fTie last degree, and we are pleased to find
that even a country newspaper office is good for some-
thing. .
The only man in Kockhampton opulent enough
to possess a bicycle was wedlocked recently. A four-
year old girl, hearing two women talking of the affair,
asked, with much naivete, if ho were “married on the
bicycle."
In a certain Public School up North, which has
eleven teachers, every male teacher bears the name of
Smith. What we now want to hoar of is a big establish-
ment in which every male employd answers to the
appellation of John Smith.
Pressmen are aware that every editor has some
pot subject iipon which he occasionally pours out the
wealth of his mag.-ivo mind. Now. the grand and
favourite topic on which the Daily Northern Abgus
editor hangs his gorgeous prose is—goats.
When it became known that Sir John Eobertson
had resigned, the people of Grafton, who have not yet
forgotten his “tchool foundation-stone speech," were
so down-hearted that they did not opou the local sausage-
wrap for a few days after day of publication.
There’s a fatality about the title of D.T. The
London Daily Telegraph recently had a leader on the
shipment of Australian mutton, and it spoke of the
delicacy of “ the flesh of the eross-bred sheep, which
spring from English rams and merino wethers/"
Says a recent issue of the Carcoar Mart :
“We frequently receive press telcgr ims, which are of no
earthly use to ourselves or readers." Our “heaifs
adored" might have lumped the whole concern, and
said “ the same remark will also apply to all our other
items.”
The bank clerks at Kiama have plenty of time
on their bauds, but they’re too good to go running
about town "in a frightfully dissolute state," like
some young men, so they called a meeting to see
what would be the beat thing to do in a quiet, religions,
yet inexpensive way. After a good deal of discussion,
they formed a marble club, and it’s now very edifying
to see them “ clear ” from the bank at 4 sharp, rush to
a level piece of ground, and then down on their knees
and stake their alleys and taws with all the guileless en-
joytr.ent of true manline-'s when engaged playing the
moral game of marbles.
It is a somowhat significant fact that Sydney
men who have returned from the Melbourne Cup carni-
val now patronise 61. cookshops, and limit their every-
day jewellery show to a set of pewter studs and a watch-
key. This comes of carting grist to the “ Miller and his
merry men."
Sitting round the barristers’ table at the
Central were Jack Want, Buchanan, Irving, and Tarle-
ton, “What’s your verdict, gentlemen?" enquired
the Clerk of Arraigns of the jury, who had just filed in.
"Guilty.” was the reply. “If he’d only had mo!"
growled David.
Says the N.Y. Spirit op the Times:—The
Australians declare that Dewhnrst, a tragedian, is
superior to Booth or Irving. The reason of this is
that they havo never seen Booth or Irving." This is
the result of some copies of the Herald and D.T.
going home in a boot-trunk.
Taken all round, the Australian public is pretty
moan. It was the bookmakers’ tnrn this year, and now
in every paper you find a paragraph commencing: "It
is to be hoped that Government will promv>tJy introduce
a bill for the supressiou of'that huge system of gamb-
ling, by means of,” etc. etc.
“ You’re goin’ dlggiu’, ain’t yor.” asked a
a promising child of a visitor, while a room full of
people listened with all their might. “ No, my dear,”
answered the gentleman—“ why ?’’ “Well, I thought
you was, ’oos pa. said yesterday that It wouldn’t be
long before you filed jour shovel.” Sensation.
It’s just as plain that the drivers of butchers’
carts are re-incarnated Honan charioteers as that the
bodies of Sydney telegraph messengers contain the souls
of defunct jockeys. The other day, at Grafton, a little
boy was run over by a batcher’s cart. The driver was
brought up for carelessness, but the case was dismissed,
and the defendant’s lawyer rounded on the complainant
by remarking that the Borough Council should frame
by-laws to prevent school-children from going homo by
way of Qaeen-stroet—which, it may bo rombered, is one
of the least-used-for-traffic thoroughfares in Grafton,
and reminds one less of Fleet street than of the verdant
downs of the distant Barcoo,
A sporting 1 joke. This is an ad. from Collins-
street, Melbourne : —“ As sweetmeats form no incon-
siderable portion of the luxuries indulged in by our
population, it is imperative they should be perfectly
pure.” Jimmy Miller might paste that lot iu his hat,
or wire it round to the Victorian “ slaveys”—less com-
mission.
Irate Sergeant-Major to Gunner on full-dress
parade, pointing to rust on gan: •* What do you moan
by appearing on parade with your rifle in that state ? "
Gunner: “Oh! I beg pardon; I have brought the wrong
one. This is your rifle : yon gave it to me to clean, this
morning, you know.” Tableau. Ahem ! “ Silence in
the ranks 1”
An Orange correspondent wishes to know how
many of thoi-e Milburn Checkers who prefer ‘‘death to
dishonour” have committed suicide? Up to the pre-
sent date, we find forty have committed moral suicide;
but, if our enquirer means the physical souse—why,
what docs he take us for ? How can a politician be.
come dishonoured ?
In one of the Northern districts, the other day,
a well-known publisan, whose wife dicid about eleveu
months since* was married to » local belle. The bride-
groom wore crape, about four inches wide, as mourning
for his late departed wife. The bride is aged 18. Tin-
kettling was commenced, but spirits were supplied free
at the bridegroom’s hotel.
A man said, in Dunedin, the other day, that he
wou'd just as soon swear on the Arabian Nights as on
the Bible. Very likely. The introduction of the
former work iuto our police court for the use of con-
stables aud defendants in assault cases would be the
saving of a good deal of room below. Aud money too
now that sulphur is at 26/f, *
The Shellharbour Sons of Temperance had their
annual meeting last month. The loading publican,
when ha beard they were coming, promptly ordered
four extra casta of Marshall’s beer, and the day aftar
the flare-up he hadn't a loug-sleever left. Of course
none of tho " Sons " asked for beer; it was always “a
1 Sootch soda, a long one, please.”
* We read this in the Herald of last week.—
Brown, Nov. 8 At her residence, 127 Brown-street,
Woolloomooloo, Johanna, the beloved wife of Ju'ius
Thompson, aged 41 years, leaving- a family of thirteen
to lament her loss. Safe in tho arms. Bless the Lord!
Bless tho Lord!” This maybe indicative of sublime
resignation, but it reals like something else.
We’re been waiting patiently to hoar what the
Rockhampton people, in their wrath, are alont to do
with the editor of the Jackass. We thought the
moning p.ipars of the town were funny enough for all
Christendom. However, the Jackass editor ought to
be encouraged—encouraged a little way out of town,
and—well, we don’t care to go into particulars. Some
ol the old Bottlers of Rockhampton know how it’s douo.
He stood beside the grave, as they
The coffin lowered in ;
And heard tho loose earth fall upon
The shining plates of tin.
" The Lodge has done tho proper thing.
By you, old girl, that’s clear."
thug he spoke; then strolled away.
To sadly— get a beer.
• W , o A a r° ¥ en for man y yoara under tho improa-
Sion that fair facts formed the loading principle of tho
Hunter-street oracio. Hero are some of its utterances,
ozs. of gold from acres of stone.** The Sirocco
cutter setting a jibboom/* and tho Githona having
boon close-hauled from South Head to Shark Island,
in order to weather tho wind**—these, together with
several other horse-marine nautical phrases, form a
farrago such as oven Captain Noah never dreamt of.
Tho shortest speech on record was made at tho
Criminal Court on Friday. A desperate looking party
charged a feeble old man with stabbiug him, bat it was
elicited m the evidence that he had previously struck
the prisoner on tho head with a frying-pan. The old
party was very deaf, and was allowed to stand before
the jury-box; so when the case for tho Crown was over
be faced round and said. "Gouts , look at him und thou
SIS'; JS&r ’ tb » H ’«“ ‘»™-
Ho was a Northern shopkeeper, and had backed
for the Melbourne Cup. A friend, knowing
this, told him on (ho evening of the race that Whoatcur
bad won. In the exuberance of his spirits, ho bought
his cat a pen orth of meat scraps. By and bye, the
correct news came along, and then this noble-hearted
dealer in half-crown wagers suddenly discovered there
wadi t much for a cat to do” about his place, and gave
pussy us quietus with a crowbar. He could not. how-
ever, recover the meat.
The Melbourne Customs officials have had to
apologise humbly to Mr. David Cohen, the Melbourne
tobacconist whose stock they seized because ho was
selling below (bo duty rate. They thought ho had
secured a lot of tobacco from the wreck of tho Eric tho
Red. By tho way, for many weeks after tho wreck iu
question good Virginian was as plentifnl in Western
Victoria as seaweed. The trade sales of smokables
went down to zero, and no young man was admitted to
polite society who hadn’t half a cwt of “ Eric the Red”
beneath Lis couch.
A correspondent of tho Cakcoar Mart recently
in that journal sketched an msthetio lady. In
describing her room be says“ The table was stripped
or its usual books and bric-a-brac; on it stood a tall
slender vase, in it n long ungainly yellow flower of the
aanoail tribe. Some buttercups lay near her on tho
floor, and two or three educated butterflies wore trotting
about ou the polished table, a small iguana, also tam**,
was rattling about on the cnrpotless floor." What’s
this joker “giving ns?" This was either written by
ICusticus or tho local barber,
W hat will wo hare to do with our Maoris ” ia
the question which now exercises tho Pakeha. The fact
is Just beginning to dawn on the minds of tho New
Aonlaud rulers that a peaceful war ia far more expensive
to carry on than an out-and-out Isaudula One half of
the dusky rebels have been “ run in," und the rest will
follow. This will make things exceedingly good for
Government contractors—but won’t the free boarding
and lodging of a couple of millions of healthy savages be
just a trifle rough on the Southern treasury ? Te Whiti
isn t half the fool we thought he was.
Respectable persons who are occasionally in
the habit of going to gaol, would do well to keep away
from Coonambie. Some of the roads up there are so
bad that prisoners by coach have to occasionally get
out and walk, and actually assist the horses by pushing
the lead a.ong for them. Oae “stickor-np” was so
fatigued with his exertions in the good cause, last week,
that he forgot to replace his leg-irons and ntqrn to
custody, and the consequence is that a couple of tho
constabulary force" are now making lamentation-,
and positively refuse to accept the slightest comfort.
The Tamwoeth News devotes about two
columns in a recent issue to the Great Northern Bail-
wsy extension. Uralla to Glea Inues. Half a column is
devoted to the names of the employes, from the
managers down to the time-keepers and engineer’s
ebammen; and, according to tho News, in each indi-
vidual ment.oned the contractor has secured a‘ good
all round man." AVe are surprised, however, to notice
two important omissions from this elaborate report,
viz , the names of the navvies engaged, and that of tho
manager s retriever dog. Rov-r at least should havo
got a line as a good all, round dog.
He was an officer high in the Prison Depart-
ment. Having taken a tab to roach another part of tho
street, ho was anxious to know whether the J«hu would
avoid the tram route. The vehicle flew along Elizabet h*
street, and the anxious official, seeing a tram coming
with speed in an opposite direction. hail.d tho cabman
Hi, Hi! Is your horse used to tho tram !” “No sir*
be ain’t," was the reply, “ I’ve brought him this'wav
to try him. Then a noise in tho cab, a terrific bound
and five feet ten inches of departmental humanity
lodged like an aorolito on the pavement, Paot was
cabby was a “long-sentenoer," and had only just coma
out*
Armidalo rejoices in tho possession of a real
bve poet, and when the bor-luncheon time is prosperous
this Northern Milton brews sonnets and odes that
would disgrace a blackfollow. As a sample of this
Surgative poet’s musical misery, we clip the following
•om his Byronic account of the late races—
“ I tried to shy a cocoa nut
Olf from a stick to Grafton;
I tho ight I had succeeded, but
1 hadn’t, so I laughed on."
There are three gaols in Armidalo. and yet the poet si
allowed to go at large, and to drive respectable peoulo
into suicides graves. 1
The Rockhampton Aeous in deprecating tho clov-
ing of the side doors of hotels on Sunday, says “We art
in apositionto speak confidently upon the subject " On this
point wo have no doubt whatever; but it would have
perhaps boon just as well if nothing had boon said about
the matter, for three days after the par. appeared a
telegram want the round of tho papers that the editor
bad been thrown from his horse. Auent this latter
catastrophe we clip the following from Queensland
PctsCH : When wo heard, a few weeks ago, that Mr
Robison of the Northern Aroos had been thrown from
bis horse, and fallen upon a log, wo sympathised with
him greatly It has occurred to us now that it ia Just
about time to begin to sympathise with the log.**
The other day, tho Spaniards who potatoes
at Reroit, near Warrnambool, indulged ia a “hurling
, Afc , h« r ley" the players run about in their
bare feet, and it fell out that one of .the foreigners (by
name Mick Burke) received what aay other kind of human
being would have regarded as a terrible blow on tho big
toe, from a blackthorn wad.ly. After a few minutes.
Mick looked down, and saw that the fate of his toe. or
rather his toe itself, hung on a thread—of skin
Begorra, said Michael, soliloquising, “ there's a bit
of mo fut gone ! " He stooped, pulled the too off, flung
it away, tied up the injured member, and went on with
the game. This is the kind of thing which, under altered
circumstances, would be called heroism, and would
obtain for Michael the Victoria Cross.
Roseby Park, Shoalhaven, was recently opened by
Boseby pirn, and dm ing his Ciceronio oration, the worthy
parkist observed that " broken brandy and beer bottles
lying about a park were a d.mgerous eye ore.” So they
are, because one naturally thinks with legrot of the
time when the “ marines ” were sound, and held four
glasses, but what does tho Shoalhaven Solon know of
thu r Further on, John also remarked that, “he knew
some of tha beautiful spots down Sydney Harbour tha^
THAT DREADPUL TRAM.
Farewell, farewell, my only dear,
For ready now I am.
And in the distance I can hoar
The fast approaching tram.
My will is in the desk, you know.
My spare cash is with Sam;
And now, my darling. I must go
To meet the coming tram.
I’ve kissed the little ones asleep,
Each slumbering little lamb,
And now, my sweetest, do not weep—
I may survive the tram.
My Policy is all secured.
In case I get a jam ;
*Tis sweet to know my life’s insured.
Before I mount the tram.
Excuse, my own, this trickling tear,
Yon know it is not sham ;
I weep because I leave you, dear.
To ride the dreadful tram.
Bat, hark! I hear the tinkling bell,
I mark the crush and cram ;
Oh 1 pray for me, my dearest Nall,
While I am on the tram.
A LEGEND OF THE ARISTOCRACY.
The son of a lord
Came to Mackay,
He’d studied abroad.
And was given to lie.
He’d fixed hie abode
In a house up the street j
To his landlady owed,
For bis bread and his meat.
Full three weeks did pass,
He nightly did revel.
He emptied his glass.
And talked sweet “ devil-devil/'
The money, er quittance,”
Was the landlady’s tale;
“ I’ll get my remittance
To-day, by the mail."
Next morning defined
Two forms in the street—
A lady behind.
And in front, the elite I
Her face wore a scowl.
He laughed at his trick ;
But, good Lord, what a howl.
When she planted that brick I
WHAT! STILL A J.P.?


RILEY BRI
356 GEORGE STREET, ")
600 GEORGE STREET, }
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEW
AMD
10 COLEMAN STRE]
THE CK E APESI
nr txB
AUSTRALIAN C(
THE OEIQINATO
NOTED £5 E
£B Family Bale.
1 pair White or Colonred
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
6 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
[ Shirting
8 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2$ yards Gambroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women's
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, <&c. <fco.
M
21
2 I
ll
11
iE
4 Ii
2 Ii
.21.
n.
2 It
lit
i d
I
Pnf
1 P
2 B:
1 pn
1 In
H I
£\
ifi
10 ya
20 ya
12 St
20 W
10 go
6 ya
A
wear.
£5 Men's Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest ,/ ,
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, largo
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars. Ties, &o.
£6 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies* Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
5 Night-gowns
S Petticoats
The above are made of
good lengcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5
1 pa
1 wl
5 ya
10 wl
C
6 wl
12 ya
12 ya
,4 pa
1 pa
1 Di
0 sti
6 Bi
4 la.
3 ya
T
T
£5
25 yd
3 ya
1 do
1 Bh
1 La
1 Tr
1 pa
RILEY BROT
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2
4 Infants’ Shirts €
2 Infants' Night-gowns j Hai
2 Infants’ Long Flannels jj 0r
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown rfoi
2 Infants’ Boilers 1 j u f a
i dozen Diaper Squares Squ
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square i infs
2 Bibs Silk
1 Pair of Wool Boots C-,
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
£Z Stockman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
2 Nlgl
wre shunned by respectable people on holiday occasions
on account of the degrading scenes that took place
through the sale of intoxicants on the ground. If we
B»id this, the Palladium would waltz along to-morrow,
and run Ua in without the option. But, then, we haven’t
a park, and we’re not a Eosebv. Heaven be praised!
The next vexed question in the Council—“ Them
blocks.”
So the Irish rifle team were beaten on Saturday.
Their hand is only ‘'la” at live targets—landlords.
Bismarck said, at the opening of the German
Parliament, that the peace of Europe was more assured
at the present time than ever. Which piece P
n What class of people do you mostly get down
here ?” we enquired recently of an elderly waiter at a
pub. down the harbour. “ Huggers and muggers,” was
the prompt reply.
When an English Duchess heard that Lord
Charles Soott was going to be married to an Australian
girl, she exclaimed, “ However will he persuade her
to wear clothes in the hot weather I”
Coai.lt Fletcher i—‘‘A Chinaman at Mnd-
melong, near Aralnen, was choked on Wednesday while
eating part of a roasted cat." The Newcastle paper is
the only true society organ after all.
The Tumut Times mentions that a settler in
that vicinity recently swapped an aged man, who had
hang about his place for many years as general handy
man till he was unfit for work, for k fine sheep dog I
When Carooar Mary heard of Baker’s expulsion,
she wiped away a scalding tear, and then said: "Wire up
to Sands’s for a conple of bales of double-demy, and let
Tom never leave off grinding ink even at his meals.”
When Mr. A. B. Eae arrived in Carooar, it is
said that he was met by a deputation consisting of a boy
with a raw potato. A. B. then ” retired in favour of his
friend, Mr. Campbell”—closely followed by the potato.
The Presbyterian is going ahead with a
vengeance. Last week, under the head of " money
received,” it acknowledged the sum of £4 ss. Who
shall say, after this, that religious journals are not well
supported ?
Time, 9 a.m.; and man swaying to-and-fro out-
side a Qoulbnm hotel. 11 Hollo I how did you get so
full?” said a passing friend. And borne upon the
Argyle breezes was this reply: "C. J. Eobertsh oontesh
’loctionsh,”
Mr. Baker “ was most enthusiastically received
at Carcoar by a large and influential meeting." "Of
coarse he was," says Fergy—" wasn’t another gentle-
man enthusiastically received by a large and influential
meeting at Jerusalem, 1900 years ago.”
So that assault case didn’t oome off, after all.
But, then, no young clergyman should turn up at the
early morning train, wearing dirty boots, carrying a
copy of the D.T., and having his coat buttons in the
wrong holes.
That boisterous journalist of the Far North,
Thady O’Kane, is fishing, so it is again stated, for a
P.M.-ship. Thady says there is no truth in the rumour.
We are glad of this. Be ought to know that the Bench
is not his place I
London Truth calls the Whithhall Review
•'an obscure weekly journal," and the W.E. terms
Truth “ a melange of grotesque falsehoods." We
rather expect the Protestant Standard must exchange
with these journals.
How is it that so many undertakers were pre-
sent at the recent trial In connection with that subur-
ban bone-mill nuisance P “ Dusk to dust; ashes to
ashes." The phosphatio remains of many a good man
have helped to grow Chinese turnips.
The New York Clipper of tho 15th ultimo
contains a portrait of Michael Bush. We heartily con-
gratulate our contemporary upon having produced, in
really fine and artistic style, a life-like picture of Mr.
John M’Laughlin, M.L A. Vive Vart.
The proprietor of the Auckland Free Lance
calls the proprietor of the Auckland ** society ” journal
•' Battlebones of tho Snobbery**.” All the papers there
seem to keep calling each other names; but there is not
halt so much fun in the lot of them as is to be found in
a ” leader” in tho Western Independent.
Two clergymen together ** wolfing at the Coffee
Palace." Ist Holy Man, reading the Herald : “There’s
a caul for sale at 155 Devonshire-street." 2nd Holy
Man; •* A call for sale. A woonder boo mony sutters
there a’ and hoo mooch siller they want for ut."
In the Herald of the 12th instant is to be
found tho following Carooar wire j—” Messrs. Lyell and
Oowan have received a telegram from the manager of
the Balmoral Claim, Carcoar, stating that 28 tons
yielded 195 acres of amalgam.” This comes of keeping
zoedone in the cupboard.
The Bulletin attempt to bring about a legiti-
mate increase of the population is becoming historical.
A writer in the Manning Eiver Times, speaking of a
pionio at which he attended, vouches for its respect-
ability in these terms: —“ I do not say that I saw any.
thing * Clontarflsh’ about it."
The Cooma Express, with an acumen beyond
its years, has discovered that, in the Milbom Creek
affair, ” Mr. Badgery voted in favour of Mr. Qarrett on
Friday, but Mr. Tooth had not the courage to vote at
all." They also infer that this tooth will bo probably
stopped in Monaro in consequence.
The D.T., in reporting Sandeman v. Daintrey,
says:—” This was an action brought by Mr. L. Sande-
maa, official assignee in the estate of the late Q. S.
Dibbs ” This is the first we have heard of Oeorge
Richard’s death. We wonder what he died of. Surely,
the Telegraph has not been writing any more leaders
about him lately P
Says a rustic rag “ Edward Clark, assatdted
at Melbourne by Charles Dickens, a nephew of the
the great novelist, has died from the effects. Dickens
is still in custody." Only fancy, a “ Dickens” in the
dock 1 If we were related to even such a great writer
as Lewis Scott, we should expect to he allowed to oc-
casionally kill a man or two.
Two young soft-goods men were last week
“shook" on tho same barmaid, so leaned over the
counter all day and drank opposition to one another. It
being tacitly agreed that whoever gave in first should
relinquish the prize to his rival. That night one of
the competitors slept in the Exhibition grounds, and
the other in the watchhouse; so now the match has got
to be drunk all over again.
Eleven Walgett people have each sent ns a copy
of tne Walgett Mail, last Saturday’s issue of which
consists of two and three-quarter columns of advertise-
ments and a column and a quarter of news. The prin-
cipal item of Information is a paragraph to the effect
that “ our compo. has been, and still is, on the spree to
such an extent that he has forgotten his duty en-
tirely.” In consequence of this, the editor hopes, 40.
Poor devil 1 we know what it is, ourselves.
The bookmakers who organised the gigantic
£20,000 sweep have given £lOO to the Sydney
charities. They can well afford to spare this
sum, we should think, out of their percentage on
the twenty thou., if the same elevated tactics were
adopted in the cases of other favourites as in that of
the home Sweetmeat. But, Ist us not look a gift-horse
in the mouth! When we feel very bad indeed, we
intend to give the charities something ourselves.
Time, 7 p.m. Scene, the Park. First pedes-
trian to second ditto; “ Why, what on earth do you
carry those arms for? A revolver, a knuckle-duster, a
sword-stick, and a life-preserver 1 And what is that
paper you’ve got tied round your hat P Are you afraid
of robbers ? " “ No. friend,” was the reply ; “in these
times arms are necessary, and the document you have
observed is a certificate of character. I have to meet
three policemen every evening on my road home from
the office."
They manage things better in Victoria, In a
libel case, the other day, the newspaper proprietors
applied to have the case removed from the Supreme
to tho County Court, on the ground that plaintiff had
no means to pay costs if the case should go against
him. Such an application would, under no circum-
stances, be entertained in this colony, howerer im.
pecnnious the plaintiff might be. N.S.W. will, in a few
weeks, have an admirable exposition in the Insolvent
Court of the financial affairs of some of the people who
bring libel actions against newspapers.
There is an antiquated fossil in the office of a
very big journal in Spitsbergen, who advises youthful
contributors in something like the following terms: —
•'lf ever you feel inclined to make a forcible remark,
or use a strong expression in your writings, tone it down,
tone it down / never make a direct observation upon any-
thing or anybody, if yon can possibly avoid it; but if
you do, be sure to tone it down, tone it down 1" If
this remnant of a palcezoic age and his advice are at all
popular among the literary staff of the paper, it accounts
for a good deal of the coke in the milky nut.
She was a model of a servant—neat, clean,
small-handed, and pretty—and had been there a week.
The master of the bouse was in raptures with her,
and everything in the mansion went along as smooth
as a box-wood ball down a ten-pin alley. One morning,
the lady of the house, in coming down to breakfast,
happened to inspect the row of boots in the hall.
They were all fairly polished, but these of her husband
shone like a silver-mirror. That night he was waited
on by a red-headed girl, in 21-inch bluchers, who
breathed like a grampus and smelt like a boiling-
down factory. No questions were asked.
When one of Mr. Wilson’s clowns fell under the
feet of the Afghan pony. Salamander, that spirited little
animal helped itself to two large bites, and was with
I difficulty beaten off. It is admitted that it has on
Crions occasions bitten one man’s nose off, nearly the
d of another, and kicked every Hindoo in the Circus ;
hut, as the pony is valuable, it is to be kept in the Show
! Mr. Wilson will give Salamander another chancel It’s
very good of Mr. Wilson, and shows that he is doing all
he can for the comfort of -the pony. But the question
is, how many chances are the men to have P And, if
there are many more chances, will there he any man
left?
In the Hbrald, the other day, was the follow-
ing advertisementA comfortable bedroom to let;
no ot’r boa’s; private family. Mrs. , Blank-street,
Eedfern." "No ot’r boa’s " we consider very good,
and a great improvement on Pitman’s stenography.
When next we want to change landladies, we shall put
It thus i—" W’d 'n 'e n’gb’d o' 'U’o' fu’ed ap’t’. Ch’n
o’j’tdt’. P’ge 'd s’o’r b'hs. Qa' , dp’n , . No’ 'ss 't'n
o’e t’w’ pr we’,” Ac. Ac. Which, being interpreted,
i means: "Wanted, in the neighbourhood of Woolloo-
mooloo, famished apartments. Children objected to.
Plunge and shower baths. Gas and piano. Not less
than one towel per week," Ac. Ac. 1
In commenting on the case of Dr. Van Heekeron,
the Prbsbttbriah has a loader which is about as long
as a tram notice, and about half ae concise. Here it is,
in ite fall glow of scholarly splendourA Sydney
medical man by the name of Abraham John Van
Heekaren has been tried at the Metropolitan District
Court on a serious charge. The jury were not able to
agree, but the circumstances are such as te bring the
medical profession into contempt. The offence laid to this
man’s charge is one, no doctor should demean himself to
do. It is a grievous abuse of knowledge and position." A
man who can write a leader like this, oughtn’t to be
thrown away on the staff of a sectarian paper. His
proper position would be either writing love-sonnets in
a sylvan grove, or special correspondent to a tannery.
He was a Bishop of the C. of E., and a High
1 Churchman, too—aye, and a portly one as well. He
was on a tour through his diocese, and arriving at a
river, crossed in a punt worked by a hand-rope. The
puntman looked hot and weary. His Lordship kindly
lent a hand—pulling vigorously, after the manner of a
muscular Christian. Approaching the opposite bank
the puntman slackened pace, and called out to his
Lordship to “let go the rope," but he, not hearing,
continued to wire in. “Let go that rope,” in a louder
voice, but to no purpose—his Lordship heeds hot. The
puntman, rushing up, roughly removes his Lordship’s
hand, and says, in an angry voice, “ Why the Gehenna
don’t you let go that blank rope ?’* His Lordship now
never lends a hand to that hot and weary-looking punt-
man.
Haytown lately held an orgie, and the pro-
gramme, which was fitted up by a son of a certain
iEaeulapius, is about one of the most rekerky
things we ever tumbled over. Mr. Denny Brien
C.M.0., was the impressario, and we leant from
his gorgeous sheet that the charges were—
Male adults. Is. fid.
Female ditto. Is.
Children, fid.
The extra fid. was tacked on to the male adults in order
to shut ent the Press, and keep (he affair respectable.
And we are further pleased to find that “fruitand
cordials were also to be had on board,” and that Mr.
D. W. Brian's organ was also in attendance.” Hnrroo
for Dinny I Some of these days he’ll be able to start a
libel action.
A man has a matrimonial “ ad.” in the Dubbo
Dispatch, of which the following is a portion:—■*• The
advertiser requires eligible parti under 25 years of ago.
She mnst be fairly accomplished and good-looking, and
must possess independent means. . . . The money
consideration is simply a safeguard for domestic abund-
ance and enjoyment. Address, pro tern., to Mr. G. Chil-
bter, G.P.0., Sydney." Now, “Mr. Chilster," what’s
your game ? Are you tired of weighing tea and ourran fs,
or does your little Kent-street pub. want a new beer-
engine? But, if so, why look to Dubbo for it? You
might give the Sydney girls a chance. Mayhap you
have done so, though, and they didn’t bite. You say
also, yon giddy boy, that you are of “ good standing In
society." If so, why not look at home for a heiress.
Footmen have, you know, frequently married their
masters’ daughters.
M'Elhone, not long ago, raised an objection
to any additional allowance being granted to our
Reginald, on the ground that he was the yonng gentle-
man who set an example, which a lot of other fools
like himself had followed, by introducing a half-go-
cirt-half-po’-shay to the colony. It would have done
outspoken Mac.’s heart good to have Been one of these
swells driving his Angus village cart into town the
other morning, with two brass taps screwed into the
backboard. The owner says he wondered why the
gervant girls all along his line of route were brandishing
milk jugs at him, and he now remembers that he ran
over quite a number of kittens. To avoid this sort of
thing in future, he intends to keep the little trap
locked up every night, or at least to remove all angers
that may lead any of his friends, who are given to
practical joking, into temptation.
Out in the Far West, “ where the mighty Mis-
souri rolls down to the sea,” they had a lynching
soirie the other day, at which a very promising yonng
man, named Charles Howlett, was the chief actor.
Charles had been converted, bnt it seems the job had
not been well done. The sanctity evidently didn’t
soak in, for, shortly alter giving himself to the Lord,
he mistook another man’s horse for his own, and a
dozen of his friends considered it good to sequester
him from public life for a while in an inexpensive
boarding-house, so that he conld think without being dis-
turbed. When he left its hospitable roof, in a moment
of thoughtlessness he fell into a similar error in regard
to a watch, so be was again secluded. While there, he
had a little difference with the gaoler, who was bnried
next day. The citizens were so offended at this act of
momentary indiscretion on Charles’s part, that they
deemed it advisable to have the little soirie alluded to,
at which great enthusiasm prevailed, and everything
passed off successfully. Charles does not live in
America now: he resides in a “ land that is fairer than
day."
If ever we get into another libel action, there is
one thing which will comfort us—O’Donovan Bossa is
not likely to bs foreman of the jury. We don’t, of
course, mind having a man in that capacity who is an
open sympathiser with our adversaries, nor one who
comes into court from the start prepared with bis ver-
dict, no matter what the nature of the evidence will be.
This kind of thing we are used to hearing of; but from
what wa have recently read about O’Donovan, we are
afraid that he would be—to put it mildly—unreliable.
Says the New York correspondent of the World, who
recently visited this nitro glyoerinish patriot:—“ I
asked Mr. Bossa how it came to pass that the attempts
upon the London Mansion House and elsewhere proved
such miserable fizzles. ' Because we haven’t means
enough,* he replied; ‘ but the money is coming in.
Here,’ opening a drawer as he spoke, and producing a
P.O. money order, ‘are sixteen dollars towards the
dynamite fund. And do you know who this order is
from ?’ gazing affectionately upon it. • I’ll tell yon;
iit’a from Chattanooga, and, strange to say, it’s from
the man who blew np Clorkenwell.'" No; on considera-
tion, we will pass O'Dcmovan, bat there is a fair open-
ing for the Chattanooga joker here as a policeman.
The Distress people, however strong they may
be in theology, and however much gifted with hamoar,
are not, apparently, linguists of a very high order.
Indeed, Judging from an Usae which has been sent to
os, we should imagine that our holy brother seribes
know rather less about French than John Davies. The
following letter, from Admiral Courbet to the Arch-
bishop, is given thus in his Grace's paper
**Noum£», le Ist Septembre, 1831.
•' Monseignenr,— Te m’empressa de remeretV
Votrt Grandeur de la lettre obligeante qu’elle
m'a fait I’honneur de mVcriau. Veti dtd fort
heureux de conconrir, comma Catholique, a
I’ceuvro que Votre Grandeur a entreprise et Je
m’6n treuve bien rrfcompensd ddjapar
age flatteur qu" elle a bien touler ra'adresser.
Laiguer agri'er, Monswgnenr, I’assurance do ma
hanU considiraditn, et da mes sentiment#*
dtvania.
"C. AMIRAL COURBET.
** Monseignour I’Archeveque do Sydney."
No D.T. critique win ever funnier than this 1 Happily,
the Admiral’s well-known abstemiousness places the
possibility of his ever having penned the letter, as it
stands, out of the question; otherwise, doubtless the
Republican Government would immediately cause him
to be suspended. It can’t be denied, however, that
rum has leaked into it somehow.
There was a lively time outside the horse-bazaar
the other night. During the day, a man in the Survey
Office had bought a horse—a tall animal, with a coat as
red as a marine’s shell-jacket, and an eye so green and
fiery that a hundred yards down the road at night it
looked like a ship's light. There was something hang-
ing to the horse besides its nine-inch tail—a story,—but
being naturally of a reticent disposition, the grooms
did not regale the buyer with any hippie reminiscences
in which his steed figured at the time of purchase.
Still a kind of morbid curiosity appeared to seize the
personnel of the yard in relation to the horse, so at 7
p.m., when the new owner had to come and take away
nis purchase, there was a considerable muster of grooms
and nondescripts hanging about the entrance to the
bazaar. Punctual to the moment, the Survey gentle-
man appeared, and being assisted into the saddle, shock
the reins and prepared to start. The horse, however,
having made up his mind to stop in town that night,
backed quickly into the stall from whence he had been
taken. Being ousted frem thence by means of remon-
stances and a pitch-fork, the " animile ’’ clattered out
into the street. Once in the middle of the road, it
turned round, and glancing at its master reproachfully,
bit him sharply in the ball of the toe. After this, it
made an attempt to climb a Bedfern ’bus, then, start-
ing off, bolted with great speed to the Bailway Station,
causing the pursuit of its owner by at least a dozen
constables for furious riding. Having inspected the
terminus and glanced at the circus, it allowed itself to
be guided in the direction of Devonshire-street, where
its master resided. A carrier’s four-horse van happen-
ing to be going the same direction, the Survey man's
steed kept company with his team, jamming its unfor-
tunate owner’s leg every two minutes against the off
side of the off-side leader. There being a firemen’s
procession in the next street to the equestrian’s, his
horse turned off at a tangent to listen to the music, and
finished by sitting down in the middle of the crowd.
By the time he was dragged home by the bridle, it was
considerably past 10 o’clock, and when the purchaser
came out of the stable, after prizing the horse in with
a handspike, he had a swollen knee, a twisted ankle,
and a barked nose; while his clothes looked for all the
world as if they had boon fought for by savages, and
then mangled in a saw-mill. Next day the steed was
coaxed away into a paddock, and now is advertised for
solo to a glue factory.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A telegraphing contest took place between a
male operator at Lyttelton (N.Z) and a female operator
at Christchurch. The latter transmitted 1050 words in
half-an-hour, beat in* her opponent by 140 words For
the first time in 23 years Wanganui district (N.Z.) Is
entirely free from scab In sheep; The general elee-
tioni in N.Z. eventuate second week in December
Successful agricultural shows were held in the N.Z.
provinces, Canterbury ondAuckland, on Nov. 9. A lot
of Australian cattle and sheep were among the ex-
hibits An effort will shortly be made to secure a
direct service of steamships from Great Britain to
Otago (n Z.) on a different basis to any yet proposed.
Douglas sentenced to death at the Central Criminal
Court, for an unnatural offence Chinaman choked at
Adelong while eating a cat’s eye as a cure for Kind-
ness The Italian, Ombono, sentenced to death at
Bathurst assizes, gets imprisonment for life Musical
Society formed at Bathurst A reef at Hargraves,
near Mudgee, yielded 71b. weight of gold on Nov. 17,
and 70oz. on the following day Sergeant Powell, of
“ the Central." is suffering from a slight attack of
small-pox. Three other cases occurred during the
week Electric railway signals a success on the Syd-
ney railways Six-foot reef, glittering with gold,
struck at Temora Now goldfield, fifteen miles from
Gonlbnrn....No. 1 East Mountain Maid and Hidden Trea-
sure mines, at Copeland, raising six and ten ounce stone.
The highest scorer in the intercolonial rifle match
was Corporal Shaw, of New South Wales, who made 120
points out of a possible 150. Colour-sergeant Boyers,
of Queensland, made 115; and Private Allen, of Vic-
toria, 114. A. B. Palmer, of New South Wales, made
118 Van Heekeren, charged with procuring abortion,
unable to come up for trial, owing to ill health. Trial
postponed till next sessions 705 male, and 274 female
aboriginals in the colony; these (official) numbers are
considered incorrect Adelaide wheat crop four
millions bushels over last year’s returns Captain
M'Phail, of the Carnatic, arrested at Brisbane, on a
charge of neglect of duty, in connection with the death
of a seaman, who was lost overboard Diamond drill
at Charters Towers does about 40ft. the fortnight
Stone at Galley Swamp, Carcoar, 2oz. to ton ; reef, 14in.
...LandinQsorge-street, Sydney, fetched last woek over
£BOO a foot An Irishman of 80 married a woman ef
70, at Ballarat, last week English frozen salmon
fetched from 2s to 2s 7d per lb. at Melbourne, and forty
brace of English grouse brought 2s 6d per brace
Mr. Cooper, of Armidale, is getting a diamond drill for
local mineral work Mr. J, Glass, grazier, of Armi-
dale, is dead... Great scarcity of shearers in New Eng-
land Armidale, one of the richest mineral districts
of the colony, is to be systematically prospected
Mr. John M’Crossin, an old resident of Uralla, is dead
New machinery for the Parramatta water-works
working well; town to bo supplied this week Eus-
sian fleet expected at Melbourne Several small fires
in Sydney Nicholson, a marker, injured by a bullet
on Paddington rifle range. Danger signal flying at the
time; searching inquiry ordered Gradual rise in the
colonial wool market.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Rioting in King’s County. Military and con-
stabulary there reinforced £BO,OOO worth of jewel:
lery stolen from Hatton Gardens post-office, London.
German Parliament opened on 17th. The speech
says peace of Europe mere assured than even before
the last decade, and announces establishment of a
system of mutual insurance among the working olasser
with the dual object of improving their position and
resisting the machinations of socialism Agrarian
murders in Ireland Irishman arrested in Germany
purchasing clockwork for infernal machines Dis-
satisfaction at Natal at the appointment of Mr. TV. J.
Lendall, an unknown man, to the governorship John
Dunn, the Irish rebel, a candidate for the kingship of
Zulnland Renewed Liberal hostility to Bismarck
in Germany Russian emigration of Jews to America
Gniteau, the assassin, not considered insane ; trial
proceeds Custom House, Valparaiso, burnt; loss,
£200,000 Native rising against the Boars in South
Africa Thomas Salt, Conservative, elected for Staf-
ford ; considered serious Liberal defeat. The Irish
voted wth the Conservatives Attempt to assassinate
Gniteau; ballet lodged in his hand; the shooter es-
caped.
To spell “ willow” ;—double you eye, double ell.
0 double you I
There once was a Government strong.
Which had ooonpied office so long.
That its members at length.
On account of its strength.
Believed they could do nothing wrong.
'Tis a sentiment fondled by kings.
But which dynamite makes to take wings.
For they rire with aplomb
By the aid of a bomb.
And see different aspects of things 1


SATURDAY, NOYEM
W 0 0 D B uTn
o’.ose to"
THE ROOKWOOD AftD AUBI
SATURDAY, NOTED
ON THE GBOUH
POSITIVELY WITHOUT
«• THIS FINE OLD ESTATE, i
many years the residence of tl
MAESDEN, Esq., is situate on 1
AUBUEN and West of EdOKWO(
minutes’ easy walk of either STATL
MEEE," and adjoining the “QI
ESTATE.”
WOODBUEN PAEK is one of the
in the colony. It was taken up
selectors in 1805, on account of i
SOIL.
BAIT, ROOD, ANI
HAVE received instructio
above
VALUABLE ESTA
SATURDAY, NOVEM
at S p.m.,
ON THE GEOUB
in
ALLOTMENTS
THE ESTATE is surrounded
roads, all 66 FEET WIDE, and is be
most liberal scale into VILLA. SIT
FEONTAGES and LONG DEPTH
Surveyor Shoo be rt.
tar FINGEE POSTS have been
estate, showing the POSITIONS o;
STEEETS, thus enabling intending;
the various Allotments WITHOU'.
DIFFICULTY.
On the PEOPEETY is a good HO3
ing 9 large and lofty rooms, kitche
offices; GAEDENS, OECHAED, p
APPLE, PEAE, PEACH, and PLI
GBASS PADDOCKS, &c.; and the!
is PINE OPEN PAEK LAND, mag
with turpentine, box, ironbark, and
tOT EICH BLACK 1
The whole commands UNEIVALLI
surrounding country for MI
THE TITLE IS TOEEE
and the
TEEMS MOST LIB!
viz.:—
Only 15 per cent, deposit, the bait
18, 21, and 24 months from day of
! monthly instalments with 6 per cen
«■ 2i DISCOUNT FOI
PLANS are NOW EEADY, and ma;
CATION at the Eo<
Note.— I The GOVEBNMENT ha\
1500 acres of LAND in the IMMED
WOODBUEN PAEK, for the er
BUILDINGS. ‘‘THIS FACT S
FOKGOXT BN."
Two or three years back Eookwc
NOW it is one of our most thriv;
Churches, Schools, Money Order,'
Offices, Government Savings Bank.
CAL GAEDENS, and BEGEEA r
and the TEAPPIC to this PAVOU.
so much INCEEASED duringtheh
the Government have been obliged
new PLATFOEM and BAIL WAY
TAKE A NOTE of the DAY 01
Next SATUEDAY,
ON THE GROUND, at 3 p.m.
WITHO
SOLICITORS to the Estate,
Messrs. SALTEB
SPECIAL TRAIN ON DAI
REFRESHMENTS PR(
Mr SPECIAL FEATI
CLIFFBROOK
CO OGEE HEIGHTS, close to
HOTEL, and the Residence of
and opposite the property of M
GEBAT SUBDIVIS
ON THE GEOUB
SATURDAY, NOVE3
CLIFFBROOK, for many years kn
of John Thompson/Esq., has n
by Mr. Surveyor Atchison,
SPLENDID VILLA
LARGE ALLOTMENT
as follows
SECTION 1,
28 ALLOTMENTS, BEACH,
and SUSAN STREETS, having
by depths of 165 feet.
SECTION 2,
20 ALLOTMENTS, BEACH,
VICTOR STREETS, having f
by depths of 132 feet.
SECTION 3,
10 ALLOTMENTS, BATTE
STREETS, and GORDON BA"!
of to feet by depths varying froi
SECTION 4,
10 ALLOTMENTS, IVY, BAT’
STREETS, GORDON BAT, 1
about 40 feet by depths about 1
SECTION 5,
12 ALLOTMENTS, BATTERY
STREETS, having frontages C
varying from 120 to 160 feet.
SECTION 6,
16 ALLOTMENTS, BATTI
BROOK STREETS, and GOI
frontages varying from tO to
varying.
SECTION 7,
20 ALLOTMENTS, BATTER':
SON STREETS, CLIPFBROO
frontages varying from 40 to 45
118 to 170.
LARGE SALE PLAN ON VIEW
LITHOGRAPHS ABB NOW
PO]
HARDIE AND I
HAVE received instructions
auction,
ON THE GROU:
at 3 o’clock, or
SATURDAY NOVEM
THE CLIFFBROOK ESTATE, cc
•nmniarm j T»T/imTmTSOATT
SATURDAY, 26th I]
ON THE QEOUB
GRAND SUBDIVISION 0
HOMEBUSH W
Jast beyond the New Cattl
Between the Parramatta-road
Allotments fronting Parramatta-roi
Allotments fronting Flat
Allotments fronti
MILLS, PILE, AND
sell by public auctio
ON THE GEOUb
ON SATURDAY, 261
at half-past Thre
A splendid large subdivision, co
building sites, each having
135 feet in depth.
There are no back lanes to poison t
THE TITLE IS TOEEI
As the Municipal Council of the
taken in hand the erection of Centr
which are now rapidly approaching
BUSH will assume in this colony th
FLEMINQTON holds in the ueig
OP VICTOEIA. At FLEMIIS
auctioneers have their offices, at F!
are several branch banks.
At Flemington there is a large i
providing profitable employment ii
tries established there.
The property MILLS, FILE, an
offer on the 26th instant is spl<
IT IS JUST BEYOND T
IT peo!nt3 THE PAEI
IT IS CLOSE TO THE
AND THE
TEEMS WILL BE WONDER
£5 DEPOSIT ON EA(
THE BALANCE, 20s 1
LITHOGRAPHS AT TH
Christmas and New
just opene:
The Largest and Most Elegai
ever seen in Austr
WILL BE SOLD AT LONI
EDWARD R.
IMPORTER OF BOOKS ANI
Comer of George and K
[Extract from the Evkhing News
Mr. E. E. Cole, the bookselle
George and King streets, has an
IGHLAND GA
ON NEW YEAR’S D 1
PROGRAMME OP E'
HIGHLAND PIPING and HIG
for Adults and Boys (under 15); ]
£l3. For particulars see future adv<
Hornpipe; three prizes, £1 10s.
Jig, £2, £l. Pole Vaulting, £4, £2,
Jump, £2, £1; and other events.
FLAT RACES—(To be run in
requisite). 100 yards Maiden Plai
hare never won an advertised prize
£2; entrance, 2s 6d. 150 yards Hai
£l2, £3, and £l. 410 yards Handic
£2, and £l. One Mile Handicap; t
and £l. Entrances to Handicap
trance will be received unless the
writing the races competed for s
1879, and the position taken; and
statement not bearing verification,
fled. Any protest made to be in
in to the hon. secretary before t
Colours to be stated at time of enti
Entrances will be received by tl
the undermentioned address, and v
DAY EVENING, 17th December
t fining entrances will be receive
EVENING, 19th December.
WALKING MATCH, 1 mile an
nvUna DR D 9 D 1 • anfranna 9a fill.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. David Buchanan has written a letter to
Mr. E. A. Baker, sympathising with him over his
expulsion from the Legislative Assembly. We now beg
to offer our sympathies to Mr. Baker 1
Speaking at a banquet’at Penrith, on last Tues-
day, the Hon. George Cox said that the Milburn Creek
affair was ene of the most disgraceful episodes that had
taken place since the inauguration of Eeaponsibla
Government in this colony.
There is virtually no contest at Newtown. Mr.
Dalveen opposes Mr. Joseph Mitchell, but the pro-
bability is be will forfeit his £4O. If he should, we’ll
band him down in verse. Will th« Newtown people,
who like a shriek, help us to immortalise Mr. Dalveen.
Argyle has for years been notable for returning
to the Assembly capable men. This time, if it return
Mr. Eankin, it will send into Parliament one of the
best men showing t > the front at the present time.
He is an out-and-out liberal land reformer—honest
and fearless.
Mr. E. A. Baker thus to his constituents at
CarcoarGentlemen, This time last year yon all
hut unanimously voted for me as your representative.
To-day, I ask you again to give me your confidence.
Painful events have happened since I met you all at
the last election; painful to me, and painful it must
also be to you, that your member has been unseated in
Parliament. I say to you, and before the world, that I
am innocent of the least taint of dishonour. lam the
victim of malignity, prejudice, and passion. In a
moment, and in a panic, without affording me time for
defence, with indeed a mere mockery of a trial, I was
condemned by the Legislative Assembly, That numbers
of members now regret this, I know. That the great
majority will, ere long, repair the wrong they have
done, I am certain, or everlasting disgrace will be
Stamped on our Parliament. P.S.—lt is not true as is
reported, that lam not eligible to sit if elected. It is
certain that I am."
To our Readers.
Among other items of interest which we at the last
moment find ourselves unavoidably compelled to hold
over, is a special aceount of the Commodore's ball on
board the Wolverene. Many of our correspondents,
whose contributions do not appear, will have a show
next week,
Messrs. Mathieson asd Shann, manager and
Bub-manager of the Bank of Victoria, Melbourne, have
resigned as a consequence of the Thorpe defalcations.
A £6003 deficiency was discoveredjjp the accounts of an
Oriental Bank official at Melbourne, but the amount
has since been made good by the offender and his
friends.
Facts are stubborn things. The Statist
(home paper), of Ist October, says:— ** In ten years the
consumption of Indian tea has increased 255 per cent.
i »., from an average of 1,140,0001 b. to 4,050,0001 b. per
month;'while the consumption of China tea has only
increased about 1$ per cent. If you want to try the
pure, fragrant, economic, full-bodied Indian Tea, ask
your grocer for The Calcutta Tea Association’s
Pure Indian Teas, and do not be cajoled into buying
any other. Beware of counterfeits 111 Wholesale
warehouse, 28 Charlotte Place. No connection with
any other packet teas whatever. There is only one
Calcutta Tea Association.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, November 23,1881.
Farm Produce.— On the wharves, on Tuesday, prime
old lucerne was selling slowly at £2 5s to £2 10s per ton;
first-class green hay from £2 10s to £2 15a per ton; and
inferior new hay, very dull of sale, at from 20s to 35s per
ton. Maize, 4s 3d per bushel; oats, prime, 2s 9d to 3s—
inferior, 2s 6d. Circular Head potatoes, £5 5s to £5 10s
per ton; Victorian chaff, £5 (bags inclusive); Californian
onions, £3O; Hunter Kiver onions, new, £l6 to £l7.
Butter, in keg, 6d to 8d per lb; eggs, 9d to lOd per doz.;
bacon, 5d to 7d per lb,; cheese, 6d to 9d ditto; ham, 9d
to lid ditto; honey, 3id to 4d ditto; lard, 4d to 5d ditto;
beeswax, 9d to lOd ditto. Millet brooms, 8a to 10a per
dozen.
Poultry.— At the various auction marts, poultry was
in moderate supply, and sold well. Fowls brought
from 3s 6d to 6s per pair; ducks, 4s to 7s ditto; geese,
7s to 8s ditto; cock turkeys, 20s ditto, if good; hen
ducks, 7s ditto.
Fresh Meat.— At the Eiverstone Meat Co.’s sheds,
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country killed
beef take place daily. A fair supply arriving, and
selling freely. Prices are: For prime bodies of beef,
2d per lb. all round; medium quality, lid to l|d per lb,
all round.
Fat Cattle.— At the Homebush fat stock sales, 1040
head of cattle were yarded, and the market ruled at
about last week’s rates. Among the lots sold were 185
bullocks at £?2s6d; 254 bullocks at £6 12s 3d; other
lots from £5 11s 6d.
S«eep.—6734 Sheep were penned; the market* was
slightly easier. Best shorn wethers brought from
10s 4d to 10s 9d; others from 7s Id.
Wheat. —We notice a reduction in the price; but,
notwithstanding this change, wheat of medium to good
samples is readily purchased. As some of the millers’
stocks are low, prices have been in advance of the
equivalent rate in flour. This concession of price places
both old and new wheat on about equal terms. We also
observe that new wheat is to hand in South Australia.
Bates : Adelaide wheat, 5s 5d to 5s 6d; Victorian ditto,
6s 4d, nominal; Launceston ditto, 5s 3d, nominal; New
Zealand ditto, 4s lid to 5s 2d per bushel.
Flour. —There is, as usual, a large quantity of in-
ferior country brands, of Adelaide, New South Wales,
and Victorian flour offering—also some New Zealand
and Launceston —at low rates, by agents who cannot
find buyers. Leading brands of all kinds are firm, as
holders will make little or no concession Prices are ;
For Sydney mill flour, superfine £l3 10s per ton;
household, £l2 10s; seconds, £ll 10s. New South
Wales country brands, £lllss to £l3 10s ; Victorian,
£l2los to £l3 10s. Adelaide, £l2 10s to £l3 10s. Bran
and pollard. Is to Is 2d per bushel.


Hotels, &o
IALLON’S PEIZE A]
J. T, FALLON’S in asking pu
WINES, and to the awards gain
Intimate that he holds very large bi
and the public may rely upon gelt
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depo
91 PITT STREET, S
Vineyard;
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH Wi
These Wines were awarded first-
following Exhibitions
London International ...
Paris „
Vienna
Philadelphia ~
Also at the various Intercolonial
toria New South Wales, Ocoee
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLA
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBTJ
WHITE.
Reisliug Aucarot I Shii
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carl
Tokay 1 Bur;
Champagne, Medium Dry. C
l-
ICE ICE
E
T
HE CITY ICE COMPANY,
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TOl
are prepared to Supply the LUXI
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lo
For prices, &c..
Apply to
3 WYNYARD SIR
bR TO TAR]
R
OBEET BUT C ]
(Late William Lo
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
534 GEORGE STR
OPPOSITE TOWN HALT
Country Orders Receive Pe<
■^■ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
T
S. EEBBLEI
416 GEORGE STB
HE A U S T
"HOME’’ SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS
SEWING MAC
express
OSS,
Hotels, fto.
ROBINSON’S PITZ
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOOJ
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF A
Is PER BOTT]
IRISH AND SCOTCH WUISKE
aB round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (POE
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Amo
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EV
The compagnoni cate
OF PITT-STREET have n:
nonneing to the pnblic, that to roi
want of space to accommodate the
Luncheon hour, they have conv
Banqueting Hall into an addition
which is now open, and whore O'
directed to visitors patronising thi
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a super
is under the management of a first-
branch of Catering undertaken, ai
staff of experienced and polite wail
Through continued misrepresen
beg to mention that they are not h
with any other person, or persona,
SAMUEL PA(
NOW OPEN,
THE
CJITY CATERING
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Tobacco nia
*
TIN TAG!
TIN 1
Caution to Store]
ANYONE selling Tobacco with
other than those bearing ou
“ CONQUEEEE " or “ TAN!
is infringing our rights,- and will
by Law.
We are obliged to give this noth
facturer has been sending out one
of Tobacco with a Sound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPE
DIXSON AND !
165 YOEK STB]
TOBACCO S MO
Note the Abov
J.EVB , TOBACCOI
JAMES E 1
No. 149 KING S'
(Opposite Theatre Royal 8t(
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and amb
149 KING STEE:
Money.
ONDON
MORTGAGE,
DISCOUNT BAJ
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUT
• School).
first established n
SPECIAL NOTH
The Directors place before those d
advantages upon easy terms—UN
advantages. Their method of tran
highly commended, CONCEiSIO
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, •
from £5 to £10,000; SUEETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded
ties. Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANY KEASONAB!
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Accoi
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY,
SUAETERLY instalments; or as
lENCE of borrower.
All communication and interview
confidential.
POEMS GRATlS—Address, TH
m
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEP
MERCHANTS
YIRGOE, SOnTaND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
nfteJ
It is of the utmost Importance t
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New So
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bever
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will fine
least 10 per cent, in favour of L
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON,“AND
AGENTS.
MAET I N j
AUSTEALIAN WINE M
AND BEER BOTI
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s j
ALBUEY WINI
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Mai bee
HUNTER RIVER W
Claret
Lambrnscat
POET MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
The Celebrated
WOLFES
ThePurestStiniuiant
■£**£ WORD'S
The Fun* of M. MOSS ft 00,
I* on erery Genuine Bottle.
■fe
58sS£
IT is not the clearness or conditb
Ale that preserves this brant
nation. Common bitter crude boot
bat no other brand has the same m
ter, the fulness on the palate, an
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C<
tore cautioned against traders wh<
extra profit represent the common
Snal in qualify to the Bull Dog. .
Sole Agents.
2


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall bo glad to have this index posted up by socro.
taries of racing clubs and managers erf snorting
events in general.
RACING.
P. Augusta and Flinders J.C. (3.A.)...November 23, 29.
Dunedin (N.Z ) J.C. Spring Meeting.... Nov. 30, Deo 1
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 80.
Coots fnnndra December 1, 2.
Qamaru (N Z.) Jocker Club December 7 and 8.
Southland (N.Z.) J, C. Meeting December 8 and 8.
Temora. December S, 9.
Tasmanian J.O Dumber 19.
BnUnr»t Amateur Turf Club December 10.
(ta.jeasland Decembor 10.
Hamilton (Yic.V December li, 13.
WiUiamstown (Vic ) December 2t.
Hawke's Biv (N.Z.) Racing Clnb December 21.
Bairasdale (Vie.) December 28, 27.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A. J.C. Summer Meeting December 26,
Muilg.ce.; —December 25.
Demliqmn. ... .. December 85.
D übbo.... .December 28.
Victorian Amateur Turf Clnb December 28.
Pleasant Creek (Vio.) December 38, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 28, 28,
Sydney Turf Club „ , December 31.
Kensington Park (Vio.) December SI.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Deo. 26: Jan. 1, B—IBSS.
V.K.C. Chaapien L January L
Tattersall's (Sydney) January 1,
Forbes. .J anuary 2.
H°y • January 2, 3.
Glen Innes..,™ . January 2, 3
Marton, Kangitikei (N.Z.) J.O January 2 and 3
Geelong January 28, 27.
Breuloe January 25 and 27.
New England J.C Jannarv 28 27.
Wellington (N.Z.) R C. Summer Meeting ..Feb. 2 and 3
Vegetable Creek Feb wry 9, 10
Tasmanian Jockey Clnb..., .February It, 13, and 18.
Inverell ’. Vebrunry 17,18.
Tasmanian Tnrf Club ......... February 22. 23.
Dunedin (N.Z ) Autumn Meeting... F«:t. 23.21 35.
V.R.O ..March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting...™ Mat. 11, 12.
Albury....™ ™ March Id 17.
Hawke a Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club Marvk 16 and 17.
AQUATICS.
Snair* Bay Amateur Regatta™.. December 17.
Printers’ Regatta .. ™,™.™ December 17.
Brisbane RegaCU December 10.
South Australian Amateur Rewing Associa-
tion Rvgatta December 17.
Hoidsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers. December 2i.
Raymond Ten-ace Regatta.. December 28.
Pyrmont Regatta „ ......December 38.
Newcastle Annual Regatta.™ v January 1.
Dane Cove Regatta.,,; January 1.
PEDE3TRIANI3M.
Highland Society, Association Ground January 1.
CRICK IT.
All England t. Sydney.™..,.*, December 9,10,12.
All England y, Victoria...„,,..,™„,„DeeemWer 18,17, 19.
laterookmlal, at Melbourne December 2t, 25, 2f.
Holdsworth-Qardjno Chip matches :—Albert y.
University, November 26, 1881. Order of matches
to follow .--“Warwick v. Carlton, Albert v. Carl-
ton, Warwiek v. Univorsity, Carltoa v. University,
Albert v. Warwiek. Warwick v. Canto*, Albert v,
Carlton, Albert v. University, Warwick y. t?ullenity,
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The P.A.Y.C. yacht race was won by the Doris.
Whoatoar is a doubtful starter for the Champion
Baco.
600 bicyclists mot at Barnet (Eng.) on 24th
September.
Port Macquarie annual regatta is fixed for 2nd
January, 1882.
The totalisator was well patronised at the
C.J.C. meeting.
• Foul n lay has been backed to win the Auckland
Cup at 100’a to 25.
The All-England Eleven are to play at Orange
on the 20th and SQth November.
There is a portrait and notice of Michael Rush
in tho N.Y. Clipper of the 15th Oct.
The cable result of the Melbourne Cup was re-
ceived in N,Z. fastest tims on record.
All the London and American papers duly
chronicled Laycock’a defeat by Bush.
The E.S.Y.S. yacht race was won by the
Sirocco. Guinevere and Oithona started.
Port Macquarie and Hastings River J. C. an-
nual races come off January 3rd and 4th.
A rifle match between the Parliaments of New
South Wales and Victoria is being arranged.
Walton, an American speculator, won <£13,000
on tho Yankee horse, Foxhall, in tho Cesarowitoh.
A race for third-class boats of ths Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club was won by tho Dosdemona.
Athletic sports at Bathurst on Boxing Day.
Principal ovout, a £5) handicap, open to all-comers.
Fred. Archer, the groat jock., is about to marry
the eldest daughter or John Day, the veteran trainer.
Tho umpires in the Cup matches might bo re-
minded that it is not usual to smoke in the cricket field.
The English Eleven are to play a match at Nor-
wood Park in February, against eighUeu of Stanmore.
The firm of Miller, Jones, and O’Brien,, intend
giving £lOO each to Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide
charities.
The 100 yards, at the Christchurch (N Z.)
amateur athletie club sports, was done in 10 3 5 sec. bv
J. S. Smith.
Tho T R.C. have decided to purchase five acres
at the back of the hill, on the Flemington Racecourse.
A new stand is to'ba erected.
Blaoktown Races Flying Handicap : Verdict
1. Galloway Handicap: V.G. 1. Selling Race: Fire-
ball 1. Kildare Handicap : Waxworfca 1.
At the polo match, at Adelaide, on Saturday,
two young men w»to thrown and severely shakes A
pony was so injured that it had to be shot.
An American advertising agent offered the
owner of tho celebrated American racer, Crickmore
£lOOO to rechristea the animal *• St. Jacob s Oil." *
Mr. G G. Stead’s nine thoroughbred mares
. bBen shipped from England for Christchurch
(N.Z.). Mr. Stead has,also purchased a yearling colt.
Judging by results in America, Midwinter’s
bowling is very fatal. Tho Znfiisbmen bent a good
team of eighteen i* one innings with 14? runs to spare.
Tho celebrated English horse, Blair Athol, has
been four time'; under ths hammer. He first rea!i*ivl
9vW guineas, then 12,5 m, then 4500, and recently 195),
Of 73 investors in tho Dunedin (N Z.) totalisa-
tor on the Caulfield Cap only two wore on Master
Avanal, and they received dividend of £32 17a. each.
Koeno’s American horse, Foxhall, with 7st 121 b
won tha Csc-urewitch, at Newmarket, 2 miles 3 fur’
loigi 28rds. In 4■ol. Nineteen started, and Foxhall
won easily.
fjTha Cricket Challenge Cup presented by Messrs.
Manaelssokn and Co,, of Tumi it, is to he played for by
towns within a radius of 70 miles from Tumufc, and is
M , b * for three successive seasons. The first
aiattfh wae played oa the 9tsi and 10th between the
Wagga Wagga and Tnmut teams, resulting iu a
victory for the latter by 87 runs. The Tumut trrmdlera
aid yeoman service, Lovatt taking 12 wickets for £9
rnns, and Anderson G wickets for 28 runs.
England is afflicted with an epidemic of prize-
fighting. In Worcestershire, about thirty men have
been committed for trial, charged with taking part in
prize fights.
In view of the Intercolonial Cricket match
taking place on the 10th Dacember, the committees of
the Snail s Bay and Printers’ Regattas hare postponed
their fixtures to the 17th.
Boyd was the only man who entered for the
Rendon Sportsman Challenge Cnp ef 200 guineas. The
event therefore lapses. Evan Boyd entered en eoadiHons
that could not be granted.
Mr. R. B. Jones has increased his liberal offer
to the N.J.G. of a 70-gninoa gold cup, to a cnp valued
at 100 guineas, to be rnn for at next meeting. The club
has deeded upon adding jBIOJ.
Arrangements have been made with the All-
Borland Eleven to play a match at Cootaaaundra during
next month. A splendid concrete wicket Unbeing laid
down in the oval, Albert Park.
By onr latest files, a match between Hanlan and
Boss was mads for the lash instant. As wo have had
no cable, it is not unreasonable to>oppose that Hanlan
has reverted to his determination not to row again.
_ ° n n Wednesday evening, tho 16th instant. Mr.
P. B. Walker, of the Torpedo Corps, entertained the
intercolonial rifle teams and a number of distinguished
quests at dinner d la Russe, ia the vestibule of the
lown Hall.
The general entries for the Brisbane regatta
close on December 3. Haycock intends to compote in
the professional ecnlling race, and Mr. Brett, our
champion amateur, intends to row in somo of the
amabrar events.
will be given at the WeUington (N.Z.)
annual races on 2ad and 3rd Feb. The Cap money is
, T T £ICO , fSM - The Wanganui Club give
£16,50 to ba run for at their meeting in March. The
Cap is worth £(500,
P. Archer, the jockey, according to Con-
servative organs, expects soon to bo knighted.
He f cored all the big wins at the New.
market, continning the brilliant successes of the
Doncaster meeting.
The second of the aeries of pigcon-fljingmatches
fortho Hawkins Cup was won on Satorlay by Mr. P.
Allan s '-'penl, who homed from Douglas Park, 45 miles,
in 45 mwitss. r - Ta’icrred's Tamworth was second,
and Mr. Freeman’s Victor third.
The 100-milo bicycle match for the champion-
ship of South Australia, was won cn Saturday by Press,
captain of the club, who rode 70 mile* without d a-
monnting, aad finished the whole dfatano* te awven
hours three minutes of actual travslliag.
In a billiard match, on 23rd September, at
Deaaogate, between W. Cook and Alfred Bennstt. the
former conceding 200 points start in a game of 730 up.
spot stroke barred. Cook won by 231 points. H. made
the best all-round break on record, namely, 300.
. A dc^, 1 «: sc ° 11 ra ™. for £2O, on Saturday,
between M’Clerken and Barker, in the Vivid, against
White and Martia, in the Sweetmeat, resulted in an
easy win for the latter by a dozen lengths. The tours,
back m Wh * rf round Fort Macquarie and
Paddy Eyan, who whipped Joe Goss, and John
Sullivan are about to sign articles to fight for St IGOO
a side and the championship of America. Mr. Richard
K. Fox, of the New York Police Gazbitr,!* finding ths
pieces for Ryan, and has already posted £2OO as
torroißu
The, Highland Society intend to hold their
annnar'gathering at the Association Ground on New
Year a Day. The programme comprises 33 event*, the
aggregate valne of prizes being about £l3O. Entries
for the flat races eloeo at Punch's Hotel on the 17th
December.
At the Scottish sports in Now York, recently,
a man named M’Lonnan threw the 101 b. hammer 285
feet, and the sft. hammer 330 feet. Brass-an cleared
6 feet 1 inch in a running high jnmp, and 21 feet in a
running long Jump. Theso are among ths best records
in the world.
The S.P. News Letter, speaking of the All-
England team, says that “As an Eleven, ft ia conceded
to be the best that ever left England, though the Aus-
tralian Eleven, who played in San Francisco afaw years
ago, possessed one or two more brilliant players than
are to be found in this team.’*
The Scottish yacht, Madge, a second-rate sailer,
defeated all the small yachts at New York. Big row iu
conscqueneo. The American yachtsmen were, how.
°J er - n °t' to be put down. They have offered two prizes
of 1000 guineas each for largo yachts—a distinct chal-
lenge to the English vessels.
At Lillio Bridge, on Oct. 4fch, two comparatively
unknown men, Gdflin and Franks, in an hour’s walking
match each accomplished eight miles fair hod and toe
walking within the hour 1 The winner, Griffin, beat all
previous records by covering eight miles one hundred
and seventy-two yards in sixty minutes.
H. N. Abbott, of Auckland, successfully nego-
tiated a second big sweep on the Melbourne Cnp. "in
the £lO,OOO one, the fir it prize went to Messrs. T. Mason
and Edger, two looal men. Theodore Brown’s sweep
was not a success, it being publicly alleged In the news-
papers that everything was not straight.
The following are the competitors in the men’s
tour days’ go-as-you-please (12 hours a day) which
commenced at West Maitland on Wednesday David
Dunlop and J. Monaghan, Hamilton j J. Bloomfield and
W. Rideott, Newcastle; Joseph Chestorfleld, Glebe:
J. Jones, Miy field; and F. Dunning, Wallscnd.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta. Maiden
Sculls, in club skiffs: R. Little 1, Q. Crowley 2 Junior
Pair Oars, in clnb skiffs, with coxswains : H. E. Phillips,
C. Phillips, 1, W. H. Girmm, W. Tncker, 2. Junior
Sculls, iu clns skills: P. Da Mestre 1, H. A. Bligh 2.
The regatta had to be discontinued owing to the stormy
wind.
At St. Panl, Minnesota, on September 12, a
twenty-mile horseback race for the Championship of
the World was set for decision, the contestants being
Miss Cook, of California, and Mrs. .Robins n, of London
Tha latter fainted at the end of the fourth mile, and
Miss Cook having ridden two miles farther was declared
the winner.
Hunter River Amateur Turf Club races.
Hurdles : Belmont 1. Shorts : Kanaka 1, Little Jack 2,
Twilight 3. Trot; Dirkie L. Silling R*co : Cremorne
1, Empress 2, Pickwick 3 Ladies’ MiU: Brilliant 1
Hesitation 2, Kanaka 3. Turf Club Handicap: Twi-
light 1, Little Noll 2. Pony Race: Morpeth 1. Hack
Race : Chance 1, Empress 2.
At a meeting of the Bathurst Cricket Club a
proposal from Newcastle to play a match ia February
next, before the intercolonial event* at Sydney, North-
ern Clubs v. Western, was considered and adopted. The
western clubs represented will probably be Bathurst,
Mndgee, Dabbo, and Wellington. It was also resolved
to pl«y a match against the Englishmen on the 2q#. and
3rd December.
Following arc the 22 representing the Northern
districts against the All-England Eleven :—Hammond,
Wyndham, Softon, Qarvan, Howe, Readett, Barnes,
Laurie, Costello, and Williams. Maitland; Waddy,
VVakely, and Austin, Morpeth; Lambert and Berage,
Tam worth; Glass and M’Guigan, Qnnnedah ; Fawcett
and Pan, Singleton; A. BiiTuell, J* Bignell, and E.
Smith, Dungog.
Tho Victorian Betting Club hold a race meeting
at Fleminyton on .January 7. Following is the pro-
gramme :—Hurdle Handicap, 151 aovs , 21 miles ; New
Tear’s Handicap. 150 *«va , mile; Hopafnl Stakes
(two-year-olds), 209 sov*., 5 furlong* ; Selling Race, SO
s*ts , 1 mile; Bookmakers’ Handicap, JTOsovij 1 mile;
Steeplechase Handicap, 150 sovs , 2) mil«s ; victorias
Gold Cap (value 190 »ovs.) aad 300 sofa , 1| mile.
The result of the Melbourne Cup wai a throw in
for N.Z. bookmakers. At Christchurch, only oae man
backed Zulu, and for but a small snm. Tha same man
had Darubia ia tha Derby in a largo numbar of doubles;
bnt, though ha backed Zulu straight out for the Cnp,
ouri«*«ly aaongb. ha did not do so ia any of his doubles.
At Ilnuru, a mi.a backed Darebiu and the Caw iu a,
donbla for the Darby and the Cap at very long odds.
At Auckland, Zulu was only laid once ia a double by j
tho books, and thrcd inventor* word On Zulu fn the 1
totalisator. The dividend to the backers of Zulu on the
him m totallBator was £136 123 - each, three being on
, 0, n . firs* fiay’s races of the Christchurch
(JN Z J Jockey Clnb the speedy Billingsgate, carrying
top weight, won the Free Handicap, beatin ? a field of ton.
a l*° , won tho Railway Plate on the second day.
The Derby was appropriated by Dauphin, who was
rld “ ea h-T Bob Ray,the Fattendon-a Peeress celt, second,
and Nonpareil third. The favourite, Amulet, mot with
an accident the day before the race, and was scratched.
The -All-England Eleven played five matches in
America, and scored as follows Philadelphia Twelvm
277 (Midwinter 71, Ulyetfc 73, Shaw 43). New York
Eighteen: 251 (Ulyett 83, Bites 61, Midwinter 40).
AH-Amenea Eighteen: 114 and 136 (Birlow 59. Selby
Chicago Twenty-two: 144 for 5 wickets (Uiyetfc
00, Bates 55). California Twenty-two: 98 and 323 for 2
wl ? JO? >ot out, 16-4, Barlow 61, Bates, not
OUt, 44i],
r face’s Hotel, Melbourne, on 14fch instant,
otritch and Charles Wheeler played billiarls,
1000 np, for £2) aside, tho former conceding 250. A
large company attended to witness the game, which was
a splendid struggle, and terminated in favour of the
scratch man by 51 points. Stritch’s largest break*
were 0J and 56, and Wheeler’* 93. and 31. Stritch has
since challenged J. Byrne to play for tho championship
of Victoria, for £3O a-sid»,
A wrestling match, for jGSO a side and the chain-
iP °‘ Australia, Las been nrram ed to take place
at Wollongong, on New Tear’s Day, between Thomas
Frou-llock, of Bnlli, and John Smith, of Sydney. Some
short time ago Smith issued a challenge to wrestle any
man m Australia, “ Cumberland style,” for £23 a side,
tho result being that tho gauntlet is taken np by Proud-
look, who 1 is the champion wrostlef in his part, the
amount of money to be staked being £lO3,
N.S.W. Eiflo Association, Intercolonial Match :
—New South Wales, 1091; Victoria, 1061; Queensland,
VVtVi Company's Challenge Bugle: Naval Brigade, 1006;
All-Comers’Match: J. M. Sc-itb, 91 points. Challenge
Bugle and Dangar Trophy : Second Regiment Volunteer
Infantry. All Schools’ Match • Corporal Macarthur,
Kings School. Schools’ Challenge tingle; Sydney
Grammar School. International Match : Australian
Team. Press Match : J. S. Mason l.ff.fi, P. Caswell 2
Here’s a line about a Thames aquatic otdrit —
from Putney to M -rtlake. Biyd won in 24;»in 2ts*c. ;
Largan, 34mjn 33sec.; Hawdon, 24m!n.-llseo. “J3>yd,”
says an American sporting paper “won each o( his
heats with ridiovlous ease, and proved himself Eng.
land’s b*it nun, which only shows tho depth into which
British scullers has fallen. Boyd would fee in America
a foarth-cla-s sculler, and took good cure to absent
himself while the American and Australian oarrmen
were beating all Englishmen on tho Thames last fall.
The colours of America were lowered at New-
i “arket on Oct. 12. The winner of the Dsrby and St>
Iroquois, mot Bend Or in the Champion Stakes
of England, of about 1500 guineas, and was defeated.
Archer, whe piloted the American to victory for tho
Derby and St. Locor, now steered the Duke of West-
minster’s horse. Bend Or, who, carrying Bst. 41b., gave
°PP* nan t a stone The betting was on Iroquois, but
Bend Or held him all the way, and won easily. Soobell
was second. The American sportsman lost £BO,OOO on
tho event.
At Blackpool races, Elliott, of Newcastle, tho
well-knowa English sculler, whoso match with Hanlan
on the Tyne will be r-membered by our readers, was
mobbed as* ” welsher." He was carried shoulder high
and pitched Into the lake in Raikes Hall Gardens, bat
managed to roach one ef tho islands. Two or three men
put off in a boat and soused Elliott overhead again, but
j in the souffle the whole fell in the water together.
Blhott escaped at last, half drowned, amidst thr jeers
and hooting of a largo crowd, crying out that he wonld
give Blackpool a wide berth in future.
Messrs. Qroube, Slight, M’Shane, Palmer,
Turner, and Stokes contradict the report that they had
expressed their willingness to take part in tho English
matches independently ef the Victorian Cricket Asso-
ciation. It would be better for the sake of cricket that
the Association withdraw its preposterous charge of 10
per cent, for its patronage of the matches. The
cricketers above-mentioned state that they will be
i happy to meet the wishes of tho Association in this
matter. Until further particulars are to band, the
charge must be considered very excessive.
The Cincinnati Enquirer concludes a tirade
against the celebrated sculler as follows:—"The
modesty of Mr. Hanlan is something beautiful to be-
hold. He says ho can go no higher, and ho points with
pride to his This is verj pretty in a young snob
like Hanlan, who, in a few abort years, has succeeded
in making himself about as unpopular ns though Dave
Ward, tho man to whom ho owes his start, had sot him
np for a champion boor instead of nn oraman. No
wonder the regatta committee is in disgust. But no-
thing else could bo expected from an upstart such as
Haulan is."
The first annual meeting of the N.S. Wales
Bowling Association was held on Wednesday, tho 16th
instant. The intercolonial match takes place at Mel-
bourne on Slat December, and th, president (Mr. John
Young) has given a trophy, value £25, to be competed
for, so that members may anticipate a busy season. A
balance at credit is shown of £9 si. 7d Following are
office-bearers for tho ensuing year Patron, Mr.
Arthur T. Holroyd; president, Mr. John Young; vice-
presidents, Messrv C. J. Byrnes, T. R. Allt, W. R.
Burkitt, and A. Forsyth; hou. treasurer, Mr. T. R.
Smith: hon. secretary, Mr. T.O. Hinchdiffe.
Tho following regulations with regard to boat-
races and regattas in the harbour have been gazetted:—
1, A clear midchannel track of not less than 3Coft. wide
is to be preserved along the entike length of the course,
2. Only two steamers will be authorised to follow any
race; one to convey the members of the Press, the other
to carry ths umpire. 3. Masters and owners of steamers
who commit a breach of these regulations will bo deemed
guilty of misconduct, and in addition to the fine herein-
after imposed be liable to have their certificates can-
celled or suspended. Any poreou committing a breach
of these regulations will be liable to a penalty not exceed-
ing £lOO.
Shaw's team of English cricketers errived on
Wednesday by th, Australia (s.s.), which made the best
passage on record from San Francisco. The cricketeis
wore met on the wharf by members of tha Association
and were driven in a four in-hand to tho Oxford Hotel,
where the usual Australian welcome was accorded to
them. The team have been assiduously practising on
the Association Ground, and speak in tha highest terms
of the wickets, which they aver excel any in England.
Several have put on superfluous tissue during the long
sea voyage, but by th, 9th December they will be in
proper f«rm to meet tha Sydney team. Tho English-
men are especially strong in the bowling department
Their match with 32 of Maitland will afford a good
index to future probabilities.
Tha match between the University and Albert
Clubs, for the Holdswortb-Gardyne Cup, was continue 1
On Saturday. Tho Albert score, first innings, was 277
runs; and the University succeeded in patting np 161
runs. Jones played a splendid innings for 42, and was
well caught at long-on by Murdoch. R. Teece played a
goed innings for 31, and Garrett ecored 25 by vigorous
play. With 116 runs to the bad, the University Club
had to follow up; and Jones, with Allan, who had made
21 not out in tho first innings, went to the wickets, and
br dashing and scientific p!aj succeeded in obtaining
125 runs without tho loss of a wicket. D. Gregory
howled very well for the Alberts in the first innings.
Docker was no-balkd in the second innings This inter-
esting match will be continued next Saturday.
The rivalry on the English turf between Eng-
lish and American horses continues. The London
Tiiies took up the matter of tha great wins of
Iroquois and Foxhall, and solaced English spcrcslnea
by raying that though bred in America, neither the
one nor the other was of American breed. « They
he.oug to the line of English rachorsos, and they were
:* competition with member, of their own family. The
trainer of one was ,n Englishman, and tho jockey, in
each instance, was an Englishman ” The article'con-
cluded in these words We hope, however, they may
not continue to beat us, and that when Bond Or and
Iroquois meet, the representative of th* old country
will show that on great occasions we can hold our
own.’ Event, turned out so; Bond Or licked Iroquois.
At tha inquest upon the poor boy, Dodd who
was thrown with Snwarrow, it was elicited that thar#
wa* no dog on the course at th, time the oetidont
occurred. A verdict of accidental death was returned.
The Coroner suggested that the palings should be
nailed Inside, «r bedtw still, that a bar should bo-an
from post to post, and placed so that nothin? should
project. Had this been done before, the accident would
not have happened. Mr. Howie said that tbelboya
seem to have a (head of the posts. It was Dodd’s flfr t
Gup mount, and Iho hope which “ springs eternal in
the human breast ” must indeed have been high with
the unfortunate lad, at the very moment w,Ven fcho
grim destroyer was on his quarters, for Iho Isturdy
Snwarrow had run into a splendid positio ai.il was
going like a sfccasa engine.
Grip who carried Bst. Gib., won the Christ-
caureti (N.Z ) J.O. Handicap, two miles, not easilf I ut
with a little in hand by ttree quarters of a length' Ho
was a hot favourite for sr>nio months previous to tho
race. Donis d’Or (Gst. 3 lb.) was second, and Lady
Emma (7st,lolb) third. Do Loup broke down badly
whan about half a mile from homo, and LibolKr ns
?°V. roi * i d«*l of dissatisfaction was expressed
a “ ■* J Emma's position, and opinions wore freely ex-
pressed that she woe not riddoa out as thoroughly as
her owner and backers could have desired 0/ 538 iu
the totalisntor, 137 w.-rc on Grip Tine, 3 rain. 35 -ec.
The Canterbury Cup, 2i miles, weight for ago. was also
appropriated by Grip j Th. Dauphin, second '; Yatt. udon
Peeress colt, third. Flenr-de-Lis won tho Midden
Handicap, and-Six George the Grand S and Handicap.
Tho mile race on the Association Ground on
Saturday, between Richards and Lyons, resulted in a
disgraceful scene. Lyons had a start of 30 yards, and
maintained, on sufferance, a lead till within about 23
yards from home, when Richards passed him easily,
avoiding a jostle by bis opponent lie was not allowed
to breast the tape, f.,r two mon attacked him and threw
him down, and Lyons came in flist. This ak s were
awarded to Richards, but as there was a dial of betting
by some intending swindLsrs as to who should first breast
the tape, great confution ensued. Tho off nding party
were prepared to bo attacked, but the lo vrs, see ng tbo
formidable fighting odds against them, ha 1 to grin and
bear It. We hare had occasion levoral timas to fled
fault with the professional racing on the Association
Ground. These matches bring the worst possible class
of talent to the ground, and we hope it will no more bo
desecrated by auoh scenes. The English cricketers
were, unfortunately, witnesses of the riot, and are
anxious to know who!her such things arc mua l there.
Of coarse, they never happen in England.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Anti-totalisator prosecutions at Dunedin
Twenty-eight entries were received for the Wellington
(N.Z.) Boeing Club Cup Handball matches arc b«*
coming a favourite pastime at Dunedin. N.Z la
Franck’s totalisator case, heard at Christchurch, N Z ,
ky agreement of counsel on both sides the juries wore
discharged, and the whole of the evidence t-ken in iho
case is to be submitted by way of a special onto to the
Cosrtof Appeal Calumny’s sister, Gossip, has foaled
a Ally at Giiristchurch, N Z , to the Australian sire.
King of Clubs ......The committee of the Forbes Jockey
Club have decided to hold a bazaar daring the annual
races, and devote the proceeds towards tho liquidation
the club debt dhe handsome cup, presented by
the proprietors of tho Snnnytida Estate, to be com-
petod for at tho Lane Covo regatta on New Year's Day,
is now on exhibition at Laieetter’s Prince, the
aboriginal, who exhibited such great endurance in tho
recent go-as-you-please contest at Sale, is one of the
protected aborigines, and resides at tho mission station,
Bamahyuck ProUstant Orphan School v. Young:
? 0T l 9 ’ Sjor eß s T.P.C.C., 43 and 32 (Jelts 15)
P 0.5.Q.C., S 5 and 38 for 4 wickets (Schwartzhoif 19,
Yingen 18) At Sir Thomas Elder’s scabies, Morphet-
a 43000 mare recently died from obstinate
diarrhma, which the utmost skill of the veterinary sur-
goon failed to alleviate. A post mortem examination
disclosed tho cause of death to be a peculiar kind of
worm with which tho intestines were literally swarm-
ln(f Chifney has almost entirely recovered from tho
effects of the severe fall he received in the Hurdle
Rfl.cc, on ill© third, dft.y of the Y K.C. f pring meeting...
Sergeant J. C. Furnish, with 103 points, was highest
aggregate scorer in the Queen’s matches. Mo thereby
wins £ls, and the Association medal. He Was also
highest scorer, with 253 points, in the Queen’s, Ladies’,
and Members* matches, for which he receives £8 and n
gold modal The Ulladulla corps won the Company’s
match, entitling them to tho possession of the Captain
Walker Trophy You can’t win if you can’t lose,"
is a sporting maxim which doesn’t find favour with tho
judges of the Victorian Supreme Court. A bookmaker
named Fagin, at tho last Ballarat races, wagered £SO
that the Hon. W. J. Clarke had been on the course that
day. The loser paid the money by a cheque, of which
ho subsequently stopped payment on learning that
Fagin had seen Mr. Clarke on the course prior to laying
the wager. A third party, to whom the cheque w*as
paid away, sued the drawer, and Mr. Justice Williams
directed tho jury to find a verdict for the plaint ff,
with £ I interest. Those who study the law of
probabilities may find amusement tu speculating as
to whether Mr. Fagin would have t‘ parted,”
had tho facts been 41 t’other way about.”
In the match North Adelaide v. Ktmsingten, kt Adel
laide, the f 'rmor club scored 426 for seven wickets-
Pettingoc 147, W. Slight. 105 The South Melbourne
club defeated the East Melbourne club for tho Cledand
Challenge Cup, on Saturday The Maitland Albiuns
defeated the Morpeth United by 11 runs Carton v.
Blswick. Caxton, 57; Blswick, 6. Pride, for tho
winners, howled 18 balls, 2 runs, 1 maiden, 7
wickets Peate, of tho English team, is said
to be the belt slow bowkr in tie world.
... ...The Barb was ridden by an officer at tho
Victorian Volunteer parade recently Hero of
Waterloo v. Stratheara, at Evorleigh. Hero of Water-
loo, 43; J. Watson It Strathoarn, 42 ; Howe 16 Allen
13 Balmain Waratah v. .Richmond, Moon: Park
Balmain Waratah, 58; Marshall 11, Julian 14.. Rich-
mond, 31 While remarking that the match, Qur
Boys v. Waratnh, was one-sided, we had no desire to
diminish the glory of the -Oat Boys C.C. We congra-
tulated Dennis on making the best of his chsnce against
much inferior player*, by obtaining a good score and a
capital bowling average. "We have no doubt the
Our Boys O C. willrcndry a good account of themselves
in future matches for the Junior Cup. Dennis played
with the Croydons last season, and hence our query,
* • v
In hia match against Franks (Lillie
Bridge), on Tuesday, the 4th October, W. Griffin, of
M irylebono, achieved the best professional times on
record in walking several loug distances, viz , four miles
in 28 min. 511 sec., five miles in 36min. 18 sec., s : x miles
V?. 4 3 mia. 471 sec., and seven miles in 51 min. 29 sec.
His eight miles 172 yards, fairly Walked in one hour* is
also the longest distance achieved within that period.
The previous beat professional records were by W
Perkin*, at Lillie Bridge, on 20th September, 1875 viz ‘
four mile* in 23 min. 50 sec , five miles in 36 min. 32 sec!’
six miles in 44 mm. 24 sec., and sever miles iu 51 niui’
51 5ec...... 1 he aquatic championship of France was won
on Sunday, October 2, by Leiu, iu 7 min 25 2-5 sec-
The five hours’ swimming match, for £IOO aside, between
Captain Webb and Mr. G. A. Jennings, at Hollingworth
.Lake, near Rochdale, on Saturday, October 1, resulted
a wm ,or Captain Webb. At the end of the swim
Webb hod covered slightly over 5 miles 3 laps, wliilst
Jennings had traversed only 3 miles 7 laps. Webb was
very much exhausted A sculling race for £SO aside.
on October 3rd, between Harry Olasper and Henry
Arthur Audsloy, from London Bridge to the Albe/t
Suspension Bridge at Chelsea, resulted iu a win for
Olasper by about two lengths in 29 miu. 82 sec ■ -
Courtney defeated Hiley on September 16, on Loire
Noahtawnta, m a three mils race. Courtney’s time is
reported to he 18 min. 52 soo. He said that his
last time was owing to the wind, which brought him
over the home stretch faster than he could row-
Trickett is to ha ve another presentation, and Nankin
has headed tho subscription list George Chatrertou
the English cricketer, died on October 1 ip. y, A3 t O L
many years a member of the United All-Eugland Sloven.
Hs was engaged at Lord's as professional bowler for a
succession of seasons, and was a good wicket-keeper
snd a reliable bats mar. Tho 100 yards moo for
the amateur swimming championship of England, ctuu
off at Lambeth on September 24, and resulted in a
victory for the time being 1 min. 16* sec
September, at the N. Y. and Manhattan
Athletic Clubs’ joint meeting. W. C. Davis, of Chester
England, ran two miles in the best amateur recorded
* l ™ 9 S £“ arioa * Tlz - min soo.. easily beatingd
three opponents, Gardiner, one of the best
English jockeys engaged on the French turf, recently
in one afternoon, fell three times; he mounted a fourth
—and was brought in insensible Virgulo, for which
the owner refused 6000 guineas, met with an accident
whileracmg in France, and had to be destroyed
Fox-hunting in Ireland Is a dead letter Waitopj'an


Messrs. Turner and Henderson are conducting
business in their splendid new premises in Hunter-
street, and have now a display equal to anythin* to be
found in the colonies. The public may expect a big
attraction in the way of Christmas novelties.
The beat substitute for the present high-priced
meat (and far more wholesome) is liedgate’s Patent
Meal, or Pood of Health. The Australian Cricketers
is the trade mark, none other genuine. Sold by all
grocers and storekeepers.—Any.
Use Jannasoh’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, fish, milk, &c., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
ke ipers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. —Anvx.
“ I will advertise thee.” Richmond Thatcher
is prepared to provide startling, interesting, and
humorous advertising paragraphs for insertion in Tkb
Bullitik. Tradesmen wishing to increase their busi-
nesses, address or apply to BichmOkD Tha*OHEB»
Bulletin Hotel,—Any.
American speculator, won £BOOO over the English St.
Leger. Ho backed the biped rather than the quadruped
—having laid his money on Archer long before it was
known what horse he would mount.
LATE SPORTING.
Continuation of North Shote Regatta on Satur-
day.
National y. Railway. N.C.C. 92 (Adamson 32,
Collins 16.) E.C.C., 26.
( E. C. Laycock and Q. Solomon haYe OnterOd
(or the Brisbane sculling match.
ThG Parramatta J.C. hold a meeting on Anni-
versary Day and the following Saturday.
The Stanmore Club got 289 for 9 wickets,
against the Petersham Club. The P.G.C. didn't try.
The match between the Australians and the
Conquerors, for the Thomson Junior Cup, was won by
the Australians by an innings aad 31 runs.
The Oxford and Croydon Clubs commenced a
match on Saturday, for the Thomson Junior Cup. The
Oxfords are two ahead of their opponents* first innings
score, and have lost only four wickets.
The Audit Office Cricket Club gave the
Registrar-General Club a worse beating than the Trea-
sury. Dave Gregory played three not-ont innings in
these matches for about 100 runs. Next office.
Canterbury (N.Z.) r aces s—Canterbury Derby:
Dauphin 1, Pcsress Colt 2, Nonpareil 3. Free Handi-
cap : Billingsgate 1, Chancellor 2, Talent 3. Canterbury
Jockey Handicap: Grip 1, Louis d’Or 2, Lady Emma 3.
A good many members of the Glebe E.O. are in
hard training for their third ammal regatta, to b« held
in the bay opposite their shed, on the 17th December.
The following are the races:—Maiden fours (open to all
clubs), in fixed seats, on string-test gigs; Maiden double
sculls; Trial fours, in clincker outriggers; Senior sculls,
in clinker outriggers; Scratch fours.
The race between the Mabel and the Doris came
off on Saturday last, and promised to be very closely
contested ; but shortly after rounding the buoy at
Manly the Mabel, when leading by about three minutes,
carried away her jib halyard. No time was lost in
rigging a temporary halyard, but this also carried away
later in the afternoon, and she was never afterwards in
the race.
On 7th and Bth December, Parramatta will see
ite first match against an English Eleven. Twenty-two
do battle for the county, of whom only six are Parra-
matta men. There is a man from Seven Hills who
intends to knock the cover off the ball, and as for that
man from Dural, with the break-back, well . The
captain of the team is having a bad time. He wears an
anxious look, and ponders much over a diagram of the
positions of twonty-two in the field. Poor fellow 1 Five
•• mawleys” in the team.
SOCIAL.
Pennant Hills is not one ot the worst places to
go to, to enjey a merry evening’s whirl, and there are
some rood hops there. Lately, Mr. Thompson pave an
entertainment; some 50 were present, and dancing was
kept np vigorously. Belle was in white.
• • •
To most minds, the word bazaar is only another
word for swindle, and no future dictionaries will be
complete unless this meaning is added. People who go
to bazaars generally make up their minds to be “had"
in all directions; bnt when the money is taken by a
pretty girl ond given to a charity, most of the indi-
viduals who comprise that important body, the public,
will submit to the operations with wonderful com-
plaisance. St. Vincent’s Hospital bazaar was crowded
every evening it was open, f'omo of the stallholders
would have made splendid bushrangers; they bad such
a “ taking ” way. This is how they affected one of the
victims Visions of loveliness in fleecy white and
Sanzy pink flitted unceasingly round, intermingling and
overing about in every changeable variety of possible
colouring and effect; while dulcet tones and silvery
laughter completed the business. The petite and graceful
daughter of a well-known citizen was irresistible in her
application of gentle pressure, while another little
special pleader in pink assisted her in her efforts at
brigandage. The daughter of a popular legislator
locked lovely in a white summer costume; hut amid
such a bewilderment of loveliness, it is hopeless to try
and particularise coherently. Suffice it to say we were
cleared out to the last tram ticket, and with broken
he irt and empty pockets, from Eden took our solitary
way." Is it possible that the Wollongong man has had
the imprudence to visit that bazaar P
• • •
The days of “ high emprise ” are not yet over.
A fair Parisienne of nigh rank had inspired a violent
passion in the heart of a rich young American, and one
night in 1879 he said to her with the brnsqneness of his
race: “Ask me for something strange that none of
your other adorers can giro yen.” And the baronne
asked for a flower that no Parisienne had ever had.
The American departed. In two years ho returned,
bringing with him a Rajßlesia Arnohlii from Sumatra, the
flower of which is more than three feet in diameter
across the face, while its chalice holds nearly fourteen
pints of water. The flower has fc«3n placed in the lady's
conservatory, acd the chivalric American is rewarded
by signs of capitulation on the part of his adored.
Possibly, however, she might take a fancy to have a
roc’s egg among her curiosities, and if she does, the
cavalier is bound to fetch her one. It won’t bo any use
trjingto explain.
• « •
An interesting marriage was recently consum-
mated in North Britain, both the principal parties be-
ing from this colony. Mr Hamilton Osborne, of Mar-
shall Mount, Illawarra, was the bridegroom, and Miss
Susie M., daughter of the late Mr. John Gilchrist, of
Greenknowe, was the bride. Her costume was silver-
white satin damask, trimmed with Brussels lace, wreath
of orange blossoms and myrtle, with a tulle veil; her
ornaments were a pearl necklace, diamond and pearl
bangles, and she carried a bouquet, the gift of the bride-
groom. There were seven bridesmaids dressed alike
in coral pink morvcillenx, with bonnets of lace and
autumn leaves, and carried baskets of roses and ferns;
each wore a gold arrow brooch, wir.h horse-shoe of
pearls and lapis lazuli, the gift of the bridegroom. The
bride was given away by her brother, Mr. W. 0. Gil-
christ.
« » «
Another colonial marriage waa that of Miss
Helen Spooner to John, eldest son of Mr. George
Campbell, at Beading. The bride wore cream satin,
trimmed with damasse and lace, and the seven brides-
maids wore dresses of nun’s cloth, trimmed with satin
morvellleux, all of different colours, but made alike;
Gainsborough hats, trimmed with cream laoe and
feathers, and each bridesmaid had a gold brooch and
bouquet, gifts from the bridegroom. Large party at
Ivydene in the evening.
# # #
In his interesting work, recently published, on
" The Language and Customs of Several Tribes rf
Aborigines in the Western Districts of Victoria,” Mr.
James Dawson, while on the subject of aboriginal
marriage laws, says:—“ Tho mother-in-law can never
speak to her daughter’s husband or enter his wuurrn.
If she meets him, she must cover up her head with her
rug, walk in a stooping position, and speak in whispers
while he is ncir. To such a length is this remarkable
law carried, that it is not departed from even while
one of them is dying.” We have a lot to learn from
the niggers of Western Victoria. Happy darkey!
(“ If she meets him, she must cover vp her head
with her rvg, %calk in a stooping position, ond
speak in whispers while he is near.”) It also
appears from Mr. Dawson’s work that “ ICorroboras,
and groat meetings of the tribes, are the chief oppor-
tunities for selecting wives, as there the young people
of various and distant tribes have an opportunity of
seeing one another. A married man or a widower may
speak to a married woman or a widow, but they are not
allowed to go beyond the boundaries of their camp
together unless accompanied by another married per-
son. Unmarried adults of both sexes are kept strictly
apart from those of another tribe, and are always under
the eyes of their parents and guardians. The young
women are not permitted to leave the neighbourhood
of their wuurrns at any time unless accompanied by a
near relative.” This is an effectual counterblast to file
civilized tendencies evidenced in the rule italicised
above. The benighted Western aboriginal had evi-
dently heard of a down-the-harbour picnic.
♦ ♦ *
A Wag’s joke at Greymonth (N. Z.) was per-
fectly successful the other day. He spread information
that a grand wedding would take place at St. Luke’s,
early in the morning, and thither flocked the curious
ones. Some went between 7 and 8 o’clock, and re-
mained till noon, before they could realise that it was a
** have," The victims Say that they think they would
rathpf have a fnnferal than a Wedding, after all; it is so
tfittdn more fun getting reiidy. So they are looking out
for that wag, and directly they get him, tile hearse
will start.
• • •
Next Wednesday, Professor D’Haroonrt’s fifth
sociable will take place at the Gymnasium at 8 o'clock,
when his agile young men will go through the usual
illustrations of prisoners undergoing torture.
• • •
Here la a picture at Trouyille,—a place we
Australians Would never have board of, if It hod not
been tor that Wicked Quids, “Mademoiselle Am ore t
Comes out of the water; Could anything be more try-
ing than a dripping, clinging bathing dless f Yet
Amoret’s lovely contour is Just as perfect as when she
is in full toilet, with all the arts of the milliner exor-
cised upon her. The fashionable beauty, who visits the
seaside, goes provided for all emergencies. Her corset-
maker has fitted her for the sea as well as for the
promenade. She braves the ocean safely, knowing that
she will look as well in the water as out of it. Of
course, she does not swim. All she goes there for is to
look ravishingly graceful; so she forms one of that
elegant crowd in elaborate bathing drosses at the
water's edge, and keeps bobbing np and down in a way
that looks very fnnny and very inane. Her curls, her
rouge, her powder, and her waist, are all matters which
most be kept in mind.
• • •
There waa a very popular wedding at All Saints’.
Parramatta, on the 16th inst., when a surveyor entered
into the indissoluble bonds with the sister-in-law of the
incumbent of that church. Decorations ware gorgeous,
ferns, lilies, vines, rosas, grasses all over the building.
The bride was charming, in a dress of rich pure white
gros de Suez, cut tn princesse, with puffed train, worn
very long, shirred skirt, beautifully trimmed with white
silk lace d’Alenpon, a wreath of white Jasmin and
myrtle, and a splendidly embroidered tulle veil, the
whole costume looking very rich, elegant, and ahaste,
and showing to full adantage a splendid fignre. Five
bridesmaids were dressed in ivory-white cashmere,
three trimmed with garnet, and two with pale blue,
with hats of white Spanish lace, d la Mrs. Cornwallis
West, turned up in front. All carried beautiful
bouquets. The “ moat popular ” intoned the service,
and the choir, of which the bride has been ona of the
most efficient members, assisted in the pleasing cere-
mony.
• • •
A Parramatjja gentleman asked the prettiest girl
of Pennant Hills a question, and she said “ yes.’*
• • •
Matters matrimonial are beginning to look np
in Wollongong. Four marriages were celebrated last
week, and several more are spoken of as likely to come
off shortly.
• • •
The engagement is announced of a gentleman
connected with the Survey Department with the eldest
daughter of a well-known resident in Hanis-street,
Glebe.
• • •
There are forty-six marriageable girls in Wol-
longong without beaux. When any strange but dashing
** spark " puts in an appearance in the batter district,
he is at once besieged by the fair sex, and no efforts are
spared to secure the prize. But woe bo to the success-
ful one I Cruel words and jealous feelings are given full
play, and the "forward minx” who *'runs after arary
stranger” gets a rather warm time of it from the dis.
appointed dears. How those women love each other 1 ”
• • 9
The Jewish community in Sydney has, daring
the past week or two, been considerably agitated by
matrimonial baokslidinga on the part of members
of the chosen raoo, and by the sadden death of one of
the perverse ones. The marriage of the late Mr.
Myers, M.L.A., to Miss Alice Blundell, a Christian
young lady, daughter of Dr. Blundell, of Brisbane, and
a very charming and accomplished woman, gave deep
umbrage to Mr. Myers' co-religionists. We heat that
the fait Gentile was solemnly banned in the Synagogue
on the Sabbath succeeding her wedding day. If that
were the case, the ecclesiastical curse had speedier
effect than usually follows such denunciations, for
before the week was over the bride had become a widow
—Mr. Myers having suffered so extremely from
sea-sickness on his wedding trip to Brisbane
that peritonitis supervened, and terminated fatally.
Another occasion for vexation was the clandestine
marriage of the young and handsome daughter of one
of the most wealthy and hospitable Jewish gentlemen
in Sydney to an elegant teller in a bank which has its
head-quarters in close proximity to the town mansion
of the bride’s parents. The venerable yam rehashed
for the occasion by an evening paper—alleging that the
best man, drawing from his own experience, chalked
the figures 21 noon the sole of the bride’s number two
bottines in order that she might declare herself to be
'* over 21 ’*—is, we have the best authority (for stating,
purely fanciful. The parents of the bride are deeply
wounded at a daughter of theirs fixing her choice out-
side tho fold of Israel, and there is talk of disinheriting
and disowning the pretty culprit. Everyone will hope,
however, that parental affection will overcome the dis-
pleasure and mortification of tho occurrence, and that,
considering the equal rights enjoyed by Hebrews in
this colony, and their complete immunity from any
disqualification on account of their religion, nothing
will be deliberately done indicating that our Jewish
citizens refuse to reciprocate for the advantages they
enjoy.
* * #
As a rule, the Kiama people are almost too good
for this wicked world, and a picnic has hitherto been
regarded as tho first step on the high road to perdition.
They have heard about “places down tho harbour,”
where such fnnny things go on that one can’t even
mention them without having to |pay a farthing and
costs for his temerity. So it’s evident these very proper
folks departed a little from their usual habits when they
ventured on that dangerous experiment, a picnic, last
Prince of Wales Birthday. However, the Sous of Teix-
perance tried the awful venture, and went to Shell,
harbour. Of course, the daughters followed the sons,
and such a maddening whirl of pleasure as these people
enjoyed can only be faintly guessed at when we toll
what occurred. First, there was 100 yards race for all-
comers, and ten of tho comers came : nine of them were
behind, and one iu front—he was a darkey, and won th«
race, after a heroic struggle, in the remarkably short
time of two minutes. Amid much ceremouy, he was
presented with the first prize, ten bob—which he took
home in a cart Having got so far in their dissipation,
dancing was next intredueed; the talented members of
the Shoalbaven Life and Death Band supplying the
strains—and they were " strains,"too, sometimes lively,
sometimes deadly, but not a note the whole time that
didn't take the gallant band all the straining they knew
to get out. It was ” top notes " all the while. They’ll
never have small-pox an Kiama while that band exists
there; the place is not large enough for two epidemics
at once. They started a quadrille first, and the dancers
polished_ off the first figure to the liqui 1 melody of
the "Blue Danube," the bandmaster asking at the
finish how that would do. They thought it was good
on the whole, as an air, but it didn’t seen to lit the dance
exactly. So the band started a few other styles, but
they couldn’t please everyone—each fellow wanted a time
of his own. At length they struck a tune that seemed
about the right thing; it was something between tho
National Anthem and the Dead March, and they kept
to it. It suited the people well—just the very thing—
so they splashed through the five figures to the well-
known air, “We won't go home till morning,” which
the bandmaster, however, called “Selections from
Wain V. aib and Geaang." The real bliss was in the
luncheon tent, where a score of lovely damsels, of
eligible ages, handed round refreshments with a smile
that was worth double the aighteenpenoe for the sand-
wich and tea. After lunch came dancing again, rounders,
kiss-in-the-ring, and other Sunday fidhool diversions,
the latter especially being' indulged in with |fraas
enthusiasm by those who blushed to look at the wicked
dancing. The belle of Shellharbont was conspicuously
charming in a white dress with bine flounces, red bows,
and a large straw hat shadowing a lovely face. The
Kiama people now think that it’s just possible to go to
picnics, and yet reach heaven after all.
# * *
An alleged odctirr(mcd at the Olen Innea
Masonic ball, on 9th Nov., was the caflse of much
scandal in that fair town. A few days after the festi-
vities, “an old todler " wrote to the lodal paper/ re-
marking that when one who was ostensibly a gentle-
man so far forgot himself as to promenade a ball*
room with his arm round the waist of his fair partner,
and whilst seated beside her to commit a further im-
propriety, merely because she was only a young country
girl, and had ilo one to protect her, it was time that
something shonld be done in the matter. The old
gentleman wound up by quoting tad case of the young
English lord, who at a colonial ball, insulted a young
lady, on whose father he called next day to apologise,
and was then treated to a handsome application of her
sire’s boot. # # #
The following advertisement appears in the
Qlhn Ixhbb Guabdlan of 18bh instant “ A warning
to Squatters. —Squatters who have daughters of a
inamageabld ago Should be cautious of young gentle-
men wbb fredusni their lidiiiestCB.<ifl Mid partako of
their hospitality, without beihg in the least degree
sensible df the kindness shoWn them, and make ufle of
parents* gefcfctosity to make themselves disagreeably
offensive, if not obnoxious, to the family, It is worth
squatters’ while to note this warning, and for their own
peace of mind, as well as for the welfare of their family,
to keep clear of persons of the class referred to.—Ffrf-
lat M'lnnes, Maronan.— Nov. 17th, 1831.’’ It appears
that on the 16th instant a daughter of the gentleman
who appended his signature to the foregoing announce-
ment, was married, without his consent, which ho
withhold, to a Mr. Scholes. The wedding took place in
tho presence of several members of the bride’s family,
and of a large number of old friends of both bride and
bridegroom. » * #
A fashionable audience assembled by invitation
at St. John’s School-room, Darllaghurst, on Friday
evening last, to witness a in camera performance of
Gilbert and Sullivan’s (esthetic opera “ Patience," by
the members of St. John’s choir, under the director-
ship of Miss Woolley. “ Patience ” was represented
by a lady whose oratorio singing has stamped her as an
artist; she gave her numbers with great taste and
skill, and received one well-deserved encore. Bun-
thorne’s part was rendered with much humour, and the
duet between him and Grosvenor brought the house
down. The Colonel’s patter song was well rendered,
and the choruses were given with great precision, the
ladies being particularly good in their enunciation,
A quintette and a duet between Grosvenor and Patience
were genuine musical treats. The ladies were taste-
fully dressed, and the gentlemen, to heighten the
effect, wore sunflowers and lilies for bntton-holos.
Bunthome displayed a magnificent sprig of white lily.
For obvious reasons. Lady Jane’s sorig about the
coming by-and-bye was excised. It is likely that the
performance will be repeated,
• « •
The Penrith ball, on Tuesday last, was good
enough to please everyone, and no fault could be found
even by the most fastidions. The company was jolly,
and, tnanks to the exertions of local gentlemen, tho-
roughly sociable, but without a sign of roughness. A
beautiful nieH brought visitors, not only from the
neighbourhood, bnt from distant places. In addition
to some who went in the morning for the banquet, the
afternoon train carried several ladies and gentlemen
from Sydney, a good contingent being picked up at Par-
ramatta, and some more at Blaoktown. It was easy to
guess whither they were bound, for the various card-
board boxes and immense soft parcels, indicative of
ladies’ wearing apparel, could not possibly mean any-
thing less important than a ball. For the people of
the district it was a red-letter day; ecstatic bliss for
those who could go ; and for the maidens, all forlorn,
who couldn’t go, but stood dolefully holding up their
front door-posts, looking, oh I so sad, it must have
been anguish poignant, indeed. Never did we yearn so
to bo a Mormon, that we might, without impropriety
have taken a dozen or two of the fair Penrith
Cinderellas to the halls of dazzling light. Alasl it
oeuld not be. About nine o'clock a general move was
made to the Temperance Hall, which was well deco-
rated ; the floor was splendidly prepared; and though
there isn’t any honest gas company on the Nepean, the
lamps were so well placed that scarcely any difference
was noticed. The gentlemen wore mostly in plain
dress, clawhammers, frocks, and " walking sacs’’: two
locals representing Night and Morning, They were
good, well-behaved boys, but not requiring any special
notice. Another solid-looking youth was a Chinaman,
olnmp boots and all, and his exertions to render himself
attractive towards morning were appreciated a good
deal. Two conspicuous ladies’ dresses were Martha
and Enth, from “The Pirates;” the latter most
creditable. Mrs. Colless (Mayoress) was in pale blue
Bitin, covered with madras muslin. Miss Jordan
(Wagga) appeared as the "French Flag" in three
colours; and Miss Theodora Ditto as the Grecian
Flag bine with white bars and white crosses—a
unique and distinctive dress. Miss King was in car-
dinal ; Miss Hill in a qneenly robe of light hue, with
magnificent train; and Miss Ovenden, a tall brunette
from Annandale, in amber satin draped with black lace,
and cherries. A city auctioneer, who philanthropically
devotes his energies to providing "homos for the
people," was among the gayest. Mr. Bury, of Parra-
matta, had a handsome court dress of pale blue satin
and stamped brown velvet. Mr. T. R. Smith, M.P.,
wore a splendid Saltan’s dress, consisting of loose
flowing robe of ruby satin edged with brown, pink
undervest and yellow waistband with gold fringe. The
costume was trimmed with bullion lace, and surmounted
by a white and blue turban with silver cord, and a gem
in front, which would probably, at a rough estimate, be
about the value of the Kohinoor. This gentleman and
Mr. Waldron, M.G , wore untiring in their efforts to
run the affair smoothly, and they did it. Mr. Mason
wasagoodKyrleDaly(fromthe‘‘Colle«nßawn”). Little
Miss Smith was a dainty Flower Girl in whit** satin
dotted with blue roses, anu a wreath in her dark hair—
a charming little picture. Two sisters of the locality
looked very well—one in pink llama, and the other in
bine silk and tarlotan, pretty and graceful. Miss Mason,
from Parramatta, was the Queen of Hearts, whito'skirt
and black velvet body, studded with large red hearts—
probably trophies of the lady’s victories. A vivacious
little brunette from Blaoktown was in plain white satin
—the wearer, however, was by no meins plain. Miss
Parker (Surry Hills) was all white, danced exquisitely,
and did more damage than she knew of. Mrs.
T. E. Smith was in a handsome dress of old gold
sateen and cardinal, finely gathered. Mrs. Regan
displayed a flue dress of black velvet, edged with swans-
down, as Mary, Queen of Scots. A Spanish Peasant
was good; and a local belle in pale blue satin and
tarletan, with silver fringe and leaves, looked exceed-
ingly well. The Misses Smith chose tasteful costumes,
both in white sateen and tarletan—one trimmed with
holly berries and leaves, and the other with fruit and
leaves; each wore a diagonal band of blue, whereon was
worked in silver braiding “ A merry Christmas,” and
'* A happy New Year," respectively. The air was
beautifully cool all night; the catering by the City
C). beyond cavil; and the band of four, under Mr.
Kopff, treated the dancers to mnsic such as they can-
not hear every day at Penrith. If, amid such a multi-
plicity of loveliness, pretty costumes or faces are
omitted from mention, we can only say we’re sorry, and
promise to give them special mention when the next
The new bride ia now staying at her father-in-
law’s place—Appinj and we understand from the third
footman (who before ho raised himself edited a comic
paper) that 'appiness is still the order of the day. In a
day or two—tears—forgiveness—and the chink of the
money-bags.
* * »
Last Saturday afternoon, biggest flower service
ever held in Sydney, at the Garden Palace, under the
auspices of the Congregational Union. Over 2000 chil-
dren, everyone with flowers, and about same number of
visitors. J. J. Salier conducted, and as some of the
music was in front of him and some behind, the pivot
business necessary to give all their duo attention was
rather awkward. Wolverene band gave good help. No
preaching. Flowers sold for the widows of the Orkney
fishers, and given to various institutions. Some of tha
singers and members of the band were nearly roasted,
as usnal, by the afternoon sun glaring through the
roof windows: but when people give their services for
a charity, it is not worth while taking any tronbJu
about them.
• * •
A correspondent writes to say that there was a
wedding at Walgett, the other day, and that as a con.
sequence the whole town was drunk for several days.
We hope there is nothing libellous in this.
• • #
A young solicitor, well known in sporting circles,
will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar the handsome
rister*in-law of a respected Parliamentary official,
* * •
Town Sail is built at Penrith. There was a magnificent
attendance of spectators all through, the bottom win-
(lows and the top ones were crowded with faces, whose
owners, no doubt# enjoyed the to them Unusual sight;
and the wistful looks of some of the little maidens who
crowded round the doers, showed how much they
wanted to take a more active share in the “ spree,"
Altogether, the Penrith residents, as well as the
visitors, had good reason to be satisfied with their ball;
and yet, they are actually talking Of another one
alre?*dy.
• • •
Armidale, too, has bad its little sensation. Tha
other morning the forirth and prettiest daughter of a
locally prominent Civil servant and a visitor, the eon
of a well-known Melbourne medico, went out for a walk
together, strolled into the fiodJan Catholic Church,
and got the knot tied. Upon returning home, the
bride somewhat surprised her family by informing
them of what haditaken place. HoneyCxww at Mel-
bourne.
♦ • •
On the Macleay/ three marriages, all in “high -
life," are announced for the coming month. A Govern-
ment official marries a daughter of an old and respected
family j and tito newspaper men (Chbohicie) take
unto them Selves wives from the Several
other matrimonial efonts afe also on the tapis,
• 4 •
A large party at Pitt-strecft# Redfern, last
Wednesday week. Over 60 guests. The acknowledged
belle was the fair daughter of the hostess, A very
pretty young lady from Ashfleld was attired in a drese
of pure white grass cloth, with white satin waistband.
Another conspicuous lady had on a white dress entire; v
covered with crystal beads, which was very effective.
Between each dance, tw'S favourite vocalists greatly
added to the enjoyment of the evening.
Mr. Alderman Robert Fowler.
JusT now, when the Municipal elections are on,
we have much pleasure in giving the portrait of
Mr. Alderman Robert Fowler, ex-Mayor of Syd-
ney, and a candidate for re-election in Denison
Ward ; and we take the opportunity also of glanc-
ing at the career of this gentleman in connection
with municipal affairs in this city. Mr. Fowler is
a man who has built up his own fortune, and why?#
thotigh for over twenty years in municipal life#
has managed to conduct a most extensive and nv
creasing business. That bnniness has not fattened
on municipal contracts in the way that has stained
the reputation of many of our public men of late.
Early in life, Mr. FoWler entered his father’s
pottery works, at CampcffdOWn, but devoted hia
spare time to study under private tutors, and
acquired a knowledge of history, natural philo*
sophy, and the science of political ecoSUmy, far
more extensive than most of hia contemporaries
imagine. The entire management of the works
eventually fell into Mr. Fowler’s hands, and under
hia able direction they have developed into one of
the most extensive industries of the colony# lu
1869, he was called to his first municipal honours
being elected alderman for the municipality of
Cook. The following year he became Mayor, and
with considerable tact and judgment he united tht?
two boroughs of Cook and Camperdown in one
corporate district. In recognition of his services
in this respect, he was, in 1870, elected first
Mayor of the united boroughs. On retiring from
this position, he met with a public demonstration,
Turning hia attention to the affairs of the Sydney
municipality, ho was elected, in 1872, for Denison
Ward, hia majorities being very large. Since
then, he has been elected three times for the
same Ward, without opposition. In 1880 he was
elected Mayor of Sydney, and was the first to
hold office under the new Act. While in this
position, he liberally entertained the Duke of
Manchester, the Foreign Exhibition Commis-
sioners, and other distinguished visitors; and
during hia mayoralty he begun the work of city
improvements, which work, it is satisfactory to
note, has since been energetically carried on. Mr.
Fowler is a member of the Public School Board
for Marrickville, Petersham, Camperdown, and
Darlington. He has devoted himself to the en-
couragement of legitimate sports, aiding liberally
with his purse the Anniversary and Pyrmont
regattas, Public School cadet matches, &o. To
the Irish Relief Fund, Mr. Fowler lent all the
assistance in his power. During the past week
he met with an almost unanimous call to contest
Newtown for a seat in Parliament; he was com-
pelled, however, to decline. Daring the past few
days preparations have been going forward for
the Denison Ward election, and Mr. Fowler has
experienced a unanimous and an enthusiastic re-
ception at the hands of the constituents. Thera
can be no question that he is a man in whom every
reliance can be placed. Upright, energetic, indepen-
dent, and go-a-head, he is the very man for co- (
operating the municipal reform so much needed
for this city.
Messrs. Riley Brothers have cut off all commu-
nication with sailing vessels as far as their business ia
concerned, and take advantage of the fortnightly ocean
mail service for the importation of their goods—which
are now open to the public simultaneously at their Lon-
don, Sydney, and provincial houses. Fashion
ablsj and se’aeonoble goods every fortnight from London,
Royal Blend Whisky is the coming sensation
Gilchrist, Watt, and Co. are the agents.
One of the results of the Exhibition. —Brooks
and Co , one of the largest cotton manufacturing firms
in the world, have opened business in Sydney. Wynyard
lane is the place of business.
The available building land at Homebush West
is to be sold on Saturday by Messrs. Mills, Pile, and
Gilchrist. Twenty.five acres of what in a short time
will be a thriving township 1
The diamond drill has discovered a new seam of
coal at Qosford —eight feet wide, at a depth of 6SO feet
The coal is first-class. Another proof of the practi-
cability of the diamond drill. The discovery is to be
“ demonstrated.”


A.
Business Anneunc
G. C H U R 0
SALT MERCHA
IMPORTER and MANU
of
COFPBE3,
PEPPERS,
and
SPICES. BICE, and ]
STEAM MILLS, WOOLL
OFFICE and STOEESt—I47 '
SYDNEY.
OURB OHINEI
Messrs. QUONG TAT
Have much pleasure in announce
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite the Frenoh
AN AGENCY POE THE
f LOON SHAU
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co.
public approval Silks and General 1
* N. B. —Mr. QUONG TART has
a visit to China, where he in persoi
mentioned Teas, so that their purit
INSPECTION INVI
800 GEORGE STREET—SHOW I
Near Hunter-stre
F.T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE ’
i
Kit
w
w
milton
St
ll:;
THOMAS WI
ENGINEER & IRONFt
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, & Q
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220
DA
AWARDED the
for S?wing A
ONLY FIRST
MEDAL, at
1881.
FIRST and SP
Show, 1877,1
Singleton, W
ONLY First and
No other BEV
Special Prize at
to the contrary n
B. 0.
SOMETHING NEW UNDEB THI
The Universju Srwn
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
JTUENEE EOBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482, late 481, GEOEGE-STEEET,'
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1881. ‘
A LAEQE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, KEW PATTEENS,
DIEECT from the MANUFACTURER^,
FASAIONAELE
and
FIEST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO OEDEB.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 13s 6d.
(ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHBUSTK
AND A PERFECT FIT GUAEANTEED.
JJ AYE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,"
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot bo executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
017 KING STREET, SYDNEY
O 4 (two doors from George-street),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-stroet, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles erery mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions, 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is. j Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
madamtTweigel’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Bodies and Child,
ron furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak-
ing np. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to 3s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d j by post, 8d; or 0s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
• Address 1
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
L
cs*
&
S&9L')
m.%
&
kPV
aa
£3
A/
Of,
PI
KSSi&m 9
ROARTY’S STUDIO,
5
tegs©!!
m
m
604 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Belmont house and hotel
LAKE MACQUARIE,
IS THE BEST, HEALTHIEST, AND PRETTIEST
PLACE in the Colony for Ladies and Gentlemen requir
Ing REST, or CHANGE of AIR, or good SALT-WATER
BATHING.
GOOD BOATS FOR HIRE,
jujkajapja
BEASSFINISHEES, COPPEESMITHS,
Plumbers and Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS.
BOICACCOED WORKS,
9 Macquarie Place,
'SYDNEY.
This la the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Coni
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad wit
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and,
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic
TALLOW GAS miutn with thin APPARATUS
THE "PRODU
ERADICATES SCURF an<
Jm.A
"i
Soothes, Invigorates, an
Induces a healthy action of
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESSEs
GUARANTEED.
"WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
one single application stops the Hair
falling off m all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BASSOW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery. ”
Vide Lancet,
POUR PRIZES.
TWO AT PARIS, 1878.
SYDNEY, 1880.
GOLD MEDAL, MELBOURNE, 1881.
ill
R
A
JOHN S A N D S’
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS
and
NEW TEAR CARDS.
This Collection has been specially designed to meet a
much needed requirement, namely, that of providing
cards suitable for sending home calculated to convey to
our frisnds an idea, not only of the beauty of our
scenery and flora, but, at the same time, show the
advanqe Australia, and Sydney in particular, is making
in the Fine Arts.
There being an erroneous idea prevalent—owing to
their excellence —that these cards have been produced
in Europe from colonial designs, I take this opportunity
of informing the public that they have been specially
drawn on stone by Artists in my employ, and produced
by the Chromo-Lithographic process at my own works,
and are the result of a competition held at tho Art
Gallery of N. S. W., in May last, for premiums of tho
value of fifty guineas, given by me for the best Christ-
mas Card Designs. These are thirtv-eight in number,
and include, amongst other cards illustrative of Bush
Life, Australian Animals, Fruits, Flowers, Birds, and
Insects, Colonial Scenery, Amusements of Children,
Pastoral and Allegorical subjects, and will in each cose
have verses appropriate to the occasion selected from
those gaining the premium of twonty-flve guineas
recently given by me.
The cards will be on sale on and after Monday,
October 17, and may be obtained at all stationers in the
Colonies, and direct from
JOHN SANDS’
CHEOMO-LITHOGRAPHIC WORKS,
874 George-street.
JJ A V I D M • 0 A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Dnke of Edinburgh, Hie
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Bel more,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and Ilia- Excellency Lord Augustus Loftua.
K.C.SLG.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
band.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Agricultural Exhibition, 1863,1970, 1873, and 1875.
THE Most PEEEECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the hall-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shikt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN'S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Stdkht
(One d#or South of Hunter-street.)
m
I] \
r i
&
r ISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILOEING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any port of
the Colony.


MOST PLEJ
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO
that the best clea
TANT and Deodoriser foi
SMALL-POX and all othe
CONTAGIOUS D
can be found bj
PANTEE AND PARRY'S
OP SOAI
which not only contains
dients for the greatest cli
ever yet introduced to t
composed in its manufact
best disinfectants.
MADE PURELY FROI
PLANTS
known, and admitted in i
throughout the globe. Con
it is free from all injuri
pleasing smell, will not inj
cate hands, is the great*
labour, rendering any a.rtii
with of the purest whit*
marvellous short space of t
NO HOUSE SHOULD B;
as it cannot be surpassed
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Croc
Paint, Floe
and every Honsehol
DIRECTIONS for whicl
EACH PACKET, which
from all Grocers and Stoi
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORf
SYD N E
IN THE Wl
Dispense Prescriptions chi
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spo
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS
Send for a Price List. Connt
ally attended to. Don’t forg>
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New
W. K E I
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLO<
66i QEOEGE STEEI
Opposite St. Andrew’
Medals of every description, Mt
sentation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND SE'
A new and Choice Assortmen
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, fn
118
XING STREET !
All AM
MARTIN&P.
MARTIN A PAIN,
SM OCOItQB STREET, SYDNEY.
ft ;-v-*
-
Steel Stripper
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and •tot purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial at
it is possible to writs.
••PUD OF THIS! TIITIMOHIALS POSTED T 9 EVERY ENOUIRII
W FARMERS see live HORNSBY
BBTO&I OADBBXKB A ITT OTHER.
HORHBB
Arp un
Thtf art U
Thtf art tt
They an tt
Thtf art tt
Thtf an M
Thty dt iht
wc call C
TRtR U
THE DEI
THE PfN
THE DRI
THE DRI
THE ITN(
Wo Goar
FARMS]
stksr
SEND
Sol* B
Agents «
388 QE
IJHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RI
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in S.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY-
oR"
o**
STj
And Or
Li \
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNf
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
ro>
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/. per
SHIRAZ ") Fruity
MADEIRA ) Wine* j U/ * »
BURGUNDY 1 Dry 1 ,
RIESLING J Wines j Zl '* ••
' G. H. STEPHEN & C
Wine Grower* and Mercl
13 Bridge Stree:
C L
I FFO E D, LO'
TEA IMPOET
EASTEEN AND CO]
MEECHANI
Deceive regular consignmer
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualii
Do. Indian Prize Me
CHUTNIES—Indian Pr
PEESEEVES—Indian I
COFFEE —Plantation S
Do. „ Pc
Do. „ N<
ElCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and I
SAGO
PEPPEE—WIiito and B
OFFICES 79 YOEE
AND AT
EDWAED STEEET, ]
JOHN D
IMPORTER O
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass*
Qiw fittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper (
and Load Pipe, i
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L. SUIHKER
E
L
E
B
R
A
T
E
r
ECONOMY IN CLO'j
—o—
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS PRO!
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE'S T
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEA!
■rent to any part of the <
OT The particular attention o;
dents is requested to thi
Any stylo of Garment made t
6UMMEEFIELD
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAST
s
16
