

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6—No. 70.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1881. .
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1881
Justice.
It is with some diffidence we approach the subject
of the trial which was last week concluded. Our
appeal has yet to be heard, and the matter may be
regarded as to that extent mb judice. But as the
Herald and Evening News have already com-
mented, it appears not improper that we—as
parties in the suit, whose voices must in any event
be heard in our own behalf—should give, albeit with
a certain degree of reserve, our views upon what is
past. With the particulars of the trial the public
are already familiar. They are aware that, how-
ever strong may have been the phrasing of our
article on “ The Larrikin Residuum,” the
generalizations in that article were weak and
trifling when compared with the detailed evidence
adduced in justification of it. They are aware
that not one of our witnesses was shaken
one jot by the cross-examination of the plaintiffs’
counsel. They are aware that the evidence
of the writer of the article was not challenged—
that Mr. Darlet did not ask him half a dozen
questions. They are aware that we produced a
body of independent and reputable citizens, for
the moat part not in any way associated with this
journal, who swore to having witnessed the most
flagitious scenes. And they are aware that to
oppose these there were adduced to a great extent
persons who on that day had been employees of
the plaintiffs. In brief, the public are aware that
never can a public journal hope to place before a
jury a defence more complete, evidence more suc-
cinct, or a justification more overwhelming.
And, happily, it would appear that the
sense and instinct of the public have torn
into shreds the web of legal technicalities
and spurious distinctions with which it
has been sought to obscure the true issue. It
has not been a matter of the farthing damages
awarded against us for speaking plain truths
which the public had a claim to know. For that
offence we have been condemned in reality to pay
more than a thousand pounds; and the issue is
just this : if that sentence be allowed to operate
against us, the voice of the Press is silenced for
ever in New South Wales in all cases where
the interests of individuals are bound up with the
perpetuance of iniquity. Proprietors of news-
papers are but men. They may have the public
interest at heart, like other men, but if it is to
cost them a thousand pounds on each occasion
that they stand forward as champions of that
interest, they will certainly decline to take up the
cross. No newspaper can hope ever to speak in a
better cause than that which evoked our article.
None can ever expect to produce evidence which
shall more accurately and thoroughly endorse the
language employed. None can hope to be
favoured with a weaker attack. Law has had its
chance; but justice—it is for the people of New
South Wales to say whether justice shall be done.
It is for them to declare whether the Press, when
willing and able to expose public wrongs, shall be
obliged to hesitate and reckon the cost, or whether
journalists impressed with a sense of responsibility,
and burning with indignation at practices which
sap the very foundation of society, shall be able
to pour their feelings into .language as ardent as
their thoughts, supported by the knowledge that,
no matter what may come of the trickery and
chances of law courts —no matter what arts may
be used to obscure the true issue—no matter what
foreign considerations may be imported into the
question—the public will see straight through
to the principles involved, and will of their own
motion support the right, and avert unmerited
ruin from those who have served them. The
Bulletin has made mistakes. This we do not
desire to deny. But for these errors there is
special retribution. There have been matters
which may have justified annoyance. But it was
not for these we were called upon to answer before
Judge Manning. For our backsliding we had
previously suffered. It is a principle of British
justice that no man shall be twice punished for
the same offence. The question before the people
to-day is this. Did our article on the proceedings
at Clontarf merit thanks, or deserve punishment?
Was The Bulletin on that occasion consciously
the vehicle of the malice and spit-,e of one indi-
vidual against another? If so, & thousand
pounds was not too much for us to pay’.- But if
i he Bulletin was on that occasion the medium
by which the righteous indignation, the honest
warning, of an eye witness was conveyed to tht*
Public, against dangers to young people of which
parents and guardians could not surely be aware,
then we claim that a farthing damages was a
monstrous wrong, and that a further penalty of
more than a thousand pounds constituted a
scourge to be flourished henceforth by the hand of
Iniquity as a menace to any who might dream of
daring to espouse the cause of public morality.
The Bon. George Thornton, M.L.C.
Probably there is not a native-born Australian
in the colonies who so characteristically—we might
venture to say, typically—represents the best class
of his countrymen as the honorable gentleman
whose bright, agreeable facial lineaments beam on
our first page to-day. Averse as we are to adula-
tion in all shapes, and knowing how offensive the
language of panegyric would be to the subject of our
memoir, we cannot, nevertheless, refuse to say of
George Thornton that he has pursued a public
career amongst us which he may estimate modestly,
but which we, as journalists, cannot pass over so
gently. He has distinguished himself in many
political and philanthropic ways ; but possibly his
highest commendation arises from the fact that
he never cared for popularity, in se, or on its own
account; —he liked to do good, and he did it,
without hope of reward ; and, if he had chosen to
become a Ministerial expert, there is not a position
in the colony to which he could not have attained
years ago. That he did not strive or struggle to
become a Premier, or Minister for Public Works,
arises solely from a subtle modesty that underlies
his whole character. He possibly feels more pride
in having been for more than a quarter of a century
a magistrate of the territory and twice Mayor of
Sydney than in any other honour that could be (or
has been) conferred on him. We certainly look
upon his life of honour and usefulness as affording
a lesson to the young men of the colony ; and it is
through this view we chiefly direct attention to
the principal biographic items in his career.
Mr. George Thornton was born in Sydney on
the 23rd December, 1820, and saw the city
growing from a hamlet to a metropolis. He
vy~as -educated at the Primary School attached
to, St. Philip’s Church, and subsequently under
the* late Mr. W. T. Cape, whose pupils have so
honourably distinguished themselves in the
liberal professions. Mr. Thornton received the
elements of a solid commercial education from
Mr. ( M‘Roberts, a gentle;:ian whose worth and
integrity as a tutor have not been sufficiently
recognised. Dr. 'Lang said of him, that he
(M’Roberts) was a man who could make mathe-
matics as interesting as a poem or a picture ; and
that he enjoyed nothing so much as teaching, or
communicating knowledge to, a bright, docile boy.
When Mr. Thornton left the Australian College —
where he had the benefit of the Rev. Mr. Carmi-
chael’s instruction, and, in certain subjects, of that
of Messrs. Wylde and Mackenzie, and others—he
began business in Sydney as a ship and Custom
House agent, and those who knew him in that
capacity affirm that he was always looked upon as
a thoroughly trustworthy and reliable commis-
sionaire. The late Dan Egan used to say of him,
that he did two days’ work in twelve hours at that
period. Fortune befriended his energetic efforts,
and by mere tact and energy he soon became a
comparatively wealthy man. His steadfastness of
principle was recognised by the public in 1857,
when he was elected alderman for Cook Ward in
the old City Council. He was Mayor of the city
for a short time under that regime, and after-
wards under the reformed Municipal Act.
There was no chance of a Tammany Ring
taking “shape, form, and colour” in George
Thornton’s municipal days. He ia essentially
a polite and pleasant man, and all forms of
trickery and chicane are foreign to his nature. If
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., would devote half-an-
hour to the study of this sketch, he —yea, even he
—might veritably become a native of whom we
would be proud. Mr. Thornton was elected mem-
ber for Sydney in 1858, and continued to represent
the capital in the Assembly till the close of the
Parliament by effluxion of time when (1864) he
visited England. When he was returning, the
year following, he was wrecked with the “Duncan
Dunbar,” in October, on Las Rocas, near Pernam-
buco. On that occasion he received an exceed-
ingly complimentary and well-deserved address
from the passengers, but one he thoroughly
appreciated; for during .two days’ detention he
attended to the wants of nis fellow-sufferers with
a zeal and devotion that won their esteem. He
went back to England after this mishap, and re-
turned to Sydney in 1866. The year following he
entered Parliament as member for the Western
Goldfields, but retired therefrom in 1868, when he
again visited England. His tour of Europe
was completed in 1873, when he made notes and
observations on the principal countries of the old
and new world. It would be hardly worth while
to specify his mayoralty of Woollahra, if it
did not happen that he brought his keen
business tact to deal with the requirements
of that borough, and did permanent service
to the ratepayers. On Mr. Thornton’s eleva-
tion to the Legislative Council a few years ago,
the public expressed general satisfaction. The
Press was unanimous in its approbation of the
honour conferred on him. It was certainly be-
stowed on a worthy son of the soil, who is especially
“racy’ of the colony’s bonhomie and liberality.
He has been an energetic supporter of public
sports for over a quarter of a century, and as
Executive Commissioner to the Philadelphia
Exhibition, he deserves the grateful thanks of the
community. It is a curious fact in connection
with Mr. Thornton’s public services that he has
never drawn a shilling from the Colonial Treasury.
As a magistrate of thirty years’ standing, a
legislator of at least twenty, and a philanthropist
for at least half-a-century, he has managed to
keep his fingers free from the contamination of
the “ base counters ” some of our “ swells ” have
fearlessly manipulated, to their own dirty ad-
vantage. As an indication of Mr. Thornton’s
probable longevity, it may be mentioned that his
death was twice publicly reported in Sydney ; but
he was, nevertheless, in the enjoyment of perfect
health when we had the pleasure of seeing him
for five minutes on Saturday last.
THE STOCKWHIP
“Mad, your Honors!”
For twenty - five years the Sydney newspapers
have been uniformly unsuccessful in the Supreme
Court This clearly proves that the newspaper
man is always wrong, and the man who sends
along the writ is always right. We feel bound
never again to offend anybody. Black, we now know,
is white. The Pope can declare his own infallibility;
the Supreme Court Judges can declare theirs ? The
latter can also enforce their decisions. We now make
peace with our enemies. We retract, we apologise, we
recant, we grovel. We and our contributors are a
Pleiades of liars. We’ll never again listen to tales
about pandemoniums of salaciousness, corradiations of
impudicity. All such stories are, and must be, gigantic
mendacities, mountains of falsehood, monstrous lies.
We shall never again say we’re “ not guilty.” Never
again shall we argue that an article is “ true and justifi-
able. “ Insanity ” is to be our plea in future.
Barristerial Latitude.
It would be interesting to know the precise end that is
assumed by the law to be served by the sworn testimony
of a witness placed in the box —the exact reason why he
is placed there—and the object of his being called on to
give evidence on matters concerning which he may be
supposed to possess special knowledge. Outsiders might
easily believe that the evidence, if nncontradicted, would
be made use of in order to get at the merits of the case,
but therein would they display their ignorance of the
tortuosities of the law and its application. To judge
from actual facts, it would appear that sworn testimony
is only of use for barristers to exercise their ingenuity
upon, in twisting its meaning to serve their own cause,
or using their effrontery to question its validity when it
goes against them. In the late Clontarf case, Mr.
W. H. Traill swore that he, and he alone, was the
writer of the article, and that no one else wrote a line of
it. This testimony was entirely nncontradicted; but
Mr. Darlet, Q.G., because it would serve his case better
if it could be insinuated that someone else had a hand
in it, declared, in his address to the jury, that he did
not believe Mr. Traill, but was sure, though he had
not an atom of ground for the assumption other than
the exigency of his case, that another writer was
responsible for at least part of it. In other words,
he insinuated, if he did not say, that Mr. Traill was not
only a liar but a perjurer. Now, we do not in the least
care what in the opinion of a lawyer tactics of this kind
may be classed as, but we assert that in private life
anyone adopting them would be shunned by all who
admit anything like high principle as a factor in their
conduct.
The “Daily Telegraph.”
We are indebted to that eccentric journal for a leader
commenting on the extraordinary verdict in The
Bulletin libel action. When we read this article we
THE BON. GEOEGE THORNTON, M.L.C.-(From a[?]ht). by Boyd.)


were somehow irresistibly reminded of the anecdote of
he Frenchman, who, when about to be guillotined, was
asked by the executioner if he had any request to make,
and on replying in the affirmative was invited to name
it. ** I should like,” he said, “ before I die to learn the
English language.” Doubtless, could the Telegraph
become a living thing and speak at the present juncture,
it would come very near echoing the Frenchman’s re-
quest. We do not, of course, mind being abused by the
Telegraph at any time, but certainly we think we can
reasonably ask to be “ slated” in decent English. The
article under notice merely considers the verdict of the
jury as being “ somewhat anomalous," and broadly
accuses us ef “dealing in sensationalism.” With re-
gard to the first of the expressions we have quoted we
will content ourselves with saying that it is only in
keeping with the “ somewhat anomalousness ” of the
paper. Before charging us with sensationalism, however,
the Telegraph should look at home. How many times
has it, in its short and brilliant career, striven by the
most desperate efforts at sensationalism to draw a few
extra pennies from the pockets of confiding 'busmen P
Not long ago the proprietary advertised a series of lite-
rary startlers under the heading of “How we die!’’ when,
all the while, people were wondering “ how we lived.”
Then recently the walls have been labelled with posters
referring to a set of articles on Chinese Immigration,
in which placards—“ Death on the Pale Horse"—“ The
Horrors of Little Canton,” etc., figured conspicuously.
They have tried to make a sensation out of the niggers
and Sir Arthur Oordon, and failed; they have tried to
make a sensation out of the awards at the Exhibition,
and failed: in short, though they have tried their ut-
most to get up a sensation that would draw, they have
never succeeded in doing so. At the present time,
therefore, the Telegraph resembles nothing so little as
it does a smart paper, and nothing so much as it
does the legendary fox with its tail cut off. The Telb.
graph ought really to print a little of the Queen’s
English. Just now, so far as its columns are con-
cerned, it is a very wise relative that knows its own
antecedent.
Pursuit of Religious Knowledge.
Ie there be one aspiration which more than another
fires onr sonl it is a desire for saintly information. We
want to be well posted in holiness. Possessed with
this burning thirst, we are evermore eagerly turning
for the latest tips on the subject to the columns et the
religious newspapers. In one of these, styled the
Witness, a person named Allen—Daniel Allen—
Daniel Allen, Pastor, is writing a series of letters, and
this is how he commences his invaluable epistle of Satur-
day last: —“ Dear Sir, —Having considered the seven
trumpets and the seven vials, with the 1260 years of time
between the one and the other, excepting the seventh
trumpet, which was reserved to give birth to the seven
vials, even as the seventh seal gave birth to the seven
trumpet angels, permit mo now to consider the forty-
two months’ treading down of the two witnesses, and
the three and a half days of death without a grave in
the great; city, which, spiritually, is called Sodom and
Egypt." When we had gone this length we stopped,
and like Noah after he was let out of the Ark. took a
drink. Then we started again, quite fresh ; but it was
of no use. There were two columns and a half of it,
and Daniel seemed to be thoroughly in earnest. We
cannot suppose for a moment that he was poking fun
at the innocent readers of the Witness, bat we did not
seem to get much information out of him. We are re-
luctantly driven to the conclusion, at least, that we hod
thrown away our threepence so for as Daniel’s lucu-
bration went, and we were sad at heart. If the con-
tribution had only been headed “Bible Question*,
Puzzles, Ac.," like one of the precious and sanctified
columns of the Weekly Advocate, wo should hove
known what to expect. As it is, Daniel has completely
had ns for just this once, and we give him best. But
we would advise him to be careful. He will “ come to
judgment,” as sure as his name is Daniel.
Trades-Union Liberalism.
Hi gh Tory and other reactionary writers are fond of
declaring that democracies are more tyrannical than
aristocracies, or even autocracies. The falsity of this
is too palpable to need demonstrating; and it is equally
plain that it is mere Utopianism to hope to alter
human nature by a mere change in the form of govern-
ment. The tyranny which a democracy exercises is just
that which has been engrafted into the very nature of
its individual parts by previous systems of aristocracy.
This is the only truth in the assertion. But granting
this small modicum, it should be the aim of all those
professing democratic principles to free their actions of
as much semblance of tyranny as their conditions will
admit of. Now, trades unions are democracies pure
and simple, yet we find members of the Trades and
Labour Council ’giving some colour to the assertion
alluded to by proposing an act of tyranny at once ill-
judged and contemptible. In suggesting the expulsion
from the Council of the United Labourers’ Protection
Society, because the Society objects to taking forcible
possession of the Domain for an anti-Chinese meeting,
it declares that it will admit of no freedom of opinion
within its ranks, but that all must conform to the will
of the executive. Mr. Rotlance should .have learnt by
this time that the day of thisispecies of'dictum is past,
and that any attempt at reinstating itlmust be suicidal,
and result only in the break up of that union which it
is the object of the Council to maintain. The only
principle on which a democracy can be made stable is
that of equal liberty. When a number of men combine
together to carry out certain principles or ideas, then
it is quite legitimate for the exeentive to demand com-
pliance with them. But if a matter arises which lies
outside of these fundamentals, then the spirit of equal
liberty is violated if any species. of compulsion is
attempted. In such cases to refuse to recognise the
liberty of your neighbour is the first stepitowards losing
your own.
Th Pilot of Potosi.
When the ambitions politician declared his belief in
his ability to take command of the Channel Fleet, his
pretensions scarcely met with the reception he had
hoped for. But whatever may have been the people’s
•dea as to Lord John Russell’s conceit, it is question-
able whether, in the light of existing facts, it was
really so very ludicrous. To take command of the
Channel Fleet would, no doubt, require a long course
of technical study and practical application, and it is
scarcely likely that mere talent of a philosophical order
would suffice to compensate for the want of it. Equally
with the whole fleet, the command of a single large
vessel in it would require experience of no short dura"
tion. The handling of a heavy steam vessel of some
four or five hundred feet in length, which acquires in
the least motion a momentum which inexperienced
people cannot possibly estimate, is not to be learnt by
reading books, or even by navigating hundred-ton
coasters from one port to another. But it is on this
assumption that pilots are appointed. We know nothing
about the pilot who was in charge of the Potosi when
she took the ground, but it is most likely that he
acquired his knowledge of Port Jackson waters in small
coasting craft, and it is pretty certain that he was never
in command of a 4000-ton steamer. The wisdom of
putting the entire responsibility of handling such a
huge vessel in the hands of one whose chief qualification
is an intimate acquaintance with the coast line and
bottom, is questionable, and until the system is altered
similar accidents may be looked for.
Publicans and Sinners.
The Licensed Victuallers were on the stump somewhat
extensively during the past week. Both the metro-
politan associations met, and their officers put their
best oratorical feet forwards, and inflicted about four
columns of O.P. eloquence on all awearied newspaper
readers. They both sing the same song, and both blow
hot and cold with the same breath. The wicked
magistrates, who break the oath they have solemnly
taken to impartially adjudicate on all cases brought
before them, and shamefully abuse the trus
reposed in them, by attending on all occasions to oppose
the issue of licenses—of course came in for the most
luxurious benisons the Licensed Victuallers’ vocabulary
could supply. But, sad to say, the other section, which
grants licenses to all and sundry who choose to apply
for them, was greeted with equally affectionate language,
and declared to be ruinous to the trade. Verily, he
that tries to please anyone but himself must be writ
down the assiest of asses. The holy horror and virtuous
abhorrence of both presidents at the atrocious conduct
of those sinful publicans who sell liquor to any but
those whose characters as regular church-goers were
above suspicion, was extremely gratifying. But the
palm for philosophical teaching must be awarded to
the secretary of the younger association, who boldly
girds up his loins and wrestles with the quagmires of
social economy. “Saith he: “Interference with the
liberty of the subject is to be accomplished by enormous
organizations, not by small groups of fanatics. Parlia-
ment must be overawed by, and the police become sub-
servient to, the demands of a minority who have dis-
covered that cohesion will enable them to defeat the
wishes of the majority who are less bonnd together for
the maintenance of their freedom.” These are not
exactly the doctrines of Mill, Sfencer, Comte, or of
any of the sociologists or moralists, but then—so much
the worse for the moralists. It is, at all events, good
to know exactly the liquor-sellers’ tenets on the vexed
questions of the liberty of the subject, and the relative
authority of right and might.
Birds of a Feather.
Which is the higher tribunal —the court constituted to
carry out the written law of the land, or that court of
human nature which abjudicates on breaches of the
unwritten moral law ? Can there be two answers to the
question P Our written law is but a relic of the regime
which recognised in might the only form of right; it
is a code formulated by the strong to keep the weak in
subjection—patched and botched from time to time so
as to make it appear not too much at violence with the
spirit of the age. This is our written law, our so-
called moral code. But there is a higher law than this
—the unwritten moral law, which is the soul of Nature f
and is imprinted in the collective heart of every com-
munity. These two codes are continually clashing,
because the written law assumes that humanity is
stationary, and that what is good for one period is good
for all; while the unwritten law progresses with the
progress of the race. Before the lower tribunal The
Bulletin has been declared to be a violator of the
written code. But what says the higher tribunal
regarding Dr. Ellis ? The crime Dr. Ellis is charged
with is not recognised by the written law, because he
did no injury to anyone's property, or interfered in any
way with their chances of amassing it. But if he libelled
the soul of the community, and cast foul aspersions
on its aspiring spirit—and this is a crime known only
to the higher tribunal—still he goes scot free, and The
Bulletin has to pay perhaps £l2OO. Which is the
greater criminal —the written law libeller or the un-
written law libeller ?
Excwoociating!
The latest society “ fad ” in English aristocratic circles
takes the form of a wild craze for the aesthetic. Dapper
little respectabilities ©f both sexes, and even people of
a better class, are alike numbered among its victims.
Societies are formed, having for their aim and purpose
the encouragement of a love of the beautiful among the
poor by means of artistic objects—pottery, flowers,
mural paintings, engravings, bulbs, &c. One of the
most distingue of these, the Kyrle Society, under the
presidency of Prince Leopold—and modelled, we be-
lieve, on the Eomanys, of local fame —is being rather
unmercifully quizzed just now by those vulgar comic
papers, which in their caricatures humourously repre-
sent the grotesque efforts of the members to promote
the object of their high-toned aspirations. One clever
cartoon shows a female “ Kyrle darling,” attired in an
testhetic mediaeval costume, presenting an all-too-lovely i
peacock’s feather to a juvenile crossing-sweeper, with '
an admonition to try and live up to it, as it will be
found “ inexpressibly utter !” It seems that this sort
of thing is beginning to affect injuriously the real
interests of Art, as well as the social manners and
character of youth—falsifying and barbarising the one,
while hopelessly enervating the other. And really,
judging from the information before us, this result is
scarcely to be wondered at. Swathed in a tightly-fitting,
inartistic costume, with flowing train, with short hair
crimped into little curling wavelets over the eyes, and
hideously dyed, the female aesthetic chooses for her
gushing confidant some fragile effeminate male creature,
with lisping accent and ambling gait, and uncombed
hair flowing freely over a Tennysonian collar. The
pair immure themselves in " consummate” apartments,
ornamented with aesthetic wall-paper of ill-assorted, un-
natural colours, the pale light green which aesthetics
love preponderating; and here, with the daylight
tempered to their cultured fancy by means of tinted
windows, they fritter away an idiotic, useless existence
—useless to themselves and to those around them.
Some affect flowers and incense, and artificiallfountains
and soft music. These, when they get together to
mutually improve their common yearning after
“cultchaw,” delight to recline luxuriously on soft
couches, inhaling the refreshing fragrance of artificial
lilies the while; and as the twanging of an antique
guitar blends with the murmurs of the plashing'foun-
tain, allow themselves to be dreamily 'overcome by the
soft monotony and the odorous fumes of the incense
wreath, until the lulled consciousness floats airily away
beyond the eerie confines of the mystic Nirwana, the
region of divine aesthetics—a desirable consummation,
which is unanimously pronounced by the votaries to be
a state of things “ quPe too distinctly rare and pre-
cious." Swinburne may be looked upon as the votes of
the new evangel, which finds an influential ecclesia
doceng among rising young artists (who, however, bid
fair to blast their prospects irretrievably by the ven-
ture) and the aristocratic leaders of fashion. Thus,
fashionable poets and novelists, like fashionable mil-
liners and costumiers, are already beginning to pander
to the new craze, while the popular taste is gradually
becoming vitiated, and the healthful vigour of the
young generation sapped by this emasculatory in-
sipidity. Meanwhile,’Pun ch flourishes, and his uninocu-
lated readers shriek their delight, while the chosen
ones apostrophise the scoffers, now as harsh, unfeeling
wretches, and anon as shallow, soul-seared men. Firent
Handle et Postlethwaite!
Alphonse Bechet.
That other cause celebre —the Bechet affair—is, we
suppose, wound up definitely at last. Pauvr* diahle!
He had a strong bar—the only Dallet having emerged
from his honourable retirement to do justice to the
occasion; but, in spite of this, and a powerful defence,
the verdict went against him. Of course, assuming the
justice of the jury’s decision—rather a confident step
just now —it would be the climax of mawkish sentiment
to lavish sighs of pity on the convicted man. The
crime, if it existed, was great, and the consequences of
such a reckless act might have been still more serious.
But, it is worth considering that the coroner’s jury,
while the matter was still fresh, were unable to come
to a decision, and that the accused denied his complicity
to the last; while the scene in court when the verdict
was announced, and afterwards when sentence had been
passed, showed that many of the public and the whole of
his friends still clung to a firm belief in the truth of his
last interruption of the judge. And here we must say
that the style in which Mr. Fitzwilliam Wentworth
all throngh stuck to the man whom he had befriended
at an expense of many thousands of pounds, and refused
to believe in his guilt, forcibly illustrates the good old
sporting axiom, “ Blood will tell,” and proves that the
big-heartedness of a noble sire has been transmitted to
his son. The evidence against Bechet was purely cir-
cumstantial—and though as strong and conclusive as it
is in the nature of circumstantial evidence to be, was
necessarily toe fragile to furnish the definite certainty
which directly positive testimony alone can give. The
law-books teem with most melancholy instances of
conviction for capital and other crimes on circum-
stantial evidence, in which it has happened that the
verdict was eventually set aside when too late to repair
an irreparable wrong. But there is yet another aspect
of the affair. Had Alphonse Bechet been undergoing
trial in his own belle Franc* in a similar case, until an
! adverse verdict was recorded he would have been a free
and uninjured man. With us, however, it is the custom
to clap the accused during his trial (whatever his social
1 position or respectability) into a felon’s cage—into that
dock where the vilest and most ignoble of criminals m eet
with the penalty of their wrongdoing. The manner and
bearing of the accused must be visibly affected by this
position,—and in cases where the jury, and more par-
ticularly the judge, are forced to supplement the meagre
evidence by a scrutiny of the prisoner’s demeanour,
this consideration is of grave import. If proved
innocent, he may be let down gently with the touching
piece of cant that “he leaves the court without a stain
upon his character” —while, if at all a sensitive man,
the fact that he has stood for hours a suspected
criminal in the dock of the felon, will cling to him for
life like a nightmare. Even had Bechet, for instance,
been acquitted, would his “character" have passed
through the ordeal unscathed ? “0 nee accuse a man of
a crime, and people will be ready to believe him guilty.
Place the most honest and pleasing face behind these
rails, and it at once becomes a face that expresses every
passion,” said Mr. Dallet, years ago. In the name of
justice why should a man be caged like a wild beast in
full view of a gaping crowd until he has been adjudged
guilty ?
Mr Barley’s Mistake.
The Hon. F. M. Darlet, Q.C., is a gentleman. But,
unfortunately, he is also a lawyer. When he advised
the Messrs. Moore to proceed against The Bulletin
he was labouring under a delusion in regard to the
authorship of the Clontarf article. He thought it
came from the pen of a certain very clever writer whose
life has been clouded by eccentricities now atoned for.
Mr. Darlet, in short, relied on prejudicing the jury
against us by fixing the authorship of the article on an
unpopular man. Now, the obstacles to a man’s redeem-
ing the past should not, above all, proceed from a court
of justice. In the Supreme Court, ordinarily, the
memory of a former offence can only be revived by
another conviction. If you prevent a man who lives by
his pen alone from using that pen you take away his
iving. If you deprive him of his living he —and his
wife—must starve. The ethics of journalism and those
of the bar are not dissimilar. We have heard advocates
—and judges, too—give expression to sentiments alto-
gether at variance with the tenor of their lives. If
such be done at the bar and on the bench, why not in
the press ? A newspaper must have ability; of course
it is well that it should also have respectability. In
the present case, Brown the good has been mistaken by
Mr. Darlet for Jones the ungodly. It is, therefore,
clearly impolitic, is it not, any longer to countenance
Brown ? Mr. Darlet knows better than we do that it is
the spirit and not the letter of an article which should be
regarded. Bad moralists have written good poetry.
Pious men have written bad books. Libidinous judges
have done substantial justice in divorce cases. Dis-
honest barristers have uttered lofty sentiments in
courts of law. Not so many years ago the Austra-
lasian, the foremost of the Australian weeklies,
accepted contributions from Sussex, who, as everyone
knows, wasn’t a saint. The hand of Esau is one thing.
The voice of Jacob is another.
Australian Larrikins and “Federal Aus-
tralian” Larrikins.
Is that nicely-printed journal, the Federal Australian,
going to unite the colonies in the hoodlum interest ? In
its current number, the F.A. proves to its own satis-
faction that Australian larrikins aren’t half bad fellows
after all. The savage attacks made upon them by the
average editor are, it says, utterly unwarranted. The
male larrikins of the Clontarf order are compared by
our contemporary to “ Oxford undergraduates.” “ The
irrepressible fast young ladies of the period,” says our
southern friend, are but a slight improvement upon
" Bacchantes in squalid finery.” The larrikin, it is
admitted, is full of mischief, “ but only of the mischief
of the youthful orchard-robber, of the spirit to which
somebody has declared England owes of
India, and the colonisation of well-nigh every vacant
space on the earth’s surface." He is, in short
a bright, vivacious youth, jocund, frank,
and genial. Now, in our opinion, the typical larri*
kin is a reincarnated blackfellow who, during a former
state of existence, was spoilt by contact with the civil!
sation of towns. He is indigenous to “ Australia, tho
fantastic land of monstrosities.” If any of his stamp
ever did get into the armies of Wellesley or Clive
you may depend on it they were shot in the long run
for theft or impudence by order of their own officers
Youths bred in the Australian bush are almost uni-
formly well-behaved. They may smoke, but as a rule
they have an aversion for drink. They are remarkably
taciturn. They seem in some small degree at least to
have been impressed by the dominant note of Austra.
lian scenery. Weird Melancholy, and to have imbibed
the spirit of the Australian mountain forests, “ whose
solitude is desolation, in whose black gorges is stiflei a
story of sullen despair.” On the other hand, a large
and increasing section of the depraved “ town raised"
boys serve, as they prowl about in droves, but to remind
one of the “flights of white cockatoos which shriek
like evil souls,” or ®f the mopokes with their “ horrible
peals of semi-human laughter." We know and under,
stand the Australian larrikin. But we don’t know the
Federal Australian larrikin.
Christianising the Islands
The days of the church militant are not yet passed among
the so-called civilised sections of society. The anomaly
of fighting church dignitaries has indeed begun to be
recognised, but history repeats itself, and growing social
organisations evolve similar stages of development that
have long been passed by older communities. In periods
now remote Christianity, grounding its pretensions on
Bible teachings, claimed the obligation of spreading its
beneficent influences by fire and sword, and warrior
bishops personally led the way to carnage and salvation.
Heretic countries were to be brought within the opera-
tions of saving grace by cutting off im their sin all
whom the sword could reach. Threats and fulminations
now generally take the place ®f steel and lead, and it is
only now and then that the old Adam breaks out, and a
George Brown shows the way to heaven with a musket.
Among the islanders, however, the attractions of the
old method still find disciples. At Tapitawa a native
missionary, named Karu, converted the entire commn-
nity, and like a true Christian persuaded them to give
up their arms, the possession of which was incom-
patible with the profession of a peaceful and brotherly-
loving faith. But, alas! like so many eminent
Christians, he developed too strong a hankering after
filthy lucre, and an insatiable lust for copra. This was
too much for the people. The blessings of Christianity
they were grateful for. But not at the price of copra.
Paganism and copra were better than Christianity and
none. So they apostatised. Then the old Bible teach,
ings fired the heart of the pious Kabu. Like Joshua
and David, he heard a voice saying—“ Kill, kill; leave
not alive anything that breatheth." And like them he
went forth and slew men, women, and children, because
they would not worship the Lord, but bowed down
before strange idols. Wherein do Kabu and Joshua
differ ? It will be curious to hear Bible apologists on
the subject of Kabu’s proceedings.
FOOTBALL.
A football match under the rules of the New
South Wales Football Association will be played on the
Association around next Saturday, A two-mile walking
match for £25 o-side will take place after the game is
over between two well-known peds The Waratah
Football Club is now a thing of the past. Most of the
members are in favor of the Melbourne game, at which
no doubt they will be able to drub the Wallaroos, and
so be as they have long desired to be, the premier
players of the colony A match was played on Satnr-
day last on Parramatta Park between the second St.
Leonard’s and second Parramattas, Phillips captaining
the former and Coates the latter. Until half-time the St.
Leonard’s team had the best of the game, securing one
goal to their opponents’ nil, but on play being resumed
the Parramatta played the fresher game, and forced the
St. Leonnrd’s|to touch down in their own goal several
times. Shortly before time Fleming secured a touch
down for Parramatta right under the St. Leonard’s
goal. The St. Leonard’s Icaptnin disputed this, saving
that Fleming took the ball off side, and on it being
referred to the umpires, both without hesitation de-
cided in favour of Parramatta. The St. Leonard’s
captain declined to give in, withdrew his team from the
field, and refused to finish the game. Under these cir-
cumstances the second Parramatta claim a win, in
the meantime referring the dispute to the Southern
Rugby Football Union The following played well: —
For the Parramatta Hicks, Settler, Hill, Coates, and
Fleming; for the St Leonard’s, Cox, German, and
Dnnsmuir A f iotb 11 match between Goulbum and
Tass came off on Queen’s Birthday, resulting in a
victory for Goulburn by one goal and one touch down.
The Rugby and 2nd Newtown football clubs played
a match on Saturday, which resulted in favour of the
Rugby by one touch The University and Redfem
football clubs played a match on Moore Park on Satur-
day last, which resulted in an easy victory for the
University by five goals to nil.
CRICKET.
The cricketers are howling about football being
allowed on the Association Ground. They are bidding
farewell to the good wickets, and fear the approaching
season of bumpers and’shooters. Football ruined the
East Melbourne wickets. A match on Moore Park
last Saturday, between the Perseverance and Britannia
C.C.’s, resulted in a victory for the former by 30 runs.
Scores: P.C.C.,44; 8.C.C., 14 The Petersham C.C.,
on Saturday last, wound up a very successful season by
defeating the Arundel C.C. (who had the assistance of
Wearne, the Carlton bowler) by 3 wickets and 59 runs ;
the match being played on the University Oval. For
Petersham the batting of A. Loveridge 27, and J.
Seale 27, was very fine, while Percy Marr and G Seale
did gre it damage with the ball, securing equal averages
of 5 wickets for 12 runs A match was played at
Evelei. h on Saturday, between the Hero of Waterloo
and Granville C.C., and resulted in a “ tie,” each team
scoring 27 The YoungJOxfordland Underwood C.C.’s
meet at Moore Park on Saturday afternoon. The re-
sult was a draw in favour of the T O.’s, scores being—
Underwood, 61; Yo"nr Oxford, six wickets for 49
On S iturday, at Moore Park, tbe Redfem Cambridge
and Clifton C.C, a met A’feran ii tjresting game scores
stood thus: —tied fern U C.. 87; Clifton C.C ,75 For
the wir ners Baker (21) and Wilson (18) played best, the
latter’s bowling being excellent. For Clifton, Tipper
(20) and M’Laughlin (17) showed good form The
Parramatta Alfreds succeeded in defeating the Stm-
mores on Quern’s Birthday A match was played on
Saturday between the Surry United and Union C.C.’s,
resulting in a victory for the Surry United, bv 5 wickets
a d 7 runs Australian Surry C.C. and Fitzroy C.C.-
n et at Moore Park on Saturday, 14th, the result being
a victory for the latter by 5 runs. The bowling of Rapp,
for the winners, was excellent. He took 8 wickets for 9
runs The batting and bowling of Blackburn, for the
losers, was very good Redfem Albion C.C. v. Fitzroy
C C., at Moore Park on Saturday last. Result, a draw
in favour of the latter, who scored 40 runs, against
their opponents’ 9 wickets for 15 The Cbo and K'-nt
clubs met on the ground of the latter Inst Saturday.
The Clio were the first at the wickets, and kept pos-
session of them till time was called, losing only 5 wicket s
for 93 runs. George Ford and W. Gribble played good
sterling cricket for 42, not out, and 20 runs respective! -


TO SUBURBAN LAND Bl
LATOES, BUILDERS,
SOCIETIES AND OT
UNDER POSITIVE INSTRUCT]
SEA VIEW E 8
PETBKSHAM
This Large Eetate is Subdivided iat<
Sites, as follows
SECTION 1. SEVEN (7) ALLC
frontages to FRAZER, FAIRI
STREETS.
SECTION 2. SEVENTEEN (17
having frontages to NEW CAN'
YULE, HERBERT, and FAIB
SECTION 3. TWENTY-TWO (2i
having frontage to the NEW Cl
M ARRIOK VILLE ROADS ai
HERBERT STREETS.
SECTION 4. THIRTY-ONE (31
having frontages to SEAVIEV
FAIRFOWL STREETS and
ROAD.
%• These allotments have fronts
feet by about 150 feet deep, and
crown of the hill, commandin g g<
and Ashiield.
Without exception, the most im]
Sydney. Large Number of Lots
TORRENS' TITLE and EAI
HARDIE & G
Will sell) by ancth
on the
GROUND, at 3 ]
SATURDAY, M
The whole of the unsold poi
SEA VIEW ESTATE. PE]
as described abov<
fronting CANTERBURY, MAI
other ROADS, the best poe
residences.
INSPECT THE LAND and ATI
«■ LITHOGRAPHS AT THE E
AVOCA.
Attend This Ss
EVERYBODY SHOULD ATTE]
THE PEER,
THE PEASANT,
THE LORD,
THE COMM<
THE MAN WHO
THE MAN WHO HAS N<
THE MAN WHO Wj
TO MAKE MONE
THE MAN WHO WANTS
THE MAN WHO WAI
SPECULATE,
And all their wives, all at
and buy at
AV O 0
QUEENSCLIFF
BONDI. 801
UNEESEEYED S.
ON THE GEOH
On the Ground
SATURDAY,
160 ALLOTMENTS 01
EACH HAYING FEONTAC
22 ALLOTMEN'
frosting
HALL STEEE'
45 ALLOTMEN
fronting
EOSCOE STEEI
49 ALLOTMEN 1
fronting
cuelewis ste;
34 ALLOTMEN
• fronting
MATILDA STEE
10 COENEE ALLOT!
fronting
O’BEIEN STEE
BY DEPTHS OP OVEE
BEING
THE EESIDUE 01
CELEBEATE]
BONDI
ESTATE.
THE ESTATE IS NOI
SUBDIVIDE!
by
Mr. SUEVETOE F. H. I
TITLE,
TO KEENS*
ACT.
HARDIE & G
hare receired instructioi
PUBLIC AUCTI
ON THE GEOUND, ON *1
SATURDAY, 28
AT 3 O’CLOC
LITHOGEAPHS B
TEEMS,
EXCEPTIONALLY L
THE SITES
are
UNEQUALLi
for
HOMESTEAI
and
DWELLINGS
with
FINE VIE'W
of the
OCEAN, DAELING H
NOETH AND SOUTI
WAVEELEY, AND BO'
and the
BLUE MOUNTi
BUILDEES, TEAD
CLEEKS. <fe OTI
will find the LAI
QUEENSCLIFF i
WOETH buy;
POE BUILDING PI
LMPEOVEMENT PI
HOLDING for INCEBAI
FREEDOM OF THE
THE “BULLETIN” LIB:
FUND.
MEETING OF THE CITIZEI
at the
MASONIC HAL
on
FRIDAY (TO-MORROW)
ANDEEW ALI
ALEX. CUMM]
G
LEBE ROWIN
SECOND ANNUAL ]
Plain and Fancy Di
Mr. W. Abbey, bootmaker, of George-street, has
generously advanced the rate of payment for sewn-boot
■work done by his employes Is. per pair, equivalent to
6s. per week for each man, and this favour has been
granted of bis own motion, without solicitation from
anybody.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than anyexhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
LATE THEATRICAL.
J. J. Wallace and Mrs. Walter Hill have joined
the Byronic Combinaton at Greymouth, N.Z.
* • *
Lizzie Morgan has accepted an engagement—
matrimonial—at Greymouth. No cards.
* ♦ *
Sterling White joins Allison’s company to sup-
port Leake.
* * *
The “ Pirates of Penzance” open in Adelaide
after the Leake season.
* # *
The Lynch family at Gulgong.
* • *
Zulu Thompson and his show are at Gamer’s
Theatre, Adelaide.
* * *
The Temperance fete at the Garden Palace on
Tuesday was a “hummer.” Over 8000 parted their
*« colonial Robert” for admission. It is evident that re-
si>ectable people prefer attending with their children
Mr. P. R. Holdsworth’s splendid yet harmless enter-
tainments, to risking the chance., of an “ orgie ”
anywhere.
• ♦ *
An amateur company styling themselves “ The
Mountain Minstrels” recently gave an entertainment at
Lithgow in aid of the decoration of the Lithgow School
of Arts stage. The attendance was so limited that no
benefit was conferred on anything or anybody except
the publican opposite, who netted 4s. 6d. over and above
his average nightly receipts. Lithgow is evidently a
good show town. Doubtless the first Italian opera
company that comes along will pay it a visit.
• * •
Professor Hume, the phrenologist, addressed the
Lithgow people the other night from the balcony of the
Cosmopolitan Hotel. He afterwards manipulated the
heads of the audience —and their cash.
« « *
The amateurs at Walgott have had a trot out.
Alluding to their performances, their reporter says:—
“ The boys and the girls said it was jelly nice, and
between you and I, Mr. Editor, they are not half bad
judges.” Let us trust, however, that his critical
acumen is in advance of his grammar.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Victorian Government will introduce a
comprehensive anti-Chineae measure next session.
The Bible in Schools question is the trouble in
Auckland (N.Z.) at present. A fierce war is raying.
The Victorian Radicals wish to shunt Patterson
(or abolishing patronage in the Railway Department.
It is said that Longmore and the extreme left
will stonewall the Victorian Reform Bill on its third
reading. The division will be very close.
Mirams says that after all it’s well there are
not more people in Victoria. Some of the Victorians
say it’s also well there are not more Miramses.
Says the S. F. Argonaut : “ We believe in the
power of a free press and a free school-house to resist
the waves of bigotry, and ignorance, and priestcraft.”
Mr. Oliver, N.Z. Minister for Works, has re-
signed, owing to a pressure of business caused by the
death of Mr. John Eva, his manager, drowned in the
Tararua.
After much debate the Victorian Assembly
agreed, by 60 to 7, to accept the Council’s amendment
on the Bth clause in the Reform Bill. The minority, an
obstructive one, consisted of the Longmore party, whose
leader remarked that his passing of his Bill meant a
death-blow to democracy. However, at a meeting of
the Reform League held subsequently, it was agreed
to accept the Bill as a first instalment of reform.
Mr. Lalor, the Victorian Speaker, is endeavour-
ing to get the Assembly to adopt the cldture, which has
been found so potent in the House of Commons, for the
purpose of putting down obstruction carried on by
means of unnecessary “talkee talkee” and bogus
motions. The full text of Mr. Brand’s regulations has
been published and circulated, and Mr. Lalor proposes
that no member, unless he be a Minister of the Crown,
shall be allowed, prior to eleven o’clock, to move,
“That the House do now adjourn,’’ unless, on his
rising to make such motion, six other members shall
rise in their places and require the motion to be
proposed.
Vanity Pair says that a copy of the following
mortuary epitaph has been circulated in London, a
special copy having been sent to each member of Mr.
Gladstone’s Ministry:—
“ IN MEMORIAM.
Sacred to the Memory of
■ HONOUR,’
Wife of John Bull, Esq.,
Who died in the Transvaal, and was buried at
Candahar.
Her End was Peace.”
The foregoing reminds us not a little of a certain
epitaph which was printed with a Bulletin cartoon
some time ago.
Apropos to the 25th anniversary of the Mel-
bourne Eight Hours’ Association, a southern writer
says:—“ Before the eight-hour limit of labour was fixed
we were continually told that the working man had not
sufficient time to cultivate his intellect: and that, if only
the eight hour system were adopted, the mental condition
of the operative, as a class, would be entirely changed.
.... But is the working man any better, so far as
mental culture goes, than he was twenty-five years ago?
Is he better educated, better informed, more gentle of
manner, more refined of taste ? Is his home more habit-
able ? Are his habits more delicate ? Is there a more
apparent beauty in his life ? Does he know more ?
Does he reason better? Is he able to discriminate
more exactly between the true and the false t . . .
The intellectual calibre of our Assembly has narrowed
in proportion as the eight-hours’ men have had the op-
portunity of expanding their minds to the degree of
comprehending legislatorial capability. . . . Twenty-
five years ago the Chief Secretary of Victoria was a
gentleman, a statesman, and the graduate of a univer-
sity. Now he is Mr. Graham Berry ; and yet he is the
chosen of the operative whose judgment is understood
to have been matured by the cultivation he has gone
through during this quarter of a century.”
At the annual Consular dinner, held at the
rooms of the City Catering Co., George-street, on Tues-
day night, the chair was taken by Dr. Krauel, Consul-
General for Germany. The vice-chairman, Mr. R. P.
Raymond, Consul for Brazil, in proposing “ Prosperity
to New South Wales," submitted the following sta-
tistics: ‘‘The population of NSW. in 1861 was
358,278 j in 1871, 519,182; and in 1881, 740,836. The
revenue in 1861 was £1.448,610; in 1871, £2,908,153; and
in 1879, £7.406,557. The value of the imports were ; in
1861, £6 391,555; in 1871, £9,609,508; and in 1879,
£14198,847. The value of the exports in 1861 was
£5,594,839; in 1871. £11,245,032; and in 1879 the exports
had increased to £13,086.819. The number of sheep in the
colony in 1861 was 5,615,054; in-1871, 16,278,694; and in
1879 the number was 29,043,392. The number of cattle
in 1861 was 2,271,923; for 1871 the figures were not
available; but for 1879 the number was 2,914,210.
Manufactories and works in 1861 numbered 788; in 1871
there were 6827; and in 1879 there were 13,237. The
coal exported in 1861 amounted to 207,780 tons, in 1871
to 566,429 tons, and in 1879 to 998,049 tons.”
THE FASHIONS.
The latest novelty in kid gloves is composed of
alternate bands of kid and lace, which show a fair arm
and hand to advantage, as well as the glitter of gold
and jewels beneath.
All the new satins are soft and supple, and
nothing like the old and brilliant Lyons of our grand-
mothers; the favourite makes are called “ Duchess,”
“ Merveilleux,” and “ Surah”; they are light in texture,
drape well,; and combine satisfactorily with cashmere
and other fine new woollen materials.
The last things in ribbons are shadings going
lengthways, and these are so imperceptibly graduated
that they do not form hard stripes. Nevertheless,
stripes, blocks, and bars are preferred to brocaded
designs. Tubular ribbons woven double without any
evidence of a seam are the novelty for strings. The
domino or checker-board blocks are effective in two
contrasting colours.
New cambrics and cottons are just appearing at
home at present for the spring. Some of the designs on
the figured cottons are particularly artistic, and look
well combined with a plain or self-coloured one. The
favourite patterns on these new sateens are large flowers
studded with graceful effect, the prettiest being lilies,
fuchsias, ivy and natural-looking foliage, which are said
to have a charming and quite an Oriental appearance.
Demobest’s Magazine suggests the following
pretty costume for fancy ball dress representing a white
jutterfly. None but a very pretty lady or a little girl
could adept it. The skirts are full and double, of white
tarlatan over pale yellow cambric, with a yellow sash
dotted with black. The wings pale yellow satin, painted
with black dots and variegated stripes, and stiffened
with ribbon wire. Silver antennae fastened on the head
with a silver coronet. White silk stockings and white
satin slippers, with yellow painted satin butterflies.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ J. White”: If you read The Bulletin care-
fully, you’ll find that we are not in the habit of insert-
ing such matter " Stock Received “ Ventah
Hardly pointed enough for our columns " D M. W
Will attend to the matter as soon as we find time to
condense your letter “J.D.”: Much obliged
“Registrar”: (Bowen). Thanks “W.H.8.”: Re-
ceived “A Nowra Subscriber”: Just a little too
lively for us. Send it to the Sydney Mail “ Bandi-
coot” : We gladly avail ourselves of one of your com-
munications “Veritas”: A too unpalatable truth
under the circumstances. Were we under English libel
law we’d publish it without hesitation "Veritas”
(No. 2): Received. In such a case we must have the
name and address of our correspondent "E.8.P.”:
Copy of paper did not reach ns “ Suaviter" ; Will
consider for next week "H.W.L.C." Received; but
hardly in our style " Uriah Heep” :We had some-
thing on the same subject weeks ago " Soup
Maigre”: You’re no foreigner. Try a new joke “E.
J."; Thanks “ Sam Bough” : For the greater part
crowded out. Next week “J.K.G.L.”: Received.
Please call when you visit town.
Our Three Graces.
(Inscribed to three of Sydney’s fairest and loveliest
daughters.)
The Graces once, on joy intent,
Their wayward flight down earthward bent,
In search of forms so passing fair, they might for aye
abide in there; —
And as they soared o’er earth’s wide face.
In search of beauty, love, and grace.
They floated on the gentle breeze to Austral lands and
Southern seas.
And now above a city rare,
That looks o’er glancing waterslfair—
The waters of the brightest bay illumined by the orb of
day—
They poised upon their feath’ry wings.
And songs surpassing sweet each sings.
To charm the maidens fit to be the home of that en-
trancing three.
O’er all the world that song they’d sung.
O’er cities fair its sweet notes rung—
But never yet in any land, to be the home of that fair
band.
Had maiden pure enough been seen ;
Some good, some bright, 'tis true had been.
But none ere this the twain combined to please these
children of the wind.
But blest Australia holds three maids
All fit to dwell in heav’nly glades I
And now in air the glad notes rang—the flaw,
and joyous sang;
And floating down through sunlit air.
Each spirit claimed a maiden fair.
And ent’ring in each spotless breast, contented now, at
last they rest.
For fair those maidens were, I ween—
Kate! gentle Clara! rare Kathleen !
And ne’er on earth again we’ll see the peers of this
enchanting three.
So thought the Graces,—and for aye
All blissful in their bosoms lay.
Until that time when, all elate, their souls’glide through
Elysium’s gate.
Sydney, April, 1881.


Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts. U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Any.
BRIEF MENTION.
The place to spend a happy day—Clontarf.
If ladies must take big dogs to church, they
should take dogs that don’t snore.
Risings in Ireland are but natural. Yon must
always look for rice (rise) in a paddyfleld.
Pay day comes but once a month for the navvies
on the northern line, but when it does come—good lor !
There’s one shopkeeper on Oxford-street who
goes tooth and nail for a double line of rails. He’s an
undertaker.
Is it then really true that engine drivers and
guards on the N.S.W. railways have sometimes to work
24 hours continuously?
A politician with a political conscience has been
discovered by the Otago Daily Times. He’s intimately
connected with the proprietary of that paper.
So Messrs. Goldsborough and Co., of Melbourne,
have opened a branch of their wool agency business in
Sydney. Ten years hence, which will be the branch ?
Here is a little joke. The He-rald and the
She-eald ; the Mail and the Fe-mail. Why should
people persist in showing only one side of the question ?
We are nnable to give a direct reply to a corres-
pondent who wishes to know if Mr. W. A. Duncan has
been made a C.M.G. on the recommendation of Mr.
John Davies.
If the Rev. Mr. Inskip’s Christian name began
with “F ” we would then read backwards “Piksnif.”
Merely an awkward coincidence, as we believe the rev.
gentleman is a very worthy fellow.
We read that Tym, a farmer near Sheffield,
England, died from overeating at his wedding dinner.
The dish de resistance was duck. Sage stuffing and two
ducks in one day were Tym much for him.
As even polite society knows, “ blunt” means
money. The other day, during the hearing of The
Bulletin libel case, Mr. Salomons was asked whether
he could appear in another suit, Herbert v. Blunt.
“I’m already appearing for Blunt,” was the blunt
reply.
Either of two institutions will soon have to be
abolished or modified—the present libel law of N.S.W.
or the proverb De Mortuis, &c. If one can’t speak the
truth about prominent individuals while they live, some
other means will have to be found of instructing the
public.
Tasmania is at last becoming civilised. A few
Victorians have recently gone over there and shown the
“ gum-suckers” a trick or two in mining. For instance,
some Tasmanians are now clever enough to float a
mining company for the purpose of working a mythical
reef on undiscovered ground.
The current number of Melbourne Punch
has a clever sketch, entitled "Hanlan’s Secret Exposed.”
It represents the great oarsman sitting in his boat,
from the bottom of which protrude a pair of shadowy
" continuations ” working a ghostly wheel, with the
assistance of two obliging fish.
It is contemplated, we hear, in case of the
Chinese agitation becoming more pronounced, to
arm constables with revolvers. We could mention a
certain policeman in the force, and perhaps a certain
Inspector, whose general equipment would be greatly
improved by the addition of a pair of spectacles.
Isn’t it true that a certain public man the other
day took £lOO for “ services rendered” in connection
with the conviction of a certain prisoner ? Were the
libel law just a little different we’d show this small
matter up properly, and let the public see the style in
which men are sometimes convicted in this country.
Volunteers, please cut this out. How is it that
when on the march the majority of you swing your
disengaged hand as if you were driving a flock of
turkeys to Paddy’s Market ? It isn’t pretty, you know,
and the permanent “ foorce ” don’t do it. It isn’t
extensively patronised by the Naval Brigade, either.
On dit that every Thursday Monsignor the
Archbishop drives down to the Distress office in a
Benedictine sort of way, and reads —or peruses—every
word in the first impression before he’ll allow publica-
tion to begin. No wonder the “ little terror” is so re-
markably free from libel actions. Happy Distress 1
Melbourne Punch has for its last cartoon
“ Bill’s Return ” —a picture representing a wooden-
legged, dilapidated-looking individual returning to his
parents, Berry and the Age, who exclaim together—
“ Why, it is—no, it isn’t—yes, it is—Our own (Reform)
Bill—so cut up, too. Well, we must learn to love what’s
left of him.”
The Mayor of Bowen (N.Q.) read the address
to Sir Arthur Kennedy with his hat on. Sir Arthur
didn’t allude to the circumstance, but probably he
thought of what George IV. said to the colonel of the
Croydon Volunteers, which corps forgot to lower
their flag on passing his Majesty:—“ You came off
with flying colors that day.”
Before the elections, it was remarked that a
certain well-known politician and M.P. was not attending
church. On this being remarked to the rev. incumbent
that gentleman replied: “ Perhaps he doesn’t intend
to offer himself for re-election.” And the parson was
right—he did not. Now, who is the ex-member, and
what is the name of the clergyman ?
People who like ease will be delighted to hear
that it has been decided by the New York Court of
Appeal that John Dick, of that city, had a right to sit
n his pew, in the German Lutheran Church, with his
feet elevated upon the back of the seat in front of him.
The next question to be decided is whether a man has
a right to smoke at devotions and drink whisky out of
a dipper.
The other day, at a Queensland “ railway open-
ing,” a navvy who was using very bad language was
rebuked by a clergyman who stood by. “ Beg pardon.
Mister,” ejaculated the horny-handed son of toil, “ I’m
only a plain man —I calls a spade a spade.” “ Well, I
don’t about that,” replied the genial ecclesiastic, —“ I
think you’re the kind of man who’d call it an adjective
shovel.”
Says the Newcastle Herald anent the verdict
given against The Bulletin :—“ The fact is, that our
boasted palladium of trial by jury, like the old feudal
method of decision known as the ordeal of battle, is
nearly played out If we go on much longer
like this, the only journal that will be allowed to be
read in safety will be the N.S.W. Government
Gazette.”
The new organist at St. Matthew’s, Paddington,
regales that portion of the congregation who choose to
remain after service with selections from the different
oratorios, and other high-class music. Most of the gas
being turned off during the playing, this portion of the
evening service is largely availed of, but it may be ob-
served that most of the listeners are in pairs, and are,
though religious—well, young.
The jury in the Clontarf libel case recommended
that more police protection be afforded to picnic grounds
on public holidays. Now, it doesn’t follow that because
more policemen are sent down to a picnic ground there
is more “ protection.” Everything depends on the kind
of policemen sent down—on the quality rather than the
quantity or number. People who “ know, you know,”
will understand what we mean.
It’s quite safe to be brought up on Queen’s
Birthday for letting off alcoholic fireworks—in other
words, for getting drunk. At the Police Court on
Tuesday, Messrs. Cox and Hunt, J.’sP., held levees
which were attended by thirty-four elegantly got-up
inebriates, who made their bows and vows and were
discharged. What do the Temperance authorities say
to this ? “ The better the day the better the deed ?”
The Sydney correspondent of the Federal
Australian observes that while the police “ are en-
trapping tobacconists into ‘ breaking the Sabbath,’ at
the churches bands of young men insult ladies and
■jostle gentlemen with impunity. But Sir Henry Parkes
is getting religions in his old age, and Mr. Posbery and
his underlings must take their cue from the man who
commands a big majority in both Houses of Parlia-
ment.”
When the toast, “ The Electors of the Hawkes-
bury,” was proposed at Kurrajong, by the Duke of
Manchester, an ex-Mayor and ex-M.P. made themselves
conspicuous by arguing as to which of them had the
better right to respond to it. The ex-M.P. “pulled
through,” and is now in a position to give a detailed
account of his elaborate speech (ahem!) on that occa-
sion. His Grace considered the whole affair the best
joke of the day.
The Gundagai Times has a lone leader on
The Bulletin libel case. The sum and substance of its
remarks is that it sympathises with us in the present
instance, but considers that, as a matter of general
principle, we ought to be horsewhipped. Now, we can
understand a paper that says “ You should be punched.”
That’s a good, healthy, Saxon sentiment. But horse-
whipping at once suggests revolvers, or knives—or, in
fact, anything at hand.
The Central Australian gets off a story to
the effect that the day the telegraph office was opened
at Cobar, the editor of the local paper and some of the
leading military men sent a telegram to Queen Victoria,
congratulating all parties on the event. In reply, the
following telegram was received :—“ Am delighted to
find telegraph wire extended so far into the interior of
Africa, and that the native chief and his officers under-
stand the English language."
At the picnic to the Duke of Manchester at
Kurrajong, the hon. the Premier, in his speech, said
“ he recollected having, some thirty years ago, addressed
the electors of Northumberland" (now called Cumber-
land). An ex-Mayor, noted for his superior knowledge,
here put in a “spoke,” and said “Cumberland, Sir
Henry.” “ No, Northumberland," replied the Premier.
Then the genial Sir John chimed in, “Well, well, the
d man don’t know in what district he’s living."
The spiritual wants of railway travellers are well
looked after at Singleton. On the table in the waiting-
room is a Bible, bearing the following inscription :
“ Great Northern Railway. N. S. Wales. This book is
left here by the Committee of the Singleton Bible
Society, for the use of travellers while waiting for the
arrival and departure of trains. The committee request
that it may not be removed from the waiting-room.
Singleton, ad. 1880.” Had Ouida’s “Moths,” instead
of the Bible, been left, it would have flown long ago.
One of the Morning Rum men must have evi-
dently gone over to join the Auckland Evening Star,
for, in noticing the prospectus of the Theatre Royal
Company, it says :—“ The repertoire is a large one, in-
cluding as it does the principal plays of Shakespeare,
which continue to hold their place on the stage, viz.,
‘ Richelieu,’ ‘ Narcisse,’ • School for Scandal,’ ‘ David
Garrick,’ “ Ingomar,’ ‘ Monte Christo,’ ‘ East Lynne,’
and others.” If they’d have only put one of George
Darrell’s dramas down upon the list, the thing would
have been complete.
This is the sort of thing the Monthly Notes
“ slings ” at the unfortunate members of the Y.M.C A.:
—“While speaking of the sort of people who do not
‘patiently continue’ in the work of the Master, we
may just name and no more, a few other young men
we know, before closing. There is, then, Mr. Quickly
Huffed, Mr. Talk Overmuch, Mr. Expecting Thanks,
Mr. Very Fussy, and Mr. Love-of-Ease.” Was ever
such unmitigated balderdash written since the days of
the Della Cruscans? No wonder that the A ssociation
is in Queer-street, when the members are expected to
swallow such stuff as this—and pay for it. O, David,
David!
Will the Corporation kindly fill up that ancient
hole in the footpath in Pitt-street almost opposite to
but a little lower down than the Herald office ? One of
these fine days, when some insurance magnate—or, for
the matter of that, some lazy scoundrel who loafs for a
living, and beats his wife, and has his children in Rand-
wick Asylum—gets lamed for life, that hole will cost
the already much-swindled citizens £6OOO. And, by the
way, any enterprising old gentleman who can calmly
ascend the witness-stand in the Jury Court and swear
that he is short-sighted can make a small fortune by
falling down the Corporation man-trap in Burton-street.
By keeping close into the houses while walking on the
footpath, anybody who knows his business properly can
fall and injure himself to the extent of £2OOO, which
should in these days be recovered without difficulty.
However, anyone unacquainted with the precipice in
question would probably split his skull.
It was in a northern town, and they were swell
bank clerks, or something as bad. The day was hot,
and as they strolled arm-in-arm up the street they be-
came conscious of a craving in their lordly stomachs.
Holding a council of war, they discovered that their
whole assets consisted of one borrowed shilling. But
they were not devoid of ingenuity, and they entered a
well-known hostelry. Having called for two “ Bishop
Barkers”—and in that town at least the name is not a
misnomer—one of them reached over for two smaller
glasses, and deliberately helped his comrades, who, in
thirsty expectancy, had taken a seat against the wall.
The gallant Sir Philip Sidney, who handed his drop of
water te a dying private while he himself lay danger-
ously wounded, wasn’t a circumstance beside the noble-
minded clerk, who halved his episcopal libation, or in
other words, his “F. Sydney.” Water costs nothing.
Beer does.
“ Elizabeth Ellis summoned Theresa Griffiths
for assault, alleging that, on the 7th inst., at 10.30 p.m.,
she saw defendant with her (complainant’s) husband in
Macquarie-street South, * kissing him and pulling him
about.’ Complainant had not been living with her hus-
band since September last, and on remarking ‘ I have
found you out at last ’ to him, he advised the defendant
to go home. The defendant then, it was alleged, tucked
up her sleeves and struck complainant in the face. . . .
The bench inflicted a fine of 40s, 4s lOd costs, and £2 2s
complainant’s costs, or a month’s gaol. . . . Griffiths
had been a Daughter of Temperance five years.” —Nooze.
Mr. Bond, editor of the Inverell Times,
was horsewhipped on Friday last, in that township, by
the manager of a neighbouring station, for disparaging
statements and reflections made in the paper.” Now
this seems a terrific par. at the first glance, and “ the
manager of a neighbouring station ” will appear to have
covered himself with glory. When, however, we re-
member that Mr. Bond is a small, nervous, hard-worked
man, of a timid disposition, with about as much muscle
as a Darling Point belle, why then the halo of glory
round the head of the battering bushman is a bit
skimpier than at first appeared. We can’t understand
why anyone thought it worth while to use a horsewhip
to poor little Bond. A good long hair out of the tail of
a circus-horse would have punished cruelly, and if the
squatter’s anger would not have been assuaged by in-
flicting this dire punishment, he could, at any time,
have shot his enemy dead with a pea-shooter. If anyone
feels inclined to horsewhip us, why they had bet-
ter bring along a threshing machine —or if their
funds won’t run to that—a flail.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Her Majesty Queen Victoria is now 62.
The princes stay at Melbourne ten days.
The Duchess of Cambridge, who is 84, is very ill.
H.R.H. Prince Leopold has been created Duke
of Albany.
Mr. W. E. Murphy, the well-known and much-
respected Brisbane solicitor, is dead.
The Hon J. Hoskins, Minister for Lands, is suf-
fering severely from an attack of gout.
The will of the late Mr. R. C. Bagot, Secretary
of the Y.E.C., has been proved under £4OOO.
Mr. J. D. Gibson (“ The Friar”)has again come
into possession of the Palmer (N.Q.) Cheonicle.
Mr. Alfred Terry, the well-known Melbourne
brewer, and manager of the Carlton Brewery, is dead
Richmond Thatcher is writing “ Bohemian
Papers ” for the Saturday Advertiser, Dunedin, N.Z.
Mr. Charles Croaker (late of Croaker, Scott, and
Co., and Lord, Croaker, and Co.), a well-known Mel-
bourne merchant, is dead.
The Armed Constabulary of the North Island of
N.Z. intend presenting Colonel Whitmore with a mag-
nificent silver cup 22in. high.
Mr. Alexander Qgilvie Grant, of Bourke, has
commenced an action for libel against the Barwon
Argus. Damages are laid at £2OO.
Mr H. Broderick, the engineer, surveyor, and
examiner of boilers to the Marine Board, is about to
retire on a pension after 28 years’ service.
Mr. Stephen King, president of the Drayson
Whist Club, Melbourne, and one of the leading whist
players of that city, will shortly visit Sydney.
The late Sir George Colley, of Transvaal
renown, wrote that excellent article “ Army ” in the
new edition of the “ Encyclopedia Britannica."
Mr. Currie, manager of the Bank of S.A., has
been elected chairman, and Mr. George Booth by vice-
chairman, of the Adelaide Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. John Tebbutt, of Windsor observatory,
on May 22 discovered a comet, between Columba and
Eudanus declination, 36 deg. south going slowly north.
Messrs. Robt. Nall (late sub-editor of the
Hobart Mercury) and Mr. Geo. Langridge, recently of
the staff of the same paper, are about to join Queens-
land Hansard.
M. Moussorski, one of the most talented of
Russian composers of the new school, is dead. “He
simply drank himself to death in the flower of his age
and the apogee of his talent."
M. Thiers left about .£1,000,000, which, Madame
Thiers having since died, goes to his sister-in-law.
How he managed to accumulate such colossal wealth as
this is somewhat of a mystery.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, the coming Peer, was bit-
terly disappointed at not being given the command
at the Cape. There’s no love lost between Garnet
and H.R.H. the Duke of Pipeclay.
Our genial and accomplished friend, Mr. Prank
Hutchinson, has met with a severe loss in the death of
his wife, who. after a long illness, died at her resi-
dence, Wynyard Square, on Sunday last.
The Novelty Theatre, Melbourne, has been
turned by Mr. Fred. Stanford (Singer’s agent and
brother of the ex-Governor of California) into a picture
gallery. Mr. Stanford has a splendid private collection.
The new District Grand Master of Freemasons
in Tasmania under the English Constitution is the
Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, the rector of the High
School, Hobart, a Cambridge graduate, a scholar and
a gentleman.
The reason of the suspension of the Queensland
Assistant-Commissioner of Police, Mr. T. Barron, is an
alleged discrepancy in his accounts. Mr. Barron is an
old and greatly liked official, and is the godfather of the
Barron River, N.Q.
Mr. R. Cran, of Yengarie, Maryborough, the
biggest of Australian sugar plantations and factories,
who has just returned from England, was enthusiasti-
cally welcomed by his employes and those of the
neighbouring estates.
The new Czar is a complete prisoner, scarcely
ever leaving his palace save to walk in the grounds at-
tached to it. These grounds are constantly guarded by
a chain of Cossacks, so closely posted that not a creature
can enter or leave without being seen.
It is stated that Captain Wilson, Commodore of
the Australian Naval Station, will shortly be promoted
to the rank of Rear-Admiral. The Commodore’s per-
sonal popularity is such that a confirmation of the
rumour will be received with satisfaction.
Information received via Melbourne is to the
effect that Mr. C. S. Parnell, of Irish Land League
celebrity, will shortly marrj4jm American Lady—pro-
bably the fair creature who occasioned the agitator’s
recent and much-canvassed visits to Paris.
General Ney, who recently committed suicide in
Paris, at the age of 46, was grandson of the great Mar-
shal, and was married to the adopted daughter of
Henri Heine’s son. During the war he was wounded in
the head while charging the Prussian cavalry.
Vanity Pair says that, notwithstanding all
that has been said, the murder of the Czar has pro-
duced very little sensation among the middle and lower
classes in the Russian capital. Indeed, on the very day
of the crime comparatively few of the shops were
closed.
Baron Yon Mueller is actively preparing to or-
ganise another Leichhardt expedition. Mr. Berry has
promised £3OO towards expenses, and the Baron hopes
to get similar amounts from the N.S.W., Queensland,
and S.A. Governments. Mr. Ernest Giles will pro-
bably lead the party.
Bishop Stanton has been the indirect means of
floating in London a company with large capital to
carry on mining operations in far Northern Queensland,
principally on the Palmer and Hodgkinson. Taken all
round, every ton of stone crushed since the opening of
the Palmer reefs has yielded 2J oz.
Miss Edith Caldwell, the young lady who was a
victim of the railway accident at Lara, near Geelong, in
August last, has sued the Victorian railway department
for £5OOO damages. The defendants paid £BOO into
court which was not accepted. A verdict was given for
£lOOO above the amount tendered in satisfaction of the
lady’s claim.
The Duke of Manchester and a distinguished
party (including Sir Henry Parkes, Sir John Robertson,
Hon. F. B. Suttor, Sir Patrick Jennings, Messrs. John
Davies, C.M.G., M. Fitzpatrick, E. Combes, M's.L.A.,
Cowper, Budge, and other gentlemen from Sydney) were
entertained during the week at a picnic on the Kurra-
jong by Mr. Alex. Bowman, M.L.A.
In addition to the Government reward of
£2OO for the conviction of any person guilty of vio-
lence in connection with the disappearance of Messrs.
Lamont Young, Max Schneider and party at Bermagur
in October of last year, Major-General Young, father
of Mr. Lamont Young, offers a reward of £lOO for
such information as will lead to the discovery of Mr
Young or his remains.
The late genial and accomplished Prank Buck-
land. Inspector of Salmon Fisheries in England is to
have his valuable services perpetuated by a substantial
memorial, which will shortly be erected by a large num.
ber of his friends and admirers. Buckland bequeathed
to the nation his celebrated fish museum at South
Kensington. This alone is a fitting memento of the
great naturalist—for the visitor to the museum after
inspecting the rare collection, might well exclaim Si
monumentum requiris, circumspice.
On one occasion, when the late Mr. Richard
Driver was putting up as a candidate for a country
constituency, some one in the crowd before the hust
ings said : “ Mr. Driver, the person who proposed
you owes me 10s; can you tell me how to get it ?■•
(Laughter). Replied Mr. Driver: “That’s hardly a
political question, but if the gentleman calls on me
at the hotel, and gives me a half-guinea fee I may be
able to do something in the matter.” J
The Hon. Charles Lilley, Q.C., Chief Justice of
Queensland, has just been knighted. Sir Charles of
whose elevation all colonists, at any rate, will be glad
to hear, is one of the ablest men in Australia whether
as a politican, a lawyer, or a pressman. He more than
once has been Premier, sitting for many years as mem
ber for Fortitude Valley in the Queensland Assembly and
by virtue of that circumstance received the not inelegant
soubriquet of “Lilley of the Valley.”
Dr. Kidd, who attended Lord Beaconsfield is
one of those practitioners who don’t stick to formulas
but are ready to try any means likely to conduce to the
recovery of their patients. The medical profession
however, do not all approve of this, and one of the most
eminent professors of the healing art, on being asked to
meet Dr. Kidd in consultation on Lord Beaconsfield’s
case, declined to do so, giving as his reason that Dr
Kidd was a professor of “ Kiddopathy ”
A characteristic anecdote is told of the dashing
General Sir Evelyn Wood, V.C. He was going the
rounds of the sentries in camp during the Zulu war
when he tested one sentinel rather closely. He allowed
himself to be challenged three times. Swish! A bullet
went through his helmet. The dismay of the sentry
may be imagined when he recognised his general and
received the chaffing advice, “ Next time you challenge
call louder; next time you fire, fire lower I”
One evening Sir Archibald Michie, while on
circuit in the Western district of Victoria, was dining
with the judges and bar. Presently a huge red head
was thrust into the room, and a voice said, with a fine
County Cork accent, “Is Misther Michael here if you
plaze.” “ Michael ? No one of that name here,” re-
plied the judge. But as the man hesitated he took the
letter. “ Why, yon stupid blockhead,” said he, “ it’s
Michie—not Michael." “ Sure your Honor an’ didn’t
I know it was Mickey, but I didn’t loike to be so
familiar.”
M. Hubert de Caatella, of the firm of Castella
and Rowan, to whom has been awarded the Emperor of
Germany’s splendid prize, is a member of the old Swiss
aristocracy, and while young studied as an artist in
Germany. He became a naturalised Frenchman, joined
the Ist regiment of Chasseurs a cheval in 1818, and re-
signed his commission in 1853 in order to join his
brother, then a squatter on the Tarra flats. He arrived
in Melbourne in the early part of 1854 and made his way
eastward to his future home, then called Dairy, but now
St. Hubert’s, the site of his present hospitable residence
and of the largest vineyard in Victoria.
In addition to the knighthood conferred on
Chief Justice Lilley, of Queensland, Chief Justice
Prendergast, of N.Z., and Chief Justice Gorrie, of
Fiji, have on the occasion of the Queen’s Birthday
been made K C.M.G.’s. The Hon. J. P. Bell, President
of the Legislative Council, and the Hon. A. H
Palmer, Colonial Secretary, of Queensland; also Mr
W. A. Duncan, Collector of customs of New South
Wales, and the Hon. Thomas Fraser, of Western Aus-
tralia, have been made C.M.G.’s. There’s a nice jumble
here, in regard to the distribution of C.M.G.-ships
which are apparently dispensed with a shovel.
Mr. C. H. Bnzacott recently addressed a circu-
lar letter to the journalists of Queensland, per favor of
the Courier and Queenslander, of which he is mana-
ger. The Courier was recently fined by the Supreme
Court, which acted most arbitrarily on the occasion
and Mr. Buzacott says it is hard lines to be brought
into contempt without ha vie g at least a fair trial by
jury. The Gladstone paper reminds Mr. Buzacott that
neither he nor any other pressman who has held a seat
in the legislature has ever done anything for the press,
and that the libel law, as well as the law of contempt)
wants amending. A Q ueensland press conference is sug-
gested.
Lady Dowling, widow of Sir James Dowling
(formerly Chief Justice of N.S.W.), died at Bromley)
Kent, March 31, aged 82. Her ladyship was the
daughter of Mr. John Blaxland, of Newington, Kent,
and afterwards of Newington, in N.S.W., where he was
a member of the Legislative Council. She was first
married, in 1816, to Mr. Alexander Macdonald Ritchie,
a merchant of Calcutta; and secondly, in 1835 (as his
second wife), to Sir James Edward Dowling, second
son of Mr. Vincent Dowling, of Queen’s County, Ire-
land, and Kentish Town, Middlesex. He was appointed
Chief Justice of New South Wales in 1837, and received
the honour of knighthood in the following year. Lady
Dowling was left a widow by.the death of her husband
in 1844.
Sir Arthur Gordon has extended his prohibition
in regard to the supplying of liquor to natives. He has
directed that “ the term ‘ half-caste ’ shall now include
any person either of whose parents has been of any of
the races comprised within the term ‘native,’ as defined
by the ordinance, or any person either of whose parents
has had a native parent.” A plain-spoken American
gentleman once described Sir Arthur as being in doubt
only on one subject—whether the Almighty had made
him, or he had made the Almighty. Were Mrs. Scott-
Siddons to honour Fiji with a visit, any publican or
other person who supplied her with a glass of wine
would be liable to a penalty of not less than £5O nor
more than £lOO, or to be imprisoned for from three to
six months. That charming actress is grand daughter of
an Indian Princess, and under the second and third
generation clause of this arbitrary ordinance she would
be a “ half-caste,” and liable to be treated as such. To
have a brand of inferiority cast upon the not incon-
siderable number of persons of mixed blood who are
intelligent, educated, and worthy members of society,
is almost as offensive a specimen of the sort of thing
which has to be endured in a Crown colony as could be
found anywhere.
In the trial of Kallock, junr., who in cold blood
murdered Charles De Young, editor of the S. F.
Chronicle, half the witnesses for the defence were
impeached. Doubtless two-thirds of them were per-
jurers. One witness was brought from the penitentiary
where he is serving a term of fourteen years, and allowed
in court to reiterate the very lies for the utterance of
which he was then incarcerated! The trace of De
Young’s bullet was even found ; the five belched from
the revolver of his reverend assassin were all tracked,
and yet, when that jury had seen the witnesses for the
defence proved thieves, villains, and false swearers,
before their very eyes, they retired for a little season,
and returned a verdict of Not Guilty! Young Kallock
was received at the door of the court-room by the Sand
Letters lying in wait —sure of this verdict —hurried
into the carriage; the horses were detached, long ropes
procured, and the murderer was dragged by two thou-
sand people in triumph to his home. That night there
was a thanksgiving dinner at the Temple; the Kallocks
were serenaded; a procession was formed to parade the
streets, but the police dispersed it. The following
Sunday night young Kallock, in the embraces of the old
one, made his re-appearance in the Temple, admission
five pence per head, and then he vanished into thin air,
to be heard of, it is to be hoped, no more for ever. One
of De Young’s brothers has sworn to shoot him at the
very first opportunity. In the meantime that old repro-
bate, Kallock, senr., the reverend lecherous father of a
reverend murderous son, aspires to the gubernatorial
chair of California!
This is a tale of love—revenge—
Of jealousy—and what not;
Of how two ladies quarrelled, and
One banged the other’s top knot.
There was a Mr. Ellis, who
A row had with his “ missis,”
And many months had passed ere they’d
Exchanged connubial kisses.
He tried to make it up, he said.
But never could appease her;
So, after many days of grief.
He “ took’ up” with Theresa.
Bright in the heav’nly canopy
Fair Cynthia gleamed resplendent.
Her rays on Ellis lighting, who
Was spooning with “defendant.”
4
When suddenly from out the gloom—
(The great sensation this is) —
A veiled form t’wards them quickly “ glode”—
Confusion!—’Twas the “missis! ”
Quick whipped she off her sombre veil,
And cried —“ At last I’ve got you 1 "
Then turning to Theresa—“ Yon
Clear out now, you bad lot, you.”
“Oh, go to Bath,” Theresa cries—
“ Do you know who I har, ma’am ?
Learn, to your sorrow, that I am
A female Good-Tem-pldr, ma’am ! ”
Before the injured matron could
Recover from this stunner.
Behold Theresa had stepped back.
And landed her a “ one-er.”
’Twas then the hair and hair-pins flew.
The tapes and laces “ basted,”
And 'twixt the two that husband’s coat
Most carefully was “ dusted.”
Next mom each to the police court went.
As lively as two fleas, sir,
Theresa summoned Mrs. E.,
And she “had up” Theresa.
The case was heard one day last week;
The bench they gave no quarter;
’Twas “ forty shillings or a month”
For that gay Temp’rance Daughter.
The fine was paid—but peace is gone—
That battle its death knell is;
All parties fume, and there is naught
But is as hot as Ellis.
We ought upon this little tale.
Of course, to point a moral;
But we’re afraid if we did so—
’Twould bring on a new quarrel.
To go ’twixt man and wife is bad.
But it would be sure slaughter.
To interfere in the affairs
Of a fierce Temp’rance Daughter.


The Jeweller’s Art in Sydney.
A visit to the establishment of Mr. T. M. Alcock, 673
George-street, Haymarket, which is shown in the ac-
companying engraving, will give some idea of the high
state to which the jeweller’s art lias been brought in
Sydney. The establishment, which is situate directly
opposite the Post and Telegraph Offices at the Hay-
market, stands prominently out from among the other
business places by reason of its elegant appearance.
The front is on the Bond-street style, the woodwork
being of ebony, and the windows artistically arranged
so as to produce a very brilliant effect. The windows,
wherein are displayed some of the best specimens of
the art, present a dazzling appearance, and an inspec-
tion within the shop only adds to the effect produced
by this exterior display. There are some splendid show
■!
673
ESIAS-
:»a 7Si
■
M. 1 '
’rWALCOCK
Settii
La
cases rising from floor to ceiling, in which are shown
some of the best description of ornamental clocks,
presentation cups, salvers, goblets, &c. In various
small cases arc shown the goods for which Mr. Alcock’s
establishment has won special prominence. There are
diamond rings, diamond earrings, and diamond sets,’
pendants, Ac. These are the grandest specimens of the-
jeweller’s art to be seen in Sydney. A pair of diamond:
earrings worth 230 guineas is shown, as also a pendant
for 45« guineas, and rings 200 and 250 guineas each.
The diamonds—the finest Brazilians—are imported,
and the goods made up by experts employed on the 1
premises. Presentation cups, Masonic and other
jewellery, are also produced on the very highest style—
the work in every branch, in fact, being altogether of
the better class. Mr. Alcock has j ust recently imported
largely of Nicholls and Neilsou’s celebrated gold
watches, Walthams, and silver hunting chronographs,
which latter are quite a new thing in these colonies.
The mechanical portion of the business is carried on at
the rear of the premises, where several men are
employed, and the work is under the immediate super-
vision of the proprietor On the premises is one of the
finest safes yet seen in this colony—a solid steel article,
weighing two and a half tons, made expressly to order
in England for the establishment. Mr. Alcock has
learnt his business in this city, and has built up in
eight years a splendid and still increasing trade.—Advt,
The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Laycock has received the Adelaide address.
Laycock took a magnificent outrigger with him
to Grafton.
Maid of Athens is the favourite for the Inter-
colonial Coursing Stakes.
The disqualification of Mata was not endorsed
by the Adelaide Racing Club.
The events of the Victorian Eaeing Club meet-
ing close on Monday, 6th June.
Mr. Pile has advertised all his horses for sale,
and intends to retire from the Turf.
The Adelaide race horse Souvenir has been sold
to Mr. W. B. Ronnsevell for 400 guineas.
The sale of gates, booths, etc., for the Newcastle
races on Queen’s Birthday realised £225.
The South Australian Jockey Club cleared over
£lOOO by the totalisator at the last meeting.
Nine horses competed for the Ipswich Cup, and
the same number for the Jockey Club Handicap.
The Derby and Oaks meeting of the Victoria
Coursing Club commenced on Thursday last, at Sun-
bury.
The Sydney Metropolitan Stakes, to which the
A.J.C. contributes 500 sovs., closes on Monday, 6th
June.
There is some talk of a match over hurdles
between President and Lady Eipon for portion of
£lOOO.
The Hawkesbury Eace Club annual meeting has
been fixed for Thursday and Saturday, the 25th and 27th
August.
There are five entries for the Maiden Plate at
the Lower Clarence River T.C. June meeting end seven
for the T.C. Handicap.
At the first meet of the Adelaide Hunt Club, on
Saturday, there was a good muster. The club is yearly
increasing in numbers.
The case against Mr. Daniel O’Connor, M.P.,
for following the late Intercolonial boat-race in the
steamer Fawn, was dismissed.
Mr. Alexander M‘Kellar has presented the
Richmond Turf Club with a 50-guinea silver cup to be
run for at the meeting in August.
“Mazeppa,” of the Saturday Advertiser
(Dunedin, N.Z.), says the Sydney Cup is fast becoming
a strong rival of the Melbourne Cup.
A bowling match took place on Saturday on the
Cook Park green between the City and Balmain bowling
clubs, resulting in a victory for tha latter by fifteen
points.
E v W. Boyd has accepted Triokett’s challenge
to row a race over the champion course on the Thames.
The match is for £2OO a side, and will probably come off
in August.
Mr. W. C. Little, of Thornborough, Hodgkinson,
N.Q., sends ns, on account of Mr. W. Kelly, George-
town, Etheridge River, a subscription of £2 Bs. for the
Laycock testimonial fund. Will the treasurer please
call?
The Caulfield Cup, the rich prize of the Victorian
Amateur Racing Club, to which 300 sovs. is contributed
by the club, is to be run a fortnight before the V.E.C.
meeting. Weights to be published on Monday, 27th
June.
A cablegram lately received states that Trickett,
with Kelly as trainer, proceeds to America next week on
a professional rowing tour. The arrangement as to
Trickett taking the Sporting Tavern at Barnes has
fallen through.
Following are the results of the Qulgong races
on Friday Trial Stakes: A dead heat between Sting
and Mavoumeen. Town Plate : Waxy 1, Hereford Bay
2, Hero 3. Welter Handicap: Fusileer 1. Flying Han-
dicap: Sting 1.
The results of the Wyndham races on Saturday
are as follow :—Railway Handicap : Harp of Erin 1.
Hurdles: Zanga 1. Werribee Handicap : Morning Star
I. Galloway Handicap: Flying Bee 1. Wyndham
Handicap: Sonneteer 1.
The monthly shooting of the Torpedo Rifle Club
was held on Saturday, the following being the principal
scores (seven shots each at 500 and 600 yards):—Private
Clay, 61, first prize; Corporal Hammond, 60, second
prize; Private Hodges, 59, third prize.
The results of the second day’s racing at Single-
ton are as follow Shorts: Pinafore 1, Reynard 2,
Faust 3. Mayor’s Cup : Queensberry 1, Psyche 2, Favor
3. Jockey Club Handicap: Gleam 1, Vesper 2, Bosher
3. Forced Handicap : Hesitation 1, Squatter 2, Lands-
man 3.
A N.Z. correspondent in mentioning the fact
that the Canterbury racing club have declined to en-
dorse the disqualification of Mata and jockey, remarks
that “ the letter of Capt. Standish to the Committee of
the local club was extremely curt, and hardly saved
from being absolutely insolent.”
Mr. Clarence H. Hannell, who was president of
the Newcastle Annual Regatta Committee, was on
Saturday night presented by the committee with a
valuable glass claret jug, silver mounted, as a token of
appreciation of his efforts for the past 25 years in con-
nectien with rowing and other manly sports.
The opening meeting of the Victorian Coursing
Club terminated last Saturday at Sunbnry Plains. The
results are as follow: —Derby: Tallboys and Luke, both
the property of Mr. W. Patterson, divided. Oaks: Mr.
J. Bennett’s Kew Lily. Glenroy Cup, run for by win-
aers of Derby and Oaks, Mr. J. Bennett's Kew Lily.
Edwards and Baker commenced a forty-eight
hours’ walking contest on last Thursday night at the
Melbourne Hippodrome for the L. L. Smith champion
helt and £5O a side. After a close contest, the match
resulted in favour of Baker, who covered 193 miles 1 lap
in the time, Edwards accomplishing 192 miles 9 laps.
Messrs. Shaw and Shrewsbury have made final
arrangements for a visit of an English Eleven to Aus-
tralia. They play their first match in New Zealand on 24th
November; two matches at Melbourne during Christ-
mas week; will be at Sydney on January 26, 7, and 28,
and Feb, 10,11,13, and will finish the tour at Port Ade-
laide on March 14 and and 15.
The Match Committee of the Mercantile Eowing
Club have made the following programme for the annual
regatta for Saturday June 4, —First race, maiden four
oars; second race, junior clinkers ; third race, senior
pair oar outriggers ; fourth race, maiden double sculls
skiffs; fifth race, junior four oars; sixth race, senior
clinkers, seventh race, scratch fours.
The following occurrence has caused a deal of
discussion in coursing circles, and is to be father con-
sidered by the N.S.W. Coursing Club, At the Mourne
Park meeting a course was being run, when a dog, the
property of one of the runners, got loose and joined in
the course; the judge gave it as undecided, but the
stewards disqualified the dog whose kennel-companion
had joined in, and declared the other the winner.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club have made complete
arrangements for the Woodstock Coursing Meeting,
which takes place to-day (Thursday.) Mr. G. Denny
will officiate as slip steward, and Dr. Belisario as Flag
Steward A special train leaves Redfem at 9 30 a.m.
Compagnoni and Co supply a half crown lunch, and a
shilling lunch for the public. His Excellency, owing to
a previous engagement, is unable to attend the New
Plumpton meeting.
A cablegram has been received stating that
overtures have been made to Hanlan, asking him to
accompany the next team of English cricketers to
Australia, and meet any rower on the Parramatta
River. The team referred to is doubtless Lilywhite’s,
with whom Mr Conway is endeavouring to effect
arrangements for a visit, hut as the matter is far from
completion at present, it is not likely that Hanlan will
see Australia before 1832, if at all.
The totalisator prosecutions at Auckland,
nitiated by two local bookmakers, were dismissed. The
Bench said that it would be straining the provisions of
the Act to pronounce a totalisator an illegal machine
lor the purpose of bett ing. The totalisator might be
looked upon as merely a recording machine, or large
opien betting book, which all persons could use, as
after each race the whole of the money invested was
paid back, less a per centage deducted for the services
of proprietors of the machine. The case therefore
would be dismissed. The gave„notice of
appeal.
The first quarterly gathering of the members of
the Sydney Gymnasium took place on Wednesday, the
18th instant. The attendance was fair. Although the
athletes have not long been in training, great proficiency
was shown in the various exercises, which consisted of
performances with dumb-bells, rings and trapeze,
horizontal bars, Indian clubs, &o. Professor Miller
went through his splendid performance with the heavy
dumb-bells, and Professor d’llarcourt conducted the
Indian club exercises. A very agreeable entertainment
was brought to a close by some clever foil and single-
stick exercises.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Eockhampton, the other day, Messrs. H.
Milman and W. H. L. Thornton shot off a pigeon
match, nine birds each, 28 yards’ rise, two points for
first and one for second barrel. Mr. Milman won by
nine to four, killing eight birds The Leader reporter
attacked the judge of the Derby and Oaks meetings so
severely as to his decisions that he sent in his resigna-
tion to the Ballarat Coursing Club. However, a vote of
confidence was passed, and the judge (Mr Crichton)
withdrew his resignation The Adelaide Hunt Club
opened its season last Saturday Mr. J. M. Christie,
of Adelaide, the well-known sculler and boxer, formerly
champion of Victoria, has imported by the Potosi anew
and beautifully-finished sculling outrigger, by Swaddle
and Winship, for use on the Torrens dam A fishing
party of five gentlemen and one lady caught 146 schnap-
per off the s s. Lillie Denham last week, the lady se-
curing 21 The next time a contest for place-kicking
takes place, the committee would do well to see that
the member whose duty it is to return the foot-ball
is able to kick it straight The flower beds on
the lawn in front of the Grand Stand, upon which Ned
Gregory, who as a horticulturist is an artist, bestows
so much care, were heedlessly trampled upon on Satur-
day afternoon by persons who ought to know better,
but don’t One of the bicyclists had a heavy fall in
the mile race on Saturday. He came a “ cropper,” but
the bicycle seemed to be more hurt than the rider
A skiff race, over a two mile course, on the Tyne, Eng-
land, took place on sth February between John Largan
and William Welch for £5O aside. Largan won by half
a length in 15m. Bsecs A private sculling race for a
trophy, took place between Messrs. F. Fligg and E.
Hanson on Wednesday last in Woolloomooloo Bay,
resulting in an easy victory for the former People
want to know why members of committee always insist
on surrounding the Association Ground blackboard
when results are posted, and thus hiding it from public
view F. Elliott, captain of the Newcastle Cricket
Club, is the winner of the trophy presented to that club
by Mr. C. H. Hannell, for the highest batting average.
The Armidale J. C. had over £lOO profit on their
last races, part of which goes to pay off the old club’s
debt of £l5O. Next races come off on 26th and 27th
January Muswellbrook races, June 2 and 3. Al-
though the prizes are larger than usual, the nomina-
tions are small H. R. Jockey Club meet on July 6
The Brisbane Bowling Club opened their new ground
near the Railway Station on Saturday A day’s racing
will take place at Kogarah on Saturday next. Five
events are on the programme. The handicaps are to be
published on Friday Hosmer and Warren Smith
intend to compete for the new Championship of Eng-
land Challenge Cup, given by the Sportsman The
will of Henry Constable, the English jockey, has been
proved under £BOOO. He has left the whole of the
money to his mother and sister. The Earl of Rosebery
is sole executor The sweep prosecution cases brought
against Mr. H. N. Abbott, of Auckland, N.Z., were
dismissed. This gentleman has now a monster £lO,OOO
consultation on the Melbourne Cup open Billy
Winchcombe (now Harry Maynard), and better known
in these parts as “stuttering cabbage Billy,”
still keeps a boxing saloon in ’Frisco, where all
the noted American pugilists are to be found.
Billy styles himself the retired champion light-
weight of the Pacific Coast A steeplechase meet-
ing is to be held at Waimate, New Zealand on
the Ist June The disqualification of Byers, owner,
and Byers, the jockey, and the horse Golden Crown,
by the Auckland Racing Club, har been endorsed
by the Dunedin Jockey Club A wrestling match for ,
£lOO lately took place at Timaru, N.Z., between a Mr.
Hudson, of Dunedin, and Mr. Slade of Temuka. Slade
was declared the winner by the three referees...... The
Canterbury (N.Z.) Coursing Club have held their first
meeting. The Oaks was divided between Bide-a-wee
and Desdemona A 200 yards’ race for £5 aside was
run on Thursday last, between two employes of A.
M‘Arthur and Co. named A. Miller and W. May. The
latter had a slight advantage at the start, but Miller
eventually won by five yards AlOO yards’ race fora
small wager was run on Friday evening, on Cleveland-
street, between E. Coleman and W. Yates. The former
led for 50 yards, when he was overhauled by his
opponent, who eventually won by three yards
The Victorian scullers are beginning to quarrel about
their “ amateur” definition The Victorian football
clubs intend to give a benefit match during the present
season in aid of the Victorian Rowing Association
At the Sydney Grammar School sports on Saturday the
masters’ prize for the scorer of the most points in all
the open races was won by F. Russell with 15 points.
E. W. Boyd, the English sculler, was bora on the
25th September, 1854, and is therefore in his 27th year.
Fred Webb, the English jockey, is obliged to take to
cross country work on account, of his increased weight.
Lord Sheffield has given 200 guineas to the Sussex
County Club, and has offered a 30 guinea cup to the
batsman with best average this season Mr. Frank
Allan, the “ bowler of a century,” is now in charge of
the Warmambool (Vic.) Land Office At Maytown,
Palmer, the other day, Charles Weiss, of the Hop
Bitters p.c., beat Mr. Clifford, of the Criterion, in a
quoit match for £5O The footrace on Saturday at
East Maitland, between Agnew and Russel, was won
easily by Agnew.
Sydney Grammar School Athletic Club.
The eighth meeting of the above club took place on the
Association Cricket Ground on Saturday last,'in the
presence of about three thousand spectators. A pro-
gramme, comprising 23 events, was got through suc-
cessfully ; the first starting at 1.30, and the hist at 5 5
p.m. The competitors were principally students at the
Sydney Grammar School, and the racing, on the whole,
was very fair; indeed, if the official time be correct, the
running was above the average—but the stop-watches
in the pavilion showed, in many cases, much slower
time than that recorded on the black-board. The time
we give is, we are certain, much nearer the mark. The
sprint races, of course, found the largest fields, and
were well contested, but in nearly every case a bad
finish was noticeable. In the 220 and 300 yards races,
the second man, instead of gamely struggling on, in-
variably died away, and lost his place. The services of
a professional trainer should be secured for the next
meeting. Should this be done we predict a great im-
provement in the running The 80 yards race, for boys
under 12, brought a half-dozen “babies” to the post,
who, in all the glory of pedestrian costume, ran
a gallant and exciting race in 10Js. The mile race was
reduced to a contest between Thomas and Pratt. Both
ran well, but Thomas had too much lung left at the end
of a slow race. Had Pratt made the first half mile
quicker, he might have worn his victor down in the
last two rounds. The two-mile bicycle race resulted in
a most exciting contest between Sharp and M. A. Hil-
liard. In the last two rounds every foot of ground was
contested, and a most terrific spurt by Hilliard put him
past Sharp, who had taken the lead in the seventh round.
In the last round Sharp came up to his leader, and a great
race followed—Hilliard winning it on hy a few
inches. Both riders were loudly applauded. In the
high jump, F. Bussell distinguished himself hy the easy
manner in which he disposed of bis opponents. He
succeeded in easily clearing the bar at 5 ft. 5 in. The
mile walking handicap, which was the imost amusing
event of the day’s sports, brought about twenty
competitors, of all shades of boyhood,, to the post.
A tiny little fellow, named C. Delohery, with a
start of 160 yards, went away at a good pace and
won easily. His style of walking was mnch admired,
and in the last round he made a very fair spurt. The
scratch “man," A. H. Thomas, succeeded in getting
second place, while each of the competitors toiled in
the rear, spurting at the end, though without- hope.
The 300 yards handicap, for til amateur athletic clubs.
which was thought to be a race between Fairland and
Thompson, was won very comfortably by F. W. Baylis
in 345. Following are the results of the various
events :—lOO yards: A. Sedgwick 1, F. Bussell 2. His.
220 yards handicap, boys under 15 : Q. Mackay 1, E. A.
Firth 2. 26fs. House Cup, half-mile: J. Parker 1, G.
Hayes 2. 2m. 19s. Maiden Handicap, 300 yards: A.
Fletcher 1, C. J. King 2. 375. 220 yards ; All Schools’
race : B. E. Elley 1, F. Bussell 2. 25|s. S.B.C. Bicycle
Eace; one mile: H. Moyes 1. M. A. Hilliard 2. 3m.
50s. Three-quarters-of-a.mile Handicap: A. H. Thomas
1, L. Smith 2,3 m. 465. 150 yards; boys under 14
years : L. Cork 1, T. Hungerford 2. 2.195. Kicking the
Football. Place kick: F. Bussell 1, 46 yards. 80
yards; boys under 12: O. Carter 1, S. Simpson 2.
School Cup; 220 yards, handicap: A. Sedgwick 1, B.
Thompson 2. 255. Champion one mile: H. Thomas 1,
A. E. Pratt 2. sm. 365. 300 yards handicap: F. W.
Baylis 1, E. Perris 2. 345. 150 yards handicap hurdle
race: J. Cruickshank 1, A. Carter 2. 235. 440 yards
handicap; boys under 15 years : W. Clapin 1, G. Mackay
2. 625. Bicycle Eace; 2 miles: M. A. Hilliard 1, F.
W. Sharp 2. 7m. 545. 150 yards; ex-students: P.
Baylis 1, E. A. Granip 2. 16fs. High Jump: F.
Bussell 1, sft Sin. Walking Handicap; one mile : C.
Delohery 1, A. H. Thomas 2. Bm. 365. 440 yards
handicap : A, J. Bull 1.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Publius Syrus : “ A handsome face is a silent
recommendation.”
Miss Mary Casey, eldest daughter of Sub-In-
spector Casey, of Temora, is the first native (girl) of
New South Wales who has passed the Cambridge Uni-
versity matriculation examination.
A young prince who had married a very old (and
rich) woman explained that no poor fellow, in a hurry
to get a bank note cashed, ever took the trouble to look
at the date of it.
“ Kissing your sweetheart,” said a Greek phil-
sopher, “ is very like eating soup with a fork, —it takes
a long time before you’re full of it.” There was much
sense amongst those fossils after all.
Samuel Coleridge : “ Some men are like musical
glasses—to produce their finest tones you must keep
them wet." Samuel should have put it that “ men
and glasses deal out the biggest supply of notes when
wet.’"
It was a—, well, a suburban lady who refused
to go to church because the style of her head-gear was
six weeks behind the age. “ I hate the devil and all
his works," exclaimed the spirited girl, but I hate an
old hat worse than anything.”
Socrates: “ The difference between the sexes
may be stated thusly—A man gives two shillings for
an eighteen-penny thing he wants, and a woman gives
eighteen-pence for a two shilling thing she doesn’t
want." This looks like a distinction vjithout a differ-
ence.
A Liverpool beauty was married the other
day. When the officiating clergyman read the words
“ love, honour, and obey,” the young lady declined to
repeat the last. Three times the clergyman paused in
vain for an echo. Then he went on with his service.
Now, is this young lady married or not ?
At Melbourne, a girl named Elizabeth Gabriel
has been systematically engaging herself at various
houses as a domestic servant, and then absconding with
such property as she could conveniently carry away.
In other words, Gabriel was making angel’s visits.
She has gone to gaol for a season.
At a Victorian training school, the other day, the
head master called out a young lady recently arrived
from the country, whose hair-protector wasn’t of the
latest, and asked her in the presence of the class and of
one of his brother officials, "How do you like her hat?”
There is trouble in that training school now.
A rumour is current in Christchurch to the
effect that amongst the passengers on board the ill-
fated Tararua were a couple who hud eloped under
assumed names. It is stated that they had both been
engaged in the same establishment, that the man was
married, and that his wife has just returned to Christ-
church after a long absence.
Marcus Plautus : “ A woman is surely born of
tardiness.” Marcus evidently had to cool his he<l;
outside a drapery shop whilst his fair one worried the
silks about, but she was evidently worth waiting for.
For he adds: “ Yet every delay seems a less delay, when
caused by woman ” Plautus wrote comedies, and was
the Lewis-Scott of Borne 2000 years ago. He is now
dead.
“ jEgles ” of the Australian tells a neat
story concerning a certain Eiverine squatter who owns
two stations (for one of which he recently paid £50,000
cash). He has a governess for his younger children,
and the lady was lately confined to her room for some
days through an attack of rheumatism. The squatter
not only deducted three days from the temporary
invalid’s salary, but charged her with board for the
period of her indisposition.
Among the Nihilists who were about to be tried
when the mail left was Miss Sophia Perovsky, who was
an active agent in the affair on the Moscow railroad ,
where she played the part of the wife of Hartmann, and
mistress of the honse, from which the mine was dug.
She was exiled to Siberia, but on the road managed to
escape (as so many do),and now admits her guilt. Miss
Perovsky is a lady of aristocratic birth and educa-
tion, and is the daughter of the governor of one of the
provinces.
Catullus :
“ What a woman speaks in her fond lover’s ear
Should be written on the wind, then hov’ring near;
Or on the water, as past it swiftly flows.
For all trace of each, from both as quickly goes.’*
We presume when the young man from Verona wrote
the above he had previously waited outside, the church
door for an hour in the rain to escort his Lesbia home,
and then had the mortification to see her tripping
gaily out tied on to the elbow of—the other fellow. We
have been there ourselves, and know just how it bites.
The other day, at Bathurst, a housekeeper
sued her master for wages. Defendant pleaded not
indebted. Plaintiff said she had been engaged at 12s
per week to look after her employer’s children and
house during his absence in Q ueensland, and remained
in the house for six weeks, in cross-examination she
admitted that she had had to take a little brandy to
keep her spirits np, as the children ware very unruly.
For the defendant, Dr. Cortis deposed that he had been
called to attend plaintiff during her master’s absence ;
she was suffering from the effects of drink, and was
about half drunk when he saw her. The P.M gave
plaintiff a verdict for the full amount claimed with
costs, saying that he had always considered that the
master should not retain a servant’s wages by way of pun-
ishment. In addition, the defendant is by law bound to
pay the doctor for attending his servant.
At Sandy Bay, Tasmania, the other day, a boat
containing three men capsized, partly owing to a squall,
and partly because, in the words of the Hobart Mkb-
ctJßT, “ they, after getting to the Bay landed near the
Travellers’ Best Inn, where it is stated they had some .
liquor, which placed them in a condition unfitted for
sailing a boat in the stormy weather.” Well, to con-
tinue the narrative, they upset, whereupon four young
ladies, with commendable presence of mind and
activity, “ manned ” a boat belonging to Mrs. Knight,
and put off and rescued those struggling in the water—
only one of whom, by the way, could swim. This nice
little story loses half its force on account of the fact
that the occurrence happened in Tasmania, where men
are scarce and can’t be spared. The Mercury tries to
make out that the fair and plucky creatures were Grace
Darlings. There’s no doubt that they were darlings,
and all grace. However, we hope that when next the
young men go to Sandy Bay they’ll not drink so much
that when a puff comes the liquor will go all on on*
side and capsize the boat.
During the voyage from Havre to New York,
a Swiss woman was arrested for having poisoned h<»r
husband and tried to throw him overboard. At New
York she was tried and sentenced to death. She then
admitted having also poisoned her first husband in St.
Gall, her second husband being her accomplice.
And so the tartan dress worn by the Highland
regiments in the British army is not to be
abolished. Cheese - paring Childers (as he is.
called) brought down a hornet’s nest about
his ears when he tried to meddle with this
ticklish question. However, the ostrich-feather head
g, ar is to be exchanged for the more appropriate and
less costly Scottish bonnet. “Got pleas to Take oft
Argylel”
INTAGLIOS.
The First Tryst.
She pulls a rose from her rose-tree,
Kissing its soul to him—
Far over years, far over dreams,
And tides of chances dim.
He plucks from his heart a poem ;
A flower-sweet messenger.
Far over years, far over dreams.
Flutters its soul to her.
These are the world-old lovers.
Clasped in one twilight’s gleam;
Yet he is but a dream to her.
And she a poet’s dream.
Stolen Kisses.
Two lines of a lingering song
For ever, fall soft on my ear.
And echo the whole day long.
In tones that are tenderly clear.
Wherever my wandering feet
May stray, still rings the refrain ;
“ Stolen kisses are always sweet.
And love is never in vain ! "
In silence and hush of a dream,
With never a sound to be heard.
But a touch of lips in the gleam
Of the fire, and never a word;
The echo will ever repeat.
Breaking the silence in twain,
“ Stolen kisses are always sweet.
And love is never in vain ! ”
For a kiss would a maiden wake
From the charm of a dreamful sleep.
And a touch of true love would break
The peace that the blue eyes keep.
For ever the echo shall greet.
Like song of a ripening rain,
“ Stolen kisses are always sweet.
And love is never in vain! "
When hearts and lips have grown cold.
And love lives but for an hour,
When life’s romance has been told.
And kisses have lost their power.
Then shall soft memory fleet.
No more a dream to enchain :
Yet stolen kisses are always sweet.
And love is never in vain!
Love’s Mockery.
When she was dead they heaped her pulseless breast
With loving weight of flowers; and they pressed
With sweetest buds her death-unwilling hand—
As though cold clay did Love’s gift understand—
And the awed silence of the room was rent
By passionate speech, and by hot kisses spent
On stern-set brow and mouth, alas ! so stern
For speech or kiss of love they will not turn.
But she —her soul beside its robe of clay
Still lingering, as ’twere loth to go away—
She only said, alow dawning in her eyes,
Death-pure, a sweet yet sadly cold surprise,
“ Of all these gifts ye heap upon Death’s shrine.
Had but one bud, one kiss in life been mine.
Oh ye, my loving friends,” (and then it seemed she
sighed)
“ Could this have been, my friends, I had not died 1


Tailors, Draper!
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOUI
358, 360, 362, George-
OPENING NEW G<
for
WINTER SEAS(
EVERT DAY DURING TI
FIRST GENERAL £
of
NOVELTIES
FANCY DRESS]
FOR THE WINTER £
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE GAME
DOVER HOMESPUN INDR]
ELASTIC BIEQE ANQO
KASGHER CASHMERE JERSE
STOCKINGETTE VALPj
AND A LARGE ASSORTME]
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.”
MILLINERY.—'
cases of very
ERY, somethi
handsome, dire
houses in Lend
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR'
SILK, Rich V (
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES. :
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3:
• 6s lid, 7s 6d. 1
worn, and str<
for wear, and fl
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard stai
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
. 3s lid, 4s 6d, i
are light and sc
under usual
SILK VELVE
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MBNT of al
LACES in eve
imitation, Embi
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collarel
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace 1
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w<
FROM DRESS
he no decepti
washed. Ladi
Sheetings good
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-ir
inch. Is 6d to 2:
to 3s. America
& Hoi-rocks’ Ci
QUILTS, from
prices. Colon
QUILTS, 2i loi
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 anc
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our study
this class of t
character. By
year after year
of FIRST-CLAS
are now shown
ment of of DA]
NAPKINS, hot
Damask. Thes
every size, and
for. cheapness
colony. We c
MASK CLOTI
425; 5-BNAPK
* 3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DA]
round or square
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 2
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW lin:
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, froi
cording to size
■ ISH TOWELS,
Easiness Announi
I HAVE this day commenc
Stock and Share Broker, an
undertake any commissions eithe:
chase of shares that may be entrus
References :
Hon. S. D. Gordon,
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.
Hon. L. W. Levy, E
Richard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-sb
HE CITY STORI
Those MAGNIFICENT and SPI
Pitt-street—between Bathurst ar
the centre of the city erected
and just being finished, are TO
together. The stores are spacioi
have splendid cellarage, with hoif
cation to Mr. F. SCHOLER, 107
Sydney.
TO MANUFACTURERS O
MANAGERS. - TO LE
street, near King-street.—The cc
formerly known as the SCANDINj
front shops and business places. I
holding 1000 people, and in good
capital situation) would pay well.—.
107, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
AVID M ‘
14, Hunter-street, S;
SADDLER AND HAENI
By special appointi
To his Royal Highness the Duk
Excellency the Right Hon. t
His Excellency Sir Hercules 1
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newe:
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlei
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870
-pl ASTERN SPECIALITY '
CABLES AND AS
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to anj
much higher pri
724 GEORGE S
HATMARKET
AG. c h u r c
• 147 YORK STR
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUFi
Coffee, Peppers, Spi<
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE II
for Liverpool and Black Hort
Choicest Sage and Majoram on h
680,000 AMERICAN SK
Just arrived, all si
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sai
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
Tailors, Drapers, See.
COUNTRY ORDERS faithfully executed.
Winter Requisites just in time. Bought to open
May Ist. Waterproofs, Children and Ladies’, from
4s. Sd. to 255. Long Jackets, ss. to 455.
DOLMAN’S VARIOUS PlECES—Winter Skirts in
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool Goods of all Kinds,
as Cuffs, Boas, Fischus, Wrappers, and Seal, Monkey,
and other Muffs.
A Nice Lot of Frillings, Fringes, Girdles, Plushes,
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, Hosiery and Corsets,
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Materials and Dressmaking,
WE CAN PLEASE TOU.
Winter Millinery now showing. First-class Dress-
making. Country Customers send P. 0.0.
Our qjra Registered Glove—
-2 Buttons 4 Buttons 6 Buttons
In the Shop ... 2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
Posted 3s 4s 5s
JOHN B. TOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET 656
(Just below Liverpool-street).
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 King Street, Stdnet (two doors from Qeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
T
HE MISSES GIB
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Co.),
52, MARGARET STREET,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spencer, Dentist,
B,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
JjJLISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,’’
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, ent, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
M XT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
JL for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s" Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
norium on the Brickfield H ' has "No Rival," either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
XI E O. L. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, &e., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS PROM GEORGE STREET.
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 50s.
R. C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STREET,
Where you can he fitted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern, to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Bannockurn Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order 50s
Trousers to Order Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16a 6d 16s fid 16s 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Canadian Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6s
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16e 6d
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s 64,
N.B. —Gentlemen should inspect this stock of choice
Seotch Suitings, as the above prices for Suits to Order at
50a are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address —
127 KINO STREET.
r
8
o
a
Os
%
ir
to
Tailors, Draper
J. M E N
BELMOEE HOB
205 Pitt-street
MILLINER, UNDEECLOTHIEE
AND AETIFICIAL P
Very pretty BONNETS and HAI
velvet, oream, and black Span!
Beautiful MILLINEEY SETS in
Tte now TOQUE, COLLAE, ant
40s. the set; made of best plus)
Novelties in HEAD • DBESSE
FLO WEES.
TEEMS -CASi
161
KING S TEE E
(Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG
PAPEE PATTEENS of DEESSE
cut in different sizes for Ladic
nished with illustrations and d
up. Sold at prices ranging fro
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by ;
annum, post free. Catoloru
Patterns sent to any part of thi
of price and measure. Postage
ADDEESS:
MADAME WE]
161 KING STEE]
SYDNEY.
S
Business Announc
LekoalJ
HOETEE, FITZGEEALD
SOLICITOE
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary!
T EQAL.—Mr. T. M. (
SOLICITOE, has coi
practice of his profession, at
PITT-BTEEET, opposite i
News Office.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAH
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WOO
£IHEAPEST AND EES'
AT
MAEZ ISAACS* COEPOEA*!
HAY STEEET, HAYM
TEA, 1b per lb
Other articles equally chei
Qo:d. packed and delivered free
Oity and Suburbs daily.
COUNTEY STOEEKEEPEES LI
WITH.
■J3IANOS. AMEEICAN 01
PIANOS. AMEEICAN OEG.


Hotels, &c.
T
he COMPAGNOI
CAFE AND CATBEING CO]
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s EESTi
IS NOW OPEN
The Company have secured the
Marriette, late de cuisins c
Hotel, Melbourne. . .
Private rooms for special dinners
Three hours notice required for prii
The spaeions rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-decorai
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL I
June 30,1880.
COMPAGNONI PALACE C
serve up in their besi
OYSTEE STEWS
OYSTEEB SCOLLO
OYSTEES FEIED
and
OYSTE tS NATUEi
Patrons of our Theatres and Con
FEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jatering
315 GEORGE STR
(late Harris’ Caitf, opposite Peaj
A superior CAFE and SESTAUEA
EEFEESHMENT EOOM3 1
and for
Gentlemen accompanied 1
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE E
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cal
Cakes of all kinds.
CON FECTION EEY of the purest 6
GUAEANTEED that no danger©'
or ingredient of any kind injurious 1
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEING and manageme
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings,
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demo
Civil and attentive waiters alway:
(Jhas. r. g
MANAGES.
rj\o ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighbo
and the Public gene
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW S(
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT VICTOE
Is in the midst of all that is worth s<
Mountains. First-class accomn
and gentlemen. Comfort, clea
combined with moderate charge
J, G. COUSII
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRj
78 & 80 CASTLEREAi
Offosiib Theatre I
DE.
or
EB
MU
Hotels, fco.
OLD0 LD
EXHIBITIO]
PRINCE ALFRED ]
(Opposite Gate.]
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths,
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILI
M
A. • G <
PARK HOTEL, PARI
(immediately opposite THH I
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines
best brands, at the lowest poesi
parties therefore would do well n<
selves by bringing the same.
c.
W. 808
MARKET STREI
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
JUNIPER TE
This celebrated Dutch Gin may
all storekeepers and respectable !
trial will prove it superior to the co
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
SIS;
7>
a
3
m
9
i
Wholesale Agent—CHAS
2 BRIDGE STREET, S
Hotels, See.
FOSTER’S Bugl
Th. BEST ALE nod STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPE
MERCHANTS,
yirgoe, sonTand (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BI
ORL'£
air,
AND
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should be carefully compare!
are being imported into New Sot
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beven
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(
WHISKY.
VIRGOEj SOnTaND
AGENTS.
ROSS AND (
(Late Collins and Bo
SEATED W
AND
CORDIAL MANUFACT
438 HARRIS STREET
First Prize, International Exh
for Soda Water,
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lenu
Ginger Beer, &c
CORDIALS OF ALL
The Trade supplied with prompt:
NOTE THE ADDRI
ROSS AND C
438 HARRIS STREET,
MARTIN i
R
Hotels, &c.
OBEET BUTCI
(Late William Lo:
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
534 GEORGE STRI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL
Couhtrt Orders Receive Pro
ÜBL I C
N
EASTWAY’S HO'
Late Kirschbaum’s Hotel, con
Castlereagh-streel
Mr. GEORGE ROBERT EAS
pleasure in informing his friends an
has taken the above large and centr
and hopes by civility and strict att(
ing none bnt the best brands of
large amount of their patronage.
G. R. E. also takes this opporti
his patrons fer the unfinished sti
hopes to serve everything in first
few days, and also to return his sii
liberal amount of patronage bestow
present time.
0* Don’t forget the address —
GEORGE ROBERT Ei
(late of Eastway Brothers, G
EASTWAY’S HOT
King and Castlereagh-i
ENWY V I S
B
THIS CELEBRATED SCOTCH
nowned in Scotland for its
; ;excSlence of qi
is distilled from the BEST MAI
Matured, possesses that delicate
in ’.the
BEST SCOTCH WH
The PROPRIETORS are prepar
quirements of New South Wales ci
therefore APPOINTED the UNDE
SOLE A 0 E
who is regularly supplied with s
heads, Quarter Casks, and Cases.
GEORGE LEO'S
BRIDGE-STREET CHI
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to
that owing to the increasing demai
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Although the principal business i
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retail
WINES IN LARGE BULK and
TRADE.
tor Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, he feels confident that, wi
the above-named two experienc
favours will be attended to with tl
tude.
WINE GROWER AND J
Splendid DINNER WINES, from
DESSERT WINES. 18s. and 21s,
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for
from 21s. to 425. per doz,
OFFICE AND CELLARS: 40 Hi
Country Orders receive proi


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
T>r. Silvester is still at St. George's Hall, ‘Mel-
bourne At latest Maggie Oliver and company were
producing “Lost in London" at the Rockhampton
theatre The Empsous are billed to appear at Wol-
longong this week The Sprightly Catherine Lewis
gets £3O a week, with a prospect of increase to £6O, for
playing the title roles in “ Madame Pnvart” and
Olivette" at the Fifth Avenue Theatre, Now York
H. P. Stevens, author of the libretto of “ Billee Tay-
lor," was ode of the special correspondents of the
London Times daring the Franco Prussian war At
the Tivoli, 'Frisco, the six hundredth consecutive night
of opera was recently given by the Moore-Gates Com-
pany, of which Miss' Lo Ferre (Formerly of the Sel-
denes) is a member Mr. Fred. Marshall, while on
his way to America, will play for a few nights at
Auckland under engagement to De Lias Alice Oates,
one «f the brightest, sprightliest and most magnetic
little women who ever appeared on the American stage,
is dead. She was the wife of Tracy Titus (agent for
Emilie Melville on her Australian tour), from whom she
was subsequently divorced. She then married ai Mr.
Watkins, with whom she was living at the time of her
decease... Mr. Dave Hayman left by the Frisco mail to
engage American talent for Australia M'Lean’s
Troubadours have been played to good houses at
Wagga Miss Jessie Grey has made another great
hit as ‘‘Mary Ann” in ‘‘ Jeames” at the Melbourne
Bijou One of the stage directions of a dramatic
poem, just published in London, is as follows; The
sanctuary of the Eternal Spirit, radiating flashing
splendors and storrafnl harmonies, ascends and disap.
pears.” Desdemona’s night gown, as worn by Miss
Eilie Wilton, cf the Salvini company, is described as
unlike that usually worn by actresses in the strangula-
tion scene in Othello, in that it is not a thing that
would pass for a wrapper. It is unmistakably a night-
gown—plain and unpretentious, gathered in at the neck,
and hanging in ample folds. The only departure from
realism is the material, which is of fine wool, instead of
linen or cotton Walter Reynolds lately announced
to a Christchurch (N.Z.) audience that he would
shortly introduce Mr. and Mrs. Williamson to them.
Big business awaiting them in Maoriland from all
accounts Jimmy O’Brien has been well received in
Dunedin. He is plaving with the Carden Company
Horry Le Clair and Mdlle. Granville, “ the woman with
the iron jaw” (many of her sex are afflicted in this
way), are showing at the Bella Union, Ban Francisco.
Simousen’s Opera Company were well patronised by
the “hopper suckles” when playing in Auckland
Mr. A. Campbell, late of the Lingard Co., is in Auck-
land, with Tom Margetts, J. Howe, and a number
of amateurs, giving weekly entertainments in that town
at low prices of admission Gilbert and Sullivan’s
new opera, satirizing the “ society manners” of the
day, was produced in London on Easter Monday
R.'W. Cary played Hecate in “Macbeth” with Band-
mann, in Wellington. N.Z The Zealandia Panorama
of New Zealand, with George Lingard to the fore, was
being shown at Dundee with great success at last ac-
counts. Sidney Colville was lecturer Cole says he
netted £lO,OOO by his Australian and New Zealand tour.
He intends paying the antipodes another visit A
Christchurch paper says that Pomeroy will not visit
N.Z. in June, having arranged to play in Melbourne
and Sydney over that time Walter Reynolds goes
in search of fresh talent after his “Pinafore” season
closes J. S. Willis, scenic artist, is in Dunedin
A correspondent says Napier, for its size, is the best
show town in N.Z Mr. R. W, Carey, of Wellington,
has purchased from Mr. J. C. Williamson, through Mr
E. S. Gallon, the sole right to represent Messrs. Gilbert
and Sullivan’s opera, “ The Pirates of Penzance,” in
New Zealand. His term for the exclusive production
is eight months, and the price paid £5OO. Sir Arthur
Gordon and suit patronised Bandmann in Wellington,
N.Z Professor Wombold and his wife, who were
here with Chiarini, are performing at the Adelphi, San
Francisco A burlesque on the latest London success,
“ Billee Taylor” is beiug performed at the Bella Union,
San Francisco An afternoon concert was recently
given at Auckland, in which Madame Simonsen and
daughters and Signor Paladini assisted. The ladies
received £2O for their services According to a San
Francisco paper, Herr Bandmann and Louise Beaudett
were expected in that city last month One of
Sothern’s last requests was that his friends should not
attend his burial, as “ people catch such colds standing
about in graveyards with their hats off.” The “Pina-
fore ” company. formed in Auckland by Riccardi (Hard-
ing, Hodson, Miss Leaf, Mis- Heath, etc.), gave the
best all-ronnd representation yet seen in that town
Mr. and Mrs. Carden and company, under De Lias, are
doing poor business in Dunedin. The season had to be
extended owing to a dispute re the letting of the Christ-
church Theatre Royal A trouble arose in Christ-
church, similar to that which occurred in Dunedin be-
tween Walter Reynolds and the young “Pinafore”
choristers. The parents of the children brought the
case before the court, but judgment was given for
defendant, it being shown that Mr. Pollard had made
the engagements Miss Watt-Tanner is making a big
name for herself in Dunedin. The critics are unanimous
in their praise, and reckon her a great aid to the Carden
company..,...Simonsen Opera Company at latest ac-
counts had been playing at New Plymouth, N.Z., with
much success. They were to open at Wanganui on
May 16th, re-visiting Wellington, Christchurch, and
Dunedin, opening in the latter town on 15th June
Miss Georgina Smithson, Mr. James Holloway, and the
“Fakir of Jonere,” are now in Far Northern
Queensland, working south. They have played with
success through India, China, and Java The “ Zip ”
company (D’Orsay Ogden, Miss Beatrice and the
Hewetts), opened successfully at the Towers on 14th
instant The Oliver-Seagrave company have done
good business at Rockhampton. Miss Oliver took
her benefit on 17th inst. “ Engaged ” and “ The Little
Mother ” are among the pieces produced by the troupe,
who gat plenty of “ marmalade” from the local papers.
The Bandmann company appeared at Wellington,
N.Z., for the last time on May 5, in “ As You Like it."
There was a big house and a successful performance
It is reported that all legal difficulties in regard to the
late E. A. Southern’s property will have been obviated
by an amicable family arrangement Miss Alice May
is playing at London Alhambra with much success as
Jeanne in the new comic opera Jeanne, Jeannette, and
Jeanneton Alfred Dampier was at latest playing
Jean Yalijean in his own version of “Les Miserables."
“ Anglo-Australian ” says that Alfred may shortly be
heard of at one of the theatres in the vicinity of the
Strand, and that he is likely, to make a great name in
London.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
There is, perhaps, no more thankless post on a
newspaper than that of dramatic critic. A shipping
reporter is a free agent; the man who does the police
courts is sheltered from the calumny of the world; and
even the label-writer can trot home of an evening with
happiness in his heart and one-and-ninepence in his
pocket, conscious that there are no bludgeon-bearing
miscreants awaiting him in the street, and no threaten-
ing missives lying on the kitchen-table. There seems
to be an idea ingrained in the breast of every male and
female member of the fraternity which is euphoniously
designated as the “perfesh” that an unfavourable
criticism means, on the part of the writer, “ envy,
hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness.” There are,
we believe, no actors and actresses, however obscure,
however unfitted by nature for the profession they have
adopted, but are satisfied in their own minds that
they are shining lights in the histrionic arena. There
is no super, who carries a banner “ ou ” but thinks that he
could play the lover better than the gentleman who
takes juvenile lead in his theatre; there is no chorus-
singer at the opera but who is fully convinced in her
own mind that she could take the shine out of the
prima donna were she afforded an opportunity of so
doing. Ladies and gentlemen who have risen in their'
profession by means of newspaper notices of an adula-
tory but untruthful character are notoriously the most
impatient of criticism. They resemble women of an
“ uncertain age,” who have begun to paint and powder.
While the facial embellishment is “laid on,” the lady
still passes with the world as attractive; but once the
rouge is not put upon her cheeks, nor the pencil upon
her eyebrows, she is metamorphosed into what
Nature has at last made her —a plain elderly woman.
And it is so with very many professionals. While the
laudatory notices appear, they live in an atmosphere of
elysium—their lives are enveloped in a roseate veil of
histrionic romance. They hold their heads up high in
the world, and have a contempt for prosaic persons
who have not attained fame by means of the newspaper.
The moment, however, a critic more honest than the
rest will, with a facile pen, closely analyse the perform-
ance of these people, then what a fluttering of feathers
there is in the dramatic dove-cote —what a clucking in
the theatrical barnyard! Good-natured advice they
term venom; mild faultfinding, slander; objections to
the general tone of a play, conspiracy to bring about
their ruin; in short, unless the stereotyped notices
which appear, for the most part, in the daily papers are
served up there, why then these bogus stage-strutters
whine, wriggle, and weep like so many cats in a lime-
kiln.
• * *
We have, we are thankful to say, many v ery clever
ladies and gentlemen of the theatrical profession in
this colony—and it is not to this section of the
“ perfesh ’’ that the foregoing remarks apply. We wish
it, however, to be understood that under no circum-
stances will our columns contain notices that we
“ don’t believe in.” We will give praise, and lavish
praise where praise is due, but where we consider that
caustic criticism is necessary, why then we’ll “ rub in the
brine ” after the most approved method. We want to
be pleased. We want to see good plays and good
acting ; to behold bright operas and good singing. We
are easily pleased—and only ask for opportunities to
send professionals and their shows along. Let a thing
be only passably good and we will give it a fair show ;
but we refuse to lay on the oleomargarine of adulation
merely for the purpose of increasing the vanity of in-
different performers, kotooing to managers who have
come to regard the public press as an organ which they
can set to grind out any tune they please, and making
fools of ourselves. We don’t say to what the foregoing
remarks are specially Apropos, but at once proceed to
business.
• » *
Byron’s comedy “ The Upper Crust,” which we
are informed {and thoroughly believe) has now reached
its 500th night at the London Polly, was produced at
the Theatre R iyal on Saturday night. After an atten-
tive study of this little piece, as performed here, we are
inclined to think that, whatever may be ’its run in
Sydney, it will be less than 500 nights. Of the play
itself, it may be said to resemble a bundle of paradoxes.
It is admirably smart and insufferably dull; it is
startlingly original in some parts of the dialogue, and
miserably—even slavishly—prosaic in others. The plot
is of such a flimsy description that it is almost incredi-
ble Mr. Byron should have succeeded in spinning it out
into three acts without making the whole thing descend
into a dramatic bore of the most pronounced description.
For the educated playgoer the “ U pper Crust ’’ is not a
bore by any means, but we are afraid it is by no means
highly spiced and strongly seasoned enough to find
favour with the horny-handed pitite. The “ Upper
Crust " is a peculiar instance of over-confidence on the
part of a playwright. Mr. Byron has evidently essayed
a tour de force in striving to run a comedy solely upon
dialogue. Of action in this piece there is little or none,
and we are eternally being treated to long conversations
in which all the characters seem possessed of the same
Bohemian philosophy, and in which they all twist the
language into Byronisms, irrespective of time, place,
season, or fitness. A great many of the jokes we have
heard before, only with a slightly different twist; some,
however, are undoubtedly original. For instance,
talking of Barnaby Doublechick, Sir Robert Boobleton
says, “Well, if he does drop an H sometimes, he always
puts it on at others’’—and in referring to one of the
“Upper Crust,” Barnaby says, “Yes, his father went
to Court, and he went through it.” Then we are told of
a lady, who is “ as fresh as paint can make her,” which
is decidedly not new. and Sir Robert informs the
audience that Miss Donblechick “looks like a good
stayer,” which, it not coarse, is comparatively unmean-
ing. A great many of the jokes—notably some smart
talk about the “old masters’’—were entirely lost upon
the audience, who did not appear altogether to under-
stand a good thing by Lady Boobleton, who remarks
that she is sure her son dees not drink, because she
has bought him some Bordeaux at 13s. a dozen, and
he never touches it.
* * *
‘‘The Upper Crust,” therefore, is, it will be seen,
all talk and no business. The same elegant “ set” does
service in the three acts, and there is not a truly funny
situation in the play. And yet it has run five hundred
nights in London, and is running still. The only way
in which we can account for this phenomenal success of
what is in itself but a third-rate comedy is that,
being a “star” piece, the performance of Barnaby
Doublechick by Mr. J. • L. Toole mast be one of
overwhelming merit, and that the other parts are
filled by ladies and gentlemen occupying fore-
most places in their profession, who devote ' their
energies entirely to leading up to the business of the
principal comedian. Here is the cast at the Royal:—
Lord Hesketh, Mr. Arthur Garner; Sir Robert Booble-
ton, Mr. G. S. Titheradge; Walter Wrentmore(ayoung
architect), Mr. Frank Cates ; Barnaby Doublechick (of
the Diaphonous Soapworks), Mr. Richard Stewart;
Tipthorpe (Doubleohick’s servant), Mr. Richard Daly;
Lady Boobleton, Mrs. Marion Stammers ; Nora Double-
chick (Doublechick’s daughter), Miss Alma Santon;
Kate Vejwmore (Lord Hesketh’s niece', Miss Annie
Taylor, it will thus be seen that for Mr. J. L. Toole (un-
doubtedly the ablest actor of the present day) wo have
Mr. Richard Stewart, and in place of other very dis-
tinguished artists we have only the junior members of
the once celebrated London Comedy Company.
* * *
Mr. Richard Stewart is not (since there cannot
be two of them) “the drollest actor of the present day.”
But if he is not this, what is he ? Well, Mr. Stewart is
a clever, painstaking comedian of the old school, always
conscientious and sometimes brilliant, but neverpheno-
menal. His Barnaby Donblechick, though amusing,
never rises to the Fred. Marshall standard, and it is to be
regretted that, the whole interest in the comedy center-
ing in the part, Mr. Garner was not enabled to secure
a comedian who would, to put it mildly, have more fully
identified himself with the character and towered away
above the rest.
# # ♦
Mr. Garner’s make-up as Lord Hesketh was
very good indeed, and he played, on the whole, intelli-
gently. There is, however, nothing in the part—his
lordship being throughout, as Donblechick calls him, a
mere animated “ramrod.” Mr. Titheradge as Sir
Robert was the success of the evening, his acting in the
tipsy scene being quite surprisingly artistic. Mr.
Frank Cates enacted Mr. Frank Cates feebly disguised
as an architect, and made love very pleasantly when he
did not put his nose too near the chin of his adored.
Tipthorpe, a servant, was acted by Mr. Richard Daly,
a gentleman whose acquaintance we make for the first
time, and who for some reason, locked, we suppose,
in his own breast, made up his face like that of a
crying child, and walked like a man with a cork leg.
As an impersonator of a comic footman, Mr. Daly is
not a distinguished success, and we advise him to study
the part of Macbeth without delay, spice humour is as
much out of his line as poetry is out of that of
M'Klhone.
« « «
Mrs. Stammers impersonated Lady Boobleton
with great ability. Miss Santon’s costume in the first
act was in very indifferent taste, and looked by no
means as fresh as it might have done. Neither was
Miss Taylor’s dress remarkable for that elegance which
is looked for in the lady representatives of modern
comedy. Both of these ladies were allotted parts which
were entirely unsuitable. Miss Taylor, more _ es-
pecially, was as much out of her element as a bat in a
boudoir, while Miss Santon’s spasmodic efforts to
appear lively under adverse circumstances were,
although meritorious, very dispiriting indeed.
* * *
Mr. Gordon’s interior (we are not writing
anatomically) was a triumph in the scenic art, every
detail of the drawing being admirable in .its complete-
ness.
* * * *
The Mastodon Minstrels, at the Opera House,
tried an experiment on Saturday (and are still trying
it), which is at least creditable to their spirit of enter-
prise. This was in essaying to perform an operatic
travestie on “ Pinafore,” written to order for them by a
Sydney writer —a gentleman, we believe, who is closely
connected with the Protestant Standard. Now, Mr.
Lewis’s minstrels are very good minstrels in their way,
and Mr. Kopff’s band is a very good band in its way, and
both can work admirably in the straight-up-and-down
“ nigger" business in which the troupe have been so
successful in Sydney. The Mastodon soloists are used
to singing plantation ballads, with a brass-band accom-
paniment and a big drum tremolo. The “ business ” of
, these gentlemen is nearly always the same. One man
goes into a flour-barrel on one side of the stage, and
another into a cradle on the other. Then the “ lady ’’
enters, and bangs them both with a bladder. The scene
closes up with the dramatis personae smothering them-
selves with flour, and there is great laughter and
applause. Nigger business is, in fact, all gag, bladder,
flour, and waddy. It was not, therefore, to be expected
that the company would shine in their first attempt at
anythin* operatic, and if, taken as a whole, “H.MS.
Pun-no-fear” was not exactly a brilliant success, why
the case is one in which little blame can be attached to
the company, and perhaps less to the author.
# * *
Acting .upon instructions, the luckless playright
had written his sketch in verse, and we cannot deny
that, on the first night, the Mastodons wrestled some-
what painfully with his couplets, and put words into
the verses of his local songs that considerably ploughed
up the metre. The band, too was very erratic—the con-
ductor and the double-bass only being in accord, each
one of the brazen-performers blowing confusion in his
instrument at irregular intervals. The ship scene was
an excellent effort of that excellent artist, Mr. Wilson,
and the properties were really on a scale of originality
never before attempted even in the very best of well-
appointed theatres. The moon was well brought out,
and if it would only have consented to have been set
fire to when wanted, the effect would have been superb.
Just, however, as the moon-bearer was about
to apply the candle to Cynthia’s countenance, the plat-
form on which he was standing gave way, and he was
precipitated moon and all through the poop-deck into
the cuddy. Some of the other effects also were not so
successful as they might have been. For instance—
when, sometimes the cue was given for a chord, the
property man fired a gun with great alacrity, and when
“ one on the drum was wanted,” the watchful stage-
manager turned the gas down. All this, of course, was
very funny, and in truth the Mastodons seemed to en-
joy it very much. The audience didn’t seem to object
a great deal either —the only person who writhed being
the ill-starred dramatist. It is said that the groans of
the latter might have been heard, after the piece was
concluded, as far as the office of the Freeman’s Jour-
nal. This, however, is only rumour.
# * *
Since Saturday the burlesque has gone better,
and when the “ boys" can lap their tongues round the
words properly, the sketch will be a great lark. Of the
acting, perhaps Charles Lewis as Ralph Hatrack was
the beet, though his success in the vocal line is some-
what inferior to Kosnati’s. E. B. Lewis as Sir Porter
Je-o-sephied was grandly made up, and was, on the
whole, amusing. Keenan’s Waterbut was very funny,
and Westley as Oleomargarine did his level best.
“Pun-no-fear,” is unquestionably a novelty,and as such
we recommend our readers to look in and see it. We
understand that the Mastodons only stay in Sydney
another week, when, under the generalship of their
polite and excellent manager, Mr. E. Wolfe, they will
commence their country tour by opening at Newcastle.
* * * *
At the Gaiety the Turner-Montague Company
are still highly successful, and have been giving
“Martha,” “ Trovatore,” and “ Maritana” during the
week with unvarying success. The pretty little theatre
is crammed nightly, aud the only pity is that the house
can't be enlarged at will, in order to accommodate the
people. About the success of this brilliant combina-
tion there can be no doubt whatever, and we are
delighted to see Mr. Turner and the lessees “ raking in
the spondulix," since all of these gentlemen deserve so
well of the public. Upon the production of the next
novelty—which we hope will be “ Mignon”—we shall
give this charming company a full and exhaustive notice.
At present we have nothing to say except—well—this:—
Sing on, sing on, ay, ev’ry night.
The Gaiety will be full;
To know this must be your delight.
You’ve got ’em by the wool.
You’ve got ’em by the’wool this time;
You’ve “ knocked ’em of a heap";
The ladies cry—“ Ain’t he sublime I”
The men, they sigh and weep 1
From Surry Hills to Botany,’
Loud out the cry does ring—
*' Oh, ain’t it really heavenly
To hear that Turner sing 1”
And men in broken voices wail —
“ ’Neath Asian skies so blue,
There sings no clear-voiced nightingale
So sweet as Montague !"'
Under these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen—the
music now, once more—
Sing on, sing on, ay, ev’ry night.
The Gaiety will be full ;
To know this must be your delight.
You’ve got ’em by the wool.
* ** *
During the last week, the Queen’s Theatre has
once more sworn allegiance to the great Boucicault,
by playing his “Shaughraun" and “Jessie Brown;
or the relief of Lucknow ” in quick succession. This
last is a wonderful production—something quite out of
the common order of things. We shall, if we live, see the
play, and notice it. We like going to the Queen’s
Theatre because the performance there is always so
lively. It is true the dress circ’e is not very luxurious
—but what of that? You can’t expect splendour in
front and behind too. There never was a more ambi-
tious man than Mr. Keogh’s stage-carpenter. He is
hard-working, too, and he has a boldness of concep-
tion almost amounting to intrepidity. The steamer
scene in “ The Overland Koute ” still lives in our
memories and has possession of our dreams. What a
wonderful piece of mechanism that was! It was
literally a cradle rocked in the deep; that is to say,
the bulwarks rocked and the deck didn’t. The illusion,
however, would have been complete had it not been for
the fact that when any of the characters descended into
the cabin to go “off,” on looking over to the O.P.
side, you could see them walking away upon the waters
with an ease and aplomb that reminded you forcibly of
the scriptures. What we want to see produced at the
Queen’s is a good piece with four acts and a prologue,
with a “ one-two-three-and under ’’ in every scene, and
a red-handed murder before every act drop. A piece
like that would make Larry’s bar “ hum,” for all the
men would come out with their throats clogged with
steel filings and sulphur. What the Queen’s wants
principally is something new —no matter who’s the
author. It’s no odds if it’s by Shakespeare as long as
it’s new.
* * * *
We have received a communication, evidently
from some “cellar-flippers” on the look out for a
“ slant,” that a number of members of the profession
“ threw up their hats” on hearing of the verdict
given against The Bulletin. We are not
surprised that- any seedy song-and-dance men and
9th rate cdbotins should feel pleased at a decision
in a court of justice which aims a blow at the
moral well-being of us all, but what we are surprised to
hear is that they threw up their hats. As if one of
these gentry could do any such thing, without the
crown coming out, and his saveloy supper being borne
away on the autumn breezes 1
* * *‘*
It is said that there is a check-taker at one. of
the theatres, who has just purchased a block of land
for £1305. We shall go in for check-taking ourselves
soon, if any of the managers will give us a billet.
Fancy a check-taker richer than a manager! Slow
and sure’s the word.
* * * *
There has been, we hear, a partial split-up in
the " Pinafore ” camp of Major-General South. It
would seem that on the arrival of the company in
Sydney en route for Goulburn, the two Horans, who
had, while contributing greatly to the success of the
tour, been drawing rather emaciated salaries, requested
the genial James to make a more satisfactory arrange-
ment. This not being acceded to, the fair Teresa and
her sister refused to go on, not having signed an engage-
ment for any specified time. Mr. South thereupon
engaged Mrs. and Miss Cooper, of Williamson’s chorus,
and proceeded on his travels with those ladies, who
were to take the parts of Buttercup and Hebe respec-
tively. This is not, however, a matter of which the
Misses Horan complain. What these clever young
ladies object to (and we think properly) is, that their
tames being upon the bills, the Goulburnitea might
possibly get a wrong impression as to their vocal and
histrionic abilities now that their parts are filled by
Mrs. Cooper and her daughter. We trust that since
I Jemmy’s company is Coopered in one sense it will not
1 be “ coopered ’’ in another. And we of course hope too
that Mrs. and Miss Cooper may yet twinkle in the
vocal firmament.
** * *
Our old friend Professor Rice has been very
successful at Cootamnndra, with his “ Mind Reading.”
His performances have been largely attended ; so once
more do we see the two familiar articles linked together
—Rice and “ sugar.”
** * *
The following letter has been sent to Messrs.
Mackay and Bracken by Madame Lotti Wilmot: —
“ Wharf Hotel,
“ Auckland, Ajiril 16th, 1881.
“ Madame Lotti Wilmot has seen the paper Public
Opinion of date January 15th, 1881, and gives Messrs.
Mackay and Bracken notice that unless a full and ample
apology is printed in the next issue of that paper, April
30th, instant, and a copy forwarded to her, Madame
Wilmot has resolved to institute, without any further
notice, criminal proceedings against Messrs. Mackay
and Bracken.
“(Signed) Lotti Wilmot.
“ April 16th, 1881.”
This epistle Messrs. M. and B. treat with shrieking
derision —even celebrating the fair lecturess in verse.
Here is some of it: —
“ Won’t you let us out on bail P
Do, dear Lotti;
Do not send us all to gaol;
Don’t, dear Lotti.
Jails are diamond-cracking schools.
Eh, dear Lotti ?
And though we’re up to mental rules,
Eh, dear Lotti ?
And often have to nse the stone,
The galleys, too, to us are known;
We don’t want dungeons dark and lone.
Dear, dear Lotti.”
This is, to say the least, treating magnificent genius
with disrespect.
** * *
The Carden-Leigh Company have produced at
the Princess’ Theatre, Dunedin, a “novelty” entitled
“ Extremes, or Men of the Day.” This novelty is by
Edmund Falkner, and is exactly 35 years old. What’s
the next novelty Richmond—“ Castle-Spectre”?
** * *
We understand that Mr. Wybert Reeve
received by the mail Mr. A. Pinero’s success,
“The Money-spinner,” Burnand’s “The Colonel,’” and
Byron’s “ Crushed Tragedian.” We wonder how many
times, at farewell bens, to Wybert Reeve, we have
said Au Reever ?
** * *
We hear that through her benefit in Melbourne
the widow of Fred, the musician is Coppin £143. Mrs.
Marcus Clarke, Miss Rosina Carandini, and others
performed on the occasion.
** * *
A certain well-known conjuror, now travelling
through one of the other colonies, fills up his spare
time by peddling meerschaum pipes. The other day he
left a pipe at ft hotel to be raffled, and then started for a
short trip inland. On his return he rushed to see if the
list had been filled up in his absence. “Vot eesit?”
he cried when he cast his eyes down the document and
read the following:—“ Paddy O’Rafferty—pay when the
cows come home.” “ Bill Robstay—pay with the fore-
topsail sheet.” “Larry O’Finigan—pay when I am
waked.” “Jeremy Diddler —paid by draft on the Bank
of Human Confidence,” and so on. He dashed down
the paper in a rage, picked up his pipe and vanished.
Verily, conjurors are driven to strange things in
these days of competition. Fancy Houdin performing
before Queen Victoria one day, and selling a meer-
schaum pipe to her groom the next!
** * *
Our Auckland correspondent writes to us as
under in a letter dated May 18th: —“ The Simonsen
Opera Company season terminated on May 7, the troupe
attracting large houses for four weeks. lam informed
that Simonsen did a better business here than in any
other town the company visited in NZ. Madame
Simonsen had a large house on the occasion of her
benefit, “Norma” and a concert (!) being the bill sub-
mitted. The less said about the latter the better, but
the opera was really well played. Signors Paladini,
Riccardi, Miss Martina Simonsen, and the heneficiart
carrying off the honours of the evening. The pro-
duction of Pinafore was not a success by any means,
the company giving the worst representation of this
now thread-bare opera that I have witnessed. The
redeeming feature was Riocardi’s First Lord, a part
which he has now made his own. His equal has not
been seen here. Josephine in the hands of Martina
Simonsen, in my opinion, was not a success, while
Leonora played Buttercup only fairly. Frances Simon-
son's Hebe was exceedingly tame, and Signor Biauchi’s
Ralph Rackstraw unbearable. Fancy an Italian un-
acquainted with the English language cast for Ralph!
The way the Signor wrestled and struggled with the
dialogue drew forth roars of laughter. Captain
Corcoran was indifferently represented by Mr.
Crain, and Dick Deadeye was in the hands of Mr. St.
Clare. Miss Jessie Raymond took a benefit in the
theatre on the 10th, but. I am sorry to say, received
poor patrenage. Herr Bandmaun, Louise Beandet,
J. F. Cathcart, Musgrave, and several others open
in “Hamlet" on the 19th. Lotti Wilmot still con-
tinues to lecture here. Her effort on “ Auckland
by Day and Auckland by Night ” was well patronised.
There is a great deal of repetition about her lectures,
and nothing new or original. Ghiloni’s Waxworks
Exhibition opened in the Albert Hall to-day. Hasel-
mayer and wife appear here shortly.
An old actress, Madame Marie Duret, who was
n Australia and New Zealand about eleven years ago
with her husband, died in San Francisco, recently, at
the age of 70. We are sorry to know that the sun of the
unhappy lady’s life went down in thick clouds, and the
same line that William Henry Herbert requested to oe
placed on his tomb might also —saving the L itin, of
course —be properly engraved on her’s —“ Infelicissi-
mus.”
** * *
The Soldene troupe were thoroughly unsuccess-
ful in ’Frisco. At latest, the talk was that Emily a.nd
her troupe contemplated affiliating with the Emihe
Melville company, and making wbat DeVivo used to
call " a magnificent combination of ze divas.”
** * *
Pollard and Walter Reynolds’ Juvenile “ Pina-
fore" Co. are playing to good houses at Wellington,
N.Z. At the termination of the season there, they move
on to Auckland,—then play at Taranaki. Wanganui,
Blenheim, Nelson, Graymouth, and Hokitika. The
company will also re-visit Christchurch and Dunedin,
playing “ Les Cloches de Comeville."
** * *
The Lydia Howarde Company has been re-
organised, and now comprises Miss Lydia Howarde, M) ss
Jenny Nye, Miss L. de Gloriau, Miss Sinclair, Miss
Clare, Miss Maude Vincent, Miss Clara Mansell, with
Messrs. H. Power, W. Hayes, E. Mowry, J. Marshall,
and J. Fisher; Mr. W. Hydes is leader of the orchestra.
The company have opened at the Theatre Royal, Const*
church, with a new version of “ Chilperio.” r atl *
nitza ” was to follow.
** * *
The late Fred. Coppin, we are told, had in his
possession an opera written by Offenbach, and never
acted. Offenbach made efforts to purchase it,
success. It is called “La Reine Lucette,” and tn
plot turns on the adventures of a young girl on a
enchanted island. . Efforts are now being made to buy
it for London presentation.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
The natural increase of the coloured people in
the Southern States of America, is about 33 per cent,
and of the white people about IS per ient_. _ Tried by
best of moral tests the whites want civilising.
In the great ice factory at Manchester,
the machinery of which can turn out thirty
daily —the production of every eight tons oi ice
necessitates the combustion of a ton of coal.
One shilling’s worth of wheat-meal bread con-
tains three times the flesh forming, seventy times tne
heat-producing, and three times the hone-forming
material to he found in > j shilling s worth oi oeei-
Bteak.


PEPPER AND SALT.
In the Herald’s telegram from Perth announ-
■cing the accident which had befallen the Bacchante we
are told that “the Royal Princes are well; their health
~js excellent.” Now this somewhat tautological “ wire”
shows us that somebody is beginning to kow-tow al-
ready. We are indeed glad to hear that the Princes are
well; we were afraid they might possibly be sea-sick.
However, as Britannia rules the waves we suppose old
Nep. had received instructions from the Admiralty to
deal gently with the dear Princes. But it was rudely
-disloyal of an Australian gale to spring up just as the
good little boys were nearing our shores. Our very-
weather is becoming Republican.
♦ * «
Public debates between youthful speakers are
usually more exciting than anything else under the sun,
cr moon. There was one last week in Surry Hills. It
was carried on by six nice-looking young men who had
-been training on fish fora month to develop their brains,
and had been to Wigzell’s for shaves. One strug-
gling Demosthenes got as far as “ Mr. Chairman, ladies
and gentlemen, I rise ” —in first class style, and then he
stuck. He had trusted to the inspiration of the moment,
and it didn’t come. So the notebook came out, t and by
its valuable aid he jerked out, amid the titters of the
audience, halt a dozen sentences, embodying some re-
markable historical facts, in which Washington at
Waterloo and Arthur Wellesley’s little hatchet got
slightly “ fcoxed.” He had just reached a thrilling por-
tion of his narrative, where " the Book had two horses
shot under him,” when a cracker went off with a loud
" pom ” under the window. The audience could
stand it no longer, and went off too— into fits.
The orator gave one wild look round and—
Jainted I When restoratives had been applied he came
to. They sympathised with him; they told him how
the great B. himself once got “ Dizzy ” when an
audience laughed at him; but they would not let him
get up again. It might be too much —for the audience.
The dear old gentleman who filled t he chair appropriately
summed up as follows: —“ We will now close the meet-
ing and sing ‘ God save the Queen.'" We’ll go again
the next time that young man has some more history
ready for the public.
* *
Over here all shady-looking epistles, or suspi-
cious documents going through the post are carefully
consigned to the Dead Letter Office. In Melbourne,
however, they Berry such things—that is to say, they
open them first, and cremate them afterwards. As the
old proverb says “They do things better in Mel-
bourne.”
* * *
The police arrested a woman as a vagrant, but
she turned the tables by producing a bank-book Showing
£69 to her credit. It is said that a certain constable
at once discovered in her a long-lost cousin.
* * *
We ask this question calmly and dispassion-
ately:— Can the astonishing exodus of Mongolians
from China be in any way due to the recent arrival
of “The Vagabond” in Hong-Kong?
* * *
If yon don’t believe this, we refer you to the
rev. incumbent of a fashionable church in this
■ city. It being the anniversary of a certain smart
young civil servant’s birth, the lady whom he adored
sent him, by way of a little present, an elaborate pen-
wiper, On the following Sunday she was somewhat
surprised to see him in church, wearing her gift as a
necktie. She now says that next year she will give him
a boot-jack just for the fun of seeing whether he will
hang it on his watch-chain, or use it as a scarf-pin.
* * *
With a certain Cooktown doctor it is evidently
a case of “ Korteum " in more cases than one. The
worthy medico was lately, says the Cooktown Herald,
presented at the Cooktown Town Hall with an address
and a purse of sovereigns. That paper remarks :—“ We
regret being unable to rescue from obscurity all that
was so fluently said and so sweetly sung in the Town
Hall, but will yield to none present in honest appre-
ciation of one who, by every act of his public and
private life, proved himself a good citizen and a true
hearted man.” We wonder, now, whether there has
lately been sickness in the editor’s family ? or whether
—well, never mind.
* # #
So Trickett was to start a pub. at Barnes. Well,
we were hoping he’d make a more vivacious landlord in
England than he did in Australia. When at the
International and an admiring country friend rushed
in and preferred his hand with empressement,
Ned would take it as though it were a slice of
Murray cod, or a pound and a half of “undercut.”
Then the man would look at Ned with admira-
tion. and Ned would look at the man very much
as a big dog looks upon a small one. After a pause of
ten minutes the rustic would call for drinks, whereupon
he would drink brandy-and-water, and Edward toast-
and-water, after which the visitor would once more
thrust his hand upon Ned who would again mistrust-
fully handle it; on which the countryman would slide
out, thinking that a champion sculler was rather less
like the angel Gabriel than he expected to find him.
* * *
Says tbe Caecoar Chronicle:—“All com-
munications for this journal, of whatever nature they
may be, must be addressed to Mary Boyle.” Then, a
little further down, we come upon the following par.:—
“ To whom it may concern.—We treat with the utmost
contempt the insinuations cast upon us by ‘ Billy
Barlow,’ alias , in a contemporary last
Saturday. We know our duty, and, though he has
our sympathy, decline to be dictated to by him or any
other poet.” Now, there is a delightful mystery about
this item. Who, we wonder, is “ Billy Barlow,” alias
■ ? —and what has he been doing to cause
this Boyle-over on the part of Mary? Drop us a
post-card, Mary, and we will soon settle up with your
friend. We can’t really be still and see a lady put
upon by a bard, even if he has her sympathy. To ns
the affair is painful; it is indeed. But, now we come
to think of it, there generally is something painful
about a Boyle.
* * *
At the Newcastle Police Court, England, Myles
Ambrose, a boy aged ten years, was prosecuted for
having, “ on Jan. 22, whistled at Hugh Murray Gunn,
J.P., in a tone of derision, and thereby intimidated
him." The case was dismissed, and Mr. Gunn,
who was the senior of the county force, went off dis-
gusted. We wonder how that boy would have got on in
this colony, had he been charged with the offence of
whistling at a great Gunn, and tried by a jury of four.
Probably he would have got “ life.”
* * •
Mdlle. Dosne, sister of Mme. Thiers, is esti-
mated to be worth, as heiress of her brother-in-law and
sister, over £1,000,000 at least. This is only presumably
the amount of the “ young" lady’s wealth : but it is
popularly supposed that she has so much money that she
Dosne know the precise amount.
* * *
The King of Bavaria, it is said, is going mad.
Wagner’s “Parsiful” is accredited with being the
cause of His Majesty’s mental aberration. Ludwig sat
it out alone, after which all was “ gas and gaiters.” If,
however, Lud. gets very bad, they can ship him out
here. He would do, on a pinch, for a J.P. or—a
juryman.
* * #
One young man came in a good fifth in the
bicycle race on Saturday week, although there was a
full field of four against him. It was very hard to be
so near the silver coffee pot, and yet so far. As he has
started in about a dozen races, and has always occupied
relatively the same distinguished position at the finish,
he now thinks the most economic way of acquiring
electro-plate would be, to put his entrance fees into his
own pocket in future, and buy the coffee pot himself.
Or, if he doesn’t think this, he really ought to.
* * #
We can understand the value of a racehorse in
the market being enhanced by near relationship to some
“ crack.” That “ Schoolmaster," for example, is worth
a hundred guineas or so, more, on account of his full
brotherhood to “Beanclerc;” but we cannot for the
life of us understand how any glory comes to be re-
flected on Schoolmaster from the simple circumstance
that he is trained in the same stable as the distinguished
Beauclere. Yet the Mackay (Q.) Grammar School
trustees think differently, if one is to judge from their
advertisement in the local papers, and in one of the
Brisbane weeklies, where we read that *' the Principal,
Dr. Spooner, was a fellow collegian of the Bight Rev.
Dr. Stanton, Bishop of N.Q , at the University of
Oxford !! ’’ It may be creditable to Mr. De Mestre t J
have brought out a Tim Whiffler, and it may be a feather
in the sap of Oxford University to have turned out a
Bishop; but is every horse trained by Mr. De Mestre
therefore the equal of Tim, and is any of Dr. Stanton’s
merit reflected on every contemporary undergraduate
at Oxford? If not —, but why pursue the absurdity
any further ? We leave the advertisement standing as
an example of local toadyism, and of ignorant illogical
toadyism too. We’re sure that Dr. Spooner is not
responsible for the “ ad,”
* * #
A telegram in the Evening News states that
according to a private letter received in Melbourne,
the Princess Dolgourki, the morganatic wife of the late
Czar, was a Nihilist, and designedly exposed him to
the dangers of assassination. Strangely enough, we
had the foregoing—evolved from inner consciousness—
as a joke in last week’s Bulletin. Supposing that the
sapient private correspondent is right, is the Princess
the only wife who ever blew her husband up ? Hus-
bands who from motives of pleasure or business are in
the habit of arriving home at 3 a.m. should cut this
out and keep it.
* * *
Some wags—residing principally in Woolloo-
mooloo, we believe—have had great larks with the
census-papers, and the youthq engaged in transcribing
those documents have gained much instruction in
reference to the names of various religious denomina-
tions, —the titles of which they had previously lived in
ignorance of. Amongst the various denominations to
which the male members of the Sydney population lay
claim to belong may be found—“ Hardshell Baptists,”
“ Charlie - Brightists,” “ Mahommedau - Wesleyans.”
One man announced himself as a “Tom-Paineite,” while
another simply put “ Paster Allins flok " in explanation
of his religious tenets. A gentleman, evidently in the
electioneering line, wrote “Politics,” and another desig-
nated his sect as “ A wrestler with Satan.” “ Bath-
brick bethelite ” was found on one paper, and “ Corporal
in the Salvation Army ” on another. Some, of course,
were profane, and these we do not notice. Altogether,
there is such an array of denominations to be seen
at the Garden Palace so droll that it would even astonish
Frank Warden.
* * *
The Hon. James and Mrs, White have gone to
'Frisco. . Their arrival will give the reporter of the
Chronicle a chance to perpetrate the joke about two
whites not making one black.
* * *
“Rabid intemperance on the bench is bad
enough ; it }s worse when cultivated in the police force.”
We don’ t agree with yon, Daniel. A drunken J.P. can
send an innocent man to gaol, and the unfortunate has
no redress : whereas, if a constable locks a man up in a
fit of drunkenness, he is nearly sure to be punished.
That there are, we must admit, many bad eggs both on
the bench and in the police force. Still, Dan, dear boy,
that is no excuse for your after-dinner logic being
shaky. However, you mean well, and, we trust, will go
to Heaven!
* « •
How the jeunesse dorde chatter.
With a listing, drawling clatter.
When at Giblin’s sipping, sipping,
Yermoath; also absinthe nipping.
Noble is each fellah’s station!
“ Warm” each fellah’s conversation!—
Can these youths believe, we wonder.
Absinthe makes the heart grow fonder 1
* « *
The Auckland Liberty has followed the ex-
ample of Alfred (to whom we must really give the palm
for journalistic enterprise), and engaged a “ Gipsy,”
whose other name is Ada. This young person’s con-
tributions are of a very exciting nature. Here, for
instance, is one item : —“ Miss E ’s appearance in
Colombo-street on Monday in a stylishly-made navy
blue serge costume was very nice." We should like to
know, pow, who “ Ada” is, and in what sphere of life
luxuriates Miss B “who looked very n’ce." An-
other lady is informed by this exhaustive critic that
her costume “ did not suit her at all,” and one more
that she is rash to “ come out ” in a certain colour.
Although we have no present means of lifting the
curtain of mystery which enshrouds “Ada” and her
friend in the serge jumper, we may be permitted to
hazard a guess at their identity. We are inclined to
believe, that “ Ada ” is the parlour-maid at No.
8, and “Miss E ” the cook at No. 7; and that
the two ladies whose dresses did not become them are
the mistresses of Ada and Miss E respectively.
* * *
“ A Mrs. Bone sued a man named Clancy for
tre-pass, because he had buried his deceased wife (the
sister of the plaintiff) on her property—to wit, a grave—
in the Necropolis. Mrs. Bone got a verdict for £10;
but an appeal to the Supreme Court is likely to quash
it. This peculiar action caused much comment, and
attracted a big crowd to the District Court.”
The other day, in a colonial city, a ’bus boy
took one passenger more than his number. The other
occupants of the 'bus, a certain clergyman excepted,
were, however, agreeable to make room. Next day the
clergyman summoned the hoy to the Police Court,
where the urchin was fined 10s. Not having any money,
the odious criminal was on the point of being locked
up, when a gentleman who had business in the Court
came forward and paid the fine. What mattered it to
the parson that the boy was the only support of his
mother P This is a cold-blooded fact, and the parson
still preaches the Gospel of Mercy in a city church.
* * *
A few years ago a wealthy merchant, residing
not twenty miles from the Sydney Post office, had a
talented son, [and not knowing what else to do with
him, sent him to the station of a friend. Shortly after
arriving at his destination, the promising youth saw
some calves muzzled, and mistaking the object of the
restraint remarked that he did not think there was any
necessity for muzzling calves, as there would in any
case still be plenty of milk. To this the squatter re-
plied that the calves were being weaned, and that at
weaning time not only calves but lambs were muzzled.
In order to convincehis pupil,the sheep-owner muzzled a
few lambs with dog-muzzles. Next morning he told
young genius to go over to the station of Mr. B. fa few
miles away) and ask for the loan of 10,000 lamb-muzzles,
as ha was short. He added that the drays would be on
the rood soon after him. On arriving at Mr. B.’s, the
young Sydneyite informed him of the nature of his
errand. Said 8,, laughingly, “ Don’t be a fool, —come
and have breakfast." After which young Jackaroo again
asked B. if he could let him have the muzzles ? B. replied
“ I am not going to be made a fool of by you, yon young
donkey.” Then Jacky observed that it was he who was
doing the fooling, and that the drays were on the way.
Asked 8., “ Did you ever see lambs muzzled, you
ass ?” “To be sure I did,” answered the youngster
—“ I helped to muzzle 5000 myself this morning before
I started.”
* * *
From the Echo :—“ Mosman’s Bay.—A moon-
light picnic at Mosman’s Bay was advertised and
placarded, on hearing which the proprietary applied to
the authorities to have proceedings stopped. Steps
were taken, and the affair stopped. No wines, beer,
nor spirits are sold on the land. —Communicated.” This
is the first time a moonlight or any other picnic has
been stopped, within the recollection of the oldest
inhabitant—by the “ proprietary." fWe wonder what’s
the reason ?]
* * *
We read in a late issue of the Holt
Howl that “ Commodore Nutt has been arrested for
keeping a disorderly house at New York." This item
appeared in The Bulletin eight months ago. when it
was six weeks old, so the announcement has now been
in existence nearly a year. The Howl is indeed going
ahead under the new editor. If it goes on at this rate,
the Morning Rum will have to look out for its laurels.
• * *
An obliging correspondent, who likes his little
joke, sends us a pawn-ticket for a compositor’s stick,
with the following memo, appended:—“You can redeem
your stick.” In reply to our correspondent, whom we
strongly suspect to be a defeated candidate at the last
election, we can assure him that we decline to re-
deem the stick, as it does not belong to us. There is
no "stick” at all in connection with The Bulletin.
If you want to hear anything about journalistic “sticks,”
dear boy, call at the office of the Penny Morning Plug-
ugly.
* * *
A lady—be still our beating hearts ! —has sent
us an extract from a letter written by her to her sister.
The letter, we find on close examination, is written in
verse, and, in some places, tolerably smooth verse too.
The poem is written in a juvenile band, and from the
fact of the lines all being run one into the other, we are
inclined to the belief that a big sister has written it, and
a little sister has copied it. In the lady’s poesie is em-
bodied a romantic tale —a tale of a pair of pyjamas. A
loving wife or sister or sweetheart makes a wide pair of
pink flannel continuations for a husband or brother or
lover. The possessor of the pyjamas dives in them,
when they become inflated, and—“ Shocking to tell, the
lowermost portions began to swell, and grew so large,
and gained such power, Ned thought he had reached
his final hour; for his heels went up, and his head went
down, and Pate stood by with a gloomy frown—till at
last, with numerous gasps and gubbles (sic), he gained the
bank with his huge pink bubbles.” Now, there’s some-
thing dramatic about this. It reminds us of those
thrilling situations which Lewis Scott used to infuse
into his dramas that the dear Spencers were wont to
play at the Polytechnic—when Alice used to beat the
drum with her pretty head amongst the flies, and
Arthur used to dance hornpipes, every line in his
physiognomy expressing a contempt for the audience
bordering on melodramatic hatred. Miss Clara, too—
but no! —even journalists are only Thus we wipe
the perspiration from our heated brows, and resume.
When describing action, our poetess is vigorous. Those
who have read Bvron’s description of the siege, in Don
Juan, will possibly prefer the noble bard when singing
of battles, to our lady correspondent when singing of
pyjamas. We don’t care to pass an opinion here, as, if
we sided with Lord Byron, our charpaer would send us
no more verses. And without any more of her verses,
we should be heartbroken indeed. Her descriptive
poetry, though perhaps it lacks the fire of Byron, pos-
sesses a particular vein of humour which is to be found
in none of the noble lord’s compositions. Mark this,
now:—“Not far from home, there flows a rippling
stream, where through tall gum trees, sunshine loves
to gleam, and twisting tadpoles turn their tiny tails,
and bullfrogs croak sweet love-songs to the snails. Into
a basin doth this fair stream roll, called by the enpho-
nistio name of Mosman’s Hole.” There, now! We
have given our readers a real treat! We would have
willingly printed the whole poem, only, as the fair
authoress did not set a price upon her immortal work,
we were afraid—but here we stop,
* * *
It doesn’t much matter now whether Kendall
writes any more poetry, or whether he does not He
has a worthy successor in “ Mrs. E. M ,” of the Plains.
That, lady’s muse is not inspired by love, hatred, or
revenge. She , courts, so to speak, neither Thalia nor
Melpomene, but takes a middle plank, and trundles
along her wheelbarrow all by herself. Gratitude is, she
says, the reason for her breaking out into rhyme,
though she does not state whether it is the difficulties
of rhyme that cause her to wander away from reason.
The poem is called “ Restored,” and is addressed to a
certain Doctor Blank, who. she alleges, has cured
her of various ailments. We are not for a moment
disposed to doubt but that the doctor has cured her,
and what inclines us the more to the opinion that Mrs.
M ’s pides is good, is that there.is undoubtedly a
good deal of the “ cure ” about her. Mark. pow, in
what a sad and touching strain warbles this nineteenth
century Sappho:—
“ The doctors consulted, but could not agree.
But practised experiments daily on me.
They treated for fever, for ague, and bile.
And many other maladies quite juvenile (sic) ;
They blistered and leeched me to such a degree
I scarcely could realise whether 'twas me;
I swallowed their nostrums, powders, and pills.
Mixtures and drugs, and also their bills.”
Well, Mrs. M., you may have been able to swallow the
doctors’ bills, but it’s a thundering sight more than we
can do with your poetry!
* * •
The Adelaide “Coffee Palace” has gone
“ bung.” Hot coffee for the directors in a double sense.
* * *
“ Mountain Mac,” is kind enough to forward
ns from Broadsound, Queensland, a bale of copy which,
if printed would fill about two thirds of the Sydney
Mail. It is, however, charming copy, and we can make
out something about a bullock-driver and a teamster,
and two masons. We can’t decipher any more, because
Mac. has, it would seem, written his copy in kerosene
and smeared three words out of every five with his little
finger. But still it’s beautiful copy, and we hope
“ Mountain Mac ” will send us down some more of it.
If. however, he could manage to get a good sheet of
green bark, and cut his letters out with a cold chisel
and a spawling hammer, we would stand a far better
chance of making it out. We don’t care either for any
single item that will take up more than four pages of
this paper, or for poems that are much longer than
Paradise Lost. If Mae will just pay attention to these
little details, and settle with the waggoner who brings
down his stuff, he might come to “run” the whole
paper one day.
* * *
A certain well-known and influential clerical
gentleman had a daughter, and was much exercised in
mind as to how he should get her joined in the holy
bonds to some suitable partner. After much thought
he succeeded, and this is how he did it. A very young
clergyman of his acquaintance, only recently arrived,
was in a fix—he wanted an appointment. The young
gentleman showed much attention to the daughter, and
was, in the father’s opinion, just the man who was
wanted. The old gentleman “ moved heaven and earth,"
the latter more especially, to get his intended son-in-law
an appointment—and succeeded. The youthful ex-
pounder of the Gospel was only installed, and soon his
benefactor visited him to arrange business. He reached
the house rather late at night and found the young
man at home. The young man’s wife and infant
daughter were also at home. Tableau.
V.
Japanese labourers receive in their own country
about 2s fid a week without board, or 40s a year if boarded.
The labourers for the most part are vegetarians.
According to the Scientific American, there
is a cave at Decora, in lowa, which exhibits the para-
doxical phenomenon of freezing in summer and thawing
in winter.
The French legislature rejected the divorce bill,
which aimed at legalising a dissolution on a mutual
understanding to that effect having been arrived at by
man and wife.
GIGGLES.
Readers, countrymen, and lovers —as Her Most
Gracious Majesty says on opening Parliament —“here
we are again ; how are you F" Since the last appearance
of The Bulletin in public, we have received what
Teddy Davis’s “Joe ” would call “ a nasty jar," but we
are not the first (by some millions) who have suffered
for “ talking straight ” in New South Wales, and
unless the present climate most materially changes,
we are by no means likely to be the last. It is the
crushed flower, however, which gives forth the sweetest
perfume; and our readers will find that it is the now
injured journal which will command the respect and
admiration of all right-thinking people in this fair but
mismanaged land of ours, Flecti, non frangi —“to be
bent, but never to break”—is The Bulletin’s motto
now; and, thanking our readers for their unbounded
applause, we will now proceed to giggle.
* * *
What is a giggle ? Simply the pocket edition of
a good honest laugh. The giggle is essentially of the
feminine gender, and is, generally speaking, chiefly
found amongst the healthier portion of the female
sex, who prefer a good allegro polka to the
corpse-like excitement of lawn tennis, and who
would rather dive into the back cupboards after
cold beef and Nabob pickles, when Borneo takes his
midnight leave, than chew bon-bons and sip iced
lemonade at Compagnoni's. The girl who giggles in-
variably makes a good wife, and—what is better still—a
good cook. As the wise man truly said, “ She who
maketh a good cook is a crown (i.e., 55.) to her hus-
band.” The maid who simply simpers, and talks about
Platonic love and the phenomena of the moon’s surface,
has all the groundwork in her for a second Borgia; but
she who spells cart with a “ k,” and kicks when she
laughs, possesses the framework of a front row
Cherubim.
* * *
The following startling ad. is copied from a
recent Nooze: —
“ Riverstone Estate.
“ Great Unreserved and Clearance Sale.
“ Batt and Rodd will sell to-morrow,
“ Part of L,
“ Containing about 500 acres, in blocks of from 2 to 8
acres.
“Title, Torrens’s Act.”
This lets Rabbi Davis and Chas. Bright down com-
pletely, and we cannot but admire the business-like
tact of the owner of L., who carefully held his very
desirable property over until we began to get the first
nips of the winter season. We know of many who
have long yearned for a good eight-acre block of L.
For instance, there’s—but no matter.
* * »
During the past week Professor Anderson has
been nightly performing the extremely laughable
operation of cutting off a woman’s head, and it is said
that scores of married men who were never seen
out with their wives before occupied the most
prominent seats with their fair partners upon
each occasion. It has been suggested that each
husband was under the impression that the usual
busihess would be carried out, and that the clever
Professor would blandly ask if “ any gentleman would
kindly lend him a lady ” to perform the head-severing
trick upon. Luckily, however, he didn’t. If he had
it is said the rush for the stage would have knocked
the Cup day rush at Flemington as high as the
Herald’s advertising rates.
* ♦ «
Woollahra girls don’t think much of the Wool-
lahra tram. In the good old days of rickety busses and
crow-roost horses Miss Geraldine Gasher, previous to
starting off to Oxford-street for a ha’porth of tape or a
bootlace was allowed twenty minutes’ grace by the con-
siderate driver to kiss the whole of her family at the
front gate,and make the mouths of the male creatures
on top water as if they had been eating green lemons,
but now they have barely time to scoot out,
before the abominable guard toots his whistle,
and the abominable cars rush away as if they were half
ashamed of their lovely burden. Time waits for no
man, and the tram waits for no woman.
* * *
The enterprising landlord who keeps the largest
glasses, and donates the squarest sandwich-salad-and-
pickle luncheon is always sure of doing a big business,
and eventually may own a bench in Parliament; but
the fellow who invents a glass which will clutch a
thirsty soul’s moustache, and sprinkle it well with a
peppermental odour, whilst he enjoys a drink, will
speedily build a colossal fortune, and have the first
chance for “ that crown which never fades.” I don’t
know this to be a fact myself, but it was a S.O.T, who
gave me the tip, and he offered to bet his head on it.
The L. V.’s .might paste this in their hats and report
progress.
* * *
Said a reverend lecturer here the other night:
“There is nothing that will make a man cling to the old
home door so much as the knowledge that there is a
watchful, loving wife behind it.” I presume this gushing
gentleman has been there himself, and can furnish all par-
ticulars on receipt of twelve stamps. I therefore let
him “go alone,” but what I want to observe is, that
at about 3 a.m. four inches of Lome whisky will make a
man “cling to the old home door” with a grip that
could not be beaten by the influence of all the women
from the days of Cleopatra down. In fact, the know-
ledge that there was an able-bodied woman behind the
“old home door” would be too suggestive of flat-irons,
kerosene-lamps, and heavy cedar chairs; and if the
party holding on were a respectable inebriate the chances
are he would ease off his hold, roll over on his head, and
sleep with “bis back to the field and his face to the
foe” until Aurora streaked the russet dawn, and the
dairyman’s girl waltzed round with the milk cart.
• # •
At a picnic held recently in the Western
district, two girls got into a swing, and their two
“ chaps ” began to swing them. Backwards and
forwards they went, higher and higher, amidst much
giggling of the girls and a good deal of. chaffing on the
part of their cavaliers. “ I’ve got my heye on yer
hankie, Hemma,” shouted Bill, puffing vigorously at a
blackened clay. “Hi! Ann Jane, what’s the price of
yer baimorals ?" yelled Edward. Just then the rope
broke. Whizz went '*Hemma” through the air,
alighting on Bill’s deer-stalker, and sending his pipe
two inches into the roof of his mouth, while Ann Jane
alighted sideways on a tart and coffee-stall about ten
yards distant. Edward, while engaged in laughing at
Bill’s discomforture, received the seat of the swing fair
on his chin, the blow causing him to bite about eighteen
inches of his tongue off. Half an hour after a man had
carted away the remains of the sufferers, all that was
left to mark the occurrence of the sad tragedy was a
little pile of articles standing near one of the swing
posts, amongst which were —a long light plait of human
hair a purse containing 2s. fid. and a “ token,” a lady’s
handkerchief (smelling strongly of oranges), a pipe-
bowl, the heel of a five-and-ninepenny shoe, and portions
of the following articles of dress : —man’s hat, lady’s
polonaise, and frilled dickey. There were, likewise,
several mysterious strings. Later, everything was
claimed by heirs of the quartette—even down to the
pieces of tape and fragments of piping-cord.
THE LAUGHING JACKASS.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country on the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Faet and Fancy Focused,” to which column the
attention of our readers is specially directed.
Correspondents should in all cases send either their
full names or noms de plume. Communications in which
this rule is not observed cannot be noticed.
Two sisters in a court of law !
Two sisters 1 —only fancy!
The elder was named Mrs. Bone—
The younger, Mrs. Clancy.
They lived in friendship in their youth.
Adorned this fair metropolis ;
And they, between them, owned”aigrave—
A grave at the Necropolis.
Both married, and while all four lived,
Their lines in quiet ran, sirs ;
But when poor Mrs. Clancy died.
The trouble then began, sirs.
“ That ground belongs to me," said she,
“ I’ll have it, too, this minute :
What! put my sister in—and there
Won’t ba room for us in it.”
But Clancy didn’t heed a bit'
His sister-in-law’s “ growling ;”j
So soon he got a trespass writ —
And “ up” went ’fore Judge Dowling.
The verdict was for Mrs. Bone—
A tenner, and no less, sirs :
A sum which didn’t Clancy cause
A cartload of distress, sirs.
How queer’s the world! —A woman we
Behold her utmost trying
To oust her sister’s corpse from out
The grave in which it’siying.
This may, in law, be right enough—
(Oh, law! how we do hate yer !) —
But yet, by thunder, we will swear.
It isn’ t human nature!
* * #


Public Compai
lOMMEECIAL BANKING
' SYDNEY.
Established 183
Incorporated by Act of C<
Capital, £575,000. Reserve I
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Johr
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., BJ
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. 1
Solicitors s
Messrs. Want, Johnson
Messrs. Cape and West
Head Office—George-str
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; P. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Insp
With Branches at Haymarket, Geoi
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombaj
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.B
Esq.; P. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel C<
Branches in New South Wale
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Beg
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral,
Camp be 11 town, Cannon bar, Carcoar
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonar
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes,
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundag
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molon
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twei
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Naranc
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qu
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, We
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisl
Maryborough, and Rockham
Agencies in the Coj
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria
Australasia, Colonial Bank o
Commercial Bank of Australia
South Australia: The Bank of i
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank c
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the (
London ; The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union !
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland: The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank <
San Francisco: The Bank of Br
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York: Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore: Th
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lom
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercant
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of 1
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Cc
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, a
fixed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, ai
lects bills payable at any of the al
elsewhere, at current rates ; collect:
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURAN(
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. 1)
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es(
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution there:
LOANS granted on Mortgage or <
combined with Life Assurance.
Public Compa
The mercantile ba*
ESTABLISHED
INCOEPOBATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund....
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hoa. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Oidley King
AUDITORS s
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A, A. Wils<
SECRETARY
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Gi
LONDON BANK]
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Chaj
Agent—G. H. Alexam
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the most favor
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other produce shipped to England
CORNWALL FIRE AND ]
ANCE COMPAI
CAPITAL, £lOO,
RESERVE FUND ...
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD A
Agents,
S4B GEORGE-STR
SIDNEY.
JNCO M E S A I
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKIN
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCII
In the event of loss of a
MEMBERS are entitled to recei
with the amount insu
The Society also uses its inflnen
suitable re-engagen
For further particulars apply to
G. HORTON MOI
S
Wei
Applications for Agencii
Photographs
458 GEORGE
Opposite the Mas:
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL I
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERM.
PARLOUR SI
/M
s
m
waugh;
5 UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
KtewiiHu mini but in the world
MAMOfACTJKMB MT W.DAY/iSiCf GOOLMUItM.ff.SJ9
m
m
T
HE BEST PAINT IN
3
%
x>
Of //tfj**BL
CLASTIC
o „<•
C 5
THE PACIFIC RUBBI
is mixed ready for
supplied in cans containing 1 gal
These cans form a convenient Pi
complete.
Similar testimony to the followir
ns:—“Woollahra, August2oth, 188
RUBBER PAINT to be all that i
and Bright, and owing to its large
I am inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it
and appears as fresh, clean and gloi
last week —the same with the fenc<
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC
will cover 35 Square Yards—one i
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thi
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to
and suburbs.’
BUZACOTT and ARM!
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, nea
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZA]
(Near Hunter-sta
R.
HELL
ELECTRO-PLATER A
42 Park-street
SILVER-PLATED JET
Articles of jewellery etc., plated bj
equal to Solid Sih
Articles of table wear, etc., repla
to wear equal to the
English Electropl
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZA]
G.
(Near Hunter-sti
AND S. P B
SAW MILLS AND TIM!
16 Erskink Sire
Every description of Foreign ai
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
s.
GL A S
S
STEAM COACH AND W]
WORKS,
«
Habbis-strekt, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Hai
S. Q. would beg to draw the pai
Export Merchants to the large c
N
EW REFLECTING LAM
KEEOSENE
\V/a\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP W
BAEWELL AND FISHE
GAS BUENEES JUST
GLOBES, Ac.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MAE
FJIHOMAS WEBB
BOND-STEEE'
Beg to inform their customers th
OPENED a LAEGE COftSIGNM
BREAKFAST.
DINNER, ai
Also,
FANCY C H
AND
QLASSWAEE
Inspection intii
pR 0 BONO P
THE MUTUAL TEADE PEOTI
TION OP N. S.
J. HUEST, Secke-
Offices: 32 BELDGE BTEEI
Established upon the most improv
for the protection of Merchants
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, i
the leading Mercantile communi
The following business is underti
or through the intervention o:
licitor:—
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or personal
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or asi
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock,
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Eegistered Do
searched.
The Certificates of fradnlent or'un]
opposed in the interests of ere
Debts proved in insolvent estates


Business Annour
W. H - p A
PIANOFOETE WAI
352 George-stre
PIANOFORTES. Pli
JUST EECEIYED. JUS
from the
BEST PACTOEIES of EUEOP:
A splendid stock to se:
EVEET EENOWNEr
AMERICAN OB'
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AI
Which gained first and s
OVEE ALL OTI
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIO:
HAEMONIU;
BY
AIEXANDEE and other EENC
in all the various x
A PEW GOOD SECOND-I
at low prices, now i
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman’s, and H'
fortes.
W. Bell, b Co.’s, Horace Water
. and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEOE GE S
Opposite Wynyard
Sydney.
fjl HOM A S W
ENGINEEE & IKON!
PIEE
AND
BUEGLAE
PEOOP
SAFES
AND
DOOES.
Works: SUSSEX STEEET, & (
Office and SHOW EOOMS, 22
Tobacconii
James
CELEBEATI
EXCELSIOR SMOKIN
Cut Baby, Bird's Eye, Gold L<
• Best Imported B
Havana and Waniiii
Pipes Mounted and
159 PITT ST
Next Post Ofl
TIN TAG TOB
None are genuine but the
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or TANK
DIXSON & SC
15 TOEK STBEEI
SMOKE
EUREKA CIG.
MILD, FRAGRANT, &
&
Manufactured
T. S A TW E
AT THE
EAG LB TOBACC
Clarence-street, t
E. CLARKE 1
Wholesale and S<
GROCE
Are acknowledged
THE BEST TEA I
THE CHEAPEST
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES a
GEOCEEIES
Country Orders promptly
193 OXFORD
03
Ah
◄
m
W
O
◄
03
O
Ah
Chemists and D
pUBLIC
THE following I
WATSON’S RENOWNED
MEDICINE!
so well and favourably known to 1
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ar
Watson’s (Vegetable) W
Watson’s Gingerbread W
Watson’s Compound Chi
Watson’s Strengthening
Watson’s Australian Ver
Watson's Excelsior Toot
Watson’s Concentrated C
Elixir (a most valual
can bo obtained, wholesale and
factory—
WATSON’S DEUC
681 GEORGE ST]
\ POTHECABI
14, OXFORD STI
Near Htdb Park
(N.B. —The Tram-car etc
W. D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLE
GOVERNOI
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and N<
W. D. E. thanks the public a:
for the support hitherto accorded
Irrespective of Club prescript!
has dispensed 34,000 original pre
ALL THE LEADING MEDICA
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR TI
Every prescription is CAREFI
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numb
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDICES!
May be easiest cured by the fol
E AME S’S QUIN!
Which improves the appetite
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGEST
For severe cases where the gas!
and when sickness and flatule
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT
Which relieve the bowels gently,
naturally healthy functions
organs.
Chemists and D]
T
AKE NO MC
but try
EANDEESOI
PODOPHTLLIN LC
Do yon SUFFER from HEA
Then trj
PODOPHY
Do you Complain of Indigest
Take a few doses c
podophy:
Do yon Suffer from Qiddines
Spend one shilling, ai
EANDEES
Do yon constantly suffer fron
If so rememl
PODOPHY
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MED
Are any[of your children sicl
can safely give chem on
for the small members c
TAKE WI
W Eemember this, and alwa;
Valuable Family Medicine by yon
Prepared only by the P
EDWAED ROW and
45 and 47 George-s
B T ROYAL LETTI
The Greate
WONDEE OF TH;
JOSEPHSON'
AUSTRALIAN OIN'
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qualit
_ of Vegetable Matte
Being made from the Wild Plan
in the Bush of New Soi
This Ointment is not a mere ci
public, nor does it require any pu
as it has been so well proved for t
that it is impossible that the publ
long deceived. In fact, people are
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli
But one trial will convince the n
High and low, rich and poor, hai
fits from its use, and scarcely ai
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALD
is now the household word of the <
The quick and instant relief fron
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF T
which, taken altogether, prove the
to be the Eighth Wonder of the Y
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
casualities attending the human fi
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDEE OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy I
find immediate relief and be perf
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephsor
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Cc
moved by applying constantly foi
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums ai
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
_ Who would suffer from Excorial
tion when a remedy like Jose
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ii
It stands unrivalled. The won
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is* of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free from any and nil
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S I
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and Is 6d each throughout the colo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EO
E N T R A L PH
78 (Late 84) KING ST


JJLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the rino
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and OEANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rationa remedy as a preventive or onre of Biliousness
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Ini-
Surities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn
ndigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the abuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, &c. ; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive*
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in.
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood]
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master,
piece—Man. Eemember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
PPBOYED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I.
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“Reginald Bloxso-me, P.S.
“ Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
The Australian Churchman says:
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale — Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
'A
<V^V5£-
PM£\r
AfuV w/\tc^
—>-NJADE "J*o • m
pi/MN
55/
WALTHAM. ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
Jj N J 0 Y LIFE.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest to enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups, the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask yon
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d,
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
rjiE Y
H. HOOKINGS & CO.’S
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
PUBLIC NOTICE. .
DUR°CELEB RATED SHIRTS
Have stood the dot o/PUBLICOPINION
.... . ; J6r mere CKrin
A QUARTER CF A CENTURY
and are : still atkno'dolfpged >o be yjuequaloed.
■ f ■■ ■ — Q
AH shirts-and vcULe are
(gespeUfnUy solicited.lo patronize
i SMITH & MAN NELL,
> SHIRT MAKERS & HOSIERS,
39S George Street,
ESTABLISHED 1844 SYDNEY.
Try BUSH E L L
FOR
S I G_N S.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
CC
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OP
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But fob Cash—We Sell fob Cash.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
CO
UJ
CD
CC
o
UJ
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
| COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
CD
Boys’ and Girls* School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
lH
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale: —
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
Q_
O
o
CO
CC
CO
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
GOWING BROTHERS’ lOs 6d double texture twilled
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foxe’a Paragon
332 & 500 Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12a 6d. Five cases of the above
GEORGE STREET. opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET,
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45a and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12a 6d to 30s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD JOB NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTof§OAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
TRADE MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
10 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. REEF A CO.,
ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
M
AKE YOUE PURCHASES
AT
THE EOTAL FUENISHING AECADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTEACTIVE PEICES.
A FEEE DISTEIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respecting economi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for£loo
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PUECHASEBS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
EOTAL FUENISHING AECADE,
426 & 428 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Eoyal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
s
IMS AND PARKE
MEDICAL HEEBALISTS,
TEEAT ALL DISEASES WITH HEEBS.
S,
BOOKS FOE NOTHING—GET ONE!
You will get information that may save you pounds,
and perhaps months,or even years of suffering.
Address: 240 GEOEGE STEEET NOETH,
Opposite Charlotte Place,
SYDNEY.
Gilchrist, Watt & Co., Sydney, can now supply
to travellers full sets of railway tickets for the prin-
cipal U.S. and Canadian roads.
Up to Croydon the sea-air corrodes the telegraph
wire. Beyond Croydon the corrosion ceases. This is
why so many people are advised by doctors to reside
above Croydon.
Mr. Robert Dannis, a self-sacrificing man, and
one of the most energetic promoters of the N.S.W.
Seamen’s Union, died last week at the early age of 39,
leaving a young wife to whom he had only been married
a year.
Vanity Fair says that “ it is becoming daily
more clear to the public that the comic substitutes for
flogging will place Generals in the field in a very cruel
position Either they will be obliged to shoot for a com-
paratively venial offence or to permit discipline to go to
the deuce.”
Have you tried the Taepinq Mixture ? Well,
remember that the Importers have introduced the
Taepino Mixture to bring pure tea within the reach
of the public.—Advt.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Gaolbirds are confined in guilt cages.
Standing Orders —Free passes for pressmen.
The largest ant is the eleph-ant, and the worst
uncle the carb-uncle.
When two dentists are partners they rarely
quarrel—they pull together.
Married men now ride on bicycles. It prevents
their wives from going with them.
The rain falls on the just and the unjust. But
not on the man who has just stolen an umbrella.
They have a new sentimental ballad in Canada
entitled, “ Father’s Teeth were Stuffed with Zinc."
When he takes her in his arms to kiss her,
Clara says her husband resembles a self-sealing en-
velope.
A new song asks; “ What is home where love is
not ? ” It is simply a boarding-house and a cold sleep-
ing-room.
The meanest woman on record is the one who
boiled fish in a fire-proof safe to keep her neighbours
from getting a smell.
Young lady, examining some bridal veils: “ Can
you really recommend this one ? ” Over-zealous shop-
man : “ Oh, yes. Miss ! It may be used several times.”
“Now, Sammy, have you read the story of
Joseph ? ” “ Oh, yes. Uncle.” “ What wrong did
they do when they sold their brother ? ” “ They sold
him too cheap.”
“You tell me you have not been drinking, when
I see beer all over your shirt bosom.” “ Jane, (hie),
that don’t come from (hie) drinking beer; that comes
from spilling beer.”
Says the Herald, gushing over a recent paint-
ing : “ In front stands a rustic maiden wrapped in her
own thoughts.” Such a costume wouldn’t do for this
latitude—except on a public holiday.
Rustic: “ Hi! Did vou shoot at me, mister ?”
Cockney Sportsman : “ Did any of the shot hit you ?”
Rustic: “ Yes.” C. S.: “ Then you can be sure we
didn’t shoot at you ; we never hit anything we shoot
at.”
Mr. Vale, the Attorney-General of Victoria,
like most of his brother Radicals, doesn’t quite
know what to do with the letter h. He’s constantly
singing “Thou hart my Hangelina,” which hair 'e
’urns all day long.
St. Michael’s Young Men’s Mutual Admira —
we mean Mutual Improvement—Society decided last
Thursday night, after much debate, that the civilised
was happier than the barbarous state. These young
fellows are not married.
Music, Heavenly Maid. —Deaf Old Lady:
“ What a noise those cats are making, Flossy." Flossy :
“ That's not the cat, aunt; it’s Lizzie singing in the
next room.” D. O. L. (after a pause): “ Dear me, how
Lizzie has improved, to be sure.”
If matches are made in Heaven, the “ old, old
story," so often told in our present life, will bo
“ continued in our next." But we don’t believe that
matches are made in Heaven—there’s too much sul-
phur about them. Try lower down.
You may say what you please, but there is luck
in horseshoes. A woman nailed one up against the
woodshed a month ago, and last week her husband
' eloped with a newly-arrived immigrant. The man had
not earned a cent, for more than two years.
Two well-matured spinsters occupied the same
sleeping apartment. In the middle of the night one of
them exclaimed: “ Jane, there’s a man under the bed!"
Replied Betsy in an admonitory way, “ Don’t make a
noise then, Jane, you might scare him away.”
“Bill, goin’to shout? Goin’ ’ave a drunk?”
“No, I won’t; had 'nuf. Going to take a walk round
the block.” “ Who wish ? ” “ Wish nobody." “ You’re
an ash—a shtupid ash." “ Wha for am lan ash ? "
“ Because you’re such a bear—tha’s why you’re an ash."
A bouncing chair for bores has been invented.
The pressure of a man sitting in the chair works springs
in the floor. After three minutes’ pressure the door
opens, a thing like a man’s arm, with a fearful claw on
it, reaches in, grabs the occupant of the choir, yanks
him np and hurls him down stairs.
A little girl once said that she would be very
glad to go to Heaven, because they had plenty of
S reserves there. On being cross-examined she took
own her catechism and triumphantly read: “Why
ought the saints to love God ? Answer: “ Because He
makes preserves, and keeps them.”
At Nenagh assizes, recently, an old woman,
charged with having fired a R. C. chapel, was unde-
fended. The judge asked her whether she had counsel.
“ Divil a one,” replied she, “ but I’ve several good
friends among the jury.” One good juryman is often
better in the long run than two counsel.
A young man broke into the room of the girl ho
l oved, to carry her away, as she refused to marry him,
a he was absent, but had left the bull-dog asleep on her
_»ed. The room was dark. The dog didn’t bark, but
worked. In about seven minutes the remains of the
young man came out, and said he wouldn’t marry that
girl for £20,000.
Boarding House Steak. —Procure a nice old
slipper—number fourteen preferred. Boil it in tar
water, and giM with glue. Put a little gravy over it,
and request the youngest and most modest boarder to
carve it. The sight of his agonies will amply repay you
for your trouble. By careful handling and change of
gravy, the beefsteak will do for a year. We have one
in our boarding house which has begun to have gray
hairs grow upon it, it has grown so old.
Hmbrella flirtation : To place your umbrella in
a rack indicates that it is about to change owners. An
umbrella carried over the woman, the man getting
nothing but the drippings of the rain signifies courtship.
When the man has the umbrella and the woman the
drippings it indicates marriage. To carry it at right
angles under yonr arm signifies that an eye is to be lost
by the man who follows you. To put a cotton umbrella
by the side of a nice silk one signifies “ exchange is no
robbery." To lend an umbrella indicates “lam a fool.”
To carry an umbrella just high enough to tear out men’s
eyes and knock off men’s hats signifies “I am a
woman."
Rondel.
The lilies grew beneath her hand
On slippers that are seen no more!
Their race of usefulness is o’er!
They’re buried under Time’s dark sand.
And nothing can their life restore.
As when, in young Lore’s flow’ry land.
The lilies grew beneath her hand
On slippers that are seen no more !
They would—if finished —have been grand !
But she became my wife before
They were half done! —you understand.
How then —though now the work’s a bore !
The lilies grew beneath her hand.
On slippers that are seen no more ! — Anon.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Ormond College has been affiliated to the Mel-
bourne University.
Rev. Dr. Landells, of London, will probably be
the new pastor of North Adelaide Baptist Church.
The Rev. Mr. Gray (late of the Wesleyan
Church), has been appointed by the Bishop of Goulbum
to Temora.
In the Presbyterian appears an advertise-
ment for a missionary to superintend the work among
the Chinese in N.S.W.
It is said that a lady has, at a private audience,
■warned the Pope that the day had been fixed for the as-
sassination of himself and his brother, Cardinal Pecci.
Sir James M'Culloch has offered .£2OOO to pay
off the debt of St. George’s Presbyterian Church, St.
Kilda, Melbourne, provided that another £2OOO be raised
in two or three years.
Rev. Dean Flanagan, of Wollongong, who is
recovering from the effects of his recent accident, will
leave Sydney for Europe by the June mail, on a 12
months’ visit to the old country.
It is reported that Mr. Thomas Spurgeon, in
referring to the Tararua disaster, said the parties had
perished on account of their sins How about the sur-
vivors, Tommy P All saints, eh ?
The N.S.W. Independent sees in the ap-
proaching ordination of Mr. Gribhle—of Darlington
Point Aboriginal Mission—a possibility of that institu-
tion being deprived of Government aid, on the score of
its being denominational.
The new Jesuit church at Milan is a magnificent
edifice, and accommodates 5000 souls. And yet it was
at Chios, not at Milan, that the earth opened and swal-
lowed np 5000 people, and they were not R.C.’s either.
Will the Holt Howl explain this discrepancy ?
The Rev. George Pratt, a missionary, says
that one of the familiar Scriptural passages is thus
translated into Samoan : “ It is not possible for the
blood of male cows and nannies to take away sin."
The rev. gentleman thinks the translation needs re-
vision.
A cable states that street-preaching has be-
come a nuisance at Calcutta and has been suppressed.
Unlicensed missionaries are to be arrested. An ap-
palling rumour is current that all these martyred men
are coming to N. S. Wales. They have heard of the
Sydney Domain.
The Adelaide C. of E. > ynod deplore the failure
of the attempt made last year to obtain concessions
in favour of religious education in schools, and will
take measures to further the object. The Synod have
resolved to request the Bishop to modify the Burial
Service in certain parts.
A fashionable ’Frisco church is in sackcloth and
ashes, having discharged its organist and choir, and
decended to congregational singing, to the accompani-
ment of a small instrument played by a volunteer. The
organ of the church, a very fine one, is locked for the
present; but all these affairs regulate themselves.
The ’Frisco revivalists have on hand new at-
tions in the shape of a Mr. and Mrs. Stibbins, who
sing sweetly enough, and with considerably less thea-
rical piety than Mr. Sankey. They likewise have a
reformed drunkard on exhibition, who tells his tale at
intervals, and there are a few minor assistants who
travel in this profession.
The ’Frisco spiritualists, not to be outdone by
other denominations, are in the midst of a revival at
which most of the speakers discourse in the trance
state. It was advertised the other day in the papers
that at Platt’s Hall “Almighty God would speak by the
instrumentality of the vocal organs of Carl Vogt. Ad-
mission, one dollar.” Mr. Charles Vogt, who apparently
has money, spoke to an audience of four on the first
night, and two on the second night.
President Garfield says that Mormon polygamy
must be stamped out, but that the States are bound to
save from illegitimacy the 70,000 children bom in Utah
of polygamous parents, because Presidents Buchanan
and Fillmore sought to recognize the institution by the
appointment of Brigham Young, the head of the church,
as governor of the territory. The hideous delusion
built upon Joe Smith’s lie now numbers (at Utah)
some 300,000 votaries and an army of 20.000 rifles.
The Dtjbbo Express says that Mr. Palmerston,
the eminent explorer—surely not our friend “ Christy ”
of that ilk ?—is about to have an aboriginal—an adopted
son of his—baptised, as soon as Pompo knows a little
more English. Some time ago Mr. Palmerston and
party while on the Daintree were attacked by niggers,
many of whom as a consequence bit dust. Pompo,
then a child, was taken prisoner and brought away
from his remaining relatives, who were a bad and
unesthetic lot, judging from the fact that they were
found roasting the body of an unfortunate Mongolian
secundum, artem.
The total income of the London Missionary
Society for the past year was £102,162 16s 4d; the
expenditure, £105,409 12s lOd; and the debit balance
at date of report was £1546 16s 6d. The year’s contri-
butions to the N.S.W. Auxiliary amounted to £613
0s lOd, and at the annual meeting held on the 19th
instart, and presided over by Dr. Renwick, M.L A., a
donation of £lOO to the parent society was handed in.
Among the speakers at the meeting were the Rev.
Samuel Hebditch, the Rev. Dr. Steel, and the Revs.
J. P. Sunderland, S. Savage, and George Pratt. The
Rev. James Jefferis was elected President, Mr. R. G.
Reading treasurer, and the Rev. A. G. Fry secretary of
the Auxiliary for the ensuing year.
The new liquor law of Kansas punishes by im-
prisonment the priest who administers wine in the
Communion. However, Rev. Dr. Beatty, of the Pro-
testant Episcopal Church of St. Lawrence, has an-
nounced his intention to go right on with the service in
spite of the law. This opens a new phase of the conflict
between Church and State. A very large and increas-
ing section of the community in every country declares
that the use of liquor must be discouraged in every
possible way. The statistics of the criminal and
charitable institutions show that the State has at least
a little reason for applying the axe to the root of the
tree. Now, which is to give way in this instance —the
Church or the State ?
There was once a minister of the gospel who
never built a church; who never preached in one; who
never proposed a bazaar to buy the church a new organ;
who never founded a new sect; who never belonged to
any sect; who frequented public houses and drank wine
with sinners; who never received a salary; whenever
asked for one; who never wore a black suit or a white
necktie; who never used a prayer-book ; or a hymn-
book ; or wrote a sermon ; who never hired a choir or
a fine singer to draw souls to hear the “ Word” ; who
never advertised his sermons ; who never even took a
text for his sermons; who never went through a course
of theological study; who never was ordained; who
was never “converted” ; who never went to conference.
Who was he ? Christ.
SOCIAL.
Mr. Horsfall, of Goldsbrough and Co., has
bought a Sumner residence at Queenstown, Otago.
It is proposed to invite the sons of the Prince of
Wales to visit Auckland as well as Wellington, N.Z.
The Mayor of Melbourne has issued invitations
for a grand ball in the Town Hall, on a date to be fixed
after the arrival of the Plying Squadron.
Lord Newry—who was here with the Duke of
Edinburgh—is going td marry a Miss Nellie Baldock,
daughter of Mrs. Baldock, of Grosvenor Place, London.
Such and so great is the desire to belong to the
Carlton Club, that it appears from a calculation
recently made that a candidate whose name is put
down now will have no c’dance of coming up for election
for thirty years.
In order that the enjoyment of the public holi-
day on her Majesty’s birthday might not be interfered
rith, his Excellency Lord Augustus Lottus, last Satur-
day, gave notice that the levee would be postponed
until Saturday, 28th inst.
The recently-formed United Club, recruited
chiefly from the junior members of Sydney mercantile
houses, and having on its roll a large number of
American citizens, now occupies commodious and
elegantly-appointed premises in Macquarie-street.
Owing to the present epidemic of small-pox in
London, everyone is being re-vaccinated. One difficulty
in the way of this, however, is that vaccination some-
times greatly disfigures the arms, and ladies don’t relish
this. So (says Vanity Fair) they get vaccinated some-
where else—and not just above the ankle either.
On Monday, 16th May, Mr. A. Read held a
quadrille party at his academy, Warwick Hall, New-
town. The company, numbering about fifty couples,
enjoyed themselves thoroughly. The new polo quad-
rille, now the rage in London, was danced on the
occasion. It will become very popular, being pretty
and easy.
The bachelors of Maryborough (N.Q.) gave a
grand ball early in May. For every gentleman invited
there were three ladies; the mistake, however, was
only a natural one for bachelors to make. Consequently,
wall flowers were in abundance. Many of the bachelors
danced all the round-danees with the young ladies,
leaving the married ladies to dance the square dances
by themselves. Report says that at evening parties
during the season bachelors will be scarce.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The census tabulators, of whom there are
about 30, began work on Wednesday.
The mate of the Tararua is to be charged with
default in regard to the loss of the ship.
The European population of New Zealand is
486,861, an increase of 75,149 in three years.
A meeting at Dunedin (N.Z.) decided that a
Tararua Relief Fund would not be necessary.
The N.Z. Herald imported a Brush electric
light by last mail boat for its composing-room.
The shipments of wool from Sydney this season
were 217,006 bales, an increase of about 30,000 bales.
Twenty of the Christchurch passengers per
Tararua were booked through to England by the s.s.
Orient.
Joseph Thompson, assistant postmaster at
Tamworth, has been committed for stealing money from
letters.
A new paper, or rather, let us hope a real paper,
is to be started at Inverell. The Inveeell Argus will
be its title.
The Maitland Gas Co. have reduced the price of
gas by Is per 1000 feet. The profits for the' past half-
year are £673 9s 4d.
The Sunday-school Union gathering at Brisbane
on Queen’s Birthday was attended by 5400 children.
The Governor delivered an address.
Trooper Pearce, the victim of the Kingston
(S.A.) outrage, died on Wednesday 18th inst. His assail-
ant has been committed for murder.
In ten years the population of the colonies in-
creased as follows ;—South Australia, 91.500; New
Zealand, 75,149 ; Tasmania, 16,300; Victoria, 124,000;
and New South Wales 246,000.
A N.Z. paper says that after the death of a
valuable mare at Napier, the upper part of a sheep’s
skull, 4|m. by 4in., was found in her stomach. This
is hard to swallow —we mean the skull.
Mr. Oliver Maxwell, a Market-street tobacco-
nist, attempted to jump from the Manly boat on to the
wharf while the steamer was still moving, and had his
chest severely crushed between the paddle-box and a
pile.
People who write to friends in Melbourne should
always seal their letters, which, otherwise, are apt to
be opened in the Southern G P. 0., read, and closed up
again without a single word being said about the
matter to the addressees.
On 31st December, 1880, there were 920,089
acres under crop in Victoria—an increase of 220,901
acres over the previous year’s returns. Total yield of
last harvest was 9,133,930 bushels—an average yield of
only 9.84 bushels per acre.
The Queensland Government analyst says that
Mr. Harry Williams, who died suddenly at Ravens wood
some time ago, was poisoned by strychnine. At a second
magisterial enquiry, it was stated that deceased had
meditated suicide some time previously.
Reefers’ wages on the Palmer have been reduced
to £3 10s. per week for dry ground. The Queen of the
North hands have struck in consequence. The Comet
claim, one of the best on the Palmer, has obtained
machinery from John Walker & Co., Maryborough.
Henry Blanford Penhall, charged at Wagga
assizes with having stuck up and robbed a Chinese
hawker, was acquitted. He was ably defended by Mr.
David Buchanan, who treated the case as one of mis-
taken identity, in which view the judge concurred.
The shaft of the Magdala mine, Victoria, in-
cluding the bore, is 3013 ft deep, or about 2202 ft. below
the level of the sea. This is the result of thirteen
years’ plucky perseverance, and it is to be regretted
that the reefs and leaders discovered have proved un-
payable.
The big lawsuit at Charters Towers, in which
Mr. Robert Russell sought to recover possession of a
share in the celebrated and rich Day Dawn claim,
alleged to have been improperly obtained from him by
Mr. Bandholz, the present owner, was decided in favour
of defendant.
John Davidson, alias Dickson, a passenger from
India by the R.M.S. Roma, was found dead in bed, at
the Palace Royal Hotel, Ipswich, on Tuesday morning.
Evidence of prussic acid was found in the stomach, and
a gun was found, fixed to go off on the opening of the
door of his bedroom. Why ?
David Henry, the well-known Melbourne money-
lender, convicted of embracery, and sentenced to four
years’ imprisonment, is to be released on the score of
ill-health. For a long time strenuous efforts have been
made to regain him his liberty. He was speechless for
a week at one go, on a previous occasion, but it was
“too thin.” Are there no more invalids in Pentridge
who require sea air and foreign travel ? Who gets the
money P
A daring burglary was committed at Stanmore
railway station early on Sunday morning last. The
safe, a heavy one, 2ft. 6in. by 2ft., was removed 30ft.
from the office —the robbers having evidently intended
to cart it away. However, as it was not possible for
those concerned to lift it into the cart, they artistically
opened it with a cold chisel. The safe contained only
£7 17s, which scarcely amounted to wages for the en-
terprising operators. The office has been broken open
three times within six months. There are only three
policemen within a radius of 12 miles.
There was excitement at Narrabri the other
day. An unfortunate woman, whose reason had become
somewhat impaired, had arrived by the coach, and
almost immediately began to make things lively. She
having locked herself in a room, from which some
extraordinary sounds at once proceeded, the door was
hurst open, when she was discovered in Eve-like sim-
plicity. She had placed the candle underneath the bed,
and the latter was just commencing to burn. A genius
put it out, and then ran away, crying “ Fire.” Then a
big crowd assembled.
A correspondent writing from Mount Britten
goldfield, 65 miles from Mackay, Queensland, tells us
that there are now between 400 and 500 miners on the
field, which has been open about months. Numerous
large nuggets have been found, up to 48ozs, most of
them containing a little gold. There are several store-
keepers, about five embryo publicans, and two butchers’
shops. There is a large area of auriferous-looking
country in the immediate vicinity, and gold has been
traced for some distance down the main creek, which is
now commencing to be worked. There is a report of
the original prospectors being on payable gold 20 miles
away. A reef has been opened showing gold all through
the stone, and an eighth share has changed hands at a
fair figure.
Latest advices state that in Russia arsenals of
arms and powder, and enormous quantities of dynamite.
Nihilistic property, have been found In possession of
one Nihilist was found 500,000 roubles, and yet the
Nihilists are poor. Many suspect the Poles, but few
Poles are among the revolutionary leaders, who are
mostly Jews and Russians. The agitation, it is thought,
is the work of international Communists—or, as Bis-
marck says, “ cosmopolitan revolutionists." The
cynicism of some of the anonymous letters sent to
Count Louis Melikoff is incredible, Russia is in terror
for the life of the young Czar, and the Moscovites
earnestly implore him to go and reside at the Kremlin,
in the antique capital. He has graciously consented
to go and live there. General Tchernaieff, a Russian
general, adored by the people, was about to receive an
important post at St. Petersburg.
While the Czar was lying dead vast crowds
came from enormous distances to “ render their last
duties to their martyred Liberator.” The Emperor lay
in his robes of state; the face was uncovered, the ex-
pression severe but serene; the mouth on one side was
slightly open, and part of the face blackened by the
effects of the dynamite. The people pressed round
weeping bitterly, and each person was allowed to ap-
proach and kiss the face and the image lying on the
breast of the deceased. The sobbing and hysterics of
the women rendered these scenes very painful. At the
burial service, when the choristers began the hymn
called “ The Last Kiss,” the Emperor approached first,
kissed the lips of the dead, and then stood at the head
of the coffin all the while the other members of the
Imperial family did the same; then his Majesty, as-
sisted by the Grand Dukes, lifted the coffin and carried
it to the place prepared to receive it.
The prisoner who escaped from the prison at
St. Helena Island, Brisbane, was an ingenious man.
The warders considered him a little “soft," and so
allowed him occasionally to work a little late. He was
employed as a butcher, and always preserved the
sheep’s bladders, which he secreted in the cane brake
and kept moist. On the night of his escape he hid
away amongst the canes and inflated the bladders. As
soon as night came he went to the water’s edge with a
board he had obtained, strung the bladders to it, seated
himself astride, and paddled over to the mainland.
He escaped both the sentry’s rifle and the sharks,
though he occasionally saw the dark fins of the latter
above the water. He got shelter in Brisbane until the
James Paterson, s., took him on board, and conveyed
him to Sydney, whence he wrote a Brisbane friend to
the above effect, adding that by the time the letter
reached Brisbane he would be far on his way to a dis-
tant land.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Terrific hurricane at Calcutta.
Sugar has advanced 6d. per cwt.
Heavy floods in the river Dwina.
Mr. Gladstone is in declining health.
The Boers and Kaffirs are quarrelling.
A Eusso-Chinese treaty has been made.
Strong Nihilistic speeches delivered in Paris.
Prince Leopold’s new title is Duke of Albany.
Serious riots at Killarney ; the police assaulted.
Another earthquake at Chios —but no loss of
life.
P. and O. dividend per cent, for the half
year.
Governor Sir William Patrick Adam, of Madras,
is dead.
In Italy, Signor Sella has failed to form a
Ministry.
Threats have compelled Alexander 111. to remove
to Moscow.
France is ready to renew her commercial treaty
with England.
Trickett and his trainer, Kelly, go to America
on a rowing tour.
Good demand, principally French, at the colonial
wool sales in London.
Rumoured that Ayoub Khan is again going
to fight the new Ameer.
Gortschakoff returns to his post as Russian
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Mr. O’Halloran appointed paid assistant secre-
tary to the Colonial Institute.
Adelaide University degrees are to rank equal
with those of the English Universities.
One of the Dacota silver mines has fallen in.
There was no one in the mine at the time.
Garibaldi says that the virtual annexation of
Tunis by Trance is an insult and a threat to Italy.
Christine Nilsson, it is stated, has arranged for
an American, Australian, and Indian operatic tour.
Lord Salisbury has, at a public meeting, de-
nounced the Irish Land Bill as unjust and impolitic.
After a day’s fighting, the French beat the
Arab troops, and hoisced the tri-colour at Mater, Tunis.
Heavy fighting, with great loss on both sides,
has taken place between the French and Kroumers in
Tunis.
The English Government say they cannot pro-
pose an indemnity to Bradlaugh for the fine imposed
on him in connection with recent proceedings. -
The second reading of the Irish Land Bill
passed the House of Commons by a majority of 176, the
voting being 352 to 176 —0 r two-thirds to one third.
Father Sheehy, an Irish R. C. priest, has been
arrested under the Coercion Act, for having displayed
activity in furthering the designs of the Land League.
It is stated that Sir Wilfred Lawson means to
catechise Bradlaugh on his religious beliefs, and should
his answers be unsatisfactory, to object to his sitting.
Count Yon Arinm, the great Prussian diplo-
matist, sentenced in 1876 to five years’ penal servitude
for writing a treasonable pamphlet, has died in prison.
Gladstone promises to consider the question of
placing counter-vailing duties on foreign sugars, but
says that existing treaties will probably prevent such a
course.
Mr. A. S. Hill, a Staffordshire member, moves a
resolution in the Commons affirming the desirability of
a closer legislative union between England and her
colonies.
Midhat Pasha arrested for complicity in the
murder of Abdul Aziz. The French and English
Consuls at Smyrna refused their protection to the
accused.
The excitement in Ireland is increasing. The
priests have taken an active part in endeavouring to
quell disturbances. In one riot some of them rushed
to the front, faced the levelled rifles of the police, and
guaranteed to restore order if the police would
withdraw.
General Ignatieff, the newly-appointed Russian
Minister of the Interior, announces the determination
of the Government to extirpate rebellion, 'strengthen
the faith and morals of the people, alleviate the
burdens of the Russian peasantry, and maintain the
autocracy.
In reply to a question by Sir John D. Hay,
Member for Wigton, it was stated that 40 British sub-
jects had been murdered in the South Seas since
January, 1880. Sir John Hay intends asking what steps
Government purposes taking to protect British subjects
from massacre.
At the Royal wedding at Berlin all the Princes
(and Princesses, too) were on the Spree.
Mr. S. Maxted, head master of the Protestant
Orphan School, Parramatta, has been appointed board-
ing-out officer under the State Children Relief Act.
Mr. Schwartzkoff succeeds Mr. Maxted.
Bondi at last attracts the land investor, the first
sale being fixed for Saturday next. May 28 Queeus-
cliff Estate is the land for sale, and the locality is the
pick of the marine suburbs. The auctioneers are
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman.
Messrs. Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist have issue! a
Rand wick and Coogee edition of the Land Sales Times,
a neat little production, giving full particulars of the
land sales in the hands of that firm. The feature of
this week’s issue'is the sale of Avoca, Coogee, a splen-
did area of land on the projected tramway line.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At Sandhurst the other day, Charles Waldock,
an old medical practitioner, formerly well-known in
connection with public institutions, was sent to gaol
for a month for soliciting alms in the street Mar-
garet C. Clifford, aged 30 years, drowned herself in the
Yarra near Hawthorn bridge on the 17th inst. She was
engaged to be married to someone who had disappointed
her The Commercial bank has started a branch
at Thargomindah, which, a few years ago, was only
known as Mr. Vincent Dowling’s head station. Civili-
zation is creeping along The carcase of a bullock
which turned the scale at 1450 lbs, was the other day
exhibited in a Dubbo butcher’s shop. The beast was
fattened by Mr. P. Reid, of Mogrigny, Dubbo
Mr. R. H. Denne, an old and highly esteemed Walcha
squatter, recently died at his station, Tia An Indian
named Super Ali is “ death on alligators ” at Rock-
hampton. The other day he happened on an alligator’s
nest with 67 eggs. The mother made at him, but
having a gun in his hand he peppered her with such
effect that she cleared out. He then took the eggs,
which, on being left in the sun a few days, all hatched.
James Frost, a tailor of Penrith, Tasmania, has, by
the death of a distant relative in England, come into a
fortune of £50,000 The Homeward Bound Beef, May-
town, Q., crushed 3toz from a single ton of stone A
young fellow named Alfred Buckley, who not long ago
was, without knowing it, led into a cattle-stealing case
by an artful individual named Roberts, was the other day
drowned while attempting to cross the Flinders, near
Hughenden. He has in England a sister whose address
is not known The prospectors in Stinson’s lead,
Temora, have washed 15dwt. per load. They have
1200 loads out, and are having 200 puddled For the
second section of the Maryborough and Burrum line,
16£ miles, there were six tenders, ranging from £117,000
to £133,000 A man named James Bolton fell a
depth of 65 feet down the Better Luck Next Time
claim, Georgetown (N.Q.), and was killed In conse-
quence of the report of the Royal Commission on the
Wellington (N.Z.) Lunatic Asylum, the Government
has given six months’ notice to Dr. Skae, Inspector of
Asylums Hurley and Robert and James Johnson
have been committed for trial for shooting the pub-
lican, Kennedy, at Sandridge. Heavy bail was accepted.
Two seamen, namrd Osborne and Bee, were drowned
at Bandy Bay, Tasmania, on 14th inst., by the capsizing
of a boat which they had lowered from the s.s. Tasman,
with a view to putting a stowaway on shore. The un-
fortunate stowaway, of whom little is known, and who
is described as a foreigner, aged about 26, was also
drowned Rich stone has been found on Glen Reagh
station, 40 miles from Grafton There are 800 entries
for the Mudgee Agricultural Society’s Show Last
Gympie escort took 68640 z. gold, making a total of
26,0000 z. since Jan 1 The Great Western tin mine,
Walsh River (N.Q.), has been jumped by miners, who
claim it as a prospecting area. The original owners
held it under a mining license, which, it is contended,
cannot entitle tin miners on a goldfield. The property
is very valuable The mail steamer Roma took on
board recently 300 tons of Ipswich coal Mount
Britton diggings, near Nebo, Rockhampton district, are
proving very rich, 20, 40, and 70oz nuggets having been
found. About 1000 men on the ground Mr. Simon
Frazer’s Mount Hutton Station, near Roma (Q.),
together with 12,000;head of cattle and 300 horses, has
been purchased by Mr. James Broad, for £37,000
The Orient delivered her letters in England in 32 days,
six days within the P. and O. time About 900 China-
men are expected daily to arrive in Sydney, via Cooktown.
A block of land, 188 ft by 70ft, corner Castlereagh
and Hunter streets, brought £20,000 at auction
About 141 persons were drowned on the Tararua
Port Darwin diggers are returniug from the Saunders in
consequence of a scarcity of water. In three weeks about
600 oz. were obtained To test the completeness of the
census, the Victorian Government offer a reward of
10s. for proof in every case of a form not being supplied.
A nugget of 116 oz. has been found at Nebo (Q.)
The yacht Haidee is to be raffled for at Brisbane A
man named Charles John Ricketts fell off a traticar at
Adelaide, and was killed. He was subject to fits 200
diggers landed at Port Mackay during the week, en
route for Nebo rush, which is understood to be altogether
overdone Taillified, one of the New Caledonian
escapees, attempted suicide while in custody at Bris-
bane, by opening a vein with a piece of glass It is
reported that young Thunderbolt, brother to the late
bushranger of that name, and other man, have taken to
the road between the Aramac and Bo wen... 1.. A great
many aboriginals are dying of consumption on Cape
York Peninsula The Hodgkinson (N.Q.) Indepen-
dent is riow printed on green paper! The North
Glanmire claim, Gympie, has paid nearly £15,000 in
dividends since March 11 The Rainbow Co. tribute.
Charters Towers, cleaned up 1930 z. 13dwt The
last escort brought 5000 ounces of gold from the
Hodgkinson, and 12,000 ounces from the Etheridge
More than 100 Chinamen from the Palmer recently
joined their compatriots on the Mulgrave Deserters
and aboriginals discharged from the native police force
are depredating in North Queensland; an ex-trooper,
the other day, speared Jack Williams, a miner on the
Great Western A mail coach now runs between Port
Douglas and the Hodgkinson, Q The repairs to the
Sorata are now fast approaching completion. A manu-
script newspaper, the Mount Bischopp Mail, is now
published at Mount Bischotf,Tasmania Mr. Theodore
Kingel, jeweller, formerly of Rockhampton, has been
found dead at Cooktown. He suffered from apoplectic
seizures The Vulcan (s.s.) has been sent to Bass’
Straits, in search of the barque Cambria, overdue from
Mauritius to Launceston At Newcastle, a coloured
seaman, just paid off, was robbed of £l3 by a thief who
snatched the money and ran away Five pounds,
weight of gold has been obtained from the spire ground
at Deutscher’s, Temora Heavy nuggets have been found
in various claims Sheep and cattle stealing are rife
in the Albert district. The Wilcannia Times urges
the squatters to combine in the matter.
LATE SPORTING.
The Melbourne birthday leves was largely
attended. *
A bowling club, with billiards and skittles as
adjuncts, has been formed at Balmain.
Hearn, of Wellington, rows White, of Mercury
Bay (N.Z.), for £lOO, at Wellington on July 9.
At Professor Cavill’s baths, Lavender Bay, on
Queen's Birthday, the 200 and 400 yards’ swimming
races were won by W. Pierce.
A double-scull race for a trophy between gentle-
men of the Treasury Department will take place at 5
p.m. on Friday in Woolloomooloo Bay.
Wagga Wagga races, on Queen’s Birthday:—
Maiden Plate: Hark 1, Dora 2. Birthday Handicap:
Young Woodlands 1, Hart 2, Cassandra 3.
The 25-mile bicycle race at the warehousemen’s
cricket ground, Melbourne, on Queen’s Birthday, was
won by Mr. F. Lister, Mr. Spicer second.
Boss Tyler, ex-champion middle-weight of
England, has taken the New Zealand Tavern, Swanston-
street, Melbourne, where he gives boxing lessons.
A bowling match was played on Saturday last
on the King’s School ground, between the Parramatta
and King’s School Clubs, and resulted in a victory
for the latter by 16 points.
The Hamilton Spectator says that a pigeon
match is on the tapis between six or seven, perhaps
eight of the best Hamilton shots and a similar number
from the Ballarat Gun Club.
At Atkinson’s benefit, at Neuton’s Aeadamy,
Melbourne, the other day, young Dutchy, of Newcastle
celebrity, had a bout with Nathan, who had all the best
of a rattling give-and-take encounter.
V-.’algett races, on Queen’s Birthday:—Maiden
Pi.ue: Blue Light 1, Tillimbi 2, Sunbeam 3. Namoi
Handicap; Hawthorndeu 1, Gillard 2, Hazards. Hack
Selling Race : Simple 1, Chester 2, Wantage 3. Flying
Handicap: Miller 1, Gamecock 2, Reprieve 3.
Newcastle Jockey Club Meeting on Queen’s
Birthday Shorts Handicap : Lochiuvor 1 Mares’
Produce Stakes: Gem 1, Queensberry 2. Prince of
Wales Stakes: Gay Lad 1,. Darkey 2, Navy Eights 3.
Newcastle Jockey Club Handicap: Creswick 1, Black
Swan 2, Sir Solomon 3. Maiden Plate : Faust 1, Gem
2, Diadem 3.
The events at the Adelaide Racing Club meet-
ing on Queen’s Birthday resulted thus ; —Handicap
Hurdles ; Avalanche 1, Cock 2, Acrobat 3. Trial Han


SINGER'S!) SEWING [MACHINES.
THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTURING
Have opened a Depot in
COMP.
8
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,.
HARBOUR STREET.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
s
INGER’S SEWING-MACHINES.
BEST TERMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES-
Write for address of nearest Agent.
s
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR FAMILIES,
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
s
INGER’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS.
SINGER'S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
s
INGER’S THE BEST FOR TAILORS.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
s
INGER’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-Presser Machine.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
HAND OR TREADLE.
s
INGEE’S. The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Carry.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
s
INGER’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
s
INGER’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST,
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
s
INGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE,
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
ADDRESS: THE
s
INGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
No. I DARLING STORES, Harhour-street, Sydney.
8
have
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
keen appointed agents for
machines.
these celebrated
Call and see them—Mouth’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—TURNER
and CO. only recommend the Singer.
Remember, there is only one sin-
ger MACHINE. See the name and Trade-
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER A
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—Beware of German.
Cast iron imitations. Only Genuine Singer’s:
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, by arrange-
menta with the Singer Company.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, 10
cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments
t £ er
SIDNEY.— From TURNER and CO., 355
GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONE
but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
GJ. WELLS, late STANFORD & CO,
• The old authorised Agency for SINGER
MACHINES.
8
INGER’S. The ONLY MACHINE of merit.
A real test of merit—2,soo,ooo now in use.
8
INGER’S MACHINE with new triple action,
with latest IMPROVEMENTS and accessories.
SINGER’S, from .£5 cash, at G. J. WELLS,
1 HUNTER STREET.
€r.
J. WELLS for LIBERAL TEEMS of
Payment. 2s 6d Weekly; 5s deposit.
w
HERE can yon get the GENUINE SINGER
MACHINE? WELLS, 1 Hunter-street.
mHE OLD RELIABLE SINGER is the
CHEAPEST, the SIMPLEST, and most DUR-
ABLE ever constructed.
T
O AVOID DECEPTION buy only at the Old
Authorised Agency, W ELLS, 1 Hunter-street
INGEE’S NEW IMPROVED Triple Action
Balance Wheel. Latest Improved attachments.
8
8
INGER’S MACHINE. Immense discount to
cash purchasers. 10 per cent. 10s for cash.
SINGER’S MACHINES have stood the test
of all opponents and BASE IMITATIONS for the
past thirty years.
GJ. WELLS. The old original and only
• Genuine System of payments offered to meet
the terms and demands of the public at 2a 6d per week,
and 5a deposit.
V7~ELLS for Price lists and all imformation
T free. No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney. The OLD
OP fer GENUINE ARTICLE.
fYELL’S Established Agency will be open
▼ Every Saturday evening to give all instruc-
ts free, and receive weekly payments.
r Note the ADDRESS— ,
HGER’S SEWING MACHINE AGENCY
G. J. WELLS, (Late Stanford and Co ).
No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
HOW TO MAKE MONEY
Is a problem which the vast majority of mankind have set themselves to solve, and the next question
which presents itself is, how to spend it to the best advantage. Answers to this latter question have
never been wanting. Their name is, and always has been, “ Legion.” And by reason of their very
numbers they leave the question still unanswered —so conflicting are they. Every trader, whether
his transactions be in pence or pounds or thousands of pounds, from the hawker, with his basket
upwards, is vociferous in telling you that his wares are the “ cheapest and best.” This is the case to
the uttermost corner of this “ puffing advertising, bill-sticking section of creation,” as a great writer
has termed it. Not only is it confined to modern times, but looking back upon the history of the
past, “ from Noah’s flood downwards,” —aye, and before it —the same feature is distinguishable in
one form or another. Could we bring to light a copy of the Babylon Hsbald or the Daily
Tblsqbaph of ancient Nineveh, “ that great city,” our estimate of human nature would be some-
what eut if the announcements of the Smiths, Joneses, and Robertsons of that age should not be
found figuring as boldly as to-day, apprising the public of earlier times of some “gigantic
sacrifice” or “immense reduction” in the price of the latest robe of the period.
AS A MATTER OF PACT, it is the outcome of that principle of self-preservation, which
dominates, not only the whole human race, but every race, throughout creation. Commencing with
the lowest form of animalculse —those organisms so frail as to be invisible to the naked eye—and
ascending upwards through each successive stage of evolution, the principle is found innate. Nor do
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
claim exemption from this rule. To attempt to get rid of this would be absurd. Bub what they say
is this, that whilst with the Ninevites and Babylonians as alike with their own contemporaries, de-
claring their wares to be
“THE CHEAPEST AND BES T,”
they would - exultingly point a finger at the INDISPUTABLE CORROBORATION THEREOF
which is furnished by the whole colony of New South Wales, whose denizens are daily seen rushing
in crowds to the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
each one with his or her quota of evidence, bearing witness to the fact that the FRIGES, as com-
pared with the VALUE of the DBAFEBT, Ac., given for them are WITHOUT A RIVAL.
“ WHERE IS THE FALACE EMPORIUM ?” may be the query of some. It is at the
HAYMARKET
To this we would invite special attention:
OUR NAME AND ONLY ADDRESS ARE—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPOR lUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
roa
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
6. H. STEPHEN & CO.
’ine Growers and Merchaj
13 Bridge Street.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
PRUITT WINES
6/6
PEE GALLON.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 17th May, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOK MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Leases within thirty days
from this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No., 902; B. Saddington and another; Portion No.,
30; County of Bucclengh, parish of Wagara; 20 acres.
Application No., Tumnt 80-3.
No., 903; E. Saddington and another; Portion No.,
I M.n.; County of Bnccleugh, parish of Brungle; 20
acres. Application No., 4.
No., 905; B. Saddington and another; Portion No ,
86; County of Bnccleugh, parish of Wyangle; 20
acre l ?. Application No., 1.
No., 906; R. Saddington and another; Portion No.,
95; County of Bnccleugh, parish of Wyangle; 20
acres. Application No., 2.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 20th May, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from
this date, it will be declared void.
' E. A. BAKER.
Ttjmut and Adklong Mining District.
No., 85; Timothy Starr and others; Portion No.,
14 gl ; County of King, parish of Bunton; 5 acres;
Application No., Gunning 80-3.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 20th May, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
ezfecute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease witein thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No., 907; George Boshell, jnn., and others; Portion
No,. 54 m d.; County of Raleigh, parish of Warrell;
40 acres; Application No., BdUadelah 2m.
dicap Henrietta 1, Maid-of-all-Work 2, Result 3 St,
Leger: Progress 1, Trevallyn 2, Crystal 3. Selling
Pace: Mountaineer 1, Mallalla 2, Pope 3. Park Han-
dicap : Pawnbroker 1, Blue Bibbon 2, Harrietts 3.
The results of the Mudeee races, on Queen’s
Birthday, were as follow: —Maiden Plate: Sting 1,
Catherine Wheel 2, Xenophon 3. Corinthian Cup:
Ninety 1, Councillor 2, Sunbeam 3. Mudgee Handicap :
Hereford Bay 1, Simple Peter 2, Jaco 3. Mares’ Pro-
dnce Stakes: Signet 1, Spark 2, Lily of the West 3,
Forced Handicap: Jaco 1, Ninety 2, Councillor 3.
Following are the results of the Melbourne
Hunt Club races on Queen’s Birthday Hurdles :
Cumberland 1, Nimrod 2, Landlord 3. Birthday Stakes :
Bandalbiou 1, Bar One 2, Billila 3. Open Steeplechase :
Turpin 1, Eight Bower 2, Pan jie 3. Corinthian Flat
Eace: Eobbie Bums 1, Zillah 2, Maid of Honour 3.
Flying Stakes : Bruno 1, Harp of Erin 2, Venture 3.
At the Grafton Eegatta, May 24, Laycock,
Eush, and Messenger entered for the Grand Champion,
and after a most exciting race Laycock, who led all the
way, beat Eush by a bare half length. Messenger had no
chance. Time, 17 min. Immediately after the race a
match was made between Eush and Laycock, for £lOO
a-side, to take place in September, and to be rowed
on the Parramatta Elver.
At Goulburn, on Queen’s Birthday, the first
prize in the £1 pigeon sweep was divided by Messrs.
Davis and Hamilton. The £3 sweep handicap was
pulled off by Mr. Gordon. The five-bird sweep was
divided by Messrs. Davis and Haughton, and the three-
bird sweep by Messrs. Smith and Hamilton. A match
between Messrs. Payten and Friend, for £2O aside, was
drawn on account of darkness coming on.
The Woodstock Coursing Meeting opens to-day
(Thursday), and will be continued on Friday and Satur-
day. Arrangements have been made for special trains
to convey spectators from Sydney. The principal event
is the Intercolonial Stakes, forsixten dogs at 50 guineas
each. T o the winner of the New Plumpton Stakes, Mr.
Lamb gives a handsome silver claret jug, value £25;
and the Hon. P. Higgins gives a valuable trophy for the
best puppy of the season.
The results of the Parramatta Jockey Club
races on Queen’s Birthday are as follow:—Handicap
Hurdle Eace: Badical 1, Wrangler 2, Jupiter 3. Plying
Handicap: Childers 1, Tattoo 2, Eetrospect 3. Prince
of Wales Stakes; Boniface 1, Shangbrown 2, Margaret
3. Parramatta Handicap: Zulu 1, Lord Orville 2,
Tattoo 3. Selling Galloway Eace: Opnssnm 1, Isa-
bella 2, Coeur de Lion 3. Trial Stakes: Templar 1,
Wheel of Fortune 2, Sweet Chutney 3.
The results of the Queensland Turf Club races
on Queen’s Birthday were as'follow :—Sires’ Produce
Stakes : Legerdemain 1, Cadmus 2, Detective 3. St.
Leger: Waterloo 1, Eclipse 2, Galatea 3. Hurdle:
Banker 1, Pantomime 2, New Chum 3. Moreton Handi-
cap : Lord Clifden 1, Proctor 2, Mario 3. Selling Plate:
New Moon 1, Liberty 2, Decoy 3. Two-and-Three-Year-
Old Stakes: Louie 1, New Moon 2, Godolphin 3. City
Handicap; Warhawk, 1, Galatea 2.
The third annual meeting of the athletic club
in connection with Coreen College, Woollahra, was held
on Friday afternoon last upon the Association Cricket
Ground, in the presence of a considerable number of
the parents and friends of the pupils. The chief events
and winners were:—loo Yards : Bray 1, See 2. High
Jump; Lee 1, Bray 2. Walking; one mile handicap:
Bensusan 1, G. Lamb 2. Quarter Mile: Lee 1, Murray
2. Half Mile; Murray 1, W. Mason 2. Consolation
Handicap; 150 yards: Marks 1, Macarthy 2.
On Queen’s Birthday, Messrs. M. A. Hilliard and
P. Harrison, of the Sydney Bicycle Club, travelled
from Sydney to Windsor and back, a distance of 72
miles, on their bicycles. They left the city at 6 a.m.,
and arrived at Windsor at 11 a.m., which, deducting an
hour for rest on the road, gives four hours for travelling
36 miles. They stayed at Windsor two hours for
dinner; left there on the return journey at one o’clock,
rested an hour on the road, and reached Sydney again
at six. The actual time occupied in riding 72 miles was
thus eight hours. Nine miles per hour over a very
hilly road, made for anything but bicycle-travelling,
must be accounted very good work.
Over the remains of Jemmy Breen, the well-
known steeplechase rider, who was accidentally killed
in the hunting field at Stepney (Adelaide) last season,
a number of jockeys and friends have, at the instance
of the indefatigable Ted Dowling, clerk of the Morphet-
ville course, erected what we are told is a neat monu-
ment. The memorial takes the form of a marble
headstone, surmounted by a cross. Below the cross i s
a representation of the melancholy catastrophe that
put an untimely end to his promising career, beautifully
carved in relief. There is the fence with the broken
rail, and the rider underneath the fallen horse, with
his cap and whip lying on the ground, and one of the
hounds in the near distance. So far, so good. But then
some wretch has carved on the stone the following:—
“ Mark the brief story of a summer’s day—
At noon, in youth and health he rode away ;
Ere night had fallen death quenched his life; —
A desolate home and mourning wife."
This " poetry ” is so execrable that it is doubtless per-
fectly original. It’s enough to make poor Jemmy
squirm in his grave. Why didn’t Dowling turn to
“ Bush Ballads and Galloping Bbymes ?"
Some years ago a sensation was created by the
fact that a girl attired in boy’s clothes had been dis-
covered on board the training ship Vernon. The girl,
who came from Grenfell, and was an orphan, after the
discovery referred to, spent two years at Biloela, and
was then apprenticed to a resident of one of the
suburbs. The other day her mistress missed half-a-
sovereign, and accused the girl of the theft. The latter
thereupon made her way back to Young on foot, and
was arrested on suspicion of stealing the money in
question. The local bench remanded her for the pro-
duction of the warrant issued by the Newtown bench
for her apprehension.
ASIATIC TEA CO.’S ESTABLISHMENT.
A branch of the Asiatic Tea Company, a firm of
world-wide reputation, has been opened in this
city at 279, Pitt-street. The premises are large,
and admit of a good display of the different kinds
of Ceylon, Java, and Indian teas, now for the first
time introduced into this colony. Arrangements
have been made for direct shipments, and as all
teas will be delivered in air-tight boxes, they
will be kept in first-class condition —a desider-
atum required here for a very long time. The
proprietors project a large and extensive business,
being fully assured that the quality of their teas
must win the public approval wherever they are
introduced.


gINGEE'S
JEWING
J^JACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
jy£A.CHINES
UNPAEALLED DEMAND
MOEE POPULAR
THAN EVER!
OVER 500,000 were SOLD in the
YEAR 1880, being at the rate of
1600 for every Working Day,
and three-fourths of all the Sew-
ing Machines sold throughout
the World.
gINGER’S
gEWING
■j^J-ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
J^/J-ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
jyj'ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
J^ACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
J^/J-ACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
J^/J-ACHINES
THIS IMMENSE SALE is the
RESULT of the World-Wide
REPUTATION OBTAINED by
THESE MACHINES.
UNEQUALLED for Superiority of
Workmanship, strength and
beauty of stitch, and adapta-
bility TO EVERY CLASS OF
SEWING.
10 PER CENT.
DISCOUNT
For CASH.
EASY TERMS,
2s 6d Weekly,
WITHOUT ADDITION
TO THE PRICE.
CAUTION!
BEWARE of PERSONS who. hav-
ing no good trade repute, resort
to Impudent Puffery, and do
thereby deceiye the UNWARY.
COUNTERFEIT MACHINES of
inferior Construction and Manu-
facture under various fanciful
names, are being, with HUGE
EFFRONTERY, offered to the
public as superior to the genuine.
gINGEE’S
gEWING
J^J-ACHINES
To avoid DECEPTION, buy no
Machine that has not “The
Singer Manufacturing Com-
pany,” printed upon the arm,
and impressed upon the brass
TRADE MARK.
D
SPOT IN SYDNEY.
NO. I DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS FREE!
The wondeeful weetheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OP
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price hsts and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a WEETHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT, WITHOUT
INTEREST.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
S
o
s
Nl
c
fp.
City
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2. —Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3.—Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, wo will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
W LOOK FOR THE NAME !! 1
E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND OIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 George-street West (late Parramatta-street)j
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Peed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
RINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON'S DEPOT.
T
HE
LIGHT EUNNING STANDARD.
*(
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAT MARKET.
SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
T
HEA T E E
E 0 Y A L.
Lessee
Acting Manager ...
... Mr. Sam. Lazar.
... Mr. G. L. Goodman.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, MAY 25,
and until farther notice.
First production in Sydney of Byron’s latest and most
successful Comedy, in three Acts,
THE UPPER CRUST.
The piece will he produced under the stage direction of
Mr. RICHARD STEWART.
AbMISSION Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3s; Family
-Circle, 2s j Pit, Is.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
G
AIE T Y
T H E A T E E.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
MONTAQUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
Director Mr. Charles Tomer.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, MAY 26,
POSITIVELY LAST NIGHT of
MARTHA.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY. MAY 27 and S
POSITIVELY LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
BOHEMIAN GIRL.
Box Office and Plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s.
325 George-street.
Prices of Admission: Private Boxes, £2 2a.; Orchestra
Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.; Pit, Is.
Doors open at 7.15; commence at 8. Carriages may
be ordered for 10.30.
J AMES D. COX, Treasurer,
S
YDNEY OPEEA HOUSE.
EDWARD S. WOLFE General Manager.
SIXTH WEEK
SIXTH WEEK
and
UNBOUNDED SUCCESS
UNBOUNDED SUCCESS
of
R. B. LEWIS'
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS.
OVERWHELMING SUCCESS
of
"H.M.S. PUN-NO-FEAR.”
GREAT SUCCESS
of
THE TRIP AROUND THE WORLD.
ROARS OF LAUGHTER
in the
SCREAMING FARCE
MISS JENKINS’ VISITORS.
Prices Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Chairs 35.;
Stalls, 25.; Fit, Is.
s
CHOOL OF ARTS.
EIGHTH AND LAST WEEK.
FAREWELL NIGHTS.
POSITIVELY THE LAST WEEK.
PRINCELY GIFTS TO NIGHT.
PROFESSOR AND LOUISE ANDERSON.
The Wizard of the North. New Wonders.
LOUISE ANDERSON in her NEW EXPERIMENTS,
and
PROFESSOR ANDERSON’S NEW FEAT of
Great GIFT DISTRIBUTION of Gold 1 and Silver
Watches, Silver Tea Services, Cruets, Family Albums,
Flower Stands complete. Work Boxes, Silver Cake
Baskets, Desks, Clocks, and a large number of valuable
and useful Presents.
N
EW THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
Proprietors, Messrs. THYNNE and HICKIE.
Open to treat with STARS and ARTISTES of
acknowledged ability in every line of business. Seating
accommodation—l4oo.
Professional Addresses
KEMBLE.
. . Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
ftL S A L AMO NT
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MR. AND MRS. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ON TOUR:
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, March 27th till end of
April.
Tasmania, New Zealand to follow.
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which nnQt sufferers for marriage,
Ac., Ac. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—R. T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
MISS MY R A
ADDRI
Until end April—Theatre Bo
T
HE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BRASS FOUNDERS AND PLUMBERS,
COPPERSMITHS, GASFITTERS, AND GENERAL BLACKSMITHS,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES, BRASS WORK OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
IMPORTERS OP
DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, &c.
MANUFACTURERS OF
BRASS WINDOW-SASH BARS,
PUMPS, SINGLE AND DOUBLE ACTION, & HYDRAULIC LEATHER HOSE PIPES, &c.
SHIPS WORK DONE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF THE MARSHALL PATENT WINDOW FASTENER.
'NDi
1 v i.
Tti
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of the public to our BLENDED TEAS Finest Familv
B!end 2/- ; Finest Royal Blend 2/6; Superior Queen's Blend, 3/-; Superior Empress Blend, 4/1
Packed by ns, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of parity and weight. Sold in Hb and 21b
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes, i-chests, &c. SAMPLES of
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.—REUßEN OLIVER, Manager.
M
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCEIBEES AT £1 EACH.
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
"Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODOEE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 188 1,
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTEIBUTION OF PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCEIBEES AT .£1 EACH.
ABOUT 250 PRIZES.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Other Starters (divided)
Non-Starters (divided)
Ten Prizes at £lOO each
Twenty Prizes at £5O each
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each
£l5OO
£7OO
£4OO
£l5OO
£2700
£lOOO
£lOOO
£l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND POETEE.
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed,
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
MASON BROTHERS,
- I
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
i to the.' TRADEand WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and TT
'.GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
0 T I 0 E.
PISCADO-BUENO-Y-BARATO.
The New South Wales Fish Company (Limited) heg
to intimate that having now overcome all difficulties
as to cold storage, they are able to keep a large and
varied stock of FRESH FISHES ready for sale at a
moment’s notice.
CHOICE FISH, 6d per ft.
MIXED FISH. 4d per ft.
(all ready cleaned for the cook)
SMOKED PISH, 8d per ft.
and
ROES of delicious flavour, lOd per ft.
They also keep a large stock of live and dead
POULTRY, at lowest prices.
TERMS, CASH. TERMS, CASH.
No delivery beyond the city.
Delivery made to carriers before 6 p.m.
A GRAND DISPLAY ON FRIDAY MORNING.
Cr
BEAT JEWELLERY SALE.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND JEWELLERY
At LESS than COST PRICE,
Owing to intended Extensive Alterations.
A. J, HUFTON,
636 George-street South.


Miscellane
TJ EISCOE, DRYSI
397 George St
76. 78, 145, 147 Yoi
33 Pitt Stb
IRONMONGERS, IRONMJ
IMPORTEI
Invite attention to their extei
which besides being- the largest
varied; and comprises all the lai
Engines Engineers' Material
Agricultural Implements, 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders' Material,
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lan
Founders’ Material, Pig Iroi
Builders’ Ironmongery, Cha
Brass Foundry, Locks, I
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Soiled .
And
GENERAL IRONA
W
ILL' ©X
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E
416 GEORGE ST
MACHI
H. P. GREGORY
No. 11, PITT-ST
Importers of all Desc
M A C H I
Have for Sal
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—Sydney Exhibiti
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pu
Rubber and Leather Belting, Eai
tucks packing round and sqm
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—F
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery O:
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars a
118
KING STREET 5
ivjl ARTIN & P AIK, ji
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
SinrrOW PlOISgl&S. We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information, V
RARBQI
KXTCHX]
and 3. Th
We invite i
infoi
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
HOWARD’S New Pattern Ploughs, Just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
HARROWS—ZH
We recommend HOWARI
have other makes, some of wi
Howard’s
Zigzag
Harrows.
Our Stock of Harrows includi
sizes. \
Nos.
Width
Weight 1
■389 GEORGE STREET,
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STEEET, SYI
ENGINEERS ANT) IMPORTERS
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangte Beos
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING
Engines and Boilers of {ill siz
Jack Crabs, Ceanes, Bellows, Foi
IN STOCK.
EYES
PERFECT
PURI]
N on-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Ant
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in 1
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dantey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for house
by all classes of Society.- From Bov. Geo. Woolnovgh, 31
for rny throat I could not desire anything more effectivi
Purifier. From L. King,'Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Syd
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing i
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ; —My child had sore eyes for 2J
one week. ——From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, i
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-e
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Syt
Jeyes’ Sanitary Com ound Company (Limited), London. Agents
CSPX mm<C> CY//.
Miscellaueon
QLIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTI
EASTERN AND CO
MERCHANT!
Receive regular consignmeu
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualit:
Do. Indian Prize Me
CHTJTNIES—Indian Pr
PRESERVES—Indian I
COFFEE —Plantation N
Do. „ Pi
Do. „ N
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. J apan
TAPIOCA—FIake and 1
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B
OFFIC S;—79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET; B
JOHN D
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric 1
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &i
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
piTTsrlm
BEAUTIFUL,. kC
ALLWOOL
Td.TWEED,
aOOCH A. N D EOBEJRTS,
(From London an late with J. Campbell,)
HAIEDEESSEES AND WIGMAKEES,
Importers and Manufacturers of Human Hair.
21 HUNTEE STEEET,
BETWEEN GEOEGE AND PITT STEEETS,
SYDNEY.
A CAED.
D
E. STANICH, the eminent OCULIST and
AUEIST, is now on a professional visit to
Queensland. For further Particulars rid*
Queensland papers.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at The Bulletin
Office, 13 Bridge-street.
