

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—No. 76.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1881.
Price—3d.
§u((ctin.
SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1881.
A Ministerial Millenium
It is characteristic of the Coalition Ministry that
the first clause of the speech put into the Gover-
nor’s mouth should be a combination of grovel,
exaggeration, and insufficiency. The Government
is in such a hurry to wipe out the memory of thei’-
crass indifference to the signs of the times during
theearlier part of the recess, that they place an
anti-Chinese paragraph foremost. In that para-
graph there is not a statement which has not been
familiar to everyone in the community for years
past not one which has not, during session after
session, been brought under the notice of Ministers
and treated with contempt. The prominence now
given to the subject is a confession, therefore, of
lack of statesmanlike foresight. Apart from that,
however, it conveys a further confession. While
specifically stating that there is danger of the
introduction of malignant disease from Asiatic
countries, not a word is uttered about the identical
danger of infection being conveyed from London.
There is a popular agitation about the former
risk.: there is none about the latter —and the
Ministerial programme is a mere servile echo of
the outcry of the hour. From statesmen some-
thing more might have been expected.
* * *
Legislation for the better regulation of the liquor
traffic will be welcome, if honestly and courage-
ously pushed. There is some reason for hope that
the nervous vacillation and cautious postponement
of actual work which have heretofore been resorted
to by the Government will give place to energetic
and determined legislation. Observers, so keen and
so deferential, of the public humour, as the two
leaders of the Government, can scarcely have
failed to perceive that there is a real predomi-
nance of influence, outside Parliament, favour-
able to regulation of public-houses. On the
one hand are ranged the few house-owners
who batten on the grosser rents obtainable by
letting particular premises for the sale of drink,
and with them a handful of small publicans who
eke out an existence by leasing such houses. But
on the other hand is ranged almost the whole
weight of the community. Even habitual
drunkards would prefer to have wholesome liquor.
Working men have no delight in mean and com-
fortles public-houses, and bushmen have no desire
to be drugged and plundered If the number of
licensed houses can be reduced,-and their quality
unproved, almost everyone will be pleased. Com-
plaint will proceed, for the most part, from per-
sons who own public-houses on the other hand, and
the extreme bigots of teetotalism on the
°ther. But there is one danger. The proprietary
and public-house interest may be—probably is—
much more powerful in the Parliament than in the
country. This disproportion of representation
may endanger any really effective or searching
measure. The Government leaders are profuse in
expressions of their devotion to their country.
But if they be subjected to the ordeal of choosing
between breaking up their majority in the Assem-
v i an<i . tweaking with the country on a point
which might not be a dangerous hustings cry,
there is little question how the matter would be
decided.
* * *
The enlargement of the scope of Municipal
government will be a most useful and important
exploit. If arranged in a genuine spirit of de-cen-
j uzation, and so framed as to foster a spirit of
f Impendence throughout the country, a measure
ot the kind may be invaluable. Its usefulness will
ranscend merely material considerations, and its
moral influence upon the spirit and habits of the
colonists may be its most valuable effect.
* * *
The oracular mystery in which the nature of the
Projected measures “ to improve the management
some of our Educational establishments,” is
nveloped, invites the suspicion, expressed by the
over of the address in reply, that Sir Henrt
tt . kes contemplates a revenge npon the Sydney
for ** slap in the face” adminis-
r,J e ? . when, in defiance of sense and pro-
was att empted by a few sycophantic
to thrust him into the Senate. This
tie based upon a misconception
many 0 f the Premier’s intentions and of his
ot a ;^ ac j' e , r ' But if that be so, how can it be ex-
sn f d t v. a man 80 extremely well-disposed and
of J avou r a . bl y circumstanced for the formation
m-.J 1 epmion on both points, as Dr. Kenwick,
n* ao ° U^ the * dea? The most jealous watchful-
Ti. respect to this matter is called for.
CftsJ*i aCB ? u , r Bole University at the mercy of suc-
a dia -'° ,°.t 8 of political adventurers would be
cobnybie < £ievLwy. thrOW Cultur6 ° f
Of * * *
fiDeoiaft! measures promised, none call for
mention just now. But it may be remarked
as peculiar that, with the exception of anti-Chinese
legislation—obviously due to a current agitation—
no attempt is to be made to give effect to the
recommendations of the Intercolonial Conference
recently sitting in Sydney. The Queensland Par-
liament, we observe, will be invited to legislate
for the creation of an Australian Court of Appeal;
for the prevention of the influx of foreign criminals ;
to _ provide for the examination in one colony of
prisoners arrested on warrant in another ; to in-
crease the remedies of creditors in one colony
against persons in other colonies, and to enable
judgment of the courts of one colony to be en-
forced in the others. These are all steps towards
that federal union which Australians desire. But,
in addition, these are aids to the due adminis-
tration of justice, and to the prevention of each
colony being with regard to every other a sort
of Alsatia. The speech might at least have ex-
plained why none of these things are to be at-
tempted by our own Parliament.
Nathaniel Buchanan.
Explorers, as a rule, are not overburdened with
modesty—at least, modesty is not the identical
virtue that they lay most stress on in their diaries.
A diary—word it as you will—is a self-assertive
kind of publication ; and, unfortunately for ex-
plorers in general, it is in the form of a diary that
they usually publish the result of their travels.
With the Anglo-Saxon love of hero-worship strong
within us, we do not blame them for any claims to
superiority they may set up ; on the contrary, we
eagerly accept them and their exploits at their
own valuation. Even when, as in the case of
Burke and Wills, incapacity and inexperience
lead to disastrous results, we consider that death
makes the needful apology, and an enthusiastic
public erect a memorial and agree to say nothing
about the little mistake. But we have men
amongst us, not of the Stanley order ; men whose
restless and adventurous blood sends them out to
reclaim fresh pasture lands, and who afterwards
forget to write or talk about their doings. More
than twenty years ago Mr. Buchanan started from
Rockhampton, in what was then New South
Wales, on a exploration trip to the Westward, and
since then he has always been more or less fight-
ing the battle of civilization on the outskirts of
settlement; yet none but men whose interests are
identical with pastoral pursuits know how much
good work he has done. He has, perhaps, helped
to settle more new country than any man in Aus-
tralia. New South Wales, South Australia, and
Queensland, may equally claim him as an explorer;
and in our great sister colony to the North, the
name of “Old Nat’’ is known and quoted as that of
the best bushman there. Just before the separa-
tion of Queensland from the Mother Colony,Messrs.
Buchanan and Landsborough made a most
successful trip inland. They discovered and
named the Landsborough River, Cornish Creek,
Tower Hill Creek, and many others—all water-
courses draining some of the finest sheep country
on the continent. They were also the first white
men to cross the head of the Aramac. On their
return, they found that a new colony had sprung
into existence, and new land laws and regulations
prevented the explorers taking the advantage of
their discoveries that otherwise they might have
done. In time a company was formed—“ The
Landsborough River Company”—and Buchanan
went out again with Mr. Cornish to inspect the
country, and afterwards accomplished the not easy
task of taking the cattle out and forming the sta-
tion. As Bowen Downs and Mount Cornish
Stations, this property is now well known all over
Australia, thousands of pounds having found their
way from them into the pockets of shareholders,
past and present. Mr. Buchanan had the usual
pioneer’s share : hard work, and the honour of it.
His next trip was to the Gulf of Carpentaria. He
was the first man out there with cattle, and was
far west of Norman ton, away on Leichhardt’s
track. In 1876 he visited the Herbert
(the inland Herbert, not the coast river
of that name) which had been for some years de-
serted in consequence of the deterioration of
station property all over Australia. He went out
there with Mr. Crossthwaite, and afterwards re-
stocked and settled it. A short trip on to the head
of the Nicholson did not result in anything new.
Queensland being played out as a field for ex-
ploration, in 1877 Mr. Buchanan crossed the
border into South Australia, and discovered the
creek now known as Buchanan’s Creek. He
followed it down until, like most of our inland
watercourses, it died out and disappeared, and he
then pushed on tp the westward, and was the first
man to cross on an inland track from the Queens-
land border to the overland telegraph line. The
value of his discovery in this quarter can scarcely
yet be calculated. On, and to the northward of
Buchanan’s Creek, some of the richest pasture
land in Australia is to be found, rolling downs
covered with the succulent Mitchell grass, and
fattening herbs peculiar to the cream of our
western prairies. Owing to the liberal land
laws of South Australia this belt of country
offers greater inducements than usual to the pioneer
squatter. Extending as it does from the Queens-
land border to the Telegraph line, bounded on the
south by the tract of desert that turned back
Barclay and Wennecke, and on the north by the
main dividing watershed, it comprises the only
first-class sheep country left as an outlet for our
rapidly increasing flocks—for the explorations of
Giles, Forest, and Warburton left us little to hope
for west of the telegraph line. It may be reckoned
as superior to his former discovery of Bowen Downs,
and in the present prosperous condition of the
colonies, as affording a new field for the invest-
ment of capital. On his return to Queensland,
Mr. Buchanan took out a large mob of cattle to
the Daly River in the Northern Territory —this
time following Leichhardt’s old track along
the coast. He had to encounter drought,
floods, and hostile natives, and the work in itself
was equal to two exploring trips. At the present
time, in the invests of Messrs" Fisher and Lyons,
he is again about starting to stock some rich pas-
toral country on the Alligator River, north-east of
Port Darwin.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kissing.
A fashion is growing in America which must be
very agreeable to the parties concerned but awfully
tantalising to all others. Affianced lovers are
now permitted to kiss each other in company as often
as they like and as ardently as they please. Of course
a small outcry has been raised, but it has produced no
effect, and is generally attributed to elderly spinsters
whose chances are hopeless. A lady writes that the
other day she was in the picture room of an Academy
of Design in a large American city, and saw the
daughter of one of the richest residents of the place
.meet her betrothed, who had been out of town for a
week. The girl put up her mouth to be kissed, and the
lover “ gave her a smacking salute, with a good grace.”
There were about one hundred persons present, includ-
ing the girl’s mother. The custom is commented upon
by an English journal, which, as a matter of course,
hopes that British institutions will not be Americanized
to that extent. We can’t see the matter in that light
at all. Everybody knows that affianced lovers do kiss
one another whenever they get the chance. At least,
any that don’t are exceptions, and their reserve is so
singular that, if it were known, a fondness for onions
or a bad breath would generally be suspected. Every
girl who is the least likely to make a good
wife and mother likes to be kissed, under
proper conditions; and it is. but too well
understood that every young man without ex-
ception likes to kiss, and that few are particular
whether the conditions are proper or not. According
to the prevailing fashion affianced couples make shame-
faced and generally transparent pretences that they
never or, at least, hardly ever—do more than shake
each other’s hands, with perhaps rather a lingering and
squeezing touch, and sit somewhat closer than is cus-
tomary for pairs not engaged when they get together
on a sofa or garden bench. But. as a matter of fact,
unless the generation of young people now growing up
is greatly more diffident than their immediate prede-
cessors—of which diffidence they certainly do not give
many indications—when they step out on the dark
balcony to enjoy the beauty of the stars, and are to be
heard at intervals discussing entirely original astronomy
in a spasmodic fashion—informing each other that such
and such a constellation is the " Southern Cross" when
it happens to be Orion, and pleasant betises of that kind—
the intervals are pretty frequently punctuated with
kisses. Similarly, when an engaged couple sneak down a
garden alley, or loiter behind guardian parents when
walking home after dark, there is usually some oscula-
tion. Also after mademoiselle has with so pretty an air of
I ingenue shaken hands with le jeune Henri in the dining-
room, when that young fellow is about to bow himself
out, it frequently occurs that she suddenly remembers
the necessity for looking forfsomething in the dining-
room, and (so chances to accidentally come upon mon-
sieur putting on his gloves or overcoat in the h«n In
MR. NATHANIEL BUCHANAN.


which case it is not unusual, we believe, for
Billy the buttons, or Araminta the house-
maid to descend from his or her concealment
in the corner above the servant’s stairs, and to
narrate to Bella the cook and Sah, the “ generally
useful" man, how missie and young Jones was a goin'
on be’ind the ’at-stand."
For our own part, we think it much preferable that
the new American mode should supersede the old style.
The trick of slinking out in the dark, and osculating
surreptitiously behind doors, inculcates a lesson in
deception, which ia a bad thing, any way one looks at it
Kissing is not either shameful or immodest. Indeed,
when gracefully performed, it is a salute which gives
plegsure to all within range. Missie likes it, the young
fellow likes it, and all witnesses, except such as may
c hance to be themselves in love with one or other of the
performers, derive a sort of second-hand enjoyment from
the spectacle. An honest girl kissing honestly her
honest lover in presence of her parents and friends—
in fact, anywhere before folks —is a wholesome sight;
and, on the other hand, a girl, no matter how innocent,
skulking off into a back drawing-room, or a dim alley,
to bo caressed, is not a comfortable sight. It is no use
for Priscilla to say that the case is not hers. They a’
do it. No young fellow should marry a girl who objects
to be kissed after engagement. There must be some-
thing lacking in her constitution, and she will probably
turn out a shrew. And no girl should marry a -man who
doesn’t exact his fair quotum of ante-nuptial osculation.
He must be fish-blooded, and will probably develop into
a cold and calculating master, instead of a warm-hearted
mate. We entirely sympathise with the retort of the
Scotch lassie when, after her wedding, her husband
conferred on her his first salute, demanding at the same
time, with a self-satisfied air, whether he had not been
“ ceevil ” during courtship. “ Ay, man, senselessly
ceevil I ” was the bride’s reply; and one regrets that
so spirited a young person had not broken off the
match.
Anti-Shouting.
About the most sensible thing ever done at a meeting
of professional theologians was the anti-shouting dis-
cussion at the Diocesan Synod of South Australia.
True, several of the reverend gentleman appeared in
capable of appreciating the practical importance of the
topic; and clergymen who would have solemnly depre-
cated any approach to levity, had the subject of discus-
sion been the cut of a vestment or the meaning of a
rubric, indulged in frivolous facetiousness. Perhaps,
all things considered, it is not remarkable that it was a
layman who introduced, and clergymen who made sport
of, the subject. Nevertheless, that such a theme
should have occupied at all the time ordinarily devoted
to trumpery discussions regarding stipends and sacra-
ments, millinery and missions, is a hopeful sign-
Drunkenness is unquestionably the most formidable
foe to morality which has to be combatted at the
present time. And there is no more prolific
cause of drunkenness than the custom of
shouting which so universally prevails in these
colonies. The total abstinence organizations defeat
their own objects by attempting equally to prove and
to effect too much. The vast majority of colonists
are of sober habits, and view drunkenness with dis-
gust. But they are moderate drinkers, and are alien-
ated by the extravagant, and sometimes insolent, tone
adopted by rabid teetotallers. The practice of shout-
ing has, really, very few friends. It is among the
better class of people simply a custom, and nothing
more. Were there but a strong lead given in the oppo-
site direction, shouting would rapidly become mmvais
ton, and fall into disrepute day by day.
The Sydney Infirmary.
In order that onr great charities may command public
confidence, which is a first element of their success, it
is primarily necessary in every case that they be above
reproach. This rule applies wherever on institution of
this kind is established to fill a social blank. It is, of
course, particularly applicable where most confidence
is implied, and where official responsibility is propor-
tionate to the trust imposed. Looked at from thui
point of view, our Sydney Infirmary is, perhaps, the
most noticeable of onr local foundations; but will any-
one undertake to eay, in the light of recent disclosures,
that this useful and highly creditable institution is
entirely above reproach ? Let us extricate a few hard
facts from the web of evidence adduced in the Buckley
ease. This man, as all know, was taken to the Infir-
mary suffering from what is alleged to have been
alcoholic poisoning. Delirium ensued, and the patient
was removed to a cell. Dr. Belorave issued the order,
the necessity for which was confirmed by Nurse
Reuter’s evidence; Nurse Reid, however, testifies
that deceased, though excitable, was not violent,
and did not disturb the other inmates of the ward.
Borne evidence was adduced respecting this
cell. It was cold—the coldest room in the build-
ing; yet a responsible witness swore that warmth
was an essential to a person in Buckley’s con-
dition. It was dark—no light was allowed to enter ex-
cept what might stream in through the door when
open; this door was kept closed, though nurse Reid,
experienced in the case of the sick, affirmed that light
gave comfort to a man in illness. It was uncomfortable
and badly furnished for its purpose; in fact, as Dr.
Belorave admitted, "it was just the place where a
patient of this sort should not be confined." Though
utterly unsuitable.this was,however, the only apartment
in the building where coses of delirium might be iso-
lated. It is unnecessary to enlarge on these unvar-
nished facts. Perhaps the most telling and significant
comment that could be made thereon is that furnished
by one of the presiding magistrates at the enquiry, who
said that “ in his opinion the death of deceased was ac-
celerated by the neglect and bad treatment he received
at the Infirmary." We have no desire to refer here to
the merits of the Buckley case proper. At the same
time, wo may remark it is not desirable that the ends of
justice should run the risk of being defeated through
the carelessness of the Infirmary authorities. It should
be remembered, too, that the fatal result in the present
instance was the only cause of the purely accidental dis-
oovery of the shortcomings—to give it a mild name-
under notice. What guarantee have the outside pub-
lio that the one disclosed is the only abuse sheltered
within the Infirmary walls P But whether single or
not, cases of this kind are certainly not calculated
either to foster or inspire that popular confidence which
is the very vital air on which the influence for social
good of our great public charities in large measure
exists and depends.
Edward and George.
It is very uncertain if we shall be permitted to
see them with our eyes, but really we have
heard so much with our ears, we are filled full
with content in the matter. Doubtless their
presence would shed an unwonted lusture about
us, and the bench whereon Edward sat, and the sod
whereon George reclined, would become sacred to the
snobs, and historical to the cads of the land. And,
probably, some pearls of wisdom would fall from their
youthful lips, to be set, framed, and glazed, and hung
on high with unctuous marvel. Tet it is certain we
should be the better of a visit. The essence of snobbery
is in our souls, and an object to bedaub is a matter of
absolute necessity. Otherwise we might become
corroded with that suppressed toadying which royalty,
however personified, supplies with reasonable vent-
Of course it was all spontaneous loyalty that flowed out
from the hearts of those Adelaide boys in their con-
gratulatory address. No old greybeards poked up the
enthusiasm, and polished the periods till the
precious tomfoolery glowed more with eloquence
than truth; and, of course the reply of the
Princes thereto was worthy of record in every
“ leading ’’ journal of the land—worthy of the biggest
type and the most sensational head-line— and the re-
gard of everything loyal within ns. The Princes gave
good advice to the boys. Presumably this ia part of
the duty of princes. They hope the boys may be a
credit to the college as to themselves. In return it
might be reasonable to wish that the Princes may be a
credit to their ship as to themselves; but they would
certainly find the task easier if subjected to the dis-
cipline which usually falls to the lot of English boys,
than as at present led out on parade and plastered with
the servile adulation of a whole community. The thing
is sickening. We were prepared to regard this visit as
a holiday time to the lads to provide them with fiddling,
feasting, and dancing without end —even to treat them
with that respect which, as grandsons of the good
Quern, who sits as safety-valve atop of the constitu-
tional machine, is their undoubted right, but the “ fall
down and worship” business was not the original pro-
gramme, and ’tis a thousand pities it has been so freely
introduced.
A Hungry Berryite!
Professor Pearson has been offered, and has declined,
the Agent-Generalship of Victoria. This is strange'
A lucrative office, with no small honour attached, to be
thus lightly thrust aside by a ** hungry Liberal! ”
These beggars are becoming nice in their preferences.
But, seriously, we have been too severely and unflinch-
ingly educated to form opinions as to what a Victorian
Liberal really is, by the organs of Conservative capital
across the border, not to be somewhat startled at such
a revolutionary proceeding on the part of one of the
leading men of that section. The portrait has been
carefully limned. Hungry after office, and greedy for
its emoluments-stump-orators by necessity, and popular
autocrats by choice—when offered an opportunity for its
exercise, they are usually pictured as devoid either of i
principle or of political creed. The one is ignored, ■
while the other is used simply as a portion of party !
tactics. Their opposition to Capital and Monopoly is j
represented as the natural result of the obstruction j
their selfish schemes receive therefrom, while their
popularity with the masses is simply the easy out- :
come of their successful desire for vulgar notoriety. ;
Besides outlining the Liberal figures as rude and un-
gentlemanly, the Conservative portraitist adds to these
lines of his sketch, subtle touches of ignorance and want
of educational culture. But what if this be all a mistake ?
What if the picture be entirely overdrawn P Here we
have an academical light—a learned professor, in short
—surely no miscreant of the “ broken beads and flam-
ing houses” type. He refuses a plethoric purse and
an honourable position—surely no ignoble adventurer,
thisl The old self-seeking charlatan’s motto, pro
patria et peounio—“ for cash and country ” —has no foot-
hold in this man’s mind. Is it possible, after all, that
his party is the party of progress, and is based on
broadness of views and purity of principle? The
history of Victorian Liberalism will certainly have to
be re-written.
POLITICAL POINTS.
stituted Opposition, but—he felt that everyone who
had the weal of the country at heart should support the
Government. The cross-bench men applauded from the
bottom of their boots.
Sir William Fox, kin)? of the New Zealand tee-
totalers, has tabled a motion to do away with the sale
of intoxicating liquors in Parliament buildings. Ha
proposes that only tea and coffee be sold within the
precincts of tha House in future.
A. T. Clark, the Victorian Commissioner of
Customs, says that he did not intend to refer to Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen as acquiring his title by “ cattle-
dufflug ’’ or the “ loss of virtue of his female ancestors."
He mentioned those points: but he said that the hon.
member’s title went as far back as Judas 1
Dear old Renwick. He has discovered members
of the Assembly who, during the past session, “ displayed
talents of no ordinary character.” And as he thus
spoke fifty-two gentlemen in the Ministerial comer and
cross-benches simultaneously took out their pocket-
handkerchiefs and blew the noses of modesty.
The defeat of the Melbourne Ministry, on Sir
Brian Boru's motion, by three votes, hss created a
sensation. The Marquis of Normanby refuses a dis-
solution, and Sir Bryan O’Loghlen is to be sent for.
If rumour is to be believed, this gentleman will have
but a short innings—though, doubtless, it will be a
merry one.
Queensland Parliament opened on Tuesday last.
Speech commenced about the big transcontinental—
preliminary agreement made with capitalists—and
Lukin’s Western land-grant railway, to connect with
N.S.W. and S.A. lines. Au rests, local measures and
legislation on the lines of the Conference recom-
mendations.
It is freely stated that the reason why Mr.
Warden Mowbray was shifted from the Hodgkinson to
the Etheridge was that the Queensland Government
feared that Hamilton, who is member for Coek, and
the avowed enemy of the popular warden named, would,
on seeking re-election, meet with great opposition at
the hands of Mowbray’s friends, were the latter on the
field.
A rumour has been current in N.Z., that Sir
Julius Vogel would visit the colony at the end of the
year, but it is unfounded. Correspondence of an un-
friendly character has recently taken place between the
Government and Sir Julius, and it has ended in the
Government returning a letter from Sir Julius which
hey considered unjustifiable in its terms. The Parkas-
Fosterjimbroglio over again, in fact.
173 Peers and Peeresses own millions of acres
in Ireland. 3547 other great landlords own over 11
millions of acres. The aggregate annual rental derived
by these persons is 7J millions of pounds sterling.
These figures were quoted in the S. M. Herald the
other day, “ for the purpose of showing the enormous
pecuniary interest the peers of the United Kingdom
have in the equitdbls settlement of the Irish land ques-
tion." What remarkable powers of deduction some
people exhibit, to be sure!
The real significance of the piratical invasion of
Tunis and its annexation by France is that France,
Germany, Rutsia, and Austria have determined to be a
“ Europe ” to themselves, and that they have come to
an understanding to settle the Eastern Question with-
out taking any account of England or of Turkey. It can
only be a part of a general plan for the final partition of
the Ottoman dominions settled and agreed upon by the
four Powers in question. Germany keeps Alsace and
Lorraine, looks up a French army in Tunis, and
separates France and England; Austria gets the pro-
mise of Salouica; Russia that of Constantinople; even
Italy is amused with the bait of Tripoli, and Spain with
that of Morocco. Nay, if England will, she too may
perhaps later on be admitted to the robbers’ concert,
and may crown her infamy and seal her ruin by taking
Egypt. But meantime England is altogether “ out of
it." So says Vanity Fair
The last letters of the Rusaian’revolutionists to
their relatives before their execution are not devoid of
a certain pathos and dignity. Kaibaltchich wrote to
his brother : “ All is finished. Bear philosophically
that which destiny sends me. lam the victim of the
historical development of my country. I have done my
duty." Jeliaboff wrote to his sister : “In a short time
I shall be where there is no more sorrow nor crying. I
have tried to act so that upon earth there would bo less
of that sorrow. That was the object to which I have
sacrificed everything. Igo into the other world, where
God will judge me. If He does not condemn me what
will be the fate of my judges ? What shame will cover
them I" Through the gloomy philosophy of these
wretched victims “of the historical development of
their country" there gleams somewhat of that spirit of
self-sacrifice which in every age has sent martyrs to
the stake and patriots to the scaffold. At least so the
Pall Mall Gazette says.
On the second reading of the Chinese Bill in the
N.Z. Parliament, Major Atkinson, having given as a
reason why Chinese immigration should be restricted
when 5000 Celestials were in the colony, said it was
important to have an admixture of foreign blood, which
amounted to 1 per cent., in order to improve the breed.
Sir George Grey said " I congratulate the Treasurer
on the statemanlike and philosophical principles on
which is based the Chinese Immigration Bill,' and on
the great attention he has evidently devoted to the
subject. He tells us that a mixture of foreigners is a
great advantage to every nation, and he has carefully
ascertained that one per cent of the population of each
race of foreigners is the exact proportion in which the
mixture should be taken. This he has provided for in
the case of Chinese. This new great principle for pro-
ducing a model breed, would doubtless be copied
by the whole world when once established here,
I presume the Government, with its usual anxiety for
the welfare of the country, will see that a clause is
added to the bill in Committee, under authority of
which funds should bo provided for the introduction of
the same proportion of persons from each coloured
race, including the much-despised nigger, so that by
an assemblage of varied people they may have the
credit of having produced a new and model race, ex-
celling any hitherto seen." (Laughter).
The war party in China are again in the ascen-
dent.
The Treasurer of the future denounces pros-
perity due to reckless land auction sales.
The Imperial Government have disallowed an
ordinance for a Fijian loan for immigration.
Garibaldi has written a letter advising that a
fleet should be ready to defend the Italian islands from
France.
Only eight members on the Opposition benches
—seven men and a Kidd. But then there are only eight
portfolios.
The French Government has granted .£39,600
os indemnity to the victims of the late native rising in
N ew»Caledonia.
Though Mr. Berry has of late often expressed
himself as weary of the cares of office, he now most
unwillingly resigns.
The most contemptible place in Parliament—
The cross benches. Why don’t they put a fence up for
members to roost on?
In N.Z. there has been some talk of re-commit-
ting the Chinese Bill with the object of increasing the
poll-tax from £lO to £5O.
Not«a word in the speech about the railway to
the Sydney wharves. What was it Sir Henry said to
the electors of Canterbury that time ?
The report of the Defence Inquiry Commission
will be laid before Parliament early—and a copy will be
in the naval archives of every Power in Europe in two
months.
G. H. Reid went over to the Opposition because
he considered the Ministry too strong. Not a sufficient
reason, George. A good Ministry can scarcely bo too
strong. Giye us the right one.
Steel Rails Commissioners’ report exonerates
the Queensland Premier from the'charges raised by
Hemmant and Griffith. Griffith bams the report, and
hangs on to the evidence, all the same.
Big financial boom throughout the colonies. The
Increases of revenue for the past quarter as compared
with the same period last year are—N.S.Wales £514,384,
South Australia £179,490, Queensland £160,000.
Sam. Griffiths will not appear for Pat. Perkins,
the Queensland Minister for Lands, against the Evan-
gelical Standard, after all. The boot is on the other
leg. Sam. holds a general retainer for the Standard.
Jurgen sen, editor of a Socialist paper, the
Herald, in Copenhagen, has been arrested, charged
with inciting to the murder of the King and to estab-
llsh a Commune. Verily, there be Heralds and
Heralds !
The Daily News says Ireland is getting daily
nearer insurrection. The Conservative hatred of Ire-
land is so great that they openly express a desire for
civil war, so that the Irish may be bayonetted into sub-
mission. Huz-czar 1
The mover of the address in reply made a
brilliant speech. Amongst other good things, he said
that he believed the principles of good Government
could not be properly carried out without a well-con-
SOCIAL
An Ulmarra banker joins hands with a Sydney
belle very shortly.
A pnblic reception to the young Princes is being
arranged in Auckland.
Prince Louis of Battenburg will probably attend
the Monnt Gambler steeplechases and ball.
The belle of the Burwood Private Assembly
was a dark young ditbtitante from Five Dock.
The Honorable Jocelyn Amherst, barrister, has
been appointed Private Secretary to the Governor of
Fiji.
There are 86 marriageable girls in the town of
Queanbeyan and only 12 men who are in a position to
keep a wife.
The late T. Southwell, J.P., of Parkwood, near
Queanbeyan, was the father of 19 children and grand-
father to 160,
A Lawn Tennis Club has been started at Tam-
worth. Very few squatters subscribe to support it.
Verb. sap. bachelors.
There are no less than three marriages to take
place next week in the one family and house at Campbel-
town. Great preparations.
The Mayor of Balmain banqueted all the
Ministers who would go over on .Thursday last. Sir
Henry was there also, and (of course) John Davies.
A young and unmarried doctor is greatly desired
in Tass. The young ladies there say it is not the least
bit of good to fall sick. It doesn’t help things on at
all.
A lady writes to say that a married medical man
is wanted at Campbelltown. Such are the effects of
having a good-looking doctor who likes “ the other
girl.”
Prior to the opening of the “ Tambour-Major ”
season, somebody passed himself off here as Mr. Fred.
Mervin—who has since, we understand,>had many little
accounts rendered to him.
A marriage has been arranged between the
younger daughter of a hospitable owner of flocks and
herds in the Bathurst district, and a well-known mem-
ber of the jeunesse dorie hailing from the Melbourne side.
The ceremony will take place on the gentleman attain-
ing his majority, and the happy couple will then start
for England.
Lady Egerton Tumour, an English lady of
fortune, now in New Zealand, is said to contemplate
visiting Victoria, to judge of that colony as an emigra-
tion field for the English poor.
An M.C. was needed at the Burwood P.A. to
move out of the door-ways the raw young men who
hung about there hiring their glove tips, while several
ladies were sitting out the dance.
At a wedding at a fashionable church on Tues-
day the bridegroom in mistake kissed one of the brides-
maids. And when he discovered his mistake he tamed
round and kissed the bride twice.
An elopement and marriage in the Southern
Babylon last weak. The pair (who, it is stated have
come to Sydney) got the knot tied at Richmond, Mel-
bourne. Her father is still boundlessly indignant.
The Tamworth Masonic Ball was a great suc-
cess. The town baud was in attendance, and acquitted
itself creditably, though it was occasionally out of
time. Many of the ladies' dresses were very pretty.
Next month the jovial owner of a station on the
Snowy River leads to the altar a lady of great personal
attractions, who now forms part and parcel of the
household of a well-known Monaro land-speculator.
A Townsville belle has lately become a wife.
The notice of her marriage appeared three times in the
Sydney papers. She is anxious to impress upon the
public that it’s a fact that she has at last secured a
partner. Another belle sent us this.
The young men of Yass, on the other hand, say
that nobody is so greatly wanted as a good dressmaker,
with a staff if possible. They say their sisters’ dresses
—barring each other’s sisters, of course—are neglected,
and they—rr—well, they like to see their sisters
properly dressed.
A short while since a lady, who lives within fifty
miles of Auckland, had an infant suffering from a com-
plaint which puzzled allopaths, homaepaths and foreign-
paths. Ultimately the child died. It now appears that
the nursegirl used to visit a Chinaman, and during such
visits the child was drugged to keep it quiet.
A marriage epidemic among school-teachers.
At West Maitland, the salaries and fees of two schools
have been consolidated. Wallsend loses a clever girl,
and a brilliant young Sydney pianist wins her. Morpeth
sends a prize to a Sydney bank official; and a young
Balmain resident scores a win in East Maitland.
Gaiters are coming into fashion. Those worn
by recent arrivals from the old country are of the most
decided and proper description. In fact, the excellence
of their style and finish is held to be a mark of aristo-
cratic descent. Young Delatour Montmorency Sinjin
says he considers himself bound, out of respect for his
propagators, to wear “ propah gaitahs,” (Oh!)
A very successful Masonic ball took place ah
Young the other evening. The assemblage was a large
one, and the ladies’ dresses were unus sally costly. The
belle of the evening was a young lady who wore an ex-
ceedingly stylish costume of white and scarlet with
oriental head-dress. Dancing was kept up with great
spirit until 6 a.m. We hear that the Masonic hospi-
tality is shortly to be returned by another big balL
The Glorious Fourth of July was celebrated by
our American Cousins by a picnic and dinner at Botany.
About 250 persons were present. Dancing, croquet,
bowls, and cricket furnished amusement till dinner-
time, when a first-rate "spread" was disposed of, and
the customary toasts were drunk with acclamation.
The Mayor and three Aldermen responded to one toast,
and nearly converted the affair into a meeting of the
Municipal Council.
“ Two years ago,” said a young fellow who had
come to New South Wales and acquired, by means of
introductions, address, and assurance, a tolerable
position, " I was eating orange-peel in the streets of
Chicago. Look at me now!" Twelve months after-
wards his appetite for orange-peel appeared to have
revived, and he died suddenly in the direst poverty, only
two people following his body to the grave. Here is a
commentary on “ a short life and a merry one."
At the Mayor of Melbourne’s Ball, in honour of
the Princes, the first set was formed by the Governor
and Mrs. Meares, Prince Albert-Victor and Mrs. Charles
Davis, Prince George and Mrs. C. E. Bright, Earl of
Clan william and Mrs. Mowbray, Lord Charles Scott and
Lady Morphy, Captain Durrant and Miss Snodgrass,
Prince Louis of Battenberg and Mrs. Mallesou, the
Mayor (God bless him) and Mrs. J. G. Francis, Captain
Stephenson and Mrs. Seddon, Captain Dennistoun and
Mrs. Alderma nßayles.
Invitations to the number of 150 have been
issued by Mrs. Thorne, for her ball at “ Prestonville,"
on the 7th, which will no doubt be a very elegant and
successful affair. Mrs. Paling has asked a large com-
pany to meet M. Wilhelmj, the great violinist. The
bachelors Of Sydney repeat their grand hospitality of
last year at an early date. A large and fashionable
party assembles at “Wotonga," North Shore, on the
Bth, and a fancy dress ball, concerning which there are
great anticipations, eventuates on the 13th, at
“ Pomona.”
A noted practical joker, whose usual time for
seeking the shelter of his own roof is generally “the
wee sma’ hours ayont the twal,” has, it appears, of late
relieved the monotony of his walk by ringing at every
doctor’s door he came to, reporting a case of small-pox
at some well-known person’s, and then departing. It
is said that at one well-known abode of aristocracy at
Darling Point no less than seven medical men appeared
together one morning about three o’clock, and were
most sanguinary -in their desires respecting the man
who had roused them.
The Narrabri people have started “ a new idea.”
Being like the girl in the comic song, “ very fond of
dancing,” they have organized monthly “hops," on
moonlight nights, during the winter—one circular suf-
ficing as an invitation to the whole. People come in
their ordinary dress, and dance at the Mechanics’ Insti-
tute till 1 a.m., when the entertainment closes, and
gives those who attend a chance of being, in the words
of a correspondent, “ fit for business the next day."
We think these social gatherings a very happy thought,
and should imagine they are strongly conducive to the
pleasure of those—who are invited.
The Burwood Private Assembly, last Friday
was a great snccess. The room was tastefully deaerated,
and there was an unusual number of pretty and well-
dressed ladies present—noticeably, a bride, in white
satin and heuiton lace; two very short sisters, in velvet
and cream silk; a black and gold costume was much'
admired; the two elder daughters of a retired sea cap-
tain looked extremely well; the wife of a leading
barrister was, as usual, charming; two sisters from
Balmain were remarkably pretty, as was also a very tall
girl, in white silk. The floor was bad, but doubt-
less the energetic committee will do something to
remedy the only defect in this ball before the next,
which, we believe, takes place in August.
After buying a “floral tribute” and taking it
to the theatre, don’t throw it one way and look another.
Be sure you attach your card, aim straight, and make
all the eyes you can—bull’s eyes, if you like—at your
fair target. Neglect of such precautions sometimes
leads to mischief. For instance, had the gentleman
who threw the bouquet at Miss (the apple of dis-
cord comes in here) during the performance of Tambour-
Major the other night (arrange I matters properly, the
ladies would not have quarrelled—nor would the pro-
fessional gentleman paternally and otherwise attached
to the actresses in question have had such a serious
falling out afterwards. Again we say, aim straight.
Another way, as the cookery books say, is to buy two
bouquets, and if you do buy two “ ten bobbers’* be sure
you throw them together.
The story goes that a clergyman converted, and
made a minister of, a certain Chinaman, who soon fell
in love with the parson’s pretty parlour-maid. She
indignantly rejected the addresses of the holy Mongo-
lian, who requested the clergyman to renew the appli-
cation on his behalf. This was done, with the following
effect:—Minister: “Clara, the Rev, Sum Fum has a
great respect for you, and would like to have you tor a
wife; what do you think of it ?” Clara: “ Sir, you
surprise me; would you like me, after three years’
service, to wed a Chinaman ? No, sir—if my looks and
manners cannot win me a better sweetheart, I’ll stay
as I am." Minister: "But, Clara, you will have a
Christian, a minister—in fact, so far equal to myself."
Clara, hastily: “Then give him your daughter, Miss
Lucy; she likes Chinese missions, and such like, and
there can be no objections on the score of rank. I’ll
2
July 9, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


ON THE GROUND.
T S A_T U R D A Y.
RAND WICK.
NINE PICKED VILLA SITES,
portions of the
RICHMOND VILLA SUBDIVISION,
3 MINUTES FROM THE TEAMWAY,
on the
HEIGHTS OE RANDWICK,
overlooking the
EACECOUESE,
MOOEE PARK,
SYDNEY, &c.
EACH LOT has a FRONTAGE of ABOUT 50 FEET,
by a DEPTH of about 150 FEET.
The FRONTAGES are to
COWPEE STREET,-
RANDWICK STEEET,
STANLEY STEEET,
COOGEE STEEET.
The TEEMS will be i CASH < Balance, 3,6, 9,
and 12 months ; INTEEEST, 6 per cent.
HARDIE & GORMAN
WILL SELL by PUBLIC AUCTION, ON
THE GROUND, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
9th JULY,
The above described NINE BUILDING SITES,' in
the very best position, at RANDWICK.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS, prepared by Mr. Surveyor
ATCHISON, showing the position of each lot, can be
obtained at the Rooms.
SUTTON’S ESTATE.
LEICHHARDT.
ADJOINING THE PUBLIC -SCHOOL.
EIGHTEEN BUILDING SITES
and
THREE COTTAGE RESIDENCES,
as follows:
LOTS 1,2, 3,4, S, and 6. having from 20 FEET to 32
FEET frontage to NORTON STREET (the main
thoroughfare), by depths varying from 125 to 170
feet to a lane at rear.
LOTS 7 and 8, each having 33 FEET frontage to
M'DONALD STREET, by a depth of 137 feet,
adjoining the residence of Mr. Thompson,
LOTS 9,10,12,13,14,15,1-6,17, each having 30 FEET
frontage to SUTTON STREET, by a full depth of
110 feet, and running back to the property of
Mr. Moore.
LOT 11. A DETACHED COTTAGE RESIDENCE,
built of brick on stone foundations, slated, con-
taining four rooms, kitchen, verandah back and
front. A pretty garden planted with choice
flowers surrounds the property, in which is
erected a neat little summer house.
KENT VILLA, a COMFORTABLE COTTAGE RESI-
DENCE, built ef brick on stone, with slated
roof, and containing five rooms, kitchen, laundry,
&0., besides shed and usual outbuildings.
PAMSTEAD COTTAGE, brick on stone, slated, four
rooms, folding doors, two kitchens, verandah, Ac.,
with garden in front.
TITLE, TORRENS'.
HARDIE & GORMAN
a
HAVE received instructions from J. GREEN,
Esq., to sell Public Auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 9th JULY,
AT 3 O'CLOCK,
The SUTTON’S ESTATE, situate only a minute’s
walk bom the Parramatta Road, in a highly-
elevated and healthy position, easy of access
to the city by train or ’bus.
The Sale of the
SUTTON’S ESTATE
Will give persons an opportunity of purchasing elevated
land in this favourite locality.
THE TEAM will shortly run along the Parramatta
Road, thus making this property far
more valuable.
# LITHOGRAPHS AT THE ROOMS.
L
ARGBST
t
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OF
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST, %
Pore Indian Tea ) ***
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family nse we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
Jlf 0 T I ’ C K
TO THE
ADVERTISING PUBLIC.
A NEW ERA POE
THE CUMBERLAND MERCURY .
THE FIRST WEEK IN JULY.
THE MERCURY
WILL BE ISSUED AS A 81-WEEKLY,
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
WEDNESDAY’S ISSUE at Id.
SATURDAY’S at 3d.
After seven (7) years of "ups and downs,” and eight
(8) succeeding years of well-merited and hard-earned
success, the
POPULARITY of the MERCURY
has become so great that the demands upon it render its
81-WEEKLY ISSUE IMPERATIVE.
ITS FREE CIRCULATION
as a
FAMILY NEWSPAPER
in the towns of
PARRAMATTA, PENRITH, WINDSOR, RICH-
MOND, LIVERPOOL, St. Marys, Ryde, Granville,
Camden, and Campbelltown, and the villages of Smith-
field, Bankstown, Rookwood, Field of Mars, Pennant
Hills, Lane Cove, Castle Hill, Dural, Windsor Road,
Seven Hills, Guildford,Kurrajong, Blacktown, Prospect,
Eastern Creek, Dundas, Irishtown, Toongabbie, and
numerous others, makes it the acknowledged
MEDIUM
for
ADVERTISING MERCHANDISE, &c.,
amongst the dense population
of these
NUMEROUS LOCALITIES.
Taking into consideration the relative populations of
respective districts, no Newspaper in the
Colony has a better or more
general circulation
than the
CUMBERLAND MERCURY,
and the best of testimony continues to be borne to it»
UNPARALLELED VALUE
as an
ADVERTISING MEDIUM.
Its Character and Reputation have been built up with
Years of Patient Persistent Labour.
The PROPRIETOR has spared neither
PAINS nor MONEY
to
DEVELOP ITS USEFULNESS,
throwing in, as he has done, the PROFITS of each
year to consolidate and advance the better
value and higher character of
the succeeding.
The Literary Staff are
GENTLEMEN OP ACKNOWLEDGED ABILITY,
and the "turn out" of the paper in that
Department *>
RATES SECOND TO NONE in the COLONY.
The Mechanical " get np ” also bears a reputation
whioh attaches to few other colonial
newspapers.
The Proprietor has, therefore, the utmost confidence
in soliciting from the Public that liberal share of
patronage for the
MID-WEEKLY ISSUE
which has ever been accorded to the Weekly daring
its fifteen years of issue.
N.B. —The MERCURY is conducted on the lines of
PERFECT INDEPENDENCE,
favouring neither Persons, Parties, Sects, nor Factions,,
and intends to continue upon the same lines.
It deals oat to all
FAIRNESS,
OUTSPOKENNESS,
and IMPARTIALITY,
Upholding the Weak against the Strong,
the Oppressed againt the Oppressor,
the Liberal-minded and Outspoken against the Narrow-
minded and the Churl,
AS IN THE PAST, SO IN THE FUTURE,
The Proprietor intends to
PUSH THE DEVELOPMENT
of the
MERCURY'S USEFULNESS
by
Apportioning any Margin of Profits which might arise
to that end.
Note, therefore, the old well-established and life-carry-
ing
NEWSPAPER
in the
Counties of CUMBERLAND, CAMDEN, and COOK,,
is the
MERCURY.
Published at
STATIONERS’ HALL, PARRAMATTA,
and at
STATIONERS’ HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAYS AND WEDNESDAYS.
CYRUS E. FULLER,
Sole Proprietor.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
IMPORTANT
AND
INTERESTING STATEMENTS.
Read, Mark, and Inwardly Digest—Some-
thing for Everybody,
PURITY OF FAMILY MEDICINES OF
THE UTMOST IMPORTANCE.
HOP BITTERS!
AEE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheapest Medicine ever
Made.
THEY AEE COMPOUNDED FEOM
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (PO-
DOPHYLLFN ) & DANDELION.
The Oldest, Best, most Eenowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and in
addition contain all the best and most
effective curative properties of all other
Bitters, being the Greatest BLOOD PUE[-
FIEE and life and health restoring agent
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can possibly long
exist where these Bitters are used, so
varied and perfect are their operations.
They Give New Life and Vigor to the
Aged and Infirm.
To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary Men,
Ladies, and all those whose sedentary
employments cause irregularity of the
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or Kidneys, or
who require an Appetiser, Tonic, and mild
Stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic, and stimu-
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failings or symp-
toms are, or what the disease or ailment
is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t wait until you
are sick, but if you only feel bad or miser-
able, use the Bitters at once. It may save
your life. Hundreds have been saved by
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask youz Chemist, Druggist, or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your friends
suffer, but use and urge them to use Hop
Bitters.
Eomember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged nostrum, but the puerest, cheapest,
and best Medicine ever made, and no per-
son or family should be without it.
MONTEPIORE, STUART. & CO.,
General Agents,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
cftV
&
%
Uj
$
&
■JT
mtx
H E
INTERCOLONIAL.
• HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEOEGE STEEET.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. SUBSCEIBED: £42,049.
LIFE and FIEE INSUEANCES.
LOWEST BATES of PEEMIUM.
«*“ Policy holders participate to the extent of four-
flfths in the profits.
JAMES S. BEAT, Secretary.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED.
- HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED.
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED.
HORDERN’S isn’t.
just mention it to Sum Pum when I see him,” Minister
<Clara, leave the room I”
A young lady, who holds a small public-school
appointment, and adds to her limited income by teach,
ing music, has for some time past played the har-
monium and conducted the choir of a certain np-country
Homan Catholic church. Tor this latter service she
has received £23 per annum. The other evening she
went to a Masonic ball. When she reached the ehnrch
on the following Sunday, she, to her astonishment,
found the choir barricaded, and was asked by the
clergyman for the key, which she handed to him. It
appears that his sole reason for taking the choir from
her was that she had attended the Masonic ball. We
are further told that tor two and a half years the young
lady has been the sole support of herself and her
mother, who is a widow, and that the gentleman who
has acted thus arbitrarily was perfectly aware of these
circumstances. The least creditable part of the whole
business seems to be the unnecessary insult offered to
the lady by the clergyman, who could just as easily
have sent for the key on Saturday as on Sunday morn-
ing.
The Mackat Mercury, in describing the ball
recently given to Messrs. Perkins and Morehead, says
that “ when the ladies were seated they presented a
very pretty spectacle to the eye.” Queensland Punch
(which, by the way, is very funny this month), remarks
that as no allusion is maae to their appearances during
the dancing, which was the very time when they could
he appraised at their full-length valuation, the natural
inference is that the restricted view allowed by the
supper table was more to their advantage than a survey
of the entire elevation. Or is it to be understood that
the prospect of supper caused them to brighten np ?
At the same ball a totally new dance seems to have
been introduced. The Mekcubt speaks of it as “ the
Ministerial Quadrille." This is such a good idea that
it’s quite a pity it wasn’t carried a little further. The
Ministerial Quadrille should have been succeeded by
the “ Deputation Waltz," the “ Municipal Polka" to be
danced in official robes; the “ Divisional Board Schot-
tisobe,” the “ Opposition Fling,” and the “ Plantation
Walk Bound.”
The costumes at the Bnrwood Assembly Ball
were exceedingly tasteful —plush being very much worn.
A young lady from Croydon wore the prettiest and
most effective costume in the room; it consisted of
floured net and lace, made in the Jersey style, with
cardinal satin looping-up behind, Hyde Park frill of
game from beneath the skirt, bodice of rich cardinal
plash (which had a most striking effect), and sleeves
to the elbow, edged with cream lace. A dress which
was also much admired was worn by a lady from North
Shore; it was of white satin (made long), with a hand-
some scarf of white Maltese lace, draped across the
(rent most tastefully, with branches of red and silver
coral. Another most noticeable was worn by the
wife of ono of our leading barristers; it consisted of
cream-coloured cashmere, handsomely trimmed with
old gold plnsh, and crimson roses—the effect being most
pleasing. A young lady from Concord looked exceed-
ingly nice in a dress of rich white satin, made with
small puffs and gathers across the front, edged with
white lace. One young lady’s dress, consisting of black
and gold, was too narrow to be admired. Taken on the
whole, the costumes were exceedingly choice, many
others being worthy of note, but space forbids detailing.
The next of these enjoyable balls takes place in three
■months.
At the Mayor of Melbourne’s ball it was noticed
that Prince George’s waltzing wasn’t Al. He gave his
partner any number of bumps against other couples—
but as they wore royal bumps it didn’t matter. Prince
Albert hopped too much in dancing. Kowalski and
Mdlle. Charbonnet were amongst the best of the Terp
eiohoreans; Baron von Mueller, who was “ shtiff wid
medals," was the most highly ornamented, albeit one
of the least ornamental, of the males present. There
were hundreds of wallflowers. The prevailing cry
among the ladies was, “ Ah, dear Captain Le Patoorel,
do, do get me an introduction to one of the Princes.
Either of them will do." Prince Lonis of Battenburg
was “ Bean of the Ball.” The event of the evening was
J. J. Casey’s dancing with Louise—excuse the dramatic
irreverence —Pomeroy. People said it was a case of
beauty and—well, J. J. Casey. To continue, the Mar-
chioness of Normanby, who didn’t dance, wore a costume
of black gros grain, trimmed with deep flounces of old
point; coronet of diamonds. Mrs. W. J. Clarke ap-
peared in a costume of rich cardinal brocade, trimmed
with beaded lace and bouquets of white flowers —a
wreath of white and red flowers in her hair; her
daughter, a charming young lady, who not long ago
made her cUbAt, wearing white silk and tarlatan,
trimmed with white flowers and silver leaves.
The ball given on the 26tb ultimo, by the mem-
bers of the German Club, at the Club House, was
a most enjoyable and successful affair. A goodly
company assembled, and at 9 o’clock proceedings
commenced, according to German custom, with a
polonaise, which was gone through with as much spirit
as in the Fatherland. A very agreeable and most
“taking” addition to the general routine of this
dance was the presentation of each of the ladies with a
hand, and each of the gentlemen with a button-hole
bouquet. All the dances, twenty in number, were
thoroughly enjoyed, and only a few of the company
hod left when the national anthem was played by the
orchestra. During the evening a cotillon was indulged
in. This dance, consisting as it does of innumerable
figures, is highly amusing, but for lack of time only
a few of these were gone through. To one of the
figures more than a passing reference may be made.
It is arranged for one lady and four gentlemen. The
lady is seated on a chair, in the centre of the room,
having at her side a broom, an umbrella, and an
organ. She dances with one of the gentlemen who are
presented to her, while the others have, at her bid-
ding, respectively to sweep the floor, hold np the
umbrella, and turn the handle of the organ. The
figure had to be repeated a great many times. The
stewards of the Club, with the assistance of the City
Catering Co., provided refreshments, which were of
the best. The Shapter trio provided the music, and
' Mr. Toming the decorations. This very pleasant affair
will long be remembered by all concerned.
[Those who send us social items should give their names
and addresses, which will under no circumstances
whatever be disclosed. Our Social column is intended
to be a record, in perfectly good faith, of the leading
social events of the day.]
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A verdict of .£l5O damages has been obtained
against Dr. Todd at Waipawa, N.Z.. for treating a man
lor sprained arm, when in reality his shoulder was dis-
located The new steamers for the Union Company
are to be named the Wairarapa, which will be a sister
ship to the Manipori; and the Howroka, a sister vessel
to the Wakatipu An old identity, George T. Chap-
man, has just passed away in Auckland at the age 57.
Hei;kept a bookselling and stationary shop in Pitt-
street, Sydney, in 1851, and also worked as a miner
daring the Victorian gold fever. Mr. Chapman issued
an annual almanac, and was well-known in literary
circles The case against Daniel and Sa'nuel Baldwin,
charged at Micalago with sheep-stealing, broke down
completely An interest in M’Donald’s reef, Blay-
ney, Milton Creek, was sold at Blayney on Monday, for
£l6OO Warden Towner has driven the Chinese off
the Mulgrave gold-field. The white miners, who have
just got machinery, are working hard and are in excellent
spirits The Hunter skirts the town of West Mait-
land, and yet the aldermen are so mean that the dust is
allowed to continue The other day, on the Palmer,
a native policeman stuck up a Chinaman and robbed
him of a few dwts. of gold and a half-crown At a
meeting of Samuel Clayton’s creditors in Dunedin
(N.Z.), the total claims preferred amounted to over
£20,000. The New Zealand Wood ware Company is the
largest, over £13,000; the National Bank, £500; Bank
of New South Wales, £4OO. It 'was stated that the
debtor was in Sydney Improved smoking-carriages
have been placed on the Melbourne suburban railways.
A correspondent writes from Charters Towers
under date June 20 :— 44 Two hundred immigrants
landed in Townsville last week, and of these twenty
Arrived here last night. I pity them.”
A skating rink'has been opened at Dabbo George
Walsh, aged 3, an inmate of the Dunedin (N.Z.)
Industrial School, has been poisoned by drinking car-
bolic a0^d......Dr. Smith, the plaintiff in the case, re-
turned to Mr. Swanwick, M.L.A., the £2 in which the
latter was mulcted at the Towers for shooting a goat.
mineral has been struck in the Southern
Cross Company’s ground, Gisborne, N.Z Frank
Cotterill, a barman, committed suicide at Dunedin
(N.Z.) by jumping off the wharf. He had been dis-
charged from a temporary situation, and having a wife
at home confined to bed, became low-spirited. At an
inquest, the jury brought in the stereotyped verdict,
“ temporary insanity.” Insurances companies still
losing thousands in N.Z. Nothing but fires The
Dunedin Industrial Exhibition is a great success, being
visited by thousands. The exhibits are numerous and
unusually good Gold discovery reported at Stewart's
Creek, 12 miles from Towusville Hordern, of Pitt-
street, uses the telephone for communication between
his two shops on opposite sides of the street...... The
Eastern Market, Melbourne, successfully illuminated
by the electric light Residents of the Tweed agitat-
ing for a railway to Brisbane Frost has injured the
sugarcane at Maryborough, Q Two Frenchmen
arrested at Temora just as they were about to fight a
duel with knives Better accounts from Mount
Browne. Deep ground been proved payable. Good
reefs found Another good alluvial discovery 12 miles
from Bridge Creek, S.A A powerful company formed
to work rich reefs at Woodside, 20 miles from Adelaide.
Eleven tobs from the Who’d-a-thought-it reef, at
Norton, near Gladstone, Queensland, yielded 2840 z of
gold Mr. H. Worrell, well-known as “ genial Harry,"
was killed by a fall of earth at Glen Innes, lost week.
Two bachelors are establishing a poultry farm at
Cullinga., and are about to apply to Lord Augustus
Loftus for a clutch of Dorkings.
MARRIAGE.
MONTEEIOKE—THOMPSON.—On the 23rd June, at
Adelaide, by special license, Horace Barrow, second
son of J. B. Monteflore, Esq., of London, to Edith
Lacey, daughter of Geo. J. Thompson, Esq., of Bom-
ford, Essex, England.


BRIEF MENTION.
What the Princes suffer from—night-may’rs.
Henceforth he will be known as Sir Henry
Small-pox.
Get it done direct from the calf. It makes your
veal safer.
New expression of derision and contumely—Go
to —Clontarf.
1066 more sinners found their way to the Museum
on Sunday afternoon.
At the London hospital Australian students are
designated “ kangaroos.”
A certain Newcastle butcher has had his coffin
ready these last ten years.
The “ abnormal egg” season has commenced at
the Newcastle Herald office.
Morpeth has got its clock. What the people
now want is the man who put it up.
The Australasian is to be enlarged 8 pages.
It will then take two men to read it.
The frozen fish by the Cusco “ took well.” We
gave our samples immediate insertion.
Monday’s News contains a moat pathetic and
affecting article on—Mr. Thomas Wearne’s manufactory.
The special train which conveyed the Princes
from Ballarat travelled the distance, say 100 miles, in
Ih. 40m.
When the late George Eliot’s relatives see her
portrait in the Mail, foam and hair will fly. It looks
like an oyster.
There are several residents round Maitland who
are so old that they have forgotten the identity of their
first-bom sons.
The Queensland two-pennypostage stamps are
a sticking insult to the Queen. They represent her to
be light-headed.
The Campbelltown Progress party say that only
three first-class funerals are requisite in order that the
place may go ahead.
When M'Gill the sculptor’s relations were told
by Dr. O’Connor that he died of aortic aneurism they
were mnch impressed.
A Bill has passed the Commons for protecting
newspapers from wanton libel suits. Now, Tom
Garrett, shove along.
The arrival of the emigrant ship Scottish Knight,
at Townsville, has brought about an increased circula-
tion of copper coinage.
Men who wear bonnets going to the theatre, j
should pass the uin to the ladies’ cloak-room—or get a
cloak-room for themselves.
A Paterson Eiver resident is the author of this:
•* A devil is bad, when devil is he;
But devil is worse, when devil is she."
An Adelaide man, it is said, now fumigates his
Sydney Bulletin before he reads it. This journal is a
medium of information, not of small-pox.
From the Penny Morning Babe “ The
Duke of Sutherland arrived at ’Frisco and the Duke of
Athole.” Which did he arrive at first ?
An Adelaide paper makes merry over the
alleged fact that during the small-pox scare the Sydney
doctors vaccinated six men through a fence.
The census of Queensland, 218,159 ; 37,000 more
males than females. This gives about 370,000 shirt-
buttons which need sewing on in that colony.
Sensation at Campbelltown. A leading store-
keeper has begun to treat his customers. Phenomenon
locally attributed to the comet or perihelia.
There are two Mayors of Balmain—Messrs.
Hutchinson and Elkington. The former is the Mayor’s
head, and the latter —but it is quite too obvious.
The Bulletin right, as usual. A fresh oase
of small-pox, directly traced to the Chinaman who was
carried through the city. After fourteen days. Hold on |
Charles Bright says there isn’t a personal Devil
—that the Devil, altogether, is in fact a fraud. When
Charles meets the old gentleman he’ll be sorry for this.
A Townsville baker announces that “ from this
date he intends supplying the full weight 21b. loaf.”
This is surely a mild satire on the inspector of weights.
Was it a Sydney Town Hall contractor who
remarked, when called upon to propose a toast, that he
was *' more fitted for the scaffold than for public speak-
ing P"
We have been asked by a Balmain alderman
why we don’t send a special reporter over to report
the aldermanic eloquence. We don’t know why, but
we don’t.
Another man remanded in Melbourne for shoot-
ing his (or somebody else’s) girl. If this sort of thing
goes on, girls will have to walk out with their “ chaps”
armour-plated.
The champion modest newspaper correspondent
lives in Melbourne, and writes to Adelaide. He says :
—“ Of the Eoyal Princes I will say nothing, because I
know nothing.”
We have had evidence that the Melbourne
Arous does not like The Bulletin. It would seem,
however, that this dislike does not extend to The
Bulletin’s pars.
A popular Townsville chemist has turned
grocer, draper, and general merchant. The place was
too healthy for him. Tea and sugar are more saleable
than salts and senna.
During the hearing of a case at the E.M. Court,
in Dunedin, the other day, it transpired that a local
Shylock had been receiving £1 per month for a loan of
£lO since March, 1880.
The Swiss canton of Schaffhausen has followed
the example of Germany in adopting a law that ho
boy under 15 shall be allowed to use tobacco either in
the streets or at home.
The other week a Dunedin (N.Z.) Volunteer
Company, the City Guards, turned out one sub-
lieutenant (not in uniform), one sergeant, and five
privates for inspection!
The Presbyterian hints that it wants more
subscribers, and significantly remarks that “ the work
of conducting the paper is the same for 20 as for 100.
for 3000 as for 10,000 readers."
The prosecution of the Northern cook-fighters
did not come off. This demonstrates the advantage of
having a clerical breeder of birds and one or two
magistrates on a committee.
Three boys were recently charged at Mudgee
with singing at night in the streets and disturbing the
peace. The P.M. fined them a pound each, and told
them to “ Go and sing no more."
What is the name of the M.L.A. who, on Mon-
day morning last, at 3 30 knocked at the door of Dar-
hnghurst gaol, insisting that he was at the Eoyal Hotel,
and that his room was No. ?
The libel case Judge Hely v. Thady O’Kane, of
the Northern Miner, has been settled. The Charters
Towers Junius pays £2O and apologises. We don’t
know now which is the better judge, Hely or O’Kane.
It was a Pitt-street debater who made the novel
discovery, last week, that Mark Twain’s works are
“perfectly disgusting” and ‘‘very immoral.” There
are other “ innocents abroad,” besides Mark Twain’s.
In an impassioned oration on English and
American humour, a speaker uttered these remark-
able words “ For magnificent humour, whole and
undivided, commend me to Milton’s Sir John Flagstaff."
It is suggested than all Mayors should wear
large brass badges, like those donned by aboriginal
kings. The idea is good, for when the young Princes
see “ one of them ’’ coming, they can know him—and
run.
At a dinner given to a well-known promoter of
Mining Companies, the other night in the North, those
present had to make up a “ Kentucky shout" to pro-
vide a half-dozen of “ tanglefoot,” wherein to drink the
toasts.
There were four “ Jacks ” among the M.P.’s
who went North in the Ajax the other day. It was
pointed out, too, that there are four Jacks in every
Eack of cards, and that in polite circles they are called
y another name.
The fellows who at Brisbane dispersed the
Salvation Army by letting loose sulphuretted hydrogen
and bisulphite of carbon, explain that they only wanted
to give a practical illustration of what He —that is to
say. Hades—is like.
The comic paper published in Barrack-street
reports “ a large house” at the Opera House on Monday.
This is very cruel satire —or, stay! Could, for some
unaccountable reason, the reporter on that night have
seen two audiences ?
Morning after opening of Parliament —Scene, a
well-known hotel in town. Civil Servant loq. “Look
here, Bunt, I’m hard up ; if you don’t give a ‘ pick-me-
up’ of some sort I'll get you fined for serving me
yesterday when I was tight.”
St. Paul, we are told, could convert 300 sinners
|in one day. But, then, he hadn’t to put his hair in
paper, pomatum his side-whiskers, or reply to pewter-
testimonial-service addresses, as most of the apostles
of the present day are bound to do.
A well-known cricketer, who has a thorough
contempt for football as a “ blackfellow’s game,” tried
to kick a ball as he was crossing the park on Saturday.
He applied great force, with faulty precision. He thinks
eucalyptus oil is better than arnica.
A man named South, who has just become en-
titled to a pension of £3OO at the hands of the N.Z.
Government, has written to say that he is willing to
forego £lOO. This is unheard-of generosity. Mr.
South was probably not born in the north.
The circumlocution of legal procedures has a
good effect once in a thousand years. It flowered in
N.Z. the other day, when a fellow charged with forgery,
on hearing four long-winded indictments against him
read, was so indignant that he yelled: “ Why, I only
forged one cheque ! "
The Cumberland Mercury is going in for
bi-metalism. The proprietors have determined to rake
in the coppers twice a week in future. It is to be
Fuller of news than ever, and everyone may be Shaw
it will continue to be Smart, plain-spoken, and inde-
pendent, as heretofore.
The reporters for different papers who accom-
panied the Ministerial party on the Clarence, were
mounted on police horses, the police, meanwhile, riding
screws. It was considered that no one would be so
disrespectful as to start cuttle-duffing or otherwise
require pursuit while Ministers were in the district.
Mr. Edward Jenkins (‘ ‘Qinx’a Baby* ’) contradicts
the rumour that he is going to Canada to edit a news-
giper there. Mr. Jenkins says he would prefer “ Botany
ay " to editing a Canadian newspaper. He probably
did not mean to be complimentary. But what would he
have said had he heard of the Botany Bay libel laws P
More Infirmary outrages. A brick fell from a
building in progress in Elizabeth-street, yesterday,
hitting a passing larrikin on the head. A sympathetic
passer-by took the brick up to the Infirmary, much
injured; but, in the most inhuman way, the authorities
refused to admit it. It subsequently made its way in
through a window.
The other day in San Francisco a man shot
himself, having previously addressed a letter to the
editor of the Chronicle saying what he was about to
do, and enclosing a message for his girl, which he
hoped the editor would deliver “ through the columns
of his valuable paper.” This is as it should be, only he
forgot to send the money for his ad.
The Palmer Chronicle is hard up for news,
and records the illness of a mule, which, it says, “ in
the early days rejoiced in the ownership of a popular
northern butcher, and subsequently carried the for-
tunes of the editor of the Cairns Advertiser (whois a
doctor). It thus appears that while formerly the mule
carried the meat it now carries the butcher.
A Queensland gentleman, writing to a scientific
friend in Sydney, says that at the mouth of the Noosa
River, a little south of Maryborough, eight human
skeletons have been found in a cave, with mathematical
and astronomical instruments and documents. This
information was received from blacks by the writer,
who has not yet had time to verify the statement.
A Biblical quotation bearing upon Victorian
politics. In Numbers xxvi. 44, are found these words :
“Of Jimna the family of Jimnites; of Jesui of the
family of the Jeshites; of Beriah, the family of the
Beriites.” A reference to the next verse shows that
the Beriite family was the largest of the lot. Which
naturally causes one to reflect how history repeats
itself!
They lock the doors on the Northern railway
lines, to prevent the people getting out between the
stations. A double line of rails between West Maitland
and Newcastle is all but complete Station masters
active and obliging fellows—all good chaps, in fact.
Nona of them remember ever having seen paint on the
carriages—though they have all seen it occasionally on
the passengers.
Ebby Ward, M.P. (S.A.), is to start a new paper
in Adelaide— City and Country. We wonder who
started Ebby.
Henry Kendall's got a son.
Well done!
(We can’t breathe out any more of it this week, Henry.
Already "over-set.")
Now that our footballists have been “ stood on
their heads” hy the gum-suckers of Melbourne, their
next concern should be to find out some really good
excuse for their mashing. How would it sound,
for instance, to say that we were trounced simply
because the other crowd had the best men ? This, of
course, would not be very consoling, but it’s the novelty
of the thing we go for.
A bookmaker, who had just lost his wife, took
a trip to San Francisco. On the trip he seemed very
low-spirited, and one day a clergyman, who was among
the passengers and had heard of his bereavement, told
him he should not be down-hearted. “Oh,” replied
the metallician, " It’s all very well for you to tell a
fellow to be cheerful, but there’s not a d man
amongst ye who knows how to play 100 1”
Dr. Brereton, of Shoalhaven, notifies in the M.
and U. Times that he “intends visiting the Milton
district regularly once a month (as far as practicable on
the Saturday nearest full moon).” It looks bad for the
Milton people to have stones in their hats at that par-
ticular time. The genial doctor has not yet explained
whether, in paying court to Luna, he pays special re-
gard to his own condition or to that of his patients.
“ I’m raffling myself ! Thirty members at half-
a-crown. Will you go in?” Such was the singular
request made by a Christchurch man the other day.
“ If you win. I’ll work for you for a week, or I’ll give
you a pound and cry quits," he continued. “ I want to
raise some money to leave the town, and it’s the only
way I can think of,” finished up the applicant. The
plan certainly had the merit of originality. The raffle
paper, it is understood, was filled up.
On board the Liverpool barque Tiger, recently,
thirteen men had to live on a dog five days. They had
lived a long time on the barque before they tried the
bite. It was very awful for thirteen men to have to live
on a dog—especially for the Jog; but it must be remem-
bered that one dog has often eaten thirteen men. For
thirteen men to live on a dog for five days is shocking,
but Napoleon Bonaparte lived on a rock for several
years, and a rock is harder to bite than a dog.
Australia has labored and brought forth another
poet. Here is a chip off him :
" The far-fetched diamond finds its home
Flashing and smouldering in her hair;
For her the seas their pearls reveal;
Art and strange lands her pomp supply
With purple, chrome, and cochineal.
Ochre and lapis lazuli.”
Evidently a jeweller. Nothing to-day, thank you.
A lady correspondent tells us that she knows of
a man, now penniless, who is going to marry on the
strength of a libel action in which he is plaintiff. All
we have to say is that that man will yet declare that it
were better he had never been born. If he only knew
what he’s going to do, he’d wear on the occasion, not a
black frock coat and lavender continuations, but sack-
cloth and ashes; ana the unhappy bride would don
nothing but a bouquet of cabbages and a worn-out sugee
If any one fills his head with the idea that the
proprietors ot the Pitt-street Novelty shop are not
genuine “ Amurrukun” citizens to the back bone he
makes a tall mistake. Last Saturday the wnole of one
window was gorgeously decorated with the Eagle, Stars
and Stripes, or “ goose and gridiron,” whilst the other
was stocked '.o the brim with “ barter.” A neater style
of combining loyalty with business could not be found.
Any other patriots would have gone straight.out for
either flags or dollars—especially dollars, o.olh ~
The story goes that at Queanbeyan, recently, a
rejected lover, after calling together his friends and
getting them to partake of the flowing bowl, went to
the river arrayed in the snowy robes of night, selected
a deep spot, tied some boulders to his splay feet (the
cause of alibis woes), and—was “shtopped by one of the
foorce." Tne fickle one now vows that she has the
greatest contempt for her admirer. If he can’t succeed
in drowning himself why doesn't he resort to rope, or
—like the now historical Melbourne policeman—to rat-
poison ?
Speaking of a debater at the recent “ Humour”
pitch in Pitt-street, a correspondent (alluding to a person
present) says:—“ He remarked to a friend afterwards
that it was enough to Adelar fellow’s brains or grieve
his Harte to Mark how, in spite of all efforts to Twain
—he begged pardon, to train—them differently, people
still continued to A. Ward commendation to such
abominable Billings-gate rubbish.—
“ That is, he might have said these things (for this
is but a rumour).
And so he would, 1 have no doubt, had he been in
the humour."
The what ?
During the address of a prominent Queensland
representative, the other .day, an inquisitive Teuton in
the audience asked, “ What about the assisting of Ger-
man immigrants?” “Oh," replied the statesman,
“ that’s a matter which will command my best atten-
tion, and I hope ere long to see the German immigra-
tion placed on the same footing as the European, and
that one immigrant ship will leave Hamburg direct for
every one of a like kind that leaves Europe.” “Den,"
replied the saur-kraut punisher, “ I yoost vodes mine-
self mit you."
Brother Parker, of the Y.M.C.A., Limited, has
just made the startling discovery that the fact that the
floor of the Great Pyramid measures 61 inches clearly
proves that the union of the Jewish and British nations
will take place alter 1882. This seems to be such an
obvious inference that we wonder why it has never
before been thought of. In a few centuries more,
perhaps, some other savant will, daring the excavation
of Sydney ruins, strike Stubbs’ monument in Bathurst-
street, and start a totally new and improved religion
over that. Anything is strong enough to keep a faith
afloat in these days.
The Morning Penny is “ going it.” Says that
immaculate journal:—“A peculiar charge of assault
came before Messrs. Lester and Goodnche, in the sum-
mons division of the Water Police Court, yesterday,
when Victor Schonberger, Austrian Commissioner to
the Melbourne International Exhibition, was charged
with having, on Jone 22 last, assaulted one Prances Iva
Pane. Mr. Gammon appeared for the defence." When
Forensic Pred read this, he said he didn't see why an
action shouldn't lie if the paper did. But then, on con-
sideration, he came to the conclusion that no action
could lie like Oh, no! yon don’t.
How shall we do it P It is a delicate thing, and
we want to do it otherwise than in a square par. The
fact is, Mr. G. Skelton Yuil, manager for the Orient
Steam Company, has sent us a ton or two of frozen fish,
ex Cuzco. Same, it is needless to say, has gone the way
of all salmon, after cooking. There was cream-cheese,
too; but, no matter. We do not wish to dwell upon mere
items of detail—»«no it’s all over. Suffice it to say, the
samples were lovely. The salmon was luscious, and the
flavour genuine. Ah 1 so different from the lumpy dry
stuff from the tins. And the cheese but let us close
the picture, and go to sleep, and dream until the next
boat comes in.
This comes from the sanctum ot “Bobby”:
“The Bundaberg Mayor’s nest has no occupant. In
the contest lor the election of a Mayor, the six members
of the newly created Municipal Council keep dead-look-
ing each other. They have held two meetings on the
subject, the results of which were precisely the same,
being three to three each time j which, as every school-
boy knows, makes six of the one, and half-a-dozen of
the other. In large municipalities the Mayor is gener-
ally provided with a chain:—the infant Council of
Bundaberg seems desirous to show its modest self-
depreciation by beginning its mayoral preparations
simply with a tie.
The Penny Angus has come out with a leader
on small-pox that should never die. It says:—“ He may
ask himself the broad question whether there was or
was not more small-pox in England before Dr. Jenner’s
prophylactic (!) came into general use than there is
now.” Also: —“The person who has had either measles
or scarletina (sic) once is not very likely to suffer from
them again." Further:—“ Nor is it germane to the
point to show that persons with enfeebled health,
caused by a constant strain upon their systems, or by
living in the open defiance of sanitary laws, have
small-pox a second time." If it isn’t Germane to the
point, what is it ? Not English, surely.
The recent ventilation of President Garfield
affords our debating societies a chance to give the all-
absorbing question as to which was the boss novelist—
Thickens or Dackery—a rest, and to set their giant
strength tojwrestle with this rather perplexing subject
—which is the moat desirable situation for an average
healthy man to fill: that of a Yankee President a
Turkish Sultan, «r a Czar of All the Eussias ? Whether
it is more cheerful, so to speak, to be converted into an
impromptu rifle raloon, to be jumped to death by one of
the,“ fancy," ,or to be carefully broken up into sausage-
meat by the scientific pleasantries of the industrious
Nihilists. An editor’s lot is not an happy one, but we
don’t trade our chair now for the fattest throne in
Christendom.
For the sensational thing .in ads. the Herald
of last week bears away the palm. First we read :
“Wanted a tall young lady as governess." What the
tall young lady is to govern is not stated, but we pre-
sume the advertiser was not Dominic Sonsee. Ad. the.
second reads still more awful:—“ Wanted a young
lady for the Fancy. Apply to E. C. Cree, George-st."
We’d like to hear Larry Foley’s opinion on this matter.
We have lady clerks, lady artisans, and ladv doctors,
and we bear all these things with Christian fortitude,
but when it comes to lady “ bruisers” we step in at
once and lodge our protest. We have no objection to
Mr. Cree’s creating a reasonable sort of novelty, but we
might be married one of those.days, and our fancy’s
“ Fancy" prove too much for us.
At the laying of the foundation stone of a new
public school in the Clarence district, the operator
made a whimsical speech—a better speech in fact than
one generally hears on such occasions. This is some-
what how it went:—“Friends and neighbours, I am
only a plain man (feminine dissent and murmurs of
‘ quite good-looking ’) and I wish you had chosen some-
one else to lay this stone. (Just as if he were a new
calcareous sort of hen). Young folks, learn all you can
while you are young. Learning is light luggage, but
always useful. (This combines the best points of
Martin Tapper and Josh Billings). So let us give three
cheers for school, and pray thit all old differences
may be buried under this stone, and that we neighbours
may stick together like Bricks of the Building."
Charley, a Kanaka on a plantation not far from
Qyrupie, had been converted by his owner—we mean
employer—to the Eoman Catholic faith, and had been
given to understand that it was wicked to eat meat on
Fridays. For three weeks Charley went on bravely
and resisted the temptation to eat tabooed ki-ki. On
the fourth Friday, however, he ingeniously managed
to satisfy, at the same time, his conscience and his
appetite. Putting a piece of steak into the frying-pan
he then took a pannikin ot water and sprinkled the
steak saying, “ I baptise you fish." Che fact that he
was eating meat on Friday was reported by his
brethren to “Master,” who soon came along. The
following colloquy then ensued :—Master : “ How dare
you eat meat on Friday ?” Charley: “Me no eat meat ;
thisnsh." Muster: “It is not, you blackguard, it is
beef.’' Charley : “Oh no; he was beef, but me baptise
him and make him fish.*' Tableau. We fancy we*ve
read somethings like this before.
Cairns (Q.) is a queer place altogether, apart
from the fact that halt the population consists of alii-
gators. The other day a Cairns man, who is the pater-
nal proprietor of twins, being about to remove to the
Mulgrave, determined to take a short cut over the
awful ranges on the Herberton “ road." It struck him
that the steady amble of the Chinaman and the easy
balance of his twin-baskets were precisely the appli.
ances in which nature and art conspired together for
the conveyance of twins over long and rugged distances.
A Chinky was accordingly engaged ‘‘to stow away one
in each basket and accompany the cavalcade." The
idea is well worthy of imitation. It only wants an ex-
tensive increase of twin-results to make the heathen
Chinee become a highly popular character—always
premising that his suspensory pole is a non-conductor
of small-pox. Sings a northern poet:—
“So they hired this poor Chinky in Cairns ;
And the two simultaneous bairns,
Equilibriiously hung,
As on T-springs were swung
Eight over the ranges from Cairns.”
King Henry the Ninth.*
We adore receiving books, especially if they are well
bound, and the leaves cut; but we more especially
adore receiving them when is inscribed thereon “ With
the compliments of the author." Mr. M. J. Keogh’s
pamphlet, which is thus embellished, is a very finely
printed book of some 40pp , and, so far as the me-
chanical portion of the work is concerned, we cannot
speak of it too highly. To Mr. Keogh’s play, however,
we are not able to give much praise, for reasons which
we shall set forth directly, but we consider that it is
entitled to a notice in our columns on account of its
being somewhat of a literary Keoghriosity. Mr. Keogh
is a little bit of a poet, a wee mite of a humorist, and
has in his composition about three grains of satire. The
little humour and satire that he is possessed of, how-
[ ever, are quite lost amidst the cumbrous machinery of
his drama. “ King Henry the Ninth ”is in rhyme, and
instead of confining himself to heroics, with interlarded
songs in lyrical measures, Mr. Keogh has adopted in
the dialogues all the metres he could think of, trom the
eleven syllable gallop to the ordinary octosyllabic
couplet. Sometimes the author writes in trochees,
sometimes in iambics, and sometimes in anapaests. He
is not particular himself, and evidently does not think
the reader ought to be. Curiously enough, the best
thing in the book is the opening soliloquy of Prince
Hooglighan. Here is some of it:—
“ Full twenty summers have I pulled the strings
That moved my puppets in their several spheres ;
Each in his eyry with outspread wings
At all times ready when my will appears;
For I am king in everything but name—
I wield the power, another wears the crown.
Whose complex principles well known to fame
Oft disconcert the knowing ones in town.”
This is not, of course, particularly splendid, but it stands
out from amongst most of the rest in brilliant relief.
To speak by the card so much of the book is mere
jingling drivel, that even a line or two of common sense
seem quite gems in the production. What do our
readers think of this couplet ?
“ Alon : Well, Augustus, these frightful mishaps that
we've met.
Has (sic) so scattered my wits that I’ve not
got them yet,”
We can excuse nonsense, we can excuse indifferent
verse, but we find it very hard to excuse indifferent
grammar. Here is another gem
“ Alon : Demnation and furies seize hold of the carl
He's stuffing the dishes right into the
barrel (sic)."
Mark this brilliant chorus :
“ Oh, I wish I was a fish with a big long tail;
And I wish I was a fish with a gullet like a whale,
I would swim the glorious river
’Till I’d satisfied my liver.
Then I’d build a coral castle in the grand canal."
And this brilliant flight ends it:—
“ That now prevails; and for the nation’s joy.
Arise, a knight, Sir Patrick Molloy.
Send home for Norah, and t'eusure your station.
We make yon Minister of Education."
The author has evidently done his best, but, unfortu-
nately for him, his best is a best of the mildest descrip-
tion. There is, however, one good which emanates
from gentlemen of Mr. Keogh’s mental calibre indulging
in authorship. It benefits trade, for when “fools
rush in where angels fear to tread" the printer invari-
ably reaps a harvest.
• Sydney: H. B. Woods and Co., 13 Bridge-street.
Dr. Ross, M.P.—His Book.
A pamphlet has reached us entitled “ The Philosophy of
Mind and Matter." The author is Dr. Andrew Ross
at present M.P. for Molong, and formerly a great many
other things which we have not time to copy off the
cover. In his dedication, the worthy doctor says :
“ This small pamphlet is respectfully inscribed to the
memory of Martyrs, especially John Brown, Cameron,
and other faithful noble Covenanters, who sacrificed
their life for Civil and Religious Liberty and Faith in
the village of Mnirkirk, Ayrshire, Scotland; the village
in which the writer and author was bom." Well Dr.
Ross is the writer of the book : now who, we wonder
was the author of the village ? John Cameron, we
suspect, to whom the brochure is especially dedicated.
It s a flattering thing to have a book inscribed to one,
but when it’s especially inscribed, why, then, of course
it is especially flattering. We are sorry, therefore, that
John is dead, and hope his surviving relations are sen-
sible of the honour done them. Dr. Ross’s book is
written in prose for the most part, and contains, besides
all he knows of the philosophy of mind and matter, a
number of exciting letters he has written to the
Western Independent and the Dubbo Dispatch. In
addition to this, there is some poetry, though whether
the doctor made this up or it was prescribed for him by
someone else does not appear quite clear. One line only
in all the poems will live, in our opinion, and this is the
one—
“ ’Twas the few faithful ones who with Cameron were
lying.”
This is rather rough on the working men’s candidates,
of course, but, then, perhaps they will forgive the doctor
—more especially as they will not read his book. There
are altogether 55pp. in “ The Philosophy of Mind and
Matter,” so therefore while we cannot deny that there
is in Dr. Ross’s work any amount of matter we must
confess that we could have comfortably done with a
little more mind. The book is well printed by Cun-
ninghame and Co., and will doubtless become popular
—at Molong. *
Iron railway sleepers are being used in Germany.
Modern Greece has five miles of railway, forty
miles of good roadway, and an army of 40,000 men.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
toe month of June: Weekdays, 5959; Sundays, 3974.
The steam power in use throughout the world at
the present time is estimated to represent the daily
working force of 800 millions of men.
The first prize in the Canterbury (N.Z.) Chess
Club tournament has been won by P. F. Jacobson, who
won ten games, lost one, and drew one.
The magnificent Parisian, the last vessel built
for the Allan Steamship Company, is the largest steel
merchant ship afloat, and is only second in size to the
Great Eastern.
Every one should read “ Buried Alive ; or, Ten
Years of Penal Servitude in Siberia.” Bv Fedor Dos-
toyeffsky. Translated from the Russian by Marie von
Thilo; just published by .Longmans.
When the Sultan Abdul Aziz—or, let ns trot it
out again, Abdul as was—died, nineteen foreign phy-
sician certified that he committed suicide by opening
a vein in his arm. And now his murderers have been
convicted.
We are very small people out here after all.
Lord Randolph Churchill, who has introduced a bill to
limit credit, the other day stated that a gentleman of
his acquaintance once owed his greengrocer £14,000.
There are many of the fruiterers of Covent Garden
whose accounts against their customers run to twenty
and even thirty thousand pounds. However, in spite of
all this, it seems that there is one bill which Sir Ran-
dolph will be allowed to run more than twelve months
—and that is his Limitation Bill.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
event a in general.
RACING.
Rockhampton July 6, 7.
Kensington Park (Vic.) July 9.
Hay July 12.
Newcastle (Special) July 12.
Gunnedah July 13.
Clarence River July 13,14.
Deniliquin I July 19, 20.
Maryborough (Q.) July 21, 22.
Peak Downs Turf Club July 21, 22.
V.E.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 23.
Jerilderie Jockey Club Meeting July 27.
Geelong R.G. Winter Meeting July 29.
Hunter River Amateur Turf Club August 1.
Echuca Annual Meeting August 4.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney Tattersall’s August 13.
Gympie August 24, 25.
Hawkeebury R.C. Annual August 25, 27.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8, 10.
Northern Jockey Club September 27, 28.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Canterbury (N Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8, 10, 11.
Murrumbidpee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer maetiug December.
AQUATICS.
White v. Hearn, for Championship of New
Zealand, and £lOO aside... July 9.
C. A. Messenger v. S. Mahalm, £lO July 23.
Amateur Sculling Race. —
Mr. A. Pinlayson’s Trophy July 23.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta July 30.
Boydv. Elliott ; August.
Boyd v. Ross August.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Rush v. Laycock September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
N.S.W, Rowing Association Regatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Melbourne v. East Sydney July 9.
Melbourne v. Sydney July 13.
Melbourne v. East Sydney and Sydney (combd.) July 16.
Intercolonial (Sydney) August.
PEDESTRIANISM,
Oddfellows’ Handicap, Richmond July 16.
Modern High School Athletic Club July 22.
COURSING.
Australian Club (Shifual Plato) July 8.
Victoria Club July 13.
Waterloo Cup July 15.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Victoria Club August 18.
PIGEON PLYING.
Qunnedah Pigeon Match July 15, 16.
Sydney Homing Pigeon Society, All-comers,
Mittagong to Sydney July 23.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Y.R.C. are being asked to remove the dis-
qualification from Mata.
Melbourne’s victory is now explained. The
champion footballer was not there.
Burwood v. Balmain football match at Burwood
resulted in a victory for Balmain by four tries.
During a scrimmage on Saturday, A. C. Logan,
of the Wallaroo team, fractured his collar-bone.
A match has been made between C. A. Messen-
ger and S. Mahaiin for £2O aside ; the race to take place
on July 23.
Carlton, of East Maitland, played the Albion,
at West Maitland, on Saturday. The Albion won by
two goals to nil.
Glebe and St. Leonards football match, at
Camperdown, resulted in favour of the Glebe team by
one try to nothing.
Warhawk and Barber are non-acceptors for the
Port Curtis Handicap and Rockhampton Handicap at
the Rockhampton meeting.
“ Didymus,” writing to a leading London paper,
oilers to bet .£5OO that no amateur in the world can beat
10 l-sth sees, for 100 yards.
Monmouth is “ very good goods” for the Mel-
bourne Derby, with Welcome Jack scratched and
Spinningdftle reported queer.
In a rifle match at Dublin on Saturday, between
teams representing England and Irish respectively, the
English beat the Irish by 33 points.
The Myrtle and Hesperian match fell through,
Myrtle not coming to the mark. Hesperian, Gem, and
plastic are all looking remarkably well.
Lollypop defeated the crack Hopmarket in one
of the Puppy Stake courses, and Linnet bowled him
over in a course for the Woodstock Plate.
The great American trotting stallion arrived in
Sydney on Saturday. He was purchased in America by
Mr. J. J. Miller, the well-known Victorian metallician.
Archer rode Iroquois for the Derby, and re-
ceived a tremendous ovation on returning to scale.
The time was 2m. 50s.
The yachting fleet of Victoria is to be augmented
shortly by the arrival of a handsome auxiliary screw
steam yacht of 350 tons, built for Mr. W. H. Osmond,
of Stawell.
The go-as-you-please tournament at Ballarat
resulted in a fiasco. Edwards and Baker, who were
leading, both gave up before the conclusion of time,
and were hooted.
At the monthly shooting of the Torpedo Eifle
Club, on Saturday, the prize-takers were : —Corporal
Hammond, Ist prize; Sergeant Board, 2nd prize j Cap-
tain Walker, 3rd prize.
No one is inclined to believe that Mr. Lorillard
won £400,000 over the victory of Iroquois. The largest
recorded win from the bookmakers is the £200,000 got
by Mr. Chaplin when Hermit won the Derby.
A good deal of dissatisfaction was expressed
amongst horse owners at the conditions of the East
Maitland Jockey Club programme. The club has since
made the conditions of entrances more liberal.
The cricket match between the Oxford and
Cambridge Universities was concluded on 29th June,
and resulted in a victory for the former by 135 runs.
Oxford scored 131 and 306, Cambridge 179 and 123.
Seven acceptors for the City Handicap, thirteen
for the Club Handicap, and eleven for both Sires’ and
Mares’ Produce Stakes, at the Clarence River Jockey
Club Meeting, to come oil on the 13th and 14th instant.
The Canterbury Jockey Club (N.Z.) have fixed
their Spring Meeting for November 8, 10, and 11. The
handsome sum of £2520 will be given in stakes. En-
tries for the Cup of 600 sovs. are due on the Ist August.
The tug of war at Melbourne was a very one-
sided afiair. The naval reserve men pulled their oppo-
nents over in half a minute. Ends were then changed,
and the reserve men soon pulled their opponents over
the ground.
Over one hundred horsemen attended the last
meet of the Melbourne hounds. Among them were
Prince Lords of Battenburg, and Mr. Carr, of H.M.S.
Inconstant, a lad of not more than 14. The latter rode
excellently.
“ Mr. Horace J. Wildner, of the London Rowing
Club," who it is alleged found out “ Hanlan's secret,”
is a myth. As there is no such name on the club’s list,
“ Mr. Wildner ’’ is doubtless identical with some smart
** Helicon man,”
The cutter yacht Naiad, lately purchased by Mr.
Justice Boucant, while on the way from Melbourne to
Adelaide, was wrecked at Point Addis, between the
Heads and Cape Otway. She sprang a leak and was ran
ashore. The crew were saved.
A rifle match took place on Saturday at the East
Maitland Eifle Range between the Newcastle and Mait-
land Corps, when the latter won by two points. The
conditions were: —Seven shots at 500 and 600 yards
range. Newcastle scored 469 and Maitland 471.
Mr. W. Pitt, the judge at the Coursing meeting,
was thrown from his horse just after the first round of
the Beaten Stakes had been got through. After a rest
and some attention he resumed the judging. Mr. J.
Lee, jun., did the judging for the Kent Brewery Stake.
One of the Glenheads last Saturday threw down
a youngster who was standing near the goal, the latter
sustaining a severe shaking. Footballers must remem-
ber that though the public do trespass the act is not
criminal. The occurrence did not appear to be acci-
dental.
Killarney Races, Saturday.—Killarney Handi-
cap: Speculation 1, Fireball 2, Playfair 3, Galloway
Handicap: Little Dick 1, Dead Finish 2. Flying
Handicap: Waxworks 1, Speculation 2, Little Dick, 3.
Hack Race : Pearly Jane 1. Forced Handicap: Pearly
Jane 1.
At the Waimate races (N.Z.), after Sailor Boy
won the Maiden Race, a well-known Waimate sporting
man, who had evidently won money on the event, was
heard to say to the owner of the horse, “ Come on, old
boy, and have a drink ; you have taken the bailiffs out
of my house.”
On Thursday, 30th ultimo, at East Maitland
racecourse, J. Mayo’s Hypatia and W. Birkenhead’s
Twilight ran half a mile for £25 aside, the former
winning by half a length. J. Farrell’s Darkie and R.
Jurd’s Gleam then ran a mile and a quarter for £lO
aside, when Darkie won easily by two lengths.
At a late meeting of the South Australian
Yacht Club, a letter was read from the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron, asking the co-operation of the club in
an international regatta. It was decided that, although
the club considered such regatta desirable, the distance
was too great to enable them to take an active part.
The really gigantic wager of ,£20,000 to <£loo
was laid last week by the Leviathan fielder, Mr. Joe
Thompson, on the double of Derby and Cup, the taker
selecting the favourite Monmouth for the first event.
It is doubtful whether so large a bet, and at such long
odds, was ever surpassed, or even equalled, by any home
bookmaker.
The quarterly prize shooting of the Windsor
Rifle Club came off on the 29th ultimo —seven shots at
500 and 600 yards, respectively. The following were the
? rize-takers -Private J. Arnold, Ist prize; Private A.
ye, 2nd prize ; Capt. Linsley, 3rd prize and Captain’s
Cup; Colour-sergeant Mortley, 4th prize; Private E.
Cnpitt, sth prize.
Cummings, the great Scottish pedestrian, who
was credited with having run a mile-and-a-half at
Preston Borough Grounds in 6min 43isec, a little while
ago, thereby knocking the previous best (Fleet’s, 6min
50sec) into smithereens, has, it is said, now run 1000
yards in 2min 17sec. This is a good 20 yards better than
Nuttall’s celebrated performance.
Mr. W. Lamb came in at the eleventh hour and
saved the Woodstock meeting from being a comparative
failure. At his suggestion (and wo now realise how
valuable it was) a Beaten Dogs’ Stake for 18 dogs, and a
Kent Brewery Stake for 8 dogs, were added to the pro-
gramme at the last moment, on account of the paucity
of entries for the events previously set down.
From the, as yet meagre, accounts we have
received of the running for the English Derby, we
should say that the favourite, Peregrine, had hard luck,
as the “cannoning” with Geologist might have put
him back a bit. As it was, Iroquois won barely, through
the splendid jockeyship of his rider. Iroquois has
since won another great English prize.
Albert White rows Hearn at Wellington on
July 9, for £lOO aside. The outrigger White will row
in weighs 26ilbs, and was built by himself. Dimen-
sions; Length, 32ft; depth, Siivi. Betting
in Auckland on the match is very even, but if anything.
White is rather the favourite. Hearn is a strong
favourite at Wellington, and it is believed that he will
be heavily backed.
The other day a ring of ten persona at Hokitika
drew The Agent in Fleming’s sweep on the Grand
National. The Agent walked over for the event,
taking therefore the first prize. The members of the
ring hold that they are entitled to the money allotted
for the second and third horses ; while on the other
hand it is contended that first money is all they can
fairly expect. Who is right? The contingency is
curious, and perhaps without precedent.
The Australasian strongly objects to the
proposed lowering of the jumps on the Flemington
steeplechase course. It says there was no crying out
about the height of the timber in the days when Denny
Callanan, Johnson Wakefield, Mr. Mount, poor Lindsay
Gordon, the Messrs. Power, Mr. George Watson, and
such men used to ride. Lowering the fences, it con-
tends, means lowering the prestige of the race.
In our last we announced that Welcome Jack
had not wintered well, and was an uncertain starter for
his Spring engagements. His owners have since
scratched him for the Melbourne Cup and Derby. Some
owners would have deferred the scratching for the sake
of the books ; it is well for backers that their interests
are sometimes consulted by the owners of favourite
horses, and it is our pleasing duty to commend the
Welcome Jack party for their straight-forward action.
The results of the Woodstock meeting of the
New South Wales Coursing Club are as follow ; —Puppy
Stakes : Mr. R. L. Tooth’s Teddiugton, by Bashful Joe
—Dinah. Beaten Stakes: Mr. A. Town’s Money, by
Forest Ranger—Amulet. The Kent Brewery Amateur
Coursing Club Stake : H. O. Halcomb’s Peerless. The
Woodstock Plate : Mr. W. Lamb’s Locket and Linnet,
by Bowler—Qhinni Ghinni, divided, The Metropolitan
Stakes: Mr. R. L. Tooth's Temerity, by Bashful Joe—
Bessie Burleigh.
The Intercolonial Football Match resulted in an
easy victory for Victoria The game was all one-sided,
a goal being kicked for Victoria five minutes after the
game commenced, and the ball was kept near the New
South Wales goal during the whole of the play. Nine
goals and twetny-four behinds were obtained for Vic-
toria. The little marks which our players have as yet
failed to properly accomplish were the prevailing charac-
teristic of the Victorian play, which was shown to be
vastly superior to that of New South Wales.
*1 Billiard matches are now the rage in [Sydney.
Last week, the room at the Oxford was the scene of a
great display between a well-known knight of the cue
and a French gentleman amateur. At Fred. Riley’s
new room at the Supreme Court Hotel, Pat. M'Kenna
and “Gam" Busby have been playing matches of 100
up with alternating success, A match is being arranged
between them for SCO or 700 up for a stake of £25. A
Grand Handicap Tournament, prize valued at £25, is
being arranged at the Coffee Tavern, Pitt-street.
The Amateur Turf Club Races at Caulfield
(Vic ) on Friday were patronised by the Governor, the
Princes, the Earl of Clanwilliam, and officers of the
Squadron, and the party were accorded an enthusiastic
reception. Results are as follow :—Selling Race: Sea
King 1, Buzza 2, Terrible Billy 3. Hurdles : Jack Tar
1, Phoebus 2, Cumberland 3. Gold Cup: Collingwood
1, Pacific 2, Prince Alfred 3. Handicap Flat Race;
Wizard 1, Bar One 2, Alert 3. Steeplechase : Abdallah
1, Lucy 2, EangerS. Nursery Handicap: Collyrie 1,
Junius 2.
The mile race for .£2O aside, between T. O’Con-
nor and A. Everley (better known in pedestrian circles
as “ Albert”), came off on Saturday at Botany, in the
presence of a large number of spectators. L. Pyke had
trained O’Connor, and “ Albert” was under the hands
of T. Strettles. The race was very uninteresting—
O’Connor at once taking the lead and never being asked
to run. He did an extra lap to satisfy all parties, the
time being smin. 40secs. At the start O’Connor was
the favourite at 2 to 1, but the odds increased largely,
with no takers.
Speculation on the Victoria Derby and the Mel-
bourne Cup continues very brisk, and several doubles,
such as the two Monmouths, the two Darebins, the two
Nautilus, &c., have been backed to win fully £25,000.
Mixed doubles have also been well patronised. The
extensive betting on the Melbourne events has caused
the betting on the Hawkesbury and Randwick meetings
to be almost at a standstill. There is no decided
favourite yet for either the Hawkesbury Handicap or
the Metropolitan, 100 to 5 being still freely offered
against anything named.
The football match between the Squadron and
the Wanderers at Melbourne was won by 1 he visitors by
a goal and a touch-down. There was a chapter of acci-
dents, though nothing serious happened. The game
played was, we should imagine, according to the Rugby
rules. As we cultivate that game here more than they
do in Victoria, the Squadron team will have more for-
midable opponents in Sydney The Wallaroo—we beg
pardon, the University—being our champion club, we
hope to see a match arranged between them and the
Squadron on the Association Ground,
Gladstone Races, Wednesday and Thursday,
Jnae 29 and 30. First Day Maiden Plate: Angler 1,
Ply the Garter 2. Ladies' Purse: Regulator 1, Nimrod
2. Town Plate; Boree 1, Nitrogen 2, Myth 3. Second
Day Selling Race. Nimrod 1. Goldfields Handicap:
Boree 1, Nitrogen 2, Regulation 3. Hurry Scurry :
Flirt 1. Turf Club Handicap: Nitrogen 1. Moth 2,
-Boree 3. Members’ Purse: Nitrogen 1, Nimrol 2,
Regulation 3. Consolation Handicap: Moth 1, Care-
less 2, Weatherbit 3. By the way, Nimrod, who came
in second for the Members' Purse, dropped d(iad at the
winning post.
The Mayor’s Cup, intended' for presentation at
the next N.S.W. Rowing Association’s Regatta by Mr.
John Harris, is of sterling silver, and stands 27 inches
high. It is of a very graceful design, and is valued at
£25. The ornamentations, representing wine-leaves and
bunches of grapes, are of frosted silver, delicately
worked ; and on the front is the Municipal coat of
arms. The bottom is a block of frosted silver. Sur-
mounting the cup is the figure of an oarsman, with
scull in hand; and the whole stands upon a pedestal of
black wood. It comes from the atelier (that’s the word)
of Mr. Evan Jones, Hunter-street.
A large concourse of people, including the
Prince and Princess of Wales, was present at the race
for the English Derby on Ist June. The following
horses started:—Culloden, Cumberland, Don Palano
(American), Fortissimo, Portunis, Favourite, Geologist,
Iroquois, Limestone, Marshall, Peregrine, Scobel, St.
Louis, Tristan, Tom Moore, and Voluptuary. Peregrine
was the favourite, 5 to 1 being laid against the winner,
Iroquois, and 14 to 1 against Don Falano. Marshall,
Culloden, and St. Louis took the lead, followed by Don
Falano, Iroquois and Peregrine bringing up the rear.
Peregrine cannoned against Geologist, but led into the
straight, looking an easy winner. Iroquois made a
great rush, which resulted in a splendid finish, the
American horse just winning by half a length, in 2m. 50s.
The winner was tremendously cheered, but the victory
did not seem popular. There was great excitement in
New York, as Iroquois was heavily backed there.
Incident at Punoheatown Races narrated by
“Papier," of the S. and D. News:— “A half-smart,
half-shabby personage, stands on an inverted box, and
gazes earnestly through a field-glass at the horses as
they come along the coarse and clear their jumps.
Presently he is heard addressing his companion. ‘ See,
he's going to do it, after all! Pack up them traps.
Bill, and look sharp about it. Hurry, now! Be quick,
and get ’em together, or it ’ll be too late! Look how
he’s going—he’s got it all his own way. Begorra I he’ll
win in a canter, after all—the brute! Lame, is ho ? I
wish I was as sound, and it’s not long a mile would be
taking me! Come, now, or I shan’t wait for you.
Ah !1 ! he's down! That’s well. Sure, now, it’s all
right, but it’s desperate hot it’s made me.’ What were
the precise odds against backers of the ‘ baste ’ getting
their money from the observant pair if the * baste ’ had
disappointed them and won has not been calculated.’’
The Association Ground was well patronised on
Saturday, on the occasion of the losg-talked-of match
between the University and Wallaroo Football Clubs.
The contest was very close and exciting, and resulted,
after the best match of the season, in a victory for the
University by two touch-downs. Shortly before half-
time a goal was cleverly obtained for University. On
play being resumed the Wallaroos tried hard to gain
their prestige, and at last succeeded, rather luckily, in
a touch-down, olf which Birkett kicked an easy goal.
The fast play of the "'Varsity’’ men seemed to tire
their heavy opponents, and the ball was kept well down
towards the Wallaroo goal. The ’’’Varsitys’’ secured
two touch-downs, off which, however, it was almost
impossible to kick goals. The game was so well played
that there was a noticeable absence of individual per-
formances, and there were few opportunities for clever
runs. The Wallaroo quarter-backs played a go6d deal
oif-side, and the captain indulged in a few Irish kicks
during the game. The “’Varsity" men seemed to be
favourites with the spectators, who loudly applauded
the exploits of the winners.
The sculling match in light skiffs for .£25 a-side,
between John C. Laycock and George Solomon, came
off on Saturday, and resulted in a comfortable victory
for Solomon by about 15 seconds. The course was
from Charity Point to the Brothers (three miles and
330 yards). Solomon was the favourite at 6t04 at the
start. Both men got off, by mutual consent, at a good
pace, but Solomon immediately forged ahead, and was
about half a dozen lengths ahead at the first mile,
which was done in 6m. 50s. He maintained his lead
throughout, accomplishing the distance in 23m. 495.
In fact, Solomon won just as he pleased. Laycock
pulled gamely enough, but. the easy way in which his
pretensions were disposed of amply justified the
opinion of Elias Laycock, who before the start laid
against his brother, and told him he had no business to
try to row Solomon in anything but outriggers. Even
Elias, it appears, would not care about pulling either
Solomon or Reynolds in skiffs. Mr. James Hobson
acted as umpire; Mr. F. Punch as stakeholder, and
Mr. Tom Mulhall as judge. The stakes were paid over
at F, Punch’s on Saturday night.
A N.Z. writer puts the “ Hanlan’s Secret ”
question thus : The utilisation of the sliding seat as a
motor otherwise than as giving extra power to the
sculler is so feasible, that it is a wonder it has not been
thought of before. My idea is that the slide has been’
used as a motor for driving a small concealed turbine
inside the shell of the boat, the slide being connected
by a wooden rod attached to a small crank shaft, with a
fly-wheel attached, working horizontally to throw it past
the centre. This upright shaft is geared to the turbine
in a way to give it great speed, taking the water by its
action through the pipe passing through the bottom of
the boat, and forcing it out behind, below the surface.
This has been done with considerable effect upon large
vessels experimentally; but I never heard of its being
done on a small scale, a thing of pasy accomplishment
by an ingenious tradesman ; and so certain am I of its
effect that I would undertake to propel a small boat of
the kind, without the use of sculls, using only my hands
to steady myself on the seat of the slider, and my heels
on the stretcher. The return action is assisted by stout
indiarubber tension springs, so as to draw the same
back again into its normal position. The whole of the
apparatus could be placed in a wager boat so as to be
out of sight and undiscernible except upon strict
scrutiny.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The N.Z. horse Pinfire, said to be one of the
gamest that ever looked through a bridle, has died from
the rupture of an intestine. He was owned by Mason
and Yallance The following first-class mares, pur-
chased by Sir Hercules Robinson for the Auckland Stud
Company, have been shipped on board the Dalcomy for
Auckland: Atalantis, Madcap, and Rosette.
Rosette is out of Rouge Rose, the dam of the famous
Bend Or; Bergere is the dam of Beauchamp 11...... At a
meeting of Auckland footballers it was agreed te assist
in forming a N.Z. team to visit Sydney. It was sug-
gested the team should also visit Melbourne, Adelaide,
and other towns of importance The colts purchased
some months ago by the N.Z. sports, Messrs. Mason
and Yallance, by Tubal Cain, from Seashell and De-
bentnre, have been named respectively Armourer and
Coupon A race between two local horses. Half-caste
and Septimus, took place at Nelson, N.Z., for £lOO
a-side, the latter winning by half a head. £lOOO
changed bands on the result The horses in the last
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase had to take thirty-
one jumps The Canterbury Coursing Club’s Publi-
can’s Cup was won by Mr. C. Adkin’s r d Matchem. I y
Regent—Butterfly, who beat Mr. P. Butler’s w d Van
Dieman, by My Fancy—Sea Gem, in the final course
A seven-mile walking match, for £35 a-side, lately took
El ace at Timara, N.Z., between J. Launy and H.
ambert, the latter winning by 50 yards. Time,
58 min. 13 sec.; the last mile being done in 7:30. The
ground was soaked and heavy An Indian trader and
a Sydney bookmaker were the most prominent of
Mata’s supporters for the Adelaide Cup when he stood
at 100 to 15. A New Zealander backed him later on to
win several hundreds at 100ds to 30. A week before the
races he was first favourite at 3to X; Progress standing
sto 1.. The Canterbury stud-horse Perkin Warbeck
died at Waioreki, N.Z. He was bred by Lord Zetland
in 1872, and was by Adventurer—Bumblekite, by Volti-
? eur Sweetbrinr, by Stockwell. He was imported to
anterbury so recently as 1878 by Mr. A. Cardale
A hurdle match for £lOO has been arranged to come off
on July 19 at Auckland, N-Z., between Mr. Rutherford’s
Sportsman and Mr. Rowlston’s Bide-a-Wee Several
Aucklanders took long shots about Piscatorius for tbe
Melbourne Cup on the strength of reports that he
would be entered for that race, but they burnt their
fingers, Mr. Walters not having nominated his horse
Mr. Fred Pox, well-known in racing circles as a book-
maker, and as the owner of the hurdleracer Dutchman,
is dead Walker, of the Sydney Football Club, kicks
round a corner, and Brodie, the captain of tho
Wallaroos, adopts the Tipperary style of kicking
straight up in the air The Mayor’s Cup, together
with two other smaller cups to be presented to the be?t
shots in the Cadet Corps at the next Rifle Association
meeting, are on view at Mr. Evan Jones’ establishment.
A preliminary deposit has been paid with a view to
matching a Hamilton (Vic.) man to rnn a mile against
O’Brien. The Spectator says that the new flyer has
broken 4.19 Corrigan rode Jack Tar in the Hurdle
Race at Caulfield on Friday. In the Steeplechase, the
rider of Pirate fell and was injured Pratt’s slipping
at the Woodstock Conrsing meeting was considered to
be very satisfactory...... While in Adelaide Mr. B E.
Jones pencilled no less than £20,000 a piece against tho
three South Australian horses for the Cup. £25 000 has
been booked in Melbourne against Nautilus for the
Derby He still continues to swim in the surf at
Bondi, notwithstanding his friends’ repeated warnings
of the probable proximity of Mr. Shark. He is a plucky
swimmer—certainly, a lucky one The Wallaroos
played their best team on Saturday, and the University
was deprived of the services of two of its best men,
who have been rusticating since the exam That
well-known old "sport,” Barney Winters, has died
iu Tasmania A double on tho Metropolitan and Cup
is advertised. It is proposed to divide amongst sub.
scribers £9840, these figures representing the exact
number of doubles which can be put together from the
horses engaged in the two most important handicaps of
the year A ferry-boat race, distance 400 yards, with
the stream, took place at Rockhampton the other day,
between Messrs. H. Macdermott and T. H. Wilkinsoii.
The latter won easily. Time, 5 minutes ! Spencer,
of Herberton, and Winniett, of Cairns, run 150 yards
shortly for £2O a-side In a rifle match at Gooktowu,
between ten men of H.M.S. Sandfly and a team from
the local gun club, the tars won by 320 to 288 The
Graham Brothers lost a flue imported stallion at Wood-
yille last Saturday—value, 400 guineas Goldsborongh
is in fine trim, at Tocal, as is also The Drummer, who
has been secured for the district. Old Kelpie termi-
nates his services this year.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Sankey was in New York in May last.
Mrs. Hampson, the revivalist, is lecturing in
Invercargill, N.Z.
A brother of Charles Bradlaugh ! has been hold-
ing evangelistic meetings at Bristol.
The Mormon missionary, Sorensen, in N.Z., is
labouring to convert the Maoris to his faith.
At the request of a number of citizens the
Auckland Free Library has been opened on Sundays.
The Dunedin Presbytery has supported the call
to Dunedin of the Eev. Mr. Inglis, of Ballarat lecturing
fame.
The will of the late Rev. Joseph Waterhouse, a
victim of the Tararua disaster, has been sworn under
£877 19s. lid.
The 382,920 Congregationalists in the United
States gave last year for their religious work an average
of £2 per head.
It has been decided that every minister must i.n
future actually sign the formularies of the Presbyterian
Church, and not merely promise to do so when asked.
The Maori prophet, Te Whiti, settles doctri at
points off-hand. At the Parihaka meetingon June 17*h
he said that “ The Lord was of course the cause of all
evil."
Mr. Latty gives religious instruction in the
schools in the Camden district. He has kept his own
horse, ridden 116 miles a week, and been paid £65 per
annum.
“ Anglioanus,” in the Australian Church-
man, finds fault with Canon Moreton for being present
at the meeting of the Bible Society in Loudon, co.
operating with sectarians.
Henry Ward Beecher was arrested at Baltimore,
U.S., on May 4, at the instance of the Agricultural
Society of West Maryland, for breaking a contract two
years ago to deliver a lecture before them.
While the Jewish Rabbi, Mr. Goldstein was, at
Otahuhu, N.Z., killing a sheep in the orthodox way, for
the use of his congregation, the knife glanced and laid
open the face of a Gentile who was helping.
Dr. Zachary Bary maintains that the function
of a minister in marrying is beyond the influence of
Bishop or Synod. He says it is competent to celebrate
marriage in private houses. Marriage is valid without
any religions ceremony.
There are thirty-eight Roman Catholic noblemen'
with seats in the House of Lords, and feventeen with-
out seats j forty-seven Roman Catholic baronets, six
Roman Catholic Privy Councillors, and flfty-flro mem-
bers of the House of Commons.
So much bronze money has been received at the
offertories in England since the use of bags instead of
plates, that a distinguished divine chose for his text,
“ Alexander the coppersmith hath done me much harm,”
which recalls Dean Swift’s pithy charity sermon.
Mr. Sorensen, the Mormon Elder, recently
visited Parihaka (N.Z ),and distributed tracts, some of
which were read and others destroyed. He was re-
fused a hearing. He then prophesied the fall of To
Whiti’s influence, and the dispersion of his foliowers.
Professor Fraser, of Auckland, thinks that th;»
passage in Genesis,' “Let us make man in our own.
image,” is still in process of fulfilment. The proeess of
creation, he contends, is still going on, and man is, ago
by age, gradually attaining a closer resemblance to tho
Creator.
A French paper gives a list of the Catholic re-
ligious orders in France living under the vow of poverty
with the value of their possessions in real estate. Thu
Jesuits head the list with 42,000,000 francs, the Chris-
tian Brothers have property worth 31,000,000, the grand
total being 321,000,000.
An excellent recipe for making an infidel: Train
up a child to look upon Sunday as a day of frigid aus-
terity, force it to listen upon that day to three dry
sermons which it cannot possibly understand ; make
hymn-singing and scripture learning a toil, and you are
rearing a very promising young infidel.
Mr. Noble, a big temperance man, has been in-
terviewing Cetewayo, and worked on His ex-Majesty'»
feelings to such an extent that Cetewayo was quite ex-
ercised in mind about this temperance business, and
wanted to know whether the authorities would, instead
of gin, let him have ginger-beer and the balance in cash.
A Northern township, many miles above Mait-
land, has the champion parson. He runs a church and
does a big business in the stock markets at the same
time. He beats the devil himself—that is, of course,
in respect to his church. He cures beef andemet
souls. It is only about the beef, however, that any.
! hing definite is known.
A C. of E. temperance and total abstinence
society has been started in Queanbeyan, At the first
meeting it was noticeable that no one went in for totul
abstinence. Some said they had slight affections of the
heart and had been ordered to take a glass of whisl v
and soda before going to bed—to say nothing of several
during the day. The upshot of the affair will probably
be the placing of a bottle of whisky and tumblers on
the chairman’s table for the use of members.
In connection with the Christchurch Presbytery
a few weeks ago a novel event took place, namely, the
reception of a minister and his entire congregation
from another denomination. This took place in ihe
Ashbourne Congregational Church. It was exploited
that the pastor, the Eev. S. Slocombe, having intimated
his intention of leaving the Congregational for the
Presbyterian connection, the whole of his congregation
had also desired to make a similar change.


Tailors, Drape
T
HOMPSON a:
DENISON HO
358, 360, 362, Georf
OPENING NEW
for
WINTER SEA
EVERY DAY DURING 1
FIRST GENERAI
of
NOVELTIE
in
FANCY DRE£
FOR THE WINTER
AN IMMENSE VARIETY T(
FRENCH CASHMERE CAN
DOVER HOMESPUN IND
ELASTIC SIEGE ANG
KASGHER CASHMERE JER
BTOCKIN GETTE VAL
AND A LARGE ASSORTM
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.
oaßes of ver;
ERY, somet
handsome, d
bouses in Loi
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPA
SILK, Rich
to 24 inch wi<
4s 6d, 5s 6d,
dinary value
BLACK SATI
BROCADES
SILKS, in a \
black sati:
inches wide,
6s lid, 7s 6d,
worn, and s
for wear, ant
BLACK
NAUCUNIUM
every yard s
BLACK SATI
inches and 1
3s lid, 4s 6t
are light and
under usua
SILK VELI
evexy shade
and Brocade
Floral Deaig:
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPA
OPENED a
MENT of
LACES in e
imitation, Er
Ruffling, Me
Cuffs, Colla
Lace Ties
Spanish Lact
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS
FROM DEE
be no dece]
washed. Li
Sheetings gc
makes. Pric
to Is lid; 8C
inch. Is 6d tc
to 3s. Amer
& Horrooks’
QUILTS, frt
prices. Col
QUILTS, 2i
COVERS at i
the yard, 27 £
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINE
DEPART ME
been our stu
this class o
character. I
year after y<
of FIEST-CI
are now shoi
ment of of L
NAPKINS, 1
Damask. T 1
every size, ai
for clieapnei
colony. We
MASK CLO
425; 5-8 NAI
3-4 NAPKi:
29s 6dj L
round or squi
DAMASK. 5
BLEACHED
from Is 9d t<
SHEETINGS
PILLOW LI
wide ; WI
TOWELS, ft
cording to s
ISH TOWEI
Tailors, Drape:
161
KING STREI
(Near Tramwa
MADAME WEI'
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESS
cut in different sizes for Lad
nished with illustrations and
up. Sold at prices ranging fi
styles monthly in WEIGB
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by
annum, post free. Catalog
Patterns sent to any part of t
of price and measure. Postag
ADDRESS;
MADAME WE
161 KING STR]
SYDNEY.
JJ AYE Y 0 1
TO
R. MORPE
233 Pitt Sti
Jg LISE’S PAPER Ct
All communications to hi
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET
Six doors from Geor
Orders for Patterns cannot b«
paid. Our cut-out Paper Pattei
style, cut, and finish, being model!
Fashions, and are always sent
receipt of stamps or money order.
“XT IS A WELL-KNCT\
-1- for Household or Fam
Hordern’s” Old-Established anc
porium on the Brickfield H ' h
for Value, Variety, or Extent of !
NEW and BEAUTIFUL QC
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES
Business Ann our
LjLEGAX.J
HORTER, PITZGERAL:
1 SOLICITO
69 CASTLEREAQH STRI
and
MACQUARIE STEER 1
Mr. Shorter, Notar;
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M.
SOLICITOR, has c
w
practice of his profession, t
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office,
MAC
PORTRAIT PA
225 BOURKE STREET, WO
I)
STANICH, the emii
returned from his ton
and will commence th
fession, in Sydney, i
days.
AND BE
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA
HAY STREET, HAY
TEA, Is per
Other articles equally ct
ftsw.sl *
Tailors, Drapers, ftc.
INTEE GOODS.
We have at present a nice supply of the following
seasonable goods:—
Girl’s Waterproofs and Long Jackets
ii Hosiery, Gloves and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Long Jackets and Waterproofs
Ladies’ Skirts—Felt, Alpacca, & Satin Quilted
Ladies’ Hosiery, Gloves, and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Lined Kid Gloves—Fur tops with Spring
Our own Registered Glove
2 Button 4 Button 6 Button
In the Shop 2/9 3/9 4/9
Posted 3/- 4/- 5/-
JOHN B. TOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
Business Armour
I HAVE this day commen
Stock and Share Broker, ai
undertake any commissions eith
chase of shares that may be entn
References :
Hon. S. D. Gordon,
Hon. E. Flood, M.I
Hon. L. W. Levy, ]
Bichard Jones, Esq
Office: 77 Pitt-sl
D A
VI D M
14, Hunter-street, S
SADDLER AND HARN:
By special appoint
To his Royal Highness the Dul
Excellency the Eight Hon.
His Excellency Sir Hercules
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of New*
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentle
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 187<
ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND AI
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to an;
much higher pri
A.
724 GEORGE S
HAYMARKEI
G. C H U R C
147 FORK STR
Opposite the Marl
IMPORTER AND MANUFJ
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE I]
for Liverpool and Black Hon
Choicest Sage and Majoram on h
680,000 AMERICAN SK
Just arrived, all s;
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sai
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
N O W L A JS
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NARRJ
QUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY for WEE WAA,
GETT, MILLIE, and MOREE.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY ai
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO., I
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, SEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTEENS,
DIEEGT from the MANUFACTUEEES.
PASAIONABLB
and
PIEST-CLASS GAEMENTS
TO OEDEE.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
JJLANKETS.
"FIRST SHIPMENT OF
now opened
EDWARD HORI
668 BRICKFIELD Hi
. The BEST VALUE ever re
liaa market. SNOW WHITE
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth
“ Competition d
MEBICAN CUT PA
MADAME DEM
Perfect Fitt
Newest styles every mail fron
Full directions and illustrations
MADAME DEMOREST’S pu
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, g
MISS LOUISA
87 Kino Street, Sydney (two (
and
28 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-
O. E O. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CABI
3 BRIDGE STEEE
late
CUTTER TO E. U
Begs to inform his friends and
opened the above premise
gentlemen who wish to havi
manship, <te., at a low price
Gentlemen requiring this with 1
should give me a trial.
Country orders prompt
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM
R. C. HA
FASHION A
TAILORING ESTd
127 KING ST:
Cannot Cannot
Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, a
To effectually stop the eitor
tised in the way of clothing 1
pure West of England and Scot*
In Five-button sac pattern
Canadian Tweed Suits, 1
Homespun Tweed Suits,
West of England, Tweei
TROUSERS. TROUSEI
West of England Tweed Trousei
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Ordt
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Orde
N.B.—Patterns, with self-mec
post free to aU parts of the ooloi
Note the Add


B
OBEET BUTC:
(Late William Lc
WINE AND SPIRIT MS
534 GEORGE STR
OPPOSITE TO'WN HALI
Country Orders Receive Fri
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAI
AND CASE,
AGENT- Qt EORG]
BRIDGE STREET CH
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs t
that owing to the increasing dema
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATE!
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be reta ;
WINES IN LARGE BULK an
TRADE.
•ST Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of th
io act in conjunction with Mr
Sydney, he feels confident that, w
the above-named two experien
favours will be attended to with 1
tude.
Royal exchange d
KING & GEORGE S'
A. A. WEBB
late caterer to H.R.H. the Prince
PROPRIETOR OP THE A]
Begs to intimate that he is
THE BEST TABLE D'HOT]
From 12 to 3 p.m. fo
The best INDIAN CURRY, by (
the premises. Suppers ready, hot
12 p.m. Separate room for lac
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant
Your patronage is respectfully sc
A. A. WEI
ROYAL EXCHANGE DIN
King and George street
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com
UNCOLOURED T
and is made up into 11b and half It
Hotels, &o
The compagnq
CAFE AND CATERING C(
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s REST
IS NOW OPEJ
The Company have secured th
Harrietts, late chdf de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinnei
Three hours notice required for pr
The spacious rooms of Messrs
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30,1880.
lOMPAGNONI PALACE <
serve up in their bes
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLC
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTE IS NATUR
Patrons of our Theatres and Coi
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAQNONI'S, oppositi
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Catering
315 GEORGE STB
(late Harris’ Cafe, opposite Pea;
A superior CAFE and RESTAURj
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
and for
• Gentlemen accompanied 1
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE I
Birthday Cakes, Christening Ca
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest <
GUARANTEED that no daugero
or ingredient of any kind injurious
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and mauagemt
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings,
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demo
Civil and attentive waiters alwayi
OHAS. R. g
MANAGER.
HOTEL DE FRj
78 & 80 CASTLEREA(
Opposite Theatre B
Hotels, &c.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
Is PEE BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cockbum’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
YF.
-
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The Purest Stimulant
WOR^S
Tho BEST ALE and STOU'
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEP.
MERCHANTS
YIRGOE, SOnTaND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
$
SljiiOBNf;
mma 11
imownM
It is of the utmost importance i
bottle should be carefully cotupar
are being imported into New S(
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve:
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISK!
other brands, when they will fin
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON,"AND
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND
(Late Collins and E
CRATED W
AND
CORDIAL MANUFAC
438 HARRIS STREE
First Prize, International Ex
for Soda Wate
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Len
Ginger Beer, &
CORDIALS OP ALL
The Trade supplied with promp
NOTE THE ADDR
BOSS AND C
F.
438 HARRIS STREET,
MARTIN
AUSTRALIAN WINE 1!
AND BEER EOT
105 PITT STRE
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42a
The Name of M. MOSB & CO
every Genuine Bottle,
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now bo obtained of
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
-7
&
p
n
'•j ’■■■
£
q
a
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PTTKITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Fie not the clearness or condition alone of Bui) Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
55
ADC MAR
g 0 A E’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
S T O U» T
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
•nd CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J B. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Try h. bookings & co.’s
Pure Old Australian Wines.
PITT STREET, Opposite City Bake.
S^sa*.
K
■JJNION LOAN AND DISCOI
OFFICES : 760 GEOEQE STEP
3 doors from A. Hordern s
Hours —9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PEI
security, payable by instalments, as
£lO by weekly instalments of
15
20 ....
25
30-
50
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICI
To borrowers not able to transact 1
day, the offices will be open Monday
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEOEGE STEEET, fl
3 doors from A. Hordern i


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Josephine D’Orme, Countess de Caroli, died in
<be odour of sanctity and capacity of housekeeper the
other day. Her early occupation was vocalist and dan-
seme upon the the operatic stage. Having the misfor-
tune to have one of her legs amputated, she retired
from married and operatiolife to the seclusion of chronic
alcoholism. She drank fluently in six modern lan-
guages....... The Edouins have been playing "Robinson
Crusoe " at the Baldwin, ‘Brisco. Says the Argonaut
critic: —“ Edouln and Krugar ore a host in themselves.
Bnt alasl the once fine figure of Alice Atherton is be-
coming matronly, and even the Crusoe costume dees
not set her off so trimly as of yore. She wears the wil-
low now, whiie the palm is borne by Miss Lilian
Russell, who is, i’ faith, a shapely lass. But, fairy
Lilian, a word in thine ear—a hole thy hosen had, what
time 1 saw thee. These same hosen, which were of light
blue, had been darned with blue of a darker shade, as
was apparent to the glassed eye. Limbs so dainty, hosen
so azure, will ever be scanned with attentive eye of
hsldhead, Lilian, ns eke of callow youth; darn dis-
creeetly, then, and choose thy colours wisely Dr.
C.irr, the mesmerist, is, a correspondent tells
ns, now living in Guunedab Walter Reynolds
has succeeded in engaging the Theatre Royal,
H*bart, for the ensuing summer season, com-
m ucing on Boxing night Mille. de Ghyka, the dash-
ing circus rider who died at Paris recently of a com-
plicated fracture of the left leg, caused by her horse
tailing on her at the Hippodrome, was married to a
Russian count, and rode in public in order to displease
her husband, and force him to obtain a divorce. The
young woman died on a plain little hospital bed, with
her fingers covered with rings, and in her ears and on
her neck the magnificent jewels which she wore at the
moment of her terrible fall The Lydia Howarde
Company are being sued in the name of Gilbert and
Sullivan for £lOOO damages on account of the
unauthorized performance of “ H.M.B. Pinafore."
A new Public Hall, capable of holding eleven hundred
persons, is to be erected in Christchurch The
company taken to N.Z by Mr. P. Lyons, late Cole’s
agent, is as follows: —Miss Nina Tulloch, Miss Emily
Fox, Sam M'Lean, and Salvator Parlato (late of
M Lean's Troubadours), Miss Amy Horton. Mr. Bart-
lett, the Wyburd Brothers, Miss Leon, Miss Annie
Lyons, and Misses‘Hepburn and Paron. The tronpe,
who will he known as “The Tourists, or Pleasure
Party," open at the Queen's, Dunedin, ou 12th July.
After touring N Z. they will goon to India via Qalle
and Ceylon A gum-digger named John Eyan lately
died in Auckland (N.Z.) hospital. He had in his time
played many parts. Five or six years ago he was a bare-
back circus equestrian, and one of the acknowledged
stars of Barton’s troupe, wherein his feat of riding five
or six horses at once used to command the plaudits of
enthusiastic audiences. He, unfortunately, led an
irregular life, and at length he lost his situation. The
end was gum-digging and typhoid fever. The only
friend who made any inquiry after him was a woman
who had formerly been a performer at the same circus,
and for whose child “ poor Jack” had acted as godfather
A number of Auckland “ young bloods ” are “ soft”
on the Juvenile Pinafore Co. On Sunday evening, tea
and a, soiree were given, but while the latter was pro-
ceeding the police interfered Dick Thatcher always
carries an English goldfinch with him. All the
company, their luggage, and his own traps—the inevit-
able case of shells excepted—can go to Jericho until
"Smudge," the goldfinch, is aoc >mmoiated The
Auckland Observer—or, rather, Dick T.—says Carden
is the most popular actor that ever visited Sydney
Horry Sefton, Carden’s heavy man, fought all through
the last Maori war Lachlan M'Gowan comes into
independent circumstances this year in a highly praise-
worthy manner. Some years ago he insured to receive a
certain sum ou attaining a certain age—ropes wouldn’t
drag from our G ifilths’ safe of a breast the age—and
this year he attains i f . At times it was like drawing
eye-teeth to pay the instalments, but by the aid of his
admirable wife, Lachie never failed. Here is a lesson
for the profession. Prom the London Era :—“ Vis-
count Waiter Munroe, Comedian, and-Prince of Terpsi-
chore, Saunders’s Varieties, Liverpool. Just concluded
Hemfrey’s, Preston. My benefit biggest since the
opening by £3 10s. 4d. Is that good enough P
On the stafte forty-five and fifty minutes every even-
ing. Splendid posters. Agent, T. Holmes."
Grattan Riggs had a " ben." in Dunedin De Vivo
takes a concert company to N.Z., which will include
Mdlles. Boema, Palmer, and others Baker and
Earron, writing to a Christchurch (N.Z.) friend from
America, state that they are doing a big business.
They visit Australia shortly, and let us hope with some-
thin? new in the be-lud and gunpowder line Band-
mann lost a lot of money in Auckland Haselmayer
and wife are visiting the country districts in Auckland,
N.Z Simonsen intends revisiting N.Z. in twelve
months' time, so it is said Signor Tamburini (a
familiar name) is doing the back blocks in N.Z No
N.Z. town, at present, can properly support two shows
at once " Billee Taylor" is a great success in the
English provinces Still another one I A New York
man has written a drama in which the heroine poisons
six men, stabs another, shoots her lover, cuts the
throat of her own babe, and then hangs herself to a
parlour chandelier An Auckland journal states that
Louise Beaudet, not yet 20 years of age, receives
£2O a week, a large portion of which she sends home to
her widow mother, a Spaniard. Her father at one
time was Mayor of South Boston. The same authority
also says that the great Herr B. and Louise B. are
total abstainers. Outside they drink lemonade and
water, and between the. acts take Liebeg extract of
meatl Ahem I .Saturday afternoon concerts are be-
ing held in Dunedin, N.Z., with Herr Beno Scherek as
musical director. Paladini and the Simon’sens were
among the artists at the first of the series M'Cabe
signed a 12 months’ engagement for Australia, and
opens at Sydney in October A Mammoth Gift Show,
with the usual “ Wizard of the East" and ventrilo-
quism, has been giving Timaru (N.Z.) a treat
The "little man from America," J. J, Wallace, shone
forth at the Princess Theatre, Dunedin (N.Z ), lately in
the new drama (so the ad. says), “ Queen’s Evidence."
Theo. Hamilton appeared at Dunedin in a new five-
act comedy-drama 11 Self; or Melbourne To-day,” TheO.
impersonating tho oldest settler in Victoria. Wo won-
der what the costume was In his last effusion Walter
Reynolds forgot to tell us how much money he lifted
with the kids playing “ Pinafore” in Auckland. Rumour
hath it that Pollard and he cleared a “ theu.” the first
night The Cardens drew good houses at Wellington
(N.Z.) The Auckland Choral Society are rehearsing
"Elijah" under Herr Carl Schmidt’s direction At last
accounts Mrs. Walter Hill was about to take a “ ben.”
at Christchurch, previous to leaving N.Z. for Australia.
Thatcher is writing a new burlesque, entitled “ Col-
lect, or the Too True Trifling Telegram.” We may also
mention that Richmond is at present doing a little de-
scriptive for the Auckland Observer The imported
Nautch girls who lately visited the States were wholly
lacking in the beauty, grace and freedom of manner
which travellers had ascribed to them. A troupe
of imitation Nautch dancers, handsome xnulat-
toes, however, satisfied the public demand
Signor Morley plays Frederick (and Hydes the police-
man in Carey’s N.Z. " Pirates of Penzance ’’ company.
Miss Leaf is also in the cast Dr. Simms, the Ameri-
can physiognomist, is in Auckland, and speaks well of
New Zealanders and their country. They have treated
him right well everywhere. He is about to visit Sydney.
The production of " Les Cloches de Corneville ” by
Towle’s amateur company ran ten nights at Christ-
church (N.Z.), to large houses. Mr. Towle was pre-
sented with a silver-mounted baton on the last evening.
He has since been offered £3OO to take the company to
Dunedin for a week, and £2OO a week to tour the
colony The Paris Charivari recently had a bur-
lesque of the poisoning scene in " Luoretia Borgia."
She rises and says, “ My lords, that ham was American
—and you are all trichinsed men 1" Harry Sefton
advertises in London as under Harry Sefton, the
Original Dancing Spider (title registered), great success
at the Alhambra, Bristol. Sefton’s new specialise, ‘l’m
what you call a fascinating man.’ Sefton is a father. Con-
tinental June. No vacant dates. Still on the warpath.”
J. J Kennedy played Limber Tim; Theo. Hamilton
Sandy Asal; Grattan Riggs, The Judge, in the
" Danites” at Dunedin the other week Theatrical
performances are now prohibited in Cincinnati on
Sundays The impresario, M. Strakosoh, who was so
severely burnt at Nice, is the man who first of all dis-
covered Patti. She was then a little girl in a village in
America; he heard her sing by accident, took charge
of her, brought her up, had her taught, and then
brought her out The ballet dress in "Olivette,” at
the Fifth Avenue, consists simply of a skin-close
Jersey and a pair of silk tights, with a narrow sash
covering the junction across the hips. A correspondent I
says—“ I have never before seen anything so awfully
awful." By the way, it will interest all ultra-good
people to learn that “Olivette” is now in rehearsal
at the Sydney Royal H. J. Byron’s new comedy at
the London Vaudeville will be called “Punch." David
James will be back again to assist in giving this a stir.
Of course, in “Punch" there will be a good many of
Byron's Judy sprees At London, McCullough’s
“Othello" is less liked than his “Virginius," but he
continues to draw good houses. The Booth-Irving
combination attracts overflowing houses nightly. A
prolongation of the season is promised in June
Adelina Patti has after all decided to visit the States
in October, on a concert tour. Of course, there is yet
plenty of time for her to change her mind; but when
the mail left the probabilities were in favour of the
American tour /Emma H mson has been engaged to
play the leading soprano part in Andriau’s operetta
“La Mascotte," at the Bijou Theatre, N.Y George
Fawcett Rowe is playing at the Fifth Avenue Theatre,
N.Y We read in an American paper that “ Mme.
Anna Bishop, who is seventy years old, is singing in
Boston." The N.Y. Mirror says that there’s not a
single manned actor on the American stage. It also
says that one way for an actress to lose her good name
is to put it on her handkerchief “ Fritz" Emmett
opened at the Alexandra, Liverpool, but as on the fol-
lowing nights he was too ill to appear, the house
hod to close. He was taken to Llandudno, and soon
after took himself off Dr. Lynn, the illusionist, is,
we hear, living' privately at Charters Towers for a
time The Oliver-Seagrave Company visit Charters
Towers for the race week Hudson’s Surprise Party
have, we hear, been clearing Charters Towers of all its
loose cash. On closing at the Towers they go to
Kavenswood The Haroourt benefit altogether re-
alised £2 032 Sims Reeves’ farewell performances in
oratorio at the Albert Hall, London, were a great suc-
cess. His rendering of the recitative “ ’Tis well, my
friends,” and of the air “ Call forth my powers," were
things to be remembered The other day, at Geelong,
there was an amateur minstrel performance. The wife
of one of the burnt.cork men, when her husband came
off the stage, said she hardly knew him. “Which
shows, madam," quoth a mutual friend, “ that he never
looked black at yon before." In one of the scenes of
Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s new piece the curtain
rises and reveals a sentimental lady of well developed
proportions playing a nocturne on a violoncello by the
side of a lake When Irving came on to the stage on
the first night of the revival of “ The Belle’s Strata-
gem,” at the Lyceum, some idiot threw him a bouquet.
Henry gave one very contemptuous glance at it.
and there it remained until the end of the act
When Mr. Walter Bentley applied for a theatrical
license at Inverness, recently, the Rev. John M’Tavish
and a number of Methodist and other ministers opposed.
Mr. spoke strongly against the stage. No
one, ha said, could put his finger on a case where the
stage was the means of elevating anybody. The drama
did not now pay, and even in Shakespeare there was not
a page that was not full of profanity ; and were they to
license profane language in their midst ? The life of an
actress was such as no father would like to see his
daughter follow. He earnestly prayed- that, for the
good of souls, the license should be refused. But it
wasn’t G. R Sims’ new play, “The Member for
Slocum,” thoughjadapted from the French “ Supplice
d’un Homme," has little in common with the piece last
named. It has no wickedness in it, except on the part
of the husband, who makes obstruction and all-night
sittings, in the House of Commons an excuse for his
matrimonial deficiencies De Garden, the dramatic
author who recently was defendant in a breach of pro-
mise case, says his “honourability " is at stake, and
that, had he not had to attend the Paris theatres, he
would have appeared to refute the suggestion that he 1
was vagabond enough to borrow money from a girl
under the false pretence of matrimony. He was born a ,
viscount, but he doesn’t mind admitting that he did
wash his shirt and pawn it..,...lrving’s logo, played to '
Booth’s Othello, is described as fit to be put in one’s
memorial portrait gallery side by side with the Actor's
Charles 1., and as the very finest embodiment he has
given since his connection with the Lyceum. It is the
comedy side of lago’s character which he makes most
prominent. Booth’s elocution was, as usual, very fine, ‘
and in the scene where Othello’s jealousy takes a
furious turn, he quite electrified the house. Irving
made a speech at the end, but Booth did not speak. It
is not his custom; even when they gave him a banquet
in New York ho never opened his mouth except to put
something in it...... At latest the Oliver-Seagrave Com-
sany5 any were playing to good business at Gympie
lies Georgina Smithson and Mr. James Hollo-
way were appearing at Maryborough in “Multum
in Parvo, or, Funny Photographs." Amy Sherwin
sang with much success at the City of Boston Philhar-
monic concert at the beginning of April.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
We write this upon pink rep paper, scented
with patchouli. Our pen is of fine gold and is diamond,
pointed.' Crumpled rose leaves are in our left hand, a
sprig of jasmine is in an empty jam-tin—we mean a
vase of crystal!—before us, and coloured spermaceti
candles, which illumine our salon, are stuck, not as
ordinarily, in square gin bottles, but in empty magnums
of creme de Boosie—we mean sardonyx chandeliers. Our
costume consists of a Turkish dressing-gown, in the
pattern of which is embodied the chaste idea of purple
cockroaches crawling over a blue ground, and our mas-
sive (and, of course, highly intellectual) brow is sur-
mounted by a green velvet smoking-cap with a gold
tassel. We have adopted this aesthetic attire because
we are about to notice an aesthetic performance. We
have spared no expense (as the Queen’s Theatre advts.
have it) in order to make oar surroundings in keeping
with the subject under treatment. And therefore we
have
Lavender-water to the right of us,
Eau-de-Cologne to the left of us,
and our embroidered cambric handkerchief is be-
scented with the odour of Opoponax. Being therefore
in the proper trim to write a delicate critique upon a
delicate performanc;, we will ask our readers to take a
long breath, lie back upon their ottomans, and prepare
for the coming trouble.
• » «
Now that scstheticism is becoming fashionable
we are, of course, a bit aesthetic too. Therefore, it will
be easily understood, that -mmediately it came to our
knowledge that the crime de la crime of Sydney society
was to perform for the benefit of a charity, we agreed
to forego all other engagements, deck ourselves in pur-
ple and flue linen, and attend. We were prepared, of
course, to behold a numerous attendance from the fact
of its being known that the two olive branches of our
sporting ruler would attend and illuminate the hall
with the radiance of their countenances; but we were
not prepared for the vast concourse of gaily-bedecked
people, who, long before the performance commenced,
crowded the anditorium in every part. Vice-royalty
was in the front seats, mixed and mingled with our
naval defenders, and a sprinkling of the heroes who
officer the dashing warriors of Paddington. Sad
reporters were dotted about, rendered mournful by the
display of embroidered linen and inaccessible studs.
The gentlemen, we noticed with some curiosity, went
in for a very large extent of shirt-collar; indeed it ap-
peared that the more blue blood a man possessed (or
aspired to) the greater extent of “ four-fold ” did he
encase his neck in. We remarked one gentleman in
particular, who mounted such an enormous sheep-
lurdle-like “improved Pall Mall," that if he had
raised his chin three inches the top of the collar would
have knocked his hat off. Of the ladies—be still our
beating hearts!—there was such a brilliant gathering
that nothing like it has been seen in Sydney since the
first performance of Dr. Somerville at the Exhibition
Building, or the roll-up to sample a newly imported
“Count” at a Gubernatorial (for this word we bow
our thanks to the Morning Eum) Garden Party. There
was such an array of small waists and big bouquets,
rustling silks and flashing diamonds. Then there was
the measured rattle of five hundred fans, mingled with
the rhythmic murmur of as many modulated voices,
and last, bnt not least, high up in the gallery the band
of the “Wolverene"
“Volleyed and thundered."
It was altogether a brilliant spectacle, and one which
will live in our memories when the splendours of one
of the present Mayoress’s assemblies are forgotten.
• * *
Punctually at a quarter-past eight—that being as
soon, we understand, as the impassioned naval Wagner-
ites could be induced to stop their harmony—the curtain
was convulsively raised (it always is convulsively raised,
somehow, at amateur performances) on Palgrave Simp-
son’s comedietta, “ The School for Coquettes," and
there was unfolded to the entranced gaze of the audience
Lady Allwill’s boudoir, which, a rather mild kind of
programme informed us, had been “ painted expressly by
Mr. G. Gordon, though why or for whom Mr. Gordon
had expressly painted it the committee apparently did
not feel called upon to explain. Mr. Gordon has re-
ceived, at ti rue's, so much praise at our hands for his work
that he can well afford to be told that his delineation of
Lady Allwill's boudoir might have been expressly
painted by any one without the artist being at once
elevated into immortal fame by the effort. On either
side of the stage were exhibited—being hung up like
Macbeth’s banners on the “ outward walls ” —two
Japanese screens. There was a “quite too consummately
utter ” aspect about these trophies which was inexpres-
sibly ludicrous to the “ every-day young man," and the
bright red and blue of the decorations went a good way
towards killing the quieter colours which were artisti-
cally blended in the really pretty costumes of the ladies.
While on the subject of the dlcors, we may remark that
the act-drorp adopted, being merely a huge calico sheet,
it might, with no inconsiderable advantage, have been
“painted expressly" by Mr. Q. Gordon, had that
brilliant idea suggested itself to any member of the
company. Possibly, however, they were each and all
so confident of securing a histrionic triumph that they
regarded matters of “ mere detail ” with that supreme
indifference characteristic of great minds in all ages.
* * *
The programme was “ The School for Coquettes”
and “ Woodcock’s Little Game.” The former was,
perhaps, chosen because it afforded the ladies a chance
of wearing hoops and powder and the gentlemen an
opportunity of donning swords and ruffles, and it is by
this piece we intend gauging the powers of the company.
A notice of the farce, therefore, will appear in those
columns after the next deluge. “ The School for
Coquettes,” then, is a very little comedy in a very long
act. The plot, which is spun out to todiousness, hinges
upon the old business of a husband and wife who have
adopted different names meeting in the same house
and making love and being made love to by the other
characters, while all the time they (poor creatures!)
adore one another. This rococo stuff (which Mr. Pal-
grave Simpson, by the way, has evidently borrowed from
Wycherley) requires to be done smartly, or else it will
“drag its slow length along" like one of Lewis Scott’s
Alexandrines. Mr. James H. Eainford, the “coach”
of the troupe (and what an old soldier at coaching
gilded amateurs our delicious James is I) being perfectly
well aware of all this, worked (to use his own words)
“ like a demon "in order that his pupils should score a
success, and that the rays of the glory they should
achieve reflected upon him would shed around his his-
trionic head a little halo of particular fame as their
master. And, to do Mr. Eainford justice, we cheerfully
admit that his team acquitted themselves in a highly
creditable manner, and that they received quite frantic
ovation at the hands of their particular friends who
had assembled to do them honour.
« « •
The bright particular star of the evening was
Mrs. Professor Smith—a lady who is truly so literally
endowed by a bountiful Providence with charms and
graces, that she really deserves a prettier name. This
lady walks well, sits down gracefully, uses her hands
and arms (a most important adjunct to good acting
this) skilfully, and uses her eyes bewilderingly. Mrs.
Smith has a very musical voice, and indeed she would
be quite perfect in this respect only there is hardly
enough of it. Her costume was quite too charming,
and so far as looks are concerned, perhaps a more
picturesque representative of Lady Amaranthe Allwill
never appeared on any stage—and certainly not on that
i of the School of Arts. Mrs. Smith was not the very
. least bit nervous. Oh, de-ar no! On the centrary.
[. Even at times when temporarily “ stuck ’’ for a prompt,
•, Lady Amaranthe was never in the faintest degree dis-
composed, but would smile comfortably on the audience
nntil such time as James could blow the word
across to her from the prompt-side. Altogether Mrs.
Smith acts very pleasantly indeed, and we trust, before
' our grey hairs are drawn fly the other amateurs in
sorrow to the grave, to behold her impersonate Ophelia,
with Teece, the ter-ragedion, in the part of the very
melancholy Dane.
* ♦ #
Miss Laberfcoucbe played Lady Glemnorris in
what the police-sergeant in “ The Pirates " used to call
“ a highly nervous state," but as the more nervous she
got the more she was applauded, she worried along with
great satisfaction to herself, and to the intense admira-
tion of her friends, admirers, and relations. Miss
Labertouche would look wall anywhere, and would
light up any part of any theatre with her presence. We
consider that she would appear to most advantage,
however, in a private box,
* * *
I:
Miss E. Labertouohe enacted the lady’s maid,
Perkup, with! much spirit, and would have looked
exactly like a lady’s maid had she not looked exactly
like a lady. Her costume, though, was decidedly unbe-
coming, and, as the ever-gallant member for Burrowa
would say, if he chose to invoke the muse (and what
couldn’t he invoke, if he gave his mind to it ?) —
To gaze on Perkup, sure, would cause
All mankind to be fretting;
'Twas sad to see a jewel rare
In such an ugly setting!
The dress was of brown stuff, and a peculiarity of the
costume was that about an inch of white petticoat
showed beneath the chocolate-coloured skirt, producing
an effect that was more bizarre than becoming. This,
however, was, after all, but a small matter, and though
we did not doat on the costume personally, we must, iq
justice to the charming representative ’of Perkup,
chronicle the fact that her shoes were much admired.
Viewing this lady critically, we consider that, while she
would comparatively adorn any stage, she would
superlatively adomany drawing-room.
* * *■
Sir Aubrey Glemnorris was played by Lieu-
tenant Wilde, of the Eoyal Marines. This gentleman (as
an actor) is chiefly remarkable for an uncertain intona-
tion, and a total absence of that symmetrical portion of
the human anatomy called “ calf." His attire was a
claret-coloured suit, usually worn by the “ lord ” in the
melodramas, and he mounted a pair of shoes strongly
suggestive of the beadle. We paid a good deal of atten-
tion to Mr. Wilde’s performance, and, after thoroughly
digesting it, we are inclined to the opinion that the
Lieutenant is a far better marine than he is an actor,
and we would rather that he shed his blood to the last
drop in our defence than again appear before us as a
performer in light comedy.
» * *
Mr. George E. Labertouche, on the other hand,
was capital as Lord Arthur Bramble, and would have
been more than capital had he not continually pressed
his handkerchief to his month to keep his “ property "
moustache on. His sword he wore with groat discre-
tion, and there were no casualties, although he had
nearly to draw the weapon several times. Mr. H. A.
Unwin, who enacted Sir Basil Bodkin, appeared to enjoy
himself excessively, but as he was evidently suffering
from a bad attack of “ Tambour-Major," and treated the
audience to an indifferent imitation of Bambini, he was
not so successful as he might have been. It only
wanted the “ I am here, dear duke," to complete the
picture—we mean the imitation.
• * • *
From the large number of persons who attended,
we should imagine that the Infants’ Home must have
benefited considerably by the performance we have
noticed—more especially as ss. was the uniform price
•charged for admission. We should be glad to learn
later the precise amount realised for the charity ; and
we should also be pleased to be informed of the exact
sum paid over by the Romany Club after their last
performance at the Gaiety in aid of the Goodenough
Home,
*****
In a recent notice of “ Diplomacy” the Herald
treats that charming young lady. Miss Howarth,
who plays the little part of Mioa, to 25 lines of gush.
It says : —“ Mion is a waiting maid engaged to attend
on the requirements of Dora and her impecunious
mother, the Marquise de Eio-Zares. She is the type of
a servant, highly esteemed, and too unfrequently met
with. She finds in Miss Howarth an admirable repre-
sentative. This lady exerts herself to the utmost to
place her in a favourable light, and succeeds in pour-
traying her as the * treasure’ that is acceptable to every
housekeeper." It takes a good deal to please us, but
we like this —more especially as Mion’s principal duties,
so far as we can gather in the play, consist in—there is
no other term so expressive—" bluffing" the creditors
1 of her mistress, the Marquise. Wo expect the critic
had some of his friends on tha other papers in his mind
when he wrote this, for there are a good many journal-
ists we could mention to whose households Mion would
be a treasure indeed.
* * #
On Monday night the Governor came out of hig
shell, and paid the Gaiety a visit—an event so extraor-
dinary that the poultry at Government House have been
cackling ever since. The piece is so good that it should
run for an indefinite period. The performance is very-
fine, and grows upon one. Prom the commencement to
the end of this -splendid piece there is not one single
bitch, one solitary incongruity. Wo have watched the
progress of “ Diplomacy" with much interest, and it
redounds to the credit of the Sydney people that it
should have been received with so much favour. It is
a wonderful play ; it has pathos without sentimentality,
humour without burlesque, and above all, sensation
without improbability. Miss Annie Mayor’s Dora is a
very fine performance as it stands. There is no neces-
sity for her to further elaborate it. Indeed, we
have noticed of late a trifling tendency on this
young lady’s part to be at times too emotional. Let
her check this; for we say without any hesitation
whatever that her Dora ia now so good, that she can
travel on it.
* * •
We need say nothing more in praise
of Mr. Eoeve’s Henry Beauclerc nor can
we add to our notice of Mr. Titheradge’s
most delightful pourtrayal of Dora’s husband.
Of Mr. Frank Forbes’s Baron Stein, an impersonation
denoting great intelligence, we have no word too good
to write. The part is an exceedingly difficult and very
thankless one, but in the hands of this clever young
actor it is made to stand out in bold relief amongst
other impersonations in the same piece, the prominent
ones of which are of a very high order of merit.
Mr. Prank Cates’ Orleff is a great feature of a great
success, and Miss Stammers’ Marquise is—on ne peut
mieux. And do not let us forget Mr. Neil O’Brien,
whose invitations to “ have an ice " come in so funnily.
Once more, “ Diplomacy " is excellent, for—
In short you see upon the stage,
Not puppets on a prompter’s string.
But men and women of the age.
Well may we say—“ The play’s the thing 1“
** * *
Nothing succeeds like success, and the success
of “ Tambour Major ”is undoubted. This satisfactory
condition of affairs is due, of course, to a great many
things, but it is very especially due to the efforts of Mr.
H. E. Harwood, whose Duke is, when carefully studied,
quite a master-piece of comic acting. This, we con-
sider, to be his best thing, not even excepting “ Keep-
yer-eye-on-yor-Pather " in “ Princesse de Trebizonde.”
Mr. John Wallace is quite too too; and it is impossible
to deny that with all its pretty women and brilliant
dresses, and the jolly Fred. Mervin thrown in,
without these two capital comedians, “Tambour
Major ” would be shorn of the greater part of its
attractions. The by-play of these two artists is in-
imitable, and no one who has any portable (or conver-
tible) property to dispose of should refrain from
trotting round to the Eoyal to see them—even at the
sacrifice of a turn-up bedstead or the parlour fire-irons.
* * *
Miss Nellie Stewart is also capital, and her
voice is such that it reaches the veriest wall-flower of
a pitite. Of Miss Pattie Laverne, we have already said
a very great deal, et d'en dire d’avantage deviendrait
monotone. It is possible, next week, however, we shall
devote a little space to a tew airy remarks, on the
subject of the singing and acting of both these ladies.
In the moan time we wish them both
Plenty of bouquets, plenty of fun.
Plenty of fizz when the show is done.
** * *
It would seem that in spite of all that has been
done to improve the Opera House, that theatre is not
as yet popular with playgoers. Since Mr John Hall's
tenure that genial gentleman has done his utmost to
attract the public, but as yet the speculation has re-
sulted (we speak from actual information) ia a very
large loss to Mr. Thynne, the entrepreneur. This state
of affairs is partly due, we consider, to the great busi-
ness drawn by the “ Tambour Major,” and partly to
the very large percentage on the nightly receipts
charged by the proprietors. It does not, of course,
come within our province to say what that percentage
is, but we consider ourselves justified in calling the
proprietors’ attention to the fact that, taking into con-
sideration the unpopularity into which the house has
fallen, it would pay them better- in the long run to let
a respectable company down gently, for a time, in
regard to rent, in order to allow them to peg along, and
get the public once more accustomed to the theatre.
* *
The second programme put forth by the Opera
House people, was. all things considered, more adapted
to the powers of the company than “Our Girls,’’
which was duly noticed in the last issue of this journal.
Brough’s comedy, “ Kind to a Fault," is, unlike the
ephemeral productions of H. J. Byron, not only in-
tensely humorous in dialogue, but remarkably strong
as to situations. Mr. Hall’s impersonation of Parker,
the drunken coachman, was an artistic study of sterling
excellence, and one that was brimming over with
humour. Mr. Boothman’s was an
improvement (which it could easily be) on his Frederick
Panshawe; and Miss Maggie Forde was very lively (as
indeed she always is—and occasionally a little too much
so) as Jenny.
* * *
It is, however, with the burlesque-Lurline that
we have most to do, since the company is decidedly more
adapted (taking it as a whole) to extravaganza than
comedy. “ Lurline” is not new by any means, since it
was written by H. J. Byron, and produced at the Lon-
don Strand no less than eleven years ago. Its title
then was “ The Nymph of the Lurleyberg,” and it was
very successful. To the Sydney public, however, the
piece is known as “Lurline,’’ probably on the same
unaccountable principle that “ Weak Woman” ia played
’to them as “ Our Girls.” The last time it was played
here was at Christmas time three years ago, when it was
dished up (and not very well dished up) by Mr. Lewis
Scott as a pantomime. The piece was successful then,
not from any merit the “locals” possessed, for they were
dreary enough in all conscience; but from the extra-
ordinarily skilful manner in which Mr. J. L. Hall
played the Seneschal. The same part is now, of course,
taken by Johnny, and so successful is he that while he
is on the stage continuous laughter prevails. His make-
up, voice, gestures -everything—tend to make the im-
personation one of the most remarkable burlesque
creations we have witnessed in Australia.
* * *
Miss Lily Marsh plays Lurline, and as that
young lady has plenty of long wavy hair, she looks (as
may he imagined) quite more than excessively charm-
ing. She has good looks, a nice figure, a pretty little
costume, aud a pretty little voice. That this young
lady is more adapted for playing Wavelet than for play-
ing Lillian Gaythorn is undeniable, and we think this
is due to the fact that while Miss Lily has graduated in
dancing she has not graduated in comedy. Miss Marsh
was much and persistently applauded; indeed one gen-
tleman was so enthusiastic that his stick on the circle
reminded us forcibly of the water-collector’s umbrella
in-the upper-boxes of the Portsmouth Theatre on the
night of the first appearance of Henrietta Petowker.
* * *
Of the others much in praise may be said —and
not a little in—well—remonstrance. Miss Maggie
Forde acted very sharply, aud sang rather flatly. Mr.
Sam Poole, as Wavelet, was very amusing, though a
trifle outrl in his gestures. Miss Nellie Greenless, as
Count Calimanco, exhibited a very fair face and fair
dancing. Miss J. Milne (who, by the way, when we saw
her last, was playing the Queen in “Hamlet”) made
rather a boisterous, and not a very funny, Lady Una;
and Mr. Leslie, as the Family Herald, evince i so much
of the tragic, and so little of the comic, iu his acting,
that his performance was a very melancholy one
indeed. The others were painstaking, and if their acting
aud dancing were not* very brilliant, their costumes
were—and is it not proverbial that all kinds of imper-
fections are glossed over by the aid of cloth of gold and
spangles—not to mention the brightest of satin boots,
and the pinkest of tights P
** * *
We understand that Mr. F. J. Hallewell, a
singer of repute, will make his first appearance at Mr.
A. Huenerbein’s rooms, in George-street, this (ihurs


day) afternoon, at 4 o’clock. The dilutant comes to us
well accredited, and we trust that it will be Hallewell
with Hallewell. Mr. Kent is the agent, and if we have
made any mistake in the pronunciation of his principal’s
- cognomen, perhaps he will correct us. Wo shall notice
Mr. H.’s concert in our next.
** * *
We predicted, some time since that the Seductive
Slatah, would, at last, “ knock 'em.” And so it has
happened! The other day (we know the date, but feel-
ingly suppress it) a young gentleman with a very
yellow head of hair, a particularly large watch-chain,
and ja remarkably low forehead, handed us, in fear and
-trembling, the following:—
“ Look at Slatah with her legs—
Able legs—
What a world of merriment is in those taper pegs.
How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle.
In their mix of mite and might!
While the buttons that o’ersprinkle
All her stocking seem to twinkle
With a crystalline delight—
Keeping time, time, time.
In an acrobatic rhyme,
To the kick-kickabulation that’s as light as though on
eggs, •
By the legs, legs, legs, legs.
Legs, legs, legs—
By the jiggling and the wriggling of the legs.”
This, it will be seen, is very good. We trust that it is
original.
** * *
We are informed by Mr. W. C. Dillon (whose
father, Mr. C. Dillon, died the other day) that he has,
in view of his returning to England, been proffered a
benefit, at the School of Arts next Wednesday.
“ Belphegor ” will be the piece played, and we under-
stand that, in addition to the ienefi<;iare, Mr. Harry
Leston and other distinguished members of the “ per-
fesh ’’ will assist. Mr. Dan O’Connor and other legis-
lators are, with their usual good nature, doing their
■best to send Mr. Dillon’s “ ben.” along.
** * *
Mias Lily Marsh has sent ns a very charming
little letter, in which she says that “ she is no novice,
having been on the stage since childhood." This we are
perfectly aware of, but we beg to call Miss Lily’s atten-
tion to the fact that there are as many rungs in the
ladder of histrionic fame as there are rungs in the
ladder of life. Miss Marsh began, when very young, at
the bottom rung, and year by year is mounting, by
reason of her industry and intelligence, higher. But
still we wish to point out, with ever so much diffidence,
that, she is not quite at the top yet.
** * *
South’s “Pinafore ” Company did big business
at West Maitland. Captain, good ; Ralph and Deadeye,
capital; Admiral, indifferent; Josephine (Oh, what
lovely hair!), charming; Buttercup, fair; Hebe, a
second Liddiard, although the paint v/as rather patchy.
No cousins—no ants (except in the piano, which came
down in the '57 flood, and has been at the theatre ever
since). Charge per night for theatre, £s—twice too
much, as the town is not usually liberal in theatrical
patronage.
** * *
It gives us great pleasure to intimate that on
Friday, July Ist, there took place at Everton (a name
strangely suggestive of toffee) an entertainment was
given by private theatricals, in which some very dis-
tinguished persons, including Mr. E. Cyril Haviland
and Miss Bridson (a poetess, whose muse appears to
have been slumbering—or shall we say in a trance —
lately) took part. A farce, “ The Obstinate Family”—
which a correspondent, who writes a terrible hand, in-
forms us was “adapted and localised” (poor farce I), and
an “ entirely new comedy” (number of acts not stated)
called “ Nove'ties,” formed the staple of the per-
formance ; and the audience, which numbered 70, went
home “ thoroughly satisfied” —we again quote our cor-
respondent—which we tuppose means " full up.” Mr.
M'Quade, we hear, wound up by impersonating “ the
giant,” in “ a shadow pantomime.” Hurroo 1
* * *
The London Surrey audiences still appear to
swallow Dampier with avidity. But they are prover-
bially a hungry audience at the Surrey. Leave out the
i" and you’ll see the joke.
** * *
We have received a letter from a gentleman
who recently performed with the Lyceum Amateurs at
the School of Arts, entreating us to deal mercifully
with him, as their society has no professional “ coach,"
and he knows his elocution to be sadly defective. The
■writer then evidently wishes for a good notice for a bad
performance. We, of course, cannot oblige our corres-
pondent, and we advise him, if he cannot improve his elo-
cution, to relinquish all idea of ever being histrionically
glorious. But even if he cannot improve his elocution,
it is no reason why he cannot improve his—spelling.
** * «
We looked in to bid Dominic Sonsee, Esquire,
chin-chin one day last week and found him in company
with the giant and a magnetic lady. Dominic was kind
enough to favour the company with a song, “ After the
marriage is over," which he really gave in operatic
style—that is when his size is taken into consideration.
The giant was in indifferent spirits, and would no doubt
be relieved if some ot his too solid flesh would melt.
The magnetic lady, though very charming, is a little thin
and careworn—-probably from so often being “ on pins
and needles.” She was elegantly attired in lavender
and lace, and wore a veil Lima-fashiou upon her lofty
brow. Mr. Salomon, the entrepreneur, informs ns that
uneasy lies the head of him who takes a dwarf around.
Dominic, though an excellent little man, has one failing,
and that is an intense admiration of the fair sex. This,
in some people, would not be called a failing, but with
a person in the illustrious position of Dominic love-
• making possesses decided disadvantages. The dwarf has
a fist full of diamond rings, but he derives no pleasure
from their brilliance. What he 3 T earns for is to bask in
the sparkle of an Andalusian orb. As Mr. Solomon
Justly says, “the giant could fall in love with a whole
girls’ school, teachers and all, for anything he’d care,
and the magnetic lady might commit polyandry without
his being very much disconcerted; but for Dominic to
be wishing to run (or be carried) after the girls instead
of attending to business, and perhaps getting married
off-hand—why that would be a crusher.” So it would,
■lor the little man, though a very light comedian, draws
more money weekly than many a very heavy tragedian.
We believe the Grafton papers as
The Turks believe the Koran ;
And, oh, the things those papers say
Of sweet Theresa Horan.
Balph Eackstraw was the part she played,
And Alice Johns was Josephine.
A sweeter “ Little Buttercup "
Than “ Jinnie" Horan's ne’er was seen.
H. Simmons was the Captain, and
Their “ Pinafore " went—well—
As merry as— we have it I—that1 —that
Historic “ marriage bell."
The Austrian Band, we said in our last issue,
;gave_ a concert in Brisbane in conjunction with the
Musical Union of that city, and cleared nothing. This
is a mistake. They cleared altogether. They are now
with Mr. Kaye, whose name we trust will be indicative
of L. and also S. D.
** * *
Tommy Hudson and his Surprise Party are
carrying all before them in Northern Queensland, and
Kelly and Leon’s Opera Company have returned to
Rockhampton, where at latest dates they were playing
Les Cloches." We see also that Miss Pomeroy is
Playing Nancy Sykes in Melbourne; also that Al.
Dayman has “ gone bung ” —assets nil. We are sorry
to hear this: very sorry. Why, it’s only quite lately
that “Al” was considered a bloated capitalist. Well
Console thyself, though thou art shorn;
Console thyself, for life is such;
Though, gentle Al. thou art forlorn,
Thy creditors won't snavel much.
** * *
From private letters received in Auckland we
learn that Gaylord’s Colossal Circus leaves San Fran-
cisco in September for N.Z. and Australia in a specially
chartered steamer. The show is said to be a larger one
uhan Cole’s, and has associated with it a part of Bar-
num’s Museum of Curios, and a menagerie. The
chartered steamer will carry the circus from place t#
place.
** * *
A rumour is about to the effect that the fat
“ Scottish Giant,” who has been keeping little Dommic
Sonsee in countenance for many weeks past, is about to
marry. It's really about time for him to be pared off.
** * *
It appears that we were wrong last week in
stating that Mr. Sam Lazar had disposed of his interest
in the lease of the Theatre Boyal. The real facts of the
case are simply that Mr. Lazar has let the theatre to
Mr. Garner up to December, and at the same time sold
to the latter gentleman his interest in “ Tambour
Major.”
** * *
Next Saturday, at the Masonic Hall, Mr. Chap-
man fires off his great musical gun, the report of which
will, of course, appear next issue. We have already
quoted short press notices about these clever people,
and the dailies have quoted long ones, so the public of
Sydney are fully posted as to what other people think
of the vocal and instrumental talents of Miss Kate
Thayer, Herr Wilhelmj, and Yogriuh. When Mr.
Chapman arrived here he lost his chest. We hope now
that he will fill it. The company can congratulate
themselves, whatever may be their luck (and luck in
musieal matters is a great deal), that they could not,
by any combination of circumstances, have had a more
courteous, a more industrious, ora smarter manager.
** * *
It gives us great pleasure to hear that the
Montague-Turner Company have made a most tre-
mendous hit in Brisbane, the theatre doors having to
be opened as early as 7 p.m., and crowded houses —in
the fullest acceptation of the term —being the invariable
rule. They have produced “ The Bohemian Girl,"
“ Maritana,” and “Trovatore," and will play “ Mignon"
on the 18th, for two nights. After which, Miss Mon-
tague’s “ben.," a presentation by the enraptured Bris-
baueites, and a slither to our shores.
« « «
The Caron of our hearts is in statu quo, but
whether he has been to any peekneekes on ze rivart we
are not informed. He conducts, however, to the
admiration of everybody, and has the big drum under
stern control.
♦ * •
The complete company open here on 25th, in
“ Mignon," where glory waits them.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The next man who starts a paper here should
call it The Smallpox. Any one who gets where it is
will he sure to take it.
# * #
“Boleslas H. D’Avigdor, late secretary of the
Tasmanian Commission at the Sydney International
Exhibition, died last night at his lodgings in Cumber-
land-street. While prosperity was his portion, not a
few of the curled darlings of Sydney fashionable life
sought his acquaintance and courted his society."—
Evening News.
“ The game eventually resulted in the Victo-
rians getting 9 goals and over 20 behiuds to only 1
behind for New South Wales. The solitary behind
secured by the visitors should have been a goal, as
M’Namara had the ball right in front at about 20 yards
distance, but unfortunately he made a wretched kick
and failed to score. Though fearfully overmatched the
Sydney men played most pluckily, but their imperfect
knowledge of the game,” &o.
The football teams have had a match j
For us the thing is cruel ;
For Melbourne’s got a victory.
And Sydney’s got her gruel.
Our men, though, pleasant 'tis to find,
Scored one magnificent “ behind!"
* * #
A telegraph official sang at an amateur per-
formance the other day. And all the time he was
howling to Maud to come into the garden, a gentle
tapping was proceeding from different parts of the hall.
There were a lot of other telegraph clickers present,
and they were signalling in the Morse code comfortable
remarks about the capacity of the vocalist’s mouth,
opinions that Maud would be a fool to get her death of
cold for a chump like him, and similar pleasing com-
ments. The audience wondered why the singer got
more nervous as he proceeded, and why his ears glowed
like leaves of pickled cabbage before he had finished
with Maud.
* # #
Here ia a verse from the poetry of “ Ada”:—
“ When the rich radiance of the midday sun
Pours forth its splendour from its golden store.
And, brightest ere it first begins to fade.
Proclaims the half of daily labour o’er,
I think of thee !"
This is the poetry of the present [day. Here is a verse
that it will probably inspire:—
When the bright morn of Saturday comes round.
And I con o’er those “ orders ’’ on my “screw,"
And marvel if I'll get the promised pound,
T’wards that account for “ soleing," so long due,
I think of thee I
This is the poetry of the future—or, perhaps, it would
be more accurate to say, the poetry of the “ last."—
[Right you are! The devil has now gone along with
the sov.—Ed. B.]
* « »
Scene: Justices’ room, Central Police. Ist J.P.
(reading aloud from English prospectus of mining com-
pany) : ‘“Sir Richard Gethin, Bart., 26, Suffolk-sfreet,
Pall-Mall. J. Sidney Tomkins, Esq., C.C., Friar-street,
Doctors’ Commons.’ * C.C.’—what’s that f" Pause.
Then, suddenly, a J.P. (known for his “ firmness on the
education question") ; ‘‘‘C.C.’ —why, civil servant, in
course." Chorus of J.P.’s: ‘‘Of course 1 How could
we be so silly 1”
* # ♦
One Saturday, not long since, a surveyor, -worn
and weary, arrived at an hotel in the southern city of the
plains. He was a sleek, small man, with terrible powers
of expansion, bland and suave in manner, and of good
address. Being a swell in his own town he did not show-
up at breakfast next morning until all but one had
finished. Taking possession of the head of the table he
gave his order: “ Waitah, bring me some steak, chops,
and cutlets and —ah, waitah —four boiled eggs." “ Yes,
your hon—yes sir," was the reply of the ever-ready
James, who. soon placed in front of the man of theodo-
lites the viands, together with five plates, as a kind of
distant hint that the meal would, in his opinion, be a
square-one for five white men in good health. After the
rapacious person had devoured the lot—the plates, of
course, excepted—together with a fair accompaniment
of fried potatoes, tomato sauce, and fresh bread, he
feebly said: “ James, which will be done the sooner—
ham and eggs, or chops ?’’ “ Either, sir," was the
answer. *• Then bring me both—that is to say—ah—
bring me three chops—large ones, vou know, James —
and a little bit of ham. You needn’t bring me more
than one egg this time unless you have some very fresh
ones.” A well-known landlord tells this story, and
swears not only that it's a fact, but that it’s true.
However, he says that he puts the yam on to a sur-
veyor, because, were he to put it on to a legal dignitary,
he might somehow commit contempt of court,
or get in for libel action, and costs, and rales nisi.
• * *
Prom the Evening Howl “ Notice.—If this
should meet the eye ot John William Matthew Fleming
Morgan, who was in the boot trade some years ago in
Oxford-street, Sydney, will ho oblige by sending his
address to E. W. Turley, Ilford, Mudgee-road?"
This man with a long cognomen,
To stay away, 'tis rum of him;
He might send the direction where
They could discover—some of him.
* * #
“ Earl Shrewsbury will marry Mrs. Mundy, with
whom he eloped."
’Tis well, of course, it should end thus.
This scandal very shady.
She’ll be a countess —that we know—
But, will she be—a lady ?
* * *
Prom the Rum, of course : —“ Mr. G. Fosdyke,
the farther (sic) of the young lady who mysteriously
disappeared from her home at Echuca about three
weeks since, and has not since been heard of, thus
writes to the Riverine Herald ”
How often, on this query small,
Alas I are we to dwell P
(Now, this is written without gall)—
When will you learn to spell 1
* * #
“ Midhat Pasha sentenced to death! ” remarked
a gentleman who had travelled (with tooth powder) in
Turkey. “Dear me! I thought it would have been
seven days, without the option. How civilized they’re
getting."
# * *
• The Sydney Universitee
Would be, ’tis said, delighted
To start a Magazine, but they
Can’t see who is to write it!
* * #
When a gentleman of the Hebrew persuasion
was outbid at an auction room the other day, he was
heard to remark that he would like to have lived in the
good old times, when you could kill a man you didn’t
like, and pay for him.
• * *
All the solicitors are smiling and (vide Herald)
moving into new premises. All the clients are groaning
and moving out of them.
» • *
Mr. and Mrs. Langtry have taken No. 3 Berkeley-
square, for the season.—Vanity Fair.
“ A number of well-dressed blackguards as-
semble nightly at the post office steps to insult and
annoy the women passing by."—Tamworth News.
They were at breakfast. “By Jove ! ” cried
one, who was deep in the paper, “ what an extraordinary
thing!" “ Not another case of small-pox ? " asked the
boarder opposite. The first man put down the paper,
with a groan, “It was never to be," he said, sadly.
“What —the disease never to be stamped out?" cried
the other. “No; I thought I had come upon a banquet
without Dan O’Connor’s name in it; but I dropped on
it amongst the local aldermen. Pass the toast."
* * *
This is the latest from the seat of war—we mean
where the Princes are. Scene: Government House,
Melbourne. Rev. Mr. Dalton, after reading telegram
from Sydney to his royal pupils and assembled company,
“ The Mayor of says that when we arrive there,
he-will take care that your Royal Highnesses are shown
round the harbour." Prince Albert Victor: “What
sort of a fellow is the Mayor of Sydney ?” Ominous and
deadly silence.
Parramatta is about to have two new weeklies,
and Mr. Puller is running from this week the Cumber-
land Mercury (a capital paper) as a bi-weekly. There
must evidently be money in the place, yet it is not long
ago since a variety company went there by rail, and—
walked back.
* ♦ *
In the recent intercolonial football match, the
Melbourne men totted up 9 goals and 20 behinds, and
our team of heroes only scored one behind. If the play
was so bad as people seem to say, we think “ one
behind" was just what they deserved.
* * *
Of course they had been to school, and were (in
that city down South) what we call well-to-do men; but
they objected to being addressed as Mr. G. and Mr. V.,
on the jury list, while the pastoral prince on whose run
they selected was dubbed A. L., Esq. Even a worm will
turn; and, feeling larger and more important than worms,
they requested the Judge (Forbes) to give instructions
that for the future they should be addressed as
Esquires. They are now Justices of the Peace.
* * «
The Earl of Desart is the editor of Vanity
Fair, and writes under the signature of “ Huffier.’’
Here, now, is a specimen of his English composition :
—“ What happened at the Hurlingham meeting last
Saturday was this. Captain Kelso, in bringing for-
ward the resolution to stop pigeon shooting at four
o’clock on Saturdays in the season, referred to the
danger there was of the shots going through the pal-
ings and wounding people, and he cited several people
who (sic) he knew had been shot, amongst others
Countess Olga Milnster."
Well, either to the noble Lord
The Saxon tongue was ne’er imparted,
Or else the grammar of the Earl
Desart, his lordship has Desarted.
# * *
Said the Evening Circulation, of Alfred
Allen, last week:—“Mr. Allen is quite at home in
lecturing to the children about plum pudding, and is
doing good service in connection with the profession
which he follows, but he is entirely out of place as the
leader of an agitation against vaccination." Yet two
nights afterwards he lectured at the Congregational
Church, South Hoad, with “Alfred Bennett, Esq.,
in the chair."
Where shall another mortal, sirs, be found,
Who shall so deftly give— then heal a wound?
* * #
Mr. Alfred Allen calls reading a pamphlet, and
telling the audience they can have it for 3d a copy, a
lecture 1 We wonder what he would coll a dog-fight ?
• • *
It is coming. It approaches. Here is some
of it. Says the Southern Daily Argus of Ist July:—
“ Mr. Clarke, naval instructor to the Princes, whilst in
Goulburn on Tuesday, visited the Mechanics’ Institute,
and was quite astonished at the stock of books the
library contains. He shook hands with the custodian of
that deposit of varied lore." How we envy that “custo-
dian " —and how we doat on the Southern Argus !
• ■# •
It was in the office of a firm of solicitors—and an
attorney, when the question of “ gentility ” came up
for discussion, said that, anyhow, he was a gentleman
by Act of Parliament. “ Yes,” said a man who was not
a lawyer j “ I suppose it would take an Act of Parliament
to make you a gentleman."
* * •
Wo beg, with a groan, to announce the receipt
of another small-pox pamphlet. It is peculiarly written
by “D. Kinuear Brown," and pustule-arly printed by
J. G. O’Connor. It has a Latin motto, and points out
several things. We have not time, just now, to enume-
rate them, but when the disease again becomes epi-
demic, we will worry through Mr. Kinnear Brown s
brochure, and treat the public to its salient points. At
the same time we consider that we should be doing the
author an’iujustice did we not give one quotation from
his remarkable work. We do this with pleasure, be-
cause in the extract is embodied a remarkable historical
fact. He blandly remarks :—“ The dissemination (of
small-pox) thence to other portions of the then known
world is generally put to the discredit of victorious
Saracen armies, probably those commanded late in the
succeeding century by Mahomet (Hegyran era).’’ For
a man who can write like this, small-pox pamphleteer-
ing is too paltry. He ought to knit his brows, and write
a frog-history.
* * •
Mr. Duncan Francis Campbell Moodie has, after
fading into comparative obscurity, again become —as is
his wont when heard of at all—ludicrously prominent.
The latest caper of this eccentric “ genius” is to publish
in the Adelaide Advertiser a "Welcome” to the
young Princes, of some 60 odd lines. Mr. Moodie’s ode
is in the blankest possible verse, and the worst possible
taste, and a remarkable trait ia the composition is that
where it does not grovel it meanders, and where it does
not meander it hobbles. Yells, this blue-blood fiagel-
lator—
“ Sons of the son of England’s gracious Queen,
Warmly to welcome ye from sea-borne shell
We stretch the ready hand. All doubly hail 1"
After this double-hail from our double-stout bard, be
talks about the “ circumambient bills," and then gives
ns this :—
“Quadruply blest art thou, as ia thy face
The gallant graces of old Denmark shine,
Transmitted by thy mere (sic), who deep enshrined
Full in the giant nation's kindly heart,
Cements, with equal sway, the genial bonds
Which link thy parents to our common cause.
And still, O Prince, Affection loves to scan
In thee the traces of thy Sire’s fount (sic) —
Thy much-loved granddam (sic), and of Albert, Good.”
Was anything ever seen like this since Fitzgerald
bawled
“ His creaking couplets’in a tavern hall"?
Can the force of unhallowed snobbery go farther P Can
balderdash reach a greater limit ? Can—but spell
through this alliterative bosh, and shudder: —
“ What though with all vexatious vigilance
Of legislative lynx, the even course
Of Justice is distraught by peevishness
And Persecutions paltry pettishness.
Which stamps the dotage of The Pessemist.”
And yet a sober paper like the Advertiser can allow
such an insult to Australian journalism to appear in its
columns I
* # #
There are nine clergymen in Morpeth—a town
with only one lockup. This is very uneven. At Wood-
ville there is one church, and no lockup; and yet the
local member promised faithfully to do all he could for
the requirements of the district.
* * *
" He was a prodigal who had squandered his
inheritance, and then taken a billet as surveyor’s chain-
man. He became greatly attached to the cook, who,
unfortunately, sickened and died. To console himself,
the young man adjourned to a neighbouring “pfib.”
Next day he was missing. When they went to inter
the cook, they found the truant lying on his back in the
open grave, with a pipe in his mouth. He explained to
the parson somewhat incoherently that having thought
he’d like to have a last look at the place where his mate
was to be buried, he’d gone to the cemetery, and, fall-
ing over the heap of earth, quietly got both legs into
the grave. He added that, after staying below for
several hours, and arguing the matter out with himself,
he’d come to the conclusion that he was—not himself,
but —the cook,
* • *
Another miscarriage of justice ! A waggonette
man, at West Maitland, was sued for using horses in a
condition unfit for work. The man said he gave them
com the first of every month, and regularly fed them
on “lucem" twice a day. The prosecuting officer
maintained that the horses were in a wretched condi-
tion. Three of the magistrates adjourned for optical
demonstration. Going outside they were soon con-
vinced : and, returning, fined the man 20s. The mistake
they made was this; they fined the ’busman after look-
ing at a brother magistrate's horses.
♦ * ♦
This ia about the popular East Maitland gaoler.
A gentleman called on him recently, and, being from the
office of the Comptroller of Prisons, was conducted
through the gaol. In fact the affair assumed the character
of a semi-official visit. The stranger expressed great satis-
faction with the management of the gaol. One piece of
news gave him much pain. He had to intimate that the
head warder would be discharged from his position in a
few days—why or wherefore he did not say, nor could
the officials make out. The visit was by no means the
first one the gentleman had made to such departments.
In fact, Darlinghurst Gaol was the one he had last left,
after a forced detention of two years—for forgery.
* • •
Sydney’s pustulated policeman says his life just
now “is not a happy one," Tarantara! tarantara 1
• » ♦
“ Oh that this too too solid flesh would melt,”
—as Hamlet Molarminus said as the tough steak) be
was “ worrying ” at the here we catch sight of a
judge’s wig, a jury of four, a verdict for plaintiff, and a
rule ntsij)
V.
Without a solitary friend
Hie squalid, dying couch to tend;
Without, in all this mighty land,
A Mndly soul to hold his hand,
He died!
Deserted—broken-hearted—poor—
Ay, often spurned from door to door
By those who’d sought him ev’ry day
When he, poor soul, was rich and gay—
He diedl
Yes: left by those who’d fawned on him,
When he could gratify each whim ;
Thrown off and trampled in the dust.
By those miscalled " the upper crust” —
He died!
He who had feasted with the great.
Of broken food oft lacked a plate;
And in a garret cold and drear.
With not a ray of comfort near—
He died 1
He died—neglected and forlorn;
Of those who’d courted him the scorn.
Shunn’d like a pestilence—undone;
By few remembered— known by none—
He died 1
One mail, the papers do engage
That Mrs. Langtry’s joined the stage. •
Next week, the journals all say “No 5
She couldn’t think of doing so."
Then, booming, comes » whisper great.
That “ They are going to separate,”
This, topped with lots of silly tales
About her and the Prince of Wales.
Well, next we are assured it’s right.
That Mr. Langtry’s ruined quite.
The poor man’s withers are unwrung
That they, in fact, have both gone “ bung.”
We’ve hardly written out this par
(You know how smart at pars, we are I),
When positively, we declare,
We're told they live in Berkeley-square.
Now if—but now we’ll take a rest,
And this week give the Langtrys best.
You’ll mark them lounging on the stops.
They are in diff’rent types :
Yet all expectorate and smoke
The dirtiest of pipes.
Against a pillar they will lounge,
At passing ladies leer ;
Their very presence poisoning
The while, the atmosphere.
The strolling p’liceman heeds them not.
Though he must be aware,
There passes not one lady who
Is not insulted there.
The sewing-girl who leaves her work.
Although the path is wide.
Must, would she 'scape a pot-house gibe.
Cross to the other side.
Yet these dull Goths are " gentlemen,”
And “ well-dressed," if you please.
We wonder, now, how many are
Related to the p’lice 1
CERTAIN “CURE” FOR ALCOHOLIC
POISONING.
[DISRESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO THE INFIRMARY
AUTHORITIES.]
When the “ patient” is brought there.
Make a bother to begin;
(This will start the whole thing square,)
Say yon cannot let him in.
If he dares, when in “ D.T.’s,”
To call out and make a “ racket,”
Mind, be sure, and see that he's
Quickly put in a strait-jacket.
When he gasps and cannot move,
Why, you know, he’s getting well;
To complete the cure then “ shove ”
The poor “patient ” in a cell.
And there all night let him lie.
With his “ legs tied 'neath the sheet,"
When, ef course, the man will die—
And the “ cure ” will be complete 1


Public Compax
C
OENWALL FIRE AND
ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Maxine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AS
Agents,
S4B GEOEGE-STEE
SIDNEY.
The mutual assueanc
VICTORIA (LIMIT;
Established A.d>. 18!
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Sy
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chat
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq
Andrew Drysdale, Esq,
This Society is established for Life
granting of Annuities and Endowme
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding t
proportionate amount of the entire
Society at every distribution thereoi
LOANS granted on Mortgage or oi
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. A
Re
INDUSTRIAL & PROYIDEN'
BENEFIT BUILDING AN;
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and tl
for Investors. Eight per cent, les
borrowers. Eight per cent, and ]
Investors. The highest current rate
on Deposits. Prospectus and all i
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM
Excelsior land inyei
BUILDING COMPANY & B
The above Company Sells Land i
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate
Sham, a few minutes walk from tl
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance
£4OO do. £4O do. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do.
All information at the Company’i
street. WILLIAM
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIET
In the event of loss of sit
MEMBE RS are entitled to receiv
with the amount insure
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engageme
For further particulars apply to
G. HORTON MORI
Sec
Went
EJ
Applications for Agencies
Ph.otograph.en
PARLOUR. ST
The Really Popular (and cheap) P!
805 GEORGE STB
Opposite the Railway Tei
Wa
%
UNADULTERATED
BAR//VC POWDER
L3SS
UKNUMU T»
m
m
%
tea
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of the public to our BLENDED TEAS Finest Family
Blend, 21- ; Finest Royal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen's Blend, 3/-; Superior Empress Blend, 4/-.
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of purity and weight. Sold in Riband 21b
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b ; also, catties, boxes, &o. SAJMirijJliO ot
Tv,.— „tp a q at. t.ViA Rtnres. or of our travellers. r
in £lb and 21b
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b ; also, catties, boxes, |-cnests,«c. SAMPLE
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.— REUBEN OLIVER, Manager.
DAYIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1830.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultura
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Qoulbum, Mndgee*
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KINO STREET, STD NET,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Public Companies
The mercantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £360,000
Reserve Fund .£115,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wa. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip QicQey King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H, £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street,
.LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
HOUSES furnished at the Central Furnishing
Arcade, on Time Payments. 29, 31, and 33 Park-
street.
H. LEVY A CO.
WE repectfully invite the public to visit cur
Show Rooms, Central Furnishing Arcade, 29,
31, and 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY & CO.
WE Furnish Houses from .£lO to J6lOOO.
Central Furnishing Arcade, No. 29, 31, and 33
ark-street. H. LEVY and CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, New
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
This establishment is now open, replete with every
requisite for household furnishing, together with a
large and extensive department solely for crockery and
glassware. H. LEVY and CO.
11.
LEVY and Co. beg to inform the general
public that they have now completed their large
FURNITURE ESTABLISHMENT,
Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
N
E.
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES Ac.
R. LARKIN.
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-screet),
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P, R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
XTIORTY YEARS’ TESTIMONY FOR CURE
JD OP INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON'S INDIGESTION PILLS.
«• This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
complaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
suffering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Cabeoll,
“ 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney,
«• Nov. 24,1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes. Is. 6d., 35., and 4s. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS A PARKES, Herbalists,
240 George-street.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 1881.
H. N. AiBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OP PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT Jgl EACH,
ABOUT 250 PRIZES.
First Horse ...
Second Horse
Third Horse « :
Other Starters (divided)
Non-Starters (divided)
Ten Prizes at £lOO each
Twenty Prizes at £5O each
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each ...
.„ £l5OO
... £7OO
... £4OO
... £l5OO
... £2700
...- £lOOO
... £lOOO
... £l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
me, 1881 New Zealand.
—II —-
MANUFACTORY:
N-ACCORD
r
WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, 4c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
Jl H 0 S. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS. BRASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
WH. A E I E L L,
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-steeet, nkab King-steeet.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
ONDON MORTGAGE, LOAN, AND
I DISCOUNT BANK,
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms —UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OP SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
POEMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth,
street South. Office hours, 9to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse £3OOO
Second Horse £lOOO
Third Horse R5OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non Starters (divided) £2OOO
6 Prizes of £lOO each £<soo
6 Prizes of £5O each £3OO
£llO Prizes of £lO each £llOO
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODOR E~ BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.


Business Annou
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WA
352 George-at:
PIANOFORTES. P]
JUST RECEIVED. JO
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EURO]
A splendid stock to f
EVERT RENOWNE
AMERICAN G]
By the celebratei
W. BELL, A
Which gained first and
OVER ALL 01
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATK
HARMONII
BT
ALEXANDRE and other EEJi
in all the various
A FEW GOOD SECOND
at low prices, now
W. H. PALING, agent for Erar
Soufleto's, Kirkman’s, and I
fortes.
W. Bell, A Co.’s, Horace Wat<
and Warren’s, and Smith an
352 GEORGE I
Opposite Wynyar
Sydney.
THOMAS W
ENGINEER & IROIS
MINING, TRAM, and RAIT/WA
. FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works; SUSSEX STREET, &
Office and SHOW ROOMS,!
F.Ai^Brte
Tobacconist
JAMES
CELEBEATEJ
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Euby, Bird's Eye, Gold Lei
Best Imported Br
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and i
159 PITT ST!
Next Post Offl<
/
TIN TAG TOBI
None are genuine but the I
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or TANKI
dixson & so;
15 TOEK STEEET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGi
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4
Chemists and Bi
PUBLIC 1
THE following L
WATSON’S RENOWNED
MEDICINES
so well and favourably known to t'
Watson’s (Vegetable) An
Watson’s (Vegetable) Wc
Watson’s Gingerbread W<
Watson’s Compound Chic
Watson’s Strengthening 1
Watson’s Australian Ven
Watson’s Excelsior Tootl
Watson’s Concentrated G
Elixir (a most valnab
can be obtained, wholesale and i
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STB
\ POTHECABI]
14 OXFORD STE
Niae Hyde Park 1
(N.B. —The Tram-car sto;
W. D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLE]
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Pounders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne
W. D. E. thanks the public an
for the support hitherto accorded
Irrespective of Club prescripts
has dispensed 34,000 original pres
ALL THE LEADING MEDIC A 1
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOE TH
Every prescription is CAREFI
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbe
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESI
May be easiest cured by the foil
EAMES’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite a
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGEST
For severe cases where the gast:
and when sickness and flatulei
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT
Which relievo the bowels gently,
naturally healthy functions
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/(
Chemists and Dr
T
AKE NO MO
but try
EANDERSOH
PODOPHYLLIN LO
Do you SUFFER from HEA
Thou try
PODOPHY]
Do you Complain of Indigest
Take a few doses o
PODOPHY]
Do yon Suffer from Qiddinesi
Spend one shilling, an
BANDERS
Do you constantly suffer fron
If so rememl
PODOPHIi
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MED]
Are any|of your children sicl
can safely give them om
for the small members o
TAKE WE
tar Remember this, and alwaj
Valuable Family Medicine by you,
B
Prepared only by the P
EDWARD ROW and
45 and 47 George-s
T ROYAL LETT!
The Qreatei
WONDER OP TH]
JOSEPHSON'
AUSTRALIAN OIN'
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qnalit
of Vegetable Matte
Being made from the Wild Plan
in the Bush of New 801
This Ointment is not a mere ci
public, nor does it require any pu
as it has been so well proved for t
that it is impossible that the pub]
long deceived. In fact, people are
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot bol:
But one trial will convince the r
High and low, rich and poor, ha'
fits from its use, and scarcely ai
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALL
is now the household word of the <
The quick and instant relief fron
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP T
which, taken altogether, prove the
to be the Eighth Wonder of the 1
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft coi
casualties attending the human f
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THI
Who would suffer from Sandy ]
find immediate relief and be perl
Josephson’s Australian Ointment i
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephsoi
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Ci
moved by applying constantly fo
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns a
can have immediate relief by a]
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoria
tion when a remedy like Jos<
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles
Josephson’s Ansiralian Ointment j
It stands unrivalled. The woe
effected, which is proved by the test
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-eu
of the kind yet known. It is* of a
the natural extracts of the plants f:
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S .
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and store!
and Is 6d each throughout the cob
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
ALL OP PI
(Late Felmikghjl]
7 8 KING ST]
BitmAvoinor UlcfuKlioVi
CLAEKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Conntry Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-hc
DABLINGHr
EON AND BRASS
Pitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolt
Sheets, Blankets, Coun
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtai
j. lawle:
MANUFACTURER AND
60S George-stree
YAENIS:
ALEX. BOETHY
OIL AND COLOR ME]
Importer of Paperh
Oils, Colors, Yar
White Lead, Glass, 1
Marble and Enamelled Slat
Fenders, Tiles, and (
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STR]
Jg OOTS! BOOTS!!
MAKE TOUE PUE
AT


ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST*
• NOTICE.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
8
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST'
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY - ,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
JJRITISH
PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
J3APERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent 869 George-street South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
&c., &c.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
jpLATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
fjl HOM A S WEBB &
BOND-STREET,
SONS,.,
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST'
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BREAKFAST,
Also,
DINNER, a,nd
TEA SETS.
FANCY CHINA
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
AfJ Y JEWeLLEW/\TChj P/\F^T
■"""I NjADE. yo> O f^D E . -< «*'
pi/\IN
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all Triads.,
Plain figures—Low prices.
MASON BROTHERS, ’
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS, -
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SOEIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
QREAT CASH CLEARANCE SALE OP
BOOKS, FANCY GOODS, and STATIONERY.
*WARD@S2!EIiI!
REBUILDING OF PREMISES,
16 and 18 HUNTER STEET.
The present buijdings being not large enough for the
rapidly increasing business,
Messrs. Turner and Henderson,
have made arrangements to rebuild (with great
additions) and to save expense of remoyal of stock, they
offer the Whole of their Fine Stock of Books’, Station-
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Public at VERY LITTLE
OVER COST PRICE, and in some cases UNDER
COST,
TURNER and HENDERSON.
16 and 18 HUNTER STREET.
Try BU SHELL
FOR
8 I G_N 8.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY..
ADVANCE AUSTRALIA.
Special Notice to Heads of Families, Managers of Public Institutions, &c.
The Proprietors of THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, determined to keep
pace with the rapid advance now being made under the liberal policy of FREE TRADE for New
South Wales, have just imported from LONDON, VIENNA, and PARIS, TO SELL AT PARIS
prices !! TO SELL AT PARTS PRICES !! THE CHOICEST ASSORTMENT of Ladies’,
Gentlemen’s, and Children’s BOOTS AND SHOES ever yet placed before the Sydney public.
FIRST CONSIGNMENT NOW READY. REGULAR SUPPLY BY EVERY MAIL.
Come and see the newest style—the Parisian Model Button Boot.
Our large and increasing Wholesale Trade enables us to sell at a mere nominal profit.
FRANCE and GERMANY are competing for oitr patronage. NOTE TEE EFFECT .
SUPERIOR QUALITY OF OUR GOODS,
And Enormous Redaction of Prices.
COME AND TAKE YOUR CHOICE FROM THE LEADING RIVAL MANUFACTURERS OF THE WORLD.
Latest French Invention, NEW POOT DEFENCE, for keeping the feet perfectly dry and
imparting artificial heat, A written guarantee given to each purchaser.
THE LARGEST STOCK OF COLONIAL BOOTS IN SYDNEY, MADE FROM
SUGGESTIONS OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS.
Economists are specially invited to tesj the value of their ready cash by a visit of inspection.
NOTE THE ADDRESS;
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, un Fore’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well out, TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s fid to 30s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD LTOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
EEnmm
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
ssss
ALW A y s
TRADE
MARK
m
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plato, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHAEL TTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
jyjAKE YOUE PUECHASES
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respecting economi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob.
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BEOTHEES,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 h 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clocx for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
Professional Addresses
E. M.
S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
M E -
AND MES. W. H.
(Zulu Wae).
ON TOUR:
THOMPSON,
, Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, till 21st Jane*
Western Australia to follow.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A knight dress—a coat of mail.
Clerical errors—long sermons.
A son-net —your neighbour’s pretty daughter.
A blessed thing about hanging a man is that he
can’t be an amateur theatrical afterwards.
The difference between a duck and a girl is that
one is dressed to kill and the other is killed to dress.
A woman of our acquaintance calls her husband
**Darkest Hour,** because he comes home just before
the dawn.
The latest conundrum: “Which is the harder:
to kiss a girl leaning from you, or climb a fence leaning
to you P ’’
“ Inquiring Innocent:” No: the plumber isn’t
the man who makes plums. He is the man who makes
you swear.
If the women would only save what they now
spend on ribbons, what a deal more the men might
spend on cigars!
“ My bane and antidote are both before me,”
as the bicycle rider remarked, contemplating his “silent
steed” and the arnica bottle.
“ Did you call your brother a liar?” asked the
stem parent, and the culprit remarked: “Well, I said
he was a sewing-machine agent.”
M'Elhone says that, as he understands the
giraffe has never been heard to utter a sound, some
giraffes should be elected to Parliament.
There are three things in the universe whose
probable course can never be forecast with any cer-
tainty—a woman, a locomotive off the track, and a cow.
“ Well, you’ll own she’s got a pretty foot, won’t
you?” “Yes, I’ll grant you that, but then it never
made half so much of an impression on me as the old
man’s.”
The superiority of the masculine over the femi-
nine gender, is apparent in all concerns of life. For in-
stance, yon never heard of a man looking under the bed
at night to And a woman.
A girl recently told her mother that she was sure
Harry was going to propose, because he had asked her
whether she wasn't quite tired of living with such a
menagerie as her ma and pa,
A jealous man went to the post office and asked
whether there wasn’t a scented letter for his wife.
There was one. The jealous man tore it open and
found the milliner’s bill for £3O.
When the ivory-topped old gentleman jested
with little Kittie, and asked her whether she would be
his little wife, Kittle looked at her mother and said,
** Te-e-s, but I’d rather have a new one, ma.”
Hoaxing his maiden aunt. “Oh ! butcher,
would you make mo up a pound of * liver pads;’ my
nephew, Tom, told me you would know what I wanted,
and said they were so nice with a bit of bacon."
A self-lighting pipe is the latest Yankee notion.
It will be rough on the corporation labourers if it ever
comes into general use, for then they’ll have to invent
some other excuse for stopping work every five minutes.
“ There’s my hand! ” he exclaimed in a moment
of courage and candour, “ and my heart is in it." She
glanced at the empty palm extended toward her, and
wickedly replied: “Justus I supposed; you’ve got no
heart."
Presence of mind. Tommy (who has seen
Janet’s lover kissing her): “ Oh, kiss me, too, Janet I’’
Janet (conscious of mamma’s approaching footsteps):
“ Don’t say * kiss mo two,’ Tommy. Say • kiss me
twice! ’ ”
“Lenora” sends us a poem, beginning; “I
ask but one small share in that great heart of thine."
You had better emigrate to Utah, Lenora, where they
keep such material in job lots. We do a strictly whole-
sale business.
At a fttfioy dress ball in Paris recently, a lady
was seen in a very low-bodied dross of green gauze.
She was politely asked by a gentleman what she
personated. “The sea. Monsieur.” “At low tide,
then, Madame.”
“ Never milk while the cow is eating,” is the
advice of a bucolic contemporary. Judging from the
character of much of the milk that come to the market,
it would be more to the point never to milk while the
cow is drinking,
“ Amantha,” he murmured, with pathos in his
voice, “ why do yon quiver at my touch ? Why do you
shrink from my embrace as the startled fawn trembles
at the rustling of the autumn leaves ?" “ I’ve been
vaccinated,” she said.
“ The Germans are a frugal people,” says an
American writer, after visiting the Berlin Opera House.
“As soon as the opera was over, the man in front took
wads of cotton from his pocket, and stopped up his bars
to save the music he had paid for."
“What kind of little boys go to Heaven?”
asked a Sunday-school teacher. A lively little four-
year-old boy, with kicking boots, flourished his fist.
“ Well, you may answer,” said the teacher. “ Dead
ones,” the little fellow shouted at the extent of his
lungs.
The picnic season will be here in a month or
two now. Which reminds us of the honest Hibernian,
who, when asked if he had a pleasant time at the picnic,
replied, “ I’ll not desave ye, sor—it was a dull time ;
sorra a black eye on the ground till afther three
o'clock."
The N. Y. Herald recently boasted that its
Snnday edition contained as much as two Testaments,
whereupon another paper remarked : “ Without deny-
ing this assertion, we cannot help saying frankly that
we still regard the New Testament as in many respects
a far better publication than the Herald."
An elderly gentleman took up the child and
hissed her. “You must not do that,” said the child,
struggling; “lam a respectable married woman.”
“ What do you mean, my dear ?” asked the astonished
visitor. “ Oh, that’s what mamma always says when
gentlemen kiss her," replied the artless infant.
According to the Hatter’s Gazette, the heads
of the inhabitants of Great Britain have progressively
diminished during the lost 25 years—a diminution of
fully a half-inch being shown. Shobld the present rate
of diminution continue, in 90 years men's heads will be
but half their present size, and in 175 years they’ll have
no heads at all.
There is a music-seller somewhere —apparently
in New Zealand—named Benjamin Hind. He was
Belling off a stock of slightly damaged music, and had
■the list attractively displayed, his name being attached
to each piece:—“ Oh ! let me like a soldier fall."-i—B.
Hind. “ Where shall we stand when freedom calls ?”
B. Hind. “ She wore a wreath of roses.”—B. Hind.
“ I fear no foe ” —B. Hind. “ She's all my fancy
painted her ’’ —B. Hind.
The other day, a lawyer who appeared for the
defendant, went into the court with a file of authorities,
the pages all carefully marked in with slips of paper.
During lunch time some scoundrel shifted every one of
those slips to other places. In delivering judgment
His Honor said he was of opinion that the defendant’s
counsel had been trying to insult the court. “He has
referred me to an action of an Irish woman who sued
the proprietor of a monkey for damages for biting her,
to a case of arson, one of burglary, two of petty
larceny, and three divorce cases, besides other matters,
none of which bear on an action to recover on a
promissory note. Perhaps the grossest insult to the
court is referring it to the case of Duckworth versus
Boozyman, an action charging defendant with obscene
language. Judgment .for plaintiff, with costs on the
higher scale.”
The motto of the Auckland Free Lance is
“Let there be light,” and the Lance acts up to it by
throwing more mud in one week than all the rest of the
papers in Australasia do in their lifetime. The Lance
is the liveliest pen’orth extant.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. Tanner, the faster, is now selling medicines
in the States.
The Crown Prince of Italy is very nearly
related to himself. His parents were first cousins.
A knight-errant—J. P. Bell, of Queensland. It
was Dillon Bell, of N.Z., that was knighted, after all.
Mr. Woodhouse, an old Auckland resident, and
for many years manager of the Bank of New South
Wales there, is dead.
James Gordon Bennett, so says the Whitehall
Review, is engaged to marry the daughter of the
Prince de Furstenburg.
The S. F. Bulletin says that Professor and
Mrs. Proctor will return to America next fall to start on
tour of the world via San Francisco.
Another survivor of the wreck of the Orpheus
has made his appearance. We refer to Mr. Charles
Turtle, now a miner at Hartley Vale.
Mr, Salomons, Q.C., has, during the last month,
bought Grafton town properties to the extent of £6200.
His investments have been first-class.
The World says that Rear-Admiral Hoskins,
late Commodore of the Australian Station, will pro-
bably be the recipient of a very valuable sinecure at
Portsmouth.
The Hon. Jimmy Taylor, of Toowoomba (Q.); is
buying more land. He is getting so old that, in view of
eventualities, asbestos paper for his title deeds may be
recommended.
Here is a quaintly-told lie from a leading Pacific
Slope paper:—“ One of the wealthiest settlers in Aus-
tralia is Jem Mace, the noted champion of the prize
ring, who landed in Melbourne two years ago with $5O.
He has made a fortune by speculating in mining stocks."
Mr. Justice Molesworth, of Vic-
toria, is now convalescent.
M. Baillieu, French Consul, has
been banqueted, prior to his departure
or Mauritius.
Prince Leopold’s popularity is
- due to the belief that he isn’t so great a
fool as his brothers.
Messrs. Thomas and Cowdery, of
the Railway Department, have invented
a successful automatic car-coupling.
They say in London that Dr.
Kidd, the Earl of Beaconsfield’s physi-
cian, is to be raised to the peerage as
Lord Globule.
Mr. Clarendon Stuart, the scourge
of “ Dissenters," used to be a mining
surveyor at Qympib, Queensland.
The Earl of Shrewsbury will
marry Mrs. Munday, with whom he
eloped, as soon as Mr. Munday and the
Divorce Court have done with her.
Mr. E. P. Jones, first lieutenant
of the Carysfort, now at Melbourne
with the squadron, is a Tasmanian, and
was on this station in the Basilisk for
many years.
Mr. Russell M'Coy, from Pitcairn
Island —a descendant of the mutineers
of the Bounty has been exhibiting
himself at the Westminster Aquarium,
and has proved a great attraction.
Billy Little, of Thornborough,
North Queensland, the only man who
can keep up a conversation with a fel-
low who is three blocks away, has, we
are told, struck a big patch in tin min-
ing.
Mr. John Mayo, the foremost
sportsman of the Northern district, has
put up a fine residence just outside
East Maitland. Internal decorations—
gold and silver trophies won by Black
Swan, Ac.
According to report, the Hon F.
J. Ivory, of the Queensland Legislative
Council, is about to resign his seat and
accept the clerk assist mtship in the
Assembly. Mr. Ivory is a son of the
late Lord Ivory of the Scottish Bench,
and was a squatter on the Burnett many
years ago.
Mr. Coningsby Disraeli, it is said,
so far as he has troubled himself with
politics, has views which are decidedly
not Conservative. It will be no wonder
if, when the lad attains the seat in Par-
liament which is sure to be offered to
him, he should burst upon the Tories as
an enthusiastic Radical.
Our paragraph conveying the fact
that a son of Sir Henry Barkly was
among the survivors of the Orpheus,
has recalled the circumstance that Sir
Henry showed his gratitude for the
saving of his son’s life, by. heading the
subscription started in aid ot the
widows and orphans of the crew with
£lOl
“Bobby” Byrne is responsible
for this :—“The Desart peerage case
has ended in establishing the claimant’s
right to the title and estates. The for-
tunate litigant has been married to Miss
Bischoffsheim, a wealthy heiress, who
will, no doubt, derive much happiness
in “ wasting her sweetness on the
* Desart Heir.’"
Lord Beaconsfield’s faculties were
beginning to decay before his last ill-
ness. When he walked over to the
Government side of the Lords instead
of his own, and was about to sit in Lord
Granville’s place, people at the time
thought the mistake was a good joke.
Very few could have thought it pre-
saged the end—that it was an outward
sign of the mischief going on within,
• and that in a few short weeks the bril-
liant intellect would fail altogether,
and the mind of Benjamin Disraeli
would wander, and his lips would babble
until the end came swiftly on, and the
last great dissolution released the aged
statesman from his parliamentary
duties for ever.
The quarantine treatment of the Sydney pas-
sengers who went to Auckland by the City of New York is
said to be a disgrace. Mr. Adams, the special corres-
pondent of the Belfast Newsletter at the Melbourne
Exhibition, and Mr. Shepherd Smith, were among the
unfortunates.
Half a dozen University students in the grand
stand at the University and Wallaroo F. B. match on
Saturday, made themselves conspicuous by loud and long
clapping and hitting with sticks and boards when the
smallest advantage was gained by the Uni’s, but when
tne Wallaroo showed any good play they remained dumb
—which was mean.
Sir Henry Bessemer has, it is announced, almost
completed the construction, at his house in England, of
a telescope at which he has been working for nearly two
years. This instrument will be of such power that
»ir Henry expects to be able, by means of it, to read a
newspaper placed against the Crystal Palace, three
miles and a half distant.
John M'Laughlin, M.L.A., took a cab, the other
to go home. The cabby, who had been frequently
aied that day by various people, was rather unsteady
S? tue box; so it ended eventually by John deposing
+w v hu ’ and drivin S himself. General report says
tnat he looked, if not the right man in the right place,
at least exceedingly pretty on the box. But, then, John
always dees look pretty.
That well-known N.Z. pressman, Mr. “Snyder”
isrown, after 36 years’ journalistic experience, retires in
comtortable circumstances. Lucky Snyder I the great
majonty of his brethren die in harness or in a ditch.
to Ba Y some scrubbers he had offen-
ueaj burnt the old man in effigy the other night.
but he looks so hale and hearty that he may yet spend
a quarter of a century smoking the pipe of peace beneath
his own fig-tree.
James Taylor, of Toowoomba, has been sum-
moned to the Q. Legislative Council. It is only the
other day that Jimmy resigned his seat in that august
body, which he is again to grace, for the purpose of
standing for the Assembly, in the Government interest,
for Toowoomba, against Aland, a local ironmonger, and
got woefully beaten, mneh to his mortification. James
is absurdly rich, and measures everything by a pecu-
niary standard. After the election, he is reported to
have complained, with genuine surprise, that even
fellows that owed him money voted against him.
In a little cemetery adjoining the town of Molong,
long since out of use, and now grown over with rank
weeks, lie some of the “ rude forefathers of the hamlet,"
—amongst others, a brother of England’s great com-
mercial reformer, Richard Cobden. A quarter of a
century ago, Cobden kept as an hotel the house now
occupied by Mr. H. 8. M. Betts, J.P., and old iden-
tities say he was one of “ the good old sort." Now,
alas ! not a slab marks his resting place; and, like many
otfier of the earlier grave-yards of the colony, the spot
where he and other pioneers of Molong lie, is a neglected
waste.
Should the sanguine anticipations of Mr. John
Dixon, the inventor of a process by which, it is said,
gas can be produced at about id per 1000 feet, be realised,
he will be one of the richest men in creation and will
probably draw £30,000 or £40,000 a year royalty from
Sydney alone. He has patented his process all over
the world. The patent, it appears, is based on the
treatment of bismuth filings, mercury, kerosene,
sodium, muriatic acid, nitric acid, zinc, copper wire,
water, lime, charcoal, antimony, tin, raptha and iron
filings, the bulk of kerosene being 8000 parts out of
10,000. The kerosene is supposed to be condensed each
time, recovered and used over again.
The agent for the Ben Wyvis whiskey, which is
advertised in our columns, has graciously sent us a con-
densed account of the distillery at Dingwall, Bosshire,
where this temperance drink is manufactured. He
writes that he has condensed to a great extent, and
couldn’t go further without robbing the description of
its interest. As his condensation would make about
half-a-column of The Bulletin, we fancy that if there
were no better condenser at the Ben Wyvis Distillery,
there would be more vapour than whiskey for sale.
Now this is what We make of it. The Ben Wyvis
Distillery was born of poor but honest parents—but,
hang it, drink some—it tells it’s own story.
Peter Macpherson, solicitor, a native of Sydney
(and a good fellow), and Tom Borne, a Barcoo squatter
(and another good fellow), have been appointed to the
Legislative Council of Queensland. Tom Borne—we
mean the Honorable Thomas Borne, M.L.C.—is one of
the lucky sort. The current story of how he got rich is
that he bought, just at the tail-end of the last big
squatting depression, a station on the Barcoo, with
some 30,000 sheep, for £lOOO caih (all he bad), and the
rest bills. When he got on to his property, he was
worth about £4O in the bank. A big boom set in, and
in twelve months or two years Tom had paid off every
liability, and his station was worth £40,000. He fol-
lowed up his luck by marrying one of the most
charming girls in. Queensland—sister of an ex-Premier.
In a paper relating to the late Intercolonial
Conference, not hitherto published, Chief Justice
Qorrie, of Fiji, let out at “ The Vagabond’’.and the
Sydney D. T. thus :—“ It has occurred to me as possi-
ble that the delegates have been influenced by the libels
which they re-print, and have appended to their report.
Tour Excellency will .recollect that 4 The Vagabond,’
who signs some of these productions, and appears to
have inspired the remainder, is the person who was last
year brought down to Fiji for a few weeks, and without
knowing anything of the*.colony or the affairs of its
Government, or the administration of justice in it,
sought notoriety by assailing your Excellency and my-
self in a public lecture, with abuse so foul and violent
that even the local journals most hostile to the Govern-
ment shrank from reproducing it in what purported to
be a report of the proceedings. The respectable part
of the audience rose and left the hall, and he was there-
after shunned even by moat of those who had taken
him by the hand when he first came. He left the colony
bafiled and most bitter, and to that bitterness, born of
his failure to stir up sedition here, he has given abun-
dant vent through the Australian papers.”
As the private character of Mr. J. B. Patterson,
Minister for Works in the Berry Administration, has
so often—and it appears unjustly been assailed,
he is the last man in the world who should have
made any allusion to “cattle-duffing," and the
title borne by Sir Bryan O’Loghlen. The Baronetcy
was conferred on Sir Bryan’s father, the late
Sir Michael O’Loghlen, Master of the Rolls in
Ireland, one of the ablest and most conscientious
men who ever filled the offices of Attorney and Solicitor
General in that country. He was the distinguished
friend of O’Connell, the first Roman Catholic Judge
appointed in Ireland since the Reformation, and an able
lawyer. A marble statue of Sir Michael stands in the
great hall of the Four Courts, Dublin. Sir Colman
O’Loghlen, Sir Bryan’s immediate predecessor in the
title, has distinguished himself both at the bar and in
Parliament, and has left behind him a name cherished
by Irishmen of every creed and class. Whatever may
be the faults of the present holder of the title, no
shadow of suspicion can be placed upon the public or
private career of the first and second Baronets. J.B.P.
must look locally—among the C.M.Q.’s, &c., —for his
cattle-duffing nobility.
WOMAN ITEMS.
In Lisbon it is not uncommon to meet ladies
dressed entirely in purple. This is the result of their
having vowed to the Virgin to wear her colour for a
specified time; All is of purple—bonnet, ribbons,
wrap, dress, trimmings, fan, gloves, boots, stockings,
and—well, further deponent sayeth not.
A female child was recently born tongueless.
A merciful dispensation of Providence.
French bon-bon: New pocket-dictionary for
sons-in-law:—
Assassination —see Mother-in-law.
Mother-in-law—see Extenuating Circumstances.
Why don’t the men propose ? —A curious calcu-
lation has been made that'3oo yards of lace are re-
quired to trim a short muslin gown with four flounces,
a jacket with lace waistcoat, a lace cascade down one
side, and lace-bordered draperies. The cascade re-
quires fifty yards and the waistcoat thirty.
Mothers who like to attire their offspring in a
striking manner might follow the lead of a well-known
aesthetic London lady, who shows off her young
daughters at home dinner-parties by dressing them in
straight calico garments of the night-gown build, with
frills round the short sleeves, and sandals on their feet.
Rosalind Young, a descendant of one of the
mutineers of the Bounty, and resident at Pitcairn
Island, has a narrative of life on that island from 1859
to 1880 in “ Scribner ” for May. Miss Young is 24
years old, has never worn a shoe in her life, cau swim
four miles at a stretch, and is a good performer on
the harmonium.
The latest fashionable inanity in England is
what is known as the “ baby stare." It is affected by
young ladies, and consists in opening the eye as widely
as possible without raising the brows, and slightly turn-
ing the corners of the month upwards. The necessary
position of the mouth is obtained by many repetitions
of the word “mouse." There is another word which
will do as well.
This is how the S. F. News Letter puts it:—
“The San Francisco baby show is to open, for six days,
on Monday, June 20th. Five hundred infants will be
on exhibition. There will be music, a physician, a
clergyman (to register the babies); coloured nurses,
ushers, and messengers will be in attendance. The
hall will be decorated with flags, bunting, inscriptions,
and mirrors. Refreshments gratuitously provided—for
mothers. Prizes will comprise sums ot money, por-
traits, diplomas, and, moreover, a commemorative tab-
let to each baby. Photographs of the fortunate com-
petitors will appear in the News Letter, Net proceeds
of the affair to form a local charity. Mr. F. Reed
Porter, 313 Stockton-street, manager.”
A story» of which the following is the substance,
is told in half-a-dozen different ways by as many con-
tinental newspapers received by last mail :—“ The
Princess Dolgorouki was remarkable for the beauty and
abundance of her hair, and the Court legend tells us
that, like many other great men, Alexander 11. had
been caught in this filet d'amour, which, according to
old Marot, the poet, captures the souls of men. The
Emperor’s admiration for the tresses of the Princess
was so great that he often said to her: ‘lf I die first I
shall rest all the easier if that hair lies with me in my
coffin.’ The impression upon the mind of the Princess
was so vivid that, at the very moment the news of the
Emperor’s death had reached her, she out off with her
own hands the rich abundance of her tresses, and en-
closed them in a sealed packet directed to the Em nr ess,
with a humble request that the late Emperor’s desire
might be fulfilled. The Czarina’s gentle and affection-
ate heart was moved to the cere by the sacrifice and
the request, and it is well known among the ladies of
the Court that the white satin pillow upon which re-
posed the head of the late Czar contained this last
token of love and remembrance from the Princess
Dolgorouki."
A grass widow is anything but
green.
In English society “ beauty ” has
taken the place of “ belle.”
Friendship between women is
merely a suspension of hostilities.
Balzac: Woman is a charming
creature, who changes her heart as
easily as her gloves.
Dumas : Men look at women from
head to feet; women look at men from
the feet to the head.
Thackeray : A woman, with fair
opportunities and without au absolute
hump, may marry whom she likes.
Pet cats are disappearing rapidly
at Queanbeyan. Fur trimmings are
very fashionable just now in the dis-
trict.
“ Dearest Willie,” wrote she be-
fore taking the rat-poison, “ I’m going
to Heaven, and you’ll never see me
again."
Crying at weddings has gone out
of fashion. However, the bride’s father
does the crying when he comes to settle
the bills.
One hug, says a cautious suitor, is
better than a dozen love-letters, and,
best of all, cannot be introduced into a
breach of promise suit.
According to the N. Y. Tribune,
Miss Mack ay, daughter of the million-
aire, is engaged to marry Count D’Har-
court, a kinsman of Marshal M‘Mahon.
Mdlle. Grevy, ’tis said, will marry
M. Francis Chormes, of the'DEBATS.
Princess Jeanne Bonaparte is engaged
to a wealthy American gentleman.
Mrs. Ashmead-Bartlett was at the
Queen’s last drawing-room. The lady
will be remembered as having amassed
money enough to marry an American
young man.
Among the Mormons, when a man
is going to marry a girl, he talks about
“ setting his seal on her." This means
that presently he will be giving her
whacks.
Buckle: A woman reaches her
prime between thirty-five and forty, for,
though her beauty has then lost the
charm of youth, it has acquired that
of expression,
A man may become hardened by
long years of vice and wickedness, but
when he sees a woman try to fasten a
broken leg to the dining-room table
with mucilage, he is melted to tears.
When nothing else will bring your
wife out of a swoon, try walking into
her room with your arm around the
chambermaid’s waist. This remedy
never fails, and it isn’t a patent medi-
cine either.
A Scotch parson once said no
woman could bear pain as well as a man.
That is not so. Where’s the man who
can stand having his waist squeezed so
that he cau hardly breathe for three
hours of an evening, and not even mur-
mur ?
When a woman sees another with
a fine dress she stares at her. Here the
folly of the sex is plainly shown. A
man, were the case his, would try and
fill the soul of the opposition fellow
with bitterness by pretending not to see
him.
A New Zealand law provides
against employers of women keeping
them at work after 2 p.m. on Saturdays.
The proprietors of several millinery and
dress-making establishments in Auck-
land have been summoned for breaches
of this law.
On hearing of the death of Lady
Blanche Murphy, in America, the Earl
of Gainsborough cabled to have the face
of his dead daughter photographed for
him. This was done in the mortuary
chapel ot the cathedral at Portland,
U.S.A., where she was buried.
Prettiest among the married ladies at the Queen’s
drawing-room were—Mrs. Boyle, wife of Prince Leo-
pold’s medical adviser, and the Hon. Mrs. Boche. Of
the debutantes L&dy Hermioue Duncombe, Lady Fever-
sham’s daughter, was universally acknowledged the
belle. So lovely a face is rarely seen. When she ap-
peared the next night at Lady Mexborough’s ball there
was au absolute “ sensation’* among the guests.
The annual ball of the dramatic artists of the
Grand Opera, Paris, this year, was a wonderful affair.
A newspaper correspondent writes“ No two women
m all the vast company were dressed alike, and each
seemed to know by intuition what was best suited to
her shape and lt was not Worth, but individu-
ality. Striking individuality in some cases, for in one
of the lower tier of boxes I saw a glorious looking
Eubens woman with an entire corsage of forget-me-
nots. The flowers were artificial, of course, but perfect
imitations, and so grouped and intertwined that they
climbed naturally from her girdle to where the most
ambitious sprays just touched each other from either
side at the summit of her shoulders. An American
lady to whom I afterward attempted to describe this
costume said: “Well, there must have been gauze or
something underneath the forget-me-nots.” No, there
was not gauze, for, like the rest of the spectators, I
looked often, and looked hard; but there was some-
thing, and that the rich, warm flesh peeping out between
the flower-stems. In fact, inside the forget-me-nots the
woman was naked from the waist up. The costume was
not indecent—it was surprisingly pretty. So was the
raven dress of the blonde temptress, whose corsage was
throat high with a ruff, but from her chin to where her
waist began was a strip of genuine flesh colour, bridged
like the Seine at night by cross bands of contrasting
black. But I must not particularise further. Suffice it
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF: A WEAK OPPOSITION.


SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
INGEE MANUFACTUEING COMPANY 7
Have opened a Depot in
8
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
8
INGBE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
8
INGEE’S SEWING' MACHINES.
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
8
IN GEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
8
INGEE’S, BEST POE DRESSMAKERS,
SINGER'S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST FOE TAILOES.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKEES.
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-Presser Machine.
8
IN GEE’S SEWING MACHINES,.
HAND OR TREADLE.
8
INGEE’S, The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Carry.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.-
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO*
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES-..
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST and MOST DUEABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACH IN ES.
ADDRESS: THE
8
INGEE MANUFACTUEING COMPANY
No. 1 DAELING STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney.
CINGEB’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-street. Hay market, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s trial given.
Easy Terms. 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
0 per o<
sing:
ER’S SEWING MACHINES.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—TURNER:
and CO. only recomn oi-d ho Singer.
REM EM BEE, THERE IS * NLY ONE SIN-
GER MACHINE. See the name and Trade'
Mark on the arm
BINGEE’S8 INGEE’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER A;;
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
S INGBE’S MACHINES. —Beware of German
Cast iron imi-ations. Only Genuine Singer’s,
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGEE'S SEWING MACHINES by arrange-
ments with the Singer Company.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments in
353;
SYDNEY. —From TUENEE and , CO.,
GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONB
but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
GJ. WELLS, late STANPOED & CO.
• The old authorised Agency for SINGER
MACHINES.
8
INGER’S. The ONLY MACHINE of merit.
A real test of merit—2,soo,ooo now in use.
8
INGEE’S MACHINE with new triple action,
with latest IMPROVEMENTS and accessories.
GEE’S, from £5 cash, at G. J. WELLS,
” 1 HUNTER STREET.
Gr.
J. WELLS for LIBERAL TEEMS of
Payment. 2s 6d Weekly ; 5s deposit.
vv
HERE can you get the GENUINE SINGEIC
MACHINE? WELLS, 1 Hnnter-street.
I>HE OLD RELIABLE SINGER is the
CHEAPEST, the SIMPLEST, and most DUB-
IBLE ever constructed.
CO AVOID DECEPTION buy mnly at the Old
Authorised Agency. WELLS, 1 Hnnter-street
RINGER S NEW IMPROVED Triple Action
J Balance Wheel. Latest Improved attachments.
< INGER’S MACHINE. Immense discount to
J cash purchasers. 10 .per cent. 10s for cash.
iINGER’S MACHINES have jtood the test
5 of i
’ all opponents and BASE IMITATIONS for the
at thirty years.
J. WELLS. The old original and only
31" • Genuine System of payments offered to meet
b terms and demands of the public at 2s 6d per week,
d 5s deposit.
«/”ELLS for Price lists and all imformatiOß
▼ free. No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney. The OLD
OP fer GENUINE ARTICLE.
fTELu’S Established Agency will be open
V Every Saturday evening to give all mstrncr
is free, and receive weekly payments.
r Note the ADDRESS — ______
JGER’S SEWING MACHINE AGENCY
Q. J. WELLS, (Late Stanford and Co.).
No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
LUXURIES WITHIN THE REACH OE ALL.
When you ask a friend to visit you the first impression he receives when he steps upon your threshold
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the remarkably small cost at which this
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing he does is to brush his feet upon a
FIBRE MAT for which yon paid 2s. Passing on, the next thing he treade upon is a SINOLEUM at
3s. 3d. per square yard, or a FLOORCLOTH which only costs 2s. Hid. per square yard. He hangs
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK HAT at Bs. fid.) on the hat-stand, and
putting his 7s. fid. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he makes his way across a SHEEPSKIN MAT
(price 4s. 3d.) into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSELS CARPET meets his gaze, purchased
like all the foregoing, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPOR IU M.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
The cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEARTHRUG to match. The et cceteras of
such a room are amply supplied from the same source. There are FIRE-SCREENS, FENDER-
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautifully worked; and upon enquiry you find
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from *
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a dress of GROS GRAIN, HOMESPUN
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into the Library. Here the CARPET is of
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid per yard, and his eyes alight upon the rich looking REP CURTAINS, which
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by a beautiful pair of CORNICE POLES
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a small extra cost. The walls are hung with
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gladdening the eye; and when he learns
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he marvels how it can be done. Leaving
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 inches wide, at 13d. per yard, into the
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined with the chaste designs of the ladies’
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties —relics of the styles of various historic
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every day life, such as TABLE NAPKINS
at 4s. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4d. per yard, or CLOTHS to fit any
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. fid. to 225. fid. While in the room he notices the
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each ; and the Curtains some of which cost only 3s, 3d.
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds that
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of M'Lintook’s best EIDER DOWN or
SILK DOWN—delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Crockery upon the wash-stand, and even the
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fact, it is hard to say what they did not
supply. The most exorbitant prices are sometimes paid for BLANKETS, and it is simply because
the public are mislead as to their real market value. Now, at this well-known drapery establishment,
which, its proprietors are told, has only two rivals in the whole world, you can get a PAIR of
BLANKETS for 3s. lid.—a good warm pair. In a word, you can get anything you require, at a price
and of a quality that cannot fail to satisfy you, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
who have NO CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER HOUSE OF THE NAME.
PRIZE “I VAN HOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
foe
HERMITAGE.
DINNER WINES
SHIRAZ
MADEIRA
) Fruity
f Wines
1
BURGUNDY j
RIESLING ) Wines j
,10/- per dozen.
14/- i, i,
21/- .. „
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
Ac., Ac.
YIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
' G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
•* Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PEE GALLON.
rjl HEA T E E ROYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager . Mr. G. L. Goodman.
ENGLISH OPERA COMIQUE SEASON,
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
AN UNQUALIFIED TRIUMPH,
achieved in the production of the latest and greatest of
Offenbach’s works,
LA PILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Admission —ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may bo pur-
chased during the day at H. Solton’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street, near Emerson’s.
HENRY R. HARWOOD, Business Manager.
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
INTENSE ENTHUSIASM.
ELECTRIC SUCCESS.
Under the Management of
Mr. WYBERT REEVE,
Of Viotorien Sardou’s
GRANDEST PLAY OF THE AGE,
DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY,
In which Messrs. Reeve, Titheradge, Cates, O’Brien,
Forbes, Gladstone, Worbold, and Saville, and Misses
Mayor, Arden, Canton, Howarth and Mrs. Stammers
will appear EVERY EVENING until further notice.
MAGNIFICENT NEW SCENERY AND STAGE
APPOINTMENTS.
Box office and plan at Messrs. Nicholson's and Co.’s,
325 Qeorge-street.
Private boxes, £2 2s; orchestra chairs, 5s ; stalls, 2s ;
balcony, 2s; pit, Is.
Manager for Mr. Reeve Mr. J. W. DODGE.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
ONE NIGHT ONLY,
WEDNESDAY, JULY 13.
Grand Complimentary Benefit tendered to Mr.
WILLIAM C. DILLON,
By several influential gentlemen of Sydney.
DON C-ESAR,
BELPHEGOR,
the great favourite,
HARRY LESTON,
and several talented Artists have kindly volunteered.
HA. ABBOTT,
• BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
(FIVE DOORS FROM PITT STREET).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
ter A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
OP REMOVAL.
R. BURGIS, Tailor, 209 Pitt-street, wishes to inti-
mate to his numerous friends and customers that he
has taken those capacious premises. No. 170 Pitt-street,
immediately opposite above address, owing to the lease
expiring, where he will open on the Bth July, with a
large and well-assorted stock of Woollens j thanking
them for their past liberal patronage, hoping, with the
same attention that has characterised his establishment
for the past 20 years, to merit a continuance of their
support.
Note new address—
-170 Pitt-street, next Bank of Australasia.
w
OODWARD’S NEW PISH AND
OYSTER ROOMS.
NEXT BOX OFFICE OF ROYAL.
Castlereagh-street.
I have the honour of respectfully intimating to the
gentry of Sydney, and especially to members of the
Legal Profession whose offices are adjacent to the
Supreme Court, that I have fitted up this establishment
to suit them.
My Waiters and Oyster openers shall always be the
cleanest and best behaved young men in the trade. My
Oysters and Fish shall be theof Best Quality that money
can purchase, and every detail shall be carried out in a
style to suit the taste of the most fastidious.
H. WOODWARD.
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BRIDGE STREET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
R. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR,
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Anv.
to say that these actresses and their attendant satellites
had to the fullest degree that quality which has been so
happily designated as “ the intelligence of the body;"
that the place was a parterre of plump shoulders,and finely
rounded am s, and forms magnificently displayed and
draped. If there were any of the scrawny present they
had the sense to be covered up. There were no vulgar
things in tights. But there were shepherdesses, and
pretty peasant girls, and odalisques from the harem,
and regal beauties from the court of Marie Antoinette,
and the time of Maintenon.”
FASHIONS.
(BY THE MAN MILLINER.)
A Parisian novelty is a square umbrella.
Irish poplin is again in favour in Europe.
Rose-colored tufted gauze veils are very becom-
ing.
Necklets are worn even over high-necked
dresses.
Hand-painted satin dresses are now growing in
popularity.
Wild English primrose is the name of the new
shade of yellow.
Floral wreaths, both for head and neck, are now
and fashionable.
Satin parasols, painted in water-colours, are new
and very elegant.
Almond blossom is to be much worn on millinery
during the coming season.
PBMarabow feathers, tipped with pearls, look very
distingut in the hair for evening.
In Paris they are now wearing dresses made of
patch-work, and called “ harlequin” costumes.
Spring brown, spring green, and spring blue,
are the shades most in vogue at home just now.
Chrysanthemums and Parma violets are the
favourite flowers for garniture for evening toilets.
Venetian point, and real Spanish are
three styles in laces which are now in special vogue.
Bonnets are growing to a tremendous size, but
the cosy Princess shape is still the reigning favourite.
Sunflowers are fashionable just now for painting
on fans. Large red and black fans are thus ornamented.
For throat bouquets the favourite flowers are
violets, snowdrops, red carnations, and maiden hair
tern.
Long black silk gloves, and stockings to match,
richly embroidered m steel, ■ are new, and look elegant
for evening.
The newest street coiffure consists of two coils,
worn low on the nape of the neck. The front hair is
parted and waved.
Shaded satins, ribbons, flowers, tulles, parasols
and straw hats and bonnets are the rage of the moment
in Paris and London.
The taste for tiny animals in diamonds still con-
tinues in Paris—cats, spiders, owls, and snails, being
all worn in brilliants.
Feather collars or shoulder capes are newer than
those of fur; some are now made of coque feathers,
beaded in jet and steel.
The latest sleeves are suggestions or modifica-
tions of the ancient “leg of mutton," which may
again come into fashion.
Small circular hand-screens are made of kilted
lace, on a stiff foundation, with tiny birds, or clusters of
variegated flowers, in the centre.
Pearls are the favourite evening ornaments for
young ladies. When good there is nothing more becom-
ing to either blonde or brunette.
Some of the trains worn this season are rounded,
others square. There is, besides, the compromise of
having one end rounded and the other square.
Violets and snowdrops are the favourite flowers
just now; bonnets, collarettes, and muifs, composed
of all violets look fresh, and are most becoming.
A novelty for every-day wear is a shoe in per-
forated patent leather, modelled after the sabot, and
brightened by steel buckles resting on pinked-out tabs.
The butterfly is the reigning ornament of pale
satin and silk shoes. Painted, worked, and beaded, it
spreads its wings both on tapered tods, and on high
heels.
The fashionable bracelet of the hour is a nar-
row band of hammered gold from which depend a fine
gold chain and a circlet, inside of which is a diamond
pendant.
Parisian dressmakers are using a quantity of
powder and shot in the basques of all new dresses ;
some use balls of lead as large as marbles to keep the
basque in shape.
Initial brooches of all kinds have been in vogue
for some time. The fancy has now extended to the
mantle clasp, which, in fretwork silver, shapes its
wearer’s monogram.
The end of the rage for plush is not likely to be
seen for a long while. Not only is that material more
popular than ever, but every day something fresh is
discovered for which it can be used.
Jet is still in vogue; steel seems to be fast
gaining favour. Jet and steel harmonise very nicely.
Steel is introduced into everything, in fact. There is a
mania at home at present for the latter.
Mother Hubbard is the goddess who presides
over all the new mantles —the dust and waterproof
cloaks, as well as more elaborate mantles being made
after the fashion usually attributed to the old lady.
The opera cloaks of the season are made of an
entirely new material —a quilted satin, the quilting
being performed with the sewing machine in a close,
geometrical design. They are edged with white fox and
Marabow feathers.
There is anew tint,too ugly, one would suppose,
to ever become popular. By some it is known as
“ brick," others “ iron red" ; iron rust is the best name
for it. That it will be short lived is certain, from the
fact that it is so unbecoming.
In Paris and London just now there is a mania
for necklaces. The uglier and more quaint the beads,
the more precious; some look like those seen on
mummies in the Museum, others like these worn by the
natives of the South Sea Islands.
Gold-dusted and powdered looks have appeared
in American ball rooms, and towering puffs and curls
adorned with glittering stars, crescents, and bandeaux
of brilliants or jets, effectually complete the antique
styles of dress now the rage in Paris.
The skirts of all short dresses are very narrow,
but they are so trimmed that they look both full and
important. They are considerably more ornate than
even those of lost season. Coarse straw hats, poke
shape, in brown navy, Bordeaux, and black, are much
in vogue at home.
Very charming a coessories to bridesmaids
toilettes are mantilla hoods of thick ecru Spanish lace,
with a cluster of purple violets and tea-rosebuds on the
left side of the front. The ends are tied carelessly on
the chest under another bouquet of similar flowers, and
the mull to accompany the hood is of ecru satin,
covered with two coquilles of ecru lace, separated in the
middle by a bouquet of violets.
The fashion of divers stones is all the rage at
home. Diamonds, emeralds, and black pearls are fre-
quently set together, and the shamrock or trefoil leaves,
so much in favour for necklets, are composed of
three different gems, or of a trio of pearls, one of which
is white, one rose colour, and one black. The Princess
of Wales was the first lady with whom the ‘ odd”
jewels found favour; she wore a pair of earrings of
exactly the same size and shape, one of them being a
sapphire and the other a ruby encircled with brilliants.


JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cosh, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
T
HE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
‘ 2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAT MARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
• 2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON'S DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
The wondeeful weetheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
very line double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, qnilt, hem, and bind on the bias ;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WEETHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price I’sts and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, George,
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a WEETHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT, WITHOUT
INTEREST.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
___
s
o
tA
C
ft
&
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
SO.OOO NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home “ Shutt.e
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Coses and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
«■ LOOK FOR THE NAME 111
Although pitt street is
HORDERN’S isn’t.
BLOCKED
Although pitt street is
HORDERN’S isn’t.
BLOCKED
Although pitt street is blocked
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is blocked
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS
“ HORDERN’S isn’t.
BLOCKED
Although pitt street is blocked
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED
- HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is blocked
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED
- HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET IS BLOCKED
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is blocked
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is blocked
HOKPERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is blocked;
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is blocked.
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Take the CUE and go to Foley’s National Hotel,
Bridge-street, for Billiards.—Advt.
Could you eat a tart P If so, patronize the
Coffee Tavern, where you can order light Refreshments
in the Billiard Room. —Advt.
A beautiful Hunter Case Gold Waltham, valued
$lOO,OOO, to be given away by the Lessee of the Coffee
Tavern Billiard Room, Pitt-street.—Advt.
If you would advertise, send your card to be
posted in the Coffee Tavern Billiard Room. A. S.
GOULD, Lessee.—Advt.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Thkodoek Staioee, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.'
TILL RETAINS THE CONFIDENCE OF
1 PRESS AND PUBLIC.
MR. BERTIE WILLISON
(For Ten Mouths with the " Stray Leaves " Company).
PERMANENT ADDRESS:
188 Rnssell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Last engagement in Australia. Leaves for India
shortly, on a certainty.
M ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
ANNUAL BALL.
Under the Patronage of his Worship the MAYOR
(John Harris, Esq.)
and the MERCHANNS OF SYDNEY.
The Annual Ball of the above Club will again take place
in the EXHIBITION BUILDING, PRINCE ALFRED
PARK, on the 21st JULY NEXT.
DRESS, PLAIN and FANCY.
Tickets—Double, 30s; single (gentlemen), 20a; ladies,
12s 6d.
D. MURRAY, Hon. Sec. M.R.C. Ball.
gT. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL.
ANNUAL BALL. 1881.
TUESDAY, 26th JULY.
Under the Distinguished Patronage and in the pre-
sence of
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, G.C.MiG.
Lady Augustus Loftus and Suite
Earl Clanwilliam,; Admiral; and the Officer of the
Detached Squadron
The Commodore and Mrs. Wilson
Ac. Ac. Ac,
THE ANNUAL BALL,
in aid of the funds of the above charity, will bo held in
the EXHIBITION.fi GILDING, Prince Alfred Park,
on
TUESDAY, 26th JULY, 1881.
Tickets—Gentlemen, One Guinea; Ladies, Half a Guinea.
WILLIAM HUGHES. I Hon.
T. M. SLATTERY, j Secs.
•1111 l
'(III*
miniir
ilium
HVJIII
o
Xk
VICTORIA THEATRE.—WONDER OP THE
World, now being visited by the elite of Sydney,
THE NATIVE DWARF,
Only 2ft. high, 30 years of age, fully developed, long
flowing black beard, kindly disposition, and of
musical talent; weight, 431b5.; is 12 inches smaller
than Tom Thumb. Also,
PANORAMA OP ZULU AND AFGHAN WARS,
making the greatest show in Australia. Likewise,
THE GREAT PAT GIANT,
Weighing 30 stone, 6ft. round the waist, and sft.
round the chest; and is able to carry weight with,
or dance, any 20 stone man in the colony.
Is there a Room in Australia superior to the
Coffee Tavern Billiard Room, Pitt-street ? In the
words of a well-known gentleman, at the fourth of July
Celebration at Botany— no, NO I—Adyt.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
The latest rush at Nebo is the rush away from
at.
The Detached Squadron will probably arrive in
‘Sydney about the 10th, and remain ten days.
Frozen meat companies are the rage in N.Z.
Wellington merchants are about to form one.
The cane crops on the Clarence have suffered
very severely from frost during the last month or so.
Twelve months ago the Kellys were shot, and
their captors are still fighting over the blood-money.
Melbourne Police Commission are preparing a
-.progress report, and have ceased examining witnesses.
Several more bodies from the Tararua have been
cast ashore. One is supposed to be that of the wife of
Martin Dmz.
Michael Doran, 18, has been arrested on the
-charge of throwing a brick at the. Chinaman now in the
Infirmary in a critical state.
The dailies now confess that The Bulletin
was right about the small pox. The infection may be
latent for even 30 or 40 days.
In the Nineteenth Century for May, Admiral
Dunsany demonstrates that an invasion of England by
■the French is not only feasible, but easy.
The P. and O. Company are going to hit out at
last. Twelve new steamers, to travel 15 knots per hour,
have been ordered for the Australian line.
Mrs. Hughes’ child died on the 3rd inst. of
small-pox, at the Quarantine Station, whither a gang
of infected Chinamen, from Liverpool, have also been
sent.
The pawnbrokers gave a dinner to Mr. H. L.
Dunn, the auctioneer, last Thursdav. They gave him
a tea and coffee set, and great pleasure. That’s the
'■ticket.
There are 4600 Chinamen in New Zealand— 2oo
or 300 less than in 1874. A Bill imposing £lO a head on
each one landing in that colony has just been passed by
Parliament.
The insurance companies doing business at
Wellington (N.Z ) have combined to raise the rateal of
premium oh fire risks, in some cases to 100 per 'cent,
above rates ruling lately.
William Hall, the younger of the two boys
arrested for shooting the Chinese lad Tommy Wing
Hock, cutting his throat and putting him into a water-
hole, has been committed for trial.
The Irish revolutionists are nearly as ingenious
as the Nihilists. While a party of police was being con-
veyed in a trap to enforce an eviction, a hive of bftes
was let loose on them, and drove the horses mad.
Executions of Nihilists in Russia are to be effected
in private henceforth. It is found that public execu-
tions only encourage the revolutionists. Hopeless job,
to put down a conspiracy which is fostered by repres-
sion.
The latest American novelty is to make a corner
by insuring the li ves'of a lot of superannuated and infirm
persons, paupers and such like. It is being worked in
Maryland, U.S. It pays, especially if the usurer can
control the Benevolent Asylums and such.
The new flagship, the Nelson, which is to
supersede the Wolverene, is the most powerful vessel
ever commissioned for the Anstrali in station She is
an ironclad, and carries two 25-ton and ten 18-ton guns
with a complement of 60 officers and 500 men.
The Times says the Government has under con-
sideration the complete suppression of the Irish Land
League. The same journal mentioned, a year or two
ago, that the Russian Government had under considera-
tion the complete suppression of the Nihilists.
The unappropriated balance of the funds sub-
scribed for defraying the cost of addresses to members
of the late Council of Education is to be applied towards
founding a “ Council of Education Scholarship" for the
•children of teachers. There is in hand £l6B. The sum
required is £lOOO.
The rabbit-skin industry is assuming very large
proportions in N.Z., where Mr. Almao, a large buyer,
who has already sent away some thousands, has 30,000
on hand. The manager of a largo hat factory doing
business in London and New York, has forwarded
several thousands of pounds to Mr. Almao to buy
rabbit-skins in Dunedin.
Mr. James Service, chairman of the Victorian
Electric Company, who is now at home, has been making
■diligent inquiries concerning electricity generally. He
expresses surprise at the extent to which the electric
force is being applied in various directions,and states that
the Siemens light is giving the beet results. At the St.
Enoch Railway station, Glasgow, the electric light of
36,000 candle-power is used, and the oost is the same as
that of the gas formerly burned, the total power(of
which was 4750 candles.
The N.Z. Government, a few weeks ago, com-
missioned Mr, .Henry Halloran, C.M.G., to procure
500 white mulberry trees. He obtained the requisite
number of prime two-year old trees of the proper kind
{the tree moms alba ) from Mr. J. Fry, of Blaoktown,
and they were shipped to Lyttelton, per Wakatipu, on
Saturday. Mr. Fry’s plantation is not only large, but
includes a great variety of trees, and he possesses,
probably, mulberries of every kind worth growing for
the production ef silkworm food. The silk industry
will be a big thing in N-S.W. some day.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Anti-French riots at Milan. ,
Riots in Cork. 30 people injured.
State of Tripoli hostile to the French.
Another meeting in Ireland prohibited.
.£BOOO subscribed for the Land League.
Empress of Germany suffering a relapse.
Clauses 5 and 6 of Irish Land Bill passed.
Further Arab risings in Tunisian territory.
Oxford won the ’Varsity match by 135 runs.
Abyssinians have attacked a French mission
-station.
Hungarian Liberals won fifty seats at the late
elections.
Anti-German riots have occurred at Prague,
Bohemia.
Russian Nihilists have organized a branch for
punishing spies.
"Sentence on Herr Most (who is a small tailor in
Tichborne-street) confirmed.
Fenians threaten to blow up Hawarden Castle,
Gladstone’s place—also Eaton Hall.
French landing at Sfax, Algeria, opposed by
Arabs, and French Consul wounded.
All murderers of the late Sultan sentenced to
death, bar Izzet Said Pasha and another.
Gladstone has assented to the new Irish Land
Bill applying to existing leases. Conservatives irritated.
Spain offers to ease off import duties on English
goods, provided England slacks up the duties on
Spanish wines.
At Mitchelstown, Co. Cork, Ireland, the pea-
santry resisted evictions, and fought the constabulary.
Thirty persons wounded.
European residents at Sfax, Tunis, took refuge
-On board ships in the harbour, fearing a Mahommedan
invents. The Mollahs are preaching a holy war.
General Garfield, President of the United States,
fired at and wounded at a railway station by Charles
Guiteau, a soured place-hunter, probably insane.
Result doubtful—for Garfield.
Duke of Argyle condemns the report of the Irish
Land Commission. Earl Granville says the debate
.augured ill for the Land Bill when it reached the Lords.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Jlr. J. W. Dodge, the manager for Wybert
Reeve, is going about with a halo round his head, and a
grin on him as broad as the back of the Hon. J. Lucas.
He has received the following letter from—but let us
copy—and embellish :
“ Government House,
“July the tooth.
** J. W. Dedge, Esq.,
“ Dear Sir,” —(We expect Mr.'D. italicised this him-
self, as the line under is in darker ink) “ I am directed
by his Excellency to send you the sum of £1,000.000
sterling, in payment for the box occupied by the vice-
regal party on the occasion of their visit, and I am
further requested by his Excellency to inform you that
he considers the representation of ‘ Diplomacy * by
the company at the Gaiety as being quite far. more
than too transcendentally utter.
“ Yours, with a feathah,
“ Reginal Bloxome ”
It’s no wonder that Dodge puts on frills, and that
Johnny Solomon has takeu to wearing a fire-insurance
plate set in brilliants in his shirt-front.
** * *
It is whispered in town that a certain young
gentleman from Oxford-street, with a Scotch cognomen,
is to succeed J. J. Wallace as Bambini. “ Once an actor
always an actor."
** * *
Mr. Duncan Maoullum desires us to state that
he is the best advance agent in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and that every show he pilots draws like a
linseed poultice. He is now in advance of the Montague-
Turners, and in advance of the world. We hope this
par. will suit him ; if not, we invite him to bring along
a fount of type, and “ set up " a column or two him
self.
* * * *«
“Nightmare Froliques” are advertised. This
ought to be a cat-sing show.
** * *
“ The Maitland Philharmonic Society ” was in-
augurated on 4th inst., at West Maitland with a roll of
50 members. Dr. R. J. Pierce is president, and Mr. E.
R. Amdell musical director. A committee of eight
working members was formed, and the Masonic
Hall engaged for practice, commencing on the evening
of 11th inst.
** * *
During the week Mr. Steele) a clever actor, has
been starring in “The Huguenot Captain," a sensa-
tional and highly picturesque spectacular drama, by
the late Watts Phillips. On Friday Mr. Steele plays
Claude Melnotte, in “ The Lady of Lyons," a full
notice of which will appear in this journal. As we are
generally admitted to be without guile, we, in our
HOtice of Steele, make a point of not being iron-ical.
** * *
The Mastodon Minstrels leave Sydney for Goul-
burn on Monday next. They desire us—for an especial
reason, which we need not particularise—to state that
their company travels in Its entirety, with the ex-
ception of Messrs. C. Lewis, E. W. Skinner, and O.
L. Jackson, who have seceded, and are playing else-
where. The Mastodons go overland to Melbourne,
and from thence to New Zealand. Vale I
** * *
A lecture on “Poetry, tone and verse” was de-
livered by a gentleman residing in Tamworth, in aid of
the Church of England organ fund. Several ladies and
gentlemen amateurs illustrated the lecturer’s remarks'
by singing appropriate songs, which in some cases were
admirably rendered. Tamworth can boast of possess-
ing more musical talent than most country towns.
Some time ago one of our Sydney amateur pianistes
(whose opinion on music is worth having) visited the
district, and gave a concert in aid of the local
Mechanics* Institute. She was afterwards heard to
remark that a gentleman resident there was the pos-
eessor of a tenor voice which at the time was not sur-
passed in Sydney.
LATE SPORTING.
The East Sydney Club practice on Moore Park
after 8 o’clock every evening.
Second Newtown v. Rugby resulted in a victory
for the latter hy one try to nothing.
Second University v. Second Wallaroo resulted
in a draw in favour of the University.
Second Balmain v. Glenhead resulted in a win
for Balmain, by one goal and three tries to nothing.
A sculling match between amateurs, for a £lO
trophy, will take place in Woolloomooloo Bay, on 14th
instant.
The New South Wales Coursing Club intend to
hold a day’s coursing at Bathurst during the stay of
the Princes. Vive la compagnie I
2nd Oriental v. St. Kilda football match on
Moore Park resulted in a victory for the latter club by
one gaol and two tries to one try.
The Annandale and City Bowling Clubs played
a match at Annandale on Saturday, resulting in a win
for the metropolitans by 19 points.
The football match, Hotham v. Southern Tas-
mania, was played at Hobart, on Tuesday, and re-
sulted in a victory for the Tasmanians by three goals
to two.
The trotting stallion, Contractor, by Ajax from
Lady Qodley, the recent American purchase of Mr. J.
J. Miller, has been on view this week at Mr. Garland’s
horse repository.
The New South Wales football team won the
match against the Bendigo District Twenty by four
goals to one. There was a large attendance, and a
splendid game was played. Carey, of Maitland, had his
collar-bone fractured.
The Melbourne footballers arrived in Sydney at
the beginning of the week, and will play three matches
during their stay here. The first will take place this
day (Saturday), against the East Sydney Club, on the
Association Ground. Charges for admission will be
made—any surplus over expenses to go to charities. ■
The Newcastle and University football teams
meet on Moore Park on Saturday. The 'Varsitys
must take care to keep the football supremacy to
Sydney ; but, should the boys from Coalopolis win, the
Wallaroo will meet them on the following Saturday
in Newcastle. So that the Northerners have some
work before them.
The following are the members of the Melbourne
football team: —Messrs. Baker, W. H. Bailey, A. Ben-
nie, W. Boyes, H. J. Downs, E. Dariot, A. Hill, S.
C. Lamrock (captain), J. Macdonald, J. Morris, C.
Power, P. Pilcher, D. A. Rannard, W. H. L. Roberts,
B. B. Sibley, W. E. Stilfo, J. Swallow, H. Syme, C. E.
Swyer, J. F. Watson, James Wilson.
East Maitland races, under the new club.
Capital attendance, good running. Maitland Plate —
Sunlight 1, Silvia 2, Minus 3 Flying Handicap—
Sunlight 1, Comet 2, Hesitation 3. H.R. J,C. Handicap
—Comet 1, Cremorne 2, Gleam 3. Hack Race—Cin-
derella 1, Express 2, Moonlight 3. Forced Handicap—
Qlem 1, Darkie 2, Hesitation 3; splendid race, won by
three lengths.
A Melbourne correspondent writes to state, in
a very laboured communication, that we made a mistake
in our issue of the 2nd ultimo., in saying that the
Hotham footballers had a row with the East Melbourne
team, as on that date those footballing heroes were, as
our corresponding Junius informs us, “ fully occupied
in a ‘ big fite ’ with the Melbourne Club.” Every paper
is liable to mistakes, of course, especially in chronicling
footballing, in which “ institution ” matters usually
become so “mixed:" however, here the matter would
have ended, had not the gentleman who addresses us
indulged in verse. His Bcetian “burst” is as follows
(and print acccording to correspondeut’sjcopy courteous
comp.) :
" Ton aver the'E.M. played the Hotham
I emphatically say— ‘ It was not ’em.’
And it seemeth to me
You’ve consulted OD
V and as a resultant— * you've got ’em.’ ”
Being good-natured we will only add this :
We’re sorry that you are averse
To our par.; but we’re glad it’s no worse. •
We thought ’twas the truth.
And we do hope sweet youth.
You’re football’s ahead of your verse.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Fred (Qneanbeyan) : Yes, certainly
“Barrister": Thanks. Will probably use when
Bill (introduced “ H.T." (Melbourne): Received
“ W.L ” (Dubbo): One must not impute improper
motives “Pedestrian” (Newtown): Your letter was
unfortunately overlooked. In such matters you should
send name and address. Otherwise, we have no
guarantee for accuracy “Oliver": Such statements
wouldn’t bear printing “8.Q.C."; Received; thanks.
“ATynne Tacke": Received “ W.H.T." (Gun-
nedah): Please write again “P.W.” (Port Adelaide):
We are at too great a distance to deal with such a
matter on the strength of an exparte statement made
"by an unknown correspondent “ Ignoramus ":
Though the auctioneer’s phraseology is by no means
elegant, neither is it misleading “P.S.": Shall
be glad to see yon when you visit town “ M.F.": The
matter is a purely personal and private one, and in no
way of general interest. Don’t you think so yourself P
“ G.H.S.": Capital information. Write often
“P.”: We gladly give the information “ J.A.W.”:
Will attend to it next week “ Waltz": Always happy
to hear from you “ T.S.” (Cootamundra): Simply
delicious—exquisite “W. J.” (Hobart) : We don't
exactly understand your allusion. However, we judge
it to be offensive to somebody not before the public,
and therefore do not print it. Send us something plea :
sant next time “ Skeetur" (Hodgkinson River)
Shall be glad to have Northern notes from you regularly!
“J.L.” (Thorpborough) ; Received “C.W.K.”’
Thanks; you’ll find both printed in this issue
“ Felix”: On reading our present issue, you will per-
ceive that we haveohtained at least one good idea from
your note " Bertie ”: Marked paper received ; Next
week “A lady oorrespondeat ” : Excellent
“Triton”: Next issue “D. G.”: Shall be glad to
hear from yon often on snob subjects “ Forbes ":
At present your communication is inscrutable “ W.
T." (Wanuon Falls): Got packet of letters all right—...
“A member of the congregation”: Held over
“Viola” (Townsville): Excellent matter “Stella”:
Thanks “R. G. P.": Very true; but that about
“ the diamond smouldering in her hair,” is too too for
ns. Try the religions papers “Schneider": Next
week, perhaps. Smells of malice “ George Rooke ":
Please call.


Write to us for Everything. We post all Information FREE.
USS-ASITXIff &
389 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
The Cheapest House for Chaffcutters |
h bl
*
- C
M
MARTINS. PAIN
-■ »vnnr^
' 33
Ui ~
n
m m
WRITE TO US OR CALL ON US,
nil I\m nloncml frt fnrnich t*\rair\r v^ororHl
W« shall be pleased to furnish every information regarding our
Chaffcutters ; and to customers in the country we post illus-
trated lists of drawings with prices attached.
* WE HAVE EVERY SIZE AT VARIOUS PRICES.
MARTIN AND PAIN,
389 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY.
mrwawnt.-
MARTIN & FAIN, 389 George St.
Blacket and Davy.
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangye Beos., Bxemingham.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now ar©
in receipt o£
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES —Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFIC S 79 YORK STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN D A N K Si
impoet.ee op
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pump - *
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET, SYDNEY.
235
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL,.
ALL WOOL
wsg
,
LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
FROM
H.L.SUMMERFIELO
PITTSTSYDNEY.
OR
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
S&Ss.
PATTERNS
AND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO.’S
PRIZE
ALBUEY WINES.
Bed Winks: White Wines
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbeo
Eeisling
. Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the proprietors,
John Haynes and J, P. Aechibald, at The Bulletin
Office, 13 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
W
ILLCOX
AMD
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUENS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES.
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., &c., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 QEOEGE STEEET.
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All hinds of Patent
Medicines at leas than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, Ac.
ALL KINDS OS’ DRUGGISTS* SUNDRIES.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address —
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings.
■
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
w.
KING STREET SYDNE'
JAILOR
S>
06
fof<ov
c# 4
HPilC£
3AV-
*)
&
R
MNb POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
-2S®” TO ORDER.^^T
FIT GUARANTEED!
/Vlt HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW BOOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STEEET.
Established a.d. 1840.
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, Ac., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at cheaper
rate than at any other house in the olonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO„
Manufacturers and Importers.
I
CANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERS - ,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Ceabs, Cranks, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
SILVER MEDAL, AWARDED MELBOURNE EXHIBITION, 1881,
TO
EVAN JONES,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER, 9 and 11 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST STAFF OF SKILLED WORKMEN EMPLOYED IN THE COLONY.
ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES FROM £3 10s.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
BATHS.
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, opposite Palmer-street,
PRACTICAL HAIR CUTTER,
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR- WORKER, STAGE AND STREET WIG-MAKER.
Batha for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings of Ladies’ Hair worked as required.
Note the address — Oxford-street, opposite Palmer-street.
U
66
PRIZE
CO
Against the world
B. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Pen First Prizes
and the
Special First
is the best of their
3lass in the Sydney
international Exhi-
oition, 1879-80.
W
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
No. 12 Hunter Street.
jyjß. ELLERCAMP.
(Successor to PARROT BROS.)
Just Received by the Mail,
the
NEW COMET SHOE,
5/6 pair.
THE ROYAL COURT SHOE,
7/6 pair.
MOROCCO BUTTON SHOE,
7/6 pair.
Fur-Lined Warm SLIPPERS,
7/6 pair.
Choice Assortment of New
Fancy SCARFS, HANDKER-
AMERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO., No. 17 Pitt Street,
IMPORTERS of ALL DESCRIPTION of MACHINERY, HAVE for SALE—
J A Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working Machinery—Sydney Exhibition, 1880.
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined). Insertion and pure Gum Packing.
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, Genuine Tucks’ packing, round and square.
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes, Rock Drills, Windmills, Planing Machine Knives.
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose —best quality guaranteed—ic., &c.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS AND PRICES.
