

THE BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 92.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1881.
Price—3d*
§ttUetiiL
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1881.
Constitutional Government.
Complaints become frequent that Constitutional
Government, in its theoretic and even in its
practical perfection, is becoming no longer possi-
ble. There seems reason to believe that these
complaints are well founded, especially as it is
not merely one section or political party which
cries out. The entanglements and abuses which
render Constitutional Government difficult, are
recognized by parties occupying quite opposite
points of observation. It has, in fact, become
almost impossible to adjust the balance of control,
or to keep the relations between the represented
and representatives properly reciprocal. In Par-
liamentary bodies, the majorities fluctuate between
being absolute and impotent, but with a strong
bias to absolutism.
• # *
This condition has evoked a lamentation over
what is termed “the decay of Constitutional
Government.” It is by no means clear that what
is termed decay may not really be growth, by the
common process of metamorphosis. We do not
remember to have noticed that those who lament
over the change which is affecting representative
institutions, have ever referred to a definite
period when Constitutional Government was work-
ing up to the standard of its ideal perfection. In
Great Britain, it may be regarded as having had
its commencement from tho time of the Act of
Settlement, which defined the reciprocal rights
and limitations of William and Mary as Con-
stitutional Sovereigns. But, neither at that time,
nor during succeeding reigns up to that of Vic-
toria, can there be found any epoch which
answers to tho ideal perfection of the system, as
the golden age of the two Antoninbs figures for
the perfect realization of a paternal autocracy.
The reign of William witnessed a constant
domination of Whigs over Tories, that of Anne
an almost equal domination of Tories over Whigs,
while under the Georges whichever party had
the countenance of the Monarch overbore the
minority in Opposition, and Government was
Constitutional only in name.
# # #
It will scarcely be contended that Government,
as conducted bjf Walpole, by Bute, or by
Pitt, answers to the idea conveyed in tho term
constitutional. And if the Governments of Mel-
bourne, Canning, or Weluhngton be quoted
as models of Constitutionalism, the subsequent
Reform Bills must be confessed to have been
mistakes. In effect, it is to the period of Reform
that the mind naturally harks back when groping
for illustrations of truly Constitutional procedures.
It must be confessed, therefore, that Constitu-
tional Government, according to the ideal of that
system, has rather been a transient phase than a
substantial entity. Lately, it appears doomed to
disappear amidst the turmoil and struggle of ob-
struction, by means of perverted forms, by
minorities on the one hand, and of growing as-
sumption of arbitrary power by majorities, on the
other.
# * #
Recent political history, alike in Great Britain
and in those dependencies which derived from
that source their legislative systems, points
clearly to the transition. The equipoise neces-
sary for the preservation of the old plan seems to
have been lost. Those rules, and even those
fundamental rights which were provided hi order
to permit members of a minority to exercise their
proper proportion of influence, have been laid
increasingly under contribution. For this pheno-
menon there must be some natural cause; and
that will probably be discovered in the tendency
of merely customary procedures to harden into
impassible forms. It is one of the fundamental
presumptions which lie at the root of representa-
tive institutions, that the most insignificant indi-
vidual member enjoys the right of speaking on
any subject, equally with the most prominent
Minister. In the House of Commons,_ however,
this right has become so hampered with formal
arrangements and customary observances, that
it may almost be regarded as superseded.
* # #
"Catching the [Speaker’s eye” has become a
Parliamentary fiction, inasmuch as on all im«'
portant debates the right honorable gentleman is
furnished by party leaders with a list of speakers;
and the outsider who ventures to break in upon
the pre-arranged programme, finds the. speaker’s
eye curiously blind to his existence. This tendency
to reduce Parliamentary proceedings to a mere
formal performance of a programme, previously
cut out and dried, has naturally occasioned a
revulsion. Members of strongly independent
character, or moved by somo strong cause, have
revolted against the shackles of form ; and from
disregard of mischievous forms to contempt of
useful ones, is no long stride. Parliamentary de-
bate and useful legislation have thus been rendered
difficult. Unhappily, tho measures generally re-
sorted to by majorities to correct this have been
so ill-judged and arbitrary that they seem destined
to render representative Government impossible.
The mild fictions, invented with the view of keep-
ing speakers within such bounds as are requisite
to preserve debates from degenerating into mere
personal recriminations, have been carried to such
an excess that it has become almost as difficult
for a member of a minority to declare in Parlia-
ment an unpalatable truth, which it is well that
the community should know, with reference to
any member of the majority, as it is in New South
Wales for a public journal to speak plainly about
an abuse injurious to the people at large.
* # *
By a little management of forms, a Ministry,
with a numerous and pliant majority, may, as the
present Government of New South Wales has
done, declare a comparatively insignificant motion
a vote of want of confidence —knowing it not to
be designed as a test motion at all—and suspend
all public business until that trumpery mock
contest shall have been decided. And by the
same small management, they are enabled to
delay, for weeks, and even months, a really
serious motion, which, if met promptly,
might have shaken their prestige, if not materially
weakened their power. But it must be admitted
that the arbitrary power at present enjoyed
by the Parkes Administration has been employed
with gentleness and discretion when contrasted
with the abuse of even less complete predominance
by Ministers elsewhere. conduct of the
present Premier of Great Britain, in forcibly im-
posing silence upon the representatives of the
Irish people, created a precedent which may, and
probably will, bear deplorable fruit, when power
passes into the hands of a popular party led by
men enamoured of radical remedies and peremp-
tory methods of reform. Already, the example
there set has found imitators on this side of the
globe. It was only the other day that the Govern-
ment majority in New Zealand imposed a money
fine upon a leading member of the Opposition for
persistent refusal to be silenced, even by the
machinery of formal rules. Thus a way has been
opened for any violent party loader, in the flush of
power, to quell all resistance by the threat, if not
the reality, of inflicting pecuniary loss upon
intractable opponents.
* * #
As “the House,” that is to say, a majority,is
sole judge of what constitutes violation of its
proprieties, there is no limit to the cases in which
members of a minority may be intimidated or
mulcted. Again, as recently as Tuesday last, in
the South Australian Assembly, a troublesome
member, Mr. Ward, for persisting in announcing
a truth annoying to tho party in power—a truth,
moreover, which it is most proper that the public
should have placed prominently before it—was
ejected from the House, and an order was made
that he should not be again permitted the right
of speech until he had eaten his (true) words.
Mr. Ward’s offence was referring to an honor-
able member as “the paid Government whip.”
This was voted offensive. But if the reference was
offensive, surely the fact was in some way discredit-
able. If it be not objectionable that a constitu-
tional Ministry should surround itself with a faithful
phalanx of hireling members, attached to it by
pecuniary bonds, there can be no offence in re-
ferring, however, to the existence of such a con-
dition of affairs. No system can endure constant
shocks and perversions such as the foregoing.
Disintegration may come slowly, but it will none
tho less come surely. Appearances lead to a
belief that it is coming to Constitutional Govern-
ment, as at present conducted, surely but not
slowly. The radical imperfection which is thus
exposing the system to obstruction appears to be
that that part of the plan which provides for the
proportionate representation of minorities is
defective, and that an absolute and peremptory
decision of a legislature may, and often does, con-
flict with the degree of favour with which such
decision is regarded by the people legislated for.
Mr. Thomas Cook.
Just a little down from Scone, on the Northern
Railway line, is Turanville, probably one of the
finest homesteads in the colony. It is the pivot of
improvements for miles around, and the owner is
a man of thorough enterprise and public spirit.
Locked up in the metropolis, the politician of the
day regards the alignment of Sydney as the boun-
dary of importance and wealth in New South
Wales. The “public man’’ of the city is eter-
nally to tho front, and whenever the solid progress
of tho country becomes prominently manifest, ho
alone must be identified with the change. All
this is but visionary. The metropolis, in truth, is
but tho reflex of tho state of affairs in the coun-
try. More stirring activity and a much greater
display of resolute energy are observable away
back in the interior than near the city ; and while
the little public man of our time is ever braying
about his importance and usefulness, tho typical
colonist is pushing on his improvements with
vigour and breaking down forests for new centres
of civilized settlement. It is not till a person gets
on the railway, and is rattled over new country,
away through smiling homesteads to townships
which have ever been self-supporting, that somo
idea of the really solid wealth of this colony comes
to the view. There are some hundreds of good
men doing this work of the pioneer. They are
seldom heard of. Mr. Thomas Cook, of Turan-
ville, near Scone, is one of them. As already
said, his residence's the centre of wide improve-
ments, and he has at all times identified himself
with whatever concerned the district. Tho
general complaint among the trading classes in tho
interior is that the wealthy grazier alienates himself
from the district, and is neglectful of its material
advancement. This is true, unfortunately, of a
largo number of men. But a more serious and
just complaint is that tho wealthy intelligent men
of the provincial districts—like those of tho
metropolis—abstain entirely from assisting in the
conduct of public affairs. It is only in respect of
the latter that Mr., Cook is amenable to censure.
He has been repeatedly asked to stand for tho
Upper Hunter, but has always declined. Tho
next election, however, will probably witness a
change. Mr. Cook was born in 1839, at Lake
Superior, Canada, where his people had settled
on leaving England. At a very early age he came
to this colony with his parents, who took up their
residence in the New England district. Mr. Cook
received his education at Newcastle, and after
having some practical experience of commercial
matters, turned his attention to pastoral pursuits.
Few men have been more strikingly successful.
Becoming the possessor of Turanville, he has
made it almost a modern paradise, and established
it as one of the best homesteads for superior stock
to be found in the colony. Mr. Cook is a man of
considerable experience and capability, whose
liberal and advanced opinions would quickly win
for him a position of influence in the political life
of this country.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Art in Australia.
A glance round the pictures in the Gallery of the Art
Society must bring forcibly before the observant eyo
one important fact. Most of the pictures are land
scapes, and views of Australian scenery, by Australian
artists painting for Australians. Yet the most cursory
glance is sufficient to note the fact that Italian studies,
or Continental morccaux, and fancy bits of scenery,
have had more to do with the education of our local
artists’ minds and eyes, than the aspects in which
Nature shows itself most familiarly around them. It
is true that our climate and temperature are productive
of climatic effects and picturesque combinations of
colour and cloud-drift in the skies above, and scenic
allocations of shine and shadow en the landscape below,
not dissimilar from those most valued for artistic pur-
poses in older lands. Tot our national features have a
distinctive and peculiar character of their own, in com-
mon with most other countries; and, even in the most
pronounced “ Neapolitan " sky or “ Italian ” sunset,
as it is our fashion affectedly to style them, there is
something distinctively and peculiarly Australian
And it is the expression of this feature that our artists
seem most carefully to eschew, or which they*find
most difficult to catch. All their labour and all the
skill and cunning of their art are prostituted to copy,
more or less servilely, their conventional and unsuit-
able models. We know of no fashion mqre calculated
to fetter and cramp the efforts of true artistic genius
than this. Genius is original and creative; and here
in this new country, with its freedom from.indigenous
conventionalities and hard - and - fast model,
it is a pity that our artistic talent should choose
out an arbitrary track, and continue -to work as the
slavish pupils of masters of some half-forgotten school.
Let them strike out boldly, and make free use of the
exceptional advantages placed at their disposal. Let
our painters learn a lesson from our poets. We have
already the coherent echoes of the harmonies of virgin
MR. THOMAS COOK.


HOP Bill
ARB
THE PUREST AND ]
MEDICINE EVER MA
They are Compounded fri
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake ar
The Oldest, Best, most Renoi
Valuable Medicines in the W
in addition, contain all the
most effective curative proper
other Betters, being the great
Regulator, Blood Purifier,
and Health Restoring Agent <
Ask your Druggist or I
Do not suffer yourself, or
friends suffer, but use, and utj
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters i
drugged, drunken nostrum;
Purest and Best Medicine e
and no person or family shonl
out it.
VALUABLE TKU'
If yon are suffering from jx
or languishing on abed of sicl
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cui
It you axe simply ailing.
Weak and Dispirited, withe
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will B.ev
If you are a Minister, and
taxed yourself with your past<
or a Mother, worn out witl
work,
Hop Bitters Will B.esl
If you are a man of hi
labourer, weakened by the at
every-day duties, or a man
toiling over your midnight v
Hop Bitters Will Stren
If yon are suffering from
or drinking, any indisoretioi
tion, or are young and growi
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will R«l3
It yeu are in the works!
farm, at the desk, anywhes
that your system need* Clot
ing, or Stimulating, witho
ting,
Hop Bitters is What '
If you are old, and your hi
impure, pulse feeble, youi
steady, and your faculties i
Hop Bitters Will Give Yoi
* Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegi
and refreshing flavouring f(
drinks, impure water, &o
them harmless, and nwt>
mouth, and cleansing the si
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENI
with
HOP BUT
and yos will have no sickne!
MONTEFIOEE. STUi
65 PITT STREET, STDN
General Agents for Ai
OP. GEE G O 1
• TOBACCO MANUFAG
RICHMOND, VIRGINI
have appointed us
SOLE AGENT
for the Sale of their TOBACCC
We invite particular atte
NEW IMPORTATIONS, Jt
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOK
hearing our Brai
•« ORIENT ” and *• SOUTI
These TOBACCOS are made to ou
from the
CHOICEST VIRGIN)
and for delicacy of flavour are
Tobaccos ever imported into these
rjl H B AVENUE,
PIC-NIC GROUNDS
OF TUB
LANE COVE RIVER.
Steamers leave Lime-street Wharf, foot of Erskine-
street, daily, as per Time-table.
THE LARGEST RECREATION GROUND about
Sydney, wiih most beautiful Scenery and Shade.
SWINGS, SEE-SAWS, CRICKET. QUOITS, BOWLS.
A SPLENDID PAVILION FOR DANCERS, with
BAND MUSIC, and SPECIAL STEAMERS
every Saturday and Holiday.
Amtittakce on above days, including return passage
per Steamers, Is. 6d.; Children under twelve years, 9d.
Admittance on other days, la.; Children, 6d.
Tickets to be shown at the Entrance.
TEMPERANCE REFRESHMENTS, Tea, Coffee, &c.,
supplied at moderate rates.
Special arrangements made for Schools and Societies
by applying to N. Joudert, Lime-street Wharf.
ttiTEvery endeavour will he made to give satisfaction
to pleasure-seekers,—the sale of iutoxjcating drinks
Australian beauty in the verses of our national bards.
Kendall, Brunton Stephens, and Gordon have
chosen their most telling texts from subjects at
their hands. They had no occasion to go far
afield for their best themes and their happiest
thoughts. When the native pictures in our
Art Gallery show such an appreciation of the finer
characteristics of what may be termed the spirit, as well
ns the more general features of Australian scenery, as
may be found in the melodious verse of these most
worthy wearers of Australia's singing robes, we will
begin to hail with pleasure the advent of an Art Society
truly our own, and of a truly Australian school of
promising artists.
Ye Gentil Shepherde—again!
Aroady is veiled. The shepherds of Olympus, with all
their melody and pleasaunce, have fled. N® more shall
the dream ng swain, reclining amid Trojan pastures,
con j are up visions of surpassing beauty; no more may
rival goddesses contend for the apple of beauty at his
bands. Not again, on the green slopes of Tempe, shall
tbo soft pipe play, and the clusters yield up their
purple wine, while light-robed youths and graceful
Grecian maidens tread the mazy measure,— youths and
maidens whose life was a dream, and who only knew of
Grief and Care as impotent (if malicious) monsters, who
dwelt beyond folded hills, and over impassable moun-
tain-ways. The light and music and poesy of the
pastoral age have gone out. The modern keeper of
sheep has no affinity to his prototype of an elder day,—
a " kinde of shepherde groomes,” as Spencer quaintly
says, whose time was passed in the open fields- a rural
king enthroned beneath the woodland shade, with a
rose-bush for a canopy, and for subjects his herds of
silly sheep; who marked time’s progress with rude dials
in the sand, and thus ever dreaming existence idly
away— m follow quilles oaten reed
He pypett melodie.”
All this is as much a thing of the past as are the myste-
ries of necromantic art or the philosopher’s stone. There
is much about the picture to charm and enohant, and
mueh ou which the mind may dwell with oomplaeenoy.
But the age of romantic ideality is over, and the life
of the “ shepherde groomes ” of to-day, as has just been
painfully evidenced, is a very unromantic aud decidedly
practical state of being, indeed. The Ihvbbell Aequs
is responsible for the particular* in the present Instance.
A recent issue of that paper notices a case at the local
police court, wherein an old man, over eighty years of
ago. miserable-looking, clothed in filthy rags—a thing
to pity, not to touch—was arraigned as a vagrant. His
story was elicited from by-standers in the court. Tor
forty years he had served one family—father and son,
through two generations—watching their sheep in heat
tind oold, through rain and drought, amidst storm and
Bunahino. Living a* few lived, he earned the character
of a faithful servant, attentive to his masters’ interests.
But old age came, and his mode of life began to tell,
until he became the pitiable creature who filled the
vagrant’s place in the court dock—weak in body and
mind, and of no further use to his owner. Old age had
brought with it no well-earned comfort, and no cherish-
ing cares. All his employer could do fer him was to
charge him at the police court with his obvious absence
of legal means of support. This is another of those sad
stories to which we have so often to allude, and which
form such a telling commentary on the state of society
in the interior. The unfortunate victim in this case is
less an instance of individual hardship than an index to
a fixed condition of things, familiar enough to the
experienced. Incidents like these are the loop-holes
through which we obtain glimpses of the darker places
of our civilization. And, judging from data obtainable
in this way, we fancy we are not far wrong in warning
ourselves of the threatened outcome of the state of
things thus disclosed. Without sighing for the gush-
ing swains and Arcadian simplicity of the pastures of
mythology, or of fanciful history, we may yet put in a
word for the social improvement of our neglected
station-hands, and the shepherds of our remote
interior.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[corespondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ 0.K.” : Right again “ Tamworth”: Thanks;
send along the Facts—we’ll put them straight “ Selec-
tor ” writes : “ I have 610 acres, which I took up last
Christmas. Well, three of my cows have gone dry, and
a large fistula is showing itself behind the oar of my
grey mare Have I any remedy against the local squatter,
or must I riugbark or sow the potatoes earlier next year?”
The correspondent has evidently made a mistake; will
ho kindly send his question to the Town and Countet,
with a photo, of the fistula and two bags (at least) of the
potatoes “Mickey Free” : Joke too small
“ J.QO’E.”: Thanks “Miser”: What do you mean
by the ill-spoiled rubbish you send us ? Let us know
your proper name, if you have the courage, and toll us,
at the same time, at what ragged-school you were
taught to spell originally “ origionally.” We may also
ask you, the next time you write to us on a bill-head,
not to slice oil with your shoemaker’s knife the name
of the cobbler who has given you a job at half-soleing
and heeling “ If you see the joke about “ a
penny short” it’s a thundering sight more than we do.
Let us have some more ot the boy’s adventures, but
don’t be quite so obscure. There is plenty of mystery
in the daily papers “ L. 8.” (Brisbane): The con-
struction of yeur verses was very defective, but the
idea really good. You will see we have utilized the
idea this week “ Alpha ”: Let us know if Mull kills
any of you “ W.”: Yea. Shall ba happy to receive a
call from you “F.P.8.”: The image is common
poetical property. Nearly same idea as the mer do glace.
“Tatters"; Thanks “Bunyip" (Temora):
Thank you. Will you write again? “Observer:
(Wollongong): Thanks. Next week “Lithgow”:
Next issue “ G.S.”: Next time we’ll be there
“ Sport ”: Capital account; we’ll do something with it
next week “ James Buckley ” (Ocean-street, Wol-
lahra): You should not write so foolishly. Conceive
what would bo your sensation* were we to publish your
letter as we received it......." W. 8.”: Regret to dis-
agree with you and your friends, but our opinions on
the matter in question are deliberately formed, and
we don’t see wnere the prejudice can come in
•• Muse ” : Your verses are to hand—
“ He stood upon the burning deck.
When all but him had fled ;
His figure floe; his face moet fair ;
Alas! poor fellow, ho wore red hair.”
They are good ; but It’s useless to palm them off on us
a* original. Compare them with Alfred’s prize poem
of last Christmas. We should advise you for the pre-
sent to stick to shoemaking “Puck": Won’t do,
but you only need advice and guidance to write some-
thing that will do “ M.E.” (Lower Clarence): No
charge, hut we shape it our own way “ Abstract ” :
Most acceptable. Must localize, though. We have no
regiments. Shall use it shortly “Ada C.”:
.* >on't remember previous communications
Glad to hear from you, nevertheless “M.J.C.”: Wish
to hear from you again “ D.A.G.”: Next week
“Cornstalk”; Kather a good line. Next week, how.
cv.jjr “ W.A.M.": Fair and faulty; look at it again.
E. 8." and other correspondents: Too late for
1 his wook. ..“Draftsman”; Most serviceable. Hold
* vor awhile “Grace Darling": Your communication
will appear,next issue; probably in violet ink, and
within a forget-me-not border “On Dit (Braid-
wood): Ton should send yonr name; hut anyhow your
pars, are too vague, except to the few concerned
“ lanthe*’: We don’t think the verees worthy......
“ J.M.”: Thanks. Not quite up to themark ... W S.a
(passenger): Of no interest to our readers /‘F.K.V. :
Next week “Anonymous”: Yea, tho Editor has
heard tho?e names mentioned, but nothing can yet be
said “W.C.F.”: Next week, perhaps “Captain
Yokohama": Crowded out this week “Michael :
Next week. “Pat”: Good. Held over “Truck-
lever”: Bight you are. Wait for another issue......
“J.C.N.”: Teo late for this week....;. “Broughton
Creek”: Very welcome. Send again. Next issue.
Furnish nom de plume, so that we can communicate in
I this column “ Omicron ": Capital
Crowded out. However, keen it up * Outsider :
Will consider “ Q.J S”: Will receive attention......
“ Stockwhip ” (Condobolin): Thanks. Will try and
make something of it “ Penrith, A.H.”: Next week.
. “G.H.T.P.”; Doubtful. Will consider whether can
so frame it as not to add to his tr0ub1e5......" W.C.
(Rockhampton)} Very acceptable. Will shortly appear.
Write again “Back-hlooker”: All right. Well
touch it up “T.W.8.”: Thanks “ W.S.G. : Your
letter received. The subject will be steadily kept m
view. We receive many similar complaints
SOCIAL.
There are a groat many big weddings in Vic-
toria There was a bigger one than usual not many
weeks ago—beauty and position on one side, wealth on
the other. The couple, who but a day or two since
were designated by the papers as “ the happy pair, axe
nowlivfng apart. result of certain episodes
in the stormy youth of the bridegroom.
• * *
Lady Augustus Loftus holds a reception to-day
(Thursday). ,
The Art Society’s Exhibition in the Garden
Palace closes on Saturday. October 29. A conver-
sazione will be held in the Gallery to-morrow (Friday).
* • *
A dinner was held at the Bellevue, after the
conclusion of the Brisbane football sports. The dinner
which waa provided for hungry footballers disappeared
within fl.-e minutes, and then there was nothmg else to
come. There were a few present who had better have
stayed away, for their conduct made the committee
thoroughly Ashamed of the whole affair; and. what
with the dinner—heaven save the mark the
gathering altogether, It Will be a long time before they
try the same thing again.
• * *
The Mercantile Marine picnic was held at
Clontarf. last Saturday, when the “ lords whornle the
watch ” came out in great force. There was a decidedly
large sprinkling of respectable old gentlemen present,
and between captains, members of Parliament, and
aldermen, we could scarcely throw a stone without
potting an » influential man." There was plenty of
amusement; cricket was persevenngly playedL all day
long ■ and the vagaries of the football, which oc
casfonally alighted in the middle of the band, some-
times in a plate of oysters, and sometimes disappeared
under the sacred shelter of a lady’s skirt were very
interesting to those who didn’t happen to he hit by
it The races were amusing, some of the skippers
making remarkably fast runs. Thegarae of
threes was also introduced, and Sir John Robertson
became deeply absorbed in its intensely exciting
manoeuvres. A programme of twenty-four dances was
provided, but tho dancing-floor m the smaU—let s see.
•‘ pavilion,’’ we believe they call it-was both rough
and dusty. Later on, the larger building was cleared
for tho dancers. Shortly after the arrival of the second
steamer load, Oompagnoni’s good things were sampled
by the hungry crowd, and after an hour s attentive
examination, were pronounced excellent. Then the
sneech-making began, Captain Stuart, of the Loch
Ebive, acting as chairman, and he did his best to geo
the toasts through quickly. Alderman Playfair pro-
posed the Parliament, and his grammatical eloquence
waa so soul-stirring that the audience manifested
the wildest pleasure—when he stopped. Sir John
Robertson responded, and said he supposed there
was no one there who had been on the waters or
Port Jackson longer than he had. Ha was almost as well
known as the harbour itself. He was followed by Mr.
Wisdom, who gave the ladies a little diplomatic tick-
ling by foreshadowing their possible appearance in the
House some day, and then gained immediate popularity
by promptly resuming his seat. Mr. O Connor s
"pitch” was marked by the “jubiarlation” and on-
thusiasm which he generally works up at pic-nics, and
he scorned, as he always does, using adjectives that
were anything less than superlative ones. Mr. Pitt
got up to say something, though neither he nor any-
body else seemed to understand exactly what it was.
However, he drifted into his usual current, poetry. He
didn’t know the piece very well, but he said as much as
he remembered, and his friends filled up the gaps with
appropriate applause. There were a good many speeches
altogether, but it was the same old song over again
a universal buttering of everything and everybody : we
have the best country, the finest climate, the freest
press in the world, the purest Parliament, and the most
patriotic aldermen. Of course, this is quite correct;
but people who don’t drink champagne can t see it
quite so clearly as those who do. Captain Peters gave
“The Press,” and his opinions thereon. He could
hardly express his admiration for the talented con-
ductors of the Daily Telegraph, who gave him—yes,
actually gave him—a whole newspaper, whenever he
went for it. Think of that! A whole penny paper for
nothing I The Herald reported the marine news very
well, but was not so recklessly lavish in its generosity.
He did not seem enthusiastic about the News, yet
confessed that he got something even out of
that aesthetic print, sometimes. He could not
understand how any newspaper could see anything
about such a respectable place as Clontarf. Yes, Cap-
tain, it's a very nice place; so is Gomorrah now. This
toast was replied to more fully than usual, all the repre-
sent* tiyes of the fourth estate making some remarks.
The Telegraph explained that it derived large support
from the shipping interest, because the captains of
vessels took the paper, but didn’t pay for it. To most
people this method would appear rather a novel way of
supporting a paper! However, it explains the enormous
circulation of that wonderful journal. The speaking got
rather mixed at the end, the chairman, vice-chairman,
and two orators, all being on their feet at once. After the
“spread,”sports were resumed, and the Young Austra-
lian band ground out good music for those who wanted
to dance. At eight o’clock the Commodore made its
last trip to the city.
• * •
Mrs. E. T. Smith, Mayoress of Adelaide, had
over 400 of the coming men and women at her juvenile
fancy ball, on the 7th Oct., and they all seemed to enjoy
the unwonted treat immensely. As they entered they
were formally received by the hostess, being an-
nounced the same as adults, by Captain Haggard
and Mr. Stirling. The ball opened with a polonaise, the
tiny couples walking past first in pairs, then threes, then
four abreast, under the direction of an able M.C., and
the effect was exceedingly pretty. The Scotch reel was
also got through with nice effect. Some amusing
incidents are related of the youngsters, forgetting their
assumed ranks, breaking out into the ordinary childish
“ patter”—" Now, Jack, don’t shove a fellow 1” “ I say.
Bill, ain’t it plummy ?” “ Hullo ! Cis,’’ and so on. The
youth who dressed as a “Bobby” came in for just as
much chaff as if ho had been a real one, his comrades
hardly stopping to consider that he was only a tem-
porary constable. The children were treated to songs,
a farce, step-dances, and other variations of pleasure
during the evening. The ball ended a little after mid-
night, and hundreds of visitors were admitted to view
the scene from the gallery.
• * *
The modesty of the Penrith lady who would not
bare her arm to the vaccinating doctor, is equalled at
other places. The dainty damsels of Lithgow, before
going up “to be done,” deliberately open a seam in
their sleeves, exposing only just sufficient skin for tin?
purpose. Even then they blush. The bachelor doctor
at Lithgow must have a high old time of it among those
sensitive damsels!
m * •
At tho wedding of Mr. Hermann and Miss Kron,
in the Synagogue, last week, which took place j ust before
we went to press, there were some very fine drosses,
which merit notice. Mrs. Htrmann, mother of tb°
bridegroom, wore a handsome toilet of peacock-blu
satin de Lyon and broche, richly trimmed with fringe
and honiton lace, cream satin bonnet with trimmings
of lace and feathers. Mrs. Cohen and Mrs. Abrahams,
sisters of the bridegroom, wore elegant co3t “
black satin and brochd. The skirts were of satin
elaborately trimmed with passamenterie and orna-
ments ; cream Spanish lace hats with delicate pink ro es,
pearls and feathers; parasols and gloves to match. Mrs.
Aarons, one of the guests, wore a charming costume o
black merveilleux satin and silk ; hat. parasol and
gloves, en suite. The toilets were by Miss Cosgrove, of
Elizabeth-street.
• * *
On Monday, the Apollo Candle Company had a
picnic down the harbour. The company was not large,
and consisted of directors, customers, and .
Princess (s.s.) convoyed them to the trysting gronn .
Compagnoni catered. The usual speeches and sports
passed the time till evening.
• • •
On Saturday, the annual pic-nio of Messrs. W.
Akhurst and Co.’s establishment took place at Fern
Bay. Sports, singing, dances, speeches, and a tuck
in.”
* * *
Some of the ladies entertained by the ‘‘Social
Club,” at Queanbeyan, a while since, will shortly g
practical proof of their appreciation by tendermg a
return ball to the gentlemen. Good girls I
* * *
The Lithgow ladies had another chance last
week. Their admirers gave them a ball, which passed
off well. Moths can’t fly round the candle without
eettingSsinged, and those young men in the valley ot
coal will have to pay the penalty of their e ® k, f e^ n ?? 3 '
The School of Arts was nicely decorated for tne
occasion and about three-score were present. One of
the ladies who looked best was a tall brunette, in drab,
trimmed with lighter shade of drab satin, wto danced
with great grace. Another tall girl in black silk and
cerise, with fine pearls, and a lady in black skirt and
satin body, trimmed with pink shaded satin, were also
noticeable. Dancers “ dithered around till daylight.
# * *
A matrimonial alliance is about to take place
between a very charming and accomplished blonde,
wboTe recent reappearance in Sytoey hag
siderable sensation, and a son of the late Capt. Kendall,
who is connected with the shipping interests of this
port. # * *
Looksley and O’Connell Plains have not seen
such °a gathering of the fair sex, decked in robes of
purity, as appeared there last Sunday. The Mayor o
Bathurst paid a high compliment to the brl d o , who haa
for her partner the trusted representative of the Bald-
win Company, in the introduction of our Motors.
* * *
A grand ball will be held at Wagga Waega, on
the 2Uh November, under the auspices o£ the Murrum-
bidgee Turf Club.
* * *
Mr Aizley Hyam, nephew of Mr. S. H. Hyam,
the popular aquatic sports patron, was mamed on
Wednesday, at St; Augustine’s, Balmain, to Miss Maud
Hancock, daughter of a well-known resident of that
smiling suburb.
* * *
The Government Printing-office picnic comes
oft early next month. The Brisbane people held theirs
last Monday.
!* * *
At the Ivanhoe concert, which takes place at
Glammis Hall next Tuesday, some pianoforte selections
will be played by a young gentleman who was well
known as a performer at both the Sydney and Melbourne
. Tvbibitkmm He wiM produce on the occasion a piece
1 which he has specially composed, called the “ Ivanhoe
1 Cricket Waltz.”
* * *
( A fashionable wedding, said to have been one of
the prettiest seen in Queensland for a long time, was
celebrated at St. John’s Church. Brisbane, on the 13th
inst namely E. Spencer Browne, of the Dailv
Observer, to Violet E. F. Sutton eldest daughter of
the Eev. J. Sutton, M.A., incumbent of St John s
Church. The ceremony took place at 7 p.m. the
church was brilliantly lighted, and decorated w th
flowers sent from Government House. The bride
was dressed in white satin, and the bridesmaids,
who wore blue and cream, and pink and cream,
were Miss Florence Sutton. Misses Page, Miss
Blackman, Miss Cannon and Miss Pratten. Mr.
J Hamilton. M.L.A.. Colonel Blaxland, Inspector
Armstrong (Northern Police), E. Moresby, G. E. Cooper
and A. Francis were groomsmen. There was choral
service, and the church was densely crowded. Lines of
spectators were formed to right and left of the road to
the rectory, where the breakfast was laid. Afterwards
the pair started for Scarborough for the honeymoon,
amid of rice, Joy bells, and general
enthusiasm. Lands Department all agog.
* * *
' Near the confluence of two streams which, when
united, form!Anstralia’s longest river, is situated a fine
large homestead, the land around which for many miles
is owned by the wealthiest squatter in that district. In
addition to his acres and herds, this squatter is also the
fortunate possessor of a very handsome daughter, who
has been wooed and won by the assistant of a Govern-
ment surveyor, who was for some months camped on
the run. Eumour hath it that the engagement is
shortly to be consummated by the aid of the local
parson.
Hop Bitters meets with a great sale inland.
Farleigh Estate, Ashfield Heights, is for sale by
Batt, Kodd, and Purves, on Saturday, Nov. 5 This
estate is about all thst remains at Ashfield for sale.
The Queanbetan Age’s telegram reads
it rp -vyhite treats the N.Z. Government’s ultimatum
with contempt." We should have certainly put it—
Mr. T. White.
The Yacht Club prizes are on view in the window
of Mr. A. J. Button’s establishment, 638 George-street.
They are altogether of a superior description, and worth
inspecting.
When Captain Cook stepped ashore at Botany,
his first remark to Joseph Banks, who was on his
knees smelling at native roses, was; “I say, Joe,
wouldn’t yeu like to peg out a claim here, with a pretty
girl, and settle down?” Banks’ only reply at the
moment was a horrible yell; he had pricked_ his nose.
The identical spot where this now histrionic episode
occurred can still be pointed out at Sandgate, and, in
fact, can be acquired by anyone who wishes to erect a
monument, or to realise the great circumnavigator’s
dream, on Saturday next. Enquire of Bardie and
Gorman, the celebrated historians.


iro s r e
OP THE
CASTLEMATNE BREWERY A:
COMPANY, Limite
HAY STREET, SY1):
To be incorporated under the Com
Liability Limited to the amount
Capital £65,000 in 65,000 Shares of
the present proprietors, Messn
Prendergast, will accept 25,000 ft
in part payment of the purchase
Calls ss. per share on application, 5s
in three months, and the balai
after the formation of the Com
be taken in the Memorandun
Association to increase the Cap
provide for the increase of the hi
PHOVMTONAE DIKECTO
The Honorable P. Hig gins, M.
E. Biddulph Henning, Esq* (T
J. B. Bundle, Esq*
O. T. Gedye, Esq. (Hangar, Qe
Managing DirSctoi
Mr. Robert Premier^
Broker j
Mr, J. Mullens, 3i Hunter-stn
The Company is formed for the pur
and carrying on the old and well ei
of the Castlemaine Brewery in Haj
ness is an exceedingly profitable c
object of forming it into [a Com]
Mr. Prendergast, the Managing P
of the great pressure on him, and
conduct of the business after he ret
management, as ho proposes to do ir
The Property of the Company eoi
hold Estate in Hay-street, with tl
Houses, and plant thereon. The L
to Hay-street of 344 feet, and to
feet, and is bounded by a lane in the
lino runs at right-angles to the p
ment in Hay-street, a depth of 90 fet
The Buildings are most substan
throughout.
The capacity of the Brewery, wo:
as at present, is equal to an out-tui
per week, which can be increased to
a small outlay for additional plant.
Additional appliances are being en
facture of the light and wholesom
“ Lager Hmj-.”
The MaMng Houses can make
bushels of malt per annum and fon
materially increases the profits of tl
The whole Plant contains the m
ments for utility in manufacture am
and is in first-class order thronghou
The property, as under, has been i
Morell, C.E., of 196 Pitt-street, a:
Durham, Public Accountant, of Y
bers, King-street, and comprises—
Freehold and Manufacturing'
Moveable Plant and Rolling S
Stock in Store and in course o
Loans secured by Bills of So
guaranteed by present Pr(
Books Debts guaranteed by pi
Good Will of the business,
(valued by Mr. Durham).
The Purchase mony is £60,000, 1
£5OOO of capital, which sum, togeth
standing debts guaranteed, —all br
used,—all Beer in t tore and in cou
—(all of which are included in tin
will be ample for all purposes, as tl
rent sales will at once pass to the
pany.
The books of Messrs. Fitzgerald
the past 11 years have been subm
Durham, and his certificate of thi
will is founded thereon.
The estimated value of the propel
leaves a large margin on the purch
seeing that the works require nc
Book debts are guaranteed. A deft
property, with the valuations of 1
Durham, &c., may be seen at the of
The profits of the business ha-
creasing since its commencement.
Dividend from the start. The Pr
a Dividend of 10 per cent, per annu
years, during which time they will
their 25,000 paid-up shares in thi
pledge them as security for the f
gagement. They further undertak
time into any other Brewery busin
New South Wales under a penalty
Mr. Prendergast will act as Ma
three years, on such terms as may
upon.
A certificate of Mr. Durham, P
appended, to show that the bush
the above dividend.
In the event of the capital not I
deposits will be returned in full.
The only charg-e on the Compar
charges for printing, advertising, a
The Share List will remain open
November, and in the event of the
ing the number of Shares to be all
to 100 Shares will receive their app
all others will have their Shares al
Hurrah ! Another tournament! another tourna-
ment 1 Hufrah I Eutrice and Casticulare every
evening at the Coffee Tavern billiard room, Pitt-street.
A. S. Gould, lessee. — Advt.
The best substitute for the present high-priced
meat (and far more wholesome) is Eedgate’s Patent
Meal, or Food of Health. The Australian Cricketers
is the trade mark, none other genuine. Sold by all
grocers and storekeepers.— Adv.
Use Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, llsh, milk, &c., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
need. To bo had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt,
“ I will advertise thee.” Richmond Thatcher
is prepared to provide startling, interesting, and
humourous advertising paragraphs for insertion in The
Bulletin. Tradesmen wishing to increase their busi-
nesses, address or apply to Richmond Thatchee,
Bulletin Hotel.—Adv.
A fool and his money are soon parted, as the
man found out who paid 50 per cent, more for his goods,
instead of going to Hamburger Brothers and Co., 375
George-street, who are relinquishing business, and sell
their stock of watches, clocks, jewellery, pipes, and
fancy goods, at English cost. Open from 8 to 1 and 2
to 6.—Advx.
The Medical profession order Cadbnry’s Cocoa
Essence because it contains more nutritious and flesh-
forming elements than any other beveridge, and is
preferable to be very thick starchy cocoa ordinarily
s6ld. When you ask for Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, be
sure that you get it, as storekeepers often push imi-
sations for the sake of profit.—Adv.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any wry
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
At a meeting of tea importers, merchants, and
others, interested in China teas, held in Melbourne, on
the 22nd inst, it was freely admitted that bad and
adulterated teas were imported from Chinese ports,
and the astonishing admission was made, that these
mostly found their way to New South Wales and New
Zealand. The remedy lies now within the reach of all.
Drink only the Pure Indian Teas of the Calcutta Tea
Association. Ask your grocer for them. Beware of
imitations. Warranted absolutely pure—simply a per-
feet tea. Wholesale warehouse, 33 CharJotW-Place'.—
Advt.
Canorous [lrish] Mayor ! Mr. Gray proposes
Quit Parnell and Dillon be given the freedom of the
Qityof Dublin. They seem to be in want of freedom of
bocm kind* seeing that they are both in gaol.
Barraii! Another tournament I another tonma-
Bftent 1 Hnrrah I Entrice and Castioulare every
evenlag at the Coffee Tavern billiard room, Bitt-street.
A. 3. would, lessee,—Adft,
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
At the recent celebration of the centenary of
t)f the American Revolutionary war. President Arthur
ordered the British flag to be saluted, as a token
Of friendship between England and tho United
States Forster, Secretary for Ireland, is attended
by a body-guard of police, for personal safety Glad-
stone’s effigy burnt at Philadelphia Hawarden
Castle, Gladstone’s Welsh residence, is guarded by
police...... Monster meeting of Irish sympathisers at
New York. Strong speeches delivered The Irish
Vieerhy has ordered all peaceably-disposed citizens of
Dublin to remain in their homes after dark Riots
and damage to property in Ireland.... The Irish National
League has advised tenants not to pay rents until the
Government "reign of terror” is abandoned Glad-
stone confined to nls residence with a cold Fire on
board a Cunard steamer approaching English coast.
Veeeel scuttled The Anglo-Boor Convention will
probably be ratified in a few days Danish emigrant
steamer burnt at sea. About 600 lives lost Great
eseiteßaent la Dublin and Limerick. In Limerick 30
Mcteae have been arrested, and 23 wounded men lie in
the French army in Tunis has marched
on Kairwan, the holy city of the Arabs Disturb-
ances in Ireland believed to be subsiding, but military
and constabulary have been reinforced An attempt
baa been made, bnt frustrated, to destroy the Canard
Steamer Abyssinia, at New York Disastrous hurri-
cane In Moxieo ; 300 houses destroyed The Irish
Land Commission is now sitting in Dublin. Many tenant
farmers are said to be willing to accept the Laud Act
Ship AUanshaw, bound for Melbourne, has been towed
back to Gravesend in distress The Irish Viceroy has
proclaimed the Land League an illegal organisation
The manifesto of the Land League is condemned by the
Roman Catholic clergy The headquarters of the
Land League have not been transferred to Liverpool, as
reported The police are daily making numerous
arrests of loaders and members of the Land League
Umberto, King of Italy, visits the Emperor of Austria
at Vienna at the end of this month Tho counties of
•Loaddnderty Mid Drogheda have been proclaimed dig- |
turbefi districts Tho Spanish Cortefe now discussing j
bills to Institute trial by jury, and to provide for civil
marriage Heavy gale in Spain. Great damage
Mr. Sergeant O’Hagan la president of
the Irish Land Commission sitting at Dublin
British troops withdrawn from Afghanistan Dutch
Steamer Konig Netherlands wrecked off Scottish coast;
200 lives lost Two trains collided on Midland rail-
way, near Leicester, England 200 Arabs killed in
engagement with French in Tunis...Rinderpest broken
out in Norfolk, England Mississippi overflowed last
week...... Messrs. Cosmo Newbery and J. B. Were
(Melb.) and Cashel Hoey (London) gazetted C.M.G.’s...
Parnell and Dillon, who are in gaol, have been proposed
by E. D. Gray, for freedom of Dublin Irish Ladies'
League appeals for subscriptions Dublin offices of
Land League closed Excitement in Ireland sub-
siding Advance on Boers threatened bv British,
unless Convention is ratified by Nov. 3 Five Land
Leagnera arrested at Roscommon, and three at Wex-
ford, en Sunday Water famine in New York im-
minent...... Sickness among Preach troops in Tunis
About 60,000 people (chiefly Irish) met in Hyde Pork,
London, on Sunday, to condemn action of Government
in Ireland Steamer Clan Macduff foundered off Welsh
eoast) 42 drowned Renewed outrages in county Clare,
Ireland; a farmer murdered at Ennis for.paying his rent
Great preparations at Vienna for the visit of King
Umberto and Queen Margherita, of Italy Decisive
engagement between French and Arabs expe«ted at
Kairwan Osborne appointed Secretary U.S. Treasury
vioe Windom, resigned-
Mr. William Dickson’s York Hotel, Corner
of York and King streets.
It is always a pleasing duty to record examples
which denote improvement in city property and
buildings, and which tend to worthily display the
public spirit and enterprize of our fellow-citizens.
Impressed with this feeling, wo present in this issue
an illustration of the tine new premises at tho
corner of Tork and King streets, occupied by
Mr. William Dickson as the York Hotel.
The building being erected on an elevated site,
within few minutes’ walk of the General Post Office,
has an imposing and attractive exterior, and the
internal accommodation of the house, its furniture
and appointments, are in luxurious keeping with
its grand outward appearance. Everything about
the place betokens superior taste,workmanship,and
finish, as becomes a first-class hotel. The 6d. bar-
parlour, which has one of tho handsomest windows
in Sydney, has entrances from King and York
streets, and is a most comfortable and
cheery retreat for sociable and friendly meetings.
The large public dining or luncheon room on tho
first floor is elegantly fitted up and decorated, and
an apartment is also prepared for the reception and
entertainment of private families or select parties
—the serving-np room being adjacent, and provided
with steam-boilers and the best appliances &c.
On tho second floor may be noticed a very lofty
and superior lounge and reading room, with an-
other 6d. bar, the style and elegance of which
cannot be surpassed in the Australian colonies.
Off the aforesaid, are six very nice well-furnished
and lofty bedrooms. The hotel contains in all
about twenty apartments, embracing four bars,
and has every requisite for a superior hotel. The
viands to be obtained there are of the best de-
scription, and should Mr. Dickson continue to
treat his customers as he has commenced, success
must attend him. The architect of the building
was Mr. Morell, of Pitt-street, and the work re-
flects credit upon hia skill.
The Imported Norfolk Trotter,
Flying Shales.
We give, on page 4, a sketch of the celebrated
imported Norfolk trotter, Flying Shales, now
located at Tnranville, Scone, the residence of Mr.
Thomas Cook. Flying Shales is a rich bay with
black points, eight years old, 15.3 high, and is the
pink of equine form. There is, probably, not a
horse of his class in Australia that would take a
prize against him for appearance, breeding, mea-
surement, or action. His price was 1000 guineas.
He is, probably, the only thoroughbred English
roadster of hia stamp in the colonies. He has
been entered in several Shows but withdrawn,
there being no competition. Where there has
been competition, first prize has been his invariable
award. He will be entered for the next Metro-
politan Show Hia pedigree ia as follows: —Sire,
by Flying Comet (Champenny’s), by the North
Star (Cook’s), by Wildfire (Cook’s), by Wildfire
(Ramadale’s), by Old Wildfire (Kirby’s), by Fire-
away (West’s), by Old Fireaway (Jenkinson’s);
dam, by Phenomenon (Pennington’s), by Old
Phenomenon (Dymock’s), by Bond’s Phenomenon,
by Theobald’s Norfolk Cob (Burgess’), by Young
Fireaway (Burgess’), by Old Fireaway (Jenkin-
son’a). The sketch is from an excellent photo, by
Macdonald, of Tamworth.
9GI people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
VANITY FAIR.
That gay young spark Lord Lonsdale has given
his wife a fan which is the talk of London. It’s large
enough to screen not only the face but also the whole
figure down to the waist, and is composed of more than
fifty ostrich feather tips, all of matchless quality and
colour, superbly mounted on sticks of tortoiseshell.
On the outside stick forms Lady Lonsdale’s monogram,
snrmonnted by her coronet—both gems of workman-
ship, in diamonds and pearls There is no mistake
about “bustles” coming into fashion. The English
papers bristle with advertisements and cuts of these
charming articles. Why women should wish to exag-
gerate that feature is incomprehensible. The fair sex
pretend to so much delicacy of sentiment
Tho Rov. Mr. Strickland has been called upon
for an explanation with regard to tho alleged mis-
management of tho Coranderrk (Victorian) aboriginal
mission station.
At St. Michael’s, last Sunday, there was no
minister till 7.25 p.m.; and when most of the people
had left, one was fetched from St, John’s, where there
were three, and he preached. Some people had in the
meantime, as usual, gone to sleep.
MR. WILLIAM DICKSON’S YORK HOTEL, ADJOINING OPERA HOUSE, CORNER OF KING AND YORK STREETS.


BRIEF MENTION.
Spirited offer—the Punch trophy!
Motto for our Melbourne friends“ Honest
tea is the best policy.”
It’s a good joke to see a city undertaker on tho
Bondi beach looking for shells.
The Armidale Chronicle has withdrawn its
support from the Parkes Ministry.
The editor of the Mackay Mercury favours
coolie labour for Queensland. This is pure brotherly
love.
An up-oountry apostle has been lecturing on the
“Larrikin of Old.” His subject was “Tho Prodigal
Son.”
The Licensed Victuallers’ (V.) Advocate
has a column of “Bar Talk.” Most people will think
this a rum heading.
“ Well, we would makegood wives, at any rate,”
said aMuegrove Opera girl. “True,” said he; “you
are economical in dress.”
So wo’ve got a Chinese opera company,
who play on Chinese instruments! The Influx Re-
striction Bill will have to be amended.
One of our temperance spouters, apropos of the
Licensing Bill, wants all the whisky in the world sent
to Hades. Some men are very selfish.
There is a brass band, called the Coldstream, at
Balmain. When they play, one feels the appropriate-
ness of their name—all down the back.
Brandy is an almost infallible cure for snake
bite. It is the knowledge of this fact that mokes snake
bites so numerous—among evening journalists.
The Queanbeyan Age is probably prophetio in
its blunders, viz.:—“ The first half-penny paper in
Australia was is in Melbourne on Monday last.”
It is suggested that Graham Berry should have
Robespierre’s words on his splendid mansion ; —“ No
one can be a friend of the people, and live in a palace.”
Of the eleven persona present at Garfield’s
death, only ton were Generals. This was sad. It
couldn't he helped, however. The eleventh was a
woman,
“Every tenth man you meet in Melbourne,”
says a foreign libeller, “is a rogue.” This is scandal-
ous. We should have been disposed to say every tenth
man was honest,
“For lack of gold.” Captain Achille Con-
eulich “took up arms against a sea of troubles” on
Friday last, and by opposing, let us hope, he ended
them. This is a gay old world, but there’s a deal of
the chess-board pattern in it ;—sun to-day, clouds to-
morrow. Vale! Achille.
The D. T. is in high
spirits now. It has a glass
in its front door.
The colony never was
go prosperous. Roomier
Insolvency Court required!
The weather has been
very changeable since
the revised edition ap-
poared.
A Maitland advertise-
ment :—" Plasterers’ hair
for sale in any quantity.”
this is hod, is it not ? All
of them married, no doubt.
A Maitland auctioneer
was bitten by a snake last
Saturday. The snake re-
covered. The dart now is
to find what saved the
snake. There’s money in
it.
Operatic soliloquy at
Maitland: " Let’s see.
There was ss. to the circle
last night, 15s. for the
bouquet, and 4s. for the rib-
bon. Well, I’ll go to tho
pit to-night, and that’ll be
just 30s. I must put back
in the till.” Takes the pit
accordingly.
Speech is silvern, but
silence is golden, except in
tho case of tho Maori pro-
phet, Te Whiti. The latest
speech of that fanatic has
cost New Zealand £lOO,OOO
already. The New Zealand
Government should im-
plore him, as Scrooge in-
voked Marlay, "Don’t be
flowery, Jacob; pray, don’t
bo flowery I”
The Eev. W. S. Wil-
liams of Wanganui, in the
course of a sermon, said
people might bo sure that
a man who was a scoundrel
in private life would prove
a scoundrel in public life.
Now, this can’t bo true, be.
cause wo bave in N. S.
Wales the best possible 1
on second thoughts, we’ll
stand at that.
Saturday’s Argus says that “an abandoned
female infant was found on Friday at Hobson’s Bay
railway station.” The Melbourne children always were
precocious.
He was a member of Parliament, then as now.
He advertised for a lady who could do business cor-
respondence. He must meet her alone. Hemet the
lady. His wife met him.
Apropos of Bradlaugh, the latest hon mot is to
the effect that some of the electors of leathery North-
ampton returned B. because, being followers of Crispin,
they object to soles being saved.
The Newcastle Morning Crabwrap says that
the Government intend taking farther proceedings
against Mr. John Ferguson, of the Parramatta Even-
ing Times. This is inspiration—nothing more.
A city divine held forth on the joys of heaven so
long last Sunday, that many of his hungry flock thought
they’d get there before he finished. As an advertising
agent this gentleman would be a perfect—failure.
Among the advertised contents of the Mail this
week is the following line: "Ostrich farming near Syd-
ney, by our own reporter.” Hitherto we were under
the impression that he was engaged solely in the bacon
business.
There’s a township deep down by tho Snowy
River ; in it resides a gentleman who gave a clergyman
£l5O for permission to use tho prefix O’ to his name.
Ho could have saved just half by applying direct to
this office.
“The Cooma Express,” says that paper of
itaolf. “is shortly to shine in the Supremo Court. So
saith tho oracle. * Jehosophat.’ 'Won’t wo cut it in
Sydney.” There are two branches of the Supreme
Court in Sydney!
The editor of the Balmain Independent
says that the Foundling Hospital is being rapidly re-
plenished. How does tho editor know ? Perhaps, how.
ever, he merely alludes to the success of the last Wan-
ganui harbour pic-nic season.
Speaking of the Press in New Zealand, a corres-
pondent says that " the Telegraph at Christchurch is
dying, but that a big future is before the Bulletin, at
Wellington.” That the Bulletin should live and tho
Telegraph die! What a presage!
The Evening Afterbirth of our morning con-
temporary observes that " Clothos-pegs were scarce in
America at last advices. What accounts for the rise ? ”
Why, of course, such a largo number being required to
fasten down the ears of evening editors.
A dramatic contrast.- From the Herald of
21st:—“Mr. Brennir (of tho Mnsgrove Opera Com-
pany) was suffering from a cold, but he struggled through
his part very creditably.” Thus the Telegraph, of the
21afc " Mr. Brennir, being in fine voice, sang well.”
It was a Campbelltown Bench that sentenced a
man, the other day, to six months’ imprisonment, with-
out tho option of a fine, for resisting a constable in the
execution of his duty; whereas the law allows either
fine, levy and distress, or imprisonment, but not ex-
ceeding three months.
In the Contemporary Mr. Herbert Spencer tells
about “ The Militant Type of Society.” Mr. Spencer
seems to wonder why so many millions of Europeans
should be going about with muskets all the year round.
He is sorry. But ho should remember how friendly tho
the Emperors are when they meet.
Ton can’t get a youngster christened at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral unless the parents’ marriage cer-
tificate is produced. This is at times awkward, but
mighty fine for tho youngster. It has another aspect.
With this rule long in force, how many of our
public men to-day would have a name P
Thorpe, the Bank of Victoria official who was
arrested for a robbery of bullion, has been remanded
for a week. Bail, £lOOO. It is said he was on the point
of entering the ministry as a dissenting clergyman.
That’s just where he made the mistake. He should
have gone for tho church first, and the coin after.
The Parramatta editors are trying their hands
at tall snake yarns. One reptile (we mean a snake, of
course) killed the other day, was found to have swal-
lowed half of a camp-oven. There’s nothing startling
In this. We want to hear of the snake that has
swallowed a Parramatta paper and found an antidote.
There are great ructions at Lithgow. It is pull
devil, pull baker, between the east and west ends of the
town, to get the business traffic of the railway. There
are two stations, old and new, and tho old identities
near the original platform don’t like to see the success
of those clustering round the commodious new station.
Grafton is getting quite musical. No less than
four organists were in one choir last Sunday. One
played, while the rest sniffed critically or exchanged
depreciatory glances. Musical evenings are .all the
rage; and experienced persons, who understand tho
irritability of the musical tribe, expect a few duels
shortly.
The Burwood and Croydon railway returns are
going down. People walk miles to the Ashfleld station
to refresh their eyes on the unique costume of the
Ashfleld officials. This brings us to a problem, and
here it islf it take two tons of brass to fit out a
stationmaster, how much will put a good face on an
alderman ?
It was somewhere Northward. The gaoler was
.called into the box at a recent assize court, to say
whether there was any record against three prisoners,
who had just been found guilty by a jury of twelve.
Tho minute the officer entered the box, it was palpable
he had taken more than hia breakfast. “Do you know
the prisoners?” said the judge. “'Well,” said the
gaoler, turning round, “ I know seven of them, your
Honor; but the other five are strangers to mo.”
Those giddy Anglo-laraelites are at it again, and
have just discovered the British Army was alluded to by
Nahum when he spoke of the chosen troops being clad
in scarlet. We read Nahum in our childhood’s happy
days, but always thought he referred to postmen. If
ha meant “sojurs" he would have surely thrown in a
word for the nurse-girls.
The Government medical officer, Dr. Barnard,
has vaccinated a lot of the Gulgong people direct from
the calf. It must indeed have been very obliging of
that Mudgee editor to go so far to serve the public.
The most gratifying fact, however, is that no ill effects
have since been observed on the people—pot even the
sign of an insatiable thirst. *
One of the New York papers states that all the
male inhabitants of Europe are emigrating to America.
The Holt Howl says that if this goes on, the evident
result will bo a decrease in population. Well, of course,
wo know what the Howl’s ideas are running upon. But
wa bay—no; the result will bo—large numbers of poor
women drowned trying to cross over.
Saturday’s Telegraph informs us as follows;
—While sitting at dinner yesterday, at about 2 o’clock,
at his residence, Lyons-termce, Hyde Park, Dr, Andrew
Moffitt, president of the British Medical Association,
suddenly expired.” This would be interesting if it
weto true; but Dr. Moffitt didn’t happen to be "presi-
dent of the British Medical Association.”
The Nepean water-works commence well, and
bid fair to rival the Town Hall as a monument of our
imbecility. About two months’ labour has been per-
formed, and two big smashes in the works have
occurred already. However, as the Nooze informs us,
the rushing along of the waters was " a most imposing
spectacle.” " Imposing ” is good, but “ imposition ”
is better.
Sir John Lubbock, in his British Association
address, was obliging enough to assure his audience
that the earth is solid. Emile de Lavaleye confirms his
opinion, and goes further by asserting that the centre
of the earth is solid gold. Our Temora, Gympie and
Copeland friends, when they read this item, needn’t
hurry to get down to the big nugget. They'll be right
"init” by-and-bye.
The commercial travellers of the Pydney houses
are generally the life of the country towns. One of them
undertook for a wager recently to ride on a donkey down
the principal street of a Northern town. A screaming
multitude watched the pageant. The riddle was—what
luscious fruit they resembled? The answer was, ef
course—a very soft pear. The same commercials were
a few days previously, fixed up north of Tamworth.
Floods hemned them in. They improvised a circus.
They were nearly all clowns. The joke of the thing
was to see them attempting to stand on their heads,
when they couldn’t in any decent way stand on their
feet.
Musical matters are not running as smoothly as
they might in a town up North. There has been a
rumpus in two church choirs. Tho organist of one has
left, and complains bitterly about the treatment he
has received at the hands of tho churchwardens. The
other choir had a practice a week after, when two of
its oldest members walked out of the church. The
reason was—they were not too aesthetic.
Wo hasten to make a correction. It appears
that Mr. Frank Gardiner, the ex-bushranger, keeps a
farm in California. We stated some weeks ago that he
had started an evening paper, Tnis announcement gave
considerable pain at the time to his relatives in Sydney,
who, as is well known, occupy the highest positions.
Of course it was unintentional on our part, and we trust
this prompt correction will be deemed an ample amend,
ment.
The bold fishermen of the Nimrod Club made
two attempts to pull off their annual picnic last week,
but on each occasion “ the rain poured down from one
black cloud ” in a style that would strike a chill in the
*• Ancient Mariner” himself, or even in Governor
Bourke’s old statue, A meeting will be held next week
to ascertain who’s the Jonah of the gang; and this
being discovered, the party will be politely informed
that this is the time for his disappearance.
So another local-preacher and Salvation-army
man has gone wrong, and been sent to gaol for robbing
a bank. We are sorry for this. It will bo soon hard to
say which is the more likely to be “ put in the logs”—
the wicked youth who steals apples and jam, and keeps
his mother’s change, and then bets on horse-races and
plays Tankee-grab or the pious young man who dis-
tributes tracts and shaves his upper-lip, and doesn’t
drink or smoke, but belongs to the T.M.C.A., and is
" studying for the Church,"
Mr. James Watson, in reply to Mr. Melville,
said Treasury advertisements were inserted in the
Evening News whenever the public exigencies ap.
appeared to require it. Now Alfred complains that he
“ never gets ’em ergo, “ public exigencies ” never re-
quire the assistance of a journal which is yelled for
each night by every man, woman, child, and Chinaman,
from the North Pole down to Kerguelen’s Island. It
this isn’t a plain, unvarnished libel on Mr. Watson’s
part, call us a Sydney Gas Company.
This is a specimen of what the average young
man of Sydney calls fun. Three young Bambinis—
strict anti-Sabbitarians —emerged from an Oxford-street
tobacco shop, on Sunday last, smoking choice “ recom.
pensas," and directed their steps to a hotel in Surry
Hills. Time. 3 p.m: Drinks all round. 4 p.m. : In-
toxicatioa working wonders on the trio. 5 p.m.: All
drunk and demanding supper. After supper : Boozing,
smoking, and “ chiaking" the nymph of the bar until
12 p.m., when they ware turned out of Jthe pub. One —
a Government clerk—slept against a fence, and was
roused at 6 a.m. next morning by a policeman on his
boat; tho other two slept on the verandah of the house
where they were lodging. Such conduct is very pre-
valent in Sydney at the present time—since the Synod.
Tho Victorian Government stand a fair chance
of losing some money through their over-anxiety in the
matter of small-pox. When a passenger from N.S.
Wales arrives at the Wodonga railway station, he has,
while purchasing his ticket, to breathe an atmosphere
reeking with the fumes of sulphur, which ecclesiastical
mineral is burnt by the shovelful on the platform.
When one takes one’s seat in the carriage, sulphureous
air has again to be inhaled, nolens volens ; and as the
good, old-fashioned preventive is indiscriminately ap-
plied to all classes and conditions of persons, the results
in some cases are more distressing than they are
surprising. The other day a gentleman who years ago
hod suffered from lung disease, and who, like the rest of
the passengers, received no notice of the fumigatory
intentions of the railway officials, got a few mouthfuls
of the smoke. A severe fit of coughing followed, as a
consequence of which the disinfected one ruptured a
blood vessel. Since arriving in Melbourne he has been
very ill, and having consulted several good doctors —
and lawyers—has determined to hold tho department
responsible for his relapse, and to seek substantial com-
pensation in the law courts.
Mark Twain has written to an Adelaide friend,
stating that he is neither insane nor dead—at present.
-'1 Tho grossest impertinence to sensible people,
and grovel to Philistinism, have been perpetrated by
the publishers of the penny abridgement of Sir Walter
Scott’s novels. In a circular, they say Whatever
objection may have been felt hitherto by the cleric and
the laymen to placing fiction before children of tender
years, it is hoped that the now penny edition of Sir
Walter Scott’s novels will he found to satisfy every
scruple and to realise every requirement.” This means
that the works of Scott are to be expurgated and purl,
fled by—Braddon 1
From a paragraph in one of the Melbourne
papers, we perceive that “ Peter Campbell, who calls
himself a missionary, said, in the Adelaide Police
Court, last weak, that his object in starting a daily
paper there was to assist the poor, forsaken, and for.
gotten.” We haven’t yet seen Peter’s daily, but if it’s
only half as good as the Wasp, which he used to pub-
lish in Sydney, he will make a Vanderbiltian pile.
However, if it isn’t, then he will become poor, forsaken,
and neglected, and we shall ourselves have to start a
daily to keep him.
A few short years ago a connter-clork in tho
Bank of England enlisted as a private in the 17th
Lancers. Like Claude Melnotte, he rose; was made
sergeant; applied for a commission. The other day he
was gazetted as Lieutenant Forbes, and may yet be-
come a General. Naturally, this martial manoeuvre
has created the greatest excitement among the quill-
drivers belonging to the “old lady of Threadneedle-
street." Another clerk has just 'listed in a crack
cavalry regiment, and the younger division of fortune-
tellers in the modern Babylon are burning with a desire
to leave off making figures in order to cut one them-
selves. It’s with the greatest compunction that we
publish this piece of nows, because we’re apprehensive
lest our Northern provincial contingent of budding
bankers, upon reading the item, will all resign right
off, and absquatulate to Melbourne and Adelaide to
join those blooming Salvation Armies.
At last ! “ Tittle Mirams” has long advocated,
without success, the establishment of a Victorian
National Bank of Issue. As he can’t get his National
Bank, he has determined to establish the nearest
approach practicable—a National Mont de Ptete. The
prospectus is out of a £50,000 company in £1 shares,
the directors of which propose to lend money at reason-
able rates of interest on articles deposited in pledge.
As all the Melbourne pawnbrokers make fortunes, and
as there are among them dozens of the “sheventy per
shent at leasht ” gentry, the new company, if properly
managed, should give Shylockian usuriousness its death-
blow. It’s to be hoped that Sydney will follow with
something of the kind. Any bloated capitalist, who
may desire to combine true philanthropy with (say) 20
per cent, on capital invested, should look up the inter-
esting and able report of the Victorian Commissioners
to the Paris Exhibition on tho French Mont de Pi6te
system.
An unmitigated out-
rage,” is what tho coroner’s
jury call the surgical treat-
ment adopted in General
Garfield’s case. The doc-
ora disagreeing again.
The Northern
Miner asserts that “ sugar
culture can be successfully
carried on in Tropical
Queensland with white
labour alone.” No doubt.
It has been found of prac-
tical utility on Queensland
newspaper ventures.
Why has the face of
the clock taken its leave of
the Town Hall? Happy
thought! Because tho face
was ashamed of the body.
What will some people do
now that the works are ex-
posed ? They will again put
the best face they can on
them.
The latest rumours
from Russia, are that a con-
spiracy exists among the
nobles to get rid of the Czar
and his brother, the Grand
Duke Vladimir. This is a
new development. The pre-
vious condition of affairs
was that the Czar had on
hand a conspiracy to do
away with his subjects.
The Balmain Inde-
pendent has succeeded in
saying tho cruelest thing
about an alderman which
has yet been perpetrated.
Referring to a locally made
safe, recently exhibited, the
Independent remarks that
the maker warrants it bur-
glar-proof, In support of
which our innocent contem-
porary advances the cir-
cumstance that “ several
members of tho Council
had a try, and failed to get
at the inside.” The Inde-
pendent overlooks the fact
that the safe was empty.
The result would have been
different had there been any
of the ratepayers’ money
inside.
“It’s a’a muddle.” Paul Ah Fat, Church of
England catechist at St. Arnaud, was seized with a
fit whilst repeating the Lord’s Prayer during the last
Sabbath service, and died next morning. On the same
day, twelve wicked boys went fishing on the Circular
Quay with a few junks of fried bread stuck on the ends
of bent pins, caught seven fish a-pieoe, and didn’t get
drowned any more than Julius Ccesar did. We feel that
the time and money we spent in onr early days on tracts
were simply shied away on foolishness.
The other day, a love-sick swain in the old
country proposed to alively young belle, and was startled
to get for a reply: " Oh, yes, let’s he married 1 ’Twill be
such fun !! ”
Mr. Wisdom thinks that if women were in Par-
liament, there would be such an amalgamation in the
House as might resist any opposition. Oh, no 1 Femi-
nine taste hasn't gone so low as that.
A youth and a maiden walked by the sea.
And told their love in the long ago ;
But he married another, and so did she,'
And both are happy—’twas ever so.
Miss Angelina Darling Point says that when
she goes to the theatre she never dresses much, be-
cause everybody is looking at the play ; but no one can
be more particular in her dress when she goes to church.
Every bride at Armidale thinks it obligatory to
have her bridal portrait. This is, of course, to remind
him what she was when he got her. The idea would he
all right, if the photoing went no further. Every first ■
born is duly photographed. The collection of pictures
at Solomon’s is worth an hour’s study. Take a child’s
photo, well, and you have its life’s history before you.
The American organ of the Women’s Eights
movement suggests an improvement upon the ancient
fashion of courtship. The marriageable youth of both
sexes, according to this plan, would assemble at stated
intervals, each one would write on a slip of paper the
name of the person he or she would like to marry, the
paper would then be submitted to two discreet indi-
viduals, and if any two were found to have declared a
mutual regard, the fact would be announced, and the
marriage would follow. The remaining papers would
be immediately destroyed.
THE IMPORTED NORFOLK TROTTER, PLYING SHALES.
BALLAD OF THE BURGLARS.
There is a man in Paddington,
(It’s easy “ riz ” his dander),
Who’s known to fame as " Mr. Brown,”
And also “ Alexander.”
One morn he in his garden caught
Two burglars at their tricks ;
The hardened ruffians’ ages were—
One seven and one sfe I
Red-handed caught ho each of them.
With fury then he glowers;
The miscreants had stolen —think,
A farthing’s worth of flowers!
Straightway a constable ho calls.
And to the trap did yell
“ Lock up these desp’rato villains in
A thief and drunkards’ cell.”
The robbers, then, the peeler took.
But ere ho had gone far,
The malefactors wanted to
Be “taken home to ma.”
But no! the law must take its course—
So, for that theft of flowers
The criminals were shut up in
A cell for three long hows.
Next day a court of beaks was held—
Beaks of " illustrious” names I
Each desperado then, we learn,
Was fined in " half-a-James.”
With laurels we, in this great case.
Don’t quite know whom to crown—
The peeler, or the magistrates.
Or Alexander Brown.
CRINOLETTE.
Tell me not in honeyed accents Crinoline will come onoo
more.
That my soul must feel the trammels that I felt in days
of yore; .... ,
Modesty, I own, forbids me to the public to reveal
All the tortures that I suffered in the period of steel;
Philistine I was then, doubtless, and those days would
fain forgot;
Why revive the old wire fencing, though you call it
Crinolette ?


The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RAGING.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vie.) November 9.
Murrumburrah Novembers.
Parramatta November 9.
Narrabri November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov, 8,10,11.
Queensland T. C ; November 9, 10.
Wyndham (Vie.) November 19.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
P. Augusta and Flinders J.C. (S.A.)...November 23, 29.
Dunedin (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting.... Nov. 30, Dec. 1.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30.
Cootaxnundra December 1, 2.
Oamaru (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Tamora December 8, 9.
Tasmanian J.C December 10.
Bathurst Amateur Turf Club December 10.
Queensland December 10.
Hamilton (Vic.) December 14, 15.
Maimsdale (Vic.) December 26, 27.
v Variable J.C. Annual December.
A. J.C. Summer Meeting December 26.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26,
Williamstown (Vic.) December 24.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Kensington Park (Vic.) December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 20 ; Jan. 1, 2.
V.R.C. Champion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
Glen Innes January 2, 3.
Broulee January 26 and 27.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 15, and 16.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting... Feb. 23,24,25—1882.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11, 12—1882.
AQUATICS.
Double Bay Regatta October 29.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Merimbula Regatta November 9.
Victoria Rowing Club November 12.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November 19.
Trickett v. Hanlan November 22.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion Regatta December 17.
Holdsworth, Gardyno, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
Newcastle Annual Regatta January 1.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Six days Go-as-you-please (Newcastle) October 31.
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club Sports Nov. 9.
Wallsend Sports November 9.
Windsor Sports November 9.
Eskbank Athletic Sports November 9.
CRICKET.
Intercolonial, at Melbourne December 24, 23, 27.
All England v. Sydney December 9, 10,12.
All England v, Victoria December 16,17,19.
Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup matches
1881 1882
Oct. 29, Albert v. Warwick Jan. 28, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Nov. 5, Albert v. Uni’ty Feb. 4. Albert v. W’rwick
Nov. 12, Albert v. Uni’ty Fab. 25, Albert v. W’rwick
Nov. 19, W'rw’k v. Carlton Mar. 4, Carlton v. W’rw’k
Nov. 26, W’rw’k v. Carlton Mar. 11, Carlton v. W’rw’k
Dec. 3, Albert v. Carlton Mar. 18, Carlton v Albert
Dec. 17, Albert v, Carlton Mar. 25, Carlton v. Albert
1832 Apr. 1, Albert v. Uni’ty
Jan. 7, Warwick v. Uni’ty Apr. 8, Albert v. Uni’ty
Jan. 14, Warwick v. Uni’ty Apr. 15, W'rwiok v. Uni’ty
Jan. 21, Carlton v. Uni’ty Apr. 22, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Melbourne Cup is worth -ClBBO this year.
Coldstream won the Duntroon (N.Z.) Jockey
Club Cup.
Emmett is the twelfth man for the visiting Eng-
lish Eleven.
The 100 yards, in the Brisbane sports, was won
by ScOtt; IDs sec.
A perch, weighing 3Jib., was lately caught in
the Barwon Elver.
The N.Z. horse, Laertes, bred in Australia, is to
be relegated to the stud.
Mons. Rndolphe is opening the eyes of the Vic-
torftms with his billiards.
M'Shane got 7 wickets for 15 runs in the East
Melbourne v. Fitzroy match.
The Shoalhaven Turf Club meeting is postponed
till the Ist and 2nd December.
Lady Emma is doing good work at Christchurch,
N.Z., under Jimmy Keane’s charge.
Master Avenel was backed to win .£lOOO just
efore the start for the Caulfield Cup.
A splendid new cricket and recreation ground
has been opened at Christchurch, N.Z.
Edward Day is training a horse in Auckland for
the forthcoming summer meeting there.
Another Sheffield Handicap, for .£25, is to be
run for at Norwood Park early in November.
The Duchess is not entered for any other event
•' V R.C. meeting but the Melbourne Cup.
* By the latest American files, Wallace Ross had
not covered Hanlan’s deposit for their proposed match.
The Osborne C.C. have had a stand made for
the J unior Cup, which they confidently expect to win.
Badsworth and Foul Play cantered over the
course for the Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Pacing Club Handi-
cap.
Mr. Walters’ Hippo—Slander filly—won the
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) J.C. Guineas, and the Maiden
Plate.
The Melbourne C.C. wish to secure the pro-
fessional services of Bates, of the visiting English
Eleven,
The totalisator was in full swing at Caulfield
outside the grand-stand enclosure. It was not officially
noticed.
Seventeen horses hive accepted for the Wagga
Wagga Gold Cup, and eighteen for the Grand Stand
Handicap.
A grand billiard tournament, on the handicap
principle, is being played in Melbourne —first prize £5O,
second £lO.
Seventy entries for the Ely Handicap (6 fur-
longs) at the Sydney Turf Club Summer meeting
Decembers!.
Mr. J. P. Taylor won the one-mile amateur
swimming championship of England on August 7, in
35min. 20soc.
The Albert Park Yacht Club (Vic.) fourth race
for the Eeddish trophy resulted in an easy win for the
Fairy Queen.
Lady Emma is backed for more public money in
the Christchurch J.C. (N.Z.) Handicap than any other
horse in the race.
The South Australian jockeys have presented a
neat testimonial to Mr. E. O. Dowling, clerk of the
course at Adelaide.
The V.A.T.C. prizes amounted to .£2627, dis-
tributed as follows:—W. Pearson, £583; T. Ivory,
£120; Captain Osborne, £325; M. Moran, £213; J.
Harper, £160; D, S. Wallace, £160; H. Burrell, £139;
and other smaller sums.
( The Brisbane Rowing Club purposes giving a
prize of £lOO, if certain conditions for carrying out the
race can be arranged.
A pigeon-shooting match is to come off shortly
at Melbourne, between five New South Welshmen, five
Victorians, and five Tasmanians.
An immense amount of betting has taken place
in New Zealand on the Melbourne Cup and Derby.
“ 'Till so gently from me stealing.’*
On Saturday, 15th instant, a rifle match between
the Torpedo Rifle Club and the Engineer Corps, resulted
in favour of the former by 18 points.
Power, the jockey, was fined .£l5 by the
V.A.T.G., for disobedience of the starter’s orders in the
Great Foal Stakes at Caulfield meeting.
Roberts won the football kicking at Brisbane
athletic meeting, October B—distance for a place, 60
yards. The second man kicked 59 yards.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club opened the
season on Saturday with a programme of evolutions
about the harbour, and an al fresco lunch at Berry’s
Bay.
Martyr, Mata’s half sister, by Daniel O’Rourke
out of JRaupo, has dropped her first foal at Middle
Park, Christchurch (N.Z.J, a chesnut colt by King of
Clubs.
The programme for the Wallscnd sports, on 9th
November, will include a Sheffield Handicap of £6O, a
three hours’ go-as-you-please of £l5, and a miners’ race
of £25.
The Orientals may be disqualified for the pre-
sent Junior Cup match, it Luland, one of the team,
is the same who played with the Ist Warwick last
season.
National v. Excelsior C.C. ; National ground.
Scores: N.C.C. 83 (Vial 26, Duncan 11, Collins 13);
E.C.C. 32 (J. Evers 17). Duncan bowled 72 balls for 12
runs 5 wickets.
Riley, who was sentenced to three months’ im-
prisonment in Victoria for obtaining goods under fa'se
pretence*, was not a bookmaker, but a “ welsher” of the
very worst class.
Thomas Blackman easily defeated Henry Tho-
mas in the sculler’s race for £250 a side, from Putney
to Mortlake, England, on August 29. The winner’s
time was 25cnin. 35sec.
Will Charles Newcombe’s playing with the
Warwicks on Saturday disqualify the Surrey United
Club, with whom he played in the first match for the
Thomson Junior Cup ?
The celebrated N.Z. trotter, Our Pony, escaped
from his groom, and was severely injured. At the time,
she was a hot favourite for the principal events of the
Wanganui Trotting Club.
Clio v. Derwent C.C.; Derwent ground. Scores:
D.C.C. 41, C.C.C. 126 (G. Dickens 48, R. Pewings 31,
J. Fewings 23, C. Qribble 10). Sweetmau took 5 wickets
for 19 runs, Gribble 5 for 23.
The South Melbourne Football Club is the
champion club of last season. Geelong is second, Carl-
ton third, and Melbourne, who gave our representatives
such a drubbing, a bad fourth.
Badaworth, 7st., won the Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.)
Jockey Club Spring Handicap. Foul Play, 9st. 71b.,
stable companion of the winner, was second; and
Grand Duchess, 7st. 101 b., third.
It is universally believed in America that
Shinkel, the stroke of the Cornell crew, sold the race
in Vienna, and that his faint was a sham. He grew
suddenly flush of money after the race.
A regatta is to be held at Merimbula on Prince
of Wales’ Birthday. The programme contains seven
events, including a race for a silver enp, value 16 guineas,
and an all-comers’ race for a prize of £2O.
The new grand-stand at the Association Ground
promises to bo a handsome structure, almost on the
same plan as the Randwick one. It seems doubtful
if the building will be ready for the Intercolonial.
As wo have heard nothing further of the
Trickett-Plaisted race, which was to have taken place
on the 15th instant, it is not unreasonable to suppose
that one of the competitors has forfeited—of course,
Plaisted.
Amulet, who is in the same stable as the Yat-
tendon Peeress colt (Mason and Vallance), has been
hacked for all the available money, at 100 to 15, for the
Canterbury (N.Z) Derby. The colt has also been backed
heavily for the Cup.
Oriental v. North Willoughby C.C. Scores :
O.C.C. 80 (Crook 22, Luland 19, G. Patison and Thomson
14 each); N.W.O.C. 70 (Forsyth 21, Chapman 14). The
Oriental fielding was excellent, especially that of
Thomson and Ironside.
Pathfinder, in the Caulfield Hurdle Race, sent
his forelegs through the top rails of the flight on the
hill and turned a complete capsize, fracturing his spine
as ho struck the ground. He was relieved from his
agony by a shot in the brain.
It is now reported that a mistake was made in
the time of Santa Claus’ wonderful trial, and his per-
formances at Caulfield seem to justify the report.
Some one offered to purchase the horse for £2OOO, and
was refused. Who’s sorry now ?
Maitland sportsmen are having a good time of
it this season. Hon. J. Eales and party of five secured
30 brace of snipe on Wednesday last. This score, how-
ever, was eclipsed by a little legal demon and a party of
four, bagging 55 brace on Saturday.
Trophies have apparently done away with that
dangerous element in amateur contests —betting. An
amateur is more pleased to win a cup, worth, perhaps, a
conpla of sovereigns, than a bet of £5; and amateur
sports thereby improve a bit in tone.
Writes a Dunedin journal“ On dit that
the agent hero of Mr. Joseph Clark, of Victoria, has
signified that the latter gentleman proposes to give a
fifty-guinea cup to bo run for at the next annual race
meeting of the Dunedin Jockey Club.’’
Epigram, one sire of the Hon. J. P. Bell’s
stable, is described as a spindle-shanked, contracted-
hoofed horse, dome turf critics say that his successes
at the stud are more due to the mares he was mated
with than to any superior excellence of his own.
The Hon. Mr. Robinson and Mr. H. P. Lance
did not enter chair horses for any of the events of the
Dunedin summer meeting, owing to the row with the
club last season over the scratching of Natator. Mr.
G. Stead, also, did not nominate any of his team.
The Nimrod Fishing Club picnic, postponed to
Friday last, was very successful, despite the unfavour-
able weather. Botany was the locality chosen, and
about 200 persons attended. The various prizes wore
presented to the fortunate winners, and a pleasant day
was spent.
Wo have been going the rounds of the cricketers,
and have ascertained that there are exactly 65 players
who are good enough to play in the Intercolonial Eleven
this season. 40 of them are better batsmen than
Murdoch or Maisie, and 20 of them can break a ball as
Evans never could 1
For the convenience of Sydney visitors to the
VR C meeting, a special train will leave Sydney for
Albtiry at 8.25 p.m. to-day (Thursday), arriving at
Albory the following morning in time to enable pas-
sengers to catch the train leaving Wodonga for Mel-
bourne at 6.10 a.m.
The North Shore Rowing Club intend to hold
their ball in April or May next. Several prizes have
been promised for the regatta, which is to come off on
the 19th November, and the Ferry Compauy has gener-
ously placed the Wallaby at the disposal of the club on
that day free of charge.
The Warwick secretary tried to arrange a match
for his second eleven with Oar Boys C.C. He received
an answerthat the 0.8.C.C. never played second elevens,
but would gladly make an engagement with the first
Warwick. The W.C.C. secretary wants to know will
the 0.8.C.C. consent to play fifteen.
Six events for Tattersall’s Annual Race meeting
at Randwick, on 2nd January. The principal, the
Tattersali’s Gold Cup, is for 500 sovereigns in specie,
added to a handicap sweepstakes of 10 sovereigns each
for starters, in addition to the Cup, Entries closed on
20th October, and sixty-four horses have been nomi-
nated. The weights are to be declared on or before 28th
November. The date of general entry is fixed for Ist
December.
Sixty-four horsea have entered for the Summer
Cup, to be run for at Randwick on Boxing Day. The
New Zealand horses. Sir Modred, Hilarious, Somnus,
and Idalium, are entered for the principal events, and
it is to be hoped that Randwick will be favoured by the
presence of these cracks in good form.
“ Pendragon,” of the London Referee, advo-
cates time-taking by electricity. The speed of cannon-
balls and rays of light can be measured to a yard or two,
and why not that of a racehorse or pedestrian ? He
suggests that it can be done by fine threads across the
track, oommunioating with a revolving cylinder.
Hailes is to ride The Duke for the V.R.C.
Derby. He had determined not to accept a mount for
the race until three days before it, and had refused
several offers. Ha paid a visit to The Duke’s stable,
and was so pleased with the colt that he at once con-
sented to ride him for the Victorian Blue Ribbon.
At the wind up of Brisbane football in the shape
of an athletic meeting, the Brisbane Club'got a dreadful
beating. Out of all the events they did not win a first
prize, only however, the Manx race. The Wallaroos
came a long way ahead in points, the Excelsiors next.
So now the two clubs get a chance against the “ ever
victorious Brisbane."
At Christchurch (N.Z.), the other day, Billy
Weston, a well-known metallioian, met a defaulting
bettor named Mazey on the racecourse, watching train-
Ing operations, and began to abuse him in no measured
terms. Mazey stood it for a time, and then gave Wes-
ton a sound thrashing, whieh, strange to say, entirely
altered the noisy little fellow’s demeanour.
The match for the Thomson Junior Cup, be-
tween the North Shore Belmore and Caxton Clubs,
resulted in a win for the former by 7 wickets. The
match between the Glebe Strathmore and Oriental
Clubs was then commenced, and when time was called
the Strathmore had scored 26, while the Oriental had
lost 5 wickets for Ct runs. J. Lynch, 10, was the only
double figure scorer for the Strathmore; and Thomson,
(not out) 35, was the principal contributor to the Oriental
score. It promises to be an easy win for the Oriental.
The Newcastle Club played eighteen of the
Undaunted C.C. on Saturday week. The Undaunteds
scored 39, and the Newcastle obtained 131 runs for 5
wickets; the principal contributors being Smith (not
out) 63, Elliott 17, Bryant 15, Lawrence and Wood 10
each. In the interests of our Intercolonial match, the
Northerners should arrange their contest with the
Western team to come off in Sydney early this season,
and it is quite probable Newcastle and Bathurst may be
represented in our big eleven.
The Cox Challenge Cup was played for at Gren-
fell on Saturday by the Cootamundra and Grenfell clubs,
resulting in a win for the Cootamundra team by 140
runs. Murdoch made 70, not out, for the victors. It
will be remembered that when the Cup was won last
season by the Grenfell Club it was discovered that
Grenfell did not come under the prescribed conditions.
The victory of Cootamundra will set matters straight,
but Grenfell having been allowed to play, it is to be
hoped that that team will not now bo debarred from
future matches for the trophy.
Here is a subject for town talk from Mel-
bourne ;
On Saturday last, for a wonder.
At Caulfield, the race for the Cup,
The new judge committed a blunder
That sent most things t’other side up.
In charity, it must be reckoned,
His judgment had gone to the wall.
Ho placed Avenel first, Pirate second.
And never placed Woodlands at all.
Our Boys v. Ashfield C.C. met on Saturday. The
match resulted in a victory for the former by 14 runs.
Ashfield, 60: Dickons 34, by big hitting. Our Boys, 74:
Stedman 11, Collins 15, Cunneen 14, and Davison 10
(not out), being the doubles. R. Napier, Varley, and
Stedman, for the winners, and A. and J. M'Crodie, for
Ashfield, bowled well A match was played between
Our Boys 2nd v. Lincoln C.C. on the former's ground,
which was won by the Lincoln with one run to spare.
The scores were: Lincoln 23, Our Boys 22.
Who is to take the sticks in the next Inter-
colonial ? The new man in the Alberts, Berghofl, is
found wanting in the present Cup match. Callachor
distinguished himself in match, and as he
is a good bat, he is worth watching. Adamson, Searl,
and Ewings are efficient wicket-keepers for the Moore
Park Clubs, and each should join one of the principal
clubs for a trial. Searl will, in time, distinguish him-
self behind the sticks. We believe Nettle, who is to
officiate for the Warwicks on Saturday, to be the best
man we have, but he is unable to attend practice on
account of his occupation.
A running match lately eventuated at Dunedin,
N.Z., between W. Delaney, a well-known ped., and W.
Hill; £5O a-side, best of three events, 100, 150, and 440
sards. The first event, 100 yards, resulted in a dead
heat—time, 11 sec. The next, 150 yards, was won by
Hill somewhat easily, with three to four yards to the
good—time, 17i sec. The next event, 440 yards, was
considered a “ moral ” for Delaney; but the “pot boiled
over,” Delaney not running the distance out, and leav-
ing Hill to finish at his leisure and pull off the stakes.
There was a deal of heavy betting, and high talk over
the way Delaney ran the 440 yards.
The Domain Cricket Ground is now open for
practice, and though the wickets are not very good,
they are better than the cricketers expected. A match
was played there last Saturday, and the wickets were
good. The trustees have bestowed a great deal of at-
tention and care upon it since the ground has been
restored to them, and this favourable result should
gratify them. The Association Ground will now be
relieved of the overplus of players at practice, and
with the Domain opened, good matches should bo
more numerous. This will tend to bring players into
the form desirable to make things hum when our Eng-
lish and Victorian friends visit us.
The second Holds worth-Gardyne Cup match
opened auspiciously for the Warwick Club, who kept
the wickets all the afternoon, and put up a score of 259.
This, on a damp ground, is quite equal to the Carlton
score in the previous match. Bigg played a splendid
innings for 60, and Cleland seems to have got rid of his
ill luok this season, for he was missed by A. Gregory
in his first hit, and he put up 54 runs by some brilliant
play. Soanlan, in his peculiarly effective style, made
42 ; Hiddlestone played very carefully for 26 ; Oatley
played a vigorous innings for 19. The fielding of the
Alberta was generally very fair, the catches by Moses,
Masaie, and J. Touher were excellent, but the bowling,
with the exception of Dave Gregory’s, was rather poor.
The bowling of the Warwicks Is very strong, and if
Massie, the two Gregorys, or Moses do not come off,
the Alberts will bo left far behind, as the remaining
batsmen are hardly of the calibre against such bowlers
as Downes, Ogilvie, and Newcombe.
Professors Miller and D’Haroourt, assisted by a
dozen of their pupils from the Gymnasium, occupied
the School of Arts four nights last week. The
professors, appropriately garbed, gave “tabblows,"
representing statues of athletes in various positions.
Several couples exhibited their proficiency in foil and
single-stick exercises. All showed tricks of various
degress of merit on the horizontal bar and parallel
bars, and half-a-dozen picked members, of the “ Village
Blacksmith ’’ stamp, showed feats of strength with
dumb-bells, weighing from 70 to 180 pouuds. Illustra-
tions of wrestling were also given, and on Saturday
Messrs. and Aguay gave one another “tit for
tat” with great vivacity in a fencing match. Prof.
Miller shortly leaves on a tour to other countries.
We are sorry to hear it. Professor Miller is,
like most men of extraordinary physical strength,
and like Foley, the pugilist, a man of rare good
humour and the most modest and quiet demeanour.
The horses that are doing best public work in
Victoria are:— For the Cup—Carmen, Sir Modred,
Primrose, Trump Yoss, Chatterer, Zulu, Bathurst,
Waxy, Lord Burghley, Sweetmeat, and the Jew Derby
—Dorebin, Somnus, Monmouth, Wheatear, Spinning,
dale, The Duke, Somerset, and Sardonyx. Maribyrneng
Plate—Sir Oliver, Prince George, Mistake, Segenhoe,
Morpeth, Prying Pan, and Tangle. Nautilus burst a
blood vessel while doing a strong gallop, and was after-
wards scratched for the Derby and Cup. Somerset
holds the pride of place in the betting for the Derby,
and Trump Yoss is a trifle better favourite than
Duchess tor tke Cup. Prince George is best favourite
for the Maribyrnong Plate, but nearly all the probable
starters are backed heavily. In a flve-furlong race, the
get aways have a great say, and it is a very doubtful
task to pick the winner. According to public running,
the Derby should be won by one of this five :—Darebin,
Somnus, Somerset, Duke, Monmouth. Spinning dale has
not been doing well lately, and Monmouth’s gallops
have not relieved some of his friends from the shook
his Randwiok running gave them. Savanaka did a
good gallop on Tuesday morning, and has been heavily
backed for the Cup.
The following description of the finish for the
Caulfield Cup is from the Melbourne Sportsman :
“ Once fairly between the rails a magnificent set-to
commenced, Pirate having the best of it at the distance,
but Master Avenel collaring him on one side. Sardonyx
getting to his near quarter on the other, whilst Wood-
lands came on hand over hand to Master Avenel's right,
with Respite barely a length behind; all five under the
severest of punishment, and the first three nearly
locked together. Just on reaching the winning chair.
Woodlands lowered his neok, and popped his head by
the post a clear first. Master Avenel having barely a
neck the best of Pirate, and little Sardonyx sticking to
the latter’s girths, Respite almost on Pirate’s heels. As
they swept past the box, scarce a doubt existed on the
minds of those in its nearest contiguity but that Wood-
lands had won by a clear head, and considerable sur.
prise was very quickly expressed as it became evident
that the judge delayed declaring the winner. When,
however, the numbers of Master Avenel and Pirate
wore at length displayed—whilst that of Woodlands
was completely ignored—it is difficult to record the
astonishment with which the public regarded too
evident mistake.”
Trickett Interviewed by Darrell.
Toronto, Canada, August 26th.
Dear Bulletin, — Whilst playing an engagement in
above written city, I learnt that Ed. Trickett was
training for the “World’s Regatta” (result will, ere
this, have reached you,) on the shores of the Toronto
Lake, and for Anld Lang Syne, I determined to inter-
view him. A trip across the bay landed me at Hanlan’s
Point, whereat Hanlan is proprietor of a substantial
and well-found hotel. A tramp of some two and a-
half miles through scrub and sand, led me to Trickett’s
quarters, and standing by the boat house, in company
with Horry Kelly, I found the ex-champion himself.
Trickett recognized me instantly, and his bronzed
countenance radiated with smiles as he warmly wel-
comed his antipodean friend. The Cornstalk looked
the picture of health, and to my eyes he wore a ruddier
tint than of yore, and showed no signs of having trained
off. Kelly, a remarkably handsome athletic specimen,
accompanied us to the hotel at hand, his salutation to
myself being— " You would pass very well, sir, in face
and figure, for Hanlan’s brother.” Over a bottle of
decent “ Piper," we discussed the colonies, old friends
therein, and naturally the all-eventful race for the
championship of the world. Although somewhat late
in tbe day, I think a line or two anent that event, and
Triokett’s subsequent doings, may be of interest to
your readers. Under those premises, I give you sub-
stantially the result of our interview :
Trickett: Well, I’ve had a terrible time since I last
saw you. I’ve never got over the Hanlan defeat.
Darrell: How do you mean—physically or peon-
miarily ?
Trickett: Why, as to money, of course. It was a
regular settler—l lost everything.
Darrell: You had won money prior to the match for
the championship.
Trickett: Yes. Layoock and I won over a £lOOO
each. It all went on the big event, together with my
“ colour " money and all I had. I thought it was a
certainty, and when settling day came, it found me
stone broke, and a stiffish sum in debt.
Darrell; Tell me, how came it that you lost the
race ?
Trickett: I was beaten by a better mam.
Darrell: You admit that freely P
Trickett: Yes.
Darrell: Without reservation P
Trickett: Yes.
Darrell: Yon were well in health, you tried your
best, and were beaten on vour merits P
Trickett: That’s it exactly. The man’s a great
puller—he completely paralysed me.
Darrell: Were you ever in the lace P
Trickett: For close on a mile and a half I held him, and
it was a toss up—at one time I thought I had him beaten,
I have heard from good authority that before reaching
Hammersmith, Hanlan had given the * griffin’ to his
backers to hedge their money, thinking he was collared.
Darrell: That’s new blood. Is that so ?
Trickett: It is. I believe if I could have stayed the
pace another quarter of a mile, I should have " baked”
him and won.
Darrell: He wore you down ?
Trickett: Yes; the race was rowed from the mark,
and he outstayed me.
Darrell: Were you anyway out of form ?
Trickett: I never rowed a faster or a better race In
my life I
Darrell: The time did not record it.
Trickett: The water was very dead, and of course I
mean up to the time I weakened.
Darrell: Hanlan’s boat was superior, was it not P
Trickett: Yes; mine weighed 101 b. heavier than hla.
Darrell: You were beaten in the Hop Bitters.
Trickett: Yes ; that was bad luck. I could beat Lay-
cock at home, when well, as I could when in Sydney. I
won my race against Boas fairly and squarely, and they
gave it no race. Another time the starter kept me 40
minutes at the stake in cold and sleet, and I got inflam-
mation of the kidneys through that. Altogether, bad
luck has held me from first to last.
Kelly : Well, never mind that, we’ve had a bitter, bad
time, but let it go. We’ll hold on, and look out for the
dollars at the big show coming.
Darrell: What chance d’ye think you have in the big
sculling race, Trickett P
Trickett: It all depends. I can beat Boss, I feel
sure, and Courtney; and if Hanlan is a little off, or gets
bad luck I may slip in first. There’s a dark man I fear,
Gandeau, a Canadian; mark me. he’s the coming man.
Kelly: Hanlan’s pulled off 51b. weight since yester-
day, so he means business.
Darrell: Well, if you win this race, Trickett, or get
a place, I’d make tracks, were I yon, for the antipodes.
Trickett: I want to get back badly, and shall try to
do so by Christmas. It we have any luok Kelly will go
with me, and we mean to start business together.
Darrell: You’ll be welcomed, I’m sure, both of you.
You’ve been beaten, and it was a bad beating pecuniarily
for many, other than yourself: but yon tried your best,
and that yon lost your own money Is the most convinc-
ing proof.
Trickett: Well, I’m going to have a good try for the
coming event. I’ll take a pull now, and you can
can write out home and tell the boys you’ve seen me
between the blades again.
No sooner said than done—a hearty handshake, good
wishes all round, a mutual hope to meet ere long in the
land of the 'possum and kangaroo, and Trickett and
Kelly peeled, donned flannels, and took to the lake.
Trickett did the Hanlan course in his old gamey form,
whilst Kelly and mate did a coaching breather in a
double skull. When the mists and the distance had
engulphed the pullers, I turned hotelwards for a soli-
tary nobbier to drink them once more success. Thus,
somewhat under the weather, but full of go and steel to
the bottom, I left the doughty Ned ; doing so, I seemed
to part with another link that hound me to the under
world, God’s country, the Sunny South, When last I
met Trickett in Sydney—l had arranged to pay him
over his winnings from Laycook on the old Viotoria —
he was flushed with victory and fall of prosperity; now,
in a strange land, he’s fighting the up-hill fight ’gainst
ill luok and misfortune. He has naught but the good
word for all Australians, and no one regrets his
backers' losses more than himself. Of those who stood
by him, he speaks in warm terms, and of Jack Thomp-
son, he said “ he was as faithful to mo and my interests
as a dog.” Give him the helping hand, boys, when he
returns; the Canadians respect him. and wish him a
change of fortune and a speedy win. Don’t let him have
to say of his own countrymen “Save me from my
friends ’’ 1 leave Canada directly for the States.
Canada is wholesome and homely, but ultra-conserva-
tive and puritanical. The Canadians do not solicit the
patronage of Nihilists, or erect statues to Fenians.
No I they are oommendably loyal, unco guid, and un-
comfortably respectable. Bohomiauism is unknown.
Temperance by the card is a national virtue—or failing.
Not a taste in an hotel from seven on Saturday night
until Monday morning. Thus the law—strictly en-
forced— and yet Australian Michiavclism evaded the
statute. Canada is kindly to showfolk, great in oars-
men, rotten in railways, hnge in pretty girls with feet
of corresponding size, rigourous in morals, third-rate in
snakes, and, above all, it flies the flag that braved, eto.,
etc. Still, my principal regret in leaving the Dominion
will be, that, after crossing the border, I shall be re-
quired to pay exactly double for my ale of Bass, and*
my three-star James. Vale.— Yours truly.
GEORGE DARRELL.


/''USH PRICE LIST OP WIN
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WIN
BED.
per doz.
Claret 9s Od
Dalwood 10s Od
Hermitage ... ... J9 8 24
Shiraz lls Od
Burgundy ... ... 12s 6d
Sweet Shiraz ... 18s Od
WHITE.
J.T. F
Adelaic
(rich
type)
Adelait
Beisling
Dalwood
Hook
Madeira
Bouffier’s Pineatr..
Drown Muscat ...
Good Port
9s Od
10s Od
10s Od
lls Od
13s Od
15s Od
Linden
cat,v
Tokay
rounc
flavo
Linden
yinta
FOREIGN WINI
21s tt> 36s Od 1 Good £
SPIRITS.
Bum,
59s Od’
Henneasy’s • Case
Brandy ... ... 59s Od Bum, I
Hennesey’s *** J atn J
Case Brandy ... 71. Od Bum, 1
Good Pale French Jami
Brandy 45s Od
Good Dark French Brand;
Brandy 45s Od Case
Walker’s Old Gin, I
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od 15 B
Kemp’s Scotch sine)
Whisky 42s Od Gin, I
Burke's Case j 15 B
Whisky 38s 0d I size)
Other Brands Irish I Wolfe’
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od |
ALBS AND STOI
per doz.
Bulldog Ale, qts.... lls Od Boar’s
Bulldog Ale, pints 8s Od pinti
Foster’s Ale, qts... lls Od Foster
Foster’s Ale, pints. 8s Od „
Aitken’s Ale, qts... 10s Od Pig B
Dry borough’s Ale, quar
pints 6s 6d Pig B
Boar’s Head Stout, pinti
quarts 9s 9d
•9* Country Orders for Ales and
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of
6d. per dozen extra will be charged
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottl
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Offlc
All Goods delivered carriage fre
town or to the Wharves or Eedft
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on givii
T. VIVIAN RAU<
WINE & SPIRIT MEI
65 Pitt-street, Syd
JjOVERS OF GOOD
We beg to draw y
PARTICULAR ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TB,
Packed|in pounds and halt
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s. and 3
PURE INDIAN TEA,
2s. Bd. ai
PURE CEYLON TEA,
2s. Od. ai
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. oj
Special Quotations given to Wh
Country Orders promptly i
ASIATIC TEA COI
279 PITT STREET (next Si
SYDNEY.
s
MALL P 0 X. S
PREVENTION IS BETTER
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHEI
VENTTVE of SMALL-POX.
Chemists.
■ n —irr
UNIVERSITY
Affiliated to Trin. Col
CHAMBERS i 191 WILLIAM S’
Principal t
Da. RODWAY. M.A., F.B
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY an
ROD WAY, and the number of stu<
strictly limited to TEN, so that 1
gentleman that individual attentii
secure success. Dr. Eodway’s sys
cient, and he guarantees to pass
TT«ii»Awci{fw. Ta» PJ
IP you are asked to buy a MAC
by “ The Singer C 0.,” but reoon
being on the “ Singer System ” or “
take Punch’s advice to those about t<
SINGER’S SEWING M
ABB MADE ONLY I
The Singer Manufacture
Head Offices:
31 UNION SQUARE, NEW 1
Chief Office in Euro]
39 OSTEK LANE, L
Dep6t for New South V
No. 1 DA LING STOKES, 1IAE:
SYDNEY.
gIN GEE’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
eecognised a
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANX]
TIME PATMEN'
2s. 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. per week
And NO INTEREST cl
10 per cent, oft for <
BEWARE OF IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
turner &
Opposite
JOHNBTOI
SEWING MAOHII
HAYMAEKH
Ingers Sewing
ijlal _ /
8
ASHES GLAZED ON T
NOTICE.
a. r. murphi
Regent House, 869 George-f
8
HOP FRONTS GLAZEI
BRITISH PLATE G
O. r. mubph:
Regent House, 869 George-e
JJEITISH
PLATE AND
WAREHOUSE,
G. P. MURPH!
Regent House, 869,Qeorge-s
JpAPEEHANGINGS
OUR PRISON SYSTEM.
THE CASE OF JAMES LESLIE.
BY ONE WHO KNOWS.
la August. 1879, James Leslie, aged about 3_,
was found guilty of forgery, and sentenced to two years
imprisonment with hard labour, in Darlinghurst Gaol*
He was a thick-set, heavy-faced individual, with a
peculiarly morose expression. It was understood that
he was rather eccentric; and two prisoners, who had
known him before, corroborated his statement that he
had had a sunstroke some years previously. Dr.
Maurice O’Connor saw him, and pronounced him to be
of sound mind. For the first two or three months he
was only remarkable for silence and unsociability» and
the authorities seemed rather to favour him than other-
wise ; for although he was tried as a workman in more
than one shop, he was found not to suit, and was not
punished for several breaches of the gaol regulations
—one being serious enough, viz., fighting. When the
hot weather came on, his face grew almost purple, and
no one cared much to approach him, as he occasionally
seemed savage. Many prisoners expected an explosion
of some sort; but as I never spoke to the man in my
life, I cannot assert that I individually had any definite
opinion on the subject. At last the storm came, and if
the poor fellow really wo* sane, he must now look back
with sorrowful regret on a past so full of physical
suffering.
♦ * •
His first offence was tearing to pieces a library
book, but as I fancy the authorities had at that time
not wholly made up their mind whether he was respon-
sible for his actions or not, he was let oil easily. About
a week afterwards, during night time, he tore his
blankets to pieces, apparently without any cause. His
defence was that he had been visited by the devil, who
had tempted him to do it. The doctor said ho was sane,
and he was sent to the dark cells for seven days. The
next move was tearing his clothes to tatters, save hia
flannel shirt. Now, this was the only article that be-
longed to himself, and it was, therefore, said on all
hands that there was method in his madness. In de-
fence, he this time said he had played euchre with the
devil and lost. Dork cells. One day, two days, three
days, four days, five days, six days, seven days, eight
days—not one morsel did the man eat. He refused all
entreaties and commands, and seldom gave any answers
at all. Dr, O’Connor had thus f ir apparently relied on
the cravings of nature to assist the regulations ; but he
was totally beaten by what he then, and all through the
game, called Leslie's “obstinacy." Artificial means
were for fire weeks employed to feed and keep the man
alive.
• • •
It was a marvel that Leslie could hold out so
long, and when I saw him the day after he caved in, he
was a mere ghost of his former self—doubled up, weak
as a baby, of conrse unable to walk, hollow cheeked,
and trembling as with palsy. While “ being keptalive ”
he had two attendants, and was tempted with all sorts
of dainties, which he refused, till at last he succumbed
—to what P To a glass of brandy. Having once ac-
cepted something, he had, of course, to accept more, and
this was the turning-point. Leslie had had his innings.
It was now Dr. O’Connor’s turn. He had done his duty
in preventing the man from self-destruction, and many
a private malediction, I should say, attended the course
of cure, but he had to finish the treatment. At first
the patient was carefully fed, but when he became
strong enough—oh # ye gods I —was he not blistered and
bandaged on the head and behind the ears I W us there,
then, really something the matter with his brain I
Ceuld it be true that the effects of his sunstroke still
made themselves felt t Otherwise, from a pathological
point of view, may I ask is stubbomess in refusing food
genesally omred by an abandonee of Spanish flies P
• « •
The medical gentleman having, after a consider-
able period, declared Leslie restored and all right, he
was handed over to the ordinary officials, but placed
•• under observation." He was for the remainder of hla
sentence, 18 months or thereabouts, never on the works,
but kept In what is called a “ special yard,” where there
never are more than three prisoners, all under observa-
tion on suspicion of being of unsound mind. For several
months Leslie kept quiet, and most people thought he
had had enough of it. He was very kindly treated, even
■lightly indulged, and saved from annoying irritation j
but as the summer once more turned, the same restless-
ness presented itself—the beat affecting his appearance
just as before, and making his face well-nigh blood red.
He began by yelling out at night, and those who heard
bis shrieks (for such they were) will not easily forget
them. The only ones that in intensity of shrillness are
at all to compare with them are those which the North
U&nd Maories give vent to during a war dance. He was
punished over and over again with light and dark cells,
and then he become abusive and violent.
« • «
One fine afternoon, while enduring punishment,
blood was seen to trickle from under his cell door into
the corridor. Alarm was given, and it was found that
with a sharp ordinary needle which had been concealed
about him ho had opened a vein in his arm and tom it
os long ns he was able—that is, until he became
insensible. He was within an ace of death this time,
but Dr. O’Connor pulled him through once more. Out
of the gaol hospital he was sent baok to his " special
yard," and put “ in mulls.” This article is not nice,
and is applied to real or supposed lunatics as a coercion.
As its designation implies, it is a kind of muff, made of
strong leather, into which both hands are inserted,
overlapping each other, when the two ends are strapped
round the wrists hard and fast. In fact, a pair of hand-
cuffs of a milder form than the iron ones. These the
unhappy man —unhappy, truly, as you shall hear,
whether insane, or “obstinate" as some say, or suffer-
ing partial insanity from the old sunstroke, as others
say—had to wear for many a dreary week and month,
night and day. I suppose he grew tired of this “ special"
constraint, for, after a time, he promised to be qniet, and
the muffs were taken off. And so he did keep quiet, very
qniet, for a considerable period, and recovered his sub-
stantial physique, until one day the volcano burst forth
again. On this occasion there was a tangible cause.
Through his misconduct, he had lost the whole of his
remission (four months), and he was under the impres-
sion that Dr. O’Connor’s report had been mainly
instrumental in this; he, therefore, asked that gentle-
man to withdraw his former report, and recommend him
for remission, which request was refused. I hold this
to he the most rational act of Leslie’s prison career, and
fairly admit that when, a day or two afterwards, ha
again commenced to be abusive and violent because of
the refusal, the theory of hie irresponsibility became
shaky.
• • •
But what shall we say of this ? The man is put
•* in muffs " —that is, he can absolutely not move his
arms. He is brought before the Visiting Justice, and
sentenced to seven day's dark colls. Now, “ dark
cells" in Darlinghurst are quite as dark as a coffin
tightly screwd down, and into one of these the man
Was put with the muffs on I The stone walls there are
not altogether as smooth as polished mahogany, and
as Leslie conld neither see nor feel, nor make himself
heard, the consequence was that in walking about he
ran his head against the walls. From 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
he underwent this extra punishment, when Dr. O'Con.
nor, on his evening round, discovered his condition,
and removed him to the hospital. I have seldom seen
a more revolting sight than this hand-tied miserable
being, when he emerged from that dark abode—so
bruised all over his face, which was copper-red, that
there was positively not half an inch above the chin
that was not raw; and it pleases me to have to record
that Dr. O'Connor administered such a rebuke to
those who had been accessories to the unparalleled
oraelty of sending a hand-onffed man into a dark cell,
as they will bear in mind many a long day.
• * •
We come now to the last aot. Thenceforth
Leslie was either incorrigible or mad. His language
was fearful, and hia behaviour inexcusable. Muffs or
no muffs, it was all the same. He raved against bis
superiors and his hard fate night and day. Finally be
threw a kid of water through the gratings of hia cell at
the Principal Gaoler though it only fell on a warder.
For this, he was brought before two magistrates. Dr.
O'Connor deposed that he was perfectly sane and re-
sponsible for his actions, and he was, in consequence,
sentenced to receive twenty-five lashes, which punish-
ment ho took stnbbornly and without a groan, last
April. After that he was never *• out of trouble," but,
'having passed through the heaviest ordeal, ho was left
alone. And we may leave him now, too. He was
released in August.
* • •
The question I should like to have answered by
the medical faculty is, whether the effect of a sunstroke
is not generally felt in hot weather, and whether such
effects do not make persons of a highly excitable tem-
perament at times literally irresponsible for their
actions P My own opinion is now, and has always been,
that Leslie is not mad, but that, all circumstances
considered—his antecedents being known—he should
have received the 11 benefit of the doubt, 11 as to actual
and permanent responsibility.
THE CASE OF JAMES CUNNINGHAM.
In calling attention to thin unfortunate man 0
case, I demand, in the name of our common humanity,
an inquiry. It is true that an investigation has already
been conducted by the medical superintendent of lunatic
asylums. Dr. Manning; but that gentleman will, I
hope, forgive the|remark, that I believe he had to some
extent, however slight, been, perhaps unconsciously,
influenced by somebody else’s pre-established opinions.
• « *
James Cunningham is a man of about 32 years
of age, 6ft. Bin. or sft. 7in. in height, light haired and
fair, with a strongly-marked and sanguine nervous
temperament, and with an expression of face which
pozzies most of the students of Lavater, his physiog-
nomy being a mixture of weakness and strength rarely
seen. When in repose and unobserved, I would have no
hesitation in pronouncing him an irresponsible agent,
if once excited; while, when he “ wakes up" his very
pronounced determination, he is as rational as needs be.
And that is the puzzle. He rarely speaks to any one,
and I have never met a prisoner who has so completely
adopted the silent system, voluntarily, as^he.
« * •
James Cunningham has been twice convicted,
and is noted in the prison records as a man of violent
character, and to be specially watched. And I should
think he ought to be. Could Victor Hugo in his “ Les
Miserables," or Miss Braddon in her “ Henry Dunbar,"
1 have introduced such a character, what a sucess it
would have been I He was originally, in 1878, sentenced
to seven years’ hard labour on the roods and public
works of the colony. Being, as a matter of course
(although even from the beginning there were doubts as
to his sanity, and during his previous sentence he had
been “ under observation”), sent to Berrima, he “broke
out" there. He has a very violent temper, and is pos-
sessed of a distinct monomania of a homicidal
tendency, which at first took the direction of killing
himself, and now of killing somebody else. His first
outburst related to the chief warder in Berrima, whom,
I believe, he abused horribly and subsequently assaulted.
His punishment was, firstly, dork cells; secondly, a
flogging; and thirdly, judicial trial, by which two years
were added to his former sentence. Subsequently he
was sent to Darlinghurst, and placed in the “obser-
vation wing,” where he is to this day, the authorities
regarding him (but not declaring him) as a lunatic. Not
long after his arrival he was taken ill, and transmitted
to hospital ward No. 2. There he got hold of a piece
of tin, and, in the latrine, cut his throat with such de-
termination that that clever surgeon. Dr. Fortescue
(who was sent for in a hurry), said two minutes more
would have settled him. This was iust two years ago.
From that day to this Cunningham has had two special
prisoner-guards (who receive indulgence for the extra
duty), and who never leave him, night or day. Tet,
what has happened P In the beginning of last year ho
managed to get hold of one of his guardians’ dinner
knives, and stabbed him therewith in the back—an
insignificant wound, but enough to break the true skin.
For this he was committed, and received from Judge
Wilkinson the sentence of nine years 1 When he re-
turned from court he was put in “ muffs,” and still kept
under observation.
* * *
Although I have no doubt in my own mind that
the man is mad, I confess it is not surprising that
Dr. Manning should adopt Dr. O’Connor’s opinion
(neither of them having had the same opportunity as
myself of noticing his conduct) that it is only evil-
mindedness that prompts his conduct; for whenever
he is brought before the Medical Board, he addresses
them in something after this fashion :—" Gentlemen,
vou wish to find out whether I’m insane or not. I
know what I am called up here for. It is to see if I
show any reasonable cause for disarrangement or not.
I am perfectly sane, and the only thing I live for is to
kill somebody—not a warder or free man—but one of
those of my fellow-prisoners, who are mean enough to
take the billet of watching me. And then I want to be
hung. I’m perfectly sane ?’*
• • »
And, in truth, ho tried to carry out that purpose
more than once. The " muffs ” had to be removed tor
a few minutes every morning while he washed himself,
and twice, nay thrice, he attempted, if not to kill, at
any rate to injure, his prisoner-guardians. Once he
split the whele front and centre of the skin of the head
of his principal watcher, who was an old prize-fighter,
but who was so taken by surprise when the bucket de-
scended upon his head, with all the force of an enraged
man who had stored up his energy for one single blow,
that he roared like a bull and ran like a hare. On
another occasion, Cunningham struck a man, also with
a bucket, and had not other prisoners interfered, there
would have been murder.
* * *
Finally, in January or February last, he rushed
down to one of the tables in No. 1 yard, caught a knife,
and was going to stab— did, in fact, slightly stab—his
attendant, though the authorities did not dare to bring
the matter before the public. For this and the previous
offences, he however obtained mitigated punishments—
punishments utterly inadequate, if the man really is
sane ; utterly unjust, if the man is irresponsible. But
what do you think of this ?
* « «
He was then put in a straight-jacket, and for
the last nine months or more, has never been out of it,
night or day 1 What " system,” what Venetian terror-
ism, is this—that punishes, as a madman, a man who is
declared to be sane, and applies a kind of coercion,
which is obsolete. If James Cunningham is a respon-
sible being, let him go among his fellow-prisoners,
notwithstanding his severe sentence, and when ha
breaks the gaol regulations, let him be punished as
others are—no more. If he is net sane, for Heaven’s
sake send him to an asvlum, and do away with such a
frightful anomaly. Try to conjure up before your
mind what it means, to have, for months and months,
in light and darkness, one’s arms tied up in a canvas
bag, always in the same position, and without the
possibility of an inch’s movement—and then tell me if
a really sane man should be subjected to such treat-
ment. Ho is now only a skeleton, comparative to what
he was two years ago. And no wonder.


Tobacconists
TIN TAG!
TIN Ti
Caution to Storekc
ANT ONE selling Tobacco with ai
other than those bearing our I
“ CONQUERER " or “ TANKE
is infringing our rights, and will be
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice,
facturer has been sending out one of
of Tobaooe with a Bound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED
DIXSON AND SI
155 YORK STREI
TOBACCO SMOK
Note the Above.
"T-
-TOBACCON
J.
EVE}
JAMES ET
No. 149 KING ST
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta!
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and amb<
149 KING STREI
Money.
tP*
ON LOAN AND DISCO'
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STRI
3 doors from A. Hordern
Hours —9 to 5.
MONET ADVANCED upon PE:
security, payable by inatalmantSf ac
£lO by weekly instalments of
15 ...
20 ...
25 ...
30 ...
50
in*duo proportion up to *lOO.
SPECIAL NOTH
To borrowers not able to transact
day, the offices will be open Honda;
ines. from 7 to 9.
mgs, 760 GEOEGE g T BBET,
3 doors from A. Hordern
rj\
10 SMALL FREEHOLD Al
PROPRIETOR!
Hotels, bo.
GALLON’S PRIZE AL
J, T. FALLON’S in asking put
WINES, and to the awards game
intimate that he holds very large stj
and the public may rely upon getti
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot
91 PITT STREET, SI
Vineyard ;
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH WA
These Wines were awarded flrst-o
following Exhibitions
London Internationa 1 ...
Paris ..
Vienna »f •••
Philadelphia ~ ... ....
Alan at the various Intercolonial
toria New South Wales, Qoeent
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLAI
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBIT
WHITE.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shin
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Oarh
Tokay I Burg
Champagne, Medium Dry. Cl
I
ice ICE
E
The city ice company,
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TOE
are prepared to Supply the LUXU
BROACHING SUMMER, at a lot
For prices, &c..
Apply to
3 WTNTARD STRI
OR TO VARIC
R
OBEET BUTCE
(Late William Lor
WINE AND SPIRIT MB!
534 GEORGE BTRS
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Pro:
W 1
LLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STRI
T
he a u s T 1
“HOME" SHUT!
AMERICAN LOCKS!
SEWING MAC!
'EXPRESS
Hotels, tie.
R
OBINSON’S PIT ZI
WILLIAM BTI
WOOLLOOMOOL
all the best brands op a:
Is PER BOTTL
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEI
all round.
N.B. —Cockbnm’s Grape (PORI
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Atnei
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table,
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVI
The compagnoni catei
OF PITT-STEEET have mi
nounoing to the public, that to rem
want of space to accommodate thei
Luncheon hour, they have conve;
Banqueting Hall into an additions
which is now open, and where evt
directed to visitors patronising this
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superb
is under the management of a flrst-c
branch of Catering undertaken, an
staff of experienced and polite wait*
Through continued misrepresent*
bog to mention that they are not in
with any other person, or persona, i
SAMUEL PAG
NOW OPEN,
THE
I^ATEEING
Hotels, fee.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
$
N
*
m
m
p
i
&
m
B■*=
STS
iS
te
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUI
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BI
ohke
oil
WTO
WUnlttd
VUnAtS
It is of the utmost importance th
bottle should bo carefully compared
are being imported into New Sou
bottles. . ~ ,
Drinkers of this favourite bevera
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(J
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
Jjl MARTIN A
"AUSTRALIAN WINE MI
and bebb bott:
105 PITT STEEE
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN £
Prices from 12s to 42i pi
ALBUBY WINE
BED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbec
HUNTEE EIVEE W
Claret
Lambruscat
POET MACQUABIE 1
Burgundy.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAE
AND CASE.
The ITmm of M. MOSS ft 00.
Is on erery Genuine Bottle.
IT Is not the clearness or conditio
Ale that preserves this brand
mation. Common bitter crude been
but no other brand has the same m(
ter, the fulness on the palate, am
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Co
fore cautioned against traders who
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J
CG., Sole Agents.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Charles Lascellea is at Natal with the “ Pirates
of Penzance ” Company The Otago Witness has been
informed that Walter Reynolds had intended to engage
Beaumont Read for the title role in a Tambour Major
Company ! Leake is not by any means a success as a
vocalist. The way he mutilated “ The Harp that
Once,” and “Norah Mavoumeeu,” in “Kerry Gow”
at Auckland, will not be forgotten by those present for
some time. His voice is said to resemble the foghorn
of a steamer Jimmy O’Brien, of Auckland, has filed
his shovel, much to the disgust of many The action
against Louise Pomeroy, for taking the Theatre at
Christchurch, N.Z., some mouths ago, and not coming,
has been settled amicably Lydia Howarde’sCo., with
the exception of the race nights, did poor “biz.” at
Napier, N.Z At last advices, Pollard’s Lilipntian
Co. were drawing good houses at the Princess Theatre,
Dunedin, N.Z Herr Scherek and a company of five
have been appearing in Otago (N.Z.), country districts.
Walter Bentley, now playing in London, was a Dune-
din (N.Z.) amateur ten years ago. He made his first
appearance in London in 1874, at the Court Theatre, as
Stephen Tickle in “ Peacock’s Holidaybut his first
important Metropolitan engagement, was at the
Lyceum, where he made his dehtit as Noailles in Tenny-
son’s “Queen Mary,” and he afterwards sustained
leading parts at the same house imder Mr. Irving’s man-
agement Kate Arden, of the Pomeroy Co., gets a
good notice from the Lyttelton Times for her Cornelia
Carlyle in “East Lynne." Herbert Flemming, on
one evening, during the performance of “ Antony and
Cleopatra,” in N.Z., had a wound accidently inflicted on
his right hand It is possible Wybert Reeve and Co.
will visit Auckland late In November If De Lias, of
the Theatre Royal, Auckland, does not come to terms
with Cary’s “ Pirates” Co., it is probable that a panto-
mime will be produced thereat Christmas .Anad-
vertising novelty. Each of the N.Z. hotels at which any
of the Pomeroy Company stop, are bound by their con-
tract to keep a flag flying with “ Pomeroy ” upon it
The D’Ortelle Tourists, whoever they may be, have
been playing “ The Ticket of Leave Man,” “ Milky
White," and “ The Young Widow," in several N.Z.
small towns, with indifferent success. Their name
seems the best thing about them, says an exchange
Louise Pomeroy is drawing immensely at Christchurch,
N.Z., and winning golden opinions from theatre-goers.
The local journals raved over “ Antony and Cleopatra,”
and slated tho production of such trash as “ East
Lynne." Wellington is the next town to he visited by
Louise and her company Bob Love’s Juvenile Min-
strel Co. did fairly well at Christchurch, N.Z. The
“ business ” of the performers is old and hackneyed
Cary’s Opera Co., as usual, did splendidly at Welling-
ton, N.Z. The proprietor has made a lot of money
since he formed the troupe W. H. Leake was meeting
with poor success at Auckland when the moil steamer
left. His New Zealand tour has not been a great
financial success A Wellington journal, in reviewing
•• Les Cloches," by the Cary Co., remarks;—” The per-
formance would have been a success had it not been for
the interpolation of a great deal of irrelevant and tedious
buffoonery on the part of the “Bailie” and his three
clerks, owing to whose dreary inanities—repeated until
they became absolutely nauseating—together with the
unconscionable intervals, the opera did not conclude
until about midnight. A long and wearisome step-dance
was actually introduced into the last act, at 11 30 p.m.
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Palmer are at the Brisbane
Theatre. A local paper says:—“Mr. Edwin Palmer
made his first appearance here in the character of
• Henry the Sixth,’ and is a decided acquisition. His
scene with Richard was a highly-finished piece of acting,
and the earlier acts gained greatly by this gentleman’s
presence on the scene. Mrs Palmer took the part of
the Duchess of York with dignity and intelligence."
Lottie Wilmot has been lecturing at Greymonth, N.Z.
At her first effort, on “ Forbidden Fruit,” the audience
fairly represented the male population of Greymonth,
there being representatives or the various callings and
professions with the exception of “ the cloth " and the
ladies. Only two women were present. Many left long
before tbe lecture was concluded Jessie Grey, who
played Charmian in “ Antony and Cleopatra," with the
Pomeroy Co. at Christchurch, N.Z , introduced the
ballad “Waiting" into the piece. King Lear, with a
song, “ The Maniac,” will be the next thing, we suppose.
Nota bene, however, Shakspeare gives his characters
songs occasionally Miss Cora Miller, with the
Mendelssohn Quintette Party, according to the N. T.
Clipper, was a local soprano of some repute at Grand
Rapids, Mich Bent’s Minstrels only did moderate
biz at Dunedin The German Reed Family and com-
pany intend shortly to visit Australia Probate has
been granted in the will of the late Frank Pinkerton,
the well-known Ballarat show printer—property,
£4074* Mendelssohn Quintette Club a great success
at Brisbane “ The World" was played at the Adelaide
Theatre Royal, for the lavt time, on Saturday night.
Tho season has been the most successful ever held in
the “farinaceous village.”... In “Les Cloches,” as
played by Cary’s company at Wellington (N.Z.), he
gives them real apples. The other night the property,
man painted some “ spuds," and hung them on the trees.
The prettiest of the chorus girls, in the action of the
piece, says “ What splendid Normandy pippins 1 ” and
takes a good square bite. Strange to say, none of the
other girls hankered after apples that night, although
they were always so fond of them. Cary has learned a
wrinkle: 12s. a week saved.
# # #
During the next season, Henry Irving promises
to appear as Digby Grant (“Two Roses"), Romeo,
Coriolanus, Robert Emmett, Hienzi, Edgar of Ravens-
wood, and Dr. Primrose. Fancy the fashionable trage-
dian as Romeo—a passionate lover! The committee
of the Thdatre-Francais have unanimously accepted a
one-act esmedy, “ Fin du Bonheur," written by an
Englishman under the assumed name of Beaumont.
This is the first time that the Franyais has
taken the work of a stranger On dit that Her
Majesty’s Theatre, London, is to be turned into a
post-office for tho West-end. In that case, notes, no
longer musical, will be distributed, and orders—con-
trary to the recognised theatrical imactice—will be
money-orders Maud Brauscombe, the much-photo-
graphed, is in Loudon, and announces that she is “ at
liberty" after her “successful tour in America.”
Maud can’t act, but she knows how to look pretty
Charles Millward is busily engaged upon his 17th con-
secutive pantomime for tho Birmingham Theatre Royal.
Last year ho made a little fortune out of his highly suc-
cessful annual Miss Kellogg, the American prima
donna, says that at the Vienna Opera House, the
orchestra is the best in Europe, the mice en scene ex-
quisite, and the singers fair. At St. Petersburg, ou
the other hand, the singers are good, the orchestra bad,
and the properties execrable The late Miss Neilson’s
wardrobe has been advertised for sale by her maid,
Madame Leon. To this complexion has it come!
During his first “Drundreary” engagement at the
Hayraarket Theatre, Sothern was introduced to T. W.
Robertson, the playwright, and intimated to him his
desire to possess one of Tom’s pieces. The latter had
just sold “ David Garrick ” to Lacy, the publisher, and
Sothern, anxious to have it, asked itobertson to buy it
back. Sothern secured the manuscript for £lO, just
double what Lacy had given for it; hut he generously
paid author’s fees for the piece to the very last At
the annual dinner of the Royal General Theatrical Fund,
George Augustus Sala made the biggest hit of the even-
ing, next to Sims Reeves, who was in grand voice, and
received a perfect ovation At the Queen’s Theatre,
Dublin, in September last, the villain of the play
with the corpses of five victims lying on the
stage round him, was compelled by the gods
to sing incontinently “The Wearing of the Green,”
accompanied by loud colls of delight from the
gallery. At the more refined Gaiety, the waving of the
Union Jack by the Major General (in “The Pirates of
Penzance”) evoked a burst of hisses from the patriots
up aloft Sara Bernhardt has drawn apian for her
tomb. It does not, as might be inferred, resemble the
barrel of a shot-gun or the joint of a gas-pipe Archie
Mackenzie, who was business manager for Baldwin and
his wife while in Australia, is now acting in the same
capacity for Rice’s “Evangeline” Opera Company,
travelling in the States Billy Courtright (“Flewy,
Flewy ”), late of Kelly and Leon’s, has joined George
Thatcher’s Minstrel Co., now on the road to America.
Charles Warner, the tiger-tamer of Chiarini’s
Circus, died of small-pox at Calcutta, and Mrs. C. H.
Les, of the same show, mother of the well-known Lee
Family, died in giving birth to a son, in Rangoon,
British Burmah J. K. Emmet, now in New York, has
had anew piece written—“ Fritz among the Gipsies.”
** Gibraltar,” a burlesque, was, in August last,
played at the London Haymarket, to an audience of six
in the stalls, a dozen in the dresu circle, and a sprinkling
in other parts of the auditorum. John Howson was one
of the performers, and passes for an American
Wagner’s latest work, “Parsival,” is to be produced at
Bayreuth, next July In the new Stephens-Solomon
opera, “ Claude Duval,” Mr. Celli rides one ef Sanger’s
fiery circus steeds on to the stage, and sings his first
song on horseback Mrs. Henry Irving (who, by the
way, has for many years lived apart from her husband)
announces her intention of playing a round of Shake-
sperian characters on the London stage Mrs. Scott-
Siddons was to appear this month at the London Hay-
market, in a new play of a serious character, the period
being that of Henry VIII Rose Hersee is singing at
the London Lyceum in Italian opera.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Mr. J. C. Williamson and Miss Maggie Moore
made their re-appearance on Saturday last, at the
Royal, in “ Eureka," a drama written expressly for
them by a gentleman. “Eureka" would be a very
good drama, indeed, had we not seen in other American
plays that preceded it a good deal of its dialogue and
the whole of its incidents. Wo have the time-honoured
Dutchman, the giddy romp, the heavy villain (who is
all hat and shirt front in the drawing-room scones* and
all beard and boots in the camp ones), the Irish hired
help, the straight leading lady (who by tho way, usually
leads the villain on until the last act, when she is
instrumental in having a hole drilled through him), the
straight young man with tho moustache (who watches
upon innocence and virtue), the camp colonel (a mild
edition of Bret Harte’s immortal Starhottle), and a band
of miners, whose unanimity—like that of the charac-
ters in Mr. Puff’s tragedy—is wonderful. _ All these
?ersons we have seen before in “ The Danites, ’ “ My
'artner ” and many others. The very scenes (new and
pretty, by the way, in “ Eureka,”) are the scones which
always figure in an American drama —the drawing-room
interior, the bar-room, and the camp by moonlight.
It will thus ho seen that Mr, Williamson’s new drama
has not a very great deal, on the score of novelty, to
recommend it; but, on the other hand, it has many
powerful situations, and the dialogue is, in places,
crisply and epigrammatically written.
* • •
Mr. Williamson, of course, enacted the Dutch-
man (the only one in the piece, by the way), whose
wife “ plays up ” with the villain, and the impersona-
tion all through was one of infinite delicacy of touch,
of great care and finish. Special opportunities were,
however, not offered him ; and, taken altogether, the
part is quite unworthy of such a capable artist. Miss i
Maggie Moore (who looks younger and more charming
than ever) was very amusing as Nelly Weber, and sang
the “ Turn of the Tide," in the first act, in such a be-
witching manner as to draw forth from the audience a
vociferous encore. In the hands of a less talented
actress tho role would have been a very dreary business
indeed; but with that airy humour which she infuses
into every impersonation she undertakes, the author’s
somewhat dull lines were invested with an amount of
life and attractiveness which he could reasonably have
never hoped for them.
• * •
Mr. Howard Vernon waa quiet and effective as
Charley Frink, but Mr. George Leopold (to our surprise)
made little or nothing of the Camp Colonel. Mr. E. B.
Boothman (as Laurence Reighbon), made a villain of
the most marrow-freezing and blood-curdling descrip-
tion-assassination gleaming from his eyes, seduction
lurking about the corners of his month, and embezzle-
ment on a large scale pervading his whole appearance.
In a word, he was terrific. The celebrated English
character-actor, Mr. Newton Griffiths, played a digger
called Jake Morgan quite charmingly; so much so,
indeed, that we see no reason why he should not place
himself under the American eagle for the future, par-
tionlarly as he seems to have got so little out of the
British lion. Here is a title for him to star with—and
alliteration’s everything in things dramatic—“ The
Celebrated Californian Character Comedian I ” Think of
that, now, in a red or white three-sheeter with a fancy
New York border! By Jove, we like the idea so well,
that if Mr. Griffiths will undertake to give the show,
we will find the piano and hall, and he first robbers
ourselves. # # #
The re-appearance of Mrs. Walter Hill, a lady
of much dramatic ability, was cordially acknowledged
by the audience. Her part, however (that of a faithless
wife), was so feebly drawn that not even a Ristori could
have hammered a single effective spark out of it. It
was repulsive without being pathetic—conventional
without being dramatic. Miss Lilian Porde played a
stage Irish servant with some spirit; and an exceed-
ingly pretty and clever little girl, Little Lillie Moore,
played Yulie delightfully.
* * *
“Eureka” will be succeeded, in a few days, by
other novelties. It is worth seeing, however, if only
to witness the remarkable acting of the two stars.
* * * *
Mr. Alfred Dampier’s assumption once again of
the character of Belphegor attracted a very large
audience at the Gaiety last week, and the performance,
masterly and scholarly in its every phase, was watched
with considerable attention by the spectators. There
can he no doubt whatever that emotional and melo-
dramatic rdlcs are Mr. Dampier’s forte, as his delineation
of Belphegor shows him at once to be imbued with the
higher poetry of the drama in an eminent degree. His
acting throughout the whole of the piece is pregnant
with power and intensity, and such of our readers as
desire n treat of a highly intellectual description would
do well to drop in and see Mr. Dampier’s admirable
impersonation of the wronged Mountebank—one, be it
noted, of the most powerfully drawn characters in tho
whole range of dramatic literature,
« * •
Mr. James H. Bainford enacted Lavarennes, in
a costume that had more thunder about the outside of it
than an Alpine tempest, and more blood about the lining
than a medueval scaffold. When in the shade he looked
like Guy Fawkes about to fire the train; when in the
glare ©f the footlights, he resembled the haughty villain
who abducts the lady and slaughters the children in
“Gonzalo the Gory.” His acting was by no means
impressive, his intonation being at times monotonous
and his action somewhat stiff. We trust that when
Mr. Bainford next shows as Lavarennes. he will “ come
out of that hat.” Mr. Tasman made a rather feeble
Duke, hut Mr. A. Boothman looked immense as Her-
cule.
♦ * *
Mr. H. W. Emmet had a part, as tho Count do
Blangy, which did not suit him, and he did not suit tho
port; and Mr. Norman Vane was about as happy in
D’Arpignol as n cockroach in a limekiln. Mr. Dick
Stewart, as Fanfaronade, has a moat excellent piece of
clownery, and his make-up was exceedingly artistic.
His acting in tho garret-scene was exceedingly funny,
and his soup business would have been funnier still,
had not the consommi borne so striking a resemblance
to claret and water.
* # *
Tho Madeleine of Mias Aime Adrre is a per-
formance which, while it lacks evenness, possesses con-
sidorable dramatic power. In the last act, when she
throws herself upon the breast of her husband, she
displayed great ability, but in her scene! with Lava-
rennes, a little more animation on her part would most
certainly have been conducive to more successful re-
sults. The costume of that giddy roue, however, may
have cast a temporary gloom upon the lady. So far as
appearance, and costumes go, Miss Adcre leaves no-
thing to be desired. Throughout the whole piece she
looked singularly picturesque.
* * *
Miss Marion Melrose made quite a success as
Zephyrina, and gashed charmingly, as is her wont. She
is a great favourite, and it seems to us that whenever
she appears
The twinkle of her laughing eyes
Does cast the pit in thralls,
Enslave the shilling gallery.
And captivate the stalls.
Little Rose played Henri with great spirit, but her
■ attention was diverted from her part by alittle friend
of hers in the front seats, who was so affected by the
performance, that she was in tears nearly the whole
time. Miss M A. Melvillo’had a part quite unworthy
of her in Madame Vermandois. The rest of the parts
were so small that it would bo useless to individualize.
Suffice it to say that Miss Howarth’s charming facial
expression (we are copying the inimitable style of a
contemporary’s new penny critic) penetrating, as it
did, through the mask she wore, shed a roseate radi-
ance over the whole play, and Miss Desmond who, in
the piece—to nse a simile of Mr. Weller’s—was as
“ dumb as a drum with a hole it it,” by the artistic
fervour which she threw into her part, cast a glorious
glamour upon the author’s creation. “Belphegor”
was played for the last time on Wednesday night, and
on Saturday will be put on “ Never to Late too Mend.”
* ♦ *
A farce entitled “ Who’s to Win Him” took the
place of the burlesque at the Gaiety on Monday even-
ing, and proved to be an amusing trifle, though by no
means up to the humorous standard of the side-splitting
comedy which preceded it. Mr. Richard Stewart played
the part of Primrose, an amorous country squire, with
some humour, but his business is rather too ancient for
these high-pressure times. Mr. A. Boothman, in an
•* immense” get up, did the swell who was to be won,
and the principal female part, that of Arabella, was
enacted by Miss Teresa Horan. This young lady had a
good chance, and availed herself of it to the utmost,
speaking her lines with much archness, and exhibiting
a general vivacity that is to be much commended. Miss
Melrose was amusing as Sylvia, but gagged outrageously,
and appeared in a riding-habit that looked as if it had
been borrowed from one of the amazons in Cole’s street
procession. Miss Maggie Forde was amusing as Min-
nuetta; but Miss Jenny Desmond made a very mourn-
ful Musidora. Miss Jenny is a very excellent littlo lady
we have no doubt, and would adorn many spheres of
life exceedingly; but it we are to take an impersonation
of Musidora as a criterion, we feel bound to express the
opinion that she by no means especially embellishes th«
stage. Miss Howarth as Rose looked like a rose, and
Mr. A Tasman as a squire looked more like a squire’s
gardener. The little piece waa well received.
** * *
George Darrell —handsome George—writes from
Toronto, under date 28th August :—“ I am doing very
well in this country —especially as a new man. Ido
not go on the road starring this year, there being oyer
250 combinations out, but have accepted the blue rib-
bon of stock engagements—having contracted with
Miss Fanny Davenport, American leading lady star, to
play the parts of Claude Melnotte, Dazzle, Armand
Duval, Posthumous Leonatus, Orlando, etc., eto., for
thirty weeks. This is the top of the tree, and a great
compliment to me to get it. I refused an offer to sup.
port Booth, preferring to go with the lady. lam now
filling in a six weeks’ Summer tour in Canada. I send
you an interview I had with Triokett.” George further
says be has written two new dramas, and all in good
season they will be produced. “ I will re-visit Austra-
lia in the fall of 1883, with a complete company and
•took of new MSS."
** * *
H. W. Emmet bids fair to develop into one of
our best burlesque actors. His “ knock-about ” busi-
ness in that screamer, “ The Corsican Brothers,” at tho
Gaiety, is both original and funny, and it invariably
“ fetches ” the balcony boys. Harry may know all this,
but it’s news to many of his admirers ; wherefore we
print it.
** * *
A gaunt-looking pro. meandered into a Brisbane
restaurant, the other day, and in an absent manner
asked for a programme, meaning probably the bill of fare.
He went right through that programme, and the pro-
prietor of the tables blandly asked him at the finish
if he belonged to Wilson’s Circus, as he always under-
stood it to he 6d. extra to see the lions feed.
** * *
The concert given at the Glebe Town Hall last
Thursday, for the benefit of the Glebe Rowing Club,
was not financially a success, as quite two-thirds of the
seats were empty. Mr. Charles Huenerbein certainly
deserved better patronage, as he got together some
first-class artists to take part in the concert, vis..
Mademoiselle Charbonnet; Messrs. Hollewell, Woods,
and Hinchy. The meagre attendance was mainly owing
to the fact that the concert was got up so hurriedly
that few people knew that it was about to take place.
So many empty chairs had evidently a depressing effect
on the performers, as they have all been heard to better
advantage elsewhere.
** * *
This story just reads like a ballad of old :
Miss Slattery sang and was showered with gold.
The men of Temora brought out their bright store;
They had never, yon know, seen an angel before,
** * *
When last heard of, Clara Stephenson was at
Mudgee, and at tho performances of her troupe, the
Giraffe expresses itself much delighted. Harry Leston
is to the fore, and old Alick Thompson, whom we last
remember starring with Joey (by the way, where is
Joey?) Gougenheim. We also glean tbit the Austra-
lian Blondin, Onzalo, is getting rich in Rockhampton
(Q ). performing in an open space of ground fronting
the Normanby Hotel. Boxes are passed round during
the show, into which the spectators put loqnat-stones,
hair-pins, banana-skins, and coppers—anything, in
short, their imagination prompts, or their generosity
suggests.
** * *
Wilson’s circus is coming. It will bo joy for
many a kid, and heaven for many a thirsty reporter,
this intelligence. Houp-la!
** * *
Miss Georgia appears at the Queen’s in “ Jo,”
on Saturday night. We wish her success.
** * *
There is talk in America of Augustin Daly
bringing his drama and his Nautch girls to Australia.
We shall be glad to welcome these dusky dansewses—the
more especially if, at the time of their advent, the
family happen to be " away somewhere for change of
air.” Tho exhibition, though extremely Nautchy, is
said to be excessively nice.
«» • W
A notice of Mr. John E. Fulton’s Chinese opera
company will be found in “ Late Theatrical."
On Saturday afternoon, at the Garden Palace,
M. Leon Caron’s cantata, “Victoria,” will be produced,
with all the Montague-Turner Company, Mdlle. Char-
bonnet, and the Sacred Choral Association. This is to
be one of the biggest musical events tho colony has seen
for a long time, and it will afford the Sydney public a
pka.nnt opportunity of taking leave of Miss Montague
and Mr. Turner, who leave on the 3rd with their com-
pany for Auckland. M Caron’s music is said to bo very
fine—finer even than the magnificent poem of Meadon’s
to which it is wedded, Mr. Wilson Le Content has
worked it up ; and as he has been smoking and smiling
all over the town during the last week, the result ought
to be splendid. When Wilson smiles it means dollars.
* * * *
There have been high jinks at Moreton Park,
Campbelltown, lately. It appears that Mr. and Mrs.
M’Mullen, who live in Moreton Park, have built a
theatre, capable of accommodating 200 people, and the
other day they gave a dramatic performance—the pro-
gramme consisting of “Old Gooseberry,” and “Tho
Irish Tiger.” Mr. Franklin M’Mullen played Fizzing,
ton Corker in the former piece, and was much ap.
plauded. There was supper afterwards, which the
Campbelltown Herald’s critic says “ was even more
successful than the performance.” That he was
pleased, however, with the theatrical part of it is evi-
dent by this brilliant period, with which he concludes
his scholarly and critical notice :—“ Tho theatre was
crowded, and the theatre in every way a success.”
Huroo I
UN SANS CULOTTES.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Married actor and hia good-looking wife alone
together in their hotel, when the waiter brings in a
packet addressed to her in her stage name. Married
Actress : 11 Oh, Rudolph, look what Mr. Do Vere’s sent
me—a lovely gold bracelet 1 May I keep it ?” Mar-
ried Actor: “Certainly, my dear, and next time you
see him, don't forget that little Bobby’s kicked;the toeats
out of hia new shoes, and that I want a.[new rig for
Pizarro.”
• * *
In the green-room. All assembled ready to
begin. Opera-bouffe Artiste (clasping a diamond brace-
let on her arm), loq. : “ Who could have sent mo this,
I wonder ?” Cynical Low Comedian: “Probably some
near relation.”
* * *
A “ comic ” paper has been published in Rock-
hampton (Q). It is called the Laughing Jackass, and
it is illustrated by woodcuts. These works of art ap-
pear to have been engraved with a cold chisel on a
saucepan lid, and machined by a maniac with a steam
roller. The letter-press is fully up to the standard of
the engravings, and leads one to the conclusion that it
is written either by a broken-hearted undertaker, or
else by a sexton with an incurable complaint.
Oh, cease to issue that dull rag,
The world can do without it 1
A jackass it may be, but there
Is not a laugh about it.
# * *
“They gave three hearty cheers for us.” said
Sir Henry, talking over a country banquet with
a friend. “ For whom ?” enquired the gentleman.
“ Me and the Queen," was the reply.
• « •
The WxiiCANNiA Times accuses the Western
Grazier of stealing an Age leader. It’s a curious
thing, now, that no journal is ever accused of stealing a
Daily Telegraph leader.
* • •
What’s come over the Newcastle Herald of
late. Listen to the London (!) telegram " London,
October 19. —A fire has occurred aboard one of the
Canard line of steamers. The captain made Flint (sic),
where the vessel was scuttled.” It is strange what a
long time it takes for some people to get over the effects
of a Ministerial banquet.
* • •
A man went into three different shops yesterday
to buy some black cloth, but did not succeed in any of
them. At the fourth they had also sold out. “ How is
it I can’t get a bit of broad-cloth in the city ?” asked
the customer. The assistant looked round to see that
no one was listening; then he said “ The fact is, sir, it’s
only two days since the Hon. John Lucas ordered anew
suit of clothes.”
• « •
It was a cold night in Armidale, and a dozen
adventurers wore gathered round a good fire at Tatter-
sail’s —a medly of surveyors, commercials, and supers,
a first-rate lot of fellows, half of whom had came out to
rough it for a time in the colonies. They drifted by
degrees into a conversation as to one another’s ante-
cedents. One was the son of an ex-Viceroy of India ;
another the son of an admiral; yet another claimed
the Duke of as his father. A commercial (he
travelled in the soft goods line, so it didn’t much
matter) darkly hinted that the Prince of Wales was a
half-brother. This was too much for a slightly-
muddled railway surveyor—a clever, rollicking cus-
tomer, who had sat silent in the corner for halt an
hour. “ Look here,” (hie) he said, “ all my people died
of drink, and I’m (hie) going to emulate their example.
Who’s going to shout ? ”
• « *
The Budget or Matrimonial News came
out as usual last Friday. It continues to be a unique
production, showing that any person who has been some
years a bill-sticker may hope one day to become the
editor of a society paper. The Budget has a big sew-
ing- machine advertisement in its back page—which is
fairly explanatory of its circulation. Its philosophy is
good. Here now:—“Man is a sort of tree which we
are apt to judge of by the bark.” This is true-of
every cur, we believe. It gives a receipt for the cure
of measles, but we see with regret that it is silent as to
the advantages of the frequent use of soap. The
Budget this week contains three personal items. Wo
reproduce them: —“A.P. —Half-past seven on Monday
evening.” This is exactly the hour cook is done werk.
“ Julia Just returned. Address your letter X. Y.,
G.P.0.” Now, Julia is nice; but who is to write the
letter for the poor girl ? Again:—“ Truth.—ls it pos-
sible ! Why soP” Well, of course it’s possible; you
can’t expect missus to pay you 10s. a week, and allow
you to wear her dress. The notices to correspondents
are likewise interesting. “A.Z.—Wo regret that at
present we cannot afford you the information sought.”
Can’t you, Mr. Editor ? Well, we can, and here it is: —
Nurse girls are paid weekly, and receive about 55., with
keep. Again:—“Hopeless Hannah—The mark cannot
be removed without causing a worse disfigurement."
Oh, yes it can; apply soap at least twice a week,
Hannah, Another answer, and w© are done with the
Matrimonial News :—“ W.M.M.—To soften the hands,
oil them every night, and, of course, wear gloves.”
Now, is it possible for Mary Jane to scrub the front
steps, and have soft hands ? We think not. And then
the delicate allusion to the gloves; the editor speaks
familiarly—as if to a sister.
* # #
This is what tho Danbury News says of a man
who attempted to assassinate President Garfield: —
“ Guiteau was once a lawyer. In Milwaukee he was
debarred from practising in the courts, his conduct be-
ing in every way dishonourable. One who was his office
associate in that city says that he would often spend
the entire day in reading the Bible.” We publish this
for the benefit of anyone who cares to know what Mil-
waukee calls dishonourable. Guiteau no doubt was
gone on the Psalms of David.
* * *
The Auckland Observer, in congratulating
itself upon attaining the age of one year, takes the
opportunity of comparing itself to the Loudon World,
and to Truth, and also of alluding to us—not, be it
said, in a very complimentary strain. That, however,
like our little friend the proprietor, is a small matter.
What wc have to do with, is this paragraph “ The
Sydney Bulletin may think it very absurd for ns to
chronicle that Brown or Jones has left Auckland for
Dunedin, but, strange as it may seem, the fact interests
the man’s friends, many of whom may not have heard of
his departure.” Mr. A. S. Rathbone has evidently
mistaken us. If it suit his policy (or his pocket) to
herald in his journal the arrival of the local hatter, ©r
tho departure of the confiding coufeetioner, he is
perfectly right to do so; and as he justly remarks, the
fact may interest the man’s friends, the tinsmith and the
grocer. We suppose these items, which wo clip
haphazard from the Rathbonean Hag, interest some-
one also :—“ George never goes to see the Chairman’s
daughter now. He said after what that unfeeling
wretch wrote about him in the Observer, he could
never, never look her in the face again. . . . The
rolling-stone was delighted with the ball. Rather
damp, though, wasn’t it, Rolley ? ” Then he has (like
the Liberty) a lady contributor, who styles herselt
“The Duchess,” and does the fashion notes. These
possibly interest tho lady’s friends. Here is a sample
SONG OF A SAUCEPAN.
“Mr, Harry Stoneham, the well-known come-
dian, appeared at tho Central Police Court to prosecute
a woman named Mary Fitzpatrick for stealing a sauce-
pan.’’—Telegraph.
There was a “ pro.” named Stoneham, who
Some think is a first-rater;
And he is playing “ leading parts "
All in the Queen's The-a-tro.
Ho fondly loved his noble art.
The “ lover ” he was good in;
And dear to his dramatic soul
Was ev’ry kind of pudding I
One day he boiled some “dough boys ’’ in
A saucepan; then he dropt it
Down in the yard, when, fearful thing!
A neighbour came and " copt it.”
At eight next morn, when musing on
His dear departed saucepan,
He met a woman (’souse the rhyme)
A carryin’ of his lost pan.
He bailed her up; she gave him “ cheek
Then Harry cried quite cross—
“ Although I do require my pan,
I do not want your sauce."
A p’liceman then he called, and now
His brow entwine with bays !
He got his saucepan, ran her in.
And gave her fourteen days.


of the “Duchess’s” screed :—“Miss Jones, dark brown
rep, trimmed with velvet of a darker shade. Black
hat. . . . Mrs. James Buckland, wine-coloured
handkerchief costume, trimmed with velvet to match.
Sealskin hat. . . . Miss Lawford, skirt of black
cashmere, trimmed with black silk, and black jersey.
Black velvet hat.” We wonder, by the way, what she’s
Duchess of. Duchess of a dust-hole, most probably.
We, of course, congratulate Mr. Rathbone upon having
pulled off a year’s life with his Observer ; and, if we
had no fears of endangering our (as it is, rather slender)
show for salvation, we would congratulate the Auckland
people upon their delicate literary taste also.
* # #
Managing proprietor of daily paper, calling
down a pipe :—I say, Davies, where’s that dramatical
cricket I hired this morning.” Mr. D.: “ He’s gone
out to get me some sandwiches.” Managing pro-
prietor : “ All right. When he comes back, tell him
to hold my horse, and then the sporting editor can oil
the machinery."
• • •
The Attorney-General has refused to file a bill
for the second hearing of the case of Byrnes v. Fergu-
son for criminal libel. It would be curious to have his
reasons, since ho has declined to go on now, why he
put Mr. Ferguson to the expense of defending himself
in the first instance. It was only a trumpery affair,
after all, and we suppose Mr. Wisdom, now he has had
time to think, has come to this conclusion also. We
wonder hew many men could in some cases bo
hanged, while Mr. Wisdom takes time to think 1
* • »
During Nellio Stewart’s stay here, there was a
young fellow who fell in love with her ; and on being
rejected, got so desperately thin, that the only way his
friends could find him when he was in his dress suit, was
by feeling for his moustache. Now Nellie’s gone, perhaps
he’ll pick up—another girl.
• • #
One reporter on a penny daily meets a ditto on the
same tearing along in the direction of George-street.
“ Whither away, Junius ? ” enquires the first. “Don’t
keep me,” cried the ether, showing three-and-sixpence
done up in a wisp of newspaper. “ I have just heard of
a shop where they sell enamelled iron collars, and
painted steel shirt fronts, and I want to get there be-
fore they are all sold out."
* # *
In the D. T.’s notice of “Belphegor,” at the
Gaiety, the following passage occurs: —“Miss Desmond,
as Jeannette, had little to do, but did that little well.”
Miss Desmond had certainly very little to do in this
piece, since she only comes on in a mask and domino in
the third act, and says never a word. While they went
thus far, why couldn’t they have said, “Her perform-
ance was such as to inspire in us strong hopes of her
histrionic career being one of remarkable brilliance ?”
Or still better : “ From the complete manner in which
she was masked, the classical beauty of her features
was displayed to its full advantage, and by reason of
her having nothing to say, the delicate tones of her
sweetly modulated voice were much appreciated by the
audience." This half-hearted manner of sending a little
actress along does her no good whatever. If a whopper
is to be told, the only way is to go the entire animal.
And more than that, embellish.
* * *
What a wonderful thing ia science! Astronomer
Tebbutt tells us that in the planet Jupiter the atmos-
phere is so transparent that a near-sighted man can see
round the corner of a brick wa.ll four miles away;
whilst in the planet Mars the air is so cool that even a
hard-working crowd of Georgia Minstrels never smell
loader than the report of a sixpenny popgun, and
in some parts of the planet a dead dog can be
left in front of a first-class hotel door for seven
weeks, and yet never offend a single cus-
tomer. Right on the top of this comes Professor
Weissner, who tells us that a plate of glass as thick as
a postage-stamp is not sufficient to resist an excitable
gale of wind, scooting along at the rate of 100 miles per
second; and instead of giving some innocent old “ dead
beat" three years for mashing up our Town Hall clock,
we, therefore, sit down and thank Providence the said
gale didn’t blow over the hall itself, and destroy all the
classic beauty of our Central Station watch-house
• • *
The Irish correspondent of the Old Girl ia
getting a bit mixed as to his geography. He says :
“In putting these two prices together I have very
much understated what I believe to be the average
difference of price and value between land, Connaught in
County Limerick and a few snots in Mayo and Kerry ex-
cepted and laud in Norfolk.” Thus, we see, that he
puts one third of Munster into Connaught. This is
almost as bad as the efforts of our other contemporary’s
French correspondent, who electrifies us periodically
with Parisian flashes from the groves of Dubbo. Surely
now it cannot be the s ; but no. The Ol# Ladv s
man is nearer to Donegal than Dubbo. Say Jamberoo.
* * *
“ Where were you last, my good girl P” enquired
Mrs. Jopkins of the sprucely-attired young person who
had come after the lady’s maid’s situation. “The
Coffee Palace, ma’am,” she answered. “And what
recommendation can you bring?” “Oh. Mr. Jopkins
will give me the best of characters, ma’am, was the
demure reply; “he was at my table.” She was not
engaged. # * #
It was after a shower, and they were sitting
under a tree watching the rainbow. “ Oh, Ethelred,"
she said, “of what does this marvellous atmospherical
phenomenon—exhibiting every tint, flashing ev’ry
colour —remind you of?” He thought for a moment,
then he said—“ Coffee Palace waitresses out for a holi-
day.” _
J « * *
Now. hold on—The' Bulletin starts a “ re-
vised edition” on its own responsibility
1 There was a certain rich man who had an unjust
steward; and, this steward having got the “bullet,"
said to himself : “ Now, here’s a mess I m into. What
shall I do? To dig would be infra dig; begging don t
pay, and if I steal I’m lumbered. I will dissemble.
2 Therefore, calling together his lord s debtors, ho
said to the first “What art thou?" .
3 And he making answer said Lo. I merely physio
the people.” But the steward said “ Sit down and 111
make thee a tip-top Minister."
4 And to another he he said “ What rank art thou ?
And he replied “ Well, I generally jog along with the
Opposition.” “ Take down thy shingle," said the
steward, “ and be thou a Minister also.
5 And coming to a third he said “ Friend, where
squattest thou ?” But he making answer said “I am
a sort of tail to the present Government. ’ And ho said
to him “Go up three seats higher. And the lord
hearing of this in the daily press commended the un-
just steward forasmuch as ho possessed a remarkable
prudence in buttering his bread on both sides, and
daubing strawberry jam around the edges.
How s that for a political parable.
* * •
We were intensely pleased on reading Friday’s
Penny Bennett, to find that our old friend Mr. Varley
had given the gown and wig best, and taken to the sock
and buskin. According to this evening journal, which
for inf allability, has but one equal, we learn Mr. Varley
is to play Duke Alphonso in Donizetti’s Opera ot
“ Lucrezia Borgia.” Mr. Varley chose a most suitable
r6le for his first appearance. Our readers will remember
that Mrs. Alphonso had a decided weakness for attend-
ing down-the-harbour picnics with bank clerks and
squadron captains, and that she tils© exhibited great
taste and skill in fixing up impromptu first-class
funerals. Donizetti was aware ot this, and consequently
wrote the music for the lady's husband in such a style
that it is a perfect yell from start to finish. Now we
submit that as a yeller, Mr. Varley has no superior, and
we are confident that his delivery of the “ \endetta
aria will cause the dead at Kookwood to get out of their
graves, and hurry up to he in time, for what they will
imagine to he the day of judgement.
# # *
Cranley Tennett, when he ran the Free
Scrambler, south of Maitland, proved himself to be
the funniest editor that ever used the scissors. His
leaders were so mixed up, that Cranley himself used to
t ike them round to the pound-keoper for an explana-
tion The farmers put them down as too deep for solu-
tion. All through the leaders there would be P.S.'s,
extending over twenty sentences, all of which would
glide again gently into the leader, and out again to the
end of the dissertation. Cranley’s leaders were always
written in the first person—to wit: “I have been
akustomed to listening to them members in the House
ns call themselves thi landed olegarky, and P.S.—I
don’t mean to enclude Mr. Soholey in the number, but
I say the landed gentry, as they are pleased to nomi-
nate thimselves, have ruined this country. What
about the great praries of America ? Are free, selectors
to be mined at their own doors and the squatters ?
P.S.—Some of them mav be good, but I mauetain that
the lot of them is not. For how can Ibe asked to legis-
late for them when I know ?’* etc , etc. One day a
compositor approached Cranley, and meekly observed
that it was not journalistic to write in the first person,
and that it ought to be “We.” “Now, look here/
said'Cranley, raising his hand authoratatively, “there a
no d—n ‘we * about it. It’s * I ’ —myself. And that’s
how it’s going to be.” Soon after the paper was dead.
From that festive rookery, the Insolvent Court,
we have received the following circular
•« The Deputy Chief Commissioner of Insolvent
Estates will feel much obliged if you will kindly
notify to him, at your earliest convenience, any
defects in the Insolvent Acts which may have
become apparent to you in your business trans-
actions, or from personal knowledge.”
Of course we will—that’s what we run our show for—
and, amongst a billion of other defects, we find the
following:— ...
1. That, as the law now stands, any honest man can
sail through the Court, defraud his measly creditors
of a few thousand pounds, and still waltz around with
the contribution box on Sundays.
2, We, therefore, consider that, whatever deficiency
exists between an insolvent’s assets and his liabilities,
should be at once made good out of the Colonial
Treasurer’s stocking; and, in stating this, we feel con-
fldent we "rope” the cordial, heart-felt sympathy of
every conscientious pawnbroker who ever “ flew a kite ”
for a Government clerk at “ sheventy-flve per shent,’
a nd ®^’ wou j d sngges t that the Chief Commissioner be
allowed to retire on his well-earned pension; that the
salary be £5 per annum, and the billet given to John
Davies, or some other prominent member of the present
Opposition. . . ....
4. We would suggest that any insolvent who scores
three schedules in five years bo allowed a bonus of £l5O,
and set up, at the Government expense, in the manu-
facture of “faked” gas-meters, or any other respect-
able business he may think he has a call for.
5. We would suggest that some careful person be em-
powered to set fire to the Insolvent Court, with all its
goods, chattels, etc., and that any fireman who
attempts to squirt out the blaze be at once arrested,
and hung in chains from the top of “ Momton’s Monu-
ment.” ,
0 When the above suggestions are earned out, wa
can oblige the Deputy Chief with a bushel more.
* * •
The CoomA Express has evidently taken a bad
turn. The issue of Wednesday, the 19fch, must evi-
dently have been edited by Mr. Harry Simmons, who
was there with his company, since there were no less
than sixteen paragraphs about his company. The next
number the editor himself bosses, as is apparent by
the following extracts from his notice of the company :
act drama entitled, ‘The Lady of Lyons,* dramatised
from Lord Lytton’s celebrated novel, of the same name. The
tale is one of love versus pride, but the plot is too
intricate to even summarise in our limited spare (sic).
The characters wore allotted as follows :—Claude Mell-
notte (sic) (the hero), Mr. W. South,” &o. This learned
critic then goes on to state that “ the play does not
abound with so many strikingly emotional situations as
are presented in ‘ Bast Lynne,’ yet the general tenor
and morale of it is (sic) infinitely superior.” And he
praises with much feeling Mi. Beverley’s “ very artistic
and finished impersonation of the villiau (sic) Beau-
seaut.” “Pinafore” puzzles him greatly, for he says
with perfect seriousness: —“We cannot reconcile our-
selves to the (to us) strange incongruity of Buttercup s
revelation at the final scone, when she relates that she
had been once a ‘ baby farmer,' and had changed Captain
Corcoran for Jack (sic) Eackstraw, in their infancy.
Isn't this man delicious ? And yet to think that he
must one day die 1
We are given to understand that Sir Henry
Parkes will bo received with great distinction when he
iroes to London. On the occasion of his dining with
the Queen, her Majesty will, by previous arrangement
with the Secretary of State, address to Sir Henry
questions, the replies to which will not necessitate the
use of words commencing with the aspirate.
* * *
« During the past week two promising young; men
have been rushed out of the world with •• all their im-
perfections on their head, and without a moment a
notice. Walter Bucknell lost his life in a shaft, which
is directly under Governmental control; and Ernest
Davenport lost his in the baths, so carefully managed
by our sapient City Fathers. No one was to blame.
The Coroner scooped in bis five pounds for each trip
the funerals took well-no complainta were made-
everything passed off nice sad lovely. And this is the
enlightened age when man is supposed to stand by his
fellow-man, and even risk his life for him. As Victor
Hugo would say, Rot! stuff I bah I poof 1 Why the
inhuman Nero managed his business better, and the
Yankee Captain who, when he saw a British crew in
a Chinese port, shouted •* Blood is thicker than water,”
and rushed along to their rescue was a—well, we were
about to say liar, but we forgot this incident happened
in China, not in sanctimonious Sydney.
• • •
In Melbourne, the other day, a man named
Black called on Mr. Wilton, J.P., with a begging yarn.
Wilton gave him 7s 61; and, on leaving. Black stole his
door-mat. This conduct is almost as ungrateful as that
of a certain Premier, who turned out a dear friend and
supporter, just because of a little mining bother, and
hoisted in a dear supporter and friend. But when a
man only lives for his country’s glory, you know, he’s
got to be a bit particular.
It is with sincere regret we learn that Altred s
Mozart died in giving birth to his first-born musical
monstrosity. The Cresorian operation was performed
with the utmost skill and care by a celebrated cow-
doctor, but the unfortunate composer never rallied
after that last fearful chord. Just before he died, he
requested the Newtown brass band to play over his
immortal work, and when they had blasted out the
final notes, he spat on the leader’s boots, and said “ ho
wasn’t afraid of future punishment after standing that
lot." Alfred has had a “ Jack-knife " with two of the
fine-arts already ; that is to say, he opened and shat
the same day, and the whole world is now waiting in
breathless suspense to know what farther misery is
about to be let loose upon it.
Out of the mouths of |babea cometh wisdom,
brass buttons, and painted matches. During the recent
gale, a house in Paddington caught it rather rough,
and as the master was out at the time, his good lady
naturally became very much alarmed and excited.
Noticing this, a little “ bright eyes,” aged six, crept up
to her side, and lisped " Ma, I’ll tell you what we’ll do.
Let us kneel down and pray to God, and tell him the
wind blew all our kitchen roof over into Jobson’s yard,
an* my oath, lie’s the cove os’ll sooa stop it,” This is a
true bill, and clearly shows that Faith isn’t quite
pegged out at present.
* * *
Oscar Wylde’s “Listen to the daisies grow”
is one of the most poetical lines respecting death that
has yet been penned; but a certain, gentleman in this
city has improved on Oscar by expressing a wish that
he might be
“ Planted ’neath that cellar of his.
And listen to the *Bnll-dog’ fizz.”
For the benefit of our parliamentary readers, we may
observe “ Bull-dog” is slang for “ Hold-on-to-it beer.”
* • •
Consistency is only another name for the “ Local
Option Bandits.” A hotelkeeper told the Hon. Mr,
M'Laughlin “ that three or four members of that House
who voted for closing public-houses at 11 o’clock went
into his licensed house the other night after 12 o’clock,
and insisted on being served with liquor.” And why
shouldn’t they? If that old stick-in-the-mud of a
publican knew his way about, he would have replied
Certainly, gentlemen ; the law was not made for you,
but for all other ‘ boozers.’ Step right in and drink the
whole bar. You’ll find cards and dice on the parlour
table.” Any hotelkeeper who refuses to serve an
honorable gentleman—as Brutus was—deserves to get
seven years in gaol, and have his license cancelled.
Saturday’s Twilight Twaddler prumblea
“ Not a decent crossing in William-street. New boots
suffer considerably in consequence.” Now, why in
thunder couldn't they print after that lot the word
“communicated?” If it wasn’t “communicated,”
how the Gehenna would any of the staff know about the
“ new boots' ” sufferings P
And again, the same column says “ In Park-street,
the mud was ankle deep. Some young ladies going that
way were made painfully aware of this fact.” Oh ! for
shame, Alfred !—to go and look at young ladies’ ankles!
But it’s no use advising. You would go to that “ Tam-
bour Major," in spite of all we told you, and the
chances are now, that you will yet end your days as a
missionary. Pause, rash young man — pause, at
“ Now, then, you boys ! what’s all this row
about ? ” shouted the editor of a certain city journal, as
he “ woolled " his head over a purgative poem, begin-
ning
“O Spring I gentle Spring,
Here yon are agin.”
« Please,” replied one of the imps In the corner, *• Shirty
Johnsin sez as 'ow a man up Surry 'ills swallered four
live toads on Chewsday larst." “Eh? what? which?
where ? " shouted the now interested editor—" here,
Mr Sub, put that down in this evening’s brevities.”
" Bat it can’t possibly be true,” returned the conscien-
tious Mr. Sub. “ Well, 'spose it ain’t," retorted the
poet pressman, ** can’t you write another par. next day,
and say it was a typographical error, and we have much
pleasure in contradicting it?" "Yes, I could do that,"
said Mr. Sub; “or I could say we have since learned it
was the four toads that swallowed the man, or that it
was the man who swallowed the Surry 'ills, or that it
was the four 'ills that swallowed the four toads, or—or
or anything else that would make the paper hum, sir."
"Of course you can,” observed the now collected editor
# # *
Some three years ago “ Yellow Bet,” proprie-
tress of "The Shades” underground dancing-hall.
Blaokall (Q ), 1“ sued a cove for abusive Ikugo.” Words
complained of—“ 8.W." Defendant brought ft witness*
who testified to no abusive lingo being exchanged.
Bench: “ Don’t you think the words, ‘B.W.’ abusive
lingo ?” Professor: “ Not if they are spoken with
friendly intentions.”
« * *
The Christchurch Liberty is very angry with
us because we occasionally tender it a little wholesome
advice. It is not long ago since a couple of boywent
to the Liberty office, banged the editor, ‘ ‘pied” the
type, and crumpled up the little rag generally, and we
with tho view of preventing a repetition of this out-
rage, have endeavoured to lead our small contemporary
into the paths of virtue. But they won’t take any
notice of our counsel, except to slate ns ; so after this
issue we have done with them. To the Libbett, how.
ever, we make our last appeal. Scalp your “ Society
writer, “Ada,” without delay. Ton may shudder
while you do it; bat you will be joyful afterwards.
Has she not wronged you enough by inserting in your
paper tho following :—“ Mrs. W n—pink silk, re-
lei ved (*tc) by white lace. Miss L d—peach color
cashmere, shirred boddioe. Honiton lace scarf. Miss
M a —dress of black, releaved (su') by cardinal
satin.” There 1 Bat on consideration, don’t hurt her.
You can’t expect the poor woman to be cooking and
reporting well at the same time.
• • •
In tho Southern districts, a parson, while on
his rounds, stayed at a certain squatter’s house. After
tea, he spied ou the table a book, not unknown to the
sensation-loving public, called “ Lady Audloy’s Secret.”
“ Ah," he said, “ I am surprised to see such a book
here; I have not road it, but am informed it is a moat
improper work—not fit co be in any respectable house.”
He reached over for the wicked book, merely to see,
you know, whether it was such as had been described
to him, and started to examine it. “Tut, tut,” “dear
me,” “ very improper,” etc., fell from his lips at inter-
vals ; and he kept on turning over the leaves. The
family waited patiently for the usual exhortations, but,
he being a visitor, they did not like to interrupt him. The
hours went by, and, just before midnight, he turned the
last page, and, rising with a yawn, said to the astonished
family, weary with waiting, “I don’t think we will
mind saying prayers to night, as it is rather late!”
And it was a Sunday night.
• • •
In a place somewhere between tho equator and
the south pole there is a Mutual Improvement Society,
with a name somehow associated with St. George, tho
members of which meet once a weak to soft-soap and
admire one another, and to get through any other less
important business. Home of this other business was
transacted at a meeting quite recently, when they tried
to square up accounts after a picnic. Each young man,
as he rolled up, handed in his money and surplus tickets
to Buff, the treasurer, and all went merry as a harbour
orgie until one member proved to be two tickets short.
He said he had given them to tho secretary; the secre-
tary said he hadn’t; then there was a pause. Now,
Buff is & fair-haired young athlete, whose complexion is
at least six feet high, and he can box a bit—especially
with little fellows. This is merely an incidental remark ;
it has nothing to do with what follows. Well, Buff
stood up straight, and he wanted either tho money or
the tickets; but as both members declined to oblige
him, he got neither. Steam was gradually worked up
until things became considerably warm, and at length
Bull wound up a heated discussion by smiting the
bright-eyed young Sunday-school teacher who hadn’t
liquidated a deft blow under the left optic, also chipping
a corner off another youth as he went by. As tho
chipped youth had always been taught not to return a
blow—unless you’re the biggest—he did not say any.
thing. The bright-eyed young S.S.T., however, at once
“ manned” a chair, and intimated that if the ooronor
held an inquest next day he would see there was a
corpse ready. Matters were critical, and only the
interference of two well-known theologians prevented
someone being carted home. The chairman loft the
chair, and the meeting broke up in chaos. Tho young
men of St. Thingumibob’s now want to give their
athletic treasurer “ the run,” and engage one a size
smaller, but they're exercised in their minds how to do
it, because it is hinted that if they try it on, the blonde
pugilist will “knock spots off ’em/’ We don’t know
what to advise, because we never belonged to a society
where the young men improved themselves in this
peculiar manner, but perhaps if that eminent lecturer,
Mr. Larry Foley, could be persuaded to give a course
of addresses, matters might go more smoothly in the
sweet by-ond-bye.
• • •
It is wonderful how people will adapt themselves
to circumstances. Temora men bad no ten.and-six-
penny bouquets to pelt Mias Slattery and her tuneful
troupe with, so they let them have it in nuggets valued
at £IOO. If this game goes on, we’ll learn that “ Old
Home " song of Alf .’s, and go up to Temora and sing it
onrsolvee.
On second thoughts, however, we won’t. Looking
over one of tho gentlemen vocalist’s diaries, we find it
jogs along as follows: —“Monday: 7 a.m., had a big
tumbler of whisky flip as a straightenor: 8 a.m., had
four whiskies to get up an appetite for breakfast; U
a.m., took three whiskies to settle my stomach; 10 a.m.,
met seven friends—fourteen whiskies; 12, had five
whiskies to prepare for dinner; 2 p.m., stomach wrong
—took eleven whiskies, stomach wronger; 3 p.m., had
to either drink a long whisky or fight a long digger—of
the two evils, I chose the lesser; 5 p.m., met our tenor,
who had been down a shaft, and had what he called a
‘ sholl goo’ time ’v it; ’ gave him four whiskies to get
him straight, and kept him company; 7 p.m., got out-
side of nine whiskies, to clear the vocal organ for the
coming concert.” A long blank occurs just here, and
at the bottom of the page a memo., which looks like the
inscription on Shalmanezzer’s tomb, says, “ Ish nev’
shing sho well all ish lifes. Ev’body d’lighted. Ev’body
drunk—must get a bosshil whishy.” “ Tuesday, 0 a.m.,
“ Oh 1 my poor head 1 ”
Mr. Buzacott, the new managing proprietor of
the Queenslander and Courier, has managed to set
all Brisbane talking, and to mortally affront every jour-
ualisc in the place by the extraordinary style in which
he celebrated the commencement of work in the new
premises to which he has shifted the offices of the
papers. He entertained a party of 150 on the occasion,
ami it is almost incredible, but true, that not a single
Sressman was invited to be present—not even Mr.
I’Oarroll, the working editor of the Courier, a jour-
nalist of real ability, whose boots Buzacott is not, as a
pressman, worthy to clean; not even young Morley and
Barton, the principal reporters on the staff, who have
been almost reared in the Courier office, having worked
their way from apprentices to the trade to their present
position, Mr. Lukin, the ex-managing proprietor, the
man who elevated the Courier from the status of an
ordinary provincial rag to that of a journal worthy of a
colonial metropolis, and who changed the Queens-
lander from a dishevelled broadsheet of sixteen pages,
into the best got-up weekly in the colonies, although in
Brisbane, waa not invited, which proved a great con-
venience to Buzacott, as, according to the report in bis
next issue, he orated to the company, taking credit to
himself by implication for all the appliances which were
set in motion. Now, the actual facts with respect to
the machinery, which the Courier’s report said the
company had assembled to see “ started," comprising
“two steam printing presses, two folding machines,
and a guillotine machine, the whole driven by one of
Otto and Crossley's 8-horee power gas-engines,” are as
follow:—The “two steam printing presses” are the
old machine which years ago was sot aside by Lukin,
and the Wharfdale which he (Lukin) imported to print
the new issue of the Queenslander. The two folding
machines and guillotine are likewise machinery for
which the entire credit is due to Lukin, they being the
same which ho imported and had working there
for years past. The gas engine is the only thing which
is “Buzzy’s” introduction; but even as to this it may be
said that Lukin years ago had the subject under con-
sideration, but (saw no sufficient reason to get it at the
time. Great credit is also taken for providing premises.
Buzacott did not, however, state the fact that the
pranises are simply a shell building put on leased
ground—2l years’ lease—and the money expended on
this has been made up by selling the George-street free-
hold, which had been acquired and paid for during
Lukin’s management. The healths were drank of
Stephens, Swan (former owners, when the paper was a
“ rag ”), and of the proprietors ; but the man to whose
comprehensive management and ability the Qubbhr-
lander, the back bone of the property, owes its position,
and who introduced all the real Improvements* sea* not
mentioned —entirely ignored,
“THE EVE OF THE BATTLE.”
[Every apology offered to the manes of Byron for
liberties taken with his text.]
There was a sound of snuffling by night—
The Church had gathered 'neoth her sheltering eaves
Her piety and sanctity, and bright
The lamps shone on white chokers and lawn sleoves.
And when Brisbane arose—episcopalian swell—
Seen eyes asked things of eyos which blinked again.
Replies to queries which in words they dare not tell.
But hark! a deep sound booms like abroken bullock-bell!
Did ye not hear it ? No, 'twas a bullfrog’s croak.
Or feline yowl to friend across the street
On with the speech : let no ungodly bloke
Shove in his oar when holy churchmen meet
To chaiint each others’ praise in accents sweet.
But, hark ! that awful sound breaks in once moro.
Convincing all who heard it ’twas no myth.
And nearer, drearer, huskier than before P
It is, it is the growl of Shepherd Smith 1
Within a certain niche of that high hall
Sat Melbourne’s sainted chieftain: he did hear
That sound —the only sound that could appall
His Gracious Grace’s most prophetic ear.
Ah ! then and there was whispering soft and low.
And symptoms of a devil of a mess ;
And cheeks grew pale which but an hour ago
Blushed when men praised their owners’ saintliness.
And there were muttered threatenings, such as raise
The bile in saintly bosoms —curses deep,
Which ne’er should be repeated. Who could guess
Such lightnings fierce could fork from saintly eyes.
Or within breasts so calm such awful storms could rise ?
And wild and high rose Smith’s defiant yell—
The war-note of a Bright the Synod shocks;
The tide of wrath runs high—its billows swell—
Yet boldly Smith defies the orthodox.
Posterity his glorious deed shall tell.
His name shall graven be on solid rooks.
Shouted aloud, and wafted o’er the main.
And linked with names like Ingersoll and Paine.
The eve beheld them smooth, and smug, and sleek.
Within the Synod’s saintly circle gay;
At night the Fiend moved Shepherd Smith to speak—
Making each man of peace to lust for fray.
Dark controversial clouds close o’er them; each intent
On battle frowns, and fiercely turns to bay.
Bishop and canon, bloke from Gospel Tent,
Curate and dean, and priest, in one mixed melee blent.
IRONBARK.
No star in heaven half so bright,
My darling, as thine eyes divine;
No fairy’s lips were ever quite
So ruby-red, my love, as thine !
No angels’ voices could, my own.
To me that ecstacy impart,
"Which thy melodious monotone
Doth never fail to bring my heart!
Tlmn’rt all the world to me, my dear.
My life, my love, my future fate;
And draw us, now, a pint of beer.
And shove it down upon the slate.
SKETCH AT A POTTS’ POINT DINNER.
She’d eyes of blue, more limped than
The bright translucent water;
With artless grace she twirled her fan—
But didn't she love porter ?
Her skin was as a lily, fair.
Symmetrical her body;
Like threads of gleaming gold her hair—
Yet she loved whisky toddy I
LIQUID MURDER.
“At the inquest which was held on the unfor-
tunate woman’s remains, a sample of the same brandy
which Drinkwater had drunk, prior to murdering her,
was analysed, and was stated by a chemist to contain
such a quantity of vitriol that the strongest-headed man
in the world would inevitably become raving mad after
drinking one gill."
A deadly horror't is to think.
If you go in and take a drink.
And from that place depart,
You may go forth into the air—
As bounds a tiger from his lair —
With murder in your heart I
The polished rogues who make and sell
This liquid murder, some can tell.
But none will dare to state I
No member of the Upper Crust,
Nor yet a holy man, we trust.
Who puts it in the plate.
AN EPIC
(BOILED DOWN.)
He upwards at the house did stare.
And softly said—" My love is there 1”
He entered then in that abode.
And up the stairs he softly strode.
In indecision, 10, he hangs
Outside the doorthen turns the handle,
And—sees her crimping up her “ bangs”
With scissors and a two-inoh candle.
WHO WAS HE?
The Royal boys had spoke a bit
And some chap of a toady stamp—•
A man who has more coin than wit —
Held o’er their heads, the while, his “gamp/'
Reporters then, imperiouslea,
As though he was their chief, this feller,
Did call, and said—“ Mind, put ’twas mo.
That stood and held the umbereller.”


aw
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877,1881. Do., Bathurst, Gonlburn, Mndgee’
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbonrne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 Qeorge-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the'New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine,
Sold Ids easy 6 inns. Can be seen working at the Dop6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
i i ; . *
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482. late 484, GEORGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Emit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE. WELL SHRUNK
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
The new south wales tailoring
COMPANY.
WM. CHS. HARDING, in succeeding to the business
of Geo. L. Lineker, begs to inform the public that he
will carry on the same under the above name, and
hopes by strict attention to business, combined with
moderate charges, to retain and increase the patronage
so liberally bestowed on his predecessor.
W. C. H. also begs to state that he has secured the
services of the late proprietor, who is known as an ex.
perienced and stylish London CUTTER, to take chargo
of the Cutting Room, and act as General Manager
during his absence on Country rounds.
J£ A V E
YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
JgLISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS.
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
cv
GYj KING STREET,
O i Sydney (two doors
from George-st.,) and 23 Vic-
toria Arcade, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect fitting AMERICAN
CUT •> APER PATTERNS.
Newest styles every mail
from Paris and New York.
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAMEWEIGEL’S
! Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
______ ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, Bdj or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
sac
&
m
ffiS
%
&
m
9
J.
JM'MINN AND CO.,
• AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly tendered. Intercolonial, Shipping, anu
Ooontiry Ordeee eweeuted with despatch.
4- »
MANUFACTORY;
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This ifl the most effectual substitute for kerosene In lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores. &o.: is
simple, clean, and durable, and can bo made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
rpv» 1 n nA CJ i a mn/iVt 1 *lu l i.l i i
to CoaUJasT GAS mada ™ ia APPAEA TUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with,
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TEESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUAEANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUAEANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ P YE AMID HAIE PRODUCER.’
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
FOUR FRIZES;
PARIS, 1878.
SYDNEY, 188 0.
MELBOURNE, 1881.
BARFFS RUSTLESS PROCESS
ANTICORRODOTUBES,
PRICES APPROXIMATELY SAME AS GALVANIZING.
Quotations given for every description of Ironwork and all re-
tirements for Railways, Wharfs, and Mining Companies.
Unlike Galvanizing, it affords a perfect protection to tho Iron,
being, as claimed, Rustless and Incorrodible.
THE
RUSTLESS AND GENERAL
IRON CO.,
3 Queen’s Place, Cannon-Street,
LONDON, E.C.
ANTI-COERODO (Barff’s) TUBES
& FITTINGS,
For Gas, Steam, and Water; also Black (not
treated) Galvanized and Enamelled
LAPWELDED BOILER TUBES.
Sole Agent for the Australian Colonies—
COWARD & TEMPLE,
19 Hunter-street, Sydney.
J3IANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN OEGANB. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erord, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &o.
American Organs by the Beet Maters,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
JJ A V I D M ‘ 0 A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loft us,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875.
T
HE Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL’S
CELEB SATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and SO/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN'S MERCERS,
298 Qeoroe Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
l7niß-.BiTHrs.iq
l/UI TAILOR .
VISIT R. BITRGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part e f
the Colony.
Mr. John Sands's Christmas Cards.
w - . , - M*. John Sands
Wo have received * ron V, , which, even were
specimens of his Christmas cards, reductions in the
they not the first attempts at such . *m a Ubcok he has
colony, would merit high lnft \f yof Christmas
published, Mr. Sands gives a brief hisU produce in his
cards, and tells ns how he resolved to . Australian in
establishment cards that should be pnrel> 39 gu| neaa
character, design, and execution. He oner stained 700
in prizes for the best designs; and having o Bu ifc.
to choose from, nearly all excellent, he proc jj avo
able machinery and able workmen. His etti \ n jtj eBBf
been thoroughly successful. The °*- r ds aro 1- ,_ gQm9
and no pains have been spared to , 0
of them having been passed through *ho presses n
than nineteen times in order to get the requisite
ness of colouring. In Mr. Sands's cards we do not
lather Christmas as of yore, h
“All hoary, bluff, and jolly, crowned with ivy and wit
With beard of sparkling icicle, and mantle caped with
but he takes ns with him to walk, a<< Kendall says, *'in
exalted woods of naked glory—m all the preenandgold
of forest sunshine,** through true Außtralianscenesin
all their summer warmth of verdure. The little girl
offering Christmas pudding to a swagaman will bo sent
home to thousands of old-world friends m the msmng
season, and will show with perfect fidelity an ordinary
Christmas in the “bush." There is not a fault In it.
Another card represents five joyous parties, spend-
ing Christmas in a different, but unmistakably colonial
wtfy— -stockme» killing the fatted beast digger in his
hut, alfresM repast under gum trees shade, and so on. I
Blacks spearing cattle, and Oobb s coach driving up to V
the bueh " pub.," are characteristic of this country |
alone, and eminently sxltahl&tb send to England. Snob I
pictures as these will gtwtbWwld’fOlks at, home a better
idea of what Christmas IS iff' Australia than anything ,
else could. Then there art sets of 1 cards bearing in-
sects, birds, flowers, &o. Though many of the bright
birds may be songless in Australia,- and scentless the
beautiful blossoms, there is exquisite beauty ofcolaur-
ing on both j and if pictures cannot give the songs and
the scent, then they cannot tell our who dwell
in lands where the nightingale trl&ls and the wild flowers
perfume the air, what is lacking irr out Australian birds
and bowers. There are also series ■ °*
pictures of harbour scenery, which l«ttho
graphic monochromes in bine, on varied backgrounds,
are specially so, being quite umquoiu jdea.and aocu-
ratelytarne. Borne have reference to Christmas, some
not! but all are splendidly printed .One very oraate
Christmas card represents a golden-haired child in a car
drawn by lyre birds, with, an emu in the lead, and a
wallaby and cockatoo as footman and tiger, followed by
a procession of turkeys, native m or'
supials, while a platypus pokft'i
hole, and an Iguana “shins a*’ a tree.AU , ronmd are
ferns of Australian vegetation. JrS:®
picture was much admired when &
■go, and many wondered why it was not awarded a
foremost prize. Altogether, the <V*ds merit more do-
soription than we have space to give. .
Mr. Sands has also sent ns for .review the pnae
versee which he is to print u % on f * la Christ-
mas cards, and we have perused the outpour-
jags of the various bards with lively in-
terest. There are two “ gaHeys * .°f them i to
all, and thirteen bards figure as suecessful pompetitorsi
—many of them, however, forwarding more than one.
contribution. A lady, whose fame as a poet llW,nptfr
this moment, not reached us, exhibits three P l ®® o ®-
Two are sonnets, and one is a little effort “bteb co oea
under no distinct poetical denomination. Here is a bit
of it, and we think that the reader will agreewith us
when we state, that as a poetical effusion in
embodied at once simplicity and it ha#>
dom, if ever, been excelled in a cracker motia.sr«-
“ I ponder o’er the pretty things
I'd like to send my dear
Greetings and health for Christmastide*.
Joy for the coming year.
A Heart to receive my wishes,
A Will to be pleased therewith,
A Love to excuse my rhythm.
And respond to my shibboleth. *
Well, we have a good deal of love in a general way, a»n
we will try and think kindly of this poetic lady. We
would, however, point out that, in short pieces of this
.nature, it is the invariable rule with inferior poets,
like, for instance, Tennyson and Moms, to complete
the rhyming of the linos. And the grovellera we have
mentioned would (probably from their lack of origi-
nality) never think of making (as in the extract quoted)
the first three linos iambios, the fourth trochees, and
the eighth anapmsts. Possibly, however, this poetess s
mind was, at an early age, instilled with the maxim
that “ variety is pleasing." But she should remember
that variety is less pleasing in “ Christmas poetry
than in boarding-house breakfasts.
Another bar dess has one couplet which deserves,
by reason of its touching obscurity, to be Bung at
Gladesville to a oomb-and-ourlpaper accompaniment
“ The memory of the Old Year, the prospects of the
I hail with fondest wishes,—and a simple flower for
you.”
This couplet is like Mr. Skae’s item—a kind of literary
fair gusher is also rewarded with a
prize for two lines. Here they are :
•• A priceless jewel from the casket of God s tender love, |
Is Christmas sent, to draw our hearts from earth to .
heaven above.” ,
The printer has evidently transposed this piece. The
young lady, with a laudable desire to blend amusement
with religious instruction, had, of course, written it in
the form of a conundrum —so: —
Is Christmas sent to draw our hearts from earth to
heaven above, 3
A priceless jewel, from the casket of God s tender love?
In this form, the couplet, at any rate, engenders specu-
lation. As printed, it only serves to conjure up mur-
derous instincts in the human mind. . .
The next is also a feminine effort. The inspired
fair one commences her twelve lines to the New Tear
like a medieval maiden to her lover. Thus :
“ I have no song to bring, for words are weak.
They seem more weak because my love is strong;
But, O that I had words ! that I could speak,
To tell thee how my heart for thee doth long."
We’d print some more of it, only we don’t want to make
the Ola Tear jealous. , .
To the Rev. C. W. Roberts the world is in-
debted for the following:—
“ Brighter than all that came before
This New Year be to you
Opening, each day a golden store,
Of joys both old and new."
The idea, here, of burlesquing a draper’s advertise-
ment ia very good, but the execution is rather crude.
This is evidently what he intended to work out
The New Year’s brought the latest line
In bliss ; so now rejoice 1
You "pays no money," joy divine I
But yet yon “ takes your choice."
The rev. gentleman is welcome to use this next year, if
ho please, and should it gain a prize, his acknowledg-
ments to ns can take a liquid form.
“Veni" has quite a Saturday night’s show of
prime pork—we mean poetry. The following is a speci-
men stanza; —
“ Beautiful our passing year.
He is not old I he is not grey 3
Lay for him a flowery bier —
Summer sheds her warmest tear
As he molts away."
Here’s a mixing of metres that would puzzle a gas-
reader. If it is Christmas time, how can he say the
year is “ not old f " All this is too metaphorical for
ns. There is only one bird we ever heard of that could
lay anything like so big as a bier, and that is the roc. So
we advise this inspired poet to travel to the summit of
Mount Lofty, whistle for one, and wait till we send for
Mm to come down. _ t #
The best pieces in the collection are by Benjamin
Leuard and Miss C. Mackay; bat none are above medio-
crity. As a great many of these cards will be sent home
to the old country, the Britishers will bo enabled, by
the efforts we have quoted, to pleasantly gauge the
poetic talent of New South Wales, This should be a
■ouroo of considerable satisfaction to those who have
the literary reputation of the colony at heart, because
there can be no doubt whatever that the letter-press
portion of Mr. Sands’ card will attract, in England, a
considerable amount of attention.
We trust, however, that Mr. Sands will think
better of it, and not mar his really beautiful cards with
such atrocious verses as the foregoing. The Eov. Mr.
Kcmmis, wo understand, made the awor-Hs, on behalf of
Mr. Sands, for these literary curiosities. It is plain
that the rev, gentleman is not an analytical Kemmis.


Business Anuonnoi
[Lisal.J
SHOETEE, FITZGEEALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEBE 1
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite t
News Ohici.
LEGAL.-N. W. COOKE, So
S Ground Floor, Wentworth (
ADDRESS : 16 Sir John Young’s
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
G.
AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIMI
16 Ekskink Stes:
Every description of Foreign ai
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, !
Mouldings. Cases, Turnery. Ac., at
p E. LA]
Wholesale and Be
PEODUCE MEE<
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORf
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pai
And
Darlinghurst Rood, near W
Pare Cape Barley, Feed am
Pi E. LAEK
Wholesale and Retail Wins ani
778 and 780 GEORGE STR]
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayi
CENTEAL FUENISHINQ
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29. 31, and
Come and inspect our large E
FURNITURE at lowest prices in t
WE FUEISH HOUSES oi
from £lO to £lOOO, at th
NISHING ARCADE, Nos, 28, 3
street.
CENTEAL FUENISHINQ
BUILDINGS. Nos. 29, 31, an
H. LEVY k CO. desire to call tl
public to their large and magniflt
Household FURNITURE, at pn
petition. Every article marked in I
carefully packed, and sent to all pa
ALAEGE ASSOETMENT
the best makers—Errard. 1
time payment. CENTRAL FURN
Nos. 28,31, and 33, Park-street.
N
OTICE OP E]
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCR!
and EARTHENWJ
Beg to announce that they have
remove:
to
Public Compax
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £ 500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Fum
DIRECTOM l
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman) V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.) J<
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE BT:
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office: 18 King Willia
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albury, Annidale, Ballina, Bi
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbq. Forbes, Glen Innes, Qoulbi
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, '
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Farkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urunn, Wagga Wagga, Wnllsend,
Maitland, Wiloannio, Woodburu, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE3
Brisbane, Alloro, Bow©n f Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac.
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stunt
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents In all the Australian ColOh
the World general
The mercantile ban;
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP 3
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fond.,.,
DIRECTORSi
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mart, Esq.
George S. CaircLEsq.
Hob. Wm. Bustty, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARYi
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES t
587 George-street Brickfield H:
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 30, Great!
Director—Edward. Chap
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bt
icy Business on the most la von
liUs discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances me
other urodnoe shipped to England 1
gCOTTISH
IMPERIA
COMPANY.
CAPITAL m ... ..*
FIRE BISKS AT LOWEI
NIXON A C(
Chief Agents for N.
7 BRIDGE STREET CK
c
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
ORNWALL FIRE AND 1
ANCE COMP AT
CAPITAL, £lOO,l
RESERVE FUND «.
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
Q. A. LLOYD A:
Chemists and Dm
CAUTION. —In onr style of
sudden changes of temper
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bo
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the ust
doses For curing Consumpti
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Ore
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derful, as your druggist wil
Syrup is now sold in every t(
this continent. Sample botth
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into I
two years ago, where thousands
—and one year in Sydney} and som
of Rheumatism have been cured :
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long stai
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear A
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured b.
HEAD OFPICI
89 WATERLOO-BOAD,
and
107 CASTLEREAGH STEEI
B. W. GAMBLE, Prc
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALI
STREET, SYDNJ
ANZANITA FRI
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented i
Thousands of people in Sydney h
have been cured of Biliousness, I
ness. Sick Headaches, and all com
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO I
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STB
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLE
PITT STREET, SY;
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOR
indigest;
AND
STOMACH COMPLj
%• They are also much rocommi
tive for Females, being safe, genl
their operation, leaving no dispos
and being free from any tendenc
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOF
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEb
OXFORD STREET I
And
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GREAT LIVER I
successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all Noj
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Dison
Stomaeh. . „ .
Most famous as the Only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either ser, i
take them.
Bo careful not to get 1
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepared
J. S. A B R A
At the Lahorato;
434 GEORGE STREET,
Business Auuounc
EON AND BRASS 1
. Pitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsi
{Sheets, Blankets, Count
Bolsters and Pillow f
Mosquito Curtain
J. LAWIEI
MANUFACTUBEE AND 1
608 Qeorge-street
READ Till
THE BAKING P
MANUFACTURED BV US ,
*S DOCTOR
WAUG
HAS A WIDE. R£ PUT A
EXCELLENCE OF
AND THE CHEMICAL JUDI
SYDNEY INTERNATIONA
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT
THE PUREST P
BEST IN THE
B v AWAR D 1 N G T O I
ONLY PRIZE
given in the baking po
FOR FIRSTDEGREI
SOLD EVERYWHERE INPAf
OR SQUARE Ti
MANUFACTORY QUF.E
SYDNEY.
WILLIAM DAVIE
Department of I
Sydney, lltl
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS :
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take delivery
tioned Mineral Lease within thl
date, it will be declared void.
No. 945 ; C. Murgatroyd and oth<
and 97; County of Gough, parish
40a. j Application No. Vegetable Cl
Department of JM
Sydney, lit
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take delivery of
Gold-mining Leases within thirty (
they will be declared void.
Bathcest Mining Di
No. 121; J. Ewer and another i
County of Bathurst, parish of St. 1
tion No. Bathurst 80-10.
Hunter and Macleat Mini
No. 553 ; H. Martin; Portion Nc
Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 4i
Copeland 566.
Department of 1
Sydney, 18t
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
elecutfl and take delivery
tioned Gold-mining Leases with
this date, they will be declared
AETHI
>Tp.w England and Clarence 1


s
TEAM TO BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH
AND ROCKHAMPTON.
The Splendid
S.S. DEEWENT,
H. B. Bristow, Commander,
Will leave Struth’s Wharf, foot of King-street,
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBEE 1, at 4 30 o’clock.
WM. HOWAED SMITH, and SONS,
7 Spring-street.
M
ELBOUBNE RACES.
Grand CUP and DEEBY Days,
GEEATLY EEDUCED EASES.
The fast and favourite
S.S. LEUEA, 2000 tons.
Will leave Struth’s Wharf, foot of King-street,
THIS DAY, THUESDAY, OCTOBEE 27. at 2 o’clock,
and be followed by the splendid
S.S. KONOOWAEEA, 2000 tons,
TO-MOEEOW, FEIDAY, OCTOBEE 28, at 4 o’clock.
WM. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
7 Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
1881.
The following Eoyal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
&UU LUO BOi V1UO nm uxs maiu ~~~~
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a month; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
8s in addition. .
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDEESON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the line; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
267 Qeorge-street.
o
RIENT LINE OF STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con-
veyance of Parcel* and small packages by Orient Line of
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz : —
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or fid. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will be received at this office, and receipts
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date of
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For further
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient Line in Australia.
267 George-street, Sydney.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER!
LATIN, FRENCH, AND WRITING
TAUGHT,
THROUGH CORRESPONDENCE,
by
DR. RODWAY, ., F.R.S.L.,
PRINCIPAL OF UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY.
TERMS, STRICTLY IN ADVANCE,
TWO (2) GUINEAS PER QUARTER
FOR EACH SUBJECT.
JJR RODWAY also guarantees to prepare per
mail, and pass, every country candidate ho sends up for
his Matriculation, Law, and Civil Service Examina-
tions.
Fees for either Matrio., Law, or Civil Service, THREE
GUINEAS per Quarter, payable strictly
IN ADVANCE.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor
awarded at the conclusion of
each Term.
N.B.—DR. EODWAY’a system is easy and efficient,
and he guarantee* proficiency and success to every
student he excepts.
ALL LESSONS CONDUCTED THROUGH
THE POST.
ADDRESS
DR. RODWAY, M.A., .F.R.S.L.,
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
«\i»g
ALL
Jto
iSOQr
i^NVii
SfifcUkv
fes
•in III
'WWj
ruw>
jWiWtmui
miMu
fttun\wi
®S
nirML
i
ALARMING SALE OF BOOTS AND |SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
IOB ONE MONTH ONLY.
In the Assigned Estate of G. A. Smith.
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOUNT OF £2000.
IN order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made np the undermentioned parcels, which will bo
found very cheap, and consist of the following, viz.:—
[eegistekkd.]
An interesting statistic.
The quantity of Foreign Tobacco Leaf paid duty
on in N.S.W. for the Half Year ending 30 bept. was
392,4271b.
01 am.
All the remaining manufacturers,
cigar makers, and others 212,1271b, £10,606 /s.
DIXSON & SONS’ BRANDS:
« Yankee Doodle,” “Conqueror,” “ Sir Roger.”
HA. ABBOTT,
• BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
(FIVE DOCKS FROM PITT STREET).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
•rA TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
YDNEY live stock market.
8
Having secured the services of Mr. JEFF. BUCK i
LAND, well-known in Victoria and Riverina as a Live
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assure my friends and
all interested in the SALE of FAT or STORE STOCK,
and STATION PROPERTIES, that every attention
shall be directed to this branch of the business; and
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite sure that the prac-
tical knowledge, attention, and straightforwardness
which have made my Wool and Produce Business such
a success, will entitle me to the confidence of all who
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and in the City twice
a week j allowances made on all Stock or Stations in.
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales handed over twice
a week, or when required on days of sale.
Further information if applied for.
JOHN BRIDGE,
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
m
any W/\TCH|
N]ADE
plyAlN SpOCty, InJe vJ DEplCNp.
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND’GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
w.
H. PALING.
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
' TV.-
m
WKBB0M
a b
, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO,
BERDEN and
TROST
AUCHEB.
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class 'Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO„
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HAE MON I U M S,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE FERE ot FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. P~aT LING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
o:po te wynyard steee
1 SYDNEY.
Gent’s Parcel of Jewellery
For £3.
1 Silver Waltham Watch,
guaranteed for 5 years...
1 Silver Chain, massive,
weighing over loz
1 Full Suite Gold, consist-
ing of solitaires, 3 studs,
and collar stud
1 Silver Locket
1 Good Gold Stone Signet
Ring
£ s. d.
2 15 0
0 12 6
0 12 6
0 5 0
0 15 0
£5 0 0
Ladies’ Parcel of Jewellery
For £5.
£ s. d.
1 Gold Watch, Hall marked 2 0 0
1 Gold Albert 1 10 0
1 Colonial Gold Set Brooch
and Earrings 15 0
1 Fancy Gold King..0 5 0
i
I
£5 0 0
i
Youth’s Parcel of Jewellery
For £2 10s.
£ s. d.
1 Silver Geneva Watch,
stamped 15 0
1 Silver Albert, heavy, with
key and seal 0 10 0
1 Silver Full Set Studs,
Collar, &c 0 8 0
1 Silver Scarf Pin 0 2 0
1 Silver Locket 0 5 0
£2 10 0
In the event of these goods not giving satisfaction, they can be exchanged or the money returned within a month.
EVAN JONES, 9 & 11 HUNTER-ST.,
Having purchased the above Estate, all Letters should be addressed, and Post Office Orders mad
payable to him. Sent post free to all parts of the colony. 88 KING STREET.
HAVE YOU SEEN
HUP TON’S NEW SHOP,
638 GEORGE STREET?
*0^
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
LEVERS,
Ooj,
A, J.HUFTON
PI
OOQj
m
‘ T “ “
G
I Mwn
[
: — •
MASONIC BOATING, CRICKETING, AND RACING TROPHIES MANUFACTURED 01
THE PREMISES AT VERY MODERATE TERMS.
DON’T MISTAKE THE ADDKESS—
A. J. HUFTON. 638 GEORGE STREET.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Tennyson has passed his 72nd birthday.
Arthur Garner has returned from America.
The fattest man in Queensland Uvea at
Nanango.
Charles Bright leaves for ’Frisco next Thursday,
November 3.
Mr. Thomas Archer has been appointed Agent-
General for Queensland.
Sir George Strickland, K.C.8., au old Crimean
veteran, arrived by the John Elder.
Dr. Morton, a praotioner of forty years’ resid-
ence at Qaeanbeyan, died in that town on the 20th.
It is stated that Sir Henry Parkea will probably
take a year’s leave of absence on fall pay at the close of
the session.
Sir James Martin, C. J., is seriously Ul, and has
been unable to proceed to the country. Sir George
Innes fills his place—on circuit.
The Rev. Charles Clarke, onr favourite
reader, is now minister of Haven Green Church, Not-
tingbam, England. Happy Haven I
King David Kalakaua was chosen ruler of the
Sandwich Islands, in preference to Queen Emma, on
Feh 12, 1874. He is about the only Pacific king in the
wdrld.
Thorpe, the clerk who “ used ” money belonging
to his employers, the Bank of Victoria, had been in the
service 28 years. At the lately reduced rate, his salary
was £359 per annum.
Archibald Forbes intends to spend a year in
Australia. From a letter received from him by the last
mail, we learn that the air of his native Highlands has
quite restored hia health.
Major-General Francis Hnohinson Synge, late
Lieutenant-Colonel commanding the 43rd Light In-
fantry, died on the sth September. He took part in the
New Zealand war of ’64-’65.
The Duke of Cambridge looks out for number
one, at the Horse Guards. He has promoted hi* sons.
Captain A. C. F. FitzQeorge (11th Hussars) and Captain
G. W. Fitz George, to the rank of Major. j
Mr. Ham, the new Mayor of Melbourne, is a son
of one of the oldest residents. He has worked his way’
In the community with perseverance and success.)
Melbourne, by this election, saves its bacon.
Edmund Galley, the innocent convict, was a
Devonshire man, and much sympathy for his misfor-i
tones was professed in that oonnty. Yet, according to!
Truth, the Devonshire committee who have been agi-j
bating his ease have expended £l3 Is. 6d v while the]
subscriptions amounted to only £1 12s. 6d.
George Arthur Walstab has joined
the staff of the Melbourne Herald.
Sir William Manning is to be
Primary Judge, Mr. Hargrave,re tired.
The Australasian actually has the
audacity to say, “Whether Sir Henry
Parke* knows much about Art might be
questioned."
The “ father ” of the English House
of Lords is tho Earl of Mount Cashel, who
is aged 89. After him there are no fewer
than twanty-three members of it who
number 80 winters or more.
Mr. Hector Wilson, the well-known
young squatter, nephew of Sir Samuel, and
one of the straightest followers of the
hounds in Victoria, has gone to start
station life in Texas, America.
Thorpe, the defaulting Melbourne
bank-teller, is a member of the Congrega-
tional Church, and preached in one of the
Melbourne chapels on Sunday evening.
What a splendid story-teller ho must be 1
Mr. D. H. Harkins, the tragedian,
who has scored a gennine success in
Melbourne, and is really an actor of great
power, retired from the Union army after
the war with the rank of Major, and
was provost-marshal of the army of the
Shenandoah. He and John Thompson,
the metalUoian, were in tho same regi-
ment.
Captain William M'Lean, who was
suddenly taken ill in a Melbourne theatre
the other night, and died shortly after,
was one of the best known and most
generally respected commanders in the
intercolonial irade. Ha was a brother
of Captain John M'Lean, known to fame
and thousands of travellers by the
euphonious soubriquet of “ Hell-Fire
Jaek“
A well-known squatter, member of
a firm who own some of tho finest, stations
in the Northern district of N.S.W. and in
Queensland, started life in the colonies by
investing five shillings In beer with a view
to retailing it. He is now worth seven or
eight hundred thousand pounds, and
bluntly says, “I don’t believe in what
people ealls hettiket—there wasn’t no
such thing when I was a boy.”
William Collins, of W. Collins, Sons, and Co.,
Glasgow, and formerly Lord Provost, and Thomas J.
Boyd, of Oliver and Boyd, Edinburgh, at present Lord
Provost, both publishers, have been knighted.
A son of Professor Ayfcoun, of Scottish ballads
fame, is now a member of the staff of the Melbourne
A«b. A son of the original Matthew Arnold has an
appointment in the Union Bank, Carlton, Vic.
Mr- Foabery, of the Probate Office, Melbourne,
whose leg was broken in the Jolimont accident, has
been doing his work at home, and claims only £3OO
compensation. Zeal and modesty combined. Promo-
tion looms in the distance.
Mr. Rennikar Heaton proposes to hang a por-
trait of Viscount Sydney in our Town Hall. The Mayor
ought politely request Mr. Heaton to allow himself to
be hung there, too. If we can drive a nail any where,
his Worship has merely to pass the word.
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. W. A. Duncan,
C.M.G., who is retiring from H. M. Customs, after 36
years' service, was presented by a number of his
brother officers with an illuminated address and oil
portrait, at the Custom House, Circular Quay.
Robert Hoddle, who laid ont Melbourne, and
was one of the first Snrveyors-General of the celony,
died oa Tuesday, in his 88th year. He was in receipt of
a pension from the Government, and very rich. The
suit brought against him by his grandson, Mr. White,
will be remembered.
Donald Currie, M.P. for Perthshire, and owner
of the South African lino of steamers, has been
knighted. It will be remembered that, a short time
ago, he lent one of bis steamers to Gladstone, who had
been ordered to take a voyage round the British Isles.
Here’s a hint for Jeanneret.
By the will of an uncle (Sir Arthur William
Fleming), who died at Montreal, Canada, in 1878, Mr.
Michael J. Fleming, who was well known as a boot-
maker in Dunedin (N.Z.), for many years, has become
entitled to a fortune of £30.000, and also to a largo
amount of property in South Africa.
Lefroy had an interview, some time ago with
Miss Kate Vaughan and Mr. Boyce, of the London
Gaiety, on the strength of an imaginary commission to
engage them for Australia, But they were too old
stagers to bite. Fancy Kate visiting Sydney, where
Colonel Wellesley's father-in-law and mother-in-law
reside 1
Mr. Shaw, Fellow of the Royal Collage of Sur-
geons, has been committed for trial bv the Temora
Bench on a charge of criminal libel, defaming Dr. E.
H. K. Bennett, licentiate of the Royal College of Sur-
geons. The alleged libel consisted of ascribing " the
jTravßst malpractice, and ignorance of the fundamental
Ixsis of surgery.”
The latest work of the late Marcus Clarke is
about to be published in book form, at the low price of
Is. per copy. The work’is his “Mystery’ of Major
Molinenx,” and the book'also contains Mr. Clarke’s
pyschological story of “Human Repetends.” The
publishers are Cameron, Laing, and Co., of Melbourne,
who will give half the profits to Mrs. Clarke and family.
Mr. Grant-Duff, the new Governor-General of
Madras, will be greatly missed by the Crown Princess of
Germany, our Queen’s eldest daughter. Her Royal
Highness considered the " little Scotsman ” to be the
most agreeable and beat-informed of all her European
correspondents. He is a charming raconteur, and they
say he knows more authentic stories of living celebrities
than any other statesman or diplomatist.
The Duke of Manchester has purchased from the
W. A. Government 200,000 acres on the north-western
coast of Australia. The locality of the investment is
Roebnrne, which is situated in about the same latitude
as Townsville. The Duke, it is stated, was induced to
purchase the land by the fact that an extensive system
of immigration would soon be inaugurated and Roe-
bumo made the centre of a new and wide settlement.
Mr. Justice Molesworth, of Victoria, has been
very ill indeed, but has now returned to duty. When
he was congratulated by Mr. Webb, Q.C., on his re-
covery, His Honor disclaimed the public impression
that he became ill from overwork. It wasn’t, he said,
extreme exertion, but the want of a top coat on cold
days. However, the judge has had forty years’ un-
broken labour, without a day’s previous absence from
indisposition.
Miss Kellogg, the American cantatrice, says that
she found hundreds of her countrywomen in Italy—
many in dire distress—who had gone there in hope of
beginning an operatic career. If they haven’t guardians
and independent means they fall victims to the worst
fate that can overtake a woman. Miss Kellogg asserts
that even if a girl has a good voice she must, in most
cases, buy her way on to the stage, or submit to the
worse demands of those influential friends of the
management whose word is law at the theatre.
“The assassin, Guitean,” remarks a writer in
the Contemporary Review, “ is but a representative of
the horde of disappointed place-hunters, armed with
' recommendations and testimonials from their respective
States, who haunt the purlieus of the Executive Mansion
at Washington from March to July of every new Presi-
dential term. Had his aim (Garfield’s recovery was at
this time probable) been as fatal as that of Booth, Civil
Service reform, the great need of American political life
to-day, as peace was when Lincoln fell, would have been
indefinitely postponed, and the vast territories of the
United States have been ruled for years to come by a
man not chosen of the people for the Supreme Office
of State, and who is supposed to represent the policy of
States’ patronage which has proved a fruitful source of
corruption, and which the election of General Garfield
was meant to condemn."
General Garfield was anything but a rich man,
for he never soiled his hands with the illicit rewards of
political life. His farm in Ohio, and his residence in
Washington, did not exceed £4OOO in value, and every
penny of this he had saved out of his earnings. He
was extremely hospitable, and this is said to have in-
terfered with his economies.
The Princess Amelia Caroline Gapasrine Leoool-
dine Henrietta Louise Elizabeth Frau?oise Maximi-
lienne, of Furstberg, the lady to whom James Gordan
Bennett is reported to be engaged, is the only daughter
of Charles Egon, Prince of Furstenberg, and is thirty-
three years cud. James is reported to be learning her
name under the best professors.
Sir Samuel Wilson, who has leased Lord Bea-
consfield’s late residence, intends to contest the county
Derry for a seat in the House of Commons, in the Con-
servative interest, upon the first vacancy occurring.
His relative, Mr. Charles Wilson, has more than once,
in the Liberal interest, run the winning candidate close
for the county Antrim. Sir Samuel, doubtless, con-
aiders the Conservative star in the ascendant, and. as
tenant of Huguendon, he could hardly follow Mr.
Gladstone.
Mr. G. W. Rusden takes “ The Vagabond ” to
account in a recent issue of the Australasian, with
respect to his “New Facts about the Great Taeping
Rebellion.” The “Vag.” says ho gathered his par-
ticulars from'the son of a rebel, which particulars show
that the outbreak was suppressed by the American
General Ward and the English Colonel Gordon; the
latter, however, being mixed up, unfortunately, in a
disgraceful massacre of a garrison that had capitulated.
Now, the facts are these; —General Ward never saw the
rebellion suppressed. He was selling clotbes-pegs at
the time. Next, Colonel Gordon resigned bis command
rather than be associated with the Tartar butcher,
Li-Hnng-Chang, who, in the Colonel’s absence, had
ordered the massacre. At this rate of going, we may
soon expect to hear of the “ Vag." editing an evening
paper.
One of the oddest characters "afloat” is L°k
Betts, who runs Cobb and Co.’s coach between Tam-
wortb and Bendemeer. Bob has been about 35 years on
the roads—of conrse, we’re now speaking professionally.
He is ever as silent as the tomb, and he is consequently
known all over the North as “ Loquacious Bob. -The
fact is. Bob has never spoken since that red-haired
mermaid of the Moonbies took up with a local bush-
ranger. There’s always room on the box-seat for tour.
There’s Bob and a passenger; and Bob’s feet are the
other two. People have gone down in Bob s coach to
be christened, and come back to get married. No one
has ever gone down to their grave in it. Bob is about
the best driver, the country all over. He s never had
an accident. It’s quite interesting to see him skimming
along the Moonbi cutting. He times a run of sixty
miles to within four minutes. He is, of ceurse, known
all along the road. You’ll see a tree bow to him at
times. The kangaroos come down from the ranges to
see him pass, and occasionally they wag their tails;
they know Bob’s a bit of a wag himself. There’s |
nothing much, however, in this. It’s merely an act of
courtesy on the part of one old man to another.
Since Lord Byron’s death not a peer has pro-
duced a book, says the Whitehall Review, that will
be read in the next century. Lord Macaulay, Lytton,
and Beaoonsflold are not cases to the point, for they Were
ennobled for the good Work (father politidal than liter-
ary) which they did as comnloners. . . . The Mar-
qnis of Lome and the Earl of Southesk have written
verses which nobody has read. The late Lord Stanhope
indited an incomparably dull history of part of the
eighteenth century; and the present Earl of Pembroke
has penned au agreeable book of travels, in company
with a doctor, who perhaps composed the best of it.
Lord Dunraven has also written a good book of travels ;
Lord Dufferin’s “ Letters from High Latitudes" are not
unworthy the decendant of Sheridan; and Lord Talbot
de Malahide’s antiquarian essays are very readable.
These works may be said to sum np the literary budget
of the peers and their offspring daring the Victorian
era.
The present proprietor of the Times is thus
described by Jehu Junior, in Vanity Fair: —“The
original John Walter was a man who saw the uses to
which a commercial connection with a newspaper might
bo put. He was a shrewd man of business, and ha con-
trived to possess himself of the greater portion of the
property in the Times newspaper, and to find men able
to supply the intellectual portion of that commercial
venture. The present John Walter inherited his grand-
father’s and father’s property, together with a magnifi-
cent idea of its importance. Mr. AValter represents the
results cf two generations of lucky speculation in trade
advertisments. He holds himself therefore to be a dis-
tinct pow er in the State. He calls himself a Liberal, but
be is persuaded that it is his mission to hold the balance
even between all the Parties. He has never yet be-
trayed any power of bringing any ability of his own to
bear upon the subjects on which he proses. He is very
pompous but very platitudinarian. Ha never yet adde 1
a new idea, a new fact, or even a new phrase to any
subject of public import. For tho notion that he really
represents the Times has never been entertained by any-
body but himself. It is felt that it is not he who in-
spires the Times, but the Times that coaches him; and
his efforts are but too despairingly and too unsuccess-
fully directed to following with some appearance of
personal sincerity the strange backing and filling of that
insincere and floundering journal. He is not an able
writer, he is not a profound thinker, he is not a good
speaker, nor an organaniser; he is an advertisment
agent, and the broker of the scribes who in their
own leaders call themselves “thoughtful persons.’
Under his brokerage the Times has become a dull and
brainless daily muddle, which supports upon its old
traditions a vast mass of useful and profitable trade
announcements. Yet Mr. Walter has a certain amount
of plodding ability. Ho is also a wealthy man. He is a
trustworthy and honourable tradesman. He is a sober
and decent practitioner of the private virtues. And it
he were not so solemnly bumptious he might be a
partially useful person even in public life." Now
change the name of tho paper, and how would the fore-
going read in Sydney ?
POLITICAL POINTS.
The estimates are to be submitted next week.
Mr. Faruoll is not a “ grave ” man. He believes
in cremation.
Queensland Parliament is further prorogued
till 29th Nov.
The Conservatives in Victoria want Judge
Higinbotham to be chairman of the Education Com-
mission.
Mr. Ormond is said to be the coming Opposition
leader in the N.Z. Parliament, teir George Grey needs
a catspaw.
The Dunedin Herald speaks of the Hall
Government as “the weakest administration ever
known in New Zealand.”
Sir Arthur Gordon and the New Zealand Ministry
are at loggerheads. The Waimate Plains native difficulty
is the cause of the rupture.
The Government candidate was returned for
Rockhampton (Q), though he stands pledged against
Coolie labour and the transcontinental railway scheme.
Sir Henry’s letter, offering office to Mr Foster,
is dated October 14. Mr, Foster’s long explanatory
reply, accepting the offer, is dated October 4—in the
Evenjng News.
The seat in the N.Z. Cabinet, which has been
going a-begging for a long time, has been filled up by
the ire-appointment of Mr. Oliver, who will bo called to
the Upper House.
The Hon. Thos. MTlwraith, Premier (Q.), visits
Bundaberg next week. It is stated that Sir Arthur
Palmer and Messrs. Morehead and Perkins contemplate
au early trip to N.S.W. and Victoria.
Mr. Fitzpatrick avers that the petitions on the
licensing question were all dictated from Sydney, and
signed among others by little children. Tho Dictator,
however, had nothing to do with them.
David, the irrepressible, said in the House, the
other night, that tho Attorney-General only holds office
because he laughs at the obscene jokes mado by the
Premier. Sorely Wisdom doesn't hob-nob with
Ribaldry ?
Mr. Abigail, a Government supporter, moves
for a commission to enquire into the working of the
Friendly Societies Act. Government appoints the
commission, but snubs the mover by leaving him out
in tho cold. Mr. Cameron opposes the enquiry, but is
placed on the commission, and an Opposition member
is made president of it. What can there be to hush up P
A new standing order in the Victorian Assembly
directs that no one, except a Minister, can move the
adjournment of the House before 11 o’clock, unless he
be supported by six members, who must rise in their
places when he rises to propose his motion.
Mr W. J. Foster, the new Minister of Justice,
was returned (unopposed) for Newtown, on Monday.
He said that, in accepting office, he had been actuated
by a desire to do what was best for the country. Mr,
Foster is not the only patriot in Parliament.
Mr. M'Langhlin said in the Assemby, on Thurs-
day night, that a hotelkeeper had told him that day
that three or four members of the House, who voted
for closing hotels at 11 o’clock, went into his house the
other night after 12 o’clock, and insisted upon being
served with liquor.
“ Ugly stories are reaching me (says a writer in
Vanity Fair) about tho profuse employment of the
torture when information is wanted from political
prisoners in Russia. The ingenious gentlemen
who are arguing concerning the immorality
of harbouring conspirators, do not say anything
definite about the treatment which the conspira-
tors get when they are caught and securely caged.
I happen to have credible information of a very
nasty"character, and I warn people that while they are
right in bestowing indignation on dynamitists, they
would be also right if they spared some indignation for
thumbsorewists who make the dynamitist possible."
THE NEWSLETTER.
Coal at Newcastle to be 10s. a ton 1st January.
An enterprising London bookseller has been ad-
vertising a literary curiosity, in the shape of an origi-
nal tale by Lefroy, tho Brighton murderer. It (the
story) is described as “ a charming, pathetic romance,
as unlike what one might expsot from a suspected
murderer as it is possible to conceive/’
The annual outing of the No. 3 Volunteer Fire
Brigade eventuated at Correy’s Gardens last Monday.
About 150 attended, and the Brigade Band supplied
music. Correy catered. C.M.G. spoke. Prizes were
given to best attendances at fires, night and day, during
the year. Some of the visitors rode out on two of the
engines, in lieu of ’buses.
The first number of the British edition of the
Detroit Free Press was published in London a few
weeks ago, A bright introductory article by Bronson
Howard, the genial author of “ Brighton,” etc., ap.
pears in the first four numbers. This smart little
paper is now published simultaneously in New York,
Detroit, San Francisco, and London.
The miners on a new Victorian
gold rush recently boycotted a Conserva-
tive butcher. The masses are evidently
becoming educated.
Steamer Balclntha is missing. She
left Melbourne for Sydney on 19th, and
was last seen off Cape Everard on 21st. It
is feared she has foundered with all hands.
Search is being made for her.
The Native difficulty in New Zea-
land is getting complicated- Te Whiti,
the defiant chief, treats the Government
ultimatum with contempt. Tho military
went to the front on Wednesday.
M. de Nenville’s grand picture of
tho " Defence of Eorke s Drift ” has been
purchased by Mr. N. Chevalier and Mr.
Smith, on behalf of the Government of
N.S.W., for the Sydney Art Gallery.
The charges of assault and illegal
arrest lodged against constable Powell, of
the city police, by Mr. W. Lewis and Mr.
John Urquhart, respectively, are still
being investigated at the Central Police
Court.
This colony seems to be nowhere at
the London International Wool Show.
And yet our Agent-General is engaged in
the “staple” trade I The New Zealand
Government and Sir Samuel Wilson have
pulled off the gold medals.
A man was discharged from Pen-
tridge prison last week who had served 20
yeais. Ho was sentenced to death for
murder, but had his punishment com-
muted to imprisonment for life, which in
Victoria now means 15 years.
Adolphe Moritzson was found guilty
of embezzling a cheque belonging to the
Standard Insurance Company, at Dunedin,
N.Z., and was sentenced to 12 month*’
imprisonment, to take effect from the
expiration of the sentence which be is at
present undergoing
R. T. Coghlan-Yates, a clerk in the
Victorian Education Department, has been
committed on a charge of having inde-
cently assaulted a little girl of 11 years.
Yates, who is a man of much literary
ability, was formerly editor of more than
one Tasmanian paper. But perhaps it is
unfair to make this last disclosure before
his tiial.
David Henry, the well-known Melbourne money-
lender, who having served his sentence for embracery is
in business again, the other day sued the alleged en-
dorsers of a £5O promissory note for the recovery of
that sum. The bill had been made by Thomas Watson,
who, after getting the money, left the colony. The
defence was that the endorsements were forgeries.
The verdict was for defendants.
Dan Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel, who
was charged at the Bathurst Circuit Court, on tho 26th
inst., with assault with intent to do grievous bodily
harm (Tonkin’s case), was found guilty of common
assault, and sentenced to four months’ imprisonment iu
Darlinghurst gaol. At prisoner’s request. Judge limes
substituted Bitburst gaol. Prior to the trial, Tonkin
and Mayne had become friends.
Some trouble was again caused at tho Supremo
Court, Dunedin (N.Z ), the other week, by a witness
named Paterson refusing to take tna oath, as ha did
not believe it was binding. He did not believe in a
personal God, but did in a Supreme Ruler, though ho
did not know why. The judge got over the difficulty
by administering a Scotch form of oath, happening to
remember it, and the witness was satisfied.
Mr. J. A. Gardiner, of Gobolion, near Welling-
ton, has the contract to supply the Orient steamer
with beef and mutton. The cattle and sheep are
slaughtered at Orange, frozen, and sent to the ships.
Though meat was offered in Sydney at 2Jd per lb, so
satisfied with the grand quality of the meat already
supplied the boats are the company, that they are pay-
ing Mr. Gardiner 3|d per lb. Every 800 lb. be supplies
nets him about £lllos. He deserves all success.
It appears from the evidence in a case prose-
cuted in Melbourne, last week that the “ Genuine
Hollands. J.D.K.Z., Geneva Rotterdam" gin, is—as
sold in Melbourne, at any rate—composed of two-thirds
foreign, and one-third colonial spirit. The case for the
prosecution was that the duty on tho imported article
being 10s. and on the colonial 65., the revenue was
being dofrauded at the rate of 4s. per gallon. The pro-
secution broke down, but is likely to be renewed.
The Evening Mail, the half-penny paper
issued from the Argus office, apparently with a view to
keep in check the penny dailies, isn’t at all likely to
effect that object, for a less interesting sheet was never
issued to the public of any country. You can’t have a
high-toned Conservative journal and a light and airy
ha’porth proceeding from the same press. The Even-
ing Herald will not suffer; the Aos will go on its way,
gathering force as it goes ; and unless the Mail livens
up considerably, in a few months it won’the heard of.
The Press and New Zealanders generally
hope Sir Arthur Gordon will not return. Remarks one
journal:—“ For the sake of Sir Arthur Gordon him-
self we shall rejeice at his promotion ; for the sake of
New Zealand we shall rejoice still more ; and we say
this with no ditrespect to His Excellency, who possesses
many high, sterling, acd admirable qualities, but he
does not suit New Zealand, and New Zealand evidently
does not suit him. Above all, we should hail with
THAT FAST YOUNG METER!
REV. SECRETARY (to Engineer): "You have introduced to our employment this fast swindler, who has
never done a hand’s turn without robbing our customers. Sir, your services are no longer required.”
(To Fast Young Meter) : “As for you, yon rogue-er—go and get on with your work!”


Gr
ARDEN P
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, <
at 3 o’clock.
Under the distinguished patronage
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
and LADY LOFTI
LEON CARON’S
Melbourne Exhibition Friz
I VICTORIA I
1 VICTORIA I
MISS ANNIS MONT.A
MR. CHARLES TU
MISS EVA DAVENP'
MR. EDWARD FA
MADEMOISELLE ALICE CE
who has most kindly volunteered her £
SACRED CHORAL ASSOI
| 300 VOICES 1
GRAND OBCHE
of
| 50 PERPOaMER
Grand International Selection _by
duciog all the National Airs o
concluding with the
chorus singing
“RULE BRITANN]
The whole under the oonductorshii
M. LEON CAROh
Leader Mr. T
Organist Mr. I
Prices of Admission: —Front Ch
Chairs, 3s. Admission, Is.
Doors open at 2.15 p.m. Grand I)
tion at 3. Admission obtained to i
main entrance.
Carriages at 4.30 p.m.
J. V. WAREHAM,
Hon. Sec.
WILSON LE OOU’
Bi
GREAT WOl
WE RETURN ONCE MORE, Wl'
EST ARRAY of ARENIC CEI
MOST BRILLIANT AGQREGA
FINEST STUD of TRAINED A 1
IN THE WORLD!
>
►
All
MR. WILSON has just returned
while there ho secured the present
EACH A STAR
in his own particular line of busin
OUR MALE AND PEMAL
AND GYMNAS
ARE TEARLESS, DARING, and
OUR BARE-BACKED EQ
ARE ACKNOWLEDGED ART]
OUR HORSE EDUi
STAND FOREMOST IN THE B
EDUCATION AND TR,
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTII
W
HEN these are combined -with
the ruling principles at the
LOW PRICES, who or v
PALACE EMPOI
HATMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES a
the soundness of those principles upon which their business i
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PA Li
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We
JUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUI
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A V
EA.UTIPU
SATIN
MERE, I
DRESSM
M A N C II
aoo:
TABLE C
, Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immons
. and la lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAL
there are 2000 yards at'2a per yard ; 2200 at 2s 3d
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cases, the
10s 6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT QROS GR.
manufacture, the prices per yard are 8s 6d, 4s 3d,
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty
it will be long before you forget them. There is
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per 3
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE,
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA <
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkab
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING L
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet
There are CALICOES in all makes and at lo
FIGURED from 5£d; TABLE DAMASK from
all prices, and COT TON DIAPER at 6d ; GREY
Is 3d ; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging fro
from lOd up to Is 9d There are TURKISH
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9d;
and the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 21s, n
3 This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods 1
ANTHONY HORDERN £
Reduced price. Original price.
Silver English Levers 3 10 0 each 6 0 0 each
Botheratn’s Silver Lovers... 4 15 0 ,, 7 10 0 „
Silver Waltham Watches... 2 15 0 „ 5 0 0 ,,
Ladies’Gold Watches 2 10 0 „ 5 10 0
Colonial Gold Alberts 4 0 Of oz 6 0 Of-oz
English Gold 2 15 0 „ 4 0 0 „
Ladies’ Gold 5 0 0 „ 7 10 0 „
Gold Lockets ... 0 7 6 each 0 15 0 each
Reduced price. Original price
Colonial Gold Earrings... 0 10 C pair 1 10 0 pair
Colonial Gold Brooches... 0 10 6 each 10 0 each
Wedding Bings 0 4 0 „ 0 10 0 ,,
Keeper Bings 0 5 0,, 0 10 0 „
Gold Studs 0 4 0 'f- set 0 10 6 set
Silver Brooches k Earrings 0 5 6 „ 0 15 0 „
Silver Bracelets 0 7 6 each 0 17 6 each
Silver Bings 0 1 6 „ 0 3 6 ,,
gTDNEY OPEEA HOUSE.
Sole Lessee Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Director Mr. Charles Turner.
SUCCESS UPON SUCCESS.
POSITIVELY LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the eelebrated MONTAGUE-TUHNER Opera Com-
pany, and of those greatest of lyric artists, Miss ANNIS
MONTAGUE, Primo Donna Assoluta, and Mr.
CHARLES TURNER, PrimaTenoro.
Positively last TWO NIGHTS of their unrivalled
Company. This (Thursday) Evening, October 27,
LUCREZIA BORGIA, for the last time.
Grand Orchestra. Full and efficient chorus.
Admission.—Private Boxes, £2 2s ; dress circle, ss;
orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, 2s; pit, Is. Box Plan at
A. Huenerbein’s, 411 Goorge-street, next Lassetter’s.
Tickets for all parts for sale at Johnston’s, tobacconist,
next stall entrance. Doors open 7.30, commence at 8.
Carriages. 10.45.
TO-MORROW (Friday), October 28, Grand Compli-
mentary Benefit to Mits ANNIS MONTAGUE, when
she will make her positively last appearance as LUCY
ASHTON, in Donizetti's grand conception LUCIA DI
LAMMERMOOR; and Mr. CHARLES TURNER as
LORD EDGAR OP RAYENSWOOD.
SATURDAY, October 29 (Last night of this cele-
brated company in this city), Verdi’s beautiful Opera
IL TROVATORE.
LEONORA Miss ANNIS MONTAGUE
Azucena Miss Carrie Godfrey
(her first appearance in Sydney)
MANEICO Mr. CHARLES TURNER.
Count di Luna Mr. Ed. Parley.
Conductor M. Leon Caron.
Business Agent Wilson Le Clouteur,
SHORTLY AERIVE,
GRIFFITHS and BRAZIL’S
PANORAMA AND DIORAMA,
“ THE WORLD I”
MINTON N. GRIFFITHS,
Business Manager.
TJ\ H E A T R E
Lessee
Treasurer Mr.
IMMENSE SUCCES
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON and Miss
in their new and original
EUKEKA.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Doors
menco at 8.
ENT O N
la compliance with, a very widely
Mr. Denton will repeat his course t
ILLUSI BATED GEOLOQICi
at the
SCHOOL OF AE'
On Alternate nights, commencing I
Tickets for the course of six lactu
Elv-y's Music Warehouse, Qeorge-st
sior s3s , 25., Is. Under 15, half-pri
MR. AND MRS. EDI
_ (LEADING OLD MAN A
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
TJ ONDI BEACH, BONDI.
BONDI PACIFIC PAVILION,
Open every SATURDAY AFTERNOON from 2to 6
o’clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey’s Excelsior Brass Band and efficient M.C.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIRST-CLASS BILLIARD TABLE.
The finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies.
J. - HEINZ, Proprietor.
N.B. —Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
pleasure the termination of the present preposterous
and indefensible arrangement by which the Governor
of New Zealand is also High Commissioner for the
Western Pacific.”
LATE THEATRICAL.
Tho Chinese Opera Company, at the School of
Arts, is a combination whose performances will prove
extremely beneficial to those who are Buttering from
incurable diseases of an agonising nature. Once a man
has heard them play and sing, he will no longer wish to
live. We have sat the performance out, and now
melancholy is stamped upon our alabaster brow, and
the spirit of midnight assassination lurks in the four
comers of our heart.
# * *
On our arrival at the hall, the orchestra were
playing a tune, with which to nsher in “ the meeting of
the Monks.” The band were all dressed in white silk,
and comprised a scoundrel with an instrumental earth-
quake called a Chinese fiddle, a demon with a wooden
dram tho size of a pincushion, a fearful phantom with a
flute, a ruffian with sandal-wood cymbals, and three or
four more villains armed with other instruments of
torture. Tho performers were each attired in long
coats of n different colour, and sported long flowing
beards of separate hues. They stood in a semi-circle,
and each man howled in his turn to an accompaniment
which sounded like a dog barking in a saw-mnl.
A pipe duet, by two anointed scoundrels call-
ing themselves Ah LoLoong and Ah Yue, followed ; and
when it was finished, there was not among the audience
a single disbeliever in the torments of hell. When
these demon duettists had boon hooted off (which, by
the way, was the case with every performer on the pro-
gramme), a Chinaman, got up as a Chinese girl who had
apparently “ gone wrong ’’ at a very early age, came on
to sing a “ lover’s lament.” Directly ho commenced to
howl, we began to sharpen our pen-knife on tho sole of
our shoe, and look about, with glaring eyes, for the
manager. This solo was accompanied by tho all-fired
rascal on his flute, and it lasted until the fury of the gods
took the form of orange-peel. A “ banjo duet" followed.
One instrumentalist’s banjo was rather larger than a
tea-tray, and the other’s about as big as a walnut.
The screws in both instruments, however, were spigot
size.
* * *
This delectable “ number ” was followed by the
“celebrated Chinese opera, entitled”—wo are quoting
from the programme—“ Treason in the Palare." We
watched this attentively, but, so far ns we could gather,
there was no palace; and the only treason we could
discover was that of the management. The execution
of the opera seemed by ns means difficult. The band
chattered, and each of the male performers grunted
while the primn donna howled. The audience was
roused to such a pitsh of phrenzy by this oracular in-
sult, that it was only the fall of the curtain and the
sight of the presents that prevented them wrecking tho
hall.
• « »
The management then came forward and said
that No. 5199 was entitled to a vinegar cruet; 7430 to a
coal-mine; and 9610 to a few dead friends. Wo then
fled to the street in search of some one on whom to
vent our pent-up fury. Luckily, however, wo en-
countered no one small enough to suit our purpose ;
otherwise slaughter would have boon the result.
# # #
Seriously speaking (and it’s so difficult to be
serious I) Mr Fulton’s Chinamen are a great curiosity,
and the tea-pots and Koh-i-noors are really given away.
Wo advise every deaf man to go and see the show.
** * *
Perhaps no man in connection with the circus
business is better or more favourably known than John
Wilson. Ho was hero with his colossal hippodrome
some live years ago, and loft for India and China, whore
ho achieved a triumph of which tho Press has spoken
in terms of lavish praise. Since leaving hero, Mr.
Wilson has played in the countries indicated, and, with
his wife, visited Europe several times in search of
aronie stars. In his own words, this visit is to tear
the people right plomb to pieces, and lay them out cold
with delight and astonishment. Before wo publish
again, Mr. Wilson will have opened out in the Hav-
market, and The Bulletin will faithfully record his
triumph or failure, as the case may be.
** * *
On Monday, Patti Laverne prosecuted a man at
the Central Police Court for stealing jewellery from her
bedroom while she was engaged at the Theatre Royal.
The artist (not tho artiste) will bo sequestered for six
months.
** * *
Fred. Mervin, whose rest in Melbourne has
entirely restored his voice, opens with tho Musgrove
Company at the Melbourne Opera House, on Saturday,
29th Inst., in “ Madame Favart.”
** * *
South wires that he has been giving them
“Nemesis," “Pinafore,” “ Maritana” (I) and the
« Pirates,” in Grafton. The show is a groat draw, one
man having ridden 35 miles on a borrowed horse to see
it. Miss Edith Pender, James states, is in splendid
voice. Coming from such an unprejudiced source, we
are, of course, bound to believe this. We wish Jimmy
all kinds of luck, and trust Mr. Vernon Read will accept,
also, the assurance of our most distinguished con-
sideration.
* * *.- ■*
Tho Montague-Turner Company, at the Opera
House, play “ Lucretia Borgia” for the last time, to-
night (Thursday), and Friday Miss Montague takes
her “ben.” in Luoia. The music-lovers of Sydney will
do well to bear this in mind, and crowd in. On Satur-
day, “Trovatore” will be given, with Miss Carrie
Godfrey in tho part of Azucena. On the 3rd, they
sail for New Zealand.
** * *
Walter Reynolds’ benefit takes place at the
Queen's on Friday (to-morrow). Ho plays Con tho
Shaughran.
** * *
Next Saturday weeek, at the Garden Palace,
M. Leon Caron’s Prize Cantata will bo performed, by
tho Montague-Turner Opera Company and tho Sacred
Choral Association. Mademoiselle Alice Charbonnet
will act as pianiste. It is not improbable that wo shall,
prior to the performance of the cantata, have a few
critical words to say, both anont the poetry of it and
tho music. The use of tho building has been, by tho
Dictator, granted free for the purpose. So the Charities
are not in it this time, it appears: more’s tho pity.
The Benevolent Asylum ceuld do with a few pounds
nicely—if only to buy corals for the babies.
** * *
Tho Montague-Turner Opera Company have,
during the week, been giving a representation of “ Lu-
cre zia Borgia,” at the Opera House, to crammed houses.
Grand opera is beyond the resources of this excellent
little company. “Lucrezia Borgia" assuredly deserves
a miee-en-eccne equal to that of a trifle like “Tambour
Major,” but has not on this occasion had it. Regarded
in a sense played as opera dc camera, the performance was
an agreeable one.


II FIELD II
faeleigh estate, faei
THIS EXTENSIVE, MAG
HIGHLY-IMPKOVED ESTATE i
subdivision by Mr. Surveyor Binste
mitted to public compel:
SATUEDAY, sth NOVEM]
At 3.30 p.m., together with that DE
CLASS FAMILY MANSION, kuo
HOUSE, situate ou a portion there;
BATT, RODD, AND !
THIS PROPERTY, which is si
elevated part •£ ASHPIELD SOU
designated the CEEAM of t.
SUBURB, and is in the centre of
class properties, viz., W. SEAW.
JAMIESON, Esq.; F. CLISSOLD,
RICHARDSON, Esq. ; D. ROBE
ROBINSON, Esq.; W. ROSS, Esq.
MILES, Esq.; J. H. GOODLI
STUART, Esq., M.L.A.; and M
rounded by good WIDE STREETS
taken by the SURVEYOR that EVI
will have a frontage to a 66-FEI
rendering this property one of the
SUBDIVISIONS ever offered to
fashionable locality.
The whole has a north-easterly as;
MAGNIFICENT VIEWS of :
PARRAMATTA RIVER, BRUSH
HILLS, and other scenery, inc
MOUNTAINS.
FAELEIGH HOU
Which contains Hall, Diuing-ro
(with folding doors). Library, flv
kitchen, servant’s room, out-offic(
will bo offered, with exactly
ONE ACRE OP I
But the subdivision is so arrange!
chasing the same can easily INCH:
purchasing ADJOINING ALLOT
improve the property at the same i
THE TERMS WILL BE EXCEED
viz., 20 per cent. DEPOSIT, an
instalments at 6, 12, 18, and ‘M mon
at the low rate of 5 per cent.
The AUCTIONEERS can, with
DENCE RECOMMEND this projx
iug an investment or a suburban h
respectfully invito an inspection of
TITLE, TORREI
Cards to view obtainable
LITHOGRAPHS NOW
BAIT, RODD, ANI
auctionee
Solicitors to the E
Messrs- HOLDEN and J
Castlereagh-strc
THOMAS W]
ENGINEER & IRONF
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
outlandish spot away from all frequ
with town, but in a locality where 1
running by Christmas, inalocalit;
present a large and thriving popul
where industries and factories are s
direction, in the locality where th(
the country must congregate, and ]
(as in all manufacturing centres i
world) land must rise in price, and
valuable and marketable coramoditj
advice is not to miss the first sale, v
on SATURDAY AFTERNOON. 5t
land is certain to bo dearer after
tramway, as in other leoalities. Xu
that splendid Valla “ Spring Vale,’
perty and residence of Mr. Geddis, i
one < f the best properties in or on
well worth lookimr after, as it is
highest bidder on sth November.
REMEMBER the FIRST G
AT HANDS ATE
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 5!
e?r Substantial cash bonuses wi
those who erect the first five honsi
in addition free yearly tramway pa
the builders of the second five boas
SANDGATE, BOTA
SANDGATE, Bi
Churches and Schools alread
SANDGATE, BOTA
Mechanics’ Institute and School
Sandgato.
SANDGATE, BOTA
Shops, Houses, Stores, Hoto
necessaries of modem li
Sandgate.
SANDGATE,
next to Corroy’s and Sir Joi
SANDGATE,
and beautiful wafer and O'
SANDGATE,
right opposite Botanv Bay
SANDGATE,
first sale, SATURDAY, sth c
on the ground.
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
Buy an allottn
Build your cot
Grow flowers, f
You can get n
Abundance of 1
Schools, ohurche
You will have
Bay views, ooe
Elevated sites, g
O - Bo at Sandgate
on sth Novembc
ON THE FIFTH OF NC
SATURDAY AFTER!
SANDGATE,
BOTANY.
MAIN ROAD FRON
BOTANY BAY FRON
SPLENDID BUSINES
on both sides of the TRAMWA
to its TERMINUS. (TEAT
COURSE OF CONSTRUCTIO
SEASIDE VILLA BI
COTTAGE AND HOMESTE
ANDGATE lion on both sides o
THE MAIN BOTANK
nd embraces the whole of
THE SLOPING EH
n the me side, and on the other
THE DEEP WATERS 0F B
SATURDAY, NOVE
THE TRAMWAY is in course of
and quite a busy scene is now prei
number of men engaged on the W 0
SANDGATE is in the VERY CEI
with a large and a rapidly growing p<
and from its verv position purchase
FIRST SALE on the C
cannot fail at least DOUBLE TI
very short period.
The LOTS to be SOLD are all of
UNUSUAL DI
and also have
GOOD FEONTAG
SANDGATE. BOTAN
opposite to CORREY’S TEA 1
“ SIR JOSEPH BANKS’
EVERYONE SHOULD go t
EVERYONE
SHOULD BU
SANDGATE.
FARL E I G H E
CHOICEST POSITION IN
PAKLEIOE E
COMMANDS GRAND AND EXT
PARLEIGH E £
EVERY ALLOTMENT OVER
FARLEIGH ES
TORRENS’ TITLE; LIBI
PARLEIGH B
DAY OF SALE-
SATURDAY, sth NO^
BAIT, ROOD, ANI
ST. LEONARDS, NOf
opposite to
THE RESIDENCE of JUDGE
and
BERRY’S ESTA
and
CLOSE to ST. THOMAS’
22 ELEVATED Sl'
fronting the
LANE COVE R(
WEST’S STRE
M'LARIN SIRI
and
CHURCH STRE
as per plan prepared by Mr. SURV
EACH LOT has a BACK 1
and BACH LOT WILL BE
DAY ADVERTIS
Terms at Sale.
HARDIE AND GO
HAVE received instruction!
auction,
ON THE GROUI
at 3 p.m.,
SATURDAY, OCTC
G. CHU R C
SALT MERCHA
IMPORTER and MANIJ]
of
COPI'EE?. pEppEES|
and
SPICES, EICE, and 1
STEAM MILLS, WOOLL
OFFICE and STORES -.—147
SYDNEY.
-p UR B C H I_N_ E i
Messrs. QUONG TAT
Have mnoh pleasure in announci
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET.
(Opposite the French
AW AGENCY FOR THE
loon sh a u
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co.
public approval Silks and General B
P N.B.-Mr. QUONG TART has
a visit to China, where he in persoi
mentioned Teas, so that their purit,
INSPECTION INVI
300 GEORGE STREET—SHOW E
Near Hunter-strei
F.T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE,
-AND-
/#/ p ßlr
f w
2 Hamilton St
Also at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STI
Department of Mi
& Sydney, 21st
TO APPLICANTS
MINING LEASi
NOTICE is hereby Riven that
execute and take delivery of 1
LATE SPORTING.
Raymond Terrace Regatta is fixed to take place
on 26th December.
Those High School Club prizes haTe not yet been
awarded— though won last June.
At a meeting of the Mur rumbidgee Turf Club
Wogga, on Monday. Mr. Mayo's disqualification was
endorsed.
Mr. Finlay son, the well-known amateur oars-
man, purposes competing for the Krug (champagne)
prize. This will be Mr. Finlayson's first appearance as
an outrigger sculler.
A 100-yarda footrace, for ,£3 a side, took place
last Sunday morning, between Sam Salter ana lea
Tarlaton, the Annandale butchers. Tarlaton won
easily by about 10 yards.
Bingera Club meets the Warialda on the oth
Noveniber, at Bingera, and the Inverell Club on the
19th. Wakley and Lyons, the demon bowlers of tno
North, calculate on 10 wickets for 7 runs.
Messrs. F. Thomas and E. J. Gratton have
agreed to act as joint secretaries and treasurers of the
Frank Punch trophy competition. A circular will be
sent to the leading rowers in England and America.
The first prize is £2OO, second £7O, third £3O, K two
English and two American scullers compete, the first
prize will be £3OO, second £l5O, and third £59.
Belvidere v. University ; Oval. Scores : U.C.C.»
100 • Powell 43, Jones 13, Garrett 12, Iceton 10. B.C.C >
59; Holden It, Spurway 13 Petersham v. Carling-
fowl- Domain. P.C.C., 83; Roberts 15. Lovendge It.
Man (not out) 11. C.C.C.,138; Bead 11. Britannia v.
Victoria; Moore Park. 8.C.G., 38; VU C . 17 and 16.
.Victoria v. Essex; Moore Park. V.0.C., 57 ; Cor-
hett 26. E.C.C., 33; Pelham 12 Eight events for
Forbes Races on 2nd January Hero of Waterloo v.
Rover, at Eveleigh, resulted in a tie, both sides scoring
41. Andrews, for the H.C.C.. scored 16; and, for the
R C.C-. Hillier contributed 20 2nd Newcastle v.
Albert 15, at Newcastle. Scores : N.C.C.. 142 ; Sneesby
74, George 37, Barnett 14. A.C.C,, 45; Cams, not out.
14 8 Sneesby got 8 wickets for 13 runs, bowling 5
wickets in one over The Gunnedah cricketers
visited Somertou on the 15th, and thrashed the local
team hv 60 runs, the scores being Q.C.C , 78 ana 53;
8.C.C., 39 and 32.


s
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTEE AND PARRY'S NEW EXTRACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined" with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the most deli-
cate hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will bo found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grocers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
D
I
S
1
N
F
E
0
T
A
N
T
■" -
paSMyMiiifia
- L-v .'Jr f
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, &c.
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s Now Buildings.
W. KERR
MANUFACTURING JEAVELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
6GI GEORGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonio Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
a
KING
STREET
m
foRr,V
SYDNE
TAILOR
$
R
°0
to/* Y/fs
Qr/fM
4y
On
mS
A//D POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER., -
FIT GUARANTEED!
fill HANDWORK.
ME WEST FASHIONS.
JEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
R T HUE COOPER & CO.,
WINE AND SPIBIT MERCHANTS,
CENTRAL STORES:
371 PITT STEEET, *
• Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Con try letters will receive our careful attention.
MARTIN & PAIN.
889 6EORGE-BT*
Sydney.
C L
I F F 0 E D, LOVE. AND CO.
TEA IMPOETEES,
EASTEEN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are in
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Modal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. ,, Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
OFFICES 79 YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
John d a n k s,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gas fittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Bead Pipe, &c,
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
f HORNSBY’S STM,STRIPPERS
Are unquestionably the Best.
They are the MOST CORRECT in PRINCIPLE
They are the MOST Simple in CONSTRUCTION.
They are the MOST FAITHFULLY BUILT.
They are the LIGHTEST in DRAUGHT.
They are MADE of the BEST MATERIALS.
They do the BEST and CLEANEST WORK.
STEEL STRIPPERS 25J.“
| THE driving wheels are steel.
■■ JHE PINION WHEELS ARE STEEL.
THE DRUM BEATERS ARE STEEL.
THE DRUM SPINDLES ARE STEEL.
THE FINGERS OF COMB ARE STEEL7
We Guarantee Every Hornsby Stripper.
FARMERS, read the above I
No other Firm oters the tame Advantages we do.
“ SEND IN YOUR ORDERS EARLY.
r Agents MARTIN & PAIN
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 QBORQE STREET, SYDNEY, f
romnnnmimiDMrc
i S5 ® s .jj
Steel S trip 5er
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial at
it is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRER
•*- FARMERS see the HORNSBY
BEFORE ORDERING ANT OTHER.
Souring jewE>^. iw 'LJS> ■
2* 5.. I i .HUNTER STREET.
SILVER,^; 'WATCHES SYDNEY * GOLD WATCHES
from .Jb . “4.10 . SEND 'for ', • * LR‘OM. X. 5.10,
CATALOGUE. •
QJAIIE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A HEAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
THY ONE. _ POE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street. HAIR - CUTTING,
SYDNEY- f\ M W
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
B 'JJ—- And Ornamental Hair Work,
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE
-a?
WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOK
HERMITAGE.
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen.
SHIRAZ “) Fruity
MADEIRA j Wines
BURGUNDY-) Dry
RIESLING j Wines
}l4/.
}2l/-
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
YIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
’ G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PER GALLON.
c
E
L
E
B
K
T
E
E
s
16
<1
G
?T
T
K
O
TJ
H. L. SUMKERFIELD,
ECONOMY IN CLOTHING.
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY PROCURING
YOUR GOODS FROM THE
DIRECT IMPORTER.]
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR,
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT
sent tra any part o£ the country.
S3* The particular attention of country resi-
dents is requested to this notice.
Any style W Garment made to Fit by using
SUMMERFIELD’S
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT.
235 PITT STREET, j
Trousers ..... IGs.. 6d., 20s., 25s.
Saits ... £3 3a., 10s, £& 4s.
30CO PATTERNS TO CHOOSE FROM.
THE PATENT RIVJflTTED BUTTO’i ,
ON ALL TROUSERS. 'J
x r
EVERY GARMENT THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
FIT GUARANTEED.
j SYDNEY, j
s
u
I
T
s
T
H
&
13
S
G
*
I
N
3
A
S
STANDARD
READY- MADE-SUITS
r or
Business
TiBvelling
QUALITY YACHT!
T\ » • ' • V-V'
„ Picnicxng;
Dur/smlity ■ . _ . . r*
uRsuR pas se d Cncketin g
Pries List For
First Quality Standard Tweed Suits
Extra do. do. do.
Superior do. do. do.
Pirst Quality Standard Blue Serge
Extra do. do. do.
P E A P E S & SHAW
-j
- >: Z
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
• ■ • *v
at <: s> r
E. GREER AN D CO.’S
Eeisling
Verdeimo
Muscat -
Malaga
Tokay
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
f (THESE INSTRUMENTS,- combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
ft. i. KINCSBttRY,
SOLE AGENT, .
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
OilLLAES ;
15 MACQUARIE PLA CE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBXJRY, W„ S.W.
The Teems of subscription for 1 Ihe Bulletin are— in
advance, per annum, 12a.; hal '-year, 6s.; quarterly,
3a.; booked', Cd. per quarter ext ra. Bemittances may
be made by stamps of any Austo alian colony or N.Z.,
or by money order, payable to 1 W. H. Traill and Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H Teaill & Co., at
The Bulletin -office, 21 Pitt-st reot, Sydney, N- s -
Wales.
