

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—No. *73.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 23, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY. JULY 23, 1881.
Old England.
For one man who reasons, there are ten thousand
who believe. To instil a conviction into the minds
of the masses is hard and tedious work. Not many
originators or demonstrators of ideas live long
enough to see their conceptions obtain prevalent
acceptance. The world is always, and has always
been, years behind its thinkers. It sometimes
happens, consequently, that a principle which was
only true subject to the conditions which prevailed
when it was enunciated has not acquired general
adoption and currency until the time when new
conditions had come into existence and had
destroyed its applicability. Had the promulgator
of the principle lived long enough, he would pro-
bably have had the capacity to comprehend the
influence which altered circumstances had upon
his principle, and would have been busy in teach-
ing a modified doctrine. Those of the generation
which succeeded the age in which he lived,
who are on the same intellectual plane, occupy
that position. They perceive where re-adjustment
of ideas to meet new phases of existence has
become requisite, and strive to make their voices
and their warnings heard. But what was a true
demonstration at the time when first advanced,
has became a false dogma, adhered to with the
dull tenacity which characterises the majority.
» ♦ •
There are two such dogmas which just now hold
full possession of the ordinary Briton’s mind.
These are the supremacy of Great Britain and the
infallibility of Free Trade. These ideas were prac-
tically correct for the past generation, which, by
the way, was for half its existence very tremulous
about the first, and utterly incredulous about the
second item. Englishmen shook in their shoes at
the name of Napoleon, and shook their heads
anent the abolition of the Corn Laws. Now,
however, the average Englishman has no doubt at
all about either matter. The immunity of his
native land from foreign conquest is a fact which
it is almost as bad as irreligion to doubt, and the
irrefragibility of the principles of Free Trade are
dearer to him than the Gospel itself. But at this
same time, voices of warning and doubt come
from the thoughtful few who are brave enough to
face ridicule. And warnings come also from
without.
# * «
Foreign military critics analyse the bases
of the national confidence in immunity from
the ravages of war, and prove at least
that the agreement to regard Great Britain as
secure is only common to Britons. Foreigners
think otherwise. But this is not all. Even among
British experts are some who regard the national
confidence as worthless, and who have striven to
arouse their fellow-countrymen to their own per-
ception that ideas founded on conditions which
have ceased to exist, and are half-a-century old,
do not necessarily correspond with present facts.
The inadequacy even of our much-vaunted navy,
the practical blotting out of that “ silver streak ”
of sea which has so long served as the ditch to
protect the island-fortress, have been demonstrated
by competent critics. As for the British army,
and the effective reserve which stands behind it,
those have been almost abandoned as subjects for
useful controversy. Their insufficiency for the
actual wear and tear of a great struggle is
admitted, and the entire question of rehabilitat-
ing them has by common consent been relegated
to the region of finance. It is a question of cost,
and Great Britain, being in business, winces at
the heavy rates of national insurance which pre-
vail in view of the combustible condition of
Europe.
• * *
As for Free Trade, this is how a recent English
critic deals with that: —“ Free Trade is now
showing itself in its unmistakable and ugly naked-
ness. The agriculture of the country is per-
ceptibly ruined. English grain food cannot compete
with foreign grain food. Animal food is being
imported in immensely-increasing quantities in
the tinned and preserved form. All kinds of
ush, fruit, meat, and game are coming in by
shiploads every hour, further reducing the
land income derived from cattle and the rest.”
Then as to the inferences. The same critic
writes -“ England is rapidly being reduced to a
fortress in the ocean, without self-supporting food
powers, which could by a combination of fleets be
blockaded, starved, reduced to submission, plun-
dered, and destroyed. Nothing but a tremendous
fleet, ready to fight and conquer any three fleets
combined, and a great conscript army, ready to
fight at the first challenge, can save Old England.
Moreover, once agriculture is destroyed, the entire
population are driven into the towns to become
weedy, half-starved, unhealthy, semi-educated
members of the commonwealth, unfit for the hard-
ships of war ; yet dissipated, self-sufficient, vain-
glorious, immersed in vanity, self-conceit, and gin
and beer, neither seeing nor caring for the changes
which are looming in the immediate future. The
shopocracy averse to war, though trained to
volunteering and rifle-shooting, which they fondly
imagine is war itself, or next door to it; and in
which illusions they are confirmed by speeches
made by responsible and irresponsible people who
shudder at the idea of conscription.”
# # *
This artist paints with a big brush and in strong
colours. But wherein are his lines drawn askew P
There are one or two facts worth stating. Free
Trade is a perfect ideal—provided it is uni-
versally adopted. So is a peace-at-any-price
policy. But if these conditions do not exist, each
of these policies is an easy method of national
suicide. A statesman must yet be a child of this
world; and the children of this world are, accord-
ing to Scripture, wiser in their generation than
the children of light. To deal in Free Trade
principles, while all the other nations are taking
points by means of Protective tariffs, is simply to
give one’s self away. To be Christian and peace-
ful among robbers and cut-throats —and the con-
tinental nations are merely robbers and cut-throats
on a large scale —is to court extinction. A nation
can have its throat cut for the sake of its property
just as an individual can. And while the world
remains unregenerate, sagacious men do business
so as to hold their own, and do not scruple to
carry a revolver for the protection of their lives.
Mr. James Fullford, M P.
In connection with some observations on the
Northern districts made by a Bulletin repre-
sentative, we give to-day the portrait of Mr.
James Fullford, the member for West Maitland.
This constituency may be reckoned second only to
those of the metropolis in point of wealth, popu-
lation, and influence. It**is one that has been
developed solely by the enterprise of its residents,
and not by external assistance of any kind ; and
the vitality it displays at all times in political
matters is the result of a general intelligence
created by numerous conflicts on matters of wide
public importance. Maitland possesses the
necessaries for the foundation of a great and pros-
perous city. It is the capital of a vast pastoral
and agricultural district, and, fortunately, through
the energy of its founders and their successors, it
has been made entirely self-supporting. Its
industries equal in variety those of the metro-
polis, and a thoroughly go-ahead spirit is manifest
in all the branches of its business. Politically,
the opinion of the Maitland people has always
carried its weight with the country, and for the
last ten or fifteen years the constituency
has done itself the justice of securing
good Parliamentary representation In Mr.
Cohen, the late member, the district had
an able and most intelligent representative,
and there can be no question that in the selection
of Mr. Fullford it’s usual liberality and intelli-
gence 'were manifest. Mr. Fullford was born,
reared, and educated in the town which he now
represents in Parliament. The interpretation of
an election under such circumstances can only be
creditable. Mr. Fullford was born at West Mait-
land in 1841, and his education was entrusted to
the late Mr. Robinson, of East Maitland, and the
Rev. W. K. Golyer, of the Maitland Grammar
School. At a very early age he gave promise of
unusual powers for financing, and was placed for
four years in the house of Mr. Wade, West Mait-
land. Then, after a brief experience of station
life, he entered the Mercury office, and for a
period of six years conducted the finaneial and
corresponding work of that newspaper. In 1867
he was appointed Town Clerk of the borough, and
held the position for eight years. His father then
being unable to follow his business, Mr. Fullford
succeeded him, and was shortly afterwards elected
to|the position of Alderman. Twice in succession
he was elected Mayor, in recognition of his activity
in whatever concerned the welfare of the town ;
and it was while holding this position that he was
elected to Parliament, his opponent being Mr.
Cohen, then in the height of his popularity. For
this position of representative Mr. Fullford had
steadfastly determined to fit himself, and it is there-
fore not likely that the constituency will have cause
to be disappointed with his efforts. Mr. Fullford is a
magistrate of the territory, chairman of the first
building society ever formed at West Maitland,
and a trustee to the Savings Bank —in
which positions, as in all others he has filled, he
has given evidence of considerable financial
ability.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Anti-Esthetics.
“ What a remarkable thing it is, this new aesthetic
craze I ” says Mrs. Jones, and Mrs. Brown replies,
‘‘Yes. Is it not ridiculous ? ” Whereupon they fall to
and worry the subject vigorously with PosxLETtiT! wTYe
and Matjdie, and perhaps a little of “ Patience ” to aid
them. They are satisfied that a new sin is bom into
the world. It would be idle to tell them that they
have caught but a glimpse of the distorted shadow
of a substance old as creation, and in its simple per-
fection most truthfully divine. When aesthetics reach
the period of craze, when butter becomes “ utter,” and
bread " consummate," and a cup of cold water ** all quite
too too,” it is time to laugh. But dealing largely with
the subject, is there not danger that the ridicule may
become too withering, and is there is not room for
another laugh at the gobemouches who bestir them-
selves to gird at something of which they know as
much as of the Tower of Babel or the Catacombs of
EomeP And, moreover, is there not some soupfon of
jealousy about it P Is it safe and proper and becoming
that Susan should see more in the Ss vres than the willow
pattern, and John flnda pleasure in the angelica blossoms
when heretofore he has been content with the cauli-
flowers P The aesthetic craze is mainly the excuse of
ignorance possessed of a new and dimly perceived idea.
It is an awakening; but some arrant fools only imagine
they are awakened,and babble incoherently through their
sleep. The “ pale pure lily" and *' the rough cracked
flowerpot" may not bo “ sweeter than sin," but they are
at least as sweet as the leggy shepherdess and the
stilted warrior and the painted mug that gave content-
ment of old. It is better to come out to the sun
though some become dazed at the unaccustomed glare,
than to dwell for ever in the caves, and the most distant
flutter of an angel's wing is rather to be desired than a
very intimate acquaintance with the leather-winged bat.
To Gehenna with all humbugs ; and Postlethwaithe,
Maudle and Co. are humbugs, consummate, utter and
complete; but iin Australia, if existent all, they are of
very diminutive stature. As a people, we are not in the
habit of wasting much precious time about sunflowers
nodding by old grey walls, or tall white lilies, “ mystic,
wouderful," or daffodil borders, or primrose banks.
We have not gone to a dangerous depth in the love of
Eossettie, and Swinburne, and Boticelli and Tadema.
“ High blue dados" do not effect us more deeply than
staples of wool. We are not dangerously “intense,”
perhaps have some little length to climb before reach-
ing the level of that one who wore a tasselled cloak and
sombrero of ultra, aesthetic type on those dull days in
which Postlethwaite was born.
Eat Less.
Here is a lesson for the dyspeptic—and who, in these
days of hard living and hard work, is not dyspeptic ?
The appetite of the average man is now-a-days as often
called into existence by alcoholic stimulants and con-
ditions the reverse of normal, as it is by the healthy
impulses of nature—appetite has, in fact, too often
come to mean, not the instinct which leads one to re-
pair the waste of tissue that takes place in the ordinary
course of life, hut merely the morbid promptings of a
dyspeptic desire, the overmastering force of an evil
habit. Let us for a moment place ourselves at the feet
of Lewis Cornaeo, the Venetian who died in 1565, aged
100. Cornaro, after living as most men do, found him-
self at the age of forty an apparently hopeless hypo-
chondriac. Yet he contrived to live sixty more years,
and, what is still better, to enjoy good bodily health
and a vigorous intellect during the period of what this
dyspeptic world calls a man’s “ second childhood." In
fact, Cornaro wrote a book at eighty-three, and in it
said that he was then “ so far from being weary of life
that no man in the world could enjoy the pleasures of
it in fuller perfection or with more sensible delight."
His secret was temperance—not “ temperance" as it is
MR. JAMES FULLFORD, M.P.


understood by the adipose teetotaller, who, while re-
nouncing sack, eats like a pig, but “ temperance” in its
true sense. He allowed himself 12oz. solids and 14oz
fluids daily. Lord Lucan found himself at fifty a bulky|
shattered man. He read and followed Cornaro,
soon became spare, active and comparatively healthy,
lived to the age of st venty-five, and finally died of a
heart disease which he had contracted as the
result of his youthful excesses, and which would
have inevitably killed him many years earlier
had he not amended his diet. His son, the
present Lord Lucan the same who said years
Ago that a man holds his life in his own hands, subject
to accident: that any man who dies before 80 is a
.suicide —has always followed Cornaro, and has, there,
■fore, always been temperate. He is now 83, and the most
-active man of his age in England. Yet he has Jived for
years on eight ounces of solids and twelve ounces of
fluids per day. Dr. Tanner, it is now pretty well
established, lived for forty days on nothing, or next to
nothing. This, it is true, is the reductio ad absurdum ;
yet it is tolerably clear that the truth is to be found
much nearer twelve ounces than two and a half pounds
—the quantity of food which even a prisoner in gaol,
•who is supposed to be hardly used, gets through daily,
hut which it is well nigh impossible he can assimi-
late. There are some fat men who eat
very little; there are many thin men who
eat enormously. The latter, as a rule, terribly over-
work their digestive organa. A sausage machine, no
matter how much may be put through it, gets no fatter.
It merely wears out its teeth. So it is with the slim
■dyspeptic, and the fat dyspeptic, too. These remarks
particularly apply to the business man whose work is
mainly mental —who, in this hot climate, eats heavy
dinners of roast beef and plum pudding, and drinks
plenty of liquor—and who then tries to think deeply
while the vital force which should be aiding the diges-
tion of bis food is hard at work in his head. They
specially apply to the man who toils late and rises
weary from his bed. “ The conclusion of the whole
matter is that every man and every woman has his or
her health and life—barring accidents —at command.
If they will eat and drink as is the usual habit they
must continue to be as t hey are—dull, heavy, ailing
and short lived. If, on the other hand, they have the
courage to adopt sobriety in its true sense, there is no
reason why they should not live to be a thorn in the
aide of all their relations for a hundred years.” It is
not likely that many people will be impressed with the
beauty of the Coenarian philosophy while they are in
rude health. But when any reader of this who likes big
dinners, with or without plenty of sack, becomes ill, let
him think of old Lewis Cornaro, whose “usual mea-
sure in bread, soups, yolks of eggs, and meat, was
twelve ounces, exactly weighed.” Within Cornaeian
imits, eating, like drinking, is a mere habit.
The Sydney “Fourth Section.”
The “Fourth Section” of the police of Russia has
earned for itself an unenviable notoriety throughout
the civilized world. It has been debited with an apti-
tude for arresting innocent persons and hurrying them
to confinement, and, at the same time, with a stupend,
ous incapacity in relation to really dangerous offend-
e. t»T>ui‘ujg the week an apparent attempt to emulate
this system has been reported to have occurred in
Sydney. According to the S. M. Herald, a man "of
respectable appearance " was bailed up in the street by
a detective and taken to the lock-up “ to be identified."
There the watch, chain, and locket which he wore were
taken from him, and he was questioned as to how he
became possessed of the property; and when he
demurred to satisfying this inquisition, was told that
he would be charged with having stolen the property.
The man then confessed—that he had bought the
things and paid for them. Upon this he was locked
up, searched, and everything about him taken from
his possession. The detective, in reply to the magis-
trates, denied that he had been for twelve months
threatening the man, but said that he had frequently
told him that unless he kept better hours he would
look him up I At this point the reader will have
■drawn the inference that the person so treated is an
habitual criminal, and that, consequently, there may
have been reasons which have not transpired for his
being treated as a suspected person. But no. The
■detective himself stated that his prisoner had never
been before the Court for any offence. We rub our
•eyes to assure ourselves that we are awake and in a
British [colony, and that this is not merely a sort of
Russian Night’s Entertainment. It is really necessary
that some understanding should be come to about this
affair. It has a peculiar interest for all members of
the community who are so unfortunate os to be of
respectable appearance, to wear a watch and chain,
and to have never been before a Court charged with
any offence. Some authoritative declaration is required
as to the degree of liberty which is permitted to
-criminals of that description. Are they really liable to
be threatened with the look-up unless they keep such
hours as shall be considered “early ” by the detective
police ? The matter really has a personal interest for
journalists, who, as a class, keep late hours. It is
appalling to think that we are liable to be arrested any
night, our watch and chain taken from us, and our-
selves thrust into a cell—possibly already tenanted by
the editor of the Daily Telegraph. Apart from other
inconveniences there would probably remain in the
cell by morning nothing except some shreds of wool
And hair.
To the Bitter End.
There are two July days which large masses of men
have agreed to term glorious. The glorious 4th com-
memorates the birth of a nation, the glorious 12th, a
crimson, winning day in the annals of a sect. We have
not much to say of the 4th, simply that it is a good
day and worthily crowned ; and we have a vague belief
that the strong amalgamating powers of the future will
make for us another day of like, but larger, fame, to be
celebrated with a deeper draught and louder cheer. Of
the 12th, it is also a good day—two millions of men
have agreed to say so. Forsaith, Grand Chaplain, and
Kelynack, Doctor and Divine, say so, and say
some other things savouring slightly of the Obadiah-
Hew-Them-Down times. Doubtless Obadiah was a man
fitted to his time, as was William the Silent and the
stem. But they have passed with their times, and why
certain frowns which through those times controlled
but chilled the world should be perpetually preserved,
and re-set, and deeper graved with every coining year,
is a matter that vexes and perplexes us. There are
certain affairs, we are told, which must be met by frowns,
and, remembering the history of the day celebrated,those
frowns may be reasonably supposed to imply something
more than contortions of the countenance. We have
no wish to argue the matter. Of course the world, the
flesh, and the devil mnst be met by frowns, and blows.
and general and persistent warfare, —and there is ample
authority for getting the Evil One on the hip at every
possible opportunity; but in that volume which is
professedly the manual of Christian lives, we have never
discovered a precept to inculcate or sanction that one
most particularly black frown which some offer to every
Roman worshipper as to the wretch who dares by
thought, or word, or deed to oppose that unquestion-
ably Divine ordination —the procession of the Hanove-
rian dynasty to the throne of Britain. Is it not possible
to demonstrate the truth of doctrines by the example of
men’s lives ? to prove by illustration that the super-
stitious Roman, and the half-hearted Churchman, and
the truculent Freethinker are each somewhat lower
than oneself —less worthy of commendation as Christian
or Patriot or Man ? And can it not by the shining grace
of your own womankind be proved to the most scep-
tical that the perfection of honest devotion, of true
self-abnegation, and of genuine womanly love is to be
attained within a well-ordered home, rather than behind
the buttresses of the convent and beneath the veil of the
nun ? Show but those things, and they shall be more
efficacious thau the most militant frowns, more pene-
trating than the most subtle organization, and more
potent in the uplifting of mankind than the memory of
Boyne-water—as a second Calvary in every heart, and
William the Silent upon an universal throne, with the
Pope and the Devil laid together by the heels, and sewn
into a hassock for his feet.
Saints or Courtiers.
Saint Andrew's Cathedral was crammed on Sunday last
by an unwonted throng. The regular congregation was
there. But besides these fortunate possessors of re-
served seats, there was quite an irruption of outsiders,
who had beeu smitten with an irresistible desire to
betake them to that particular house of God and there
worship—two middies. This may, peahaps, be bnt a
crude exposition of the motives which attracted a
throng of strangers to St. Andrew’s. It may be that
an idea was epidemic, as ideas sometimes are, that it
wou’d be just as well to save one’s soul in good com-
pany as in company merely ordinary. And it may be
noted in rebuttal that although there was an inordinate
crowd of worshippers at St. Andrew’s, there were no
Princes and no Admiral. The latter hod proceeded
on a trip to Bathurst in a special train. The public
will await with tremendous anxiety the disruption in
the Cabinet which this frightful incident must produce.
Of course, such a proceeding could not possibly have
occurred with the knowledge or sanction of a Premier
with principles so strict and severe as Sir Henry
Parkes. Had that eminent moralist and stern custodian
of the public faith and morals been aware of what was
in contemplation, he would beyond all doubt have sent
for Mr. Fosbert, and have arranged that an intimation
should be served upon their Royal Highnesses that
they could not be permitted to demoralize our pure and
Sabbath-observing cimmunity. The precedent of
Proctor has taught us the unbending Sabbatarianism
of our Premier. That an Earl should have been pro-
vided, with his cognizance, with a special train in
which to take an excursion on Sunday, is incredible.
We await the announcement of Mr. Lackey’s successor,
and thank Heaven that we have a Premier who is a
saint, not a respecter of persons.
A Tax upon Respectability.
Clause 31 of the new Licensing Bill now before the
House is an extraordinary production. It affords every
encouragement to those hotel-keepers who ought to be
discouraged, and leaves without encouragement those
who deserve it; in fact, to put it plainly, it does those
things which it ought not to do, and leaves undone those
things which it ought to do. It taxes heavily those
whose necessities in respect to the attainment of the
comfort of their patrons already tax them well, and
offers no end of inducements to small shanty-keepers
to rapidly acquire their fortunes. If a man has only a
bar-room, and that well stocked, there is absolutely
nothing to prevent his success as a publican; but if, on
the other hand, he is at the expense of maintaining a
large, comfortable and commodious house, he is handi-
capped by a tax which is of the severest character.
Virtually, it is his lodgers’ apartments that ore taxed
then, and not his income from the sales in his
bar. We have said there is every chance for
taproom-keepers to succeed—there is more—there is a
certainty. And then, with whatever severity the clause
relating to local option may be put into force, there will
always be a probability of its failure. With ten pounds
per year as the amount of a license-fee, and even a
moderately good situation, there are invitations of but
too seductive a character to produce the establishment in
our midst of hundreds of undesirable beer-shops and
drinking dens. As a consequence, we shall require
additional assistance at the hands of the police; more
accommodation for prospective lunatics ; and probably,
before long, we shall have to put a tax upon honesty,
as well as respectability, to assist in the maintenance of
our prisons, asylums, and hospitals.
Prigonometry.
Commemoration Day at the University passed off
tamely enough. There was, of course, the unavoidable
cloud caused by the absence of Vice-royalty and the
Princes, bnt even that is insufficient wholly to explain
the dismal element. The University, we take it, is not
popular enough to excite general interest on its gala
days. It stands aloof, above the great learning body
of the people; it is less the coping-stone of the
edifice of public instruction than the frail shadow of
too Conservative institutions of a similar nature at
home. The opening of its lecture-halls to “sweet girl
graduates” was a step in the right direction, but it
required to be preceded—or supplemented—by an ex-
tension of its benefits to a debarred class of male
aspirants, in the first instance. As it at present exists,
it is, perhaps, the most Conservative modem institu-
tion of its kind in the world; and this not so much
because of its positive regulations as on account
of the negative restrictions it casts in the
way of the ambitious learner. The end of its
original founders would have been better gained
if, instead of framing its constitution on the superseded
models of Oxford and Cambridge, they had transplanted
the system of the modem London University, with its
elastic adaptability to the general wants of the times.
Ono of the most acceptable features of the institution is
that of evening lectures. Although it is objected that
these tend to degrade the character of a University,
they have not been found to do so in this instance.
Under this concession, students whose circumstances
forbid giving up their whole time to the work of self-
education, are enabled to comply with the academical
regulation which enforces attendance at lectures, when
their duties of the day are over. We want something
of this sort here. This Is the best means we know of to
popularise our Univerait .
Watery Witchcraft.
Catlin, in his admirable and exhaustive work on the
Mandan Indiana of North America, describes the pro.
fessional rain-invokers. When the prairies were burnt
up by long-continued drought, and the herds of
buffalo, upon the appearance of which depended the
sustenance of the tribe, were consequently not forth,
coming from their wintering places, the medicine-man
was sent for. This potent wizard, for a consideration,
undertook to bring the wished-for rains, and betook
himself to incantations. He mumbled and gesticulated,
he sweated and he howled, and he got on the roofs of
the lodges and shot arrows at the sky. If the people of
the tribe were patient, the charm succeeded —in the
png run. Sometimes it succeeded very rapidly, for,
naturally, the tribe was not in a hurry to call in the
wizard till the duration of the drought had been so long
as to make them desperate and careless of expense. If,
however, the rain-oompeller was unlucky, and the
needed showers obstinately refused to come, he in-
curred some risk of having his skull battered in, and a
certainty of losing all the confidence he had previously
enjoyed. Something of the savage’s superstition still
lingers among simple country folks and people of low
cranial development, and is fostered by modern medi-
cine-men for reasons which will scarcely bear analysis.
People still trust to incantations to bring rain, and ns,
like the Mandans, they seldom resort to the wizard till
a drought has continued unusually long, it not infre-
quently happens that the mumbo-jumbo business and
rain follow one another like cause and effect. The good
people of Warwick, Queensland, have recently been in-
dulging in this grotesque survival of savage superstition.
Their twice-sown wheat had failed to germinate, and
special services of intercession for rain were held. The
local Argus observes with simplicity that “ there was a
numerous congregation at each place of worship, and a
pleasing and noticeable feature was the presence of a
large number of country people.” From this it appears
that rustics, who were not ordinarily troubled to attend
church for the good of their souls, rolled up for the
sake of their wheat. This reminds us of a story we
have heard. A travelling bush parson camped at a head,
station while the country was crackling under a long
drought. After refreshment, the reverend man offered
up his petitions for rain. Whereupon the squatter—a
logical wretch—demanded whether the holy man be-
lieved in the efficacy of his own prayer. The reverend
traveller replied with confidence that he undoubtedly
did so believe. “ Then what the blazes do you mean by
letting the country get into this state ?” demanded the
wrathful man of flocks. And what the rain-oompeller
rejoined we never heard.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Gaunson is severely indisposed.
In liquidation The Hon. Graham Berry’s
Testimonial P and.
A motion submitted by Mr. Teece, to abolish
fees in Public Schools, was rejected by a large majority
All the members of the O’Loghlen Ministry are
to be opposed, with the exception of Messrs. Grant and
Bent.
The S.A. revenue for the year ending 30th June
was £2,010,681, being an increase of £179,517 on the
previous year.
Can it foreshadow a change in the Herald’s
political leanings, that article on the Parkes-Forster
salary imbroglio?
Mr. Ormond has moved a vote of want of con-
fidence in the N.Z. Government with reference to the
financial proposals
Rumour has it that Mr. Archibald Meston,
member for Rosewood, will shortly resign his seat in
the Queensland Assembly.
Mr. Berry has found that the Marquis of Nor-
manby is made of somewhat different stuff from Sir
George Bowen. His Lordship was deaf to all entreaties
for a dissolution.
Mr. Hoskins re-appeared in Parliament last
Friday, and had a smile for all his friends, whilst his
enemies (politically speaking) were treated to a formal
shake of the hand.
The Tasmanian Parliament opened on Tuesday.
Among the more important measures to be introduced
during the session are Criminal Appeal Court and
Chinese Immigration Bills.
Mr. Turner, who, by the way, is a most power-
ful speaker, and the most sensible working man’s re-
presentative in Australia, says that Mr. Fitzpatrick
acts like a billygoat, because when he is kicked he says
“ Bah.”
“ Sufficient for the day is the small-pox thereof,”
was the smart reply which Sir Henry made when Mr.
Fremlin asked whether, in the event of any member of
the Government or of the House getting the small-pox,
he would be sent to the quarantine station in the usual
way.
The East Maitland people are wondering
whether their member means to carry out his stupend-
ous threat to have the continuation of the Northern
line to start from East Maitland or die. Or was the
membah’s fiery declaration a mere hurricane in a mud-
puddle ?
Mr. Martin, the non-talkative city representa-
tive, was very severe on the unco guid the other night.
“ The fellows who are always lecturing us about doing
unto our neighbours, as we would they should do unto
us, are,” says Mr. Martin, “those who will take ad-
vantage of you whenever they get a chance."
An observant Parliamentary scribe says that
the very tall men are the least talkative. He asks us
to compare Mr. Badgery, Mr. Byrnes, Mr. H. Clarke,
Mr. Ferguson, Sir Patrick Jennings, Mr. Lackey, Mr.
Teece. and Mr. Wisdom, with Mr. Cameron, Mr. Cope-
land, Mr. Jacob, Mr. Melville, Mr. M'Elhone, Dr. Ren-
wick, and Mr. Pigott.
During the last few months speculators have
selected a great deal of sugar land in the Par North at
ss. and 10s. an acre, and the Queensland Premier, in
consequence of his unavoidable absence in England, has
been somewhat out of the running. His Government
are now, therefore, going to make it warm for future
selectors, and the Governor’s speech says “ my advisers
consider that the low prices . . . have encouraged
* undue speculation.’ ”
When a man says he is very modest in disposi-
tion, we ought to believe him 5 but who is it that can
credit Mr. Abigail with not having more brass than is
commensurate with his proportions ? The noted little
man says that Inspector Seymour’s description of
Chinese immorality is so disgusting that in the presence
of men he dare not read it. A celebrated Englishman
once said that there was no incompatibility between
the eye that could gloat at certain things and the
tongue which was too modest to describe them.
In a recent debate, the usually mild-spoken
Mr. W. J. Foster aimed a severe blow at Mr. Melville.
Mr. Foster was urging that steps should be taken to
protect the property of a quarantined Chinaman, to
which Mr. Melville interjected, “No European will inter-
fere with the Chinaman’s property." Mr. Foster waxed
indignant, and said that protection was necessary
owing to the larrikinism which prevailed—larrikinism
which was not confined to the fellows who treated
Chinese with brutal violence in the streets, but larrikin,
ism which was displayed on the public platform, where
were to be found men, with some education, who made
political capital by holding the Chinese up to public
opprobrium—who betrayed violence degrading to them-
selves and the country, and who made themselves liable
to the charge of barbarism which could not be imputed
to Chinamen. Mr. Poster looked steadfastly the while
at Mr. Melville, who betrayed signs of " unmingled
misery,” to quote an expression of his own.
Beyers is immortalised. He spoke for a quarter
of an hour on the Chinese Bill on Thursday night. No
wonder that his oratorical flights deadened the ambi-
tions of the other eight or nine members who wished to
fo through the form of saying what had been said by at
least a dozen other speakers. Mr. Beyers’s was the
novel speech of the debate In one breath he was a
Free trader, in the next a Protectionist, in the next he
said cheap labour was “one very nice thing,” and in
the next that he should encourage high wages. Mudge*
and inconsistency are truly synonymous terms. Mr.
Garrett wanted to know what sort of a figure a China-
man would cut in Parliament, and after hearing Mr.
Beyers we felt inclined to ask—but, comparisons are
odious.
The sensibility of conceited men has often been
remarked. Mr. Kidd, one of the representatives of
Camden, belongs to this class. A nondescript writer
in the Mail said that Mr. Kidd had been sat upon
during last session, and in other ways narrated the
truth with respect to that gentleman. Wounded vanity
does not like the truth, and therefore Mr. Kidd most
reluctantly—this reluctance of Members of Parliament
to say anything is one of their peculiar characteristics
—gets up and asks the other members of the political
fraternity, whether he is inflated with self-importance
or whether ho has been sat upon t Privately, Mr. Kidd
is a very estimable gentleman, but as a politician he is
to be classed amongst the nuisances. He is the prosiest
of prosy speakers, and as his speeches are not in-
structive, amusing, or trustful, the time which they
occupy is so much time wasted. Mr. M'Elhone is the
champion talkist, but there is no French polish about
him; he is bearable because he satisfies himself, hurts
no one, and amuses everybody.
The other day the Hon. Patrick Perkins and
Cardinal Warwick Horan, accompanied by satellites
arrived by special train at Stanthorpe. After partaking
of a recherche luncheon, at which, it was noticed, the
honorable Pat. did not drink his own brew, it was sug-
gested that the Mayor and aldermen should be called
in to enliven the entertainment; whereon the Car-
dinal rose and said he proposed the Ministry and the
honorable Pat., for a finer gentleman he never knew.
Pat. honoured the toast, and proposed the health of the
member for Stanthorpe, “a fine man—a man of weight
—and surely no longer a boy. And now, Mr. Mayor,
let me tell you he is not your delegate, and can vote for
us —the best Ministry that ever was—it be likes; and
your instructions to him he don’t care a straw about.
J. De Poix can dance to any tune he pleases." There-
upon the Mayor, who is of the breed that begat Iron-
sides, arose and said: —“ Mister Perkins, I correct you.
Mr. Member was not instructed by me as to his vote in
the House. The meeting you allude to was attended
by the intelligence of the town —men all capable of
drawing out resolutions condemnatory of your Ministry,
which they did, and which I stand by. Stanthorpe
can hold its own.” The honorable Patrick collapsed.
The country pays for the special.
SOCIAL.
As even the presence of the Princes at Satur-
day’s races failed to draw the whole of the fashionable
world from the University Commemoration and the
football match, and concentrate it at Raudwiok, the
display on the lawn, though by no means bad for an off-
day, was not up to “ Cup” form. Yet there were present
some very pretty toilettes, and some very charming
wearers. A lady well-known in Sydney and Melbourne
society wore a moat tasteful costume of plum-coloured
or claret silk, with bonnet of some light sheeny material.
Then there was an enchanting vision—though she
was rather more substantial than a mere vision—in
dark bottle-green and old gold; and an attractive
brunette in peacock-blue and old gold. A blonde, in
pale blue silk, with train of sapphire velvet, was much
admired; and there were two dark costumes—one of
black velvet and black silk, with a touch of crimson in
the bonnet; the other of black velvet, with a maroon
and white lace parasol—well adapted to the graceful
forms which carried them. A slight and svelte young
lady (who, rumour says, will one day be permanently
attached to the Government House party) appeared in
striped satin, and black fur tippets. Three costumes
whoso owners were much regarded—and it is no doubt
with this view that ladies don pretty frocks on public
occasions—were respectively of olive green and the
colour known to artists as “green bice;" dark bottle-
green satin, and shaded sash (a glorious figure); and
pale grey and claret-colour. Those who like a slight,
lithe form, clean-cut features, and a perfect costume —
who does not P—were enchanted by the presence of a
lady (the wife of a gentleman in the Government ser-
vice), who was escorted by a popular sportsman. The
gentleman in question, by the way, is famous for new
“ white tiles," and for the skill with which he demon,
strates at how acute an angle they may be safely worn.
# # *
A correspondent writes to the effect that the
second of the series of monthly dances given by the
gentlemen of Narrabri was held in the Mechanics’
Institute on 12th July, and was a very pleasant affair.
The lady who was voted belle wore white silk, with
black velvet trimmings.
* * *
The daughter of a Southern M.P., who resides
at Balmain, will shortly be married to a young pro-
fessional gentleman of that town.
* * •
Mr. E. Bowman, acting on behalf of the
bachelors of Muswellbrook, has issued 270 invitations
for a ball on the 4th August, the night of the local
amateur race meeting. It is intended that the affair
shall be an elegant and thoroughly enjoyable one.
• * m
A well-known commissioner whose imposing
demeanour, handsome countenance, and drooping
moustache attract instant notice, became enamoured of
the daughter of a city merchant, who, in addition to
many personal charms, was also the fortunate pos-
sessor of much silver. He proposed marriage and was
accepted. During his absence on business, however, in
Melbourne, the green-eyed monster had been at work.
An earlier favoured one hearing of the intended match,
went straight to the city merchant’s daughter, and told
an awful tale of woman’s trust and man’s deceit.
Result, engagement broken off, husband in future ,
desperate, did that which no Englishman would have
done, lifted his hand, and—well, no matter—the details
were made known in a case of assault in a police court.
• • •
The latest Maitland novelty consists of fashion-
able dancing parties, got up by ladies who in large
numbers contribute half-a-crown each, and invite their
male friends. The coffee and sandwiches are good,
though dignity be at a discount. These little “ hops ”
have at any rate had what was apparently the desired
effect —that of stirring up the local bachelors to give a
ball. Invitations have been issued, audtbe affair eventu-
ates in about a fortnight.
* • ♦
On Thursday, the 14th, the members of the
Alexandria Skating Rink, Woollahra, gave another of
the pleasant little dances which have been so success-
fully held by them during the past season. Who was
the belle could not be decided, but had the opinion of
a large number of the opposite sex been taken, Wool-
lahra would have been named as her residence. In
respect to dancing, a young lady from Balmain carried
off the palm.
« • «
It has just come out that “ Mrs.” , the con-
sort of an accomplished swindler whose daring deeds
recently created so great a sensation throughout the
whole of Australia, is identical with the divorced wife
of a distinguished visitor now in a certain Australian
port,
# * #
The Masonic Ball at Townsville was very suc-
cessful, and was attended by 280 guests.
* • *
The Princes appeared at the races in very narrow
black inexpressibles, light tweed coats, “ tumble-off-a-
’bus ” hats, and yellow “ kids."
* * *
The plain and fancy dress dance which took place
at “ Pomona,” on the evening of Wednesday, the 13th,
proved, as was anticipated, a great success. The


IMPORTANT
AND
INTERESTING STATEMENTS.
Read, Mark, and Inwardly Digest—Some-
thing for Everybody.
PURITY OF FAMILY MEDICINES OF
THE UTMOST IMPORTANCE.
HOP BITTERS !
ABE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheapest Medicine ever
Made.
THEY ABE COMPOUNDED PEOM
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (PO-
DOPHYLLIN) & DANDELION.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and in
addition contain all the best and most
effective curative properties of all other
Bitters, being the Greatest BLOOD PUB I-
FIEE and life and health restoring agent
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can possibly long
exist where these Bitters are used, so
varied and perfect are their operations.
They Give New Life and Vigor to the
Aged and Infirm.
To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary Men,
Ladies, and all those whose sedentary
employments canse irregularity of the
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or Kidneys, or
who require an Appetiser, Tonic, and mild
Stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic, and stimu-
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failings or symp-
toms are, or what the disease or ailment
is, use Hop Bitters. Don't wait until you
are sick, but if you only feel bad or miser-
able, use the Bitters at once. It may save
your life. Hundreds have been saved by
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask you* Chemist, Druggist, or Physician
Do not suffer yourself, or let your friends
suffer, but use and urge them to use Hop
Bitters.
Bomember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged nostrum, but the pnerest, cheapest,
and best Medicine ever made, and no per-
son or family should be without it.
MONTEPIORE, STUART, A CO.,
General Agents,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
qVUAL
-at:
Uj
T 1 *
I
as
ocn£
L
ASS
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL-
HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEOEGE STEEET.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. SUBSCEIBED; £42.049,
LIFE and FIEE INSURANCES.
LOWEST BATES of PREMIUM.
tar Policy holders participate to the extent of four-
fifths in the profits.
JAMES S. BEAT, Secretary.
AEQEST ESTABLISHMENT OP
I KIND IN AUSTBALIA.
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
EETAIL PEICE LIST.
I™ T C „?o l °nL Tea 'l2s. 2s 6d, 3s. 8s 6d, 4s, 4a 6d.' 6s
Pure Java Tea
Pore Indian Tea
J
per lb.
CHINA GEOWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d. Is 6d, Is 9d.
2a per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing-
12Ibs of any:of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3ld per lb.
NGLIS, NIXON AND CO-
EAST INDIAN PEODUCE,
INSUEANCE AND GENERAL AGENTS.
7 Bridge-street Chambers.
Chief Agents for the
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital: £1,000,000.
FIEE RISKS AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Pure fragrant INDIAN TEA, fresh from the Gar-
dens, grown under European supervision, and sold in
original packages 101 b and upwards.
We only ask yon to try it fairly. You are sure to come
back again to
THE INDIAN TEA BOOMS.
CONSULTATION on the Metropolitan Stakes
—250 at £1 each, divided as follows First horse
£l5O, second £5O, third £25, starters (not 123) £25.
N.B.—All communications must be accompanied with
stamps forreply. Address, A. TURNER, 91 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street. next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv,
majority of the guests were attired in fancy costumes,
which greatly added to the brilliancy of the ball-room,
gome of the dresses were very attractive and costly;
among them may be mentioned those of the estimable
hostess, who impersonated “ Beauty j” of a young lady
from Balmain who appeared as a peasant girl, and a
young lady from Woollahra, attired as a flower girl.
The festivities were not brought to a close until the
hands of the clock had passed over several of the small
hours of the morning.
* # *
The people who rushed St. Andrew’s Cathedral
on Sunday afternoon, in the expectation of seeing the
princes, were dreadfully sold. The place was literally
crammed, and the girls got so close to what they thought
was to be the place of honour that it was quite plain
they would have sat in the pulpit. But the naughty
keys —shades of Calvi i! —were sight-seeing at the
University. And on a Sunday!
• » «
At Brewarrina Pastoral Ball, dancing continued
for three consecutive nights—one engagement. Bourke
adies remarkable for completeness of toilette. An un-
married Tamworth lady the belle of the ball.
* * *
The Parramatta Rowing Club gives a grand ball
shortly, to celebrate its inauguration.
* * *
Weddings are just now very prevalent on the
Manning.
# # *
The race ball at Rockhampton School of Arts
was a brilliant success. 180 were present. In the
words of a Northern man, “the dresses were pretty
and effective, and the tout ensemble was so pleasing that
it was with almost regret we knew that before daylight
had peeped over the billow the hall would be deserved,
that the beaming eyes would be hidden under the lids,
and the memory of ‘ wreathed smiles ’ and sweet voices
alone could recall them, and the few happy hours,
when Joy weaved a chain, the links of which it was
indeed pain to break.” But isn’t this eloquence a
little mixed ?
* * *
It having been intimated that all the engage-
ments of the Princes are filled up, St. Vincent’s ball,
which was previously postponed with a view to securing
their attendance, has been further put off until the be-
ginning of September. Of course no one doubts that it
is through a mere accident alone that the young gentle-
men are unable to favour the ball committee with their
presence; but, all things considered, it is much to be
regretted that they have found it necessary to decline
this especial invitation. Everyone hopes that when Sir
Henry showed the Princes over the Colonial Secretary’s
Office the other day, and got them to inscribe their
names in his album, he didn’t take the opportunity of
trotting out the Kiama Ghost.
• * •
In certain circles, a good deal of heart-burning
has been occasioned by the fact that the ordinary rules
of precedence were not observed in connection with the
supper at the Mayor’s ball. It might have been sup-
posed that during the visit of the Royal middies special
care would have been taken to follow the home customs.
In view of the home fashion, it would have been reason-
able to have expected that the Princes would have had
introduced to them the daughters or wives of distin-
gnished citizens, or members of families whose heads
have done the State some service, as worthy of such a
slight attention as being taken to the private supper.
It is surely a false kindness to push into prominence
those who have neither political, official, nor social
standing to warrant any special distinction at a Mayor’s
ball; and it is excessively bad taste to force upon the
notice of the first lady in our land the presence of those
who, from whatever cause, have ceased to be on the
lady's visiting list after a period of intimacy which, by
its excess, gave rise to unfavourable comment. The
training of the young Princes is too carefully watched
for the indiscretion to be laid to their charge, and in
many quarters it is considered the person who pro-
posed and arranged their companions of the supper
table was guilty of a serious breach of etiquette to
them, to Lady Augustus Loftns, to the Mayor and
Mayoress, and, most of all, to those who, through his
agency, were, placed in so false a position.
» * •
The Woollahra Assembly Ball took place on
Monday, and proved in all respects a great success.
The dresses worn Vy some of the ladies were very
pretty and tasteful.
• * *
Mr. Arthur S. Benjamin, of the firm of Maurice
D. Benjamin and Co., Brisbane, was married on July
13, to Miss Lizzie Cohen, daughter of the late Mr.
William Cohen, of Tamworth. The ceremony and
dejeuner took place at the residence of the bride’s father,
10, Alberto Terrace, Darlinghurst Road. The bride
was elegantly attired in white corded silk, with train
and body of silver-striped satin, neck wreath of orange
blossom, and a very handsome wreath and veil. The
bridesmaids (who wore very effective costumes of cream
cashmere, trimmed with cardinal satin, and Mother
Hubbard bonnets to match) were the three sisters of
the bride, and Miss Alice Moss. The service was per-
formed by the Rev. A. B. Davis, assisted by the Rev.
A. A, Levi; and the happy couple departed to spend
their honeymoon at Coogee, amid a shower of the
projectiles peculiar to such occasions.
[“Those who send us social items should give their names
and addresses, which will under no circumstances
whatever be disclosed. Our Social column is intended
to be a record, in perfectly good faith, of the leading
social events of the day.]
LATE THEATRICAL.
A baby at “Diplomacy,” on Monday, was too
much for Titheradge, who requested its removal.
* # #
The latest novelty at “ Tambour-Major” is
Griolet’s medal.
• * *
The Montague-Tumer season at Brisbane
came to a fitting end on Monday with Miss Annis
Montague’s benefit, on which occasion that lady was
sresented5 resented with a diamond bracelet by Dr. O’Doherty,
1.L.C., on behalf of those who adore her. Sir Arthur
and Miss Kennedy were present, and the house was
crammed from floor to ceiling. The company open here
on Monday next at their old quarters, the Gaiety.
They make their rentrSe in “ Mignon,” a delightful poem,
set to delightful music.
* * #
The Wilhelmj combination at the Masonic Hall,
despite their great talent, have not, all things con-
sidered, done so well as they might reasonably have
expected to do. It is difficult to find the reason for
this, as, so far as Wilhelmj, himself, is concerned,
nothing so marvellous as his playing has ever been
more than dreamed of in the Antipodes. The merits of
the other artistes have been fully canvassed in this
journal; so, as they leave for Melbourne at the end of
the week (their last performance being on Saturday
night), all we have to do is to wish them bon voyage, and
better luck in Melbourne.
• * •
For some time the Vice-regal support to musical
entertainments in Melbourne has been so largely given
to one pianiste that envy, hatred, and malice have been
greatly excited, and to such an extent that a vigorous
and somewhat venomous protest has been sent home,
has appeared in a Loudon musical paper, and in time
come back to the colony again. We do think it rather
too bad to have the charming recipient of so much court
favour sent to us during the gala week, and that after
the long stay of the Squadron in Melbourne, the
patronage of the officers, including the Royal Princes,
should be appropriated for one performance by a Mel-
bourne artist, while local artists are left out in t he
cold.
* * *
During the week Mr. John Hall has been per-
forming in “ The Streets of London,” the star, of
course, playing the part of Tom Trumper. And on
Wednesday was produced a “ romantic drama in three
acts,” simply entitled “ The Will and the Way; or the
\iBion of Death.” This sort of thing does not give
•ither Mr. Hall or his company much of a chance, so we
prefer not enlarging upon either piece. To-morrow
(Friday) Mr. Hall takes his benefit, when, if the Sydney
playgoing public wish to do honour to a fine actor and a
good fellow, they will crowd the house in every
part. Mr. Wybert Reeve and his company have to
leave the Gaiety in consequence of the return from
Brisbane of the Montague-Turner party. The Comedy
people take possession of the Opera House on Monday
night, run “ Diplomacy ” (by special desire) for another
five nights, and on Saturday, the 30th, put en Byron's
comic drama, ”The Crushed Tragedian" (rendered so
famous in America by the acting of Mr. Sothern), with
Mr. Reeve in the part of Fitzaltamont.
« « *
At the very last moment we hear that the Car-
dens do go to the Queen’s, after all. They open at the
end of August.
• • •
The South Company, with Johnny Hall, start
to travel with the “ Pirates of Penzance" in a few days.
A good combination 1
* * *
A bouquet thrown upon the stage.
And two fair forms are bent to grab it;
The quicker gains the flowers, and
The other’s wild she didn’t nab it.
Then both smile with a smile so fair;
But when they’re “ off," oh, don’t one\txcear I
* m ♦
We learn from Grafton that Miss Teresa Horan
and her charming little sister hare “ knocked ” people,
in “Ixion." Their singing delighted all who heard it,
and yonng fellows go about, wandering along the banks
of the Clarence, crooning the airs they have heard them
sing, and weeping silently by the light of the moon.
We believe the Miss Horans return shortly, when they
will make their appearance at a metropolitan theatre.
* * •
This is, at present, only a secret. It is whispered
down the town that, by way of recognising the large
amount of talent evinced by Miss Annie Mayor in her
impersonation of Dora, a movement is on foot to
tender that clever young lady (who, by the way, is a
native of this fair city) a complimentary benefit at one
of the theatres. This is only, of course, a very prelimi-
nary announcement, but nevertheless it will serve as an
intimation to those who love true art upon the stage, to
get their cheque-books ready. However, more of this
anon.
* * *
Much trouble between Messrs. Hallewell and
Musgrove,. The latter gentleman claims that the
former is under contract to him, and this Mr. Hallewell
is understood to dispute. The trouble, we are told,
has gone so for that Mr. Musgrove is applying for an
injunction to prevent the gifted basso from singing
to-day. However, Mr. Hallewell means to sing, injunc-
tion or no injunction—that’s to say, if they don’t
meanwhile stuff his throat with parchment.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
The Most Noble Augustus Constantine, eto.,
Marquis of Normanby, has, in his immediate entourage,
a lot of the feeblest Tite Barnacles who ever inflicted
themselves on a suffering colony. The name “ Tite ”
is applicable to nearly all of them, and when they are
let out to dine, they can seldom find their way home
unaided. It has been the custom for some of them to
“ box the watch," and gratuitously insult the sentries
on duty. The other night a “ newly-joined " Volunteer
was on guard. He was a muscular man, and a calm
withal. When the reckless lad approached him with
the customary blasphemy, he only said —unwitting of
course of the rank and station of his assailant—“lf
you don’t shut up,'you little beggar, I’ll put you in the
water tank.” And he did!
Dripping and freezing—it was uncommonly cold
in Melbourne last week—the misguided young man
sought his apartments in the Vice-regal mansion, and
in the morning complained to His Excellency. The
festive Phipps winked his gubernatorial eye: “I’m
glad to see you keep out of hot water, my boy,” said he,
—and that was all that could be extracted from this
thoroughly safe and Conservative old bird.
A well-known Melbourne celebrity—the reverend
Father in God, Bleasdale—has turned up in 'Frisco.
He writes for the Bulletin, and is gay. The worthy
Doctor has been appointed secretary to the Viticultural
Association of California, and has been sampling wines
with great energy. He says that he likes the place, but
objects to the free shooting. “ They put pistol-pockets
in my trousers,” said he, in his letter to Archbishop
Ooold; "and in a black pair, which I ordered for
Sunday duty, they put two, because homicide is more
frequent on that day.”
There is a row in the Victorian Navy. Captain
Mandeville, who has seen service all over the world,
and has been several times mentioned in despatches,
has not achieved the favour of the Conservatives.
There is an intimation that his “ billet ” (every bullet
has its billet, and Mandeville has three in his body) will
be taken away from him. The staff has already been
reduced, and the Nelson and Cerberus are considerably
undermanned. When the Admiral was here the other
day there was a great discussion concerning precedence.
Clanwilliam wanted this, Mandeville commanded that,
while Captain Lord Charles Scott hung in the gangway
utrumque paratus, prepared for either fortune. Sud.
denly Mandeville broke the awkward silence which
followed on the final demands of Clanwilliam, by say-
ing : “ Are you acquainted, sir, with the songs of
Dibdin ?” “lam, sir," replied the silver-topped old
salt, hauling in the running rigging wherewith he
works his “ timber fin." “ Then," said the commander
of the Nelson, “ you cannot fail to recall the beautifnl
lines,
* If I’m a Commodore
And you’re a Commodore,
Who the ’s to row the boat ashore ?’"
Clanwilliam looked round to see if Dalton had heard
the jest, and, doffing his fore-and-after, gravely took
his seat in the lee scuppers.
Dewhurst appeared at the Royal on Saturday
night as Othello. He made a dead failure, being more
like a mild grocer’s clerk than the jealous Moor. When
he said “ Wude am I in my speach, aw! ” the aw-dience
laughed. Appleton’s lago was not bad, but Miss Deor-
wyn’s Desdemona made everybody feel that it must
have been a happy release for Cyprus when she was
smothered.
The Royal, they say, is trying to change hands.
July is named as the time, and Garner was spoken of as
the man. But the negotiations stick —they want that
which Colonel Quagg was accustomed to call “ile.”
The theatre is too big for Garner, who made his first
appearance in Australia there, in a light comedy part of
the second-rate order; and I have my own ideas as to
the intention of Harwood. In the meantime, the pen-
sive Pomeroy—she writes poetry, and has a husband
who is the editor of a paper somewhere on the Great
Pacific Slope—has drawn well, and put money in her
own and the managerial purse. The next “ star ” —I
am muchly sick of dramatic astronomy—is (after the
“World," with Titheradge in lead) one Harkins, whose
agent is Prank Weston, not the pious Prank whom wo
know and love so well, and who plays the banjo as
William did the fiddle (and, according to all accounts,
William played like an angel), but another and less
theological Weston. Our Prank has retired to give his
full mind to the consideration of the revised edition of
the Bible.
Marshall takes the Princess’s after his return
from New Zealand, and, unless my judgment is at fault,
will institute there the biggest frost which that ice
house has ever experienced. Nothing has paid at the
Princess’s since Hall and his clever wife —poor woman
—played “ Ixion.” The place is badly located, and will
never be patronised by the aristocracy—please excuse
the word, but my tradesmen like it, and I owe a lot of
money for groceries.
But Marshall has made a big hit with “ Quilp.”
The play is bad and the scenery is bad, but *’ Quilp" is
immense (I don’t mean in size), and fills (by his attrac-
tions, of course,)lthe house. He hurt his back yesterday,
and so his brother (who has hitherto played Sampson
Brass) appeared as the dwarf. He played splendidly,
and rivalled:Fred. This, of course, is a fact. I have
my doubts about the back, but I have none about the
brother.
But it is a good thing to have a brother with a
back, and who will back you. " Give me a back,” said
Doctor Johnson to Goldsmith, *• and I will give you a
leg over.” This is as it should be, though it is well to
remember when giving the back not'to put on too much
side.
Dr. Dobson, a melancholy' gent, here, has
stopped the children’s " Tambour-Major,” at the
Bijou. Lewis says that jail the children engaged are
over thirteen years of age. I don’t know why thirteen
should be the mystic number, unless it is because it
is a baker’s dozen, nor why children, even of four,
teen, should be compelled against their will to ape the
manners of actors for the benefit of speculators.
But the infantile “Tambour-Major” will not come
out. I remember when the Juvenile “Pinafore” was
running, meeting Harry Walton. "You look very
rod,” said I. “I am," said he, “I’ve got the measles,
and I’m going up to the Bijou to give it to those
(ahem 1— ‘ scarlet ’) kids.”
Garnet Waloh has bought into the Mblboubnk
Bulletin, vice Tom Carrington, retired. Thomas is
in with M’Kinley, the Punch printer, to bring out a
new spec, of which more anon. By the way, why don’t
you start a Punch in Sydney P
Gowen Evaps, of the Arous, has discovered
that a man remains a boy until he is fifty-three. He
has discarded his double-barrelled eye-glass in conse-
quence, and now wears a shell hat. Gowen is greatly
admired by the girls, although they call him " Old
Evans” at the club. He is a Charter house boy, and—
they say—wears yellow stockings underneath his
fashionable pants in memory of the days when he was
a “crag.” A genial fellow, Evans; you should know
him. (We do.—Ed. B.)
Marcus Clarke is said to be “ in the hands of
the Jews." He was made insolvent by Aaron Waxman,
Esquire, J.P. (how they do pile it on in Victorian
fashionable circles !), on the sworn affidavit of Simeon
Lazarus, prepared by Louis Braham, and his official
assignee is Nathaniel Cohen. Marcus says that he
believes he must have personally injured Father Abra-
ham in some former state of existence, and is going
about enquiring whether he can't make his peace with
the Tribes after the manner of the brothers of Dinah.
Speaking of Marcus, he is writing the libretto
for Henri Kowalski’s opera bouffe, and the clever Henri
said the other day : “My goodness I He is good. He
is clevare. But he wild; so so wild. He come to my
room, and he say, ‘You have the first soprano here,
and then yon have her there, and then the tenor eaters
au fond and rum-tum-tum I and you call that opera 1’ ”
David Blair is writing a book. It is to be a
dictionary of Australian events, and is to contain
every thing about everybody. David will canvass for it
himself, and his fascinating manner aud suave address
should secure him lots of customers. Poor old David 1
He is usually known in Press circles as David and—
ah, well, you’ve all read Scripture.
An old friend of mine tells me that he had a
most delightful rencontre the other day. He came
across an officer on leave from India whose conversa-
tion was, he declares, most entertaining. He had
played cricket and football well when at school, and
certainly knew what he was about in a boat—but of
cricket, football, or rowiug be didn’t even speak a
word. What a slow-coach some of our young men
would have voted him !—the more so as he had the
additional drawback of wearing two m-dals, and hav-
ing been twice mentioned in despatches. Travel up
and down for a few days in some of our suburban
trains, and you will understand my friend’s enjoyment.
LE PERE GORIOT.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ J.J.M.” (Vic.): If you read The Bulletin
carefully, you will see that your contribution is not
adapted to our columns “JAG.”: Just the kind of
thing we like “Skeetur": Good story. However, for
obvious reasons, we do not publish it as sent
“ H.T." (East Melbourne): Thanks for your kind letter.
“ J.A.F.": We gladly comply with your request
“Curieux”: Get Pitman’s "Phonographic Teacher"
first; then get the “Phonetic Reader.” You may
afterwards tackle the “ Manual of Phonography."
The theory of the art is by no means difficult. Write
to Mr. Maddock, bookseller, of Qeorge-st., Sydney
“W.": First-rate “G. J.C.”: The most complete
sporting paper in Australasia is the Melbourne
Sportsman, published every Wednesday “Mary”:
Much obliged. We’ll trot it out, perhaps “ Miles
Fogarty”: No savee. Libel " Quibbler": Thundering
bad verse “Jim Bobbin": We are sorry that, for
reasons at once apparent, we cannot print your com-
munication as sent "K. (or H.) S.”: We are glad
to hear from you. If you study The Bulletin a little,
your judgment in respect to our wants will improve
“C.Q.M'G.": Most acceptable “Stella": Many
thanks “Newcastle": Will read and consider
“ Y.Z.”: His address is Stanmore, Sydney “ H.C.”
(Balmain): Will look the matter up for next week
“ J.S.": A lovely story for publication. Isn’t it f
“ Oldham ”: Will read and decide next week
“ J.L." (Molong) : Thanks. Will write you on the sub.
jeot “ H. 5.8.”: Will receive attention “J. J.C.":
Next week “W.S.Q.": Thanks; but just a little too
late for this week “ Stella": It is not quite clear to
what entertainment you refer.
The Business and Industry of the
Northern District.
MESSRS, JOHN LEE & Co.’s WAREHOUSE,
WEST MAITLAND.
The great business which once existed between the
Northern interior of this colony and the metropolis has
been largely intercepted by the merchant houses of
West Maitland, which may be considered the com-
mercial capital of the Hunter River District. That vast
and prosperous district which extends from Maitland to
the Queensland border on the one hand, and to the
Darling on the other, has constituted West Maitland
the great centre of its trade. The grazier and the agri-
culturist here find a market, almost equal in extent of
business to the metropolis; and through the enterprise
of the leading houses—which now import direct from
England, America, and the Continent —they are enabled
to have all the advantages of near and direct communi-
cation with the chief port of the colony. A glance along
the principal street of Maitland indicates that the busi-
ness men have been active and enterprising enough to
grasp and retain the trade which has naturally drifted to
them. Large handsome warehouses here and there
show out among the general business places, and the
whole of them are conducted with unusual energy and
sound commercial judgment. The banking institutions
have kept pace with the mercantile advancement of the
place, and some of the buildings are even superior, in
point of architectural design, to the head offices in
Sydney.
The warehouse herewith illustrated is that known as
Cheapside. which, through the enterprise of the pro-
prietors, Messrs. John Lee and Co., has enjoyed a most
prosperous career daring the past quartjr of a century.
Cheapside was the beginning of a new order of things
in the business architecture of Maitland, and even to-
day it compares very favourably with the most recently
constructed edifices of the town. The building has a
frontage of about 120 feet to High-street, with a depth
of about 80 feet. The lower portion of the house, where
the business is transacted, is divided into two large
departments, each again being divided into the various
branches constituting the business of the firm. The
exterior is embellished with a verandah and balcony
resting on iron pillars, and constructed throughout
with considerable taste. By an arrangement with their
London, ; Paria, and New York agents, the firm are
enabled to lay down here lines of goods oftentimes
lower than the figures ruling in Sydney, and they are
likewise enabled to execute wholesale orders for up-
country stores and stations at figures with which
Sydney can hardly ever profitably compete. A glance
at the windows of Cheapside, which are large and at-
tractive, shows the house to be alive to the ever-chang-
ing requirements of fashion —all the new goods being
opened here simultaneously with the import, and often-
times sooner than the retail houses of Sydney. Large
shipments of clothing, suited to the wants of people in
every condition of life, are received by each mail, and as
an emporium, “ Cheapside ” is a household word in the
district.


BRIEF MENTION.
Justices —Just-asses.
Who is Janus Davies?
A foul disease—Chicken-pox.
Vaccination becoming Jenner-al.
A duty stamp—A vaccination mark.
The holey of holies —King-street pavement.
At Barrington.—Three public houses and three
cemeteries.
The verb to “ Boycott ” is already to be found
in a new American dictionary.
“ Done— Greene,” were the opening words of
a Herald matrimonial notice the other day. But when
people read it they all said “ Done Browne.
Tramway motors sometimes travel with-
out bells.
Memo, for inebriates : When they come
to “run you in," say you have the small-pox.
Lux in tenebris (light in a dark place) is
the motto over the leading column of the Ulla-
dulla AND Milton Times. Rough on the
locality.
On Monday the Princes amused them-
selves by trying to throw a boomerang. How-
ever, they’re not yet a success in the character
of blaokfellows.
In “ Diplomacy,” someone quotes the
saying, “ Hell hath no fury like a woman
scorned.” Annie Mayor, it is understood, reads
the passage—” Hell hath no fury like a woman’s
corns.”
The editor of the Tumut and Adblong
Times says that the Princes “ have been feasted
and fSted to an almost sickening degree.” Now
the prinoes have not been sickened yet. They
have not, so far, seen the Times.
Recipe. To get up a public meeting on
the tramway or any other question: “ Write
out a requisition to yourself as Mayor, send it
round by one of your clerks for signature, and
then spend the ratepayers’ money in placarding
the streets.
This is how the Tinga paper gets level
with the Inverell Times in an article headed
“The Inverell Times gone dead."—“Every
issue we fully expected either a specimen of its
maudlin wit, or dreary, miserable sentimentality,
—fired at us by some of those mentally poverty-
stricken apologies for writers who let off second,
hand jokes and stolen witticisms, spoiled in the
stealing, at persons who care as little for their
sickly drivel and pointless puns as they do for
the authors thereof.”
Speaking of the Garfield trouble, the
Western Independent —by the way, what a
heap of “independent" journals now amongst
us —the 11 Bathurst Blower," says, " all that is
wanted now to make assassination safe is a pistol
which will propel a bullet noiselessly.” That
idea is good, and the first Sunday we have to
spare we’ll make a silent-shooter and go for that
Bathurst editor, just to see how his notion
works. Bat we won’t aim at his head —that
wouldn’t be giving the noiseless weapon a fair
show.
The following significant advertisement appears
in an American paper:—“ Ben Hogan, the reformed
prizefighter and gambler, and Peter Dwyer,the converted
minstrel, will speak in Gospel Temperance Hall, Brook-
lyn, Monday evening next." Bjt-and-bye we'll have
something after this sort in the Sydney papers .
“ D. J., the reformed alderman, burr-tent juggler and
putter-up of scamped contracts, will (D.V.) address the
chosen at the town hall on Sunday next. P.S.—Bring
the right change.”
That pious paper, the Redfern Times, has dis-
covered a new kind of voice. In a recent issue of that
luminous journal, a musical criticism states that “ Mr.
, alto ; Mr. , tambo j and Mr. , bass; were
in specially good voice." Alto and boss are familiar
enough, but what the mischief tambo means we are at
a loss to make out. The notice, which is a gem in its
way, goes on to say that “ ‘ The Dentist’s Assistant ’
served as a capital finael." This is another staggerer,
and naturally leads to the suggestion that the Times
would confer a favour on its readers by publishing a
dictionary of the language of the Redfern aborigines.
A Melbourne insolvent, it recently
came out, had kept three banking ac-
counts—in order that he might overdraw
them all.
The Morpeth town band paraded
the streets last Saturday evening. Later
in the night four individuals with musical
instruments were bailed out.
A Milesian bootmaker resident in
the Bega district, on being struck by an-
other “ Mick,” immediately challenged
the latter to "foight in sobriety wid
fut, flsht, shtick, shtone, bhone, or
bhottle.”
They fumigate all books returned
to the lending branch of the Sydney
Public Library. Fancy Ovid’s “ Art of
Love” smelling of carbolic acid, and
some of the goody-goody books redolent
of brimstone.
Anti-Chinese orator : “ The thin
end of the wedge of the Chinese invasion
has been inserted, and I desire to know
what single benefit we have derived from
the insertion of this obnoxious wedge P”
Voice from the crowd: “ Cheap wedge-
tables.”
A leading shipbroker, two ba,nk
managers, and a well-known ecclesias-
tical delegate spent a merry time of it,
recently, on a trip between coastal ports.
The game was euchre, and the point of
the story is that the ecclesiastic taught
the others a trick or two.
Lord Augustus Loftus, it appears,
is of opinion that it is not sufficient for
graduates and undergraduates to appear
at commemoration in University robes
over ordinary suits. He thinks that
there’s no excuse for the “ grad.” who
doesn't appear in solemn black.
In a certain Woollahra drawing-
room there reside a number of rats, which
have several times knocked down a bust
of Diakens and have left that of Sir
Walter Scott untouched. Charley once
wrote: “ I like the rats—fine sleek fel-
lows, the rats.” It is now apparent
that the rats are not susceptible to flat-
tery.
A Band of Hope society was
started a few months ago in Rylstone on
the following basis. Members paying
into the business only threepence per
week were to be total abstainers, while
those who consented to part with a whole
sixpence per week were allowed to have
a drink of spirits, &c., whenever in-
clined. The “tanner" members mus-
tered well.
Trickett licked again, at Ottawa. Of course, I
everybody “ said so 1”
Says tfce oldest and most respectable book in the
world, “ Put not your trust in Princes.”
Saying in Hobart musical circles—People who
live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.
The Mayor’s ball was given in the old Exhibition
Building—not under the “ contract” ceilings.
A Melbourne writer relates that when, on the
journey of the Princes from South Australia to Hamil-
ton, the coach stopped to change horses, the young
gentlemen availed themselves of the opportunity of
promoting circulation by a run round. Presently the
younger of the two descried the groom’s wheelbarrow,
in which he induced his elder and more sedate brother
to enthrone himself, and wheeled him round the stable
several times at a merry pace. Suddenly landing him
at the groom’s feet, he said, “ There, now, I suppose
you’ll haye that barrow carefully preserved in a glass
case.”
Most natural that the cornice should come down
on the Victorian Secretary for Public Works. Ceiling
whacks on red tape.
The Municipal Council of West Maitland holds
its town clerk responsible for the correctness of the
civic accounts. This is a rank injustice. In some
cities we have been in, old civic servants are
apparently never expected to know anything, and always
prove themselves up to their masters expectations.
For instance, supposing that there’s a £20,000 bungle
a flooring swindle—or a swindle on the roof of the Town
Hall, nobody knows anything about it. It wasn t in
their department, so how could they possibly know (
What is a town clerk to do ? Is he to act like a principal
clerk in a wholesale house ? Certainly not. His busi-
ness, as any sensible man must see, is to not to know
anything. Then why this injustice to the West Mait-
land town clerk ? There should always be a responsible
head of the swindle department in every city corpora-
tion.
The other day, in the Far North, a girl who had
“loved not wisely but too well” interviewed the faith-
less one, and asked him one or two questions. Not
receiving a satisfactory reply, she pulled out a six-
shooter, which was taken from her from behind just
before she succeeded in “ porting ’’ her lover. It is con-
fidently stated that the end is not yet, as she comes
of a family who are remarkably fond of fire-arms.
They were two of the great unwashed, sitting in
the verandah of one of Gnnnedah’s pubs., and one wan
reading to his mate, who, “ three sheets in the wind,"
listened with an air of imperturbable gravity to an
account of the discovery of the comet by Mr. Tebbutt.
The listener seemed perfectly entranced as the narrative
proceeded. “ There, Jim," exclaimed the reader, at
length finishing the article, of which he had made an
“ awful hash“ what’s think o’ that, mate ?”
“ Well,” answered Jim, slowly and with emphasis,
“ and so the comic’s turned out. arter all, to be no
comic, but a Terbit. Now, what I wants to know is—
(bringing his fist down on the bench with a crash) —
what the h ’s a Terbit ?"
There is over-proof of this fact —that one or two
Newcastle marine officials aren’t Good Templars,
‘ Hanlan is arranging a regatta at Toronto in
which he will take part." The greater part, probably.
Says the Armidale Chronicle : —“ We have
recelveda copy of the Illustrated Christian Weekly,
date July 8. It contains several illustrations and a lot
of interesting reading matter. The price of the journal
is only fid.” Is that all ?
It would really seem that while the Princes are
here no deeds are to be signed at Government House.
We are told that heaps of urgent documents have been
lying at the Private Secretary’s office tor the last six or
eight weeks, and that the official whose duty it is to
“ sign” them only has to use a stamp. A smart boy,
it is alleged by troops of howling land agents, could
get through the whole lot in less than a day. This
matter wants stirring up. The stereo.-stamp racket
and the undue detention of deeds will presumably make
I people enquire what His Excellency gets £BOOO a-year for.
The other day a country (Anglican) clergyman
wrote to a Sydney wine merchant tor a dozen of claret,
which was duly sent. In return the merchant received a
circular inviting a subscription towards liquidating the
debt on the church, which, it was explained, had up to
a very recent date only been filled with temporary furni-
ture and calico windows. “I have,” wrote the clergyman,
“a very grateful memory of the generous assistance
afforded me in the past; and am induced to ask with
confidence, further help to complete the work. Ten
pounds (£10) each from thirty (30) subscribers would
effect this, to my joy and thankfulness, the welfare of
my people, and the glory of That Great and Dear Name
whereby the church is called. For the love and faith
which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus and towards
all Saints, I pray you help me by being one of the 30
subscribers, or at least, by contributing something—
His Blessing be on your generosity and on yourself.
Very fervently will I thank you. Yours in Him. The
merchant now says that in future he’ll be quite afraid
1 to sell claret to clergymen.
Says the smartest of Parramatta scribes I
put it both hypothetically and arithmetically—that if
every doctor who visits a fresh case is to be quaran-
tined, and every fresh case medically reported upon is
to be kept under surveillance by a cordon of peelers, be-
fore there are five score of cases there’ll be neither
doctor nor policeman to tackle any subsequent * evantu-
ation.’ ” The horse-nails and farthings over again.
An irrascible Civil Servant in the Queensland
Department of Lands, recently struck a subordinate
official, who immediately reported the matter to the
Honorable Pat. “Did you not knock him down?” in-
quired the Chief. “No sir,” replied the poor sub.,
almost in tears. “Well,” said the P.P. “if he had
been as strong as Goliath and as high as the Pyramids I
should ha ve gone for him •” The astonished subordinate
pondered oyer this and after lunch asked the Minister
for Lands whether the advice previously given was to
be regarded as official, and whether he was at liberty
to punch the irascible man’s head. The honorable g« *
tleman was at this rather taken aback, and declined to
commit himself “ officially.”
The Herald has jested! In concluding a
paragraph re the escape of two Botanic Garden flower-
robbers, by divesting themselves of their overcoats,
Hunter-street says : “On Monday morning Mr. Moore
sent the flowers and coats to the Water Police Offices,
where the owners can have them on application.”
It is related that a bank manager in the western
district, who is a bachelor and rather of an eccentric
nature, recently took it into his head to dig a drain
from his residence to the fall into the river, a distance
of 300 yards. When the idea occurred to him it was pour-
ing with rain outside and bitterly cold. It was, more-
over, two in the morning, when all quiet people were
comfortably snoring. However, up he jumped, seized
pick and shovel and wired in for about two hours, with
no cover but the snowy robes of night. He then
suddenly remembered that he was trying to crowd
three months’ work into three hours, so he quietly
changed his dripping garment and retired to his couch
—fogetting, however, to wash his feet. His washing,
however, is done by contract, in small lots.
When gentlemen attend fancy dress balls in
“ borrowed plumage” it would be advisable for them to
see that some satisfactory arrangements are made for
admitting them to their respective homes when they
return in the “wee sma’ hours." The other morning
at three, an ambitious impersonator of Julius Crnsi.r
knocked at his lodgings after being the admired of tie
festive throng at a recent ball. Forty times did he
knock, and forty times was he repulsed with the usual
slaughter. The court costume of ancient Rome not bein g
adapted, however, to the nipping frosts of our southern
skies, the haughty Roman was at last forced to swarm
over the back fence, and take refuge when and where I e
could. And it came to pass that as the prudent land-
lady came down to search for eggs next morn, she was
filled with a “ soorprise which bordured upon constur-
nashin” on beholding Julius Caesar fast asleep in tie
fowlhouse with his head in an old nest, and some dozen
« chookies” gazing down on his prostrate form in silei t
awe. They had to soak Julias in boiling water before
they could slacken his spine to bend him.
Some lone one in want of a congenii l
companion, advertises thus in the daliesl: —
“Wanted, a Laughing Jackass. Address, ‘Z,’
G.P.0.” Had he wanted a Talking Jackass, ve
might have been tempted to recommend him to
try the City Council.
Advt. in S.M.H. : —“ An English gentle-
man with £lOOO desires to join another wi h
same capital in cultivating oranges; . . . re-
tired naval officer preferred. Naranja, Herald
office.” “ Naranja," remarks ‘ Wrecker,’ “ev ; -
dently wants to go in for the cultivation of navel
oranges.”
The Bathurst Independent cries (or
as one would say in the vulgar tongue, “ beef
out") “ Bathurst beef against the world I” Bathurt t
beef (says “The Wrecker”) must, like Joe
Bagstock, be devilish tough to be prepared to
resist a world in arms. “ The Wrecker ” should
hold his jaw.
Dr. Hodson, previous to his departure,
vaccinated a dozen of the Treasury clerks with
some special lymph. Up to the present time
only two have “taken,” and the baffled ones are
beginning to marvel why they subscribed so
willingly to the small testimonial that was got
up for the urbane practitioner.
As people who travel by the Balmain
boats know, to the cost of their auricular organs,
the employes of the steamers have a bad habit of
(on arriving or departing from a landing stage)
slamming down the plank with a noise like the
rattle of a park of artillery. Well, the other
day, a gentleman was sitting opposite to three
pretty girls (strangers), who had their hair
elaborately dragged down and frizzed over their
foreheads. Just as the boat was leaving Darling-
street ferry the demon in charge, as usual, lifted
the plank from the wharf and dashed it down on
the deck of the boat with such force as to make
the passengers start as though they had received
a shock from a galvanic battery. Goaded to rage
by this, the gentleman facing the three young
ladies, ejaculated involuntarily—“ I hate those
confounded bangs." On this, three small-gloved
hands went up to three curl-covered foreheads,
and three pairs of blue eyes glared upon the
unfortunate speaker with such ferocious glances
that he was glad to hide his diminished head
behiu d his Bulletin. But then there are bangs
and “ bangs.”
Last week we asked good Oscar Hughan to take
steps to get corrections made in the lines, attributed to
him —
“ Just as vultures pollute the sky
Where reeking masses of carrion lie.”
We further asked him to get a ladder, if steps wouldn’t
do. Oscar now writes us to say that this is carrion the
joke too far.
They were pretty and charming, but very de-
termined girls, and having made up their minds to cross
the new bridge they came with the full intention of
“doing Blondin” on the girders then just laid over the
river. David, the contractor, endeavoured to prevent
them by assuring them that only few men could walk a
narrow beam (12 inches wide) at a height of 40 feet
above the Rooky River. But all his remonstrances and
warnings were to no purpose. Go they would, and they
boldly started off. “Well,” said the amiable David,
“ there is one consolation if you do go. There are 50
men on the ground ready to catch you if by any chance
you fall.” They looked down, paled, came back quickly,
and that bridge saw them no more.
The greatest curiosity in Rock
hampton now is the big bear of the
travelling menagerie. The next greatest
is the editor of the Rockhampton Bul-
leti r.
One incident in connection with
the Ferret case not yet been made public.
A gentleman connected with one of our
Government departments was stopped
at Albury, when returning from an official
visit to Melbourne, by two policemen
who wanted to know if he wasn’t Hen
derson; the latter was arrested at Sey-
mour the same day.
The other day a Parramatta youth
put a billiard ball into his mouth—
“ pocketed” it ihere.in fact —and couldn’t
get it out. The doctor who was called
thought at first that he would have
either to knock the young man’s teeth
out or bore a hole in the back of his
neck, but eventually he managed to get
away the “ ivory.”
A friend of the editor of the Man-
ning River Times, the other day saw
a laughing jackass sitting on a stump
with between one or two yards of snake
hanging from his mouth. Fearing a case
of choking he went up and relieved
Jackey of his encumbrance, drawing out
about a foot of the reptile which the
bird had managed to swallow. The
snake measured over five feet.
It was Plato who said of Socrates
that, “he brought down philosophy
from Heaven, that it might raise up man
from earth to Heaven," but who’s Plato
by the side of Farkes ? That 300 tons of
powder stowed away on Goat Island is
enough to raise man not only “from
earth to Heaven " but a mile and a half
beyond it. Persons having copies of
Plato would do well to pawn the lot and
purchase “ Parkes oh Political Econo-
my.”
By the a,dvice of the police it is
said —the Chinese of this city presented
Dr. Hodson with a testimonial. The
unfortunate man Rout received another.
Both recipients were in a taking humour,
so the doctor took plate and the car-
penter pustules. As the Celestials seem
to be such a considerate crowd, how
would it be if they started a subscription
for the support of the helpless widows
and orphans, who can undoubtedly point
to them as the cause of their great
calamities P None of the “ foorce ” seem
to;have thought of this, but as the Italian
proverb elegantly says, “ it’s the fattest
sow that is always greased."
The News says that Prince Albert Victor “ was
17 years of age in January last,” and that “ Prince
George Frederick Ernest Albert of Wales was 17 years
of age last month” (June). Now, the Princes aren’t
twins, and what we want to know is whether they really
were born but we stop here. We recommend the
young gentlemen, now that they’re doing the lions of
the place, to file a bill against Alfred for treason, or else
to bring a libel action against him before a jury of four.
Dick Thatcher came into our office yesterday,
and said “ Congratulate me; I’ve just had some money
left me.” “ Indeed,” we observed, “ say, how much ? ”
‘Eighteenpence,’’ he replied, “and it has left me for
ever. I put a two-shilling piece down at the “ General,”
for two twopennies and two pennies, and walked off with-
out my change. When I went back and explained, the
clerk looked at me much as a visitor regards the inmates
in a lunatic asylum. The inevitable ‘ other fellow ’ had,
of course, picked it up.” Dick thinks these sitters at
the “ receipt of custom " ought to pay for their billets
like the London waiters.
CHEAPSIDE: MESSRS. JOHN LEE & CO.’S WAREHOUSE, WEST MAITLAND.—(See page 3 )


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Maryborough (Q.) July 21, 22.
Peak Downs Turf Club July 21, 22.
T.E.C. Steeplechase Meeting Jnly 23.
Jerilderie Jockey Club Meeting July 27.
Geelong B.C. Winter Meeting July 29.
Hunter River Amateur Turf Club August 1.
Tantrum’s Erin v. Cawker’s Vulcan, at Mount
Gambier, for £2OO August 3.
Eohnca Annual Meeting August 4.
Wyndham (Vic) August 6.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville ... August 11, 12.
Sydney Tattersall’s August 13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club August 20.
Gfrmpie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury R.C. Annual August 25, 27.
Parramatta August 20.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 3, 6. 8,10.
Murrurundi September 7.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Northern Jockey Club September 27, 28.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer meeting December.
AQUATICS.
C. A. Messenger v. S. Mahalm, £4O Jnly 23.
Amateur Sculling Race.—
Mr. A. Pinlayson’s Trophy July 23.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta July 30.
Maiden Single Sculls in Skiffs.—
Mr. J. A. Fairfax’s Prize August 6.
Wallace Ross v. Morris, £4OO August.
Boyd v. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Ross August.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Rush v. Laycock September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. University, Association Ground July 23.
Intercolonial —Victoria v. N.S. Wales August 6.
Intercolonial (Sydney) August.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Modern High School Athletic Club July 22.
O’Connor v. Roberts, 5 miles, £25 aside—Mel-
bourne Jnly 23.
E. Ellis v. A. Skinner (4 yards), £lO aside, 150
yards—ln verell August 13.
COURSING.
Waterloo Cup Jnly 27.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Hawkesbury C.C. opening August 12, 13.
Victoria Club August 18.
PIGEON FLYING.
Sydney Homing Pigeon Society, All-comers,
Mittagoug to Sydney July 28.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPECIAL DAY'S RACING.
Notwithstanding that the weather was all that could
be desired, and the fact that the Princes were to vist
Eandwick, the attendance was not so numerous as was
expected. The Hurdle Race, which was advertised to
sturt at 1 p.m., was kept back more than half an hour,
awaiting the arrival of the royal guests. This event
was thought to be a race for Wrangler and Radical, but
Jupiter, the light weight, upset the “ pot” by winning
rather easily. Harp of Erin was made a great favourite
for the six-furlong race, but Hypatia beat him in the
straight. The Witch was fancied for the Yearling
Bace, but did not get a place—a fine colt. Mistake,
carrying off the prize. Brian Boru appropriated the
Selling Plate, rather comfortably. On the Squadron
Handicap speculation was brisk—Trump Toss, who
should have won the six-furlong race had he started,
being made a pot. Zulu was also well backed, and
Hypatia, on the strength of winning the Newcastle
Autumn Handicap and the six-furlong race previously,
was also greatly fancied. Sardonyx, who had failed to
get a place in the Victoria Handicap, was cleverly rid-
den, and won a great race on the post. The starts were
fair, with the exception of ;the Victoria Handicap.
Appended are the results: —
Hurdle Rack of 75 sovs. 2 miles and a{furlong.
Jupiter, Bst 71b 1
Wrangler, lOst 2
Radical, list 81b 3
Time, 4min 20sec.
Victoria Handicap of 100 sots. 8 furlongs.
Hypatia, 7st 21b 1
Harp of Erin, 7st 51b 2
Primrose, 7st 51b 3
Time, 1 min 174 sec.
Princes’ Stakes, a piece of plate valued at 50 guineas
and 50 sovs. in specie. 3 furlongs.
Mistake 1
Alice M'Gregor 2
Morpeth 3
Time, 37$sec.
BEi.LiKGrPi.ATE of 75,' sovs." If mile.
Brian Boru, 7st 41b 1
Bob Sawyer, 7st 41b 2
Stilton, 6st 111 b 3
Time, 1 min 47sec.
Squadron Handicap of 150 sovs. lil’mile.
Sardonyx, sst 71b 1
Trump Yoss,Bst 31b 2
Zulu, 7st slb 3
Time, 2min 13 and 2-10 sec.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Darebin is now first favourite for the V.R.C.
Derby.
There are 55 acceptances for the Hawkesbury
Grand Handicap.
Canary and Mercury have been scratched for
the Great Metropolitan Stakes,
.£2870 is to be given in prizes at the next Aus-
tralian Jockey Club Spring Meeting.
A football club under the rules of the Victorian
Association has been formed at West Maitland.
Wallace Ross says that Goodwin, a young
sculler, is the best coming oarsman of England.
The entries for the Winter Steeplechase meeting
of the Adelaide Racing Club, are very satisfactory.
Somnus and Sir Modred, the New Zealand
horses, will be under the efficient pilotage of E. Cutts.
Charles Rice, the English champion pedestrian*
has challenged Hazael, the American, to a run for ten
miles.
The biggest sum of money ever fought for was
£2OOO, the combatants being Tom Hyer and STankee
Sullivan.
Carlton v. South Melbourne football match was
won by Carlton by three goals to two, after a very ex-
citing game.
J. R. Clifton, a Bathurst bicyclist, completed a
journey of 210 miles in 24 hours at the School of Arts
on Saturday night.
Mr. E. E. Jones has promised the Newcastle
Jockey Club a gold cup of the value of 50 guineas for
their next meeting.
A great cocking main between the States of
Louisiana and Georgia, recently took place in America.
There were seventeen battles for £5O each, and £5OO the
odd fight. Georgia won. No policemen were allowed
to be present.
Mr. F. Lynch’s Sir Solomon and Mr. John
Mayo's Black Swan have both been withdrawn from the
turf for stud purposes.
Mata has been re-purchased by Mr. H. Prince, 1
and will return to New Zealand. Mr. Prince has also
purchased Somnus and Sir Modred.
The New Zealand horse, Somnus, has been
heavily backed for the Victorian Derby. He is the
winner of two Champagne Stakes in N.Z.
Joe Coburn, who fought a very severe drawn
battle with Mace in America, Nov. 30, 1871, is still
living, but at latest accounts was in gaol.
The layers of odds had a pleasant outing on
Saturday, and the backers had to pay their expenses.
As a rule, the favourites did not come off.
Newtown v. St. Leonards, at St. Leonards, re-
sulted in a victory for the local team by one goal to a
tench-down. Newtown played with only ten men.
The Wallaroos intend to make great efforts to
regain their lost prestige in the match with the Uni-
versity Club on the Association Ground on Saturday.
J. M. O’Connor, the well-known 10-mile runner,
and E Roberts, of Sandhurst, run a 5-mile match on
the Warehousemen's Ground, Melbourne, to-day
(Saturday).
The winners of the half-yearly aggregate prizes
of the Torpedo Rifle Club were Corporal Hammond
240, Sergeant Board 232, Private Clay 229, and Private
Hedges 214.
Harry Grubb, a well-known jockey, was thrown
from his horse in the Kensington Park hurdle race, and
was picked up insensible, in which condition he remained
till midnight.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club has decided to have
at the next meeting an unlimited stake, for all-comers,
with an entrance fee of 225. 6d., the entrances to close
on the 27th instant.
The celebrated American horse Hindoo was
purchased for £7OOO by the Dwyer Brothers, American
sportsmen. He was at last accounts first favourite for
the Kentucky Derby.
Kangaroo rats are the substitutes for hares at
the Maitland coursing matches. The breeding of the
hares is very slow, especially as some residents work
very hard with the gun.
Charles Irish, captain of the Victorian Bicycle
Club, accomplished the feat of riding to Seymour and
back on a bicycle, doing the distance (130 miles) in 13
hours’ actual travelling.
English bookmakers laid the American sports-
man, Xorillard, £l5OO to £2O many times oyer that he
would not win the English Derby. Hence Lorillaro’s
big winnings over the result.
Mr. John Mayo, owner of Hesperian, backed
that horse for the Melbourne Cup with Mr. E. B.
Jones for £lO,OOO to £450, and accepted a smaller wager
with another bookmaker of £lO,OOO to £5O.
On Moore Park, last Saturday, the Arfomas
played the Second Wallaroos, and, notwithstanding
that the latter club had such good second fifteen men
as Brodie, Thompson, and Monte Arnold, Arfomas won
easily.
On May 23, in a match between Bedminster and
St. George Cricket Clubs, at Bristol, Mr. W. Q. Grace
scored 203. He and Mr. L. M. Day opened the game
with the bat, and, for the loss of one wicket, the score
reached to 356.
Retrospect, just after winning the Clarence
River Handicap, was cannoned by Booyung, and fell.
Nicholson, his rider, was carried to the scale, weighed,
and attended to, and got all right in half-an-hour,
though he sustained a severe shaking.
Mr. Terry’s hounds go up to the Northern
district this month. The first meet is fixed for to-day,
23rd, at Hinton,(when all the sportsmen from the sur-
rounding district are expected to muster. The hounds
will be token out for a run somewhere in the Maitland
district.
At the Grafton sale of blood stock Azalea, a
brood mare, brought 120 guineas ; a foal by Warlike 30
guineas; Amazon, 42 guineas; Coorindi, 34 guineas;
Cobweb, 30 guineas; Stumps, Blue Gown, and Black
Bess, three mares with foals, £95; Mussulman, 97
guineas; Fieldfare 40 guineas.
Tilda C., the mare recently imported by Mr. J.
J. Miller, is entered for the handicap trot at the Gee-
long winter meeting on the 29th. It is doubtful, how.
ever, whether she will start as she has been purchased
by Mr. J. A. Roberts, and will shortly pay a visit to the
American trotting sire Bocoaccia.
At the Stratford races, England, a Mr. T. W.
Baker, who had won a wager from a “ welsher," pre-
sented his ticket, which was snatched from him and
banded to a confederate, who decamped. The “ welsher"
was tried for stealing the ticket, found guilty, and sen-
tenced to penal servitude for seven years.
The N.S. Wales Gun Club have concluded
another pleasant reunion at their grounds, Botany.
The Club trophy for second-class shooters was won by
Mr. Green ; and the Committee Cup, to be won twice,
was secured by Mr. Giblin, while the second prize was
divided between Messrs. C. Belisario and Grant.
The owner of Iroquois, the Derby winner, gave
Archer, the rider, £5OOO. Archer is already a rich man.
and bids soon to become a millionaire and be raised to
the peerage. Two years ago his professional earnings
during the twelve months were £17,000. Even a leader
at the Parliamentary Bar might envy him his income.
Hearn, who beat Albert White in the late scull-
ing race for the championship of New Zealand, visited
Melbourne a few years ago, when he was successful in a
match, over the Lower Yarra course, against George
Wing, but had to play second fiddle in a subsequent
encounter with C. A. Messenger, over the same course.
At the regatta held on the Ottawa River, eight
competitors started for the principal sculling event.
Ross came in first, Jacob Qaudanr second, and Hosmer
third. Trickett came in sixth, being exhausted. There
were 12,000 spectators, and the winner received a com-
plete ovation. A watch was presented to the umpire,
Hanlan.
Newcastle Jockey Club meeting:—Flying
Handicap : Twilight 1, Silent 2, Gleam 3. Hack Race :
Three Corners 1, Result 2, Raglan 3. Amateur Handi-
cap : Hypathia 1, Twilight 2, Darkie 3. Hack Race:
Result 1, Raglan 2, Kathleen 3. Amateur Cup: Sir
Solomon 1, Darkie 2, Janitor 3. Hack Race .- Spec 1,
Result 2.
There was a severe battle at New York between
two pugilists recently—Charles Cooley, of Providence,
and Captain Morris Grant, the coloured giant, whose
weights were 14st and 13st 101 b respectively. The
stake was for £lOO and with hard gloves, under the
London rules. The house was crowded at a guinea a
ticket. The giant was victorious.
In the Cambridge University vacation cricket
match, on the 12th instant and following days, Roe
made the extraordinary score of 415, not out. The pre-
vious highest individual score in a first-class match was
404, not out, made by Mr. E. F. B. Tylecote. Next to
that comes 344, made by Mr. W. G. Grace, who also
made 440, not out, against a twenty-two.
"Kensington Park meeting;—Hurdle Race;
Marie 1, Labourer 2, Harmony 3. Pony Trot: Jack 1.
Selling Race; Maid of all Work 1, Red Light 2.
Steeplechase: Grab 1, Ranger 2, Lucy 3, Galloway
Handicap: Sally L Hindicap Flat Race: Sea King 1,
K. 2, Maid of Honour 3. Handicap Trotting Race:
Captain Darbone 1, Fairy Dance 2, George 3.
The wretched condition of the jockeys’ costumes
up in the Northern districts is a matter of common re-
mark. The infliction of a fine would probably have the
desired effect. Another point: Is there no one to look
after these boys at race meetings ? A good many of
them ordinarily wind up the day’s sport with a drinking
bout. Some of them are clever riders, and would well
repay attention.
Iroquois, the Derby winner, by Leamington eut
of Maggie B. 8., is a wiry, narrowish brown colt, with
a decidedly coarse and common look about him, and
almost utterly destitute of the quality we are accus-
tomed to look for in a Derby winner of average calibre.
The Yankee is quite one of the ‘ varmint sort,’ and
looks a perfect wretch while strolling about in his
clothes; but the dislike thus engendered is speedily
dispelled when he is set agoing, his action being very
true all round, and he comes stealing along like a dark
piratical cruiser on mischief intent. His public form I
has hitherto been eminently contradictory and inex-
plicable.
The Raymond Terrace races were a big success.
Pair prizes and good fields. The club meets with a
great deal of petty annoyance from some local offiicials,
who seem not rightly to understand their duties. Mr.
Barry, the secretary, is an enterprising sportsman, and
is backed up by all the influential residents. With a
better course, which the local member promises them,
the future meetings at the Terrace will be among the
best in the Northern district.
Up North, the other day, the unsportsmanlike
owner of a certain horse was so chagrined at his animal
turning out a duffer, and running a bad third, that he
persuaded the owner of the second horse to enter a pro-
test against the winner, and loudly offered to pay his
expenses if he would bring an action against the stewards,
who smilingly rejected the protest. Fortune is some-
times too generous. It occasionally bestows a racehorse
where a bandicoot would be better appreciated.
| The Sydney Hunt Club was formed on Friday
last. Mr. Desmond A. Kirby was appointed hon.
secretary, and Mr. Edward Terry hon. treasurer. The
minimum annual subscription fee was fixed at two
guineas. Mr. A. Q. Jones, of Wagga Wagga, and Mr.
Daniel Maequarle. of Sydney, presented tiie club with
donations ot 50 and 10 guineas respectively. The club
already numbers about 80 members, and there is every
reason for believing that it will be a great suoosss.
The settling in connection with the Newcastle
special meeting took place satisfactorily. The following
sums were paid over J. Mayo, £29; J. Dalton, £lB ;
R. Jurd, £9; R. Cook, £5 10s.; Mr. Maher, £l. Mr.
Lynch, the owner of Sir Solomon, was presented with a
handsome silver cup by the president of the Club (Mr.
C. H. Hannell). In accepting the cup, Mr. Lynch
stated his determination never to run Sir Solomon
again, allowing him rest and liberty for the remainder
of his life.
Mr. G. R. Smith, of the Brighton Aquarium,
has offered the sum of £2OOO for a rrize for Dr. Carver
and Mr. Scott, the great English expert with the gnn,
to shoot at 25,000 glass balls each, in thirty of the
principal towns of of England, Ireland, and Scotland.
Dr. Carver and Mr. Scott recently gave an exhibition at
Manchester, with the following result: —Dr. Carver
single rises, 918 j double rises, 455; total, 1403 out of
1500. Mr. Scott, single rises, 945; double rises, 442:
total, 1390 out of 1500.
With reference to the proposed visit of an Eng-
lish team of cricketers, Mr. Lillywhite hss been advised
to bring as good a batting lot as possible to oppose the
fine Australian bowling. The team will probably arrive
about the end of November, and will probably be selected
from the followingUlyeit, Bates, Lockwood, Peate,
Barlow, Shaw, Shrewsbury, Barnes, Selby, Gunn, Mor-
ley, Mycroft, Scotton, Cbarlwood, and Lillywhite.
Gunn is a last year's colt. Peate is now the best bowler
for Yorkshire.
The match between the Melbourne Club and the
combined team of the East Sydney and Sydney Clubs
was as one-sided as the previous matches. The Sydney
players showed a marked improvement, but they are
still far behind their Southern opponents. The “ small
marks"— 11 dodging,” “ sneaking,” and •• shepherding ”
—are the characteristics of th i Victorian play. Our
representatives should profit by t»wi> defeats, and
practice most assiduously these ess-utial points of tbe
game. Victoria won by 5 goals and 22 behinds to 2
behinds.
Clarence River Jockey Club Races. First Day :
—Mores’ Produce Stakes : Arrow flight 1, Rataplan 2,
Mussulman 3. Maiden Plate; Firmin 1, Booyung 2,
Response 3. City Handicap: Arrowflight 1, Butterfly 2,
Retrospect 3. Members’ Cup: Acacia 1, Augustus 2,
Brunette 3, Derby : Friar 1, Lady Louisa 2, Peeress 3.
Second daySires’ Produce Stakes : Princess of Lome
1, Lyra 2, Mussulman 3. Prince of Wales Stakes:
Shanghraun 1, Mick 2, Yarraman 3. Clarence River
Jockey Club Handicap: Retrospect 1, Firmin 2. Friar
3. Novel Race: Risk 1, Comet 2, Transit, 3 Flying
Handicap : Butterfly 1, Centurion 2, Lady Louisa 3.
Those well-known pugs, Abe Hicken and Peter
Newton, will, we hear, to-day (Saturday), at Melbourne,
decide which is the better man at their weight,
abeut lOst. 4lb. The contest will take the shape ... a
glove encounter under the Marquis of Queenuherry’s
rules, one of which, and tha most important, is that
gloves and not “raw uns” are to bo used. There is a
lot of money depending on the result, Hicken, the
heavier man, being so far the favourite. Newton, his
adversary, is, it will be remembered, the clever boxer
with whom our own dear Larry was to have had a
little skin-glove affair with in Melbourne some time ago.
By the way, Hicken and Newton tried to bring their
match off tbe other day, but the contest was objected
to by the police.
The match between the Melbourne and Sydney
Football Clubs, on Thursday, resulted in another easy
win for the Victorians by 4 goals and 15 behinds to 4
behinds. The visitors showed superiority in every
department of the game, and the ball was always kept
well up towards the Sydney goals. There are many
things besides the rules which the Sydney players will
have to learn. The small marks seem to constitute the
success of the Victorian game, and there are various
“ dodges ’’ which are worthy of practice in the interests
of the next Intercolonial contest. Some of the small
marks were simply tosses from one player to the other,
the foot never having touched the ball. The place-
kicking of the Victorians was considerably better than
in the match on Saturday.
The star of the P. R. is ascending in the States.
One of the sporting newspaper men has offered a prize of
£250 and a silver belt (fac simile of that won by Sayers)
for a projected contest between John L. Sullivan, the
Boston giant pugilist, and Paddy Ryan, of New York,
the present champion of America. As the police are
after Ryan for his battle with Joe Goss, on West Vir.
ginian soil, the coming combat will have to take place
across the American border, in Canada. Sullivan is
sft. lliin. high, 22 years of age, weighs 16st. and is well
termed a giant. Recently he wagered a big sura that
no man in America would box with him four rounds
under Queensberry rules—rounds of 3m. each with Im.
between each round. One man accepted, but was com-
pletely beaten in the second round by Sullivan. It may
be mentioned that the projected match between Sulli-
van and Ryan is imtended as a prelude to an interna-
tional contest d la Sayers and Hetman.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Hunter River has this year a larger supply
of fish than has ever been known previously A re-
creation ground 160 acres in extent has been dedicated
at Denman. It is a beautiful piece of country. A race-
course and a cricket ground are to be the first improve-
ments Zenobia, one of the racers formerly owned
by Miss Dickson, has proved herself during the last
twelve years most valuable at the stud. She is in foal
this season for the last time The imported horse
Drummer, now at Tocal, had two of his progeny to the
front at the East Maitland races, the wins being very
easy ones Laguna races are to take place on the
28th July. Several of the Maitland horos are expected.
Two good days’ sport is arranged for the Bth and
9th September at Blue Gum Flat, Hunter District.
Eight events—with good stakes in the Qosford and
Travers Handicaps Murrurundi has a good day’s
racing on the 7th September. The Maiden Plate of 25
sovs., with 1 sov. added, and the Murrurundi Handicap
of 40 sovs., with a sweep of 2 sovs., are the big events.
The beat horses of the district nre expected A
pigeon-shooting match took place at Bourke on Friday,
between Messrs J. B. Kelly and Single, for £lO aside-
live birds at 25 yards rise, 75 yards boundary, Kelly
won in three shots, killing the first two birds ; Single,
nil. Afterwords a sweep of £3, two birds each, was
won by H. G. Wyndham, killing two; Kelly, one; and
Mandelson, nil The crack carrier pigeons, Freeman,
the property of Mr. J. Kellich, and Mr. Percy Allens’
Spotted Tom, have been lost. They were tossed from
Goulburn, and failed to reach their houses in Sydney....
...Mr. W. Bailey has made Mr. George Watson a present
of the steeplechaser Helmet. Mr. Watson has had the
horse fired, and it will be some time ere he jump* a
fence again In an old number of the Sporting
Magazine mention is made of the oldest horse on re-
cord, the property of the proprietors of the Mersey
and Irwell Navigation Company, which, after many
years’ faithful service in the company’s employ, was
freed from further labour and sent to comfortable
quarters to spend the remainder of his days in peace
and quietness. After living some years in retirement,
old Dobbin died in 1822 at the advanced age ®f sixty-two
years Mr. George Upward, captain of the Corio Club,
who stroked the Melbourne eight in last intercolonial
race, has received a government appointment in Mel-
bourne, and is going to coach crews for the coming ra-
gattas The Melbourne cross-country Jocks are to
have a rival on Saturday in Mr. h M ‘lvor, who has
shown good form at the game in M lorilanJ At
Newington Park, Baltimore, on the i6tu Miv, L. E.
Myers ran 100 yards in 10f-ea.; 22) yards in 23tseo. ;
and 440 yards in 52seo The Victoria P.C. easil y boat
the 2nd Collingwoods at Burwood on Saturday lost by
one goal and four tries to nil The Rockhampton
Rowing Club have received a splendid four-oared gig
from Edwards, of Melbourne Mr. Evans, “ a
favorite pupil of Mr. Larry Foley," is giving lessons
in the noble art at Rockhampton Combating the idea
that modern racehorses are inferior to the celebrities
of 60 or 100 years ago, the Referee man thinks that
such a horse as Robert the Devil could have carried
Eclipse upon his back half way in a four-mile race, then
dropped him, and lost him during the remainder of the
distance The Newcastle Herald is responsible for
the statement that a greyhound, belonging to Mr.
Woodall, of Gunuedah, was ripped up the chest by an
old man kangaroo, so that its lungs and heart were
plainly visible. The wound was sewn up, and the dog
seems likely to quite recover Says the London
Sportsman; —"Hanlan never hid bis boats from the
public gaze, and we have minutely examined them
dozens of times, whilst numbers of oarsmen of all
classes have done the same. Had there been the
slightest secret mechanism it would have been detected.
Besides, Hanlan, ns a rule, sells all his boats as soon as
he has won races or has ceased his practice in them.
There are some at Putney at the present moment. The
only boat we ever knew him to retain was the one in
which he defeated Trickett and Layoock. We are
positively certain there are no bidden contrivances
about the craft." Mr. J. M'Cowie, of the London
A 1 hletio Club, has beaten the best amateur short*
distance time, running 101 yards in lOJseo. This was
done at Stamford Bridge grounds, in a 100 yards handi-
cap, in which he was handicapped to start one yard
behind scratch.
FASHIONS.
(BY THE MAN MILLINER.)
Bonnets are to be gauged to match the costume.
Peach blossom and dark crimson harmonize
well.
MoirS is fast gaining favour with the fashionable
world.
“ Crushed strawberry ” is the last thing in no v
colours.
A novelty for the coming season is printed satin
merveilleux.
The old fashion of throe flounces is revived for
muslin skirts.
What next? A dress has appeared on which
lilac sun-flowers are displayed!
Porcupine straw hats, in yellow, brown, and
black, are quite the rage at home.
Artistic or fashionable? is the query of the
London dressmaker to her customer.
Heliotrope is coming to the front again this
season. It goes well with golden hair and blue eyes
Pompadour chintzes and plain sateens go well
together, when the colours are properly harmonised.
Nothing like leather ! The latest application of
this useful article is to ladies* aprons, ties, and shoe
ornaments.
Thick brocaded gauze in all colours is the last
material for millinery. It makes up beautifully light
and looks soft and rich.
The hair is now worn dressed low and broad.
Whether braids, loops, or eoils are preferred, they are
so disposed as to extend out towards either side.
Every item of a lady’s dress, from her hose to
her head-gear, bears the fashionable impress of colours
graduated from the darkest to the lightest shades.
The rage for Spanish lace still continues. All
the best milliners and dressmakers use it largely for
trimmings, while even nnderlinen is trimmed with it.
Steel lace, steel gauze, and steel beads and
ornaments, are all frequently used in bonnet trimmings
in combination with richly tinted flowers, ribbons, and
feathers.
Bonnets for the coming season are called
capotes. They are made without a wire or foundation,
and it is only the best milliners who can properly turn
them out.
Still more revivals from the days of good Queen
Anne I It is said that walking sticks for ladies are
coming into fashion again, even as they were popular
one hundred years ago.
Sateens will be in great demand through the
coming season. Some of those to hand already are
really beautiful. They will be much used as a back,
ground to dainty laces and muslins.
The colours most in favour at home at present
are all shades of ivory, cream, and yellow, myrtle green,
and dark blue. Some shades of terracotta and coffee-
colour have come into great favour.
The shades most in favour with those who affect
he aesthetic are jonquil yellows, dull green, copper
ted, and old blues. All seem to blend well with block
Spanish lace, which is still much in vogue.
The favourite flowers for summer millinery will
be wall-flowers, daffodils, jonquils and heath, also white
stephanotis, lily of the valley and narcissus, with plenty
of cool-looking green leaves or maidenhair fern.
The colimagon, or snail-shaped capote, is one of
the latest models. It is made of white, black, or steel
lace, turned round and round from the centre to the
edge, and is trimmed with red or variegated flowers.
“ Studies in yellow ” are amongst the most
fashionable hues of the day. Sunset is a shade which
merges from yellow to rod. Aureole is the name of a
new colour, obtained by some secret process from
gamboge.
Dresses of shaded material require great taste
and skill in their cutting out and making up, so that
the different shades so beautifully blended in the piece
should not be to harshly contrasted in the tout ensemble
of the dress.
Fans are now shaded. They are made of well-
selected feathers so beautifully arranged that half the
fan is of the dark shade and the other half of the light,
or sometimes the edges are dark, and the feathers
shaded upwards to lighter colours in the cent.-e.
A pretty coiffure is to wave the hair in front,
part in the middle, and, allowing a few short curls to
fall over the forehead, draw back the remainder and
fasten it under the back hair, which may be disposed in
a handsome loop fastened with a ball comb and curls.
Capotes are now worn far back on the head, and
show the hair, which is braided, smooth, or waved in
graceful ripples low over the brow. The fringe has
quite gone out of fashion, but waved bandeaux are in
great favour, though low over the eyes. They are
brushed off the ear, and a low chignon of coils is fastened
at the back.
The newest gloves are of old-gold coloured kid,
very long, with a painted design all up the back, getting
wider towards the top. “ Mousquetaire ” gauntleted
gloves, embroidered, are also novelties for both morn-
ing and evening wear. The gauntlet can bo removed
and put on to other gloves. It fastens by a narrow lace
of silk, with small tassels.
The three daughters of the Princess of Wales
differ greatly from each other. Louise, the eldest, is
the Parisienne, gay and affable, with her mother’s grace
and features. Victoria resembles her father; she is
proud aud reserved, with a cultivated intellect and a
generous heart. The youngest. Maud, looks like her
grandmother, the Queen, and is good-hearted and
serious.
Amongst some lovely models of bonnets by last
mail, is one of flue white French chip, the border lined
with ruby velvet, slightly puffed, aud edged with whit©
Spanish lace, embroidered with pearls. The outside is
trimmed with satin ribbon, six indies wide, shaded
from dark ruby to palest rose-colour, a cluster of tinted
ostrich tips to match, and an exquisite agraffe of pearl
and gold. Strings of the wide shaded ribbon are tied in
front. Another is of fine white Brussels straw, lined
with sapphire-blue velvet, the outside trimmed with
cream surah and white Spanish lace. On the left side a
cluster of tea-roses and sprays of forget-me nets.
Strings of cream surah and lace.


Business Announcements
I HAVE this day commenced business aa a
Stock and Share Broker, and shall be happy to
undertake any commissions either for the sale or pur-
chase of shares that may be entrusted to me.
JOHN E. JONES.
Eeferences :
Hon. S. D. Gordon, M.L.C.
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C.
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C,
Bichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-street.
JJAVID M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HAENESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Eoyal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Eobinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.Q.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
JjIASTEEN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
*24 GEOROE STREET,
HAYMAEKET.
LG. CHURCHWOOD
• 147 YOEK STEEET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPOETEE AND MANUFACTURES OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SHEET HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand, Is 6d per
680,000 AMEEICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
NOWLAND’S
LEAVE
GUNNED AH every THUESDAY for GOODOOQA.
QUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATUEDAY for
COONABAEABRAN.
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NABEABRI.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY, THURSDAY, and
SATURDAY for WEE WAA, PILLIGA, WAL-
GBTT, MILLIE, and MOREE.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATURDAY for
MUNGINDIE, Queensland Border.
QUNNEDAH every TUESDAY for ST. GEORGE,
Queensland.
URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OP
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brush ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
MTYED PAINT, READY FOE USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
HA. ABBOTT.
• BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STEEET, SYDNEY,
(FIVE BOOKS FROM PITT STEEET),
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices,
aa- A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
EA N D P. W. MASON,
• DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STEEET (near King-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, George-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAY DURING THIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOR THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEGE
KABGHER CASHMERE
BTOC KIN GETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDRIS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMERE
JERSEY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OP OTHER
FABRICS,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—We have opened 3
eases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
houses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. Extract-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK, BLACK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLACK SATIN DE LYON. 23 to 24
inches wide, 8s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6s lid, 7s 6d. These are now mush
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
N AUCUNIUM, guaranteed fast hlack,
every yard stamped on back.
BLACK SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS. PLUSHES in
every shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, &c.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all descriptions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation. Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling, Madeira Work, Ladies'
Cuffs, Collarettes Sets, Spauish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
FROM DRESS, so that there will
be no deception after they are
washed. Ladies will find our
Sheetings good value and standard
makes. Prices: 72-inch, rom lOd
to Is lid; 80-inch. Is to 2s 2d; 90-
inch, Is 6d to 2s 6d ; 100-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American, Denison House,
& Horrocks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from 1} to 3i long, at all
prices. Coloured ALHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2i long. 3s 6d. TOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT.—It has always
been our study to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
every size, and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
425; 5-8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS, from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMASK DOYLEYS,
round or square, all prices. SLIP
DAMASK, 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
BLEACHED TABLE LINEN,
from is 9d to 2s 6d; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS, all widths; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN, 40, 45, 54 inches
wide; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d to 365, ac-
cording to size; BROWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS, GLASS CLOTHS,
TEA CLOTHS, KNIFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH. PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG-
LING CLOTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33, 36 inches wide-
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
VICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Faperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Roam and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
c
OALCLIFP COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed POE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction In price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealing*
have gained it a fair trial a’sd a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, lubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town: —
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto >• Coalclifl.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened ■)
225. Ditto single ditto J Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
| Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child,
ren furnished with illustra-
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
JJ AYE
YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPH EX’S,
233 Pitt Street ?
PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
TT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
JL for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield H ' has “ Rival,” either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
Business Announcements
LIjEGAL.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
• SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 236)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
W.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
D E
STANICH, the eminent AURIST, ha a
returned from his tour through Queensland,
and will commence the practice of his Pro-
fession, in Sydney, in the course of a few
days.
QHBAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Good- packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
(lANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &c.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
H
ORSE-CLIPPIN G MACHINES
SHARPENED, ss. each, by
R. ITELLYER,
88 ELIZABETH STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
Guaranteed to Cut equal to new, or no charge made.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metaL
Tailors, Drapers, to.
I N T E E
GOODS.
We have at present a nice supply of the following
seasonable goods:— 3
Girl's Waterproofs and Long Jackets
„ Hosiery, Gloves and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Long Jackets and Waterproofs
Ladies' Skirts—Felt, Alpacca, & Satin Quilted
Ladies’ Hosiery, Gloves, and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Lined Kid Gloves —Fur tops with Spring
Oar own Registered Glove
2 Button 4 Button 6 Button
In the Shop 2/9 3/9 4/9
Posted 3/- 4/- 5/-
JOHN B. YOUDALB,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484. QEOEQE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
F AS AION ABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
B
LANKETS.
BLANKETS.
■FIRST SHIPMENT OP THE SEASON”
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN'S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied.*'
MEBICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST'S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. fid.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 Kino Stemit, Stdnkt (two doors from Oeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-street, Melbourne.
E O. L. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
S BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATH
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work*
manship, &e., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS PROM GEORGE STREET.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STREET,
Cannot Cannot Cannot
be be be
Excelled Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, and FASHION.
To effectually stop the extortion that has been prac-
tised in the way of clothing R. C. H. is making from
pure West of England and Scotch Tweeds.
In Five-button sac pattern suits, to Order, 70s.
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 655.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
West of England, Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order 16s 6d.
N.B.—Patterns, with self.measurement system, sent
post free to all parts of the colony.
Note the Address—
-127 KINO STREET.
ikm
$
m
%
%
&
<3?
Pi
V 2
%
m
m
3*
i&X&k
9
\r.
A
LA'


Hotels, fro.
The compagnoni catering company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of apace to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will bo
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Alcook table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persona, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
HOW OPEN,
THE
(JITY (JATERING QoMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris' CaM, opposite Peapes and Shaw's).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(Jhas. e. gml t h,
MANAGER.
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BRIDGE STREET,
(Opposite Bullbtih Office.)
R. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR.
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 A 80 CASTLEEEAGH STREET,
Orrosrr* Theatek Rota-l.
hotel DE F,fi^ NCt
EBAC
MU
raa
.....
1H
w
rj
LUNCHEON a»d SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLBR,
PROPRIETORS
Hotels, fro.
o LD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PEINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOE BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
ROBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PEE BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’a Grape (PORT WINE), 15e. per
Bottle, especially (or invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, &c,
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, fto.
Q W. E O BE E
MARKET STREET,
FOB FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS.
T S,
AND
B
OBBET BUTCHEE 4
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Ooustet Orders Ebceivb Prompt Arramriow.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAETEE CASKS,
AND CASE.
AGENT—GEORGE LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLAES,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLAES.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
B
OYAL EXCHANGE DINING BOOMS,
KING & GEORGE STREETS.
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales and Suite,
PROPRIETOR OP THE ABOVE ROOMS,
Begs to intimate that he is now supplying
THE BEST TABLE D'HOTE A-LA-EUSSE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for Is 6d.
The best INDIAN CURRY, by a NATIVE COOK on
the premises. Suppers ready, hot and cold, from Bto
12 p.m. Separate room for ladies. Arrangements
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and PARTIES, on most
reasonable terms. Booms vacant for gentlemen.
Your patronage is respectfully solicited.
A. A. WEBB,
ROYAL EXCHANGE DINING ROOMS,
King and George streets, Sydney.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into lib and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places:—
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
P. M'Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M’Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Eiley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 644 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
streets
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W, N. Eokes, 671 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, corner of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M’Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M’Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. Q. Judd, St. Peters
A. M’Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Gninery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Eedfern
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
E. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
Q AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
n
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The Purest Stimulant
worvP
The Name of M. MOSS ft 00.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINN
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
iff
X,ORE'£
ORNJ2
'•fy
m
1 ;•
It is of the ntmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as lares quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY,
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
JJ OS S AN D CLIN C H,
(Late Collins and Soach),
iEBATED WATER
AND
COEDIAL MANUFACTURERS,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &o.
CORDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
F
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTEALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42a per dozen,
ALBUEY WINES.
■JgIALLON’S PRIZE ALBERT WINE.
J. T. FALLON'S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Yinetard:
MURRAY RIYER VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris 1864
Vienna „ 1873
Philadelphia ~ ... 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND C i-ASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak nnma-
tnred Gin now so lately consumed.
&
IS
rd
&
.Q
Sri
i
StJPEEIOE to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for ita PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
Qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J. R. CATTED!, and
CO., Sole Agents.
01
MAR
B
OAR’S HEAD
TOUT.
This favourite brand of
T 0 U
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
•ud CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Hookings & co.’s oia
Australian Wine strengthens the
system against infections diseases.
Opposite City Bank, PITT STEEET.
IJNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES: 760 GEORGE STREET (flrat floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows:
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
15 ... 0 6
20 0 10 6
25 0 12 6
30 10 0
50 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
10 SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONET LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system. «
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street Hay-
market. '


“THE POOR PLAYER”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
At Brisbane, on the night of Saturday week, as
Miss Aunis Montague was singing " I dreamt that I
dwelt in marble halls," the infernal bowling of the
local Salvation Army, who were groaning out some
holy doggerel set to the old familiar air, “So early in
the Morning," broke upon the ears of the audience.
Miss Montague says that she's quite prepared to give
the army s prims donna best, and that she’s seriously
thinking of abandoning opera and taking a banner with
the howlers The Oliver-Seagrave Company commence
their Townsville season on 10th August, when the
annual shew and races will be "on the board."
Signor Blanchi is managing opera in California
"Billee Taylor," which Mr. Williamson produces at
Melbourne Opera House, will shortly be cast An
American writer says, in regard to Bernhardt's recent
visit to Niagara, that “ she alighted, remained for an
instant spellbound, and then in one wild rush drank in
the whole falls ’’ Yet we always thought that Emily
Soldene had the biggest mouth A member of a well-
known American orchestra refused to play the violin
obligato to Gounod’s " Ave Maria," on the ground that
he was a soloist, and not a singer’s accompanist.
AVilhelmj, overhearing this, at once observed, "Well,
If the part isn’t good enough for him it will do for me,"
and he played that obligato in a style that made things
creep The orchestral player was a bandbox party, and
utterly "tootoo" to herd w.th singer’s, bnt Wilhelm]
was simply a plain fiddler (at 500 dels, a night) The
other evening some enthusiast, whose early education
has apparently been neglected, threw at Miss Nellie
Stewart, on to the stage of the Theatre Eoyal, a bank-
mte. Of courra ihe young lady did’nt take the " flimsy,"
which, according to report, went into the poor box
Bandmann concluded a most successful season of eight
nights at New Plymouth, N.Z., on July sth " Puck,"
of the Otago Witness, observes that Mr. Theo.
Hamilton, co-lessee of the Princess, has been compelled
to join the majority Mrs. E. Holloway generally acts
as "first robber” at the theatres leased by her hus-
band. One night a rough man came to her for a ticket.
" I say, missus, give us a bob’s worth. I was in last
night and I went to sleep, but I’m going to have
another shy in.” The New Zealand Times an-
nounces a probable visit by Mr. Henry Irving to N.Z.
It says that Mr. Irving, still suffering from ill-health,
his medical advisers insist upon his taking a period of
rest and perfect quietude at a distance from all scenes
of present excitement He has relatives in Nelson,
and it is not improbable that he will visit them, and
find in the healthy climate and perfect tranquility there
pervading the rest and rest oration he so much needs
Lynch Bellringers and company have had a good
season at Inverell, and are off to Penterfleld Mr.
Arthur Garner has presented Mr. G. L. Goodman,
treasurer of the Eoyal, with a massive gold and platinum
albert and medallion locket, on one side of which is the
Australian Coat of Arms, and on the reverse an inscrip-
tion; while Mr. J. C. Williamson has sent him from
Melbourne, a very elegant scarf-pin, onyx head on
cameo, set with diamonds and pearls. George says
" an acting-manager’s life is indeed a happy one."
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On Wednesday, the 13th instant, Mr. W. C.
Dillon took abmetit at the School of Arts, in which
he was assisted by Mr. Harry Lestou, Miss “Marie
Wiltoa,” Mr. Hasker, and other ladies and gentlemen
of minor note—the pieces presented being “ Don
Cce-ar de Sazan," in its entirety, and one act of
“ Belphegor." Whilst arrangements for the entertain-
ment were pending, it was understood that Mr. Dan
O’Connor and other gentlemen had interested them-
selves in the benefiicaire, and it was more than whispered
that certain members of the Ministry would honour the
performance with their i ref cnee. The result, however,
proved to Mr. Dillon the fallacy of patting his faith
in members of Parliament, since the appearance of the
house on the night ef the performance was melancholy
in the extreme. Taking dead-beuds and all into con-
sideration, there were not enough persons in the hall
to keep the place warm, but the sprinkling of the un-
combed in the gallery, possibly growing savage under
the dispiriting influence of their surroundings, behaved
in such an outrageous manner that the performers were
c« mpletely disconcerted at a very early stage of the
proceedings.
« * *
We arrived shortly after the commencement of
“ Don Caesar de Sazan," and had no sooner settled
ourselves down to enjoy the performance, when we at
once perceived that all chance of keeping serious was at
an end. When Miss “ Marie Wilton" came on and
uttered a pathetic sentiment, half the gods saluted her
with peals of derisive applause, while the other half
sobbed convulsively. If any of the actors asked a
question in soliloquy, the gallery immediately answered
it, nnd while Mr. Dillon, in crimson and gold, was
making his best effects, he was encouraged to further
efforts by such cries ss “Give it lip!” “Stretch
out on it. Sill I** "Hurrool” “Whoop!” and many
more ejaculations of a similarly disconcerting nature.
Under these circumstances it is no wonder that none of
the performers shone in any especial degree, the only
marvel being that they found patience to jumble through
the performance at all.
• « •
Wo are very sorry for Mr. Dillon, who is A
painstaking and deserving young actor, nnd we also
heartily sympathise with the ladies and gentlemen who
so kindly gave their services on this most melancholy
occasion. We don’t mind admitting that we did not sit
out “ Belphegor,” and therefore we are unable to notice,
in detail, either the performance of Mr. Dillon in the
title rdle, or that of Mr. H. Leston in Fanfarronade.
The latter impersonation, however, is well known for its
I road humour and finished excellence.
* « •
The comparative fiasco of Mr. Dillon’s benefit
only proves the absurdity of getting up hasty enter-
tainments of this description in a hall unfitted for the
production of heavy pieces, and with a scratch com-
pany that pull together about as well as a pair of un-
broken colts in a horse-dealer’s brake. We have
always sympathy with hard-working professionals
but we cannot, however much feeling we may
have in the matter, favourably notice an entertainment
which was the personification of confusion, and upen
which the passing spirit of desolation hovered like a
grim black shadow. We used to write in our copy-books
experientia docet; but this proverb does not seem to apply
to actors. Yet how many have “benefltted” in haste
who have not repented,at leisure P
* * * *
Friday last should figure conspicuously in the
historic annals of the colony, for not only was that day
rendered important by reason of its being the date fixed
for the Mayor’s ball to the Princes (airily noticed else-
where), but, on that same evening, Mr. Defries appeared
n t the Queen’s Theatre in "Hamlet." The interest in the
play, of course, was almost entirely centred in the
impersonator of the hypochondriacal Dane, although,
personally, we were somewhat curious to see how Miss
Marian Willis would “shape” as the daughter of
Polouius, who was “ passing fair.”
« « •
Mr. S. Defries, we understand, is a gas-
fitter by trade, and an actor by inspiration,
lie professes to have made as deep a study
of “Hamlet" as Coufuscius did of philosophy, and
furthermore he is said to be so carried away with the
inner poetical phases of Shakespeare’s masterly con-
ception, as to, when performing it, entirely lose sight
of his own identity. This, we are inclined to think, is
n pity, for though Mr. Defries may possibly be an ex-
cellent gas-fitter, he has no more idea of playing
Hamlet than a hedgehog has of dancing a saraband.
Before, however, going critically into Mr. Defries’s per-
formance, we wish, at once, to admit that
socially he is a very excellent individual, and adored
by all who know him. It will at once be
seen, then, that we are noticing no ordinary man, no
tnere player who casts his bread upon the stage (and
doesn't often see it “ after many days ’’), but a fervent
enthusiast, whose soul soars above gas, and who lives
only to pipe the metre of the “Divine Williams’"
■bythmical blank verse.
* * •
Mr. Defries dresses the part with a sombreneßS
nggestive of the coal-yard. His dress is unrelieved by
one coloured ribbon, and he did not even wear upon his
dexter breast that tin cheese-plate which has been the
recognised badge of Hamlet ever since the days
of Betterton. His sword was conspicuous, it is true,
being a weapon of great size and weight. It was not
much to look at certainly, but what it lacked in ele-
gance, it doubtless made up in usefulness, being a
falchion eminently adapted to chopping the family
wood, or sawing the shin-bone in half on soup davs. Mr.
Defries has a tender affection for this weapon, and the
feeling does him credit. It would seem that there is a
medimval anecdote-but we will give you, dear readers,
the little legend in verse. One flourish of the trumpets
heralds. *Tis well I Largesse 1 largesse 1 What 1
nothing in the hat ? No matter I In go the rowels
of the golden spurs, and away our Pegasus prances
As an elocutionist, Mr. Defries only shines with
a very reflected radiance. His intonation is uncertain,
and he speaks most of his speeches in very much the same
breathless tone as that a man uses when he cries to a
by-stander “ lift me up ” offer falling down backwards
on a piece of orange-peel. Always letter perfect,
Mr. Defries always speaks the author, but what he
utters are mere “ words, words, words,” and we may
remark that there is not half so much method in Mr.
Defries’s words as there is in Hamlet’s madness. Much
as we should like te say so, we are bound to admit that
we cannot see anything in Mr. Defries’ performance
which should justify him in inflicting it upon the public.
If he wishes to become an actor, let him begin at the
bottom of the ladder, and learn his profession step by
step. For, since it must be told, Mr. Defries has every-
thing to learn: to walk, to talk, to use his arms, to draw
the family falchion—and, above all, and how horribly
hackneyed is the instruction !—“ suit the action to the
word, the word to the action.” As Mr. Defries’s appear,
ances on the stage are like angels’ visits, “ few and far
between,” it will doubtless be some time before we see
him perform again. In the meantime we advise him to
study anew line—something more suited to his phy-
sique and histrionic attainments. Golden-shoe dancing,
for instance—or, the tight-rope.
* * •
However, to show Mr. Defriea there is no ill-
feeling, so far as we are concerned, we have much plea-
sure in informing him that it he will let us know what
address will find him, we will make apoint of dropping
him a line the moment anything is wrong with the
meter.
• • •
Mr. J. B. Steele made an appropriately gloomy
Ghost, and spoke the blank verse with good effect. His
figure was a bit substantial for a phantom, but after
all, Hamlet’s father may, in life, nave been a six-footer
with a 45-inch waist.
* * *
Mr. Haygarth (who is a capital actor when he
has a chance) had evidently made a study of Polonius,
and represented him, not as a pantaloon attired
in a dressing-gown and a long wig, but as the half-
shrewd, half-drivelling old chatterer that Shakespeare
has depicted him. As the King, Mr. Barry looked and
spoke like the Ruthless Ruffian of the Roaring Ravine.
He evidently had not had time to rehearse the play, so
we had a little of Shakespeare and a good deal of Barry.
However, he hammered on bravely to the end, and had
a hole made in him in the last act to the unlimited
satisfaction of the audience. Mr. Stoueham was a fair
Laertes, and if he’d “ pinked ” Hamlet in real earnest
in the fencing scene wo could have forgiven him. Mr.
Burton was a rather mild Horatio, and dressed the part
like the “nobleman" who follows the Jack-in-the-
Green on Mayday.
• * «
Mr. Arrowsmith, in a long wig, was the Guilden-
stern of the evening, nnd was evidently ill at ease ; and
Mr. Sweeny, in a pair of crimson tights, made a stalwart
(and, on the whole, satisfactory) Rosenorantz. Mar-
cell us was allotted to Harry Flynn, and he got a dress
with it which had the effect of setting all our efforts at
seriousness, while he was on the stage, at defiance. The
dress consisted of an impossible round tin hat, some-
thing like an inverted pudding basin —a tunic of an
uncertain age, and antediluvian out—and a pair of white
tights that had been probably worn in the original
representation of the piece at the London Globe in 1590.
Fancy poor Maroellus keeping guard on the battlements
of Elsinore in that rig I Mr. J. P. O'Neill, as might be
well expected, made an amusing First Gravedigger, and
Mr. Thorpe would have made a better First Actor did
he possess a better memory.
# * *
The Ophelia of Miss Marian Willis, though a
very pretty and poetical performance, lacks finish, but,
nevertheless, when one takes into consideration the
amount of “sides” she had to study the week the
tragedy was produced, and the very eccentric Hamlet
whom she had to play up to, the young lady acquitted
herself —not only well, but—surprisingly well. The
higher class of the drama is evidently Miss Willis’s
proper line in the profession; and it is, therefore, pain-
ful ,to see her continually throwing away her talents
upon productions which ore utterly worthless, except
for the purpose of drawing a Saturday night audience.
Of the many times we have seen this young lady perform,
it is only on two occasions that we have not beheld her
dashing across draw-bridges, defending forts, pistoling
villains, wrestling against enormous odds, or making
hair-breadth escapes from the devouring element. The
" stuff ” put into her mouth in most of these pieces is
the most ludicrous, and often the most'ungrammatical,
rubbish it is possible to conceive, and it must be, there-
fore, a task of no ordinary difficulty for Miss Willis at
as it were a moment’s notice to tone herself down to
the “legitimate." Our readers will, therefore, per-
ceive, when we state that the Ophelia of Friday night
was in every respect smooth and intelligent, that no
small praise is due to the little lady who impersonated a
difficult part under so many disadvantages.
# # #
The Queen of Miss M. A. Melville was Mrs.
Jarley with a Dutch-metal crown on, while Miss Nelly
Montague dressed the player Queen as if that much-
travelled actress were going out washing. The scenery
was rather dusky and the audience not particularly
numerous, the stalls being only speckled. The circle
was fairly patronised, and Mr. Defries, the hero of the
hour, received a most enthusiastic reception from an
umbrella in the front row.
« « «
“ Birds of Prey ” was produced on Saturday at
this theatre, and “Led Astray,” about which we shall
have something (let’s hope nice) to say, is “inactive
preparation.”
* * * *
Next Saturday will see the last night of “ Diplo-
macy" at the Gaiety Theatre, and this being the case,
we shall take the opportunity of saying a closing word
about the play. It will be remembered that from the
first we predicted the success of the piece; and,
although during the first week the receipts were to a
certain extent disappointing, the subsequent result has
confirmed the accuracy of our judgment. “ Diplomacy"
is a magnificent play, full of admirable precepts, keen
cynicisms, noble sentiments and superbly skilful situa-
tions. When well played, this masterly creation of the
most skilful playwright of modern times is a rare intel-
lectual treat, and this f*ot has gradually dawned upon
the public. But supposing “ Diplomacy" were per-
formed by a company |the members of which did not
possess either the mental calibre to grasp the fine
points, or the histrionic ability to make them, the piece
would degenerate into the sorriest farce that ever made
a critic squirm.
* • •
Of the acting at the Gaiety, we have already
had much to say. We saw the piece on the first night
it was played, and formed at once a very decided opinion
about the merits of the various impersonations.
Since writing our first notice, we have seen
the play a great many times, and we do
not see any reason now for either altering or
adding to our opinions as originally expressed. With
Mr. Wybert Reeve we are perfectly satisfied; with Mr.
Titheradge we are more than satisfied ; with Mr. Cates
we are surprised and delighted; with Mr. Frank Forbes
we are delighted and surprised; and all the other
gentlemen play “ excellent well." Miss Annie Mayor
has, to a very large extent, made the success of the
piece, and Mrs. Stammers has woiked for that success
like the true artist she is. Of Miss Kate Arden we are
bound to state, since we are writing critically, that,
though she makes a good Russian spy, she does not
make a brilliant Countess Zicka. We hope to see Miss
Arden in her own special department—the “ old
woman " line—before she leaves Sydney.
• « *
And now, as this is a little bit heavy, we will
lighten up the column by dedicating to our very own
Johnny and Co. a short Gaiety incident, in verse.
Attention, Messieurs : —
The foregoing splendid lyric is, of course, only a
joke. Any man is liable to fall asleep sometimes, more
especially after continually contemplating the same
piece night after night, for even stage sensation, after a
time, becomes so monotonous that it acts as a soporific.
Personally, we wouldn’t mind being lulled to sleep by
certain music we could mention (we don’t mean instru-
mental music) that is to be heard nightly at the Gaiety.
We are glad, however, that the opportunity has
occurred which enabled ns to state that no theatre in
Sydney can boast of more courteous and obliging ushers
than those employed by Messrs. Bayliss and Solomon;
and we trust before very long to see them take—as do
the employes at the Theatre Royal—their well-earned
annual benefit.
* * * *
“ Tambour-Major ” has much to answer for.
We are in receipt of correspondence—tons of it—which
leads us to the unalterable conclusion that the lively
opera in question has disordered the minds of the
youth of this city. Here, now, is a sample of the last
mile of poetry that is nightly mysteriously poked under
eur office door:—
" Stellah I Stellah 1 darling Stellah I
Now Bulletin, please let me tell her.
What a poor heart-broken fellah
She has made me.
I go and watch her every night.
Sit overcome with mad delight,
And think, when Tambour’s finished quite,
It has repaid me."
Then, on the other hand, the girls are equally gone on
Mervin, Brennir, and Bambini, and even the dear Duke
has touched the heart gently of many a pretty Louise,
The supers, too, are “in it," and may be seen in the
afternoons parading the block in well-blackened
boots and whole coats, sucking at briar pipes, and
doing the amiable to Colonial Duchesses. The
management, and the performers generally, are very
popular here, and to this fact is, in no small degree, due
the great and lasting favour in which the opera is held.
Our metrical correspondent is only one of many hun-
dreds who “ go and watch there every night," and we
ourselves know enthusiasts who have already been a
dozen times, but, who, far from being satisfied with
the piece, declare they find out new beauties in the
music and in the ladies of the army every night. And
talking of the ladies, that reminds us of a “ Tambour-
Major ” episode at the races. Here it is: —
The snow of time was on his head
(Where he had any hair);
His hoary brow was furrowed.
But yet, we do declare.
That ancient wight (now guess him, try !)
On Stella cast a loving eye.
For flashing steeds he had no thought.
As they went racing by ;
The poor old boy was badly caught.
He could but gaze and sigh;
He could but gaze and wish, in vain,
JPor youth and vigour once again.
He held her white hand in his own,
And then she smiled, because
He told her in a quavering tone
How soft and warm it was.
Now, once more—tell us if you can,
Who was this dear, old, giddy man ?
* * * *
Mr. Hallewell’s concert takes place at the School
of Arts, at 3.30 p.m., to-day (Thursday) in the presence
of the Princes and the officers. Bomon, Mr. and Mrs.
Foster, Miss Liddle, and the great basso. This should
be a great treat —independent of the royal and naval
exhibition.
* * * *
Ye music-loving ones peruse.
With care, this little bit of news!
Next Wednesday afternoon at three
The place, the pretty Gaiety,
Before the Princes there will play
Our fair friend, Alice Charbonnet.
So roll up, sweetest public do.
The prices :—10, 5, 3, and 2.
* * * *
Mr. Carden and Miss Marston Leigh are an-
nounced to appear at the Queen’s at the end of August;
but Dick, though reticent on the subject, admits that
unless considerable modifications be made in the pro-
posed contract their visit to Sydney will be indefinitely
postponed.
* * * *
Garden Palace—Fancy Fair,
Friday and Saturday—mind you be there.
Chance to purchase a fire-screen.
And hear the band of the Wolverene.
* * * *
The “ Cumberland Mutual Improvement
Society" gave an entertainment on Wednesday, the 13th,
at the Parramatta School of Arts; and, by way of
getting more improvement than was to bo had out of
the Parramatta talent they had up Mr. A. Fairfax, Mr.
W. F. Baker, and Mr. Charles Huenerbein to assist
them. There was playing and singing by this tuneful
trio, and also warbling by Miss Foxhall, and a Patti in
embryo modestly described as “ a lady amateur." Mr.
Lookrey eloouted “ Eugene Aram” and Mark Twain’s
“ Real Mexican Plug"; and some gentlemen spoke a
bit, notably a Mr. Ashley, who gave “ Parrhasius" in a
manner which will at once qu-lify him for the position
of descriptive lecturer to a Giant. The affair was a
tremendous artistic success, —and a howling pecuniary
failure.
** * *
Mr. J. C. Williamson follows the Musgrave
party at the Royal in October, with one or other—or
both—of the new operas "Billee Taylor” an I “Pa-
tience."
** * *
Mr. Hasker drew a better house for his benefit at
the School of Arts on Monday than Mr. Dillon did, the
pieces performed bring Craven’s “Our Belly," some
songs, and “ Cut off with a Shilling " Mr. Dillon had
been advertised to appear, but for some reason or other,
not explained, he did not show up. Miss Blanche Grey
made a hit in the first piece, looking very charming, and
acting quite more so ; and Mr. Hasker’s Giles Freckle-
face is considerably better thou his Polonius. A num-
ber of other ladies and gentlemen appeared, including
Mr. Walter Medus, whose impersonation of Walter
Hartright, in the “ Woman in White," at the Gaiety
will haunt our disordered dreams until the crack of
doom. Mr. H. Flynn also appeared, looking con-
siderably happier in his nineteenth century get up than
he did in the fearsome garb of Marcellus. The audi-
ence, on the whole, appeared pleased with Mr. Hasker’s
dramatic dish, and “ all passed off harmoniously. "
** * *
We are sorry to see by the telegrams in our
daily contemporaries that an actor was arrested
on Saturday, at Albury, where he was on route for Mel-
bourne, for wife desertion. An order was made for him
to pay £2 per week, though whether he was liberated or
not does not appear. We trust that by this time the
artist has settled his little matrimonial difficulties,
which he can easily do by kissing the old woman and
patting the kids on the head.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
This is a true bill and a peep under the
umbrella. Ha was a bush evangelist ef experience, and
while in Auckland he stayed at a house the landlady
whereof had a pretty daughter who could sing Finding
that he could make no impression on the girl, he tried the
mother, and put it to her thus : “ I love you to distrac-
tion. I am in a paying business; so are you. When
we get married, you know, I can take the theatre on
Sunday evenings, you can take the money, and
Ethelinda can take the singing. In this way, if we can
pall together, we can often make as much as twelve
pounds a week.” The cream of the joke was that the
landlady was but a grass widow, and that the other
boarders, finding that the holy man had an eye to busi-
ness, had “ egged him on."
* * »
A Government survey party, consisting of the
boss surveyor and, say, ten men, halted about mi 1-day
close to the gate of a magnificent orchard, then wich all
its trees in full bearing. A heathen Chinee at the other
s'de of the gate calmly scanned the visitors, and, after
a few words between the boss and the Mongolian, the
nnrty were ordered to hitch up their horses and eat as
much fruit as they chose. As they felt tired, hungry,
and thirsty, they at once became happy men. Each
man having done his best, the boss plunged his hands
into his pockets, and asked John, “ How much for the
lot?” “Only sick a penny,” replied the Celestial.
“All right, John; sixpence very cheap." "Oh, yes,
sick a penny velly cheap,” continued the man from the
Flowery Land, as he pocketed the coin; “ Garden no
belongee me belongee old woman at Bathurst.”
Exeunt omnes.
* * »
A certain theatrical manager of Sydney, relates
that while travelling in South Africa, he one night
stayed nt a caravenserai whereat a little Hebrew pedlir
of watches and a fellow, who turned out to be chevalier
d'industrie, were also guests. The pedlar and the
“clever” man began to play cards, and of course the
clever man won. When the small Hebrew had lost all
his money, he told his successful friend that he’d like
to have his revenge, aud asked him as a favor to advance
him money on jewellery. The “winner" agreed, and
the pedlar brought down his stock-in-trade, consisting
of gold and silver watches—valued respectively, for the
purposes of play, at £7 and £3 each. The chevalier still
continued to win, hand over fist, and seeing this, the
man who tells the story as soon as he had a chance of
addressing the loser, informed him that he wa* being
“ had ” by a much smarter man. “ Make no misdake,”
was the reply—“ I’m charging him seven pound and
three pound for vatches that only cost me three pound
and twenty-five bob."
# # *
There is keen competition just now between the
Churches and the Devil to see who shall get held of the
best tunes; and Rowland Hill, if he were alive, could
no longer complain that the latter has a monopoly. In
some of our fashionable places of worship—we had
nearly written “ amusement"—the tunes are qnite as
lively as those in " Tambour-Major ’’ or “ Pinafore,”
and there is such a disposition to act, that it is apparent
that there does not exist such a wide gulf between the
Church and the Stage as some people contend.
* * *
Two young ladies of Sydney are making them*
selves very conspicuous by the scantiness of their dress
in public, and on one occasion last week their costumes
—or want of them—were the cause of hisses from moral*
ists in the pit of the theatre. We are assured that in
thus emulating Lady Godiva as far as decency, or say
fashion —which still retains some of that quality—will
permit, these “ block ” heads (i.e., heads of the block)
are instigated purely by a laudable desire to extend
their circle of friends: for the most casual acquaint-
ance, or even an entire stranger to them, on being
asked it he knew the ladies in question, can say with all
truth, “Oh, yes; I have seen a good deal of them."
* « •
By the way, two other young ladies, whom
somebody evidently wishes to join the “great un-
dressed," appeared a night or two ago at the Gaiety.
They seemed very modest young creatures, and blushed
considerably on doffing their “ clouds." They certainly
looked as if they had " come from the clouds," in quite
another sense. However, it’s just as easy for parents
to make girls lose their modesty as it is to see that they
retain it. By-and-bye there’ll probably be as little
blushing as clothes.
* * •
The Melbourne Benevolent Asylum Committee
have prevented Mrs. Hubbard from entering that insti-
tution for three months, because she gave the inmates,
with her own hands, some buns and jam, preferring
this mode of presentation, to passing the good
things through the hands of about 20 officials,
whereby the quantity might have been diminished by
the action of atmospheric evaporation. Here is a chunk
of a nursery rhyme, which we invite the members of
the Committee to have set to music without delay :
Old Mother Hubbard, she went to her cupboard,
To get the poor paupers some tucker.
When “ Bumble” said “ Stop her ! it’s really improper!”
And straightway outside he did chuck her.
• # «
Mr. Lackey emulates the Emperor of Russia,
just sent by the Nihilists’ bomb to a higher tribunal
than theirs. When the European engineers were debat-
ing the best course for a railway to follow from St.
Petersburg to Moscow, the mighty Romanoff took a
ruler, drew a straight pencil line between the
two cities, and settled the question at once. Between
the estimated and the real cost of the line to Mudgee
there is a discrepancy of a trifling quarter of a million,
of which Mr. Lackey talks airily, showing how Mudgee
cares for the finances of the colony. The original trial
sections provided for gradients of one in fifty, but the
working sections lessened them to one in forty-eight
and fifty. The sapient Minister innocently remarks
that “ the alterations increase the quantities of earth-
work to a considerable extent,” and a good many people
are inclined to agree with him to an extent just as con-
siderable. Will Mr. Lackey take a calm, unimpassioued
look at this piece of bungling, and see its consequences ?
Parliament sanctioned an expenditure of £750,000 —his
department increases it to over a million, and the lucky
contractor gets paid for the same number of tons of
A LEGEND OF FLODDEN.
The sun gleamed down from the azure sky
Upon the warriors charging by ;
And none was braver, if you please.
On Flodden Field, than Sieur Defines P
With wild hurrah, with clang and ring,
They whoop'd down on the Scottish king.
Then “one, two, three, and under,” and
Out flew the sparks from every brand.
When crack upou Defries’s crown
A half-brick cam®, and he was down.
He woke to find the battle o’er;
Around him lay but the cold slain;
So, ups he, with a martial roar,
And kills the bodies once again.
Then, having pierced them through and through.
What, think you, brave Defries did do ?
On plunder bent, that knight, they say,
" Went through” them in another way.
When dying in his bed of ease.
At 95. thus spoke Defries :
“ The brand with which I fought the dead,"
(Aud here he raised his lion head)
“ For ever shall an heirloom be
In our most noble familee."
With this he, with an effort, rose up,
A hiccup gave, then “ turned his toes up.”
So that’s how Defries, the actor, become possessed of
the falchion ef Defries the warrior.
At the Gaiety, the other night
(The house, of course, a crusher).
We took our seat, in silence, by
A meditative usher.
His eye was fixed, and on his face
A dreamy look he bore;
He nodded, soon fell fast asleep—
And then began.to.snore.
A strange kind of spasmodic snore.
That sleeping usher snored;
A sound that did with “ Dora’s" voice
But very ill accord.
" He said," she murmured, “ I'd he rich.
And mis’ru know no more,
And that his wife, he would take care —”
Then came an awful snore 1
“ Oh, Julian, come back, come back.
And leave me never more!
I love you, Julian," she cried,
“ I love—" (an awful snore).
Cried Zioka—“ Show that letter not
To Julian, I implore ;
If he knew what my life had been —”
Then came that sleeper’s snore.
’Twas then we twitched that usher by
The smart black coat ho wore;
He turned uneasily, and, oh,
Once more he gave a snore.
He oped his eyes : he started up,
Gazed wildly t’wards the door j
“ Excuse —" he murmured ; but we said,
II Go forth and —snore no more."


-earth for excavating which there was no competition.
It is the fashion to apply terse nomenclature to unwise
administrations, and if Mr. Lackey goes on in this way
we must call his one of bobbery, and—well, we’ll stop
bare. ...
In the commission given by the Marquis de Rays
to M. Achille Luciani Oliva, the following is a delightful
passage“ We confer upon him equally, the right to
£ear in this quality, as civil uniform,the white cloak with
blue border and arms of the colony, distinctive sign of
the colonial nobility, and of the military officers." And
yet to think that after this distinguished mark of M. de
gays’ favour, there is not a brick baked in the universe
-that this scion of colonial nobility would deem too big to
ehy at the head of his benefactor did he once come
within range of him! There is no such thing as grati-
tude in this world.
• • #
Says a correspondent in re, of course, the
■princes:—“ This was being sung by an intoxicated
patriot as I passed by a “ pub” the other night:—
< For the Mayor, he’s sure to see to you,
And keep you from offensive smell.
Then there’s Sir Henry, who’ll be most glad
How small-pox was invented, you to tell.’ ’’
This is too thin. Our correspondent must evidently bo
romancing. No man, however drunk, could sing like
this. He evidently composed it himself when perfectly
amber. ,
Another small-pox bard :
“ They swarm in shoals
From simple Hafiz Lewis down to” —
gut why paraphrase Byron when we can quote verbatim
from a local poet ?
“ Does all the evil that this world can span
Rest in the bosom of the Chinese man P
Nay, as I think, we each our share have got,
Christians’ back yards are oft a dirty lot.
So they are. And if your back yard, you splendid
genius, doesn't smell any better than your poetry, it’s
high time the neighbours put Seymour on to you!
However, try again; only send the next effort t» the
Sydney Daily T. They want a bard of your calibre to
•watch their magnificent South Sea Island essayist. You
are at liberty to make use of this if you think it will
benefit you.
• * *
At the Mayor’s Ball. —Oleaginous cad to pretty
nng lady, who is sitting alone: “ Haw 1 I think I’ve
the pleasure of meeting you befaw.” Young lady,
with much readiness: “ Oh, no, you haven’t. Pa won’t
deal at your shop: he says you sell such bad meat."
•Collapse of oleaginous cad.
* * *
At about half-past 4 o’clock in the morning, just
as the waiters were clearing up, a prominent politician
•went up to one of the buffets, and addressing a worn-
out help, said, “ I want a leetle (hie) M’selle.” To
which the waiter replied, tartly, “ Aint got no Mam-
Belles here. Better ask the Master o’ the Ceremonies."
Here is one stanza from a competitive cantata
sent in to the judges of the Adelaide Exhibition:—
•** New South Wales was first with her great big show,
And the Banana men followed close by;
Then Melbourne rose up as we all must know.
But Adelaide knocks the whole crowd * kite high.’
Tra la la-a —Tra la le-e.
Pass over those * spons ’ now to me.”
With the exception of the Sydney cantata, the Ex-
hibition prizes have always been awarded to the worst
composition. Now, the trouble from which we quote
was rejected, and what we want to know is this—was
undue influence brought to bear on the cantata judges,
or was Moodie’s “ pome ” worse ?
* # *
Dr, Carr has sent us a long communication, on
a number of pieces of paper of different sizes and
different degrees of cleanliness, the most respectable
sheet of the lot being about the colour of a Pitt-street
flag-stone on a murky morning. The worthy doctor is
at Qunnedah, where he says he is practising in medi-
cine, having given mesmerism best. That is all we can
make out of his communication. One item we at first
read, “ Jarra jong jems harp mice and walnuts.” Half
an hour afterwards, assisted by a comp, who had (or
said he had) once set up Horace Greeley’s copy, we
made it, “ Japanese knee-joints make fine rat-traps."
This not being sufficiently lucid to please us, we called
in (at great expense) on expert, who deciphered the
item as follows: —“Jumbuck’s hoofs for ginger jelly."
We gave it up then. Say! what is it, doctor ? A dra-
matic critique, the first act of a tragedy, or an essay on
gastrotomioal diagnosis? Write and tell us—yes, and
when you do write, old boy, don’t get such a giddy
spider to crawl over the paper.
» * «
That magnificent new evening journal, the
Cumberland Evening Times, announces it will shortly
publish a tale called “ The Sorceress,” the dialogue of
which “ deals with the darkest and brightest aspects of
human passion and emotion.” Oh 1
* * *
It was remarked that during the Mayor’s ball a
great many ministerial supporters went into the hop-
position. [We trust the humming humorist who sent
us this will call round at the earliest convenience. His
half-brick is ready.— Ed. B.]
* « •
Whinnies, the editor of theDALBT Herald, re-
gretting the untimely decease of the office horse :
“ And thou art gone and left us.
For many years thou’st been the messenger of news
Of wars, of strife, of civil or domestic broils.
And all the huge variety of facts
That fill the Daley Herald.”
They want to make out he died of age; but we know
better. He had to deliver the Herald weekly to sixty
subscribers, and the remarks they made on the publi-
cation within his hearing broke his heart. The neigh,
bonrhood will miss poor Piebald. For when the editor
didn’t want him the butcher did, and on state occasions
the Mayor used to get the loan of him to stand in the
passage of the Town Hall for a hat-rack. The only
holidays he ever had was when ploughing for the parson,
or truck-drawing for the miller. And some of the
persons who got the loan of him Were not content with
taking his services, but they generally took some of
him. Thus the widow-woman at the “ half-mile” bor-
rowed his mane and tail to stuff her sofa cushion with,
and when old Flapjack, of Myall Creek, took bad,
his boys sawed off the horse’s off fore hoof to make
jelly with. Most people subscribed to the paper for
what they could get out of that animal; so it’s no
wonder the editor of the Herald laments poor hobbling
Piebald in poor hobbling poetry.
* •* « * #
It has come to our knowledge—and what doesn’t
come to our knowledge in the course of the week! —
that an advertising draper in this city has a “ young
man" who considers that the spirit moves him to do a
pitch every Sunday in a place of worship, built of tin
and old giu-cases, and that two or three hundred enthu-
siasts, who are not particular to a shower of falling h’s,
and who love the roaring rhetoric of the Little Bethe
orator, assemble every Sunday to hear him. The em-
ployer of this screaming saint is a man whose soul is
less bound up in thoughts of Heaven than in thoughts
of advertising; and scenting out a chance for a
gratuitous ad. through the medium of his holy counter
cl erk, he suggested that he should give out the text
“ Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as
white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they
shall be os wooland he suggested that his young man
™ight graphically illustrate the text by producing some
of his wool at this juncture, and state, in a mild perora-
tion, its many excellencies and the shop it came from.
tL sepl-T5 epl -T to this, the young Sunday “pitcher" said
tUat while his religious convictions would not allow of
his doing exactly what his employer wished him, he
would with pleasure show the wool to the audienoe, but
would, in order to satisfy his conscience, add this quota-
tion from the scriptures: “It was weighed in the
balance and found wanting." In dispensing with the
services on the spot of his young man, his employer re-
marked drily that though possibly he might one day
become a Moody, he would never, if he lived a thousand
years, make a draper.
* • •
This is a serious item, so no laughing, please.
The other day a lady, who had an important (so she
thought) communication for the Inspector- General of
Police, called on that gentleman and poured her infor-
mation into his willing ear. When her story was con-
cluded Mr. Posbery thanked his visitor with great
politeness, and handed her out on to the stair-case. In
turning to bid him good-morning, the heel of the lady’s
boot caught the iron stair-rod, and bang I with the
swiftness of a spirit through a vampire-trap, she dived
headlong down the flight An hour later
(during which period she had been hoisted up by the
whole strength of the detective force) as she was leav-
ing the place with a black eye, her arm in a sling, and a
temporary crutch under her elbow, the gallant inspec-
tor said : “ Never mind, madam: I give you great praise
for your exertions in the interests of law and justice.”
The lady uttered a hollow groan. “ Thank you," she
said, coughing np a few ounces of carpet she had
swallowed in her descent; “ thank you, I’m sure. But
I’d far sooner you gave me a new collar-bone and knee-
cap." Let the next enthusiast who has any informa-
tion roll up—we mean roll down 1
V.
TO DAVID BUCHANAN.
[Vide his speech on the Chinese Question.]
Alas, alas, it is in vain, oh, —
Yes, in vain to hope for aught
From this great blustering volcano.
But smoke that renders men distraught 1
“The Chinese are above us,” —this
Is the last sentiment he’s “ churned.”
Ah, well, God knows how true this is
So far as he himself's concerned.
Mr. Harris’s Hop.
Let us be high-toned. Let us describe His Worship's
entertainment with a light hand and a flowing pen—but
do not let us grovel. It is not, perhaps, easy for the
ordinary journalist to speak of one very large Metro-
politan Mayor, and two very small Imperial Princes,
without being just the least bit in the world adulatory;
but yet we feel that wo mast preserve our self-respect.
And so—
Though we of Mayors and Princes write.
All denizens of palaces;
Though to allow we’re willing quite
That wealth galore is Harris’s;
Though we (perchance) live in a hovel—
By thunder, reader, we won't grovel.
And now, having placed ourselves on a proper footing
with the few millions who weekly peruse—nay, devour
—this journal, we will proceed to business.
It was not until the shades of night were falling fast
on the afternoon of Friday, that the ordinary observer
would have noticed anything in the appearance of the
city to denote that there was to be, on that night, a
great roll-up of the wealth, fashion (and, of course,
beauty), of this great city, notwithstanding that the
minds of a very great many persons had been consider-
ably exercised by the announcement, in the newspapers,
of the great Mayoral “ launch-out,’’ for many days
before. Those who had been favoured with tickets for
themselves moved heaven and earth to obtain tickets
for their relations and other fellows’ sisters, while the
unfortunates whe bad not been asked at all cut the
Mayor off continually at street corners, and haunted
the Town Clerk in the seclusion of his family mansion.
Lovely woman, in tears and sealskin, peppered the
worthy Mayor with notes, and wracked his heart with
entreaties. Stern men, egged on by their wives (and
mothers-in-law), wormed themselves into his presence l
and on being refused groaned audibly. Near relations
of the various Aldermen and Town Hall officials, who
had previously allowed their relationships to be buried
in oblivion, suddenly appeared upon the scene, and
claimed kinsmanship and a ticket; and the number of
teal, ducks, &0., sent by disinterested admirers to the
Mayor’s orderly, would have filled the shop of Kippax
for a fortnight. Mr. Harris, however, made aphis mind
to invite a certain number, and no more; and those per-
sons whom he had not included in his list had about as
much chance of getting into the Exhibition Building as
Andy Lynch has of getting into the Ministry. Shortly
after 4 o’clock p.m. agitated young men might have
been seen stamping themselves into twelve-and-sixpenny
pumps, in the Qeorge-street shoe-shops, and you could
not pass the windows of a suburban residence without
beholding the lady of the house cleaning her liege lord’s
*• lavenders ’’ with benzine and a tooth brush. Later
on, when quite dark, at the emporiums of our avuncular
relatives, multitudinous small articles of jewellery went
up, and unnumbered dress suits “ came down,” and
there was not an unemployed waiter or a mute in Sydney
who did not receive a liberal offer for the loan of his
sable plumage for “ one night only.”
We don’t know whether Mr. Woolcott, the Town
Clerk, had squared his meteorological brother, or
whether “ grandma's weather ’’ is inherited by the two
royal mids.; anyhow, a grander night could not have
been witnessed. It was considerably past 10 before we
set out for the Exhibition, and by that time the city
with its myriads of fixed and moving lights, and a
brightly illumined and densely star-spangled sky over-
head, looked beautiful indeed. It was one of those
calm, quiet nights that poets sing and painters dream
•f. Crisp the air, with a low whispering breeze sighing
through the streets, and carrying upon its wings that
measured rhythm of mysterious sound, which denotes
the beating of the city’s heart. Midway between
King-street and Eedfern all was quiet, and the city
seemed to slumber, but gradually as our vehicle —to say
cab, would savour of the bathos—approached its des-
tination, the scene became pregnant with life and
animation, and the roar of the traffic incessant. The
various vehicles were of all sizes and shapes, of all
times and all ages There was the dashing barouche,
and the aristrocratic brougham, the rakish buggy, and
the lumbering waggonette, the feeble “ fly,” and the
humble hansom. There were other conveyances too,
which to the uninitiated, appeared, like Mr. Pickwick’s
gaiters, to be remnants of the dark ages. One vehicle
especially attracted oar attention—principally, in the
first instance, from the derisive manner in which it was
apostrophised by our own Jehu. It was a stunted
machine with a brown body shaped like a kerosene tin,
having three red wheels and one black one, the latter,
probably, borrowed, for the nonce, from an obliging
undertaker. This ghostly conveyance was driven by a
stolid man in a grey coat with buttons that could easily
have been nsed—and, perhaps, indeed were used—by
his family as cake plates. It was drawn by a bay horse
that had such a bad cough, that it was with difficulty
the occupants of the buggy in front could keep their
hats on. On arriving, there emerged from this vehicle
a short stout lady in a brown gown and a garnet neck-
lace, who chaperoned a remarkably handsome young
lady in white tarletaue and bronze shoes—she, bringing
in her train a thin youth with a nobby forehead and
long black hair that trailed down over his shirt-collar.
We endeavoured to discover the names of this party,
but were unsuccessful—all the announcing by this time
being over; Mr. Fox, who fulfilled that office, having re-
tired, after his two hours’ exertions, with a hoarse
voice, and throbbing corns, to seek the seclusion which
a refreshment arbour grants and “ dry Monopole ”
affords. We are sure, however, that the romantic-
looking young man is either a poet—or a pianoforte
tuner. Before entering into a description of the
interior of the building, we may remark that onr arrival
created some sensation, as we drove slowly through the
crowd, and threaded the maze of municipal lanterns that
illumined with a particularly weird and “ open-drain-
like " effect the Exhibition grounds. Our identity was
canvassed with much freedom at the top of very husky
voices, and various comments (chiefly unfavourable)
were passed upon our personal appearance. Our heart
certainly throbbed with triumph when, pointing to us,
an urchin cried: “ Ullo, ’ere’s Prince Battlebridge,"
though when his “mate” rejoined: “Him Prince
Battlebridge!—more likely his walet,” we became im-
mediately “ bowed down with care.”
The Exhibition building can by no means be termed
an architectural triumph. Outside it looks like a rail-
way-station, and inside like a deserted meat-market.
It is draughty, too, and as full of whooping echoes as
Pastor Allen is of scripture texts. The Mayor, how-
ever, with the aid of three hundred pounds and a good
decorator, had done all for the interior of the place that
could reasonably be expected, and therefore the build-
ing presented a very bril'iaut and picturesque appear-
ance. Without being hypercritical, however, we may
remark that Mr. Torning might, with advantage, have
replaced the carpet in the lobby for a more decent one,
that Kidderminster being like Hamlet’s uncle, “A thing
of shreds and patches.” The arrangement of the hall
was peculiar, and the beauty of the picture would have
been enhanced had nature seconded Mr. Torning in his
efforts at embellishment. For instance, around the
fountain, enshrined in vernal bowers, were a number of
singing birds in gilded cages, which, however declined
to sing upon any terms, but curled themselves up in
balls, and went off to sleep, as sound as churches, at
the very commencement of the proceedings. At the
south end of the building was the Mayor’s
dais, upon which was placed a largo arm-
chair for the host, attended by a small arm chair
for the hostess. The position taken up by his Worship
was, however, the cause of some confusiom, as many of
those who entered failed to catch sight of Mr. and Mrs.
Harris with their backs to the wall, but made straight
for the stage at the other end, thus having to be pur-
sued by corporation officials and —as it were—brought
back by the ear to be presented to “their Worships.” And
the fitting of this stage was rather a feeble affair, the
furniture dotted thereon having an “ astounding bar-
gain" air about it that irresistibly recalled to one’s
mind the glories of a Pitt street auction mart. But
there were plenty of mirrors, miles of festoons, forests
of green boughs and flags wherever it was possible to
put them. And there was furthermore a fine retiring
room for the Princes and their friends behind the stage
and a very loud band above it—the gentleman who had
charge of the big drum being indeed a terrible per-
former.
Immediately on our arrival we made for the vicinity
of the Princes. Their whereabouts was not difficult to
find, inasmuch as they danced surrounded by a dense
circle of craning necks and staring optics. Precaution
had been taken to have a number of sailors in the ball-
room, who, by the aid of crimson ropes, walled off a
space which the youngsters and their set could hop
about in. This, however, though it was the means of
keeping a lot of staring snobs out, had the effect of keep-
ing a number of staring snobs in, persons, who, however
inestimable they might have been in their positions as pri-
vate citizens, were hardly the sort of people who usually
hob-nob with royalty. Still it was a great lark—for the
spectator. Directly we got a peep into the charmed
circle, we could see that the Princes had dropped in for
a bit of bad luck. Prince Albert-Victor, who looked
fearfully bored, was bobbing about with an elderly lady
some three feet taller than himself, the expression of
whese face was more suggestive of rigid austerity than
ball-room espieglerie, while little George was hauling
about a stout old dowager, who, though all smiles and
amiability, periodically shut her young cavalier out
from view in a sea of frills and flounces. But—
Of course you want us now to tell
What like the Princes are :
Well, Albert-Victor really is
The image of his Ma /
And as for little Georgie, why
That small andjgiddy tar.
Is—as we heard a lady say—
“ The picture of his Pa 1”
So therefore ’twill admitted be
By all those who have seen them,
They’ve got a most decided dash
Of “ Pa and Ma” between them.
They did not, however, show to the best advantage in
their midshipman’s uniforms—a rig that is very
“trying" to the figure. When not dancing with
dowagers, the boys seemed to enjoy themselves; and
Miss Allen and Miss E. Labertouche were the ladies upon
whom they smiled the most. To one of these fair
partners —we don’t say which one—Prince George, in
reply to the query as to how he liked Sydney, replied—
“ Well—l-ar —think Melbourne architecturally superior,
but your harbour is simply chi-arming." We rather
suspect this little speech was inspired by Mr. Dalton,
who, by-the-way, hovered about his pupils all the even-
ing like a nursery-maid iu whiskers. We feel that to go
further without some sort of loyal ode to their Royal
Highnesses would be almost treasonable, so before we
take up the thread of onr story, here goes in iambics
The surge that foams about our sea-girt shore.
Your welcome sings in ev’ry thund’ring roar.
The very winds that moan through the Domain,
Most glorious princes I sing the same stout strain.
The boy that yowls the length of Sussex-street,
Dees but the greeting of the winds repeat;
And, ’neath the culvert, ’tis the frogs’ great Joy
To nightly croak the welcome of that boy.
The merry maid that milks the morning cow,
Links with her song the names of both of you j
The sexton with each strong dig of his spade.
Loud hiccups out the burden of the maid—
Though who takes up the sexton’s song, we fear.
We have not, boys, the ghost of an idea.
But if wind, boy, frog, maid, and sexton, too.
All sing you welcome, surely that will do 1
We feel better after this. So, »n route.
The dancing of their Royal Highnesses is peculiarly
their own. We considered we knew something about
dancing before we saw the Princes perform, but now we
own that we have all the time been cruelly letting up on
Terpsichore. One thing necessary to the Royal middies
is plenty of room, for their action is high, and they fly
off at sharp angles and trust to the girl to steer. Prince
Albert Victor keeps his back very straight, and elevates
his chin so high that it is a wonder be does not knock
his partner’s teeth out; while Prince George gets up a
good spin, then clutches his partner’s waistband tightly,
and leaves the issue to Providence. The whole thing
viewed comfortably from a distance was very novel, and
very instructive, and we think if we had the option any
day of paying a crown to see either a circus horse eat
apple-pie with the cbwn, or the Royal Princes dance
the trois-temps, we would unhesitatingly choose the
performance of the latter.
The stage was a great sight. First there was the dear
old Governor wearing the star and purple ribbon, taking
snuff assiduously, and conversing with the apparently
immortal remains of Sir Alfred Stephen. Then there
was Sir Henry Parkes. positively swelling with dignity,
and looking, in his order and star and ribbon, absolute
monarch of all he surveyed. The Premier did not
mingle much with the masses. He saw, at once, it
wouldn’t do. He had merely a smile for the Mayor ant
a nod for the aldermen. Members of Parliament ha
seldom saw. and it was rumoured that on being asked
who Dan O’Connor was by the Earl of Clanwilliam, he
said he could not remember his name. Young Gussie
was iu his official rig, and at a distance looked all sword,
spurs and sabretache. Mr. Q. Labertouche was, we
thought, hardly in his usual spirits. He was pensive,
and we watched in vain for him to smile. We wonder
what’s the matter with him ? Not studying anew part,
surely 1 Mr. R. B. Smith danced in the Princes’ circle,
and had the honour of bumping against them several
times, and a little photographer stuck to the vicinity of
the “ Princes’ Retreat" (it was so labelled on a pillar)
with such persistence that we fully believe he was at
length taken by the Admiral for one of the Cabinet.
Before supper the Mayor strolled round in his robes, and
received the congratulations of his friends on the splen-
dour of his hospitality. His Worship didn't appear,
however, to be in tp-eat feather. But this is not to be
wondered at, considering the big tooth he had had
drawn that morning.
With few exceptions the ladies’ dresses were a great
disappointment, some of the fair ones attached to the
aldermen really appearing in costumes which were
remarkably destitute of art in their general arrange-
ment. There were others, too, who came in high dinner
dresses, and more again who wore skimpy muslin gowns
and soiled shoes. One middle-aged person in pink pre-
sented such a “ tumbled " appearance that she looked
as if she had been put away in a clothes-basket for ten
years or mistake, and had only been accidentally
discovered that evening. It is to be regretted that
some of our belles did not follow the Mayor’s example,
and “ launch out" on the occasion, since the very poor
display of millinery at such an auspicious event will
be likely to instil an idea into the heads of onr visitors
either that Sydney boasts very indifferent dressmakers,
or our ladies very indifferent tastes.
The supper was a splendid success, even in the rooms
thrown open to tbe general company ; but in the ban-
queting hall upstairs, to which only the Hite— that is
to say, the Governor’s party, naval officers, and the
aldermen—were invited, Mr. Smith, the caterer, cer-
tainly laid out a supper that was as near perfection as a
supper can be. The minu puzzled certain of the com-
pany, it is true, and the manner in which our city fathers
lacerated the French items in reading them out to their
partners was a caution. When they were all seated
every eye was turned towards Prince Albert Victor, to
that young gentleman’s evident discomfiture, and every
spoonful of mayonnaise he hoisted in was the subject of
comment. In alike manner Prince George was gazed at
as intensely as if be had been a conjuror, some of the
spectators holding their breath when he took a bite out
of his bread or requested his partner to “ pass the salt.”
It will please many of our readers to know that this
young gentleman wields a capital kaife and fork, and
takes his liquor with a discretion beyond his years.
The speech-making was a frost. The Mayor said the
usual thing in the manner, and the Governor
replied in the usual manner by saying the usual thing.
As a diplomat, Lord Loftus is an undoubted success,
but his oratory wouldn’t sell him a box of matches if
he stood at Punch’s corner and harangued the public for
a fortnight.
The Mayor, who, by the way, treated the Press with
marked courtesy, had a small apartment allotted to the
members of the fourth estate in the east gallery, a few
steps from his private supper-room. This was very
handy, as it enabled us to rush in to onr bower when our
feelings overpowered us, or when we had a brilliant idea
to jot down, or a tight shoe to take off. The wines were
the vintages of civilization, and the waiters did not scowl
at you when yon asked for Roederer, or offer to fight you
when you desired Chartreuse. In short, they were very
nice waiters, indeed. They looked clean, spoke low, and
did not breathe hard ; neither did they go away to fetch
you something and never return, nor give you a tea-
spoon for your soup and a carving-knife for your cheese.
In fact, they had none of those eccentricities of the
fraternity which really seem to descend from fathers te
sons in waiters, from generation to generation.
After the Princes had gone, and we had duly
sampled the aspic jelly and galantine of turkey, we
descended again—the crowd being by this time less—
and proceeded to finally sample the company. Scarcely
any of the officers left with the Governor’s party but
tackled the light fantastic with renewed energy after
being fortified with the good things Providence (under
the guidance of Mr. Smith) had provided. There was
a young midshipman there, who attracted our atten-
tion by his very small size and very mild demeanour,
bo we accosted him, and enquired, if 'midst the thunder
of battle, bis ship being raked fore and aft by the
cannon of the enemy, and becoming as full of holes as
a kitchen cullender, would he surrender to the foe or
nail the Union Jack to the mast ? He retorted proudly
that he was a Briton, and would never, never. We
then pressed his hand, and assured him that any linger-
ing doubts we may have had as to the efficiency of
England’s navy had been dispelled by his brave
words, and that naval battles might rage, but we
should sleep calmly in the thought that the fate
of our country was in the hands of such a hero.
We next asked his opinion of the Morning Rum, upon
which he informed us that only one man in his ship
bad bought a copy, which fact becoming known the
culprit had received five hundred lashes, and been dis-
missed the service. Quitting this noble naval hero, we
sought out au officer of the Wolverene, and asked
him how he liked the same paper. He replied that
some of the paragraphs were good jokes—more es-
pecially the reports of inquests and the dramatic
critiques—but he considered the spelling too for fetched.
Just then John Davies happened to pass, sporting his
blue rosette and C.M.Q. medal. " Who's that P ’’ en-
quired the Wolverene man. “That, sir," we rejoined,
with dignity, “ is one of Australia’s greatest statesmen."
“You don’t say so," rejoined the officer—“but of
course—my mistake, my dear sir. I was thinking this
was a fancy dress ball, and he had come as a fire in-
surance company."
Hardly was this interesting conversation over than
we encountered Detective Williams, who, in an im-
maculate “get-up,” had been watching over the safety
of the plate and the Princes. Mr. Williams reporting
no casualties we strolled away again, and, getting near
the stage, under the shadow of Alderman Carter, we
dreamily inscribed the following three couplets upon
our shirt cuff: —
Who was the belle of the ball ?
Whom shall we say. who’ve seen them all ?
Miss L. P Miss E. ? Miss C. P Miss A. ?
(In sooth of belles a sweet array!)
Which now ? (for ’mong them there’s no myth)
Which Miss P Not one 1 A “ Mrs." —Smith.
Let us vary now :
If Mrs. Smith the belle was, then.
Who looked the best of all the men ?
Say, ladies, now—will you elect
Sir Patrick, diamond star bedeck'd P
Or that nice Nathan, say is he
The chosen one ? Or our “ R. 8." P
Forensic Darley, neat and trim,
Say, come, now—what d’ye think of him P
The only Dan ? —Of what avail
*T would be to mention “ Abigail 1"
Ah I !—girls love those who serve the Queen—
The Captain of the Tourmaline ?
Or stay I—were we a nice young gal
We’d “ go straight ’’ for the Admiral.
Well I —Jilkins now, that “ marrying ’’ wight ?
Or is “ the Colonel ” your delight ?
Not right yet? (Stay! this name will knock’em!)
Bear Gussie P—No ? —Well, then Sweet Bloxaome ?
Which now’s your choice ’mongst all these elves ?
Not one ! — Ah, thank you — Joy ! —Ourselves I
It was post four when we quitted the ball, and by
that time the company had thinned down to a couple of
hundred. Some amusing scenes occurred then, with
which all who stay large balls out are familiar. Fathers,
who had got rather cloudy about the eyes and husky
about the voice, wished to depart, and consequently
clashed with the wishes of their daughters, who were
booked for the last galop with that dear lieutenant.
Young gentlemen who had been particularly reserved
up to that time, commenced to talk rather loudly, and
asked ladies to dance to whom they had not received an
introduction. Naval officers grew pathetic to their
partners in snug comers, and waiters yawned wearily
as they clashed their knives and forks together in
bundles, prior to packing up and clearing. The last
scene of all was the cloak-room, which, under the super-
vision of Mr. Macdonald, the Mayor’s orderly, was
admirably managed. Our wraps were produced in two
minutes, and no soup-plate was thrust forward with a
demand for a “couple of bob"—a proceeding with
which we have been "by no means ’’ unfamiliar. And so
out into the cold streets, where the faint gray of morn-
ing is struggling with the grim black of night—to watch
the city waken with the first broad gleam of daylight,
and, like some huge giant, shake itself into activity.
And then on getting home to make a tired pen travel over
any amount of hungry slips, and to awaken to the fact
that the only souvenirs we have of the Mayor’s charm-
ing ball are a dusty black suit, a crumpled necktie, a
pair of dirty white gloves, and—a thundering bad
headache.
951 people at Museum on Sunday. The
Squadron was an opposition draw.
With reference to a par. in our last issue we are
requested to say that the barque Tiger sails under the
German flag.
The Brush Electric Light Company have made
a 100,000 candle-power lamp, for which 40-horse motive
power is required. It is intended for use in the army.
On Saturday morning last the Princes had their
photographs taken at the studios respectively of those
distinguished shadow-catchers,. Messrs. J. Hubert New-
man, Freeman, and Boyd.
A copper medal, supposed to be 111 years old,
and to have been given by Captain Cook to the Maories,
has been dug up in a garden at Pelorus Sound, N.Z.
The obverse Lears the head of George 111., and the re-
verse a likeness of the two ships. Resolution and
Endeavour, at sea.
A Bill has been introduced into the Frenc
Legislature, providing that any citizen who loses his
life while saving property at a fire, any physician who
loses his life while labouring in the hospitals in time of
epidemic, and anyone who dies while endeavouring to
save a fellow-being, shall be regarded as a soldier slain
on the battle-field, and insure a double pension to his
family.
The Italian orphan boy and girl adopted by that
generous lady, Mrs. W. H. Mullen, of West Maitland,
give promise of wonderful intelligence. In the course
of a few weeks, under the care of a competent governess
specially engaged for them, they have learnt sufficient
of the language to be able to converse intelligently in
English. The girl, a fine specimen of Italian beauty,
has great musical powers.
At the London “ Zoo ” there is an elephant who
eats bnns out of your hand. Lord Northbrook, who had
heard of this, bought a bun, put it in his hat, and grace-
fully presented the dish to the elephant. But unluckily
this happened to be the wrong elephant, and one whose
education has been neglected—for he took hat and bun
together, handed them into his capacious mouth, and
munched them contentedly amid the inextinguishable
laughter of the onlookers.


Public Companies
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP P ARMAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fuad £116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.G.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S, Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Oidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Jas. Soroggie, Eaq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street Brickfield Hill, and Eedfern,
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other nroduce shipped to England for sale.
HOUSES furnished at the Central Furnishing
Arcade, on Time Payments. 29, 31, and 33 Park-
street.
H. LEVY & CO.
WE repeotfully invite the public to visit our
Show Rooms, Central Furnishing Arcade, 29,
81, and 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY A CO.
\\/ E Furnish Houses from -£lO to .£lOOO.
v v Central Furnishing Arcade, No. 29, 31. and 33
ark-street. H. LEVY and CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, New
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
This establishment is now open, replete with every
requisite for household furnishing, together with a
large and extensive department solely for crockery and
glassware. H. LEVY and CO.
HLEVY and Co. beg to inform the general
e public that they have now completed their large
FURNITURE ESTABLISHMENT,
Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
N
O T I C
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
E.
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES Ac.
P.
R. L A R K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Bariev, Feed and Seed Oats.
N.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholes alx and Retail Wink and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to, POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
Forty years’ testimony for cure
OF INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS,
“ This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
" I have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
omplaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
s idering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Cabroll,
“ 209 Farramatta-street, Sydney.
“ Nov. 24,1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON'S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes, la. 6d., 35., and 4s. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS A F ARKES, Herbalists,
240 George-street.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT jgl EACH.
Bankers—National Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
ABOUT 250 FRIZES.
First Horse £l5OO
Second Horse £7OO
Third Horse £4OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non-Starters (divided) £2700
Ten Prizes at £lOO each £lOOO
Twenty Prizes at £5O each £lOOO
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each £l2OO
£lO.OOO
Please add exchange to cheques ; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
Public Compaa
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND It
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL. £lOO,O
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Marine Biaks accepted by
a. A. LLOYD Ai
Agents,
848 GEOEQE-STEI
8\ DNET.
IHB MUTUAL ASSURANC
VICTOEIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. 18
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Sy
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chai
Ebenezer Vickery, Esc
Andrew Drysdale, Esq
This Society is established for Lifi
granting of Annuities and Endowme
STEICTLY MUTUAL, awarding t
proportionate amount of the entire
Society at every distribution thereo
LOANS granted on Mortgage or o
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. 1
Ec
INDUSTRIAL & PROYIDEN
BENEFIT BUILDING AN
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and t
for Investors. Eight per cent, lee
borrowers. Eight per cent, and
Investors. The highest current rate
on Deposits. Prospectus and all
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAh
Excelsior land inve
BUILDING COMPANY A £
The above Company Sells Land i
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estat<
sham, a few minutes walk from t]
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance
£4OO do. £4O do. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do.
All information at the Company
street.
e Company’
WILLIAB
JNCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING
CIAL PEOVIDENT SOCIE'I
In the event of loss of sii
MEMBE £S are entitled to receiv
with the amount insure
The Society also uses its influenci
suitable re-engageme
For further particulars apply to
G. HOETON MOEI
Se
Wenl
E
Applications for Agencies
Photographer
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) P
805 GEOEGE STI
Opposite the Eailway To:
/M
i\
sS
A
UNADULTERATED
BAB//VC POWDER
mntMBMT
»JBI TMJBUT W THf WORLD _
ir DkvlUi a molbuhhJUSM
H
/ISF
'N»U
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HAYMAEKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We bee to call special attention of the public to our BLENDED TEAS Finest Family
Blend. 2/-; Finest Eoyal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen's T,I “ J - ° s ~ m™* a.i.
Packed by üb, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee <
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b ; also, catties, be . _
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.—EEUßEN OLIVEE, Manager.
BW DAYIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Qoulburn, Mndgee,
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
I No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B, O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 Qeorge-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 KINO STREET, STD NET,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
MANUFACTORY s
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Eesidencea, Churches, Stores, &o.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and oan be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace;
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
rj} HO S. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFOUNDERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, Ac.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
WH , A R I E L L,
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-stbeet, near King-stbebt.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow A Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen A Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt A Co.’s Qoulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
ONDON MORTGAGE, LOAN, AND
I DISCOUNT BANK,
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH {next St. James*
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms —UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acceptances, Ac., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
SUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONYE-
IENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address. THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
HJELBOURNB CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse £3OOO
Second Horse £lOOO
Third Horse £5OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non Starters (divided) £2OOO
6 Prizes of £lOO each £6OO
6 Prizes of £5O each £3OO
£llO Prizes of £lO each ... ... £llOO
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z,


Tobacconist)
JAMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Oold Leal
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and R
159 PITT STI
Next Post Offic(
*
rO
TIN TAG TOBA
None are genuine but the R<
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKE
16
DIXSON & SOI
YORK STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, & 1
:>
Manufactured b;
T. S A Y W E
AT THE
EAG LE TOBAGO
Clarence-street, 8j
For VENETIAN
TRY
WOR M A
112 OXFORD STB
B
OOTSI BOOTS!!
MATTE TOUR PUR<
AT
H. HIL D E ]
NEW BOOT
670 GEORGE SI
BRICKFIELD HI
Chemists and Dm
jp UB L I C N
THE following- Lis
WATSON’S RENOWNED P
MEDICINES,
bo wall and favourably known to the
Watson’s (Vegetable) Anti'
Watson’a (Vegetable) Won
Watson’a Gingerbread Wor
Watson’s Compound dolor
Watson’s Strengthening Ej
Watson’s Australian Venni
Watson’s Excelsior Tootha
Watson’s Concentrated Go
Eliodr (a most valuable
can be obtained, wholesale and re
factory—
WATSON’S DEUG
681 GEORGE BTEI
PQTHECABIE
14 OXFORD STEF
Nkae Hyde Paek 0
(N.B.—The Tram-car stopi
W. D. EAMES, Pb
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVEENOE,
And one of the Founders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Irrespective of Club prescription
has dispensed 34,000 original presc
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
PACTS SPEAK FOE THF
Every prescription is CAEEFUI
the BEST DRUGS, copied, number
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folio
E AME S’S QUINI]
Which improves the appetite an
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGE STI
For severe cases where the gastri
and when sickness and flatulem
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTI
Which relievo the bowels gently, a
naturally healthy functions <
organs.
PRICES—I/-. 1/6. 2/6
Chemists and Dru(
lAEE NO MOE
. bnt try
EANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZI
Do you SUFFER from HEAD!
Then try R
PODOPHYLL
Do you Complain of Indigestior
Take a few doses of ]
PODOPHYLI
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and
EANDEESOI
Do yon constantly suffer from I
If so remembe]
PODOPHYL
will soon cure, if taken as d
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDIC
Areany’of your children sick c
con safely give chem one o
for the small members of
TAKE WEL
•V Remember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pro
EDWARD ROW and C
45 and 47 George-sti
Y EOYAL LETTEI
B
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINT!
Guaranteed to b
Free from all poisonous quolitie
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Planti
in the Bush of New Soul
This Ointment is not a mere cat
public, nor does it require any pufl
as it has been so well proved for th
that it is impossible that the publh
long deceived. In fact, people are r
lous regarding its efficacy (never 1
article of the kind before which i
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m
High and low, rich and poor, hav<
fits from its use, and scarcely an:
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the ci
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP TI
which, taken altogether, prove the 1
to be the Eighth Wonder of the Vi
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, i
hands and lips, bunions, soft con
casualties attending the human fr
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OP THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perfi
Josephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephsoc
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly foi
son's Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns oi
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoria 1
tion when a remedy like Jose
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles i
Josephson’s Australian Ointment i
It stands unrivalled. The won
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-en
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fi
and totally free frem any and all
sonous properties.
ASK POE JOSEPHSON'S .
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storel
and Is 6d each throughout the ooli
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD EC
ALL OF P ]
(Late Fblmingha
7 8 KING ST.
Dispensing Establish
Business Annonn
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WAR
352 Georg e-stre
PIANOFORTES. Pli
JUST EECEIVED. JUS
from the
best factories of eueop:
A splendid stock to sel
EVERY RENOWNED
AMERICAN OR'
By the celebrated
W. BELL, A £
Which gained first and e
(svbe all oti
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIO:
HARMONIU
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENC
in all the various i
A FEW GOOD SECOND-]
at low prices, now i
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard
Soufleto’s, Kirkman's, and Hi
fortes.
W. Bell, A Co.’s, Horace Water
and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEORGE S
Opposite Wynyard
Sydney.
THOMAS W
ENGINEER & IRON!
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY
FIRE
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AU STB Alii AN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHUEST.
EON AND BEASS BEDSTEADS.
■ Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAW LEE,
MANUFACTUEEE AND IMPOETEE.
608 Qeorge-street.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
POWLEE’S POTTEEY
AND
BEIGE WOEKS,
OAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.


8
ASHES GLAZED ON T
NOTICE.
G. P. MUEPHI
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-f
8
HOP FRONTS GLAZEI
BRITISH PLATE G
B
Q. P. MURPH'
Regent Honse, 869 George-s
EITISH PLATE AND
WAREHOUSE,
Q. P. MURPH 1
Regent House. 869 George-s
JpAPEEHANGINGS V
G. P. MURPHT
Regent Honse, 869 George-s
w
HITE LEAD, OILS. COL
<kc., &c.
„ G. P. MURPHT
Regent House, 869 George-s
JJLATE GLASS. PL
GEORGE P. MURP
Regent House, 869 George-s
T
HOM AS
WEBB
BOND-STREET
Beg to inform thoir customers tha
OPENED a LARGE CONSIQNMI
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, am
Also,
FANCY C H ]
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection inviti
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GE*
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED ,
Turret Clocks—simple, strike
Spectacles, etc., of all
__ Plain figures—Low pri
MASON BROTJ
14 & 16 Si
ADVANCE AXT STB. A
Special Notice to Heads op Families, Managers
The Proprietors of THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
pace with the rapid advance now being made under the liben
South Wales, have just imported from LONDON, VIENN.
prices !! TO SELL AT PAEIS PRICES !! THE CHOIC
Gentlemen’s, and Children’s BOOTS AND SHOES ever ye
FIRST CONSIGNMENT NOW READY. REGULAR
Come and see the newest style—the Parisian 1
Our large and increasing Wholesale Trade enables us to
PRANCE and GERMANY are competing for our pat
SUPERIOR QUALITY OF
And Enormona Reduction of
COME AND TAKE TOUR CHOICE FROM THE LEADING RIVAL
Latest French Invention, NEW FOOT DEFENCE, for
imparting artificial heat. A written guarantee gi
THE LARGEST STOCK OP COLONIAL BOOTS II
SUGGESTIONS OF SOME OF OUR
Economists are specially invited to test the value of their re
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STREI
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
o NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTofSCAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly" on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
“St
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Securing Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in |lb packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
18 CHARL TTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO„
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
M AKE PURCHASES
THE EOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respecting economi-
cal House furnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and oh-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
EOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
KB -Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nme o clock for the convenience of those who
come during the day time
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
THE KOOKABURRA.
An XL lent idea—Borrowing .£4O
Larrikin literature—Cat-o’-nine tales.
An exhaustive report—A locomotive’s.
Staunch teetotallers —Brewers’ horses.
Unspeakably happy—A deaf and dumb couple.
The only crop that grows by gaslight—Wild oats.
After family prayers—The prey of the family
bug.
The proper explosive for a needle gun—Gun
cotton.
Strong stuff for the youngsters Brandy-
schnapps.
A New York milkman has been arrested for put-
ting milk in his water.
Country schoolmaster; “ Why did Adam bite
the apple P” Eustic : 11 ’Cos he hadn't no knife.”
A Goulburn five-year-old, when asked the other
day by his teacher what the elephant does with his
trunk, said : “ Put’s his clothes in it.”
Advertisement from a French newspaper:—" A
young man of 27, about to marry, would be happy to
meet a man of experience who would be able to dissuade
him from taking so desperate a resolution.”
Marriage a la mods.
He-” I will.”
She—“l will.”
Clergyman : ** Oh just whatever j ou like to give, sir.”
No man ever needed the sympathy, the encour-
agement, and the kind words of his fellow-men, more
than he. who, at a recent swell ball, stooped to pick up
his partner’s fan, and burst both back brace-buttons
simultaneously.
“ Celonel W. is a fine looking man ain’t he ?”
said a friend of ours the other day. “Yes,” replied
another; " I was taken for him once.” “ You I Why
you are as ugly as sin!” “ I don’t care for that. I was
taken for him ; I endorsed his note, and was taken for
him —by the sheriff.”
Ashmead-Bartlett writes to say he’s tol-tol at
present, but there at times when he feels old age is
creeping towards him. Time is soft of tread, and swift
of foot, and sooner or later all feel his icy grip. When
we can handle three or four millions a year, how-
ever, we can buy coal and thaw the grip a trifle.
They found a keg of blacking, at least they thought
twas such;
They stuffed a “ red-hot poker in,” and grinned, and
chuckled much;
But when they rose, with one aoord, in an extended
line.
It struck them blacking never could make such a •• bril-
liant shine.”
It doesn’t make any difference whether he is ad-
vertising something that ladies wear, or a new monkey
wrench, or a wharf to let, you’ll observe the shrewd
advertiser always illustrates his advertisement with the
out of a young and lovely female not too much encum-
bered with garments. Men want their advertisements
to attract attention.
TO CONTRIBUTORS.
Please write on one side.
There I it can’t be denied.
Our politeness is great, so politely we ask it.
Do write on one side—
Or, in fragments you slide.
To that doem of the damnSd, the waste paper basket.
Said old man Carlyle—“ Have A Purpose, and
cling thereto.” If Miss A. P. is passing fair and doesn’t
affect onions or tin-tag tobacco let heroome right along,
and we’ll ” cling thereto ” like a soidier to a big beer,
or a member of the Berry Ministry to a fat portfolio.
Not that we’re short of something to cling thereto, be-
cause there’s a lamp-post in front of our very door, but
we like to do what Carlyle says just to oblige
Buchanan.
We learn from a Frisco exchange that an
amateur editor over there has just made his fortune by
his pen. His father read one of bis leading articles, and
died of grief leaving his erring child a fortune of
130,000 dollars. There would be thousands of similar
wises here but for two reasons—the fathers can’t read
their sons’ articles, and even if they could, they can’t
raise the dollars. Blessed are the ignorant, and happy
are the poor, after all.
The world is forgetting to go through its diurnal
revolution to ponder over the profundity of wit displayed
by a Boston timber merchant who has adopted as his
motto 11 vidi' I saw; but the down Easter must pale
his ineffectual tires before Napier, who wrote the most
laconic dispitch ever sent to a government, viz.:
"peccavi” I haveScinde; and take a back seat while
we crown with laurels the shoemaker who advertised
mens and women’s conscia recti.
At an electioneering meeting in the village of
Doneraile, County Cork, Mr. Brady, the popular spouter,
was addressing the electors. Colonel Hill, who was a
supporter of the opposite candidate, happened to pass
on horseback at the time, and he addressed Mr. Brady
as follows:
*‘ Between Brandy and Brady there differs but a lettter.
And if Brandy were in Brady, Brady could speak better.”
Brady immediately replied thus:—
“ Between Hill and Hell there differs but a letter.
And if Hill were in Hell, Doneraile would be better."
At Edinburgh, 22 young “ladies” recently
played football in public. They nave formed themselves
into an association to popularise football as a feminine
pastime, and are playing matches in different towns.
They charge admission money, and their costume is
stated to be similar to that worn by male football
players consisting of jersey, knickerbockers, stock-
ings, boots, and “ cowl,” with a sash depending from
the waist.
The Servants’ Ball, an institution which was
x great glory at Balmoral, has now been
established in London. The other day the largest and
most correct cords were issued for one at Dudley
House, and all the butlers, cooks, ladies’ maids, and
superior domestics of town were thrown into paroxysms
of dressing and demeanour. There were some very
distinguished chefs and some very pretty maids at the
hop, which was opened by the beautiful Lady Dudley
herself
The other day, Mrs. Morewood, mother of Mrs.
Miller Mundy, with whom the premier Earl of England,
Lord Shrewsbury, ran away recently, “ went for’’ the
Earl at Worksworth railway station, with a determi-
nation worthy of any cause. First she laid about him
with an umbrella, and when he got hold of that she
dropped it, and went at him with lists and nails like a
tigress and prize-fighter combined. As the Earl is
going to marry Mrs. Miller Mundy, it is hard, one of
the papers says, that he should be thus treated by his
future mother-in-law.
The barmaids of N.Z. have been taken under
the protection of Sir William Fox and Parliament.
Tney are not, henceforth, to be employed in their
wonted avocations for more than eight hours per diem,
S? r a lt er 10 pm ” 11111688 tlle y marry the publican, and
then they may be employed as long as he likes. How-
ever, as each publican will be restricted to one wife, the
longing for long hours on the part of the fair dispensers
of comforting beverages will be severely repressed.
Perhaps the barmaid’s pay will be interfered with by
this measure. In Sydney, when a bill of the kind is
brought in, it will be well for the legislator also to pay
some attention to the hours of hotel-waiters, journey-
men butchers, and sewing girls.
In 1872 Lord Edward Thynne, an old gentleman,
now 75, induced Lady Townshend by means which
considering his age, must have been altogether extra-
ordinary and out of the common, to accompany him in
a journey to Paris without the knowledge or consent of
her husband. Lord Edward’s intention was evidently
to play the part of an elderly Lothario on this occasion
with a young lady of an age to be his granddaughter-
but it is declared that as a matter of fact he only suc-
ceeded in playing the part of an elderly chaperon.
Lord Townshend, however, felt that the injury done
him was none the less on that account, and he has now
severely horsewhipped the old sinner. Lord Townshend
is himself 51, and so the spectacle has been presented
of two elderly gentlemen scufflin a Wiltshire lane
over a matter nine years old.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Ur. William Coote is engaged as “leader”
writer for the Daily Observer, Brisbane.
Captain Boycott, notwithstanding his uninviting
prospects in Ireland, intends returning there.
Moet, the champagne man, who recently died,
left a fortune of a million and a quarter sterling.
George Collins Levey has been entertained at
dinner by the Melbourne Exhibition Commissioners.
Judge Molesworth has been granted three
months’ leave of absence on the ground of ill-health,
Mr. Henry Beit, a well-known Sydney mer-
chant, died suddenly at his residence on Thursday night.
Among the Melbourne visitors at present in
Sydney is Mr. Alexander Britton, sub-editor of the
Argus.
An officer of the Squadron dropped into a nice
little thing in Melbourne. Lovely girl; thirty thou.;
and pa promises to die soon.
A Mr. Suttor claims a block of land in Hay
whereon are built the A. J. S. Bank and other business
edifices, valued at thirty “ thou.”
The body of Robert Roberts, ex-Mayor of Foots-
cray (V.), who had been missing for sometime past, has
been found in the Saltwater River.
The latest contribution of Dr. William Thomson,
of South Tarra, to the Shakesperian controversy, is
prefixed by a caveat to lady readers.
Messrs. Jenkin Collier and Halliday, who have
gone to inspect the route of the proposed transconti-
nental railway, have arrived at Cunnamulla.
Colonel Lomberry died during the passage of
the ** Ben Yoirlich ” from London to Melbourne. A son
of the deceased gentleman resides in Sydney.
Mr. Samuel Gougon, who will be remembered as
one of the earliest Ballarat residents, and one of the
first sharebrokers at the Comer, died last week.
Mr. Murdoch, the distinguished batsman, is
about to commence the practice of his profession at
Cootamundra. We don’t allude to cricket—we mean
law. Not that both aren’t pretty much the same thing,
for one pretty soon gets mixed up with willows after
having anything to do with lawyers.
Mr. Richard R. Benjamin, one of the Sydney
tidewaiters, was seized with a fit on board ship, and
died almost immediately after his admission to the
Infirmary.
Mr. Gilbert W. Brown, the able Secretary of
the Victorian Department of Education, now on leave,
has taken his M.A. degree at Emmanuel College,
Cambridge.
Mr. W. C. Greville, a well-known resident of
Bathurst, who goes to Europe by the “ Cuzco ” in the
interests of the Orange Slaughtering Company, has
been testimonialised.
Mr. A. A. P. Tighe, at one time M.P. for
Northumberland, and Postmaster-General, has been ap-
pointed an Alderman for Petersham by His Excellency
the Governor in Council.
Poor “ Bay” Middleton still lies at Manning’s
Farm, Towcester, in a most critical condition. Erysi-
pelas has set in, and his numerous friends are in great
anxiety respecting his ultimate recovery.
Mr. J. T. Paddle, M. 8., 8.A., nephew of the
late Captain Paddle, of the A.S.N. Co., has highly dis-
tinguished himself in the medical schools of London
and Mauritius. Mr. Paddle ,is now surgeon of the
Orient.
Mr. Barnstaple R. Rodd, of the firm of Batt,
Eodd, and Purves, auctioneers, met with a fatal acci-
dent on Sunday morning. The deceased gentleman was
found lying dead on North Road, Ashfield, about ICO
yards from his own house, and it is supposed he must
have been thrown from his horse, which went home
riderless.
An important tin deposit has been found by
J. V. Mulligan on the Lynd River. So far, we are sorry
to say, this energetic and intrepid explorer, who has
essentially benefited Queensland by opening up exten-
sive mineral areas, has acquired nothing more substan-
tial than the empty honour of being deemed the
originator of other men’s wealth. It is on the tapis to
present to Parliament a huge petition in favour of
granting Mr. Mulligan a substantial monetary recog-
nition for his services.
Major-General the Hon. William Feildmg, whose
arrival was announced last week, proceeds to England
as the representative of London capitalists interested
in the proposed transcontinental railway from Roma to
the Gulf of Carpentaria. He is accompanied by Mr.
John Robinson, C.E., the chief railway engineer of the
proposed company.
Mr. W. T. O’Hea, M.P. forPolwarth and Gren-
ville, (V.j, is dead. He was a Berryite, a pressman,
and a well-known writer on agriculture; and he was
the father of the clever and genial Mr. William O’Hea
(known to his intimates as 11 Barney”), for some time
a member of the Argus staff, who died of consumption
while on a visit to the Aramac some years ago.
A fine old soldier was Sir Richard Waddy,
K.C.8., full colonel of the 63rd. He led the 50th on
many a well-stricken field ; and trained them to be a
model fighting corps. His record is a noble one; and
though he never reaped the more splendid honours of
his profession—the high command, the Grand Cross,
and the baton—his fame as a gallant soldier and honest
man will ever be enshrined in the memory of the
British army, who respected and loved him. In
his salad days Waddy served in N.S. Wales. Here,
he was known as a smart police officer, a good judge of
a nag, and an almost unequalled light-weight. Among
sporting men he will be remembered as having owned
the steeplechaser Comet.
The death of ex-Chancellor, Lord Hatherley, is
announced by latest cablegram. Hatherley was the son
of that Sir Matthew Wood, who, with his money and
influence, so earnestly backed up the claims of Caroline,
Princess of Wales, and afterwards Queen Consort of
England, against the brutal antipathy, unmanly accusa-
tions, and blackguard violence of her husband, that
base, bad prince, whose style in history is George IV.
An English cablegram announces that Mr. L.
W. Levey, the second partner in the old firm of Cohen
and Levey, is dead. Latterly, it is understood, Mr.
Levey, although a wealthy man,became a prey to melan-
cholia. arising from a delusion that he was to die poor,
and he had to be kept under restraint. Mrs. Levey will
be remembered with gratitude, for years to come, by
many poor families in Tamworth, to whose necessities
she administered.
Melbourne folks are shortly to have an intellec-
tual treat of the first order of merit. Professor Denton,
the well-known geologist of America, whose works are
the most popular of the kind throughout that country,
is to commence lecturing at the Athenaeum Hall on
July 25th. Mr. Denton is stated by the Alta Califor-
nia, of San Francisco to far surpass Proctor, both as a
speaker and in the interest of his subject. He has with
him over 1000 slides for the oxy-hydrogen lantern, so
that his lectures are grandly illustrated. Sydneyites
may well look forward to August 22nd, when the Pro-
fessor will commence his course in this city.
Wben the Princes arrived at Ballarat, Jimmy, a
well-known blackfellow, and the last of his race in that
district, had taken up a rather prominent position near
the railway-station entrance. A mounted trooper ordered
him back, and Jimmy was about retiring, when someone
said to the official—“ Let him have a front place; he
has a better right here than any of us. He is on his
own ground—we are only usurpers ” The officer, with
commendable sympathy, let Jimmy keep his position
inside the lines, and there was no heartier nor more
sympathetic cheer than Jimmy’s forthe Queen’s grand-
sons as they passed. There is, remarks “iEgles,”
something touching in this little incident.
We are sorry to notice that Mr. Daniel Mayne,
of the Bathurst Sentinel, has lost his son Referring
to this sad event, the burly sportsman in his last issue
characteristically says:—“A few days ago _we had a
son, and a dear good fellow he was. He had just turned
twenty-two years of age, well-built, a good cricketer,
football player, sprint runner, and one of the best
amateur pyramid players we ever saw, and a solicitor by
profession. * * * He is dead, poor boy, in a strange
land hundreds of miles away from father, mother, and
friends. May the good God deal leniently with him.
We began to look with pride on him, for we thought he
would make a name for himself. He looked the sort of
cove that had push and determination; he was tall and
well-formed ; he did not wear stays, neither was he one
of those sickly specimens of attorneys who eat marma-
lade, go to balls, play lawn tennis, and are very lions at
garden parties. No, he just looked like a customer that
would take a fall out of any one who offended him.
• * * We pen these few lines out of respect to our
late son, and why not? The boy was ours, and the
paper is ours, and if other newspapers print columns of
sickening praise in favour of dead men, who while they
lived were the great est frauds on the face of the earth,
but died wealthy and left wealthy friends behind, why
shouldn’t we say a few words in favour of a dead son
who never injured a soul ? Vale, Dan, junior."
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Archdeacon Marum, of Tasmania, is dead.
We are sorry to hear that the Rev. Dr. M‘Gib-
bon has not been benefited in health by his Queensland
trip.
The lady superioress of the Dominican Convent,
Newcastle, is dead. But six months ago she lost her
sister, a nun of the same order.
Only one member of the choir of a certain city
church showed up on Sunday night, and the congrega-
tion were unable to sing to the organist’s accompani-
ment.
Mr. Charles Bright’s congregation were disap-
pointed on Sunday night, Mr. Bright being too severely
indisposed to lecture. Mr. Charles Cavenagh officiated
instead.
Rev. James Bonthorne, of St. Stephen’s Presby-
erian Church, East Maitland, died very suddenly on
Friday night last, just after leaving his Bible class for
the Manse.
Two bishops of opposite denominations met in
Dubbo last week. “ They shook hands like gentlemen on
meeting, and neither of them said a word to hurt the
feelings of his neighbour.”
Bishop Staunton, of Northern Queensland, on
his return to Townsville from England, was presented
with an address, and entertained at a tea-meeting which
was attended by four hundred.
The other day, in Mexico, the roof of a church
fell in, killed 50 people, and injured many others.
Scamped contracts, we suppose. The local corporation
officials probably know something about it.
Lord Selborne has given it as his opinion, in
reply to the Bishop of Lineoln, that it is not legal for
clergymen of the Church of England to read lessons
from the revised edition of the New Testament.
A society, whose leading tenets will be disbelief
in a personal God and in a future life, is about to be
established in San Francisco. A number of repre-
sentative people have signified their willingness to
become members.
The Sydney Y.M.C.A., after occupying hired
premises for some years, have at length secured, at a
cost of £13,000, a suitable site at the north-west corner
of Pitt and Bathurst streets. Several gentlemen have
promised sums of from £2OOO downwards to meet the
outlay.
In the town of Barmen, the antipathy to the
Jews has been carried to such a ridiculous excess that
the “ Christlich-deutchen Reform Verein" declined to
celebrate the marriage of Prince William of Prussia
because, amongst other reasons, his father, the Crown
Prince, and his grandfather, the Emperor, are friendly
to the Jews.
At the Orange celebration at Forbes, a clergy-
man was referring to the Bible as “ the secret of
England’s greatness.” when one of the audience yelled,
“ What about the new translation ?’’ Whereupon the
words “ put him out ” rolled gently but determinedly
through the assembly, and in a brace of shakes the
interjector was translated into the cold night air out-
side the building.
It is alleged by a satirical Parisian newspaper
that a Roman Catholic priest, to free himself from the
great labour of confession in Lent, is said to have given
notice to his parishioners that on Monday he should
confess the liars; on Tuesday the misers; on Wednes-
day the slanderers; on Thursday the thieves; on
Friday the libertines ; and on Saturday the bad women.
His scheme succeeded; none attended.
The Wesleyana at Rylstone, many years ago,
agreed among themselves to erect a new church, but, as
they cannot agree about the site, for it is wanted in
three different spots in town, the building still stays
upon the order of going to bo built. And yet John Stuart
Mill wrote that “ almost all the advantages which man
possesses above the inferior animals arise from his
power of acting in combination with his fellows, and of
accomplishing by the united efforts of numbers what
could not be accomplished by the detached efforts of
individuals.”
Father Maloney, a “ silenced ” Catholic priest,
has been bowled out at Erie, U. 8., in a series of bold
swindles. He pretended to raise the dead, cure the
crippled, and foretell the future. Dollars in hundreds
came rolling in to him. Maloney distinctly wished it
to be inferred that he had sufficient influence with God
to be able to cure Protestants as well as Catholics. The
latter were protected by their bishops. Maloney’s trial
was about proceeding at lost accounts. He was the man
referred to in a recent cable summary as having per-
formed miracles.
A sect that is to eat up Mormonism is announced
in America. It has been started by Mr. J. M. Allen.
The system is a compound of socialism, communism,
and polygamy. There will be no war, mnrder, or
capital punishment; •' Nature’s divine law ” will be
the guiding star of the sect, and crime will positively
be prohibited. The dress will be of a peculiar pattern,
being a loose garment continuous from neck to ankle,
made in two halves, both sexes to wear it alike.
Priests, creeds, sectarianism, and religious persecution
ore to be unknown. Marriages are to bo of the “ har-
monious monogamic kind," based on mutual affection
and adaptation, and each person is to have a private
apartment. The new sect daily gathers in numbers.
The artist of whom a stained glass window
containing the figure of St. Thomas Aquinas was ordered
for St. Mary’s Cathedral, finding that ha could not ob-
tain a portrait of the saint in question, took the classic
face of Archbishop Vaughan for his model. And now
the question is whether the face of a living man may
properly be taken to represent that of a saint. Some
people think the compliment spiritually paid to his
Grace rather a broad one; but, on the other hand, it’s
unlikely that the saints—we have none of then now-a-
days—were as a rule so comely as the Archbishop. For
our own part, we must confess to being rather tired of
the Simon Stylites order of manly beauty. We see no
possible objection to a “good old-English-looking”
saint by way of a change.
St. John’s Church, Sydney, and St. Phillip’s,
Parramatta, were neither of them named after saints
regularly enrolled in the calendar. The saints who
acted as their godfathers were canonised by proclama-
tion in the N.S.W. Governmsnt.QAZETTE. St. Phillip’s
was called after that incarnation of piety, Captain John
Phillip, who celebrated the foundation of the colony by
one of the wildest sprees on record, who never attended
Divine worship daring the entire period of his Governor-
ship, and who refused any aid towards the building of a
church. St. John’s is named in memory of another
saintly Governor of early days. Captain John Hunter,
a gentleman who probably would have been a success as
a Sultan or a Mormon prophet. These worthy pioneer
Governors would be rather astonished were they to
come to life again and find their memories encompassed
by the odour,of sanctity. But, after all, they are no
worse than St. George, the patron saint of England,
who, when in the flesh, was a swindling bacon con-
tractor.
Mr. Joseph O’Brien, writing in the Melbourn
Review, trenchantly remarks that in Great Britain, of
all countries in the world? the Deity is most fervently
invoked to suspend some natural law, in order to bring
down rain or upset a Sunday train. Traces of these
unworthy views, which represent the Great Architect of
the Universe as a bungling mechanic, whom it is neces-
sary to keep constantly in mind of the imperfections in
the world He has made, are to be found in hundreds of
newspapers and periodicals, and heard from thousands
of pulpits. Six men are overturned by a squall on
Sunday: it is divine vengeance. Sixty are smothered
in a mine on Monday: it is fire-damp. When the train
fell through the Tay Bridge, a few years ago, there were
hundreds of spiritual guides. ... to attribute the
LORD BEACONSFIELD.
Oft, as we’ve gazed into the silent sky.
And watched the myriad steady-glowing stars,
Whose sober light, for ages past, has shone —
Some brilliant meteor, from the under world,
Itself has hurled across the open blue.
And bursting forth in gorgeous show of light.
All else around has seemed by contrast dull.
But, ere the mind collects to find the cause.
Or the startled eye has time to dwell,
The new-born light has run its brilliant course:
Melted from sight, in a little from the mind;
The steady-glowing stars resume their ceaseless sway.
So in the sky of history, standing thickly jewelled
With the glorious names of great men, passed away—
Throwing their steady light upon the world’s dull work,
Ever silent but ceaseless in their glow—
Comes a mind of meteor type upon the century’s rim
Flash of light to universal gaze, and then
Blaze and splendour, all around made dull.
But how short lived ! The shower has fall’n—melted I
And, ere the world its judgment has pronounced,
The brilliant life has ceased ; already half forgot I
ROMANCE AND REALITY.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
8
INGEE
MANUFACTUE
Have opened a Dej
8
YDNEY, AT No. 1
1 HAEBOUE
DA]
STE
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List set
8
INGEE’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOL]
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for address of ne
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST ]
Hare received 160 First I
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
8
INGEE’S, BEST FOR
SINQEE’S MEDIUM MAC!
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 1M
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOI
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
8
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OE TEEA:
8
INGEE’S, The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work,
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST
LEABN. New Improvement
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and hi
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8
INGEE’S THE BEST and I
Will last a lifetime in cc
8
INGEE’S SEWING
ADDEESS: T 1
S INGEE MANUFACTUEI
No. IDAELING STOEES, Hu
8
INGEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymai
have been appointed agents fo
machines.
Call and see them—Month’
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for ca;
SINGEE’S SEWING Mj
8
INGBE’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
REMEMBEE, THEBE IS <
GEE MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
SINGEE’S MACHINES.—I
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, Georgc-street.
SINGEE’S MACHINES.—I
Castiron imitations. Onl.
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer (
8
INGEE’S SEWING MAI
cent, discount for cash, or on '
8
YDNEY.—From TUENEI
GEOEQE STEEET. opposite
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACH!
but 160 FIEST PEI
T
HE A U S T
"HOME” SHUT
AMEEICAN LOCKS'
SEWING MAC
LUXURIES WITHIN THE REACH OE ALL.
When you ask a friend to visit you the first impression he receives when he steps upon your threshold
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the remarkably small cost at which this
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing he does is to brush his feet upon a
FIBRE MAT for which you paid 2s. Passing on, the next thing he treads upon is a SINOLEUM at
3s. 3d. per square yard, or a FLOORCLOTH which only costs 2s. Hid. per square yard. He hangs
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK HAT at Bs. 6d.) on the hat-stand, and
putting his 7s. 6d. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he makes his way across a SHEEPSKIN MAT
(price 4s. 3d.)into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSELS CARPET meets his gaze, purchased
like all the foregoing, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
The cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEARTHRUG to match. The et cceterasof
such a room are amply supplied from the same source. There are FIRE-SCREENS, FENDER-
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautifully worked; and upon enquiry you find
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a dress of GROS GRAIN, HOMESPUN
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into the Library. Here the CARPET is of
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid per yard, and his eyes alight upon the rich looking REP CURTAINS, which
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by a beautiful pair of CORNICE POLES
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a small extra cost. The walls are hung with
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gladdening the eye; and when he learns
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he marvels how it can be done. Leaving
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 inches wide, at 13d. per yard, into the
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined with the chaste designs of the ladies’
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties —relics of the styles of various historic
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every day life, such as TABLE NAPKINS
at 4s. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4d. per yard, or CLOTHS to fit any
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. 6d. to 225. 6d. While in the room he notices the
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each ; and the Curtains some of which cost only 3s. 3d.
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds that
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of M'Lintock’s best EIDER DOWN or
SILK DOWN —delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Crockery upon the wash-stand, and even the
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fact, it is hard to say what they did not
supply. The most exorbitant prices are sometimes paid for BLANKETS, and it is simply because
the public are mislead as to their real market value. Now, at this well-known drapery establishment,
which, its proprietors are told, has only two rivals in the whole world, you can get a PAIR of
BLANKETS for 3s. lid.—a good warm pair. In a word, you can get anything you require, at a price
and of a quality that cannot fail to satisfy you, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
who have NO CONNECTION WITH ANT OTHER HOUSE OP THE NAME,
THE u PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Temporary Premises.
SYDNEY:
No. 11 BLOOMFIELD STREET,
SURRY HILLS.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H. S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling oil in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
At Newcastle a sailor broke the law and two
pairs of handcuffs. Five policemen “ ran him in.”
The homoeopathists are gaining ground in Mel-
bourne. A commodious homoeopathic hospital, for
which a Parliament subsidy of £2OOO has been obtained,
is to be built on the St. Hilda Boad.
_ _jy Father at the Coffee Tavern Billiard
Boom the other day: ”I do not care what other people
say; my child is a grand child." —Adv.
There will be 900 acres more cane at Mary-
borough this year than last. This, setting down the
average at 50 tons, implies a gross amount of nearly
200,000 tons cane to be treated.
The Associated Metropolitan Fire Brigade held
their first half-yearly meeting in the Temperance Hall
last week, when a code of rules was adopted, and a
board of management appointed.
Melbourne brokers are bidding high for a mono-
poly of the wool trade. They now offer to convey wool
from all ports in N.S.W. and S.A. at a uniform rate of
£1 per ton, whish will also cover storage and insurance
up to £2O per bale.
Billiards and Hop Bitters are the rage at
Foley’s National Hotel, Bridge-street.—Anv.
The Orange Meat Company have shipped 140
tons of frozen meat by the s.s. Cuzco. The shipment
comprises 4000 sheep, 100 bullocks, and a quantity of
Sme. Part of the game is intended for the Lord
ayor of London, who will give an'Australian banquet
upon the arrival of the Cuzco.
According to the Inverell Argus, the police
are in possession of facts that convince them of the
murder of Mr. Lamont Young and his party at Ber-
magui, by a German who was mixed up in the affair, and
who has since disappeared. They have a clue to his
whereabouts, and hope to see the ends of justice met
shortly.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, find admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Kael Theodore Staioee, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
VINCENT’S HOSPITAL.
ANNUAL BALL. 1881.
TUESDAY, 26th JULY.
Under the Distinguished Patronage and in the pre-
senoe of
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, Q.C.M.Q.
Lady Augustus Loftus and Suite
Earl Clan william/ Admiral; and the Officer of the
Detached Squadron
The Commodore and Mrs. Wilson
&c. &c, &c.
THE ANNUAL BALL,
in aid of the funds of the above charity, will be held in
the EXHIBITION-B UILDING, Prince Alfred Park,
on
TUESDAY, 26th JULY, 1881.
Tickets—Gentlemen, One Guinea; Ladies, Half a Guinea.
WILLIAM HUGHES, 1 Hon.
T. M. SLATTEEY, iSecs.
HEATEE EOYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager Mr. O. L. Goodman.
ENGLISH OPERA COMIQUE SEA.SON,
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
AN UNQUALIFIED TRIUMPH,
achieved in the production of the latest and greatest of
Offenbach’s works,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to ,8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may be pur-
chased during the day at H. Solton’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street, near Emersen’s.
HENRY R. HARWOOD, Business Manager.
AIETT THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
Under the Management of
MB. WYBERT REEVE.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, and SATURDAY,
LAST NIGHTS
of
DIPLOMACY
At this Theatre.
MONDAY, JULY 25.
BY SPECIAL DESIRE, on account of its Great Sue-
cess, the Grand Play,
DIPLOMACY
will be produced at the
OPERA HOUSE,
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY,
With the present Powerful Cast.
To be followed, on SATURDAY, with Byron’s
CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN.
Box Plan of Opera House at HUENEBBEIN’S, 411
George-street,
Manager for Mr. Reeve Mr. J. W. DODGE.
MRS. BRITCHEE begs to inform the Ladies
of Sydney and the surrounding suburbs that
she has established an ELECTRIC BATH, under all
the latest improvements; and hopes, by care and atten-
tion, to merit a share of their patronage.
Ladies from a distance can be provided with BOARD
and RESIDENCE during treatment, if required.
MRS. BRITCHER,
Elizabexh-stbeet, (opposite Beljiore Park.
BAND MATINEE.
Under the Patronage and in the presence of the
ROYAL PRINCES,
The Eight Hon. the EARL of CLAN WILLIAM, C. 8.,
COMMODORE WILSON,
and
Officers of the Detached and Australian
SQUADRONS.
AT THE SCHOOL OF ARTS,
THIS (THURSDAY), JULY 21,
at 3.30 p.m.
Mrs. C. B. FOSTER, Soprano.
Miss LIDDLE, Contralto.
Mr. HALLEWELL, Basso.
M. BOMON, Violoncellist
Mr. C. B. FOS TER, Pianist.
PROGRAMME.
PART I.
, Reoit. <“ I rage, I melt, I bum ” I ,
1 and Air (. “ O ruddier than the cherry " ) • tlanclel
Mr. HALLEWELL.
2. Song —" Ave Maria" Luzzi
Mrs. FOSTER.
3. Violoncello Solo—“ Souvenir de Spa’* ... F. Servais
Mons. BOMON.
4. Serenade —"I arise from dreams of
thee” Salaman
5. Song—“ Qui sedegno non s’aceende” (by
desire) from “ Zauberflote" Mozart
Mr. HALLEWELL.
PART 11.
6. Duet—“ When the wind blows in from
the sea*’ ... ... H. Smart
Miss MAGGIE LIDDLE and Mr. HALLEWELL.
7. Pianoforte Solo —“Le Poet mourant" (by
desire) Gottschalk
Mr. C. B FOSTER.
8. Song—“ The Angel at the window” Berthold Tours
Mrs. POSTER.
9. “ Berceuse pour Violoncello” Dunkler
Mons. BOMON.
10. Descriptive Song—“ The Desert"... Louis Emanuel
Mr. HALLEWELL.
The Grand PIANO used on this occasisn is by Blii-
ther, and kindly lent by A. HUENERBEIN, jun., 411
George-street.
Reserved seats, 55.; Gallery, 25.; Area, Is.; at Huen-
erbein’s, 411 George-street.
F. KENT, Manager.
gYDNEY PROGRESSIVE LYCEUM.
ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL,
PROTESTANT HALL,
TUESDAY, 26th JULY.
The above will celebrate their Third Anniversary by a
TEA MEETING,
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT, &o.
Dancing to follow at 10 p.m.
MB. CHARLES BRIGHT will deliver an ADDRESS.
Tea on Table at 6.30 p.m. Tickets 2s 6d each.
disaster to heavenly displeasure for Sabbath desecration
rather than to the rascality of contractors. No theory,
however, has been offered to account for the immunity of
Sunday trains on the Continent." Here is a poser.
Dean Stanley is seriously ill.
The third anniversary of the Sydney Progressive
Lyceum will be celebrated by a soiree danaante, in the
Protestant Hall, on the evening of July 26. Dancing
will commence at 10.30.
St. Andrew’s on Sunday afternoon was thronged.
There was neither sitting nor standing room and, after
all, the Princes were not there. But the programme
which had been arranged for Iheir special delectation
was religiously gone through, and the music given was
worth the attendance of those who came not to pray.
Critically speaking, the chanting was superb, the organ-
playing ditto. With the marvellous acoustic properties
of the building, a soloist there should be a " joy for
ever," and, it must be confessed that Dr. Ellis’s ren-
dering disappointed many who went prepared to hear
something far out of the common. The rev. doctor’s
voice is pleasing, but is of light quality and limited com
pass. Those who expected to hear strle in extenso
found that they were only treated to a series of turns
which were monotonous through their frequency. The
admirers of Dr. Ellis’s singing have evidently been
carried away by his eloquent preaching. The chorus
The heavens are telling ” was creditably done, the
chorus parts being especially good. The solo-quartette
parts were weak, the boy’s voices being insufficient sub-
stitutes for the full round tones of soprano and con*
traito. Too much praise cannot bo given to Dr. Ellis
for the precision of the choruses. The attention to
light and shade was most marked, and effects never
before equalled in cathedral singing in the colony were
produced.
LATE SPORTING.
Two amateurs race for a .£2O trophy after the
football match, on Moore Park, to-day (Saturday).
The Union F.C played the St. Kilda a return
match, at Moore Park, on Saturday, and were defeated.
St. Kilda was very strong', and played four members of
the Oriental Club.
The following gentlemen have entered for the
amateur outrigger sculling race (Mr. A Finlayson’s
very handsome prize), to be rowed over the Parramatta
champion course to-day (Saturday), starting punotu-
ally, from the bath-house, at 4 p.m.:—Messrs. Q.
Brett, W. Anslow, C. Metcalfe, C. Gaden, D. Middle-
tom, and J. Thomson. The Fawn, which Is to follow the
race throughout, will leave the S.B.C. Club-house at
2.30 p.m., and the M.R.C. Club-house at 2.45 p.m.
Fred. Archer, the English jockey, is the son of
William Archer, a distinguished cross-country rider, and
is 24 years of age. His first winning mount was in a
steeplechase at Bangor, on the famous pony Maid of
Kent, when he was yet but 11 years of age, and weighed
4st 111 b. In 1872, when 15, he won the Cesarewitch on
Salvanos, after which all the best handicap riding
became his, together with a certain career. In 1874 he
barely missed winning the same race again on the
Truth gelding; but in 1876 he did win it a second time
on Rosebery, and received for his winning fee £lOOO, the
largest sum he has ever been paid. Lord Falmouth’s
first jockey dying, Fred. Archer was appointed to
succeed him, and was put up in all the great weight-for-
age races at Newmarket and elsewhere. In 1874, being
then 17, he won his first “ Two Thousand" on the com-
parative outsider Atlantic, and in the same year he
rode—without shirt or stockings—the Truth gelding at
a weight of six stone one for the Cesarewitch. Since
then his career has been one of unbroken success; and
he has won nearly every great race, including the Derby
twice, the Oaks three times, the St. Leger, the Two
Thousand, and the One Thousand twice each. All
these races he won for Lord Falmouth, except that on
Bend Or, when he eclipsed all former triumphs by
snatching the victory out of the jaws of Robert the
Devil, and this in spite of his own disabled right arm
and the disappointments Bend Or encountered during
the race. His winning score is quite marvellous. In
the eight years between the beginning of 1873 and the
end of 1880 he has ridden into first, second, or third
place, no fewer than 5377 times, and has won no fewer
than 1399 times, while in the year 1878 he won as many
as 229 times. His score of winning mounts has since
1873 been the highest reached by any jockey, and in
five instances has been above 100 over that of his
nearest competitor. Fred. Archer, who wastes chiefly
by the aid of Turkish baths, which he prefers to
exhausting walks, can now ride at a weight of eight
stone five. On the Turf he divides the highest popu-
larity with Fordham. His style of riding, though not
so graceful as that of former celebrities, is marvellously
effective. Among his most enthusiastic supporters he
is known as “the Tinman”—which means that he
always goes for “ the tin."


A MAGNIFICEIS
TO EVERT READER OF T
A ONE-GUINEA PROOF
GIVEN A V
By the Australian Agei
LONDON ART
The Agent of this So
DR. WALTER RO
191 WILLIAM STE:
SYDNEY,
has received instructions from L
EVEEY EEADEE OF THII
with a
EIRST-CLASS EN<
36 INCHES BY 24 IN
on Plate Paper, from the world
LANDSEER, Mil
and numerous other lonsc-recognif
artists.
The presentation is made with a i
artistic taste in Australia, and
confidently to the recipien
port in the futui
The Society will be amply compensc
costly distribution if within t
months some portion of th<
public extend its patrc
the Sydney represent
of the London
office.
The following are a few of the pla
namely:—
ECCE HOMO
THE BLIND BEG
CHRIST LEAVING THE ]
DEATH THE GATE (
MORS JANUA 'V
WINDSOR CASI
NO ENGRAVING will be forwa
lowing conditions are strictly com
distribution will take place in roi
cations are received: —
I. Each applicant must out out tl
COUPON,
and enclose it with Is. 9d. (to defr
copyright, rolling, casing, Ac.), eil
Order on the General Post Office, Sj
11. Each address must be most dif
m. Without the COUPON, no:
under the Society’s usual charge of
ONE GUINE.
IV. Applications for the Plates wi
rotation as they are received.
V. No application for the Gift
FOURTEEN DAYS after the da
announcement appears.
VI. Particular attention is drawn
Picture will be forwarded unless the
is enclosed to the address of the Dii
with the sum of Is. 9d. to defray t
lay for copyright, [carriage, Ac.
k'
JOHNSTON
SEWING MACHIN
HAYMAEKET
INGEE’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S [
HAYMARKE
gINGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s
johnsto;
rjTHE
LIGHT EUNNING
2s 6d per week, ai
JOHNSTON'S. HAY Mi
gINGEE’S SEWING
2s 6d per week, ai
JOHNSTON’S 01
HAYMAEKET
The wondeeful
SEWING MACHINES, witt
tacking (or basting), without the ni
without any pulling or pushing of i
vary fine double seams or fells; will
braid, make their own braid, bind, (
sew on ribbons and trimmings, 1
width, make frills, quilt, hem, an
embroider curtains or antimacassar
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our offices
trades can be supplied. They are si
in running, strong, handsome, ai
machine may be had on trial, ENT
CHARGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WERTHEIM Machir
KEPT IN REPAIR and workin
YEARS from the date of purchase
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your ■
and inspection FREE OP CHARQ
samples by post. Country agei
liberal terms. BEALE and CC
street, near Market-street, and (
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastl
Bathurst. No matter in what par
live, we will supply you wit!
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION is
I petty (part of the Glen Orchai
of which is not to be found in the
some Twenty-roomed FAMILY RI
on the sunny slopes of the finest hi
the Southern Hemisphere, within
drive, and twenty (20) minutes’ s
City ; twenty-four (24) acres of the
tastefully laid out (by the origii
General Taylor) in picturesque pla
several thousands of expensive orna
paddocks; and several acres of t
every variety of fruit trees in full b
Outhouses.
The view of sea and land cannot 1
Healthiest climate in the world.
The opportunity is a rare one; a
low. Adjoins the Auckland Stud C(
Address: —
GREAT NORTHERN LAN
J'NCOMES AS
CHE CIVIL SERVICE BANKIN(
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE
This Society provides a certain fix
uembers when thrown out of empl
Medical attendance durirg sicknef
ige, and when incapacitated from to
nent through disease or accident; a
vant or distress.
The Society also uses its inflnenci
suitable re-engagemi
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Any.
Ladies, we have it for you at
spired that the great favor shoi
Montague Corry (Lord Kowton),
field’s death, has more signifioai
supposed. We won’t go into the
to state that Lord Kowton is tc
Princess Beatrice a Duchess.
T'ko Tlaniiina n Tnnrm
THE NEWSLETTER.
'4ll the Charters Towers libel actions settled.
The Agricultural Society is in debt to the tune
of £2OBO.
The City and Country Bank has commenced
Easiness.
8000 passengers used the Randwick tram on
Saturday.
Cold weather on the Burnett (Q). Hard on the
sugar-cane.
First tunnel on the line of Sydney water supply
completed.
A Masonic Temple is to be erected in a central
part of Melbourne.
The National Shipwreck Relief Fund has JJ393
153. lOd. to its credit.
Hospital for incurables, to cost .£lO,OOO, being
built near Melbourne.
The Peterborough from London, arrived in Port
Jackson on Sunday with 395 immigrants.
187 tons quartz, No. 1 North Phoenix, Gympie,
gave 17480 z. gold, exclusive of specimens.
John Kelly, stonebreaker, burnt to death, near
Buugaree, through his tent catching fire.
Colley, for attempted murder of his paramour,
Amy Lewis, at Melbourne, committed for trial.
It is said that one selector in the Singleton dis-
trict cleared £1250 in a single year by tobacco-growing I
Charles Doyle, the “ Irish barrister,” arrested
for swindling at Singleton, has been committed for
trial.
Ring-barking cases are causing trouble between
squatters and free-selectors throughout the colony
generally.
Melbourne butchers are attending the Sydney
cattle sales, bidding briskly, and trucking our cattle
right through.
A disastrous flood has occurred in the Thames,
N.Z. Two men were drowned, and £20,000 worth of
property destroyed.
An interesting letter appears in the Aegus
and Australasian on the subject of China as a market
for Australian wools.
All vessels from New South Wales are to be ex-
amined by the Victorian health officers at the quaran-
tine grounds, Port Phillip.
The case against Henderson, Wright, and
Wallace, for stealing the Ferret, has commenced in the
Melbourne Central Criminal Court.
The Bacchante, when her repairs are completed
in Melbourne, will proceed direct to Fiji, without call-
ing either at Sydney or New Zealand.
The general impression is that the loss of
H.M S. Doterel was due to the explosion of a boiler which
caused the powder magazine to blow up.
An ambulance staff is to be organised for the
purpose of thoroughly cleaning all city premises where
the slightest taint of small-pox is supposed to exist.
A man named Thomas William Morton, over-
seer at Hyde Park, committed suicide by hanging at
his residence. Hart-street, or Thursday in last week.
A man named William Smith has by a judge s
order been released from the Yarra Bend Lunatic
Asylum, where he was placed at the instance of his wife.
Job Harvey, farmer, Mudgee, was found dead
on Saturday, with the spring-cart in which he had been
driving resting on his chest. The horse was also dead.
It has been finally decided in deference to the
wishes of property holders in George and York streets
that the Western tramway shall run along Kent-street.
The Lessee of the Coffee Tavern Billiard Room
is about to give a prize for an American Handicap, open
to six of the best players in Sydney. 801 l up, roll up.—
Adv.
A Chinaman, employed at Rye’s orangery, Par-
ramatta, was cruelly beaten on Saturday. Alderman
Pye has offered £lO reward for the discovery of his
.assailants.
As many will have recollected with sorrow,
the 12th Julv, which this year was a mild day at sea,
was the 15th anniversary of the wreck of the Cawarra,
off Nobby’s.
A little girl, daughter of the secretary'of the
South Brisbane School of Arts, has been killed ;by the
falling of a piece of timber placed against the wall ol
her father’s residence.
It is now pretty clear that the wrong man — a
Chinese—was hung tor the Naseby (N.Z.) murder. The
Mongolian who really committed the murder has been
•Boycotted by his countrymen.
A bench of magistrates in Maitland decided, in
the case of Mullen v. Bellotti, that any attempt on the
part of an employer to proselytise a servant afforded
sufficient legal ground for the parent of the latter to
cancel the engagement.
These are the words which some scoundrel
wrote on a tombstone in the C. of E. cemetery,
Singleton:— . „
“ Yon are in hell,
___ wrotoll
Prodisin d-^—d wretch.”
41 How these Christians love one another I”
A mysterious death is reported from Mary-
borough, Victoria. A young lady named Hilder, who
had recently inherited a fortune of £5OOO, was taken
suddenly ill, and died in a few hours, with all the symp.
toms of narcotic ooisoning. A medical man, who
was Miss Hilder’s guardian, failed to attend when
sent for. and the case is now undergoing police investi-
gation. _
The third annual local examination (in music) of
Trinity College, London, was conducted on Saturday
morning in St. James’ schoolroom by Mr. Hector
K Maclean, the Sydney representative of the institu-
tion : the Rev. Dr. Ellis and Mr. Montague Younger
officiating as visitors. There were twelve candidates. Mr.
Maclean stated that out of nineteen candidates who had
presented themselves for the local examination during
the last two years sixteen had passed.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
In S A. there are 6,463,879 sheep; 307,177
cattle; 157,915 horses; 131,000 pig5......G01d and plati-
num has been discovered at Petersburg, Northern
Territory ....Mr. W. W. Hitchcock presented with the
usual tea and coffee service upon leaving Newcastle......
A case of supposed small-pox at Tingha (New England)
has turned ont to be measles aggravated with vaccine
fever Quartz brought from the Bellinger Eiver mto
Kempsey has gone 250 z. to the ton .The Armidale
people want a railway to Grafton Commissioner
King thrown out of his buggy at Tingha; right arm
fractured Hicks and party, Temora, washed 300
loads for 4500 z News from Mount Browne continues
satisfactory. Mr. Slee has been appointed Warden and
Inspector of Mines Michael Brownham was killed by
a fall of earth while sinking a tank near Spiller s
hotel, Meroal Creek A gas explosion at the Mercury
office, Parramatta, last week; no one hurt .....The Vic-
torian Supreme Court has ruled that the Marine Board
has no jurisdiction over any case occurring outside Vic-
torian waters The tender of Bolckow, Vaughan, and
Co., Middlesborough, England, to supply 18,250 tons of
of steel rails for £130,031 ss. has been accepted by the
Victorian Government Several deserters from
H.M.S. Bacchante arrested at Ballarat and Echnca .....
The Sydney and Country Bank notes have been htho-
graphed by Messrs. Leigh and C0.......A groom named
George Martin, lately employed at Hawke s stables,
Bligh-street. died in the Infirmary last week from the
effects of a kick from a horse Mr. George Steven-
son’s house at Toerak was sold for £25,000 cash
Holders of space in the Adelaide Exhibition building are
selling out at large profits Land in Adelaide has
been sold at the rate of £59,000 per acre
Two tons and ahalf of tobacco grown by Chinese
gardeners at Carcoar have been sent to Sydney.......
A child named Papworth has been burnt to death at
Eylstone Land at Gootamundra sold the other day
-at £122 per acre A box of jewellery, valued at £5OO,
supposed to have been stolen from a hotel atWagga,
has been discovered at the Sydney railway station,
where it had been sent by mistake The stud sheep
sales have been very successful 533 tons from No. 4
8. W. Queen (E. Craven, sole proprietor), at Charters
Towers, yielded 141loz. lldwts. smelted gold, an aver-
age of only a fraction under 2oz. 13d wts. to the ton
T. H. Hambleton, a mining manager at Sandhurst,
accidentally killed by a powder explosion A half
interest in the Hidden Treasure claim, Copeland, sold
for £2850 An allotment at Penrith, which two years
ago went begging for £4OO, has now changed hands for
£l5OO Au old man named Bagnall found dead in a
hut near Heathcote, Victoria A woman named
Potter has been committed for trial at Temora for
attempting to set on fire Pantrig’s Bristol Arms Hotel.
The “ New Bangor" slate quarry, Bathurst, is to be
“ floated ”as a company, in 40,000 £1 shares Joseph
Doherty has been killed by quartz falling from a bucket,
at the Tyrconnell claim, Hodgkinson......At Crocodile
diggings, near Kockhampton, there is now much
activity. The Imperial, owned by Newton Bros., of
Sydney, is looking wall. Good stone is being raised
from a 2ft. Sin. reef, and the ton of pyrites recently sent
to Sydney for assay gave a big yield A man named
Palmer fell from the cliffs at Coogee, a distance of 20ft.,
and sustained injuries from which ho soon afterwards
died Two men, named Thomas and Kent, have been
arrested on a charge of assaulting Ah Tong, a China-
man, in |Campbell-st., on Saturday night Mina
Tuckott, a married woman, was knocked down by a rail-
way engine at Macdonaldtown, on Saturday, and died a
few minutes afterwards Various articles still con-
tinue to be washed ashore from the wreck of the Queen
of Nations A man was “ lambed down” in a Sandridge
(V.) hotel, recently, to the tune of £4910s in 18 days
Messrs. Thomas, Robert, and William Burrow, have
been presented with gold watches by the farmers of
Albury, in recognition of their services to the farming
community as grain buyers The other day there
were slaughtered, at Maryborough, six bullocks from
Colanne Station, averaging over 9001 b; one bullock
weighing 10401 b, another 10201b......Mr. Panton, P.M.,
has sentenced a Melbourne larrikin to two years’ im-
prisonment for hitting a constable on the head with a
a stone tied in a handkerchief The stampers have,
at last, been set going on the Mulgrave Henry
Simons, a coloured man, was killed by a train at North
Melbourne on Saturday An excellent map of “ Gym-
pie and her golden reefs,” has been compiled by Mr. C.
Spry, and lithographed by Mr. J. A. M'Nanght, of
Brisbane The secretary of the Pastoral and Agn-
cultural Show, to be held in Townsville, offers a two
guinea medal if or “ the best original poem on a local
subject Big fire in Brisbane. Five buildings de-
stroyed. According to the Observer “ the wild alarm
broke out on the stillness of the morning air,” and the
flames “ shot their lurid tongues,” etc. The report, it
appears, was written at 4.30 a.m.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
101 slaves in Egypt emancipated.
Fighting goes on in Afghanistan.
Siberian plague in St. Petersburg.
Jews are being expelled from Russia.
The Chimborazo has arrived at Suez.
French emissaries arrested at Tripoli.
President Garfield is progressing favourably.
Emigration Clause in Irish Land Bill passed.
Weather in England interferes with wheat-
buying.
The summer in Great Britain is said to be
tropical.
A grand volunteer review is to be held in
Scotland.
Hop harvest prospects in England are not
promising.
Harvests on the Continent of Europe generally
look promising.
The Imperial Parliament will be prorogued on
the 20th August.
A strike is being organised amongst Cork agri-
cultural labourers.
The Earl of Beaconsfield’s art collection has
been sold by auction.
Over 200 persons arrested in Ireland under pro-
visions of Coercion Act.
A large number of Socialists have been expelled
from Leipsic, in Saxony.
Prince Alexander is instituting important poli-
tical reforms in Bulgaria.
Twenty-seven deaths from sunstroke at Cinci-
natti (U.S.A.), in one day.
Much distress occasioned by continuance of
nailers’ strike in England.
Tho remains of the late Pope Pius IX. have been
removed to San Lorenzo.
The Kentucky people are trying to pray Presi-
dent Garfield out of danger.
A tornado in Minnesota (U.S.) has caused much
destruction to life and property.
Weather in the United States intensely hot.
Hundreds dying from sunstroke.
The National Bank of N.Z. has declared a
dividend, for the half year of 4 per cent.
A Tory election agent, at Deal, sentenced to
four months’ imprisonment for bribery.
One hundred and twenty women were burned
alive in Kourdistan for refusing to work.
British India Company’s mail steamer arrived at
Merkara, with outward Queensland mails.
The Queensland Government 4 per cent, loan of
£1,000,000 has been subscribed at a trifle over par.
Anniversary of Declaration of Republic cele-
brated throughout France with great enthusiasm.
Don Carlos has been expelled from Prance, m
consequence of having been engaged in Legitimist plot.
The Franeo-Tunisian difficulty is causing trou-
ble, and there is every prospect of a general Mahomedan
revolt.
American people subscribed <£50,000 for presen-
tation to Mrs. Garfield, as an expression of their
sympathy.
Sfax has been bombarded and captured by
French troops, who lost in the fighting 80 killed
and 40 wounded.
The Irish Land Bill is engrossing the entire
attention of the House of Commons. Home Eulers
troublesome, bnt impotent.
The Under Secretary of State for the Colonies
has justified recent retaliatory attacks on Solomon
Islanders by H.M.SS. Cormorant and Eenard.
At a Mayoral banquet in London, the colonies
were referred to in complimentary terms by the Prince
of Wales and the King of the Hawaiian Islands.


OUR
AND
1 i K'
lia-.
To the
The
FRONT
OUR _
We have
Two Sizes
viz.,
<65 & <75
again
with
the
but recommend the
WOODS
STRING BINDER
Is unquestionably
THE BEST ON ALL POINTS
Woods String Binder
won more prizes than al!
other makes put together.
Woods "is a
Success, not an
experiment
The
“Woods’
We ;
Miscellaneon
Q LIF FORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORT!
EASTERN AND CO
MERCHANTS
Receive regular oonsignmen
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualiti
Do. Indian Prize Me<
CHUTNIES—Indian Pri
PRESERVES—Indian P
COFPEE—Plantation N<
Do. „ Pt
Do. ~ Ni
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER —White and B 1
OFFIC S 79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B;
OH N D
IMPORTEE op
Plumbers' and Engineers' Brasswr
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric B
Butchers’ Brine Pu
Iron, Brass, Copper, \
and Lead Pipe, &c
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
235
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL
OIAOoh,
OR
AILWOOL
TWEED
Miscellan*
W
SEWING
MACHINES. W]| J
Mangle and 1 O'* L,
wringer, £4 10s ttpr
S. H E B B L E
416 GEORGE S'
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spc
ALL KINDS OF DEUOGISTE
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLO(
664 GEORGE STREE
Opposite St. Andrew’
every description, Mb
sentation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND 8E r
A new and Choice Assortmen
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, frc
■viivudiKtbi ;
W. KEF
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS ANT) IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
CANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S PILES,
A L A E G E VAEIETY IN STOCK.
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINEEr,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
N n p
Cr URiNG JEW£\- L
n
SILVER WATCHES
FROM X. 4.10.
9. Bc. lI.HUNTER S
ches SYDNEY
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
BATHS
V U
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, op
PRACTICAL RAIRCV
PEIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR - WORKER, STAGE i
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings
SSi?" Note the address— Oxford-street, opp
PRIZE “I VAN HOE”
VTN ORDINAIRE
3/6
" G. H. STEPHEN & CC
Wine Growers and Merchi
