

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 79.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 30, 1881.
Price—3d.
%\t bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 30, 1881.
The Ocean Affair.
The hysterical administration to which we de-
murred at an early stage of this miserable small-
pox business still continues. It is quite in the
nature of things that the fine-weather pilots who
made their way to prominence during a mono-
tonous series of calm seasons, by virtue of their
dexterity in doing nothing in particular with an
air of importance, should prove to lack nerve and
sense when a sudden occasion arises demanding
collected courage and calm promptitude. Since
the actual outbreak of small-pox in a Chinaman’s
house—an outbreak often predicted, but which
the Government would never believe possible—
the Ministerial arrangements have given evidence
of little save flurry and funk. The Colonial
Secretary’s conception of vigour appears to have
been narrowed to promiscuous spending of money
without consideration of expense, and blind hit-
ting out at Chinamen whenever any of that race
came within reach.
* * *
Before the outbreak of fiisease no arguments
were potent enough to convince the Ministry that
it was in any way advisable to take time by the
forelock and provide against a contingency which,
in view of the prevalence of small-pox at Chinese
ports, its actual introduction by immigrants of
that race at the Sandwich Islands, and the extra-
ordinary augmentation of a similar immigration to
our own colony, a large number of persons urged
was imminent. The supercilious rebuffs which
the Premier administered to the members of
deputations who endeavoured to warn him, and
sought to stimulate the Government to accelerate
Legislative action, must be fresh in most people’s
recollection. Such persons were dismissed with
snubs, and the Minister in effect rebuked them
for an over-fondness for race-legislation.
* * •
Yet, after the outbreak, the proceedings of the
Government have surpassed in extravagance any
suggestion ever seriously made by an anti-Chinese
deputationist. The effect, also, of the Ministerial
action has been infinitely more damaging both to
the material and moral interests of the colony than
anything which they were asked, and refused, to
do. They had been invited, practically, to proceed
promptly but dispassionately to arrange the most
suitable method of providing beforehand against a
probable contingency. They were asked to move
while there was yet time to do things decently
and in order. Had they recognised the sense of
the advice, it lay within their power to adjust the
necessary arrangements so as to inflict the
minimum of inconvenience upon the mercantile
classes, and to interfere in the least possible
degree with the regular operations of trade and
shipping.
* # #
Having declined to accept the warnings given,
they have found themselves in such a position as
left them only a choice of evils. If they continued
their do-nothing policy, the country would have
risen against them and hurled them from office.
This seemed to have struck them as the most
awful of alternatives, for they flung themselves
into another with a precipitation strongly in-
dicative of panic. Their measures were instantly
taken in such a fashion as should in the highest
degree tend to avert ill consequences from them-
selves as a responsible body, with very faint, if
any, indications of regard for the injury which
might be inflicted upon the colony. Every step
was made sensational, and in lieu of a quiet pre-
arranged system, a spasmodic series of demonstra-
tions served at once to rehabilitate the shaken
reputation of Ministers in the eyes of the unthink-
ing, and to diffuse abroad an exaggerated impres-
sion of the extent to which the contagion had
affected the community.
# * *
The Governments of the sister colonies were
startled by the extraordinary commotion made by
our own Ministers into conjecturing that affairs
here were desperate. The proclamations which
made Chinese ports infected places in relation to
New South Wales found echoes in proclamations
which made the ports of New South Wales infected
places in relation to the sister colonies. The course
of intercolonial trade suffered an interruption
which need never have occurred in an equal degree
had matters been pre-arranged. It has been often
said that there is no bully so savage as a coward
when scared into fighting. The truth of the maxim
appears to have been illustrated by the dealings of
the Government with the unlucky Chinese pas-
sengers of the Ocean.
* * *
In the measure which has been dealt out to the
owners and passengers of that steamer, the Govern-
ment can depend upon carrying with them the
warmest sympathy and admiration of every larri-
kin who ever threw a brickbat at a Chinaman.
The administrative acts and the larrikin exploits
are absolutely upon the same plane. '1 he funda-
mental idea in each seems to have been “ only a
Chinaman.” Between a rowdy hitting a China-
man with a brick and a Government keepipg a
whole shipload of Chinese twenty-four hours with-
out water to drink, there is not, in principle, a pin
to choose. Between a mob hunting a wretched
Chinaman from street to street, and tearing his
clothes off his back, and a Government hustling a
shipful of Chinese from port to port, and finally
insisting on their burning all their personal effects,
the moral distinction is too fine for ordinary appre-
ciation.
* * m
These extreme measures must be regarded as
the courage of cowards, until there be something
adduced in the career and character of the mem-
bers of the Government to show that they have
acted, or would be likely to act, with equal vigour
and disregard of consequences, in circumstances
in which such action would have exposed them to
the resentment of a class politically powerful. It
appears to be the failing of the present Premier
that he never will believe in apparitions due to
natural causes, and that when circumstances bring
him face to face with such abnormal spectacles he
is always unprepared, always utterly demoralized
and unnerved, and always acts on the immediate
belief that whereas he was told to expect a
natural but unpleasant thing, he has been con-
fronted by a terrible spectre. The decent people
of the colony desire to place such restrictions
upon the influx of Chinese as shall secure Aus-
tralia to the Caucasian race. But they have no
sympathy with arbitrary proceedings, no desire to
see commerce unduly hampered or trade inter-
rupted. And, above all, they do not wish to
forget that among their claims to superiority is
the fact that they possess a higher civilization
and a more elevated humanity.
Mr. James Nixin Brunker, M.P.
The electorate of East Maitland, that old
Government township in the Northern district,
enjoys at the present time a representative in
Parliament in the person of, perhaps* one of the
most active, consistent and thorough-going men
in this country. Mr. James Nixin Brunker is one
of the self-made men of this colony, a man who
has baffled from boyhood in those various con-
ditions of colonial life where only the fittest
survive, and he enjoys to-day an enduring popu-
larity. There is hardly another man known to the
people who has a more genuine claim to being
considered liberal and independent. His past
history and his known determination to stick to
his business at Maitland demonstrate that he has
entered Parliament purely to be of greater use.
Mr. Brunker abstains from the use of spirits and
tobacco, is now a man of robust health, and has
a face and an eye indicative of unusual determina-
tion and general mental capability. His practical
business talents are bound to win him a high place
in the Legislature, and to be of equal value to his
country and his constituency. Mr. Brunker was
born at Newcastle, N.S.W., on the 27th April,
1832 ; and after studying for a time under the Rev.
C. Wilton, went through a course of study at the
Sydney College, now more familiarly known as the
Sydney Grammar School. At the age of 14 he
acted as assistant Clerk ’of Petty Sessions at
Newcastle, and was subsequently admitted into
the office of Messrs. Carr, Rogers and Owen, then
the leading solicitors of Sydney. 11l health, con-
sequent upon severe study, interfered with a
career that gave promise, even at that early
period, of much success, and he turned his atten-
tion to more active employments. Then, after an
interval of a couple of years, his liking for
intellectual work led him to the study of theo-
logical subjects, and the Bishop of Newcastle,
influenced by the merit of several essays written
by Mr. Brunker, decided to admit him as a theo-
logical student. 11l health again influenced his
career, and an active life became a paramount
necessity with him. Pastoral work now engaged
his attention, and he travelled all over the
northern interior, selecting and purchasing stock,
his sound judgment and business tact standing
him in great stead. He was very successful, and
commenced business at East Maitland, where he
has remained for thirty years. During this
period he has taken an active part in all public
movements, handling with considerable dexterity
—another word for liberality—the ever-existing
jealousies between the two Maitlands —the Govern-
ment and the private townships. “ Head of the
poll” has been his municipal record. In the best
list of Justices of the Peace ever issued in this
colony—that of Sir James Martin, in 1863—the
name of James Nixin Brunker appears. His
appointment to the position of Returning Officer
at East Maitland first brought him’to the hustings,
and he afterwards stood on them as the chosen
representative of East Maitland, succeeding Mr.
Stephen Scholey. The more the country becomes
acquainted with the career of Mr. Brunker the
more general will be the satisfaction that he has a
seat in the Assembly. Charles Dickens, a news-
paper reporter, a Parliamentary shorthand writer,
and admittedly one of the keenest observers of
his time, always stoutly maintained that the man
best qualified for a seat in Parliament was a
capable and successful man of business. There
are a lot of people round about the two Maitlands
who agree with Charles Dickens.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gilded Age.
The growth of the aesthetic whimsies among the leisure
classes is but one symptom of an epidemic condition
common to many other sections of the public. The age
s afflicted with unrealism. When the history of the
world comes to be summarised in another five or ten
centuries hence, it seems probable that, besides the
golden age, the silver age, and the iron age, posterity
will treat of our own times as the electroplate age.
The emotions of the age are skin-deep. It is a positive
fact that a deep emotion cannot be got out of a shallow
cause any more than a whale can be fished out of a
puddle. What are made to do duty as great passions
to-day—whether their form be self-sacrifice, or patriot-
ism, or religion—are, for the most part, paltry imitations
of the soul-movements of former stirring times. Thus
sestheticism is the poor substitute for love of fine art.
In religion, we have the same ’ symptoms. Millinery
takes the place of earnestness, and fashion of devotion.
The veriest tub-thumper that ever mounted a bench in
the Domain must needs have his seedy suit of black,
and his wisp of dingy white round his throat. The
draper’s apprentice, who is moved by the spirit to
expound, is also moved to ape the dress and demeanour
of the Methodist parson. The Methodist dresses at the
Anglican, and there is a constant passing up of ministers
from the so-called Dissenting to the Anglican body,
while there is no proportionate passing down of Anglican
priests to Methodism. This is only susceptible of one
explanation. Social impulses and caste distinctions
have more potency than sectarian convictions. Then
again, the Anglican priesthood is afflicted with a religi-
ous sestheticism perfectly matching the art-aesthetics of
the laity. Vestments and attitudes, niceties about what
may be termed the machinery and wardrobe of religion,
absorb the minds of some of them, and find no difficulty
in sucking up all there is to absorb. They amble to the
altar, and worship their Maker in the third position.
They ascertain the proper direction to make their
obeisances with the help of a compass, and wrangle
about fermented and unfermented wine, till presently
they will settle the Real Presence by recourse to a
saccharometer. The Catholic clergy are marches ahead (
and have got over a host of difficulties by claiming to
be little gods themselves, with the keys of Heaven and
Hell on their pocket-bunches. Politicians of all shades
claim the right to be ranked as patriots, on the strength
of dexterous diddling of the dull and dexterous collusion,
with the clever among the populace. Traders who have
made fortunes by doctoring up white spirits into spuri-
ous brandy for general consumption, affect the style of
British merchants. We have heroic generals, who
never fought a battle; reverend bishops, who never
fought the Devil out of a drawing-room or a pulpit
trusty knights, who have notoriously betrayed their
friends.
Loyalty or Toadyism?
The following extracts are from two issues of the
S. M. Herald during last week, and appeared under the
beading of “ The Detached Squadron —“ The Princes
were subjected to much curious staring, to which by this
time they are becoming accustomed.” And again-
“ From the time the Royal visitors . . . they were
subjected to a great deal of curious staring , . . well-
dressed ladies ran along short cuts to obtain places past
which the Royal party must go . . . but there was
no unseemly crowding." In plain English, the Princes,
when in public, are the objects of much ill-bred
MR. JAMES NIXIN BRUNKER, M.P.


curiosity. We confess that our own curiosity is ex-
cited on two beads. Whether it enters the minds of
the curious starers to think that they are guilty of
ill-mannered snobbishness; and whether those who
read of these scenes are not unanimous
them as degrading exhibitions of grovelling and feeble-
minded toadyism—notwithstanding the fact that the
chief actors are, forsooth, well-dressed ladies ? The
reporter, with refreshing naivete, tells us that there
was no 11 unseemly" crowding. This is slightly ambigu-
ous, but perhaps may be taken to mean that, in his
opinion, the actions were not either undignified or in
had taste. If so, we can only suppose that the usual
rules of behaviour—those which people owning the ex-
terior of ladies, well-dressed or otherwise, generally
observe—are at present suspended, in consequence of the
presence amongst us of the Queen’s grandsons, in
order that we may express our loyalty by staring them
out of countenance, and pursuing them in a manner
highly suggestive of street Arabs running after a Punch
and Judy show.
A Daily Religious Paper.
The Peesbtteeian, a weekly denominational paper
printed in Sydney, advocates the establishment of a
daily religious newspaper here. Such a journal would
be of good service. It is really very difficult just now
to comprehend precisely what religious principles are
Dogma has of late jears been so chameleon-like, that
inquiring people are at a loss to know what is really
believed by professedly religious people, and in what
respects their applications of principle to the ordinary
avocations of life and business differ from the morality
of tbe non-professing. It would be an enlightening
thing to have clerical comment on political and social
affairs as incidents occurred; to know in what light
the religious world viewed, for example, the electio-
neering tricks of a professedly religious candidate, the
contract swindles of regular church-goers, and matters
of a similar nature. Besides, doctrines have, during
the last few years, so changed their character, that it
would be most interesting to learn from authoritative
sources how the application of such altered doctrines
to mundane affairs has been affected. The Presby-
tbeian, indeed, is scarcely likely to furnish a com-
petent contributor to the editorial department of the
desired newspaper. Its very suggestion is couched in
terms which bear evidence either to defect of logic, or
hard-set bigotry. “Is it not possible," inquires the
Pbesbyteeian, “ to start such a paper, Protestant and
undenominational?” How on earth could any man
capable of that balance of mind which is requisite for
an editor, pen such a sentence ? It would be mere
mincing of words to pretend that Protestantism is not
one denomination, and Roman Catholicism another.
Tt may be inferred that the projected daily would be
-expected to start with the sensible assumption
Roman Catholics lie outside the pale of consideration.
Now, we have no special penchant for Roman
Catholics, but we like common sense; and we thjnk the
community would be all the better without a daily
paper, which would start on a hypothesis from which
common sense is excluded. Roman Catholics exist,
and are religious. Therefore, an undenominational
religions newspaper would have to represent them to
some extent. If the Pbesbyteeian means that it
desires to see started a daily Protestant newspaper,
why on earth doesn’t it say so ? An editorial staff com-
prising the Dean of Sydney, Dr. Wazie Beg, and Dr.
Kelynack, would possess lots of ability, and the agree-
ment between them would be wonderful. But we can.
not comprehend what complaint there can be against
the S. M. Heeald.
Australian Almsmen.
*' Twa hmndert o’ ye by a fair coont, an* if I saw an
honest man’s face ’mang ye, a,’ I’d gie a guinea for the
picture o’t.” That remark was addressed by a station
store-keeper to two hundred beggars, who upon a single
night besought alms at his roaster’s door. There was
no exaggeration in point of number. They stood there,
two hundred of them, dirty, destitute, hungry, male-
volent. Beggars of necessity beyond all question. You
might have put the whole lot through a long-tom or a
quartz battery without obtaining the faintest vestige of
“ colour.” And that station was exceptional only by
reason of its vast extent. You would find similar mobs
of similar creatures at every home station throughout
“ squatting Australia.” It may be asserted without
fear of contradiction, that upon this July evening, there
are thousands of men of New South Wales, possessed
of hunger and hatred, begging as vagrants for grudg-
ingly bestowed alms at the squatters’ doors. We have
no intention, in this place, to ask the why and where-
fore of their most woeful condition, but would, in the
plainest of plain English, place their condition on record.
There is one phase of the pastoral life ever before us—
it is seen in full laden trains, in the magnificent wool,
stores, in the ships that throng the waters of the harbor,
occasionally in the person of the “lordly squatter”
who be-littles mankind generally while taking pleasure
at his hotel. These hungry misanthropes are the ob-
verse of the medal. We crave for them consideration.
Yours, messieurs, who are so concerned at the presence
of an odd dozen of blind men in your streets—these
men are all blinded by imbecility or vice. Yours, most
reverends, who move heaven and earth and the hearts
of most obdurate cash-boxes for the " conversion" of
the heathen of sunnier isles —these men are all
heathens; with the exception of an occasional mad-
man, none ever mumbles a prayer. Yours, my lord of
the unmeasured acres and the unnumbered flocks—are
they not your tools, however densely coated with the
villainous rust P Yours, whoever you may be, Austra-
lian by birth or choice —they are yours to consider;
possibly yours to amend. Make note of them as a fact
that will probably pass unrecorded in the elaborate
details of the census. Outside all the hospitals, gaols,
and eleemosynary institutions that drain the revenues
to such a greedy tune, this great army of almsmen,
vagrants, malcontents, heathens —they are a factor in
the state; an unknown quantity of indefinite power,
which it would be well for some learned master of the
higher mathematics to resolve into appreciable figures.
Priestly Appraisement.
A Right Rev. Father in God stands upon a platform,
upon a Sabbath afternoon; pendant banners wave
about him, and black-robed brother priests cluster
thickly around below, densely massed, the people.
The “word” has been very powerful, and they are
quickened to enthusiasm, afire with patriotism, and
very zealous for tbe good cause that has been so elo-
quently upheld. They have been laying the founda-
tion-stone of a church, and now the hat is going about
for funds for its completion. There is rapture and
delight on the faces of the clergy. You might imagine
they were gathering in souls to glory, but your imagin-
ing would be vain, for they are simply scooping up
coin. The hi? cheques come tumbling in, and
their donors are appraised in strict proportion
to the amounts. Five pounds from Tom O'Toole I
A good man's son is Tom O’Toole. Ten pounds
from Pat M'Qrath ! A good man, entirely, is Patset.
And twenty from Michael Hagan ; not a better man in
this world than Michael." Blessed Michael !—for
aughtthat his eulogist knows, he may have broken all the
Ten Commandments within the last twelve hours, and
be in debt to his newspaper for the past five years. But
he has given twenty pounds to the church. That
twenty pounds may not have been his own. The store-
keeper may be swindled, the blacksmith defrauded, and
the children’s school fees go unpaid, because the parson
caught him flying. He was lifted right off his feet by
seductive flattery, and went straight into a net that
wrung him dry. But he had the priestly blessing. Save
us from such blessing 1 We can in no fashion make
such things tally with the teaching of Him who told
the story of the Widow’s mite, and whom poor Camille
Desmoulins worshipped as “Le lon sans culottt
Chretien."
Merchant Seamen.
The sweet little cherub who sits up aloft, and watches
over “poor Jack," appears to have become, of late
years, aged and impotent. Poor Jack has been very
indifferently cared for, and, being an improvident and
somewhat reckless fellow himself, he is rather in a bad
way as compared with landsmen. Different legislatures
have done a good deal for him, and it must be said that
all legislation which has for its object the protection of
seamen’s interests,.and their general well-being, reflects
strong credit upon the legislatures which enact it. Poor
Jack is practically unrepresented in any Parliament,
He is not usually a burgess or a lodger, and if he were*
he is almost sure to be somewhere else when his pre-
sence at the polling booth would be of service to him*
Moreover, sailors have slender opportunities of organis-
ing. Their majority is always scattered over the face
of the ocean. There can be no such thing as a mass
meeting of seamen. Consequently the most potent
instruments of representation are lacking them. They
have no members dependent upon their vote and
interest. They have not the faintest prospect of ever
seeing any great politician standing up, with his
countenance aglow with noble devotion to principle,
and declaring that Ihe stakes his reputation and his
fortunes upon any measure for their benefit, with the
inspiring knowledge present in his mind that if he
succeeds in carrying that measure he will reap much
personal advantage thereby, and tbat if be didn’t urge
it, somebody else would inevitably take it in hand, and
kick him out of office. There is really very little direct
gain to be reaped by professional politicians by attend-
ing to poor Jack, and for that reason professional
politicians as a class leave him to take his luck, and
trust to his played-out cherub. What has been done
for him has chiefly been effected by private members*
and ordinary measures intended to serve poor Jack have
been ruthlessly pruned in the interests of his master.
In Parliaments, ordinarily, the only persons who
understand much about shipping matters are the very
men against whose greed and carelessness it is desirable
that the seamen should be protected. Although there
are no seamen in Parliament, there are invariably
plenty of ship-owners. There is scope for the utmost
devotion of disinterested members in procuring im-
provements in many of the laws which deal with
seamen. There are yet too many instances of locking
up sailors for the dire offence of refusing to sail in un-
seaworthy ships, or with unseaworthy captains. It is
only the other day that, in an Australian port, a ship-
captain fired among his crew with a revolver, as some
punishment for their objections to sail with him in
consequence of his drunken habits. He was fined sixty
shillings for the offence, and his men were sentenced to
two months’ imprisonment!
“Know um Star?”
The Rev. Peter Macpherson, M.A., has been dealing
at length with a something, euphoniously described as
“ The Astronomy of the Australian Aborigines.” Mr-
Macpheeson derives the bulk of his information from
a Mr. Stanbeidge, who, in the remote period of 1857,
paid some little attention to a tribe of blacks resident
at Lake Tyrrel, in the mallee country of Victoria. He
tells us strange stories of these Lake Tyrrel blacks. He
finds resemblance in them to the early inhabitants of
Europe and Asia— Heemes and Ptolemy, Philo, or
Plato, or Ezekiel, the prophet, possibly. Ring
Billy’s remote ancestor jumps up before us as we
read, “ new fellow,” altogether. There is no twinkle
of fun in his eye, and if he looks aloft ’tis not for
’possum or bear. He makes “ linear arrangements,”
and “ systematic groupings,” and finds “ mythological
connections between certain stars and the seasons
of the year." Of course it is a matter of con-
gratulation to know that such a blackfellow
really did exist; and perhaps it is the
especial province of the Royal Society to unfold
to us his forgotten lore —it is even possible that Mr.
Russell may gain some useful hints therefrom. But
the blackfellow we know, and with whom we are more
immediately concerned, is quite a different fellow. He
does not make linear arrangements of the stars, but he
does very frequently make most peculiar linear arrange-
ments of himself with the boards and verandah posts
of back-block pubs. He does not find mythological
connections between stars and reasons, but rather most
fractured and unprofitable connections between himself
and others. In his primary condition he knocks gins
on the head with impunity, and spears cattle or their
owners as opportunity offers. In the secondary con-
dition, he debauches his savage soul with rum and
tobacco, sinks all his valour, and comes to be a very
decrepid object and mean philosopher indeed. In the
third, he dies like a dog and is forgotten. He is dying,
decaying, rotting from the land day by day, as a
venomous reptile, as a noisome pestilence, wounding,
biting, stinging as he dies. Within the pale of Chris,
tianily, yet utterly without its influence, fettered by the
stunted but unreclaimed instincts of savagedom to the
last. Is it not the mission of the Reverend Peter
Macpheeson to bestow a little professional zeal upon
the ugly reality of the present, even at the risk of
leaving its philosophical beginning for ever with the
dead?
Gigantic Schemes.
The accumulations of capital in the Old World and in
the United States are so immense that it is with diffi-
culty that investments can be found. Accordingly*
since loans to South American Republics, and rotten
Governments like those of Egypt and Turkey, have
gone out of vogue, schemes for colossal reproductive
works have found favour. The Panama and Nicaragua
canals and ship-railways across the Isthmus of Telman-
tepee are foremost among these. Next comes a plan
for a network of railways all over Mexico, with the
ulterior political view of annexing that country to the
United States. The Yankees have on hand a company
to build 100 iron steamships for coast, river, and lake
navigation. The French intend to spend £20,000,000
on canals and railroads. Russia intends to connect the
Sea of Aral with the Caspian by rail, and to make the
Amoor navigable to the very frontiers of Afghanistan
and China. In Africa, a railway is projected through
the Desert of Sahara towards Sondaa and Central Africa.
Then, in Australia, the Queensland transcontinental
railway from Roma to the Gulf of Carpentaria is almost
arranged for, and Mr. Geesley Lukin’s big scheme for
a western system to extend to the borders of N.S. Wales
and South Australia is gaining headway. Then the
South Australians are again seriously contemplating
their transcontinental railway to Port Darwin, and the
latest conception has been to let the ocean into Lake
Eyre, and so form an inland sea which would bring the
very heart of the continent within easy reach of water-
carriage, besides in all probability rendering the rain-
fall more frequent. These are colossal projects, and
testify that men’s minds have begun to take larger range
than at any previous epoch. To all appearance, the next
generation will live in times which will be prolific of
changes even more wonderful than those which were
wrought in the years that immediately succeeded the
discovery of the applications of steam power.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The S.A. Constitution Amendment Bill has
passed its second reading.
The expenses of the S.A. Parliament, on an
average, only amount to £12,000 per annum.
A poll-tax of =BlO a head for all Chinese landing
in New Zealand has been passed by both Houses.
Out of 71,042 adult males in S.A. 67,627 are
electors for the Assembly, and 30,622 (or the Council.
All the members of the new Yiotorian Govern-
ment have been elected with the exception of Mr. IX
Gaunson, who was signally defeated for Ararat by Mr.
W. Wilson.
Mr. Griffith’s attempt to oust the Queensland
Government anent the steel rails business has ended in
a complete fiasco, and the address in reply has been
carried by 27 votes to 20.
Mr. Berry says that the defeat of his Ministry
was the result of an unprincipled coalition, but finds
some consolation in the reflection that the new Cabinet
is absolutely without support
S.A. wil pay <£47,500 per annum to N.S.W. in
lieu of duties upon general goods, including live stock.
Tobacco exported from one colony into another
will pay the duty fixed by the colony into which it is
imported.
The proceedings in Parliament in the early part
of Thursday evening last were of the most disreputable
character. The licentious talk which was indulged in
by several members was fit only for the establishments
to which their remarks related.
In N.Z., while some liquor, intended for sale to
the Maoris, was in transit by train, a bottle in the case
broke and some of the liquor got on the guard’s clothes
and burned holes in them. This is the sort of stuff to
apply to “ the coats of the stomach.”
Sir Henry must have felt flattered—but, we
crave his pardon, be is not susceptible to flattery—
when he heard Mr. Copeland say that he bad mistaken
his vocation —that he ought to have been employed as
a missionary to convert benighted heathens.
The Hon. J. Sheehan has given notice in New
Zealand Parliament to bring in a Bill to repeal the
Abolition of Provinces Act, with a view to return to
Provincialism, while Sir George Grey proposes to create
a number of small States all over the colony.
Sir George Grey, who is understood to be de-
sirous of taking a more active part in public affairs, and
purposes residing in Auckland City, has offered his
property at Kawaw at the Government valuation under
the property tax, £16,000 —at which figure it is likely to
be sold.
Mr. Buchanan’s Bill for assimilating the law of
challenge met with a somewhat ludicrous fate. The
Attorney-General wanted an amendment on the only
clause that the Bill contained, but both the amend-
ment and original clause were rejected, so that only the
preamble was left.
The proceedings of the Upper House are usually
of a dry-as-dust character, and no wonder that the
Black Rod, the clerks, and the reporters always look so
miserable. Sallies of wit and humour are seldom beard,
but sallies (?) of nonsense are frequent, because Mr. De
Salis is constantly clacking.
Mr. Melville: “Whoever preaches the Gospel
earnestly gets the reward of his labour, but he gets no
money.” Now, we want to know what the reward is,
because, as we like to be honestly rewarded for our
labours, we might take to preaching the Gospel. If
the reward is a seat in Parliament, we are not on.
The Southern members of the N.Z. Parliament
are canvassing to get the seat of Government removed
to Christchurch or Dunedin. They are unanimous for
it. and it will likely be carried by a large majority when
brought up. The estimated cost of removal is £50,000.
They expect large savings in Hansard and otherwise.
Mr. Copeland intends to move that the Gallery
of Arts be opened on Sunday afternoons. It is to be
hoped that he will not spoil a good cause by making an
interminable speech on the motion. As with some
species of delicate plants too much water is injurious,
so with a delicate subject—too many words are
damaging.
The Scotch are to be the next claimants of
Home Rule. A London newspaper remarks:—“ The
fact cannot longer be concealed that Scotland is becom-
ing dissatisfied, impatient, even disaffected, in conse-
quence of the treatment which her affairs have received
and are receiving at the hands of the Government
which she did so much to put into power.”
Mr. Archer, in the Queensland Assembly, sat
upon a pious member who had referred to a jovial
Member’s once having sworn “ by God,” in the House,
by remarking pointedly that it is less discreditable to a
man to use objectionable language in the heat of pas-
sion than for him deliberately to distort evidence and
to raise a cloud of suspicion in order to cover a palpable
failure in establishing an accusation.
David, the incomprehensible, was immersed in
a sea of troubles during the whole of last week. He
did not end them by opposing them, but got himself
completely overwhelmed. His latest trump card is
“ Separation from England,” and he talked about
spilling blood to secure our absolute independence.
But, as Mr. Turner wittily said, “ the man who cares
more for his tea than his country is not likely to shed
his blood,”
Mr. Hemmant, the originator of the Queensland
steel-rail scandal, who returned with Mr. Griffith to the
colony, has been roasted by Ministerial members of the
Assembly. He writes to the Coueieb that he thinks
there is much force in the saying that the privilege of
Parliament is the last refuge of a scoundrel. It is clear
that Mr. Hemmant has never heard of Sir Henry
Parkes’ Privileges of Parliament Bill, or he would never
have said anything so unpleasant.
"Mr. Reid was absent from Parliament during
the whole of last week. The budding politician was
recently vaccinated, and it is said that the effect of the
operation was an illness which would not permit of his
going abroad. George will now be able to vote straight
on the Vaccination Bill. Mr. Forster was also absent
all the week, hut we have not heard any cause assigned
for his neglect to watch the movements of “ the
strongest Government ” we have ever had.
Mr. McElhone : “ The Secretary for Mines lacks
decision of character and other necessary qualifica-
tions.” Mr. Baker : “ The hon, member’s praise is
ruination, and his condemnation flattering.” Mr,
McElhone : “ I only wish that Mr. W. J. Watson would
say what he knows about you.” Mr. Baker; “The
hon. member for the Upper Hunter is not manly enough
—he is too big a coward to repeat anything that he has
heard said against me." —This is the way in which our
legislators amuse themselves.
If anything ought to be truthful, it is an Echo.
But the Sydney Echo has discovered a means of revers-
ing natural laws. The solemn “ Zig-Zagger” last week
seriously told us that Sir Henry had thrown a lance at
Mr. Garrett, by saying to him, “ The hon. member
ought to be silent with regard to persons who are
usually silent with regard to him.” The fact is that
the contemptuous remark was applied to Mr. Fitz-
patrick. The common sense of an ignorant savage
would tell him that Sir Henry is too 'cute to venture
on throwing such abuse at one who is at the best but a
doubtful supporter.
Mr. Parnell, personally, is the jolliest of jolly
fellows, but as a politician he is not likely to become
distinguished, for the simple reason that he is too
honest and honourable. He is a dabbler in all sorts of
speculative theories, and master of none. He illustrates
forcibly the truth of the saying that “ a little learning
is a dangerous thing," as, instead of making people
believe that he is an animated enoycloepedia of universal
knowledge—as hj wishes to do —he convinces them
that he is only familiar with the surface of things.
Sometimes, however, he makes a good political speech,
and certainly he is not deserving of the laugh which
was raised by Sir Henry, who, amazed at some inter-
jection made by the hon. member, said he objected to
interjections, particularly when they were not wise.
Perhaps Sir Henry things that his interjection to the
effect that Mr. Forster was continually pressing for an
increase of his salary was a wise one t
Our Liliputian friend, John Lucas, is somewhat
like a fish out of water now that he is in the Upper
House —there is little animation in him. Tnat magnilo-
quent phrase, “ When 1 was Minister for Works," is
buried in the back volumes of Hansard. John is
always in attendance, but takes very little interest in
the proceedings, as is evidenced by the fact that within
the first five minutes he usually wanders to the land of
dreams. And can’t he snore! We’ll back one of his
mildest efforts against M'Elhone’s thunder. A most
amusing incident occured last week in consequence of
this failing of his. Sir Alfred was talking, and the hon.
John was snoring prodigiously, but with remarkable
regularity. At the start Sir Alfred seemed to be baffled,
but by-and-bye he overcame the dJficulty by hurriedly
articulating a sentence in the intervals between each
snore. The slumberer woke up punctually at tea time.
He has only one rival in the eating line—Judge
—but dear reader, fill in the blank tor yourself.
LATE THEATRICAL.
To an audience "which not only packed the
theatre as full as a sardine-tin, but in which was em-
bodied a large number of the Hite of this sunny
metropolis, “ Mignon” was produced at the Gaiety
Theatre on Monday night. Taken collectively, M.
Ambroiso Thomas’s opera may be termed the most
ambitious effort yet attempted by Mr. Turner’s com-
pany, a combination which has been phenomenally suc-
cessful since its organisation. “ Mignon" has a pretty
story, pretty music, pretty dresses, and (with the ex.
ception of the lady choristers) pretty people. The airs
of the opera jwill, .possibly never be either whistled at
street comers or ground upon barrel organs; but if
they are not as “catching" as small-pox, they have,
at any rate, the merit of delicate scoring and admirable
interpretation. The story of the opera has been told
in the daily papers; therefore, as we have no wish to
decrease the circulation of this journal, we will not
repeat it. The fable, we may, however, state, has in
it a dash of the “Bohemian Girl," a whiff of “ Mari-
tana," and a considerable chunk of J “ Norma,” this
latter element being represented throughout by Mr.
Farley, who dresses during the first three acts as a
delirious Druid, only to appear in the last act in a
suit of mediaeval “ store clothes,” which would have
struck envy into the heart of Beau Villiers.
* * #
“ Mignon,” if it have one fault, is too long, and
the waits between the acts appear interminable. This,
though it is doubtless an advantage to the theatrical
hostelrie next door, is a little galling to those who have
“ last boats" to catch, with the alternative of a fifteen-
shilling drive, and a certainoold in the “ shovel” of the
period. If one has to wait, however, one has a pretty
theatre to wait in, comfortable chairs to sit in, and
lovely ushers to gaze at, not to mention the chance of
feasting one’s eyes on the management and treasurer—
a bewildering spectacle, which, as an esteemed con-
temporary has it, “is alone worth the price of admis-
sion.”
* # »
As Mignon, Miss Annis Montague was at her
best, —and, as her best is very good, the result of her
efforts is not difficult to imagine. She looks like Mar-
guerite in the first act, like a cherubim in the second,
like an angel in the third, and like a seraph in the fourth.
Her singing throughout was, if not so brilliant as in
other operas in which we have heard her, at least of
great artistic excellence. And this was the more appa-
rent in a beautiful cadenza composed by M. Leon Caron,
which she introduced after the duet with Lotario,
“ Swift-flying . pretty swallows.” Mr.' Turner, whose
immense popularity caused the house to crow at him
when he appeared in the quiet grey garb of Wilhelm,
acted and sang throughout with powerful spirit; but it
would be idle to state that he has not done, and cannot
do, better things. As Don C»sar, he is superb; as
Thaddens, he is immense; as Faust, he is divine: but, as
Wilhelm, he may be said only to shine with reflected
brilliancy.
* * *
Mr. Farley, who a ings at the present time better
than ever he did Jin hiailife, is impressive as Lotario,
but rather a bore: that, however, is the fault of
the librettist, and not of the Edward of our souls.
Mr. G. P. Johnson made a lively Laertes; and Miss
Lambert as the page was quite too-too; the consum.
mately-uttemess of her second costume having an
effect upon the pit which was more than uniquely
transcendental. You see we are very asthetic.
♦ * *
Miss Eva Davenport’s Filina dressed very beau-
tifully, [looked .bewildering, and sang in a manner that
would surprise even her relations. If “ Teddy” had
only been there to hear her sing, “lam Titania, Queen
Fairy," he would die happy, and we would cheerfully
part money for the funeral cortege. The male chorus
was very even, the organ of our dear old friend, the
veteran, booming out in a manner which demonstrated
satisfactorily that the old boy’s lungs must have ex-
panded with his Brisbane trip. We missed the classic
face of our “ Barto,” without whom life would be a
dreary desert, indeed, but trust to come across him
shortly, if not at the Gaiety Theatre, at least in heaven.
The lady choristers were all smiles, colour, and har-
mony. We have seen lovelier women in our dreams, and
we have seen smaller feet in reality; but, we have never
come across dames de chtzur who gave better effect than
those under the baton of Mons. Peekneek—we mean
Caron.
** * *
We understand that Mr. Josh Pickersgill has
given up farce writing, and is now engaged upon a
tragedt. It is to be called “The Be-lighted Agent,"
and is to be dedicated to Miss Louise Pomeroy. AI.
Hayman, please copy.
The other day, in Tasmania, a man named Ginn
escaped from gaol in a very curious way. A fellow,
prisoner died and the body was duly placed in a coffin
awaiting the arrival of the undertakers. Ginn went
into the cell, took the dead man out of the shell, curled
him up artistically in a corner and covered the corpse
with a blanket Then he got into the coffin himself, and
somehow or other shut down the lid. The undertaker’s
men came, put the coffin into the gaol hearse, and away
the conveyance rattled towards the cemetery. On ap-
proaching the graveyard Mr. Ginn began to howl lustily
—yelled, in fact, so mournfully that the undertakers
took to their heels. Whereupon Mr. Ginn “resur-
rected” and took to his. So that the case was after all
one of “Ginn hot’’—end not, as the undertakers sup.
posed, “Ginn cold." The man who wrote this muot
have read Dumas.


IMP o a T
AND
INTERESTING ST.
Bead, Mark, and Inward]
thing for Ever
PURITY OP FAMILY ]
THE UTMOST IMP
HOP BIT!
▲BE THE
Pnrest, Best, and Cheape
Made.
THEY ABE COMPOUB
HOPS, BUCHU, MAN
DOPHYLLIN) & D,
The Oldest, Best, most
Valuable Medicines in the
addition contain all the
effective curative property
Bitters, being the Greatest
FIEB and life and health
on earth.
No disease or ill-health ci
exist where these Bittere
varied and perfect are their
They Give New Life ax
Aged and Ini
To Clergymen, Lawyers,
Ladies, and all those w
employments cause irregi
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, <
who require an Appetiser,
Stimulant, these Bitters
being highly curative, ton
lating, without intoxicating
No matter what your fa:
toms are, or what the dis
is, use Hop Bitters. Don’
are sick, but if you only fe<
able, use the Bitters at one
your life. Hundreds have
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask yonz Chemist, Drugg;
Do not suffer yourself, or
suffer, but use and urge tt
Bitters.
Eemember, Hop Bitter
drugged nostrum, but the pr
and best Medicine ever m
sou or family should be witl
MONTEPIOBB. STU
General Agen
Sydney, N.8.W., Ai
OHIAL
UF
A/
A
:U r "
$
Z§AL
ASSO
m Tr hi r v m w r> n
JJAWKESBTJEY I
SPRING MEET
THURSDAY AND S
25th and 27th AUGU
FIRST DAT
To start at 1 p
HURDLE RACE, a handicap s
each for starters only, with 100
horse 15 sovs from the prize. 1
Monday, 22nd August. Two milei
To start at 1.50 ]
PUBLIC AUCTION STAKES
sovs each for starters only, with 7.
horses. Weight for age. Secom
the prize. The winner to be sold
race tor 150 sovs; 71bs allowed 1
25 sovs on selling price down to 25
any) on sale to go to the Club. 0
To start at 3 p.
THE HAWKESBURT QUIN
each for starters only, with 200
three years old. Colts, Bst 51b;
horse 25 guineas from the prize,
with 46 nominations).
To start at 3.45 ]
COUNTY PURSE, a handicap
each for starters only, with 80
horses. Second horse 10 sovs fror
on or before Monday, 22nd Augi
quarter.
To start at 4.30 ]
MAIDEN PLATE of $ sots ei
with 100 sovs added. For all mat
entrance. Penalties for winning i
51b; twice |or more, 71b. Sec mi
third horse 5 sots from the pri
One mile and a quarter.
SECOND DA
To start at 1 j
MARES* PRODUCE STAKES
starters only, with 200 sovs add
old. Colts, Bst 51b; fillies, Sat.
A.J.C. Champagne Stakes to ca
winner of the Sires’ Produce
penalty; or of both, 71b penalt;
quarter. (Closed with 54 nomina
To start at 1.50 ;
The HAWKEBBUEY GRANI
sovs each for starters only, with
all horses. The winner to recem
horse 15 per cent., and third horf
gross amount. One mile and a 1
nominations).
To start at 3 p,
MEMBERS’ HANDICAP, a s'
each for starters only, with 70
horses. Second horse 10 sovs fror
on or before 26th August. The w
after declaration of weights tc
Seven furlongs.
To start at 3.45
PRINCE OP WALES STAKE
sovs each for starters only, with 7.
for age. Second horse 10 sovs
winner to be sold immediately a
sovs; 71b allowed for each redi
selling price down to 25 sovs. Th
sale to go to the Club. Six fmrloi
To start at 4.30
TURF CLUB HANDICAP, a i
each far starters only, with 100
horses. Second horse 15 sovs fron
on or before 26th August. The wi
after declaration of weights to ca
mile and a quarter.
RULES.
Australian Jockey Club.
Persons nominating must send i
and nomination fee.
The colours to be worn by the ri
the entrance form, under a penali
SOCIAL.
It has been definitely decided that St. Vincent’s
Ball shall take place at the Exhibition Building, on
Wednesday, 7th Sept.
• * *
To judge by appearances, some of the naval
swells now so plentiful in our midst are disposed to
under-estimate the taste of the community among
whom circumstances have temporarily—only tern-
porarily, thank goodness—oast their lot. For example,
the tall young man, clad in a homespun knickerbocker
suit, who made himself so conspicuous at the Theatre
Eoyal on Monday evening last, evidently laboured under
the impression that anything, either as regards cos-
tume or style, was good enough for a Sydney
audience. The explanation is probably to be found in
the circumstance that the calves which were so osten-
tatiously displayed served but to re-veal the existence of
calf’s meat in the upper region of the tall young man.
• * •
The upa and downs of oolenial life are singular.
Two ladies met at the door of a church not a thousand
miles from Masterton, N.Z., after service the other
evening. The usual civilities and greetings having been
exchanged, the younger lady, who possessed an affluent
exterior, wound up by inviting her senior to pay her a
visit. “ I shall be only too glad,” said the other, “ when
the weather is fine.” “ Oh, never mind the weather,"
was the reply; “ mention when you’ll come, and I'll get
the buggy and drive you over." Then, after a pause,
she added, “You look surprised; surely you haven’t
forgotten me?” “My memory is not so good as it
was,” replied the other. “ Why," said her finely-
dressed acquaintance, “ we came out in the same ship
together —yon as mistress, and I as nurse and servant."
The freaks of fortune had almost reversed positions.
# # *
5 At a Drawing Room held by the Queen at
Buckingham Palace in May, Mrs. Saul Samuel was
presented to Her Majesty by the Countess Spencer, and
then Miss Samuel and Miss Florence Fanny Samuel
were presented by their mother, Mrs. Samuel. The
dress worn by Mrs. Saul Samuel consisted of a train of
the richest gold and cream brocade, lined with gold
satin, and trimmed with bouillonnes of satin and large
bunches of Marechal Niel roses; corsage and jupe of
cream satin duchesae in draperies of the same, fine
point, duchesse lace and bunches of Marechal Kiel
roses. Head dress, lappets; plumes, roses and dia-
monds ; ornaments, diamonds.
* * #
A successful bachelors’ ball was held last week
at the Kiama Temperance Hall.
« * »
The sixth concert of the University Musical
Society takes place this (Saturday) afternoon, in the
University Hall. The Double Bay, Hunter’s Hill, and
St. Leonards musical societies assist on the occasion.
w • *
From a marked copy of the Lithgow paper,
which some obliging friend has kindly sent us, we learn
that a Wallerawang belle, who was married at Lithgow
last week, “ had her charms entranced by a fifty guinea
costume, and looked most attractive, while the bride-
groom looked —as most men do under the same painful
circumstances.”
• • •
A Richmond River solicitor, son of a wealthy
squatter, will, we hear, shortly lead to the altar a
Richmond River belle who has long refused many
tempting offers of marriage.
• « •
The Glebe Quadrille Club, in consequence of
the refusal of the aldermen to allow dancing to be
carried on any longer in the Town Hall, close the sea-
son with a ball on the evening of the 29 th, when a
company of eighty is expected to attend.
• * «
A large and influential committee has been
formed for the purpose of giving a return ball to the
Mayor of Sydney.
* * #
The young Princes will receive a big reception
in Auckland, N.Z.—that is tc say, if they go there.
Probably a trip to the far-famed Rotomahana Hot
Lakes will be in the programme. If this is carried out,
among other “ lions” of the lakes the Princes will have
a chance of seeing the place where their uncle, the
Duke of Edinburgh, wrote his autograph upon the pink
terrace, a spot marred, alas 1 by the chisel of some
colonial snob, who reverently chipped off and bore
away the sacred pieces of silica on which the royal
pencil had rested.
« • «
Not the least successful affair in connection
with the show at Murrurundi was the ball given by one
of the leading ladies of the district. The attendance
was large, and many of the prinoipal families resident
northward were represented. The display of beauty and
art was very pleasing, some of the dresses correspond-
ing in excellent effect with face, form, and figure. The
hostess wore a dress of rich black satin and brochA A
very elegant dress, worn with much grace, was of white
satin, with the body and skirt honeycombed, the latter
being trimmed with very deep black fringe worked in
crewel; bows of blue and cardinal on the skirt and
sleeves; cardinal stockings and black shoes. A very
elegant dress also was one of cream satin, trimmed with
rows of handsome cream lace and gold bands on the
skirt, body, and sleeves. A pretty and sprightly damsel
looked very attractive in a cream lustre polonaise
and skirt with cardinal bows. The most pleasing
of the other dresses were—a cream lustre polonaise
and skirt trimmed with bands of blue lustre; a dress
of black satin body, with brocaded skirt and cardinal
bows; a Japanese silk, drawn in front and trimmed with
deep white lace; two dresses of white satin, richly em-
bellished with <scru lace; a dress of white cashmere em-
broidered with crewels ; one of pale blue and dcru; one
of white lisse and holly ; white cashmere and cardinal
silk; pale blue silk covered with white Brussels lace.
Dark and cardinal were prevalent colours.
• * *
Miss Lance, eldest daughter of the well-known
N.Z. sporting man, was lately married to Mr. Allan
Scott, a partner in the Christchurch firm of Harper and
r >. The bride wore a beautiful dress of ivory satin,
P -abroidered with pearls, a small wreath of orange
blossom, and a long tulle veil. She was followed by
nine bridesmaids, wearing pretty dresses of pale pink
cashmere and ruby velvet, with hats to match. They
all carried bouquets.
* * *
Several gay young sparks who, during the pro-
gress of the Wellington Hospital ball, escorted some of
the pretty nurses to the ball-room, received notifications
from the Ball Committee that they were expected to
pay half a guinea each for the admission of their partners.
« * •
We learn that the plain and fancy dress ball
given by Mr. W. F. Buchanan, of Warrina, at the
Mechanics’ Institute, Coonamble, prior to his departure
from the district, was a brilliant success. The affai-
was very numerously attended, and all the arrange-
ments most perfect. A return ball, for which 200 in
vitations have already been issued, will shortly be given
to Mr. Buchanan.
# * *
The Mayor of Sydney has received a letter from
the Rev. Mr. Dalton, thanking him on behalf of the
Princes for the hospitality extended to them at the
ball, and enclosing photographs bearing the autographs
Of the Royal mids.
* * *
Dr. and Mrs. Spencer, of Bathurst, entertained
a large and fashionable gathering of the blite of the City
Of the Plains, at their new mansion, on last Wednesday
evening. The company, which numbered about 150,
commenced to arrive shortly after seven, and it was
quite five o’clock before the last of the visitors were
enveloped in their “ clouds ” and ulsters. It is seldom
that so many charming faces and figures are seen in the
same ball-room, and there was, consequently, great
difference of opinion as to who was the belle. Some
awarded the honour to a tall and handsome brunette in
black and pale pink ; others were equally certain that
it belonged either to the charming brunette in pink
silk, the pretty and petite blonde heiress in light blue—
or the charming young lady, with the divinest of blue
eyes, dressed simply in white. The dresses were nearly
all in admirable taste, that worn by the wife of an
eminent and popular Sydney surgeon carrying off the
palm. The hostess wore an elegant costume of black
and old gold.
• • •
The bachelors’ ball which took place at West
Maitland on the 21st inst was, taken all round, an un-
qualified success. In the Maitland district (the paradise
of Benedicts I) bachelors are for the moat part cut oft
ere they reach their prime, and to this may be ascribed
the circumstance that a good many of the hosts were
very youthful in appearance. Some of the dancing was
of a rather unfinished kind, and it occurred to more
than one visitor, as his feet were trodden on with
emphasis, that the “ light fantastic toes" of the Hunter
were not to be laughed at. Music was provided by the
Maitland string band, and dancing lasted from 8.80 p.m.
to 4 a.m.
• * *
The eldest son of a well-known resident of
Darling Point is engaged to the dan ghter of a
District Court Judge, and a sister of the prospective
bridegroom has consented to enter partnership with an
officer of marines ef amateur theatrical proclivities.
* # #
Even a Prince may be smitten in Australia.
And when he sends along every day to a Melbourne girl
one of Searle's biggest big bouquets, properly initi alod,
the conclusion is that even if it’s not “ all Serene” it
ought to be.
• * *
A young lady up the line said she knew what
C.MG, meant, but didn’t like to tell. On being pressed,
however, she hesitatingly replied, with heightened
colour, "It means Commander of Her Majesty’s
Garter." This is a fact: not that it really means that,
yen know, but that she said it did.
• • •
The Mercantile Ball last week was more largely
attended than on any previous occasion. Its patrons
were mostly young people, who like dancing, and know
how to do it. A couple or two now and then might be
seen trying the ‘‘Chandelier Joe" style, but
they were quite the exception, and the ball was free
from objectionable features. The names of the places
of rendezvous were appropriately chosen, being all
nautical. “Beauty’s Bower" was, very naturally, to
be seen opposite the “ Prince’s Retreat;’’ and the
“ Pirates’ Lair ’’ was environed by the vessels “ Bac-
chante,” "Pinafore,” “Inconstant," etc. About half
the ladies appeared in fancy dresses. Pinafore costumes,
once so popular, were scarce, having given place to
Tambour-Major characters, which were plentiful. There
were four Claudines, of whom the two tall sisters
were especially good. Mrs. Holdsworth, Shepherdess,
in green, carrying a crook ; little Miss Patrick, Gipsy,
in black and red; Miss Carugati as a Greek Girl; Miss
Parry, in a queenly dress of white satin; and a lady in
evening dress of old goldlooked exceedingly nice.
Miss Modini, as Traviata, wore a conspicuous and hand-
some riding dress of scarlet and gold, large hat, feather
and whip. The stars and stripes of Miss Walker’s
American dress were on a very large pattern, and
rendered it one of the most brilliant present. The
Misses White, in sailer costumes, illustrated “ the
poetry of motion” charmingly, and a little Scotch lassie
ditto. A fairy with wings was noticeable equally for
the scantiness of her skirt and her superb dancing. Miss
Burt was dressed as a Russian Peasant very tastefully,
dress and hat thickly trimmed with fur. The tall young
lady in black, who represented The Bulletin at the
Austrian Band, now appeared as the Evening News.
This shows how taste will deteriorate. Miss Sweeny
was a dainty Folly, in scarlet and bells;
so was a second edition of the character,
in white and blue. Edith (Major-General Stanley's
daughter in "The Pirates”) was impersonated by an
extremely pretty girl. Miss Wentworth. The old gold
dress and hat turned up with purple, were splendid,
and Miss Liddiard herself might be jealous of such a
rival. There were many others deserving of notice, but
we can’t name all. Who was ? Don’t ask; it is
expecting too much. Some thought Miss Annie Mayor
(from " Diplomacy ”) j some Miss Solomons, of Wool-
la hra. in a regal robe of pale yellow silk; some liked
Edith, and some Traviata. We can only throw the
golden apple amongst them. A few gentlemen were in
fancy dress, but most were plain, “ decidedly plain.”
A Japanese lady and gentleman were geod. The man
milliner appeared as a headsman, with a mask.
Bambini was “ Here, dear Duke,” in an excellent
make-up. He was a very quiet young man, and did not
canter gaily across the floor in the airy manner of his
original at the Royal. It is a pity that the Clown and
Sprite could not obtain lady partners instead of dancing
with one another. One gentleman’s gymnastic (un) dress
was objected to, and so doffed. Mr. Eury’s dress was
handsome; Masaniello was noticeable; the Pirate King
was “immense,” in two ways. Of course, the daily
papers say the catering was “ satisfactory,” and
“everything that could be desired.” If Compagnoni
provided a Barmecide’s feast, they would still make the
same stereotyped remarks about an ideal sumptuous
repast. The music was supplied by the Young Austra-
lian Band, and the decorations were good.
* * *
Footballers, sailors, and jockeys were almost
entirely absent from the ball. Only one of the latter
visible. Such characters, as “ fancy,” are getting
played out.
• • •
People who go to a ball and pocket three or
four programmes deserve to be called by a very ugly
name. Apart from the fact that others have to go
without, these " snavellers ” know very well they have
no more right to pocket programmes than they have to
pocket spoons. At the next Mercantile, perhaps the
committee will find it better to distribute programmes
as the guests pass in.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A young man named Michael Cunningham was
killed at Queanbeyan by being thrown and dragged by
his horse The imported draught stallion Royal
Prince has been purchased by Mr. A. Lewis (N.S.W.)
Gihnartin and party, Temora, washed two loads for
Ktyozs. to the load Matthew Toole, a settler near
Qoulburn, has been thrown from his horse and killed.
Murrurundi show very successful Last Temora
monthly escort, 1840 ozs Recently discovered quartz
reef on Orara River, near Grafton, said to look pro-
mising; about 300 miners on the ground Over £5O in
gold coin has been unearthed in making the new
military road in Melbourne A rich silver-bearing
reef has been discovered 90 miles from Beltana (S.A.j
At Vegetable Creek, water has to be carted from a
distance The Grafton Municipal Council are ex-
pending £2228 in drainage At a land sale in Tam-
worth, town lots fetched from £4OO to £2064 per acre
1590 acres of mineral land in the Tamberoo Mountains
were selected at Kiama last week All prisoners in
Albury gaol have been vaccinated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation have amalgamated
their business with that of R. Goldaborough and Co.
The price paid to Goldsborough was £120,0( 0 cash, and
the remainder in shares The Harwood Island Mill,
Clarence River, commenced to crush cane last week
The action brought against the Bank of N.S.W., at
Gisborne, N.Z., coat that institution £llOO. Smith,
of Dunedin, who defended the case, received £4OO.
For robbing the National Bank at Tanrauga, N,Z.,
William Barfield was sentenced to five years' imprison-
ment Mr. Carl Brecht has made a handsome donation
of wines of his own growth to the Murrurundi hospital.
The Plough Inn, Warwick (Q.), burned down; insured
for £BOO On the body of a man found hanging to a
tree in the University Gardens, Melbourne, there was
found a scrap of paper stating that two bottles of
chlorodyne had been taken without effect The dia-
mond drill has struck a third reef on the Crown Cross
Limited claim, Stawell (V.), at a depth of 1778 feet
The dead body of a sailor, named William Strom, was
found floating in Darling Harbor, near Langford's wharf,
Kent-street Cornelius O’Reilly, a paper-hanger, died
in the Infirmary, through injuries sustained by falling
off a step-ladder in George-street At Wellington
N.Z., Simpson, the keeper of the hulk on board which
the boiler exploded, has been committed for trial on a
charge of having wilfully fastened down the safety-valve.
Sugar-cane cultivation at Rockhampton is proving a
success The Dunedin Bench has fined a drunken
larrikin £5O for a wanton assault upon a Chinaman.
Very rough The body of a man, name unknown,
was found floating near the Grafton Wharf on Monday
evening A man name T. O. Grant was crushed to
death by some timber falling on him while engaged in
pulling down an old house in Abercromie Lane, off Pitt-
street, on Tuesday At Wellington, a Chinese belong-
ing to the s.s. Bowen, found with 475 smuggled cigars
concealed on his person, was fined £l5 and costs.
It ia generally admitted that American printing
knocks all other typography as high as Franklin's kite.
The old style of thing is played out. and the people
who have seen Cole’s posters, and the Yankee firms’
advertising dodges, naturally turn up their noses at
the straight-up-and-down business of the colonies.
Messrs. H. B. Woods and Co., of 13 Bridge-st. (whoso
heads are of the levellest), have dropped down to these
sober facts, _ and in order to be able to turn out the
really artistic thing, they have secured the services,
as manager, of Mr J. C. Hart, fine-art printer, formerly
manager for Messrs Saokett and Eankin, New York-
one of the largest and best job-printing offices in the
States. Mr. Hart is not only a printer, but an artist.
We speak by the card—appropriate aphorism I—when I
we state that his designs exhibit the greatest ingenuity,
and the most elegant taste. Mr. H. E. Woods and Co.
can therefore, it will be seen, turn out printing of a
description that cannot be procured elsewhere. The
public will, under these circumstances, do well to get
artistic printing at Messrs. H. E. Woods’s, at the same
price as they can get only ordinary printing elsewhere.
We could say more on this subject, but if we did it
would look like an advertisement.


BRIEF MENTION.
Queanbeyan newspaper men going to law.
The Boers are again showing some pigs’ cheek.
There are in Grafton 4000 people, and no pawn-
shop.
The Chinese question —“ Cabbagee, lettucee,
to-day ?"
The future of the Australian aboriginal is a
blank-et once a year.
Touching the postponement of those town-hall
foundation cases ? Eh, John ?
Civilization ! The Maori King, Tawhiao, has
been entertained at a champagne dinner at Cambridge,
N.Z.
Mr A. A. P. Tighe, like the sensible man he is, has
declined his Excellency's invitation to become an aider-
man.
A member of the Invercargill Licensing Bench
was the other day fined £5 for drunkenness in a rail-
way carriage.
One of the recently appointed J.’sP. has invested
in a £3 3s Wilkinson, and the leaves are perfectly dog-
eared already.
With banner blazoned o’er with Chinese scalps,
Buchanan seeks to climb our social Alps ;
He lauds the yellow skin and almond eye,
Till Tom of Camden kicks him Garret high.
The editor of the Western Champion apolo-
gises for the non-issue of a full-page supplement, on the
ground that “ the major portion of the staff ” had been
engaged at court. Everyone who has been in the West
knows what the editor means.
Two teetotal politicians have had a big row. A
minute, made at the instance of one of them, now
stands in the books of a temperance alliance to the
effect that the other shall not speak at any meeting held
under the auspices of the alliance.
Says Melbourne Punch, in reference to a
recent well-known case: —"A Mad World! Wanted
immediately, a Lunatic Asylum for Idiot Doctors who
sign away a man’s liberty, and put him in a madhouse,
because he is jealous of his wife.*’
The other day, a representative of this journal
got a spill, up North, and dislocated his shoulder. The
only expression of sympathy which he obtained from
the office was contained in the brief telegraphic mes-
sage : “ Glad it wasn’t your jaw."
The Revision Committee have done us an injury
by expunging the texts from the Bible referring to
eternal punishment. There must be a Hell reserved for
those who jointly subscribe in batches of six at a time
for a single copy of The Bulletin.
Newly-appointed J.P. (to officer of the court):
“What’s the first case ?’’ Officer: “ Eegina v. Brown,
your Worship.” J.P.: “Call Eegina.” Officer:
“ Eegina can't possibly appear, your Worship.” J.P.:
“ Case dismissed —call on the next."
The other day, there was witnessed in a police
court the edifying spectacle of a witness, goaded to
frenzy by the supercilious impudence of the ignorant
amateur beak who presided on the occasion, inviting the
latter to come outside and have it “ taken out of him.”
From Manabo Mebcubt, July 23, 1881:
« Birth.—Walker,—On the 22nd inst., at her residence,
Bombala-street, Oootna, the wife of Mr. John E. P.
Walker, of a son. Persons indebted to the father will
kindly look upon this as an appropriate occasion to
settle their accounts."
Thady O’Kane means going for subscribers in
arrear, as the following curt notice in the Northern
Miner will show“ Notice to defaulters.—Unless you
pay up what you owe the Northern Miner before the
31st of July met., you will be introduced to the Petty
Debts Court. —T. O’Kane.”
It has been libellously said that the gas in a
certain suburb is so excruciatingly good that when the
lighters call round at 5 a.m. to “ douse the glim” they
have to take a kerosene light with them to find the
lamp post. We want to know the name of that suburb.
The gas man’s name is—Legion.
The Evening Pit sings the praises of one
Flynn, who looked after the cloak-rooms at the Mayor’s
and Masonic balls, and let nothing go astray. This is a
libel on the smartness of the staff. Besides, the par.
bears its own refutation ; for where on earth did Jim
Hogue, the sub-editor, get that new hat ?
Recipe for a cheap lunch: —Go into a dining-
room and partake freely of the fare to the extent of
about 2s 6d, and on leaving pay Is at the bar. The
late Tom M’Grath once gave a stern rebuke to a cad of
this kind, and it would be well if the same remedy were
applied to some loafers of the present day.
The Age says that as the Queanbeyan branch
of the Protestant Alliance Society were marching in
procession past the E. C. school, “ a bullock, irritated
by the gay colours displayed, and martial music, made
war on the ranks, and, breaking through the procession,
dispersed the members.” A “ Papal Bull," no doubt.
Colonel Trimble, of N.Z., says there are throe
kinds of Silesian wine—the “ stocking wine." so strong
that it will darn holes in your stockings ; the “ boring
wines," which will make holes in your stomach; and
the 44 drei manner wein,” which requires two men to
hold the victim while another pours it down his throat.
Some years ago a ’bus used to run to Glebe
Point, and on its panels was inscribed the name of Dick
Green. Later on, this ’bus was repaired and called
Trickett. Still later on, it was re-adorned and named
after Lay cock. What is fame ? and what name will grace
that four-wheeler next ? Perhaps De—but we’ll say no
more.
Last Friday’s Herald informs us that, at the
Water Police Court, “ Eugene Thion was charged with
being under the age of 16 years, and found habitually
wandering about the streets of the city in company with
reputed thieves.” It is news to ns to be informed that
it is a crime for a human being to be less than 16 years
of age.
Judge Blake said a rather good thing the other
day, while jolting over the Downs, in a buggy with two
or three limbs of the law. He seemed to be asleep at a
time when a wallaby stepped across the road. “ Did
you see that wallaby, your Honor P” “ Yes, quoth
the Judge, “he looks as if he’d just finished a circuit.
Jubilant, of course.
The other day a Sydney paper, in its Parliamen-
tary report, stated that “ before this amendment was sub-
mitted it was withdrawn to allow Mr. Garvan to move
that the clause should read 4 any made of whatever age or
sex.’ The amendment being generally objected to, it
was withdrawn.” Now, dear reader, which paper was
it ? “ The .** Of course it was.
It’s alleged that on the occasion of a certain
recent ball at Melbourne, a certain very dignified person
came out to the door-way, and was accosted by a police-
man on duty, with, 44 Shall I call your cab, Mr. Casey ?
44 No, sir,” said the king, drawing himself up to his full
height, and casting a withering glance of lofty scorn
upon the liveried menial. 44 Call my carriage ! ”
The other day, a certain house, which has the
reputation, to use a feminine phrase, of 44 not being any
better than it ought to be, was suddenly put into
quarantine. Among the inmates was a curled darling
of the aristocracy, whose address, as also that of his
chSre amie, is now North Head. This, in the words of
Artemus Ward, is a 44 Kortion to young men.”
Wigzell, the Oxford-street peruqwier and bath
proprietor, made the Princes and mids. of the Squadron
free at his gorgeous washing-palace during their visit.
This order on the bath will no doubt be repaid as soon
as the Queen hears of the circumstance, by an Order of
the Bath. But then, after all, Wigzell’s elevation is
only a matter of time, as he’s a minister of the 44 crown
already.
Canon Brownrigg, of Launceston, connects the
discovery of the Ferret’s being the missing steamer
India, with the identity of the British and North
American people with the lost descendants of Ephraim
and Manasseh. A Tamar conclusion than that of this
Launceston man could scarcely be imagined,.and we
shan’t wear three hats or keep Shammas for all his cnte-
ness —not if we nose it.
It is impossible for the Crown to obtain a con-
viction on a capital charge at Taranaki (N.Z.) The
inhabitants have made up their minds that as no man
has ever yet been hanged there, no man ever shall be.
So when the Government want to have a Taranaki man
convicted and sentenced to death they change the
venue to Wellington, or some other place, whore jurors
are not quite so scrupulous. [Memo : Why not transfer
Sydney jurymen to Taranaki f]
Goldstein, of Melbourne, has presented the
Princes with an oil-skin coat each that fits the Royal
mids. “ better ash new." He evidently thinks that
When the breezes blow
They generally don’t go below.
Wallach generously offered to do a little bit of business
with Ted and Alf.’s advance notes, but he didn’t succeed
in getting a cheap par. into the Morning Moan.
The time approaches when the redundant Ulster
will replace the redeemed linen duster on the shelves
of the accommodating Hebrew, and the scent of
Weston’s Wizard Oil grow faint in the distance, and die
away like the attar of the expiring rose. By the way,
that won’t do, for as soon as winter passes, Frank issues
a new list of summer afflictions that the oil chases
away as the pustuled Mongolian flees before the yellow-
hatted disinfecting corps.
A well-known draper walked up to a lady at the
Mayor’s ball, and with a twirl of his whiskers, and a
professional dive of the head, said—" We met, I think,
before, at the Mayor’s reception?” “ Think not,” she
replied; “if once I had seen you, I could never have
forgotten you.” He looked at her sharply, but her
eyes were gazing far away in dreamy unconsciousness.
Then he left abruptly, fully convinced that they had
not met before, and were rather unlikely to meet again.
D. Petrie, M.A., the Inspector of Schools in
Otago, has published a “ First Geography" for the
schools of N.Z. There are no less than three lines
devoted to Sydney; and out of that, one line is occupied
in informing the student of the “ First Geography”
that “ Randwick, a suburb, has the well-known race-
course.’” Out ef 5i lines given to Melbourne, one is
allotted to the information that “at Flemington, a
small suburb, is the well-known racecourse.” Mr.
Petrie is evidently a man of sporting proclivities.
A sylph-like creature, who weighs 18 stone, re-
cently bought a suite of silk-covered drawing room fur-
niture at a well-known city establishment. Two days
afterwards an angry woman entered the warehouse and
said she wanted to see the proprietor. “ You remember
the suite I bought the day before yesterday ?” “ Per-
fectly, madam." “ Well, I’ve come to tell you that two
of the chairs gave way—smashed, in fact —last night,
and I want to know the reason.” “ Well, Madam, I
suppose it was because you were sitting on them."
In Queensland, the other day, a certain worthy
but eccentric judge, on arriving at a town where he
met the railway, asked a young gentleman to write a
telegram for him to the landlady of his hotel, at Rook-
hampton. The telegram was 0.H.M.5., and its con*
tents wereas follows" Shall be down to-night at five.
Fire. Dinner—duck, green peas, and cabinet pudding.
Plenty of fresh butter." The amanuensis mildly ex-
gostnlated, seeing that the message was 0.H.M.5.,
at the old gentleman smole benignantly and told him
to “send it."
The Adelaide Lantern is at it again. It pub-
lishes in its current issue what purports to be a like-
ness of our good friend, Jules Joubert, and depicts that
most estimable, clever, and good-looking of citizens as a
heavy villain, with a square jaw, a property moustache.
and a face the general appearance of which reminds the
entranced beholder about equally of a cross between a
tom-cat and a prize-fighter or between a bull-dog and an
archbishop. It is probable that Jules has ere now sent
a lawyer’s letter to the editor—or else taken round to
the office a bamboo waddy stuffed with lead.
Just this stanza to let the Balmain Aldermen
know that our eagle eye is upon them
Mr. Alderman Gow, who sells milk from the cow,
Was making a row in the Council one day— f
When the Mayor, in a scot, said“ Gow, you re too
hot, .
You really must not go on in this way.
Now, pray don’t be riled: —just try to be mild
As the milk that’s retailed of a morning by you.
You’ll have it right pat, for I’ll tell yon now flat.
There’s nothing on earth could be milder than that
But we jest. We understand that Cow’s milk is really
cows’ milk.
That big Melbourne democratic weekly, The
Leader, in a recent issue, thus replies to a seeker after
knowledge“ It is never correct to raise the knife to
the mouth. Such a proceeding shows a want of know-
ledge of the decencies of life. Cut the cheese into small
pieces, place one on a piece of bread, and raise it to the
month with the left hand! Mustard should be applied to
the morsel of meat about to be eaten with the knife, not
the meat dipped into it.” The Conservative satirical
organ says that for once it is in accord with The Leader,
but wonders how the latter paper found out all this.
A tidal wave of cockfighting is sweeping over
the colony. At a “ raging ’’ main, held the other day,
at Botany, at least 300 people were present, Some
arrived in hansoms, some on horseback, and a few score
tramped all the way from Sydney. A dozen birds were
“ at it ” at the same time, and the large amount of
money that the small crowd possessed was really won-
derful, for everyone had a “ fiver ”or a “ tenner to
lay. and a bird to back. No policemen were allowed to
be present—even at the finish—soithat the ‘
was the only class unrepresented at the delightful day s
sport.
In Auckland (N.Z.) there is a class
descript individuals known as “native agents, who
seem to thrive pretty well on the verdancy of un-
suspecting tourists. The other day, a party of travellers
met one of these gentry at a Rotorua hotel, and, having
aoepted some small services from him, were presented,
on leaving, with the following bill, which they were
compelled to pay“ Board and residence for X., native
interpreter, £1 55.: 2 small beers for X., 3s. fid.; cash
for ‘ Haka,’ £llls. ; 6 bottles syrup, £110s.; 2 do. rum,
Bs.; boat for Mr. X. £1 55.; beer for X., 4s. fid.; gin and
rum, 18s. Total, £7 55.”
There are some wonderful people on the Manning.
Here is a sentence from the Manning River Times,
which we should like to see analysed ala Weigall
“Serious Accident: On Sunday afternoon last as Mr.
Alexander Stitt, son of Mr. John Stitt, of Purfleet, a
young man of about twenty years of age, was riding a
pony in a canter, which was usually ridden by children
and was very quiet, on coming to a stump the animal
would not go the side Mr. Stitt intended, but suddenly
propped in front and pitched him head foremost on to
the stump, he was picked up insensible, and Dr. Faddy’s
assistance was obtained." Yah I
Mr. E. C. Allman, the Commercial Bank
manager, at Gundagai, the other day wrote to Mrs.
Bowen, saying that “we (the bank) hold the money
to be applied for your son’s benefit hereafter.” Mrs.
Bowen is the widow of the trooper shot at Wanta-
badgery by Moonlite and Co., and the bank declines to
allow her any portion of the interest accruing to the
money subscribed for her son’s use. This is doubtless
the Allman knack of keeping bank accounts straight,
but what Mrs. Bowen and the general public want to
know is—on what date in Mr. Allman’s almanac does
the “ hereafter" come in ?
Apropos of nothing, how is it that the very
much-revised edition of the Bible is not used at our
different police courts P What on earth is the use of
swearing a man on a book which contains the word
“ wine," when “ oinos ” is not once found in the ancient
Grecian copies? Again, how many innocent persons
have been convicted of perjury simply because they
took their oath on a book which messed up the demon-
strative pronouns “ who " and “ which ” in a style that
would secure any common schoolboy the most enthusi-
astic belting ever received since the days of Claudius or
Nero ? We pause for a reply—postage paid.
Sir William Fox, the N.Z, Sir Wilfred Lawson,
wants to teetotalise members of the House of Representa-
tives by prohibiting the sale of alcoholic stimulants in the
Parliamentary refreshment-room. Some years ago Sir
William gave a temperance ball to the military officers
then stationed in Wellington, and oaken buckets filled
with water, to which silver tankards were attached,
were placed in all kinds of convenient situations.
Somehow, however, it was found in the morning that
some of the tankards had mysteriouslyldisappeared,
while there was no sensible diminution in the quantity
of water which had been intended to quench the thirst
of the guests.
Is this true? A well-known clergyman, living
not a hundred miles from Bullrangergong, is very
happily married, only just the smallest bit under pull-
back government. The other night he asked a friend
out to sleep, and the visitor, it being evening, took his
horse round to the stables, leaving his host in the
garden. Giving his nag to the groom, he walked
leisurely towards the house, and just as he had got into
the passage, he felt a millet broom come down with
tremendous force on his head, and a shrill female voice
hissed in his ear —“ You old fool! What do you mean
by asking that ugly brute to stop all night ?" Anyway,
that’s how the story goes.
A backwoods correspondent points out that the
last number of the Australasian Sketches, contains a
portrait of a bald-headed black tracker riding on the
near side of the track. He wears a spotlessly clean
white shirt and urges his chocolate-loloured horse on
through a forest of chocolate-coloured pines and sky-
blue eucalypti. The fact of this sable hero, remarks
our correspondent, wearing .boots, and occupying his
mouth with poetic words and occasional flashes of pro-
found profanity, instead of dedicating the aperture to
the services of a short black pipe, at once proves the
Seetcheb’s traokist to be a gentleman of the most ad-
vanced ideas; one who might, with equal advantage and
composure, fill the position of conductor at a big cor*
roboree, or take the chair at aTo Hall biscuit-and-
zoedone banquet.
With a joy which ia not of this earth, we have
to record the fact of our being able to stand another
poet on bia head in the present issue. “ Man wants but
little here below, nor wants that little long." These
are the lines which let the bard slide, and the way it
comes about is this:—“ Married, on the 21st inst., at
Melbourne, by the Rev. Dr. Hamilton, Francis Long, to
Amelia, only daughter of the late James Little. From
the above clip it is clearly shown that at least one man
wanted “ Little here below," and if he didn’t want her
Long, what in thunder did he go and marry her for ?
There’s a bag of flour at this office for anyone who
solves the above conundrum.
It is said that relic-hunters actually pilfered the
flowers from Disraeli’s grave. But this is one of the
inevitable consequences of fame. When Lewis Scott dies,
we recommend him to give instructions to have cast-
iron blossoms with fixed copper rivets en his tomb-
stone, for, unless some precautions are taken, a broken-
hearted, yet enthusiastic, populace will not only carry
away such trifles as wreaths and immortelles, but will, in
their eagerness to get a souvenir of the great author,
chip chunks off the outer shell, and divest the vault of
its iron railings. But, of course, if people will write
immortal prologues when alive, they must put up with
the consequences of their genius when dead.
The gentleman who acts as coroner in Dunedin
(N.Z.) seems to have a keen perception of the physiog-
nomical traits which mark distinctive nationalities.
The other day, while holding an inquest upon a supposed
victim of infanticide, this disciple of Spurzheim is re-
ported to have said: —‘ ‘I may say that I looked at the child
this morning, and it struck me as being a remarkably
Scotch face. It had the high cheek bone and broad face
characteristic of that people, (Laughter.) Ido not
say this as a joke, gentlemen; it is far too serious a
matter. It is not usual that a child’s nationality is
known by its face, but one can tell occasionally, and it
struck me that the child particularly had a Scotch ex-
pression.” When one reflects, however, that nine-
tenths of the children bom in Dunedin—m or out of
wedlock — are, or ought to be, of Caledonian origin, the
coroner’s perspicacity does not seem so remarkable after
all.
In the list of the distinguished visitors who
lately gripped the Princes’ fins the Herald religiously
omits the names of the two Bennetts. And yet they
must have been there, because the only Nooze says
they were—and says it out in great big Now,
every one knows that at least one of the "B. s is a
wise fellow”; and which is more an editor; and which is
more a householder; and which is more, as pretty a
piece of flesh as any in Sydney; and one that knows
the law, go to; and a rich fellow, go to; and one that has
losses (vide libel cases) go to ; and one that hath two
suits of clothes, and everything about him handsome,
go to ; and so, Mr. Herald, you can go to but, un-
fortunately, Charles Bright says there is none. Any-
way, there’s some satisfaction in editing a paper after
all, because if you do nothing else you can at least
inform the whole of the civilised world —when you got
a free dinner.
The receipts and disbursements of a certain
suburban branch of the Government Sayings Bank and
Post Office may eventually become an important item
in our annual Estimates; but at present the style of
conducting this particular branch of a most useful
institution is decidedly—to use an expressive collo-
quialism—“ flnnicking.” The pigeon-hole through which
all the “ Government” business is transacted is also used
as a cash desk by the proprietor of the establishment (an
estimable grocer), who sits at the receipt of his own and
the country’s custom simultaneously. Thus, it is not
an unusual occurrence to have the weekly butter or
candle bill and the Government voucher passed through
at the same time—a species of familiarity which the
butter and candles aforesaid naturally resent.
Scene: A Police Court not a thousand miles from
The Bulletin office. On the Bench, a venerable-look-
ing old beak. In the body of the Court, a dilapidated-
looking old resident, “run in” on the previous night,
having been found sleeping in the open. V.L.0.8. ( loq .
unitor) ; “Well, 0.R., what do you think of yourself—
an educated man like you to be found in this position !
Do you ever read the Bible ?” 0.R.: “ Oh, yes ! I read
the Bible." V.L OB.: “ What does the Bible say about
drunkenness?" O.R. : “Oh! it says a drunkard cannot
enter the kingdom of heaven." V.L.0.8.: “And where
do you think you will go to ?” 0.R.: “Oh I to hell, I
suppose." (Hilarity in the court.) V.L.0.8. : “Ah!
well, I suppose you must go : I cannot stop you. You
are discharged.” Query: What bearing has a man’s
religious convictions upon a crime committed against
the civil law ? Is it a fiction that all men are equal in
the eye of the law ? By whose authority does any beak
ask a defendant as to whether he is a Christian, Jew,
Mahometan, or pagan ?
Considerable amusement was caused lately, in
an up-country town, by the fact that an old hawker in-
duced a policeman (rather prononed in the teetotal line)
to take charge of his dray while he voyaged round the
town, making domestic purchases. A more ridiculous
thing happened in Melbourne only the other night.
Certain officers of the Squadron announced their desire
to have a look round what are commonly denomi-
nated “ the scrutins," and as a matter of course they
that’s to say the officers were handed over to the
efficient but slightly bored police. On going their
rounds, they were joined by a very well-known
civic dignitary, who insisted on accompanying
them, o blivious for the time of two facts: first, that
he had promised to be home early, and secondly, that
he had with him an especial parcel. On reaching one
haven of their voyage, he suddenly turned upon the
“ officer ” of police who accompanied them, and, with a
hasty “ I say, old fellow, look after this,” darted into a
house which the local Dean would certainly not have
entered. How long he remained there is not recorded,
but when he emerged he found the police offiaer stand-
ing, with a face of the most outraged modesty, watching
his parcel, while, in the shadow of several adjacent
doorways, half-a-dozen energetic constables were busily
engaged in observing their officer. The remarks of the
latter were neither conciliatory nor complimentary,
and since then the “civic" in question has avoided
“ the scrutins.” One can do these things safely abroad,
but not always at home.
A certain Campbelltown storekeeper
utilises as a a safe a mis-fit coffin.
The Armidale Chronicle accuses us
of being “adept of such blunders.” Some
people are evidently not “ adept of" grammar.
The new Parramatta paper is getting
along wonderfully. In last issue, it calls one
of the “ other ” editors a “ wilful deliberate
slanderer."
A worthy alderman was very much sur-
prised to hear from another worthy alderman,
who takes an interest in church matters, that
the Rev. Pelham Dale had been abducted into
a living.
The other day, a noted teetotal J.P. said
from his place on the Bench that he knew a
certain person interested in a case under ad-
Judioation to bo “ a gentleman." And yet
'ustice is blind!
A certain busy-body with a limited
supply of cash and unbounded cheek recently
made a haul bv collecting a considerable sum,
ostensibly for the purpose of a charitable en-
tertainment.
Facts can’t lie. Here are two of them
When General Garfle'd had taken a favour
able turn, the Adelaide Salvation Army
whooped out hymns for his recovery. The
President immediately got worse.
Mr. Reid has gone into Opposition, an
so has Mr. Buchanan. The only difference is
that Mr. Reid’s political principles are opposed
to the Government, while some of Mr.
Buchanan’s are opposed to human nature.
The champion supporter of the public
press lives in Grafton, and is known to every
newspaper canvasser. He subscribes to—and
reads —14 papers, including the—but, dear
reader, you know how modest we are.
The other day there occurred, under th
patronage, and in the presence of, a suburban
Mayor, a pugilistic encounter between two
respectable townsmen—the cosws belli being
the fact that one of them hadcalled the other
“Moses."
It is our painful fluty to announce the perform-
ance of a recent execution which took place in the
Echo yard on Saturday last. In speaking of the pro-
posed water scheme, a writer on the Echo staff re-
marked the said water scheme would probably bo in
operation on St. Tib's Eve, after which he foolishly
wrote “ Water long time, to be sure.” Now, it is well
known that any writer on the Herald or Echo staff
who deliberately gives way to facetiousness in any
shape or form, is immediately taken out and shot on
the spot: and the culprit in this case having no ex-
tenuating circumstances whatever to plead, was at once
led to the place of execution. It is satisfactory, how-
ever to know that in spite of the rigid strictness with
which the above law is enforced, this is the only Echo
execution which has taken place during the past three
hundred years.
A young and wealthy Victorian, while recently on
a visit to England, was introduced to society by a
gentleman who, though nearly “through" his third
fortune, took a great fancy to the colonial—an attach-
ment which was not very warmly reciprocated. Shortly
after the gumsucker’s return to his native clime the
English friend showed up, and was, to cut the story
short, engaged at £5O per annum to make himself
fonerally useful on the station. Some time later the
’ictorian was visited by a back-blocker from New South
Wales. Said the Southerner: “Sliprail, did you see
that young fellow taking my horse for a turn ? Well,
he is a new chum and not up to much take it out of
him this evening.” While Dmnie was getting ready the
horse.the Englishman appeared,and our myall fnend pre-
pared himself for a lark. After introductions had been got
over, the New South Welshman quietly asked the
greenhorn what sort of a donkey his mount was. The
withering reply came slowly, drawled out in true
“ awistocwatic” fashion: “ I—was—not—aware—that —
there —was—a —donkey—on—this —station —at —least—
there —was —none —here —last —night.
“Look on,” etc., etc. Scene I.—A draper’s shop.
Smart, diligent youth, at fifty bob a week, who works
hard from 9 a.m. till 10 p.m., rushes at young woman
who enters. “ A seat, miss; what can I have the plea-
sure of showing you this morning? Ribbons? Yes,
miss; we have a nice assortment.” (Pulls down forty
boxes, from which the young damsel selects four
pen’orth, after which he bows her out as if she were a
Princess). Scene 2. —Government office. Clerk at £350
a year. Office hours, 10 till 4 with an hour for lunch.
Young woman, mildly: Please —is there a letter for
Miss Jones ? Can I have a Post Office order on Parra-
matta ?" (or anything you like —these patriots are all
the same.) Clerk, to fellow slave of the State:
“ Charley was at the ball last night, spooning with
the Brown girls—l believe he’s gone on Emily."
Fellow slave: "Of course, they’re going to tie up, and
the Minister’s promised Charles a rise of fifty when
the next estimates are passed.” Clerk : “ Going to the
football match, Saturday ?” Youngdamsel: “ Please,
is there a letter for Miss Mary Jones?’ Clerk con-
tinues conversation, and in about five minutes goes to
pigeon-hole, leisurely examines letters, and says curtly,
not to say angrily, “ No."
AN EBULLITION OF LOYALTY.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Geelong R.C. Winter Meeting July 29.
Hunter Hirer Amateur Turf Club August 1.
Tant ram’s Erin v. Cawker’s Yulcan, at Mount
Gambier, for £2OO August S.
Echnca Annual Meeting August 4.
Wyndham (Vic) August 6.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney Tattersall’s August 13.
Maitland August 16.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club August 20.
Gympie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury R.C. Annual August 25, 27.
Parramatta August 20.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8,10.
Murrurundi September 7.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Northern Jockey Club September 27, 28.
Wollongong October 12, 13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Narrabri October 18, 19,
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10, 11.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta July SO.
Rockhampton Regatta August 1.
Maiden Single Sculls in Skiffs. —
Mr. J. A. Fairfax’s Prize August 6.
Wallace Ross v. Morris, £4OO August.
Boydv. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Ross ‘ August.
Champion Pours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Rush v. Layoook September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Burwood v. Tass August I.
Intercolonial—Victoria v. N.B. Wales August 0.
PEDBSTRIANISM.
E. Ellis v. A. Skinner (4 yards), £lO aside, 150
yards—ln verelL August 18.
COURSING.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Hawkesbury C.C. opening August 12, 13.
Victoria Club August 18.
Bathurst August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Mnsgrove is scratched for the Metropolitan.
Mr. Ivory’s colt, Dover, lost the use of its limbs
and had to be destroyed.
Entries for the Walker Whisky Trophy close on
Wednesday, 3rd August.
The English rifle team has won the Elcho Shield
this year, at Wimbledon.
Grip and Betrayer are favourites for the big
Christchurch (N.Z.) Handicap.
The Burwood and Yass football clubs play a
match at Yass on the Ist August.
The entries for the Hawkesbury meeting close
at 4 p m. on Tuesday, 2nd August.
Eedfern v. Burwood, at Burwood, resulted in
favour of Redfern by two tries to one.
A gymnastic club has been organised in New-
castle, with every prospect of success.
The Melbourne Club was defeated by the Carl-
ton Club, on Saturday, by four goals to one.
Messenger and Mahalm rowed in the boats used in
the late race between Laycock and Solomon.
Lady Ripon was so lame on arriving at Mel-
bourne that she had to be scratched for all engagements.
Glebe v. Eton football clubs, at Camperdown,
on Saturday, resulted in favour of Glebe by four tries
to nil.
The nominations for the August meeting of the
New South Wales Coursing Club are to be left open
until 3rd August.
Handball is being introduced into Singleton by
the coalminers from Bix’s Creek. Matches are frequent
at the Royal Hotel.
Although fatal to good wickets, football has
attracted larger attendances to the cricket ground
than cricket matches.
Coulthard, the footballer, was severely injured
Injured by a kick on the head, on Saturday, in the match
Carlton v. Melbourne.
Trickett is to remain in America for four months,
to give time for the acceptance of his general challenge
to all except Hanlan.
The Queen’s prize at Wimbledon was won on
19th July by an Englishman, private Beck, of the 3rd
Devon Rifles, with a score of 86.
Mr. Prince, the new owner of Sir Modred and
Somnus, thinks that both horses are superior to Mata,
and that Sir Modred could give the latter 71b.
Clermont Races, Thursday :—Maiden Plate :
Troubadore 1, Priuny 2, Magenta 3. Clermont Handi-
cap ; Dicky Dick 1, Kelso 2, King of the Ring 3.
Sydney v Fast Sydney football clubs, on Satur-
day, at Moore Park, resulted in a win for East Sydney
by two goals four behinds to one goal four behiuds.
Balmain v. Glenhead football clubs, on Moore
Park, resulted, after an exciting contest, in a victory
for the former by a goal and three touch-downs to a
goal.
Harry Prince intends bringing the N.Z. horses
Sir Modred and Somnus to Melbourne for the Cup.
They have already been backed for a big sum—it is said
£ao,ooo.
A leading Sydney bookmaker cleared over
*lO,OOO last year backing horses. He asks, “Who
would have a book after that ?—better than backing
the field.”
The net profits on the Spring meeting of the
Victoria Racing Club were £10,126. The profits of the
late complimentary meeting of the Australian Jockey
Club were £4OO.
Several Bathurst sporting gentlemen, with a
view of encouraging horse-racing, have made arrange-
ments to have scratch races on the racecourse every
alternate Saturday.
A match was played at Petersham on Saturday
between the Victoria and Gramanda Football Clubs,
and resulted in an easy win for the former by one goal
and five tries to nil.
Entries for the Hunter River Amateur Turf
tub ist August 6 for Hurdle Race, 15 for Shorts
Handicap, 4 for Maiden Hack Race, 6 for Ladies’ Mile,
12 for Turf Club Handicap.
The new Sydney Hunt Club is progressing. The
minimum subscription has been fixed at two guineas per
annum, and when the funds reach the sum of £3OO a
Programme will be drawn out.
. A ohampion'f >urs event, in best and best boats,
is to be rowed at Maryborough, on 9th Sept., between
p r(: 'ya from Brisbane, Bundaberg, Maryborough, and
Wekhampton, for a trophy valued 50 guineas. The
K °ckhampton crew consists of Messrs. J. H. Forbes,
Stanley Q. HOI, E. E. Bowman, W. H. Johnson (stroke),
R- Shaw (coxswain). They will row in the four-oared
outrigger, by Edwards, which took first prize at Mel-
bourne International.
The Modern High School Athletic Club meeting
took place on Friday afternoon, on the Association
Ground, There was a good attendance, and a capital
programme was gone through.
Wellington had to be struck out of the V.R.C.
Maiden Hurdle Race. He didn't like the jumping
business at all. After being kept at it for a while, he
began to fret, and refused to eat.
The Carlton Football Club, of East Maitland,
played a Wallsend fifteen, on the Albion Ground, on
Saturday afternoon, and the game resulted in a win for
the former by two goals and four tries to nil.
The first excursion for the present quarter of
the Nimrod Fishing Club took place on Thursday.
Broken Bay was the scene of action, and a good day’s
sport was obtained, the number of fish caught being
1115.
Messrs. Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co. have
offered a trophy of the value of 100 guineas to the
committee of the N.S. Wales Rowing Association for
an eight-oar race. The trophy is to be won three times
in succession.
Betting on the Derby and Metropolitan is slack,
but the Victorian events are heavily speculated upon.
The New Zealand horses, Somnus and Sir Modred, have
come strongly into the market; Nautilus has also found
numerous admirers.
The secretary of the Parramatta Jockey Club is
in treaty with the purchasers of Macarthur’s property
on the south side of the Parramatta River, for the
purpose of obtaining for the Parramatta Jockey Club
about 60 acres of ground for a racecourse.
The misunderstanding which arose between the
Nottingham contingent of the cricket team that is
being formed to visit Australia and the rest of the
members, in regard to monetary matters, has been
removed, the Nottingham players having yielded.
An Australian traveller who visited Hanlan de-
scribes him as a young Irish-looking man, about sft. Sin.,
ordinary build, with a physique more suggestive of
activity than strength. He looked in vain to find the
extraordinary length of arm Hanlan is said to possess.
Tambo Races : —Maiden Plate : Cossack 1, Spot
2. Corinthian Cup : Black Harry 1, Metoura 2. Flying
Handicap: Vanguard 1, Radical 2. Selling Race:
Serenader 1, Shamrock 2. Publicans’ Purse: Cossack
1, Radical 2. Tambo Handicap: Vanguard 1, Rocket 2,
Radical 3.
It is said that the outbreak of small-pox at
Sydney has scared New Zealand footballers to such an
extent that the proposed trip to Australia has been
abandoned. Dunedin declined to have anything to do
with the trip, not appreciating the idea of going to play
three matches in Sydney and one at Newcastle.
University second ▼. Wallaroo second football
match, on the Park, resulted in an easy victory for the
University by two goals and four tries to nil. The
supremacy of the University footballers is thus firmly
established, both teams having gained decisive victories
over the Wallaroo representatives on the same day.
Trump Yoss has got into favour in the betting
for the Hawkesbury Handicap, as also Sardonyx, on
account of his winning the Squadron Handicap. Car-
men and Lord Lisgar have also received fair support.
The double events —Guineas and Handicap—give The
Gem, Gloucester, and Spinningdale most preference for
the first event.
The frisquettists have failed in their negotia-
tions for a corner of the Association Ground. The
Minister of Lands is to be appealed to in the matter,
but the Trustees’ decision is not likely to be overruled.
The game was invented as a recreation for ladies, and it
is hardly gracious on the part of the Trustees not to
afford some encouragement to the club.
Following are the officers of the Sydney Uni-
versity Athletic Club for the ensuing year:—President,
Bir W. M. Manning; Vice-Presidents, Professors
Badham, Liversidge, Smith, and Gurney; General
Committee, Messrs. J. E. Flynn, R. C. Allen, J.
M‘Guin, T. W. Garrett, T. Powell, J. E. Flynn, F. B.
Wilkinson; Hon. Treasurer, Mr. J. A. Buckland; Hon.
Secretary, Mr. G. G. Addison.
The second Glenhead defeated the second Bur-
wood on Saturday by two goals two tries to a try. One
of the goals was obtained in a very questionable man-
ner ; the ball was knocked out of bounds, and a Glen-
head bounced it in and ran for a touch-down. None of
the Burwoods interfering, he secured it, and after a
dispute the decision of the umpire was in favour of
Glenhead. The try was successful.
The San Francisco Spirit of the Times of a
late date says:—“ Parties here have thought of pur-
chasing one or more Australian racehorses, which had
shown by their performances that they were worthy of
being classed with the good ones of any country, and
we understand that there has been some correspondence
towards consummating so desirable an object. . . .
In an early day several mares were brought here from
Australia, and now if we can exchange some of our
trotters for the blue blood of the Antipodes mutual
benefits will follow."
Maryborough races :—First day.—Trial Stakes :
Buck 1, Lady Town 2, Proctor 3. Town Plate : Proctor
1, Pacha 2, Sydney 3. Foal Stakes : Pandora 1, Fox-
hunter 2. Queensland Plate ; Eclipse 1, Pacha 2, Buck
3. Flying Handicap : Proctor 1, Viscount 2, Mistletoe
3.—Second day.—Visitors’ Plate : Pirate 1, Pretender 2.
Champagne Stakes : Moorlad 1, Forester 2, Turauganba
3. Club Handicap : Proctor 1, Pacha 2, Sydney 3.
Corinthian Cnp: Eclipse 1, Buck 2, Lady 3. Mary-
borough Plate: Moorlad 1, Lady Town 2, Farewell
Handicap: Mistletoe 1, Pacha 2.
Deniliquin Midwinter Races. First day. Fly-
ing Stakes: Viking 1, Governess 2, Harlequin 3.
Yamma Cup ; Native 1, Supple Jack 2, Student 3,
Handicap Hurdle Race: Glenorvan 1, Crossus 2, Dolan
3. Deniliquin Cup: Phantom 1, Marchioness 2,
President 3. Prince of Wales Stakes : Sheriff I, Monk 2.
Second day. Riverina Plate: Governess 1, Harlequin 2.
Warbreccan Handicap: Phantom I, Kaiser 2, Little
Queen 3. Jockey Club Handicap : The Marchioness 1,
Native 2, Glenorvan 3. Selling Hurdle Race : The Nut
1, Sarawak 2. Consolation Stakes: President 1, Leo-
pard 2, Little Queen 3.
The sculling match in light skiffs between C.
A. Messenger, ex-champion of Victoria, and S. Mahalm,
of Sydney, for a stake of £4O, came off on the Parra-
matta River on Saturday afternoon and resulted in an
easy victory for Messenger, in 25m. 57secs. Mahalm
led for about a mile, but Messenger was apparently
only biding his time, for he seemed to find difficulty in
going slowly enough to keep behind. A spurt at the
Hen and Chickens took him easily ahead, and the race
was then virtually over. There was very little betting.
Messenger being the favourite at odds. The stakes
were paid over at Punch’s on Saturday evening.
A N.Z. sporting writer says:—The action of
the Canterbury Jockey Clnb in refusing to disqualify
Mata and Ray has naturally been much canvassed. The
Club excuses its conduct by saying that it has received
no written notice from the V.R.C. Readers should
bear in mind that immediately after putting forward
this absurd justification, the President of the C. J.C.,
(Mr. Lance) engaged Bob Ray as a trainer. I trust the
V.R.C. will send the usual written notice, so that the
C. J.C. may not be able to shelter themselves even be-
hind that informality. The Dunedin Club have only
disqualified Mata in the event of his going to N.Z.
Y.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase Meeting,
Saturday.—Maiden Hurdle Race: Handy Andy 1,
Mulatto 2, Lothair 3. Maiden Steeplechase; Great
Western 1, Collingwood 2, Fairlie 3. Grand National
Hurdle Race: Sir Peter 1, Cumberland 2, Dhurring-
hile 3. Grand National Steeplechase : Sussex 1, Twi-
light 2, Lucy 3. Selling Hurdle Race: President 1,
Albyn 2, Union Jack 3 Flat Race : Woodlands 1, Re-
spite 2, Attache 3. Monitor was thrown in the Selling
Hurdle Race, his rider, Barlow, sustaining a compound
fracture of the leg. President, the winner of the
Selling Hurdle Race, was sold for £3lO. As a rule, the
favourites won, the backers having the best of the
bookmakers for once.
Another severe “Gaming and Lotteries Bill”
has been brought before the N Z. Legislative Council.
It contains extensive provisions for the suppression of
gaming and betting houses, under a penalty, of £lOO,
and sweepstakes or consultations on horse races are not
to bo held under a penalty of £2OO. Bookmakers’
wagers are not recoverable by law, and the totalisator
is only to be permitted on racecourses when the instru-
ment is sanctioned by the Colonial Secretary or recog.
nised racing clubs. The Dunedin City Council and the
clergy have held meetings and passed resolutions in
favour of the passing of the Bill. The clergy also
recommended that sweepstakes advertisements be ren-
dered absolutely illegal.
Cricket has so far improved in the colonies that
a visiting English team should be strong in every depart-
ment of the game to be successful here, especially
against the formidable elevens which Sydney and Mel-
bourne can put into the field. The names mentioned
as probably constituting Mr. Lilly white’s team are well
known, but will form an array hardly strong enough for
the metropolitan elevens. Selecting five certainties—
Peate, Shaw, Barnes. Morley, and Lilly white—no one
of whom can be considered a first-class batsman, the
batting power would probably be made up by Ulyett,
Shrewsbury, Gunn, and Charlwood. After this we get
below the standard for our bowling. After a careful
analysis, we can see nothing but a "doing" for them
both in Sydney and Melbourne.
Some of the members of the Sydney Amateur
Athletic Club made a deservedly futile attempt at a
specially-convened general meeting of the club to stop
professional training. This was. we are informed, with
a view to encourage to enter into the various events
many who objected on moral grounds to the professional
element, but who, untrained, could not compete with
any success against their physically trained and morally
tainted comrades. The motion was negatived by a large
majority, and a subsequent splenetic motion that no
competitor should be allowed to start until he pro-
duced a certificate of fitness from some recognised pro-
fessional trainer was, to the credit of the club, almost
unanimously negatived. We should recommend the
moralists to confine their operations to the club time-
keeper, who has always been too fast. We of course
merely allude to his watch.
The amateur scullers’ race, for Mr. A. Finlay-
son s handsome trophy, came off oh the Parramatta
River on Saturday afternoon, and resulted in an easy
win for the favourite, Mr. Brett. The vther starters
were Messrs O. Gaden, W. Anslow, C. Metcalf, and J.
Thompson. Brett took the lead at the mile, and won
in 26m. 30s. Gaden rowed an exceedingly plucky race,
and surprised even his friends, who were all along aware
that the imputations against his pluck, which have pro-
ceeded from certain quarters, were unfounded. He was
loudly cheered at the conclusion of the race, as was also
Mr. Thompson, who, though unsuccessful, established
his reputation as the pluckiest of light weights. Mr.
Brett rowed the race like the old soldier he is, and his
success was never for a moment in doubt, notwith-
standing that he evidently experienced great difficulty
in getting through his men. The other competitors
were clean out of the race.
The football match, University v. Wallaroo,
which came off on Saturday afternoon, resulted in
another decisive victory for the 'Varsities by four goals
and one touch down to nil. It was anticipated that the
Wallaroos would wipe out their previous defeat, but
this second uumistakeable win proves that the quick
passing and running of the victors eonatitute the acme
of football-playing under the Rugby rules. The player
who seizes the ball from a "scrimmage” is naturally
the observed of the observers, but, in many cases, a
prolonged run ends in an overthrow and the ball g -ing
back again. The Wallaroo man will vainly try, in an
heroic manner, to pass six of his opponents; but the
’Varsity player, in the same position, judging his
further progress impossible, divests himself of heroism,
so to speak, and passes the ball to a comrade in a better
position, and so the advantage is gained. Considerable
interest was taken in the contest by the spectators.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Wollongong, on 22nd inst., the final playing
off in a quoit match was finished. After a good
contest, in which all the best players in the
district took part, John Currie secured the watch, and
Sam King the second prize, a small amount of specie.
Next Saturday a bowling match takes place between
Robt. Gibson and John Smith, supposed to be the
champions of Iliawarra, for £2O aside. On the Saturday
following a quoit match is to be played at Cheadle’a,
between John Currie and Duncan M’Fee, of Coal Cliff,
for £lO aside; 11 yds, clay ends Two picked four-
oar crews from the Rockhampton B. C , stroked
respectively by Messrs. S. W. Hartley and H. W.
Johnson, had a two-mile spin on the Pitzroy the other
day. Mr. Hartley’s crew won as they pleased. The
distance was about two miles, and the time was stated
to be 13 minutes A match for the Handball
Championship of Auckland and a silver cup, was w >n
by Courtney, the former champion, who beat his
antagonist, Sweeney, two games out of the three
A valuable mare was poisoned at Invercargill, N.Z.,
through eating phosphorised oats The estate of the
N Z. sweep-swindler, George North, has paid 4a 4d in
the £ The Christchurch (N.Z.) Hunt Club have
decided to hold a steeplechase meeting at an early date.
At the Waterloo Cup coursing meeting, Canterbui y
(N.Z.), the victor most unexpectedly turned up in
Briton Still, who easily defeated the favourite, Don
Carlos, in the final course. The Purse was won by
Harmony, and in the Plate Lancashire Lass and Bonnie
Scotland divided Competent judges say that Mr.
Walters' colt by Musket, out of Yatterina, is not an
ounce behind the high-priced foal out of Sylvia by the
same sire, and which was recently purchased by the
Hon. Jas. White. Mr. Walters’ two mares, Fanny
Fisher and Yatterina, are both in foal to Musket
Things are so dull at Wellington (N.Z.) that there is to
be no regatta there this year Sir Modred, Somnus,
and Idalium have been sold for £3OOO. The two former
were fully meant to be nominated for the Melbourne
Cup, but through some mistake of Mr. Driver’s they
were omitted Mr. Fred. Woodhouse, the Victorian
artist, has been commissioned to paint a likeness of
Mata The Auckland Stud Co. have declared a
dividend of 12 per cent Miller was very wild because
the Auckland authorities would not let him land his
trotters for a little exercise A gentleman well known
in the Wairarapa (N.Z.) district is in Melbourne for the
express purpose of purchasing Darebin, the son of The
Peer and Lurline “Beacon,” aN Z. sporting au-
thority, writing on the result of the English Derby,
says:—“ Had Qrand.Flaneur been sent away from these
colonies to England as a yearling, who can say that we
might not have been wearing the blue ribbon at the
present time?” Mr. A. Moss has purchased the
draught stallion Royal Prince, for 1050 guineas
Buckley’s stables, Townsville (Q ), have been destroyed
by fire, and the racehorse Wanderer burnt to death
The Adelaide Corporation have renewed the lease of
the cricketing oval for 21 years—the association to
spend £15,000 in the erection of a Grand dtand within
three years......A match has been finally arranged be-
tween George Summerfleld and Charles Bannerznan, to
be run on the Association Ground, Saturday, August 6.
Start at 2.30 p.m., for £4O and trophy; distance 100
yards.
The N.Z. Sculling Championship.
Thb race for the sculling championship of New Zealand
and £2OO, between William Hearn, of Wellington, and
Albert White, of Mercury Bay, Auckland, eventuated
on Saturday, July 9th, and resulted, as already cabled,
in the easy defeat of White. Hearn was a strong
favorite at the start, 3 to 2 being offered on him, and in
some cases 2 to 1 coaid be had. At exactly ten minutes
to four o’clock, Hearn, after getting a reply from White
that he was ready, said “ Go.” A better start could
not have beell effected, both men gripping the water
simultaneously. White rowed 401 m the first minute,
Hearn registering 37. After this White took the lead
by almost half a length, and the cry from the steamers
was that he would win easily. Hearn was rowing a
stroke of 35 to the minute. White at this time rowing
39. When 400 yards had been covered, Hearn com-
menced to creep up, eventually passing White and as-
suming the lead. Both men were rowing within them-
selves, White’s style being much fancied. Hearn, who
accepted the outside position, still kept up a
steady stroke and forged ahead. On passing the
slaughteryard he was leading by a length, and on
nearing Kaiwara he was fully five lengths ahead. Here
White was called upon, but his efforts were unavailing,
Hearn rowing in the easiest of winners by ten or twelve
lengths. The general feeling was that Hearn was never
called upon to row. Hearn was loudly cheered on pass-
ing the winning post, and on his appearance at the boat
shed was carried shoulder high. The time taken to pull
the 3J miles was 27 min. 27 secs. There was a slight
breeze blowing, but the water was perfectly smooth.
White states that it was the hardest race he ever pulled,
while the champion declares it was one of the easiest
victories he ever achieved. Hearn is 31 years of age,
and owns Sydney as hia birth place. His first notable
performance took place in 1839, at Hokitika, when he
defeated his opponent, Chamberlain, by half-a-'evtgth.
Ten years later, he visited Australia, and defeated
Wynn. In a subsequent match with Messenger, how-
ever, for £5O a-side, Hearn was beaten after a bard
struggle. In addition to these performances ho distin-
guished himself at various regattas throughout
New Zealand. Hearn’s backers will probably send a
challenge to Messenger to go over to try conclusions
with him, now that he is in such excellent form. The
boat he rowed in was 30 feet long—2 feet shorter than
his antagonist’s, 5 inches deep, with a beam of 11
inches, and 15-inoh slide. White’s boat had a 27-inch
slide. The only sculling match he has ever contested
was about four or five years ago, when ha rowed against
and defeated Davis, a Wellington and Wanganui oars-
man, at the Auckland regatta. He came to Sydney to
row against Laycock, Bush, and others, but by a mis-
chance was left at the starting post. He has row. d
stroke in several four-oared races. In the evening, at
the Theatre Boyal. Mr. B. W. Cary, during one of the
intervals, presented Hearn and White with silver cups.
Hearn made no reply to the remarks of Mr. Cary, but
White admitted that he had been beaten by the best
oarsman in New Zealand. However, he intimated that,
at some later time, he would again try conclusions for
the championship.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. Dr. M'Gibbon is, we are sorry to hear,
confined to bis bed.
An Inspector for Jewish schools will be ap-
pointed by the Victorian Government.
The international gathering of delegates from
Y.M.C.A’a. takes place in London, to-day, July 30.
It appears that there are 25 distinct Methodist
denominations in the world, with a total of 4,630.780
members.
In thirty-seven years the Church of England has
erected 2581 churches, and has expended on church,
buildings £24,000,000.
The African Methodist Episcopal Church claims
that it has 387,566 members and probationers against
215.000 reported in 1879.
The Fancy Pair held in the Exhibition Building,
in aid of the funds of the Church Society (C.E.), has
been a great financial success.
The Orangemen throughout New Zealand cele-
brated the 12th of July with music, song, and speech.
No disturbance or shillelaghs.
Rev. George Clark, of the Congregational Church,
Hobart, Tas., who visited Sydney a little while ago, was
preaching at Auckland at latest dates.
The census of Utah, recently completed, reveals
the fact that the Gentile population has increased 200
per cent., while the Mormon increase has been only 45
per cent.
The whole revised version was telegraphed from
New York to Chicago, twenty-one wires transmitting
110.000 words, the whole appearing in several papers in
a single issue.
The text of the Greek Testament, upon which
Canon Westcott and Professor Hart have been working
for the better part of thirty years, has just bean pub-
lished by Messrs. Macmillan and Co.
The income of the Australasian Wesleyan
Missionary Society for the past year amounted to
between £12,000 and £13,000, leaving a balance of £lo2!>
to be kept by the parent society in London.
Dr. Hoedmaker says the Dutch are coming back
to the Gospel; their learned men, however, do not
accept it. They have scarcely a Christian lawyer,
physician, teacher, or professor. Is it not pretty well
the same in Sydney P
The Hodgkinson has got a practical priest in the
Rev. Father Hanly, who has an interest in this world
as well as in the next, and shows np to advantage at
meetings to arrange for fitting out expeditious to
prospect for the “mammon of unrighteousness.”
The Anglicans of Toowoomba (Q.) have apprised
the Bishop that, unless their present pastor resigns,
they will withhold payment and support from St. James*
Church. The present incumbent is the Rev. Thos.
Abraham, formerly of Emerald Hill, Melbourne, where
he had troubles too.
Elder Sorenson, who has been resident in New
Zealand, chiefly in Au«kland, for some two years, en-
deavouring to forward the interests of the Mormon
Church, is about to leave for Salt Labe. He lately paid
a visit to Taranaki, where he addressed both Europeans
and Maoris, but with little success.
Even that holiest of all cities, Adelaide, couldn’t
stand the Salvation Army, the march of which has bren
stopped by the civil authorities without slaughter. The
army is regarded by the police as a public nuisance and
its captain, our dear friend, John Dowie, will probably
be charged with what Policeman X calls “righteous”
conduct in a public place.
There are now 887 churches of the Established
Churoh in London, a gain of 15 the past year, and of
110 in the past ten years. Of these 887 churches, 43
have daily communion, 397 have surpliced choirs, 317
have free seats, 35 have eucharistic vestments (a de-
crease of one since 1875), 11 use incense, 54 altar lights,
and in 234 the "eastward position" is taken.
At a meeting of the electors of Northampton,
to denounce the exclusion of Mr. Bradlaugh, M.P.,
from the House of Commons, the Rev. Stewart D.
Headlam (Churoh of England), supporting a resolution
approving the resistance of the electors of Northamp-
ton to an invasion of their rights, said he came there as
a Christian clergyman to speak of the great work Mr.
Bradlaugh had done in the East of London for the
moral elevation of the people. He supported that reso-
lution because he saw that the action of the so-
called religious party in the House of Commons
had been making tho religion of Jeans Christ to stink
in the nostrils of the people. At the same meeting,
the Marqnis of Queensberry, proposing a vote of
thanks to the chairman, said that he stood there to ex-
plain how he came to be associated with Mr. Bradlaugh,
He had lost his seat in the House of Lords on purely
religious grounds. It had been said that he had no
religion. He denied that statement. The religion of
humanity, which he professed, and which he felt sure
Mr. Bradlaugh professed, was the outgrowth of
Christianity. It was the religion of the futnre, and
would have to take its place.
The unco guid Lord Shaftesbury got a Roland
for his Oliver in the House of Lords recently, over the
resolution in favour of opening national museums and
picture galleries on Sundays—a resolution which was
ultimately defeated by 41 to 34 votes. The Earl remarked
that " the art galleries, Ac. had been accessible to
Parisians for years, and yet they were the very people
who burnt tho Hdtel-de-Ville and the Tuileries." To-
which Lord Rosebery retorted: —“The burning of the
Tuileries and the H6tel-de-Vill* had been referred to,
but he had never heard that those who committed the
crimes of the Commune were identified as habitual
attendants at museums and galleries." This recalls to
George Augustus Sala a little poem written by Victor
Hugo shortly after the burning of the Art Library of
the Louvre on that dreadful day in May, 1871. The
bard indignantly apostrophises an imaginary workman,
whom he assumes to have been a participant in the
crime of burning down the Louvre Library, “ Wretch,
dolt, monster, ogre, caitiff, Goth, Ostrogoth, Visigoth,
Hun, Vandal, Philistine!” shrieks in eifect, the
exasperated lyrist, “ What have you done ? What out-
rage have yon not committed on civilisation ? " To
which the supposititious proletarian replies in just four
words, “J» n« sais pas lire.” I can’t read. It i»
Ignorance that burns down libraries and museums.
A troop of horsemen in Basutoland, recently,
were overtaken by la thunderstorm. By one flash of
lightning seventeen horses, with their riders, were
thrown to the earth —ten men and five horses being
killed ! A similar occurrence took place about twenty-
five years ago in Queanbeyan, on the occasion of Boxing-
day races, when a great number of people on the course
were thrown down, and for a while rendered insensible.
Horsemen were thrown from their horses, and some in
vehicles were sent flying out of them. One horseman,
Mr. George Hunt, sustained a broken a*n by his fall t
another person had his spine injured, from which he
died; and several other casualties occurred.


Tailors, Draper
gPRING RE Q 1
JOHN B. YOUI
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
TO ORDER.
We can please you in DRE sfi
We can also please you in I
CHECKED and PLAIN SA E
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBR
NEW SPRING MILLINER
CASHMERE DOLMANS MA
Prices 355, 455, 55f
A GRAND SILK NI
Tailors, Drape:
T
HOMPSON A]
DENISON HO
358, 360, 362, Georg
OPENING NEW
tor
WINTER SEA
EVERY DAY DURING 1
FIRST GENERAL
of
NOVBLTIE
in
FANCY DRES
FOR THE WINTER
AN IMMENSE VARIETY T(
FRENCH CASHMERE CAM
DOVER HOMESPUN IND]
ELASTIC BIEGE ANG
KASGHEE CASHMERE JEE-
STOCKINGETTE VAL:
AND A LARGE ASSORTM]
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.-
cases of very
ERY, somet'
handsome, di
houses in Lor
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPA
SILK, Rich 1
to 24 inch wid
4s 6d, 5s 6d, (
dinary value.
BLACK SATO
BROCADES,
SILKS, in a vi
BLACK SATII
inches wide,
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and si
for wear, and
BLACK VELV
NAUCUNIUM,
every yard st
BLACK SATII
inches and 2
3s lid, 4s 6d
are light and
under usual
SILK VELV
every shade <
and Brocaded
Floral Design
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEf-Al
OPENED a
MENT of i
LACES in ec
imitation, Em
Ruffling, Mo<
Gulfs, Collar
Lace Ties ii
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS r
FROM DEES
be no decepi
washed. Lac
Sheetings goo
makes. Price
to Is lid; 80-
inch, Is 6d to
to 3s. Americ
& Horrocks’ C
QUILTS, froi
prices. Cole
QUILTS, 2| 1
COVERS at a'
the yard, 27 ai
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEb
DEPAETMEI
been our stud
this class of
character. Bj
year after yea
of FIEST-CLi
are now show
ment of of Di
NAPKINS, be
Damask. The
every size, anc
for cheapness
colony. We
MASK CLOT
425; 5-8 NAP]
3-4 NAPKIN
29s 6d; Di
round or squai
DAMASK. 5-f
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to
SHEETINGS.
PILLOW LII
wide ; WH
TOWELS, fre
cording to sia
ISH TOWELI
TEA CLOTH!
TURKISH I
Tailors, Drape]
161
(N
MAT);
Paper
Mantlei
sizes fc
ren fur
tions ai
mg up.
ing froi
styles monthly in WEIGE
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by
annum, post free Catalog
Patterns sent to any part of tl
of price and measure. Postag
Address:
MADAME WI
161 King-street, S;
JJ AYE Y 0 t
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Stb
J£LISE’S PAPER CU
All communications to be
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET,
Six doors from Georg
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patter
style, cut, and finish, being modelle
Fashions, and are always sent j
receipt of stamps or money order.
TT IS A "WELL-KNOY
-A- for Household or Fami
Hordern’s" Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H ' ha
tor Value, Variety, or Extent of S
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GO(
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES 1
Business Aunoum
Llegax.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALI
SOLICITOI
69 CASTLEREAGH STRE]
and
MACQUARIE STREET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M,
SOLICITOR, has co
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAI
225 BOURKE STREET, WOC
T|R. STANiqH, the emin,
returned from his tour
and will commence the
fession, in Sydney"; in
days.
QHEAPEST AND BES
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA
HAT STREET, HAYI
TEA, Is per 11
Other articles equally ch<
Business Announ
I HAVE this day commenc
Stock and Share Broker, an
undertake any commissions eithe
chase of shares that may be entrui
References :
Hon. S. D. Gordon,
Hon. E. Flood, M.L
Hon. L. W. Levy, 1
Richard Jones, Esq,
Office: 77 Pitt-st:
AVI D I
14, Hunter-street, S
SADDLER AND HAENI
By special appoint:
To his Royal Highness the Dnk
Excellency the Eight Hon. 1
His Excellency Sir Hercules
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newe
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentle
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 187(
yjl ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND AI
strongly recommend theii
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to an
much higher pr
724 GEORGE 8
HATMARKE r
AG. c h u r c
• 147 FORK STI
Opposite the Mar
IMPORTER AND MANUF
Coffee, Peppers, Sp:
CLEVELAND MILLS, SU
CHEAPEST HOUSE I
for Liverpool and Black Hoi
Choicest Sage and Majoram on
680,000 AMERICAN SI
Just arrived, all i
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLi
Pork Sausage skins, splendid si
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 1
Canterbury.
N OWL A]
n
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH every THURSDAY
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY (
COONABAEABEAN.
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAEI
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY for WEE WA A
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Emit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
F ASAION ABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT PIT GUARANTEED.
JJLANKETS. I
“ FIRST SHIPMENT OF
now opened
EDWARD HOED
668 BRICKFIELD HI
The BEST VALUE ever rec
lian market. SNOW WHITE,
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth i
“ Competition de
CUT PAI
MADAME DEM
Perfect Fittt l
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations
MADAME DEMOREST’S pul
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gi
MISS LOUISA
87 King Street, Sydney (two d
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-f
rj. EO. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASH
3 BRIDGE STREET
LATE
CUTTER TO E. M
Begs to inform his friends and i
epened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, &e., at a low price f
Gentlemen requiring this with V
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptl
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM (
R. C. HA(
FASHION AI
TAILORING ESTA
127 KING STB
Cannot Cannot
Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE. QUALITY, an
Te effectually stop the extort:
tised in the way of clothing B
pure West of England and Soote
In Five-button sac pattern s
Canadian Tweed Suita, t<
Homespun Tweed Suits,
West of Bln gland, Tweed
TROUSERS. TROUSER!
West ef England Tweed Trouser
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Ordei
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Ordei
N.B.—Patterns, with self-meai
post free to all parts of the colon
Note the Addi
I 9 9 rTW ft s


Hotels, &o.
C.
W. E 0 B
MARKET STREI
FOE FIEST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
R
OBERT BUTCB
(Late William Lor
WINE AND SPIRIT ME!
534 GEORGE STRE
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Couhtet Ohdbks Receive Pboi
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAE'
AND CASE.
AGENT—& EOR G B
BRIDGE STREET CHi
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to
that owing to the increasing demux
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Although the principal business \
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retab
WINES IN LARGE BULK and
TRADE.
Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, he feels confident that, wi
the above-named two experienc
favours will be attended to with tl
tude.
OYAL EXCHANGE DI
) KING & GEORGE ST
A, A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.R.H. the Prince
PROPRIETOR OF THE AB
Begs to intimate that he is r
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for
The best INDIAN CURRY, by a
the premises. Suppers ready, hot
12 p.m. Separate room for lad
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant f
Your patronage is respectfully so'
A. A. WEB
ROYAL EXCHANGE DIN:
King and George streets
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com
UNCOLOURED T
and is made up into 11b and half lb
Hotels, fco.
The compagnoni cateri:
OF PITT-BTEEET have much
nonnoing to the public, that to remove
want of space to accommodate their pi
Luncheon hour, they have converte<
Banqueting Hall into an additional I
which is now open, and where every
directed to visitors patronising this ne
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior
is under the management of a flrst-clas
branch of Catering undertaken, and a
staff of experienced and polite waiters
Through continued misrepresentatic
beg to mention that they are not in an;
with any other person, or persons, in £
SAMUEL PACKE
KOW OPEN,
THE
£Jitt (Catering (
315 GEORGE STEEI
(late Harris* CaM, opposite Peapes
A superior CAFE and BESTAUBAN*
BEFKESHMENT BOOMS for
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE EST
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONEEY of the purest des<
GUAEANTEED that no dangerous i
or ingredient of any kind injurious to i
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEBINQ and management
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Pi'
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonsl
Civil and attentive waiters always oi
C HAS. B. S :
MANAGES.
F
OLET’S NATIONA
BEIDGE STEEET,
(Opposite Bulletin Offli
E. W. FOLEY, PEOPEII
BOAED AND EESIDEI
Wines and Spirits of the choice
BILLIAEDS.
HOTEL DE FRAI
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGI
Opposite Theatre Eot
m
OE
MUHLE
PS
;
li.itCt
i, i. ii.
M
gfcl 1 Jyii'iJ
a aiai
;'*•
Si"
Hotels, fro.
OLD0 LD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION POE BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, Ac.
■WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
ara THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ATT, THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4e per BOTTLE,
all round.
5B, —Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
DSFASDGFASF
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STORE KEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SOnJaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
The Name of M. MOBS ft 00.
la on every Genuine Bottle.
HONESTY IS THE BI
i,ORK-£
■(.OBte
pHIiWO
imtnlei)
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle shonld be carefully eomparec
are being imported into New Sen
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevert
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of LC
WHISKY.
VIRGOEj SON,IND i
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND (
(Late Collins and Eo
iE E A T E D W
AND
COKDIAL MANUFAC]
438 HAEEIS STE EE 1
First Prize,
ter/
ter
OIVALL
th prompt
Soda Water,
coed:
The Trade supp!
NOTE THE ADDEI
ROSS AND C
438 HAEEIS STEEET,
MARTIN 1
AUSTRALIAN WINE M;
AND BEEE BOT'T
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES I
Prices from/12s
* I
L
r.mr wtnt
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak nnma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
SSO
'TO
%
S 3
&
m
n
I
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PUKITY and PLAY OUE..
Wholesale Agent — C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isuot the clearness or oouditii
Ale that preserves this bram
Elation. Common bitter crude beei
but no other brand has the same n
ter, the fulness on the palate, at
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C
tore cautioned against traders wh
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog,
CO., Sole Agents,


A correspondent, writing under the heading of
“ No Place Like Sydney Again," says that “ the wreck
of t ne s s. Arg.vle, at Kocky Mouth, was sold in Sydney
for £520. Had it been sold at Hooky Mouth, by the
loosl auctioneer, it would have realized at least £800 or
JtiOJO."
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
the atrical profesion.]
The London Gaiety burlesque, “ The Forty
Thieves," has been running 100 nights. The receipts
have been £20,000 We are sorry to hear that Emelie
Melville’s business had, at latest dates, fallen off so
much that she had found it necessary to disband her
company. It is said that she has been offered a
guarantee of £4000 for a season in Australia,
and to provide a company of first-class opera-bouffe
people Harry Le Clair, who is now associated in
<California with W. H. Bussell, thinks of returning to
Australia next year, with a drama which he tells us has
proved a great success What impressed Sara Bern-
hardt even more than the immensity of the States, was
the vitality of the people. 11 Everybody," she remarked
to an interviewer, “ everybody does something all the
time Everybody works. The whole people seem to
have a coil of springs; pnsh, push, pushing all the time.
I like it, but it gives me a fever. It's all the same
wherever I go." Some theatrical amateurs gave
Barry Sullivan a benefit at the old T. E. in Dublin.
Hamlet was the play chosen for the ooeasiou. The
gentleman (Tom Kyan) cast for the character of
“ Guildersteru " (?) told a friend privately that be
intended to knock some ** rare fun" out of his part.
The performance went on very smoothly until it came to
the scene where Hamlet (Barry Sullivan) ask» Guilders-
tera: “ Can yon play upon this pipe ? ” “ Quilderstern:
“Play—play, to be sure lean," and without more ado
etruck up the “Groves of Blarney," to the hilarious
delight of everyone—except Barry All the Adonises
in Grafton assembled at the Police Court on Tuesday,
to hear the particulars of a, fracas at the Theatre Royal,
during which the lessee’s son was slapped in the face by
Miss Alice Johns and then knocked down by Harry
Simmons. The Bench dismissed the case against the
lady, but bled Harry to the extent of £2 6s lOd— rather
an expensive blood-letter Herr Schmidt has been
unwell in Auckland Miss Leaf is now playing with
Cary’s N Z. “Pirates" Company Lieut. Herman,
the cruel ventriloquist, has been resting in Auckland
lately A Laurence (Otago) man was recently com-
mitted fir trial for cheating at twenty deck poker. He
had all the court cards marked with small black spots.
A year or two ago, two actors (partners), well known in
N.S W., lost £500 between them, in a pub. in
Auckland, at two or three sittings Jimmy South
says that his agent had bills posted on the tomb-
stones in a Bathurst churchyard, and the corpses
got up and demanded free admission to the show in
return for the privilege The New York World says
the Liliputian Commodore Nutt, who died lately, met
two years and a-balt ago Lillian Elston at Redwood
City, California, while ou a tour through the West, and
to her, after a brief courtship, he was married. She is
a lady of slight figure, though not much below
the average size. She was a devoted wife, and
as her dead husband lay coffined at the Anthony House,
she was visibly affected by her loss Ada Ward plays
a prominent part with Madame Modjeska in the new
poetical play “ Guana,” at the Court Theatre, London.....
The Auckland Herald points out to Mr. Carden that
a lady’s waist isn’t usually about her shoulders, and
says that when a clasp and squeeze is necessary, be had
better in future confine himself to the legitimate
locale of that portion of the female figure Catherine
Lewis, on the occasion of a recent benefit at the Fifth
Avenue, New York, hired a suite of parlours in the
Beaoonsfleld Hotel, where she sold tickets herself to all
of her callers. Her conduct was criticised by the press,
and her benefit was not a success. Miss Lewis, in
explanation of her novel, if not unprofessional course,
said that she got the idea from her sister, Jeffrey
Lewis, who had successfully tried it in San Francisco,
and that as the plan was approved by her husband
and her manager, she did not consider it to be in
the least degree improper. It was, she now believed,
too much of an innovation to suit New York,
and she should not repeat it. Bravo, Catherine!
Robert McWade and company were to sail for Austra-
lia in May, the Mirror says An Ohio law forbids
the giving of negro minstrel performances on Sunday.
The San Francisco Minstrels, being advised that they
could legally appear if their faces were not blacked,
went through with their entertainment without burnt
cork A bug-bear to the “ perfesh" has been formed
in Christchurch by Mr. H. F. Towle, viz., an amateur
opera class, who intend producing at intervals all the
latest operatic novelties. 50 members have been en-
rolled Levy, the cornet player, has been arrested at
New York on a charge of bigamy. The complainant
seems to have married Levy in England in 1860. She
asks for a divorce, alimony, and the custody of two
children They can’t stand “ Uncle Tom” Co.’s in
America now Mrs. Walter Hill had a testimonial
presented to her at Christchurch There were no less
than ninety “pros." in Wellington (N.Z.) a week or
two ago A number of “kids," styling themselves
“ amateurs," produced “ Pinafore” at Dunedin. Any
amount of oleomargarine from the local journals On
the twelfth and last night of the production of “ The
Pirates of Penzance" by Cary’s company, at Welling-
ton, N.Z., there was £150 in the house By the
delayed Auckland mail we learn from our correspondent
that the production of Chas. Eeade’s dramatic version
of “ It is Never Too Late to Mend," by the Carden com-
pany, had teen a success, and, at time of writing, pro-
mised to bring a bit of coin into the treasury. As is well
known, the play abounds in portraits of social types,
and contains a number of strong situations. Miss
Marston Leigh was not in the cast. Miss Jennie Watt-
Tanner being given the part of Susan, while Carden
played Tom Robinson; Elliott, George Fielding;
McGowan, the Jew ; J. P. West, governor of the model
prison; Sefton, John Meadows; and Gerald Dillon
doubled as Wm. Fielding and Jacky-Jacky, the Austra-
lian aboriginal. Mr. J. J. Welsh was a big hit in the
character of Peter Crawley It is alleged in the Auck-
land press that Hugh Osmond, the Deadeye of Reynolds’
juvenile “ Pinafore" company, had a benefit in that
town, and did not receive a cent of the proceeds. A
very warm letter on the subject, signed “ One Who
Hates Meanness," appears in the Star, the writer
whereof says, among other things, that the manage-
ment appear to regard the children as mere money-
making machines. In reply to this, Walter Reynolds
says that the company is engaged and managed solely
by Pollard, and that he (Walter) knows nothing about
Pollard’s business relations with Osmond or his parents.
...... Miss Anna Dickinson threatens to sue Manager John
Stetson for defamation of character arising out of her
refusal to play Claude Melnotte when allowed only
one rehearsal Fred. De Belleville was offered by man-
ager Colville the partjof Michael Strogoff, but declined,
as he continues with the Union Square (New York)
company during next season Lotti Wilmott has
struck “ ile ’’ in that small N.Z. province New Ply-
mouth, and got into the good graces of the local steak
wrap, which writes of her as under:—“ Madame has a
commanding figure, pleasing and expressive features.
Is evidently highly educated, and possesses the gift of
great conversational powers.” Perhaps that editor
will know Lotti carries a horsewhip before it is all
over .Miss Leaf was among the Hero passengers
quarantined at Auckland. She has joined Carey’s
“ Pirates" Company The Auckland Observer says :
—“ Gerald Dillon, of the Carden Company, is the best
read man in ‘ the profession.’ ” Dick T. ought to
know ...The Maories which left Auckland with Cole’s
circus are a big attraction in the States Camilla
Urso, at latest, had sailed for Rio Janeiro Amy
Thornton, daughter of the well-known scenic artist,
and a promising young comedienne, of Now Zealand
training, has recently taken unto herself a husband
and with him the name of Mogridge. It is not a pretty
name for a playbill There is, it is said, a probability
of lima de Murska again visiting Australia. De Vivo
is in communication with her Benhamo (William
Gilmore) has been arrested at Sandhurst on a warrant,
at the instance of Henry Holloway, charged with
having taken into his possession a sum of £275 15s, on
account of the joint beneficial owners of the English
Circus, and embezzling £53 of the money Apropos
cf the appearance of Miss Ella Carrington’s company
at Cooma, the editor of the Cooma Peacock says:—
“ * Stray Leaves' will be found scattered at Nimitybelle
on Monday evening. We would advise our Nimitybelle
gallants to secure some and press them to their lips."
We have not the remotest idea where Nimitybelle is,
but daresay Charley Fuller will see lip-squeezing
business.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Once again we are to the fore with a brand-new
set of theatrical slides, all ready to fit into the magic
lantern of our thoughts. There is oil in the lamp, the
sheet is securely nailed up, and an audience numbering
a hundred thousand or so are impatiently waiting for
the show. ’Tis well, then. Let the hired musician
thump the Mignonette waltzes. Keep little Bobby
quiet, and so to business. But stay! while the oyer*
ture is being played, let us jot down a few lines of a
prologue. EcouUx
A little calm reflection, and
A forehead rested on a hand;
The lips with green tea slightly wet;
A light puff at a cigarette ;
A silence calm, complete, and then
A deep dip with a bright steel pen.
When lo, we feel ourselves quite fresh
To once more gladden the " perfesh.”
* * * *
The last week deserves to figure prominently in
the theatrical annals of the colony, if only on account
of two most remarkable entertainments that have been
given in this city, at both of which it was our good (or
ill) fortune to attehd. The first of these was Mr.
Hallewell's concert, on Wednesday, at the School of
Arts, and the second Mr. Maxwell Brown’s benefit,
at the Opera House, on Saturday last. Both of these
performances ware matinees, and both were equally
pregnant with sinister gloom, and murky mystery.
With regard to the former event, it is not too mmch to
say that Mr. Hallewell’s talents as a vocalist being now
very generally recognized by the public at large, his
concert inspired no inconsiderable amount of interest
in a good many quarters, and, notwithstanding that the
afternoon selected was—it falling on the date of the
Masonic Ball—a trifle injudicious, a good attendance
was confidently anticipated. A little, however, had
leaked out in these columns in regard to the coming
fiasco, and, when we entered the hall at half-past three
o’clock, there was only a very sorry sprinkling of spec-
tators present. The place was dark and cold, and as the
gas had been lit behind the stage and not in the audi-
torium, the clashing of the two lights produced an
effect, which, while it could certainly lay claim to
novelty, made the performers when they came on loek
like figures in a shadow pantomime.
# * •
Hardly were we comfortably seated, and before
we had time to offer up a prayer for protection against
a draught that cut like a cook-shop carving-knife,
Mr. Hallewell suddenly appeared, bearing in his hand a
document about twice the size of a Maoleay petition
for a bridge agin yer own door, and proceeded to tell us
that he and Mr. Bomon, the violoncellist, had both been
served by Mr. Musgrove with inj auctions forbidding
them to sing otherwise than for him—in other terms,
to abide by the agreement they had both signed in
London. Hardly had we digested this little piece of in-
telligence, than Mr. Hallewell asked us to say whether he
should sing in spite of the notice, and expressed, should
we wish him to do so, his willingness to warble away in
spite of the pains and penalties of the law. This, of
course, was absurd. Mr. Hallewell had no enemies
(rather the contrary) amongst the audience. He had
never written poetry in the newspapers, or produced a
colonial drama, therefore no one thirsted te wallow in his
gore. It was plain,then,thai not a soul present but a prac-
tical joker would have required him to render himself
liable to chains and dungeons in order to give us value for
our money. And, indeed, there was no joker present
Furrows were upon every brow; gloom in every heart.
The matter was settled at once, and finally, by a very
popular and eloquent Anglican divine, who, in polite
terms told Mr. Hallewell to walk himself off, and keep
his hair on. Therefore Hallewell took up his hat and
Bomon his ’cello, and behold they were gone like a
beautiful dream.
• * •
All this, of course, does not involve a national
catastrophe, but, at the same time, we cannot help re-
marking that as Mr. Musgrove had expressly intimated
his objections to Messrs. Hallewell and Bomon appear-
ing to perform outside his theatre, that these gentle-
men might, at least, have so far anticipated the result
as to have advertised their inability to play, and thus
saved a sell to the public (who don’t like being sold) and a
most unsatisfactory public appearance for themselves. If,
as Mr. Musgrove alleges. Messrs. Hallewell and Bomon
ore under engagement to him their wishing to sing
“on their own hook’’ is, in the last degree, un-
reasonable ; and we for one, would never wish to
encourage any artists—however much we should like to
hear them—to commit what would most unques-
tionably be a breach of contract: and this we say
without denying that Mr. Hallewell may be, in his
own words, “legally wrong and morally right" in this
little matter.
* * *
Without Messrs. Hallewell and Bomoa the
concert was gin-sling without the juniper, “ Hamlet"
without the Dane, Sydney without The Bulletik, or
any other metaphor you like that will imply as much.
Miss Maggie Liddle, it is true, sang a couple of songs
with much taste, her first number being Salaman’s
serenade,"! arise from dreams of thee," and the second,
“There’s no place like home," a selection, by the way,
that, under the circumstances, had more than a spice
of satire in it. Immediately after this, Mr. A. Huen-
erbein brought the proceedings to an abrupt termina-
tion by playing, in response to loud demands for an
encore, " God Save the Queen," having previously
given, in fine style, a fantasia on “ Lucia." Mr. C. B.
Foster also contributed a couple of pianoforte solos,
and Mrs. Foster sang “ Ave Maria” and “ The angel at
the window.” This lady did her best; and if her voice
is not quite of "Monday popnlar concert" calibre, it is
at any rate a pleasant little organ, and like Hamlet’s
recorders, emits “ most eloquent music.” But, in spite
of all this, the thing was a failure; and, as we fled sadly
out into the gloaming after it was all over, we might
from our melancholy appearance have been just going
into a dentist’s, instead of coming out of a concert.
« u •
The Princes, who were advertised to appear,
didn’t tarn up, but the crowd on the watch for them
did; a mab of some 200 of the unemployed hanging
about the hall from 2 o’clock until the hour the boys
were sampling the gubernatorial jam at tea-time.
* * * *
The other event alluded to above is an enter-
tainment which is recorded in our " Late Theatrical."
* * * *
Lady Loftus has expressed herself as being so
delighted with Professor Haselmayer’s conjuring, at
Government House on Friday night, that she has
recommended him to perform in Sydney for a season.
Doubtless Her Ladyr hip’s patronage and presence
would draw one good house—but one good house is not
a season.
* * * *
The Cardens open at the Queen’s Theatre on
August 2nd, when they will be supported by the stock
company. It is to be hoped ’hat these artists will, by
the talents they are said to possess, and the plays they
produce, succeed at “ reforming it altogether ” at this
house. The plays which the present management have
produced there of late have been such dramatic puzzles,
that they have severely tried the patience of the critic.
Blood, thunder, pistols, and flames—flames, pistols,
thunder, and blood, have been the order of the day. The
wrists of the fiddlers are weakened by playing continual
" hurries," and the property tempest must be bent into
the shape of a boomerang from continual use. We
have no objection whatever to sensational drama as long
as a portion of the unities is observed, and the thing is
moderately coherent. But, at the Queen’s Theatre, our
experience is of two, and perhaps three, heavy pieces
being produced in one week, without time having
been allowed either for the actors to rehearse, or for
the scene-painter and property-man to get ready the
necessary scenes and appliances. And yet they expect
ene to praise this kind of thing: to award a good notice
to an actor when a good deal of his part has been spoken
by the prompter; to give a scenic artist a full notice
for putting a row of purple stencilling and a blue border
to the closet scene in “ Hamlet," and calling it an
Indian pavilion The daily papers are, in a large
measure, responsible for such unreasonableness on the
part of these exponents of third-rate dramas. The
Herald hardly ever notices the Queen’s theatre at all,
but the other dailies invariably write paragraphs imply-
ing that the performance was “ fair," or “ appeared to
give pleasure to the audience," without assigning any
critical reason whatever for the assertion. This kind
of slovenly journalism is on a par with the slovenly
acting we complain of—both of which, however, have
long been played out in cities where people are lees
phlegmatic on the subject of art than we are here, in
our own “ beautiful city by the sea.”
* * * *
And so, on Saturday, “ Diplomacy ” gives way
to “ The Crushed Tragedian," at the Opera House.
Well, we suppose it must be so, but losing the play, to
us, is like losing an old friend. We can b:ing to our
recollection no play whatsoever that will bear seeing
mere times than Bowe's clever adaptation of Sardou’s
chef d'oeuvre.
To-morrow (Friday) Mr. Titheradge will take
his benefit at the Opera House, on which occasion
“ Diplomacy *’ will be played for the last time but one.
Mr. Titheradge says that the final night of the play, to
the success of which he has so largely contributed, will
see his final appearance in Sydney. This is to be re-
gretted by all who appreciate refined, intelligent, and
forcible acting. Mr. Titheradge has not, of late, figured
as a “ star,” but he is nevertheless a professional planet
of great brilliance, and one that is not outshone at the
present time by any star in the Australian dramatic
firmament. It is needless to say that both Mr. and Mrs.
Titheradge carry away with them more than our very
best wishes. We heartily trust that they will succeed
wherever they go as they have succeded here. This
much written, we have only to add—bon voyag*.
* * * *
By the way, let ua give a little honour where
honour is due. On Saturday night last Mr. Titheradge
was ill, and therefore unable to play, so his long and
arduous part was undertaken, at comparatively a mo-
ment’s notice, by Mr. Cates, while Mr. Neil O’Brien
slipped into Mr. Cates’s shoes as OrlofE. With regard
to the role of Julian, a part three times as long as any
other in the piece, it would be impossible for any actor to
make a hit in it without long and arduous study Mr.
Cates, however, did very well, while Mr. O’Brien was
really capital as Orloff. We are pleased to be able to
record one success for this young gentleman, an i shall
be more pleased still when we can conscientiously
record another.
* * * *
The return of the Montague-Turner company,
on Saturday, created quite an excitement in the city.
When the Wotonga, from Brisbane, arrived at the
A.S.N. wharf, quite a procession of cabs was there to
meet her. And the company, from Mr. Turner down to
the chorus veteran, looked the picture of iollity. The
sojourn of the crowd at Brisbane has wakened up that
sun-baked village to an extent previously unknown
there. They appear to have been all Montague-mad,
and Turner-'touched.’ Mrs. T.’s benefit was an
enthusiastic business seldom heard of in the theatrical
annals of Australia. From the Brisbane Teleoeaph we
learn that on the evening in question, “ Faust ’’ was
given, and that “ standing room was a thing to be
thankful for. Several additional rows of stalls at dress
circle prices had been fitted up, and had the whole pit
been reserved the probabilities are that every seat
would have been occupied.” To quote further
“ Hardly the last note of the Jewel song had been sung
when a perfect shower of bouquets and wreaths com-
menced to fall on the stage, amidst the most enthusi-
astic plaudits we have ever heard in a Brisbane theatre.
No sooner had the fair singer struggled to the wing,
under an immense floral load, than she found another
and another awaiting her, until it appeared at last as
though she would have to relinquish the task of re-
moval." Then Dr. O’Doherty came on d la Tom Slattery,
made an “oration," and presented Miss Montague
with a testimonial which had been subscribed for by
the white-tie and lavender-kidded section of the com-
munity. " The speech," to quote the paper, " was
frequently interrupted by cheering, and as the speaker
clasped the bracelet—a very handsome gold band
studded with several large diamonds—on Miss Monta-
gue’s arm, the cheering was tremendous " Well, this
is as it should be; for it is only an instance of the
eternal fitness of things that nice people should get nice
presents, and all we are surprised at is, that as we are so
nice ourselves, a subscription is not started amongst a
few heavy tragedians to present us with a silver coal-
scuttle or a Kooh-i-noor or two.
* *
Well, as we before remarked—
The company opened in “Mignon” at the
Gaiety on Monday. A full notice will be found under
the heading of “ Late Theatrical."
* * * *
The Wilhelmj concert company appeared for
the last time on Tuesday evening, when the great
violinist was assisted by the double-quartette as on the
occasion of Monday’s matinee. His performance was
simply sublime, and Herr Wilhelmj received the usual
ovation. Both Miss Kate Thayer and Miss Conron
were in excellent voice, and Mr. Vogrich scored a very
great success in a fantasie on Alda, composed by him-
self. The comparatively meagre business which the
company have done here cannot be otherwise regarded
than as a reproach upon the musical appreciation of
the Sydney public. Mr. DuS, the entrepreneur , has
already lost a large sum of money, and both he and
Wilhelmj are, of course, much dispirited. In Mel-
bourne, however, they anticipate doing an immense
business—anticipations which we cordially trust will be
fully realized.
* * * *
The Baylesa-Marahall slander imbroglio has
been squared, to the satisfaction of all parties. Fred.,
in an agreement arrived at after some negotiations,
sent from Melbourne a cheque for all costs —and, it is
said, something outside the costs into the bargain.
The precious document was accompanied by an
“ ample apology, for publication in the Sydney news-
papers;’’ but when L.M.B. got the “sug.” he very
generously sent back the apology to Quilp, saying that
he wouldn’t publish it, and that he hoped they’d be as
good friends as ever. Now, dear reader, please under-
stand that it wasn’t Fred, who was charged with
slander. It was somebody else. Of course, there was
a woman at the bottom of it.
* * * *
It is said that at next University commemoration
the grads, intend having, with the aid of the Bomanys,
a shot at the ancient dramatic authors. We hope this
is true. Look at the tone the sonorous Greek of
Sophocles would give to our patrician shows, and think
of the shrieks of delight which would fill the house as
the wit of Terentius Afer tripped from the laughing
lips of our lovely “ too too” ladies. We are positive
the thing would be one gigantic howl of success.
* * * *
Mr. John L. Hall took a benefit on Friday last,
at the Opera House, when there was a splendid pro-
gramme. “ Old Sailors” was the first piece, and Johnny
was delightful as Jacob Grill. It was a treat to see our
old favourite in a true comedy part, after all the gore
and graveyard business he has been doing lately. But
if he was delightful as Jacob, he was a shriek in “ The
Wandering Minstrel" afterwards. Mad’elleOharbonnet
played, in the interval, with her accustomed exquisite
skill, and Miss Annie Taylor was very great in playing
with the benefloiare in the farce. Besides this. Miss
Edith Pender lent her aid, and—
Sweetly sang of love or wine,
Or laughter, oh, a song divine.
The gallant Major-General was to the fore, too; and
Harry Leston, who was welcomed with a shout, de-
livered a recitation which got his audience from the
start. Mr. Hall is going away in a few days, and we wish
him good luck. His season here has not been a fortu-
nate one this time, and we regret to hear, also, that he
has business troubles in Adelaide as well—and all this,
on the top of a great domestic calamity. Mr. Hall,
however, comes back to us at Christmas, to play the
leading part in the pantomime at the Boyal, for which
he has been specially engaged by Mr. Lazar.
* * * *
Mr. H. W. Chapman gave, on Wednesday week,
a Shakespearian, dramatic, and humorous recital at the
Protestant Hall, of 21 pieces, all of them more or less
hackneyed. Admission was by invitation, and, there-
fore, we suppose we have no right to be critical. For.
Mr. Chapman we can say this much, and we say it with
pleasure, that he is very persevering. When he gives
a recital to which a charge (however trifling) is made
for admission, we will say a good deal more. In the
meantime, we would delicately hint to Mr. H. W, C.,
that it is just possible to have too much of even a good
thing. Twenty-one pieces—Eureka I
Our particular friend, Dominic Sonsee, Esq.,
is, we grieve to hear, about to commit a rash act.
Before going to Newcastle, he is to be united, in the
bonds of holy matrimony, to the magnetic lady. The
giant is to be best man, Johnny Solomon will give the
bride away, and the proprietor of the show and Harry
Richardson, attended by “ Horatio," will wheel the
festive groom’s perambulator to the steps of the
altar. It would seem that though passionately
fond of his bride, a little difficulty stands in the way
of Dominic’s happiness. When the day, with its cares,
has drawn to an end, Dominic loves to sit upon a table,
and respectfully salute, at intervals, the cheek of his
adored, but he complains that when he does this he
gets such a shock through his system as makes his
hair stand up as stiff as the Garden Palace railings for
about ten minutes afterwards. He clasped her to his
heart yesterday morning, when a fit of devotion was
very strong upon him, and the electric current was so
strong upon h&r , that it not only froze the marrow in
his bones, but drew the spring right out of his watch.
As the little man leaves us soon, we recommend those
who haven’t seen him to do so. They can then hear
all about his love from his own lips.
* * * *
Mr. J. A. South is again in Sydney, organising
this time a “ Pirates of Penzance” company, with
which he intends to do the entire colony. James in-
forms us that he endeavoured to secure the services of
Mr. J. L. Hall, that gentleman to undertake the part of
the Sergeant, but the negooiations fell through on
aceount of Johnny having to leave for Adelaide on
business. Mr. South tells us that he is doing his
utmost to secure a company the like of which has
never travelled in the provinces, his late experiences
having satisfied him that anything really good is bound
to gee with the rustics.
* * * *
Mr. Dewhurst, the English tragedian who lately
arrived in Melbourne, does not, so far as we can gather,
appear to have been a success over there, and has
migrated from the Theatre Boyal to the Athenaeum!—
“ Blow for Blow" has succeeded “ Quilp ’’ atthe Bijou,
and Fred. Marshall is drawing crowded houses as Charley
Spraggs.—“ Pinafore" is still running at the Opera
House with Miss Alice Rees as Josephine, Signora
Venosta as Buttercup. Mr. John Porde as the Captain,
and Mr. Vemon as Sir Joseph. “ Billee Taylor" is in
active rehearsal at this house, and will be, on dit, pro-
duced in a fortnight, by the enterprising—and what’s
still better, lucky—J. C. Williamson.
* * * *
In Rockhampton (Q.) things theatrical seem
lively. The Oliver-Seagrave crowd are back again,
playing the " Ticket of Leave Man" and “ Neck or
Nothing" ; and on the Race Night, Maggie Oliver pre-
sented the winning jockey with a whip, and afterwards
danced a hornpipe in the winning colours. The Austrian
Band was also there on July 12, playing to moderate
business at the School of Arts, and the
“ZEBRA FAMILY TROUPE AND SWORD
EXERCISE. (!)
A Grand Boxing Entertainment,
BY LARRY FOLEY’S NOVICE, and several
other men of the Ring, who ate open to oblige all
comers in Rockhampton,"
were also announced. As if this were not sufficient, a
“ Wild beast show” was also exhibiting in the town, the
attractions of which exhibition appeared to consist of
a “Cheetah tiger, monarch of the jungle,” “ five snake-
killers" (whatever they may be), and “ a Russian bear.’*
We understand that Maggie is doing well up North, and
that Little Nell and her hub. are great favourites with
everyone. The editor of the Northern Arghjs has pro-
nounced Mr. Edwin Palmer the finest comedian that he
has ever seen, which would be genuine kudos it he had
seen much. For the rest, the Kelly and Liddy opera
Company, with Miss Wangenheim as the star, are doing
very well indeed on the Darling Downs.
* * * *
Miss Georgina Smithson writes to us from
Toowoomba, and complains that we called her little
party “ entire strangers." It appears that this lady is
quite a celebrity, and her husband, Mr J. Holloway,
quite more so. The troupe also embodied the Fakir of
Ajmere, who likewisj writes, and says that though he
has quitted Georgina, his show is still the Ajmeration
of everybody—which we are glad to hear. “ Gus
Williams ” also peas us a billet, and says that his show
is a big thing up North, his wax figures drawing like
cayenne blisters, and sticking nothing up on the slate.
The Rev. J. A. Dowie is shortly to be added.
* * * *
A Northern man, who recently ran a company in
Sydney, gave several members of the profession orders
on his partner for their screw. The orders have now
been returned through the bank labelled, “ No authority
to draw.” Several poor players are suitering
severely in consequence of this.
* * * *
At Grafton, the other day, during the hearing of
the case P Beldeld v. Harry Simmons, (or assault, it ap-
peared from the evidence that some of the actors con-
cerned—who are members of the local Theatre Royal
“ Pinafore ” company—are a very nice lot, indeed. It
seems that on the night on which the trouble occurred
there was a big shiny at the theatre: that a few of
the professionals were smacking each other’s faces, and
using terribly bad language; and that such worns as
“ thief," and “adjective Jew,” went freely round, only
varied bv such terms ol endearment as “my darl-
ing Prank,” and “ the poor, dear, fellow." Miss
Theresa Horan stated in her evidence that she
saw Mrs. Simmons slap Bellleid in the face. Then
How often of th' ambrosial draught
Of Dora's tones we’ve been a sipper I
How often have we quietly laughed—
At “ Ma, dear, I have lost my slipper."
How many times we’ve Mion seen
Bring letters in upon a salver I
And marked all Henry’s satire keen;
Screamed at the Countess’s “ Don Alva I”
How often have we seemed to be
Spellbound by Julian’s sacrifices!
And then next minute laughed with glee,
At Algie's “ gag " about the ices 1
How many times, too, Baron Stein,
Have we felt most disposed to kick him.
When list’ning to his “ polished " whine —
“ Prank” as the Baron—you "can’t lick him."
How oft we’ve seen we cannot say.
In this bright piece, “ the drama righted
But th’ oftener we’ve beheld the play.
The oftener ic« have been delighted.
The company look lovely, and
The prima-donna—you
Should just have seen the sparkle of
Those melting eyes so blue !
And Turner, too, as downwards from
That vessel he did march.
Created quite a furore by
The curl of hia moustache.
And Farley was a walking smile.
Though p’rhapa a little pale;
But then, yon know, he’d lately braved
“ The fury of the gale."
Le Couteur, in a brand new suit,
To gen'ral observation.
Looked as if on his furrow’d brow
The cares sate of a nation.
And Caron—ah, no song of ours
Could paint with fit precision.
The undulating beauty of
That sweet ethereal vision.
And last our sweet Sebastian—
(But we must be laconic I)
Ha best may be described by this
Unique term—Saxophonic.
IN MEMORIA.M.
SAM. EMKBY.
Sam. Emery, the well-known comedian, who
has delighted thousands in this city in the character o£
Captain Cuttle, is dead.”— News.
What! “ Cap’en Cuttle 1 ” —even thou, alas I
Whose genial face still lives in ev'ry mind—
How strange grim Death cannot a genius pass.
Yet leaves so many charlatans behind 1
And thou art gone I Well, since it mnst be so.
To proudly say of thee, brave heart, we can,
E er the Destroyer dread had laid thee low,
There lived an actor, and there lived a Man.


Harry Simmons, who was standing partially behind
Bellied hit him In the month with his closed hand.
The blood squirted on to Miss Jenny Horan. She(witness)
thereupon called Simmons a contemptible coward.
The Mixses Horan were not immediately concerned
in the row. Homo of the witnesses rather flabbergasted
the J. P.’s when they began to use snch professional
-terms as “not much,’’ “putting a flat in,’’ and “gather-
ing the props.” While one of the defendants was
addressing the Bench, and referring to a statement
made by himself, that one of the lady witnesses had her
arm around somebody else’s neck, the young lady in
question ejaculated (quietly but determinedly) across
the Court-room table, “You curl” The evening’s
entertainment cost Harry £2 6s lOd, and costs.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
A big temperance dinner was held at the—(it
would be libellous to give further particulars)—last
week. Subjoined is a copy of the menu.—
Soups:
Bain water; cold water; soap-and-water ; lavender
water; dirty water.
Fish :
Frozen prawns; crocrodiles; sea serpents; stewed
shark; bechede-tuer
Dishes :
Baked missionary, with nailrod sauce ; elephants cold;
roast gorilla and boiled goloshes ; fried Corporation
contractors, and blue metal sauce; snakes; stewed
mandarins, with small-poz trimmings.
Vegetables:
Lucerne hay; cocoa-matting; tin-tag, boiled; oakum.
Dessert:
Water-melons, boiled; pustules on the half-shell;
guano in bags; fried J.P.'s, alia Eusse; aquafortis;
stewed Good Templars,
* * #
’Twas a lovely Sabbath morn, —one of astro-
nomer Russell’s best—and an animated heap of rags
slowly rose from his downy conch on the Park and
staggered over to Punch’s pub., where he stood discon-
solate as the Peri in Lalla Rookh His predominant
facial colour was purple; his principal clothing holes
with an occasional bit of cloth sewn round them, and
his hair was tastefully festooned with bits of straw and
chips of asphalte. And it came to pass that as ho
propped himself up against the door and thought of the
bliss within, a good young man, clad in the garb of
sanctity and one of Hagon’s best suits approached, tract
in hand and said, as he lovingly placed his hand on the
“ dead-beat’s ” arm—“ Friend, wilt thou still drink P”
To which the “ Josser ’’replied, ‘‘ Shertinly ole man—
where’ll we go for it ?”
• * *
This requires some explanation. In the first
place, our Catholic friends are now holding a Jubilee,
and part of the conditions of the Jubilee is the very
meritorious custom of giving alms to the suffering poor.
In the second place, one of our most successful dis-
ciples of the Ciceronian art is a party who carries his
contempt of the tailor’s skill to the extreme, and prides
himself in turning out in the costume peculiar to gen-
tlemen of the carboniferous period. One day last week
this gentleman stood waiting for the tram at the comer
of King-street just as a certain devotee left St. Mary’s
after beginning his Jubilee mission. As the decent
party passed the man of law it suddenly occurred to his
religious mind that as yet he had not given a cent in
charity; so, after a few minutes’ fumbling, he chased
3d. into a corner of his trousers pocket, and walking
over, he slipped it into the attorney’s hands, with a
fervent " God help you, my poor man, and all like yon,”
Cicero’s remarks are totally unfit for publication,
# * *
There was once a man who said that he’d like to
be an angel, but if he could not be an angel he’d be a Town
Hall contractor. Well, it that man only knew the
privileges that are accorded policemen in this city,
doubtless he would be glad to exchange the contracts—
and even the wings and trumpet—for the handcuffs and
truncheon of the colonial " crusher.” It would appear
that one day last week, a man named Tapp was charged
by constable Maxwell with using obscene language, and
after several remands the Bench dismissed the case.
In the course of the proceedings the constable said that
“ihe had to use violence to search the defendant, and
pushed him when he fell; whilst on his haunches, wit-
ness shoved him into a cell feet foremost, and he bled
from his nose; there were no marks on the accused
previous to his arrest; he was not insensible when he
fell at the lockup; had sent in his resignation in the
police, and was going to leave Sydney, but declined to
•ay where he was going to." The facts are that the
poor man was brutally ill-treated. William Henry Tay-
lor, a transit commissioners' officer, who accompanied
the constable and the accused to the lockup at the time
of the arrest, said he saw the constable use unnecessary
violence, and it was not true that the accused used the
foul words ascribed to him. Now, what we should
courteously like to enquire is whether any steps will be
taken by the police authorities to sift this matter to the
bottom, even if proceedings be not instituted on his own
account by Tapp. If, however. Maxwell has been
allowed to resign and leave the colony, in the face of
this monstrous proceeding on his part, all we can say is
that the affair will not tend to raise the Police Force in
the estimation of the public. For all that, the Maxwell-
Tapp episode will be, if nothing else, instructive. It
will demonstrate to the community what a comfort-
able thing it is to be a policeman when you have a bad
temper.
♦ * •
They were both looking into Peapea and Shaw’s
windows, and were dear, dear friends. Said Arabella,
41 Very low the dresses are to be this summer, Susie,
dear; sloping shoulders, of course, dt rigueur .- rather
awkward for some people," and she glanced slyly at
her companion, whose shoulders were on a straight
line with her ears, and who had a back like a top-boot
—the same size all the way down. “It is awkward,
indeed, my dear," rejoined the other, calmly; “ and
that reminds me: what coloured hair will you wear
with your new dress, and when do you expect those
new teeth you ordered to come home ?” When they
meet now, they covertly “ make faces " at one another.
« * «
The other day a Minister, an under secretary,
and another gentleman occupying a responsible posi-
tion in a Government office, thought they would go and
have a look at the Detached Squadron. So, getting a
steam-launch, they boarded the —well never mind which.
A very small midshipman was on the quarter-deck, to
whom they gave their cards. Glancing superciliously
at the pasteboards, the youngster crumpled them up in
his pocket, and with a sigh denoting boredom in the
first degree, said impatiently, ** Oh, come on, then, you
fellows; I s’pose you want to see the infernal engine I"
The distinguished visitors looked at one another
aghast, and—fled.
* * *
Two or three city fathers reclined in the Aider-
men’s room, the other day, gloomily talking about
plaster and foundations, when one of them, who had
baen glancing at an English paper, read out the follow-
ing extract: —“ Not a single sober exception. Mark—
the whole Council was drunk—the Mayor, Aldermen
Longbottom and Parkinson, Councillor Bramley, &c.,
&c., were intoxicated, not with * the exuberance of their
own verbosity,’ but with liquor.” “ Well," he said,
when he had finished; “ they can’t say that of t*s.”
“No,” rejoined another, gloomily; “I wish they
could." “ Why ?" was the general indignant chorus.
*lt would have been something to have had even that
excuse," was the answer. A silence succeeded, and
one after another they writhed themselves out.
* * *
The motto of The Witness is, “ All the earth
shall be filled with the glory of the Lord,” and all
a certain paper is filled with is abuse of The Presby-
terian. Hallelujah !
• * «
The other morning two elegantly-attired ladies
got into the tram at Moore Park, and seated themselves
uext to a little boy, the lady nearest to him wearing a
beautiful slate-coloured silk. When the cars had gone
* short distance the boy began to cry, and turning to
the fair one nearest him, said, “ Here! I’m fly to this.
Just you get up." “Why, what does the boy mean?”
ejaculated both ladies together. “ I was had afore that
Wa y, by Kitty Cleaver,” yelled the youngster; “ get up,
V lteU father.” Much perplexed, and thus adjured,
the lady rose slightly from her seat. Then a shriek of
rmmph came from the urchin. “ I knowed it," he
cried, producing a flattened mass of paper, butter, fat
beef, and bread-crumb. “ Thought to 'ave me by settin’
om my sandwiches!"
♦ • *
Just a few lines in verse, now, on a society sub-
ject, begging leave to be allowed to vary the metre.
A type of a class is:—
We have all heard of the man who got level
with the fellow who had given him a cheque drawn
against an insufficient balance by taking the “ straight
tip” from the bank clerk, paying the amount of the
deficit into the drawer’s credit, again presenting the
cheque, collaring the cash and closing the account.
This story has now been improved on. An attorney, to
whom a slippery client's £5O cheque had long been a
bug-bear, was informed one day that there were at the
drawer’s credit funds sufficient to meet it. He clapped
on his hat, but when he arrived at the bank the heller
shook his head and said “£5 short.” The lawyer at
once started for his office just round the corner to get
the needful. He came back, paid in the £5, and
tendered the £5O cheque to the teller. Once more the
teller shook his head. “ You’re had again, old man,”
said he mournfully—" he’s just been and drawn his
balance.” The story, of course, goes on to say that
when the wily debtor heard of the paying in of the £5,
he drew a cheque for £4 19s. 6d., cashed it at the bank,
and went round and asked the land-shark to have a
drink.
RUMOUR.
Why are the Princes kept on board
And out of sight, “A Father” roaredP
Why didn’t they attend onr ball.
The disappointed Masons bawl P
Because, dear friends, if they were spotted
By certain parties, they’d be— potted.
Anyhow, it is a fact that a report to the above effect
has reached the Inspector-Qeneral of Police.
• * *
A correspondent writes to say that he has
posted a Bulletin to his friends in the country for
several months, and they have never received a single
paper. He appears quite surprised, and asks onr
advice. Under the circumstances, we can simply
recommend him to tell his friends to keep sweet with
the local postal clerk, who then may perhaps be kind
enough to lend them a copy.
* * *
A gentleman named Cavenagh, a phrenological
professor, recently visited Parramatta, and “ read the
characters” of the aldermen. Flushed with success,
he offered, we hear, to do the same for our aldermen.
It is needless to state that his proposition was, with
trepidation, refused, once and for ever.
* »• •
The Ballarat Courier must have been hard
up for a par. when it printed this delightful item
“ The Rev. John Dalton, tutor to the Royal Princes, in
acknowledging the receipt of copies of the printed
pamphlet, * Descriptive Discourse in re the Melbourne
Exhibition of 1881’ (sent to himself and these young
gentlemen by the Rev. Peter Campbell, the bush mis-
sionary), concluded his letter as follows: —‘ Our stay
among the Victorian people has been most thoroughly
enjoyed.* ” We remember this valuable work perfectly.
It was a mean-looking little pamphlet of a few pages,
with a brick-dust cover—and the cover was the best part
of it. This magnificent essay will doubtless give Mr.
Dalton and his cronies an elevated idea of Australian
literature; so Peter has added another to the many
benefits he has conferred on mankind. We are, of course,
very proud of Mr. Peter Campbell as one of the most
enlightened ministers of this country; still, if the train
he was in happened to—but we will not pursue the sub-
ject.
* * ♦
Here is a verse from the latest Beaconsfield
dirge, published in a London paper:—
“ Then mourn for him, ye monarchs,
Te humblest of mankind;
For he has now departed—
The greatest of modern time.”
Can it be possible that Lewis has become distributed ?
* « *
This is straight. It is an understood thing that
they will stick to their fellow Good Templar! This
being the case, we will inscribe to the Timbuctoo
Council the following:—
Of what avail the law’s appeal.
When he's to gain the day ?
This mockery won’t pass as zeal.
Nor stand the light, we say !
Why waste the money on such scamps P—
The city rates, we mean
Par better, buy a few more lamps,
Anb keep the city clean.
* * *
The editor of the Manning Eiver Times pub-
lishes in his paper a “ Good Templar Column,” but
naively intimates that he is ‘‘in no way identified with
the opinions expressed in it.” After carefully reading
the Times, we are thoroughly of opinion he really is
“ in no way," &c. The “ Poet’s Comer ” of the Times
is, we notice, occupied by some charming iambics,
headed “ Suing for Bail,” and commencing elegantly
thus—
** A boozer bowed his hatless head.”
There is something Swillburnian in this alliteration.
* # *
It does not seem a very difficult matter to obtain
Mr. Dalton’s autograph. Peter Campbell got a letter
out of him, in exchange for a three-penny sermon, and
now Mr. Albert Goldstein is equally successful with
two oilskins. We have half a mind to try it on, too ; (
only we can’t quite decide what we ought to send. Our
vigorous mind is, in fact, wavering between six-penny- 1
worth of fish-hooks and a Colonial jam tin.
* • •
It is said that at the M‘Beath trial, there will be i
elicited some startling disclosures. As if anything 1
could surprise us in that line now! If it came out
that honesty formed even a trifling ingredient in the
Municipal muddle, that indeed would be a staggerer I
Of course, however, we don’t know what is ‘‘ coming '
out, * although we are precious well aware what has
gont in.
• * »
This is from a Yorkshire paper, and ia what we
call illustrative of sterling enterprise t—
“ THE EIGHTH WONDER OF THE WORLD 1
(Monday, April 11th, and following).
■jVTISS JESSIE SINCLAIR, the Premier Bar-
iu maid, who, notwithstanding her extraor-
dinary size and weight, obtained the highest
honours for activity and beauty at the recent
Barmaid Competition at North Woolwich Gar-
dens, London, has been specially engaged by
John Hartley, Druids’ Arms, Westgate, Brad-
ford, in order that all may have an opportunity
of seeing the ‘Handsomest Lady in the Land,*
only twenty-seven years of age; Weight, Thirty
Stones I Guaranteed. Ales, Wines, Spirits, and
Cigars at the usual moderate prices, and of the
same sterling quality as heretofore.”
This sort of thing might be followed up with advantage
here, and a fine trade might be done in celebrities at
once. Putting aside women altogether, M'Beth, after
all that has been heard about him, would be a splendid
draw for an up-country wine-shop, and A. Allen would
make the fortune of a Riverina pub. If we had a spec,
ourselves on the Barcoo, and could make it right with
David to come and pitch all day, we should consider
our fortune secured.
♦ * *
A gentleman who says he ia an editor, but who
writes on public-house paper with a Chinaman’s pen,
sends us an account of his first quarrel with his wife.
It all occurred about a pudding, and this, for one thing,
makes us think he is not an editor at all, as those poor
mortals can very seldom afford puddings, and, even
when they “hold” the coin for the suet and sultanas,
they cannot spare the time to eat it. Suppose our cor-
respondent’s pudding produced, and hear him;—“ • My
dear did you make this?’ ‘Yes, love; ain’t it nice ?’
‘ Glorious—the beat bread pudding I ever tasted in my
life.’ * Plum pudding, duckey,’ suggested wife.’ * Oh,
no, dearest—bread pudding. I always was fond of
them.’ ‘ Call that plum pudding, if you please,’ ex-
claimed the wife, and the lip slightly curled with
contemp (sic). ‘Well, my dear, I reoon (sic) I’ve had
enough bread pudding to know what it is, at least, my
love.’" Well, after this specimen of your style, dear
correspondent, we incline- to the supposition that, if
you are an editor at all, you are editor of a lime-kiln.
« * *
A man named Simms has been lecturing in
Brisbane on the human face. If he comes over nere
and takes a certain architectural J.P. of our acquaint-
ance for his subject, we will guarantee him a crowded
house.
# * «
Rather a good story comes from Parramatta,
which is probably just as true as most stories told of
the Mayor’s recent ball. A lady residing in that aristo-
cratic suburb, making sure of an “ invite," had given
some extensive orders to her dressmaker and milliner,
and only realised the profound truth conveyed in the
proverb anent counting unhatched chickens when the
day arrived, and the cards didn’t. Like Mrs. John
Gilpin, this lady combined frugality with a love of plea-
sure, and felt desirous of deriving some solace for her
disappointment by obtaining some substantial reduction
in the price of the now useless finery. The dressmaker
sympathised with her patron’s disappointment, and was
easily induced to make the required reduction; but the
milliner was more obdurate, and insisted upon being
paid the full amount agreed upon. Finally she loft the
milliner’s shop in a huff, but, repenting, the next morn-
ing sent for the cap, when she was informed that it had
been purchased by her dearest friend and most suc-
cessful rival—for her cook.
Lovers of music will no doubt remember that
not more than a year and a half ago the musical veteran,
Sir Julius Benedict, took to himself a wife about fifty
years his iunior. Lady Benedict has now presented her
i ord with a son, and to this infant the Prince of Wales
has consented to stand sponsor." When a certain bluff
old Knight heard this read out to him at the club the
other day, he said : “ Yes —there must be something in
music after all."
* * *
“ In the recent Lawson-Labouchere libel case,
the Lord Chief Justice stated that he had not seen a
copy of the London Daily Telegraph for ten years.”
This statement was in Court received with a murmur
of incredulity In a recent libel case in Sydney, a
venerable witness said that he never read The Bulletin.
This assertion was received with lugubrious silence.
* * #
The other day, the Inverell Argus published
the following: “ From an authoritative source we
learn that the Bermagui mystery is unravelled. The
; police are in possession of facts that convince them of
’;he murder of the whole party by a German who was
mixed up in the affair, and who has since disappeared.
They have also a clue to his whereabouts, so that we
shortly hope to see the ends of justice met." This
item was, of course, copied into all the other papers,
and the jubilation of the Aaous bordered on the up.
roarious, until it began to "drop down" that the par,
had been sent them by an opposition paper.
# # #
The Manning River Times is poetic on the
subject of winter. Mark this meteorological item
"The Weather.—Winter has come in earnest, cold
piercing winds have forced people to don warmer cloth-
ing, and the sharp frosty nights drive them to the fire-
side, and put an extra blanket on tbeir beds." Very
good ! We should like to see the man who wrote this
try his hand at a sonnet on bullock’s liver.
* * *
At Wilcannia, the other day, a coroner’s jury
returned a verdict, " Died from natural causes and a
kick from a horse. However, we can still have a little
lingering respect for these jurymen. They were only
dense.
# # #
Memo, for country editors,—Ton wouldn’t copy
our jokes without acknowledgement, dear boys, if you
could only realise how they completely knock the stuff-
ing out of your own time-honoured locals about the de-
parting chemist and the coming piano-forte tuner.
• * *
Mr. Croft, deputy Postmaster-General of
Adelaide, was the other day presented with a gold watch
and chain, on his leaving the service. In reply he said :
—" Asa rule, gentlemen, I object to the system of
testimonialising. But there are—humph I —exceptional
cases." _We wonder how many guineas that conscien-
tious objection has saved Mr. Croft all these years. A
good round sum, we have no doubt,. What a talent
some people have in relinquishing a life-long objection
at the proper time !
• * •
At the Mercantile Ball — one “ wall- flower ’’
(jealous) to another wall-flower (who has just returned
to her seat after a solitary dance with a fossil in the
Customs) : —" Ob, dear! —why, good gracious, how could
you dance with that horrid man?" Wall-flower No. 2
(waspishly)—•" I don’t know, my dear, how I could
dance with him, but, I know how you couldn’t.” Acri-
monious rejoinder drowned by the band.
• # #
A man advertising in the Witness, says ; “ We
can furnish an open face lever watch for £2 15s, but do
not recommend them.” This ought to be a straight
thing, and when we can afford a watch of this calibre,
we will see that the vendor gets a turn. It gives us confi-
dence when a man runs down his goods. Eodanow recom-
mended all his, from the ten-bobber, upwards. By the
way, what has, we wonder, became of Bodanow P Made
a United States senator, probably.
• * #
"The Poe family of Winchester, Tenn., are
described as tough. Two of the sons are on trial for
murder. The mother complacently chews tobacco in
court, and a daughter sits with her feet on a table.
One of the prisoners, enraged at the testimony of a
witness, kicked him off the stand." This is quite
idyllic. 801 l over, the lot of you, and sit on libel cases.
• * *
Says the Evening Shock, anent the electric-
light serenade: —" In passing, it may be mentioned that
to ‘ mids ’ of the Inconstant showed a disposition far
from that met its reward.” We have heard of a man’s
brain being temporarily clouded by his having “ the sun
in his eyes; ” but we never understood that the
electric light had a similar effect. The gentleman who
wrote what we have clipped must have had the electric
fluid very strong in his eyes, indeed. We would not, of
course, be rude enough to hint that there might have
been any other kind of fluid on board the Pairhght on
that festive occasion. No; no. We will put it all down
to the electric light—and pickles. y.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Judging from his name, Professor Dragamanoff
would make a good policeman.
As showing the eternal fitness of things, it may
be remarked that phonographers write the words " law.
yer” and “liar” with the same characters.
A certain Irish judge having sentenced a
convicted prisoner to death, the same prisoner was
again convicted of another capital charge, when the
judge again passed the death sentence, which he con.
eluded by saying : 11 The second sentence to commence
immediately after the expiration of the first."
An employ 6 of the railway department, who
hails from Patland, was discovered “ wolfing " beef
sandwiches on Friday last. Upon being remonstrated
with for thus disobeying the mandates of his church,
he replied : “ Atin’ mate on Friday! Bad luck to me, I
am. My sore heart is Catholic, but it’s the big Protes-
tant stomach that I have that’s rankin’ the blagart of
me.”
A teetotaller says that gin is the “ key ” by
which many gain entrance into our prisons and alms-
houses; that brandy “brands” the noses of all those
who cannot govern their appetites; that punch is the
cause of many unfriendly “ punches "; that ale causes
many “ ailings,” while beer brings to the " bier "; that
wine causes many to take a “ winding ” way home; that
champagne is the source of many real pains ; that “ gin-
slings ” have “ slewed ’’ more than " slings " of old.
From Gilbert and Sullivan’s “ Patience ”
Gentle Jane was as good as gold.
She always did as she was told.
She never spoke when her mouth was full
Or caught blue-bottles their legs to pull.
Or spilt plum-jam on her nice new frock.
Or put white mice in the eight-day clock.
Or vivisected her last new doll.
Or fostered a passion for alcohol.
And when she grew up she was given in marriage
To a first-class Bari who keeps his carriage.
In answer to numerous subscribers we reply, on
undoubted authority, that there is nothing whatever in
the rules of any temperance society which prevents or
interdicts a good templar from going into a public-house
on a Sabbath afternoon to ask the barmaid what time it
is. What the societies object to is the fact of the good
templar always wiping his moustache when he subso-
quently stri ies the pavement.
Swinburne on Oleomargarine:—
By the bitter cry of bilious man downtrodden
’Neath trick of trade;
By the spade—the saffron’d smoothness salt and sod-
den—
Not called a spade:
By the ghastly grease in seethe of soapstone blended,
Nice, yet not nice;
By the rancid richness mutely mixed and mended.
Prime at the price:'
By the foetid foulnesses which feed and fatten
With slimy spread;
By the blind brute bite of boyhood bound to batten
, On battered bread :
By the toothsome taste of tongues that ache and hunger
For something sound;
Take me, the cheap churn-child of the chaste cheese-
monger.—
A nd try a pound,
A well-known squatter resident of the Western
district met with a frightful accident in Murrurundi
last week. He fell out of bed and broke his—sleep.
At Keeakemet, in Hungary, there resides a Jew-
ish couple, Nathan Spunzer and his wife, Katerine, whose
united a*e-t amount to 217 years—the husband being 106
and his wife 111 years old.
Mr. Boyd has sent us some of the most artistio
enamelled photos that could well be managed. They
are counterfeit presentments of the Royal Princes and
H.S.H. Prince Louis of Battenburg, and certainly they
are positive reflections. The Prince of Battenburg, by
the way, looks (as do most people) better in a photograph
than in propria persona ; but he is not a bad-looking
little fellow anyway, —the only time he would be posi-
tively plain would be, we should say, when eating pea-
soup, or pumping water on a hot day for the “ missis.”
Our young friends, Edward and George, have come out
admirably; and though Mr. Boyd has toned Georgy
down, he still looks as if cook gave him pudding on the
sly. The portraits as works of art are splendid. That’s
what we say. And if anyone questions it, we will
aboyd by the decision of “ that arfc-critio."
THE PHANTOM OF THE BLOCK.
When the day is bright and fair
You are sure to see her there ;
When the clouds obscure the blue,
You are sure to see her too;
Never absent, we believe.
First to come, and last to leave.
Read these lines, and then take stock—
'Tis the “ Phantom of the Block.”
Pale face flat—of pancake shape—
Neck craned forward at the nape ;
Flaxen hair, that’s frizzled—oh hang
Such a fashion I—in a “ bang,”
Plain silk her skirt, drawn o’er the hips
So tight she cannot walk—but skips.
So short her dress in front, it shows
Not her shoes only, but her hose.
She minces on, her knees well tied.
And wags her head from side to side;
Stay I —suddenly this ghost does stop—
A man looks in a jeweller's shop!
She lingers by him ; plays a part—
She knows those trinkets all by heart.
Lo, up and down, up and down,
Stalks this phantom of the town ;
Leering here, and leering there.
Always bold, but never fair.
When she bows—’tis but a jerk';
When she smiles—’tis but a smirk;
When she turns—'tis but a wriggle;
When she speaks—’tis but a giggle.
All her actions in the street
Savour of the "counterfeit;”
There’s no girlish action there—
Nature’s left her in despair.
Now, who is this, you’ll ask, perchance
A partner in the " Devil’s dance ?”
A woman who has had a fall ?
But then we answer: “ Not at all I"
A lady, sirs, of a good stock.
Is this “ Phantom of the Block."
BALLAD OF THE BOILER.
His name it was Adolphus, but
His surname we won’t bellow 5
He was a little barber, yet
A very strapping fellow.
He had a little tiny shop
CWe’ll hide its situation);
And like the p’liceman in the song.
He loved beyond his station.
She was a mantua-maker, and
Dressed in a stylish manner;
Her name was Susan, but the world
Knew her as “ Juliana.”
Last Sunday morn Adolphus’ rig
The heavy swell did border on.
When he asked Juliana if
She’d go out to the “ Squarderon."
** Oh, yes,” she cried, “ for I do love
Those sailors in the harbour so !”
He frowned; she coughed—then added quick
“ And, oh, I love my barber so.”
** Oh marry me,” Adolphus cried;
" To be my bride’s your mission;
Tou know, my love, I can give you
A soap-erior position.”
** I’m yours,” she cried, “ now mind you don’t
With other girls goblathering;
Or, though you may the shaving do.
You’ll find me do the lathering.”
He kissed her: then they took a boat,—
The sea it was so green to see—
And bade the bearded boatman row,
Kight out the Tourmaline to see.
Arrived, a bearded carpenter
At once began his teasing,
And taking Juliana's hand,
Gave it a tender squeezing.
“ Sweet sylph ” —he said—but cried her swain,
“ Enough, come, of this * toffee,’ sir;
Tou shan’t her gaze arrest, e’en though
You are a warrant officer.”
** Oh, no offence,” the salt replied,
“ If jealous, you will spoil her;
Just let me take the lady down.
And show her our new boiler."
Before Adolphus could look round
To contemplate the scenery.
Behold the sailor and his love
Were lost ’mongst the machinery.
The hours passed; he waited on,
Till even came the gloaming.
But Juliana ne’er returned.
Their wherry to go home in.
“ Where is she gone ? ” he oft enquired j
And bearded tars said “ Well, son.
Mayhap you’ll find her for’ard with
Old Chips, there, in the kelson.”
At nine that night he met her at
Her lodgings, and she kissed him;
Eemarking that she really could
Not make out how she missed him.


Public Companies
The mercantile bank op Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fuad £116,884
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hob. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITOESs
Jas. Soroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES;
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BEANCHES:
587 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hill, and Eedfern.
A.ONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
HOUSES furnished at the Central Furnishing
Arcade, on Time Payments. 29, 31, and 33 Park-
street.
H. LEVY A CO.
WE repeotfully invito the public to visit our
Show Booms, Central Furnishing Arcade, 29,
31, and 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY & CO.
WE Furnish Houses from .£lO to £5lOOO.
Central Furnishing Arcade, No. 29, 31. and 33
ark-street. H. LEVY and CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, New
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
This establishment is now open, replete with every
requisite for household furnishing, together with a
large and extensive department solely for crockery and
glassware. H. LEVY and CO.
HLEVY and Co. beg to inform the general
• public that they have now completed their large
FURNITURE ESTABLISHMENT.
Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
N
E.
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES Ac.
R. LARK]
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-street).
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Meechant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
Forty ye \rs’ testimony for cure
OP INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON'S INDIGESTION PILLS.
“ This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
“ 1 have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
omplaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
s iflering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Careoll,
“ 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney.
•• Nov. 24,1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON'S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes, la. Cd., 35., and 4s. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS A PARKES, Herbalists,
240 Qeorge-street.
ELBOURNE CUP, 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OP PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
Bankers—National Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
about 250 prizes.
First Horse £l5OO
Second Horse £7OO
Third Horse £4OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non-Starters (divided) £2700
Ten Prizes at £lOO each £lOOO
Twenty Prizes at £5O each £lOOO
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each £l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
/m
wJ
M
WAUGH
S
unadulterated
BAK/NC POWDER
fJSJSSSu
%
m
m
Til
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of the public to our BLENDED TEAS Finest Family
Blend. 2/-; Finest ~ ~ ’ £ '"’ ° " *' ‘ ° w IAL
Packed by ns, and
packets, and in canisters „ „„,,
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.—REUßEN OLIVER, Manager.
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877,1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mudgee.
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
i No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elboume International, all assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewinb Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine-
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
Public Compai
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND B
ANCE COMP AH
CAPITAL, £IOO,C
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
O. A. LLOYD Al
Agents,
348 GKBOBGE-STBI
SIDNEY.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANC
YICTOBIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. 1£
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S 3
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chai
Ebenezer Vickery, Es<
Andrew Drysdale, Esq
This Society is established for Lif
Ranting' of Annuities and Endownu
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding i
proportionate amount of the entin
Society at every distribution therec
LOANS grouted on Mortgage or o
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. 1
B<
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDED
BENEFIT BUILDING AN
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and t
for Investors. Eight per cent, let
borrowers. Eight per cent, and
investors. The highest current rate
on Deposits. Prospectus and all
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAI
E
XCELSIOR LAND INYE
BUILDING COMPANY & I
The above Company Sells Land
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estati
sham, a few minutes walk from t
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balanc(
£4OO do. £4O do. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do.
All information at the Company 1
Street. WILLIAI
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE'
This Society provides a certain flxi
members when thrown out of emplc
Medical attendance durirg sicknesi
age, and when incapacitated from fol
ment through disease or accident; an
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engageme
For further particulars, apply to
G. HORTON MORBI
Secretar
Wen tv
El
Applications for Agencies
Photographer
PARLOUR ST
The Really Popular (and cheap) P
805 GEORGE STI
Onnosite the Railwav Te
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
-L_
'CJJX9
MANUFACTORY s
N.ACCOO
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &c. j is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace ;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H. S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Temporary Premises.
SYDNEY:
No. 11 BLOOMFIELD STREET,
SHEET HILUS.
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse £3OOO
Second Horse £lOOO
Third Horse £5OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non Starters (divided) £2OOO
6 Prizes of £lOO each £6OO
6 Prizes of £5O each £3OO
£llO Prizes of £lO each £llOO-
- is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies. .
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
CONSULTATION on the Metropolitan Stakes
—250 at £1 each, divided as follows: —First horse
£l5O, second £5O, third £25, starters (not 123) £25.
N.B.—All communications must be accompanied with
stamps forreply. Address, A. TURNER, 91 Elizabeth-
treet, Sydney.
rjpHOS. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS. BEASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ATT. KINDS, SIZES. AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STEEET, SYDNEY.


Business Announc
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WAEI
352 Oeorge-stree
PIANOFORTES. PIA
JUST RECEIVED. JUST
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPS
A splendid stock to sell
EVERY RENOWNED
AMERICAN ORC
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and si
OVER ALL OTH
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIOh
HARMONIUI
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENO
in all the various it
A FEW GOOD SECOND-H
at low prices, now h
Tobacconists
E * S
JAMES £
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cat Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
15 9 PI TT STRE E T,
Next Post Offloe.
*
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
16
DIXSON & SONS,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT. & DELICIOUS.
/ry> }
O Y )/>
m
A
Manufactured by
T. S ATWE L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
B
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE TOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THX
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
H. HILDER,
670 GEORG® STREET*
Brickfield Hill
M
R.
No. 12 HUNTER STREET.
ELLERCAM
(Successor to PARROT BROS.)
Just Received by the Mail, the
NEW COMET SHOE, 5/6 pair.
THE ROYAL COURT SHOE, 7/6 pair.
MOROCCO BUTTON SHOE. 7/6 pair.
FUR-LINED WARM SUPPERS, 7/6 pair.
Choice Assortment of New Fancy SCARFS, HAND
KERCHIEFS, and CHEVERETTE GLOVES,
New Spring-top Fur-Lined GLOVES.
Early Inspection Invited.
ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN,
DISCOUNT BANK,
AND
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OP SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui.
ties. Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments ; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Eliaabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBL I C
NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S EENOWNED PEOPEIETAEY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Eheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DEUG STORES.
581 GEOEGE STEEET.
POTHECAEIES’ HALL,
14 OXPOED STEEET,
Near Hyde Paek Cobnee.
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVEENOE,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Eepetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PEACTITIONEES
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK POE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAEEPULLT prepared with
the BEST DEUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies:—
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PEICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6. & 4/6.
PEEPAEED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
CAUTION. —In onr style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from ns by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boschee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses. For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is sinaply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of cases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst cases
of Eheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will cure.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Bar Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
89 -WATEELOO-EOAD, LONDON 5
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STEEET. SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STEEET, SYDNEY.
Manzanita fruit pills.
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints,
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO EOAD, LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STEEET, SYDNE V.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGENTS.
PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
lAEE NO MOBE FILLS
but try
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUPEEE from HEADACHE P
Then try Henderson's
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a few doses of Sanderson's
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES t
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON'S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any|of your children sick at any time P Ton
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human famin'
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
•V Remember this, and always keep a box of bis
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
ED WARD ROW and COMP ANT
45 and 47 Georgo-street.
B T
EOYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bash of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN TEARS
that it is impossible that the pnblio could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instan*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re- •
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is* of a pyr e green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants fro- which it is made,
and totally free from any and all ( eterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S ~ /STRALLAN
OINTMENT
which is guaranted to be wha is represented—s
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and in pots, Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW A COMP ANT.
ALL OP PHARMACY,
(Late Fklmingham’s)
78 KING STREET,
Dispensing Establishment.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Medicines sold below the
English marked price. All articles carefully selected.
D. HALE, Manaoeb, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
They are also much recommended as a mild laxa
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPES.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-etreet next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HTDEO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILT, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
&c., &c. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—R. T.
SELBT, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
PROFESSOR WEST’S Limited Adult EVEN-
ING CLASSES, Thursdays, 8 p.m.; Children's
Classes, Saturdays, 2 p.m.; select Adult Classes, Satur-
days, at 4 p.m., at Hall, 344 Costlereagh-street. Pupils
may join at any time. Private lessons on application.
Residence, 161 Liverpool-street.
~pi CLAEKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
CO.,
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
GROCERS.
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES,
Country Orders promptly attended to.
198 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Conrt-honse),
DAELINGHUEST.
EON AND BEASS
Fitted up wit
Palliasses, Mattresses, 80l
Sheets, Blankets, Com
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curta
J. LAWLE
MANUFACTURER AND
608 George-strei
O W L E E’S P
AND
BEICK woe:
OAMPEEDOWN, NEi
AND GENERAL COMMIS
843 ahd 345 Kent-street, ne
ESTABLISHED
Prioe List on applic
PROVISION MER<
H
A I


s
ASHES GLAZED ON TH
NOTICE.
G. P MUi-PHY,
S
Regent House, 869 George-sti
HOP FRONTS GLAZED
BRITISH PLATE GL.
G P. MURPHf,
Regent House, 869 George-sti
British plate and g
WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-sti
pAPERHANGINGS W
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-sti
LEAD,
OILS. COLC
&c., &c.
G P. MURPHY.
Regent House, 819 George-sti
jpLATE GLASS. PLA
GEORGE P MURPB
Regent House, 869 George-sti
rpHOMAS WEBB
BOND-STREET,
Beg to inform their customers that
OPENED a LARGE COftSIGNME
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, and
Also,
FANCY CHI
AND
GLASSWARE.
IIfSPBCTIOir IKVITB
r.v
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED
Turret Clocks—simple, strike
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Low pr
MASON brot;
11 & 16 S
C RE
genttp
ALL
w t* I i j a
O R
v. n',!
mum^i
@1 jftwKiS
VUMWUitM
V\ v\ \ '
ALARMING SALE OF 800
NOW ONI NOW OK
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BG
510 GEORGE STREI
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If yon are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT i
■with those you have been pay
MAKE NO MIS J
This is the only Genuine Sale, a !
FOR ONE MONTH 4
QNO
E USED ALW
GHBB
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on
out which none ia genuine. Be w
A^y
\iStD
TRADE
MAR
The GRAND GOLD MEr
HIGHEST MEDAL, Ps
HIGHEST AWARD, Sy«
LATHEES FREELY, SOFT
AKD SHOULD ALWAYS I
For Washing Clothes, Linen, I
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Y
Jj/£AKE you ® t p
THE ROYAL PUENISHIN
NEW AND BEAUTIPUI
ATTRACTIVE PRIC
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of C.
place daily, giving full information
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses
Houses
Houses
Houses
The STOCK is of such extent th
have every opportunity of making
and careful selections. All goods
figures so that parties who are not
to make purchases can pay visits of
tain every information in a pleasai
being pressed to huy.
n A M P H P T, T. DPs
WOMAN ITEMS.
The moat extensive contributor to Ladies
Column.—“ Ann Anias.”
Steps are being taken for the establishment of
a girls' Grammar School at Brisbane.
Last year, Chicago furnished 10 divorces to
every 79 weddings—or about one in eight.
She said she believed she never would be to him
what his first wife was. He married her straight off,
A Dunedin (N.Z.) barmaid has entered a suit for
£lOOO damages for breach of promise against a faithless
admirer
Professor Tresberg and Professor Lynne, of St.
Olar’s College, Northheld, U.S., have resigned. Girl
graduates again.
The champion economical woman lives at Rock-
hampton, and gets her dresses trimmed with the silk
from worn-out parasols.
Annie Covenier, a married woman residing in
Little Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, has suicided by
applying liniment internally.
Mrs. Whitby, of South Yarra, has suicided by
forcing a large knife down her throat, when suffering
from effects of excessive drinking.
“ You have never taken me to the cemetery,
dear,” said a newly-married lady to her husband. “ No,
dear," he said, “ I hope to take you there shortly.”
1 he other day a Bathurst woman abandoned her
six children, the eldest 12 years, the youngest 5 months
old. They are now in gaol, pending removal to Biloela.
A Maitland woman has been gored in the eye
while feeding a cow. This doesn’t surprise us. It would
really be odd though if a Maitland cow had been gored
in the eye while feeding a woman.
Miss Fosdyke, the young lady who disappeared
SO mysteriously from Echuca a few weeks since, has not
yet been beard of. Her parents know of nothing to
account for her absence from home.
Mrs. Jane Eames, wife of Mr. W. D. Eames,
Chemist, Oxford-street, poisoned herself with laudanum
last Friday. She had previously attempted suicide, and
had been confined in a lunatic asylum.
There are institutions in London where young
ladies are taught to get in and out of a carriage, on and
off a horse, to laugh with propriety, to manage their
trains, and generally how to overcome gaucher\ss in
Society.
Shoulders v. Ancles: a Note at the Victorian
Governor’s Ball.—” If she would only take a little oft
the bottom of her dress, and put it on her shoulders.”
” If she would only take a little oil her shoulders, and
put it on the bottom of her dress.”
Advertisement from a Melbourne paper -
** Widow, young, English, good servant (child, elderly),
low wages, waiting.” Now, if the widow be young, how
can the child be "elderly?” We trust this young
widow won’t be kept long ” waiting.”
Scene : Bar. Dramatis personas: Gilded young
" Squattah’’ and Hebe. GTS. (loq.); “Look’e here,
Mish, I’m rish man, I am. Got ten thousan’ acres besh
lan’ in th’ colony. Keep a beast to the acre all the year
rounsh.” Hebe: “Then you’ve got a great deal too
much. One acre’s enougb for you.”
Madame Berthe Mouchette, a lady of very high
artistic attainments, whose pictures at the Salon and
elsewhere have attracted much attention, and who has
been very successful in Prance as a teacher, leaves
Paris by the July mai' for Melbourne, where she pur-
poses to open a school tor instruction in painting.
The Queen, who is not naed to having her ad-
vice disregarded, i eceived the Baroness Burdett-Contts
at her last drawing-room in a very stiff and formal
manner. The Baroness wore a grey satin dress, with a
very long train of the same shade, trimmed with white
lace and roses. Her Majesty’s “kiss” was glacial in
the extreme.
Should your husband come home late with an
uncertain gait and a very certain atmosphere of spirits,
steady him against the wall and ask him to repeat the
sentence —Sfax seeks satisfaction. If he can’t get
nearer to it than "small-pox and vaccination,” you’ll
know what’s the matter, and commence to hunt round
for the broom.
Tout hien ou rien —all or nothing—is the motto
of the house of Gains through, to which Lady Blanche
Murphy belonged. The motto reminds one of the title
of one of Irj den’s plays—“ All for Love, or the World
Well Lost.” Her ladyship, whether at home in her
ancestral halls, writing for the New York papers, or
teaching school in New Hampshire to aid the humble
musician, her husband, was true to the legend of her
race.
Mrs. Langtry and Oscar Wylde were at a private
view of pictures and works of art at the Grosvenor
Gallery, when the lady stated to her companion that
■he wished to inspect, a certain statuette of Psyche.
Then occurred the following:—Mr. Oscar Wylde : “ You
surely do not wish to see the statuette ?” Mrs. Langtry:
** I surely do, and I am going.” The lady folded her
arms, and defiantly ran off from her companion to the
opposite end of the room. There happened to be a
relative of mine at that identical spot; from her I
heard afterwards the end of the nsrrative. Mr. Wylde :
” You see it is clothed with a smile.” Mrs. Langtry :
"Ah, indeed, and that’s all it is clothed with.”
At seventeen, a girl thinks often of lovo ?
delights in love songs; fills Moore’s poems with pencil
marks; thinks Byron’s face beautiful; eats little in
company. At eighteen, still thinks a great deal of love;
would care nothing for poverty, providing she had a
lover who adored her; indeed, would rather be poor
than rich, were she united to the ideal whom she has
not yet met. Still reads a great deal of poetry and
novels which deal largely with love and the death of
heroines ; passionately fond of children. At nineteen, a
little more critical; finds some of the poetry that
pleased her last year a little weak; looks about for
steadier authors than her old favourites, dances every
dance in a ball, and is not quite so particular as to the
men who are introduced to her. At twenty, she is not
so sure whether, after all, it would not be best to be an
old man's darling. Nevertheless, she flirts more
uniformly; all her shyness is gone; and she enjoys her
food whether people are looking at her or not. At
twenty-one, her belief in old men is strong; she has lost
prejudice in favour of poverty and cottages, yet she
would not insist upon money were her ideal to present
himself. At twenty-two, thinks her younger sister
rather forward in her manners, particularly with young
men.
MRS. LANGTRY AGAIN.
We write this verse with bated breath ;
We cannot stand the mental strain;
That woman, sure, will be our death;
Confound her I she’s turned up again!
We left her last in Berkeley Square,
And said her “pace” began to flag;
And next we read that “ lily” fair
** Was seen outside the Prince’s drag.”
Another staggerer, behold,
Beside which all the rest are mild;
She’s turned np Royalty, we're told,
And thrown her cap at—Oscar Wylde.
He never leaves her side all day.
Looks in her eyes, does sweet things mutter;
To see them side by side, they say,
Is more than too uniquely utter.
Wo could—but oh, our strength is gone;
We can but drop our pen and sigh.
With eye lack-lustre, heart forlorn: —
Oh, mil this woman never die t
A wonderful dog, with which no Celestial is
safe, is to be seen almost every day at the Coffee Tavern
billiard room, Pitt-street. The brute appears to have
been born with a natural antipathy to rata and China-
men. Oa the approach of a Mongolian, Toby’s master
has great difficulty in restraining him, even though the
Celestial be clad in European costume. Were breeders
of such dogs properly subsidized, who knows but that
we should arrive at a speedy solution of the Chinese
question ? Sir Henry Parkes might take note of this.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. Richardson, an old Dunedin (N.Z.) identity,
is dead.
Dr. Harding, of Napier (N.Z.), lately died from
diphtheria.
joV ! Lord Harris has announced his intention
to re tire from the cricketing field.
The Maori King will meet the Royal Princes at
Auckland, and—rub noses, as Maoris do.
Signor Giorza is not going to Italy just yet. He
is getting up a teaching connection in Melbourne.
Mr J. K. O’Meagher, solicitor, for many years
r reg ident of the Maitland district, died at Grafton on
Monday.
yfhen the Princess of Wales stands up to dance
11 the other people have to sit down. We wonder
Whether when Her Royal Highness flits down all the
other people have to dance?
Mr. Damock has been appointed to the chief
‘nsnectorship of the National Bank, whose headquarters
are no w in Dunedin, New Zealand. Mr. Young has been
appointed the Dunedin manager.
Colonel Scratchley is prevented by his engage-
ments with the colonial Governments from accompa-
living the Transcontinental Railway Survey Party from
Boma to the Gulf of Carpentaria (Q.).
It is said that the Hon. Thomas M‘llwraith has
sold all his Queensland stations to a London company,
w ho have, in addition, puishased Jimbour, on the
Darling Downs, and Westland, in the western district.
We learn that Mr. H. Eyres, who is stated to
have been heavily interested in the “ Tambonr-Major ”
and Australian Mammoth Minstrel companies, died at
Naples in April, aged 24. He hod £40,000 a-yeor, and
had been bnt two months married.
Captain Alexander Collins, Deputy Harbour
Master, of Newcastle, died at his residence, on Sunday
last aged 68. Captain Collins arrived in the colony in
1830* and since that time to the date of his death has
been indentifled with shipping pursuits.
Mr. J. G. Cribb, the Sydney University Medal-
list for 1881, is a Brisbane Grammar School boy, and
can boast of an uninterrupted series of academic suc-
cesses seldom, if ever, equalled in the colonies. Mr.
Cribb has carried off no less than seven scholarships,
besides numerous medals, and evidently has a brilliant
career before him.
Mrs. W. J. Dangar,
of Neotsfield, Singleton,
who has long been the
Lady Bountiful of that
district, died last week.
Mr. C. A. Gosnell,
of the celebrated firm of
John Gosnell and Co.,
perfumers, &c., London,
is at present in Auck-
land, N.Z.
Mr. Wells, of the
Works Department, has
been appointed Acting-
Engineer -in - Chief for
Roads during the ab-
sence of Mr. Bennett.
Chief Justice Lilley,
of Queensland, who re-
fused knighthood the
other day, was at one
time a simple trooper
in a dragoon regiment.
There are still liv
ing the three greatest
poets that this age has
produoed-Victor Hugo,
Alfred Tennyson, and
Henry W. Longfellow.
An old Auckland
resident and steamboat
owner, Jeremiah Casey,
died the other week,
aged 61. He traded to
Melbourne as a captain
in 1854.
Miss Hutchinson,
aged 91 years (sister of
Mrs. W. B. Ranken,
sen.), died at Bathurst
recently. The deceased
lady had been 56 years
in the colony.
Mr. Sheffield, libra-
rarian of the Melbourne
Public Library, who, as
already intimated, is to
be succeeded by Dr.
Bride, retires on Ist
August, on an annual
pension of £175.
Dr. William Baly
has been elected third
resident medical officer
at the Sydney Infirmary
▼ice Dr. Traill, resigned.
Drs. O’Leary, Evans,
and Roser were also
candidates.
Mr. and Mrs. Robin-
son, of Deep Gully,
Grafton, have 41 grand-
children and 8 great-
grand ■ children. Mr,
Robinson is 71, looks
well, and, of course,
reads The Bulletin.
Garnet Walch and
Joe (“ Warrior”) Brown
are now, we understand,
the proprietors of our
god-child, the Mel.
bouene Bulletin,
which under their guid-
ance should improve.
Oscar Wylde, who is the rage in London, and
has the entree to every fashionable and asthetic gather-
ing, is merely the son of a poor Dublin oculist. Even
the Prince calls him “ Oscar," and all the ladies,
Oscar dear.” These fair ones insist|there is no harm
in him. Let’s hope not.
Herr Most, editor of the Freiheit, is an
educated man, once member of the German Parliament,
who was hunted from prison to prison, and finally
driven from the country for the unpardonable crime of
recommending that the battle of Sedan should be no
longer celebrated in Germany.
One of the smartest of writers and best of fellows
is Mr. Thomas Parker—once a chemist of Levuka, but
now a wealthy landed proprietor, of Fiji, author of
“ The Retreat from Nasova,” "A Fijian as he is,” and
other indescribably incisive satires. Mr. Parker arrived
m Sydney by the last mail boat.
The other day, a petition for the removal of
Mr. Pugh was handed about Rockhampton, at the
instance of a few “scrubbers," to whom Police Magis-
trate’s and not Justices’ justice had been dispensed by
the worthy P.M. And now in Rockhampton legal
circles, the query “When’s the P.M. to be shifted P ”
is, when addressed to any of the petitioners, regarded
as “language calculated to cause a breach of the
peace."
The new edition of Mr. John Payne’s translation
of the Poems of Villon will be ready very shortly. The
text will be a reprint, slightly pruned, of the edition
issued by the Villon Society, but the volume also con-
tains a lengthy introduction, together with some notes
etc. Some of the poems of Villon, the first of French
sonneteers, have, it will be remembered, been admirably
translated by Swinburne. And even Swinburne found
it necessary to “ star out" a good many of the French-
man's verse?.
At Rockhampton, on 19th instant, the Mayor,
Mr. John Ferguson, invited a large number of gentle-
men to meet Captain Hansard, the representative of
the 8.1.M.5., at dinner at the Criterion Hotel. In re-
plying to the toast of his health. Captain Hansard said,
among other things, that he had seen Port Alma, which
appeared to him to be the best port for Rockhampton
and that when once a wharf was made and warehouses
erected, a start would be made for direct communica-
tion with England.
Among the very valuable and almost countless
gifts that were presented to Lady Brooke on her
marriage, which took place in London recently—more
prized, perhaps, than any was a diamond and sapphire
bee brooch, which the late Earl of Beaconsfield sent to
the bride when on his death-bed —“Take that and be
sure give it to • Daisy’ from me," said the ex-Premier
to Lord Rowton, and they were almost the last words
which the great Conservative chief ever addressed to
his former secretary and friend.
The state of Mr. Charles Bright’s health, which
has, during the last week, caused [considerable uneasi-
ness among his friends, is, we are glad to hear, rapidly
improving. Mr. Bright, we understand, suffers from
defective circulation, consequent on general debility,
the result of over-work. Whether as a lecturer or a
journalist, Mr. Bright has troops of admirers ; while all
whose privilege it is to know him personally respect
him as a man. There are thousands who will be de-
lighted to hear that Mr. Bright’s medical attendants no
longer view his case in the serious light in which it at
first presented itself to them.
Among the spectators of the last English Derby
were three gentlemen who went thither by balloon.
They were : Mr. Josceline Bagot, Mr. Drummond, of
the Grenadier Guards, and Mr. T. Wright, the winner
of the international balloon contest. They left the
Crystal Palace at 1 p.m., and the balloon quickly
ascended to a height of 5000 ft. It travelled in a south-
westerly direction for a distance of about eight miles,
when it began to descend. Ballast, however, being
thrown out, it rose again to 8000 ft., and went in the
direction of Epsom, the Aeronauts descending in a field
about a quarter of a mile from the grand stand, in time
to witness the race.
In a recent issue of The Bulletin there was
noticed the disinterment, at Jerrabomberra, of a long-
lost gold snuff-box. We are now informed by an oblig-
ing correspondent that the box in question, which
belonged to the late Dr. Hayley, was presented to that
gentleman on his departure from England in the year
1835, and bore the following inscription : —“ Presented
by the Governor and Physicians of the Middlesex Hos-
pital, London, to W. J. Hayley, for his attention and
zeal in the discharge of his duties as House-Surgeon to
the Institution, 1835.” On 24th March, 1836, during
Dr. Hayley’s absence from his residence, Jerrabomberra,
the box, with other valuables, was stolen by an assigned
servant. None of the stolen property was ever recovered
until 24th March, 1881 —the same date and month on
which the robbery was committed, forty-five years before.
On that day a labourer on the Jerrabomberra estate, in
digging a post-hole, turned up the missing snuff-box,
apparently none the worse for its long interment.
Search was made about the spot for a gold watch and
other stolen jewellery, bnt none was discovered.
The numerous friends of the Rev. Mr, Jefferis,
of Pitt-stroet Congregational church, will be exceedingly
sorry to hear that he has had another attack of hemorr-
hage from the lungs, and at latest dates did not deem
it right to speak again publicly in England.
Rowley Pickering (“ Nemo”) added still further
to his fame as a sporting tipster on Saturday last. He
tipped the winners respectively of the Maiden Hurdle
Race, Maiden Steeplechase, Grand National Hurdle
Race, and correctly placed the first, second, and third
horses for the Grand National Steeplechase, The tips
appeared on Friday, and the races were run on the
following day. The only other tip given by Rowley was
for the flat race, his selection for which was unfortn-
nately scratched. It is also worthy of remark that that
splendid rider, Tommy Corrigan, rode the winners of the
three races first mentioned, and got a good second with
Twilight over the big sticks. Truly great performances
for both writer and rider.
Several weeks ago a reference was made in The
Bulletin in consequence of information communicated,
to an alleged case of a clergyman’s horse having died of
starvation. This was interpreted to refer to a Church
of England clergyman in one of the suburbs, and oc-
casioned that gentleman some annoyance. The society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals took the
matter in hand, and an investigation made by their in-
spector, satisfied them that the horse had died of sheer
old age, although fed with unusual care and liberality.
We mention the outcome of this affair as a matter of
simple justice, and regret extremely that this journal
should have been made the vehicle of a cruel assertion.
The rev. gentleman will now readily believe that we
make this amende with the hope that it may repair any
injury which the original report may have inflicted upon
him.
Mr. James Rutherford, one of our largest coach
and station proprietors, when travelling one day, called
at a way-side “ pub." to recruit, and left his horse
hitched up, with half-a-dozen nags belonging to other
people, at the rail outside. Something caused a stam-
pede, and, breaking their bridles, away scampered the
horses. After them rushed all the occupants of the
breakfast table but Mr. Rutherford, who alone re-
mained, and “ wired in” to the good things composedly.
Halt an hour afterwards the men returned, bringing
back the runaways, and one of those who had gone in
chase, addressing Mr. R., informed him that his horse,
too, had “ cleared,” but had been re-captured with the
others and brought back. “ Thank you—much obliged,”
quietly said James, who, when asked by a friend why
he didn’t look after his own horse when it ran away,
remarked, “ In colonial life I’ve always found that when
anything of the sort happens there’s generally someone
only too glad of the chance to meddle with other
people's business. My friend, always stick to your
tucker."
THE NEWSLETTER.
Reefing bands in demand at Gympie.
The Otago Daily Times has been enlarged.
It has been decided to appoint a fifth Supreme
Court Judge.
The Gympie and Maryborough line has been
opened for traffic.
Squatting prospects in Riverina are said to be
exceptionally good.
In all, 71 bodies have been recovered from the
wreck of the Tararua.
The opening of Torrens’ Lake (S.A.) was at-
tended by 50,000 spectators.
The boche-de-mer fishers in the Far North have
been unusually lucky of late.
Large purchases of Australian tallow are made
by the London butter-makers.
The Ipswich mail-bag, containing .£l5O, was
stolen from the train at Yeulba (Q.)
In S.A. two volunteers have been fined .£5 each
with costs for insubordinate conduct.
The ward-room steward of the Cerberus has
been fined £25 for selling liquor on board.
The Palmerston (N.Z.) libel cases, Dungan v.
M’Minn, were withdrawn by mutual consent.
The Colonial Sugar Company are about to pur-
chase 10,000 acres of sugar land in the Mackay district
(Q.), where they propose investing a quarter of a mil-
lion in cultivation and erecting machinery.
The Queensland Freezing and Food Export
Company will commence operations in about six weeks.
Sir Arthur Palmer’s station, Cambridge Downs,
Bourke district, has been sold to Mr. Henry Young for
£50,000.
Judge Johnson, of N.Z., says that, according ter
population, there is more crime in New Zealand than in
England.
Wool rates from Narandera to Sydney have
been fixed at 10s per bale, and from Darlington Point
at 10s Od.
At Herberton, Mr. Denny is working a well-
defined copper lode which has given 35 per cent, of ore
all round.
The Moama and Deniliquin Railway Company
have declared a dividend of 10 per cent, for the half year
ending June 30.
The N.S.W. Institute of Surveyors purpose
holding a Conversazione in the Garden Palace on Monday,
the Ist proximo.
Mr. S. Palmer, a draper residing at Paddington,
was killed on the Botany Road last week by being
thrown from a cab.
A diver is at work at the wreck of the s.s.
Argyle, at Rocky Mouth. Her cargo of preserved meat
alone is valued at £7OO.
Nihilism at Waikato, N.Z. A machine to blow
up the residence of a Mr. R. H D. Fergusson was re-
cently unearthed there.
It is proposed to hold a review of intercolonial
troops next Easter. Albury will probably be chosen as
the site for encampment.
The Ferret case has been concluded. Hender-
son and Wallace were sentenced to seven and Wright
to three years’ imprisonment.
Mr. Allen, a Dunedin seedsman, has been com-
mitted for trial for alleged criminal libel—consisting in
a statement that Mr. Massey, the Town Clerk, being
interested as mortgagee in a coach-building premises in
High-street, offered him (Allen) a sum of money to burn
the premises down.
Mr. Thomas Curnow, the Glenrowan school-
master, has been presented with the medal of the Vic-
torian Royal Humane Society.
A valuable mare, the property of the Very Rev.
Dr. Colletti, of Petersham, has been seriously injured
by some as yet undiscovered scoundrel.
James Thompson and Thomas Scott have been
crushed to death under 1000 tons of earth and stone on
the Scotchman’s Reef, Stawell. Victoria.
The dividend list at Ballarat, last week,
amounted to £26,2o6—the largest for years. Mining
there was never more legitimately profitable.
A storekeeper, named Bridge, in Smythesdale
(V.), endeavoured to murder his son and then to com-
mit suicide. Neither attempt was successful.
William Henry Clisby, a young man recently
arrived from Adelaide, met with a fatal accident while
employed working a crane at the Circular Quay.
Some rich specimens of copper ore, from the
Keellotton mine, 48 miles from Townsville (Q ), are
being exhibited at Mr. Delarue’s, George-street.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Melbourne, offer to
light Perth (W.A.) with gas, if a certain number of
lights be guaranteed. The offer will probably be
accepted.
The most conflicting reports continue to come
from Temora and Mount Browne. All things con-
sidered, neither field seems to hold out any very tempt-
ing prospects.
Diamonds valued at .£250 were stolen from the
shop of Mr. Goldstein, Bourke-street, Melbourne,
last week. The thieves were caught and most of the
diamonds recovered.
It has been decided to appoint a delegate to the
Conference in re phylloxera vastatrix, to be held at
Bordeaux, who will represent Victoria, South Australia,
and New South Wales.
Cane-cutters are scarce on the Clarence. A
strike is threatened on the alleged ground that the cane
is light, and will not pay to cut at the price offered —2s
6d per ton, dead weight.
An old gentleman named Chillioott lost his
way while proceeding home from Upper Gundaroo,
remained out all night, was found next day insensi-
ble, and died from the effects of exposure.
Mr. Hunt, of the Sydney firm of Sutton & Co.,
recently purchased the tobacco leaf grown by a selector
in the Singleton district, for £1250, a sum which paid
for cultivation at the rate of £9O per acre.
Vessels from N.S.W. will, in future, be ex-
amined by the Melbourne health officer half a mile out-
side the Williamstown breakwater pier. This regula-
tion will also apply to the P. and O. steamers.
The expense of cultivating rice as compared with
sugar is small. A few trials of the former on the En-
deavour have proved that it will grow on soil which is
unfitted for sugar. Three crops in two years can be de-
pended on.
A new fire-engine, belonging to the South Syd-
ney Brigade, was christened the “ Prince Edward " by
Sir Henry Farkes, In the old Exhibition Building, on
Saturday last, in the presence of a very large number of
spectators.
The newly-discovered reefs at Nana Creek,
about 40 miles from Grafton, have now about 200 persons
on the ground. The stone is exactly like that at the
Barrington, and yields A la Mountain Maid are confi-
dently anticipated.
A conviction at last. For setting fire to their
place of business at Auckland, N.Z., two brothers, W.
F. V. Bindon and J. Bindon, were found guilty. The
former was sentened to five years’ imprisonment, and
the latter to three years.
The Adelaide Exhibition was opened on the
21st instant by the Governor in the presence of a large
and distinguished company. The buildings cover 90,000
square feet, all of which space is taken up by exhibits.
The attendance for the day numbered 17,254.
It has been very properly decided by the Ade-
laide Marine Board that masters of British ships are
bound to provide employment or a free passage back to
the port of shipment, for seamen whose term of service
expires at a place outside the British dominions.
So anxious is the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment to secure the Riverina wool trade that the rates
from Echuca to Melbourne have been reduced 6d per
bale, and from Echuca direct to Williamstown or Sand-
ridge 3d per bale. Dressed wool is subject to a
further reduction of 20 per cent.
On the Charters Towers railway, Mr. Ballard,
probably the boldest engineer in Australia, has saved a
detour of 5 miles and an outlay of £30,000, by making a
steep mountain track with some grades of 1 in 25, and
curves of 4 chains radius. The time occupied in con-
struction will be diminished by two years.
At Cooktown, the sub-Collector of Customs,
the Mayor, the Inspector of Police, and the Manager of
the Bank of N. S. Wales, crossed the harbour in a boat
to distribute beef and blankets to the natives. Their
boat npset in the surf, and the wild blacks dashed in
and hauled it high and dry, rescuing the party.
In a N.Z. criminal court case, larceny as a bailee
from an employer, the prosecutor recommended the
Srisoner to the mercy of the Court, and offered to give
im employment again. The Judge said he would try
an experiment, and under the circumstances mentioned,
only sentenced prisoner to hard labour for one day.
In presenting a petition to the N.Z. House of
Representatives for permission to be allowed to sue in
forma pauperis, a Mr. Bray says that “ owing to the
existence of responsible Government, the influence of
the Bank of New Zealand and the Freemasons of
Auckland, justice in the Supreme Court could not be
obtained 1"
In the small-pox ship, Charles Wolsey, which
arrived at Port Chalmers, N.Z., from London, the first
seized was a seaman named Bacon, whose father resides
at the Fort. He was unvaccinated, and is very badly
marked. The carpenter and another seaman, who were
vaccinated, are only very slightly marked. Half a
dozen passengers on board were kept aft, and escaped.
The ship is in quarantine.
The criminal libel cases against J. D. Wickham,
of the Feek Lance, were heard in the Auckland (N.Z.)
Supreme Court before Justice Gillies and a jury of
fifteen —not four. In the first case, brought by Mr. W.
L. Rees, a verdict of “not guilty” was returned. In
the second (W. J. Hurst’s), Wickham apologised and
offered £2O towards the prosecutor’s costs, which was
accepted by the judge, who imposed a fine of one shill-
ng-
In one of the moat recent New Zealand libel
cases, Griffiths v. Johnson, heard at Wellington, the
jury brought in a verdict for the plaintiff, awarding
£250 damages; £lOOO was claimed. The plaintiff is an
auctioneer residing at Blenheim, and the defendant pub-
lisher of the Maelboeough Express, and the action was
brought on account of a libel published in that journal.
It was contained in a letter to the editor, in which, it
was contended, the writer imputed to plaintiff that
he had been guilty of setting fire to the Government
buildings. The issues were tried at Blenheim in De-
cember last, but the jury were unable to arrive at a
verdict, and it was then decided to place the issues
before a special jury in Wellington.
The touching extract subjoined is from the
(advertising) columns of the Age, though originally
it was evidently intended by the writer to have
illumined the news columns of that great organ of
democracy:—
| COPT.]
A 8 an instance of loyalty and proverbial princely
courtesy, we have much pleasure in inserting the
following:—
Mrs. Williams, of Balmoral House, Barkly-street, St.
Hilda, having in her possession a very interesting
engraving representing H.R.H. the Prince of Wales and
the Princess Royal riding on a donkey in Windsor
Pork, with Her Majesty and the Prince Consort in the
rear (!), resolved to offer the picture for the acceptance
of the Princes. Mrs. Williams accordingly had the en-
graving sent to Government House, along with a note,
requesting that their Royal Highnesses would be
pleased to accept of the same, and was highly gratified
—[No douOt.—Ed. B.] —by receiving a few days later a
cabinet-size photograph of the Princes, with their auto-
graphs affixed, and the following letter from the Rev.
Mr. Dalton, their tutor: —“H.M.S. Bacchante, Mel-
bourne, 6th July, 1881.—Madame,—The two Princes are
SENT PACKING.
Chinese and Larrikins: A Hint to the Legislature.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
s
INGEE
MANUPACTUE
Have opened a Dep
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1
HARBOUR
DAI
STB
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sei
s
INGEE’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLI
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for address of ne
s
THE BEST ]
Have received 160 First I
8
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
.INGEE’S, BEST FOR
SINGER’S MEDIUM MAC]
8
S
IN GEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s, 6d. ’
INGEE’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 A
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
s
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOI
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
S
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OR TBEA
s
INGEE’S, The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work,
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. f
INGEE’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvemen
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
s
INGEE’S, THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and h
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Pric«
S INGEE’S THE BEST and ]
Will last a lifetime in ci
8 INGEE’S SEWING
ADDRESS: T
SINGEE MANUPACTUE]
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Ha
gINGEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Hayma;
have been appointed agents fc
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
10per cent discount for oa
SINGER'S SEWING M
S
INGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
R
EMEMBEE, THERE IS
GEE MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—]
applies to the Genuine Mac
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—I
Cast-iron imitations. Onl
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer (
s
INGER’S SEWING MA(
cent, discount for cash, or on 1
s
YDNEY.—Prom TURNEI
GEORGE STREET, opposit.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACH]
but 160 FIRST PR]
T
HE A U S T
“HOME" SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS 1
SEWING MAC
n rv
ONCE MO]
There is a pretty local superstition that if you drink the v
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eternal City, drawn thith
thus invoked. The
PALACE EMPOR
being an institution founded in more recent times (although, i
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition nan<
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless. Fc
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. A)
irresistible impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to tl
of St. Peter’s, ere the enchantress will put forth her magic warn
* ‘PALACE EMPO
oome when you will—by moonlight or sunshine, cloud or fair—
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then
cases extending down the centre of the main building for a distt
cases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the prese
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPOI
may bo seen in all its glory—a sight wondrous to behold!
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATINS of ever]
BLACK AND COLOURED GEOS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE, AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBRE RATE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON, Black and Coloured
EADZ DE MOET
Fancy ombre
MERVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHER CASE is fitted with EVENING FLOWERS,
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an e ver-varying di
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES’ TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
WINTER GLOVES OF ALL KINDS
WIDE PLUSH RIBBONS, from 5d per yard
SCARF LACES, SHADED LACES, Ac. Ac.
The USEFUL, as well as the ORNAMENTAL, is equally w«
DRESS MATERIALS, ad infinitum !
MANCHESTER MANUFACTURES, sucl
BLANKETS of a 1! sizes and prices, of wl
BLANKET, unequalled in tins city at 27s
In a word, the wants of all may be supplied at prices that 01
colony. In conclusion, we would respectfully point out that th(
PALACE EMPO
AT THE
HAYM A R K
is our ONLY ESTABLISHMENT, and wo trust none will
In N.Z. it has been suggeste
carried by ships, should be put up :
proof bags, so constructed as to flo
We have received still a
weekly, the Australian Dramatic
strong internal evidence of being
friend, Frank Weston. Long may
Yeppoon, 26 miles from
(according to the D.N. Arous) the
or Brighton of Central Queenslan
grand, and the beach, which is ma
hard sand.
The English Actuaries’ repoi
land Government Insurance Depai
department: surplus, £77,000, ver
divide, £50,000. The results are
partment.”
The Pitt-street Giant is at
action against H. L. Summerfle
People’s tailor, who declines to mi
trousers for a man of such colosa
an amicable settlement, we suggi
should make two pairs at the sam
giant, the other for the dwarf. E
meet.
There is nothing more nourif
in cold weather than a cup of reallj
difficulty has been to obtain it p
secured at a cost of one halfpenny
cup by using Cadbury's Cocoa I
three times as far as the adulteral
pounds ordinarily sold, the small*
breakfast cups of strong cocoa.— L-
“ A Handbook to St. John’s
University of Sydney ” has just
Rector, and is now obtainable on
College. It is a readable and inte
besides the information respecting
the institution itself, it also cor
written and scholarly disquisition
history, as well as a description of
intrinsic and associated interest
Rector’s Museum.
Mr. W. Hubert Newman, t
this the correct word, dear Hube
known as an artist who can hold
nature with such completeness as
flass crack itself with envy. The p(
'rinces we have received from thi
traits indeed, and, exposed in Mr. 8
they draw more people to look at
tight-rope dancer or an evangelist
traits are taken home, and passec
Granny, Mr. Newman will indee*
Soft, clear, and admirably finished,
tion of pictures.
In Far Northern Queensland
named Howell was charged with
warrant was issued, and it took th
to execute it, but at last Mr. Howel
on, and marched into the lock-up a
ridge River. One day, the sergean
the street, the policeman left in cl
thought he would make the latter t
tucker, so he asked Howell if he ’
well at the camp. Howell said he
pleasure, so the pair went to the
enquired whether the rope was lon(
the constable to go down and see.
OOPY OF CERTIFICATE
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT I E
the contents oi
JOZEAU’S SANITARY
and find
I. —That it consists of a skilful cc
drugs enjoying a wide reput
their Deodorant and Antisept
11. That the heat of the body ca
the Sachet to gradually volat
rounds the body with a dish
It also penetrates the clotl
prevent danger from contagio
111. The chemical effect produce*
composition of the Sachet is
Hydrogen liberated in the
action.
IV. The Drugs and Chemicals u
mended by Dr. Squibb of 1
Kolbe of Germany, and all
Officers of Great Britain.
(Signed) FREDERICK
Pharmaceutical and Ti
Lecturer on Chemistry, Pharmacy, £
g. AIE T T TH
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
General Manager
MONTAGUE-TUENER OPEI
GREAT UC
Ambroise Thomas’s Bean
M I G*N O N,
which will be repea
EVERT EVENING nntil fu
MIGNON ... Miss A 1
WILHELM MEISTEE ... Mr. CH
Conductor ... .Monsieur;
JAMES D.
Q P E E A H
Lessee 1
Sub-Lessee 1
Musical Director i
Manager 1
This most elegant and comfortable 1
for a shorf, son non nnrior fho n
ranch touched at your desire that they should possess
the old picture of their father and aunt when children.
They are loth to deprive you of what must have
been before your eyes now for many years, but they
hope you will accept the enclosed photograph of them-
selves, to which they have affixed their names. Believe
me, Madame, yeurs very truly, J. M. Dalton. Mrs.
Williams, Balmoral House, Bt. Hilda.”
Wo suppose that when Mr. Dalton wrote of what must
have been before the fair creature’s eyes for many
years, he covertly alluded to the donkey.
Typhoid fever has broken out in Christchurch,
New Zealand.
The newly organized Printers’ Provident
Society has received donations to the amount of £135.
The coroner’s jury has returned a verdict of
manslaughter against Dr. Jackson, in the Hilder poison,
ing case.
Intelligence has been received per H.M.S.
Emerald that the Hon. Mr. Lyttleton and Herr
Hleimschmidt, a German naturalist, have been murdered
by the New Britain natives.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Mulga”; Eight again “J. H. Mitchell,”
Tingba : 3a “ Ralph” : Glad to hear from yon often.
“ Wollongong” : Always glad to hear from you
" T.C.": The greater part most acceptable “It.B.”:
Received " J.C.” (Ultimo): Thanks ; may use some
of it in a week or two “ R.N.": Glad to hear from
you oftener. Your last was, however, somewhat
enigmatical. We don’t understand your “ sewing
machine agent” reference ” W.S.G.”: Rather too
late. However, please write again, and mail so that
your letter comes to hand not later than, say, Tuesday.
" Junius": Why don’t you send your name in such
a trifling matter P "R.G.": Glad to hear from you.
Write again *• Homebush": Don’t tiy
to be funny before you can spell “James T—t”: If
Miss Tessie Horan sang the alphabet, that young
lady must be remarkably good-natured, and have a
wonderful memory. We can’t make use of it, but it
shan’t be wasted. Our charwoman shall have it for
curl-paper “A Melboumeite": We can't make out
whether the communication you send us is an essay on
cockroaches or an epic poem. We think the latter,
because it smacks of Grease “Nemo” (Murrnrnndi)i
Excellent “ Mentor”: Played out—too much of it.
“E.H.G.”: We have had quite enough of this
“ T.S.”: You’ve sent us two paragraphs, both libellous;
but it isn’t done artistically “8.C.”: Your note
arrived too late for our sporting columns. Glad to
hear from you regularly “ W.L.J.’’; What you write
is true as gospel. But we can’t publish it unless you
send along a bank guarantee for, say, £5OOO. This
Saper is published in N.S.W.—not in England, or the
tates, or Victoria. " Jack Blackett”: Received, but
not suitable. Don’t be afraid to write again; but,
before you do so, readjTHE Bulletin, and see what we
ar* in the habit of publishing “F.U.": Next week,
perhaps "Neptune”: Why don't you append your
name to your little joke ?


A MAGNIFICEI
TO EVERT READER OF T
A ONE-GUINEA PROOF
GIVEN A \
By the Australian Age
LONDON ART
The Agent of this S
DR. WALTER R<
191 WILLIAM STI
SYDNEY,
has received instructions from ]
EVERY READER OF TH
with a
FIRST-CLASS EN
36 INCHES BY 26 I
on Plate Paper, from the worl
LANDSEER, MI
and numerous other long-recogn
artists.
The presentation is made with a
artistic taste in Australia, and
confidently to the recipie
port in the futi
The Society will be amply oompem
costly distribution if within
months some portion of tl
public extend its pati
the Sydney represei
of the Londc
office.
The following are a few of the p!
namely;—
ECCE HOM(
THE BLIND BE(
CHRIST LEAVING THE
DEATH THE GATE
MORS JANUA
WINDSOR CAS
NO ENGRAVING will be form
lowing conditions are strictly coi
distribution will take place in r
cations are received
L Each applicant must cut out
COUPON,
and enclose it with Is. 9d. (to de
copyright, rolling, casing, *o.), e
Order on the General Post Office, f
11. Each address must be most d
111. Without the COUPON, m
under the Society’s usual charge t
ONE GUINI
IV. Applications for the Plates i
rotation as they are received.
V. No application for the Gift
FOURTEEN DAYS after the d
announcement appears.
VI. Particular attention is draw
Picture will be forwarded unless tin
is enclosed to the address of the D
with the sum of Is. 9d. to defray
lay for copyright, (carriage, Ac.
I
Yj eat e e
Tieasee
Acting Manager Mi
ENGLISH OPERA COMIQ
under the Direction of Mr. Ge
AN UNQUALIFIED T
achieved in the production of the 1
Offenbach's worl
LA FILLE DU TAM BO L
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle,
chased during the day at H. Solto
King-street, near Emerson’s.
HENKY R. HARWOOD,
rji H E
c ajr.
CAT LET
THE BAG.
JUST TO HAI
A NEW AND WONDER
One that will
OPEN YOUR E'
Price, Oke Shili
R. W. SKINNi
111, CASTLEREAGH-
SYDNEY,
Aeecommendation
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND,
Deserves the highest commf
Of every philanthropic natio
This is not vain expatiat
For 'tis a well-proved applic
For all external inflammatio
Whate’er its stage or compl:
In callous state or suppurate
On human kind or brute ere
It claims the just appreciati
Of those who’ve felt alleviai
Of pain, which reached excr
And stayed all zest for popu
To men of sense and rep
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubratioi
Just use your powers of obsi
View the surprising renovat
Mode by this virtuous preps
On our rheumatic populatio
Or gouty folks (who hate ste
And raw-boned brutes whosi
Is heard in neighing cacchit
Or seen in cock-tailed exults
Or frisky, frolicsome elation
In contrast to their sad pros
Which made them wish for
Then —friends of suffering c
You can’t withold your*dm
Before I close this recite
I wish to add this dehortati
Beware of spurious imitatioi
Called “ Farmer’s Friend,’’-
It’s nothing like ROW’S EH
Which should be kept on evi
And prized as much as daily
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and CC
and sold by all chemists and stor
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
JOHNSTO
SEWING MACHII
HAYMAEKE
THE BULLETIN.
♦
PUBLISHER’S NOTICE.
Published every Thursday morning at 13 Bridge-street
Sydney, and mailed to any of the colonies on receipt of
subscription at the rate of Theee Shillings per quarter
IN ADVANCE.
Remittances, Cheques, and Post Office Orders should
be made payable to William Henry Traill.
Advertisements are inserted at the rate of Sa. per
inch. Discount: On half-yearly advertisements, 15 per
cent.; annual, 25 per cent.
EDITORIAL NOTICE.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Pact and Fancy Focused,” to which column the
attention of readers is specially directed.
Correspondents should in all cases send either their
full names or noms deplume. 'Communications in which
this rule is not observed cannot be noticed.
Rejected M.SS. cannot be returned. The authors
should keep copies.
Correspondents who send newspaper clippings should
paste same on slips bearing the names and dates of the
journals from which the extracts are taken. This
system offers an easy means of bringing matters under
the Editor’s notice.
Murrurundi races postponed until 14th Sept.,
owing to Tamworth show on the 9th.
A meeting of the Hunt was held at Maitland,
on Wednesday night. Mr. W. H. Newton Rodman was
appointed Master of the Hounds.
Mr. Terry’s hounds had a brilliant run, near
Maitland, on Wednesday, a sturdy dingo being the
quarry. The dingo led the field a fast seven miles, the
course he took necessitating the negwciation of several
5 ft. post-and-railers, which brought four of the field to
grief. There were no serious casualties, however, and
niost of the sportsmen took their timber as straight as a
bar-loafer takes his whisky. The attendance was large,
and included several ladies.
Walker Whiskey Trophy. This race, which is
to take place about the time of the A.J.C. Derby
week, is attracting considerable attention in aquatic
circles. Entries will finally close on the evening of the
3rd August, at the Exchange Hotel, and no entry will
be received after that date. Messrs. E. C. Laycock,
Rush, Power, Pearce, W. Trickett, Reynolds, Mes-
senger, Hearn, and the Brothers Edwards are
amongst those likely to compete for this valuable
Prize.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
Prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
““Any.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Abv.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Water famine in Paris.
Yellow fever at Havannah.
President Garfield is recovering.
Population of Germany 45,000,000.
The cattle fine in Basutoland has been paid.
Earthquakes at Geneva and Berne in Switzer-
land.
The Cape Parliament was prorogued on the 27th
June.
Cork juries refuse to convict for agrarian out-
rages.
The French fleet is now bombarding Cabes, in
Tunis.
Dean Stanley has been buried in Westminster
Abbey.
8000 casks of wine destroyed in a fire at Bor-
deaux.
A Cuban bank has been robbed of 200,000
dollars.
Australian mails by the Chimborazo have been
delivered.
The strike of the Irish agricultural labourers is
spreading.
A Viticultural Congress is to be held at Milan in
September.
An English cricket team will visit Australia
next season.
Arab insurgents in Tunis are committing
numerous excesses.
For next series of London wool sales 335,000
boles are catalogued.
Another fishery dispute between English and
American Governments.
The Mollahs (priests) are encouraging the
Tunisian tribes to revolt.
It isl proposed to give a great Liberal banquet
to the Gladstone Government.
The Irish Land Bill has passed through Com-
mittee in the House of Commons.
The general election for the Transvaal Yolks-
raad will take place immediately.
An Indian battle has been fought in British
Columbia, at which 80 were killed.
The South African Royal Commission is still
sitting in Pretoria with closed doors.
The Transvaal will be retroceded to the Boers
upon payment of £500,000 indemnity.
Numerous agrarian outrages reported from
Donegal. 80 Land Leaguers imprisoned.
The Chairman of the Cobden Club at the annual
meeting deplored the growth of Protection.
During the present year, 261,000 immigrants
from the United Kingdom have lauded in New York.
A grand military review at Lisbon had to be
abandoned in consequence of strong Bepublican feeling.
In a terrible storm off the Orkney and Shetland
Islands, 11 smacks were lost and 70 fisher mend drowned.
Incendiaries, said to be Fenians, have been at
work in Cavan. A man named Lynch has been murdered.
A man named Hickie has been arrested for the
murder of Mr. Foster in a railway, near
Brighton.
Matters in Tunis remain critical, and disaffec-
tion both towards the French authorities and the Bey
is spreading.
Several infernal machines found on board the
ship Malta, from New York, were seized at Liverpool
•and destroyed.
The Queen’s Prize at the Wimbledon meeting
has been won by Private Beck, of the 3rd Devon Bifles,
with a score of 86.
A vote of censure on the Transvaal policy of the
•■Government, moved in the House of Commons by Sir
.Michael Hieks-Beach, has been negatived.
Hostilities have been resumed between Ayoub
Khan and Ameer Abdul Bahman. In the first engage-
ment the troops of the former were victorious.
The decision mulcting Bradlaugh in damages
-for sitting in Parliament without taking the necessary
oaths, has been sustained by the Court of Appeal.
Lord Dufferin has been instructed to intercede
•with the Porte on behalf of Midhat Pasha, convicted of
.. simplicity in the murder of Abdul Aziz. Midhat, it is
said, is now to be exiled for life.
INTAGLIOS.
The Story of Life.
Sweet is childhood ; childhood’s over.
Kiss and part.
Sweet is youth ; but youth’s a rover—
So’s my heart.
Sweet is rest; but all my showing
Toil is nigh.
We must go. Alas ! the going—
Say “ Good bye.”
JEAN INGELOW.
Produce Report.
Maize is selling to-day at 2s 8d [to 2s 9d per
bushel; market dull, and prices likely to be lower;
large shipments arriving daily. Lucerne hay,
prime new, .£3 5s to .£3 10s ; old hay £2 15s to
■£3 for good samples; market overstocked and
business dull at above quotations. Oaten hay in
fair demand at .£4 to £5. Circular Head potatoes
£4 15s ; New Zealand ,£3lss to .£4 ; market fairly
supplied. Onions brisk at 10s to lls. Butter, in
keg, Is 4d to Is 6d. Bacon 4d to 6d for prime lots.
Cheese 5d to Bd, in demand. Eggs Is Id to Is 2d
per doz. Fowls 2s 9d to 3s 3d : ducks 4s 6d to ss;
Turkeys in demand at 6s to 10s per pair; geese 5s
to 6s per pair. Pigs 2id to 3d per lb. Hides 3d
to 3£d per lb.
27th July.
We are glad to hear that Rear-Admiral Earl
Clanwilliam, who was so suddenly prostrated by illness
on Thursday week, is now regarded by his medical
attendants as being out of danger, and will probably
resume active duty in a few days. It is understood that
the Squadron has been oablegrammed to await further
instructions from the Admiralty, so that the ships now
in port are not likely to sail before the arrival of the
Bacchante, which left Melbourne on Monday.
This afternoon the members and friends of the
Sydney Bowing Club have a little outing on the Parra-
matta Biver. Pour races are set down for discussion,
viz., two sculling outrigger contests, one maiden eight-
oar, and a scratch eight-oar race. They will be rowed
over part of the champion course, opposite the Club’s
boat-house and grounds. Tickets are obtainable from
the committee and the honorary secretary, Mr.
Deloitte. A steamer will start from Circular Quay at
1.30 and will land the ladies at the Club wharf. The
German Band will attend.
How to Make Curry.
For P tc rn’s Indian curry take.
Two pounds of juicy, well cut-steak :
For beef’s the best, though mutton, fowl.
Or fish, if fresh, may fill the bowl.
Onion is strength, so two of these,
And two large apples, if you please.
Add to the mess, and lettuce pray—
Two lettuces—shred, by the way.
Of chutnee, best of relishes.
One tablespoon embellishes.
Nor, cooky, be in any hurry
To exceed a tablespoon of curry.
More would be prejudicial, but
The grateful grated cocoa nut
May be combined—one tablespoonfnl;
With these your basin will be soon full.
A teaspoonful of salt is found
Added to butter —half a pound—
To blend the ingredients sweet and sound
And fry ’em till they’re nicely browned.
Then stir ’em in a stewpan bright
And tour hours’ simmering makes ’em right.
Now, furthermore, to make it nice
See that you duly boil the rice.
For many cooks forget the fact
That rice should be quite firm—compact
Yet tender, and to gain this end
You to your saucepan must attend.
Drain off the water—drain till none
More moisture from the cereal run;
Then shake and shake again the pot
Or else the gummy grains will clot.
The rice, 'tis greatly to be wished.
Should be in separate vessels dished :
The curry, I have often seen.
Will keep for.weeks in a tureen.
N.B. —
An Indian, whose untutored mind
To eat this curry hath inclined.
Informs me here, that afterward
From fell dyspepsia you must guard :
He says, that at Seringapatam
(His residence) a tiny dram
Of some liqueur they always take
To keep away the; ache.
On the Summit.
Now youth has departed for aye
On the summit of life let me rest.
And follow the winds of my way
Prom the glen to the hill’s misty crest.
Here I flirted with pleasure awhile.
There I grumbled and thought the way long,
Drinking knowledge in, mingled with guile.
Losing innocence as I grew strong.
I have lost all the zest of my youth.
I’ll ne’er look for perfection again,
Experience has taught me the truth,
'Tis a height which mankind can’t attain.
All my flow’rets are withered, I ween,
I am sate with the sameness of sweets.
Disappointed in much I have seen,
Grown weary ot wins and defeats.
If from silence in suffering comes strength.
And experience maketh men wise,
I ought to gain wisdom at length,
I always have stifled my cries.
By each side of the path up the slope
Lie the graves of the errors I slew.
Buried deep in remembrance, I hope.
Too deep to confront me anew.
As I pause on the brow of the hill.
And look back o’er the track 1 have worn.
Oft I erred, yet I have not the Will
To wish that r»y days could return.
So the path I’ll prepare to descend
That leads to the close of earth’s day,
May the welcome I meet at the end
Repay all the toil of the way.
Expectant of little below.
Not over elated in weal,
Nor overcome wholly by woe,
Forgetting, forgiving a deal:
Come caution, I’ll take thee for guide,
The discreet are seldom betrayed,
In my fellow-man to confide.
Though I follow thee still not afraid.
And so as old age online nears
The freshness of youth I’ll retain,
And the blossoms of earlier years
Shall perfume the days that remain.
As the rose-leaves, so withered and dry.
All faded and hidden from view,
When stirred where they motienless lie,
Emit their sweet odours anew,
B.
20th July. 1881.


Miscellaneous
Q LIF FORD, LOVE .
TEA IMPORTERS
EASTERN AND COMI
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments,
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize
PRESERVES —Indian Prb
COFFEE —Plantation No. (
Do. „ Peal
Do. „ Nos.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pea
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Blac
OFFIC S 79 YORK S
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BR]
JOHN D i
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrr
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric B<
Butchers’ Brine Pur
Iron, Brass, Copper, T
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
235 <
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL
OR
ALLWOOL
TWEED
T«o
Miscellaneo
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES,
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLE’V
416 GEORGE STI
M V / Ml
Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English pi
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spon
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS'
Send for a Price List. Country
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Ton cannot mistake it—
Onnoaite Hewing Jj
W. KER
manufacturing
WATCH AND CLOCI
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals*of every description, Mas
sentation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND SET
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, froi
;iNG STREET S
TAILOR
d
L
o
oRr,V
OUR WOODS
.STRING BINDER
Is unquestionably
BEST ON ALL POINTS
The Woods String Binder
,s won more prizes than all
other makes put together.
The “ Woods " is a
AND
THE
lias
To the
-FRONT
with
the
OUR PRICES 1
We have
Two S'zes ®9 ain
viz.,
X 65 & *75
but recommend the
Success, not an
experiment
The
“Woods”
is
We i
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, S
CANDY S COTTON BELTING,
ALLD-AT’S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’B STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
nTmrmwiElTl HJTTMTWA aT.TTTPT'WO A NT) TREK
jioiteliim eutt e»olo I rncAaß
9. gc. 11 HUNTER SI
SILVER V WATCHES
FROM d£-4.10.
SYDNEY
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
mHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy
THEY ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TBY ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street.
SYDNEY,
*o*
*0
STi
And On
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE “IVANHOE”
