

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—No. 69,
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1881.
Price—3d.
% bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAT 21, 1881
Law and Order.
The law of the land is one thing. A magistrate’s
order is another. It seems, if the journals from
which we draw our information speak correctly,that
there are circumstances under which a magistrate
has power to order a punishment of a nature
which, according to law, not even a Supreme
Court Judge may award, except in cases of con-
viction for crimes which are abhorrent to nature.
It appears, according to the Armidale Expeess,
as quoted by the Tenteefield Stae, that for
insubordination a prisoner in the Armidale Gaol
was, upon a magistrate’s order, subjected to a
flogging of fifty lashes. These are the statements
before us. To the somewhat overstrained
humanitarianism of the country journals which
call attention to the case we give small attention.
The moans of the culprit and the condition of his
back do not move our emotions. A convict in
gaol who will not behave himself is hardly a fit
subject for sympathy, and if the power to order
floggings as part of a criminal’s sentence were
given to the Supreme Court in more instances, we
don’t know but that it might be well for society.
But the punishment is a severe and debasing one.
Public sentiment has recognised it as such, and
the laws, modelled in accordance with that
modern phase of public sentiment have closely
restricted the cases in which it is competent for
even the highest judicial authority to order the
infliction of such corporal punishment. At least
a man has to be fully tried before a jury of his
fellow-men, and by them be adjudged guilty and
inferentially deserving of physical suffering before
flogging can be ordered for him. The law, in fact,
reserves that penalty for such criminals as may be
regarded, from the nature of their crimes, as in-
accessible to moral influences. But, if this
Armidale story be true, what a judge cannot do,
in nine cases out of ten, an ordinary magistrate
may effect by his own mere decision. Without a
jury, and after a hearing which from the very fact
that the alleged misdemeanour occurred within
the walls of a gaol, where independent witnesses
could not be, must be ex-parte, and liable to gross
perversion of justice—he can order any prisoner
to be degraded and tortured. The public, we are
sure, have not had any previous idea that such
things have been possible. It is not tolerable that
every man who enters the walls of a gaol as a
prisoner, it may be for an offence of the most
trifling kind, should forfeit all his civil rights, and
be placed at the mercy of a possibly savage keeper
and a dull Justice.
The Hon. William Macleay, M L.C.
Cato, the last of that great republican band of
old Roman statesmen, through whose military and
political agencies a grand civilisation was diffused
over Europe and a portion of Asia, got so sick of
the Bronzecheeks and Slackjaws of his day—then
in the ascendant—that he became disgusted with
the world, so disgusted that he got rid of it with
"a bare bodkin.” We never saw William
Macleay in the near neighbourhood, on Parlia-
mentary benches, of Parkes and Robertson that
we did not think of Cato, and all the world
subdued except his stubborn soul. Cuncta
terrarum mbacta prater atrocem animum Catonis.
In this sense the honorable gentleman whose
counterfeit presentment half frowns on us from
our first page to-day is nltimus Romanorum —the
last of that sterling band of unpaid patriots who
did the country real service for several years, and
like the “ flying pursuivant of Heaven,” did it
“ All for love, and nothing for reward.”
He belonged to the patriot cohort which includes
such names as those of Wentworth, Bland,
Lang, Donaldson, Parker, Cowper (longo
mtervalloj and Martin. They have nearly all
passed away, but he remains as a living evidence
of their worth, in so far as they were worthy. In
his very errors—his pride ot birth and intellect,
his fiscal heresies, and his somewhat supercilious
contempt of Shamshire politicians—the seedy
geebungs of twenty years ago—there is a manli-
ness, a robustness of character exhibited
throughout in his conduct, that half condones
his fault. His life’s lesson is not without
“ 8 moral : if there are young Australians
true and brave enough to study it. Let
at the most particular items.
William Macleay is the second son ef the late
Renneth Macleay, Laird of Newmore and Kiess,
in Caithness, Scotland, where he was born on the
June, 1820. He received his rudimentary
education at the New Academy—a school distin-
guished for its cultivation of the sciences—and
afterwards graduated at the University of Edin-
burgh. On the invitation of his uncle —the Hon.
Alexander Macleay, F.R.S., F.L.S., Colonial Sec-
retary of N.S.W. from 1825 to 1837—he came out
to this colony. Polities had no charms for a
nature so self-sustained and robust as that of
young Macleay; he consequently eschewed the
petty attractions of city life for the freer and more
exhilarating existence of the Australian forest.
He spent fifteen years in the Murrumbidgee dis-
trict ; and (as might be expected) the pastoral
princes of that region were not likely to allow a
man of his culture “ to live at home at ease,” like
the typical country gentleman he so much re-
sembles. His enthusiastic friends morally forced
Mr. Macleay to enter the Legislative Council in
1854 as the representative of the Lachlan and Lower
Darling. Sensitively shunning the Parliamentary
free lances, who were “ marting offices for gold,”
or selling patronage for parliamentary support, he
turned his attention to questions affecting the
good of the country as a whole. He did not
attempt to force his Protectionist fallacy—an
economic virus or venom with which he was
probably inoculated by Mr. (now Sir James)
Martin. Rapid railway extension, of substantial
construction, occupied Mr. Macleay’s mind for
several years, and his indomitable resolution com-
pelled laggard Governments to expedite their
pace, although, like the curia of modern Rome,
they sped along non plmneo, sed plumbeo pede—
with a leaden not a plumed foot, like Mercury’s.
For twenty years he held a seat in the Assembly,
sustaining its respectability, rebuking its snob-
bery, indignant at its lobbying and log-rolling, and
often ablaze with mingled anger and shame at the
traffic that was being carried on in “ billets.”
He knew it all—let him deny it if he can—
and he disliked it so gravely, that he left
the political chiffoniers to prey on the
quarry as they pleased, and to thank
Providence that they had a country to plunder.
On one of his journeys, to wit, on the 22nd Decem-
ber, 1864—t0 be as precise as the He bald of the
Moen can make us—became into personal conflict
with the notorious bushrangers Hall, Gilbert, and
Dunn. He came upon these outlaws robbing a
number of drays near Shelley’s Flats, about 13
miles on the Sydney side of Goulburn ; and being
well armed, and not the least afraid of the ruffians,
he got out of his buggy when about eighty yards
from them, and advanced on foot towards them.
They, fearing an ambush, retreated into the bush,
and left the road clear. A few minutes afterwards,
while driving to the door of the inn on the Flats,
the bushrangers galloped down the hill after him,
and fired one shot. He responded by discharging
his rifle, the bullet from which (it was afterwards
rumoured) passed through Dunn’s necktie. Then
they galloped off, and molested no one on that
road thenceforth, On retiring from public life,
Mr. Macleay betook himself to his darling science
—Entomology. The Macleay family may be said
to be, during the current century, iEdiles of
Nature —hierophants of the phenomena of Natural
History. We have already indicated the status
of the Hon. Alexander; that of the latter’s son,
Sir George, is impressed on a monument more last-
ing than bronze —his own publications—which the
naturalist Swain has incorporated with his own
most elaborate works, and of which the great
naturalist, the late Father Marouzier, declared
that they deserved to be published at the public
expense and circulated at a merely nominal price,
or sold for “an old song.” His love of science
induced Mr. William Macleay to fit out the barque
“ Chevert ” at his own expense, and, in company
with the Hon. Captain Onslow, conduct an expe-
dition to New Guinea, from which he derived both
pleasure and scientific profit. On his return he
was appointed to the Legislative Council, and has
since been an attentive and independent member,
rather averse to Sir John Robertson’s hifalutin,
but withal tolerating that eccentric Knight’s
irritating idiosyncrasies. Mr. Macleay was first
president of the Australian Lmnean Society, and
one of the trustees of the Australian Museum.
His private collection of insects and other speci-
mens of Natural History (worth .£10,000) he
intends to bequeath to the Sydney University.
He married in June, 1857, Miss S. Emmeline
Thomson, daughter of the late Sir Edward Deas
Thomson, and grand-daughter of the great Sir
Richard Bourke, Governor of N.S.W. Mr.
Macleay could have been knighted years ago;
but he disregards such commonplace distinctions,
and prefers self respect and conscious dignity to
worthless titles.
THE STOCKWHIP
Ex Nihilo.
We wonder what premium would be demanded by any
prudent Life Assurance Company before issuing a
policy on the life of the present —assuming that it is
still the present— Czar of Russia. Alexander the
Third is evidently bent on trebling the forces of
Nihilism and making insurrection a certainty. Russia,
he proclaims, shall continue autocratic; those who
sigh for freedom, those who aspire to be representatives
of thejpeople,! must keep their sighs and their aspira-
tions|to themselves. If not, they can go to Siberia and
have (ample opportunity for sighing, if not aspiring, in
the mines. Such is the flat of the new despot; and, it
he be lucky, for a few years, possibly, he may escape
destruction, while numbers of daring men and women
will court it. Nihilism seems to be the one religion ot
the present day which has no lack of martyrs. They
rush to their fate with an enthusiastic self-regardless-
ness which recalls heroic times. There can be but one
issue to a struggle of this description.
“ For Freedom’s battle, once begun,
Bequeathed from bleeding sire to son.
Though baffled oft is ever won.”
Russia’stands now where(England stood two centuries,
and France a century ago. The Revolution works
differently in diverse counrties, but everywhere it
annihilates despotism.
Notice to Pawnbrokers.
Members of Parliament—and Heav»n knows we have
enough of them —have been served with “ gold railway
passes, about the size of a sovereign! ” We are deeply
interested, not to say charmed, to hear that the “ centre
of each pass is a moulded representation of the royal
arms surrounded by the words ‘ New South Wales Rail-
way Pass,’" and that “on the other side is the name of
the place represented in Parliament by the wearer.”
Several questions instantly suggest themselves to the
tax-payer who reads this announcement. Firstly,—
Why were the passes not made of brass or nickel—the
country isn’t made of nuggets ! —for all M.P.’s haven’t
been accustomed to touch nothing but gold since their
childhood. Some of them, when young, had for play-
mates, not little princes and princesses, but pigs; and
they slept, not in mother-of-pearl herceaux, mounted with
gold and studded with diamonds, but in bark huts with
mud floors, or mud huts with straw floors, or in weather-
board cottages let at seven-and-six a week, or in
whatever corresponded to Randwick Asylum in the
country of their nativity. Then why shouldn’t the
State, which is so kind as to provide “ membahs ” with
gold railway passes, also provide them gold watch,
chains to hang them on, and with sealskin railway rugs,
and gold spirit-flasks—or crystal water-bottles —suit-
ably engraved, and silver sandwich-boxes, and 100-guinea
dressing-cases P Why was gold the metal selected ? It
would really appear that M.P.’s, though too good to be
associated with brass, are not good enough to use the
only metal which is dearer than gold—platinum. Dear
Sir Henry, what instructions have you issued to the
pawn-offices respecting your gold railway passes, which
your obsequious friend the Herald tell us “are to be
returned to the department as the holders lose their
seats
“We, the People of England.”
In these terms the “ Three) Tailors of Tooley-street ”
subscribed themselves in their celebrated petition to
the Government, and Mr. Ninian Melville, ambitious
of being on a social equality with so very aristocratic a
body, apes their comportment, and manigloquently
dubs himself “the country.” Having thus comfor-
tably constituted himself the country he can, of course,
do no less than launch forth the most dreadful threats
against all and sundry who should have the temerity to
do anything of which the country disapproves. No
reasonable man can have any possible objection to this.
A country.has a perfect right to do as it pleases—that
is to say on its own ground, and in such a manner that
it does not interfere with the like liberty of other
countries ; and if Mr. Melville chooses to metempsy-
chose himself into a country, and no other countries
object, then he stands on a perfectly logical basis. We
cannot say that it is a very promising country to look
at—but the'most barren country can be put to some
THE HON. WILLIAM MACLEAY, M.L.C.—(From a photo by Newman, Oxford-st


use—if well manured; and no doubt the one in question
could be made to produce something, if it were only
Dead Sea apples. As a country, its education is at
present in a dreadfully backward state, and its know-
ledge of geography and history sadly limited, ft tells
us that no European has penetrated more than 30 miles
from the Chinese coast, which is pretty rough on the
host of travellers in China, and especially on that
English lady who went from Pekin to St. Petersburg.
However, all countries have to go through their periods
of ignorance—their dark ages in fact. The mischief is
than some never emerge from them.
A Perpetual Decoration.
The senile puerility, or old->>oy vanity, of many of our
rulers has sonetimes made us smile sometimes
frown; but we consoled ourselves in the performance
of either operation with the reflection tha,t<Tatterly,
the display had reached its limits. When the Com-
panionship of a chivalric order had been degraded by
obtaining it for shady political services ; and when
Court costnmery, with the unmanageable dress-sword
dangling between awkward legs, could be worn on state
occasions by some dozen experts in the political “ ring,”
we 1 ittle imagined that there was a still deeper depth of
folly to be plumbed. We dreamt of finality in that
direction without giving adequate consideration to the
inventive genius of the Premier in creating a sensation,
even when he individually cuts a sorry figure in the part
he i ssumes. It seems there is soon to be issued a new
kind of " decoration," which will " make beholders
wink,” and one not unaccompanied with some peculiar
advantages. The recent issue of gold railway-passes to
Members of Parliament, in lieu of the old and sug-
gestive leather medal, probably only provoked con-
temptuous smiles in political dircles ; but what will be
said of the issue of life-medals to ex-Ministers of the
Crown, Judges, and other high officials ? The thing will
be done! An aristocratic ornament for the purpose is
in course of preparation, and will soon be ready for the
acceptance of our geebnng nobility, by means of which,
dangling at their watch-chains, they will be able to
travel free on every Government means of transit in the
colony. It is not yet certain whether or not the “ pass”
will assume a stellar shape, so as to look like a
"distinguished order;” but it will not only serve a
distinct purpose for a lifetime, but be handed down to
posterity as an heirloom of ancestral renown. As the
medal is to be burnished, is the project not an instance
of “ gilding refined gold ?" If the Parliament will
tolerate this snobbery, and attempt to allow a personal
life-interest in the railways and tramlines to certain
individuals, it will deserve the contempt and repro-
bation of the community. And as to the ornament
serving as an heirloom—it will but remind the dead-
head's grandson that his grands ire was a deadhead.
“New South Wales to Wit.”
Anyone who on Saturday lavished twopence in the
purchase of the S.M.H., must have had his attention
drawn to three columns of advertisements, issuing from
the office of the Minister for Works, and having refer-
ence to the resumption of certain pieces of land. We
are not about to hold forth on the justice of giving
these ads. to one paper—a paper which charges a more
exorbitant rate for advertising than any other in the
world. What we wish to point out is the disgusting
snobbishness and nauseous official phraseology which
characterises them ; and also the immoral waste of the
people’s money, merely to put it in the pockets of those
who might be useful. There are nine of these adver-
tisements, and each one has exactly fifty lines in fac-
simile, or four hundred lines —about a column and
a-half —of absolutely useless and wasteful repetition,
for which tbe taxpayers are the worse off, and the
Herald proprietary the better. Even official morality
could scarcely justify this. With regard to the snob-
bishness and abiurd phraseology of these Governmental
ads. it may well be asked if we are really such a lot of
children that we require all these ridiculous “ to wits,”
“ whereases,” “ hereinafters,” “ heruntos,” “ that is to
says,” and all the rest of the farcical phrases, to amuse
us. Why is it necessary for Government officials to
talk and write a language different to that of the
people? Away with such trifling! Let us endeavour
to get rid of these old, bad formalisms, and stand out as
rational, sensible beings, knowing what we want to do,
and what we want to say—and not as mere precisianists,
aping the customs of our less enlightened fathers.
Tombstone Morality.
“ Speak nothing but good of the dead” is a saying as
old and as well-worn as any that can be quoted. If
we were to judge from the record of the tombs, this
so-c tiled wicked world has been peopled by a race of un-
canonised saints, and anything in the shape of a sinner
must have been the blackest of black swans. Cruel
husbands and bad fathers, nagging wives and careless
mothers, find in the process of dissolution a complete
course of whitewashing. They awake in the next life
invested with a long roll of the most exalted virtues,
and encounter St. Peter flourishing a tombstone
certificate which must of necessity ensure them a
front seat in the dress-circle. All this, no doubt, is
very pleasing, but is it true ? And can anything that
is not true be right ? Right and truth are surely
synonymous. Is it true that Lord Beaconsfield,
when living, was such a benefactor to his country that
he is entitled to a national memorial ? Or, if it is true,
is Mr. Gladstone, who, for two-fifths of a century, has
been declaring that Dizzy was its curse, the man to
affirm it ? Has death so altered the tenor of Lord
Beaconsield's acts that they are suddenly found to
have been of the greatest service ? Do all the deeds of
war. and aggression, and wanton waste of the people's
noniy, and cruel indifference to their social wrongs, at
once assume an aspect the reverse of that which they
bore in his lifetime ? If not, then is this tombstone
morality of the very lowest kind, and a paltering with
the truth which no good intentions can justify.
A Salvation Show.
Sydney audiences do not seem to properly appreciate
the most deserving attempts at catering for their
amusement. They are too apt to be swayed by the ad-
vertising capacities of those seeking their favours, or
by the ability of self-constituted critics in the art of
tacking together long and meaningless words under the
guise of high-toned criticism. Many feeble performers
have attained to fame in Sydney by these means. On
the other hand there are those who, scorning these
means, or having not the wherewithal to secure them,
blush in modest retirement all-unseen. There is a show
of this latter kind now performing in Sydney under the
auspices of a Mr. and Mrs. Inskip. The editor of the
Weakly Advocate is to be credited with rescuing it
from oblivion. Listen to what hj says:—“Now a few
sen 1 ences a;e given indicating close thinking, and clear
logic, and now these are followed by colloquial talk.
The affections are moved by calling forth smiles, and
even laughter; by racy sayings, hard back-handed hits,
and humonr; and then tears ore made to flow by
pathetic appeals. Sometimes the sublime has almost
touched, or blended with, the laughter; but seldom
(hardly ever) to destroy the holy longings of the hearers.
These meetings are cheerfully solemn (or solemnly
cheerful), and pervaded by a strange power.” We
should think they must be cheerfully solemn indeed ;
in fact, altogether unique and deserving of patronage.
The refult was, the editor-tells us, that “100 came out
to seek salvation.” We are not surprised at it; indeed,
we should have felt inclined to come out to seek any-
thing, if it was only a breath of fresh air, or a pint of
porter.
The “Brass Wheels” Story.
In regard to the latest Hanlan sensation, it may
be pointed out that, though it is true that the
articles of association drawn up between Hanlan and
Trickett in their match for the championship of the
world provided for the use of “ best an d best boats," it
is equally a fact that the agreement in question was
headed “ Articles of Sculling Match.” Now, the popular
notion iu that in a sculling match the boats are pro-
pelled by sculls, and that the use of any motive ageat
but these would be a distinct breach of snch an agree-
ment as that previously referred to. Otherwise, would
it not have been just as fair for Trickett to have made
his appearance on the day of the race in a torpedo-
launch rigged with a pair of sculls, as for Hanlan to
have taken his seat in a boat propelled partly by
sculls and partly by something else? The eminent
engineer Mr. Norman Selfe tells us there would be
no difficulty in constructing an apparatus to take up
power from the motion of the stretcher caused by the
pressure of the feet on the forward stroke of the rower,
and such intermittent power could be made to give
motion to the wheels under the boat. But whether
such wheels or screws or other propeller would give out
sufficient motion to the boat to counterbalance the dis-
advantages of the extra weight of gearing is another
matter. Mr. Selfe—and his opinion is worth having-
says that, from reading the newspaper article which has
been going the rounds lately, and knowing what could
be done in such a case, he is inclined to think that some
ingenious “ ink-slinger ” has heard a mechanical man
speak of the possibility of such a contrivance, and has
got up tho sensation on the strength of it.
Clerical Sarcasm.
“ So the Rev. Mr. Blank is again able to preach. This
is the Lord's doing and marvellous in our eyes ” The
before-written paragraph is taken in all its simple
beauty from the N.S.W. Independent, and is said to
have been written by the South Australian correspon-
dent of that esteemed journal. It is not complimentary
to the Rev. Mr. Blank thongh, since it implies he was
snot a “ duffer ’ ’ that nothing short of a miracle could
fit him for the pulpit After all, it is only your truly
religious man who knows how to smite a brother. A
clumsy secular journalist would have never hit on such
an ingenious way of doing the stiletto business. He
would, ten to one, have blundered into a libel. Bnt
your truly religious man picks him out a holy text, and
so subtly welds it on to his little par. that the fellow
attacked hasn’t a leg to stand on. We rather flattered
ourselves that we knew a thing or two with regard to
dishing up a little morceau of ironical criticism, but in
utter humility we veil our faces, and, bowing low before
the Independent man, at once and without a single
arriere pensie “ give him best.” An inkslinger of his
stamp is lost in South Australia. He should at once
make tracks for the Pitt and Hunter streets corner.
“Nothing in the Evidence.”
At Dubbo, Constable M'Coy was charged with ill-
treating one Patrick M’Manus. “In support of the
complaint, Messrs. Hearnk, M’Manis, and Hurley,
were called. The former deposed that the policemen
had the man on the ground opposite Moffatt’s mill.
One of them was choking him, and he (Hearne) re.
monstrated, but he was threatened with being taken
into custody. The man they had on the ground was
handcuffed and perfectly quiet. M’Manus swore that
he did not recollect who took him. He was hit on the
nose by one constable, and the blood from his nose
entered his mouth, and nearly suffocated him. Mr.
Hurley said he saw M’Manus on the ground and Pod-
more was holding him down by the throat. The man
was being choked The Bench dismissed
the complaint, holding that though been
somewhat harshly treated, there was nothing in the
evidence to justify their finding M’Coy guilty of mis-
behaviour.” This reads like a paragraph from a satirical
paper. We wonder what amount of ill-treatment would,
in the opinion of Mr. T. A. Browne, P.M , constitute
" misbehaviour ?’’ The case, any way it is looked at, is
an extraordinary one; but so used are the public to
eccentricities of law and justice, that when they crop
up people merely whistle and say nothing. We
wonder, now, whether we shall hear any more of
M’Manus, or of Constable M*Coy, or of Mr. T. A.
Browne, P.M. We hope we shall; we think we shall;
we are almost sure we shall. The Dubbo people have
evidently got hold of “ the real M'Cor ” at last.
Ladies in Boys’ Parts.
There is a flutter in theatrical circles about the stric.
tures of the Argus’ dramatic critic, and of a writer im the
Federal Australian, as to the proper style of dress for
ladies who have to play what are technically known as
“ boys’ parts," to assume on the stage. This subject is of
histrionic importance, as in almost all tbe Sbakesperian
comedies the heroine is called upon to don male attire.
No doubt, as our readers are aware, “ the
William ” was addicted to this device from the fact
that in his days the female parts were personated by
boys. It was not until the reign of Charles 11. that
women appeared on the English stage; and even in
those days, as the chatty Mr. Pepys tells us, the boy
Kynaston ‘‘made the prettiest woman that I ever did
see.” As the gentle Rosalind and the ill-starred
Imogen would, in the days of their creation, be repre-
sented on the stage by two shapely smooth-faced boys
(if there was any sign of hair upon the chin, be sure it
was carefully obliterated beforehand), what more
natural than to make them appear in the likeness of
sex during the action of the piece ? Bnt in our
day, when women are so conspicuously successful on
the stage, and when a male representative of Juliet or
Beatrice would indeed be thought ludicrous, we have
to look at a sort of reverse to that which a Shake-
gperian audience witnessed. Women nowadays, in these
narts, have to assume the guise of men, and our Mel-
bourne critics may wisely take exception to the “ way
in which it’s done.” Who could possibly mistake Miss
Pomeroy, as Fidele, for a jjr* i She shows all the
contour of her lower limbs, any reserve, which
is quite enough to disclose her sex —and ibis, as
“Amiens,” in tho Federal Australian, points out.
regardless of the fact that she is supposed to be travel-
ling (incog.) on a black, stormy, wind-beaten coast. The
whole thing is monstrous, and it is high time a reform
set in. It is all very well for those actresses who have
a penchant for the epicene fairy princes of burlesques,
and whose chief business is to display their physical
charms and do a little song and dance business, to
approximate as near as possible to the garments of our
dear old mother Eve ; but in these Shakespearian plays
they are meant to appear veritably like men. They are
supposed to deceive the rest of the dramatis nersonse,
and (as in the case of Imogen and Rosalind) are sent
adrift in lonely forests, and by rocky seashores, where
they must feel the “ churlish chidings of the winter
wind,” Let them, then, dress the parts becomingly.
They will look none the less charming, and will really
help to elevate the profession, and make it appear more
truly respectable in the eyes of people who are neithe 1
prudes nor Pharisees, but simply common sense ladies
and gentlemen. Even on this very subject of dresses,
the words of the great master are to the point : “ Let
them not o’er step the modesty of Nature.”
Mr. Bob Sawyer and Mr. Benjamin Allen.
There has been quite a storm in a teacup lately in
Melbourne. The young medicos of the University are
up in arms owing to a paragraph by “ Atticus " which
appeared in a recent number of the Leader. Ale.
Deakin, member for West Bourke, now “does" the
amusing column of that periodical, having taken up the
pen formerly wielded by the author of “ His Natural
Life." A few years ago, Alf. was a very young man, of
most exemplary character, the shining light of debating
societies, and the rising hope in Melbourne Spiritua-
listic circles. He could quote Mill, Darwin, and
Spencer by the page, and under the influence of
Spiritualistic mediumship, could pour out pages of
poetry that bore a very close external resemblance to
that of Sheilet, Poe, and Swinburne. Since he
joined that great Liberal paper, the Melbourne Age, he
has, however, developed into a full-blown journalist,
and he particularly aspires to be the sparkling and
sarcastic writer of the Leader, the George Augustus
Sala of Australia. Ale., however, whether from a
deficiency in a sense of the humorous or too much
good nature—for there is no one so dangerous with the
pen as your cheerful, easy-going individual, and there
is no better tempered or more good-natured man alive
than Alf. Deakin—seems to have a knack of “putting
his foot in it.” This time he has attacked the medical
students, accusing them of rowdyism, larrikinism,
buffoonery, and a tendency to frequent low pothouses.
They are, in fact, held up as the genuine successors of
Mr. Bob Sawyer and Mr. Benjamin Allen. The
students sprang to arms. A public meeting was held,
at which the choir was taken by a fussy and pompous
professor with a bland and oily manner that should
some day secure him a seat in the Victorian Parliament.
Indignant resolutions were passed denouncing tbe
journal in question, and it was decided that the afore-
said oily professor should head a deputation to the
proprietor, requesting him to apologise for the gross
charges. In addition to this, the more irate of the Bob
Sawyers ore prowling about, half in quest of Alp.,
and partly in search of Marcus, whom they threaten
with duckings. Truly, the paths of journalism are
hedged about with thorns.
The Census Papers and the Prevailing
Religions.
When Premier Parkes resolved to make inquisition
into the religions of the people of this colony, it might
have been expected that he would seek for truthful, not
false, representations. The instructions in the census
papers were, however, so framed as to induce many of
the collectors to demand that the “ religious” column
should be filled up with the name of one or other of the
large sectarian organizations, or else with the misleading
statement, “No religion” or “No denomination.” In
many instances which have come to our knowledge the
collectors even took upon themselves to alter the
answers which had been given, and to insert in lieu
thereof, “Church of England,” “ Roman Catholic,” or
such other designation as they might individually fancy.
One letter which has been shown us, emanating from a
boarding-house in Kent-street, Sydney, categorically
declares this infamous misrepresentation to have been
insisted upon in the case of several of its occupants. In
New Zealand, we notice, from the columns of the
Dunedin Echo, the Minister responsible for the cor-
rectness of the census returns was careful to direct
that the collectors should not refuse to receive the
truthful representations of the colonists in regard to
this matter. Why could not a similarly straight-
forward course have been adopted in New South
Wales ? Surely there are sufficient opportunities for
manipulating the returns which are the outcome of the
census papers, without seeking to make the people
themselves particeps enminis in what can only be de-
nominated as a fraudulent declaration.
Political Parasites.
Has all manful hope quitted the craven hearts of a
large section of the community ? When will the
funereal cohort of waiters-on-Provideuce diminish in
number ? How shall we save our institutions from the
parasites—worse than oidium or aphis—from fastening
on our institutions ? It is not only irritating, but
alarming, to learn the number of applicants who fought
tooth and nail to obtain the few score petty'billets—
some of them only temporary engagements—at the dis-
posal of the Government. The Inspectors of Attendance
under the Public Instruction Act —or’to designate them
the better, the detectives for the suppression of truancy
—have been appointed ; there were twenty-eight officers
to be appointed, but there were nearly four hundred
applicants. For the tabulating, or “ rigging ” of the
census returns a large staff has been appointed; but
they form a miserable minority compared with the
number of the dejected rejected. The Fisheries’
Commission is having a rough time of it with the
numerous ground sharks that are trying to prey on the
public revenue. How long will this kind of thing con-
tinue ? Surely the vast majority of these candidates,
in seedy garments and glum of aspect, could, if they
chose, eke out an independent living without wasting
time and energy in trying to get “something to do
under Gov’ment ’’ —a ticket of admission to an official
asylum ? Tho news would not be so charged with
public shame and humiliation if it were not a fact that
many of the billet-seekers are young men of ordinary
intelligence and strong muscle, who could shape their
own fortunes well if they cared to try—if they could
give up the allurements of city life, and the chance of
obtaining the means of enjoying them at the public
expense. We shall investigate this matter further.
Professor Blackie on Sabbath Observance.
Scotland is gradually emancipating itself from being,
as Buckle alleged, one of the two most completely
priest-ridden nations on the face of the earth. Through
the mouths of its noblest spokesmen, it is putting in a
claim for freedom. Professor Blackie, though still
fettered in many directions, has the courage of his
opinions touching Sabbatarianism. In a lecture
recently delivered before a Glasgow audience, he pro.
nounced strongly in favor of the rational Sunday. Let
us interfere as little as possible with the rest and leisure
of the working classes, he says, but let us recreate our.
selves as beet we may. Hence, while objecting to large
dinner parties and gatherings of that kind on Sunday
he is an advocate for such innocent games as cricket
croquet, lawn-tennis, cards, billiards, backgammon, 4c.
for all who care for them. We wish Professor Blackie
could come to Sydney, and inoculate with his sensible
views our local Mawworms and Sleekes. The Sunday
larrikinism which disgraces this city would speedily
disappear if cricket clubs, temperance billiard-rooms,
park bands, and lawn-tennis became the order of the
day. It will be strange indeed if, by-and-bye, we have
to go to Glasgow to learn how to spend Sunday, so as
to avoid drunkenness and give Monday’s Police Court
little or nothing to do.
A Constitutional Oracle.
“ He that is the most ignorant is the most certain of
his knowledge," says a Chinese sage; and our public
teachers fully bear out the truth of the saying. Saith
our oldfriend, the S.M.H., to Mr. Mirams of Victoria,
‘‘ Resign, for you have mistaken your position, and are
unfit for its duties I " And why ? Because he called
his constituents together, and consulted with them as
to the course he should pursue with regard to the
Council’s amendments to the Reform Bill. Verily,
a profound and luminous Constitutional authority j
Saith the oracle further, “ How could any meeting of
constituents have a right to tell him what he ought to
do? It is his business to do wbat he considers right,
and he was elected for that purpose." Perhaps, when
our friend has studied a little more, and come to under
stand some of the principles on which representative
government is based, he will be able to modify this
view. A representative is not, as is here supposed, an
individual elected merely to take part in a party strife;
but one chosen to carry out the wishes of the people—
which he can only do so long as they do not conflict
with his own convictions; so that when the two clash
as to what is right, then is the time to resign. When a
point arises on which a representative does not see his
way clear, he would, if he were a conscientious man,
call his constituents together, and gather their views,
and, if he were not opposed to them, carry them out.
This is the spirit of representative government; not,
as the oracle assumes, a mere struggle for power.
The Lamont Will Case.
Melbourne has received a shock from a quarter which
is usually more conducive to sleep than to a popular
ferment. We mean the Equity Court. It is all about
this “Lamont will” case, which, so far as it
has been heard, goes to show that ‘‘Truth is
stranger than fiction.” A shrewd and business-
like though speculative Scotchman dies, leaving
most of his worldly wealth t j a Mr. M'George and
a lady who should be Mrs. M’George, but whose real
name is Jackson. This extraordinary pair (so it is
alleged by Lamont’s disappointed relatives)“biologized”
the unhappy Scot, and hinc illce lachrymce. The little
history of this magnetic school, of which Mrs. Jack-
son was high priestess, M'Georoe high priest, a
certain well-known journalist chief apostle, and the
deceased Lamont the Holy Banker or man who fur-
nished the filthy lucre, is quite a romance. They all
lived together, first in one house in Flinders-street and
then in adjoining houses at Hawth ora, and all was
peace, ‘‘blessed peace,” as Mr. Chadband says, dis-
turbed only by the visits of certain (£medy Scotch
relatives of the holy banker, who heard that “George’s
oesophagus was closing up,” and called, you know, just
to see “ how their dear, dear brother was getting oh."
Then the journalist seceded, and they lost in him the
scribe who could disseminate the glad tidings of the
new gospel. The newspaper man had his eyes open to
the proceedings of Mr. and Mr. M'Murtbie, and when
the will came out he nobly gathered the clan M’Mur-
trie together and said “ Lo! is it meet that this man
and this woman should mop up thy kinsman’s goods ?
Get thee then into the Court of Equity, where sitteth
the astute but just Molesworth, and he will give thee
that of which thou hast been defrauded.” They did so,
and now Melbourne is “in the thick of it.” Webb,
Q.C., and Holyrod, Q.C., are both up to their necks in
it, while the lesser legal lights and the reporters who
report what takes place in the courts of law, are going
about staggering under the weight of 250 printed folios
of affidavits.
The Wellington Lunatic Asylum.
The case of the man Whitelaw is one of those that
awaken people from time to time to a knowledge of
existing abuses, which might otherwise have remained
indefinitely concealed. The account of his cruelty, in
his capacity as Superintendent of an Asylum for the
Insane, to an unfortunate lunatic patient would form
sufficiently grim marginal comment on the report issued
by the directors of that institution. If half the
attention devoted by these ordinarily well-intentioned
people to the care of presenting a fair exterior to the
world were bestowed in the direction of a vigorous
supervision over their internal arrangements and a due
regard to the well-being of those committed to their
keeping, fewer painful disclosures like that referred to,
and those made not so very long since respecting one
of our own asylumns, would obtrude themselves upon
tho notice of a complacently philanthropic public. As
it is, however, it is perhaps j ust as well that an official’s
zeal to persecute his dependants occasionally outruns
his discretion. If, for instance, Whitelaw had not
taken his patient from his ward on that bitterly cold
night, and after leading his helpless, shivering victim
over an open yard, exposed him during ten consecutive
minutes to an icy douche bath —but, instead of that
somewhat extreme measure, had tempered his cruelty
with prudence, and exhausted hia ingenuity without
having recourse to outre expedients, he might still have
been allowed to escape the penalty of his actions, and
successors after his own heart might have carried out
his advanced humanitarian system in uninterrupted
detail. It was only by the public feeling create i
through the instrumentality of those exaggerated
pictures of suffering and secret crime drawn so
graphically by the novelists of a departed school that


GORDON PARK! GORDON PARS !
LANE COVE ROAD.
NORTH SHORE HEIGHTS.
RICH SOIL ! GRAND VIEWS !
ONE HUNDRED AGEES of the RICHEST and
BEST GROUND in the LANE COVE
DISTRICT, subdivided into
ACRE AND TWO-ACRE BLOCKS !
to be sold
ON THE GROUND.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, MAY 21.
V The TITLE is under TORRENS* ACT.
V The TERMS will be EXCEPTIONAL, viz.,
10 per cent DEPOSIT, and 10 per cent. Quarterly,
interest 6 per cent.
GORDON PARK has been laid out on a Grand Scale
by Mr. Surveyor ATCHISON.
17 Blocks front the MAIN LANE COVE ROAD
15 Blocks front GLADSTONE PARADE
(100 feet Wide)
19 Blocks front BEACONSFIELD PARADE
(100 feet Wide)
8 Blocks front GORDON AVENUE
(Cnaiu Wide)
Note.—All the streets are cleared.
GORDON PARK is a grand intact property, in the
centre of the fruit-producing district.
GORDON PARK will luxuriantly grow apples, oranges,
pears, peaches, apricots, plums, nectarines,
grapes, figs, bananas, and all
other fruits.
«r The RAILWAY from PIERCE’S CORNER to
BERRY’S BAY must pass within a few hundred yards
of GORDON PARK.
GORDON PARK—the spot for health, happiness,
and competency.
GORDON PARK—for elevation and clear air.
GORDON PARK—the place to erect your villa home.
Lithos. obtainable.
HARDiE & GORMAN
"ILL SELL by Public Auction, on the Ground,
W 1 at 3.30,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 21st MAY,
The whole of the blocks in GORDON PARK, the
most liberal subdivision in the district.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
TERMS, the EASIEST.
The ’BUSES pass GORDON PARK at REGULAR
INTERVALS DAILY.
FREE ’BUSES TO CONVEY INTENDING
PURCHASERS TO THE GROUND, FREE.
APPLY for TICKETS.
HAMPSTEAD PARK ESTATE,
AUBURN.
SURVEYED by Mr. LICENSED SURVEYOR
ATCHISON.
SECTION ONE :
NINETEEN SITES, each 50 x 203, fronting
CORNWALL ROAD.
SECTION TWO:
THIRTY-SIX SITES, each 50 x 203, fronting
ALBERT ROAD
and
CORNWALL ROAD.
SECTION THREE :
FORTY-FOUR SITES, each 50 x 195, fronting
NORWOOD ROAD
and
LARKFIELD ROAD.
SECTION FOUR:
FORTY-FOUR SITES, each 50 x 195, fronting
WAVERTREE ROAD
and
LARKFIELD ROAD
SECTION FIVE :
FORTY-FOUR SITES, each 50 x 195, fronting
CHISHOLM ROAD
and
WAVERTREE ROAD.
ALTOGETHER 187 LOTS,
187 LOTS,
for
UNRESERVED AUCTION SALE.
EVERY LOT GOOD.
Note the following
C 10 per cent. DEPOSIT, balance by
CHE TEEMS. < 36 monthly payments.
(. NO INTEREST!
( Within the means of everyone, be-
THE PRICE. -5 cause NO RESERVE. Every lot
(.offered will be positively sold,
r UNEQUALLED, whether you
consider its RICHNESS of SOIL,
THE LAND its ELEVATION above the sur-
I rounding country, or its nearness
(to a suburban station.
LITHOS. ARE NOW READY.
HAMPSTEAD PARK ESTATE,
AUBURN HEIGHTS,
Auburn Railway Station.
Special Train,
Special Tree Passes,
UEEN'S JHRTHDAY.
HARDIE AND GORMAN,
AUCTIONEERS.
MOUNT DRUITT ESTATE,
BOOTY HILL.
ABOUT 27 MILES FEOM SYDNEY,
with large frontages to the
GREAT WESTERN LINE,
GREAT WESTERN ROAD,
and
ROPE’S CREEK.
ELEVATED LAND,
RICH SOIL. PARK-LIKE COUNTRY.
Enchanting views of
THE KURRAJONG,
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
KNAPSACK GULLY,
and the cultivated lands around.
MOUNT DRUITT
has an area of about
200 ACRES.
VILLA SITES and COUNTRY BLOCKS.
SECTION 1.
LOTS 1 to 15, each having a frontage of 60 feet to
RAILWAY PARADE,
by depths from 228,t0 272 feet to
THE AVENUE.
SECTION 2.
LOTS 1 to 10, each having 55 feet frontage to
MOUNT DRUITT ROAD,
by depths from 230 to 3 r o feet.
LOTS 12 to 32, each having 66 feet frontage to
DURHAM STREET,
by depths of 275 feet.
SECTION 3.
LOTS 1 to 16, having frontages varying fron 266 to 332
feet to DURHAM. NELSON, STATION
STREETS, and ROPE’S CREEK and MOUNT
DRUITT ROADS, by similar depths.
SECTION 4.
LOTS 1 to 10, each having a frontage of 66 feet to
MOUNT DRUITT ROAD,
by depths from 300 to 376 feet.
LOTS 11 to 28, each having a frontage of 100 feet to
PALMERSTON ROAD,
DURHAM STREET,
by depths of 311 feet.
SECTION 5.
LOTS 1 to 8, each having a frontage of 500 feet to
NORFOLK STREET,
DURHAM STREET,
ROPE’S CREEK ROAD.
SECTION 6.
LOTS 1 to 10, each having a frontage of 198 feet to
PALMERSTON ROAD,
DURHAM STREET,
by depths of 311 feet.
LOTS 11 to 14, each having a frontage of 500 feet to
CHESTER STREET,
NORFOLK STREET,
DURHAM STREET,
by similar depths.
SECTION 7.
LOTS 1 to 5, having frontages from 330 to 650 feet to
CHESTER STREET,
PALMERSTON ROAD,
ROPE’S CREEK ROAD.
Subdivided by Messrs. DAWSON and STEPHEN,
and will be submitted at auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 21st MAY,
at 12.25 o’clock.
SPECIAL TRAIN on the DAT OF SALE.
FREE TICKETS AND LITHOGRAPHS ARE NOW
OBTAINABLE AT THE ROOMS.
HARDIE & GORMAN,
have received instructions to sell by pub c auction
ON THE GROUND,
THAT VALUABLE COUNTRY ESTATE,
for many years known as the
MOUNT DRUITT ESTATE,
and originally granted to Major Druitt.
«T THE GOVERNMENT ARE ERECTING A
STATION and SIDING AT
MOUNT DRUITT,
and it is destined to become one of the principal
positions on the line,
FOR COUNTRY HOMES.
Its rich uplands and sloping downs remind the beholder
of our
ENGLISH PARK ESTATES,
with the unequalled advantage of an
ETERNAL SPRING-TIME
in this grand climate.
THE PROPERTY only requires to be see to be ap-
preciated, and no eulogium can do justice to its really
INTRINSIC BEAUTY.
SALE DAY,
SATURDAY, 21st MAY.
TERMS:—ONLY 25 PER CENT. DEPOSIT, BAL-
ANCEBY 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS, WITH.
OUT INTEREST.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Abv.
An aquatic exhibition will take place at the
Lavender Bay Bathe on Queen’s Birthday, for the
benefit of Professor Cavill.
Hampstead Park estate, at Auburn, on the
suburban railway line, is to be sold in allotments by
Hardieand Gorman. Specialfree passes on the Queen’s
Birthday.
The Goughtown Temperance Festival is fixed for
the Queen’s Birthday, at the Garden Palace. The affair
is in the hands of responsible city gentlemen, and the
performances are likely to be interesting.
There was a very successful 1.0.G.T. concert at
Eyde on Monday evening last. Good attendance, and
very fair vocalists —including the Misses Hicks and
Murray, and Messrs. J. Dovey, Beaver, Quickly, &c.
The results of the Singleton races on Monday
were as follow: —Flying Handicap: Mangollala Squatter
1, Hesitation 2, Vesper 3. Maiden Plate: Diadem Ij
Faust 2, Favour 3. Singleton Handicap: Eureka 1,
Gleam 2, Hesitation 3. Nursery Stakes; Faust 1,
Psyche 2, Diadem 3. Hack Race: Ella 1.
Have yon tried the Taeping Mixture ? Well,
remember that the Importers have introduced the
Taeping Muitob to bring pure tea within the roach
of the public—Advt.
the horrors of the private lunatic asylums of the past
and early part of the present centuries were laid bare.
The enquiry which followed showed that very little
indeed had been left to the novel-writer's imagination,
and the storm of public indignation which ensued
effectually did away with those foul social excrescences.
But the effect of revelations such as that now
occupying attention is necessarily to throw donbt on
the efficiency of a scheme of inspection which still
leaves room for the continual perpetration of outrages
such as that disclosed. It must be remembered, too,
that the one we quote is not an isolated instance of
alleged maltreatment. Cases of cruelty to patients
so common as to have become painfully familiar have
also been brought to light, and sufficient proof has been
adduced to show that the example of the Superintendent
was not without its effect on the conduct of his
subordinate officials. Surely the possibility of the
existence of such a state of things—for the system is
the same in principle throughout the colonies—is
sufficient to beget a want of confidence in the bona fides
of onr great public charities.
Protection and Population.
The pandits who, in the columns of the S. M. Herald,
perplex themselves and their readers over the Victorian
census discrepancy and the missing 75,000 souls have got
the idea soldered into their heads that there is an in-
timate connection between Protective principles and a
failing population. Now, whether Protection be or be
not a had thing we will leave to Messrs. Eeid and
Buchanan : hnt that population increases where it is
enforced is shown in the case of America. Also it is
shown in the case of Victoria; for despite the missing
thousands, the population of that colony has wonder-
fully increased in the last decade. It is certainly rough
upon a country and its lawmakers to be made answer-
able for the miscalculation of a statist. While tolerably
accurate returns are kept of arrivals and departures by
sea no record whatever is made of those by land—of the
countless people who come and go between the
several colonies. All that an Australian Eegistrar-
General can really do is to guess: hut because in the
absence of data to correct the egress and ingress of
population by land he is “ out’’ in his guessing, is surely
no reason why an excusable inaccuracy shouM be made
the text of dull dissertation by prosers who have swal-
lowed Fawcett and Mill without digesting them.
Railway Overcrowding.
Street transit regulations will not tolerate overcrowd-
ing. A vehicle is licensed to carry so many. This is a
wise rule. Majhap it is occasionally transgressed.
Pitv it is that the same regulation does not obtain in
railway matters. On Saturdays and holidays the subur-
ban trains are crammed to suffocation —an inconvenient,
unhealthy and dangerous practice, not carried on by
the public in defiance of the authorities, hut by these
latter indulged in with a genial disdain of what should
he their duties. What is not allowed to the greed of a
’bus proprietary should certainly not he permitted to
the muddle-headedness of the railway department. If
the overcrowding were quite occasional we shouldn’t
think quite so much of it: but it is systematically done
to the very great annoyance of such travellers as do not
enjoy rehearsing the character of a sardine wedged in a
tin. A competent traffic manager would soon effect a
reform, but that raises the question, where is he ?
Advertising a Picture.
“ The praise of the great is precious as the apple of the
eye,” saith a Chinese proverb, and though, at this
present juncture, it is possible that Sir Henry Pabkes
may he unable to see any virtue in that which proceedeth
from the Flowery Land, he will, in the light of recent
circumstances, have some difficulty in denying the
truth of this proverb. For have not his Grace the
Duke of Manchester, his Excellency the Governor, and
her Excellency the Governor’s lady, been gazing,
almost rapturously, on the “ counterfeit presentment ”
of his person and features, as delineated by a local
artist ? And did they not all accord high praise to the
same ? Certainly the artist may appropriate the praise
to himself, but it is quite competent for Sir Henry to
say that without a good subject the work could not
have been half so attractive. True, her ladyship did
not apparently express any opinion as to the elegant
knight’s being “ a beautiful man,” but there can he
little doubt that he has one of his own on the subject,
and he has of course a perfect right to put his own
construction on her remarks. Neither did his Grace
make any very emphatic utterances as to Sir Henry’s
high intellectuality, hut, then as it never does for the
pot to call the kettle black, it is equally unbefitting for
two mental giants unduly to belaud each other, and the
Duke’s words were of course quite understood by the
Minister. Altogether, the affair was a very pleasing
one, and the advertisement will have the effect of
rendering the sale of the picture satisfactory to who-
ever has most interest in it.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“J. H. K.”: Read Byron before you again
apostrophise the ocean on paper. It would be well for
you to read “ The Swimmer," by A. L. Gordon Re
*• Miller”: You don’t tell us where you write from
“ J. T. J.’’: We don’t deal in such ex-parte statements.
“X.Y.Z.” (Grafton): In future please only write on
one side of the paper “ J.M. W.” (Redfem): We are
not sure that we thoroughly understand your communi-
cation. When next you write —and we shall always be
glad to hear from you—please don’t mix things up
“Justitia”: Much obliged for your compliment.
“Wide Awake”: Please write again “Occasional
Correspondent" (Campbelltown): We are not nervous
people, but such things are dangerous “ 8.G.C.” :
Received “ Sun Kum Hook” .- All litee, old man
“J.J.A.”: Always glad to hear from you; however, you
should be less personal “E. 8.” (Surry Hills): We
must decline to publish statements of the kind “Old
Hiram” : Yes, we’ll give the article shortly. Good sub-
ject “South Kensington” : Such matters are always
difficult to deal with. No newspaper dare take the
initiative in an affair of the kind “ A Reader”: You
may be a reader, but you’re certainly not a writer.
Seriously, we can’t make out your epistle “J.C.":
Much obliged “F.J.” (Yass); The matter is a very
trivial one “Fact”: Exactly what we want
“R.M.R.”: In such cases we always require the names
of our correspondents “Country”: Will be con-
sidered for next week " 8.C.”: We have not room
this week for all your matter “T. M‘F. ”: We are
obliged for the information but as any mention of the
fact might possibly do harm to the winner, and lead to
the prosecution of the worthy metallician who got up
the sweep, we let the matter alone.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Sydney is to be the head-quarters of the German
Consulate in Australia.
Two persons escaped punishment at the Water
Police Court, for cruelty to animals, by giving up all
claim to the said animals, with a view to their being
destroyed by the officers of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.
A young lady named Gale, while mentally
deranged from the effects of low fever, drowned herself
in the Clarence River. Her father was drowned at
Clarence Heads some years ago, on the occasion of the
wreck of the s.s. Helen M’Gregor, in which he was a
passenger.
Mr. S. Bent, head master of the Newtown
Public School, read a very able paper before the
Teachers’ Institute, on the 13th, on the subject of
Object Lessons. It was announced that at the next
meeting the president, Mr. Wilkins, would read a paper
on school discipline.
An enjoyable concert was given at Campbell-
town on Friday night last. The ladies who took part
in it were Mrs. Airey, Mrs. Yardy, and Miss Rudd—
each getting through her numbers with credit. Mr.
Walter Airey’s performances afforded much merriment.
The receipts were £4O.
The members of the Newington Cadet Corps had
a very successful outing on the night of the 12th inst.
The boys enjoyed it immensely, but were rather disap-
pointed at not receiving even the slightest refreshment
after their six-mile walk. The Petersham band were
kind enough to render gratuitous services.
Three of the five prisoners sentenced to death
in 1866 for the emeute at Bargo Brush, but whose sen-
tences were commuted to imprisonment for life, have
been liberated, and the remaining two will be set at
liberty next month. Constable Raymond was shot dsad
at the time of the occurrence, and one of the six
prisoners, who was proved to be the actual murderer,
was executed.
All lunatics who have the means are required,
under the new law, to contribute to their own support
in the Government asylums. Thus English, Irish,
German, and Queensland lunatics are now paying for
their support in our asylums. Last week a woman was
sent to Gladesville Asylum. On her house being
searched, £490 in money and securities was found,
from which £25 is to be annually paid for her support.
Since the announcement of the new railway
policy, the attention of metropolitan land investors has
been greatly turned to the rich and almost untouched
district of Lane Cove. Gordon Park, in that locality,
comprising an area of 100 acres, is advertised as for sale
on Saturday, 21st, by Hardie and Gorman.
CRICKET.
Clifton C.C. v. Balmain C.C., played at Moore
Park. Scores: Clifton, 78; Balmain, 47. For the
winners, M’Laughlin made 50 and Coleman 18. For
Balmain, Grace scored 12 The Clio C.C. and Windsor
C.C. met on the ground of the latter last Saturday.
After a pleasant game the Olios won by 27 runs The
Young Oxford and Pioneer C.Cs. met at Moore Park on
Saturday week. The result was an easy win for the
Young Oxfords by 40 runs—the scores beiag, Y.O.C.C.
56, and P.C.C. 16. The .same clubs met again last
Saturday, the 14th, at Moore Park, when there was a
draw in favor of the Y.0.0.G. Scores : Young Oxfords,
59; Pioneer, 9 wickets for 31 Dongregational C.C. v.
Merkt*worth C.C. (return match), at North Shore, last
Saturday, The latter won by 15 runs. The batting of
Searle and Tipper, and the bowling of Carloss, proved
very effective for the victors. This is the third match
played between the two clubs —the Merksworths
having been successful in two out of the three
A. Murdoch tops the list of batting averages of the
Australian Eleven with 25.15 for 105 innings. His
highest score was 153. made against the All-England
Eleven. A. Bannerman comes next with an average of
19.43 for 63 innings. Spofforth takes first bowling
average with 5,3 runs per wicket. Palmer next with 6.4
runs per wicket. Spofforth bowled 12,313 halls;
Palmer, 11,726 On Saturday last the Croydon C.C.
waited for the Woollahra Victoria C.C., at the latter’s
ground, Waverley, from half-past 2 until half-past 5,
hmb the W.Y.C.C. put in no appearance. This is the
second time this season that they have played on the
Croydons a similar trick The Petersham C.C.
defeated the Osborne C.C. by 8 wickets,, in a two days’
match, played on the Petersham ground. Roberts and
the three Seales were in great form with the bat, while
Percy Marr, T. Loveridge, and G. Seale did good
service with the hall Balmain Waratahs v. Excelsior
C.C., Moore Park, on Saturday. The former won by
10 runs and two wickets to rpare. The highest scores
for the Waratahs were Julian 18, Lewis 16, and Flynn
12; and for the Excelsiors, Hill 16 and R. Lutton 15
The Pynnont C.C., with the assistance of the Iron-
clads’ bowler, strove hard to defeat the Petersham
club, but with poor success, as they lost the match by
8 wickets The second eleven of the Petersham club
would, no donbt, have defeated the Derwent C.C. had
time permitted, on Saturday last. C. Dawes again
batted splendidly.
FOOTBALL.
Football matters generally are dull, owing
maiuly to the Amateur Athletic meetings, but the
season will be properly inaugurated on Saturday by a
first-class match between University and Redfem
The football season was opened at East Maitland on
Saturday afternoon between Carlton and a second
eleven from Newcastle, resulting in a victory for the
former by one goal and two ties to nil Phillips, the
well-known player, will be with Redfern this season ;
so will Byrnes, a shining light from Parramatta.
The Sydney Football Club has arranged two
intercolonial matches for this season—one to be played
in Melbourne next month, and the other in Sydney
during July. Following are the office-bea’-ers for the
ensuing season:—President, Mr. Angus Mackay; vice-
president, Mr. J. J. Toohey; committee —Messrs.
Long, Fairfax, Butcher, Ballhansen, Hollingdale, and
Chambers; treasurer, Mr. G. A Crisp; secretary, Mr.
J. Wilkinson; delegates to N.S.W. Football Association,
Messrs. Bowen, Crisp, and Chambers. Over twenty
members were enrolled The split among footballers
is disastrous. If it get any worse, each club will
shortly have its own peculiar game, and the members
will have to be contented by airing their “ high kicks ”
in scratch matches The Windsor Grammar School
Football Club opened their season on Friday last by a
scratch match on the school ground. After the game,
the students were entertained at a luncheon by the head
master. During the past season, ten matches were
played, of which the school team won eight The
Wallaroo Football Club played eighteen matches last
season, thirteen of which were played by the first
fifteen; only two were lost. The second fifteen played
five matches, winning four and losing one. Messrs.
T. M. Thomson and J. O. Oxley were the fortunate
recipients of “caps of honour." Following are the
office-bearers for the ensuing year:—Hon. treasurer,
Mr. M. Arnold; joint hon. secretaries, Messrs. C. B.
Boydell and G. H. Henriqnes ; committee—Messrs.
J. A. Brodie, W. D. Muir, and H. Douglas ; captain,
Mr. J. A. Brodie; vice-captain, Mr. W. D. May;
delegates, Messrs. H. Douglas and T. M Thomson;
scrutineers for caps, Messrs. C. B. Boydell and G. H.
Henriqnes The East Sydney and Sydney Football
Clubs will meet on Saturday at Moore Park at 3 o’clock,
playing under New South Wales Association Rules.
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman announce the great
sale of the Mount Druitt Estate at Rooty Hill, on the
Western line, twenty-seven miles from Sydney. The
land comprises an area of 200 acres, cut up in large
building allotments. The locality affords a splendid
view of the mountain scenery. The sale is announced
for Saturday, 21st May.


BRIEF MENTION.
The “ Leader” of the Berry party—David
Syme.
Projected departure—Howard off on another
breakneck journey.
Some politicians are like rivers. Their mouths
are bigger than their heads.
The Gaiety Operatic Company will have more
talent shortly. Juvenile talent, we mean.
It is not the case that the Government carries
“ dead-heads” only in the funeral trains.
Newspapers, like trains, are run on the staff
system. Hence libel actions and collisions.
The Campbelltown Herald says it is quite
true that Mr. Bray, of Campbelltown, is the oldest
native in this colony. Bray-vo !
The Newcastle Herald says “ there are
four Chinese general stores at Adelong.” We wonder
how many Chinese private stores there are.
There is inTumut a girl who shows a thoroughly
artistic taste for uniformity of color. She has
brilliant auburn hair, and she wears scarlet stockings.
We don’t believe the correspondent who tells
us that at Saturday’s A. A. sports a fellow who wasn’t
quite sure of winning a long race took his teeth out to
save weight.
“ Gruel ” for the Tam worth papers shortly. The
Independent, the new paper, intends to make things
lively. Tam worthites are awaking to the fact that they
want a newspaper.
The iguana that swallowed the ’possum in the
narrow spout of a tree had the ’possum to a certainty,
but when the iguana was for making tracks he began to
think the ’possum had him.
At a lecture on “ Chemistry,” given the other
evening at the Mudgee Mechanics’ Institute by Dr.
Newton, under the auspices of the 1.0.G.T., the chair
was taken by a local bouiface !
The cartoon in the current issue of Melbourne
Punch represents Victoria enquiring of Graham Berry,
who stands linked arm-in-arm with an old lady tipifying
The Age, " Where are my people ?’’
The other day, a man named Mutton brought
up a man named Dunn for assault. A witness, in
describing the case, said : “ I saw the two men close
and fall, Dunn on top.” " Then,” said his Worship,
“ it must have been a case of Mutton under-Dunn.”
Says the Northern Coalsack : —“ King
Alfonso, of Spain, is 24 years of age, has been twice
married, is a poet of no mean ability, and his life has
been attempted thrice.” This comes of being a poet
“ of no mean order."
The City Architect of London says that directly
royalty has anything to do with a scheme the expense
is doubled. In Sydney it’s the other way. Directly the
City Architect has anything to do with a scheme .
Let us pray, my kyind friends.
What is the name of the amateur “ beak” who
has so distinguished himself by his partisanship on
licensing days, and who is now “moving heaven and
earth ’’ to obtain a permanent billet as licensing magis-
trate?
The City of Sydney left Auckland with Cole’s
circus and menagerie, forty Mormons, and Dr. Moran,
Homan Catholic Bishop of Dunedin, on board. It is to
be hoped they will get on well together, and that there
won’t be a permanent fusion.
The Federal Australian, we are glad to see,
continues to improve. A sketch in last number, entitled
“ A Bacing Day at Skipton," is the most Dickensesque
thing we have read for a long while, and the goat yarn
in “ Our Contributors’ Club ” is of the first order of
fun.
What was it poor Walter Cooper said about
men saving their souls in Pitt-street and their money in
King-street—about people who, though they “ longed
for a celestial crown of martyrdom," were not above
accepting a secular crown — or even a half-crown ? Eh
old boy!
At Maryborough (Q.) Friday is a general half-
holiday, and all the shops are supposed to be shut. An
ironmonger, with an eye to business, keeps his back door
open, with an inscription upon it to the effect that he is
at home and will be glad to see his friends and the
general public.
A detective has proceeded to ’Frisco to execute
a warrant against one Charters, who recently embezzled
£2OOO from a N. Z. building society, and absconded,
leaving behind him as against the deficiency in his ac-
counts a few old clothes and—aesthetic creature!—ten
bottles ot anti-fat.
Lines apropos to the Bartlett-Coutts wedding :
Now Hymen’s torch is lighted, now Cupid’s task is
done,
O, may this wondrous wedding turn out a happy one;
But let us hope the parson, in clemency refrained.
From reading to that couple why marriage was
ordained.
The Herald’s obituary notice of Earl Beacons-
fleld was in type for several weeks before the old noble-
man’s demise. In fact, the type was kept standing so
long that the printers began to fear that he might
recover and thus necessitate the “ matter” being “ dis-
tributed so they held a prayer-meeting on the subject.
The Earl died next day.
Poor Disraeli said, in “ Endymion,” that “ turtle
makes all men equal." A Murrumburrah correspondent
writes to us to say that this must be a misprint. It
should have been —“ Elections make all men equal!
For that is the only time," he remarks, “ when I can
slap Members of Parliament on the back, and ask them
what they’re going to shout.”
A correspondent wants to know why that por-
tion of our tram system which starts up from Kedfem
railway station is called the “Eedfern to Hunter-street"
branch. He thinks it should be designated the “ Eed-
fem to King-street,” as the tram rarely gets within
“ cooey” of Hunter-street, owing to the number of cars
which are constantly being stowed away there.
Some of these days a second Solomon of a store-
keeper will get printed a few millions of fancy cards
bearing the storekeeper’s address and business chat on
one side and a copy of the tramway time-tables on tbe
other. And when this is done, that storeman will amass
enough wealth to buy up half Australia, and perhaps
also enable him to secure a seat on our far-famed City
“ Binch.”
It was stated at the police inquiry at Benalla
that the black-trackers exhibited cowardice at Glen-
rowan —taking shelter in a culvert when the bush-
rangers were called upon to leave the hotel. The
statement is not credited. Anyhow, the darkles weren’t
much worse than the European policemen who took
shelter under the bed at Aaron Sherritt’s when asked
to show up.
A certain alderman in a certain town not far
from Windsor has been indefatigable with his civic
brothers in petitioning the Government for a new grant
of laud, to be used as a cemetery, on the ground that
the piece already given is not large enough. People
who don't know that there is an undertaker among the
aldermen cannot understand the Alderman’s anxiety to
put the whole of the inhabitants beneath the sod.
The Hamilton Spectator says that it has
received a copy of the Lithgow Mercury, published
in Queensland by Mr. W. S. Targett, formerly proprietor
of the Casterton News. . . “Mr. Targett would
appear to be doing remarkably well, and we observe
that he is also taking an active part against the intro-
duction of Chinese into Queensland!" We wonder to
whom the editor of the Spec, has sold his “ joggraffy.’’
Prayers for the whole Press of America were
lately offered at several religious meetings in New York.
Over here we do things better by running the Pulpit
and Press on a sort of go-as-you-please co-operative sys-
tem, and by this means we unite the piety of the former
with the brains of the latter; and, in course of time, we
may look safely forward to a good fat celestial dividend.
After all, the “Amurrukun" citizens don’t know every-
thing.
Good news for cornstalks who want to “go the
pace." A bicycle has been invented which carries the
little wheel in front of the big one. This will prevent
the annoyance often experienced on the trip to Botany
on the present bicycles, when the little wheel takes a
fancy to climb up the rider’s back, and failing, leaves
him to study astronomy on the sidewalk, after a
“header” and a few weals from the wheels. It will thus
be no longer a case of “ weal or woe."
Is it a fact, or is it not, that the Crown’s expenses
in a case recently tried, wherein a man was charged with
having stolen a duck, value 25., were over £130? And
is it a fact that one of the jurymen who had taken part
in convicting the accused said after the trial that he
“ didn’t really think the fellow was guilty, and wouldn’t
have put him in for it, but for the bad name he
bore in the district ? ” Oye admirers of the glorious
palladium of our liberties, “ how’s that for high ? "
A London writer says : “ The defeat on Majuba
Hill has created nothing like the sensation which was
caused by Isandula. The reason is not far to seek. The.
novelty of a British army getting thrashed by niggers
and amateurs is wearing off. Eels, we are told, in time
get used to being skinned, and the British Lion will
doubtless, in time, become as used to blows and kicks
as a costermonger’s donkey. He still retains the faculty
of roaring, and with that he must be content.”
It is, indeed, a heavenly sight—the smile which,
like a benediction, spreads itself o’er the face of that
most opulent Blank-street man, as Sunday after Sunday
he wends his way to worship. Even his half-score of
wretchedly-paid hard-worked clerks—average screw,
“ forty bob”—admire it. In fact, they glory in it—doat
on it. It makes them feel that Heaven is their home,
and that their boss only succeeds because he is is so
good and so kyind a Ker-ristian. They never remember
that they work fourteen hours a day. And they never
think of Mr. Scrooge.
A military man, when on a visit to Melbourne
some time since, endorsed a bill for £25 to oblige a
friend, who, of course, didn’t meet his bill. A short
time afterwards—just before the officer was going into
action with his regiment at Candahar —the bill was
presented to him. He now expresses a strong opinion
that if the Government of Victoria could only have got
Ned Kelly’s name on a dishonoured bill to his
Hebrew friend, the latter would have had the outlaw
within a week, and the country would have been saved
thousands of pounds.
A certain young up-country lawyer had a
promising son, on whom the youngster’s grandfather,
in a moment of weakness and generosity, resolved to
bestow an allotment of land. The old gentlemen went
to the juvenile’s father, and asked him to make out the
transfer, which was duly signed, sealed, and delivered.
A short while afterwards, the generous grandfather
received a letter, which, on being opened, was found to
run as follows Dr. to F. de Brown Jones. To pre-
paring, etc., deed of gift to my son, your infant grand-
son. £s. d." The old gentleman wept.
Notes, the fascinating “ horgan” of
the Y.M.C.A., exclaims, in the course of an article on
“Patient Continuance:’’ “Oh, that our friend’s back-
bone would stiffen, and that he would give up this use-
less gorilla skirmishing! " We are of opinion, having
had experience of the very bad tempers of certain large
monkeys in various “ Zoos," that “ our friend’s back-
bone ’’ stands a very fair chance of stiffening if he con-
tinue to skirmish with gorillas. We wonder which side
Du Chaillu’s friends are on—that of Satan or of the
other poor devils ? Hadn’t the editor of Monthly
Notes better bny a spelling-book ?
Scene : Country Police Court. Counsel for
defence of prisoner in a case of robbery to principal
witness: “ Could you open the box you had your money
in now ?” Witness: “ I could not." Counsel: '* Why ?”
Witness: “ How could I open it now, when it isn’t here ?”
C.: “ Did yon ever tell the prisoner that you never kept
any money in the house?" W.: “Tea.” C.: "Well,
after saying that, how can you account for having the
money in the house ?” W.: “ Well, suppose you came
and asked me to lend yon some money, and I didn’t
want to, wouldn’t I say I had none?" Counsel re-
tires.
Before a certain learned judge a case was being
tried, and a small boy was tendered as a witness. Some
controversy arose as to whether he understood the
nature of an oath. The youngster held on by the front
of the witness-box, stood on tiptoe, and gazed around
him unabashed by the majesty of the law, taking stock
of the learned barristers’ wigs. The judge interrogated
him as to his religions training. After some preliminary
questions, his Honor put a clincher to him. “ My boy,
do you know what becomes of little boys who swear to
a lie ?’’ Of course I do,” unblushingly replied the arab;
“ they makes perlicemen of them." “ Swear that boy,
Mr. officer,” said the judge; "his evidence will be
reliable. He is gifted with much power of observation
and common sense.” And the boy was sworn
accordingly.
Some of the people who are trying to bring
about the widening of Oxford-street are employing
what must be considered very questionable means
to effect their object. They are having hawked
around the city a petition, the heading of which sets
forth that those who sign it are in favour of the general
widening of streets, smokeless motors, &c. In truth
and fact, however, the petition has a specific rather
than a general aim, in that its main object is really the
widening of Oxford-street. Now, we havn’t the
slightest objection to the widening of Oxford-street,
Pitt-street, or any other street —or even of King-street,
which is “ the broad road that leadth to destruction.”
What we object to is the unnecessary employment of
something very like false pretences to obtain a
perfectly legitimate end. The petition under the
circumstances isn’t worth the paper on which it is
written.
A man was brought up before a certain J.P.,
charged with the commission of a serious offence. Five
witnesses swore to having seen the offence committed,
and everyone in court thought the fate of the accused
was sealed; but, to the astonishment of the uninitiated,
a ’cute lawyer brought forward ten witnesses who
deposed that they bed not seen the offence committed!
Hera was a nice fix for the J.P. to be in. However,
after a long consultation with bislaw-books and mature
deliberation, his Worship felt himself equal to the
occasion, and addressed the culprit as follows: —
“Prisoner, five respectable men have sworn to the
fact of this offence having been committed by you in
their sight; but, then, ten more witnesses have sworn
they never saw the occurrence. The evidence against
you is very strong, but the preponderance is in your
favour; so lam obliged to discharge you. Go, but tat e
care not to do it again.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Richard Chambers, late manager of the
Godlbdrn Herald, has bought the Hat Standard.
Mr. W. H. Odgers, the Victorian Under-
secretary, is seriously ill and not expected to recover.
An Australian edition of “Ouida’a” latest novel,
“ A Village Commune,” has just been published by Mr.
George Eobertson.
The Duke of Manchester, accompanied by Sir
John Eobertson and a party of gentlemen, visited the
Hawkesbury last week.
Mr. J. D. Gray has retired from the C. and R.
Examiner. The paper will, in future, be conducted by
Messrs. McNanghton and Varley.
His Excellency the Governor of Victoria, the
Marquis of Normanby, is seriously ill. The doctor’s
fear his constitution is breaking up.
It is said than Inspector Medley, the popular
police inspector of Wagga, intends leaving the force,
and going to England with Mr. W. A, Long, of racing
fame.
The late Mr. R. C. Bagot, secretary fo the
V.E.C., so a telegram states, left only a house and
ground at Flemington to his wife, and a £5OO life policy
to his son.
A Brisbane correspondent tells us that Mr.
Meston (“ The Sacred Ibis ”) was about leaving the
Queensland metropolis for Cleveland Bay, to edit the
Townsville Herald.
The Boers, who, as we all know, gave up Sir
George Colley’s body after Majuba, sent a message of
condolence to his widow. They, in fact, set an example
of chivalry in warfare which any nation might be proud
to imitate.
The Chief Clerk of Customs, Launceston, re-
ceives from Government £350 a year, and from Mount
Bisohotf tin mine £4OOO per annum. The second clerk,
whose official screw is £l5O a year, is supplied by Mount
Bisohoff with £3500 yearly.
We are glad to perceive in the Government
Gazette a notice of the appointment of Mr. Henry
Kendall as Inspector of Forests. The poet’s love of all
that is beautilul in Nature has been the means of pecu*
liarly fitting him for the position he has gained. While
congratulating Mr. Kendall we must not omit to offer
our felicitations to Sir Henry Parkes on the performance
of a kind and graceful act.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke goes to England
shortly—it is said, on a baronetcy expedition. Mr.
Clarke takes with him Mr. E. W. Emerson M’lvor, the
agricultural lecturer, as an immigration lecturer at his
(Mr. Clarke’s) own expense.
A very wealthy individual, who was recently a
candidate for the Victorian Upper House, will go for the
Assembly next time. The electors for that house are
content with beer, but champagne to the tune of £7OOO
takes all the gold-top off the gingerbread.
The Hon. . ohn Lucas, M.L.C., has brought
under the notice of the public and the government a
very effective silt-elevator, constructed on designs pre-
pared by himself. At a public trial on the 13th the ap-
pliance proved its thorough adaptability to its work.
Mr. Cnrnow, the schoolmaster, has been
awarded a Victorian Humane Society’s silver medal for
his action in stopping the train on the night of the
Kelly capture. Lieutenant Houston has also been
awarded a silver medal for his action at the torpedo
explosion.
The Camden libel action—arising, we believe,
out of the death of a dog—comes on at the Supreme
Court in a few days, and is likely to last some time.
As we’ve said from the first, and say now, the affair is
a dispute that might advantageously be referred to the
arbitration of mutual friends.
Mr. Geo. H. Yarley, who has for nine years been
sporting editor of the Newcastle Herald, and who
has now become half proprietor of the C. and E. Ex-
aminee, was on Saturday evening last banqueted by his
collaborateurs in the Herald and presented with a hand-
some solid silver service of plate.
“iEgles,” in the Australasian, says that
Charles Dickens’ daughter, under date 18th March last,
writes : —“ My aunt (Miss Hogarth) and I are now very
busy getting our third volume of letters ready for the
press, and hope to publish it if we can this next
autumn." These letters, adds “ Algles,” give a true,
better, and more loveable impression of Charles Dickens
than the Forster biography.
Capt. D. C. F. Scott, for many years the benevo-
lent and respected police magistrate of Newcastle, died
at his residence, Lisgar, Liverpool-street, Paddington,
on 16th inst. Capt. Scott received his first Government
appointment in 1849, and was in 1860 appointed P.M.,
the duties of which office he continued to discharge
until between four and five years since. It was he who
instituted the “poor-box" system, now in general use all
over the colonies.
Strong opposition is being brought to bear
against the proposed appointment of Sub-inspector
O'Connor, of the Queensland police, to a position in the
Victorian force over the heads of other officers who
have seen long and arduous service. The police com-
mission, after taking evidence and inspecting the scene
of the Glenrowan fight, have come to the conclusion
that Mr. O’Connor did not, to put matters mildly, sped-
ally distinguish himself on the occasion.
Cole, of Book Arcade notoriety, has leased the
Eastern Market, which the Melbourne Corporation
have found to be a white elephant, with a view to turn-
ing it into a huge bazaar. Cole intends to illumine the
place with the electric light. He the one
Australian business man who possesses an American
mind, and knows how to advertise. He aims at being
the Whiteley of this continent, and will doubtless suc-
ceed. He has already made a large fortune out of new
and second-hand books.
Herr Carl Schmidt, late conductor of the Sydney
Choral Society, and also of the Anna Bishop Opera
Company,—and a very old Sydney favourite —is now in
this city, en route to Auckland N.Z.), where he is to hold
the position of conductor of the Auckland Choral
Society. Sir Frederick A. Weld, late Governor of Tas-
mania. appointed this gentleman his special musician,
and the people of Launceston presented him with
several testimonials and farewell addresses on his
departure from Tasmania.
Among the recent guests at Windsor Castle
have been Lord and Lady Dufferin. Lord Dufferin,
says a correspondent, is as popular in England as he is
in Canada. His Lordship relates, with great gusto,
that when he came home from India to be married, he
found no carriage awaiting him at the little Irish rail-
way station, and he had to hire a common jaunting-car.
Going along he asked the driver if there was any news.
“Nothing,” said he, “except that pretty Kate Hamil-
ton is going to marry that one-eyed Dufferin.”
The candidates connected with the Melbourne
sporting papers are understood to be out of the running
for the V. R.C. secretaryship, a prejudice existing among
the general body of the members against a pressman
receiving the appointment. Great jealousy is also ex.
hibited in connection with the candidature of Mr.
Superintendent Hare, who has a leading chance, owing
to the influence of Mr. W. J. Clarke. Should Mr. Hare
be appointed an attempt is threatened to be made by
many of the members to upset the committee decision
He and Mr. Fenner are understood to be the favorites.
The other Sunday, Professor John Nichol, of
the University of Glasgow, delivered a lecture under
the auspices of the Glasgow Sunday Society on “John
Milton.” The professor incidentally stated that at
least one-half of the most illustrious writers in prose
and verse, and of the leaders of art in London, were
avowed, and some of them active members of the Sun-
day Society. Speaking of the attacks that had been
made on the Society, he said it was a good omen for any
society struggling for freedom of thought, to call forth
the indignation of what he must call bloated bigotry.
How’s that for high, Sir ’Enry ?
All the world of London, Dublin, and Edin-
burgh is indignant at the affront put on the Prince of
Wales in Paris. He is made to figure in the scandalous
play of “ Nana,” which has just appeared. The prince
enters the heroine’s dressing-room with a bottle of
champagne under each arm, and treats the company to
a glass of the wine, all drinking from the same glass.
His future subjects mourned at the shameful expose
made by Zola in his novel; but now that they find the
Prince d’Ecosse introdruced upon the stage under the
name of Prince Stephensberg, with the make-up and
personal peculiarities of the heir-apparent preserved,
they have become indignant.
Mr. W. C. Piguenit is the successful competitor
for the prize awarded by the Art Society of New South
Wales for the best monochrome. The subject is "Mid-
day rest —Forest life, Tasmania.” The picture is an
excellent one, and will be reproduced for presentation
to subscribers to Society’s first art union. A prize of
£l5 is now offered for competitive designs for the best
etching on copper ©r engraving on wood for another
work to be presented at this art union. Great efforts
are being made to ensure the success of this enterprise,
and the premium will therefore only be awarded for a
design in every way worthy of presentation to the sub-
scribers. Designs will be received up to 4 p.m. on
Monday, the Ist August next.
A well-known Melbourne “young blood,” is
being sued by the fascinating licensee of an hotel
at St. Kilda, and formerly a barmaid, for breach of
promise. £lOOO is the amount claimed. An application
was made in Chambers the other day to his Honor Mr.
Justice Higinbotham, on behalf of the plaintiff, for
permission to deliver certain interrogatories to de-
fendant, one of which was whether plaintiff and de-
fendant had not lived together as man and wife for five
years on a station near Horsham, the issue being three
children; and another was whether defendant had not
written a compromising letter to plaintiff from Utah.
His Honor said that the interrogatories had nothing
to do with the case, and refused to allow their being
delivered.
George Eliot’s portrait, published in a London
paper, will be a shock to the admirers of that great
novelist. It is no use mincing matters. This wise,
witty, and powerful writer was a very ugly woman.
She did not have a redeeming feature in her face, and
in nothing did she show her good sense more than in
refusing to have her portrait taken. A sketch of
George Eliot in the editorial rooms of the Blackwoods
represents a very plain-looking young woman in curls.
The sketch is in Indian ink, and it is surprising that
it has not been reproduced. Those who have seen her
say her complexion was bad. She was not only freckled,
but her skin had indentations, irregular in shape, and
positively disfiguring. How hard life must have
seemed to this wise and strong woman. She could
realize all that was best, and brightest, and most charm-
ing in her sex, yet she was debarred from what most
women covet—admiration, personal charms, end-
owing to her peculiar domestic relations —social regard
of many of her fellow-men and women.
It has always been assumed in Australia that
the Princess of Wales was the leader of fashion at
home, but it would seem that this is not so. A con-
temporary states: —"The Duchess of Westminster’s
death will create much regret in English society, of
which she has been for some years, so far as it was
possible in these latter days, the Queen. Society,
nowadays, is very republican in tone, and has recog-
nized reluctantly any sovereign since Lady Palmerston’s
death. Lady Westminster had rank, gentle gracious-
ness of manner, and a soft resplendent Saxon beauty.
She was but nineteen when she was wedded. The
young bridal pair—for Lord Westminster was only
twenty-seven—were the first to make the long walks,
for which the Princess Louise now shows such fond-
ness, fashionable. They discarded every species of
equipage, and might be seen together of a morning, in
heavy shoes, speeding along the pleasant lanes round
Kensington. Since death removed her Grace
from society, the Duchess of Manchester is said to
aspire to the position of first lady. She is brilliant,
still beautiful, and has won and still retains the devo-
tion both of Lord Beaconsfleld and Lord Hartington.
But the leader of fashion since Georgiana Duchess of
Devonshire’s day has always been from one of the great
Whig houses, and her Grace of Manchester has not
sufficient fortune to stand the expenses.”
The acquittal of Kalloch for the murder of De
Young, after fifty-six days of trial (says the S. F. Aego-
nant), is not a surprise. Some thought the jury would
disagree; nobody thought there would be conviction.
That there has been perjury and subornation of perjury
on both sides is believed by many. We hope this ven-
detta between a bad pulpit and a bad press has been
terminated by this disgraceful trial. We have never
known a human life sacrificed which carried with it so
little apparent regret as that of Charles de Young.
We have never known of a murderer acquitted for
whom there was so little sympathy as there has been
for Kalloch. That the law has been murdered in this
most shameful travesty of a trial, and that all the
forms of its administration have been violated, most
people believe. The disgraceful episode has its lessons.
It began in the contemptible course of an utterly
vicious newspaper, and in the disgraceful prostitution
of an utterly contemptible pulpit. It was a vile rivalry
to pander to the worst instincts of a vile mob for
political ambition on the part of the preacher, ana
greed of gain on the part of the editor. The editor is
dead. The preacher is damned in the estimation ot au
honorable men. Journalism will survive, and true
religion will not suffer. There are those who thinx
Clemetshaw, the pejurer, should be pardoned from tne
State Prison in view of the verdict. It seems to us
that some score of other witnesses, one or two lawyers,
and hal.' a dozen testimony-brokers, should be sent to
San Quentin to keep him company." The phrase
“testimony-brokers” is a neat one. Aren t there such
peopli in this city ?
THE AUSTRIAN BAND.
(1.) Schwillensanfenschwedischtnrnipstein as he left his regiment.
(2.) As he returned from Australia.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
There will be no more yacht-racing until
September.
A turf club has been formed in East Maitland,
and a day’s racing fixed for 6th July.
Thebais, the winner of the One Thousand
Guineas, is by Hermit out of Devotion.
Thirteen horses have accepted for the Namoi
Handicap, and fifteen for the Walgett Handicap.
The Sydney Grammar School Sports take place
on Saturday afternoon at the Association Ground.
There are twenty-four acceptances for the
Queen’s Birthday Cup at Adelaide. Savanaka is first
favorite.
The racecourse gates for the Brisbane May
meeting were sold for £2OO. The total rights were sold
for £313.
The amateur rowing clubs in Melbourne intend
to hold a regatta on the Upper Yaxra during the forth-
coming spring.
The nominations for the Dalby Races number
four for the Flying Handicap, seven for the Town
Plate, and seven for the Club Handicap.
On Saturday Mata came into favour for the
Birthday Cup, at Adelaide, and Savanaka receded a
little. Progress and Lotbair are fairly supported.
D.0.D., who won the Goodwood Handicap, at
the S.A.J.C. meeting, ran for the late Mr. Bowes in
Melbourne, under the same of Alarm. Panic was his sire.
The entries for the Grafton Birthday Regatta
close on Saturday next. The programme comprises
13 events, the all-comers’, for £lOO, being the principal
one.
The Prince Alfred Yacht Club and the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron are making active combined
efforts to organise annual,.in ter colonial yachting
contests.
The bookmakers who kept away from the South
Australian Jockey Club meeting, on account of the
totalisator, punished themselves only. The chief events
were won by outsiders.
A cablegram lately received states that Edward
Trickett has made up his mind to remain in England.
He has gone into business again, having taken the
Sporting Tavern, at Barnes.
Assenheim, of Sydney, has been matched tf*
walk Monaghan, the South Australian seven-mile
champion walker, two miles, for £25 a-side. The con-
test will take place at Melbourne.
Following are the results of the Warrnambool
races on Wednesday, the 11th inst:—Maiden Plate,
Spanish Girl; Maiden Steeplechase, Sparkle; Hurdle
Bace, King of Trumps; Plying Stakes, Ehea.
The Victorian Rowing Association have for-
warded a vote of thanks to the N.S.W. Association for
the kindness and courtesy shown to the Victorian
representatives during the recent eight-oar contest.
Following are the results of the Ballarat Cours-
ing Club Meeting on May 5,6, and 7 :— Derby : Mr. P.
H. Drew’s Sir Francis. Oaks: Mr. P. Quinlivan’s
Quies. Labour Plate: Mr. P. H. Drew’s Sir Francis.
The Western Queensland Racing Club has issued
a capital programme for 15th and 13th June. The
principal event is the Turf Club Handicap of 100 sovs.
with a sweep of 2 sovs. from starters for second horse.
The St. Leger meeting of the Northern Tas-
manian Coursing Club was held on the 21st ultimo,
when the Western Stakes was won by Mr. Palkiner’s
Fraser, and the Puppy Stakes by Mr. Atkina’ Smoker.
The first meeting of the Mortlake (V.) Coursing
Club for the present season was held at Shad well Park
on 3rd inst., when the Puppy Stakes, for fourteen
puppies, was run, resulting in a victory for Mr. Hood's
Bhina.
At the Australian Coursing Club Meeting, Mr.
E. Chirnside won the first and second prizes of the
Shrewsbury Plate with Werribee Queen and Werribee
Hope. Mr. P. t P. Armytage’s Eeform won the Werribee
Park Stakes.
The most jubilant at Spofforth’s victory over
Bush, on Saturday afternoon, were Messrs. Murdoch
and Bonner. The Australian captain says he is in a
position to match Spofforth against any amateur in the
colonies for a stake-bet of £lOO.
The annual regatta of the Mercantile Rowing
Club, which was fixed for the 24th May, has been
postponed to Saturday, June 4. A new programme will
be issued, and the extra races that cannot be rowed on
the Saturday afternoon will be put on at other times
during the next two or three months.
The Volunteer Artillery Rifle Club held its last
shooting of the quarter on Saturday. The following
are the prize-takers of the three monthly shootings :
Gunner Eenoof 1, Gunner Corbett 2, Gunner Cooper 3,
Gunner Greaves 4, Corporal Cooper 5, Sergeant Kelley
6, Corporal Hiind 7, Sergeant Graves 8.
Albert White, of Mercury Bay (N.Z.), has
agreed to scull William Hearn, of Wellington, for £lOO
aside, and the championship of New Zealand; the race
to be rowed at Wellington over a three-mile-and-a-half
course at 10 a.m. on Monday, the 25th July, and the
first deposit to be made at Auckland on the 16th May.
A Yankee sporting reporter called upon Hanlan
after some great race, and asked to be allowed to inspect
his boat. Permission was granted, and he scanned the
shell from stem to stem, but could find no sign of
either gas or brass wheels. He found a bottle of good
old "Eye,” and having tasted some, he ceased to
wonder at Hanlan’s success.
The results of the second day’s events of the
Northern Jockey Club meeting are as follow :—Maitland
Handicap : Whirlwind 1, Kanaka 2, Woodlands 3.
Nursery Handicap : Whirlwind 1, Faust 2, Valentine 3.
Duckenfield Park Stakes : Creswiek 1, Vesper 2,
Bulgaria 3. Novel Eace: Eeynard 1, Pinafore 2, Fancy
Boy 3. Forced Handicap: Bulgaria 1, Pinafore 2,
Beatrice 3, •
The results of the Inglewood (V.) Jockey Club
Meeting are as follow Maiden Plate: Lancelot 1,
Cantab 2, Express 3. Handicap Trot: Hope 1, Pirate
2, Billy 3. Inglewood Handicap: Little Queen 1,
Native Jack 2, Ferrymaid 3. Optional Selling Eace:
Croesus 1, Cornet 2, Investment 3. Bridgewater Han-
dicap : Sonneteer 1, Little King 2, Snorter 3. Forced
Handicap : Sonneteer 1, Native Jack 2.
Most of our cricketers look with disdain upon ’
football, lawn tennis, frisquette, and other games which
might be attended to during the winter. Base-ball, the
national American game, was taken up with a spurt a
year or two ago, and was suddenly dropped. A game
which we would recommend for excitement and inter-
est is Lacrosse, and as it is fairly patronised in Mel-
bourne, there might be a possibility in time of arrang-
ing intercolonial matches should it find encouragement
in Sydney.
The results of the Bligh Amateur Races on
Thursday last, are as follow :—Maiden Stakes: Fores-
ter 1, Cornopean 2, Sea NymphS. Bachelors Bag:
Catherine Wheel 1, Spark 2, Friday 3. Bligh Amateur
Eace Cup: Eureka 1, Sunbeam 2, Connie 3. Second
Day—Blragambie Plate: Forrester 1, Spark 2, Sea
NymphS. Ladies’ Bracelet: Ninety 1, Newmarket 2,
Fish 3, Hurdle Eace: Sunbeam 1, Zarina 2. Welter
Cup: Eureka 1, Sunbeam 2, Corrie 3. Flying Handi-
cap ; Xenophon 1, Newmarket 2, Forrester 3,
At a meeting of the committee of the N.S.W.
Coursing Club, last Thursday afternoon, it was decided
that the secretary should communicate with the
National Coursing Club of Australia with regard to the
case of a kennel companion joining in a course. Other
matters of business were attended to, and the secretary
was instructed to write to the Colonial Secretary, re-
questing him to allow Civil servants to attend the New
Plumpton coursing meeting on the same terms as they
are permitted to bo present at cricket matches and race
meetings. His Excellency the Governor is also to be
asked to favour the meeting|with his presence.
To disabuse the public mind of the idea that
Hanlau’s boat is fixed up with a secret motor, and to
Sfive the Canadian all the merit he deserves for having
so easily defeated the Australian scullers, it is but fair
to state that Hanlan, upon hearing of a rumour of a
similar nature in England, allowed the boat in which he
had rowed against Trickett to be submitted to public
inspection for some days. It may be added that neither
Trickett nor Laycook gives any credence to this wild
chimera. They admit that there is “ something in the
boat,” but agree that it is nothing but the man
himself. The tact that neither of our champions, in
the contests with Hanlan, was at all up to his proper
form accounts perhaps for their easy defeat, but is in-
sufficient to render questionable Hanlan's superiority.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Goonamble meet takes place June 8 and 9.
The landlord of the Yacht Club Hotel, Newcastle,
is renowned as a two-in-hand whip Trevallyn, Water-
ford, Euclid, and Strathearn have been scratched for
the Adelaide Birthday Cup Mr. James Kellick gave
a trophy to be contested for by the Sydney Homing
Pigeon Society. His own bird, the Pirate King, won
the first event from Moss Vale, and will have a great
say in the other events to be contested. There are
other trophies in connection with the contest, and,
should Mr. Kellick win, it is probable that he will allow
his trophy to go to the winner of one of the minor
heats In the case of Edward Eyan, who was charged
with having poisoned the racehorse Starlight, the jury
brought in a verdict of “ not guilty,” adding a rider to
effect that the evidence was not sufficient to warrant a
different verdict, though they did not altogether be-
lieve in his innocence The racecourse booths at
Wilcannia were sold by auction; No. 1 brought £5O,
No. 2 £3O, and No. 3 £22. The right of TattersaH’s
brought £155 Mr. Barnard, at the request of the S.A.
Jockey Club, has withdrawn his resignation as Sec
The South Australian race-horses, First Water, Roths-
child, Annie Firmin, Spectre, and Country Girl, are to
be sold after the Birthday meeting The Nimrod
Fishing Club had an outing on Thursday last to Broken
Bay. A good haul was made, though the " leather-
jackets” were troublesome. 655 fish were caught—443
schnapper and 222 leather-jackets. It was announced
that Mr. E. Fowler, ex-Mayor, had presented two
handsome electro-plated silver cups for competition,
and it was decided that as there were already four
prizes under competition this sen son, they remain
as trophies for next season An engrossed congratu-
latory address is to be sent from Adelaide to Elias Lay-
cock, which it was intended to present to him on his
arrival there A jockey club has been formed at Port
Augusta, South Australia Rush was thrown out of
two races which he might have won through waiting for
the run-off between himself and Spofforth Mr. B.
Martin, who ran in the Schools Half-mile Plat Race,died
away the second round. His trainer, young Downes, of
the Warwick C.C., threw him over a few days before the
race because he would persist in doing too much work.
-T. M. Thompson will give some of our best amateur
sprint runners some trouble at future meetings New.
castle in a dilemma—Logan victorious, Fligg defeated.
At the Public Schools’ Boatrace, on the Upper
Yarra, on Friday afternoon, the Wesley College crew
won one heat and the Scotch College crew the other,
the two Grammar Schools—Melbourne and Geelong—
being beaten Mr. Charles Baker, of Warwick, has
purchased Othello for £3OO, and Mr. D. Coutts has pur-
chased Sydney for £4OO After the game Clifton C C.
v. Balmain C.C. at Moore Park on Saturday, F.
M'Laughliu and C. White ran 100 yards for £2 aside.
After a good race White won by two yards The Ul-
marra annual races take place on 23rd May. Mr. H.
Cohen is hon. sec. this year Donald Dinnie, the
Scottish champion athlete, recently appeared on the
stage of a London Music-hall—his wonderful manipu-
lation of enormous dumb-bells was an interesting perfor-
mance. By the way, he is likely to pay a visit to
Australia soon At the Grocers’ picnic some good
runners put in an appearance. Sheridan, who carried
off two prizes, is a coming man A bookmaker was
heard to observe at a late meeting, “ Them there tan-
tilisators ’ll be the ruin o’ the turf.” Edwards,
finishing the 110 miles in 5 minutes under the 24 hours,
did the last mile in 11 minutes 30 seconds Mata is
heavily backed for the Queen’s Birthday Cup at Ade-
laide A Welsher named Glynn, charged with having
stolen a certain sum of money at the Tasmanian Jockey
Club meeting, deposited with him by backers of the
winning double on the Weld Stakes and Steeplechase,
was found guilty of larceny as a bailee, and sentenced
to six months’ imprisonment. The Sydney authori-
ties might take a hint, and punish these despicable
characters, who are not too scarce at our meetings
At Goulburn, on Saturday afternoon, two horses, local
favourites—Blondin and Grey Jimmy—ran a match for
£lO aside. The latter won by a length Baker and
Edwards are to “go as they please” 48 hours at
the Melbourne Hippodrome, for £5O aside and the
championship belt. The match commences this (Thurs-
day) evening A series of pigeon- matches takes place
in Sampson’s Paddock, Yass, on 25th inst. A cup,
valued at £lO 10s, will be shot for and there will be over
400 birds on the ground.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Meeting.
The eighteenth meeting of this club took place on the
Association Cricket Ground, on; Saturday afternoon, in
the presence of over 5000 spectators. The grand stand
was well filled, the ladies being in the majority, and the
beautiful lawn in front was used as a promenade during
the intervals between the various events. The racing
was a successful; notably, the 3-mile bicycle race. B. C.
Wood, with a start of 340 yards, kept his distance to the
end winning easily, whilst Sharp and Hilliard made a
gallant and most exciting struggle for second place,
passing and repassing each other during the journey,
the ultimate result being that Sharp got second place by
about five yards. He was greeted with cheers on his
return to the pavilion. The event of greatest interest
was the 100 yards flat race, which resulted in a dead heat
between Spofforth and Rush. As Spofforth got away
with the lead and Rush gained upon him considerably
during the last twenty yards, it was thought that in the
run off Rush would easily dispose of the “ demon,” but
Spofforth again got away at the start and succeeded in
putting in the first fifty a gap of at least two yards be-
tween himself and his opponent, which he kept till the
finish, winning easily in 10| secs. The mile race
was very interesting, though Middleton, who
has a graceful style of going, won easily;
young Hilliard in the last round made a most
remarkable spurt and succeded in passing Arnold,
though he could not catch his leader. Had he kept
within a convenient distance of Middleton and timed
his spurt, it is probable he would have made the winner
extend himself. The arrangements were not altogether
satisfactory. The starters in the sprint races were
kept too long at the scratch, and about the winning
post were always congregated more than a dozen
members of the club, putting a good view of close
finishes out of the question, so far as the mass was
concerned. The results as posted on the board in the
centre of the ground were always late and at times
inaccurate, and on the space in front of the pavilion
members of the club congregated, impeding the view
of occupants of the seats. It is to be hoped that these
drawbacks will be removed at the next meeting. Fol-
lowing are the results of the various events : —Walking,
one mile, handicap .- W. E. Jack 1, A. K. Tomgahi 2.
100 yards Flat Race: F. Spofforth 1, W. C. Rush 2.
Maiden Half-mile Flat Race; J. Ferris 1, F. W. Baylis
2. Bicycle Eace, one mile, handicap: H. Moyes 1,
M. A. Hilliard 2. 150 Yards Flat Eace, handicap : W.
D. Mare 1, E. A. Grainger 2. Hurdle Eace, 120 yards,
handicap: H. B. Hughes 1, J. J. Brennan 2. Walking,
2 miles, Challenge Cup: M. Arnold 1, R. Tiddy 2.
Half-mile Flat Race, handicap, Challenge Cup: D. D.
Middleton 1, F. W. Baylis 2. Maiden 100 Yards Flat
Race: T. M. Thompson 1, A. Logan 2. Schools Cham-
pion Half-mile Flat Race: A. Thomas 1, A. T. Fen-
wick 2. 440 Yards Flat Race, handicap: J. Ferris 1,
J. S. Denchar 2. Bicycle Eace, 3 miles, handicap: E.
G. Wood 1, F. W. Sharp 2. Strangers’ 150 Yards Flat
Eace: A. Logan 1, S. H. Fairland 2. 200 Yards Flat
Race: T. M. Thompson 1, A. Logan 2. Mile Flat
Eace, handicap: D. D. Middleton 1, G. Hillyar 2,
Consolation, 150 yards. Handicap : W. A. Blackstone 1.
The Decline of the P.R.
In these days when a panic has arisen because of the
cowardly and contemptible practice of carrying revol-
vers, and when the knife is used upon the slighest pro-
vocation, it would be well to see a return made to the
days of prize-fighting. Then no Englishman dreamt of
carrying lethal weapons. For every man killed in fair
fight during the whole history of prize-fighting, we now
get a dozen shot down foully during the course of any
twelvemonth the curious investigator may choose to
select for the purpose of proving or disproving this
statement. At a time when, at the caprice of an irres-
ponsible civilian, war may be thrust upon us, whether
wo like it or not, and batches of our fellow countrymen
have to meet bloody and inglorious death like rats in a
trap, it is arrant nonsense to talk about the brutality of
Srize-flghting. In the current week no man after read-
ig of the Transvaal slaughter would care to stamp him-
self an ass by saying there is anything cruel about two
men, both of whom are free agents, engaging in a strug-
gle, the marks of which will be almost obliterated by
the time this ink of mine sees the light of publication.
Still, the ruinous fact remains, that prizeBgluing
has been by law declared low and demoralising.
Though on the question of sport, prizefighting again
has its advantages, at the finish of the argument the
result is ever the same. Compared with some of the
games still permitted in the open, it is mauly, even a
noble, pursuit—it has, at least, the recommendation of
physical courage, daring, and resoluti >n. Bold and un-
genteel as the announcement may appear, I would
rather be a prize-fighter any day than a pigeon or bat-
tue-shooter, a carted-staghnnter, a rabbit-courser, a
long-wobbler, or a promoter of long-wobbling. But we
have, under our glorious British Constitution, to do as.
we are directed ; and the Legislature having succeeded
in making pugilism ungenteel and irrespectable, it be-
came damned for all time, if not for all eternity. And
so, with every feeling in favour of a revival of prize-
fighting. that is prize-fighting and not rowdyism, and
while feeling sure that there is no sport more
deeply set in the hearts of Englishmen, 1 am compelled,
after my hard practical experiment, to admit that it is
of no earthly nse endeavouring to again make it a great
public institution.-
—“Pendragon.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Ouida: Some lies are blessed as truth.
Henri Taine: Whatever you have, have beauty.
Victor Hugo; When love is dead there is no
God.
Doctor John Lord: She trusted him, like a
woman 5 he betrayed her, like a man.
Adolph Ricard : A woman and her maid-servant
together can get the better of a dozen devils.
George Sand : Strength with men is insensibility,
greatness is pride, and calmness is indifference.
Plump girls are going out of fashion ; that is,
the plumper the girl the slimmer her chances.
La Rochefoucauld : There is but one kind of
love, but there are a thousand different copies of it.
Josh Billings : Bashfulnes iz orfen like the
plating on spoons—wen it wares orf it shos the brass.
Ouida: Woman only runs away to be run after,
and if you do not pursue her, she comes back — always.
Roohefaucauld : We pass often from love to
ambition, but we seldom return from ambition to love.
Henry Watterson : Woman is the hand-organ of
the Devil, and man is the monkey that dances to the
music.
Theophile Gautier : H n’y a pas de resistance
plus feSroce que celle d’nne femme qui a le genou mal
tourne.
Mile. Scuderi: Love is I do not know what; it
comes from Ido not know where; it ends I do hot
know how.
Seneca: The goodness of gold is tried by fire,
the goodness of women by gold, and the goodness of
men by women.
Hilda Kruger: A pretty foot is very like those
pocket-books we see advertised as lost—“ of no value to
any one except the owner."
“Silk stockings at this season!” “Yes,” she
said, with charming naivete, “ I always wear my best
stockings in windy weather."
Holme Lee : Never will a man come to years of
discretion be betrayed into the smallest commendation
of one woman’s beauty to another.
Adolph Ricard : If your wife has but a single
little cousin, sleep no more, keep awake all the while,
for a cousin is a lover given by Nature.
Don Cameron: No man can always be a
philosopher who is in the habit of walking barefooted
around a room in which his wife is careless about
where she drops tacks.
In filling up his census paper, the “ head ” of
an Ashburton (N.Z.) household designates his wife's
past profession as “ bossing yours truly,” and her pre-
sent as “ still bossing.”
Long dresses are still fashionable in our modern
comedies, but the ladies who wear the greater portion
of their dress in their hands should keep their shoes
buttoned, or state their object.
Valerius Martial :
“ The maid must not. I'd call’my own.
Say ‘no ’ too oft, nor * yes ’ too soon.” .
** Them’s our sentiments,” Valerius.
Thackeray: A woman may be loved for three
things: for her superior intellect—a love serious, but
rare ; for her beauty—a love vulgar and brief; for the
qualities of heart—a love lasting, but monotonous,
Terentius Afer:
The quarrels of lovers are but the renewals of love.
Terence never quarrelled with a girl, however, when
there was a good reliable broom on hand.
She: “Why is love always represented as a
child ?” He : “ Because it never reaches the age of
experience.” She: ” Still, old men have been known— **
He : “ Yes, but they were in their second childhood’”
Tibullus (ad Delia):
“ When my last sad hour is come, then by me stand.
So that, e’en in Death, I still may clasp thy hand.”
Delia, however, didn’t oblige the tender bard. It seems
her husband wouldn’t allow her.
“ I quite agree with Byron,” said !he plaintiff,
a lady who was sueing for divorce; “there is no such
thing as friendship between a man and a woman.”
“That, madame," remarked the counsel for the
defendant, “ is only true when they are married.”
Madame de Stael says truly that in the hour of
danger woman thinks least of herself. When the
thunder roars, and the lightning flashes, and the sky
weeps, woman, so coy and hard to please, devotes her
agony to the thought that her bonnet and jacket will be
ruined.
All the daughters of Brigham Young are lovely
and most pronounced blondes, with golden-tinted hair,
heavenly blue eyes, and cream-and-roses complexion,
all tall, well-built girls, while their various mothers
were of all shapes, all sizes and complexions, and had
every shade of hair and eyes.
Two distinguished ladies have proved them-
selves formidable rivals to the Empress of Austria in
the hunting-field—Lady Alexander Paget, nee Miss
Cotton, and Lady Eocksavage, nee Miss Kingscote.
Both these ladies are magnificent horsewomen, and
hold their own over any country.
At the amateur theatricals performed recently
in Dublin by the officers of the Coldstream Guards,
Mrs. Cornwallis West, the English fashionable beautv,
played in the burlesque of “ Aladdin.” She appeared,
in lovely attire, as the Slave of the Lamp, and fascinated
all spectators by her grace and beauty.
William Allen Butler:
Supposing a man had the wealth of the Czar
Of the Eussias to boot, for the rest of his days.
On the whole, do you think he would have much to
spare,
If he married a woman with nothing to wear ?
The other day a young man was “ brought up ’
at a police court in Scotland, on a charge of assaulting
his wife. The latter said that her husband had kicked
her, bnt that she had provoked him by calling him
bad names. It appeared that although they had been
separated far some time, they were now living together
amicably. The judge remarked that as the kicking had
effected areconciliation, it would be a pity to interfere
with the couple, and he therefore ordered the woman
to take her husband away.
A man named Nathan committed suicide at
Timaru (N.Z.), by taking chloroform, and left the fol-
lowing extraordinary letter:—“ One person alone knows
the reason of my voluntary death. I wish for what is
impossible, yet without this impossibility I cannot be-
happy, therefore I die. So, ye wise men, bring in your-
verdict of insanty. I can’t feel hurt at it. My pulse is
at 75; lam quite cool, and feel in a hurry to get off E
am, as regards religious belief, a believer neither in a.
personal Deity nor a future state of existence.”
Longfellow:
I believe
That woman in her deepest degradation
Holds something sacred, something undeflled.
Seme pledge and keepsake of her higher nature*.
And, like the diamond in the dark, retains
Some quenchless gleam of the celestial light.
Burns :
See yonder rose-bud, rich in dew,
Amang its native briars sae coy.
How soon it tines its scent and hue
When pu’d, and worn a common toy.
Burns was one of the most bom poets that ever lived*,
but he couldn’t spell.
Propertius :
May the greatest evil come to every girl who is silly
Enough to wear false hair, or dye her own.
Mr. Propertius wrote stuff for the “ Poet’s Comer” of
the Eoman evening journals some 1900 years ago, but
his present address is not precisely known. If it were,
we know at least one Sydney belle who would “ go” for
the said Propertius.
Old man Cato once wrote as follows to his
favorite overseer : —“ Let your wife fear you; take care
she is not luxurious ; let her see as little of her female-
friends and neighbors as possible ; let her never invite
them to your house; let her never offer up sacrifices,
but let her understand that the master can do enough
of that for all the family; let her be neat herself, ami
keep her house neat.” That’s all Mr. Cato wanted at-
that time. He was evidently not a bald-headed enthu-
siast for women’s rights. But he is dead now, and his
vote isn’t worth a smooth sixpence. This should be a
terrible warning to all who hold the same opinions.
From Paris Figaro :—At a ball. Guest No. 1 :
‘‘There goes the duohess. Pine woman, ain’t she?”
No. 2: “Humph!" No. 1: ‘‘Eh? Why, she’s a
dream.” No. 2: “ Yes—a nightmare.” . . “ How’s
your mother-in-law ?” “ Don’t mention it 1” “ Why ?
(sympathetically) Is she well?” “Disgustingly so.
She is frightfully healthy." “ But why don’t you—?”
“I do what lean. I pass my life in placing her near
open windows, that she may catch cold. I give dinner
parties once a week, at which there are always thirteen
at'able.” “Well?" “Alas! Her right-hand neighbor
catches cold.” “Ah!” “ And her left-hand neighbor
dies.” (Weeps, and refuses to be comforted.)
JohnEuskin’s latest advice to girls:—“Dress as
plainly as your parents will allow you, but in bright
colours (if they become you), and in the best materials
—that is to say, in those which wear longest. When
you are really in want of a new dress buy it (or make it)
in the fashion ; v bnt never quit an old one merely be-
cause it has become unfashionable. And if the fashion
be costlv you must not follow it. And your walking-
dress must not touch the ground at all. You are to-
show the poor in your own wearing what is most right
and graceful, and to help them to choose what will be
prettiest and most becoming in their own station. If
they see you never try to dress above yours, they will
not try to dress above theirs.” Good advice John, —
much better than “dressing” the Stones of Venice, or
“addressing” the British workman (in Fors Clavigera},
Hints to husbands: It is unhealthy to wear your
boots in the house after one o’clock a.m. The common
plan is to remove them in the hall-way, but many of
onr most experienced husbands prefer the front steps.
Always take a boot in each hand when going up stairs.
This plan gives you two shots at the cat before stepping
on her. Never say anything to your wife on these-
occasions except “yes" and “no.” Eating cloves is
apt to impede the speech. Never compel your wife to
get up first and light the fire. If she doesn’t do it of
her own accord, go to sleep again. Another wav to
accomplish the same result is to whistle “ Grandfather’s
Clock.” A true woman will always get up under such,
circumstances. When your daughters get big enough,
to have gentlemen visitors, give up the parlor to them,
cheerfully. It is much cheaper to let the dog bite-,
them as they start for home than to scold the girl until,
she cries, and then have to buy her a sealskin jacket,,
or a plush jacket, as'a souvenir of your idiocy. Always;
remember your wedding-day, and try to mark the-
occasion by some little act showing that you remember-
it. Coming home half full will often signalise the.
anniversary in a marked, but inexpensive manner.
Florian :
“ While yonder streamlet," Sylvia says,
“ Winds gleaming under greenwood aisles.
My love shall last. The stream still strays.
But Sylvia for another smiles.”
Love’s sweetness but a moment stays ;
Love’s promise all a life beguiles.
Florian got better after that, and married a widow witE
the rheumatic gout and seven children. Such is life I
We remember Francois Dalavigne—he had evidently-
read Florian—warbling in one of the French papers
something like this :
“ The summer bird, who.se joyous lay
With my hearts joy was one,
Is fled. I listen, but in vain.
For me such songs are done.
The tree that bore the white wild rose
I plucked to give her praise
Is dead years since, and these and those
Were set in after days.
The stream alone defies Time’s hand
To change in any way.
Where we two stood alone I stand.
Bright then and bright to-day.
And I am glad, because I know
That I and this bright stream
Are linked by ties formed years ago
In my love’s foolish dream."
The reason why Roussakoff, one of the alleged
assassins of the late Czar, was not immediately l a g d,
in pursuance of the elaborate arrangements made with
that intention, was that a letter was received by a high
official stating that if Boussakoff were hanged Alexand r~
111. would at once meet with the fate of his father.
The success of the liquor known as Zoedone has;
been stupendous. The other day the Company declared
a dividend of 25 per cent. And yet as a drink Zoedone-
is a fraud. It dees not appear to have any of the medical
properties attributed to it. It is not more palatable tothe-
average individual than ginger-beer; and it is not half so-
good as lemon “ squash.” which costs less money.
The master of the hotel in Nice, where a
gentleman and lady had taken rooms the preceding
day, went up to the gentleman and, evidently mucbi
troubled, stammered: “ I beg pardon, sir, but lam
extremely embarrassed. My hotel is, as vou know, one
of the most respectable in Nice.” •‘Well, what are
you driving at? ” “ Why, sir, I must tell you. The
ady with whom you came last night came here last
November with one gentleman, returned here in
December with another, and you must see that coming
here so soon afterwards with a third gentleman, i»
rather ” ‘‘Oh! there is nothing in the world
wrong this time. lam her husband.”
“ Clara Belle,” “ the well-known fashion
says one of the American weekly papers, has
again been shocked.” Poor creature! Her frail,
form will gradually succumb under these successive
shocks. This time it is short stockings. But listen :■
“ The other day I saw some wonderful stockings in the
hosiery department of one of the largest New York
stores. They were dove-colored, and embroidered im
colors to match costumes. Their shortness was what
struck me, for they were not long enough to reach over-
the calf. The lot was a fresh importation, and had not
yet been exposed for sale. • They are for hot weather
wear,' said the man in charge, ‘ and are sure to take,”
‘ But how are they worn,’ I asked ; ‘ what keeps them
up?’ ‘ Not an elastic, of course,’ he replied, ‘ because
no elastic would keep them up, they are so short.
Here’s the contrivance that does it,’ and he showed me-
a very thin narrow strip of metal, with rounded ends.
* One of these is run down each side of the ankle, with
one end in the shoe, and the other fastened to the top-
ef the stocking, which therefore stays in its place
through no visible agency.' And then ?’ ‘ That is all.*
‘•hut what connects with the tops of the stockings ?*
‘Oh, nothing at all. That’s the novelty of the thing.”
In theory, this is merely intended for coolness ; but, in
practice, I am afraid that the girl who does not wish to
expose the complexion of her limbs will have to exer-
cise eternal vigilance. It hardly seems possible that
such a fashion will be taken up ; but I am not going to-
risk any money by betting on the diffidence of American
girls.” And don’t bet any on the modesty of fashion-
writers, Clara dear. Nor yet on their veracity.


Tailors, Drapert
MEN
BELMORE HOU
205 Pitt-street
MILLINER, UNDERCLOTHIER,
AND ARTIFICIAL F
Very pretty BONNETS and HAT
velvet, weam, and black Spanu
J.
Beautiful MILLINERY SETS in
The new TOQUE, COLLAR, and
40s. the set; made of best plusl
i
Novelties in HEAD - DRESSES
FLOWERS.
TERMS —CASH
161
KING STREE
(Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSES
cut in different sizes for Ladie
nished with illustrations and d
np. Sold at prices ranging froi
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by x
annum, post free- Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the
of price and measure. Postage
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEI
161 KING STREI
SYDNEY.
Easiness Annoano
LleoalJ
SHORTER, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITORS
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
W
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAIS
225 BOURKE STREET, WOO!
QHEAPEST AND BEST
AT
MARK ISAACS' CORPORAT
HAY STREET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally chea
i o d packed and delivered free (
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LII
WITH.
JpiANOS. AMERICAN OR
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGI
FIREWORK
FIREWORKS! FI
PUBLIC NOT!
The undersigned
POINTED SOLE AGENT
ATLAS BRAND PRIZE L
WORKS, manufactured by th(
taring Company (Limited), Pyr
Majesty the Queen and the 1
meat.
MYERS and
These JUSTLY CELEBRATE
which have now been before the
twenty years, are NOW ON SALE
To meet the increasing demand foi
day, we have imported 100,000 Gi
ATLAS BRAND FIREWORKS, cc
which will be sold at Is. 9d. and 2s.
ROYAL ATLAS B;
PRIZE LONDON FII
MYERS AND SI
Sole Wholesale A|
SQUIBS
PIN WHEELS
BLUE DEVIL
GOLDI
BLUE CANDLES
CHINESE TREES
FLOWER P
DO
PRINCE OF WALES’ F
Is. 9d. per gross
The above Ten Kinds, Double Size
same assortment as abo
superior.
TRIPLE SIZE, Bs. per gross,
and Roman Candles.
THROW-DOWN CRACKERS, i
* Gross, 4s. per box.
FIRE BALLOOI
65., 125., 245., 365., and 60s
CHINESE FIREW
CHINESE CRACKERS, 40 packet
EXTRA SUPERIOR CHINESE <
40 packets in box, red box, 6s
Tom Thumb Chinese Crackers, 40
strings in packet, 6s. per doz.
CHINESE GUNS, extra superior
Bs. dozen packets
Serpents
Tailors, Drapers
T
HOUFSON AN
DENISON HO US
358, 300, 362, George-!
OPENING NEW G(
for
WINTER SEAS(
EVERT DAT DURING TE
FIRST GENERAL fi
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCT DRESSI
FOE THE WINTER S
AN IMMENSE VAEIETT TO '
FRENCH CASHMERE CAMB:
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEGE ANGO:
KASGHER CASHMERE JERSE
STOCKINGETTE VALPi
AND A LARGE ASSORTMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERT. —
cases of very
ERT, someth!
handsome, dire
houses in Londi
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR'
SILK, Rich Ve
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, 1
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3s
6s lid, 7s 6d. '
worn, and stre
for wear, and fi
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard star
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d, 1
are light and so
under usual
SILK VELVE 1
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of all
LACES in eve
imitation, Embi
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collaret
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace b
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we
FROM DRESS
be no deceptii
• washed. Ladi
Sheetings good
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-in
inch, Is 6d to 2s
to 3s. America
& Horrocks’ Ci
QUILTS, from
prices. Colon
QUILTS, 2* lor
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 and
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMENT
been our study
this class of t
character. By ■
year after year
of PIRST-CLAt
are now showir
ment of of DAI
NAPKINS, bot
Damask. Thes
every size, and i
for cheapness
colony. We c
MASK CLOTI
425; 5-BNAPKI
3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DAI
round or square
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 2
SHEETINGS, I
PILLOW LINI
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, fron
cording to size
ISH TOWELS,
mw a nr aoiito
Tailors, Draper
COUNTRY ORDERS fai
Winter Requisites jnst in ti
May .Ist. Waterproofs, Childrer
4s. 6d. to 255. Long Jackets, ss. t<
DOLMAN’S VARIOUS PIECE
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool
as Cuffs, Boas, Fischus, Wrapper)
and other Muffs.
A Nice Lot of Frillings, Fring<
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, He
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Material
WE CAN PLEASE YOU.
Winter Millinery now showing
making. Country Customers send
Our own Registered (
2 Buttons 4 Bu
In the Shop ... 2s 9d 3s
Posted 3s 4s
JOHN B. YOUD
656 GEORGE ST
(Just below Liverpool
MERICAN CUT PAP
MADAME DEMC
Perfect Fittin
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations w
MADAME DEMOREST’S publ
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What t
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gra
MISS LOUISA 1
87 King Stkeet, Sydney (two do
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-st
The mis s e
(Late with Messrs. David
52, MARGARET S 3
WYNYARD SQ
Three Doors from Mr. J. Sj
Have much pleasure in announcin
to open Mantles Millinery, and sp
Ladies for the Autumn Season, j
respectfully solicited.
52. MARGARET STREET. WY
LISE’S PAPER CU'
All communications to be
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET,
Six doors from Georg
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patten
style, cut, and finish, being model!e<
Fashions, and are always sent p
receipt of stamps or money Order.
w TT IS A WELL-KNOY.
JL for Household or Famil
Hordern’s” Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H 1 ha
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Si
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GO(
every day.
Gr
NO BRANCH HOUSES i
DO. L. L I
HIGH-CLASS CASH
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MI
Begs to inform his friends and tl
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have 1
manship, &e., at a low price foi
Gentlemen requiring this with We
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM G
OTICE TO TH
SUITS TO orde:
R. C. HAC
FASHION ABl
TAILORING ESTAB
127 KING STRI
Where you can be fitted with the i
cheapest Outfit in the
Note the Extraordinary Cheap P


Hotels, he.
O ld
EXHIBITIO
PRINCE ALFRED :
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILI
MA. G
• PARK HOTEL, PARI
(IMMEDIATELY OPPOSITE THE ]
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines
best brands, at the lowest possi
parties therefore would do well n
selves by bringing the same.
c.
W. 808
MARKET STEE;
FOE FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
JUNIPER TR
> ;This celebrated Dutch Gin may
all storekeepers and respectable
trial will prove it superior to the cc
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
r?
sS
XTk
m
o
ft
I
Wholesale Agent—C H A i
2 BRIDGE STREET, S
Hotels, See.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATEEINQ COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s EESTAT7EANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons,
Marriette, late ch& de cuisina of the Union Clab
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTEE STEWS
OYSTEES SCOLLOPED
OYSTEES FEIED
and
OFSTE IS NATUEAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering (Jompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafts, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and EESTAUEANT for Gentlemen.
EEPEESHMENT EOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONEEY of the purest description.
GUAEANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil arid attentive waiters always on hire.
(J HAS. 'R. gMI T H,
MANAGES.
|TO ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J.' G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatee Eoyal.
de f range
HOT
S.MUHLEBACH
ilituinin
MIL
qnlMlHiMWitmjUllllliminil)
mui
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-BOOMS. FIEST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOE TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
ENNESSY’S HOTEL,
RUTHVEN-STEEET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LA GEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in‘ Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Rooms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi-
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly-
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE ROOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIkRD ROOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The best best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the" best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydney and Melbourne
papers kept on the file.
To Racing men Hennessy’s Hotel commends itself.
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet all trains.
Hotels, &c
FOSTER’S Bug)
The BEST ALE and STOU 1
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANTS
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
ORKVE
OBNE
m
I He
i ™
It is of the utmost importance t
bottle shoald be carefully compare
are being imported into New So
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevei
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when .they will fine
least 10 per cent, in favour of L
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON,“AND
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND
(Late Collins and R
MBAT E D W
AND
CORDIAL MANUFAC
438 HARRIS STEEE
First Prize, International Exl
for Soda Watei
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lem
• Ginger Beer, &
CORDIALS OP ALL
The Trade supplied with prompt
NOTE THE ADDR]
ROSS AND C
438 HARRIS STREET,
MARTIN
Hotels, &c.
R
OBEET BUTCHEE &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
WINE GEOWEE AND MEECHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 12s. to 255. per doz.
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into lib and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places:—
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M'Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. F. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M’Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., comer of Crown and Devonshire-
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
T. E. Geddes, 823 George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, comer of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street. North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo .
J. M’Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M’Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Gninery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
o
FOR GOOD, CHEAP. DURABLE INSTRUMENTS
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Jun.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation.
This is not vain expatiation;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration—
Just use your powers of observation
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination,
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation >
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation
Then —friends of suffering creation —
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation.
Called “Farmer’s Friend,” —ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to-suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859.


The enterprising Mr. Salamons, of Tamworth,
is about starting a tobacco factory in that town.
If the Government insist on having the certifi-
cates of their legal advisers with regard to matters
passing through the various government departments
other than legal, it is a great pity that they do not
appoint a civil Crown Solicitor for the purpose.
“ Balmain.— To Messrs. Edward Eowe and Co.,
Sydney.—l have no hesitatation in saying that ‘ Kan
person’s Podophyllin Lozenges ” are the best and most
effectual aperient medicine I have ever taken, ana i
with confidence state my opinion, that any person giv-
ing them a trial will be fully convinced of their value as
a Family Medicine to keep in the house; especially
where there are children they are invaluable. ±lenbi
Phillips.—July 12, 1880." —Advt.
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Mrs. Henry J. Stenhouse sends us her new
contralto song, “ Oh, that I were young again.” The
words and mnsic are very nice, hut we don’t think the
■composer will get any girl to sing the ditty J. K.
Emmet was to sail from New York for England on
April 16 In the NY. Mercury, of April 2, Tony
D -uier(care ot National Printing Company, 190 Mon-
roe-street, Chicago, U.S.), requests that August
S egrist will at once communicate with him “ Nap,
a Comedy of Errors," a three act farcical comedy;
Married Moths,” a two-act musical comedy; and
“Eodymion, or the Dizzy-pated Moonomaniac,” a
politico-classical burlesque—all hy J. P. M’Ardle —have
been secured by the Majiltons (Frank and Marie). But
it must be remembered that the Majiltons dance all
their nieces Frank Utfner is bringing over from
New Y ork to London, as a contrast to Lucia Zarate,
a beautifully-formed lady weighing only Bhdb , or 52ist.
A New York man has written a drama in which the
heroine poisons six men, stabs another, shoots her
lover, cuts the throat of her own babe, and then hangs
herself to a parlor chandelier It has leaked out that
a pressing domestic engagement has interposed to
prevent Mrs. Langtry going on the stage for some
time to come, if at. all Bibhy, the winner of the
wrestling contest at Boston, is to travel with Barnnm’s
ILondon Consolidation the coining season, when, it is
understood, he is to receive all comers at “catch-as-
-catch-can " who may wish to take hold with him At
■the National Theatre, Buda-Pesth, in the first act of
“ Lohengrin,” while the hero was pouring his romantic
adventures into the King’s ear, the latter fell fast
asleep oh his throne, and did not awake until the sne-
■ceeding chorus. The incident attracted the audience,
who laughed heartily At the Theatre Royal, Middles-
horough, England, during the play of “ Katherine and
jPetruchio,” Henry Loraine played Petruchio, and
Ada Neilson Katherine. In the scene in which
Petruchio has to’ carry Katherine off the stage, while
Mr. Loraine was passing across a trap-door _ it gave
wav. He dropped through up to his arm-pits, but
Miss Neilson, more lucky, sprang forward and escaped.
Mr. Loraine, however, remained for some time in his
ludicrous position, while the audience were convulsed
with laughter Clinton and Howard’s N.Z. dramatic
combination are playing nightly at the Theatre Royal,
Grafton, to big audiences The Great American Circus
is playing at Graft on to fair houses Ashton’s circus
is announced for Grafton during the regatta week......
The Grafton Amatenr Dramatic Club tender the City
Volunteer Fire Brigade a two nights’ benefit, at
the local Theatre Royal, on the occasion of the
review which takes place on Queen’s Birthday
While Mrs. Sain. Howard was taking the money at the
pay-box of Grafton Theatre Royi\J, a stone was thrown
through the window and struck her upon the cheek,
inflicting a very severe wound. The matter is in the
hands of the police By very latest accounts Emilie
Melville and company had returned from their rural
trip in California. The lovely Emilie was radiant w'ith
success, and was looking “as pretty as a pink." After
a rest the company were going to set out again armed
with “ Billee Taylor." London scandalmongers have
invented the storv that the Bareness Burdett-Coutts is
the mother of Henry Irving A large cross, hewn out
of white granite, has been placed at the head of the
grave of Adelaide Neilson, in Brompton Cemetery,
London. At the foot of this simple monument is the
inscription: “In loving memory of Adelaide Neilson,
died, Aug. 15, 1880. Gifted and beautiful. Resting.”
Miss Genevieve Ward fairly took the admiration of
Boston play-goers by storm in her magnificent imper-
sonation ot Stephanie in “Forget-me-not.” The poet
Longfellow prononnetd the embodiment tlie finest
piece of acting he had ever seen....'..The clever and
popular Yokes family are iu the States Paul Marti-
netti was recently iu Manchester Harry Rickards at
late dates was doing great business at several of the
London music halls George Rignold’s white horse
is still carrying him triumphantly through England.
In March “ Henry V.” was successfully going at
Newcastle-on-Tyno Fritz Renhard, the facial carica-
turist, who appeared once at the Melbourne Royal, is
now in Edinburgh The Marvellous Miltons, a troupe
of renowned English pantomimists, intend tonring
America, and then coming to Australia The Fakir of
Oolu is still at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne The
Lynch Family of Bellringers are billed for Mudgee on
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of this week Pro-
fessor Jacobs and wife are at Gnlgong this week ; they
appear at Mudgee during the race and show week
The Holloways play at the Mudgee Mechanics’ Institute
all next, week At Adelaide. Ivan Henry has applied
for an injunction to restrain Mr. Allison, of the Theatre
Royal, from issuing a programme for the production of
“Tambour Major,” Henry claiming that he has pur-
chased the right from Allison of publishing the theatre
progrnmm *s in Figaro George Bell, the Australian
female impersonator, late of the Australian Froliqnes,
has gone to Grafton under engagement Inattention
and talking amongst the audience are highly irritating
to artists on the stage. Once upon a time an individual
in a private box greatly incensed the late Charles
Mathews by reading a newspaper during one of the
comedian’s best scenes At last Charles picked np an
evening “rag” that happened to be on a table, and,
advancing to the private box, said, “ Excuse me, but
you’ll find this a later edition!" Her Majesty’s
Theatre in London has been turned by Mr. Samuel
Hayes into a variety music-hall. Sic transit gloria
mundi! Frank Ufluer’s American Midgets are a
great success in London. They are the tiniest dwarfs
the New Babylon has ever seen Salvini revisits
England this year. He will appear first at Drury Lane.
D’Oyley Carte pilots Jennie Lea through the
Srates in September. Australia stands a good chance
of seeing “Jo” in the flesh this time. A novelty on
the Loudon boards. “ Romeo and Juliet, 1 at the Court
Theatre, on the lines adopted at the old Globe Theatre
of Shakespeare’s time. Scenery conspicuous by its
absence, the romantic tragedy being enacted before a
baize curtain, upon which is ported a placard indicating
the purpose of each successive phase of the play.
Juliet, Madame Modjeika; Romeo, Mr. Forbes Robert-
son, the artist-actor Mdlle. Banermeister (said to be
Closely related to the late Mdlle Titiens) has renounced
Italian opera for the English lyric stage. She recently
made a successful as Margaret in “ Fanst.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
In “ Struck Oil,” which was produced on Satur-
day last, Mr and Mrs. Williamson were in their glory,
and there can be no doubt whatever that they are
infinitely more at home in the Dutch business than they
ore in comic opera. The impersonations of both of
these artistes are so clever that it makes one lament
that the piece on which they lavish so much artistic
acting, singing, and dancing-, is such a feeble specimen
of dramatic literature. Miss Maggie Moore and her
husband had a great reception. The audience, indeed,
seemed generally to endorse our opinion that the
Williamsons, in even temporarily quitting dialect and
eccentric dramas, commit an error which, though it
does not result in pecuniary loss, at least shows them
to less advantage in the exposition of their art. Thus,
the applause on their re-appearance in the well-known
dresses excited a storm of enthusiasm which has never
been approached during either of their seasons of comic
opera. The piece went capitaUy, Maggie Moore posi-
tively outdoing herself in her efforts to make the part
of Lizzie Stofel “ hum.” •
* * *
Mr. Shepherd was remarkably good, though a
trifle melodramatic, as Deacon Skinner, and Mr. J. H.
Ruin ford was rather less like Mr. J. H. Rainford than
usual as the Judge. The Dr. Pearson of Mr. St.
Lawrence was a very excellent performance, highly in-
telligent as to grasp, and delicately connect as to detail.
This gentleman will, we consider, with a little more
study and a good deal more concentration, make a very
decided mark one of these days in the theatrical world.
The other characters were fairly impersonated, and the
scenery very fresh and pretty. The Williamsons could
run *• Struck Oil ” for a month did they choose, and be
sure of at least a pit and stalls that would rise at them
every night. They leave on Thursday for Melbourne.
Peace be with them. May. their journey be pleasant
and their critics kind!
* * *
On Saturday Mr. Garner produces the “ Upper
Crust," the comedy in which Toole has made such a hit
in London, the inimitable “ J.L." sparkling as Bamaby
Doublechick. We believe the “Upper Crust" is a
highly amuring trifle, and we see no reason whatever
why it should not successfully “ knock" the public. A
full notice of the piece will appear in the paper next
week. "Dick Stewart,” we are glad to see, directs
behind. Welcome, Richard!
* * * *
The Mastodon Minstrels produce on Saturday
next their new sensation, “H.M.S. Pun-no-fear,” a
burlesque on Gilbert and Sullivan’s opera, of a rather
more ambitious nature than is usually undertaken by
Minstrel companies. The name of the author is kept a
secret, but we understand that he is a civil servant
who has already written an unpublished drama, and
the major portion of an historical romance. We have
seen a sheet or two of the M.S., and think, if the piece
ir properly done (as no doubt it will be), that the
Mastodons will make somethiag of it. As may be
expected, "Pun-no-fear” is nearly all “business," al-
though there is some lively dialogue, and not a few
songs are introduced. Sir Porter Je-osephs sings a
topical song, of which the following is a specimen
stanza :
Soon I took big contracts all through the land.
And did all my plastering with common sand;
My foundations I scamped in the most approved styles,
And laid all the passages with bogus tiles.
And I laid those tiles so dext'rouslee.
That quick I was appointed a full-blown J.P.
* * »
We wish the Mastodons luck with their new
second part. They are hard-working fellows, and de-
serve to have a throw in.
* * * *
Mr. W. Hofekins’ benefit took place at the
Queen’s on Friday last, that being the final night of
his encasement with Mr. Keogh’s company. Mr.
Hoskins played Affable Hawk in the “Game of Specu-
lation," and Aminndab Sleek in “ The Serious Family."
That he played both characters with care and finish
va sans dire, but his efforts were greatly marred by the
indifferent manner in which he was supported. This
fault, however, may be freely forgiven the other
members of the company, when; one takes into con-
sideration the severe study that is entailed upon them
by the continuous production of heavy pieces such as
“ After Dark," “ Never too Late to Mend,” and others.
In our opinion, the management of the Queen’s Theatre
have committed an error of judgment in bringing out
such a succession of “ Drury Lane Dramas" in haste,
instead of producing something more suitable to the
size and limited appliances at the theatre at leisure.
It has been proved that a good piece, well acted and
well put upon the stage, will always obtain a favourable
reception in Sydney, while hasty productions, indiffer-
ently rehearsed and crudely acted, invariably cause the
ghost to walk with a crutch. The company will doubt-
less be considerably weakened by Mr. Hoskins’ seces-
sion, but we have no doubt the management have some
other attraction on the tapis, with which to close their
season with a flourish.
* * * *
We are requested to say that the author of the
Erize conundrum in the Andersonian competition can
ave his Kodanow on application at the School of Arts
The conundrum is that referring to the Chinese.
* * * *
The Romanys also treated Barwood to “ Meg’s
Diversion," on Thursday evening last. When, how-
»ver, thev get a fresh piece, we will give them a fresh
notice. At the Burwood performance, not only the
actors, but a good proportion of the audience, were
imported from Sydney.
* * * *
The Parramatta A.D. Society played “ Caste”
at the School of Arts there, on Wednesday evening,
May 10th, and, from what, we can gather, were fairly
successful. The cast of “ Caste” was cast as follows
Hon. George D Alroy, Mr. G. E Brodie ; Capt Hautree,
Mr. L. C. Rowling; Eccles, Mr. F. Pemberton; Sam
Gerridge. Mr. T. D. Little; Marquise de St. Maur,
Esther Eccles, aud Polly Eccles, by lady members of
the P.D.C.
* * * *
“Tom Pinch,” “one thread of the story Jof
Martin Chuzzlewit,” has been produced with success at
the London Vaudeville. The authors are Messrs.-
Joseph Dilley, and Lewis Clifton. Tom Thorne plays
Tom Pinch, and Mr. Farren, Pecksniff. The piece is
described as quiet, but thoroughly realistic: A Dickens
revival would seem to have taken place in the “ great
city,” for we see that Miss Jennie Lee is playing a ver-
sion of Bleak House, entitled “ Jo,” to large houses at
the Olvmpic. Miss Jennie, her husband (J. P. Burnett),
Miss Dolores Drummond, and others are shortly to
take ship for these shores. Let us hope Australia
won’t be found a Lee shore for Jennie.
* * * *
Even in a crude and chaotic community like that
of Victoria, Ait has a place, and Literature may at times
be allowed to hang up its hat in the servants’ hall at
“Squatter Villa” or “ Shoddy Terrace,” Toorak; and
there are hours when the mind becomes weary of the
name of Graham Berry and refuses to be comforted by
even that of Murray Smith or of O’Shanassy. At such
times there is uo man in the Southern Capital whose
company will soothe us more than that of our genial
friend, John Hennings, the most harmless and delight-
ful of Bohemians, and the most gifted and artistic of
scene-painters. John has just completed a really great
work —a new act-drop for the Theatre Royal, entitled
“Tbespiaus leaving Desolate Greece.” It represents
some glorious city of ancient Hellas, with the ruins of
mighty temples overlooking a sun-kissed bay, upon whose
waters we see three galleys with the Thespian wanderers
taking their last farewell of their old sweet land of art
and song. From these old Greek players all the drama-
tic art of Europe has sprung, and the artist could have
chosen nothing more appropriate as an emblematic
embellishment for a great modern theatre. It is pleasant
enough to gaze on this beautiful picture at night, but
what can be said of a “private view,” with John Hen-
nings himself to point out the inner meanings of each
stroke of the brush? “The subject,” said John, “is
taken from one of Schiller’s poems, which, of course,
vou will remember.” Of course we did. Who ever
’heard of a journalist who didn’t know everything ? and
as to German poetry, no man is allowed a position on
The Bulletin staff who is ignorant of even the various
Russian and Wallachian bards. John, however, con-
tinued : “ Yes. I took the idea from Schiller; hut as
soon as Al. Hayman saw it, he thought it was Haveriy s
Mastodon Minstrels leaving New York, and that figure
(pointing to an artistic Thespian in the act of striking
his lyre) he said was our friend Billy Emerson with his
banjo.” This was too much, and we retired with John
from his paint-room to an adjoining hostelry to turn
over our Schiller and further discuss Greek art.
* * * *
It is reported that Lytton Sothern will star in
Gilbert’s comedy, “ Poggerty’s Fairy," written for his
father. We hope Lyt. will be more successful in Ame-
rica than he was in Australia. Nap. at the Clubs was
too much for him hero, and for the last few months of
his stay he did a good deal more “mooning" than
“ starring.”
* * * *
George Darrell has fluttered his little hour at
the Baldwin Theatre, 'Frisco, and has now fluttered off.
We hear that Ge-orge has betaken himself to New York,
hut what city will be the scene of his next triumphs, we
don’t know. However, we will diligently search our
files, and make our readers’ suspense as short as possible.
Knowing George’s varied and versatile talents, we should
nut be surprised to hear of him being anywhere-per-
forming in ** Back from the Gor-rave at the Scala.
in Milan, or playing the title-role, in his new and original
Australian drama, “ Hamlet, Prince of Denmark," at
the Garrick Theatre in Whitechapel. That was the
theatre, by the way, that the brother of a certain cele-
brated comedian played his last engagement at before
leaving for Australia under engagement. If this catches
George’s eye, perhaps he will send us a letter or an old
newspaper, dr a shirt-button —anything to remind us of
the existence of one whom we so much admire and
revere.
* * * *
The Lynch Family of Bellringers recently played
at Bathurst, and drew a good house. The troupe has
been re-organised, and poor old Tom Margetts has got
the " shunt." This is a bad thing for Tom Margetts,
but a good thing for the company, as the songs of T.M.
were those originally sung by Ham in the afternoon
re-unions in the Ark. They are wonderful people those
Lynches. They can tire the wheels of their traps, and
shoe the hoofs of their horses. Each bellringer is a
bushman, and the comic vocalist is always learned in
the matter of horse-feed. Harry is, of course, the
1 “ boss," and he rules the roast with a brass stair-rod.
Willie, Peter, and the rest bow down before him, and
no member of the company is allowed more than four
drinks before breakfast. The Lynches have travelled
everywhere in Australia and New Zealand. We would
not be surprised to hear of them chiming to the Pata-
gonians shortly. They are “ übiquitous,” and ’Arry is
line Leech's creation —without his objectionableness.
Long may they ring the present set —and shortly may
they ring another set of —well, belles this time. Num-
nium!
* * * *
After all the reports which have reached us of
Barry Sullivan’s dangerous illness, it would appear
that there is nothing much the matter with him. The
only thing that ails him, says “ Dagonet." is that he is
“only the greatest tragedian in England, Ireland,
Scotland and the United Kingdom; in Now York,
Boston, Washington, and America; in Victoria, Mel-
bourne, New South Wales, Sydney, Australia, and the
world. Glad to hear it.” If so, what in thunder’s
Darrell ?
* * * *
Two well-known English actresses have lately.
got “ spilt ’’driving home Miss Violet Cameron and
Miss Madge Robertson (Mrs. Kendal). The former,
who could be spared for a month, was not much hurt,
while the latter, who could not be spared at all—the
success of the Haymarket revival “ Masks and Paces ’’
being solely due to her Peg—was severely “ contused.”
Both ladies, however, have recovered, and the world
omce more revolves.
* * * *
“ The World,” a spectacular drama by Messrs.
Paul Meritt, Henry Pettitt, and Aug. Harris, Of which
Bland Holt has bought the right for Australia, is still
running at Drury Lane, London, to large crowds. The
situations -are described as being highly exciting, but the
literary, portion beneath contempt. Yet, says a London
paper, “ one of the distinguished authors of * The
World ’ said, when the death of Thomas Carlyle was
announced, ‘Alas ! there’s another gap in our ranks!'
Who was the speaker I dare say some of you may be
able to guess in three times. N.B. —It wasn’t ’Arry
and it wasn’t Gas. Now, who was it ?” Well, we
should say it was a man who, whatever may be his
faults generally, has a great deal of Meritt about him.
* * * *
Alfred Damper —Dampier, we mean, of pleasant
memory —has been playing “ All For Gold," at the
London Surrey, and both he and Mr. F. R C. Hopkins,
“ Australia’s Dramatist ” —(how many more of them
are there?)—have got rather sat upon by the critics.
They contrast Mr. Dampier’s Dagobert unfavourably
with that of Mr. Fernandez, and accuse “ P.R.C.H." of
cribbing his “ business" from the “ Corsican Brothers.”
It seems to be considered, also, that Dagobert spitting
in the eye of Maroc, in the last act, is too realistic. The
dog Lion is a “ frost,” and not even “ the kids ’’ seem to
have knocked the Londoners. Well, there is no pleasing
some people.
* * *
Bv the way, we are informed by an advertise-
ment, signed “F. R. C. Hopkins” (again!), that Mr.
Dampier has secured the rights for Australia of “ The
Black Flag,” by Pettitt, and “The Green Lanes of
En "land,” by Conquest. We find, to our surprise, that
“The Black Flag" was written for the Marylebone
Theatre, not the most aristocratic house in London,
and “ The Green Lanes of England ” for the Grecian —
the melodramatic character of which temple is well
known. We have therefore, we suppose, any amount-of
“ belud ” in store for us. Personally, we don’t care for
all this blood-and-thunder business, and have a decided
objection to the dialogues of Messrs. Pettitt and Con-
quest. Yet we suppose Mr. Dampier knows on which
side of his bread to find the dripping.
* * * *
The Adelaide Lantern and Bulletin has
been at it. again. It has published portraits of Miss
Blanche Stammers and the late Mrs. J. L. Hall, which
would make the marrow of a Malay" curdle. The pictures
are in the same style of art as that of;Mr. Arthur Garner,
which we noticed some weeks back, but the demoniac
instincts of the delineator are more pronounced in his
later efforts. Miss Blanche Stammers (who, in her
natural state, is a very pleasant-looking little lady) is
made to resemble the portrait-model of the celebrated
Mrs Manning at Tussaud’s Wax-works, while the late
lamented Mrs. Hall is given a pair of eyes which are
the exact presentments of pickled walnuts. The point
is—when will this artist die ? or rather, who is the hero
that will earn the undying gratitude of the present
generation by impaling him offhand ?
* * * *
Joe Emmett declares that he has really, beyond
all question, actually—that he has sure enough that is
to say, that he has positively sworn off—that he has
become, truly and in full effect, a teetotaller, now and
for evermore. Well done, Fritz 1 ,
* * * *
The other night, at Newcastle, the Great North-
ern Band and the Goldsmith and Imperial Dramatic
Clubs gave an entertainment at the Newcastle Vic. We
are informed that the performers enjoyed themselves
greatly.
* * * *
Said the S. F. News Letter, anent poor Sothern :
—“ Poor old Sothern is almost done for. Man cannot
drink champagne in floods, smoke cigars in stacks, and
make love to nomen in droves, without suffering sooner
or later; and now all the drugs in Apothecaries’ Hall
cannot give back the lost vitality so idiotically squan-
dered. Poor old Dundreary! He was a great ass, but
the public liked him.” He died next day. What a
comfort this notice must have been to the deceased’s
relations 1 .
* * * *
Booth and Irving are playing together at the
London Lyceum, in “ Othello.” lago and the Moor
alternate weeks. Stalls a guinea, private boxes by
auction, and aristocracy in the pit.
* * * *
Maggie Oliver’s Company has been playing
“Ours" in Rockhampton, with great applause. Of the
piece, the local Argus writes in a very peculiar manner.
It says : “ Of the plot there is none; of situation little,
while with regard to the possibilities, the less said the
better.” This is sheer rubbish. Of all Mr. Robertson’s
comedies, “ Ours ” holds the palm as to plot and situa-
tion. This is the paper, however, that could always
spot a plot in the pieces produced by Miss Bea—we
mean Mrs. D’Orsay Ogden. The company includes the
Emmets (“don’t blink, Harry," and Marion Melrose),
the Seagraves, A. J. Inglis, and Mrs. P,timer, while Mr.
Bevis is the scenic artist, and Mr. Royal the key-board
torturer. “ Biz ’’ is fair only, but is expected to be big
on the production of “ Quilp.” Now, who is to play
Quilp, we wonder ? A-hem !
* * * *
Recently there was a “ mus’’ at one of the Nice
theatres. An actress named Audrau entered the box of
the Greek legation, and threw a bottle of vitriol in the
face of M. de Villiere, one of the attaches. That is all
we have got on the subject this issue, but, doubtless,
we Villiere more of the tragic occurrence shortly.
* * * *
Emily Soldene has “got at ” the S. F. Weekly
Post properly. A reporter interviewed her, and she
spun him more “ cuffers ” in one hour than a boat-
swain’s mate could invent in a wtek. Speaking of her
sweethearts, she said that: —“ One was an Earl, and
while I sang at the Philharmonic, in London, he had a
box there. He was as much a fixture of the evening as
the box itself. He seemed to sit entranced when I
sang, and although he never spoke to me in his life, he
sent me a $1530 pair of diamond earrings." She went
on like this fer some time, and when she had filled the
interviewer with the above kind of stuff, he took his
leave. About his exit, he writes“ There was a merry
twinkle in her hazel eyes, and a suggestive smile play-
ing around the corners of her mouth, as she bade the
reporter good-day, that half confessed that she had not
told him all of her experiences of her male adorers—
that, if she had, it would not have made a column, but
a whole book.” We should think so 1
* * * *
Rose Hers6e is playing under engagement to
Captain Roebuck at the Cape. Furore.
* * * *
“Professor Lloyd-Lewis” is doing mirth,
music, and mimicry, at the Tenterfield School of Arts.
Though we have heard of the title of his entertain-
ment, we have never before heard of the Professor.
We hope he will do well at Tenterfield, but we are
afraid not. There is a Church Bazaar “racket” on
the chum, and that ought to swamp him.
** * *
Walter Airey, who now keeps the Railway
Hotel at Campbelltown, got a man one month for rob-
bing his bar, the other day. It is not stated whether
the thief took spirits or Airey-ated waters.
** * *
At the Baldwin the Lingards scored a success
for one week in the “Tutor," but “Stolen Kisses”
was a frost. They go to New York “ where glory and
Luscombe Searrell will await them."
** * *
When the South comes to the West something
uncommon should happen. At Mudgee, South’s
“ Pinafore” company have, so says an obliging corres-
pondent, been winning golden smiles from crow ded and
enthusiastic audiences.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
INTAGLIOS.
An Untimely Thought.
I wonder what day of the week —
I wonder what month of the year—
Will it be midnight or morning.
And who will bend over my bier ?
What a hideous fancy to come
As I wait at the foot of the stair.
While Lillian gives the last touch
To her robe, or the rose in her hair.
Do I like your new dress—Pompadour ?
And do I like you? On my life
You are eighteen, and not a day more.
And have not been six months my wife.
Those two rosy boys in the crib
Upstairs are not ours, to be sure!
You are just a sweet bride in her bloom,
All sunshine, and snowy, and pure.
As the carriage rolls down the dark street.
The little wife laughs and makes cheer.
But —I wonder what day of the week,
And I wonder what month of the year.
Farewell.
The boat went drifting, drifting over the sleeping sea.
And the man that I loved the dearest sat in the boat
with me.
The shadow of coming parting hung o’er the great gray
swell,
And the winds that swept across it sobbed on, “ Fare-
well, farewell.”
The boat went drifting, drifting in the lingering North-
ern night.
And the face that I loved the dearest paled with the
paling light.
We strove to join light laughter, we strove to wake a
jest;
But the voice I loved the dearest rang sadly ’mid the
rest.
The boat went drifting, drifting, while the dull skies
lowered down,
And the “ragged rims of thunder” gave the rocky head
a. crown.
The boat went drifting, drifting, while to the darkening
sky
For the man that I loved the dearest the prayer rose
silently.
0 true, strong hand I touch no more! brave smile I
may not see!
Will the God who governs time and tide bring him
back to my life and me ?
Drifting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUGGESTED IN THE COURSE OF A TRIP DOWN THE RIVER.
Drifting gently on the bosom of the Barwon’s placid
tide,
Stealing softly 'neath the shadow of the river guma
we glide;—
Listless droops the silken pennon, idly dips my ashen
blade,
Onward sweeps my elfin Argos, through the sunlight
and the shade.
Zephyrs, laden with the fragrance of the forest and
the plain,
Hustle faintly ’mid the leaflets, sparkling with a
summer rain—
Pearly eucalypti blossoms, yellow wattles’ golden
bloom,
Mingled with the honeysuckle’s, and the wild thyme’s
sweet perfume.
Drifting past the browsing cattle, scattered o’er the
grassy bank.
Gazing on the silver mirror ere they from its waters
drank;
Deer-like eyes are wildly staring at my flutt’ring, half-
furled sails,
Cloven hoofs are fretful stamping, glossy sides are
lashed with tails.
Wheeling on its wide-spread pinions, seeking prey with
piercing eye,
Soars aloft a giant eagle, like a speck against the sky.
’Mid the cool green water-lilies gaily leap the silver
bream,
Throwing wide the circling eddies on the surface of
the stream.
Drifting while the sun is sinking in the glowing western
skies.
Bathing forest, flood, and prairie with the rainbow’s
transient dyes.
Feathered minstrels vespers trilling, ere they seek the
moss-lined nest;
Roaming swallows, homeward flitting, fold their weary
wings and rest:
Swiftly gliding in the gloaming, watching golden hues
grow grey, .
List’ning to the Kookaburra pealing loud his grotesque
lay, . .
To the whistling of the wildfowl, as they wing their
serried flight.
To the reedy swamps, and marshes, through the softly
waning light.
Drifting ’neath the lengthening shadows, and the
night-shade’s sombre Cloak,
Gliding through the tangled sedges, haunted by the
bull-frog’s croak,
Hark! the rising night wind moaning, through yon
gloomy grove of pine.
Blending quaintly with the lowing of the distant
herded kine:
Weirdly wails a prowling dingo ; vampires flit on muffled
wing;
Harshly shrieks a ghostly curlew, till the woodland
echoes ring:
See the clouds are reft asunder, and the crescent Queen
of Night . , .
Softly sheds her silver radiance, changing darkness
into light.
G. H. SHAW.


J. F. Gunsler, the caterer, of Victorian renown,
has taken Trcw’s South Australian Hotel, on North
Terrace, Adelaide.
The Mining World says that out of .£2,095,000
English capital actually absorbed in Indian gold mines,
£1,066,000 was appropriated by promoters and vendors
in payment of their claims before a stroke of work had
been done.
The late Empress of Russia was a collector of
prayer-books. The Czar is distributing the collection
amongst the St. Petersburg regiments, to be preserved
in glass cases. This is where poor old Alexander al-
ways kept his own. However, he's dead now, so re-
quiescat in pace.
At Sandhurst, women of low repute have taken
to levying black mail upon respectable citizens. The
modus operand! is to summon a man for debt, and then
intimate to him that if he pays a certain sum the case
will be withdrawn. Some victims have compromised;
but the other day, on one who had refused to pay any-
thing appearing to answer a summons, the “prose-
cutrix ” was absent.
At! Maryborough (Q.), the other day, a large
Newfoundland dog, seeing the dorsal fin of a shark
above the water, plunged in and attacked the brute.
A desperate fight ensued, the dog in the encounter
losing a piece of his upper lip. He came out and lay
down for a couple of minutes, but soon again made
for the shark, which he seized about six inches from
the head and stuck to. The shark, in plunging to free
itself, occasionally lifted the dog’s head out of the
water, and gave him a chance of breathing. After
twenty minutes the shark “ gave in ’’ and was pulled
out of the water. The dog seemed little the worse for
the fight. We condense this story from a Queensland
paper. Either the shark or the dog must have been a
dog-fish.
Those most truly philanthropic people, Mrs. A.
B. Armstrong, Mr. John Armstrong, Mrs. C. Robinson,
Mr. Bowmaker, and the friends who assist them at the
free breakfast meeting every Sunday morning, have
issued their nineteenth annual report—in which, among
other things, reference is made to the recent death of
the charitable Mr. John Mills. During the past year
6670 meals have been given to the poorest of our
brothers and sisters in the city, the recipients being
classified as follows : —Men, 6346 ; women, 291; boys,
23; girls, 10. The number of meals given for the 19
years that the institution has existed is 100,168. Among
those helped have been many women released frem gaol.
The treasurer's statement is—Balance in hand, Good
Friday, 1880, £lOO osB£d; subscriptions received, £B6
17s 5-Jd—total, £lB6 18s 2d; expenses of breakfast,
£9B 13s 7£d; balance in hand, £BB 4s 6sd. One of the
most curious, and at the same time saddest sights of
Sydney is the crowd of outcasts who every Sunday
morning, between six and seven o’clock, assemble at the
Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore Staioer, analytical
chemist.’’— Advt.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Couldn’t a neater name than “ Coffee Palaces ”
kave been invented for them ? Doesn’t the name
■ remind one who hears it for the first time of “ Gin
Palaces ? " Aren’t both names redolent of tawdriaess
and vulgarity, and don’t they bring to one’s mind the
kind of people who a lory in gaudy insignia, meaningless
testimonials, and “loud ” scarves and sashes, and who
dream nightly of the next lodge dinner and the forth-
coming long procession headed by the bad band and
the big banner ? What a pity that the literary t aste of
the directors wasn’t as refined as is the culinary taste
of their cook! However, de gustibus. &o. Everybody
. cannot • be se chetic. At the Coffee Palaces one
gets a capital meal and good attendance for very little
money. We therefore suppose we should satisfy our-
selves with the reflection that if the rose dosen’t smell
as sweat under another name, it ought to do so.
• # •’
The Coffee Palace people are ingenious. They
now exhibit in their windows big piles of tinsel-topped
bottles, got up in exact imitation of champagne re-
ceptacles in everything save the fluid (“Zoedone")
they contain —which fluid tastes as much like the wine
of fiheims as Woolloomooloo sea water is like Cnateau
Yquem. The teetotal restaurateur, who assiduously
worships Plutus—as every man should do who has his
senses about him —evidently has still a little respect
left for Bacchus ; the rosy god, however, won’t thank
him for a fluid which affords the drinker as much
invigoration as he would obtain from hunting in
a dream or popping the question in a nightmare.
Is this exposition of dummy champagne bottles
the first step towards that devoutly-to-be-wished-
for consummation, the sale in a first-class restaurant
of good colonial wine ? We don’t say that at any
restaurant in this city the epicure can indulge
himself as he could at Madame Moraad's or Del-
monico’s; but in S,\ dney one can at least get a better
cheap meal than in any other city, Melbourne not
excepted. It is no secret that since the establishment
of the Coffee Palaces, and of Compagnoni’s under the
new regime, the public houses in the vicinity of thdse
places have added enormously to their post-prandial
trade. What we now want is a restaurant where one
can get with his shilling breakfast, lunch, or dinner,
a small caraffe of light, sound, ccdonial vin ordinaire.
AVine is cheap enough here, in all conscience. The
first man who has the means and enterprise to open
and maintain a first-class restaurant, and give his.
cnstomers a good shilling meal, wine, tea, 'coffee, or
milk included, will make his fortune and cut out all
opponents who don’t follow him. 0 that there were
in Sydney one Buschmann !
« # *
“ Let me taste yonr butter and your cheese,”
said the much-travelled R. S. Smythe the other day
“ and I’ll tell you whether you keep a good hotel.” The
keepers of certain Sydney restaurants should take the
hint.
* * *
People who send us notices of libel actions are
requested to enclose stamped envelopes for reply and to
fully pre-pay their missives, which should be ’marked
outside “ legal trouble." Strict attention to this sug-
gestion will greatly facilitate the transaction of
business.
* * *
If we are anything, we are loyal. It is with
great pain, therefore, that, on perusing our London
contemporaries, we see that they are not so loyal as we
are. A recent number of the London Referee contains
some verses upon Her Majesty, which have shocked us
beyond measure. Mr. George R. Simms is the author,
and he really ought to have known better. Why, what
more can the man want than the present form of Go-
vernment ? The dear old lady who rules us lives out of
the way, and never bothers anybody, and takes very
good care nobody shall bother her. And yet, see how
“ Dagonet ” lampoons his sovereign :
“ The Queen of Fogopolis once on a time
Took into her head that to smile was a crime ;
That to speak to a stranger, unless he was Scotch,
One’s fame as a monarch was likely to blotch.
•“ Now, it chanced that Fogopolis happened to be
A remarkably wonderful city to see ;
And monarchs and statesmen and men of renown
Would come a good distance to visit the town.
“ So the monarchs who came had to choose an hotel,
Where the knowing proprietors salted them well;
There the son of the sovereign would pay them a call.
And they might iu the City get asked to a ball.
“ Other kingdoms have courts, but this kingdom has
none.
There’s one thing the Queen, tho’, has ne’er left undone.
She’s lots of her duties omitted to do—
But she’s never forgotten to stick to the screw.”
Her Majesty can rnaKe her mind easy about the loyalty
of Australians. We would scorn to pen such stanzas on
such a sacred subject. But there are even more loyal
papers than The Bulletin—the Cumberland Times,
for instance. The gifted editor of that royalist fly-trap
is, by self-appointment, journalistic protector of the
Royal Family. Let, therefore. Her Majesty be at ease,
and the dreams of Bertie be untroubled. Vivat Regina!
* * *
The Blackall (Q.) Western Champion says :
The Champion is so eagerly sought after by adver-
tisers that if the present state of affairs continues we
shall have to do something desperate.”
Now, is this so ;
Oris this blow?”
* *
The Bathurst Free Press is a wonderful
paper. Just for curiosity we copied the headings of the
locals in the last issue received. They were as follow;
—“ Public Roads ; Pastoral and Agricultural Society
(Gov. Gazette) ; AVhite Rock Road; The Weather
(!!!) ; Queen’s Birthday Sports; Church Society ;
Bazaar; Revision Court; Sydney Wool Sales.” The
date of the issue we notice is May 11th. Lie back,
agents 1
* * *
In writing of the City and Provincial Licensed
Victuallers’ Association, a genius in the Evening Catar-
act says:—“ An ample oyster snack, with bread and
butter, ham sandwiches, and porter or other liquors
ad libitem (sic), awaited the picnieers, and in most cases
received ample justice at their hands. It was decidedly
pleasant for the picnieers, but as we never had the feel-
ings of an oyster, we cannot describe the happiness felt
bv these interesting bivalves.” Oh, dear 1 Perhaps
their happiness was “ ad libitem !”
* * *
More aldermanic deputations come down from
the coally district than from any other part of the
colony—indeed we might say from all the electorates of
the colony put together. The rate-payers stand each
deputation two notes and “ the run of his molars"
while he is iu the city. Their members don’t stand in,
which is rather hard lines, considering that they have
to do all the work. We understand, however, on the
best authority, that the electors of a certain county are
■about to recognise their members’ claim for at least
sustenance while waiting at the public offices. A rise
may therefore be anticipated in the saveloy and biscuit
market.
* * *
Mr. Peter Campbell has forwarded from Mel-
bourne a little sixpenny pamphlet called “The Mel-
bourne International Great Exhibition of 1881—its
career, close, and lessons.” The brochure contains 12 pp.
-of heavily leaded long primer, and is a reprint of a “ de-
scriptive discourse" delivered by Peter, in the Pro-
testant Hall, Melbourne, on 30th April. On glancing
tqrough Mr. Campbell's pamphlet, what surprises us
most is that he should have sent it to us at all. We are
interested in Peter when he is bush missionising, clad
m a garment of camel’s hair, and feeding on locusts and
wild honey; but the moment we find him in a gay city,
at a particularly gay time, our interest in him ceases.
Here now is a chunk of the Peterian discourse:—"First-
class music pealed forth periodically from the grand
organ and some of the numerous very excellent and
miscellaneous musical instrumental exhibits; and these
were played upon by experienced professional musicians
whose fame is as a “household word” in musical circles.
The musical seances were always well attended, and
■thoroughly appreciated by the lovers of sweet sounds,
and judges of skilful musical manipulation.” Eh, bien t
Mr. Campbell tell us what we have been reading in the
Et apres 1 Who wants to “ part” his sixpence to hear
papers anytime during the last six.months ? No, Peter.
This sort of thing is not in your line. The sooner yon
order round what’s left of your horse and scoot over
the undulating downs the sooner will we clasp you once
more to our loving hearts. Fale /
• ♦ *
“ When amatory poets sing their loves.
In liquid lines mellifluously bland," —
Why, then they usually bore newspaper editors with
their lucubrations, and cut up rough when their con-
tributions are not inserted. The bards who favour us
with their communications can, as a rule, be thus
classified: The man who can versify mildly but gram-
matically—the man who can write grammar but not
poetry—the man who can write neither grammar nor
poetry. Some are good-natured and legible—others
venomous and illegible. Now, “ Tom ” belongs to the
former class; and, only that he labours under the
delusion that people are interested in his private
affairs, and thac he forgets when he is writing the third
verse what he has written in the first, we should be
disposed to rank him almost on a par with Phil
M'Carroll. He labels his verses—
“ Farewell to ,”
Not even letting us into his confidence. Listen: —
" Yes, ’tis best that we part—for never to me
Canst thou more than remind of a fair lying dream
That promised a fate that is never to be:
A fate where together we’d float down life’s stream
All happy in love and each other’s esteem."
It’s a pity that here he is carried away by his subject,
and lets down upon his sweetheart by comparing her to
a lying dream ; but you can excuse a poet anything,
you know, when the frenzy is on him. After this, he
sadly wanders:—
“ But, oh! think not, if coldly I bid thee farewell,
I esteem not the prize I am leaving behind;
For farewell on my ears is the sound of a knell—
The knell of a happiness only resigned
When hope to attain it had fled like the wind.”
Well, Tom, we have given you a show for two stanzas,
and so you can’t complain. If, however, you want our
advice, you shall have it. It is this: —Don’t on any
account part with the girl—or with any more of your
poetry. Marry the former, and frame the latter. It
will always do to let out for a rifle target, or to hand
round the two-ales on when you give an evening party.
Says Disraeli, in “Endymion: “A little knowledge—
especially of literature —is a dangerous thing.” So it
is ; but a little knowledge of poetry is something terri-
ble. Give it up, Tom; give it up, before it is too late;
or we shall hear of your putting crackers in your grand-
mother’s pocket—or, if you haven’t got one, borrowing
a grandmother and the crackers to do it. In a word,
Thomas, our tip to you is—“ Sing no more,”
V.
GIGGLES.
The first candidate, for Darlinghurst honours
on Monday last was Mrs. Mary Jane McQoilikan, a
lady of about 63 summers; tastefully clad in primeval
boots, a soogee bag princess robe, and the rim of a
Panama hat. The expression on her face was some-
thing like that of a well-worn gridiron, and as she toed
the scratch Mr. Marsh leaned over and, in his own
jocular way, observed—
“ Hullo, Mary, old girl! Come to see us again, have
you? They say it’s a drunk and disorderly this time,
Mary. How’s that ?”
“Fust of May, sir," replied Mary. “Ole English
cussome, sir—an' I was the Queen of the May, mothah !"
When they stopped Mary's warbling, the P.M. re-
marked: “Yes, that's 0.K., Mary; but you see you
were here on the Ist of March, also ; and we gave you
two months’ leave of absence then.”
“ Yes, sir; I was Queen of the March, then, sir.”
“Good. But you see Constable Mulcahy says yon
have been here 73 times out of a possible 80, Mary.
That’s tall scoring."
“ He wants to marry me, sir; but I’d ruther marry a
Chineyman out of the hospitiL”
“ Mary—l think I’ll have to chalk your hat for 60
days again. You see, you will drink rum, and explore
constables’ heads with blue metal —and heads are scarce
just now, you know.”
“Well, sir, someun’ must drink the stuff, or it’ill all
get wasted; and it wouldn’t look well fur the likes of
you to do it—would it, sir ?”
“ What’s this Queen of the May business like, Mary ?
How does it go ?”
“Oh, sir, they decks you all out with flowers, an’
you all dance roun’ a pole, sir; an' parties “ shouts ’’ as
is lookin’ on, sir."
“ Ah—but touching that black eye and the gum paper
across your nose, Mary. Whereabouts does that part
of the fun come in ?’’
“ That was giv’ me, sir, by a young man as wanted to
take my seat at the Gospil Tent, sir.”
“ Too thin. Have you any mote engagements, Mary ?”
“Yes, sir; I hev a most urgent one for half-past two,
to-day, sir. I’m goin’ to answer an advertisement for
governess in a Christian family.”
“Well, you can ‘ get ’ this time, Mary, as we’re full
of other matter. But next time you grip those spikes
it means six square months. Paste that in your hat,
Mary; and now skid.”
That night the Queen of the May changed her beat.
No. 2, near Haymarket.
* * *
It is a somewhat remarkable fact that although
a girl will stand a few tons of what her lover innocently
considers Byronic verse, before marriage, she generally
hauls him up pretty tight after the fatal step is taken.
A little story respecting our friend Lome will prove
that this anti-verse feeling runs alike in the Princess
Royal and the peasant girl. Young Lome, as is well
known, invented a new style of whisky, and, being
anxious to conquer more worlds, sailed into poetry with
all the ardent fervour of a young kangaroo pup going
after a neighbour’s cat. Regularly every Monday night,
young Lome used to poke his “ copy” through the hack
fence, and regularly every Tuesday morning Louise
used to pick it up, and carefully plant it behind the
kitchen stove. One day, when the honeymoon was
pretty well over, Lorney went for a week’s shooting,
and, his time being up, he sat down to pen a note an-
nouncing his appoaching return, and his intention to
again worry up the poetic agony. This is the style he
bumped along with the last item :
“ Ya-as, I’ll touch the harp gently, my pretty Louise,
Whilst my heart beats with ecstatic pain
And those sweet songs with which I used you often to
please,
Why, I’ll sing them some mo-ah again."
Then the wife burst out in all the bursting burst of her
bursting dignity, and the return post brought the
astonished young bard the following little pleasantry,
just as he was “ woolling ” his head to find a rhyme for
“bronchitis”;—
" And I’ll touch your poll smartly, my own pretty lamb.
With the bald-headed end of a broom;
And its holes and its comers with brains will I cram—
That is if I find that there’s room."
There was a coolness between the pair after this, and
when Louise asked Lome, about 11 p.m., if he was sure
he wound up the clock, the bmte sarcastically replied,
“ No —of course I hadn’t brains enough to know it was
the clock that should be wound; so I twisted up the
hat rack.”
* * *
On page 3, Mr. Anthony Hordern expresses a
wish that he could see a resurrected copy of the Babylon
Daily Telegraph, in order that some light might be
thrown on the character of the people of those rather
early days. We have much pleasure in placing before
our readers a fac-simile of a small hand-bill which was
found in the grip of a skeleton in front of a drapery
shop in the street of Sesorosis, and opposite the par-
sonage of the mighty Bel. When correctly deciphered,
this relic ran as follows :
“War!! War!! War!!
Fire!! Fire!! Fire!!
Caution !! Caution! 1 Caution!!
Messrs. Manetho, Shalmanesser, and Co. beg to inform
their numerous patrons that, owing to the unprincipled
conduct of other scounbeels in the trade, they have
determined to still lower the prices of their summer
goods, and now defy all competition.
Look at the Prices !!
The Cleopatra hat only 7s 6jd.
Tyrian dresses, gros grain silk, given away for nothing.
Rally up! Rally up!
Manetho and Shalmanesser’s Egyptian Stingo the
only place where you can get the Ashtaroth Regina
chemise for 2s. ll|d., and—
The Anubis camel-hair Paletot 275. 6d.
The best milliners from the Rue de Mantenelli, Paris,
always engaged, and special previsions made for ensur-
ing a first-class fit. All goods marked in plain figures,
and tram tickets given to purchasers of over 20s.
Manetho and Shalmanesser’s Egyptian, Stingo,
And don’t you forget it."
The above clearly proves that, so far aslbusiness matters
are concerned, the ancients could run us pretty close
even at the present day.
* * #
Tuesday’s Twilight Teaser says the Good-
wood Stakes amounts to 200 sovs., with other pickings ;
that it is a race for all fillies; that the second filly re-
ceives 50 sovs., and the third filly saves his stake. It
took over 16,000 miles of cable and the services of about
30 miscellaneous lightning-dodgers to carry this infor-
mation to us, and now that we have it, it is about as
much use as the back of a South American earthquake.
Thanks to an eccentric climate and an enterprising
Government, calves with two heads and seven tails can
always be raked up amongst us—but a filly of the
masculine gender is something more than the fertile
imagination of the Government Gazette humorist
could ever hope to imagine. There’s evidently a show
for the Gospel Tent again in Pitt-street.
* * m
The sapient Echo has an article on Australian
affairs which positively bristles with useful information.
First, we are told that the man who wishes he was born
100 years ago is an ass, because the same advantages for
making his pile are available at the present day. There
was a capital opportunity to work in an “ ad.” just here
by pointing out that neither the Echo, Mail, nor even
the Sydney Morning Snorsr had being 100 years ago;
but of course Hunter-street is too respectable for that.
Secondly, we are informed that waste land may be bought
to-day for a song, and in 53 years’ time it may equal in
value a block in George-street. To a single man, aged
40, this announcement will bring a sudden rush af joy
that may perhaps prove fatal, and then perhaps the
Echo scribe will suffer for his extra smartness. Lastly,
we read : “ All times are hard to imbeciles and incom-
petents.” If that’s so. Heaven help the inkslingers on
the “ respectable Press ” of Sydney.
* * *
One of the tallest presents made at the recent
royal wedding in Berlin, was that of a complete table
service made of solid silver, and weighing just one ton.
We once dined in front of a set like this ourselves. The
table fixings cost £230 15s. 9|)d. (the odd pence being for
an extra napkin), and the total cost of what we had to
eat—which consisted of four prawns, an inch of viva-
cious cheese, and a bottle of mustard—was about six-
pence. Nevertheless, the tables, as usual, “ groaned
beneath the weight of the good things provided,” as the
Shoalhaven Pastepot-Wielder once remarked; and
the reporter who “did" the Berlin spread could, of
course make the same remark without hazarding his
future chance of a harp and crown, although he might
not have even tasted a morsel of tripe, or the tail of one
small sardine.
* * *
I have frequently noticed, as a curious
phase in the human character, that when Brown
meets Jones, and tells him that poor Robinson has just
been sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, and that
his wife and family were burnt to death in their own
house the same night, Jones invariably draws a face as
long as an attorney’s bill, and mournfully exclaims,
“ Dear me! How very sad I But it’s all the will of
Providence.” When the same Jones unexpectedly puts
his thumb between a big nail and the head of the family
hammer, however, he doesn’t chat much about Provi-
dence then, but generally squanders an hour or so in
relating descriptive anecdotes about a former sweet-
heart named Helen Blazes. This doesn’t say mueh for
man’s humanity to man, but it says a heap for the
picturesque beauty of his nativefianguage.
* * *
The Sydney Mail contains a splendid portrait
of our esteemed friend Mr. Abdurrahman Khan, the
Ameer of Cabul, and as we have noticed copies of this
highly soporific journal adorning several suburban
fences it is evident that the most strenuous efforts are
now being made to increase its circulation. The fact of
the Ameer’s picture possessing a shot belt, and an un-
mistakeable resemblance to the late Mr. Ned Kelly
has however led many persons to believe that there was
some sort of family relationship between the pair. In
justice to Mr. Kelly we beg to state that such an im-
pression is decidedly erroneous. The hon. member for
Glenrowan was of a far more intellectual looking
stamp than the portrait now before us, and it can be
further proved that he did occasionally condescend to
shave. The fact of resuscitating old blocks of brigands,
J.P.’s, editorial clergymen, trapeze performers, &c.,
and making them do additional duty as Sultans,
pirates. Czars, and other monarchs, is largely on the
increase amongst the respectable portion of our press;
but still we cannot for one moment entertain the blas-
phemous idea that a semi- clerical, anti-jesuitical journal
would stoop to such nefarious practices, and we there-
fore look forward with all confidence to an early ex-
planation of the rather shady resemblance between two
gentlemen of so such opposite natures as Mr. Abdurr-
aham Khan, and the late Mr. Edward Kelly. For the
present, however, we are sufficiently pleased to know
that the worthy Ameer’s portrait was not ticketed off
as Archbishop Vaughan or John Davies.
* * *
He was just off to the Volunteer encampment,
and as his young bride (soon, perhaps, to be a soldier’s
widow) rummaged up his knapsack she held out a
small bottle, and observed with that withering sarcasm
peculiar to tom cats and women, “ Well, Arthur
Wellesley Nap<fieon Hannibal Smith, I don’t know what
on earth you want to take hair dye down to the battle-
field for anyway; it’s just about time you got sense
and gave over all these foolishments.” To which the
warrior bold replied: “ Angelina Matilda Maria Mor-
guerita Smith; that’s because you never studied the
classics and you won’t read your Bulletin, or if you
did you’d know that Field Marshal Horace says ‘ Dulce
et decorum est pro patria mon.’ It is is meet and sweet
to dye for one’s fatherland." The now thoroughly
humiliated wife immediately sank on h“r knees, and
earnestly prayed that the carnage field might never
drink her warrior’s blood; after which she arose and
stuffed his kit with enough jam tarts and Bologna
sausage to feed the entire German army for ten years.
AVe thus see that even education is good for something.
* * *
Says Granny’s darling pride on Thursday
evening: “ Alexander 111. was extremely rude when he
married the gentle Dagmar, whose influence over him
has been excellent. He has a strong affection for her
and many domestic virtues.” The fact of Alick’s being
rude on marrying a girl like the gentle Dagmar is, of
course, deserving of some rebuke, but it was the first
time this young Nihilistic target ever was married, and
if he kissed Dagmar rather too ostentatiously first, and
broke the minister’s head with the Bible after,we should
take his youth and inexperience into consideration, and
let him off with the nominal fine of ss. or seven
days. With respect to his having “ a strong affection
for Dagmar and other domestic virtues," we are authorised
to state that these virtues do not comprise scooting
out in the snow to burst up wood for the morning fire,
turning off the gas at night, or hooking Mrs. Alexan-
der’s dress on Sundays. A. No. 3 hasn’t reached this
stage of perfection yet, but Dagmar being a virtue her-
self will no doubt work his education up in time —pro-
viding the Nihilist bombs, or frosts don’t reach him.
* * »
The glorious sunshine which gilds the life of a
Sydney alderman sometimes gives place to sombre.
clouds. Outside, the public and the press pelt their
mud until the said official holds enough earth to start a
payable sugar plantation, whilst inside, Alderman J. D.
Young lets off his infernal machines with a “ vim ” that
makes his sanctimonious brethren feel about as happy
as if they had jnst been kicked by a healthy jackass. It
is therefore with a pleasure too intense to have sprung
from this nrujdane sphere, that we hastm to relate a
little anecdote which clearly proves that Sydney, at
least, does not monopolise exactly all the mudheads. At
a recent municipal meeting in the city of, well we
will be charitable and say Spitzbergen—Alderman Fin-
nigan ros;, and pointed out that as the city possessed
one of the finest parks in the world, in the centre of
which park was a magnificent lake, he would propose
that a sum of money be voted for the purchase of twenty
gondolas, in order to add to the attractiveness of the
park, and to the pleasure of its visitors. The motion
was almost carried when Alderman Flaherty rose and
said, “ Gintilmin av the boord ; I do not think it expe-
dyint to purchis so many az twinty gondolas, whin they
air such expinsive craychirs, an’ I would amind the
rizolution by appropriatin’ only suffi’shint money to buy
two gondolas for the prizint say— a male, and a faymale
—an’ thin lave natur to do the rist." The funeral of the
other alderman took place next day, and the “ male and
faymale ” gondola arrived by telegraph.
• * »
Some insane old butterhead once remarked that
figures couldn't lie, but alas!' for poor suffering hu-
manity, this fellow never dreamt of the mighty power
of the Sydney daily press. Touching up our recent
census returns, the Evening Screamer plants the
following figures representing our suburban stock —
Total.
16,805
10,863
15,794
19,017
23 180
10,986
22,285
And then coolly tells us that they make 119,330, whereas
even a local J.P. can see the proper total is 118,930. At
the first glance, this looks like a praiseworthy desire to
put our score on, and rile the Berry gang, but when we
find the city and suburban totals are respectively—
Sydney, 102,803; suburbs of Sydney, 119,330; and that
these figures only total 221,133, we at once perceive a
most diabolical attempt has been made to swindle us out
of a cool thousand of perhaps the flower of our nobility,
and we are immediately warmed with a fierce desire to
send the whole of the Screamer’s staff to a night
school, or blow the offiie itself to the back of Jupiter.
# » #
lam in no way prejudiced respecting the color
of hair myself, because that of one of my best friends
is of an auburn tinge, whilst that of my mortal enemy,
my tailor, is as black as a raven’s wing, but a few of our
subscribers have a word to chip in upon this all-
important subject. Old man Josephus in his Anti-
quities says: “ Now about this time there was a party
by the name of Johnson, a Galilean, who lived in
Jerusalem, over by the gate which lends to Joppa, and
close unto the tan-pit kept by Simon, and it is related of
this man that his hair was so fiery-red that he used to
hire his head out to restaurants to warm up cold victuals
with; but these things happened before my time.”
Julius Cmsarin his Commentaries also asserts there was
a chief amongst the Gauls named Yortigenex, who used
to light his Manillas and “ Lone Fisherman ”
cigarettes with his scalplock; but like Josephus,
Csesar carefully adds, he himself was out at the time
this happened. Lastly, a Woolloomooloo man writes
complaining there is a girl down there whose flowing
tresses are so ostentatiously brilliant that when she
pokes her bead out the window at 4 a.m., every rooster
in the district fancies it’s the rising sun, and begins to
crow as if he got ten shillings a job and was paid by
piece work. He further adds he doesn’t object to the
hair, but he most emphatically does to the time the
lady waves it.
* * *
It is our painful duty to announce that our old
favorite, the Rev. John Alexander, lately fell down the
crater of Mount Vesuvius whilst endeavouring to ascer-
tain the exact temperature of the volcano, in order to
draw conclusions as to how the Centigrade system would
act in the regions of his old opponent—he of the long-
barbed tail and sulphur eyebrows. We have not, for a
fact, actually heard of the above melancholy occur-
rence, but we haven’t heard a syllable of John lately at
all, and our bitter experience tells us that if he was
anywhere on this earth where he could do a yelp, he
would long ere this have told us exactly what he
thought of his chance of converting the boorish Boers,
or carrying on the highly profitable business of the late
Disraeli. John has not of late got up a single meeting
for the reprieve of any criminal, and he hasn’t held an
electioneering meeting for over three months. And, by
the way, we long to know when and where John’s new
£20,000 church is going up—we allude to the church
the benevolent gentleman was going to build for him.
• * *
Respecting Le Sport, the “ Bathurst Burra ”
hold peculiar notions. They have the makings of a
good course; they raise the necessary temptation to
induce owners to waltz up with first-class horses ; they
supply the best weather in the market; and then they
stay at home, and fast and pray while their visitors
make merry, and enjoy themselves about as much as
they would at the bottom of Mount Vesuvius. An
anecdote. Some years ago the usual successful meet
was on, and a number of the leading Melbourne
“ books,” anxious to improve the occasion, started off,
laden with brilliant hopes and pale brandy. On the
course they roared, they cursed, they prayed (as near
as they could get), but not a solitary “bushy" would
“spot" a horse for even a cake of cheap tobacco.
Thoroughly sick at heart, the leading metallician
perched himself on the stand, and addressing the
faithful few, observed, “ Gentlemen, —I once heard of
a fellow who went down to Jericho, and fell among
thieves and robbers, who clewed him tight; scooped in
his plant, and then strung him up to an old gum just
over an ant-pit, but I hope I may be painted sky-blue
if I wouldn’t rather tumble over the Jericho * lifters,’
and the Kelly gang to boot, than ever again set my
foot in your old second-hand graveyard.” As the poet
Phil M’Carroll observes, better be robbed ourselves
than not have a “ flutter ”at all. Since then, however,
Bathurst has improved, and the inhabitants put up
large sums—in pennies.


Public Compar
The meecantile bani
ESTABLISHED II
INCOEtOBATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Beserve Fund.
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wb. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES;
F. A. A. Wilsoi
• SECEETAEY;
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Ge<
LONDON banze:
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexand*
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances nut
other produce shipped to England f
COENWALL PIEE AND Bfl
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD A 1
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEI
SkDNEY.
Photographer
mt
458 GEORGE I
Opposite the Mabi
PHOTOGEAPHY IN ALL I
ENLABGEMENTS IN PERM.
PARLOUR S 1
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) !
805 GEOEGE ST
Opposite the Eailway T
Especially esteemed for his port)
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d p<
NOTICE
JEOAETT,
• PHOTOGEAPHEE,
604 GEOEGE
BEI
Begs to inform his numerous patro
completed extensive alterations ii
ducive to the successful working of
ness, having imported, at great
most modem appliances from the I
and having a staff of first-class a
studying the comfort of his custi
Public Compaa
C
OMMEECIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established 1834
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £575,000. Reserve F
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A, Dibbs, Esq., Mi
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. S
Solicitors :
Messrs. "Want, Johnson f
Messrs. Cape and Westj
Head Office—George-str<
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Inapt
With Branches at Haymarket, Geori
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M
Esq. j F. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wales
Anmidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Beg.
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, 1
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonan
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes,
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundag
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molonj
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narand
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qut
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wei
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Tonng. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisb
Maryborough, and Rockhami
Agencies in the Coi
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria,
Australasia, Colonial Bank oi
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of t
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank o
Tasmania: The Bank of Van Ditem
New Zealand : National Bank of 1
Agencies beyond the C
London : The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union 1
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland : The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank c
San Francisco: The Bank of Br
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore : Th
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lou<
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercant:
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of I
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
Egypt ; Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, al
fixed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, at
lects bills payable at any of the al
elsewhere, at current rates; collect!
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANf
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. II
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es<
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowm
Strictly mutual, awarding
proportionate amount of the entii
Society at every distribution therei
LOANS granted on Mortgage or <
combined with Life Assurance.
$4
w
$
waigh;
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
•II m BUT IN THI WORLD I
' W.DMIUi cfeoaLBURHHJSM \
rjIHE BEST PAINT IN
-0
3
%
V
ELASTIC
**&£
ce
THE PACIFIC EUBBEI
is mixed ready for i
supplied in cans containing 1 gal. ;
These cans form a convenient Pa
complete.
Similar testimony to the following
ns:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880
EUBBEE PAINT to he all that is
and Bright, and owing to its large
I am inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it s
and appears as fresh, clean and glos
last week —the same with the fence
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC B
will cover 35 Square Tarda —one c
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thre
Sample Cards of Colours and 1
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to i
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMS
Sole Agents,
foot of MAEKET STEEET, neai
EEMOYED TO 88 ELIZAI
(Near Hunter-str
RH E L L
• ELECTEO-PLATEE a
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEW
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by
equal to Solid Silv
Articles of table wear, etc., replal
to wear equal to the
English Electroph
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZAI
(Near Hunter-str
gj. AND S. PR
* SAW MILLS AND TIMI
16 Erskine Stbe:
Every description of Foreign at
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
GLASS
STEAM COACH AND WI
WORKS,
Habeis-stbeet, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Hai
S. G. would beg to draw the pai
Export Merchants the large <3
New eeflecting lami
KEROSENE.
&
\M/\\
i/
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WI
BAEWELL AND FISHE]
GAS BURNERS JUST I
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFOED, 65 MAE]
rjl HOM A S WEBB
BOND-STREET
Beg to inform their customers tha
OPENED a LARGE CO&'SIGNMI
BEEAKFAST,
DINNEE, an
Also,
FANCY |C H
i
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invit
A - .*•
I
E O BONO P
THE MUTUAL TRADE PEOTE
TION OF N. S.
J, HURST, Secret
Offices: 32 BRIDGE STEEE
Established upon the most improvi
for the protection of Merchants i
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, u
the leading Mercantile communii
The following business is underta
or through the intervention of
licitor:—
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or personal i
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or ass
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, i
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Registered Do*
searched.
The Certificates of fradulent or unp
opposed in the interests of cre<
Debts proved in insolvent estates.


Business Announ
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WAR
352 George-stra
PIANOFORTES. PIA
JUST RECEIVED. JUS'
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPI
A splendid stock to sel
EVERT RENOWNED
AMERICAN OR(
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and s
OVER ALL OTB
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIOI
HARMONIU]
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENO
in all the various n
A PEW GOOD SECOND-E
at low prices, now i;
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard 1
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and He
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Water!
and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEORGE S
Opposite Wynyard-
, Sydney.
HOM A S W
ENGINEER & IRONI
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & (
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 22(
F.AIATOJG
Tobaccouisi
JAMES
CELEBRATE
EXCELSIOR SMOKINC
Gat Baby, Bird’s Eye. Gold Let
Best Imported Bi
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and J
159 PITT ST
Nert Post Offli
*
TIN TAG TOBf
None are genuine but the I
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOB or TANK]
DIXSON & SO
15 TOEK STREET
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGJ
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4
A-
Manufactured 1
T. SAT W E
A. T THE
EAGLE TOBAGO
Clarence-street, 8
jg CLARKE A
Wholesale and Bel
GROCE
09
hi
a
<
0Q
H
O
<
09
O
hi
Are acknowledged t
THE BEST TEA I*
THE CHEAPEST !
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES an
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly
193 OXFORD
Chemists and Dr
THE following Li
WATSON’S RENOWNED ]
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to tl
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson's (Vegetable) Wo:
Watson’s Gingerbread Wo
Watson’s Compound Chlo
Watson's Strengthening 1
Watson’s Australian Vem
Watson’s Excelsior Tooth
Watson’s Concentrated GK
Elixir (a most valuab]
can be obtained, wholesale and r
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STR
14 OXFORD STR]
Near Hyde Park (
(N.B. —The Tram-car stoj
W. D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEI
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne\
W. D. E. thanks the public an<
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Irrespective of Club prescriptio:
has dispensed 34,000 original presi
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
PACTS SPEAK FOR TH]
Every prescription is CAREPU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbei
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folh
EAMES’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite a:
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGE ST]
For severe cases where the gasti
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT]
Which relievo the bowels gently, i
naturally healthy functions
organs.
Chemists and Dn
T
AKE NO MO
but try
EANDEESON'
PODOPHYLLIN LOS
Do yon SUFFER from HEAI
Then try!
PODOPHTL
Do you Complain of Indigestn
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYL
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, and
EANDERSC
Do you constantly suffer from
If so rememb<
PODOPHYI
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are any.’of your children sick
can safely give chem one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
Remember this, and alwayi
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and (
45 and 47 George-si
B T ROYAL LETTE
The Greates
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’i
AUSTRALIAN OINI
Guaranteed to 1
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Mattel
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any put
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the publi
long deceived. In fact, people are i
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot belii
But one trial will convince the n
High and low, rich and poor, hav
fits from its use, and scarcely an
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the c
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP Tl
which, taken altogether, prove the j
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft con
casualities attending the human fr
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perft
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External I
may be cured by using Josephson
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Bums ar
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriai
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson’s Australian Ointment h
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and ■
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S A
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and Is 6d each throughout the colo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD EO
ENTEAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING SI


B
LABON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LABON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LABON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LABON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LABON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LABON’S HEALTH SALII
BLADON’S HEALTH SALII
A combination of Oxygenated I
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and 01
Taken according to direction
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a
ration a remedy as a preventive or or
all Functional Irregularities of the
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitual
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sick
Indigestion, the effects propuced b
dnlgence in rich food, or the ai
beverages ;Gout, Rheumatism, &c.;
ment of Fevers, Su.all Pox, Diphthei
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, clii
diseases. It is especially serviceabh
and should entirely supersede the
aperients. Children take it with p
vigorating effect of an occasional dos
to successfully combat the insidious t
It effectually destroys the Poison Ge
contracted in our daily walk throng
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a health;
functions in the wonderful economy
pi ece —Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemis'
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH Si
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISI
A
PPROYEB BY THE
Government
10th Ja
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, Iht
that the parcel was received in goo
reason of my not writing to you befoi
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ shou
am now directed to inform you ths
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and
pleasant aperient.
" I am, Sir,
“Yours faithft
“Reginald .
“ Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
JJLADON’S HEALTH
The Australian Chukchmu
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYES
We can honestly recomnu
as an
• AUSTRALIAN MANUFAC
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY PRUI
In the market.’’
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, P
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., t
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
AY \
■-»- fvjADE
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of aH 1
Plain figures—Low pric
NJO T L
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS 4
ONE OF THE LAKGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WOELD.
A Visit of Inspection Eeqcested.
■We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
CO
CD
cc.
CD
o
iXD
OUB Cl
o
I We
Only the
CO!
Boys' an
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale
D_
O
O
o
QQ
<
cc
LdJ
CD
UJ
cc
CD
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
P
Our Stoc
N
For eve
St
New
Gents’ £
own
7/6, wo
Ourimi
»
chases ei
undersell
establish
We abs
it would
copy, wil
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
NCE USED ALW
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly " on
out which none is genuine. Bew;
ALW/fy
\\SlO
TRADE MARI
The QEAND GOLD MED
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pa
HIGHEST AWARD, Syc
LATHEES FKEELT, SOFT
AND SHOULD ALWAYS B
For Washing Clothes, Linen, D
For Scouring Floors, Greasy V
M
AKE YOUE P
AT
THE EOYAL FURNISHIS
NEW AND BEAUTIFUI
ATTRACTIVE PRIC
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of C.
place daily, giving full information:
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
House
House
Honsei
House
The STOCK is of such extent tl
have every opportunity of making
and careful selections. All goods
figures so that parties who are not
to make purchases can pay visits of
tain every information in a pleasa
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BE
LATE
W. B. CAMPBEI
ROYAL FURNISHING
Mr. James Eedpath, the land agitator,
announced a remarkable fact in course of a recent
speech. He said the Land League had made rapid
progress in the North of Ireland since the arrest of
Dayitt. The farmers had found there was no protec-
tion under the Ulster Customs against a constant
increase of rent. They had enjoyed for over two years
greater rights than Gladstone proposed now to extend
to the rest of Ireland, and yet they found those rights
utterly inadequate to protect them against the exactions
of the andlords.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Sharp dealing—Buying a razor.
The children of the sun. —Young emus.
Anon: It does beat all how good advice will
make some folks squirm.
Three periods of life; Youth, mumps ; middle
age, bumps; old age, dumps.
A bare announcement —that which the nurse
carries to an anxious husband.
Those Fire Brigade men who rang the bell the
other night for a false alarm of fire tolled a lie.
They now say that the Princess Dolgourki is a
Nihilist, and planned the death of her imperial brevet-
husband.
The ordinary life of a tram motor is not lengthy.
However, the new one, which doesn’t smoke, will
probably live longer.
A northern dealer in bivalves advertises for “ a
boy to open oysters with a reference." We don’t
believe it can be done.
The raw oyster is the lazy man’s friend. An
assistant opens the oyster, and all the lazy man has to
do is to open his mouth.
“ Don’t you think,” said he, “ that the women
are possessed by Satan ?” 11 Yes, as soon as they are
married,” replied she sweetly.
It is a curious fact that a bald-headed Sunday-
school teacher is never heard to allude to the fact that
the hairs of onr heads are numbered.
We read of the death, in Tasmania, at an ad-
vanced age, of a man who never saw a railway. This
may in some measure account for his long life.
“ It is harder to get ahead in this world,” said
Clorinda’s young man, as her father assisted him out of
the door with his boot, “than it is to get a foot.
Civilization is blowing your enemy to pieces with
a bombshell at a range of four miles. Barbarism is
knocking his brains out at arm’s-length with a brutal
club 1
A proud but thoughtless father who has a
talented son studying for the ministry says that the
young man already can preach. “ like the very devil
himself.”
A young man once sent a basket of apples to
his girl, and told her to read Solomon ii.. 6. It reads:
“ Stay me with flagons, comfort me with appleb, for I
n.m sick of love.”
“ ’Tie hope that lifts the sinking soul,” says a
poet in the Evening Lyre. Yes, young man, but ’tis
the sole which lifts the hopeful poet into the gutter
outside our office door.
General Schamatswechakiemenkoff intends to
advance the railroad interests of Russia. It would not
be a bad idea for him to run a line of his own by laying
his name down and spiking the rails to it.
Angelina was caressing a pretty spaniel and
murmuring: “I d© love a nice dog!” “Ah! sighed
Edwin, “I would I were a dog.” “ Never mind,Edwin,
dear,” said Angelina, gently, “ you’ll grow.”
Child at table devours gluttonously her food.
Mother, with gentle reproof—“ Well, what does baby
say to kind nnrsey that brings her all these good
things ? ” Baby, with her mouth full—” More."
“ Albertine,” says mamma, catechism in hand,
“ When Adam and Eve had oaten of the apple, what
was their punishment ?” Albertine hadn’t studied her
lesson. But, reasoning by analogy, she replied, boldly;
“ The colic I”
Is it a coincidence or what? Directly eggs get
dear and tomatoes go out, the average lecturer com-
mences to take the platform. None but the very
wealthy can afford to throw eggs at two-and-six a dozen,
even for “ shop ’uns.”
A minister who is poorly paid gets at least .£3OO
a year, with slippers, boots, &c., thrown in. Young men
should think of these things before embarking in the
precarious profession of journalism—in which there are
no slippers, only boots.
A dangerous illustration ; Lady visitor to scrip-
ture class With what weapon did Samson slay his
enemies? After a period of unbroken silence, fair
questioner (touching her blooming cheek)—What’s
this ? Chorus —The jor bone of a bass, mum.
Hawk and pigeon— Professor (first lecture of
new term—to undergrad, whom the Professor plucked
last exam, for the tenth time). —“Why, bless me!
Here you are again, Mr. Wilkinson; dear —dear —you’ll
see me out at ancient history, you will indeed."
A lover who had gone to make a home for his
“ birdie,” wrote to her : “ I’ve got the finest 320 acres
ever I put my foot down on.” Birdie wrote back:
“ Suppose you get another selection, John, so that you
can have a lawn around your foot.” John mode a home,
but Birdie never went there.
The dear boy’s name is now William Lehman
Ashmead Bartlett Burdett-Coutts. The bride does not
address him in familiar conversation by this string of
pearls, but slings a gentle “ Bill ” across the table when
she requires his attention. “Angy, my poppet," is
the youthful one’s method of address at present.
On a tombstone at Ballarat, Victoria, is the
following inscription : —“ John Adolphe Adams, acci-
dentally shot as a mark of affection by his brother.”
But this isn’t half so bad as what appears in an adver-
tisement in the Geelong evening paper Wanted a
man that can milk a housemaid and a cook.” We con-
sider that this joke alone is worth the price of the
paper.
" I cannot write,” the maiden said,
“ My thoughts they will not flow,”
Upon her hand she leaned her head
And glanced up at her beau.
“ Why is it thus my charming girl ?
It does indeed seem queer"—
And he brushed back a glossy curl;
“ Yon have a bright eye dear.”
“ Well, what do you want here?” remarked Mr.
Smith, as he sat up in bed and addressed a professional
burglar who stood in front of the bureau. “ I want
money and valuables,” hissed the burglar through his
clenched teeth, “and quick about it, too.” “My
friend,” retorted Smith, “I’ve been looking for those
things for the last twenty years without success, but go
on with your burglary, I’m sleepy,"
In a recently published poem Swinburne sings
thus: —
“ In the lower land of day
On the hither side of night.
There is nothing that will stay.
There are all things soft to sight.”
You are wrong, Algernon. There are plenty of things
on the hither side of night that will stay. Old and ex-
perienced cats that have for years never gone home
before 6 a.m., should smile when they read Swinburne.
The doctor arrives at the hospital and receives
the ticket of a new patient: “X, musician in German
band; pulmonary consumption,” He proceeds to the
patient’s bedside, surrounded by his admiring class.
“ Well, my good fellow, you spit blood, don’t you ? ”
“Yes, doctor; I—” “That’ll do; we know all about
it. And you have cold sweats at night, eh ?’’ •* Yjes,
sir, and —" “ Ssh ! I fancy now that by occupation you
are a musician P ” “ Yes, I play —” “Be silent! You
belong to a brass band and you have over-exerted your-
self—fairly blown your lungs away—puffing into your
instrument. Gentlemen, you perceive that sickness
has no secrets for science. What instrument do you
play, my good man ? ” “ The cymbals, sir ! ”
HOW SHE TASTED.
“ Oh, she was nice to eat,”
Remarked the alligator;
*• She tasted very sweet.
And I am glad-i-ator.”


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
There are no editorial footnotes in the cnrrent
number of the N.S.W. Independent.
Father Cleary, a popular priest, formerly
stationed at Ballarat, has died in Ireland, at the early
age of 34.
The stipend of the Eev. C. Strong has been
raised by the Committee of Scots Church, Melbourne
from £lOOO to £l2OO per annum.
The Wesleyan Conference at Adelaide has de-
cided that the Friendly Islands’ Mission is to be con-
nected with New South Wales, instead of with the
Board of Missions.
The Most Eev. Dr. M‘Hale, popularly known as
John of Tuam, is perhaps the oldest Roman Catholic
bishop living. He has just passed his 90th year, and
has been in harness 46 years.
The Jews of London have departed from the
custom of their religion by offering up prayers for the
repose of the soul of George Eliot, although not of their
own faith, in recognition of her services as the literary
champion of their race.
Church Conferences have been the death of a
great many good men. The loss of so many ministers
in the Tararua, the other day, reminds ns that the Eev.
Mr. Draper, who was lost in the London, and who had
been 30 years in Australia, was at the time returning
from a mission to England on behalf of his Church.
The volume of “ Scotch Sermons” by Principal
Caird, Professor Knight, and other liberal Presbyterian
theologians, furnished Mr. Charles Bright with a good
subject for last Sunday’s lecture. The difference in
the teaching of the Scotch pulpit at the present day
and the past was clearly shown, and a further advance
into the region of Freethought predicted,
A curate of a church in the city of sin, sweat,
and sorrow—we don't mean Rockhampton—approaches
very near the “ awful circle” of Rome, to the disgust of
certain of his followers. Anent this, a lady parishioner
the other day remarked that—” If the rev. gentleman
thought it proper to stand on his head from a ritualistic
point of view it would not prevent her from attending
his church.”
Of all the Brisbane churches. All Saints’,
Wickham Terrace, is the one which is attended by the
largest and most fashionable congregation. The fact
that the whole of the seats are free no doubt somewhat
accounts for this, though it must be said the Incumbent
is much liked and the services are both hearty and
musical. However, two of the four laymen who gener-
ally carry round the plates have a very objectionable,
not to say highly insulting and rude way of holding
the receptacle just in front of any individual who does
not put anything in, and keeping it there for perhaps a
full minute—strengthening this somewhat forcible
appeal by a decided stare at the, it may be, poverty-
stricken churchgoer. Some of the victims get up and
leave the church, others “look black,” while not a few
use language of an anything but sacerdotal character.
There may be a real stand-up fight in that church ere
long
SOCIAL.
The bachelors of Hill End recently gave a ball.
Eesult: Two weddings arranged.
His Excellency Lord Loftus holds a levee at
Government House on the Queen's Birthday.
The son of a retired medical resident of Sydney
will shortly marry an accomplished young lady of
Hobart.
A grand fancy dress ball is to take place at
Brisbane on the 7th June, under the auspices of the
Austrian Band. The Governor will be present.
A party of members of the Alpine Club is
meditating a trip from London to New Zealand, for the
purpose of exploring the Southern Alps, in the Canter-
bury Province.
We hear that a marriage has been arranged and
will shortly take place between the butler of a fashion-
able city doctor and a lady of wealth and position in the
Hunter district.
A certain well-known hairy-faced squatter, for
whom many a Tumut girl has sighed in vain, will
shortly marry a Murrumburrah belle. The Tumut
girls now say that they never did like him.
A marriage is to come off next month between
the_ son of the Chief Justice of Tasmania (this sot
visited Sydney a year or two ago) and an heiress in a
small way. The bridesmaids are to be a chosen few o 1
Tasmania's loveliest daughters.
The second annual ball of the Glebe Rowing
Club (plain and fancy dress) takes place in the loca .
Town Hall on Thursday, June 2. By those who remeni-
her last year’s pleasant re-union, the approaching ball
will be looked forward to with interest.
A lady, writing to one of the papers, complains
that the company at Saturday’s Amateur Athletic
Sports meeting was not so select as it might have been,
ohe says that on several occasions of late years the
leading families have absented themselves, and the
fact of so-called gentlemen having paraded the lawn or
Saturday, accompanied by females in gaudy attire, indi-
cates the reason of the falling-off.
A ball is to be held on the 26th inst., in the
Melbourne Exhibition building, “ in celebration of the
successful termination of the Exhibition, and in honour
of the arrival of their Eoyal Highnesses, Prince Albert
Victor of Wales and Prince George of Wales.” As an
inducement to attend, purchasers of ball tickets are
allowed to travel to and from Melbourne (over the
Victorian lines) for one fare.
In Paris, letter-paper of a different colour for
every day of the week is now adopted. Monday sees
correspondents pen their epistles on pale green-
while Tuesday beholds pink as the orthodox’
hue. For Wednesday, an unlucky day, sombre
gray isused; blue is “ the cheese ’’ on Thursday; white
on Friday; and on Saturday the lively Gaul glides into
straw, emerging on Sunday in a delicate mauve. Hence
he is a mauvais sujet on that day!
The very last craze in esthetics is the sheepfold
drawing-room. A low wooden fence or palisade, painted
in that sad green most dear to an aesthetic, stretches
from one post of each folding-door to the other, and
opens m the middle with a real wicket-gate and a real
latch. The sheep fold does mot pretend to be a real divi-
sion of the rooms, so &s to bar the progress of intruders
fer it is so low that it can be easily overstepped • but it
is intended to signify that the purposes of divided
apartments are different—one division being for work
and study, and the others for visitors and trifling
conversations. °
The Sydney Amateur Athletic meeting, on
Saturday afternoon, on the Association Ground, was a
very favourable opportunity for the ladies who had been
fortunate in securing invitations, to attend and use the
beautiful green lawn in front of the grand stand as a
fashionable promenade. The dresses were tasteful
many of them costly, and much enhanced the beauty of
the scene. A most noticeable and elegant costume was
that of a comely brunette, who wore a dress of black
velvet, studded with beads, with hat and sunshade to
match. A tall ana bewitching blonde wore a dark
brown plush costume, which was greatly admired A
dark-eyed maiden, in a dark navy-blue plush costume,
found many attendants. Cardinal and gold were the
fayoiinte trimmings—one young lady resembling an
Admiral in full regalia. Tam-o’-Shanter hats were ex-
tensively worn, the beautiful toques being in excellent
contrast.
Tickets have been issued for a private Press
view—on Saturday next, between noon and 2 p.m —of the
designs submitted in competition for Mr. John Sands’
Christmas card premium. The designs, among which
there are many of great merit, are now at the Art
Gallery of New South Wales. It was a condition of
competition that Australian subjects only should be
used, the result aimed at by Mr. Sands being the pro-
duction on the time-honoured Christmas card of fitting
and artistic emblems of Australia. To quote the words
or the enterprising donor of the premiums, “ our friends
will have the pleasure of receiving them enhanced by
seeing on our cards subjects totally new to them, and
at the same time show the advance Australia is making
m the Fine Arts. ’’ In addition to the 50 guineas offered
■as pnre for the designs, Mr. Sands will give a further
snm of 25 guineas for verses and sonnets appropriate to
the pictures. Elegant catalogues have been issued from
and may be obtained at Mr. Sands’ establishment,
George-street. Messrs. E. Combes, E. L. Monteflore,
and E. Du Faur act as iudges of the designs.!
A novelty has been introduced recently by
Prof. West under the designation of “Apron and
Necktie Parties,** and a very enjoyable one was given
last Monday night by the Professor himself. The
special feature of these entertainments is expressed by
the title. Every lady wears a dainty little apron of any
color and material, but from tbe same fabric she mast
make a necktie to match. All the neckties are placed
in the “ lucky bag,” and the gentlemen, who come
unprovided, dip in. When the ties are all adjusted,
the ladies form a row, and file past one after the other,
and each must take charge of the “apron” who matches
his tie. This is his partner for the first dance, supper,
etc. If, through awkwardness, or forgetting the color of
the tie under his chin, a gentleman chooses a wrong
ppron, there is a forfeit. We don’t know what it is ;
probably some penalty too awful to contemplate. The
effect of the variegated ties makes a pleasing change
from the conventional appearance of the gentlemen,
and a better way of “ breaking the ice ” could scarcely
be devised. The most frigid propriety cannot but
laugh at some of the ludicrous mistakes made by
nervous young men in “ annexing ” their partners,
amid the quizzing and other distracting influences
brought to bear. The novelty is likely soon to be
popular in Sydney.
LATE THEATRICAL.
The Gaiety Theatre is a pleasant resort, for
many reasons. The place is bright and cheerful, the
performance tuneful and lively, and the amount of
managerial " marmalade ” put on by the powers that be
is infinitesimal. It is no wonder, therefore, that the
place is crowded nightly, and that the pleasant placard,
" Standing Boom Only,” is every night, shortly after
eight o’clock, exposed to the gaze of the disappointed
playgoer. The Montague-Turner Company have, so
far, met with almost unexampled success in this citv.
We are very glad of this, for Mr. and Mrs
Turner are hard-working people, and the specula-
tion is their own; it is pleasant, therefore, to see thei r
labours meet with the happy result which is but th
just meed of enterprise and talent.
* * •
We attended on Tuesday night to hear th
company in “ Trovatore," a very “florid” opera by
gentleman (now deceased) named Verdi, who, we ma; r
remark entre parenthese, is no relation to the gentlema
who recently performed the Pirate King in Gilbert anc
Sullivan's opera at the Eoyal. " Trovatore " is a
opera the music of which is only adapted to the voice
of very great people indeed—the Pattis, Nillsons, Mari
Eozes, Campaninis, land Nicolinis, of the presen'i
generation. Mr. Turner and Miss Annis Montague ar
to a great extent big people, but they are not “ ver; r
big ” in the exact operatic acceptance of the term; anc.
therefore, it will be easily understood that they wer
slightly less successful in “ Trovatore,” which is heavy
than in “ Maritana," which is light. But it must no ;
be thought, however, t hat the opera was unsuccessful!; ’
rendered. Far, indeed, from this. The performance
all through, was what a wonderful daily calls “highly
enjoyable," and the enthusiasm of the audience was
frequently—even, at times, obtrusively—manifest.
* * *
Mr. Turner’s Manrico is a performance which
all things taken into consideration, may rank with the
best individual operatic impersonation we remembe ■
seeing in this city. Though his acting was not, perhaps
so finished as in either “ Maritana ” or “ The Bohemian
Girl,” his fine voice was heard to its fullest advantage
Mr. Turner’s vocal efforts, however, were somewha -
nullified from the fact of the Azucena of the opera
being sung by a lady (Miss M. St. Clair) who wa
generally overweighted, and sometimes even painfull; r
so. But this drawback notwithstanding, Mr. Turner wa i
successful in pleasing his audience in a marked degre i
—sometimes, in fact, evoking applause which borderec
on the delirious. In the romance, “Ah, though de
sorted, ’’ in the first act, the tenor brought down the
house the ladies being particularly demonstrative
and "banging their Josephines” in a manner tha i
would have gladdened the heart of a glove-importer.
* * *
Miss Montague was in great force, her voice
being as mellow as the echo of the curlew’s note floating
over the Lakes of Killamey. Her costumes were mag
nificent, and her acting of a high order. It was difficult
it is true, at times, to realise the fact of Mrs. Turner,
being either broken-up with love or broken-down with
sorrow, for she looked.aU through, the picture of health
and jollity Still the wonderful voice was always there
John Davies was there too, in the “ grand tier” box on
the prompt side, and that illustrious grandee (before
whom we grovel) appeared favourably impressed witl.
the efforts of the fair cantatrice. He was a little
musing, too, as though he were mentally comparing
the vocalization of Miss Montague to that of the Divas
he had heard at the opera houses of Paris, Rome, Brus-
sels, and Milan. We are informed that Mr. Davies
expressed his opinion that Mrs. Turner, though an
excellent exponent of grand opera, would make a better
“opera buffer."
* * •
The success of Mr. Parley as the Count di Luna
was a decided one. He was encored in “H Balen,”
and responded after the usual demonstration of
operatic modesty. Mr. Farley dressed the part
somewhat peculiarly, but the diamond aigrette in
his plumed bonnet “fetched" the people, one lady
audibly remarking when first the gallant Edward came
on to slow music—" Don’t he look loverly I”
* # #
Mr. J. Gordon (which his other name is Turner)
was a good Fernando vocally, and not a bad Fernando
histrionically. We hope, however, to see this gentleman
(who has a magnificent voice) fully wound up before
long. Mr. G. Johnson would have been more success-
ful in the part of Euiz had he not looked so much like
an Adelphi guest in masquerade, and Miss B. Suther-
land would have entranced us as Inez, had she not
irresistibly reminded us of Tilburina’s Confidante in
Sheridan’s “ Critic.”
* # *
The opera was splendidly put upon the stage,
all the decors being (we quote the representative of a
contemporary) of a most rekerky description. It is
true that the moon in the first set was rather obtrusive,
but that is a small matter, as the management can make
their Cynthia wane at pleasure. Bartolo—(how are the
nonpareil eases, Abe?)—meotti’s costumes were splendid,
the “ veteran ’’ being magnificently disguised as a hal-
berdier, and Barto. himself looking just as though he
had stepped out of a picture by Eembrandt. M. Leon
Caron— ce cher petit chef-d'or chest re—held his team well
in hand, and controlled the ardour of the drum and
cymbals in a manner which reminded us of Sir Michael
Costa in his prime. To-night (Thursday), "Martha”
will be produced, on which occasion we shall invest in
another 55.-worth. “Faust” and “Mignon” are to
follow.
Miss Elsa May is a very charming young lady,
and her appearance on the stage is generally the herald
of a thoroughly good time. Her conscientious en-
deavours to satisfy the exigencies of whatever part
she undertakes redound to her credit, and if once m a
way—for we think that in the past we have almost un-
varyingly been kind to her—a blase critic imagines that
he can see or hear the works in motion, so clever an
actress should not complain. But unluckily Miss May
does complain, and is very wroth at the comments of
our critic last week, who likened her to a Norwegian
rainbow, and imagined that her rendering of the part
of Josephine reminded him of some favourite “ singing
chambermaid” he had been impressed by on the
Pans stage. We certainly do not agree with our critic.
Miss May is, in our opinion, not the least like a rain-
bow or any other sort of beau. She is not a rainbow
but a reigning belle. _ As for singing chambermaids, we
are confident that Miss May would represent a very de-
lightful one if cast in such a part, and that she would
invest it with a delightful distinctivenesss which would
erase the memory of all previous soubrettes from the
mind of oven the most infatuated admirer of Parisian
stars. And, by the way, although Miss Elsa May might
well be the daughter of a baronet, our critic made a
mistake in carrying natural impressions so far as to
confuse realty with romance, and to state that
Josephine is the daughter of Sir Joseph Porter.
The South Pinafore Company have just arrived
in town after a most successful trip north. The troupe
now proceed southwards, and open at Gonlbnm on
Monday. Their advance agent is the much-travelled
and respected Harry Whittington.
* * *
At the Queen’s they have been giving “ Never
Too Late to Mend,” with fair success, and to-night
(Thursday) produce anew and entirely emotional drama
—dramatised, we believe, from a comparatively un-
known novel, by Mrs. Henry Wood, and entitled “East
Lynne.” On Saturday, we understand, “ The Shaugh-
raun” will be played—a quick succession of pieces which
must be rather hot Keogh-fee for the company.
* # *
Professor Anderson, the wizard of the nor’-nor’-
east, announces that he decapitates a lady nightly.
This is cruel. On Tuesday last, he tells us, the gold
watch was won by “ Ireland.” A throw in, this, for a
country in distress ! “ Observe, gentlemen, that my
coat-cuff is pulled up above the elbow. One, two, three
—pass ! Here, you see, is the gentleman’s hat uninjured.
We will now do the egg-cup trick, after which my
* Godolphin Arabian ’ will be distributed amongst the
audience. Presto—hi!”
* * *
The Only Leon returns to the States by the
’Frisco mail boat to-day. He gees home richer than
when he came here, notwithstanding his losses twelve
months ago. Mr. Leon’s last tour has been a gigantic
financial success—the eighteen weeks at Melbourne
alone leaving him a clear profit of £2200.
♦ * *
There are in the colonies many who will be deeply
grieved to hear that Mr. James Kennedy, and his sisters.
Miss Kate and Miss Lizzie Kennedy, were among those
who perished in the burning of the opera house at Nice.
The unfortunate Thespians were children of Mr. David
Kennedy, the well-known Scottish vocalist, and, with
their father, they some years ago toured through Aus-
tralia.
* # #
A deputation from the Conference of School
Boards of Advice recently sitting at Melbourne Town
Hall waited on the Victorian Chief Secretary last
Saturday to present a resolution, unanimously adopted,
disapproving of the employment in theatres, Ac., of
children of tender years. Mr. Berry, in reply, said that
the Government had power to prohibit dramatic per-
formances, but it should only be exercised in extreme
cases. He was in favour of adopting fresh legislation
to prevent the employment of children in this way,
save in exceptional cases, as where a child had devel-
oped extraordinary talent for music, and it was desir-
able to cultivate it in a special way. It was his intention
to bring the matter under the notice of his colleagues
before next session.
LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY MAROOGALINE.)
At Warwick, a short time ago, there was a
meeting of the School of Arts Committee, and one man
suggested that it was time to invest in a first-class
chandelier, whereupon another man gravely rose and
said he quite agreed that it was very desirable to have a
chandelier, but unfortunately there was no one to play
on it! In his somewhat obfuscated mind a chandelier
was a complicated musical instrument.
A prominent colonist, whose early education
had been neglected, was telling me about a correspon-
dence war he had had in a local paper with an M.L. A. He
concluded by saying, “ You know he thought he had the
best of me there, and had the cheek to want me to cry
|kopayve !* ” Such a transformation did peccavi undergo
in the speech of the unsophisticated colonist.
Our Governor, Sir Arthur Kennedy, met a
Chinese deputation at Cooktown, and told them that he
objected strongly to the £lO poll tax. In the present
state of public opinion, this will tend to increase Sir
Arthur’s popularity beyond all calculation among the
Queensland people. If Sir Arthur remains here much
longer, employs Chinese servants, and advocates un-
restricted Chinese immigration, his popularity will
become a burden to him.
Toowoomba has inaugurated horse - eating,
though the first hippophagous feast was only a small
one, confined to an infuriated ruffian who, after ham-
mering his poor horse for half-an-hour with a stick, cut
its throat with a chisel, took off the head, and boiled
and ate some of the flesh, in a sort of demoniac phrenzy
of revenge. He has gone into compulsory seclusion for
a period of three months, but I for one am exceedingly
sorry that his retirement is not enlivened by daily doses
of the lash.
There ia a Wesleyan parson connected with one
of our secular papers, and his purpose is to unite the
press and the pulpit, and infuse a spirit of piety and
holiness into pressmen, generally. The joke is that the
editor of the paper cherishes the same feeling towards
parsons that the Greeks have for the Turks, and has
continually written of them in a tone the remotest
antipodes of complimentary. So the political theologian
has a fearful revenge by acting as a sort of consulting
editor to the editorial foe of parsons, and favouring the
insertion of theological advertisements. At present,
he is holding on to the pulpit with one hand and the
press with the other, hovering between Heaven and
Hades, and feeling like the man on the narrow plank
when he dreaded destruction and was anxious to secure
favour with both sides by saying, “ Well, God is good,
and the Devil is not a bad fellow after all I” Whether
he definitely chooses one or the other is simply, with
the political parson, a question of which would—
well, enable him to do most good for other people.
The task of transforming pressmen into religious
people is about as easy as that of the sculptor who
offered to cut Mount Athos into a statue of Alexander,
with a city in one hand and a river in his pocket.
Coming down from the Stanthorpe banquet, I
rode on the engine, to have a liberal view of the land-
scape. Abont half way to Warwick, lying in the middle
of the line, was the corpse of a large kangaroo. The
special train of the previous night canght him, and cut
his head and forelegs as clean off as ever the guillotine
lopped the heads of aristocrats in the Robeapierrian
days. Poor fellow, poor doomed marsupial, he had
found his way on to the line, and stopped, no doubt, to
listen to the strange and terrible noise of the approaching
tram, which so remorselessly invaded the midnight soli-
tude that for unknown centuries had been disturbed
only by the moumiul howl of the dingo and the
melancholy whistle of the sad curlew. Suddenly round
a curve came that fearful fire demon with the far flash,
ing Cyclopean {eye, and before the'osphrantar robustus
could make one bound the cruel engine struck him and
threw his head yards away from the line, while the man-
gled body fell between the rails, as the long line of
carriages passed over with their freight of light-hearted
humanity heedless of the kangaroo that a moment before
was as light hearted and full of life as the passengers.
Can you persuade Kendall to mount his melancholy
Pegasus and canter ever this episode, or is he too much
exhausted with the labours of forest inspection ?
Tyson is investing in sugar land on the Tully
River, where he has secured 17,200 acres in the names
of several selectors, and he tells me that he intends to
try the effect of fifty or sixty thousand pounds expended
in mills and cane. I have no doubt that he will find it
a profitable speculation, as the soil and climate are, for
sugar growing, unsurpassed in the world.
It has been noticed lately that Tyson is becom-
ing more liberal, as he is prepared to invest capital
outside of stock and stations. My opinion, based on a
knowledge of Tyson, is that he will make a good use of
his money, and give an important stimulus to any indus-
try he regards with favour. I hear from a reliable
source that his income is about half a million per
annum! He would be just the man to start a news-
paper, and defy libel actions, and pay for his own
theatre tickets, and smile at idiots who threaten to
“ discontinue mv advertisement I” A lot of pressmen’s
salaries in £500,000, eh ?
In looking over some of my old papers, I found
a poem I had written in youth, in “the days when wy
heart was volcanic.” like Edgar Allan's scoriae rivers,
that “groaned as they rushed down Mount Taanek, in
the realms of the Boreal Pole.” In the first fervour of
“ love’s young dream,” I wrote some score of songs
and sonnets to the one who was the morning star on
the horizon of my wayward jouth. Among them was
one written without an “ r,” and in the most purely
alliterative style. One verse as a specimen—and refuse
it not, oh editor! for it recalls a thousand hallowed
memories; and even you, adown whose thunder-scarred
and furrowed cheeks flow Plutonian iron tears, shed for
the follies of mankind, had doubtless at one time a
touch of that divine frenzy of the immortal soul which
is a part of man’s existence, and the whole of woman’s—
the sacred passion which the world calls “ loveis it
not so ? Ah, you bite the end off your quill, and sigh
like a collapsing bellows; I knew I touched a long
latent but now responsive chord! —
And as the shell sustains the sound so long.
The ceaseless sooming of the sullen sea.
And seems to sing a sad secluded song—
So shall my soul still sadly sigh of thee.
No more of this, for I have no desire to see Tennyson
and Longfellow suffering from envy in their old age,
and the fame of Byron scattered to the four winds.
The lady at the cloak-room of our new theatre
had a chance of amassing wealth last week, only her
native modesty forbade her to accept the munificent
gift of two-pence tendered to her by a reckless spend-
thrift as a reward for taking care of the cloaks of two
ladies _ who accompanied him. She declined the
splendid offer, not being able to see what she had done
that riches should thus be lavishly showered upon one
occupying so humble a position as the guardian of a
cloak-room.
There are six Catholics in the present Queens-
land Assembly—Perkins, Macrossan, Lalor, O’Sullivan,
Walsh, and Weld-Blnndell. There are eight lawyers—
Pope Cooper, P. A. Cooper, Garrick, Swan wick,
Thompson, Paterson, Griffith, and Rutledge; and there
were ten when Amhurst and Fowles were there at the
first session of the present Parliament. All the
Catholics are on the Ministerial side of the House,
while five lawyers grace the Opposition benches, and
three decorate the Ministerial (the two Coopers and
Swan wick). In divisions on questions affecting the
legal interest, all these eight patriots are found seated
unanimously on the one side.
Now that Angus Mackay is out of politics, there
are only two journalists in the House—Groom and
Meston ; but, of course, two pressmen are sufficient to
give an intellectual tone to the whole Assembly of fifty-
five members.
Hamilton has addressed his Gympie constituents)
and received a vote of confidence, contrary to the hopes
and expectations of rampant “ Liberals,” who predicted
an overwhelming vote of censure. Dr. Hamilton is a
manly, straightforward fellow, who gave his time and
money and physic to scores of poor diggers gratuitously
in years gone by, and still does, and a digging popula-
tion of sterling men are not likely to “ go back on him.”
At the end of a municipal election meeting in
Gympie a crowd of electors assembled in one of the
hotels. One pugistically-disposed individual made a
wild onslaught on a peaceably-disposed citizen, but was
dragged away struggling to be free to have "just a
second hit at him!” Hamilton was observed standing
looking on with a very significant glitter in his eye, and
as the local Sayers made a second rush, Hamilton tapped
him on the shoulder and said, “ If you lay a finger on
that man I will by virtue of my position as a magistrate
take you in charge for committing a breach of the
peace, and if yon then attempt to resist my authority
I’ll give you a d good hiding!” This was conclu-
sive, and the bellicose individual at once intimated that
he would be very sorry indeed to do anything that
would give Hamilton the slightest offence.
The other day Captain M‘Callum was married to
a Mies Hancock, “ sole daughter of the house and heart”
of the genial Dr. Hancock, who, it is said, handed her a
cheque for a £lOOO just to pay the expenses of the trip
home and back. She is a pretty and an amiable girl.
“ A very shower
Of beauty was her earthly dower.”
A distinguished “ Mayjah ” was present, and, as usual,
fascinated all the girls. I may say that the aforesaid
Mayjah is himself advancing his classic head to the
matrimonial noose, and fast approaching that bourne
from which no “ mayjah ” ever returns.
Many yqunsr ladies have gone into mourning
since Captain M'Callum emigrated from bachelordom,
and no one can say how many more will follow when
“ Mayjah Mooah” visits the parson. It was said that
100 girls died of grief at not being able to get Abdal-
lah, the father of Mahomet. It is supposed that quite
a hecatomb of Brisbane Hebes are despondent over the
loss of the Captain and the “ Mayjah.”
If I were asked who was the bravest man that
ever lived, I should at once award the palm to Caraealla
—because he married his mother-in-law! Ah, what a
wide spread epidemic of mournful sighs will this
sentence evoke from the bosoms of thousands of poor
fellows wrestling in 'grim conflict witli Amazonian
mothers-in-law I
William Coote has entered an action for .£1(X)0
against the Evangelical Standard and the “black
dragoons,” as Carlyle calls the parsons, are flattering
like caged sparrows.
We have turned the first sod of the Sandgate
railway a line 14 miles long, connecting Brisbane with
the shores of the Bay. Palmer did it, only he would
tmve done it better if some miscreant had not lashed
the wheels of the barrow with wire. He and Dickson
had a vicious bow-wow, as usual, at each other at the
banquet, which was a sumptuous Sardanapalusian feast,
partaken of by about 600 men and women, alios “ ladies
and gentlemen/* Bashford (the contractor) gave it,
aud the co t was about £3oo—from which X “ opine **


SINGER’S SEWING M
THE
s
INGEE
MANUFACTURE
Have opened a Depot
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARI
HARBOUR STRE]
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
INGERS SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLES
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of near
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FC
Have received 160 First Pri
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for ca
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR D
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACHI
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. we
8
INGER S THE BEST F
See the New No. 4 Mai
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition t<
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR j
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-I
8
INGER’S SEWING
HAND OR TREAD!
8
INGER’S The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work, I
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST;
LEARN. New Improvements
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all I
8
INGER’S, THE BEST AN
Sew finest muslins and hea
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price 1
8
INGER’S THE BEST andM<
Will last a lifetime in con
8
INGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TH
SINGER MANUFACTURE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hart
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
’ 746 George-street, Haymark
have been appointed agents for
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—i
10 per cent discount for casl
SINGER’S SEWING MA
SINGER’S SEWING MACHI
and CO. only recommend 1
EMEMBER, THERE IS (?
GER MACHINE. See the
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.—N
applies to the Genuine Mach
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGER’S MACHINES.—Bi
Cast iron imi-ations. Only
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER S SEWING MACHI
ments with the Singer C
8
INGER’S SEWING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on I
—From TURNER
O GEORGE STREET, opposite
INGER’S SEWING MACHI
but 160 FIRST PRI!
8
HOW TO MAKE MONEY
Is a problem which the vast majority of mankind have set themselves to solve, and the next question
which presents itself is, how to spend it to the best advantage. Answers to this latter question have
never been wanting. Their name is, and always has been, “ Legion.” And by reason of their very
numbers they leave the question still unanswered —so conflicting are they. Every trader, whether
his transactions be in pence or pounds or thousands of pounds, from the hawker, with his basket
upwards, is vociferous in telling you that his wares are the “ cheapest and best ” This is the case to
the uttermost corner of this “ puffing advertising, bill-sticking section of creation,” as a great writer
has termed it. Not only is it confined to modem times, but looking back upon the history of the
past, “from Noah’s flood downwards,” —aye, and before it—the same feature is distinguishable in
one form or another. Could we bring to light a copy of the Babylon Herald or the Daily
Telegraph of ancient Nineveh, “ that great city,” our estimate of human nature would be some-
what ©ut if the announcements of the Smiths, Joneses, and Robertsons of that age should not be
found figuring as boldly as to-day, apprising the public of earlier times of some “gigantic
sacrifice” or “immense reduction” in the price of the latest robe of the period.
AS A MATTER OF FACT, it is the outcome of that principle of self-preservation, which
dominates, not only the whole human race, but every race, throughout creation. Commencing with
the lowest form of animalculse —those organisms so frail as to be invisible to the naked eye—and
ascending upwards through each successive stage of evolution, the principle is found innate. Nor do
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
claim exemption from this rale. To attempt to get rid of this would be absurd. Bub what they y
is this, that whilst with the Ninevites and Babylonians as alike with their own contemporar : es,
claring their wares to be
“THE CHEAPEST AND BES T,”
they would exultingly point a finger at the INDISPUTABLE CORROBORATION THEREOF
which is furnished by the whole colony of New South Wales, whose denizens are daily seen rushing
in crowds to the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
each one with his or her quota of evidence, bearing witness to the fact that the PRICES, as com-
pared with the VAIaXTE of the DRAPERY, &c., given for them are WITHOUT A RIVAL.
“ WHERE IS THE FAXACE EMPORIUM ?” may be the query of some. It is at the
HAY MARKET
To this we would invite special attention ;
OUR NAME AND ONLY ADDRESS ARE-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &o.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PER GALLON.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
' G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
LEBE ROWING CLUB.
SECOND ANNUAL BALL.
Plain and Fancy Dress.
TO BE HELD IN THE TOWN-HALL, GLEBE,
On THUESDAY, June 2,1881.
Under the patronage of Sir George Wigram Allen,
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, President; W.
Cary, T. J. Chapman, and John Young, Esquires, Js. P.,
Vice-Presidents of the Club; the Mayor and Aldermen
of the Glebe, and the Members of the Bowing Clubs.
Committee; G. M'Diarmid, W. Bull, S. A. Lee, H.
Shute, F. J. Bull, W. Moore, James Shute, S. J. Ball,
A. Ickerson, E. Shute, G. W. Tate, F. H. Benss, jun.,
C. Smith, J. Giles, E. Haslingden, A. Thompson, E.
Fairweather, E. P. Mayes, J. B. Walford, T. J. Chap-
man, H. C Cox, M. Mitchell, A. Thomley, jun., P,
Mitchell, H. Vaughan, sen., T. H. Sapsford.
Tickets —Double, 255; Gentlemen 15s; Ladies, 12s 6d;
may be had from the Committee.
H. SHUTE, jun., Hon. Treasurer.
SIDNEY J. BULL, Hon. Secretary.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
rjIHE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
—
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
I U B L I C NOTICE.
EAST WAT’S HOTEL
Late Kirschbaum’s Hotel, corner of King and
Castlereagh-streets.
Mr. GEOEGE EOBEET EASTWAY has great
pleasure in informing his friends and the public that he
has taken the above large and centrally situated Hotel,
and hopes by civility and strict attention, and by keep-
ing none but the best brands of liquors, to secure a
large amount of their patronage.
G. E. E. also takes this opportunity to apologise to
his patrons far the unfinished state of the hotel, but
hopes to serve everything in first-class condition in a
few days, and also to return his sincere thanks for the
liberal amount of patronage bestowed on him up to the
present time.
W Don’t forget the address—
GEOEGE EOBEET EASTWAY
(late of Eastway Brothers, George-street),
EASTWAY’S HOTEL,
King and Castlereagh-streets.
OOLALTA WINE CELLAES,
119 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTEALLY SITUATED CELLAES.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLAES at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LAEGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TEADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MUEEAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will he attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
D
AVID M ‘ C A L L ,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLEE AND HAENEBS MAKES,
By special appointment.
To his Eoyal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Bight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Bobinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustas Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875.
NCOMES ASSURED.
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING AND COMMEE-
CIAL PEOVIDENT SOCIETY, Limited.
In the event of loss of situation,
MEMBESS are entitled to receive pay in accordanc
with the amonnt insured for.
The Society also uses its influence to procure them
suitable re-engagements.
For further particulars apply to
G. HOETON MOEEIS,
Secretary,
Went worth-court,
Elizabeth- street,
Sydney.
Applications for Agencies invited.
NOWLANU’S
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAEEABEI.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY, THUESDAY, and
SATUEDAY for WEE WAA, PILLIGA, WAL-
GETT, MILLIE, and MOEEE.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATUEDAY for
MUN6INDIE, Queensland Border.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY for ST. GEOEGE,
Queensland.
I HAVE this day commenced business as a
Stock and Share Broker, and shall be happy to
undertake any commissions either for the sale or pur-
chase of shares that may be entrusted to me.
JOHN E. JONES.
Eeferences:
Hon. S. D. Gordon, M.L.C.
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C.
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
Bichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-street.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The site of the new railway station at Narrabri
is a mile and a half from the township Singleton
will be lit with gas by next August The finest rail-
way station on the Northern line past Newcastle is at
Tamworth There is great rivalry in Tamworth be-
tween a popular boniface and a leading tobacconist for
the next J.P.-ship Boreinghas been resorted to in
Qunnedah for the purpose of ascertaining the where-
abouts of a supposed freshwater river A man was
drowned in a pool of water at Tamworth the other day.
Some of the Rockhampton people are dissatisfied
with the decisions of Mr. Pugh, the local P.M., and are
petitioning for his removal. li is unlikely that they
will succeed The Clarence cane crops are in a very
forward state. Should there be no severe frosts the
sugar yield will be enormous. The Colonial Sugar Co.
are making extensive improvements in their mills
At Solferino diggings, Winkley and Ward’s party and
others have made some handsome returns, and have
really good prospects for the future. Much in-
terest is being manifested in Grafton Tele-
grams state that the diggings at Mount Browne are
improving; 140 oz. gold have been received at Wilcannia
from the field The dispute!between the Brinsmeads
and the Victorian Customs authorities has been settled
hy the former paying £250 Letters have been opened
at the Melbourne Post Office, and found to contain
jewellery—another method of defrauding the Customs.
Adelaide Exhibition movement progressing Last
week’s output of coal at Newcastle was just upon 29,000
tons The publicans complain that Father Tenison-
Woods’ recent mission to the Roman Catholics of Rock-
hampton has withdrawn the very best “ Jong sleever-
ites’’ from their bars. As a natural consequence,
business is very dull Joseph Nichols, a miner,
committed suicide at Linden, near Penrith, by hanging
himself Puddling machines are at work at Temora
with splendid results, 19 and 20oz. nuggets having been
found A 300 oz. patch struck in the Monkland reef,
Gympie At Mount Browne, a short while since, a
nugget weighing a pound and a-qnarter was found
The total amount of the Victorian bank deposits,
divided by the number of persons in the colony, as
shown by the last census, gives an average bank de-
posit to each person of £23 15s Mr. John Dunn, an
old identity of Dubbo, was found drowned in the
Macquarie a few days ago Mr. Purves, the eminent
Victorian barrister, has been retained for Dixon,
charged with having murdered the young woman
Thompson The Bank of Victoria, in accepting
the Bairnsdale share account, the other day, agreed to
allow overdraft at 5J per cent The Mango Island
Plantation Co. took over the island on the Ist May.
Mr. E. Langton manages for them at Melbourne, and
Mr. George M’Evoy at Fiji. Mr. Rupert Ryder is a
director, and retains a large interest in the concern
It is estimated that if all the marsupials in the colony
were destroyed there would be room on existing runs
for at least 6,000,000 more sheep Mr. H. J. L. Brown
geological surveyor, is under orders to inspect and re-
port on the Mount Browne goldfield to the Minister of
Mines Says the Shoalhaven News : —“The larrikins
who committed the outrage upon the poor unfortunate
black gin, a few weeks ago, have not yet been appre-
hended, the police being too busy with their "Municipal
duties ” to give the matter a passing thought A
shark 15ft. long attacked a whaleboat off New Plymouth
recently, and seized hold of the steer oar, capsizing the
coxswain, and biting a piece fully eight inches long off
the oar.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
MARBIAG[?].
On the 11th May, at All Saints’ Church, "Wickham
Terrace, Brisbane, by the Rev. C. Gerard Robinson,
M.A., John Alexander Mitchell, of Greenbank,
Wandsworth, N.8.W., son of John Mitchell, Esq.,
Highfield, Glen Innes, N.S.W., to Annie Maude,
second daughter of James Robert Dickson, M.L.A.,
Toorak, Brisbane.
that contracting pays. When shall we hear of a press-
man giving a £3OO “shivoo” to celebrate turning out
the find copy of a new paper ? Such a pressman has
not appeared yet, and when he does bis eccentric career
can only end in a private asylum.
The Evening News, issued from the Couexeb
office, has abruptly terminated its earthly career. It
was started, so Buzacott said, to supply a “ long felt
public want," and now. that want having been supplied,
the yawning vacuum filled as it were, the dissatisfied
and news-thirsting public are content; they no longer
yearn for a second evening paper, and so the gifted
News, the blazing meteor of a few weeks, has “ gone
out into Night and Oreus, and is now no more.” Sic
transit del wsio Bnzacotti. The Telegraph’s grief was
too agonizing for utterance, and the Observer was
paralysed and speechless with astonishment. As when
the Warden of the Cinque Ports departed—
“ And there without the Arab runners waited—
The sun rose bright o’erhead;
Nothing in art or nature intimated
That the Evenin Noos was dead!’’


T
HEA T R E
Lessee
Acting Manager ...
... ]
... I
THURSDAY and FRIDAY,
last nisrhts of
•’ STRUCK OIL
JOHN STOPS'. Mr. J
LIZZIE STOPEL Miss
SATURDAY, M.
THE UPPER CR
now being played at the POLL'S
DON, where it has reached its 50
TION.
ARTHUR G.
Cr
AIE T Y
T i
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
•General Manager
MONT AGUE-TURNER OPE]
THIS EYENIN
VERDI’S Grand O
TROVATORE, TROYATOEE.
Conductor, M. LEON
Box Office and Plan at Messrs. 1
325 George-street.
Prices of Admission: Private Box
Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 2s
Doors open at 7.15; commence at
be ordered for 10 30.
JAMES I
S
YDNEI
OPEEi
"EDWARD S. WOLFE,
•O. T. JACKSON...;
FIFTH WEEI
and
CONTINUED SUCH
of
R. B. LEWIS'
MASTODON MINS';
MASTODON MINS'!
MASTODON MINS'
MASTODON MINS']
IN THEIR NEW PEO(
EVERYTHING ENC
GREAT SUCCE
of
THE 4 FUNNY OLL
GREAT SUCCE
of
SAM JOHNSON’S COI
SATURDAY, MA]
dew sensation,
PUN-NO-PEAI
Prices Dress Circle, 35.; On
’Stalls, 25.; Pit, Is.
s
GHO 0 L
O I
EVERY EVENI]
PROFESSOR ANDE
Wizard of the Nortl
LOUISE ANDERSON. LA:
Cr
Great New Feat. Beheadi
Splendid Gifts, Nig
OUGHTOWN TEMPERA
GARDEN PALACE, QUEEN
THE LAST ENTERTAINMENT
PALACE.
A Multitude op Attb
DAY and NIGHT DAY
First time in Aust:
Of the Newest and Greatest AME
A GRAND
T C
L
0 O
R
A N
L O
C
L O
A E
R
0
AND FLORAL EXHI
PRIZES 1 PRIZES!! P
For Best Cut Flo-
-11 OfITBIU TTTWBwrr i
JJEPOT IN S
NO. 1 CABLING ST
HAEBOUE STEE
ILLUSTEATED PEICE L!
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wit
tacking (or basting), without the n
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wil
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, ar
embroider curtains or antimaeassai
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our offices
trades can be supplied. They axes:
in running, strong, handsome, ai
machine may be had on trial, ENT
CHAEGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WEETHEIM Machii
KEPT IN EEPAIE and workii
YEAES from the date of purchase
OP COST, NO INTEEEST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FEEE OF CHAEG
samples by post. Country age:
liberal terms. BEALE and C(
street, near Market-street, and (
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastl
Bathurst. No matter in what par
live, we will supply you witl
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEEEST.
HE A U S T :
“HOME*’ SHUT!
AMEEICAN LOCKS!
SEWING MAC]
isyTo s sTj
IJIHE NET
AWARDED thi
for
SYDNEY I
THE DAVIS
ABOVE THE 1
highly estimate
parts of the cole
B. 0.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH]
The Universal Sewn
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the Nev
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call an<
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, S
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL i
BRASS FOUNDERS AND I
COPPERSMITHS, GASFITTERS, AND GEI'
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. BRASS WO]
IMPORTERS OF
DIVING GEAR, CHANDE
MANUFACTURERS OP
Tin inn tTTT%YT\rfX»»T a rxi
p E. L A
Wholesale and E<
PRODUCE MEE
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORI
18 Qeorge-street West (late Pa
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine ani
778 and 780 GEORGE STR
SYDNEY,
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
M D
EPH T A
IMPORTERS 0
GLASS (all sizes out Whi
to order) Tur]
Plate Raw
Sheet Brus
Stained Kerc
Ornamental Colo
Cathedral <
Hammered (fiat and 1
rolled) Yam
Paperhangers* Cai
(three qualities
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver L
Wood-preserving O
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
notice
GLOVE, HOSIERY & BOOT & SHOE WAREHOUSE.
12 HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
J. M. ELLERCAMP
(Many years with Messrs. Farmer and Co.)
res P ec tfnlly to inform the inhabitants of Sydney
and the suburbs that he has purchased the old-estab-
hshed business of Messrs. Parrott Brothers.
J. M. E. is now offering for sale the whole of the
CASH at a great reduction from its
ORIGINAL COST, and trusts, by strict attention to
the requirements of his patrons, and by importing a
regular succession of novelties, for which arrangements
have been made, to merit a fair share of the patronage
so long bestowed upon his predecessors.
April 25, 1881.
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
• Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
coffee, peppers. Spices, at
CLEVELAND SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per
(jjSft-j—i—
-680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury,


Miscellaneous
LIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTER
EASTERN AND COW
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medi
CHUTNIES—Indian Prizi
PRESERVES—Indian Pr
COFFEE —Plantation No.
Do. „ Fea
Do. „ Nos
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pe
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Bla
OFFICES ;— 79 YORK I
EDWARD STREET, BE
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrr
■ Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bi
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
AND AT
JOHN
N D i
IMPORTER OP
Butchers’ Brine Pm
Iron, Brass, Copper, 1
and Lead Pipe, &c.
yMMt ft
PITT STI
BEAUTIFUL
OR ’L
ALLWOOL
To TWEED;
MMfIU & WMIM) 38
S//W?Z.£ and
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-furrow Plong&9> We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information, Y
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require- RS.HSOIJ
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
BOWMB’S New Pattern Ploughs, just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
and 3. Th
We invite
infoi
J
HARROWS—Zh
We recommend BOWM!
have other makes, some of w
Howard's ) Bot ,
Zigrag W‘dth f
I Weight ‘
Basfowa. )
Oar Stock of Harrows includ
sizes. 1
-389 GEORGE STREET
’Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, STI
ENGINEERS ANT) IMPORTERS
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Beos
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IEEIGATINi
Engines and Boilers of all si:
Jack Ceabs, Ceanes, Bellows, Fo
IN STOCK.
JBYBS'
N on-poisonous!
PERFECT
U R I
Non-corrosive ! Agreeable.greatest An
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for housi
by all classes of Society. From Eev. Geo. Woolnough, 1
tor my throat I could not desire anything more effectii
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sy
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Neyjtof,
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ; —My child had sore eyes for 21;
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frm
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, hy W. H. SOUL, Pitt-
PALMEE (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sj
Jeyes’ Sanitary Com onnd Company (Limited), London. Agents
r/?/
<0 cyjy
Miscellaneo
TJEISCOE, DEYSD
397 George Sti
76, 78, 145, 147 Yori
33 Pitt Stre
IRONMONGERS, IRONME
IMPORTER
Invite attention to their extern
which besides being the largest u
varied; and comprises all the lat«
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, I
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lam]
Founders' Material, Pig Iron,
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chan
Brass Foundry, Locks, H
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, G
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Rolled J
And
GENERAL lEONM'
W
ILL'JOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLET
416 GEORGE STI
MEEICAN MACHII
H. P. GREGORY j
No. 11, PITT-STB
Importers of all Desci
M A C H I J
Have for Sale
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—Sydney Exhibitic
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Put
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw
tucks packing round and squa
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Fo
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil
quality guabanteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars an
STREET S
TAILOR
Gooch a. n d eobejrts,
(From London an lata with J. Campbell,)
HAIRDRESSERS AND WIGMAKEES,
Importers and Manufacturers of Human Hair.
21 HUNTEE STREET,
BETWEEN GEORGE AND PITT STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A CARD.
STANICH, the eminent OCULIST and
AUEIST, is now on a professional visit to
Queensland. For further Particulars vide
Queensland papers.
