

THE BULLETIN
Yol. s.—No. 65.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1881.
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1881.
An Impending Change.
Benjamin Disraeli, Earl of Beaconsfield, is
dead. The journals teem, after the ordinary dull
fashion, with obituary notices. What Disraeli
was, what he believed, what he did, are the con-
versational themes. We care little for any of
these things. Let the dead bury their dead. Let
a moribund school of journalists, tottering on the
verge of extinction, drone their conventional
platitudes. The interest of the public is not with
the past. It is with the present and (especially)
the future. It is not with Disraeli’s life we
propose to deal: it is with his death. We care
little for what his participation in the scenes of
the past effected. But it is material to understand
how we stand now—to ascertain, in short, how
the world is likely to wag, now that Disraeli is
no longer in it. The dullards of the obituary
notices show in every line their bewilderment and
their incompetency to comprehend the subtle
complications which Disraeli’s character pre-
sented. He announced himself, at the outset of
his political career, to be a Radical, he allied him-
self with the Tory party, and he died the leader of
the Conservatives. These apparent contradictions
confound the wiseacres, and they seek refuge in
the commonplace explanation of alleging insin-
cerity. But they are none the clearer for their
own explanation. Still they fail to show the
public in what especial view Disraeli was insin-
cere. Whether he was a sincere Tory or a sincere
Radical they do not say. Let us, at any rate,
discriminate. That Benjamin Disraeli was
insincere as a public man has always been
an obvious fact. But that scarcely touches
the point, what were his actual views ?
A man gifted with Disraeli’s intellect might
cheat all the world besides, but never could cheat
himself. A distinction has to be drawn between
theories and principles. It would be a bold eulogist
who would venture to state that Disraeli had any
principles at all, in the elevated sense of the word.
But few men have taken the world more fully into
their confidence during their lifetime thanDiSRAELi
did, after his own fashion. In his mocking style
he seems to have opened his mind almost un-
reservedly, trusting to the dulness of a world
which he derided to be not understood. It is not
usual for great public men to draw frank portraits
of themselves, giving every mole and wen in their
moral features with cynical candour; and the
world can never be made to understand that
what is unusual can be fact. Disraeli’s self-
portraitures, perfectly exact in essentials, were
accepted as merely caricatures. It seemed incon-
ceivable that any man would dare first to sketch
his contemptuous line of personal policy, as
Disraeli did in “ Yivian Grey,” and then de-
liberately act up to it. The adventurer who made
himself necessary to great magnates, whom he
affected to serve while he used and laughed at
them— Vivian Grey —how is he now to be
separated from Disraeli, the instrument and
master of Tory dukes and Conservative great
commoners? But Disraeli’s insincerity was
active and egotistical. Beneath it, and apart to
a great extent from his line of action, lay his
political theories. Obituary-writers, with admir-
able agreement of stupidity, with one consent fail
to see that a man may be both Tory and Radical.
That Disraeli was a Radical may be gathered
with certainty from the mocking revelations in
his romances ; and it may be inferred almost
as surely from his relations with his political
associates. In his highest flush of power he was
a living exemplification of the power of faith in
levelling ideals. He, who had never even been
horn, in the patrician sense of the word, who was
sprung from an alien race —a race almost regarded
as a caste of Pariahs —who had himself merely
eluded civil disabilities, made it his triumph to
rub shoulders with the loftiest aristocrats, and to
have as his subordinates the proudest peers. In
ms novel, “ Sybil,” he showed himself at one with
Chartism, Everywhere in his works are disclosed
Radical sympathies and apperceptions. But these
were merely intellectual theorizings. He under-
stood and appreciated the principles of equality—
?r>d none the less determined to have no equal.
Be held the ideas of a Radical reformer —and the
aspirations of a despot. No man more admired
the ideal of a self-governing community and
yet no man had a lower estimation of the
capacity of the vulgar to govern themselves.
Be was a man of the people and of
the nobles. Nothing could have brought this into
“gher relief than the incidents of his last pre-
eminence. His supporters were to be found among
tee peers, the old landed gentry, and the Jingoes.
Bis adversaries were intrenched among the new
the commercial wealthy, and the bourgeoisie.
y “ ls death is removed the only great Tory with-
et delusions. This heralds the commencement of
f ew epoeh, which will be absolutely commenced
nen Disraeli’s great antagonist, Gladstone,
quits the scene. The former had not outlived his
party. He could not, because he moulded it to
his own mind. He, probably, never enjoyed power
more than when he committed the Tory party to
a measure of Reform. He never was more a leader
than when his whole following were grinding their
teeth at him and yet doing his welcome bidding.
Gladstone, on the other hand, has outlived his
party. He is the type of the modern Whig, and the
Whig of to-day is the impossibility of to-morrow.
The suppleness of Disraeli has averted the
inevitable while he yet lived. Now, Tory leaders
will try Tory measures, scorning all mountebank
devices such as “ diddling the Whigs” by out-
bidding their intended reforms by others actually
radical. Radicalism will be aroused in its growing
force. The two actual forces of modern politique
will be speedily face to face, and the long-deferred
struggle between the propertied classes and the
vulgar masses will commence. While Gladstone
lives,the Whigs may hold their position for awhile.
But before long, live he or die he, they must disap-
pear, melted into the masses which will press from
above and from below. A great Whig noble and
landowner has been a possibility, but the politics of
the Georges’ time no longer can be simulated.
There can be no such thing as a great Liberal
peer and landowner when Liberalism shall be
inspired by Radical ideas, and be but another
name for abolition of primogeniture and of mono-
poly of the soil. Disraeli stood between Con-
servatism and revolution. He had no sentimental
Toryism, and knew the people. But great
Conservative peers and landowners have senti-
mental views, and do not know the people. They
will yield nothing, and will assert all that they
believe to be their rights and privileges. They
will resist, not elude, the progress of ideas and the
march of popular claims, and by resisting will
inflame them. The contest commences now. It
will develop slowly at first, but accelerate later,
till towards the end it will be sharp, perhaps
violent, certainly decisive.
The Hon. Edward Combes, C.M.G., M.P.
Energy is etymologically cognate with work —real
hard work. It matters little whether it is brain-
work or hand-work; the result depends on the
equipoise of the temperament. Fussy men spend
what is called a super fluous amount of physica
action on the commonest concerns of life; but the
man who concentrates all his powers—who knows
how to focus his intellectual abilities —who has, as
our Yankee cousins say, “real grit”—is sure to
succeed. But success in a pecuniary or social
sense is not half the enjoyment. It is the sense of
satisfaction —that absolute “ completeness of
soul” which a brave man experiences when he
feels that he has discharged an important duty to
the very best of his powers. Such a man is
Edward Combes. He has been fifty years in the
world, and he has probably done more business in
the world during the period than any other man
in Australia. Omitting his babyhood \it is
doubtful if ever he was a real baby), he began the
work of life —put the energy of his temperament
into action —when he was a very small boy.
Before saying more about him, we may as well
give the few facts we have been able to collect
concerning his public career—premising that we
shall hereafter review, in a discriminating manner,
the important additions he has made to our
statistical and Parliamentary literature. Edward
Combes was born in a Wiltshire village—to wit,
Fouthill, near Bath, en the 6th September,
1830—where the madly-imaginative prose-poet,
Beckford, raised a tower and wrote Vatheg. The
surroundings did not inspire young Combes with
any fantastic notions. His father was a man of
science. He had to deal as a surveyor with the
Fouthill estate, and having a shrewd knowledge
that applied mathematics were better taught in
France than in England, he sent his son Edward,
the subject of our memoir, to the Ecole des Mines
of Paris, and afterwards to the full course of
lectures at the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers.
We have not been able to learn whether young
Combes liked this scientific process ; but he after-
wards studied civil and mechanical engineering
under the Messieurs Bouther and Street, and
under the distinguished Sir William Fair-
bairn. He bade farewell to the grand folly of
Beckford —“ England’s wealthiest son,” according
to the high arithmetical authority of poet Lord
Byron—and emigrated to Victoria in 1851, and
with tke heroism that embraces our conception of
energy, prospected the goldfields of Ballarat and
Bendigo. In 1854, he went to Paris for a two
years’ “spell” at scientific engineering; in the
meantime, studying free-hand drawing, and
venturing timidly on water-colouring. He com-
pleted the romance of a studious life—supposing a
scientific student has any romance in the “opal
days ” of his existence —by marrying an amiable
lady, whose sweet influences brightened the dawn
of his public career in Australia. We may
run on now. He was appointed (on his
his return to Australia) Commissioner to the Paris
International Exhibition of 1855, and received the
distinguished honour of being appointed Engineer-
ing aide to the chief of the Republic, and was
attached to the staff of Prince Napoleon. He
assisted in carrying out most of the trials and
experiments that were made by the Commission.
He subsequently assisted Count de Gasparin and
Mr. Evelyn Denison (since Lord Ossington) in the
Agricultural section of the French Exhibition.
Returning to Victoria he resumed, for a short
time, his professional pursuits, and then came
over to this colony and settled in the Western
district. It 1862 he was appointed Government
Engineer and Surveyor, and Forbes was deter-
mined on as the scene of his activity. In 1865 he
became chairman of the Court of Appeals, under
the old Gold Fields’ Act; and in 1870 was one of
of the commissioners selected by the wide-awake
Government of the period to enquire into the
working of the Gold Fields’ Act. During that
period he had fine opportunities of practising free-
hand sketches, particularly at the Hanging Rock,
where amongst other of his best caricatures he
struck off Ralph Taylor and other identities of the
place in a style worthy of London Punch. His
political career begin in 1859, although he did
not enter Parliament till 1872, when he was re-
turned (at the General Election) for Bathurst.
He avowed himself from the first a Martinian.
Sir James Martin’s colossal front —real Corinthian
bronze—in reference to “ native industry ” fas-
cinated Mr. Combes, and he went the “ whole
hog ” on the fiscal heresy. One thing he
did well —he sharpened his lance against
Sir Henry Parkes and made that Hon. and Right
Rev. gentleman many times wince. We will reserve
the Gardiner episode for future treatment.
It was, however, during this period that Mr.
Combes distinguished himself as a debater in the
Assembly. He is strong but serene ; he is
thoughtful but impassioned when he sees igno-
rance triumphant. What is “ tenacious perti-
nacity ?” It means energy in action. That Combes
has manifested and made plain, in his whole public
life. Little— but the little is much —that he has
done is precisely the thing we want in the colonies.
He was for some time Minister for Works in 1877,
and he certainly set that disorderly establishment
in some decent order. His appointment as Chief
Executive Commissioner (1878) to the Paris Exhi-
bition may be said to crown the first part of his
Parliamentary and official career. We have hardly
touched our notes of the poetic side of his cha-
racter. He is the best amateur artist in Sydney,
and the wonder will be amongst our readers that
the prosy mechanical engineer can find time to
indulge in the “ seraph ecstasy ” of a pictorial
ideal. Under better circumstances, this gentleman
would be accepted by the country as our type of
Minister for Works. Brains are wanted (pace,
Lackey !) in the administration of a department of
the public service. At the next opportunity we
propose to give Edward Combes the portfolio of
Minister for Works, so as to utilise his special
attainments and the patriotic instincts that
animate all his public actions.
Mr. William Archer, Mayor of Burwood.
There are few men connected with municipal
work in or about Sydney who have devoted them-
selves with more energy and success to the
improvement of their municipal districts than the
subject of this sketch, Mr. William Archer, Mayor
of Burwood. In the space of a few years this
gentleman, no doubt ably assisted by others, has
raised the thriving township of Burwood into one
of the moat prosperous suburbs of our metropolis.
Public services of this kind, however, do not
always meet with due recognition ; in fact, any
great success in this direction pretty often ensures
factious opposition. Recent proceedings over the
last Burwood election are the latest instance of
this kind of thing. Mr. Archer was prosecuted
by a few unsuccessful opponents for some alleged
irregularities—with what result is already known.
The case did not go to the jury, and the residents
of Burwood lost no time in making the strongest
protest they could against the proceedings and in
expressing the heartiest sympathy with their Mayor,
THE HON. EDWARD COMBES, C.M.G.


Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A ,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Tiotoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMEEICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Aov.
who, by the way, has initiated legal proceedings in
v indication of his character. Mr. Archer was one of
the first aldermen on the incorporation of the
borough, being at his first and all subsequent
elections placed at the top of the poll. In the first
council, Mr. Archer had for his confreres, Messrs.
Lindsay Thompson, M‘Lenzie, Lambton, Bouffier,
Wynne, Saunders, W. Deane and Bubb, some ol’
whom are still enjoying the confidence of the rate-
payers. In the Burwood Park question, over
which there was a very warm local contest, Mr.
Archer took up what afterwards proved to be the
popular cause, and Mr. Thompson and Mr. Lamb-
ton, who had done valued service to the borough,
opposed him. The result of the contest unfortu-
nately deprived the council of the services of
these gentlemen. In the appeal to the ratepayers,
Mr. Archer met with a triumphant return. He
was elected Mayor, and three years in succession
the same honor has been conferred upon him. At
the present time, many important improvements
are being proceeded with in the borough, and
umerous business places being erected, the result
of the go-ahead policy of the Mayor and his
aldermen. It is satisfactory that now, after a tem-
porary delay, occasioned by sham proceedings,
Mr. Archer enters upon his Mayoral and munici-
pal duties with increased influence and support.
SOCIAL.
The hon. the Minister for Mines honeymoons at
Lake Macquarie.
The surgeon of one of the British men-of-war
now in harbour is about to be married to a wealthy
heiress of Ballarat.
The bride of course excepted, a gay young
widow was the most charming of all the ladies at the
wedding of the hon. the Minister for Mines.
A wedding will shortly take place in West Mait-
land between the pretty daughter of a professional
gentleman and a young squatter from New England.
There is a very strong reason in Macquarie-
street for an officer, who had only got home in the
Raleigh, coming out to command one of H.M.
schooners.
The eldest daughter of the Rev. Dr. M'Gibbon
was married at her father’s church. Palmer-street, on
the 13th, to the Rev. Mr. Jackson, Presbyterian clergy-
man of Tass.
Mias Kelch is the lady who has become the wife
of the Hon. E. A. Baker, Minister of Mines. In a former
issue, through a typographical error, the name was
incorrectly given.
In recognition of the hospitality extended to the
Duke by Sir P. A. Jennings, the Duchess of Man-
chester, by last mail, forwarded to the new K.C.M.G. a
splendid diamond star.
The Mite of Newcastle are anticipating a treat.
“ Caste ’’ is to be performed by amateurs. The part of
Eccles will be sustained by a Sydney gentleman who
has a Thespian reputation; that of Polly by a young
married lady who, we hear, was very successful as an
amateur at home. The remaining characters will be
personated by the daughters of a prominent Newcastle
gentleman.
He was an occupant of a cab that followed
a funeral cortege. Next to him sat the father
of his adored, to whom he conversed on the topics
of the day; then about married life, and lastly he
put the question straight to the old gentleman, who
blandly refused him. However, things have since been
satisfactorily settled: they are married, and on their
honeymoon trip.
Some queer things took place at a southern
wedding recently. The bridegroom's age approached
three score, whilst the bride, a pretty girl, had just
turned one sweet score and two. When the time had
arrived for the swain to place the ring upon the lady's
finger, he turned to one of the bridesmaids, and taking
her by the hand, wanted to place it on hers instead.
This was awkward for all parties,) but a nudge from the
minister soon set matters right. At the end of the
ceremony the bridegroom, while still at the altar, took
out his purse and asked the worthy divine what his fee
was. “ Pay in the vestry! Pay in the vestry 1" was the
response. _ The happy pair had bath pretty names, and
either their surnames or their Christian names rhymed
with anything in the language. The parson, who is
known to be a bit of a wag, took advantage of this, and
kept the audience in roars by rendering a poetic effusion
of a kind rarely heard within a church. However,
“all’s well that ends well,” and the couple skipped off
looking as pretty as paint, and as happy as Angus
Cameron.
It occurred in Kerguelen’s Land or Flour Point,
Baratraria —we’re not exactly sure which. However,
the facts were these. The family were not opulent, but
were mighty respectable, and more ostentatious for
their respectability than for their poverty. “Desirous
of augmenting their small income,” &c—we all know
the formula—they advertised for one gentleman lodger,
and got him. He found, to quote the advertisement,
“all the comforts of a home,” and a marriageable
daughter into the bargain At the end
of a few months so serious a financial gap was found to
exist between the landlady and the officer (for such he
was) that paterfamilias was called up from the kitchen
to put his veto on further board and lodging being
supplied to the said ruler of the Queen’s Navee.
“Begone, sir, from my house — you expect remittances
from the Solomon Islands I I don’t believe a word of it.
The first loss is the best, so you can clear out." The
pretty daughter stood by meanwhile, trembling and
pale, holding up the hat-rack. “One moment, sir,"
replied the defaulting boarder, perceiving a gentle
tremor run through the old man’s boot—“ one
moment 1 ” And then he rushed upstairs and brought
down the marriage lines which, five months before, had
made him the son-in-law of the indignant Baratraian
householder. P.S.—The story is more than true—it's
a fact. Civil Servants are requested to cut this “ par ”
out (as the officer did), and paste it in their hats. It
may save their lives.
Theatrical Mismanagement.
Ip theatres are built in the principal streets of a city,
the managers ought to be compelled to open the doors
as soon as their patrons begin to arrive. For about
half an hour on Monday night (and in a less degree the
same inconvenience occurs every evening), the pave-
ment and best part of the roadway of King-street was
blocked up by the crowd waiting for admission to the
Theatre Eoyal. If a shopkeeper exhibits in his window
a picture or rare novelty that causes a crowd to assem-
ble, the police make the spectators move on. Not only
is the present practice of allowing play-goers to disturb
the pavement a nuisance to the general public, but it is
short-sighted policy on the part of the managers them-
selves. If anybody is so intensely anxious to get a
good seat to witness the " Pirates of Penzance" that he
goes to the theatre an hour before the advertised hour of
opening, why is he not allowed to pay his money, and
enter the theatre and take his seat at once, instead of
being compelled to wait outside finally in the rain, and
then have his clothes nearly torn off his back in the
crush that always occurs when the doors are thrown
open. In the case of ladies, the consequences of the
present barbarous system are, of course, still more
annoying. The remedy above suggested we recommend
to the attention of Mr. J. C. Williamson and his astute
business manager, Mr. K. S. Smythe, although to the
latter gentleman the expedient suggested can be no
novelty, for we remember when the Eev. Charles Clark
used to lecture in the Melbourne Town Hall at eight
o’ciock, the doors used to be opened at six, and people
walked in as comfortably as if they were going to
church. [P.S. —E. S. Smythe didn’t write this, and it
isn’t an advertisement.—En. B.]
More Tramway Accidents.
One man was killed, and another severely—it is feared
fatally—injured last night just opposite No. 1 Police
Station, Bedfern. They were cut down by the tram
while crossing the line.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Candahar evacuated by the British.
General Roberts returned to England.
Lord Beaconsfield dead. Public funeral de-
cided upon.
Chimborazo sailed from Plymouth for Australia
on the 14th.
Dillon organizes a compact party against the
Irish Land Bill.
Sir Hercules Robinson is arranging the terms of
peace with the Basutos.
The Rev. Morley Pnnshon, the eminent Wesleyan
minister, died in London, April 14, aged 56.
Parnell stated to a Glasgow meeting that the
new Irish Land Bill would crush the small tenants.
Solution of the Eastern difficulty arrived at.
Greece accepts the terms last offered by the Powers.
Roussakoff, the assassin of the Czar, and
several of his confederates were executed at St. Peters-
burg April 16.
Strong war feeling at Athens. A party is
adverse to the Government for having accepted the
Turkish proposals.
The English farmers and others in favour of
tenant right in Ireland have held a meeting in London
to consider the new Irish Land Bill, and have passed a
resolution approving of it.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Says a bachelor: I used to believe that woman
prefer those whom they think handsome. Error. They
prefer those who think them handsome.
M. Goyard, a French physician, has lately
called the attention of medical men to a case in which
a new-born infant, apparently dead, was recalled to life
by immersion in a bath of water heated to 120 degrees
Fahrenheit.
Infanticide prevails to such a horrible extent in
the Solomon Islands that on Ngi, a large island, there
are positively only about five native-born children on
the island. The women destroy their infants at the
moment of their birth, burying them even before they
cease to breathe.
“ As a wedding present to a Philadelphia bride,
her father’s solicitor forwarded an undertaking to con-
duct her divorce suit free of cost." An American
paper says this, but we don’t believe it. If he had
wanted to take the starch out of his offspring, he would
have only needed to have donned her with a besom
broom, a box iron, and a tin backet.
A well-known writer says that nobody can be
where a number of ladies are gathered without being
struck by the lack of culture which is evidenced by
disagreeable voices. Were half the pains which ore
often taken to cultivate the voice in song, bestowed
upon its tones as used in speech, social intercourse
would gain a very great charm.
According to an official report submitted to the
Yietorian Government on their postal and telegraph
services, the female telegraphists seldom acquire pro-
ficiency, and are unequal to any continuous strain. It
is, however, significantly added that “ not a single
jarring incident has happened in their official relations
with their fellow-clerks of the office."
LATE THEATRICAL
Signor Bartolo—it’s a deuce of a name to spell—
meotti has left: the Royal, and is now chorus-masker
and costumer at the Gaiety. The management giro
him great praise for his industry in both departments,
and his etforts have, no doubt, been conducive to the
general success. We gladly say this, and would even
say more, only his elongated cognomen eats up too much
typo.
• • •
A notice of the Mastodon Minstrels will appear
next week. The man has not yet sent home our
Alpen stock.
* • •
Miss Liddiard made a great success on Good
Friday night, in her song, “ Gracias Agamus,” at the
Royal. We were the first to extract this little pearl
from the oyster, and so we are gratified at her fulfilling
our predictions in “ knocking ” the public. The “ much-
travelled ” says that Miss Fanny surprised him by her,
dulcet warbling. He was “ struck " —like Gertrude— ’
“ with astonishment and admiration." Miss Liddiard
must indeed be a star to astonish the “ universe-ally
voyaged." We unhesitatingly claim Miss Liddiard’s
gratitude. Let her send along a penny “ hidden
treasure "—or a mule.
« • •
The Sydney Musical Union could not give
Rossini’s “Stabat Mater" on Good Friday night as
promised. Mr. Williamson, we hear, wanted £lOO for
the use of the Theatre Royal and the services of Mr.
Armes Beaumont.
• * •
The new Major-General’s coat (or rather his
tunic) doesn’t fit him; the garment, besides, is not
that of a major-general but of a full general. The
wearer omits to button it up at the neck, and also does
not wear spurs. Frederick ought to wear a sabretasche
and he might certainly get his sword scabbard cleaned*
• • •
South’s Pinafore Company opened in Bathurst
on Monday night to the largest audience yet seen
within the walls of the School of Arts. Encores were
the order of the evening. Mr. South and his clever
wife (Miss Edith Pender) were greeted with enthusiasm,
while Mr. Tom Rainford and Mr. Vernon Reid were
welcomed as old favorites.
• * «
Young Arthur Pinero’s comedy, “ The Money
Spinner,” is, as we have stated, a great success at the
London St. James's. The Prince and Princess of Wales
have seen it, and are highly delighted with it. Five
years ago Pinero was a struggling “ walking-gent.” at a
provincial theatre in Scotland. Now he has got the
pall at his foot, and the golden key in his hand. Madge
Robertson’s “Millieeut” in the “Money Spinner” is
described as one of the grandest pieces of acting on
the English stage.
The Mattie Taylor troupe go to China on Satur-
day.
Mr. Williamson now makes up “old” in
Penzance, but doesn’t succeed in looking very ancient.
Cole pays -£4OOO for the carriage of his circus
and menagerie per mail steamer from Sydney to ’Frisco.
Miss Christian made a great hit with “ Caller
Herrin ’’ at Miss Rosina Carandini’s benefit concert, in
the Melbourne Town Hall, on Easter Monday.
The sacred concert given by Williamson’s Opera
Company, in the Theatre Royal, on Good Friday, under
the management of Mr. R. S. Smy the, not only attracted
a very large audience, but musically it was a good
success, and interesting as showing in how short a time,
under an efficient conductor like Signor Giorza, a pro-
fessional company can get up new compositions, com-
pared with the weeks of preparation an amateur society
would devote to the task.
“ A donkey with a coloured rug on him,” ia
what a youngster calls Cole’s zebra.
The American Novelty Company received by
the Australia a shipment of the latest Yankee notions,
with which the company hope to attract creation in
these parts. One of the lines is the new waterproof
vulcanized rubber aprons—which are intended to be
committed from generation to generation. Bycicles of
the Coventry pattern have been imported, with the
celebrated immediate stop brake. The other principal
lines to band are the plaiters for kilting heavy under
material, gents’ new sleeve elastics, croquet sets,
.riiagic tobacco boxes, Yankee dodge evasive soap, &c.—
Advt.
LATE SPORTING.
Rush and Laycock may shortly meet.
The Rockhampton Rowing Club hold a regatta
on the 24th May.
Power offers to take ten boats’ length start
from Bosh over the Champion course in skiffs.
Fifteen horses have accepted for the Adelaide
Cup, and twenty-sir for the Goodwood Handicap.
Fourteen horses have entered for the Dubbo
Jockey Club Handicap, and sixteen for the Macquarie
Plate Handicap.
The Grafton Regatta Committee have published
their programme. Nearly £3OO is offered in prizes.
Laycock is expected to compete.
The all-comers’ race for JJS at the Newcastle
Fire Brigade Sports was won by Brennan, of Morpeth.
The all-comers’ race at the Bullock Island Sports was
won by J. Hadger.
A cricket match was played at Stanthorpe on
Saturday between the Warwick C.C. and
the Tenterfield C.C., resulting in a victory for the War-
wick club in one innings by 66 runs.
The results of the principal events of the Stock-
ton Regatta, on Monday, are as follow: —Working water-
men’s skiffs, under canvas, prize £5 : The Dart, 1.
Amateur sculling race, in watermen’s boats: C. Tongue
and C. George, 1; M. Jordan and T. Harland, 2.
A billiard match, for a-side, took place at
the Great Northern Hotel, Newcastle, on Monday
night, between Henderson, of Sydney, and Harry
Williams, a local player. Henderson gave his opponent
100 points in 500 up, and succeeded in defeating him by
30 points.
The results of the Fdrbes races, on Easter Mon-
day last, were as follow :—Maiden Plate: Pinafore 1,
Snider 2, Fortunatus 3. Handicap Trotting Race:
Mary Ann 1. Ladies' Cup: Chester 1, Gaiety 2, Cripple
3. Sapling Stakes: Faith 1. Hack Race: Emperor 1,
Baldy 2.
A match was made on Saturday night at Punch’s
Hotel between R. Edwards, of Melbourne, and M’Don-
ald, of Sydney, the latter laying £l5O to £lOO, to come
oft about two months hence in best-and-best boats, on
the Parramatta River. £5O was deposited in the hands
of Mr. F. Punch.
Top figures at the yearling sales at Randwick:—
A brown filly (sister to Grand Flaneur) was bought by
Mr. W. Long for 1000 guineas. A Maribyrnong Sappho
grey colt was bought by Mr. F. Wentworth for 1450
guineas. A bay colt, by Tattendon out of Lady Chester,
fetched 1205 guineas, Mr. A. Hangar being the pur-
chaser.
Trickett, according to a wire in the Nbws, has
beaten one Kirby, an English sculler, in a match for
£lOO a side on the Thames. Laycock does not know
any sculler of the name, and sporting men in general
think that when further particulars come to hand Mr.
“ Kirby” will prove to be not Mr. Kirby, but somebody
else.
The following have been constituted as a
committees to carry out the arrangements for the All-
comers’ Race in outriggers, for the Walker Whisky
Trophy:—His Worship the Mayor, the Hon. G. Thorn-
ton, M.L.C., Messrs. F. Wentworth, F W. Hill, Q. L.
Deloitte, E. Lee, W. E. Sparke, S. H. Hyam, J. Spencer,
and P. J. Clark. The race will take place on the
Parramatta course during next September. The first
prize will be £2OO, second, £7O, and third, £3O. In
addition to this, the profits accruing from hire of
steamers, Ac., are to be divided pro rota amongst the
first three men. The entries, which are free, will close
on Wednesday, August 3, and must be sent to the
Exchange Hotel. The committee to ensure bona fide
entries, reserve to themselves the right of refusing any
entry. Further arrangements as to date of race and
heats will be completed when the entries are closed.
The long-talked-about sculling match for .£lOO
a side, between George Solomon and J. J. Power, came
off on the Parramatta River on Saturday afternoon.
Two crowded steamers followed the race, in which
great interest was taken by the spectators. Solomon
was favourite in the betting. A good start was effected.
Power leading for about half a mile, when Solomon
spurted, and went ahead some lengths. Odds were
fairly laid on Solomon ; but when they were a mile out
and the coin had been got “ oh/’ Power made
another effort, and passed his opponent. From this
out he kept the lead, doing as he liked with Solomon,
who labored hard to regain his lead, but without avail.
Finally, Power reached the end of the journey, beating
Solomon by about eight lengths, in 27m. 31s. The
stakes were paid over on Saturday night at Punch’s.
A deal of money changed hands.
CRICKET.
The Victoria House C.C. (Farmer and Co.) and
Holdsworth, M'Pherson and Co.’s C.C. met on 9th inst.
Former won by 28 runs. ScoresB3 and 55 respec-
tively In tha]match Tarana v. Bowenfels (which
resulted in about a tie), Hawkins took 0 wickets for 18
runs, and scored 34 Pyrmont Excelsior v. Alex-
andria C.C. The former won by 55 runs. Scores: —7s
and 20 respectively A match .played at Moore Park
between the Young Oxford and Perseverance clubs, en
the afternoon of Good Friday, resulted in a victory for
the former by one innings and 18 runs. Scores: —T.O.
65, and Perseverance 13 and 36. Land (20), Oram (11),
and Fletcher (10) batted well for the winners, who were
also considerably aided by the bowling of Breakwell
and Gibb The Croydon C.C. played a successful
series of matches during the Easter holidays, scoring
three wins in succession. On Good Friday they de-
feated a combined 18 by one innings and 39 runs. The
scores wereCroydon C. C., 104; Combined 18. Ist
innings 32, 2nd innings 33. The 18 included among its
number Brennan, Quill, Bay, and Johnson (Cambridge
C.C.), H. Johnson (Croydon C.C.). For the Croydons
Dennis O’Hara, M'Carthy, Felton and Bowtell batted
well. For a Challenge Bat, on Saturday, they defeated
the Cambridge C.C. by 1 run. The scores were:—
Croydon C.C. 30 and 31 respectively; Cambridge C.C.
38 and 25. M. Carroll for the winners, Sweeny and
Brennan for the losers, batted well. The bowling of
Brennan for the Cambridge C.C. was exceptionally
good. At the close of this match, a single innings
match between Sweeny (Cambridge) and Clark (Croy-
don) resulted in in a draw. On Easter Monday, the
Raymond Terrace Undaunted C.C. was defeated by 2
runs and 3 wickets. The scores were: E.T.M.C.C. 29
and 54 ; Croydon C-C., 36 and 49 for 7 wickets. M. Car-
roll, Buchanan, and Pride batting well for the winners,
as did also Campbell and Gilbert for the losers. The
bowling of F. and W. Bowden and Palmer for the Un-
daunted was very good—during these matches Dennis
and Bowtell, for the Croydons, bowled exceptionally
well, the analysis of the former being 344 balls, 15 m. 0.,
41 wickets, 92 runs; and of the latter, 109 balls, 8 m. 0.,
11 wickets, 20 runs The Balmain Collingwood C.O.
and Young Oxford C.C. met at Balmain last Saturday
afternoon, when the former won by 56 runs, the scores
being 117 and fll respectively. For the former, F.
Kaeler and R. Neilson batted very well, the former
gettinp 34 and the latter 32 The bowling of Hagerty and
Taylor for the Collingwot ds was very good A match
on Monday, at Newcastle, between the Ironclads and the
Osborne C.C. (from Plymouth), was decided in favour
of the Ironclads At Eveleigh, on Easter Monday,
the Campridge C.C. beat the Perseverance C.C. by 18
runs. Scores: Cambridge, 40 and 51; Perseverance, 23
aad SO The Carthona C.C. defeated the Clifton C.C.,
at Wollongong, on Easter Monday, by 10 wickets and
3 runs The Australian Cricket Club of Sydney paid
a visit ito Singleton during the Easter holidays, and
played two matches; losing one by 50 runs, and winning
one by 6 wickets. The bowling on both sides was very
superior; the brothers John and W. Smedley doing the
trundling for the Australians, and H. Robinson and
F. Smith doing similar duty for Singleton. Robinson
is really a good bowler, but has a bad habit, when he
can’t get wickets, of hitting the batsman instead of the
stumps. Several members of the Australians received
rather severe injuries The final match between the
Glebe and Darlington clubs, for the Borough Challenge
Cup, was consummated on the Association Ground,
Moore Park, on Easter Monday, the former suffering
defeat by 21 runs. Qribble and Sweetman did the bowl-
ing for the Darlington team...... During the holidays
the Belvidere C.C. visited Maitland and Singleton, and
worn at each place by seven wickets. At Maitland, the
scores were—Maitland (Albions), 87 and 66; Hammond
37 and 30 (not cut), Barnes 17 (not out) and I#, being
the only double figures. Belvideres, 116 and 3 wickets
for 38; Manchee 32, C. Eichardson 20 (not out), J. Eich-
ardson 23, Bush 14, and Zollner 10 and 14, playing welL
G. Lindeman bowled very well for the winners, securing
8 wickets for 26 runs, in the first, and 5 wickets for 35
runs in the second innings. At Singleton, the scores
were—Sing’etouC.C., 44 and 43; M‘Alpin 14, Faucettll
and 20, Eoser 10, being top scorers. Belvidere C.G.,
70 and 3 wickets for 18; C. Lindeman 12 (not out).
Zollner 11, and C. Eichardson played very well. Linde-
man bowled splendidly, getting 4 wickets for 22 in the
first and 8 wickets for 10 runs in the second innings.
For Singleton, Fawcett fielded grandly at point, catch-
ing five men out.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
It was Dr. Harris —and not, as was stated in onr
last. Dr. Hastie —who met with the horse accident at
Newcastle the other day Mr. Mowbray is the new
warden of the Etheridge. Mr. Towner takes his place
at the Hodgkinson A man at Crow’s Nest (Q.) has
been fined £2O for illegally branding Forty curriers
are on “ strike ” in Sydney, and are receiving £1 a week
each The Printers’ picnic at Athol Gardens on the
16th was very successful, the weather being fine and
the attendance large A variety of sugar-cane, said to
be able to resist the severest frosts, has been obtained
from India for some of the Manning Eiver farmers
The Brogan picnic at Harden, near Murrumburrah, on
Easter Monday, was a grand success About 4000
gallons of wine have been made this season at Roma,
Queensland, where the vines are entirely free from
disease The floods at Blackn.ll (Q ) swept away the
local dam, and did a considerable amount of damage to
business houses in the principal street The Japanese
plum, a valuable and delicious fruit, is prospering well
inQueensland J. M.O’Byme, an absconding Brisbane
insolvent, was arrested at Rockhampton while en route
to Port Douglas William H. Foxford was committed
for trial at Rockhampton recently for a capital offence
alleged to have been perpetrated on his stepdaughter,
aged 14 The Newcastle miners received larger pay
for the past two weeks than for any like period during
the past twelve months “Hard times, come again no
more 1" The cedar-getters on the Barron (N.Q.) have
been hard pushed for rations. Seven kanakas swam
over the Barron to the Tinaroo mines for a supply of
flour and potatoes. They came to the river seven days
successively, but were afraid to cross. The want of
provisions, however, screwed up their courage, and
their requirements were duly attended to There are
now only 150 Europeans at Port Darwin. Very little
gold is being got, and the whites are clearing out as
fast as they can get the means. There are about 5000
Chinese, some of whom are working on the sugar plan-
tations, and others at the works furnished by the Gov-
ernment, where they earn only a shilling a day, out of
which they pay for chow-chow. They, too, are anxious
to leave, and avail themselves of every opportunity to
clear out as stowaways, either southward or eastward.
Mr. W. Joss has sold for £4500 his interest in the
G.M. Tin Co., Wild River. Six months ago
he bought his share for £l5O Mr. Sketfflngton
Carroll has sold out his interest in the Adexaidb
Bulletin to his partner, Mr. Roche The
Orangemen in Dunedin, N.Z., are raising sub-
scriptions for persons who have been‘‘boycotted’’in
Ireland Invercargill, N.Z., proposes to form a
Frozen Meat Company Mr. A. J. Riley, of Riley
Brothers, leaves for a tour in Europe in a few days
The ceremony of laying the foundation stone of a new
Masonic Hall at Auckland, was carried out with iclat.
Bro. Gordon Gooch conducted the musical arrange-
ments. Sparrows are to be provided by our Zoologi-
cal Society to the New Caledonian authorities, with a
view to repressing the locust nuisance in that island.
Mr- E. W. Mills, of Wellington, N.Z., who failed
for such a large amount, has received an immediate
discharge by his ereditors, who administer the estate
themselves The proprietor of the new Society
journal in Wellington, N.Z., is Mr T. C. Ashwin, late
of the Napier Dailt Tblbgbaph. It is called the
Bdllbtib, and will follow on the lines of this journal.
An old Auckland identity, Mr. Alexander Black, is
dead. He was in New South Wales in 1837, being one
of the body of picked mechanics selected at Scotland
fer service here by Dr. Lang The Defiance wheat
is found in South Australia to bo rust-resisting
The wife and son of the farmer Bradford, of Murrum-
burrah, whe was found murdered near his own house,
have been arrested on suspicion; no bail allowed
George Hall, letter carrier, Melbourne, has been com-
mitted for trial for stealing money from a letter
Gorman, a miner, fell down a shaft 100 feet deep at Ril-
more, and was killed Councillor Ivers, who wai
seriously injured in a recent boat accident on tha
Tarra, jumped out of a window at the Melbourne Hos-
pital on the 15th, and was so injured that he is not
expected to recover The Public Hall at Mount
Victoria has been destroyed by Are; loss, £400; in-
snred in the City Mutual for £330 Mr. Wyatt,
P.M., who, by interfering with the brake on a Victorian
train, caused a collision, has expressed his regret to the
Minister for Railways, and paid the amount of damage
done A lunatic Chinaman jumped off the Coonan-
bara on her Sydney trip and was drowned The
month’s land selection at Forbes amounts to 12,739
acres The population of Queensland is estimated
at 228,000, of which number 6176 are Chinamen
The New Caledonian escapees arrested at Brisbane for
vagrancy, were discharged, but immediately re-arrested
under the exradition treaty; remanded for 8 days
Blenheim, N.Z., ships a considerable amount of mait to
Sydney....... New Zealand has led the way among the
colonies in introducing Professor Fawcett’s Postage
Stomp Savings Bank System An important dis-
covery of copper has been made six miles from
Herberton, N.Q The wine awards at the Melbourne
International have given much dissatisfaction The
owners of the Tararua offer £lOOO reward for the
recovery of the box of sovereigns stolen from that vessel
in last November The proprietor of the Victoria
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., was fined for receiving a ring
in pledge for drink supplied At Herberton, N.Q..
the other day the “ Wild Irishman ” sank a shaft, and
struck a load of—quart-pots The Wild River has
been running a “ banker,” but the storekeepers are
well supplied At Gympie there are now nine pro-
fessional brokers, besides many outsiders. Mr.
Chappie’s sales alone for a recent week topped
£17,000 In six weeks the North Phoenix Company,
Gympie, have crushed 440 tong of stone for 5627 ozs. of
gold; the total dividend being 17s. per share The
Orient left Adelaide for London at 9.20 p.m. on the
14th.......Tke_ passengers by the Cathay, mail steamer,
complained bitterly of the inattention shown to them
by the officers on the passage round to Adelaide A
man named Henry Grimes was murdered last December
by the Nandetta blacks on the Burke River, N.Q
The Merkara, first of the new line of boats for the
Queensland service, brought to Brisbane 800 tons of
cargo, including a quantity of machinery for the new
freezing works on the Brisbane River The importa-
tion of foreign stock prohibited in Victoria by Gazettb
notice oa the 14th Mary Ann Phillips and George
Cobb were the persons drowned recently by the boat
accident at Broken Bay Moritz Von Lossberg, a
native of Hesse-Cassell, Germany, 45 years of age, was
found in his bed, in a lodging house in Elizabeth-street,
on the 16th, suffering from the effects of a pistol-wound
said to have been accidentally inflicted Jem Mace
has sold his hotel in Melbourne to Mr. Scott A bill
of £626 has been sent to the Victorian Government for
medical attendance to the trust of Superintendent Hare,
injured in the Glenrowan affair Alfred Burgess,
blacksmith, of Bathurst, killed by jumping from a
train, the carriage in which he was riding having caught
fire Intense dissatisfaction at Melbourne over the
Kelly awards.
Professor Stanich, the celebrated aurist (he is
called " Diamond Stanich" by some Victorian females,
as he now quite eclipses the celebrated Beaney), is back
in Sydney from Melbourne. The Professor is the
bearer of two richly illumined testimonials, bearing
the seals of several municipalities, attesting the
wonderful success with which his efforts in numerous
Queensland on a tour, but will shortly return to the
cases were attended. The Professor leaves for
practice of his profession in Sydney.
April 23, 1881.


TO-DAY, SATURDAY,
TO-DAY, SATUEDAY, 23
AUBURN Do\
A MAGNIFICENT BLOCI
IN ABBA
Upwards of 150 s
Subdivided into
497 SPLENDID ALLC
situate
IMMEDITELY OPP
THE AUBURN PL
*#* A CHANCE NOT TO
B ATT, B ODD, AN 1
Have received instructions to sell
By PUBLIC AUCT
SATURDAY, AP
AT 3 P.M.,
ON THE GROUI
SECTION 1 contains, 35 ALLOTI
7 lots, fronting tl
EOAD.
14 ditto ditto AUBU
14 ditto ditto NO!
EOAD
SECTION
2. 8 lots fronting tl
EOAD
14 ditto ditto NOI
EOAD
14 ditto STATION 1
SECTION 3. 8 lots fronting tl
EOAD
14 ditto ditto STATI
13 ditto ditto DAETJ
SECTION 4. 8 lots fronting tl
EOAD
13 ditto ditto DAET
13 ditto ditto ST. HI
SECTION 5. 6 lots fronting tl
EOAD
13 ditto ditto ST. H.
12 ditto ditto PEEC
SECTION 6. 17 lots fronting AUE
17 ditto ditto NOI
EOAD
SECTION 7. 17 lots fronting NO!
EOAD
17 ditto ditto STAT
SECTION 8. 17 lots facing STAT:
17 ditto ditto DAET
SECTION 9. 17 lots facing DAEI
17 ditto ditto ST. H
SECTION 10. 17 lots facing ST. K
17 ditto ditto PEEC
SECTION 11. 11 lots facing AUB
7 ditto ditto AUBU
12 ditto PEECY EC
SECTION 12. 12 lots facing NO!
EOAD
8 ditto ditto AUBU
12 ditto ditto STAT]
SECTION 13. 12 lots facing STAT:
8 ditto ditto AUB I
12 ditto ditto DAEI
SECTION 14. 12 lota facing DAET
8 ditto ditto AUB I
THIS DAY, SATURDAY
NORWOOD HILL, PET
30 CHOICE VILLA SITES, close
STATION, and near to, and in
residences of Messrs. STARI
DOUST, JAQUES, ROLLO CA
cr Only 30 ALLOTMENTS for P<
CLEAR.
TORRENS’ TITL
TERMS: \ Cash, balance 12, 1!
cent, interest by promissory notes.
JJ AED I E AND {
Will sell, by order of S. H. TEIi
. ON THE GROUN
THIS DAT, SATU RDA.Y, 23rd A]
SPLENDID SITES,
fronting
VICTORIA STREET
OXFORD STREET
ATJDLEY STREET
ALBERT STREET
BELGRAVE STREET
NORWOOD HILL, PETERSI
as follows: —
LOTS Ito 3 —3 LOTS fronting AL
LOTS 4 to 11—8 LOTS fronting OX
LOTS 1 to 6—6 LOTS fronting VI(
LOTS 7to 10 —4 LOTS fronting BE
LOTS 11 to 13—3 LOTS fronting At
LOTS 14 to 19—6 LOTS fronting 03
PLAN IS ON VIEW AT T
*3* These LOTS are all good
situated close to the PETERSHAI
RAILWAY STATIONS, and are cl
properties at Petersham. The vie
and include Botany Bay, Marricki
la ting country around.
Mr. Terry’s instructions are to
chasers should inspect each lot as
ground.
DAY OF SALE
THIS DAY, SATURDAY, i
Obtain a LITHOGRAPH from the 1
Lithos. are now ready as prepart
Reuss, jun. A large omnibus will 1
2.15 on day of sale, to convey infcei
the ground.
THE RIVERSTONE E
682 ACRES, SUBDIVIDED
IMMEDIATELY OPPOSITE r .
STATION.
BEAUTIFUL UNDULATIN
SUITABLE for ORCHARDS. VIN
and COUNTRY VII
B ATT - B ODD, and
Have received insti-ctims to sell
MON,
ON THE GROUN
% on
SATURDAY, May
S - WITHOUT RESI
♦,* The ABOVE VALUABLE E
ally subdivided by Mr.
BINSTED, as follows
50 TOWN LOTS, each containing
79 TOWN LOTS, each containing
96 BLOCKS, each containing i
THE HOTEL, with LARGE B 1
STORE, &c. at present
annum.
THE LAND IS ALL GOOD and V
TITLE, TORRENS’
TERMS WILL BE MOST
SOLICITOR to the ESTATE—A.
Esq., Jun.
BATT, ROD:
HEA T E E
Lessee A
Acting Manager M
TARANTARA
WILLIAMSON’S OPERA
NINTH WEEK
QUEEN’S THEATRE.,
Lessee Mr. J. P. Keogh.
Manager Mr. E. D. Haygarth.
Stage Manager Mr. Sterling Whyte.
FOEMOSA MAJOE JOEUM FOEMOSA
MAJOE JOEUM FOEMOSA MAJOE JOEUM.
Marian Willis, Wm. Hoskins,
Marian Willis, Wm. Hoskins.
Great furore, crowded houses, hundreds turned away.
Come early. Secure your seats
to witness the great success of the season
FOEMOSA.
EVEET EVENING, TILL PUETHEE NOTICE.
The great Boat-trace,
OXFOED v. CAMBEIDGE.
Eeserved seats, 45. ; dress circle, 35.; stalls, 2.; pit, 1.
Box plan at W. H. Paling’s, George-street.
0 AND SEE STERLING WHYTE’S RUM-
BUMPUSES, in FOEMOSA."
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The week’s output of coal at Newcastle, 26,612
tons.
Another case of incendiarism in New Zealand,
that land of fires and failures.
Oidium is fast spreading in some of the wine
districts of South Australia.
TheKenmure Castle, from Hong Kong, brought
to Sydney, 16th April, 700 Chinamen.
The Boers in the Transvaal are described as
fearless and practised riders and unerring shots.
The Adelaide Postmaster-General is calling
again for tenders for the Port Darwin mail service.
Capt. Trouton, manager of the A.S.N. Company,
has contracted for two and probably three new steamers
for the Queensland trade.
The Wallsend Coal Company notify that they
have reduced the price of the beat screened coal at
Newcastle to 7s. per ton.
The Bank of Adelaide has declared a 10 per cent,
dividend, and after paying £40,000 in dividends, adds
£19,000 to the reserve fund.
The sample Beaumont tram motor, which is
driven by compressed atmospheric air, is expected to
arrive in Sydney within three months.
During the last four years, 118 locomotives were
imported to this colony from English manufacturers.
The prices ranged from £llOl to £3266.
The report of the South Australian Mining
Association shows a balance of £25,000 The Associa-
tion sold some property in England for £lOO,OOO.
The tramway motors imported the other day
were put together in about 36 hours. One day they
were in their cases; the next, they were running on the
lines.
The Australian Mortgage and Agency Company
having incorporated the business of Messrs. Hastings,
Cunningham, and Co., have opened a branch in Sydney.
The capital of the Company is £1,000,000.
At Sandy Creek, on the Mitta Mitta, Victoria,
last week, 600 oz. of gold was obtained from 192 tons of
quartz; 80 tons from another reef in the same locality
was to go through the mill; average, 4 oz. to the ton.
The Government have accepted a bond of =£soo
from the Pyrmont Bridge Company, guaranteeing that
the bridge shall be swung at times so as to suit the
convenience of shipmasters—complaints on this score
having of late been frequent.
The Lusitania takes home for consumption on
the voyage 40,000 lbs. of beef, mutton, pork, veal, &c.,
all of which is preserved in the ice chamber o( the
vessel. A contract for supply is in the hands of Mr.
Playfair, who is executing it in capital style.
Mr. H. Taylor, who some time back visited
New Zealand as a representative of classes in England
who were seeking a field for immigration, but who is
now acting as immigration agent in the United King-
dom for the South Australian Government, sketches
to the British farmers a glorious future here for men of
industrious habits.
A big tin and gold mining mania is “ on ” in
Tasmania just now. The yields from some of the reefs
in the tight little island are large. The ernshings at
the Great Tasmania and Florence Nightingale reefs
gave over 2 cwt. of gold, valued at £14,528. The
dividend of the former company was £3 per share,
making a total of £14,528. About one-half the shares
are held by Mr. W. Hart, M.L.A., who will draw this
year about £50,000 in dividends.
Catherine M'Pherson, said to be 104 years of age,
was arrested for vagrancy, the other day, at Digby, Vic-
toria. She had been found wandering about the bush
in a helpless and demented state. She was born in the
Highlands of Scotland in 1777, and though she has
been in the colonies over 25 years, is unable to speak
anything but Gaelic. She was sent to the local hospital,
where, poor old woman, she will be well attended to
during the remainder of her pilgrimage.
The splendid machinery works of Messrs P. N.
Bussell and Co., Darling Harbour, in this city, which
Mr. John Taylor purchased the other day for
£50,000, were stopped “ never to go again,” a tew years
ago, consequent upon a strike among the workmen. It
was the first undertaking of any magnitude in this
colony that felt the effects of a strike for higher wages.
The difficulty, it may be mentioned, occurred when the
firm had a large locomotive contract in hand.
The originator of the “ Eodanow Watch
Manufacturing Company, Boston, Mass.,” which com-
pany is mentioned in the Australasian Trade Beview,
has been arrested in the United States for using the
American mails for the conduct of fraudulent business.
The company which professed to forward watches at sums
varying from 10s. to £2 10s. is no longer in existence,
but continues to receive a large mail. The company
has, it is believed, never filled a foreign order.
At Eocky Mouth, Clarence Eiver, John
Jackman, of Palmer’s Island, was charged by Mr.
Coulter, secretary of the Eandwick Asylum, with the
ill-treatment of an apprentice girl at Eocky Mouth.
Defendant pleaded guilty, and was fined £3. He was
also ordered to pay £l5 for legal and witnesses’ ex-
penses, and £2 pocket money to the girl. Before the
case came on, defendant paid Mr. Coulter additional
wages, amounting to £lO 6s. 4d. The indentures were
cancelled by the Bench. This action on the part of Mr.
Coulter is the beginning of a series of such proceedings.
The accident at Eedmyre by which a young man
named T. J. O'Brien was killed has been found on official
investigation to have been the result not of any negli-
gence at the platform, but purely of an unfortunate
mistake on the part of the deceased himself. O’Brien,
who was perfectly sober at the time of the occurrence,
attempted to mount the platform at the end from which
the public is excluded—with what result is already
known. Some of the Christian prints, with modem
Christ-like piety, have been holding up the unfortunate
young fellow’s death as a warning against intemperance
and gambling, the fact being that the deceased was a
sober, steady man, much respected, and not given to
either of the bad habits charged against him.
Mr. Dan. Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel,
has got into trouble. A local hotelkeeper named
Tonkin, the other day, struck and severely wounded
him with a stick, for “ publishing libels.” Dan rejoined
with a bottle, and was taken home in a buggy. Later
in the evening, as Mr. and Mrs. Tonkin were going to
the local School of Arts, Mr. Tonkin was struck over
the head with a life-preserver, and felled to the ground.
He is now, it is said, in a dangerous condition. Mr.
Mayne was arrested and remanded. Now, we can’t
believe that the genial Dan. had anything whatever to
do with the latter part of this little business. The
offender was no doubt an aerolite or a stray comet.
Thus doth Providence watch over the scribe.
Sir John Eobertson, Minister for Public Instruc-
tion, has submitted a concise yet full and clear report
for the year just ended. The total pupils number
114,811, as against 101,534 in 1880; attendance at public
schools, 84,045, increase 13,277; at denominational
schools, 23,199, increase, 483. The provisional, half-
time, and evening public schools show satisfactory re-
mits. The denominational schools had decreased by
five, and the certificates of several others were about to
be withdrawn or were being voluntarily surrendered.
The expenditure for the eight months the Act has been
in force is £274,639. The school fees are estimated at
£50,000. The Minister, in course of his report, inti-
mates an important fact. The compulsory clauses of
the Act are to be put in force, especially against “those
children who roam the streets of Sydney in a ragged
and filthy condition.” And special schools are to be
erected for them, so as to keep them separate from the
children of respectable parents.
The pieces of silver are at last distributed. The
Kelly Award Board have notified the result of their
deliberations. The gentlemen of the Press —Messrs.
Melvin, Carrington, M‘Whirter, and Allen—the Board
consider worthy of the best thanks of the community
for the assistance they offered to the police under cir-
cumstances of considerable danger, and had those
gentlemen presented claims, the Board would have
considered them entitled to participate. The Board
draw attention to the minute of Mr. Bamsay, late Chief
Secretary, recommending that some suitable acknow-
ledgement be bestowed upon Superintendent Hare, the
leader in the capture of the outlaws, for the severe
injuries sustained by him in the discharge of his duties.
Following are the awards: —Superintendent Hare,
£9OO j Thomas Cumow, £500; Senior-constable Kelly,
£377 11s. Bd.; Sergeant Steele, £290; Constable Bracken,
£275; Superintendent Sadleir, £210; S. O Connor,
£237; Jesse Dowsett, £175; Sergeant Whelan, £165;
Constable Canny, £137; Constables Phillips. Barry,
Arthur, Kickham, Mr. C. C. Kawlins, £137 each ; a
number of constables, £17 —in all, £115; Detective
Ward, £100; the guard, fireman, and driver of the pilot
engine, £lO4 each ; a number of others, £5O and £42
each ; the total being £BOO3. Constable M‘ln tyre and
several others are recommended for special recognition.
POLITICAL POINTS.
New Zealand Parliament meets about June.
The Victorian Legislative Council adjourned to
May 3, declining April 26 with a view to consider the
Reform BUI before the Assembly again met.
A Victorian paper, speaking on the question of
Federation, says that Sydney must inevitably be the
capital, it being the oldest and most central metropolis.
The Victorian Government lost =£18,184 last
year on their luxurary of a separate Mail Service. The
deficiency of the whole Victorian postal service was
£117,764.
A Liberal Association has been formed at Mao-
kay to steer Black in the way he should go. Members
of the press are not admitted as members of the Asso-
ciation.
The quarter’s revenue of South Australia is
£518,000, showing an increase of £34,000. The year’s
revenue is £2,062,000, an increase of £382,000. The cash
deficit has been reduced from £83,000 to £55,000. The
year’s expenditure is £1,938,797.
When the question of repressing the rabbit
nuisance came before the Victorian Parliament, Mr.
Longmore (who was Minister for Lands in the last
Berry Ministry) asserted that rabbits paid better than
sheep, and gave employment to hundreds of men,
E. F. Rudder, writing to the Macleat Herald,
fairly corners the hon. the Speaker. WhUe the remis-
sion of interest question was before the House, the
Speaker intimated that no member owning a selection,
and being subject to the paying of interest, ceuld vote
on the subject—he having a direct interest in the result.
Well, Mr. Rudder asks the Speaker whether he made
the same observation when the railway proposals were
before the House, it being well known that many hon.
members were directly interested in vast tracts of country
through which the lines would pass.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Wide Awake ” (Tasmania): Glad to hear from
you again “Haughton Gap” (Bowen, Q.): Most of
your allusions we don’t understand “ A Reader of
The Bulletin ” : Declined with thanks “ X.Y.Z.”
(Maitland): Thanks “ W.C." (Rockhampton, Q ; ):
Received. Next issue, perhans “ Observer ” (Bris-
bane): Received .“M S.” (Wagga): Next time you
address us get a better spider to crawl over the paper ;
In the meantime, “keep yer hair on.” “Quack”:
Can’t see the humor of it “ Constant Subscriber
If we published your par. on butter, our readers would j
never forgive us “E.J.8.” (Vegetable Creek): Much
obliged “ R.8.T.”: You will pardon us for declining j
to insert anything which we do not ourselves under- .
stand “ C.K.” : A typographical error. Rectified J
in this issue “ S.”: Next issue perhaps “ M. J 1
We gladly publish the information “ Witram ;
We fail to see the point of your communication
“W.C.R.”: Much obliged “Poke in the Eye”:
Thanks “Quepe”: Go ahead. We’re always glad
to be advertised “Cunningham Plains”: Received,
but a little too late “R.N.”: Much obliged “A
Friend": Received; thanks for the suggestion, which
is good Campbelltown Cor.: Held over.
The Solomon Islanders sometimes have their
neighbours at dinner.
Bosom friends: Sir —— and Mr. ■■, of
the Bank. Eureka 1
R. S. Smythe wants to get back to Melbourne;
a good French restaurant has been opened there.
The celebrated “Orchard” near Croydon station
is to be sold on Saturday, by Mr. H. M. Deakin. The
only unsold building lots remaining at Croydon.
In the recent Irish debate in the House of Com-
mons, one of the Members for Wicklow assured his
audience that “as long as Ireland was silent under her
wrongs, England was deaf to her cries.”
There are amongst the numerous Government
offices departments other than the Lands which require
looking into. In one, at least, little short of anarchy
prevails, the head being almost completely under the
thumb of the next in command.
Fitz Toots, who lives up the suburban line, is a
very small man, indeed; but he says he never minded
it until his two boys grew up to be tall, strapping young
fellows, and his wife began to cut down their old
clothes to fit him. sAnd then, he says, he did get mad 1
“Melbourne ”: Tes; were a man to send to you
per post a post-card with libellous matter written
thereon, you could enter an action against him just as
well as if he had libelled you in print. We always care-
fully preserve such communications.
Fwederwick (who has been playing Sir Simon
Simple, and looks the part better than he acts it):
“ And in which part, Miss Lauwa, did my acting appear
to the gweatest advantage?” Miss Laura : “Oh I I
think you displayed the most admirable taste in making
your exits."
Thady O'Kane, of the Northern Miner, is
very sore with Robinson, of the Towers Herald.
Robinson published Thady’s apology to Judge Hely,
without being asked to do so. Thady says “ a man
who would be mean enough to do that would be mean
enough to rob-his-son."
Poor old Dizzy! When Queen Victoria visited
his station—we mean Hughenden—he gave her his arm
and (so more than one leading London paper said)
offered her his hand. Now, we have plenty of confi-
dence —in fact, there are people who call it something
else—but we’ve never yet asked Her Majesty to marry
us.
He was a reverend, and gave a lecture in a
certain (country) church a week or two ago—“admission
free.” Seeing that the audience was rather large, he
thought the chance of scooping in a few dollars was
not to be lost. So he scooped about—ls dol. The
elders want to know what fund the money went into,
and say that the discourse should have been, not
‘Heads and Paces,” but “Heads and Tails”—or
“ Heads I win, tails yon lose.”
April 23, 1881.


BRIEF MENTION.
Australian Sport—Frozen beef.
That is not by any means the same “ Stella.”
The Infirmary—Mr. Sydney Bnrdekin, M.P.
Porous—Carpenter’s plaster at the Town Hall.
A “ miss ’’-managed institution —the Infirmary.
Last Monday week nearly the whole of Sydney
took leave of their census.
What M’Beath says—“ No I never /” What
Kennedy says—“ Did you evers ?”
Douglas Jerrold’s motto would do for that
Inverell paper—“ Aut scissors aut nullus.”
Ninian Melville strongly condemns the using of
Parliamentary stationery in private business.
The Cumberland Mercury goes straight for
Protection. So our Free-trade days are numbered 1
They are trying to bluff the citizens over those
Town Hall prosecutions. It is so hard to prosecute a
brother I
The name of the chief of Isabel Island, Solomon
Group, is “ Berry." Now we know what keeps those
Islanders down!
Mr. E. A. Proctor, the eminent astronomical
lecturer, is spoken of as likelv to succeed the Astrono-
mer Royal of England, Sir G. H. Airy, whose retire-
ment is expected.
The workmen in the employ of the Colonial
Sugar Company at Pyrmont “ graft" all Sunday. Of
course some of their bosses, who are churchwardens,
don’t know this!
The mail branch officials G.P.O. had to “ bul-
lock” on Tuesday, the bank holiday.
They now mutter
Agin Suttor.
Says “ jEgles”;—“ A gentleman, who gives his
name and address, assures me that he has had a letter
returned to him by a burning and a shining light in
another colony, with this dead-letter office endorse-
ment, * The addressee refuses this letter because it has
travelled on the Sabbath day.’ ”
A well-connected cad recently insulted a lady in
the Newtown Road. Her brother arrived and remon-
strated with his left. The cad rolled in the gutter,
from which ignoble position he entreated piteously for
forgiveness. As may be imagined, his tones were
gutters!.
In referring to the New Ireland fiasco, the
Penny Morning Marrow Curdler says that the men
on board “ were all Italians, and clamoured to be taken
back by the Genii to their native place, Barcelona." (! 11)
This, as we have already remarked, shows what a fine
thing it is to “know yer joggraffy."
Talking of the proposed swimming matches
for ladies at Cavill’s baths, St. Leonards, the Morning
Exile remarks that “ the male portion of the public
will not be highly gratified to learn that they will not
be admitted on the occasion.” We have no idea
whether the person who wrote this intends to be funny
or not. We don’t ask or expect wit, humour, or gram-
mar from our contemporary, but we certainly look for
ordinary delicacy. No matter j what is the universe
but a vale of disappointment I
The Melbourne Werklt Times has the follow-
ing sacastic par:—“Owing to the numerous collisions
with Sydney street tramcars, careless omnibus drivers
will in future be prosecuted.” This is rather rough,
when at the approach of the motor the leaders of the
’buses invariably try to hide behind verandah posts,
and not unfrequently lie down on the side walk. One
news agent complains that a horse attached to a Coogee
’bus frequently entered his shop, and feasted on the
papers until the tram was out of sight.
Here is a text for the advocates of capital
punishment. Two little girls, found sleeping on a
Sydney city doorstep the other night by the police, and
claimed by a benevolent lady from whose care they had
escaped, turn out to be the children of a man who was
hanged some time ago in New South Wales. It is said
that the lady in question, who again has charge of
them, waited upon the Chief Secretary after their
father’s execution, to ask that they might be admitted
into one of the asylums. The application was refused.
The attention of the city is directed to the fol-
lowing brilliant effort of Alfred’s very own “ Gipsy ”:—
“ I saw some of the new gants on two Sydney ladies last
week, and, as their arms were plump and round, the
effect was very pleasing (sic). But upon some other
fair ones whose limbs partook of a pipestemy (sic)
angular nature, the gloves just described were by no
means admirable; in fact, an individual more remarkable
for plainness than elegance of diction, was rude enough
to remark that the fair ones so adorned had a ‘ fowl-
trussed look.’ *’ Hooray!
Compliments are flying about up North. Here
is a passage (a mild one) from a letter of the rate-col-
lector, in reference to an article which appeared in The
Miner. Alluding to the gifted editor of that lively
publication, the official says :—“ Shame upon you, old
man; remember your early days, and, if such a thing is
possible, endeavour to purge your foul impure heart by
good deeds for the future. Apologizing for taking up
your space to vindicate myself against this curse of
mankind, I am, etc., W. Richards.” Thadeus’ next
will probably be printed in red ink.
A new exchange has turned up this week, the
Manning and Hastings Advocate. The variety of
type it displays is remarkable. We think a lot of
this paper, because it is uncommon. Held at a dis-
tance, the M. and H. Advocate looks as though 20,000
spiders were crawling over a three-sheet poster. The
whole style of it is very advanced. It is in short the
paper of the future. The world is not ripe enough for
it yet. If the editor will only suspend operations until,
say 1900, be is bound to make a splash. He can while
away the brief interval by fishing for gar-fish with a
shark hook.
That a sweet odour of sanctity permeates the
scholastic establishments which have the honour to
recognise His Lordship Archbishop Vaughan as their
head, we can readily conceive, but if the last statement
in reference to moneys collected for St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral, which appeared in the 8. M. Herald’s issue of
the 11th inst., is to bo considered as a specimen of the
secular attainments acqu'red in those institutions, we
very much fear that the blending of the spiritual with
the practical is somewhat detrimental to the latter.
There is only the difference in simple addition between
£2682 7s. 4d. and £4394 17s. lOd.
Says a Northern paper : —“ We have to
lament the absence of a very amicable and exemplerary
(*ic) party who has been residing here for some time.
He was a really good man, and a Sunday School
teacher, and he very kindly consented to take charge
of a sum of money that had been collected for a
charitable purpose. Shortly afterwards he had to go
away ‘ somewhere ’ to see about * something; ’ in his
hurry he forgot to leave the money of the subscribers
behind him, and now we are singing ‘ Will ye no come
back again ?’ ” This is good—very good indeed. It’s
a pity, though, the spelling is not equal to the sarcasm.
We learn from the Australian Churchman
that Mr. Gribble, of the Black Mission at Darlington,
is seeking ordination in the Anglican Church.
A new religion you are wooing,
Gribble; won’t you get a doing
From M’Quven, who’s a leery un;
Also from the Presbyterian !
They loved you once, but now, O Gribble,
Won’t there be some toil and “tribble ?’*
Gribble, Gribble, won’t they hate you!
Gribble, Gribble, won’t they slate you!
Gribble, you had better hop it.
For, by thunder, you will “ Cop” it.
Dean Cowper’g organ, the Churchman, has
the following :—" The Echo calls the Very Reverend
the Dean of Sydney * Mr. W. M. Cowper.’ It is hard
to conceive which is the more reprehensible—the
inaccuracy or the bad taste.” This is really a terrible
affair. How could “ the Echo have so far forgotten
itself ?” Mr. Cook ought to instantly make some
reparation—say a new pair of gaiters for the old
gentleman, and something spicy at Compagnoni’s. We
are surprised, not that thq Very Reverend should take
exception to being called out of his name, but that .he
should have noticed the paragraph. We thought he
didn’t read the Echo. We thought he only read Thb
Bulletin.
Joseph Bundle, an aboriginal, was taken to the
Infirmary, on Thursday, with his nose split open. After
his wounds were dressed, he was described by Nurse
Paget as a Bundle chockful of nothing but groans.
The Holy Howl states that Dr. Barker was
near to making a very serious blunder at a recent
marriage ceremony. He only half married a couple.
The editor of the Howl always marries people properly,
you know. “ Else—grab hands— hitched, three half-
crowns.”
Young Tom Garrett, it was rumoured, had
announced his intention, on Friday, of giving up
cricket. On this the sun immediately stood still.
Then Tom came out of the Metrop. and contradicted the
rumour. On this the sun went on again. Some sceptics,
including a feeble star-gazer named R. A. Proctor, say
that the sun is always still. But the Bible says it isn’t.
Of course we side with the Bible, Hence our popularity
with the clergy.
Wouldn’t it be as well to have the next naval
fight—it need not necessarily bo mimic—somewhere
amongst the Islands ?
Bonnor and Spofforth want to stay in Mel-
bourne. The society is so dem pleasant. Ta-as 1 By
Jove 1 Positively, demme 1
The diplomatic Joubert of the Transvaal is no
relation to our Jules, though we heard be had a great
show of Boers at his last meeting.
Mr. Kavannah, barrister-at-law, who was con-
nected with the Dibbs divorce suit, recently lost a case
in London and got five years. He was one of Justice
Way’s justices. Advance South Australia !
A Pyrmont factory blows off steam every Sun-
day as the people are going to church. They object to
this. To hear steam blown off twice in one morning,
they say, is rather too much of a good thing.
The Peter Qodeffroy (we’ve seen that name be-
fore) has arrived at Melbourne, en route to Sydney,
from Hamburg, only 140 days out. She has some cargo
for Sydney, but the consignees, we believe, are long
since dead.
We notice that a certain well-known open-air
ecclesiastic has stopped preaching, and gone {into the
patent-medicine business. We hope his remedies are
an improvement on those he has been accustomed to
dispense for spiritual ailments.
An auctioneer’s daughter and a young Sydney
native with plenty of “ sug” are to be united shortly.
The lady’s sire has appropriately " knocked down" any
amount of money in the preparations.
The Freeman has two very old contributors —
"Eve,” who does the fashions, and "Cincinnatus,”
who fakes the farming. There is also “ Napper Tandy,”
whom we strongly suspect to be the shade of Daniel
O’Connell. His copy is really so very patriotic. You
can smell the shamrock in every par.
The following is a copy of a placard hung in the
Garden Palace on the occasion of the Ea ster Monday
temperance fete: —Visitors is earnestly invited and
relied on to assist in preventing any abuse, and the
police have positive instructions to enforce obedence in
these matters.” Glucose among the 1.0.G.T.’5, eh?
In reply to a correspondent the Distress says:
—" E. T., Campbelltown.—The names of the Catholic
members of Parliament are as follows: P. A. Jen-
nings, and Messrs. O’Connor, M’Langhlin, Garvan,
Lynch, Slattery, Fitzpatrick, Dillon, Loughnan, and
Day.” Poor Jack M’Elhone has evidently been excom-
municated.
It is stated that the fair lady who rules the roast
and boiled at a public institution in Macquarie-street
has more political influence than any other lady in
Sydney. At a general election she has a good time.
It is a kind of Osborne harvesting—only all she garners
is glory and power—or, as the prayer-books have it,
power and glory.
E.B.T. sends us a long article on a mosquito
chase. He, however, strains too much after effect, and
straining after a mosquito is no more allowable than
straining after a gnat. Let him try with a larger
subject—say a camel. Then we will do our best to
swallow his camel, although we are unable to do that
much for his mosquito.
The Penny Exile has been going over the
history of the Glenrowan affair, and has come to the
conclusion that, after all, no bravery was exhibited by
the police or the civilians who assisted them, in the
encounter. The assailants, the Exile contends, should
have “ rushed the hotel.” This is exactly the sugges-
tion we should have expected from the Twaddlegraph.
The Auckland Observer has published a
portrait of Lotti Wilmot, accompanied b> a biography
apparently penned by that fair charmer herself. The
portrait looks as if it had been drawn on a deal board
with a clothes prop, and engraved with a boomerang.
We don't know what Lotti looks like, but certainly
nothing that’s alive. Yet she is alive and kicking—
we mean horse-whipping.
Thus the Penny Morning Bum anent the
gracious visit of Sirenree to the Italian immigrants:—
"The interview was a very pleasing one, the Premier
frequently patting the children’s rosy cheeks, and many
of the Italians, in the excess of their gratitude, kissed
the hem of their visitor’s garments.” What condescen-
sion ! what gratitude I what—ineffable rot! We wonder
where’s the ’em of ’Enry’s fautail-banger ? Yah 1
The Redpern Times is launching out. In
speaking of the " Sham Fight,” it says: “ Fifty
thousand citizens, not a few of them ladies, were under
fire on Tuesday. We were among the Governor’s garden
party.” The rev. editor’s opinion is evidently: Every
man his own travelling reporter; . and a very good
principle, too. We saw the rev. gentleman there, and
were much struck with the roominess of his flask and
the size of his sandwich box.
A country paper says a case of small pox has
been imported into Honolulu from Canton. We trust
it passed the Customs.
We are very sorry to have to chronicle the
melancholy fact that the bong has come out of the
Eev. Morley Punshon, and the spirit is fled.
Our “ city fathers” needn’t make so much fuss
over putting down wooden blocks on the streets. " Put
your heads together, gentlemen, and the thing’s done."
A disastrous fire occurred at Launceston the
other day. The damage done is estimated at £5, and
includes the price of a valuable cavalry horse (with
saddle and bridle), which was burnt to death.
An Adelaide telegram states that “ a vote of
censure has been passed on the S. A. Eegister by Mr.
Ward’s supporters at Jamestown." We’ve not yet
heard whether the Eegister intends to resign.
There is a golden-haired beauty at Darlington
who is always being bored by serenaders, with windy
flutes and gasping concertinas. When three of them
went round the other night they found a big dog under
her window. The dog serenaded them.
At a meeting held in a border town the other
evening of the local Mechanics’ Institute, the librarian
was presented by the committee with a second-hand
family Bible in consideration of his long and faithful
services. Yon see what it is to be « librarian!
At the Central Police Court, on Saturday a
ragged boy was fined 10a. for having stolen some bans
on Good Friday. However, the Morning Twaddtv
wasn’t content with stating the foregoing fact It
introduced a long disquisition on this Grand Balthazar
this hideous Good Friday outrage, thus “ A fondness
for the historic delicacy known as the ‘ hot cross bun •
is evidently being cultivated by the rising generation .
but meritorious as the taste for such a luscious morsni
may be from an aesthetic standpoint, the gratifying it
by surreptitious means is not to be encouraged.” 'We’re
glad to find our illustrious contemporary so eloquent in
its defence of the bun interest, which, by the way has
always received the protection of the morning papers
Writes “ Gipsy,” of the Town and Country
of an amateur who took part in a recent and now cele-
brated theatrical performance The young lady’s
personal appearance is pleasing, and she dressed to
render herself quite a pleasant object.” On reading this
for the first time we were forcibly reminded of one of
Alfred’s own essays, in which he relates how the danc-
ing “took well; also the Kolonial wine which gave
pleasure to all." A dark suspicion then came over us
Could “ Gipsy ” be Alfred himself in disguise ? But
no! the spelling banished that idea. Probably, there-
fore, Alf. only “touches up" his contributor’s cony
We have long yearned for talent, so we hope “ Gipsy”
won’t object to our present offer of £lOO per week 20
tram tickets, and free half-soleing and heeling. ’
Thaddy O’ Kane is incorrigible. Referring to the
appointment of a Northern scribe to the editorship of a
Brisbane paper, he writes as follows “ They must be
hard up for editors in Brisbane when they import
Northern weaklings. Mr. is a good • local items ’
man, but nothing more. He has shown his love for the
Northern Miner already in the Observer. We pay
our washerwoman, at any rate, Mr. ." Thadeus
really seems to make such a boast of ante-ing up to his
laundress that it would almost incline one to believe
that paying the washerwoman was the exception rather
than the rule with Northern journalists. Anyhow it
seems to exercise Thaddy’s mind considerably. We
know members of the staff of a certain Sydney journal
who are never at all troubled about their washerwoman’s
account. But, then, these men wear enamelled iron
cuffs, card-board collars, and dog’s-wool-and-oakum
singlets, fastened with copper buttons. They are
evidently more luxurious up North.
Some of the Pitt-street publicans must evidently
be putting tobacco in their rum, for of late the Evening
Cobble has shown much eccentricity. In Saturday's
edition we read that “ an estimable young man in Queens,
land, occupying a good position, has surrendered on a
charge of forgery. He had a weakness for horseracing ”
Verb, sap." Hardly have we recovered from this crusher
than we are again laid prostrate by the following-
“ Last Thursday Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John Robin-
son [who is he ?] invited the Italian immigrants at the
Agricultural Hall in the Outer Domain." Nothing more
is said, about the invitation, and no explanation is
afforded as to how the battle waged. The point is what
did he invite them to ? A crumpet scuffle or to “ shady
nook” it at Tennyson? Then, in the same issue (last
Saturday’s), we are told that .“on Good Friday there
will be a grand concert of sacred music in the Theatre
Royal, the programme of which will consist of selections
from Handel, Mendelssohn, Mozart, Rossini, Gonnod
and other masters." Chaos!
There is no hope for the Hekker Zig-Zaggers.
They are doomed. A suffering public has been tortured
long enough, and unless the Fairfaxes put a stop to
the melancholy antics of their staff, the public will be
compelled to resort to club law. Here now is a speci-
men of Echo wit. Could anything be more melan-
choly, except a colliery explosion “‘ Ah Sun, a very
innocent-looking Chinese, was charged with stealing,’
&c. Innocent-looking! Did anyone ever see a child of
the Sun—not ‘Ah Sun’s ’ child, hut a son of old Sol's—
other than innocent-looking? Why, all the world
knows, from Bret Harte down to Policeman X, that
innocence is stamped as indelibly on the brow of all
Celestials as it is on those of all baa-lambs, even though
such lambs grow up into black sheep." And yet the
intellectual resources of the whole staff are brought to
biar on the Zig-Zag Papers, and the result is the drivel
we have quoted. In truth
“ Such laboured nothings in so strange a style.
Amaze th’ unlearn’d and make the learned smile.”
The talented “ special reporter ” who is doing
the South Sea massacres in the Penny Paradox is
quite a hero. He says:—“ The captain and I were not
* cousins,’ and more than once he had shown in a very
plain manner that he hoped that I would lose the
* number of my mess.’ ’’ He is ordered to go ashore for
some yams, and accordingly retires to don his armour.
Then he goes on: —“ When I came out again, the crew
—four Lifu natives—were in the boat, and putting my
box in her I took charge of the steer-oar, and told them
to * shove off.* As we left the side of the vessel the
captain was leaning over the rail, and he hissed after
me, *As soon as you get on shore send the boat back.*
* And how,’ I replied, *am I to get the provisions off.’
‘ Signal,’ he answered, * when you have got enough.’ ”
We once knew a man who used to write like this for all
the New York papers, but he never got in any of them.
The editors all used to send back his copy with the fol-
lowing rider“ We can get Robinson Crusoe for 10
cents; and you can’t lick it."
The Freeman’s Journal, this week, has a
capital sub leader by the editor, who has “ smeared his
page with gall instead of honey ” with a vengeance.
The article pitches into the Herald for its Temora
telegrams, and gives the poor “ Wizzle Wozzle ’’ fits.
Here is a scathing extract“ A small piece of quartz
from the wash of a claim is broken, and shows some
three or four pennyweights of gold; it is purchased by
a local watchmaker, and shown in his window. This is
served up as ‘ Magnificent quartz specimens are being
found in the Euchre claim, and are exhibited in the
jeweller’s windows here.’ The plural is used all
through, although the Euchre has produced but the
one specimen, and Temora’s solitary jeweller has but
one window in which to exhibit it." We are disposed
to be more charitable than the Freeman, and will give
the Herald credit for inserting such things in
good faith, and we will furthermore give the “Wizzle-
Wozzle ” credit for writing according to its convictions.
Mr. Butler seems to have forgotten that there are fit
public-houses in Temora, and the only Burnett known
there is the Sir William of that ilk.
Our friends of the " scent bottle ”3iave ap-
parently expended all their exuberant fervour in regard
to the Chinese Question. It would now really appear
that the Chinkies were only objectionable when they
came in small numbers, and that now they are
arriving almost in thousands they are welcome additions
to the population. By last advices, the Mongolians
stood a fair show of acquiring Honolulu, by driving
the whites out per force of small-pox, and we only
want a few similarly infected landed in this city to
create, with the kind aid of the Town Hall Chinamen—
that’s to say the Aldermen—a plague of London on a
small scale. And, by the way, John has just commenced
to exhibit a wonderful aptitude for availing himself of
one institution born of our civilization and situated in
King-street, where a Chinese gentleman is just now
figuring for the respectable sum of £lO,OOO. In the
Insolvency Court, the other day, a Mongolian insolvent’s
counsel asked the lawyer on the other side “ whether
he'd like to examine the insolvent's books ?’’ The op-
posing counsel shrugged his shoulders as if to say he
thought it would throw just as much light on the case
were he to examine the carvings in the Fish River
Caves.
The City Remembrancer of London has been
called upon to resign, but, like Mr. Teece, when howled
at by the Goulbnrnites, he cannot “ see the fun of it."
And no wonder. .The screw (says “ Dagonet ”) “ is £l5OO
a year, and the duties consist mainly in standing drinks
to members of Parliament in order to get them to vote
for the City bills. A Remembrancer has at his disposal
a purse of about £20,000 a year, which he can use in any
way that he thinks will promote City interests at 'West-
minster. He has unlimited power to invite M.P.’s to
dinner, to stand them fix, or to treat them to donkey
rides on Hampstead Heath." We wonder who is the
substitute for City Remembrancer in Sydney. Let us
see; who is henchman to the Mayor? Why, John
Davies, of course! That accounts for the poor Japs
drinking, at their own expense, “ Confusion to the
Mayor.” There are plenty of people in the employ of
the Council who would make capital Remembrancers.
Mcßeath, for instance, would look it to the life, and in
the matter of lubricating the thoraxes of of
Parliament at the city’s {expense, few could beat him.
With a clean shave and threepenny worth of hair-dye,
a certain other very distinguished official would pass
muster; while Mr. Seymour—but no! he couldn’t be
spared. The aldermen ought really either to depose
the Mayor, or call tenders for a Remembrancer. If they
do, we’ll bet level money that the first envelope will
contain the application of Mr. Q. R. —well, no matter.
The debut of a promising amateur (suburban)
tenor.
MR. WILLIAM ARCHER, MAYOR OF BUEWOOD.
April 23, 1881.


An artesian well at Potsdam, Missouri, U.S.,
has reached the enormous depth of one mile 220 ft.—
the greatest depth attained in any part of the world.
Never give away money in the streets to un-
known people who ask alms. Carry your soup-kitchen
tickets in your pocket, ready to be handed to street-
beggars.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless .scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore Staioeb, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Beauclerc is a full brother to Grand Flaneur.
The Alberts defeated the Orange Cricket Club
by 39 runs.
Swimming matches for ladies at Cavill’s Baths,
St. Leonards, shortly.
The ploughing match at Castle Hill on Easter
Monday was won by Power.
The Sydney Belvideres defeated the Maitland
Albions on Saturday by 7 wickets.
The yacht Amy won the Sweepstakes Yacht
Race at Moreton Bay, on Monday.
Stephens ‘and Griffiths, the latter of South
Creek, are arranging a spin for £2OO.
Hawkins, of Tarana, is said to be the coming
batsman and bowler of the Western district.
Gunild did a splendid gallop on Friday morning,
fairly running over the Pontiff and Martindale.
Murdoch stood umpire in the Warwick match
on Saturday last. Bonnor fielded as substitute.
Grand Flaneur pulled up lame after his gallop
on Saturday morning, and was scratched for all engage-
ments.
First-rate prizes at the Eskbank athletic sports
on the Queen’s Birthday, Lithgow handicap, 150 yards
£2O, &c.
Joe Rigg displayed some splendid fielding on
Saturday last. He was unfortunate in his batting,
however.
The “ comparing” of Tattersall’s Club for the
A. J.C. Autumn Meeting took place favorably on Satur-
day night.
The Christchurch Great Autumn Handicap was
won by Lady Emma, with Sir Modred second, and The
Governor third.
The Clarence River Jockey Club have got out a
first-class programme for the 13th and 14th July. Five
events each day.
Mr. Cowper received at Albury a cheque for
£25, towards the Laycock testimonial, from an esteemed
admirer of the “ sculler.”
The Victorian polo-players, who are on a visit to
South Australia, were shown over Sir Thomas Elder’s
stud farm, Morphetville, on the 15th.
Power and Solomon engaged the Prince of Wales
to follow their race on Saturday. Here is a hint for
the Rowing Association in future races.
Le Loup has again changed hands—this time
being bought by a New Zealand bookmaker named
Snider. The price paid was 375 guineas.
The competition is very keen for the season’s
trophies of the Carlton Club. There are three very
close up, but Joe Davis is the likely one.
The Walker Whisky Trophy Race for profes-
sional scullers will take place in the month of Septem-
ber. The entries close on the 3rd August.
If the Warwick wicket-keeper had turned up in
time on Saturday, he could have saved some fifty runs,
and thereby might have won the match for his club.
A private match for .£lOO, between M'Dougall’s
Blackbird and Waugh’s Faith, took place at Grenfell on
Thursday, and was won by Blackbird by half a length.
The results of the races at Lochinvar on Mon-
day are as follows : —Shorts, Grey Momus 1, True Blue
2. Lochinvar Handicap, Navy Eights 1, True Blue 2,
Darkie 3.
Let the rest of the brothers Punch follow Pari
passu Frank’s example and subscribe to the £3OO prize.
We shall then have the “Walker’s Whisky Punch
Trophy.’’ ..ft '
Some people, who are devout believers in the
inefficacy of the law, are advocating the rowing of future
races on some inland river where that steamer cannot
interfere.
The Australian Jockey Club have a new item on
the programme. It is _ advertised in job type, and is
announced by the simple and expressive word,
“ luncheon.”
The Woollongong Eleven (which is, perhaps,
one of the most formidable cricket teams out of Sydney)
was easily defeated on Easter Monday, by the Newtown
Eleven from Sydney.
Nothing but recrimination, and “I told you so ”
amongst our rowing amateurs. The fact is, they never
told us so : every rowing authority we met said it was a
dead gift for Sydney.
The Sydney Rowing Club sheds are undergoing
extensive alterations. For comfort and convenience
we should always prefer the Mercantile shed, but it is
awkward to get to at.
Brian Boru, the winner of the Maiden Plate at
the late Murrumbidgee Turf Club meeting, was pur-
chased by Mr. W. A. Long for £2OO. He is by John
Bull from Nightshade.
William Barron, the Cumberland pole-leaper,
died at Keswick recently. He was in his twenty-fourth
year, and had won no fewer than thirty-five first class
prizes. His best jump was 10ft. Sin.
On Friday, the third day of the present race
meeting, the racing is expected to be better than
usual. The racing on the “off day” has almost
always been the best of the meeting.
The New South Wales Coursing Club have
received 16 nominations for the Bathurst Cup, 24 for
the Dockairne Stakes, 17 for the Intercolonial Stakes,
and 29 for the New Plumpton Stakes.
The special correspondent of the Australa-
sian says that on the night before the intercolonial
boatrace, a gentleman here eagerly took up a wager of
£lOOO to £BOO on the Melbourne crew.
At the Rocky Waterhole Races at Brisbane, on
Monday, a back while crossing the course during a race
was struck by the racer Guardsman, and both horses
were killed. The riders were unhurt.
A genuine offer of £4OO was made for Dauphin,
Mr. Redwood’s two-year-old, after the Wanganui races,
by a few leading local sportsmen, but that amount was
not considered enough for the Sapling winner.
In the final heat for the Hop Bitters, Laycock
had the word “Australia’’ painted on his boat. Ross,
when fouling him (for he did foul him in that race), cut
a line with his scull right through the word. Ominions !
The Tamworth Cricket Club met the Albions on
the ground at West Maitland on Monday. The Albions
made in their first innings 65; the Tamworth 32. In
the second innings, the Albions lost 9 wickets for 160
runs.
Dan O’Brien, a jockey known to fame in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, fell from an express train in
Canterbury, and the wheel passing over the toes of his
right foot, cut them off. He also sustained other
injuries.
The bay colt by Musket, from Sylvia, the pro-
perty of the Auckland Stud Company, has been named
Martini-Henry; bay colt by Musket from All Steel,
Bessemer; the bay filly by Musket from Cryeina,
Fusillade.
There was great excitement recently at a
country race meeting in the province of Auckland
(N.Z.), over a race in which three horses—Flora, Magi-
cian, and Golden Crown—started, and in whish the
latter was pulled.
At the “ outing ” of the New South Wales
Coursing Club at Woodstock, Mr. C. C. Skarratt pre-
sented Mr. H. Lamb with a handsome scarf-pin, be-
queathed to him by the late Mr. Gardiner for his
excellence as a judge.
At Herberton, Wild River, N.Q., on St. Patrick’s
■Day, athletic sports were held, £4O having been sub-
scribed as prizes. The 100 and 200 yards events were
Doth won by R. Spence from scratch, while the first
Prize in the “ Great Northern Tinkers’ Handicap ” for
men employed by the G.N.T. Mining Co. was appro-
priated by W. Shafflißg. In the last event, "the tug of
war,” seven men on either aide were picked by the
respective captains, and commenced pulling, when, in
the words of a correspondent, “nearly everyone in the
township got on to the rope. The result was there was
a smash, and everyone went behind on both sides.”
A new arrival from England, with some repu-
tation as a lawn-tennis player, was asked to join the
club which practices on the Association ground. He
replied, with the usual drawling incohorency, “ Don’t
cayah play thayah—not shaw playnth gentlemen.”
The Victorian eight-oar crew had a very plea-
sant trip to Windsor, a “ day out ” at the sham fight,
and a “ blow” over the Blue Mountains ; and have gone
back to Victoria to consider what they can do in the
way of sight-seeing for our representatives next year.
At a meeting last week of the Grafton Regatta
Committee the prizes in all the events were filled in,
amounting in all to £244. The general entry closes on
the 21st May. It was announced that the Australian
(a.) would carry competitors’ boats from Sydney free of
charge.
This is how Laycock’s ledger stood when leaving
England. He lost £lOOO on Trickett in his race with
Hanlan, which put him £l5O in debt. He won the Hop
Bitters, £5OO, and gave Trickett £250 to help him over
his losses; then he paid his debt, and had £lOO
remaining.
The nominations for the Duekenfield Park
Stakes, and the Northern Jockey Club and Flying
Handicaps closed on Tuesday. The Flying Handicap is
a sweep of 2 sovs., with 40 added; 7 furlongs. The N.
J. C. Handicap has 150 sovs. added, and the Duekenfield
Park Stakes 100 sovs. added.
Alick Bannerxnan has introduced a new style of
bowling, which he calls " cock-a-doodle stuff.” It
merely amounts to a slow high-pitched “googler,”
which he backs up with his fielding. Allen and J.
Teece made 40 runs off it on Saturday in about ten
minutes. It is not destructive.
Thompson of Dapto and Vidler of Bulli, who
ran a dead heat in a match for £25 aside, on the 2nd
inst., had another spin at Wollongong on Saturday
week. The competitors got away on pretty even terms,
which were maintained over the whole journey, but
Vidler managed at last to win by a foot.
The time in which the Napier Handicap, of the
Hawke’s Bay J.C. meeting, was run was the fastest on
record in New Zealand. The distance was one and a-half
miles, and the time 3min. 9|sec. The Victorian Leger,
only 132 yards longer course, weight for age, was run in
3min. 16sec., the fastest time on record in Australia.
Edwards, the pedestrian, was prosecuted at
Sandridge recently, with another "go-as-you-please,”
for having been found by night on a man’s premises
without lawful excuse. The affair, however, was
amicably settled out of court, and Edwards proceeded,
the following day to Adelaide to fulfil an engagement.
The results of the Onkaparinga races (S.A.), on
Monday, are as follow: —Hurdles; Avalanche 1, Faugh-
a-ballagh 2, Twilight 3. Mriden Plate: Crystal 1, Topsy
2, Auch Goruu 3. The Cup: Silverthread 1, Miss
Hariett 2. Steeplechase: Trigger 1, Gunn 2, Warrior 3.
Flying Handicap: Auch Goruu 1, Roebuck 2, Faugh-a-
ballah 3,
The results of the Williamstown races, on Mon-
day, are as follow: —Hurdles ; Nimrod 1, Cumberland 2,
Sardine 3. Altoun Handicap: Josephine 1, Billilla 2,
Constitution 3. Telegraph Stakes : Blantyre 1, Nunny-
kirk 2, Silvertail 3. Galloway Stakes : Maggie Moore
1, lorn 2, Paddy 3. Seaford Handicap : Wizard 1, Sea
Serpent 2, Last Light 3.
Of the two cricket teams which threaten the
invasion of Australia, the more certain is Lillywhite’s,
because the arrangements are already made, and the
articles are, if not signed, ready for signature. It is
not likely that Boyle and Scott Will go on with their
“ spec.” unless they are convinced that we can make
the teams pay. We can’t.
The prize of ,£3O offered by the proprietors of
the Yeoman newspaper, Wanganui (N.Z.), for the first
subscriber who tipped the winners of the Wanganui
Stakes, Plying Handicap, and Wanganui Cup, at the
recent meeting, was not won by anybody, the double
victory by Sir George putting everyone out. 536 com-
peted from all parts of the colony.
On Friday afternoon a foot-race took place on
the southern end of Bourke-street, between A. Warran
and A. Chaffe; the distance was 150 yards, and the
stake £5 a-side. A good start was effected, and the men
raced well together for about 60 yards, when Warren
went ahead and eventually won easily by about two
yards. Mr. J. W. Taylor was the starter.
The results of the second day’s racing of the
Murrumbidgee Turf Club are as follow Flying Han-
dicap : Chuckster 1, Lexicon 2, Joker 3. Maiden Plate :
Brian Boru 1, Edith 2, Chuckster 3. Prince of Wales’
Stakes : Aristocrat 1, Johnny Crapaud 2, Cassandra 3.
Publicans’ Purse : Marchioness 1, Macaroni 2, Albyn 3.
Open Haudicap ; Nightmare 1, Lexicon 2, Printer 3.
In the final heat of the Hop Bitters Race, Lay-
cock got so far ahead of his competitors that when he
arrived at the flag-boat the man in charge, gun in hand,
was looking down the river at the smoke of the approach,
ing steamers. As soon as he realised that the race was
over, he exclaimed, “ Tare-an-ouns! is that Misther
Laycock ? ” and suddenly fired the gun, upsetting him-
self by the concussion.
By last mail, Mr. James Copland, champion of
the Sydney Bicycle Club, received information to the
effect that the Surrey Bicycle Club, London, were about
to forward to him gold and silver medals for competi-
tion by the amateur riders of Australia. Particulars
and conditions will accompany the medals. The race
or races for which are to be run under the auspices of
the Sydney Bicycle Club.
In addition to the medals presented to the Vic-
torian crew by the Mayor of Sydney, his Worship has
promised the Rowing Association a handsome trophy
for a race for junior oarsmen in outriggers as a prepara-
tion for the intercolonial race. It would not be in-
advisable also to arrange, about the time for the future
eight-oared races, a sculling match for the amateur
championship of Australia.
Since the handicaps have been declared for
Tattersall’s annual meeting at Bathurst, the only
scratching has been Victoria, for all engagements. The
course is in a disgraceful condition, the fence being
broken down in many parts along the running. The
grandstand is also in a most dilapidated state. It is to
be hoped that an improvement will be made before the
races take place. Nancy Lee, Unknown, and Joker are
doing very good work.
A match was commenced on Tuesday between
the Carlton and University clubs. The latter were first
to go to the wickets, and made 103, of which Geary con-
tributed 38 and Davis 15. The University were disposed
of for 53, Slight 19 and Garrett 13 being the principal
scorers. The Carlton commenced their second innings,
and when time was called had last 8 wic£ets for 108
runs; the principal scorers were Davis, not out, 34,
Weame, not out, 20, C. Bannermann 19, Nunn 12. The
match is to be played out.
The quarterly meeting of the Mercantile Rowing
Club was held on Thursday night last. The report was
very favourable. The number of members has increased
considerably, and the Club has won every race for which
its members have competed (in all, seven races), and
the liabilities have been considerably reduced. The
annual regatta programme including four maiden,
four junior, three senior races, and trial fours—has
been put forth. Messrs. Lockrey, Benson, and Black-
man have been elected the Match and Selection Com-
mittee for the present year. The Chairman presented
the prizes won at the National Regatta. The considera-
tion of some new rules and by-laws, and of some
alterations in the old ones, was postponed until the
28th instant, when a full attendance of members is
expected.
A match was played on Saturday last on the
Association Ground, between the Warwick and Uni-
versity clubs. Although play commenced at 10 a.m. an
innings each only was completed, the Universities head-
ing their opponents by 25 runs. The total made by the
visitors was 174, to which Jones contributed 62 by very
fine play, although giving a few chances, Garrett 39 by
very brilliant batting, Jacton 20 and Wilkinson 13. The
Warwicks made 149, the evergreen Ned Gregory con-
tributing 33, Ranger 22, not out, by careful batting.
Nettle 15, Noble and M‘Donald 13 each, Bannerman 11,
and Downes 10. The Universities resumed their second
innings, and when time was called had lost 2 wickets
for 45 runs. Allen 29, not out, and J. Teece 13, not out,
being the principal scores. The match was decided by
the result of the first innings.
A correspondent of Bell’s Life in London writes:
—“ It may have escaped the attention of some of your
readers that Robert the Devil’s performance in the
Champion Stakes is, if we may believe the stop-watch,
almost unparalleled. If 2min. lOsec. . was the correct
time, his rate of speed was, as nearly as may be, Imin.
40isec. per mile, as may be easily seen:—1 mile, Imin.
40isec.; 2 furlongs, 25|sec.; 43 yards, 4 3-16 sec.; total,
2min 913-16 sec. The only recorded performance I
know which can be fairly set against this is one told of
in Orton’s ‘ Annals of York and Doncaster.’ In 1830,
at the York Spring Meeting, Medora won the Consti-
tution Stakes by a head from Cistercian. The distance
was 11 mile, the time Imin. 33sec. as the rate for a mile.
Here, however, the second horse, Cistercian, made
severe running. The race was only won by a head,
whereas Robert the Devil had neither an assistant nor
an _ opponent, and was evidently not extended at the
finish. Moreover, the weighs of the York race were,
taking six-year-old weight as the standard, on a 51b.
lower scale.”
The Taranaki, N.Z., races were successful and
well attended The following are the resultslst Day
—Maiden Plate, 11 mile—Venture, Bst 21b, 1; Frivolity,
Bst, 2; Sunray, 9st 31b, 3. Steeplechase, 3 miles—
Chandler, list, 1; Pikorangi, 9st Slbs, 2; Lady Grey,
9st 41bs, 3. Taranaki Jockey Club Handicap (principal
event), 2 miles—Matau, 6st 91bs, 1; Libeller, Bst 121bs,
2; Dan, §st, 3. Time, 3m. 34secs. Taranaki Cup, 2
miles—Libeller, 9st, 1; Hailstorm, 9st 41bs, 2; Esdy-
mion, 9st 41bs, 3. Second Day—Hurdle Race, 2 miles—
Morning Star, 9st lOlbs, 1; Matau, list. 2. Autumn
Handicap, 1| mile—King Quail (Australian horse), 6st
lOlbs, 1; Opaua, 7st 41bs, 2; Libeller, SstlOlbs, 3. Time,
3m. 12-Jsecs. Ladies’ Purse, 11 miles and a distance—
Bilingsgate, list, 1; Hailstorm, list 21bs, 2; Morning
Star, list 21bs, 3. Country Handicap, 11 mile—Resolu-
tion, 1; Confident, 2; Scotch Mist, 3. Consolation, 1
mile—Opaua, Bst lOlbs, 1; Dan, Bst 91bs, 2. Hippo-
campus, 7st lOlbs, 3. A large amount of money was put
through the totalisator.
After being defeated by Hanlan, Trickett was
advised to try a change of scene to get himself into
spirits with his race with Ross. Margate, Dover, and
Newcastle were visited, and a trip to Paris was sug-
gested, but the difficulty arose that not one of the
party could speak French. Thereupon the imperturb-
able Jack Thompson stepped forward and intimated to
the two Australians that his French was only second to
his English. The visit was made and enjoyed; but on
the return trip by railway from Paris to Havre, Jack’s
French was tried and found wanting. Another gentle-
man was in the carriage, and as the train started the
stranger very leisurely unlocked his cigar case and
began to pull at a very fragrant Havanna. This, of
course, was not in the programme for Trickett, who
was in heavy training and would suffer by being cooped
up in a carriage filled with tobacco smoke. Jack tried
his French, but with no avail, for when he spoke the
Frenchman merely smiled, not understanding a word,
and being of course too polite to intimate so to him.
Grimaces and gestures were of no use; at last it was
suggested that the nuisance should be removed by
other means. Lots were drawn as to who should be
executioner, and Elias became the victim. He ad-
vanced towards the Frenchman, who continued puffing,
never for one moment imagining that smoking could be
disagreeable to three such stalwart people. Elias made
a most profound bow, and with a bland smile he seized
the cigar, gently disengaged it from the smoker’s lips,
and threw it out of the window. Then he made an
apologetic salaam and retired to his seat. Of course,
the Frenchman stormed and invoked lots of blue devils,
&c., but he didn’t smoke again.
A Napier (N.Z.) clergyman. Rev. Mr. Hovell,
lately preached a sermon against bookmakers, pro-
fessional gamblers, and amateur betters, asserting that
betting did not enrich the country, to which a N.Z.
metallican known to fame as Jack Harris (the same
Jack who ran Frank Hewitt in Melbourne years ago),
replied:—“ Allow me to differ from such an idea. Do
away with betting, do away with all chance of winning
money by wagering on the events of a race meet-
ing, and there would very soon be no racing at all.
For stakes alone usch as can be given in this colony it
would not pay to breed or run racehorses. I have
heard it asserted that it does not even pay to run a
horse straight. So it would seem that those who bet,
by laying the odds, or by taking them, are the real
supporters of the turf. It stands to reason that in all
gambling transactions somebody must win if another
loses, and I do not think the winner is to be con-
gratulated any more than the loser should be com-
miserated. Human nature will have to alter very
considerably before mankind will cease to love a wager
upon an uncertain event. Will it surprise Mr. Hovell
to learn that from a wordly point of view the church
sanctions and almost sanctifies gambling by her own
conduct ? Are not churches built in all directions on
an * off-chance ’ of their being paid for by hook or by
crook ? Is not nearly every church in the colony hope-
lessly in debt through * over laying its book ? ’ The
gambling man has to meet his liabilities, but as there is
no ecclesiastical Tattersalls where a defaulting church
can be posted, the most reckless gambling—for it is
nothing less—goes on, upon no other principle than if
the church debt is paid well and good, and if it is not
then no one will be so wicked as to put a bailiff in the
pulpit.—l am, &c.,
J. Q. HARRIS.”
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY MAROOGALINE).
The chief of our Hansard staff, D. F. Jones,
is away in Melbourne to obtain shorthand-writers for
next session. He anticipates long and lively speeches.
There will be a startling disclosure soon about
the expenditure of a certain amount of the Volunteer
vote. It will be a subject for sarcastic and lively dis-
cussion next session.
There is an idea here that Gresley Lukin is one
of the proprietors of the Federal Australian, as he
was an enthusiastic federationist. Pressmen here wish
Gresley success wherever he goes, as he was very
popular with the profession, and deservedly so.
There is little doubt that the Duke of Man-
chester visited our Western country chiefly in the
interests of the “ syndicate ” who propose to construct
our transcontinental line. He is also thirsting to be-
come a squattocratic magnate, with as much land as
there is in a couple of European kingdoms.
It is reported, on what authority nobody knows,
that the whole population of Queensland shed tears
when the last session ended and they knew there would
be no Hansards for a dreary period of six months. If,
according to Marino, the Italian, enough tears have been
shed in the world to make a small lake, it is fair to say
that Queensland will soon be credited with enough to
make a small salt water hole of her own.
When it became known here that one pressman
had been attaching the signature of a respected
journalist to financial documents and cashing them, the
general public were bigotedly incredulous about any
pressman having a bank account at all, and all the
other pressman simply laughed the idea to scorn. But
there was a slight modification of opinion when it
transpired that there really was a bank account, but
that all the false cheques had simply been increasing
an overdraft!
Hume Black, the new member for Mackay, has
appeared in Brisbane and made himself at home in the
Parliamentary library. It is amusing to see the air of
distinguished nonchalance with which new members
walk into that library ; just as if, you know, they had
been accustomed to that kind of thing from infancy.
Mr. Black is rather a smart, intelligent-looking, middle-
aged man, who ought to be an acquisition to the House.
Still we shall miss the happy good-humoused face of
poor inoffensive Amhurst!
Swanwick, M.L.A., is fluttering the legal Vol-
scians at Townsville, to which he went prospecting for
better prospects, and is likely to find them. If Towns-
ville pleases him he will resign his seat and embrace
the " Sea Cybele ” of the North. He is a good-natured
good-hearted fellow, but deplorably defective in judg-
ment. He has lost a good deal of his Ministerial
enthusiasm since the Attorney-General ordered him out
of his railway carriage, and is not likely to give the
Government an overwhelming support next session.
Sir Ralph Gore, the solitary Queensland baronet,
was a magnificent failure in administering the Dis-
tillation Act, and has, therefore, been relieved of his
duties. If he had continued in that office much longer,
he would probably have been assassinated by the
enraged distillers. He still continues to play the fiddle,
but fortunately he lives out of town, where he has no
neighbours to hear him practising. He is a musician
of the same type as the bag-piper, who wanted a
shilling to start and ten shillings to leave off.
Lord Henry Phipps has just been visited by his
sister, the Countess of Ellesmere. He lives, with Lady
Phipps, at the head of the Logan River, at a very pretty
sylvan retreat called “ The Hollows.” Lord Henry is
a great favourite with all who know him. He works
hard, and is a quiet, unassuming, really nice gentle-
manly fellow. I was out shooting with him two or
three times, and found him a most agreeable companion.
He is a first-class field shot, but is very unsuccessful at
trap-shooting. He is not wealthy, and is earning his
own living in a manly style that entitles him to in-
finite credit,
Frederick Cooper, M.L.A., the “ majestic,” is
engaged revising and indexing the Statutes, and the
first two columns are done. I had a private inspection,
and consider that “ handsome Fwed” has done his work
in a masterly fashion, and that henceforth the Statutes
will be intelligible to ordinary mortals, and any man
can find his own law without wading wearily through
4000 pages. However, there will be a sublime row when
the House meets, as Fred, was employed in defiance of
a resolution of last session that no lawyer in the As-
sembly was to be engaged in any capacity by the Go-
vernment.
A friend of mine near Brisbane had a favorite
king parrot. His son shot a wild one and placed it on
the parlor table. The father saw it, and thinking his
beloved favorite lay dead before him, he proceeded to
shed tears copiously over the gorgeously-feathered
corpse. He was roused from his reverie of grief by a
familiar “ all humbug, all humbug,” from a well-known
voice, and turning round he saw his darling “Poll,”
“ very much alive ” and well, hopping in at the door.
He had wasted about a pint of tears over the wrong
bird, and now it is dangerous to ask that man if he
would like to weep over another parrot 1
Lumley Hill, M.L.A., is down from the Gregory,
and looks and talks as if his exploits at the late Mitchell
election had changed the destinies of the colony. He
is genial and manly, but as occasion demands
it he can evolve a resolution equal to 300 Mexi-
can mules. IE the Ministry are capsized next session,
assuredly the principal cause will be the suicidal
folly with which Morehead overlooked Hill, when
choosing a successor after he took the Postmaster
Generalship. Lumley will be an eagle in the Minis-
terial dovecot next session. A new and far more formid-
able “ subsection ” is likely to rise from the ashes of
the old one.
Morehead has so far not signalised himself by
any brilliant administrative achievements in the Post
Office. There is trouble before him in the Upper House.
He foolishly “ cut ” Dr. O’Doherty after that revolu-
tionary orator addressed the Parnell sympathisers,
and now Kevin Izod has sworn some fearful Celtic oath
that he will make the Council very lively for Morehead.
The Hon. William Henry Walsh will also meet the
Council in his war paint, as the man “ who ought to
have been ” Postmaster-General but wasn’t, and who
has now decided to solace his exacting soul by a cheer-
ful but firm determination not to allow Morehead to
transact any more business than he cannot possibly
prevent.
Spiritualism is becoming demonstrative here.
The Telephone was believed to be “ too far advanced ”
by one party, and so they started the Spiritualist, just
to supply the primary education, and lead the public, as
it were, gently up to the higher regions of the Tele-
phone. I was present at a circle where the medium
was controlled by the spirit of Hannibal the Cartha-
ginian. I asked him {about that vinegar business, and
he said there was no “ pure malt vinegar ” made from
acetic acid in those eays, but there was an unlimited
supply of lemons, and lemon juice was really the article
he employed to “ bust up ’’ the rocks. Cato also came,
but he began to yell about the vices of the present age,
until we had to forcibly expel him.
The Hon. W. H. Walsh, familiarly known as
“ William Henry,” was a picture, or rather a figure-
subject for any rising artist who wished to picture
an exasperated senator tearing round with what
Artemus called "a wild look in his eye,” when the
English papers came from Sydney yesterday (12th), and
our mails had not arrived by our lightning mail clipper
Merkara. William was heard to say—“ Simply scan-
dalous! We shall have to get our mails through
Sydney agents! Here, while the Sydney mails have
arrived several days ago, this old wash-tub of a
Merkara is sneaking along our coast at about six miles
an hour, and no certainty of her ever arriving. She is
only a collier; by Jove, I believe she was built for a col-
lier. Monstrous mail service iniquity, I call it 1” Thus
soliloquised the senatorial Xenophanes.
The Courier has been in trouble with the
Supreme Court through publishing a telegram re steel
rail enquiry and freight contract. Legal expenses of
£lOO and apology ! Buzacott felt exceptionally mad
about it, and forthwith published a column and a half
of a letter “ To Queensland Journalists” warning them
of their deadly peril and the prospective falling of the
Damoclesian sword suspended over their distracted
heads. He emphasised the urgent necessity for legis-
lation, but why did not this idea occur to him during
all the years he sat in the Assembly as a “ newspaper
editor man.” However there really is need of clearly
defining the power of judges, and the Courier was
certainly the victim of a privilege exercised in the most
foolishly despotic fashion. All the papers condole with
the Courier, but most of them keep as quiet as mice
for the simple reason that they republished the tele-
gram, and are therefore also liable to the same
penalties.
Tyson, the millionaire, was one day “ Croesus in
creation,” and is, and still must be, until he finds old
Charon sculling him over the Styx, and all his wealth
of stock, stations, and bank notes left on the terrestrial
shore, of no more actual service to him than an eye-
glass to a blind man, or top boots to a kangaroo.
Curious old fellow is Tyson. He and I are very friendly
—and some day soon I will give you a sketch of all his
puculiarities, his talents, and customs, and a list of
those axioms by the guidance of which he says he
accumulated his enormous wealth. He went up in the
train with mo last week, and I asked him if the follow,
ing anecdote told of him was strictly correct: —Tyson
had built a church, and the sum he had given was just
enough to complete the building. There was no balance
left to erect a lightning-rod, so they wrote to him for a
trifle to supply this deficiency, but he wrote back and
said, “ No—l built that church and paid for it, and if it
pleases heaven to knock it down or set fire to it, I have
no right to interfere.” He blushed like a girl, and ad-
mitted that " there was some truth in it,” but how
much he declined to say.
The Press of the metropolis is in the quiescent
intermediate state between two sessions, and generally
characterised by monotonous monotony. The Tele-
graph grinds away at the mail contract and steel rails
business with a regularity and determination bom of
the most frenzied anti-ministerial liberalism and
remorseless conviction of being right. Since Meston
left the Observer it has come out as a Ministerial
paper, and is losing in consequence. People also miss
the “ Mestonisms ” which passed the paper down apart
from politics. The new editor is Spencer Browne, a
nice, quiet, manly young fellow; but no one
living could make a success of a ministerial paper in
the present state of Brisbane political opinion. The
Courier, like Mahomet’s coffin, is poised between the
clouds of squatterism and the earth of liberalism,
painfully uncertain whether to go up or down. The
Evening News, from the same office, appears to be a
link to connect the squatters and the people, the
aristocracy with the democracy! Since " Endymion ”
took the place of “Specialities” in the Courier, all
the men in that office walk about with a forlorn and
dejected aspect, as if they had abandoned all hope in
this world. Buzacottiam humor is too much for them.


Tailors, Drape
COUNTRY ORDERS prom
carefully executed. Send I
a choice selection of Fancy and G
the Departments—New Dress K
laines. Serges, Cashmeres, Satin
FIRST CLASS DEES
AUTUMN AND WINTEI
Our own Manufactured G 1
2 Buttons 4 Buttons
2s 9d 3s 9d
Posted 3s. 4s
Cut paper patterns, all gai
JOHN B. you:
6 GEORGE ST
(Just below Liver]
MERICAN CUT PAI
MADAME DEM
Perfect Fitti:
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations
MADAME DEMOEEST’S put
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gr
MISS LOUISA
87 Kins Street, Sydney (two d
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-s
The mis s e
(Late with Messrs. Davi
52, MARGARET S
WYNTAED SG
Three Doors from Mr. J. £
Have much pleasure in announci
to open Mantles Millinery, and s
Ladies for the Autumn Season,
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, W
LISE’S PAPER Cl
All communications to b
•• ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET
Six doors from Geor
Orders for Patterns cannot b«
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patte:
style, cut, and finish, being modell
Fashions, and are always sent
receipt of stamps or money order
w TT IS A WELL-KNCT
JL for Household or Fan
Hordern’s" Old-Established am
porium on the Brickfield H '
for Value, Variety, or Extent of I
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GC
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES
G
E O. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASH
3 BRIDGE STREEI
LATH
CUTTER TO E. M
Begs to inform his friends and 1
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, &e., at a low price f
Gentlemen requiring this with V
should give me;a trial.
Country orders promptl;
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM (
N°
TICE TO TB
SUITS TO ORDI
R. C. HA(
FASHION AB
TAILORING ESTA]
127 KING STE
Where you can be fitted with the
cheapest Outfit in tl
Note the Extraordinarv Cheap ]
Tailors, Draper
fjl H
OMPSON AN
DENISON HOC
S5B, 360, 362, George
OPENING NEW G
for
WINTER SEAS
EVERY DAT DURING T;
FIRST GENERAL
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESS
FOR THE WINTER
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAMI
DOVER HOMESPUN INDR
ELASTIC BIEGE ANGC
KASGHER CASHMERE JERS]
STOCKINGETTE VALP
AND A LARGE ASSORTME
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, someth
handsome, dir
houses in Lone
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAB
SILK, Rich V
to 24 inch wide
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES,
SILKS, in a vai
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and sti
for wear, and i
BLACK VELVI
NAUCUNIUM.f
every yard sta
BLACK SATIN
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and s
under usual
SILK VELVI
every shade oi
and Brocaded
Floral Designs
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAR'
OPENED a
MENT of a:
LACES in ev
imitation, Eml
Ruffling, Mod
Cuffs, Collare
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
t"' ~ n
FROM DRESi
be no decept
washed. Lad
Sheetings gooi
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-i
inch. Is 6d to £
to 3s. Americ
& Horrocks* C
QUILTS, fron
prices. Colo
QUILTS, 2\ 1c
COVERS at al
the yard, 27 an
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEB
been our stud;
this class of
character. By
year after yea
of FIRST-CLA
are now showi
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, ho
Damask. The
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We
MASK CLOT
425; 5-BNAPB
3-4 NAPKINI
29s 6d; DA
round or squar
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIIS
wide ; WH!
TOWELS, fro
cording to siz
ISH TOWELS
Tailors, Draper
TOU ARE
RESPECTFULLY INV
TO VISIT
HORDERN
IST
PITT STREET
161
KING- STEEE
(Near Tramwaj
MADAME WEIG
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSE
cut in different sizes for Ladi<
nished with illustrations and <3
up. Sold at prices ranging fro
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by
annum, post free. Catalogs
Patterns sent to any part of th
of price and measure. Postage
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEI
161 KING STRE;
SYDNEY.
Easiness Annonnc
8
Lleoal.J
HOETEE, FITZGEEAID
SOLICITOE
69 CASTLEREAGH STREI
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal.— Mr. t. m. i
SOLICITOE, has co:
practice of his profession, al
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
MAC
POETEAIT PAI]
STREET, WOO
EYE E S &
LICENSED SURVEYORS, .
AND
GENERAL DEAUGH
M'Cot’s Chambers, No. 16
Are prepared to execute all orders
terms. Also, CALIGEAPHIC ai
WORK of style unparalleled. Spe
QHEAPEST AND
BES
MARK ISAACS* CORPORA'
HAT STREET, HAYS
TEA, Is per 11
Other articles equally che
Go ds packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS L]
WITH.
T
HOM A S
W
ENGINEER & lEONF
JJ EP O T IN 1
NO. 1 DARLING S'
HARBOUR STR]
ILLUSTRATED PRICE I
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wi
tacking (or basting), without the
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wi
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, a
embroider curtains or antimaeasss
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our office
trades can be supplied.. They are i
in running, strong, handsome, t
machine may be had on trial, EN'
CHARGE. Instruction at YOl
free. Every WERTHEIM Machi
KEPT IN REPAIR and worki
YEARS from the date of purchas
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMEN'
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OF CHAR(
samples by post. Country agi
liberal terms. BEALE and C
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcasi
Bathurst. No matter in what pa
live, we will supply you wit
MACHINE upon TIME PAYE
INTEREST.
T
HE A U S T
“HOME" SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS
SEWING MAC
r EXPRESS
M OSS ,


Hotels, fto.
o LD
EXHIBITIO
PRINCE ALFRED
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. hil:
Ma. g
• PARK HOTEL, PAR
(immediately opposite the
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines
best brands, at the lowest poss
HOTELS, &c.
Hotels, &
B
OBEET BUTC
(Late William 1
WINE AND SPIRIT M
534 GEORGE ST
OPPOSITE TOWN HAI
Country Orders Receive Pj
I
ICE. IC 3
E
FROM piltere:
Supplied in ant Qi
AND AT EEDUCE]
Direct from t
CITY ICE COMPATs
WATERLO
Office— 3 WTNYAE
T
HE GENUINE EAR
IS THE
No. 4.
Distinguished, by tl
r
Manufactured
JOHANN MABIJ
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. ((
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Rc
By appointment to His Roj
Prince of Wal
Prize Medals: —London, 1851 j N<
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (
not represented.) Sydney, 187
Notice. —The Public are cauti<
Siurious IMITATIONS, fraudu
olognes; and notice is hereby
Marks being duly registered, all
ceeded against to the full extent
JOHANN MAI
WHOLESALE A(
MESSRS. RABONE, I
3 WTNYARD S(J
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING HI
THE REALLY GOOD TE
SENTED TO
sflfj
Hotels, &
fllHE COMPAGNC
CAFE AND CATEEING C
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s EES
IS NOW OP]
The Company have secured 1
Marriette, late de cuisin
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinn
Three hours notice required for j
The spacious rooms of Mess
been greatly enlarged, re-deco
Every_ attention will bo paid t
establishment.
SAMUEI
June 30,1880.
/"'lOMPAGNONI PALACE
serve up in their b
OYSTEE STEWS
OYSTEES SCOL]
OYSTEBS FEIE]
and
OYSTE tS NATU
Patrons of our Theatres and C
PEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI'S. oppos:
ENGLISH
T°
And Visitors from the neigh
and the Public ge:
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW
THE IMPEEIAI
MOUNT VICTO
Is in the midst of all that is worth
Mountains. First-class accoi
and gentlemen. Comfort, ch
combined with moderate char
j. g. cous;
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE F]
78 & 80 CASTLEEEi
Opposite Thbateb
de
HOT
15a
EBf
W
TO
IP
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-EOO
ACCOMMODATION FOE '
S. MUHLEBACH & (
PEOPEIETOI
E3R
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
WOR^
The BEST ALE and STOI
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEE]
MERCHANT
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE I
l
the PERFECTION
OF
UNRIVALLED for
£Wstoddy.
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should be carefully compa
are being imported into New S
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bev
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK
other brands, when they will fl
cen t. in favour of
YIRGOE, SON, ANI
AGENTS,
C.
w
(Late COLLINS &
SEATED WATERS, G
and
CORDIAL MANUPj
438 HARRIS STRE.
ROSS AND
(Late Collins and
■SEATED Y
AND
CORDIAL MANUPA
438 HARRIS STRE]
First Prize, International E
for Soda Wat
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Le
Ginger Beer,
CORDIALS OP AL]
The Trade supplied with prom]
NOTE THE ADD!
ROSS AND
438 HARRIS STREET
JT ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND A
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TE
SS
&
%
S8
f/A cl
m
m
m
m
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HA
2 BRIDGE STREET, I
r is not the clearness or conditi
Ale that preserves this bran
mation. Common bitter crude bee:
but no other brand has tho same n
ter, the fulness on the palate, ai
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C
(ore cautioned against traders wb
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog.
CO., Sole Agents,
THE BULLETIN.
April 23. 1881.
7


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
That theatrical scandal incubates.
Bland Holt made a hit as Touchstone.
Creswick in Henry YIII. at London Surrey.
N.Z. theatrical company a frost in Newcastle.
New theatre building in London. Site : Lincoln’s
Inn Fields.
Miss Maggie Forde has gone to an engagement
at Brisbane.
Ketten leaves the colony with ,£7500 to the good.
And his dawg.
Mr. A. Campbell, late of the Lingard company,
is in Auckland.
Christchurch, N.Z., is at present honored with
a waxworks show.
Fred. Marshall at the Bijou, Melbourne, in
" Quilp” next week.
Gordon Gooch and his pupils lately gave a
concert in Auckland.
Majeroni is with Collier’s “ Banker’s Daughter”
Company in the States.
Grattan Biggs had another benefit in Auckland,
but was poorly patronised.
The Scandinavian Hall, Castlereagh-street,
which holds 1000, is to let.
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Tavares are are in Char-
ters Towers. Also “ Dr.” Lynn.
Fred. Thorn is to take a farewell benefit in
Melbourne. He is off to England.
The Novelty Theatre, Melbourne, was put up
by auction, and passed in at £B5OO.
Miss Flora Anstead has taken Mrs. Bryer’s place
as “old woman” at the Melbourne Royal.
Bandmann and Walter Eeynolds dissolved
partnership, and separated at Christchurch.
Herr Bandmann gave a free reading entertain-
ment on a recent Saturday afternoon in Christchurch.
George Coppin, our readers will be sorry to
hear, is in a bad way. He has again been attacked by
gout.
The late Mr. E. A. Sothern used to earn over
£30,000 per year, or nearly £2OO for every night he
played.
The Lyre the other evening said that Mr. Farley
had taken his departure per Ly-ee-moon for Melbourne.
Another Lye.
Miss Pomeroy made her re-appearance at the
Melbourne Royal on Saturday last, as Rosalind, to an
immense house.
The Geelong Blondin tumbled from his rope into
the street lately. Fortunately he fell upon his head, so
was not much hurt.
Mr. D’Oyley Carte has struck a new “ Mabel,”
who has “ knocked ” London. Her name is Emilie Pet-
relli, and she is a “ screamer."
Gilbert and Sullivan will in August produce a
new opera at New York. One of the features of the
work will be a Chorus of Curates.
Mrs. Williamson whistles charmingly—almost as
well as she sings. J.C. W. only whistles when ha has a
poor house —and that doesn’t often occur.
W. A. Hayden, the manager of Thomas Keene,
the tragedian, writes that Keene will not visit Aus-
tralia till the summer of 'B9. Business very large.
Clara Stephenson has appeared in Melbourne at
the Princess’s in a “ fearfully wonderful” dramatisa-
tion of “ Under Two Flags." It has fetched the gods.
They’ve reckoned up George Darrell pretty
neatly in ’Frisco. The News Letter says that he
“ knows how to catch the public ear, and that is all in
all.”
The Lynch Family Bellringers and English
Special Combination have been drawing large audiences
at Adelong. They are now billed at Temora and
Young.
Mr. J. H. Eainford, it is said, was assailed, a
few nights ago, at Adelaide, by three men, all of whom
he beat off in detail. And yet Garner’s Comedy Company
plays to poor houses!
Herr Bandmann and Louise Beaudet, at latest,
were appearing at the Theatre Royal, Christchurch,
supported by a new company, which included the
veteran “ old man ” actor, Musgrove.
According to an Auckland paper, Miss Lotti
Wilmot’s daughter is being trained up in the way to
“ go for ” erring editors. “ Whene’er she takes her
walks abroad ’’ she carries a riding-whip.
According to latest accounts, Fred. Lyster was
about to give up his position as musical director of the
Standard Theatre, 'Frisco, and assume the duties of
acting manager under Mr. Anthony Sullivan.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Eeynolds, with their com-
pany (including Mrs. Walter Hill, Mr. and Mrs. E. J.
Kennedy, Miss Arethusa May, and several others), are
performing at Wellington, N.Z.; business, fair.
Walter Eeynolds’ Juvenile “ Pinafore” Company
have scored a wonderful success in Dunedin, N.Z., the
cheering notice to managers, "standing room only,"
having been in request. They opened at Christchurch
on Easter Monday.
Mr. and Mrs. Hewett (the “ Musettes”) played
at Maryborough (Q.) to good houses, and did splendid
business at Gympie. They go direct from the latter
place to Townsville, passing Rockhampton, which is
just now rather overdone from a showman’s point of
view.
Mr. Edwin Booth’s engagement at the Princess’s
will terminate with the end of March. Subsequently,
Mr. Walter Gooch proposes to produce a new drama
from the pen of Mr. Richard Lee, author of “ Ordeal
by Touch,” Ac. Mr. Lee is dramatic critic of the
Morning Advertiser.
Pauline Lucca, who, according to a French news-
paper, cares little for money, was recently offered a very
large sum by an American impressario to make an Aus-
tralian tour. However, she refused, saying that she
had enough to live on, that she liked singing for
the love of the art, and had no need of Australian gold.
Some of the Paris papers make much out of the
conflict at the Melbourne International between Ketten
and Kowalski. It appears from what these papers
say that the two K’s have not met for the first time in
professional combat in these colonies, and that their
fights are, curiously enough, always good advertise-
ments for Pleyel and Herz pianos.
Mr. James Carden, the English actor, advertised
in Christchurch that he was obliged to break the agree-
ment entered into with Mr. Eeynolds to appear at the
theatre there owing to a prior engagement made by his
agent with Mr. De Lias, of New Zealand. Miss Marston
Leigh, who accompanies Carden, is a daughter of the
dramatic critic of the Illustrated London News.
At Mr. E. Chatterton’s benefit at the Lyceum
lately, the following were the jury in “The Trial from
Pickwick:—“ H. J. Byron (Foreman), Paul Merritt.
W. R. Beverly, Charles Dickens, Robert Reece, David
James, T. Thorne, C. L. Kenney, T. Swinbourne, W.
Terries, Leopold Lewis, J. C. Cowper, and Harry
Jackson. The cream of the profession appeared in
different pieces. Stalls a guinea; private boxes from
£lO upwards.
There were three coryphees of the Paris Opera
Comique in 1838, who were traced ten years later by the
management. They found one in the chorus of the
Opera Comique ; one proprietor of a furnished house at
Montmartre ; one had married a banker, and one an
actor of the Boulevard S ; and of the two last
dancers who had signed their names in 1838, one was a
peeress of England, and the other kept a hnendraper’s
shop at Dijon.
Patti appeared three times at Nice in the
“ Trovatore,” " Sonnambula," and the “ Barbiere."
She received the unprecedented sum of £6OO for each
performance, and prices were raised in proportion, a
seat in the pit costing 255. To celebrate her arrival on
the Riviera, Madame Blanc has presented her with a
diamond coronet, which cost 3000. Patti will arrive in
London early in May. In September she is going on a
six months’ tour in the States.
Thus Mr. F. C. Burnand on Mrs. Langtry :
“An absurd rumour has lately got about that Mrs.
Langtry was going on to the stage, and would appear
for the first time as the aesthetic wife in this comedy
(“The Colonel,” produced at the Prince of Wales.)
Whatever foundation there may have been in the report,
the fact is that the lady in question does not play in
this piece. Whether she intends adopting the stage as
a profession is best known to herself."
This is the “straight griffin.” A well-known
musical entrepreneur recently, in endeavouring to make
terms for his “crowd” with a gentleman in the thea-
trical line, guaranteed him favourable notices in a daily
paper. We don't of course, say who the entrepreneur
was, or who the manager was, or what the name of the
paper is. We don’t even say it even occurred in
Sydney. But this we do emphatically say—that the
above is perfectly true.
Fred. Thorne leaves for England by the Liguria
on 9th May, and in connection with the event a number
of ladies and gentlemen have tendered him a benefit at
Melbourne Opera House on 25th instant. Fred. Mervin
will appear in a new one-act play, entitled “ Tears,” and
Miss Nelly Stewart makes her (Uhtit in opera. Among
those who will assist are Miss Kemble, Miss Lily Bryer,
Mrs. Bryer, Mr. H. E. Harwood, Mr. Albert Brinner,
Mr. John Wallace, Mr. Hans Phillips, Mr. Walton, and
Mr. Stuart O’Brien.
Says the Otago Times in re the Ketten presen-
tation :—“ Mr. Ketten was much affected, and regretted
that the surprise and imperfect English prevented his
making a suitable response.”
This is true, in its way.
Simple Times, what you say.
Ever since the gay Ketten
Was an idol elected.
Day by day he was gettin*
Most awful affected.
The San Francisco News Letter says of Alice
Dunning Lingard: “ The lovely Alice was more lovely
than ever, and the years that have elapsed since we
saw her last have only added to her charms. Lingard
himself is as bright as a new dollar. The pair have had
a glorious time in the colonies, and we hope will have
an equally good time here. They bring with them a
comedy, which Lingard asserts is better than * Our
Boys.’ ‘Stolen Kisses’ is its toothsome appellation,
and he and his wife have made a great reputation in it.
all through Australia and New Zealand.”
A “ leading lady ” at the Newcastle theatre is
playing under the name of “ Marie Wilton.” That this
is execrable taste under the circumstances there can be
no question. When “ Miss Marie Wilton,” of New-
castle, has perfected herself in her art to the extent
which Mrs. Bancroft has, then did she adopt the
maiden name of that lady, people would perhaps not
take much exception to her eccentricity. As it is, how-
ever, the adoption of the name cannot be regarded
otherwise than as a liberty. The company, it would
seem, has a fancy for curious appellations. The business
manager styles himself “De Glorion.” This is most
impressive.
We hear that Miss Ada Ward arrived in
London recently in the Grantly Castle, from the Cape,
after a splendid voyage of nineteen days. She has been
compelled to return home in consequence of the war.
She has now completed her third tour round the
world, and intends to remain in England. There’s a
treat in store for the Londoners. “Woman in Ked,”
“East Lynne,” and “The Sea of Ice." Ha, ha! But
no matter 1 We must dissemble. Be-lud 1 And talk-
ing of Miss Ada Ward, we see that the Capetownites
were much struck by Mr. Hugh Fisher’s (Mr. Ada
Ward) lightning sketches. Hugh draws well—better as
a rule than Ada. But then the bloom is getting off the
rye.
The London Lyceum must be something like a
theatre for comfort. Mr. Irving attends to every
detail, both before and behind the curtain, and
tremendous success has attended his efforts. We learn
that patrons of the private boxes are getting the
primary enjoyment out of an experiment which,
perhaps, if it can be done without inconvenience, may
be extended in its sphere. To the said private boxes
Mr. Cusack, the proprietor of the saloons, is prepared
to send when required the snuggest of snug “kettle-
drums ; ” so that just now there will be found upon the
stage “ The Cup ” to minister to pleasures intellectual,
and within the retirement of the boxes referred to
“ the cup which cheers but not inebriates,” to furnish
pleasures which, if not intellectual, are none the less
necessary.
Mr. Maekay’s new play, “ Peggy,” at the Lon-
don Royalty has created a furore, although it deals
with the very sweepings of the streets—the Saffron Hill
organ-grinders and their entourage. Referring to this
play, a writer in the Sporting Times says—“ If the
intention of Mr. Joseph Mackay, the author of the
play, was to make a dramatic tour deforce he has suc-
ceeded beyond his most sanguine expectations. There’s
a dear old ballad, the production of one of those bards
who consider song-writing a more important work than
law-making, the refrain of which is something like
this —
*So I mourns for the loss of the gal I love
An’ I don't know where to find her.
She’s gone away from her turtle dove
With a nasty organ-grinder.’
Mr. Mackay has boldly grappled with this theme, and
converted it into an idyllic melodrama in three acts.”
The following are the principal new pieces (with
their authors) produced at home during the last year:—
To take the most popular of dramatists first, Mr. H. J.
Byron has only produced three plays: “The Upper
Crust,” “Bow Bells," and a slight sketch entitled
“The Light Fantastic.” The great Dion Boucicault
returned to England from America with a grand flourish
of trumpets, but none of his plays hit the popular taste.
“Forbidden Fruit” was the first of these, but it ran a
very short time, and a comedy entitled “ A Bridal Tour"
was still more unsuccessful. A good deal of interest
was aroused concerning “ The O’Dowd,” but in spite of
the acting of Mr. Boucicault himself, it was a compara-
tive failure. W. G. Wills, one of the moat poetical of
our English playwrights, produced four works. One of
these, “ Ninon," a historical play, was fairly successful;
but a successful drama, “Forced from Home," resulted
disastrously for the managers, Messrs. Holt and
Wilmot. Mr. F. C. Burnand has written one or two
burlesques, and a comedy entitled “Ourselves” that
held the boards but a very short time. Mr. J. Albery’s
“ Jacks and Jills " will be remembered as one of the
most conspicuous failures ever known on the English
stage. Gilbert has produced only “ The Pirates," and
Merritt “The Nord,” with great successes. Taken
altogether, the dramatic doings of the past year are
not pleasant to contemplate, and the production of two
works like Tennyson’s play, “The Cup,” and Mr.
Pinero’s “ Money Spinner,” during the last month or
two, seems to promise that 1881 will be more fertile.
Our Auckland correspondent writes on April 6 :
Grattan Riggs’ reproduction of “The Shaughraun"
had the effect of drawing fairly good houses for a week.
The principal attraction was Miss Maggie Knight’s re-
appearance after an absence of some years. She played
the part of Moya, and has evidently made large strides
in the profession she has chosen since last amongst us.
Miss Adelle made a poor Claire Ffolliott, and Mr.
O’Brien a passable Captain Molyneux. In my opinion,
Riggs’ impersonation of Conn cannot be compared to
Wheatleigh’s. The other parts were indifferently
played by amateurs. On Tuesday evening a new season
was inaugurated—the Californian drama of “ The
Danites ” being produced here for the first time. Mr.
Theo. Hamilton made his dehut as Sandy, Mr. J.
Wallace appearing as Parson, and Mr. Grattan Riggs as
Judge. The former gentleman made a good impression.
Miss Maggie Knight, Mies Jessie Raymond, and Miss
Adelle played well, the former especially. Owing to an
ineffective company supporting the principals, the
houses have not been large. “ The Streets of New
York” was the attraction on Saturday night, with
Theo. Hamilton as Badger. The season terminated on
Monday night with a benefit to this gentleman. There
was a very good house. To-morrow night the theatre
will be occupied by Simonsen’s Opera Company,' who
open in “ Lucretia Borgia," the principal parts being
allotted to Madame Simonsen, Carrie Godfrey, and
Signors Paladini and Eiccardi. A new opera is
promised every evening for the first week. —Lottie
Wilmot commenced a course of lectures on Sunday
evening, ohosing for her subject “Forbidden Fruit."
There was a large attendance. Since then, she has
lectured on “Courtship and Marriage" and “The
Devil,” and held several Spiritualistic seances. The
two daily journals treat her very coldly, so there is
little prospect of any horsewhipping on their account.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Before the curtain rings up on this week’s
Shows, let us have a few words by way of prologue. If
we have exhibited any undue tenderness towards any
particular section of the community, the theatrical
profession has been especially singled out by us for
gentleness of treatment. That this was an error, so far
as we were concerned, we soon became aware, and it
was determined for the future to shoot theatrical follies
with the same weanon as those of a social or political
nature. But although we erred on the side of kindness
before, we do not now adopt a critical policy of ultra-
severity. We write fairly and honestly according to
our lights. We enter the theatre as one of the general
public, paying for admission, and our sole aim in writ-
ing is to elevate the drama. Of course outspoken
criticism does not find favour with the majority of the
profession. Actors in this city have been so accustomed
to be lubricated with the butter of adulation, that they
have come to look upon fulsome flattery as something
below their just rightsjand the moment an even tempe-
rately-written and only partially unfavourable notice is
published, the spoiled caootin immediately turns round
and accuses the critic of private spite and personal
prejudice.
* • *
There is, perhaps, no more unpleasant branch of
journalism than that of theatrical criticism. Often, when
accused of harshness—even of malevolence —the writer
has been, as likely as not, runniug counter to his own
private sympathies and intimate connections. Actors
who live in their little world of pasteboard, with its sky
of cobalt and its sun of Dutch metal, have no thoughts
beyond their own insignificant surroundings. They look
upon the public as their dupes, and honest critics as
their natural enemies. “ Jam ” is what they yearn for
—“jam” laid on thick, that they can feast on till every
honeyed word is imprinted on their hearts: “ jam ”
that they can reprint on glaring “ three-sheeters” under
the heading of —
“OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“ *ST Read the following notices on the marvel-
lous performances of the transcendental trage-
dian, Fitzaltamont Montgomery.”
On the strength of these bogus notices, managers in
other countries are apt to engage mediocre talent at
star prices—as many an entrepreneur in this and adjoin-
ing colonies can tell to his cost. Illicit pleasures are
sweet to weak minds : illicit notices are the same to
weak actors. A good sterling actor need never be afraid
of straightforward criticism—therefore our little pro-
logue is principally inscribed to those small performers
who think they are great performers, and to those
vocalists who fondly imagine they can sing—
“ In which opinion, it is sad to own.
These warblers are in majesty—alone.”
Now, then, ring in the orchestra, Mrs. Grudden, and
let us commence.
• * «
♦ * *
The motive the management of the Queen’s
Theatre had for producing “ Formosa " as an opening
piece, “ is one of those things no fellah can understand."
The piece depends alone for success on spectacular dis-
play and richness of costumes: while the scenery at the
Queen’s is of the most primitive description, and the
dresses worn by the company (those of Miss Willis and
Mr. Hoskins alone excepted), were of the kind which
usually pertains to those theatrical companies which ap-
pear in up-country towns “for five nights only.”
“Formosa” owes no little of its popularity with the
unwashed to its “ unsavoury ” character. The adven-
tures of a demirep may be entertaining to the prurient-
minded, and even instructive; but their relation can
hardly be adapted for the boards of a theatre which is
frequented by a large section of the respectable portion
of the community. It is gratifying, therefore, to
chronicle that the representation of “ Formosa ” is an
artistic failure of the most pronounced kind, and that it
will doubtless, in a few days, be once again relegated to
the managers’ hair-trunk, to keep company with other
plays of a similar nature —dramas which, like Jack
Sheppard,’ arel enly produced at spasmodic intervals :
principally, when the “ ghost ” only totters, and the
chief members of the company have been reduced to
gambling for pipes of tobacco.
* * *
That the management took no pains with the
mise-en-scene is a significant circumstance. There was
“new scenery”’ announced, and novel “mechanical
effects ” were hinted at. Well, we attentively studied
the decors, but could perceive nothing but old—very old
—friends staring us in the face. Evidently, therefore,
Mr. Keogh trusted to the highly-spiced and strongly,
seasoned plot of “Formosa" to attract the public,
totally ignoring those scenic details which are in the
last degree necessary for the proper production of the
drama. The opening scene with its two little stagger-
ing steam-boats was a picture that was provocative of
hearty hiliarity, while the manner in which the boat-
race was depicted was strongly suggestive of the mag.
nificent tableaux for which Richardson’s Show at the
Greenwich Fair is so justly celebrated.
• * *
Some of the actors were strangers—some
familiar, and, we might even add, too familiar. Being
a mixed company they did not often pull well together,
but that was not, under the circumstances, a particular
objection; for when they did pull together they pulled
the wrong way. The part of Formosa was impersonated
by Miss Marian Willis, a lady whom we have never seen
before, and who, we really don’t particularly care if
(supposing always she can do nothing better than
Formosa) we never see again. Miss Willis’s line is the
“ emotional,” and the emotional is a very good line in-
deed when properly carried out. An actress who makes
this phrase of dramatic representation a speciality
must necessarily, to be successful, possess both pathos
and humour. Miss Willis possesses both of these but
in such an infinitesimal degree that when she wishes to
be humorous yon are apt to consider her pathetic, and
when she invokes Melpomene you can see Thalia laugh-
ing over her shoulder. Were we writing of Miss
Marian Willis as a stock actress, we should say—as in-
deed we do now—that she is a painstaking young lady
who studies her parts carefully, and enacts them con-
scientiously. Treating her as a star, however, it be-
hoves us to criticise her more minutely. Care and
conscientiousness are all very well in their way, but
when a lady’s name is printed in large “ caps." in the
play-bill, the public is apt to look for brilliancy and
depth, for originality and power. Of these, so far as
her initial performance goes, we can detect nothing.
With all the “ fat" in her part Miss Willis atleast had
a golden opportunity. She, however, from her acting
led one to the conclusion that she was painfully over-
weighted. Too much “ fat” —as is often the case with
non-histrionic mortals—disagreed with her.
• * •
The “ draw ’’part relied on by the management
was that of Mr. W. Hoskins, who impersonated Major
Jorum. That this gentleman is an excellent actor is a
fact which has been established for nearly half a
century, and in the paltry piece of which we are writing
his acting stood out in contradistinction to that of his
fellow performers in a remarkable manner. Mr.
Hoskins looked the part of his life, and has evidently
made a study of the character. All we have to regret
is that he has lavished so much care and attention upon
the delivery of such rubbishing lines.
» * *
We will give Mr. Keogh the next paragraph all
to himself. This distinction is not, however, afforded
him on account of his merits as an actor, but merely
because we wish to mark, in a complete form, our sense
of disapprobation at the unjustifiable manner in which
he interpolated meaningless “ locals ” into his part. The
“gags” are as bald as a certain celebrated architect, and
as devoid of humour as an Echo Zig-zagger. And besides
possessing these disabilities, Mr. Keogh’s wheezes were
in the last degree offensive. He plays Bob Saunders, and
in one portion of the piece,comes on with two dogs, one of
which he compares favourably with a certain well-known
politician. This sort of thing is an insult to the public,
for the simple reason that the action of the piece taking
place in London, there can be no possible excuse for
introducing the name of Sir Henry Parkes into the
drama. With regard to the other portion of Mr.
Keogh’s performance, it will suffice to say that his two
canine followers set him an example in intelligence
which he might well haye followed.
» * •
The ladies, as a body, were feeble. Miss
Jane Jenkins —we mean Miss Grace Henriques played
Mrs. Dudley smoothly, but Miss Edwards was decidedly
“ rough ” as Edith. Miss Montague looked pretty as
Nellie, and Miss Blanche Murray was a fair (in one
sense only) Comtesse de Vaureau.
• « «
The male characters that we have not already
noticed were represented by a number of gentlemen
who, with a few exceptions, are unknown to us. Mr.
Sweeney was the role of Dr. Doremus*
for which part he is entirely unsuited. Mr. Leslie
enacted Compton Kerr, but was evidently ill at ease •
and Lord Eden found rather an eccentric representative
in Mr. W. Arrowsmith. For the rest we prefer to say
nothing. We will wait for a better piece in which to
chronicle their triumphs.
• * ♦
“Formosa” has, we are given to understand
attracted good audiences so far. But, then, there are
people who would ride twenty miles on a borrowed zebra
to see a dog-fight.
• • •
• • •
Sydney has been favoured during the past six
months with the visits of vocalists without number.
Some of these have been talented artists, and have
received a very flattering reception from the public.
Others, on the contrary, have lashed theatre-goers into
a foaming frenzy by proving themselves in their vocal
efforts, if not “ howling frauds," at least by no
means frauds st howling. We have, in fact, had,
of late, so much of the medium, that the
announcement that Mr. Turner and Miss Annis
Montague had formed a company and were to open
at the Gaiety caused to be bom many pleasur-
able anticipations in the public mind. That these
anticipations have been more than fully realized
is now a matter of history. In a word, the
success achieved by the Montague-Turner opera
company is of the most pronounced description.
Indeed, we should be doing imperfect justice to the
Gaiety management did we not add that the singing of
Mr. and Mrs. Turner has created quite a furore amongst
the music-loving portion of the community. This being
the case, and the success of these artists being a
genuine one, it is to be regretted that they and their
company should have been subjected to criticism in our
morning contemporary, which is, to put it mildly, un-
generous. Were the author of the first notice of the
Bohemian Girl consistent in her opinions we should say
nothing: but when a writer praises the singing of
vocalists under one management (that of the much-
travelled E. S. Smythe), and throws cold water
upon their efforts when performing under engagement
to other entrepreneurs, it is not difficult to form an
estimate as to the value of the notices. It does not
come within our province to champion the manager of
any theatre; still we consider it to be our duty to
notice what we consider —and what we believe is
generally considered to be an act of flagrant injustice.
That lady critics are a mistake has now become pain-
fully apparent, and, we are much mistaken if the
Herald has not, at last, with extreme reluctance, of
course, arrived at this conclusion. The Old Girl,
however (we may explain that we are alluding to the
paper only), is evidently in a dilemma. The melancholy
fact is that its staff is composed entirely of old women
—though the majority of them are in man’s attire: and
yet not one of these vielles filles travesties is competent
to take the place of the “Old Soldier” who is at present
putting the exponents of music and drama through
their facings. Therefore we anticipate no change in
the present pattens-and-galoshes critical policy of the
morning paper. Owing to the poverty of intellect of
the Herald men, the cap and reticule are a stern
necessity. Nothing can oust them but the scythe of
Time —and then, so tough is the subject, that the aged
Father will have to buy a new whetstone and sharpen
up the blade.
• * •
« • *
To a crowded house, on Saturday evening last,
the curtain rose on the Bohemian Girl. The interest
the audience exhibited in the new comers was quite
phenomenal in its intensity, and from the entrance of
Thadeus in the first act, to the fall of the curtain on
the third, the applause lavished on the various per-
formers was of the most enthusiastic description. Mr.
Turner, who, of course, played Thadeus, |not only sang
the music magnificently, but acted the part surprisingly
well. We say surprisingly, because very few tenors
since Mario have ever exhibited acting powers of a
more elevated nature than is embodied in singing with
your hand upon your heart, and in intervals between
solos and concerted pieces ogling pretty girls in the
boxes.
« • *
Miss Annis Montague’s Arline was something
to be remembered. A highly accomplished actress, she
fully identified herself with the character; and her
rendering of “It was a Dream,” evoked a display of
enthusiasm that we have, in all our experience (as
Sappho hath it) seldom seen equalled in any theatre.
• • *
All the other parts were well filled, Mr. Temple-
ton and Miss Eva Davenport acting and singing with
great spirit as the Gipsy Queen and Coun Amheim
respectively. Mr. W. F. Baker was highly amusing in
the comparatively thankless part of Florenstein, sing-
ing the difficult staccato.music with great facility. He
should, however, invest in a pair of Hessian boots ;
American cloth tops are “ played out." The perform-
ance was in short a grand success.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Alick Pope was a muff ; the proper study of
mankind is womankind, and I know of no school
where this delightful study can be better, or more
cheaply pursued, than the “block" on Monday after-
noon. For the future at least one member of the
Bulletin staff will take half-hour lessons thereon, and
report progress. Last Monday the first study that
claimed our special attention was the girl with the
“door-mat" hair, and cardinal “oh-no-we-never-
mention-’ems.” With the exception of her face, her
features were generally speaking good, but her figure
bore a painful resemblance to a stick of last year’s
sugar cane stuck in an empty flour bag. She was
evidently the inventor of a new puzzle, viz., how to
get a 15 foot into a 9 shoe, so calming my beating heart
with a deep drawn sigh, I let this enslaver pass. No. 2
was a lady weighing 2 tons 4 cwt. 15fts., and when she
struck one end of a George-street flag, the other end
stood up to make enquiries respecting earthquakes.
She was dressed in a napkin costume ornamented or
disfigured (I forget which) with red bands about the
size of the belt of Saturn. Just here I wish to chip in
a word of advice from a scientific point of view. Old
man Buskin in his lecture on Color says : “ Broad bands
running horizontally give a figure the appearance of
thickness and shortness, whilst stripes running per-
pendicularly give the same an appearance of length and
slimness." Now a lady who weighs nearly three tons
and only stands about seven hands high has no occasion
to make herself more like a prize pumpkin than Nature
intended she ever should be; neither should a lady
standing 6 feet 6 in her “ what's-their-names,” and only
weighing about as much as a pawnbroker’s character,
fit herself up so as to resemble a circus giraffe; and it is
therefore to be hoped this question of bars and stripes
will claim the attention of the female world until our
next issue, when we will have something to let loose
respecting snake-skin skirts, and “ poke-your-eye-out
head gear.
* *
In the Holt Howl of 9th April there appears
in a leading article, couched in that eccentric English
which Dr. M'Guven has made so peculiarly his own, a
notification that with that number of the paper the
rev. doctor’s connection with it ceases. The poor, dear
man remarks: —“ Although my health is now consider-
ably better than it was I think it right
that I should lessen my labour To-day,
therefore, at the end of the twelfth year of the paper,
I retire from the position I have occupied so long, ana
give way to my friend.” Dr. M'Guven then goes on to
say that the Howl, under his editorship, has generally
“ banged creation,” notwithstanding that he has been
more persecuted of late than any given six of h oxe
martyrs. But listen to the good gentleman s own i -
passioned language :—“ Envious detractors have,
course, showed (sic) their faces; false brethren have
been idle; commercial Protestants, and Protestants
who never do anything but cry ‘Peace, Peace,
there is no peace,’ have slandered my endeavoure as _
work of bigotry.” What! Call the doctor»
“endeavours” the “work of bigotry! rmpossitue.
Why, is it not admitted in every part of the civuize
globe that the late editor of the Holt Howl Is tb 0


gentlest of creatures, the meekest of men—that his
paper has, during the whole of its career, eschewed, on
principle, all violent sectarianism—has been, in fact, the
mild and reasoning organ which one would expect to
emanate from a gentleman who has, in donning the
cleric gown, renounced the pomps, politics, and vanities
of this wicked world? And yet to think there are
persons wicked enough to slander him: “envious de-
tractors," who have hinted at such an heterodox
doctrine as “peace pertaining to religion! " Absurd!
Ridiculous! Indecent! Never mind, doctor; u-e will
■right you—and in verse, too. The thing is, what will
be the most appropriate measure in which to celebrate
the retirement from journalism of the gifted writer.
iLet us try the elegiac. Here goes, then: —
I have been to christenings, and weddings, and
tea-fights, and lawn tennis parties, and in fact have
drank the cnp of sorrow to its very dregs and then
attended to the sancer, bat the most melancholy sight
I have ever seen is the mournful spectacle of a sad-
fnced auctioneer endeavouring to sell a five-guinea
Waltham watch up a Pitt-street gateway to an audience
whose total assets consist of eighteen pence, a three-
bladed knife, and a dozen pawn tickets. Ahem ! It’s
a. weary world —for auctioneers especially.
* • *
It is said that after the Australian Eleven
played their last match in England they held a meeting
in London to decide upon their future operations.
They all sat round the table at the “ Horse Shoe” and
•each man had his say. A. Bannerman said he’d like to
go to America, as he wished to have another look at
them Nicaraguan Palls, while Slight, who has a taste
for surveying, said he wanted to go to that there island
in the Meditationoravin to examine the Colossal roads
he’d read of. Bonnor proposed Paree, where he wished
to inspect a monument known to him as Noter Dam,
and proposed, being a bit of a gourmand, that they should
engage rooms at the Hotel de Veal. Murdoch also en-
clined to this idea. He confessed that thoughts of the
Jardong Mabel were alluring, and he wished to feast his
eyes on the famous bridge Hungry Cart. Alexander,
who has been religiously brought up, wished for Pales-
tine, where he understood he could be shown the Axe
of the Apostles in a good state of preservation; but
Jarvis, who has received a classical education, tem-
pered with a study of horses, was on for a glance at the
‘‘rushing of the Arrowy Koan,” spoken of by Byron.
Spofforth, he voted for Venice. He liked, he said, to
go in for something big, and how could the bridge Hun-
gry Cart in Paree compare in magnificence with that so
often crossed by the Venice Dodgers, and known
throughout the world as the Bridge of Size ? After a
great deal of discussion, no precise course was decided
on, although the gallant athletes seemed to generally
favour the idea of sending a telegram to enquire the
price of board per head charged in Parie at the Hotel de
Veal.
It is now generally known that the Australian
Eleven are disbanded, and that they have cleared by
their spec, a stun which averages £381 6s 6d per man;
Md this after a liberal scale of expenditure that in the
old days wonld have savored of the wild stories of the
East. The Eleven have played well for Australia, and
they have been paid well for so doing; so therefore
there is no obligation on the part of either the
oncketers or the public. From the evidence of Mr. A.
Bannermanu in the insolvency of W. L. Murdoch, it
w °nld appear that although the team played “ excellent
well” together, there was not much confidence ex-
Jttsnged between them ; for that gentleman, in answer
to Mr. De Lissa, says that “ he could not say that any
profits were made by the team. George Alexander was
their manager. Witness received a certain amount and
OTnenses, but did not partake of the profits. He could
hot say who received the profits. Boyle, Spofiorth, and
Alexander, were the committee of finance, and received
the proc ;eds. Murdoch, never told him what money he
got from, the venture, and he was never told by any of
the cricketers who undertook the venture. Could not
say whether he had been told by anyone else. He could
not recollect any one having said anything upon the
subject." Since Mr. Bannerman deposed as above,
the amount of each man’s profit has been made
public, therefore it would seem that although
constantly travelling with the eleven for upwards
of six months, and being himself a very promi-
nent member of the team, little Alick was kept quite in
the dark as to how the “ spec." was “ geeing.” This, of
course, though possible, is a little strange, more espe-
cially as the “ Committee of Finance ” had no apparent
reason for keeping Mr. Bannerman in the dark on the
subject. But though this gentleman did not share in
the profits, he was well paid for his services, and the
other gentlemen have, with one exception, netted a
comfortable little haul likewise. The exception would
appear to be Mr. W. L. Murdoch, captain of the team,
who, in averaging 25 runs per innings, has, so to speak,
covered himself from head to foot with cricketing glory.
Mr. Gilbert Murdoch, the insolvent’s brother, emphati-
cally stated at the meeting that Mr. W. L. Murdoch
“entered into an agreement that he was to give his
services on payment of his expenses only.” Now, we
call this true enthusiasm ; and we must entirely acquit
the captain of the team of the charge of “ money-grab-
bing,” which has so freely been aimed at his fellow-
cricketers. Mr. Murdoch went “ for the glory of the
thing,” and his expenses.
* • •
“ Mr. E. B. Smith remarked that he was very
fond of Lady Macquarie’s Chair.”—Parliamentary
Eeport.
“ Communications have recently been exchanged
with the leaders of the Basutos, who continue under
arms against the British, with a view of inducing them to
bring hostilities finally to a close. Governor Eobinson has
offered to the Basutos to mediate between them and the
British Government. The chiefs have intimated their
acceptance of the Governor’s offer.” This cablegram
is the “last straw.” The British lion is evidently
played out. Here’s to the old impostor :—
If the festive bards who daily favor us with
their immortal lucubrations would content themselves
with decorating only one side of the paper, they would
render our task of wading through our correspondence
a deal more easy, besides saving us from imperilling our
souls in anathematising the lyrists who deluge us with
their (for the most part undecipherable) copy. • Here,
now, is a poet, signing “ Mai de mer," for whose gore
we thirst. He has penned his little song on one of
those sheets of paper that run ten to the farthing, and
has fantastically broken all the lines. Listen to this
terrible pOet:—
“ A thought makes our heart go pat
And oh you notice now
That your breast keeps time with the swell
At last you find you are forced to give in
And allow that you’re unwell
Bock rock rock
And your spirits have to leave
Bock rock rock
But your breakfast you will not heave
Bock rock rook,” etc.
Now, for the edification of this profound explorer of the
bathos, we will write a little poem ourselves. We do
this so as to let him down gently. This time we employ
feet—next time we shall use one foot only—
Bosh, bosh, bosh.
That comes from a brain so weak :
We’ve poetry seen.
Much better, we ween,
That was written at Tarban Creek.
Eot, rot, rot!
Why must thou Pegasus, ride,
When thy proper place
From thy verse we trace
Is at the counter’s side ?
Bosh, bosh, bosh.
In which you have a pride.
Yet when you tap
Your skull, poor chap.
There’s hut an echo inside.
Eot, rot, rot!
Your poem we must refuse;
But if more rhyme
You write, next time
Give it to the Evening News.
• • •
The Sydney Charities have been having a “throw
in” lately. First, the £1000 yromised by Mr. Eobertson,
and, second, the 10 per cent, extracted from the gross
proceeds of performances at the Garden Palace by the
Austrian Band. We have not, so far, been able to dis-
cover what particular charities Mr. Eobertson has
selected for the distribution of the money which we so
smilingly handed him, because no public acknowledg-
ment has, to the best of our belief, appeared. Of course
we are perfectly certain that the Sydney charities, if
they have not already benefited, will ultimately rejoice
in the possession of our money, and that Mr. Eobertson
will, as, indeed, he should, acquire the honour and glory
of becoming a “life-governor" of many institutions.
Still we are anxious to discover the names of the places
to which he has thrown the handkerchief. The old
woman’s poorhouse at the top of King-street, now,
ought to be a very good mark at which to “ sling ’’ a
couple of hundred sovs. A few pounds, too, might,
with good reason, be distributed amongst the “ old
girls,” even if Tom stood on the balcony of the
Oxford and made the ancient vestals “ scramble for
them.” They don’t have much of a time in that
howling old rookery ; their greatest treat being when
they dance with the matron’s husband on Christ-
mas Eve —and that is rather a mild kind of amuse-
ment, after all. Mr. E. might remember the Infirmary
also. The directors could “ wolf " their Compagnoni
banquet with more complacency if a thumping donation
were handed in. Then the Eandwick Asylum ! Fifty
pounds to that institution will purchase earthly immor-
tality in gold letters on a slab in the hall. Eeally,
amidst all this emharras du choix, it is not surprising
that Mr. Eobertson finds it difficult to make up his
mind. When he does, however, perhaps he will drop us
a line, as we’d like to mat e a suitable acknowledgment
on behalf of the eleemosynary institutions which hap-
pen to be in luck.
* * *
If we really do love a paper, it ia the Austra-
lian Churchman. All we are sorry for is that though
it ia well got up, it don’t seem to go down (no italics,
sweet comp.) Says in the last number of that journal,
one “ Anglicanus,” in his “ Concerning Many Things,”
which, by the way, is written by Dean Cowper after he
has thoroughly digested his Bulletin The San
Francisco * Argonaut ’ writes :— ‘ Matt. Morgan, who
is chief illustrator of the Police Gazette, has a salary
of four hundred dollars a week. It is the most
dangerous feature of this pictorial literature that it is
contributed to by some of our best artists. Vice, in
its most alluring form, is the theme of men like Morgan,
who ought to turn their talents to better, and, in the
end, more profitable advantage.’ This same Police
Gazette has an extensive circulation in Sydney, one or
two respectable (?) tradesmen making it the attraction
of their shop windows. Is this right, Mr. Fosbery ?’’
This indignation is truly righteous; but would it not be
better if the Churchman looked nearer home for
objectionable publications; newspapers, in short, which
teem with coarse invective, reek with venom, and revel
in “ envy, hatred, and malice, and all uncharitabless ? ’’
Has not one of these degraded rags even caught the eye
of our little contemporary’s rev. editor? If so, why
does not he launch out, as we have done, and denounce
what is, despite its psendo-religious colouring a blot
upon Australian journalism. Publications like the Police
News do little harm, because of the ludicrous way in
which both their drawings and their letterpress are exag-
gerated. All intelligent people laugh at the galimatias of
a sensational print, while the foul anecdotes and
hideous blasphemy of a so-called sectarian paper, can
only occasion disgust. Happily, however, the Sydney
public are gradually becoming alive to the necessity of
suppressing raving rags like those to which we allude,
the support afforded them being inflnitestimal. This is
as it should be, and therefore we regret to see the
Churchman making valiant efforts to destroy a com-
paratively harmless gnat, when the ugly camel that
does all the harm is rampant in the city, poisoning the
atmosphere and degrading the community. The 34th
hymn (Gads by’u Collection).
V.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
There are sixty-seven organized Christian,
chnrches in Japan. .
Missionary work in New Guinea up to the pre-
sent is a dead failure.
Bishop Moran (Roman Catholic), of Dunedin,
N.Z., leaves for Europe on April 21st.
The new mission schooner, Ellangowan, leaves
England in May for the New Guinea missions.
The Queen of Madagascar, soon after her con-
version to Christianity, liberated 50,000 slaves.
The Rev. C. S. Y. Price, of Geelong, accepts
the pastorate of the Congregational Church at New-
castle.
Mr. Thomas Spurgeon, son of the famous
preacher, is attracting large congregations in N.Z.
towns.
The Rev. J. C. M‘Michael, of Adelaide, occupies
temporarily, the pulpit of the Pitt-street Congregational
Church.
Spohr’s “ Calvary ” was performed for the first
time in the colonies at the Town Rail, Melbourne, on
the 15th.
Dean Cowper preached a very eloquent sermon
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral on Good Friday, from the
text, “ It is finished.”
Gas and horse-oars in the streets of Jerusalem!
This is among the most recent announcements of the
progress of civilization.
The present cruise of the John Williams, mis-
sionary barque, will last to the end of the year. She
left direct for Tahiti on the 30th March.
There is & flutter amongst the Presbyterians in
Adelaide. It is said that a certain rev. gentleman has
been taking too much interest in his choir.
The Rev. W. Bradley, of Ocean-street Con-
gregational Church, Woollahra, has accepted a call
from the Oxford-street Church, Melbourne.
The services at St. Mary’s pro-Cathedral last
week were attended by immense crowds. On Easter
Sunday'the ceremonies were especially grand.
A writer in the Independent complains
greatly at the Congregationalists having no Court of
Appeal for the settlement of clerical disputes.
Father Ignatius, the Anglican monk, recently
made a declaration that he and two others had seen the
heavens open, and, in dazzling light and glory, the form
of Majesty appear.
Mr. William Gray, of West Hartlepool, England,
has conditionally contributed the sum of £14,000 For the
purpose of clearing off the debts ©f the Nonconforming
Churches of that place.
The Rev. W. G. Lawes, who, with Mrs. Lawes,
left per Bowen in March for Port Moresby, is expected
to enquire at once into the recent massacre of native
tea.chers at New Guinea.
The Independent pertinently remarks that
“Sabbath-keeping in New South Wales will not be
much improved by such discussions as that recently
opened by Mr. Melville in the Legislature.”
One very important feature of the movement
for the disestablisment in England is the new question,
started by the Dean of St. Paul's—whether the Church
of England has any existence independent of the State ?
The subscription list in aid of the family of the
late Bev. D. M’Kee, who died at Christchurch, N.Z.,
last year, has reached the handsome sum of £lOOO. A
private fund was also initiated in Dublin, which closed
at a total of £925.
Bishop Redwood had a big reception accorded
to him in Christchurch, N.Z., and addresses from the
clergy and laiety presented. He replied at considerable
length, giving particulars of a visit to Borne, and an
audience with the Pope.
Mission work, tried by the results at Honolulu,
is a gigantic sham or failure. Let any person converse
privately with a passenger by the mail boat who may
have stayed at the Island a few weeks en route. Immo-
rality consumes the people.
Bishop M'Quaid (R.C.), of New York, has a
foreboding that church property will be taxed in
America before very long. In a recent letter to his
diocese he refers to the matter as a threatening evil
which his church may have to meet, and urges the
parishes to free themselves as speedily as possible from
all debt.
The Rev. J. S. Fraser, M. A., has again accepted
the wardenship of Camden College. Mr. Mullens, hon.
Secretary of the college writes: —“ The main object of
the college is to train men for the work of the Ministry,
and the advantage of the University classes now estab-
lished will only be used so far as they may be deemed
conducive to the highest end.”
The Australian Churchman complains of
“ deacons conducting the eleven o'clock services at one
of the important city churches, thus depriving large
congregations of the ‘ benefit of absolution.' " The
Churchman further remarks, with pleasure, the act of
obesiance towards .the altar made by many worshippers
on entering a leading church. As we have already
enquired, “ How’s that for High ?”
The latest defence of the Sabbath comes from
the liquor-sellers of Washington. Because the clergy
of that city united in calling a temperance meeting on
Sunday, for the special purpose of making a public pro-
test against liquor-saloons in the immediate vicinity of
the Government buildings, the saloon-keepers held a
meeting and resolved: “That we denounce all such
gatherings and assemblies for political purposes on the
Sabbath day as un-Chnstian, and subversive of the
time-honored custom among: civilized people to observe
the Lord's Day with becoming meekness and charity.”
The Congregational and Wesleyan Church
authorities are at loggerheads over the census. The
organ of the Congregationalists charges the Wesleyans
with an attempt to “ run in" people who are not of
their denomination. A circular was issued by the
Wesleyan authorities notifying that not only all persons
regularly under the care of the Wesleyan ministry, but
all their people beyond reach of such ministry, with all
their children, should be returned as Wesleyans. This,
it is contended, will run in hundreds of Congre-
gationalists as Wesleyans. Not only this, however;—
all children baptised by the Wesleyan ministers are'to
be denominated Wesleyans. The Congregational
authorities are therfore fearful lest, in the census
returns, they should stand numerically on a par with,
say, the Latter Day Saints of New South Wales.
This is how a ’Frisco religionist “ goes ” for
Moody and Sankey:— ll And now I, as a minister of the
Gospel, ask my brother parsons how long are we to
tolerate the insufferable impudence, vanity and egotism
of this brace of carpet-baggers ? We hare elegant I
temples, which were erected and dedicated to the
Unknown for the especial performance of our religious
theatricals. And we were doing well, playing to fair
houses every Sunday with paying patrons, until this
pair of gospel distributers put in an appearance. And
the lay of this last minstrel laid us out. We had ‘high
toned,’ standing-collar congregations, until two
Shanghai roosters began to crow about the resurrection
mom. We sold our religion. And there were * millions
in it.’ But those two unsophisticated prodigals throw
theirs away. They have too much of it. They came
here loaded with it, and they have scattered it about
until it has become worthless. . . . All this Moody
and Co. have accomplished, and much more. They
have trailed the purple and fine linen, flowing robes of
a cultured clergy, in the dust of the common people.
They have dragged down to their own low level the gilt-
edged theology of a refined society. They have
seal tered the promises of ‘Jesus’ all over Tar Flat,
and washed the entire shore-line of Barbary Coast in
the blood of the Lamb. Their tickets to Heaven admit
every one to a front seat, and without money. Pre-
posterous I Who ever heard of a religious super-
structure resting on any other foundation than a golden
brick ? Who wants to go to Heaven in company with
men in their shirt sleeves, trudging all the way on foot
in a pair of 15 brogans ? We don’t. We want to go
in full dress. We want to ride there in our family
hearse, with our coat-of-arms emblazoned on the
panels, so the old residents may know who we are.
We’re in the ring—on the inside. We’ve made many a
comer in the ‘ New Jerusalem’ stock market, and made
other people keep our margins good. And we don’t
intend to be crowed at by Mr. Moody.”
Says the Free Religious Index (Boston), on
the Bible in Public Schools Question: —“ There are at
least two versions of the Bible, each of which is claimed
by a distinctive Church as the only true and authorised
one. Prom which will you read? From the Douay
version? Then you recognise and inculcate Roman
Catholic doctrine. From the King James’ version?
Then you have practically legalised the Protestant form
of faith in the public schools. Or will you appeal to
the majority to decide which version it shall be?
Then you do what is still worse: you recognise the
doctrine in society that, in religious affairs, the minority
has no rights which the majority is bound to respect,—
a doctrine that has forked incalculable mischief in the
religious history of the race, which has been the
fruitful mother of uncharity, intolerance, and perse-
cution, and which is directly at variance with the
fundamental principles of Protestantism. Nay, more :
you violate the consciences of a vast number of our
citizens, compel them to acquiese in and support
schools which to a greater or less degree teach your
special religious opinions, and subject the children of
Catholic, Jewish, and Freethinking parents to influences
which they are taught to be harmful to their soul’s
welfare. You may do this, if yon have the power; but
you cannot do it justly. You may vote down the
Catholic, the Jew, the Rationalist; but you cannot
reason them down. In retaining the Bible, you are
only encouraging the Roman Catholic demand for a
division of the public school funds, and justifying
parochial and private schools for the education of
Catholic youth. Both policy and justice demand, then,
the prompt and total withdrawal of the Bible from all
the public schools of America. If Protestant interests
suffer thereby, so much the more shame to the Pro-
testant Church, and vice versa in respect to the
Catholics. .But let us not do evil that good may
come. The only public school system possible or just
in a community like ours, in which there is so much
diversity of religious opinion, and in which all are
taxed indiscriminately for its support, is one based on
secular education, and from which all religious features
are excluded."
Hell or No Hell?
The Eev. Dr. Beg will no doubt be sorry to hear that
Moody and Sankey, while in San Francisco, formally
announced that there was no Hell—in other words said
that the Hell theory had “gone bung.” Concerning
this little affair, a writer in the News Letter holds
forth thus:—
“ The Eev. Mr. Moody was blowing through a semi-
orthodox horn to a bewildered multitude that modem
heresy of no Hell. With ruthless, sacrilegious hand
he had torn away one-half of my blessed Bible. No
Hell! And he an expounder of the blessed gospel of
the inspired writers—of the word of God I No Hell?
Shall this itinerant gospel-vendor wrench away the
comer-stone on which the stupendous superstructure
of which our glorious religion is founded ? Shall the
camp-follower on the outskirts of the army of the Lord
stand up in our midst, and with unblushing effrontery
proclaim the foul heresy of no Hell? What is our
Christian Eeligion without Hell ? It is half a pair of
scissors—a knife without its blade —a one-legged belief
that goes tottering to its fall. Shall this ring-master
of a religious circus rob us of the blissful hope of be-
holding all those who think differently from us sim-
mering in ‘ fiery Hell ’ through an endless eternity ?
No Hell? It robs Heaven of all its charms. Who
would wish to sit on a sapphire cloud in Gabriel’s court,
and sing • The sweet By-and-Bye,’ unless he could
look over the wall of Paradise and gaze into Hell, and
witness the torments of a writhing stock-broker, who
had made the last comer in ‘ Alta ?’ For years I have
amused myself playing Hell in my back yard. I would
bait a trap with cheese, and label it ‘ Sin,’ and when
an old grey rat would bite at the tempting morsel and
get caught in the trap, I would build a fire in a small
furnace and slowly roast the rodant over it—myself re-
clining 'mid a bower of roses in an elevated summer-
house, witnessing with a Christian’s calm delight the
dying agonies of his miniature damnation.
“ Have all the martyrs that have been murdered by
the Christian Church to please an angry god been sacri-
ficed in vain? We hope not. All the millions that
have been crucified, thumbscrewed, and burned at the
stake here, and sent to endless damnation hereafter,
are they to miss their destination and go howling
through the universe, through all eternity, because
some mushroom of to-day has kicked hell out from
under them and left them nothing to stand upon ? God
forbid ! And who told this self-appointed shepherd of
the Heavenly fold there was no Hell ? The Bible states
there is a Hell. Does Mr. Moody dispute the authority
of the Bible. Calvin had a Hell, Luther had a Hell,
Wesley had a Hell, Cotton Mather had a Hell, and all
the Popes, through all the centuries, have thundered
hell and damnation from the Vatican at Borne. Is this
modem Solomon wiser than his masters ? We think
not.
“The burden of this juvenile evangelist’s song is
' Come to Jesus; come up, run up, fall up, tumble up ;
any way to get up—only come.’ But the Eev. gentle-
man does not tell us where to come to. What do we
want of a Saviour if there i| nothing to be saved from ?
The scheme of salvation is ruined, and the occupation
of Jesus gone, if there is no Hell. The Christian
Church has taught through many centuries the dogma
of a burning Hell. If the Church was right once, it is
right now. If the Church is wrong now, it was always
wrong. When did the Church lie, Mr. Moody ? Did
she lie for eighteen hundred years, when she said there
was a Hell, or does she lie now, when she says there is
not a Hell ? If we lose Hell, we lose Heaven. If
Heaven slip from under us we have no Saviour. If the
Saviour fades away salvation is a myth, and without
Hell the Christian religion is a stupendous lie. No
Hell! What will become of Schroeder, Kalloch and
Wheeler, if there is no Hell ? What will become of the
Board of Supervisors when their term of office expires,
and they are out in the cold ? Where Will the framers
of the new Constitution, and the members of the Legis-
lature migrate to, when they shuffle off this mortal coil,
if there is no burning lake ? What will you do with the
lobby when they cross the river of Styx, if there is no
worm that dieth not ? You are wrong, Mr. Moody.
Hell ? Why, of course there is a Hell.
“ And, my poor friends, you are treading the down-
ward road and don’t know it. Shall we wipe out the
beautiful embellishments of ‘ Paradise Lost ’ by ignor-
ing Hell ? Shall we ruin the tame of Dante by throw-
cold water on his ‘ Inferno ? ’ Shall we ? Shall we
destroy one-half the literature of the world by sweeping
Hell from its pages ? No. We can’t afford it. With-
out Hell, we should have a religion that offers a pre-
mium to crime.
“ When Moody struck out from the Bible a Hell,
He rung for religion her funeral knell.
He has dug his own grave without counting the cost.
Of what use is a soul if it cannot be lost ?
If it cannot be lost, it cannot be saved;
Then down falls the Heaven of which he has raved.
If there is no Hell, no need of a Saviour,
And there's no higher law—for religion’s behaviour.
For Fear through our doubting some rogues may go
clear.
We’ll waive the hereafter and punish them hero.”
FAREWELL TO M'GEVEN.
“ Fare thee well, and if for ever.
Still for ever, fare thee well.”
B[?].
How fall of sin the universe must be!
How ready must the devil be to fry it!
How steeped this orb in dire iniquity.
When thou, great Doctor, cannot purify it!
For “ twelve long years ” thy pen did paper soil,
A grateful country’s lit’rature enriching;
For “ twelvelon£ years" thou hast essayed to foil
“Auld Clootie” by the most persistent “pitching.”
•“ For twelve long years” a close game thou hast played.
Fierce wrestling with the Sovereign of all evil ;
And now the time is come, so long delayed,
When thou art floored, poor Doctor, by the devil.
Brave to the last, our gratitude is there.
And, soon as Barry moots the “ ceremonial,”
Our gold ’mongst other gold shall bravely shine
On the tea-tray which bears thy “ testimonial.”
With the long battle, sick, thou hast well earned
(We heard a sweet young lady tell her pa so—
She with warm admiration for thee burned—)
A trip to Europe by the Chimborazo.
Adieu! adieu! and may the winds be fair
That waft thee from Australia so erring.
To thine own native country. Doctor, where
Two men can live a week on a red-herring.
Farewell! There glistens on this page a tear:
We grieve, but yet we know ’twould not be fitting
To be so selfish as to wish thee here
When thou thine own land canst be benefiting.
And so, good man, we wrench ourselves away.
For thy long voyage hasten to prepare thee:
The struggle’s over, and we calmly say—
To Scotland we most cheerfully can spare thee!
THE “MERMAID OF THE BLOCK.”
A SKETCH.
You’ll see her after three o’clock
Ev*ry day, the fates permitting,
Up and down the busy block
Doing her fantastic flitting;—
“ Fantastic" is too mild by far.
Applied to that form so bizarre.
41 By birth a lady”—(like the one
Who wished a “player’s” situation) —
To hide this fact she’s never done.
But has a strange infatuation,
By means of paint and powdering.
To look just like —the other thing.
Her form is tall, and down the back
A wealth of wavy hair she’s wearing;
And as she tramps along the track
With wonder at her all are staring—
She cuts the drollest of all figures—
The more they stare the more she sniggers!
41 By birth a lady”—and yet is this
The sorry lot the fates have sent her ?
And is it her idea of bliss
To daily be a 11 block frequenter” ?
To daily dawdle, drolly clad—
And leer at ev’ry passing cad ?
That dreary pacing ’midst the whirl
Of strangers, till the shadows slanting
Do warn that block patrolling girl
To cease her stupid gallivanting.
And so with Phoebus’ final ray
She goes—but to return next day.
Who is the girl P—We really pity
This grotesque nymph with locks all flowing
And tho’ she’s not the least bit pretty
We’re truly anxious to be knowing—
And to know all, for e’er our aim is—
What our mermaid’s little game is.
She has a mother, we dare say,
A father, too, —why don’t he watch her ?
The afternoon of any day
He’d on the block be sure to catch her.
A funny picture to our mind—
All paint before—all hair behind !
We’ve done. And let us hope this verse
So lightly writ, will be preventing
What now is had to come to worse —
For evils spring from block frequenting I —
And so Miss Mermaid don’t yon flare up,—
But just stop in —and put your hair up.
I love the “ Lady's ” chair!
I love to linger there.
And watch the rolling motion
Of the waves upon the ocean.
And mark the moonbeams glow
On the ever-moving flow!
In me I feel—in me
Is the spark of poesie!
And the beating of my heart
A soft secret does impart.
It whispers, “ There’s a day.
Hero great of the Macleay !
When, like Davies, you will be
Just a haughty C.M.G.;
And—much better this would suit, —
A proud Minister to boot.
So I love Macquarie’s Chair,
For I hear such nice things there—
Such welcome whispers buzaing in the balimng moon-
light air.
When the British lion shook his mane
The world was once in fear and dread.
Those days will never come again.
That sorry beast’s great day has fled I
A band of savages that haunts
The caves of some barbaric coast
Can at that lion hurl its taunts.
Defy what was each Briton’s boast!
Recumbent, slinking, crouching, cowed.
Bereft of motion, courage, soul,
A few fat Dutchmen are allowed
To stir him up with a long pole.
Despised, degraded, and—oh, think!—
Alarmed at e’en a nigger’s scowl.
Spit on him, and he will but blink;
Kick him, and he dare not growl!
* * *


Public Comps
Commercial bankin
SYDNEY.
Established li
Incorporated by Act of (
Capital. £575.000. Reserve
Directors !
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Jol
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Lev;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., '
Aubitoks :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johuso:
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head Office—George-s
T. A. Ditobs, Manager; F. N. Bur
Gaden, Branch Ins
With Branches at Haymarket, Ge<
Oxford-stree
London Office—39 Lomb
Directors: J. A. Toul, Esq., C.
Esq.; F. H. Hog|
Manager: Nathaniel <
Branches in New South Wai
Aianidale, Barraba, Bathurst, B(
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowra]
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcos
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coom
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes
Innes, Qoulburn, Grafton, Gunda
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Mole
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tw
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narai
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Q
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singlets
Tnmbarumba, Wagga Wagga, W
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, V
Windsor, Wingham, WoUongon
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Bri
Maryborough, and Eockha
Agencies in the C
Victoria : The Bank of Victor
Australasia, Colonial Bank
Commercial Bank of Australi
South Australia : The Bank of
National Bank of Anstralas
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Banl
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Die
New Zealand : National Bank oi
Agencies beyond the
London : The London and West
Loudon and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Unioi
Manchester : The Manchester ai
Ireland; The Belfast Bankin
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Banl
San Francisco: The Bank of ]
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso: BancoNacionalede
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Moi
India, China and Singapore: 1
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lo
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercai
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank ol
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Cc
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and (
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, gran
advances on approved security,
fixed deposits, negotiates produci
issues drafts or letters of credit,
lects bills payable at any of the
elsewhere, at current rates; collec
in public companies, and interes
for its customers in the investme:
ties in Great Britain or in the cob
to undertake the agency of Banks
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEAI
VICTORIA (LIM
Established a.d.
NEW SOUTH WALE
9 Wynyard-street.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Cl
Ebenezer Vickery, I
Andrew Drysdale, E
This Society is established for 1
granting of Annuities and Endow
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the ent
Society at every distribution thei
LOANS granted on Mortgage o:
combined with Life Assurance.
Public Comp
The mercantile ba
ESTABLISHEI
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT 01
Paid-up Capital
Eeserve Fund.
DIEECTOE!
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
, Hob. Wjb. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King
AUDITOES
Jas. Scroggie, Es<
H. E. Cohen, Esq
MANAGES
P. A. A. Wih
SEGEETAET
Hector Allen
Southern Branch, 587, G
.LONDON BANK
The National Provincial Bai
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Cha
Agent—G. H. Alexan
This Bank transacts all usual I
Agency Business on the mostfavo
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances n
other produce shipped to England
IORNWALL FIRE AND
’ ANCE COMPA
CAPITa£~£IOO
EESBEYE FUND
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted bj
G. A, LLOYD A
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STE
SIDNEY.
Photograph*
10t
458 GEORGE
Opposite the Mai
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ]
ENLAEGEMENTS in peem
PARLOUR, S’
The Beally Popular (and cheap)
805 GEOE6E ST
Opposite the Eailway I
Especially, esteemed for his port
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d pi
NOTICE
JROARTY,
• PHOTOGEAPHEE,
604 GEOEGE
BE!
Begs to inform his numerous patrc
completed extensive alterations ii
ducive to the successful working of
ness, having imported, at great
most modem atmliances from tho li
/So\
m
W
i
A
f:
m
UN A D U LTE R ATED • ’
BAK/NC POWDER
a
MUOUtUUI T# BB TUB BUT IN TNI WORLD
WMEAoanuMMr W. DA YllSi C! go alb urn. ff.SJf
T :
HE BEST PAINT IE
*
ft
ELASTIC
86^
THE PACIFIC BUBB:
is mixed ready foi
supplied in cans containing 1 ga
These cans form a convenient I
complete.
Similar testimony to the follow!
ns:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 18
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that
and Bright, and owing to its larg
I am inclined to think it is cheape
My own house was painted with ii
and appears as fresh, clean and gl<
last week—the same with the fen<
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC
will cover 35 Square Yards—one
coats ; 18 sq. yards, th
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge ti
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEM
Sole Agents,
foot of MAEKET STEEET, ne
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZA
(Near Hunter-si
X> HE L 1
ELECTEO-PLATEE
42 Park-stree
SILVER-PLATED JE
Articles of jewellery etc., plated 1
equal to Solid Si)
Articles of table wear, etc., repl
to wear equal to th
English Electrop
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZA
(Near Hunter-si
G.
AND S.
SAW MILLS AND TIM
16 Erskine Stb
Every description of Foreign i
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., a
jg GLASS
STEAM COACH AND W
WORKS,
Hareis-street, off Ge
and
Adjoining' the Darling Ht
S. G. would beg to draw the ps
Export Merchants to the large
«« wViioh
EW REFLECTING LAM
KEROSENE
\W/\\
EOE LIGHTING SHOP W
BARWELL AND FISH!
GAS BURNERS JUST
GLOBES, &c
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MAI
IJIHOMAS WEBB
GLASS AND CHINA M
BOND STEI
SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE AND RET
FOB
WEDGWOOD & MINTON
Inspection invi:
BO BONO I
THE MUTUAL TRADE PROT
TION OF N. S.
J, HURST, Secri
Offices: 32 BRIDGE STRE
Established upon the most impro
for the protection of Merchants
fraud, imposition, or bad debts,
the leading Mercantile common
The following business is underi
or through the intervention <
licitor:—
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or persona!
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or as
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock,
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Registered D<
searched.
The Certificates of fradulent or;un
opposed in the interests of cr
Debts proved in insolvent estate
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and m
April 23, 1881.


Tobacconists
E * S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOE SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cat Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett's Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the BOUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 TOEK STEEET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
Sr
fa
VS
A
Manufactured by
T. SAT W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
jgj CLARKE AND CO.,
■Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Ceantry Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
PEE ME WAN. WEIGHT and CO.
; (LIMITED).
Capital—£loo,ooo, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1853.)
RAILWAZ and GENERAL CARRIERS, CUSTOMS
and
SHIPPING AGENTS.
Directors :
Hon. HENRY CUTHBEET, M.L.C.
C. W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson) •
JOHN PEEMEWAN, Esq. J.P.) ~ T .. .
JOHN E. WEIGH, Esq! 1 j Managing Directors.
Registered Office—l2o Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Sydney Office—King.street, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Ararat
Avoca
Albury
Beaufort
Beechworth
Belfast
Bcnalla
Ballarat
Ballarat East
Bridgewater
Bethonga
Baimsdale
Colac
Clunes
Corowa
Dimboola
Deniliqnin
Dubbo
Branch Offices at
Everton
Geelong
Hay
Horsham
Hamilton
Maryborough
Murtoa
Moama
Narandera
Orange
Sandhurst
St. Amand
Sale
Wagga Wagga
Wodonga
Wangaratta
Wahgunyah
Portland
With Agencies at Adelaide, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Bourke, Balranald, Booligal, Forbes,Parkes, Wilcannia,
Hillston, and Molong.
Sydney, Ist February, 1881.
VICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Fills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gent and Eheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEOEGE STEEET.
APOTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STEEET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by),
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W, D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PEACTIXIONEES
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies: —
EAMES'S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relieve the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetite with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H, Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT.
MENT DAILY, at 167 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
£JOALCLIPP COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
It not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, Ac., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town;—
18s. Best double-screened
17s. Ditto single ditto >
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines,)
235. Ditto double-screened 1
225. Ditto single ditto )
Coalclifl.
Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood andO' -vrcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-etreet.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE NO MORE
but try
EANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try ESmderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES I
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any|of your children sick at any time ? Ton
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
tsr Semember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWAED EOW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
gY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
f ound without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can nave immediate relief by applying Josephson's
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson's Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made;,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is
and Is 6d each throughout; the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EOW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STEEET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
T HARVEY.
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDEE, &c.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DEAYS, SPEINQ CAETS,
BUSINESS CAETS, LOEEIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J, HAEY E Y,
Hay and Engine Streets.
Allen west,
(Just from Europe),
PEOFESSOE OF DANCING, Ac.,
Evening Adult classes, Mondays and .Tuesdays, 8 pm.
Adult Beginner’s classes, Saturdays 4 p.m. Children’s
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Saturdays 2 p.m. Parties
wishing private tuition in Boston and Slow waltzes, &c.,
and latest fashionable Dancing, at Hall from 11
till 12 noon, 344 Castlereagh-strect, corner of Goulbum-
street. Residence, 161 LIVERPOOL STEEET,
Business Announcements
W # H. P A ]
* PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
I N G,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prise
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Aucher’s,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes. •
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
WINE GROWER AND MERCHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 12s. to 255. per doz.
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
REDGATE’S
PjSITEHT meal
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet fo«
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
M 4 ky all Qroeer* nnd lUNk««Hie
B.
AND F. W. MASON,
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
band, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Jjl O W L E R’ S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.


JJLADON’S HEALTH SAJ
JJLADON’S HEALTH SA]
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JgLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAI
BLADON’S HEALTH SAI
A combination of Oxygenate
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and
Taken according to direetii
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE i
rational remedy as a preventive or
all Functional Irregularities of th
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habiti
purities of the Blood, Sea-Si
Indigestion, the effects propuced
dulgence in rich food, or the
beverages; Gout, Rheumatism, &c
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Dipht
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, <
diseases. It is especially servicea
and should eptirely supersede tl
aperients. Children take it with
vigorating effect of an occasional c
to successfully combat the insidion
It effectually destroys the Poison
contracted in our daily walk thrc
alterative and enriching qualities
the vital fluid to perform, in a heal
functions in the wonderful econom
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chem
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH
may justly be termed a BLOOD D 1
PPBOYEI) BY THE
Govemmei
10th
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I
that the parcel was received in g
reason of my not writing to you bel
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ sh(
am now directed to inform you t
considers it MOST EFFICACIOCJ
“ I also can vouch for the same, ai
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours faitl
“ Reginali
“Mr. W. 6. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALT
B
The Australian Church;
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERY
We can honestly recom:
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFj
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRI
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON,
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered hottle
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED
Turret Clocks—simple, strike
Spectacles, etc., of aU
Plain figures—Low pri
E
N
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS I
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Ikspectioh Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
LU
cc
CO
CD
LaJ
CD
O
IT3
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
CO
—1
CC
CD
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples
OUR G‘
0
| We
Only the
CO
Boys’ an
I
OurStoc
B
For eve
S
New
Gents’ 6
own
7/6, wo
Ourim
chases ei
underset
establish
Weabi
it would
copy, wi
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
o
NCE USED AL^
HUDSON'S EXTR
0
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on
ont which none is genuine. Bew
a LKA)
TRADE MAR
sSs
The GRAND GOLD MEI
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pi
HIGHEST AWARD, Sy
LATHERS PREELT, SOFT
AND SHOULD ALWAYS 1
For Washing Clothes, Linen, I
For Scouring Floors, Greasy "V
Facts which conger
AT SOME PERIOD O
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses famished for £5O
Hous
Hous
Hous
Hous
FULL INFORMATION
House furnishing is not an easy t
are of great assistance; they show
tainable for certain sums of mony,
many things which might otherwisi
THE NEW GOODS CONSTAI
KEEPS EVERYTHING NICE
If you have £l5 to spend If yot
If you have £25 to spend If yot
H you have £35 to spend If yot
If you have £5O to spend If yot
YOU CAN SPEND I
ADVANTAGE
THE ROYAL FURNISHES
CAMPBELL .BRO'
(Late W. B. Campt
ROYAL FURNISHIN
426 & 428 GEORGE £
Next the Royal H
Open every evening until i
M A N L T 4k*
THE KOOKABURRA.
“Dangers of the Deep ” —Torpedoes.
Waist of Time —Middle of an hour-glass.
Hope deferred maketh a man want to kick
himself.
Adam to Eve: “You cut a pretty figure in that
new dress.”
Some one says all things seem easy to the man
who has never tried to do anything.
A Gympie undertaker says that people are so
suspicious that it doesn’t do for him to enquire about
the health of invalids.
The query which is being agitated at present is :
“ Which is the correct expression, adopted daughter, or
accidental daughter?”
A new chum going up the Tarra naturally holds
his nose as he inquires : “ And this is Smell-bourne ? I
could have guessed as much.”
A foolish man spendeth his money for smoke,
but the wise man rideth in the smoking car, and
scoopeth it in, without money and without price.
Extract from a letter from Angelina: “Dear
Henry, you ask if I return your love. Yes, Henry; I
have no use for it, and return it with many thanks.
By-bye.”
The only thing that is improved by long lying in
bed is the oyster. This suggests a new proverb: “Go
to the bivalve, thou active man, consider her ways and
grow fat."
“ Now Billy, haven’t I told you never to hit
another boy until he struck you ? ” “ Yes, pa, but you
see if I always wait for the other boy to begin there
won’t be no fight.”
If Adam had been created a boy instead of
a full-grown man, he would have clubbed all the apples
off from that tree before the serpent had a chance to
get through the fence around the garden.
“ Little baby is very ill, Charlie; lam afraid he
will die.” “ Well, if he dies he will not go to a bad
place.” “Why, Charlie, how can you know that?”
“ Oh, I know he can’t, mamma; he’s got no teeth to
gnash."
The poet rushed in, exclaiming “I did not
notice my little poem on * The Golden Tints of Expiring
Autumn.’ I suppose it was crowded out?" “No; it
was crowded in." “I don’t see it.” “Look in the
waste basket. That’s were it was crowded in.”
A colored pastor got rid of the Sunday-school
funds at Monte. He was duly tried, and the verdict
was “ De Eev. Aminadab Bledso am acquitted ob de sin
ob gamblin’, pervided he pays de money back by next
Sunday night. In de mean time, de members of this
congregashun is warned agin playin’ keards wid Brud-
der Bledso.”
“Your visits remind me of the growth of a
successful newspaper,” said Uncle Jabez, leaning his
chin on his cane, and glancing at William Henry, who
was sweet on Angelina. “Why so ?’’ enquired William
Henry. “ Well, they commenced on a weekly, grew to
be a tri-weekly, and have become daily with a Sunday
supplement.”
They can instantaneously photograph an express
train going at sixty miles an hour, so that it looks,
smoke and all, as if it were at a standstill. And yet
they cannot, or will not, photograph a man sitting in a
chair without screwing his head round in a vice like a
moveable doll, and keeping him looking at a smudge on
the wall, till his lip drops and his eyes water, and the
pleasant little speech he meant to think about, just to
keep up the expression, goes wondering through his
head like the ghost of a homeless echo.
A worthy farmer from Bungaree visited Mel-
bourne to see the Exhibition, and went to a " hair-
dressing establishment ” to have his hair cut. In the
course of the tonsorial operation the barber’s scissors
struck against something hard, which proved to be a
whetstone for a scythe. “ What do yon call this, sir ? ”
queried the barber. “ Bless my soul! ” replied the
“savage,” “I lost that last bay season. I remember
being out in the paddock, and, after using it, I put it
behind my ear, and forgot all about it ever since.”
Here is a brand new historical joke, and we will
send the Holt Howl free for one year to any Eoman
Catholic, and the Distbess to any Protestant who will
prove that it is not more original than any of George
Darrell’s dramas. Now read carefully, and you will see
where the laugh comes in. “ Why did not George I. go
in for the “ old masters ? ” “ Because he couldn’t afford
it.” “ And why couldn’t he afford it ? ” “Because he
went in for so many old mistresses.” A chord please,
Mr. Conductor. Thank you. Mr. Beaumont Bead will
now sing “ Susan’s sighing sadly at the Brick Kiln.”
The Boers are splendid riflemen.
Austria heads the world with her libraries. She
has 577 public libraries, containing 5,475,798 volumes.
France comes next with 500 public libraries, containing
4,800,000 books.
A train leaves London on Saturday afternoon,
which enables a passenger to skate all day on the
Sunday on the Dutch Canals and be at work again in
London on Monday at midday—and all for fifteen
shillings, including Sabbath breaking.
An analytical laboratory has recently been
opened in connection with the prefecture of Police in
Paris. Any person may take an article of meat or
drink, of which he may be suspicious, and have it
analysed gratis by the staff of practical chemists em-
ployed there.
In countless, upward-striving waves.
The moon-drawn tide-wave strives;
In thousand far-transplanted grafts.
The parent fruit survives:
So in the new-born millions
The perfect Adam lives.
Professor Perosino has announced to the Paris
scientists a remarkable discovery in electricity. He
says that the forms and colours of objects may be
transmitted by the telegraph wire, as sounds are by the
telephone; and hopes to construct an apparatus, to be
called the “Diaphote,” by meaus of which persons
separated by thewcean may be able to see and hear each
other.
To an old Stock-Horse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My brave old horse ! ’Tis years ago.
Since first, behind the stock-yard rail.
Tour snort defied me for your foe; —
A colt as wild as southern gale.
Thro’ many a cheery day since then,
Have you and I been friends united ;
Together scour’d the salt-bush plain.
In many a brigalow scrub “ moon-lighted.'*
Together braved the wild, strong current.
When “ bank and bank ” rolled Condamine ;
Together stamped and raged abhorrent.
Of sand-flies 'midst the Dawson pine.
Together charged, with pulse high-bounding.
The Etheridge niggers’ hostile spears.
Together heard the waves resounding
On Essington’s deserted piers.
From Flinders to thy native valley,
’Mid Texas hills our steps have stayed ;
With many an intervening rally.
And many a brilliant muster-raid.
And now, old friend, our day is over.
Take back thy freedom—nobly won!
Be thou henceforth a happy rover
Where first thy gallant life begun.
My brave old horse! The curb no more
Shall fret thy free and fearless breast;
Thy tried and faithful service o’er,
I give to thee a live-long rest, —
My brave old horse!
W. J. B.
Harden, N. S. W.
April 23, 1881.


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prises Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
— Adt.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Arthur Kennedy is about visiting the Nor-
thern ports of Queensland.
It is stated that Mr. Joubert, of Transvaal re-
Tiown, was once a clerk in Melbourne.
Miss Ginevra Deniehy, a daughter of the
brilliant Daniel Henry Deniehy, died at Woollahra on
the 12th.
Captain Standish, it is said, will succeed the
late Mr. Bagot in the secretaryship of the Victoria
Eacing Club.
It is stated that James Gordon Bennett, of the
jj y. Herald, has an income from that paper of
£150,000 per annum.
Mrs. Jacob Gorrick, a lady well known all over
the northern districts, but particularly at Maitland,
where she resided for many years, is dead.
The Eev. Dr. Ellis, the new precentor of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, is one of the most liberal and
eloquent divines filling an Anglican pulpit in this colony.
Some time back the cathedral used to be deserted, but
since Dr. Ellis’s arrival it is one of the best attended
places of worship in Sydney.
The Duke of Manchester has expressed a desire
-to invest in pastoral properties in the colonies. Quite
by accident, it appears, the Duke was prevented from
becoming the new owner of a large station on the
Maranoa, Queensland, which had been in the hands of
Messrs. Dalgety, Blackwood, and Co. for sale.
Whittier, a new edition of whose
poems is in the press, is now 73.
Archibald Forbes, the famous war
correspondent, will be a passenger by
the next ’Frisco mail steamer.
Sir Henry Parkes, when he
visits Grafton, is to be invited to a
tour throughout the Clarence dis-
trict.
Lieutenant O’Connell, who in
the last Transvaal affair, “fighting
foremost, fell,” was a grandson of the
Liberator.
The magnificent estate, worth
over £lOO,OOO, into possession of which
Mr. E. B. Mitchell, P.M., of Balran-
aid, has come, is situate at Polmood,
Peebleshire, Scotland.
The Prince of Wales has been
successfully mimicked in “ Nana,” the
new piece in the Paris Ambigu. He is
represented as a German potentate
overmuch in love with the side scenes
of small theatres.
Mr. John Stuart, of Marrick-
ville, is doing much to stock the rivers,
lakes, and creeks of this colony with
a superior description of fish. His
efforts to distribute Prussian carp
have met with signal success.
Johnson, the only survivor from
the wreck of the Dunbar near Sydney
Heads some years ago, and who was
afterwards instrumental in saving
Hedges, the sole survivor of the Ca-
warra, is now head lighthouse-keeper
at Newcastle.
The Eev. Dr. Bleasdale, so well
known in Australia as an authority on
wines and viticulture, is now in the
States. His latest work is a very
learned pamphlet on “ The Olive Tree
and its Products,” as suited to the
soil and climate of California.
The trial of J. M. Kalloch, for
killing Charles De Young, editor of
the San Francisco Chronicle, had
np to the time of last mail's departure
already occupied 37 days. The testi-
mony is conflicting, but the general
opinion is that the jury will disagree,
and the prisoner be released on bail.
Hamilton, M.L.A. for Gympie,
and Ministerial whip, has been for
some time reposing on the bosom of
his constituency, and is increasing his
fighting weight considerably. It is
said that be and Meston were chosen
as whips because each could thrash
any man on his own side of the House.
Hamilton has most science, Meston
most muscle. There would be no fun
•in quarrelling with either of them.
Mr. Matthew Henry Marsh, one
•of the pastoral pioneers of the New
England district, having been for more
than half a century owner of some
large stations there, notably Salisbury
Plains, near Armidale, died recently
in Hampshire, England. Mr. Marsh
was once a member of the Legislative
Council of N.S.W., and on returning
to England was for eleven years the
Liberal representative of Salisbury in
the House of Commons.
A project has been started for
marking by some suitable monument
the spot where the corpse of Shelley
was burned —1812, on the sea-coast
near Viareggio. Some gentlemen be-
longing to his own college in Oxford
University, whence he was summarily
expelled for Atheism in 1811, are
taking the first steps in the matter.
This reminds one of the fact that
Shelley, so far as his opinions are con-
cemed, would not have been the alien
in the England of to-day that he was
in his own time, the early part of the
present century.
Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett was a
member of Keble College, Oxford. He
was obliged temporarily to quit the
austere precincts of his college, be-
cause he insisted on inviting ladies to
afternoon tea in his rooms, and giving
the luxury of ices. Mr. Lacaita, who
accompanied Mr. Bartlett as his
“best man," is the only son of Sir
James Lacaita, one of the oldest
friends of the Baroness. Mr. Lacaita
and Mr. Bartlett were at school to-
gether nearly twenty years ago at
Torquay, and were contemporaries at
Oxford, Mr. Lacaita taking honours
at Balliol.
The Flying Squadron, with the young Princes,
left the Cape on the 9th for Melbourne, where it should
arrive say on the 18th May; so that it may be expected
here about the first week in June. The squadron con-
sists of the “ Inconstant ” (flagship of the Earl of Clan-
william), “Bacchante" (which carries the two sons of
H.E.H. the Prince of Wales), “Carysfort," " Cleopatra,”
and “ Tourmaline.” The squadron’s stay here will be
, a fortnight at most.
The Western Grazier says that the Eev.
William Webster, Presbyterian mmister, has served a
Supreme Court writ claiming £5OOO damages, on Mr.
Walterus Brown, proprietor of the Wilcasnia Times.
The damages are claimed for certain alleged libels, said
to have been published by Mr. Brown, reflecting on the
morallcharacter of Mr. Webster. The venue of the case
is laid in Sydney, and we understand that Mr. F. M.
Darley, Q.C., and C. B. Stephen have been retained as
counsel for the plaintiff. Why can’t the papers leave
these holy men alone !
Baron Maclay, whose lengthy stay in New Guinea
i t 7, e ® oTl th Seas entitles him to speak authoritatively,
tells Commodore Wilson in very straight language that
kidnapping and slavery are carried on to an alarming
extent under the guise of the “labour trade." The
r B *?* l says:—“ It is certain that, so long as such
institutions as kidnapping, slave trade, and slavery are
a uttered’ or even sanctioned by the Government (under
''if- name of free labour trade), and shameless spoliation
goes by the name of ‘trading,* continues in the
islands, these results—the massacres—will constantly
recur." And he adds that he is prepared to support his
statement with facts.
An application has been addressed to Dean
Stanley for permission to raise a monument to George
Eliot in Westminster Abbey. It is declared that, having
accorded the permission for the elevation of a monu-
ment to Prince Louis Napoleon, there is no loophole
through which the Dean can escape. The Dean, driven
to his last entrenchment, is said to have determined on
convoking a council to determine on the course to be
pursued, although in the case of Prince Louis he de-
clared that he had sole right of government with all
things connected with the Abbey. The prime movers
of the present demand are among the most powerful
representatives of the English literary aristocracy, and
have been prompted to action by the determination
to ascertain once for all the extent of the power pos-
sessed by the Dean of Westminster.
Alexander Dumas is occupied in writing a
pamphlet upon the recent notable case of vitriol-throw-
rn Paris. His last was L’Homme-Femme, of which 100,000
were sold in a week. If any of our readers feel curious
to peruse this pamphlet, we advise them to repress
their curiosity. The vitriol case alluded to is a very
horrible affair, indeed. A young scoundrel “ took up ’’
with a very pretty actress, and when she would support
him no longer, he threw vitriol upon her face, changing
her from beautiful to revoltingly hideous. He was sen-
tenced to 15 years’ hard labour—much too mild a
sentence. Crime generally is on the increase in Paris.
We learn that another ruffian, not having received the
fortune promised with his bride, assassinated her, thus
rendering marriage settlements unnecessary. A broth
of a boy, to frighten his mamma into giving him pocket
money, resorted to suicide, dla Mantilini. He had two
bottles—one of poison, the other of gooseberry wine.
By mistake he swallowed the first, and experienced no
more financial anxieties. A pretty stiff calendar, truly.
The real facts of the association of the late Miss
Marian Evans (“ George Eliot ”) with the late Mr.
G. H. Lewes are these: that Mr. Lewes could not enter
into a legal union with Miss Evans because his wife was
still alive; that it was impossible for him to obtain a
divorce from his wife, because English law prohibits
divorce on the ground of voluntary desertion, in case
the fault has once been condoned; that Mr. Lewes was
in the position of having once forgiven and accepted
the return of an unlawful wife; that the desertion had
been repeated, thus leaving him without legal authority
to marry; that he had become dependent on Miss
Evans, and asked for her companionship under these
conditions; that the notice of a council of intimate
friends confirmed them in their resolve to disregard the
law; and that the anion was apparently happy and
satisfactory. On the 6th May, 1880, Miss Evans (Mr.
Lewes having died) was legally married for the first
time to Mr. Walter C. Cross, a banker, who had been
an intimate friend of Mr. Lewes, and who was twenty
years her junior. “George Eliot’s” association with
Mr. Lowes began some eighteen years ago, and continued
until death parted them. Such is the startling matri-
monial record of the greatest of English novelists.
We regret to have to announce the death of Mr.
E. C. Bagot, secretary to the Victoria Eacing Club,
which occurred at Melbourne on Thursday, 14th inst.,
after an illness of but four days. Mr. Bagot, through
whose energy and acumen the Y.E.C. has in twenty
years risen to pre-eminence in the southern racing
world, was the guiding spirit of the club, and a most
able administrator of its affairs. In the words of The
Australasian; —“Bluff in manner and free in speech,
Mr. Bagot was, nevertheless, one of the best-hearted of
men, and his co-operation was generally sought, and
always cheerfully given towards any charitable object.
He never knew what it was to fail. As
secretary of the Y.E.C. his place will not easily be filled
up, and as long as racing is carried on in Australia the
name of Bagot will be handed down for many a year to
come as that of one who did more than any other man
in the Australian colonies to popularise the national
pastime, and by his administrative talents raise the
Victoria Eacing Club to the proud position it now holds
as the leading turf institution in Australia.” “ Cup
Day ” was Mr. Bagot’s glory, and it had long been his
ambition to see, as he saw on at least the last occasion
over 100,000 people on Flemington course on the day of
the great Victorian racing carnival.
The life of Mr. Delane, the late editor of the
London Times, will soon be ready. If this book is as
interesting as it might be, it will be as readable as the
Mettemich memoirs.
“ Mark Twain is above the medium height, of
good muscular development, with brown hair curling
over a high white forehead; he looks much younger
than he is. His home is all that taste and wealth can
make it, and in it he has a lovely wife and three healthy
children." It was reading the above in an exchange
that brought back to our recollection the rumour that
this master humorist’s intellect has become affected.
We remember years ago hearing Mark Twain lecture at
the Hanover Square Booms, London. It was his first
appearance before a London audience, and the charge for
admission was ten shillings. He was then of medium
height, stoutly built, with a face remarkable for its
ruggedness. His eyes were small and dark, but full of
the fire of genius, and his broad forehead likewise
indicated the intellectual power of the speaker. The
lecture was about the Sandwich Islands, and abounded
in screaming jokes. The only one we can remember at
this long interval is this. Ho was speaking of dogs in
Honolulu, and said they were remarkable for their long
curly tails. “ Indeed," said he, “ the ladies fancy these
dogs tails for fur tippets, and it is not an uncommon
thing to see one of the King’s wives strolling along the
sea shore catch up one of these little creatures, cut off
its tail, and throw the balance of the dog away.”
Amongst the audience were the Prince of Wales, Bret
Harte, Hepworth Dixon, and other celebrities. We
trust soon to receive news of Mr. Clemens complete
recovery. The world can ill spare its greatest humorist.
The Survey Office clerks met a young lady in
George-street, who had a very high colour. “Don’t
she lay it on!” cried one. “ Armour-plated with car-
mine,” rejoined the other. And they were just going
to accost her when an elderly gentleman stepped up to
her side. She passed on; he stayed behind. “Gentle-
men,” he said, “You are wrong; that is the lady’s
natural colour. You shouldn’t talk so loud in the
street.” “Bosh, old hoy," said one of the clerks—
“Do you know her ?” “ Yes, sir; she is my daughter."
Then he handed his card to the perplexed twain and
rejoined the young lady. They looked at the paste-
board and started. The name inscribed thereon was
that of a man who may have something to do with the
Lands Office one day.
A. J. C. MEETING.
EASTER MONDAY.
When last Monday dawned upon the world, with the
clouds lying low over the harbor, a thick mist hanging
about the hills, and the rain, now and anon, swishing
through the streets and rattling against the window
panes, the honest citizen, peeping from the bed-clothes,
shuddered at the mere thought of Eandwick; and,
making a fresh hole in the pillow with his head, luxu-
riously composed himself to slumber. The wife of his
bosom blinking sleepily at the sulky streak of daylight
which filters through the Venetians, hears the splash
of the rain drops and feels a sense of disappointment
pervade her. No races to-day, she thinks. Not that
she is interested in the noble sport; not at all. She
has attended every metropolitan race meeting during
the last ten years, and yet beyond having a vague notion
that it is always “ Cup Day,” knows no more about the
various events than a camel does about astronomy.
But though ignorant of all concerning the “ field,” she
is “ excellent well ” posted as to the condition of the
lawn. Though utterly incompetent so far as “ spotting
a winner ” goes, there is not a dress in the grand-stand
that escapes her attention. Once she has seen a
costume, she will always recognise it again. Useless
for the hapless owner to dye, turn, or re-trim ; the
eagle eye of that woman is never at fault, and she can
pick a dress and the wearer to pieces simultaneously.
“No races to-day,” thinks the worthy matron with a
_!• A.T. - A
shiver as the rain-charged blast
swoops down upon the house; and
she sighs gently, for she has a new
claret-coloured silk with a plush
body hanging up behind the door
which she has had made with the
express purpose of striking agony
into the hearts of her dearest,
friends and she feels disgusted
at being baulked of her triumph
by the elements. So she makes a
fresh hole in her pillow, and with a
careless glance at her slumbering lord,
falls asleep again to dream of seal-
skin jackets and twenty-flve-button
gloves, and to enjoy pleasing, though
fleeting visions of confidential conver-
sations with vice-royalty.
It was fully midday before Sol “got
the hang” of Aquarius. And even
then he came out and went in as often
in one hour as the sporting talent do
at Punch's. During the early morn-
ing the city presented a busy, though
somewhat melancholy aspect. The
“ card-of-the-races” boys, cold, wet,
and wretched, pressed their books de-
fiantly upon you, and if you didn’t
invest saluted you with an anathema,
and if you did treated you to a
“ jolly." The hoarse voices of the
’busmen sounded like fog-horns, and
the air at street comers was redolent
of stale cigars, and staler macin-
toshes. Picnicers, wending their
weary way to the Circular Quay, pre-
sented a forlorn appearance. All the
girls’ noses looked red, and all their
faces pale. Their little “tootsies,”
too, being for the most part encased
in galoshes, made fairies who wore
small “ threes" look like monthly-
nurses who took large “ 36’5.” Water-
proofs were the rule, and paper parcels
of sandwiches abundant. In some
cases, the frail covering of the latter
having peeled off owing to the damp-
ness of the atmosphere slices of corned
beef and slack-baked quarterns were
exposed in a manner that was particu-
larly distressing. These young ladies
were bound sans doute to one of the
sylvan spots up the Parramatta Eiver,
which are advertised by the enterpris-
ing proprietors as containing those
“shady nooks” so mysteriously dear
to adult holiday makers. Nor were
swains lacking, who were bound for
the same marine retreats. No, indeed I
Nearly every Jill had her Jack, and
those that hadn’t would soon pick up
one while nook-nooking at their des-
tination. The men looked damp but
cheerful; and the gallant way in which
they breathed rum and devotion into
the willing ears of their inamoratas
cannot be adequately expressed in nar-
rative.
On the weather showing signs of
clearing np, the exodus commenced
from the city in real earnest. Hands
were put out of windows, and baro-
meters tapped and most people resolved
to risk a ducking and see the Leger.
Those who had buggies drove down
in them, and the same remark applies
to carts. Of drags there were only
four, and pair-horse carriages were
also scarce. Of heterogeneous vehicles,
however, there were a considerable
number, some of these conveyances
belonging apparently to the dark ages.
For several reasons the majority of the
public selected the “ tram" as their
means of transit. This was, in a great
measure, due to the rapacity of the
cabmen, these jehus demanding “half-
-a-james,” or even a “ quid" for a run
out to the course. The ’bus fare,
certainly, was only the humble
“Eobert,” but there are disabilities
attached to omnibus travelling which
renders it temporary purgatory to
mankind. The horses are often very
weak, while the straw inside is very
strong. You are usually asked for
your fare twice over, and if yon are not
to be “had ” the conductor takes his
revenge by slamming the door three
times every five minutes with a bang
like that of a torpedo explosion.
We selected the tramway for the
simple reason that we wished to mark
the proficiency to which the depart-
ment had arrived, and to write with
reference to it a pleasant little par.
commencing “We heartily congra-
tulate,” and ending “ reflects great
credit upon all concerned." We are
sorry, however, that we are baulked
by existing circumstances of our de-
sire to lavish kudos on the tramway
authorities. The whole concern, from
first to last, was one howling bungle. The departure
of the cars was superintended by a gentleman
whose appearance denoted mental chaos. In his
calmest moments he resembled a bridegroom
who had “ left the ring on the washhandstand," but
when excited by the arrival or departure of the tram
he reminded one of a housemaid chased by a bull in a
four-acre paddock. To prevent the rushing of the cars,
an ingenious device was resorted to of labelling the
Eandwick cars “ Eedfem,” and vice versa. This sly
litcle proceeding on the part of the authorities produced
the most surprising results. When the Eandwick
people were all packed into the Eedfern tram and the
Eedfem ones into the Eandwick tram, orders were
given to change cars. Then a scene occurred which
beggars description. The Eedtemites wanted to get
down, and the Eandwickites wanted to get up—neither
would give way —so each man ground his neighbour’s
body against the iron staircase, and language of a power-
ful description was freely indulged in. Nor were things
much mended when the exchange of cars was effected;
for those who had paid their fares in the Eedfern car
were asked for it again in the Eandwick one, whereupon
hoarse yells of defiance and disgust made noonday
hideous. Nor were the belated Eedfem people behind-
hand in the expression of their sentiments. Far from
it. The appearance of the tickot-collector on the top
of their tram was saluted with such a howl of maddened
indignation that people in the adjacent thoroughfares
must have imagined that Mr. Pile was once more
addressing the electors. A start was, at length, effected.
On this the people’s spirits began to rise. “ Well, here
we go at last —soon be there, old fellow,” was audibly
ejaculated by several persons. On we went as slowly
over the rails as a schoolboy over a quadrisyllable. At
THE MONGOLIAN MILLENNIUM.
“At Honolulu, small-pox, introduced by recently-arrived Chinese, is decimating the Island.” — DAILY PAPER.
“About 1800 Chinese have, during the last few weeks, arrived at Sydney.”— DAILY PAP ER, April 14th.
“Crusader, from Hong-Kong. Passengers: 200 Chinese.” — Evening NEWS, April 20t.
“From the Palmer Goldfield, which was, even after its ‘golden days,' capable of paying handsome wages for
many years to two thousand white men, the Chinese have almost completely driven white labour.”—
QUEENSLAND PAPER.


JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES-
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
gINGEfi SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
rjIHE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAT MAEKET.
rjIHE HOWE SEWING MACHINES,
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
J£OME SHUTTLE SEWING MACHINES,,
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
H
OME COMPANION SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
s
INGEE SEWING MACHINES,
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S. HAYMAEKET.
N
EEDLES FOR ALL SEWING MACHINES,
at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT, HAYMAEKET.
gHUTTLES, BOBBINS, OIL, AND PARTS,
FOE ALL MACHINES, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
gEWTNG MACHINES. ALL KINDS AT
JOHNSTON’S, 746 GEOEGE STEEET,
HAYMAEKET.
I. W. JOHNSTON, & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET, HAYMAEKET.
SYDNEY.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
2s 6d per week, or 10 per cent discount for cash, at
JOHNSTON’S.
s
EWING MACHINES. ALL KINDS.
2s 6d per week. Send for Circular.
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Authorised Agents,
JOHNSTON, AND CO.
( IN GE E SEWING MACHINES.
Authorised Agent,
JOHNSTON, HAYMAEKET.
J\o AVOID DECEPTION BUY ONLY AT
SIN GEE’S AGENCY,
JOHNSTON, HAYMAEKET.
"P YOU WANT A GOOD SEWING MACHINE
get it at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
"OHNSTON’S SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
GEOEGE STEEET. HAYMAEKET.
J
OHNSTON’S FOR SINGER MACHINES-
-2s 6d per week,
HAYMAEKET.
rSTON’S for STANDARD MACHINES.
2a 6d per week,
HAYMAEKET.
G
AIE T T
THEATRE.
Lessees ....Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
MONTAGUE-TUENER ENGLISH AND COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
In consequence of
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
will be repeated,
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, 21st APRIL,
Balfe's charming Opera,
THE BOHEMIAN GIRL.
1 MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE. [
and the
Eminent English Tenor,
I MR. CHARLES TURNER. 1
with
A MOST POWERFUL CAST,
A FULL AND EFFICIENT CHORUS,
AN AUGMENTED ORCHESTRA,
NEW and BEAUTIFUL SCENERY and EFFECTS.
ON FRIDAY EVENING, 22nd APRIL,
will be produced
FLOTOW'S MARTHA.
In preparation, WALLACE’S popular Opera,
MARITANA.
Prices of Admission: Private Boxes, £2 25.; Orchestra
Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.; Pit, Is.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
gcHOOL OF ARTS.
CROWDED HOUSES. GREAT SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING,
| ANDERSON |
Great Wizard of the North, and
LOUISE ANDERSON,
|in their Psychromantheum of Diableerie.
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES. SUITES OF FUR-
NITURE, PIANOS, and other USEFUL PRESENTS,
distributed nightly.
JpiANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such Arms as
Erard, Broad wood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &c.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System,
MUSIS. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
PROFESSOR
the Hyde Park Hotel, we stopped for a rest—twenty
minutest Our misery during this “stage” wait was
intense. Not only were we packed together like
gherkins in a pickle-bottle, but, every minute or two,
when a ’bus passed, we had to endure the “gyver” of
the coachman, and the “ borack" of the passengers.
Our next stoppage was at the Cambridge Club Hotel-
fifteen minutes. This was for the arrival of tne motor
which was to “shove us up behind.” At this second
stoppage the passengers lost all patience. Those who
could get down, got down, and those who couldn’t, bit
savagely at their pipes, and invoked brimstone on the
department. Mr. M’Elhone, M P . was on the top. He
didn’t say much, but he looked like an unopened dic-
tionary of expletives.
Once past the white-aproned janitors, who shriek for
shillings, the terrors of the “tram” were soon for-
gotten. On the course all was life and motion, and in
that portion of it devoted to the bone and sinew of the
country, a little too much of both. But what matter ?
Ilfaut que le peuple s’amuse. And so they did—that is if
noise, smoke, rum, and tobacco-juice go for anything.
Before entering into the enclosure and becoming a
patrician “ ten-bobber,” let us take a stroll about the
paddock, in which are packed some 12,000 perspiring
souls. Phew ! what an atmosphere ! What a Babel of
voices! What a scuffling, seething, “ scrougeing ”
multitude! An ancient tradesman with a careworn
visage is at the entrance. “Cigars, sir—three for six-
pence, and a box of matches thrown in. Here yon are,
gents; here’s the real prime smokes —three a penny
only—” Stay !—what have we here ? A little monkey
elevated upon a gin-case, who draws, when desired by
his master, small numbered marbles from a little box.
This is the “monkey-sweep." This name would be
appropriate anyway, for there is no mistake about the
animal being a monkey, and very little doubt about his
owner being a sweep. The likeness between the two is
remarkable. The ape, however, has the advantage of
comparative cleanliness. "Wont you try a chance,
sir ? Only a shilling a member, and ten bob the winnah.
Arf-a-Jimmy the winner, pals, and the numbers is all
pulled by this wonderful animile. 801 l up, now, my
noble sportsmen. Ten bob the winnah!” And they did
roll up, partly in order to acquire opulence speedily,
and partly to watch the wonderful “ animile ” go
through his performance—which, by the way, he did
with reluctance almost amounting to a protest. A
little further on were two desperadoes attired in jockey
jackets with a red sash. Each one of these was mounted
on a schnapps case, and was yelling to the surging mass
to buy a ticket—a little smaller than a “ one-sheeter ”
for a sweep on the Doncaster Handicap. How they
talked—and both together—the self-same patter This
is a square thing. There’s no bunkum about this fake.
You’ll all know me again after the race. Arf-a-bull;
there’s eighteen pence; that’s right.” Close to these
speculators was located the “ Grand New Zealand
Advertising Medium," which consisted of an American
cloth banner painted with a series of numbers marked
from 6d. to £5. If you drew a ticket which corresponded
with the 6d. or the £5, you got it. The speculators won
nothing—as a rule, the chances being 200 to 1 in favor
of the “ medium;” but sometimes the 6d. was drawn.
Should any one, by any chance, have drawn the £5
number (which, of course, wasn’t there), why then the
proprietor of the concern would simply have shouted,
“ Here’s the police!" furled his standard, and
“ slithered.” The proprietor of this “ little game” was
a remarkable personage. He was so copper-coloured
that he could have played Othello without blacking-up
for it. His nose was a positive "beak,” and in the
“windows of his soul ” there gleamed the sharpness of
the eagle and the cunning of the fox. His war-cry was .-
“Speculate! speculate!
And you’re bound to accumulate,”
but, as a matter of fact, no one seemed to accumulate
but himself and a seedy individual who was continually
drawing 10s. and ss. numbers, but was so palpably in
the swindle that his run of good fortune deceived no
one but bucolics. Another amusement was that of
flinging india-rubber balls at dolls placed in little round
apertures. You had three balls for, we think, sixpence
a shy. No one ever hit any of them, as the holes were
too small, and the balls too light; yet, strange to say,
some maniacs pelted away at “Little Benjamin,”
“ Uncle Tom,” “ Tommy Primrose,” “ Tommy Dodd,”
“Aunt Sally,” and “Mother Gum,” till Lome
whisky streamed out at every pore.
The carriage display can only be described in the lan-
guage of a four-foot stable boy, with whom we had some
interesting conversation, as “ multy.” A stroll along—
may the Penny Exile never die, otherwise our occupa-
tion, like that of Othello, would be gone—a stroll along
the “ vehicular” line was great fun. The predominating
element was the “ talent”—female this time —operatic,
theatrical, and—“ without the pale.” Operatic was in a
large waggonette—with that young trifler Armes doing
the honours to a whole bevy of embryo Pattis and
Christine Nillssons. Theatrical was “ moving about ”
the vehicles in search of lobster salad; was picnicing
underneath buggies; was having a good time generally.
“Without the pale,” with very golden hair, very pink
cheeks, and very light costume, was laughing louder
than it was necessary to laugh, and drinking
more “Foster” than it was necessary to drink,
attracting that attention which they wished to attract,
and consequently rendering the adjacent members of
their own sex, but not of their own fagon de vivre,
extremely uncomfortable—all of which was in the
recognised programme of the persons we are alluding
to. Entertaining the carriage folk with song was a
minstrel —the very last remnant of the Troubadours,
who in times gone by sang without castle walls of
valiant knights and lovely ladies.
Sad and gaunt was the minstrel tall;
Of seedy black his togs withal;
His nose like burnished copper.
Around his neck a ribbon red,
A banjo held, and on bis head
He wore an old ’■ popper.
This vocalist sang “ Come into the G-i-arding, Morde”
and “ The Bay o' Biskey, Ho I" with much spirit, and
was liberally rewarded with small coin. The conditions
of emolument, however, were based upon his immediate
departure. So he took the coin, and went.
In the enclosure, the same familiar faces greeted us
as of yore. In the vice-regal box, her Excellency, in an
elaborate costume of black silk, with “a love of a
jacket,” the trimming of which lalone caused many a
sigh to be heaved, many a heart to sink. In deep con-
versation with her ladyship was anew arrival, who is a
very distinguished gentleman, indeed. His name is
Gar butt, and he was formerly a member of the House of
Commons. Now he is not a member. We forget
whether he or his constituents resigned ; but the fact
remains the same that he is, at present, legislatively
unharnessed. However, he has got plenty of capital,
and plenty of opportunities for spending it; so we dare
say he is happy, He ought to be, for he was driven
home behind the Hon. Henry Loftus' pair of grays ;
and if that’s not enough to make a man
happy, why what is ? All our dear old friends,
the Eomanys. were there—the lady who has gained
herself undying fame by her masterly impersonation of
volatile Meg—Mr. Alger, and Mr. Eeginald Bloxsome.
Mr. B. was arrayed in a manner that reflected great
credit on his tailor. His white hat, long light
“ banger,” with continuations to match, and thumping
binoculars, were all of the course coursey. “Grand-
stand ” was written in every wrinkle of his coat, and
the sporting cock of his hat spoke 2 to 1 bar 1 as plainly
as ever it was yelled by a book-maker. The
’s were in great force ; the young ladies, and the
Melbourne—bucky Melbourne I—brother scintillating
on the lawn. Then there was Mrs. Griffiths in a bewil-
dering dress, in which the grey and other tints were
harmoniously blended. Daniel was to the fore with
Mrs. O’Connor who wore an elaborate black silk costume
and a bonnet that had been apparently fashioned by the
£Ods. We came upon the member for West Sydney
just as he was cracking a bottle of “ flz ’’ with
Commodore Wilson, and the pride of Morpeth—our
Demosthenic Attorney-General. “ Willie Stephen,” ex-
Under-Secretary for Lands—was übiquitous, and
outwardly looks none the worse for the cruel
reduction effected in his monthly screw. Sir
Alfred was _ also about, and spent some time,
so we heard, in discussing domestic economy with the
wife of his excellent Excellency. Some remark was
occasioned by the attention one of the Governor’s olive-
branches paid to a certain very charming young
lady. Wo had a good look at the couple when
they were on the lawn, and the conclusion we
come to is that we can quite understand the
fentleman’s feelings on the fair subject. Stephen C.
Irown, the oracle of Newtown, was about the paddock,
dressed in sombre garb, and, despite the jauntiness of
his walk, looking every inch a lawyer. Alderman Hardie
was there, looking cm happy as he could; and Alderman
Young, the hero of the Municipal hour, was having a
good time as usual. Mr. C. J. Eoberts figured once
again in those brown-green pants, and with him was
Mrs. E., in a black-satin costume trimmed with cardinal
and having a 35 ft. train, and one of Charley’s pretty
children. Mr. E. B. Smith was aide-de-camp to the
party, and looked—as he always does look—
" One of the fairest pictures that e’er were
Out of the hand of heaven fashioned.”
Mr. Knox, the great Anglican saint, was not absent.
What this estimable gentleman goes in for are sugar
and sanctity. The one he has we are sure, and the
other we believe he possesses. “ Ted ” the great was
there, got up in immense style, “ doing the amiable ”
all round. Harry M‘Q. and his brother were busy
taking the odds, as was also “the great” Jack
Hart. Mr. H. E. Cohen, pale but composed,
escorted a party of ladies, and was much admired in
his new hat. Mr. Oliffe, the bright particular star of
the Licensed Victuallers, was the admiration of all
beholders. He “ mounted” a coat, the like of which
was never seen since the Peninsular war. The cape of
this garment would suffice to make a suit of clothes
for an ordinary man : while the material of which the
whole garment was composed, would comfortably
clothe a dozen of the rank and file of our “ standing
army.”
About three o’clock the sun shone, for half-an-hour,
at any rate, with some brilliancy. Yet though Nature
smiled upon the scene, one dark and gloomy spot
marred the harmony of the surroundings. This was
the “ press box." This pen set apart for the Sydney
literati is at the top of the Stand, almost directly over-
looking the Governor’s box. On our arrival we went—
having been previously informed that no recognised
members of the literary profession frequented this
journalistic “Cave of Adullam”—to have a look at
it. There were only four persons enseonsced
therein, and misery—not to say desolation—was
imprinted on the brow of each. There was the
representative of no recognised paper there, but a
frosty four, who looked as though a glass of hot whisky
and a saveloy would have been accepted by each with
much relish and no little gratitude. No representative
of a daily was there. Eoly Pickering, Jack Conway,
and the rest were all too busy to be perched in that hen-
roost gazing through seven-and-sixpenny binoculars for
style when their own eyesight would have served them
ten times as well. The whole aspect of the Press com-
partment was a puzzle to us. What we ask is—" Who
are these phantom inkslingers ?”
The racing was indifferent, with the exception of two
events —the Champion Stakes and the Doncaster
Handicap. With respect to the last race, the dis-
satisfaction at the Judge’s decision was loudly ex-
pressed—Black Swan appearing to the general view of
spectators in the grand-stand to be well ahead of Eapid
Bay at the winning post. Of the refreshment catering,
the less said the better. Appended will be found
technical results :
The Hubdle Eace, a handicap sweepstakes of 5 soys
each, 1 forfeit, with 100 sovs. added; second horse,
20 sovs from the prize. Two miles and a half.
Mr. Eli Jellett’s b or br g President, by Panic, aged,
list (P. Hill) 1
W. Welman’s g g Sleet, aged, Bst 71b (P. King)... 2
J. Underhill’s bg Wrangler,aged, 9st 21b (Burke) 3
Eadical, Lady Eipon, Benalla, The Hatter, Pluto (late
Colli), Secret, and Mariner also started.
Betting: 2 to 1 v. President, 3 to 1 v. Eadical, 4 to 1
Lady Eipon, 5 to 1 v. The Hatter, 6 to 10 to 1 v. any
other.
A good start; Pluto came down at the first fence.
Hatter and Mariner took the lead. Mariner tired, and
Sleet went to the front. President then ran inte second
place, and at the half-mile post succeeded in heading
the leader, and won easily by three lengths. Wrangler
was a good third. Time, sm. 13 5-10 s.
The Autumn Stakes, a sweepstakes of 10 sovs each
1 forfeit, with 150 sovs added, for three-year-olds
and upwards ; second horse 20 sovs from the prize.
One mile and a half.
Mr. J. Morrison’s ns b h Wellington, by Panic —Frou
Frou, syrs, 9st 31b (W. Yeomans) 1
W. E. Eoyd’s b h Braidwood, by Maribyrnong—
Nellie Brandon, 5 yrs, 9st 31b (P. Pigott) ... 2
No betting; a gift to Wellington, who won easily by
about three lengths in 2m. 52 8-10 s.
The Champagne Stakes, a sweepstake of 20 sovs. each,
5 ft.; for two-year-olds; colts, 8 st. 10 His.; fillies,
8 st. 8 lbs.; the owner of the second horse to save
his stake, and the winner to give two dozen of
champagne to the committee ; the forfeit to be paid
on the Saturday preceding the race, or the nomi-
nator will be liable for the whole stake; sixtfur-
longs.
Mr. T. Chimside’s gf Spinningdale, by Maribyrnong
Sappho —2 years, 8 st. 8 His. (Connor) 1
Jno. Mayo's be The Gem, by Kelpie—lda, 2years
8 st. 10 Bis. (Eoarty) 2
Edwd. Lee’s br c Somerset, by Maribyrnong—
Keepsake, 2 years, Bst 10 His. (Yeomans) ... 3
Testator, Valentine, Fanst, Wheatear, Benedict, and
Eoyal Maid also started.
Betting, sto 4 v. Spinningdale, 2 to 1 v. Wheatear,
4 to 1 v. Somerset.
A beautiful start, Valentine leading, with Wheatear
and Spinningdale close up, Valentine kept the lead
into the straight, and Spinningdale fell back, having
been knocked out of position. At the distance post
Valentine dropped off, and Somerset took the lead, fol-
lowed by Gem and Wheatear. Opposite the Ledger
Stand, The Gem made his effort and got a lead of a
length. Spinningdale, who had been making a grand
struggle during the straight running, came up at the
last moment and beat The Gem at the post. Somerset
made a grand but unsuccessful effort to get the second
place. Time, Imin. 19isec.
The St. Leges Stakes, a sweepstakes of 30 sovs each,
10 ft., for three-year-olds; colts Bat 101 b, fillies Bst
51b. The second horse to receive 60 sovs. out of
the stakes. The forfeit to be paid before 4 p.m. on
the Saturday preceding the race, or the nominator
will be liable for the whole of the stake. One mile
and three-quarters.
Mr. W. Branch’s b or br c Progress, by Angler—
Coquette, 3 yrs, Bst 101 b (T. Hales) 1
E. De Mestre’s b c Orient, by Fireworks —Sun-
shine, 3yrs, Bst 101 b (J. Eiley) 2
Hon. Jas. White’s b f Sapphire, by The Drummer —
Amethyst, 3 yrs, Bst 51b (W. Huxley) ... 0
No betting; a one-horse race. Progress winning as he
liked in 3m. 15is.
The Doncasteb Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of
5 sovs each, 1 forfeit, with 150 sovs added. For all
horses. Second horse 20 sovs from the prize. One
mile and a furlong.
Mr. F. Wentworth’s bh Eapid Bay, by Talk o’ the
Hills—Miss Giraffe, aged, Bst 41b (Yeomans) 1
H. C. Dangar’s ch h Courtenay, by Yattendon, 4
yrs, 6st 101 b (Eaynor) 2
J. Mayo’s bl m Black Swan, bv Yattendon—Maid
of the Lake, 6 yrs 9st 31b (Connor) 3
Master Avenal, His Lordship, Milbrodale, Major,
Cynic, Tattoo, Black Eagle, Juventas, PG, Marmora,
Zulu, Surry, Billy Nutts, Partner, West Country Dick,
and Lord Orville also ran.
Betting: stol v. Black Swan and PG; 6tol v. Cynic,
Major, Courtenay, and His Lordship; Btol2to 1 v.
any other.
After some delay an excellent start was effected,
Courtenay taking the lead, PG second. Topping the
hill, Eapid Bay took second place. Courtenay had a
good lead, but at the turn into the straight he lost a
deal by running wide, and Eapid Bay, who ran
close to the rails, succeeded in taking up
the lead. When the distance post was reached Black
Swan made a great rush, and with him again came
Courtenay, but Eapid Bay fought gamely, and beat
Courtenay by a head. Black Swan being close up for
third place. Time, 2m. Is.
The Tbial Stakes, a sweepstake of 5 sovs each, 1 for-
feit, with 100 sovs added. For all horses which
have not won a prize exceeding 50 sovs in value up
to time of entrance. Second horse 20 sovs from the
prize. 1J mile.
Hon. James White’s br f Etna, by Maribyrong—Al-
paca, 2 years, 6st 91bs (Walker) 1
Mr. H. Mortimer’s br or g f Wheel of Fortune, 2
years, 6st 91bs (Gough) 2
E. E. Jones’ ch c Greyhound, 2 years, 6st lllbs
(Cracknell) 3
Templar, Mistletoe, Legerdemain, Kerolite, Eebecca,
Carissima, Primrose, and Stilton also ran.
Betting: 6t04 on Etna, 3to 1 Carissima,
Carissima took the lead. Etna ran into second place
at the hill, and caught Carissima at the half-mile post,
and led into the straight. Wheel of Fortune came up,
and challenged Carissima, who fell back beaten. Etna
won by four lengths. Wheel of Fortune, the second
horse, being about the same distance ahead of Grey-
hound. Time, 3m. 13 2-10 a.
THE CUP DAY.
No more about the weather this time, except to say
that the firmament was adequately gilded, and that not
even the strains of the Artillery Band could mar the
harmony of the scene. The sunshine—as sunshine
always does—brought forth flowers. Not the flowers
of the garden, but the flowers of the lawn. Where on
Monday the leaves of the rosebuds were closed by the
cold, on Wednesday, when all was sunshine, they
opened to display every charm of colour. On Monday,
all the dresses were dark and sombre as suited the
leaden hue of the sky. On Wednesday, however, all
was brightness, and all was colour. Lady Lof tns, it is
true, did not depart from what has so often been her
custom, of wearing black at festive gatherings; but the
funereal hue of her ladyship’s costume was more than
counterbalanced by the fact of Lord Loftus’ presence in
the vice-regal box. We do not, of course, say that His
Excellency caused the sun to shine brighter than it
would have done; but this we do say—Lord Loftus’
appearance at Eandwick lent a charm to the
scene—which, if it was not revelled in by the
many, was at least ecstatically appreciated by the few.
The belle of the ball—or rather we should say of the
“ ten bob ” enclosure —was a lady, name unknown (but
earnestly enquired after by about 10,000 scions of the
nobility), whose costume consisted simply of em-
broidered cashmere. The colour was ivory, and with an
artistic perception of the truly sesthetic, the lady had
not relieved the white of her dress by even as much as
pink flower, or a diamond brooch. The gentleman with
her was likewise a stranger, but the amount of enquiry
lavished on him was infinitesimal. Another lady shone
resplendent in a magnificent black silk, made with a
“peacock” train, and thickly studded with jet beads.
The effect of this dress in the sunlight was extremely
charming, and the wearer was surmised at as being
the wife of a popular medico—doubt, however,
pervading the rumour. The lady who was Lady
Loftus* companion throughout the day wore
a dress which, if not showy, was surpas-
singly elegant in style and detail. The ground-
work of the dress was dark olive, but it was
magnificently embroidered in white silk and silver,
with leaves and flowers. Another costume that at-
tracted much attention was that worn by a lady of
elegant figure and tournure. The dress was of flowered
brocade, over an underskirt of claret silk. Her veil
was of gold net, and all the adjuncts of her costume in
the last degree charming. But perhaps the prettiest
picture on the lawn was a little kinswoman of Mr. Dar-
gin, who, habited in the most delightful of blue frocks,
and the most delicious of silk stockings, looked the
very counterpart of Titania —and what sweeter fairy
could one compare her to than that I To refer to more
prosaic subjects, the favourites nearly all won, and
there was, in consequence, weeping, wailing, and gnash-
ing of teeth in the land of Israel. The Cup was almost
as hollow an affair as the Leger, and the backers of
“ the Jew” are now enquiring how they sell rat-poison
by the ounce. On the second day as on the
first the “ press box ” attracted a good deal of
attention. It was rumoured on the lawn at one
time that a subscription had been made for
the purpose of supplying blankets and billies to
these unknown representatives of the Fourth Estate
who mysteriously perch themselves upon the draughty
shelves provided for journalistic outcasts by Mr. Clib-
born, but the thing eventually fell to the ground on
account of one subscriber insisting upon it being made
a condition of the gift that they should leave the colony.
It being quite apparent that these grotesque represen.
tatives of journalism could get a living nowhere else,
the charitable movement was given up in despair, and
therefore fell to the ground. Hundreds were “ brokers”
on returning from the races, but these magnificent
specimens of the literati were all “ stoners ” before they
got there. Thus they left the precincts of Eandwick
with light hearts.
Appended will be found results:—
Flying Handicap. 6 furlongs.
Somerset 1
Eapid Bay 2
West Country Dick 3
Autumn Maiden Plate, li mile.
Wheatear 1
Etna 2
Sydney Cup. 2 miles.
Progress 1
Stratheam ... 2 ‘
Wandering Jew 3
Time, 3m. 335.
Selling Plate. mile.
Bob Sawyer 1
Sapling Stakes. 5 furlongs.
Exeter 1
Eupert 2
Emulation 3
Time, Im. ss.
Siees’ Peoduce Stakes.
Spinningdale 1
Gem 2
Loftus 3
April 23, 1881.


FIREWORI
FIREWORKS ! I
PUBLIC NOT
The undersigns
POINTED SOLE 4GEN
atlas brand prize :
WORKS, manufactured by t
taring Company (Limited), Pj
Majesty the Queen and the
ment.
MYERS an
These JUSTLY CELEBEAT
which have now been before th(
twenty years, are NOW ON SALE
To meet the increasing demand £c
day, we have imported 100,000 G
ATLAS BE AND FI BE WO EES, c
which will be sold at Is. 9d. and 2s
ROYAL ATLAS I
PRIZE LONDON FI
MYERS AND S
Sole Wholesale i)
-SQUIBS
PIN WHEELS
BLUE DEVII
GOLD
BLUE CANDLES
CHINESE TREES
FLOWEE ]
DO
PEINCE OF WALES’ I
Is. 9d. per gross
The above Ten Kinds, Double Sizi
same assortment as ab<
superior.
TRIPLE SIZE, Bs. per gross,
and Eoman Candles.
THEOW-DOWN CEACKERS, i
Six Gross, 4s, per box.
FIRE BALLOOI
65., 125., 215., 365., and 60i
CHINESE FIREW
CHINESE CEACKEES, 40 packe
EXTEA SUPERIOR CHINESE
40 packets in box, red box, 6i
Tom Thumb Chinese Crackers, 40
strings in packet, 6s. per doz
CHINESE GUNS, extra superior
Bs. dozen packets
THE
(Jity (Catering
315 GEORGE STB
un
“ HARRIS’" CAFE, Opposite ]
Are now prepared to undertake
Management of Balls, Banquets,
Parties, Picnics, Tea Meetings, L
on the shortest notice and most reo
Among the waiters attending wi
favourites, and civility and attentic
The Gentlemens Cafe and Resta
Ladies Refreshment Booms, wiil be
Qhas. r. g
MANAGER.
ALTON'S PRIZE AL
J. T. FALLON’S in asking pul
WINES, and to the awards gaine
intimate that he holds very large st
and the public may rely upon getti
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depo:
91 PITT STREET, SI
MURRAY RITEE V VALLET,
NEW SOUTH Wi
These Wines were awarded flrst-e
following Exhibitions > —
London International ...
MAE T I N
AUSTEAUAN WINE W
105 PITT stee:
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 14s ]
ALBUEY WIN]
BED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbee
HUNTEE EIYEB Y
Claret
Lambruseat
J.
POET MACQUAEIE
Burgundy.
MEN
BELMOEE HOB
205 Pitt-street
SINGER’S SEWING
THE
8 INGEE MANUFACTU]
Have opened a Di
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 D^
' HARBOUR ST;
SINGBE’S SE WI N(
lllustrated Price List s<
8 INGEE’S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOI
IN GEE’S SEWING
Write for address of n
S INGEE’S, THE BEST
Have received 160 First
S INGEE’S SEWINC
Ten per cent, foi
S INGEE’S, BEST FOE
SINGER’S MEDIUM MAT
SINGE E’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
S INGEE’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 ;
s
INGEE’S SEWINC
Easy Terms. No additio
S INGEE’S, THE BEST FO
See the New No. 4 Vibratin
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OR TREi
s
S INGEE’S. The BEST. T 1
MACHINE—Light to Wori
INGEE’S SEWINC
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s.
s
s
INGEE’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvemer
S INGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to al
BINGEE’S8 INGEE’S THE BEST j
Sew finest muslins and 1
S INGEE’S SEWINC
Write for Illustrated Pric
INGEE’S THE BEST and
Will last a lifetime in c
S INGEE’S SEWING
ADDRESS: 1
INGEE MANUPACTUE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hi
s
s
JgINGEE’S SEWINC
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Hayma
have been appointed agents f
machines.
Call and see them—Monti
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly
10 per cent discount for cs
SINGER’S SEWING N
S INGEE’S SEWING MAGI
and CO. only recommenc
EMEMBEE, THEEE IS
GER MACHINE. See ti
Mark on the arm.
INGEE’S MACHINES.—
applies to the Genuine Ma<
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
CINGEE’S MACHINES
k—7 Cast iron imitations,
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
s
On
,INGEE’S SEWING MACI
ments with the Singer
INGEE’S SEWING MA
cent, discount for cash, or on
X DJN EY.—From TUENE
GEORGE STREET, opposi
INGEE’S SEWING MACH
but 160 FIRST PR
8
8
PRIZE “IVANHOE”
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS \ UV
U vi»'
PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878.
TWO FIRST PRIZES
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL.
* «
-o-
DINNER WINES ,
■
LIGHT and DRY,
!
10/. PER DOZEN.
BURGUNDY")
RIESLING
j2l /- per dozen.
<9
“ Drink no longer water,
but use a little wma for
thy stomach’s sake and
thine often infirmities.”
—I Tim. ▼. BS.
“ Wine maketh glad the
heart of man.”
—Ps. oir. IS.
Ivanhoe Vineyard,") 6. H. STEPHEN & GC
Hunter River, J SYDNEY DEPOT— I 3 BrIDG]
ALLAN A. MARSHALL {
BRASS FOUNDERS AND ]
COPPERSMITHS, GASPITTERS, AND GEI
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. BRASS WO
IMPORTERS OF


MikRTIIf & PAW, jSg George
S//VC/.£ and
DOUBLE-FURROW
PLOUGHS.
Single-furrow Ploughs, We have the largest assortment of Ploughs in the colony, and can suit the
requirements of every district. Farmers, write US for information We Dost Illustrations and Price Lists Free.
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
New Pattern Ploughs, Just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
Farmers, write us for information. We post Illustrations and Price Lists Free.
New Pattern Ploughs, all sizes.
RfTGHIE’S “Colonial-made" Ploughs, Nos. 1,2,
and 3. This is a favourite make in many districts
We invite Correspondence, and furnish every
information promptly and free.
4
HARROWS—ZIGZAG, DRAG, CHAIN, &c,
We recommend BOWMD'S as the best Harrows of their class, but
have other makes, some of which are in good demand in several districts.
Also,
Nos. 14,12,11,10.
Y Width BJ, 9£, 10,10 J ft.
1 Weight IJ. If, 2J, 2| cwt
Bowafd's
LARKWORTHT’S,
PAGE’S,
RANDALL’S, &C.
Oar Stock of Harrows includes all the best known makes. We have all
sizes. Write us for information.
MARTIN & PAIN,
-389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Blacket and Davy.
ENGINEERS
119 BATHUEST STREET, SYDNEY,
AND IMPORTERS OF
MACHINERY.
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
Miscellaneous
B
RISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
IRONMON GEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES.
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the lates reductions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Boiled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENEEAL lEONMON GEE Y.
W
ILLCOX
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS.
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MEEICAN MACHINEEY DEPOT.
H. P. GEEGOEY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
M
C
E E
Y,
H I N
Have for Sale—
J, A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathee
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Seud for Circulars and Prices.
118
KING STREET SYDNE
.TAILOR
if®!
oRgV qY&
$5
°o
m Y/fo
Am POST OFFICE.
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
WtUNATIO.
-3S& TO
FIT GUARANTEED!
/VIA- HANDWORK.
FEWEST FASHIONS.
JEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
m
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY
TO HAVE
YOUR PRESCRIPTIONS DISPENSED.
Pure Drugs only used. Patent Medicine at less
than English Prices. Send for a Price List.
""
CABEFULIiY
EXTRACTED
TEETH
Miscellaneous
0 LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
OFFICES 79 YORK STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
h i mtlm
PITT
as
41
SYDN
BEAUTIFUL .
«■**
ALLWOOL
TWEED
Tro
/V} Ms\jr£
ibs.Gj
iJWEED
SUITS
TO
__ tSURI
guTTencths
at wholesale prices.
SoOOPATTERNS'°CHOOSE FP
HLSUMMERFIE
PITT.STSYDN
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
CELLARS t
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at The Bulletin
Office, 13 Bridge-street.
.mm
HFtMi
I,
s
GANDY’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLD-dT'S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
EYES
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Bev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., AsMeld : —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney ;—Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for 2% years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, andJaques, solicitors), Sydney: —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
BATHS.
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, opposite Palmer-street,
PRACTICAL RAIRCTJTTRR,
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR-WORKER, STAGE AND STREET WIG-MAKER.
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings of Ladies’ TTa-ir worked as required.
8®” Note the address— Oxford-street, opposite Palmer-street.
CJ
(*
PRIZE
II
Cocoa
co
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
lek First Prizes
and the
Special First
lb the best of their
fiass in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
mm
if O
a CO
tja
.0$
&
M
IVIUstaR
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CO
'V9.TT.TP.
JJ E. GORDON,
HOMCEPATHIST,
No, 2 Hyde Park Terrace,
171 Liverpool-street,
Eradicates hereditary diseases
in the young, and chronic com-
plaints in the adult, and holds
references for the cure of
Typhoid, Bilious, Intermittent,
Scarlet, and Rheumatic Fevers;
Bronchitis, Asthma, Consump-
tion, Pleurisy, Scarlatina, Croop,
Whooping Cough, and Dipthe-
ria; Heart, Liver, Stomach, and
Kidney complaints; Cancers,
Ulcers, Erysipelas, Scrofulous,
Dropsy, Opthalmia, and Urinary
complaints. Terms for chronic
complaints, £1 per month, pay-
able in advance; consultations
sa. No letters answered unless
the monthly fees are paid in
advance; and patients at a dis-
tance are requested to be very
minute and particular in men-
tioning the symptoms of their
complaint.
UNIVERSAL LOCESTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, each as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAELElGH, NETT HEIM & CO.
