

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7.—No. 83.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1881.
Price —3d.
Qtyt bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1881.
A Red Herring.
It may be accepted as evidence of the Ministry
having at length become aware of the serious and
indefensible nature of the blunder and wrong they
have perpetrated in ordering the vaccination of
the inmates of gaols, with or without these
persons’ consent, that they have dragged a red
herring across the scent. On Wednesday night Mr.
Copeland’s motion in reference to the arbitrary
decree of the Government would in the ordinary
course have been debated, and there was little
room for doubt as to the handling the Ministry
were likely to receive. For once, even the docile
majority which made a strong Government out of
weak men had been shocked out of servility, and
the result of the discussion was known to be
likely to be damaging. Mr. Forster’s notice of
motion, that it would be more satisfactory to the
House and to the public if at least two other
persons were associated with Mr. Salomons in
the Eoyal Commission to investigate the Milburn
Creek affair, gave no opportunity of evading the
impending discussion on the vaccination outrage.
But what it did not give was taken. It is com-
petent for a Ministry to declare any motion
emanating from an Opposition member to be an
expression of want of confidence. As a matter of
course, Opposition members lack confidence all
the time. It is the essence of their position.
They cannot open their mouths without expressing
that in one way or other. But if Ministers were
to suspend the transaction of public business
every time that an Opposition member tabled a
motion not in unison with their own ideas, Par-
liamentary proceedings would be reduced to a
farce, while an Opposition would be limited to
formal challenges on critical questions, and de-
barred from attempting to obtain even minor
modifications of the Government plans.
# * *
There was not necessarily any censure conveyed
in Mr. Forster’s notice of motion. No objection
was taken to the choice made by the Government
of a Commissioner. There was no allegation
or insinuation of bad intentions in not having
appointed colleagues for Mr. Salomons. The
thing was merely a suggestion which it would
have been competent for the Government, with-
out discredit or any confession of weakness,
to have adopted without more ado. That
they did not adopt it, is one of the most
inexplicable of things. The public would cer-
tainly be better satisfied; Mr. Salomons would
most likely be glad to be relieved of some
of the weight of responsibility; and, above all,
it would more conclusively have established confi-
dence in the desire of the Government to probe
the matter to the bottom, had it adopted
the most thorough and unchallengeable plan
for establishing its own innocence, the innocence
of one of its members, and the innocence of
members of the House, of complicity in any fraud
upon the country. There were positive advan-
tages to a pure and innocent Ministry in adopting
Mr. Forster’s suggestion as soon as made. The
Premier has precipitately thrown all these advan-
tages away, with the aim—only too obvious —of
postponing the day of reckoning about the high-
handed dealings with Gaol officials and inmates,
and the abhorrent results of these dealings, as
managed by a juvenile and peremptory medical
officer.
*r ♦ ♦
But, after all, it is doubtful if putting off the
evil day will be, in this instance, more satisfactory
than such a device generally is. The outrages
committed upon the person of Annie O’Sulli-
van, the Darlinghurst warder, and upon that of
Annie Jones, the prisoner in that gaol illegally
subjected to seven days’ cells for refusing to sub-
mit to an infusion of virus, have thoroughly
aroused the public. The matter has to be dealt
with, sooner or later, by the people’s representa-
tives. Colonials have no disposition to counten-
ance arbitrary dealings in the gaols, imitated
apparently from the prison administrative system
of the House of Romanoff.
« * •
Let us review the course of events. Dr.
Alletne, the medical adviser of the Government,
recommended officially that instructions should be
given to the medical officers of all Government
establishments to vaccinate the inmates and
officers attached to the institutions. A medical
officer may be supposed to leave the legal aspect
of a case to the law officers, when addressing a
suggestion to them. But the right of the Govern-
ment thus to enforce, by their own order, compul-
sory vaccination —which is only carried out in
Great Britain by Act of Parliament—does not
appear to have engaged the attention of the
Department of Justice. The Under-Secretary
simply converted the doctor’s recommendation
into an instruction, which the Comptroller-General
of Prisons, on receipt, embodied in a general
order —persuasion to be used as far as possible,
but disobedience to be punished, in the case of
prisoners, as an offence. No disobedience on the
part of an officer was anticipated. But it is pro-
verbially tne unexpected which always happens.
Mr. O’Connor, the visiting surgeon of the Dar-
linghurst Gaol, who are charged to use his own
discretion as to the necessity for re-vaccination,
exhibited his possession of that valuable quality by
proceeding to inoculate a female warder —a young
woman of unblemished character —with matter
which had passed through the system of a wench
thirty-three times convicted —a vagrant, a thief, a
drunkard, and (to crown all) a common prostitute!
• * •
On exception being taken to this shocking pro-
ceeding, the visiting surgeon simply hits all round
him, and writes wild statements to the effect that
there is no healthier person in Darlinghurst than
this tainted outcast, that the lymph derived from
her is of the best quality, and that he had vac-
cinated over twenty persons from her body. The
complaint is, he pronounces in one sentence, a
trivial one —and in the next, with admirable in-
consistency, a charge of extreme gravity. We
presume that it is open to the public to adopt
either one of these alternatives ; and such being
the case, we certainly agree that the charge is one
of exceeding gravity. It would be very interesting
to know in what light Mr. O’Connor’s medical
brethren regard his definitions. It has been
customary for adults proposing to be vaccinated,
and for parents when intending to submit their
children to that operation, to stipulate that the
lymph to be introduced into their systems shall
be of pure quality and derived from a healthy
person. Is it to be understood that the medical
interpretation of pure lymph for vaccinating pur-
poses is applicable to the doubtful festerings of a
common prostitute, suspected of the worst of all
taints ?
* * »
But there is yet another aspect of the affair.
“Magna Charta,” that Great Charter which is the
foundation of a Briton’s liberties and rights, pre-
scribes that maiming shall form no part of a
prisoner’s punishment. To wound the flesh of a
piisoner is, under our law, a gross assault, unless
flogging be part of his or her sentence. The
Department of Justiee has over-ridden law by its
ipse dixit, and a gaol regulation has been allowed
to supersede common law. A woman has been
punished illegally for refusing to let the juvenile
medical man—whose appointment, in view of the
vast amount of competition for the charge of some
700 living beings, besides the lunatics at the recep-
tion house, surprised everyone-instil into her veins
the virus from the “ healthy ” subject of thirty-
three convictions. Another woman was looked up
for a similar refusal; and although under this treat-
ment her resistance gave way, the judicious young
doctor made her objection a personal matter, and
refused to vaccinate her until she had been
punished. These antics before high Heaven, of
one dressed in a little brief authority, seem to
have opened the eyes of our precious Department
of Justice to the monstrosity of the whole proceed-
ing. One prisoner having intimated her resolution
to die rather than submit to the contagion Dr.
O’Connor was so resolute to communicate, the
case was brought before the Department. The
public had by this time heard something of the
scandal, and the Press had begun to make its
voice heard. The Minister for Justice reversed
all that had been ruled before, and issued his
ordinance that “ compulsion must not be used to
enforce vaccination in the gaols, and there must
be no punishment for refusal to submit.” This is
conclusive, no doubt. But who is to wipe out the
wrong done to Warder Annie O’Sullivan?
Who is to extinguish the confinement suffered by
the recalcitrant prisoners? Will Mr. Wisdom
balance the thing by taking eight days’ cells him-
self, or is that to be the condonation offered by
Dr. O’Connor? The public voice has already
been in some degree heard. But what have Par-
liament and the medical society to say about the
gaol doctor of Darlinghurst ?
The Hon. Archibald Bell, M.L.C.
The Legislature of this colony has, in the person
of the Hon. Archibald Bell, one of the pioneers of
settlement in Australia, and a true representative
of liberality and progress. The vast expanse of
country southward of the Liverpool Range, on
which populous townships and smiling homesteads
are now to be seen, was but a trackless forest when
Mr. Bell and his party first awakened it from its
slumbers. With the determination of a resolute
explorer, he found a way to the rich fertile lands
of these northern plains, and cut a road which
opened an avenue for the settlement that soon after
rapidly took place. For this beneficial work, the
Imperial authorities made him a grant of 2000
acres. Pastoral occupation of the country was at
first the character of the settlement; and though
the natural difficulties were great, they were as
nothing in comparison to those which arose from
the description of labour then only available.
The aboriginals reluctantly yielded their ground,
and their conflicts with the whites were numerous.
It was a number of Mr. Bell’s hands who yarded
a hundred or more of aboriginals, men, women,
and children, and, as alleged, committed fearful
slaughter upon them. Thanks to the assistance
of Mr. Bell, and the unswerving resolution of Mr.
Attorney-General Plunkett, several of the offen-
ders were brought to justice and executed. The
settlement of the country proceeded quietly after
these stirring events. For over fifty years Mr.
Bell has watched this progress, and through all
that period has prominently participated in every-
thing tending to the material or moral, political or
social, advancement of the country. He has ably
co-operated with Sir John Robertson in all his
efforts at liberal progressive legislation ; and it
was in recognition of his (Mr. Bell’s) experience,
ability, and enterprise, that the Government of
which Sir John was a member, nominated him
to the Upper House. Mr. Bell has a large
squatting property near Denman, and from the
way in which he has managed to handle the ques-
tion of agricultural settlement, he may be looked
upon as one of the few men capable of uniting the
two great interests of the interior, and giving an
honest and fearless representation to both. Mr l
Bell is seventy-three years of age, still retains
much of his youthful vigour, and is always present
in the Legislative Council when questions of
importance are on for consideration.
THE HON. ARCHIBALD BELL, M.L.C. (From a photo. by Freeman, George-street.)
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dead Lion.
While Marcus Clarke lived, the voice of envy was
little heard in public. The petty mortals who see in a
man’s superiority only a personal affront, are generally
endowed with one virtue—prudence. Melbourne con-
tained no single litterateur of first-rate standing who
did not regard Marcus Clarke with respect and ad-
miration for his talents. And of the tribe of second
and third rate men, not one cared to encounter the
literary lion in the field of print. These sneered behind
his back, belittled his accomplishments, and exagger-
ated the weak features of his character. Mr. John
Warde, writing to the Daily Telegraph, has called
attention to the venomous attacks made upon Marcus
Clarke by the Melbourne correspondent of the S.M.
Herald. While Marcus lived, the well-known person
who acts as the Herald’s correspondent would have
been brayed in the literary mortar by the object of his
dislike, had he ever ventured to try conclusions with
him. This accomplished scribe is not content with
snarling at Mr. Clarke’s improvidence, but must needs
inform the readers of the Herald that even as to the
deceased journalist’s literary ability he “ has his own
opinion.’’ It is a satisfaction to some people to affect
singularity, and perhaps the Herald’s correspondent
is of that class. Had we the same craving, we should
fail to satisfy it were we to mention that with regard to
the literary ability of the Herald’s correspondent, wo
also have our own opinion. That Marcus was impro-
vident is true. It war, perhaps, port of the mental
constitution which imparted the charm of individuality
to his writing. Mr. Warde forcibly points out in the
Telegraph that Marcus Clarke’s improvidence was
traceable simply to an unfortunate departure in early
life. He fell into the hands of the “ sheventy per
shent” gentry. Now, we have here material for
a striking comparison. The “ sheventy per shent"
people possess that virtue for lack of which poor
Marcus Clarke’s coffin is spit upon by his old enemy.
They are not, as a rule, clever like Marcus. No action
of their lives, no emanation of their thought, has ever
given pleasure to a human being. They grind the bones
of the poor, and sweat the very soul out of unworldly
men of talent, like Marcus Clarke, shortening such
lives with sheer worry and sordid cares. But they are
eminently provident. They provide for their wives and
families. They and the wolves perform this function.
And men of the same kidney as the Herald’s Mel-
bourne correspondent sniff round their carrion-tainted


THE GENUINE AM
HOP BIT!
Manufactured by
HOP BITTERS MANUPAC
ROCHESTER, N.Y.
are a
MEDICINE. NOT
The above Company are well-ki
originators of t
HOP BITTERS
The groat boat race rowed on the r
cessfully carried off
GALLANT HAYCOCK, of
hop bTtt
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEA
EVER MADE
They are componnde
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRA
AND BAND EL]
The Oldest, Best, most Renow
Medicines in the World, and in a
the best and most effective cun
allother Bitters, being the great(
PIER and life and health restori
REMEMBEB THIS 1 IP Y
HOF BITTE
will surely aid nature in makii
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a
matic district, barricade your
scourge of all countries—malarial
and intermittent fevers—by the i
hop bitte;
If you are costive or dyspepti
from any other of the numero
stomach or bowels, it is vour o'
main ill, for HOP BITTERS
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with s
disease, stop tempting Death
turn for a cure to HOP BITTE!
If you are sick with that terr
vousness, you will find a “ Balm
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL diseai
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Ki
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will r
for anything impure or injurious
That poor, bedridden, invalid w
or daughter, can be made the p:
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, cos
WILL YOU LET THEM
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENI
with
HOP BITT
and you will have no sicknes
Large square panelled amber co
label with green Hop cluster one
other.
Price ss. No other form, size,
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Ro<
To be obtained at all Chemists an
MONTEFIORE, STUi
65 PITT STREET, SYDN
General Agents for Ai
£
ASSOC
Faustina!
“Too sweet is the rind! —say the sages,
Too bitter the core!”
The old, o’d story, woven anew from the same world-
old woof, and with the same familiar burden to the tale.
The Collie-Lewis case has just received its coup de
grace. The incidents were telling and significant. The
girl, Amt Lewis, was of respectable parentage, hand-
some, well educated—pure, until the procuress poisoned
her mind. Collie, a stranger in Melbourne, visited the
bagnio where she plied her unhallowed avocation, and
seeing the girl, fell into the toils. For three months
they lived together. Collie having become desperately
enamoured, and spending all his money meanwhile.
Jealousy supervened, and in an insane moment he first
cut his paramour’s throat and then his own. The
wounds were severe, and neither was expected to live ;
both, however, survived, and on Collie being arraigned
it was found that the victim had written him expressing
sympathy and unchanged affection, bidding him •' keep
up his spirits and all would be well.” It was found
that the accused had previously borne a good repute,
living a life of honest labour. There seemed to have
been a sincere attachment between the parties, and
after proceedings were instituted every effort was made
by the victim to lighten her lover’s sentence—thirty
months being finally adjudged. In his address, the
defending counsel referred to the terrible trade of the
girl Lewis, in which, he said, she had lost all refined
feeling. Her subsequent demeanour, however, seemed
to show that she was not altogether destitute of that
rare tenacity of affection which makes the woman in
these oases still cling, weakly or fondly, to the object of
her love, even after being wounded almost to death at
his hands. Feminine softness and true womanliness of
sentiment—these are qualities not to be entirely eradi-
cated even by the dreadful inhumanism of a brothel.
There seems to be a refinement of gentleness about a
disposition so merciful and forgiving as this, that speaks
sadly for the loss to society presupposed by this girl’s
perseverance in her career of sin. She is the type of a
class whose portraiture Swinburne has vividly limned.
Originally fair and young, “white rose in red rose
garden—snowdrops that plead for pardon were not so
white" as she. Who can toll, to quote the poet, " what
the visions that stung her, what the stories that smote I”
—what dreams of strange pleasure and soft pain ap-
pealed too powerfully to that greater poet within her
than ever wrote or sang, the heart of her dreaming
youth ? And what a change had come upon that fair
flower when the scathing blast of shame had scarred its
petals—a thing of noisomeness, a " sterile, ruinous
blossom!” But there is hope in this case. The pair
may yet reunite under happier circumstances. In that
event Swinburne’s question would lose its point where
he significantly asks —
If one should love you with real love
(Such things have been I)
You’d give him —poison, shall we say?
Or what, Faustine ?
Contrasted Statesmen.
In a recent debate upon the Irish Question, the stately
Sir Vernon Harcourt looked across the benches at
Lord Randolph Churchill, and said to him, “You
little ass 1" To this Lord Randolph promptly replied,
“You damned fool 1” Now, each of the parties to this
interchange of sentiment is a person of distinction in
English political circles, and a man of mark in his
party. Sir Vernon Harcourt is even Mr. Gladstone’s
Secretary of State for Home Affairs. And it is as above
stated that each has expressed his estimate of the
other’s abilities. Now, it takes a man of genius to
recognise and appreciate a man of genins, but any fool
has capacity—or call it instinct —for recognising a
brother-fool. Both these distinguished British states-
men were, therefore, probably correct; and the incident
serves to furnish one additional example of with how
little wisdom the world is governed. A very acute
colonial Minister—who was recently in England, and
had several official interviews and discussions with Earl
Kimberley, the dignified nobleman who directs the
affairs of the British Dependencies—made the startling
discovery, on sounding carefully the capacity of that
Secretary of State for the Colonies, that his Lordship
was a pompous, well-bred person, of small capacity and
almost parochial narrow-mindedness. He would hear
of nothing which, while advancing colonial progress,
seemed likely to affect established relations between
master and man in England. He was anything but
cordial about emigration generally, hut had a good
opinion of such emigration schemes as seemed calcu-
lated to empty British poor-houses and refuges. There
have been, of late years, few chances of making com-
parisons Up in the sky, it is scarcely possible, at night, to
distinguish the light of a fire-balloon four feet in diameter
from the gleam of celestial bodies many thousand times
vaster than our own globe. So, likewise, without some
special means, it is almost impossible to distinguish the
true proportions of objects in the political sky. One
cannot tell, for example, in what proportion Lord
Randolph Churchill stands when contrasted with
Mr. David Buchanan, or how Sir Vernon Harcourt
would measure against Jack M’Elhone. Colonists did
not think such a very great deal of Robert Lowe, nor
of Mr. Childers, when these men—who rose to the
highest places in Imperial Cabinets—were among us.
But these belong almost to a past generation. The men
who are to-day in their prime know little about them.
A chance, however, seems to offer. Sir Charles Gavan
Duffy is about to enter the British House of Commons,
and there to take up a position of vast responsibility—
the charge of the interests of the Irish nation. Sir
Charles’ intellectual and political stature is perfectly
well known in the colonies. He has left his heighth-
mark, so to speak, on thellintels of the Victorian Parlia-
ment Honses. He will now stand up with those
supposed giants in the House of Commons, and
colonials will see what their actual proportions are.
As for Sir Charles’ self-imposed task, we pause and
sigh. Jndging by antecedents, we think it much
more likely that it will culminate in Sir Charles
accepting a title, than in the Irish recovering their
freedom. The “ patriotism ” of Sir Charles is well
appreciated in Victoria.
Soul-Stricken Bandits.
Two barristers, Messrs. G. B Simpson and Bruce
Smith, were allowed £lO 10s. each costs of court by
Judge Dowling : both declared £8 Bs. would be
sufficient. This incident was really so striking that
even the Herald noticed it, and gave it nearly as much
mention as it it had been a Sunday-school anniversary
with presentation of a copper-fastened A 1 at Lloyd’s
bible to the superintendent. The Herald termed the
affair an incident quite unusual in legal procedure, and
Judge Dowling spoke in the same strain, remarking
that it was something quite new in his experience to
have barristers object to their fees as being too high.
But, after all, it is only in one aspect that the incident
is “ quite unusual in legal procedure." There is nothing
nnnsual in a lawyer on the bench awarding to lawyers at
the bar fees, out of unlucky suitors’ pockets, utterly
and absurdly disproportionate to the amount of
labour done. This system of dignified plundering out
of sheer bandit-brotherly feeling is not unnsual at all.
It is going on all the time; and as everything which is
done by persons duly appointed must be good, re-
spectable journalists do not trouble themselves about
such a matter at all, but devote their attention as usual
to the exciting records of muffin-worries.
Murder by Special License.
If the decision of the jury in the Buckley case did not
give entire satisfaction, it at least evoked surprise.
Granting that deceased really died, and died through
drink—admitting that the accused supplied the liquor,
took the money, and swindled the victim —accepting all
this "merely for argument’s sake," as the defending
counsel did —it may be gratifying to know that the
charge of manslaughter in these cases cannot be main-
tained unless a positive act and directly evil intent can
be proved against the accused. Of course, so far as
the landlord in this instance is concerned, he is out o
the question. He has been declared innocent by a jury
of twelve —not of four; and even without that verdict,
the evidence of the Infirmary authorities at the inquest
was nearly sufficient to exculpate him. In the
judgment of one of the magistrates there " the death
of deceased was accelerated by the neglect and had
treatment he received at the Infirmary.” We expressed
an opinion at the time that it did not seem desirable
that the ends of j ustice should run the risk of being
defeated by the carelessness of the Infirmary authori-
ties ; and without going so far as to say that this has
been done, it may safely be averred that a verdict of
manslaughter wonld have been radically unsound in the
face of the result of that preliminary enquiry. We
wait patiently for the outcome of the investigation
now said to be pending; meanwhile, the public
generally must feel anything but reassured as to the
hearing of the existing criminal law in the matter of
“lambing down.” This is an evil of purely indigenous
growth—one of those peculiarly colonial institutions
that seems to possess a sacred title to legal recognition.
It has enough of that now. Henceforth, it will be
possible for a stranger to come amongst us, with more
money than brains, perhaps, or with little experience of
city life and its wiles—friendless, homeless, but with
means to pay his way, and possibly something more;
he may deposit his money for safe keeping; may absorb
habitually over a hundred drunks a day; may suspect
evil and die of its effects before he is able to prove it;
he may fall a victim to this “ lambing down" proces,
in its worst and most vicious form; hut unless it can
be proved (!) that death was the immediate result of
one or more positive acts and of an overt evil design,
the miscreant into whose pitiless hands he fell is held
blameless by law. This offers a bright prospect for
wharf taverns and hash inns. There is an eligible
opening here for any active man, not over scrupulous,
and not too mawkishly thin-skinned.
He Expressed His Sympathy.
It was Count Ignatiepp who did this thing, and towards
the persecuted Jews of Russia. The superlative con-
descension of this act is positively overpowering.
Houses were burning, synagogues battered to pieces,
men maimed and slain, women insulted and dishonoured
by a Christian population, and beneath the sceptre of a
most Christian Czar, but the legions were held in leash,
and their chief “ expressed his sympathy.” The
sympathy of Ignatiepp 1 What a precious plaster for
poor Shaoabac, with his savings gone, his house in dis-
order, his kinsfolK slain before his’eyes, and he, himself;
hounded out to the wilderness, the Christians yelling
at his heels 1 What’s in a name ? has been asked often
enough to become a very monotonous query. But truly
it seems a very far cry from Abraham to Romanoff.
One of the latter is with some aplomb blown “to his
own place,” and there is a general edict, of —banish,
quarter, hang and slay, against the executioners, with
all their kith, kin, and acquaintance. Some few hun-
dreds of the seed of Abraham are maimed and robbed,
or cruelly butchered, and—lgnatiepp expresses sympa-
thy. Still, after the manner of your race, give glory
unto God, oh I Israelites. For, bad as they may ap-
pear, the manners of Kings are improving towards you.
Belshazzar had a furnace specially prepared to roast
some of you in old times. The minions of Alexander
are content ta burn you in your own homes.
The Cape for the Dutch.
The latest news is that the elections for the Transvaal
Volksraad are in progress, and that the majority of the
candidates are bitterly opposed to the convention with
the British, which the Volksraad will be asked to
ratify. This means—put shortly—war I The proud
stomachs of these sturdy colonists will not brook even
the formal and gingerbread pretences of sovereignty
retained by the Queen of the nation whose regiments
the Dutchmen conquered. It means a refusal to har-
bour a Resident, to grant right of future entry or pre-
sent garrison to British troops, to submit to limitations
as to making war or concluding peace. It means, in
fact, a determination to have an acknowledgment of
that complete independence which the Boers feel they
have won in the field, and believe themselves powerful
enough to take and hold, if it be not freely granted.
For a handful of colonists, however hardy, however
well acquainted with the modes of warfare suited to
their country, and however superior with the rifle to
regular troops, thus to challenge the wrath and invite
the force of a mighty empire is mere presumptuous
madness—the inflation of ignorant men after a success
of which they exaggerate the import. Possibly. But
these Boers are not fools, either. Almost the entire
population of the Cape is with them, and they know it,
and know also that the British Government knows it.
If the Boer flag be again unfurled, it will fly over the
country from Cape-town to Delagoa Bay; not sup-
ported by a handful, but by a nation—a South African
nation—in arms. Great Britain could, as was calcu-
lated by an Englishman, writing in a great British
Review, with prodigious effort, put 60,000 men into line
for foreign service. These being new chnms, on land-
ing in Africa would be equal to about 20,000 Boers—of
whom there would be over 50,000 in arms. Of British
colonists, perhaps some 10,000 would range themselves
under the old flag. But a struggle under such condi-
tions would not >'e merely the suppression of an insur-
rection ; it would be a vital campaign, with the national
prestige at stake, and all the chances of having a
Cornwallis or a Bcrgotne in command, repeated.
And, according to the most authentic criticisms on the
present preparedness of the British army, when she
sent for the first 60,000 men she would have in reserve
just 765 men fit to follow them up.
Medical Malpractice.
Remarking upon the recent cases of medical malprac-
tice in the sister colony, a Victorian contemporary is
carefully pointing out to its readers the probabilities of
secret crime by members of the profession—such, it
says, “ that society may well shudder with alarm.”
There is a grain of truth in this, but a heavier alloy of
sensation with it than we care to gauge. There is, and
always mast be, an immense amount of practically
irresponsible confidence reposed in the family physician.
The doctor and the parson—these are the two pivots on
which the inner mechanism of society may be said to
turn. These hold the social springs, and often direct
and impel the hidden currents of social action. Of the
two, the former is not the less influential - : for if the
parson is nominally the keeper of the conscience, the
doctor is practically, and quite as frequently, the
master of both body and soul. There is thus, of course,
indefinite scope for on unscrupulous or designing man to
work unlimited evil; and so far the Ballarat Star is
quite justified in its warning. But it looks like a rather
courageous achievement in criminal libel to coolly sub-
stitute the word “ probability " for “ possibility,” at
this juncture. The Hilder and Smith cases certainly
offer extraordinary features, hut it must be remembered
that they are uncommon. They exemplify a possibility,
but it is saying too much that they augur a probability
of general professional malfeasance. As a rule, much
must be taken on credit from professional men. Their
reputed knowledge, rather than their practical skill in
individual cases, earns the holders’ fees; and, while
common opinion is the only standard from which to
judge of ability, the subsequent conscientious use of
the latter must be taken entirely on trust. It is, of
course, generally accepted that the liberal and gentle-
manly education which professional men !must receive
is sufficient to guarantee their claim to implicit confi-
dence, apart from any question of personal ability. This
may be fairly earned, and occasionally criminally be-
trayed—as is alleged to be the case in the instances
referred to. But no good can come from the building
np of a wild sensation on the debris of the reputation of
the great bulk of the medical profession—a section of
the most honourable class in any community.
Peace to the Quiet Dead.
Many years ago, an Israelite, by name Moses, died
upon the Mount of Pisgah, near to the border of Pales,
tine. Only a few days ago, Alexander M’Farland
died in a suburb of Sydney. It is not probable that
there were many points of similarity in the lives Of
Messrs. Mosbs and M'Farland ; but, in their deaths,
or, rather, in the manner of their disposal after death>
they do most singularly approach each other. There
was strife about their bones. Certain " powers of the
air ” contended about Moses ; only a brace of divines
about M’Farland. The first show was probably the
best, by reason of its vaster accessories; hut, as an
exhibition of Christian unity, and charity, and brotherly
loving-kindness, the show at the gate of the Newtown
cemetery, last week, has seldom been excelled. Mr.
M’Farland had purchased a grave for himself in that
cemetery, and desired to be buried there after the
fashion of the Church wherein he had worshipped;
but the Newtown cemetery is under the control of the
opposition shop, and the opposition leader refused
consent. Thus, when the mourners with their dead
friend arrived at the gate, accompanied by the Presby-
terian doctor, the Episcopal churchman, in “ full
canonicals," stood within and barred the way. The
coffin was put down at the gate, and there the black,
robed presbyter stood np to pray, while he of the
cambric and lawn within may possibly have said
“Amen.” And the Freethinker, standing by, looked
on, and said—" Behold the perfection of Christian
unity, and chanty, and peace I ” —and went upon his
way, thinking of the hard words of a good man gone:
“Here, my Lord, we have the pleasant spectacle of a
hundred and forty sects of professing Christians, each
strongly asserting that the other shall be damned;”
and he might have added, perfectly willing, so far as
the leaders are concerned, that anybody and anything
should be damned—whatever that awful term may
imply—so that they themselves keep fast hold of those
things whereby they are in the world, and of the world,
and for the world, in positive denial of the teaching of
their Master and Founder, and forgotten or dishonoured
God.
Mr. Byrne, of “Queensland Funch.”
We find we have unwittingly done an injury to
our old chum, “ Bobby" Byrne, of Queensland Punch,
in noticing a telegram published bya Maryborough (Q.)
newspaper, which stated that he had become insolvent.
There was no foundation for the telegram further than
that another man altogether, in Brisbane, having the
same patronymic, was “up a tree.” Punc* Byrne con-
tinues to flourish as he deserves, and we are heartily
glad to hear it.
Thatcher calls his threepenny and sixpenny
bars “thrums ” and the “tannery” respectively.
There is an “ artist ” physician in New York
whose speciality is extracting the red bloom from
topers’ noses and making them of a virgin whiteness.
He finds plenty of patrons.
“There is,” writes “Euffler,” “a terrible rumour
afloat in society, viz., that the late Madame Rachel has
left memoirs behind her revealing the secrets of the
toilettes of the great. She was, I believe, a very illiter-
ate woman; so that, if there be any truth in the report,
it is probably her daughter who will be the chronicler.”
At Phillips’s Hotel, Summerhill, on Monday
night, a banquet was given in celebration of the open-
ing that afternoon of Masonic Lodges at Summerhill
and Burwood, under the N.S.W. Constitution. The
Corinthian Lodge (Bro. Mason, Master,) will meet at
Phillips’s Hotel, and the Doric Lodge (Bro. Williams,
Master,) will meet at the Burwood School of Arts. By
opening two lodges in one afternoon, it is evident that
the Grand Lodge of N.S.W. means business.
abodes, and lick their own chops, and wag insinua-
ing and appreciative tails in their presence. Of provi-
dent men the colonies have a surfeit. Our Town Halls,
our Parliamentary lobbie ', our Bank parlours swarm
with them. These snatch a bone wherever they can
get at one, and hoard it up, often with the life-blood of
the community scarcely dry on it, often putrid with
corruption ; but still they stow it away somewhere as
provision for their families. They are, in the eyes of
such as the Herald’s correspondent, beautiful in their
lives. They are made magistrates, and affiliated to
hon. Orders. And when they die, the whole pack of
jackals, whose jaws have slavered in their presence
during their lives, moan and howl panegyrics on the
memory of these provident hoarders of bones.


SOCIAL.
Two Sydney parsons, who have each already had
three wives, are for the fourth time about to take a
leap in the dark.
• * *
It is nntrne then, after all, that their Excel-
lencies the Governors of Victoria and N.S.W. failed to
reply to the invitations of the committee of the return
hall to the Mayor. Both Governors, according to Mr.
C. J. Eoberts, promptly replied to—and declined—the
invites.
* * #
The Hobart Club threatens to outdo that more
distinguished institution, the Tasmanian.
* * *
Vaccination is the thing now talked of—and
Sractised— in Tasmania. At New Norfolk, the other
ay, sixty-nine children were inoculated within eight
hours by a local medico.
» * *
At the Mayor’s ball, last Wednesday, a “ small
laugh ” was raised at the expense of a youth, who, tilt-
ing his chair against the canvas dividing the ball-room
from the ladies’ cloak-room, suddenly disappeared from
the admiring gaze of the dancers. For a few seconds
there was a mixed display of chair legs and the extremi-
ties of the unfortunate young gentleman, who got up,
shook himself, and looked sorry.
* * *
This (Thursday) evening a plain and fancy dress
ball takes place at the Exhibition building. Prince
Alfred Park, under the auspices of the Scotch Constitu-
tion of Freemasons.
* * *
A marriage under difficulties took place recently.
A Braidwood brunette became smitten with and subse-
quently engaged to a Sydney man, but a flinty-hearted
papa refused to countenance the attachment. The lady
came to Sydney, and the wedding preparations went on,
still without the required permission. The marriage
mom arrived, and when the bride was arrayed, a tele-
gram was sent to Braidwood, stating the facts of the
case as it now stood, and finally asking “ papa’s con-
sent.” The message had the desired effect, and re-
duced what had all along been adamant to the consis-
tence of soft soap. And now—well the honey-moon is
just waning, and papa smiles benignly on the union.
* # #
Deep regret was felt at Newcastle at the death
of Mrs. J. H. Brown. The deceased lady, who had not
been long married, was very young, only about 22 years
of age, and was a native of Scotland, where her parents
still live. Mrs. Brown died in Sydney on the 17th, after
a lingering illness. Her body was conveyed to New-
castle by one of the steamers of Messrs. J. and A, Brown,
and the interment took place in the family vault at East
Maitland. Many of the leading residents, and 200 miners,
employes of the firm, were present at the funeral.
♦ • #
Mr. and Mrs. L. Lewis have issued invitations
to a ball for the 25th August, at the Masonic Hall,
Sandhurst, to commemorate their diamond wedding, be-
ing the sixtieth anniversary of their marriage. Mr.
Lewis is 94, and his wife 10 years younger.
* # #
A picnic in compliment to Mr. James. E. Fairfax,
who is about to proceed with his family to England,
there to reside some years, was given by the staff of the
S. M. Herald, Echo, and Mail, on Saturday last.
Everything contributed to a pleasant day: flue weather,
universal good-feeling, and pretty girls.
* * *
The “Benedicks” of Maitland give a private
ball on the 7th September, in the new pavilion, Albion
Ground, West Maitland. The invitations are numerous,
and a great success is expected.
# * *
The Jewish bachelors’ ball came off on the
evening of Wednesday, 17th inst., at Mr. Needs’ ele-
gant rooms, and was, as might have been anticipated,
a very smart affair, indeed. 250 invitations had been
issued, and all that could contribute to their entertain
ment, had been arranged for in good style. The floor
had been most artistically polished and waxed; the
walls of the large hall were tastefully decorated; the
music was good; and the refreshments still better.
The band discoursed all the popular airs—notably, those
from “ Tambour-Major,” “The Pirates," and “Oli-
vette ; ” and the inevitable “ Bric-a-Brao ” polka, and
“The Blue Danube" waltz were danced with the zest
they usually inspire. There was a lavish display of
handsome dresses, which set off some pretty faces and
fine figures to perfection. From such an assemblage of
beauty—chiefly of an Oriental character—it would be
difficult to select the belle. A young lady, costumed in
a pale soft shade of yellow silk, trimmed with real ivy
leaves and violets, looked very charming, as did another
attired in ivory satin, with a dash of cardinal here and
there. A young married lady, who wore pink, and
had, by the way, a train a yard and a half long on the
floor while dancing, was very noticeable, and shared
honours with a very tall fine-figured girl, enrobed in a
costume of the same colour. Among the most elegant
of the other dresses were those of a lady in cream
silk and broebe, with a wreath of bright scarlet
flowers round the square ; a lady who wore white with
crimson sashes, and a wreath of large roses on her
head; and a petite lady, who appeared in a short
costume of blue silk (two shades), trimmed with old-
gold plush and black lace, and whose splendid diamonds
would 'have shown to even greater advantage on a
darker background. A matronly lady wore a most
exquisite costume of white silk brocade and bright
garnet satin; the wearer of a very handsome white
satin dress, with a long spray of dark leaves on the
skirt, attracted much notice; and a delicate-looking
young lady in blue silk, with a white lace stay bodice,
found many admirers. The only unpleasant occurrence
consisted in the fainting of two fair guests. The ball
did not end until between 4 and 5 a.m., and those pre-
sent will not be sorry if next year hold in reserve for
them as pleasant an entertainment. The hospitality of
the bachelors was certainly lavish.
• # *
The ball given by the Mayor of Brisbane, on
Friday night last, was a big success. 1300 people,
including Governor and Miss Kennedy, our own Batty,
Lord Charles Scott, and Ministers.
* * *
' A Cooma bank manager leads to the altar, in
October, the daughter of a local resident.
* * *
North and South are to be united. In other
words, the girl comes from Ashfleld.
* * *
A fashionable damsel, resident at Burwood, who
some time back cruelly jilted the son of a member of
the Legislative Council, is now disposed to come to
terms. Of course, circumstances alter cases.
* * #
The Newcastle E.C. give a plain and fancy dress
ball this (Thursday) evening.
m * *
A sensational case of seduction and breach of
promise of marriage, in which a young gentleman of
position is interested, is set down for trial at the Goul-
burn Circuit Court.
* • *
Lieut. P. C. Underwood, E.N., who, a few years
since, served on board H.M. schooner Beagle, and at
present holds the appointment of naval aide-de-camp to
Sir Samuel Kowe, on the West Coast of Africa was,
before taking up his appointment, married on the 3rd
June last, at St. George’s, Hanover Square, London, to
the only daughter of the Eight Hon. Sir Frederick
Peel, K.C.M.G.
• • «
According to the European Mail, the greatest
excitement was caused in London on the 4th of July by
a rumour that the eldest son of the Prince of Wales
bad been accidentally drowned, whilst bathing at
Melbourne.
# * #
The cards of invitation issued by the Lord
Mayor of London for his banquet to colonists at home,
?fe headed: “To have the honour of meeting H E.H.
the Prince of Wales.”
* * •
“ Ivy Pane ” is the name of the fair one who is
bringing Jim Mace into Court for breach of promise.
She is a ballet-girl.
# * *
That charming niece of “ Baker Pacha ” was
married at St, Barnabas’ Church, on Monday last. The
fortunate man bears the same name as a celebrated
Irish poet.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Berry, it is understood, will make a great
speech at the big Liberal meeting at Ballarat on
12th September.
Dr. Dobson intends standing for Hon. W. J.
Clarke’s seat in the Victorian Legislative Council
should the latter resign.
In N.Z., Mr. Macandrew has given notice of a
resolution in Parliament in favour of the insular separa-
tion of the colony, with a Federal Government.
Mr. Justice Kolze will probably be Boer Resi-
dent. Mr. Hudson, the Colonial Secretary under the
British Government, who is an old colonist and has the
confidence of the Boers, is appointed British Resident.
France, four years ago, engraved upon her
statute books this law; “A man three times intoxi-
cated shall forfeit his right to vote. He shall not hold
an office under Government; he shall be disqualified
from serving in the Army"—than which nothing is more
disgraceful to a Frenchman.
The constituency of Northumberland proposes
to remunerate Messrs. Melville and Turner for their
services in Parliament, ihe intention is to imitate the
example of the English miners who sent a repre-
sentative into the House of Commons, and paid him a
salary while he remained there.
The political action in Queensland, Miles (Oppo-
sition) v. MTlwraith (Premier), was commenced on
Monday last. The defence alleges that the shipping
contract with Government, in which defendant is
charged with having been interested, had terminated
before he took bis seat at all.
A neat thing was said by Sir John Robertson at
the Parramatta banquet. The veteran Was replying
to the toast of the Parliament. He said he spoke for
the Upper branch of the Legislature. Why it was called
the Upper branch he never could clearly make out, for
infinitely greater power was vested in the other cham-
ber. He supposed, however, it was on the principle
that the people who lived in the attic of a house had
less to do with its government than those who lived
below.
It took five captains to bring over the King of
Aghanti’s “ golden war axe ’’ and 1400 oz. of gold for
the acceptance of Queen Victoria. Tbe exploit of rob-
bing a defenceless African of JEBOOO and a gold chopper
because Sir Samuel Eowejhad a foolish panic, is, remarks
Vanitt Fair, one truly worthy of a Liberal and Com-
mercial Government. It’s to be hoped that the posses-
sion of the axe will make Her Majesty happy, and cause
her to forget any little unpleasantness—such as the
Transvaal and evacuation of Candahar.
We wonder how much bromide it required to
soothe Sir John’s nerves after he received the high-
falutin’ letter from Mr. Baker, announcing the resigna-
tion of that gentleman. “ I was very much grieved "is
pluralised, and followed by, ‘ ‘ that we ever took yon
in,” would express the feelings of the Government.
Mr. Baker has always been the weak link in the Minis-
terial chain, the strength of which has been consider-
ably lessened by the awkward Milbum Creek affair.
The thorn in the flesh, which was beginning to fester,
has been extracted.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Trickett’s father is dead.
Big pitfalls at Tighe’s Hill, Newcastle.
A .£5OO burglary at a Melbourne pawnshop.
Yictorian Coffee Palace Co, dividend, 8 per cent.
San Francisco mail reached Auckland, Wednes-
day.
Milligan’s electric brake, patented in Victoria,
works well.
Yaccination made compulsory by Tasmanian
Parliament.
Marcus Clarke memorial fund being largely con-
tributed to in Victoria.
John Emerson, of Sussex-street, died of small-
pox on Wednesday. Aged 53.
Twenty-four years ago last Saturday night the
ship Dunbar was lost at the Oap.
Coal struck at Gosford, 12 miles from Newcastle,
by the diamond drill, 536 ft. down.
The bunyip has re-appeared—this time near
Eobe, SA. It’s time he were caught.
A large German mercantile house intends estab-
lishing branches through New Zealand.
At a late date, His Honor Mr. Justice Fauoett
and Miss Paucett were staying at the Gresham Hotel,
Dublin.
At last, rain at Temora, and the heaps of
washdirt almost without parallel in the history of
mining,
Mr. Robison, editor of Daily Northern
Abgus, Rockhampton, !severely injured by a fall from
his horse.
The Government have partly promised to vote
a sum of money for a G.D. hospital at Stockton, near
Newcastle.
The new Yictorian Minister of Railways has
issued instructions for the increase of speed on the
main lines.
The Mexican p.c., at Charters Towers, has
struck a rich mundio reef, supposed to be the Day
Dawn reef.
The hounds are becoming everywhere popular.
Parramatta is now taking up the proposal of forming a
local hunt club.
Forty tons quartz got 90 ft. down in No. 1 North
Prince of Wales, Carcoar, gave 463 oz. 6 dwt. gold. The
reef is 2 ft. wide.
In the libel action, Butler v. Bond (of the
Interell Times), a verdict was given for plaintiff, who
now keeps twenty-five pounds.
The San Francisco News-Letter declines
to exchange with any other newspaper in the world,
bar one— Th* Sidney Bulletin.
At an enthusiastic meeting of the Hebrew
citizens of Sydney, £lOOO was subscribed for the relief
of the persecuted Jews of South Russia.
John Hurley has, according to private cable
advices, succeeded in floating the Burrum coal mines
(Mary River, Q.), in London. Capital, £150,000.
The remains of Mr. Liebler, who has been miss-
ing four months, and was supposed to have absconded
from Perth, have been found three miles from Guilford,
W.A.
Big subsidence of land in Sturt-street, Ballarat,
owing to collapse of underground workings. An abyss
of 250 ft. deep formed within 18 in, of an occupied
house.
A sergeant in the Dunedin city gaurds is being
court-martialed on a charge of having caused a “ local,”
disparaging his company, to be inserted in the Otago
Daily Times.
John Hurley has successfully floated, in Lon-
don, a £150,000 company for the purchase of Burrum
coal deposits and establishment of shipping depot on
Frazer’s Island (Q.)
A Chinaman at Jembiacumbende has been
arrested on suspicion of murdering an abandoned
woman named Hamilton, whose blood-stained clothes
were found near the place.
The Preelian’s Journal has purchased the
right, exclusively for New South Wales and Queens-
land, of publishing Sir Charles Gavan Duffy’s second
volume of “ Young Ireland."
Sir George Innes intends to try and provide, in
the Criminal Law Amendment Bill, for the whipping of
larrikins guilty of obscenity, insulting language, or
wilful destruction of property.
A little while ago, the D.T. (and some other
Sydney papers) inadvertently said that a Narrabri man
had filed his schedule. Narrabri man sued the Tele-
geaph for £2OOO, and got—£loo and costs.
Mr. T. E. Pyman, a Publio School teacher, was
foolish enough to “tell the time" to a couple of
scoundrels on the Middle Harbour road, the other
night. He was knocked on the head and robbed of
£1 10s. for his pains.
Mr. A. L. Dickson, storekeeper, Rockhampton,
accidentally shot himself with a gun, which, it is sup-
posed, he was drawing towards himself by the barrel.
The charge entered his left side, over the region of the
heart. He died instantly.
A resident of Burwood (Mr. Nolan) narrowly
escaped death at the railway station on Tuesday night.
While getting out at the wrong side of the carriage, a
passing train struck him, inflicting a severe scalp wound
and rather serious internal injuries.
In the Northern Territory there are 3690 Chinese,
660 Euroeans, and 30 Malays. Export of gold for the
year 28,471 oz. The reefs are turning out well, sugar,
planting is being commenced, and 224,244 sqnare miles
pastoral property have been taken up.
Dixon’s patent gas is likely to end in smoke.
The Koyal Society of Melbourne has sat on the inven-
tion and flattened it out in a style which over here
would gratify a jury of four in awarding enough
damages to ruin a whole rase of Rothschilds.
The Dtjbbo Dispatch comments on the alacrity
with which the N.S.W. Railway authorities can provide
locomotive power for special trains to carry dead-heads
as compared with the insuperable difficulties urged for
not forwarding live stock which is heavily paid for.
The Sydney Board of Health have advised Gov-
ernment not to quarantine medical men who might be
called upon to attend cases of small-pox, and who took
proper precautions, unless special circumstances should
in any particular instance render such a course neces-
sary.
The prospectus of the Queensland Sugar Re-
finery Company (limited) is out. Capital, £loo,ooo—in
30,000 £5 shares. Provisional directors : Messrs. Henry
Palmer, E. B C. Corser, W. P. Harrington, E. B. Jeune,
and Q. A. White. Maryborough will be the company’s
locale.
At Melbourne, Marcus Clotta, cook, tomahawked
his wife, and then the servant-girl, who interfered. Then
he cut his own throat with a razor. He has always been
sober and steady, and was on the occasion apparently
overtaken by a sudden fit of madness. Ha is dead.
His wife still lingers.
A Rockhampion baby has died from the bite of
a big iguana, which crawled down the chimney aud got
into the cradle. When the mother went to take her
baby up, she was horrified to find the hideous reptile
stretched from one end of the cradle to the other, blood
oozing from the child’s cheek.
The bones, boots, and hat of a digger have been
found in N.Q., on a bed of bull-dog ants. By his side
was a quart bottle of rum, half full, also his swag.
It is supposed that ho was journeying to the Palmer,
and in a state of intoxication fell on the ant-hill, and
had his bones picked by the ants.
Dr. Eodway, M.A., F.R.S. (London), has
opened special classes for Matriculation and Law,
Civil Service and other public examinations, at 191
William-street, and guarantees by his easy and efficient
system to pass every candidate posseted of ordinary
brains who places himself in his hands.
“ One shilling hour earned, home work, either
sex; specimen Is. 2d.—Blank Bros,, G.P.O , Adelaide,"
was advertised in the Age. And this was the recipe :
“2oz. tea in a quart of boiling water, add 4oz. borax.
This would make a mixture for stimulating the growth,
and would sell readily at 2s. per small bottle."
Dr. Ellis preached at Pyrmont on Sunday even-
ing last, to a crowded church. The rev. doctor
expressed his pleasure at the choral part of the service,
and said that, though not perfect, it was a great treat
to him, on account of its heartiness compared to the
“mincing" style of church singing in the city.
An alleged Town Hall building swindle at a
suburb. A big crack in the wall of the building, which
will have to be strengthened with iron bands to pre-
vent it falling. There is consternation among the pre-
sent aldermen, some of whom state that the rottenness
of the Sydney Town Hall has at last been eclipsed.
At Tamworth, a man charged with a misde-
meanour, challenged a witness, and on being asked by
the court to assign his reason, merely said he “ didn’t
like the look of him.” The judge ordered the juror
from the box, adding, however, that he didn’t wish
him to think the court endorsed the prisoner’s remark.
The gold-fever is at its height in Tasmania. At
Beacon afield, the great centre of gold production, one
mine alone has paid £200,000 in dividends. The Mount
Bisohoff tin mine, out of which several people have
made big fortunes, has divided over £200,000 among its
shareholders. The gold mines are being worked mainly
with Victorian capital.
Mr. Robert Hack, of Parramatta, returned from
a pigeon match the other day, and in fun placed a
double-barrelled gun to his mouth, telling his wife, who
asked him to desist, that “ he was just the right height
to shoot himself." Shortly afterwards he touched a
trigger, and one of the charges in the barrels went off,
the shot making a hole in the ceiling.
The Art Society of N.S.W. hold an art-union,
as adopted by all kindred institutions, on 3rd October.
The subscription is one guinea a ticket, and the holder,
in addition to being presented with a photographic re-
production of Piguenit’s splendid monochrome, “ The
Mid-day Best,” will have a chance of obtaining a prize
of the value of from two to fifty guineas. The union
will doubtless be very successful, and will tend to
greatly encourage colonial art.
The opening of the Doric Lodge, at Burwood,
and the Corinthian, at Summer Hill, last Monday,
was the occasion of a grand Masonic banquet at Sum-
mer Hill. G.M. Farnell performed the ceremonies,
and among those present at the banquet were :—G.M.
Farnell, D.Q.M. Manning, P.D.G.M. Hunt, 08.
Weekes, Dr. Tarrant, G.J.W. ; and a number of
brothers from various lodges of the English Constitu-
tion. Host Phillips served up the banquet in grand
style, and the affair was a great success.
Verdict of manslaughter against John Smith,
driver of the motor which killed Samuel Schumacher,
on the grounds that a proper look-out was not kept,
and that the engine was travelling too fast. It appears,
however, that the intelligent jury merely wish to make
Smith suffer for the laches of the Government, inas-
much as they added a rider to the effect that a look-out
man ought to be kept on each motor. It’s almest a
pity they didn’t find a verdict of murder in this case.
There are so many Smiths that one could be spared.
Last week, at Sydney, Sarah Russell assaulted
J. T. Greenhill with a billiard-ball. Greenhill prose-
cuted, and in court stripped off some six or seven yards
of bandage which he had carefully wrapped under his
jaw and round his bead. Medical evidence showed
that the wound was trifling, and prosecutor, who ad-
mitted that he had that morning served in his bar with-
out the bandage, did not in court again wind it round
his head, but put it into his pocket despite the opposing
lawyer’s advice that he should take care of himself or
he’d catch erysipelas. Woman fined 20s.
At Bingoon, a shepherd died suddenly in the
absence of his master. The Molong police, when told
of the occurrence, said they could do nothing—the
master would have to get an order from a magistrate
for the burial. The station cook, finding that the body
was decomposing, rolled it in a sheet of bark and
covered it up in the garden. Mr. Henry Sherringham,
writing to a local paper, remarks that " this throwing a
man in a hole in the bush should be put a stop to, as we
are not exactly so savage as to refuse even a foreigner a
Christian burial and a coffin, particularly when there
was a means left to pay for the coffin, if not for the
Christianity."
Arthur Lefroy, accused of the Brighton murder,
claims to be a literary man. He states that he wrote
the pantomime for the Theatre Royal, Croydon, last
Christmas, and also, that he is the author of a comedy,
called “ Pins and Needles," that is being played with
great success throughout the United States. He was
one of the provincial critics for the Era, and obtained
election to the United Art Club, by stating thxt_“ Mr.
Coppin ” (whom he represents to be an illiterate
squatter 1) was about to build a large theatre in London
of which he was to have the management. He claimed
also to be the writer of a contribution to one of the
magazines, describing Sydney, and there is internal
evidence in support of this claim. Lefroy professed to
have been connected with a sporting and dramatic
paper, and to be an occasional contributor of music-
hall criticism to various London publications. The case
against Lefroy appears strong, but is based entirely on
circumstantial evidence. According to some of the
papers he was given up to the police by bis landlady.
However, this may not be correct, as many persons
claim to participate in the reward ottered for
his arrest. Writes 14 Huffier" in Vanity Fair ;
44 How did the police discover Lefroy’s hiding-place ?
Tha.t is a question which has exercised a good many
curious people, since the unfortunate youth was cap-
tured. I think I can satisfy their curiosity. The
day on which Lefroy was arrested, a former friend of
his received a letter by which she was made acquainted
with the place where might be fonnd the man 4 wanted'
for the Brighton murder; he was told he need feel no
qualms of remorse in informing on his friend, but
would rather confer a benefit on him, and secure for
himself the reward of £2OO, which amount, the writer
added, would wipe off his obligations to the recipient
of the strange epistle. The writer’s name was Percy
Lefroy." By the way, a Melbourne paper publishes a
long account of what purports to be Lefroy’s Austra-
lian career, but we have reasons for stating that the
writer of the narrative in question mistakes an alto-
gether different man for the alleged murderer.
BRIEF MENTION.
You have an appointment with the calf, dear
public.
Woseby and Davies have quarrelled. “ When,”
&0., &c.
A funny paper is in the market—the dead meat
market, we suppose.
Melbourne has won the great prize at Adelaide
—the prize for treacle.
A criminal libel action is about to be initiated
in connection with Parramatta affairs.
A work on Stage morality is shortly to be issued.
Just now it will have a big sale in Sydney.
Dan O’Connor has got hold of a new phrase :
“ The idiosyncratic characteristics of teachers.”
At a recent public meeting, in a Southern town,
the Mayor, who took the chair, said he didn’t know
who were to move the resolutions, but he would hear
the speakers “ extempo " if they spoke I
It has been noticed as a strange coincidence
that both the Melbourne Arous and Aqb had for their
leader, on the same morning last week, an article on
Fawnbroking. And yet each is itself pledged against the
other.
Seven fresh oases of small-pox on Monday last.
Our contemporaries have almost ceased writing that,
“Thanks to the energetic measures taken by the
Government, the spread of the infection has been
stayed."
An Adelong schoolmaster asked his class, the
other day, what the town was noted for. “ Cock-fight-
ing,” was the ready reply of a young hopeful, who had
nearly all the upper-crust thrashed off his back for the
information.
How is it that Mr. M'Elhone, generally so pro-
ment in ventilating grievances, has nothing to say
about Dr. O’Connor and the harlot’s lymph ? Surely
Jack cannot have had anything to do with O’Connor’s
appointment ?
There was an insolvency meeting the other day
at Morpeth. The composition in the £ offered and
accepted was so large that it was decided to dispose of
the lot by the aid of that temperance pastime called
“ Yankee grab.”
It has been suggested that, with a view to the
prevention of unnecessary lying, a Royal Commission
be appointed to inquire into and report on the cir-
cumstances attendant upon the shooting of the first
snipe of the season.
Our sensational morning contemporary, the
Hsbald, corrects “ a slight error ’* in its issue of Mon-
day. It charged the wrong man with manslaughter.
Now, had it been the Nooze, he would merely have been
convicted of murder.
The Town Council of Waterloo laid the founda-
tion stone of a Town Hall on Saturday with much
rejoicing. In view of the delicate character of
the operation, we would have suggested a day of
humiliation and prayer.
He was an amateur squatter, and resided at
Maitland. His super wired him from'the station —
“ Lambing general; must postpone the shearing."
The reply was " D it, no; postpone the lambing—
go on with the shearing."
An urchin named “Mickey Tanka,”.a public
school pupil, has been arrested at Mudgee for Mealing
lunch from the porch of an opposition school For a
longtime the editor of a local paper was suspected; the-
arrest, however, clears his character.
The “ School Attendance Officers,” who are
now on the warpath, are in a tight place touching their
travelling allowance. Of course it’s all right, but the
Educational “powers that be" should remember that
“while the grass grows, the horse is apt to be carted off
to the boneyard”— vide “Hamlet”—revised edition.
Scene: A track on a certain island. Old man,,
walking along, drops a half-pint flask of good brandy.
Local great gun Good Templar sees him drop it, picas-
it up, squats down at once behind a stump, and swallows
the contents at a draught. Friend of Good Templar’s,,
coming on scene, asks for “ a nip." “ Too late, my
love."
A wealthy suburban resident, who made all he-
possesses out of the manufacture of the weed, snarls
loudly at the appearance of a pipe, and never by any
chance does he ride in a smoking carriage. He is, it is
believed, under the impression that his own manu-
facture is still largely consumed. “ Pure Virginian
leaf," Ac.
The British Minister for War has unfeelingly
rejected the proposal to confer a medal on all Volun-
teers who bad served twenty years, and been present in
the numerous bloody battles fought at Brighton,
Wormwood Scrubs, and Hyde Park, since the institu-
tion of the Volunteer Army. A leather medal is
suggested.
The Eev. T. Kemmis gave the second of his
series af lectures on “ The Divinity of Christ" last
Sunday evening, when he informed his audience that
we lived in “ times of great mental and spiritual ex-
eitement." There was much rustling of silk and a
beaming of fair faces. They expected something about
the visit ef the Squadron.
The Babwon Abgus announces : “ It is with
mingled feelings of pleasure and regret we learn that
Dr. Mat he sob has been appointed surgeon to the
Aramao Hospital, Queensland." Of course, we can
understand the regret; the whole staff of the paper
were about to be vaccinated gratis, direct from the
calf—we mean, from the editor.
Some of the most venerable of the country
papers—journals that look as if they were printed
with tea-paper and paste-blaokiug in threshing
machines—intimate on their title pages that the number
of their current issue is 2,805,691, or so, and that they
were established in “A.D. 1815” or in “A.D. 1848 "
We always thought it was “ 8.C."
Jack wanted fruit, and John, with ready wit,
Saw time and circumstance exactly fit
To show the world how well a C.M.G.
Could climb the branches of an orange tree.
Jack sighed for fruit, and got it, as he ought.
Three hundred boxes of the ruuiel sort—
A goodly gift, and John, the C.M.Q.,
Bowed out the bum-boat to the Queen's naveo.
Freethinkers aver that the Bible, religious
works, and tracts, are dangerous to read, but the
Evening News, of Tuesday last, speaking of the unfor-
tunate victim of the explosion at Crown Eidge, s-ays :
“ Amongst his effects, which were not affected by the
explosion, was a well-thumbed Bible and a number of'
religions works and tracts. He had been used to deal-
ing with dynamite,” Verily, our vesperine contem-
porary is becoming ultra-Bational.
Mr. Lucas, in the discussion on the Chinese
Bill, said it was a fact that when Chinamen einitiated
from their own country, they often took two wives with
them —one of whom they sold, on arrival, to pay ex


penses. He knew of a case in which the cast-off one
realised £l4O. This shows the superiority of Chinese
women over white wives, who never pay expenses.
A Southern Mayor, at a meeting held to make
arrangements for working a local reef, said that, though
he knew something of mining, he “ was not well up in
the theological part of the business."
Thus the Ulladulla and Milton Times
“On Monday last, a valuable horse, belonging to Mr.
James Cork, jun., bolted while standing at the wharf
with the cart. The horse galloped madly up the hill as
for as Mr. Sturrocks, and then fell. It was found to be
suffering from concussion of the brain." Which is
more than is ever likely to be said of the editor.
It is a pity that our public men and Town-hall
contractors do not study the classics more than they
are accustomed to. They would find some very en-
couraging things. For instance, Cato observes that in
Home he who stole from a private person ended his days
in chains and fetters, while he who stole from the public
ended them in gold and purple. How cheering this is,
now.
The Muerubundi Times announced authori-
tatively, the other day, that “ the sun would give out in
seventeen millions of years." Old subscribers, on read-
ing this, began to settle up. Payment, however, once
more stopped when it was further predicted that “ the
term might become considerably prolonged by the
graduallabatement of radiation by the new accretion of
falling meteors."
This from the Wide Bat News “ His Wor-
ship the Mayor of Maryborough has received a telegram
from the Mayor of Brisbane, inviting him and the
aldermen to the ball given in honour of the Royal
Princes’ visit to Queensland. Press of business has
compelled the Mayor to decline the invitation." Now
why doesn’t the paper speak out, and say that he hasn’t
any black clothes ?
Should there be an investigation into the Bard-
(w)ell mystery, we shall probably have, says a Parra-
matta man, a repetition of the Pickwick esclandre in
some such document as :
“Education Department.
“ Dear Mrs. 8., chops and Tomato sauce.
“Yours,
‘“Wilkins.”’
When the gaol van, alias “ Black Maria,”
matutinally arrives at the gates of Darlinghurst Gaol
to deposit her aristocratic inmates, the youngsters of
the neighbourhood usually get round and chaff the old
lady passengers. “ Hallo, aunty,” cried one hopeful
lately, as a very blast) duchess emerged, “ will you sell
your bonnet P” “ Don’t mind me, lovey,” responded
the dame, “ your ma is behind —she’ll be out directly."
An enterprising bonifaoe of this city is building
a large hotel at Katoomba—6o rooms, &c. After one of
his visits to the locality, he was talking (1 a.m.) about
the splendid site and lovely scenery, and finished up
with the remark, “ You can see Sydney, all the harbour,
and out to sea all over Bombay." When his house is
finished, people! are going up for a cheap trip to see
India.
Story told by the collector of a city charity :
“ There is at present living in one of our suburbs a man
who, when a boy, was fed, clothed, and educated at the
expense of the philanthropists of our city, but is now
(through a lucky marriage) very ‘ well-to-do.’ When
asked one day to give a few shillings to one of our
charitable institutions, he replied: ‘No; the money I
have I earned, and let those whose aid yon seek earn it
themselves.’ ”
We have an alderman in this city who, when
bolding forth on any question under consideration by
the City Council, invariably begins in this wise: —“ Mr.
Mayor, after 40 years’ practical experience I can safely
say,” &c. Yet this gentleman has represented one of
our most influential wards for many years past, and
even during the laying of the Town Hall foundations.
Oh, ye gods 1 where is the birch for the practical men in
our City Council Pj
The most humorous of Australian journals is the
Evening Times, of Parramatta. In his issue of 16th
inst., the editor devotes his leading article to abusing
one of his compositors, “whose avidity for money and
greed for grog is immeasurably superior to his know-
ledge of the business.” The fact of the matter is that
John has been trying to reduce the price of composition
from Is. per 1000 to 10d.—at which “ the profession"
have “ got their backs up,"
In the earlier days of colonial telegraphy, Sandy
—a squatter, who had once been a shepherd, and had
never before seen the electric wire—one morning saw a
gang of men busily employed in erecting and stretching
a line. He asked what they were doing, and when told
that" that was the telegraph," exclaimed, “ Weel, weel I
I thooht as much. It will do, maybe, for light parcels,
and thengs o’ that sairt; but, mark my words —it’ll
niver carry a bale o’ wool —niver!’’
The indefatigable searcher for the remains of
poor Lamont Young and party, who disappeared at
Bermagui, was neatly “sold" a short while back.
Whilst exploring the beach in search of the rewa—
we mean, remains—he espied two bodies. "At last,
oh, at last I" ho chuckled, “I shall pocket the at
least, I shall immortalise myself.” Then there was a
scream from one, and a muffled curse from the other.
The men were diggers, still in the flesh.
There is a Sydney man who buys weekly six
copies of The Bulletin, stamps those which require
rtage, and mails them to friends resident respectively
Melbourne, Honolulu, San Francisco, and New
Mexico. Having carefully taken statistics, ho finds
that less than 60 per cent, of the papers posted reach
their destinations. The moral of this is—lf you don’t
want your friend’s Bulletin to be stolen in transit,
put it in a wrapper marked “ Herald Summary.”
Apropos of the Wallerawang accident, this
appears in the Echo: —“Spreading dynamite on a
fender in front of a fire seems very like suicide while of
unsound mind." It's quite evident that the man who
wrote the above has never been a miner. The manu-
facturers of explosives all tell one that the danger is
only to be apprehended from dynamite when it comes
into contact with a spark produced by percussion.
Theoretically, anyhow, you may put dynamite into the
fire, and it will merely burn away like wet powder. The
same applies to lithofracteur.
Last Sunday, a learned divine doubled his con-
gregation up by confidently assuring them that the pre-
sent supply of small-pox was purposely • sent from
Heaven in punishment of our many and grievous sins.
He might have told us this before. If he had, we would
have buried ourselves in the wilderness of North Shore,
lived on preserved locusts and garden honey, and never
cast a single glance at the “naughty niceies" of
“ Olivette,” or the “ Tambour-Major’s” frisky daughter.
It is simply astonishing to note how much we can
prophesy about a concern when it’s all over.
In a par. announcing that the Rev. T. Kemmis
has consented to decide as to the relative merits of the
400 poems—we suppose they all are poems—submitted
in connexion with Mr. Sands’ Christmas card competi-
tion, the D.T. says that Mr. Kemmis is, “like Csesar’s
wife, above suspicion.” In a leader in the same issue,
the D.T. is kind enough also to remark that Mr.
Julian Salomons, Q.C., the Milburn Creek Royal Com-
missioner, is, “ like Csesar’s wife, above suspicion," too.
Some old member of the Telegraph staff has evidently
been on good terms with the wifel of Julius. Anyway,
they have the style of the period.
Thatcher explains the slangwhanging he got in
the Lyttelton Times. It appears that he was very
friendly with its sub-editor, whose name is Atack.
When Carden and Thatcher missed the beat in Lyttel-
ton, the Times alluded to Dick as the agent for the com-
pany, which annoyed Carden, who claimed him as his
agent exclusively. Dick corrected the mistake, and the
par. was inserted in the Times with a sneering addendum
about the importance of the error, which riled
Richmond, who, when he got to Auckland, wrote
in the Observer that he was never subjected to a
« Grocer Atack.” The joke being that Atack’s people
deal in sugar and tea and those things.
The other day, the Tasmanian Minister of War,
accompanied by most of the members of both Houses of
Parliament, proceeded on a tour of inspection of the —
(big letters here, printer)—SOUTHERN FORTIFICA-
TIONS. At about a quarter to ten a.m., being (to
quote the Mercury) accommodated with cabs, the
party proceeded to the Queen’s Battery, and thence to
the others. What earthly use it was for a company of
civilians to inspect batteries, and pass opinions upon
their “ utterly,” &0., &0., isn’t exactly known. Out of
the whole company, there was but one man who had
any idea of military works. The Commandant was for-
merly in the Ist Royals—for the greater part of the time
n the Commissariatl
“ Defendant demolished and let go” is an entry
recently made in the record-book of the local police
court by a Parramatta J.P.
Wanted, the name of the man who has been
first in converting the biggest State school of the
colony into a political institution.
The Field (London) is at present in hot water
for having unadvisedly represented that Mrs. Power
O’Donoghue is an advocate for ladies riding astride.
Is it true that a foraging party of 50 boys, from
the Orphan Asylum, Eandwick, went up the Parramatta
River—thus accounting for the 300 cases of oranges
presented to the Squadron ?
The S. M. Herald office is connected with
Parliament Honse by telephone. It is amusing to the
other gallery reporters to hear the nightly request:
“ Can Mr. So-aad-so be spared for such-and-such a tea-
meeting or church service ?"
Bliss! The Romanys give a performance on the
25th, at Burwood, in behalf of a fund for St. Luke’s
Church. All our very own particular friends are to
appear. What surprises us just now, however, is that
St. Luke should still be hard-up.
A Western doctor visited a distant town on the
Darling, recently, and vaccinated forty children. The
address, which was read to him on’his departure, com-
menced by saying he was a man who would doubtless
leave his mark in any community.
Poulton, a Melbourne homoeopathic chemist,
has had an £BO verdict given against him for obtaining
money from people under pretence of curing them.
There are 10 other actions against him for damages. If
Poulton were in New South Wales, instead of being a
defendant he’d probably be bringing a libel action. In
Sydney, anybody can call himself a doctor.
Mr. Gore—ye gods, what a name! —and Mr.
Sutherland, of the Adelaide Salvation Army, have
fallen out, and are saying very rough things of each
other. A local rag advises them, in the spirit of holi-
ness and fellowship, to liquor down all evil feelings and
act like Christians.
“ A Citizen,” writing to the Herald, asks why
the Corporation don’t buy a few barrels of powdered
sulphur and distribute some amongst the poor of Syd-
ney to enable them to disinfect their houses. We
thought that every citizen knew the Corporation better
than this. Sulphur and brimstone are the same thing,
and any suggestion concerning the latter is regarded
by the Council as personal.
In Russia, the Grand Duke Michael’s farm
labourers get 3fd. per dav, and have to find their own
dynamite.
It is said that as one case of oranges is to 300
cases of oranges, so is one sovereign to the Government
whip's salary.
“ Wrecker ” says that the reason Mr. Dailey so
fervently espoused the Chinese cause is that he loves
the ckinfc-y (of coin).
The biggest joke at that Parramatta banquet
consisted in Sir John Eobertson and Mr. James Byrnes—
who have been life-long enemies—congratulating one
another on being life-long friends.
At Ararat police court a Chinese witness was
asked how he wished to be swornOh, said John,
with the air of one willing to save the Court the slight-
est trouble on his account “Kissee hook, hlowee matchee,
shelpee Bob—allee same.”
The newest wrangle is with regard to disinfect-
ants. The chemists and doctors are all of a heap con-
cerning this, and seem to know as little about what is a
reliable disinfectant as they did about small-pox when
it first broke out in Sydney.
One of the doctors says that fat people who get
vaccinated often suffer terribly from inflammation,
which in their cases approximates to erysipelas. From
which one must, we suppose, conclude that lym-pnat-ic
persons shouldn't get vaccinated.
The “talk of the town” at Parramatta is the
decision of two honorary judges in a case wherein Mrs.
Jex, an old and respected resident, was charged with
having incited a prisoner to resist a constable m the
execution of his duty. There was a great conflict of
evidence, but the J’s.P. considered the case proved, and
fined defendant 20s. or seven days in default.
In a letter to the S. A. Register, Peter
Campbell, the irrepressible soul-catcher, murmurs :
•• The Lord hath filled my heart with a longing to re-
visit South Australia.’* He has set out for the floury
land accordingly, to share the honours with Dowie and
Sutherland, and—Sawkins.
At Calms, N.Q., the milkmen are candid. In
the local paper we find the following delicious par. :
“ Milk. —A supply of milk is being brought in every
morning from the ‘ Springs.’ It is to be hoped that
mutual convenience will be studied by all parties—an
early delivery on the part of the dairyman, and good
support on the part of the townspeople. This will
ensure the permanency of the industry.”
How do you plead, Sir Henry P Here is an ex-
tract from a letter received by a stock and station
agent, whose office is near the Exchange, from a con-
stituent to whom he had forwarded two authorities for
the collection of deeds, the signatures to which had to
be attested by a magistrate“ Regarding the deeds.
When you get the other one ready, I will get a J.P. to
sign. The only J.P. that is on Flat is , a
newly-made one, who cannot sign his own name.” The
J.P. lives in the Bathurst district.
At the last English Derby several bookmakers
were so eSectually “ broken " that they hadn’t money
to pay their railway fares back to London. However,
they determined to risk all consequences, and got into a
carriage. When nearing home a stoppage was made,
which was immediately taken advantage of by one of
the “ books.” Muffling his great coat around him, and
pulling his cap well down over his face, he entered a
first-class carriage further on the train, and, assuming
an official manner, authoritatively demanded, “Tickets,
please.” Without the slightest hesitation, the occu-
pants handed him their pasteboards, and with these he
duly supplied his friends. On arriving at London the
confiding passengers who had parted with their cards
had to pay over again.
At one of the late Cambridge local exams.,
whilst the “ English History Paper ” was on, one of
the candidates was observed to be perpetually consult-
ing a timepiece of enormous dimensions —one of those,
in fact, vulgarly known as “ turnips,” to which veget-
able the youth's watch, which he carried loose in his
waistcoat pocket, bore no inconsiderable resemblance.
An observant B.A. —one of the examiners—stole gently
behind our student, who had become so absorbed in his
investigation of time that he had placed the keeper
thereof on the desk in front of him. A glance was
enough. On the inside case was neatly gumned a paper
with every important date from the Conquest down
written thereon. Quickly possessing himself of the
instrument, the gentleman of the mortar board and
black robe, with a bow and a bland smile, pointed
towards the door, and the chronologist " passed ” at
at once—out.
A newspaper correspondent says that the other
Saturday night in George-street, there were no leas than
13 barrel-organs, ground by women with a vigour that
proved the possession by them of biceps fit to sling a
long-handled shovel, or boss a sheep pen during shear-
ing. On seven of them were placed children, varying
from six months to two years old, apparently in a
narcotic slumber, which gives a pale hue to the face,
very “ taking ” by gas-light. The earnings by this
maudlin appeal to the sympathies of the foolish,
average up to 30s. per night, of which the man who
lets out the organs pockets 4s. Some organs are let out
with babies; some with barrows; and some with
monkeys, but the monkeys are more expensive than
the babies, though they don’t cost anything for
narcotics. One blind beggar-woman, who stands in
Pitt-street seven nights a week, owns a terrace in
Woolloomooloo 1
Mr. Dailey’s speech on the Chinese Bill was in
type in the Herald office before it was delivered, yet
Sir John Robertson—who knows as well as anyone that
Mr. Dailey always reports his own speeches—went out
of his way to compliment that paper on its “ admirable
report.” What is worse still, the Herald seraped
up the oleomargarine, to which they added a
foreign ingredient by reporting Sir John as implying
that Hansard had reported Mr. Dailey inadequately,
and that, therefore, he (Sir John) was obliged to quote
from the Herald. The fact was that Hansard took no
notice of the speech, beyond stating that it was de-
livered, and Sir John expressed regret that they bad
it not in an authoritative form. The fact of the matter
is that Mr. Dailey isn’t a member of the Council, and is,
therefore, under English precedents, not entitled to
have his speech under cover of the official record.
A Mr. Joseph Shakespeare has been abusing
Thady O’Kane’s paper, the Northern Miner, through
the convenient medium of the Towers Herald.
Thadeus recommends the Herald people to “ put a
snaffle on Mr. Joseph Shakespeare,” and says that “if
Mr. Carter does not exert himself to keep blackguard-
ism out of his paper, we shall go straight for himself.
Mr. Carter, if he lived in the States, would have had
his head caved in long ago. We advise him, in no un.
friendly spirit, to put an end to this low style of journal-
ism ; but when it comes to calling names, it is time to
look out our revolvers.” Thadeus goes on to say that
“ the Fenians in the Kennedy are mustering their
forces —£1000 sent home from Queensland to buy
Infernal Machines to blow up town halls and Houses
of Parliament,” and says that it’s time for the citizens
to look to the impending struggle and keep their powder
dry. This is a fair sample of Par Northern journalism.
The most popular preacher told his hearers on
Sunday that according to Babbage’s theory of sound,
not only every thought that man has shaped, but every
whisper that womau has uttered, will be printed in
everlasting characters in the air and read out on the
Day of Judgment. If this is so, it will be a long job,
and space will be pretty scarce when that important
occasion arrives. In fact, we’ve noticed a closeness in
the air this last week, even.
Dr. A. K. Morson.
We gave in a recent issue the portraits and biographies
of the two members who represent East and West
Maitland in Parliament, and we give to-day the portrait
of a gentleman who, though perhaps unknown to
political life, has. for a period of fifteen years, always
identified himself with whatever concerned the social
and material advancement of the great Northern
District of this colony, and who may be considered one
of the representative men of that busy inland centre
known as West Maitland. Dr. Alexander Kinnear
Morson was born at Newcastle-on-Tyne on the 17th
March, 1834. His father, Dr. Walter Morson, was a
partner of the firm of M'lntyre and Morson, who, many
years since, had a very extensive medical practice in the
North of England, Dr. M'lntyre being related to the
well-known M'lntyre family who settled some years
back in the Hunter district. On the death of Dr. Walter
Morson, which took place at an early age, his widow re-
turned to Edinburgh for the better education of her
family. Dr. A. K. Morson was brought up and educated
in the old city, and from the first had a strong inclina-
tion for the medical profession. His relatives, from
mistaken kindness, threw every obstacle in his path to
prevent this, and decided that he should study the
law. He entered a solicitor’s office in Edinburgh,
but the profession being distasteful to him,
he turned his attention to mercantile pursuits, and in
one position he rapidly rose to be foreign manager for
a large mercantile firm, carrying on an extensive trade
between Glasgow, Manchester, and the East Indies. He
remained in this position for a few years, and, having
saved ample means, he severed his connection with
commerce, finally turning his attention to the study of
medicine. He visited Edinburgh, and succeeded in
taking the diplomas of surgeon and physician at the
Eoyal College of Surgeons and Physicians, and the de-
gree of Doctor of Medicine at the University of Edin-
burgh. He was fortunate, next, in obtaining appoint-
ment respectively as one of the resident physicians to the
celebrated hospital of Edinburgh, resident surgeon to
the Maternity Hospital, and resident surgeon to the Sick
Children’s Hospital, of that city. From these valuable
charges he obtained a thoroughly practical know-
ledge of his profession; and then, when his health
began to yield to the arduous labors of his practice, he
accepted the position of surgeon to the Peninsular and
Oriental Steam Company. Having, in this position,
seen the world and regained his health, he pur-
chased a practice in London; but he again
travelled, and, coming to New South Wales, was in-
duced to settle at West Maitland. Here for the last
fifteen years he has conducted a large and very exten-
sive practice, extending as far north as the Queensland
border, his success as a surgeon being most pronounced.
Nor has his mercantile education been without substan-
tial benefit to him. Dr. Morson was formerly in part-
nership with Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, of Sydney, and is
now in partnership with Dr. E. F. Blackwell, who has
proved himself an able coadiutor in medical work.
DR. A. K. MOESON. (From a photo. by Moss, of Maitland.)
THE POLITICAL DRAMA, “OLIVETTE.”
Betsy Baker Bobs Serenely.
« So it should be with a politician. That is the time for disappearing.
When all his measures go awry. Just take a header, down you go.
With papers blaming his wrong ambition. Then when the sky above is clearing,
And voters asking the wherefore and why. Bob up serenely from below.’
If all the woman’s talk we hear,
In endless waves of sound.
Be written in the atmosphere
Till Judgment Day comes round—
Oh, then, when Old Time’s phonograph
Is carefully unrolled,
Won’t resurrected spirits laugh
To hear the secrets told I
What tales that tinfoil will outpour.
Such spicy bits of scandal;
But —what a long, long contract for
The man that turns the! handle I


SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to hare this index posted np by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Grannie August 24, 25.
riawkesbury E.C. Annual August 25, 27.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 8, 9, 8.10.
Cooktown September 7, 8.
Northern Jockey Club September 14, 15.
Ballarat Hunt Club September 17.
Mnrrurundi September 21.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Maryborough & Carisbook (Vic ) T. C... September 29,30.
Melbourne Hunt Club ...October 1.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Wollongong October 12, IS.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13, 15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22
Victoria E.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 6.
Brighton Park (Tic.) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 23.
Williamstown (Vic ) December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 27.
V.E.C. Champion J«nnary 1.
TatterealTs (Sydney) January 1.
AQUATICS,
Bush v. Lay cock September 2
Walker Whisky Trophy September, 6,7, 9.
Champion Pours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9.
Bush v. Power, £3OO September 12.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Elliott v. Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Melbourne Rowing Club Umphelby
Challenge Cup September 21.
Melbourne Rowing Club, Challenge Pairs.. September 21.
Ross v. Hanlan (Toronto) October.
Sportsman Challenge Cup, 200 guineas—New-
castle-on-Tyne October.
Public Schools’ Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
M. Trial Pours October 8.
N. Rowing Association Regatta October 8,15.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.'s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December,
PEDESTRIANISM.
Martin v. Morgan, 100 yards, £loo—Associa-
tion Ground August.
T. Alien v. T. Lloyd, 100 yards August 27.
Six Days’ Go-as-you-Please—Sydney September 6.
Sheffield Handicap—Norwood Park September 12,
COURSING.
Bathurst August 30.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
Tam worth September 10.
BICYCLING.
Six days’ Tournament September 12.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Monmouth will start for the Guineas.
The Hawkesbnry gates, sold on Monday, realised
£242.
The straight running on the Caulfield race-
course has been widened.
Sir Modred, Somnus, Hilarious, and Idalinm
have arrived at Melbourne.
The Melbourne Hunt Club have arranged a pro-
gramme for Saturday, October 1.
Robbie Burns, Chuckster, and Waterloo have
been scratched for the Metropolitan.
Melbourne v. Geelong, on Saturday, resulted in
a victory for Geelong, by 4 goals to 3.
The 2nd Glenhead defeated the Ist Cook’s
Eiver on Saturday last, by 2 goals to nil.
Soothsayer, Zambesi, and Respite leave Mel-
bourne for Sydney on Thursday morning.
Glenhead v. Redfern, on Moore Park, resulted
in a victory for the former by 2 tries to 1.
It has been finally arranged that Rush and
Laycock’s race will take place on Friday, September 2.
The imported bull Berkly, Duke of Oxford, and
the bull calf Bed Bose IV., have been sold for 2500
guineas.
The Wanderers and Arcadians played a football
match on Saturday, under the English Association
rules, resulting in a tie.
The fastest bicycling time on record for one
mile is 3min. Bsec.; two miles, 6min, 28sec.; twenty-
five miles, lb. 25m, 25sec.
The post of secretary to the Queensland Turf
Club has been conferred upon Mr. D. Mapleston, at a
salary of £l5O per annum.
A rifle match between the second Regiment and
the Volunteer Artillery Eifle clubs resulted in a victory
for the former by 67 points.
St. Leonards v. Newtown, on the St. Leonards
Beserve, on Saturday, resulted in a victory for the
former, by 1 goal and 3 tries to nil.
In the match at Maitland, between the Sydney
and Northumberland Clubs, Sydney won, by 5 goals and
10 behinds to 2 goals and 9 behinds.
The Ist Glenhead defeated the Ist Redfern,
on Saturday last, by 2 tries to 1. Cansdell obtained a
third touch, which the Eedfern umpire disputed.
Next Saturday closes the football season. The
Wallaroo plays King’s School at Parramatta, and the
TJniversityiplays at Newcastle against the local club.
A football match at Bathurst, on Saturday,
between the Newington College and the Bathurst Clubs,
resulted in an easy win for the latter, by 2 goals and 1
try to nil.
A rifle match, on Saturday, between the Parra-
matta and the Maitland corps resulted in a victory for
Maitland by 34 points, the scores being: Maitland, 475;
Parramatta, 441.
Jones’ consultation on the Hawkesbury Handi-
cap was successfully negotiated on Wednesday, 17th
instant. He has his consultation. No. 1, on the Metro-
politan now open.
A hours’ walking match took place lately at
Dunedin (N.Z.), resulting in a win for Drummond, who
did 106 miles. The go-as-yom please, for the same time,
was won by Crofts, with 115 miles.
The Waratah Football Ciub has been reformed,
and will play under the Association rules. Charley
Beal is to be hon. secretary, and that means success for
the club. Thirty-five members have been enrolled.
Goldsbrough is now located at Tooal. He was
represented at the late Tattersall’s meeting by Morpeth,
who easilyUdisposed of the two-year-olds. He°has been
nominated by Mr. White for the V.B.C. great two-year-
old event.
The Hawkesbury Handicap will have been a
thing of the past before our next issue. This race has
almost invariably been won by a horse who was not in
the front of the betting; and though Trump Yoss and
Wellington are decided favourites, we are of opinion
that this present race will be no exception to the rule.
We predict that the winner will be found amongst
Brian Boru, Master Avenal, Sardonyx, Major, and
Soothsayer. Of this lot, Avenal for choice.
The intercolonial football match, between Vic-
toria and South Australia, on the East Melbourne
Ground, on Saturday, resulted in favour of Victoria, by
8 goals 24 be hinds to 1 goal 8 bebinda. The South
Australians are said to be better players than the
Sydney men.
A great pigeon match is to be shot off at Tam-
worth racecourse about the 10th September next. 500
good birds have been secured, and 20 of the best shots
have promised to nominate. It is expected that there
will be about 70 competitors. The first prize will not
be less than £lOO.
At the weekly “ outing ” of the Sydney Bicycle
Club, on Saturday, over twenty members travelled to
Botany. The extensive floor in the pavilion tempted
them, but the corners troubled them. No fewer than
seven of the thin steeds came to grief on the boards,
and a good deal of damage eventuated.
The rich brown thoroughbred horse, Bertie, own
brother to Spiuningdale, and half brother to Lecturer,
Emily, Nellie, Savanaka, and Kingsborough, by Mari-
byrnong out of Sappho, goes to McCarthy's, at
Morpeth, for stud purposes. Bertie is now four years
old, and when a yearling fetched 1500 guineas.
A sculling match, between Rush and Power, has
been arranged to take place on Monday, September 12,
on the champion course, Parramatta River, for a stake
of £3OO, Rush laying £2OO to £lOO. Half the stakes
were paid in on Saturday evening to Mr. Prank Punch,
and the balance is to be made good on September 9.
In a recent match between two “ second-class ”
English scullers, L. Gibson and D. Godwin, oyer the
Thames championship course, the time was 24 min 44
sec., which very favourably compares with that made
by Hanlan and Trickett. Gibson won by six lengths.
It is reported that senior and junior club cups
will be given next season by the N.S. Wales Cricket
Association. How are the senior and junior clubs to be
defined P There are a few clubs represented in the
Association which should be ranked with the juniors.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) Hunt Club held a
pleasant steeplechase meet the other week. The Hunt
OlnbCup fell to Fakir, 12st. 71b.; Winifred, 13st. slb, 2;
Flora, 10st., 3. Gone Away Stakes: Agent, 12st. 71b., 1;
Quamby, list. 51b., 2; Clarence, 12st. 21b., 3. Tally-ho
Handicap: Winifred 1. Consolation Stakes: Clarence 1.
The Thornbury team, which includes the two
Graces, went in for big scoring at an early match this
season. At the end of the day, the enormous number
of 674 runs had been obtained for three wickets. E. M.
Grace (228), W. G. Grace (not out, 196), and J. Cran-
ston (not out, 174), were the chief contributors to this
total.
Goulburn easily defeated the Balmain team
about six weeks ago, and now the metropolitan clubs
will not meet them unless a first-class fifteen can be got
together. The Qlenhead and St. Leonards clubs are
both shy about tackling the players of the City of the
South, who have kicked a way to eminence in the foot-
ball field.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club meeting, Satur-
day:—Selling Race: Napoleon 1, Incognito 2, The
Squall 3. Hurdle Race: Rhesus 1, Glenrowan 2, Cum-
berland 3. Hunters' Stakes: Ajax 1, Right Bower 2,
Prince Alfred 3. Balaclava Stakes: Bar One 1, Sea
King 2, Ween 3. Open Steeplechase: Colling wood 1,
Bangor 2, Mariner 3.
The supporters of Kirby against Trickett
scarcely gained as much as they expected by confining
the ex-champion to a fixed seat in the return sculling
match. He certainly fixed his slide, but he moved up
and down it just in the style practised by old Bob
Chambers, who was accustomed to saturate Lis seat
with oil in order to facilitate the operation.
Midwinter has been doing well since his return
to England. Against Middlesex, at Lord’s ground, he
scored 2, run out, and 25; and took 6 wickets for 53
runs in the second innings of Middlesex. He played
for Marylebone against Cambridge University, and was
run out for a faultless 44. His success may be accounted
for by the fact that he had splendid practice out here,
meeting the cream of Australian bowling.
The vacant piece of ground opposite Robertson’s
coach factory, upon which the six days’ go-as-you-please
tournment is to take place, is being enclosed, and the
ground well levelled. A cinder track is being prepared.
In addition to the above, the management are organiz-
ing a six-days’ bicycle tournament of t velvo hours per
day, to commence on Sept. 12. The prizes are a gold
watch and £5O for first, silver medal and £25 for second,
and £lO for third.
The sub committee appointed by the N.S. Wales
Cricket Association to collect subscriptions for a testi-
monial to Nat. Thompson have published their report,
from which it is ascertained that the total amount col-
lected, with interest thereon, reached the handsome
sum of £436 15s. lid. Nat. is running a good business
as a tobacconist in Oxford-street, as a result of the
appeal of the sub-committee to the public, and the
latter will be glad to know that he has so far recovered
from his malady as to be able next season to again don
the flannels and do battle for his club, if not for his
colony.
The football season is now being closed, and, in
view of interesting matches next season, we would re-
commend to all football clubs the adoption of the
N.S.W. Football Association rules. The Rugby game,
though good when played by such teams as the Univer-
sity and the Wallaroo, is impracticable as far as an
Intercolonial contest is concerned. Even in England
it is not universally adopted. The Victorian game is
better, and would suit the fast play of the University
and Glenheads. With all players to select from, we
should have a good chance of beating Victoria at her
own game before long.
The greatest football match of the season was
played on Moore Park, on Saturday last, between the
Wallaroo and University clubs, and resulted in a victory
for the University by a goal and a touchdown to
two touchdowns. A great crowd of spectators were
present, and they were decent enough to keep behind
the boundary lines, two policemen having much to do
with that. The contest was keen and exciting, Raper,
Flynn, and “ Sammy” doing great work for the Uni-
versity; and for the Wallaroos, the two Fliggs played
excellently. The elder brother came out of his shell,
and annihilated some of his tacklers.
Harry Bellett, well-known as the captain of the
Lily Denham, has sold that boat to a New Zealand Co.,
having bought in its place the equally well-known
steam-yacht, Victor. One of his first trips with the
new boat was made on the occasion of the departure of
the Squadron. The Victor was the last to leave the
wharf, but eventually led the way down the harbour,
literally running rings round the Squadron and its
accompanying fleet of steamers. Harry is a good fellow,
and deserves success. He has on several occasions
saved life in Port Jackson, and is a most successful
caterer for piscatorial sport. We hope his new venture
will pay.
The Lauda Department had another scratch
football match last week. The first half was played
under Victorian rules, and the second under Rugby;
but the players unacquainted with these rules, intro-
duced many new ideas of the game. Jem Croft did not
play with his usual force, but Callachor’s “tackling"
was something brilliant. Walker made a splendid run,
overthrowing three of his opponents and effectually
vaccinating Dillon’s arm. The muff football season
will close on Thursday afternoon with a match between
the Lands and Treasury Departments. It will be
worth the trouble to visit Moore Park, if it be only to
see how roughly football can be played. ,
On Thursday, the 18th instant, a billiardjraatch,
1000 up, for £lOO aside, was played at Jim Mace’s rooms,
Melbourne, between Weiss (who came from Queensland
lately, and who has been putting the Melbourne bil-
liardists through their facings) and Byrne (the cham-
pion of Melbourne). The game occupied five hours and
a half, including two intervals of twenty minutes each.
At the end of the first interval the game stood—Weiss
423, Byrne 373. The greatest break was 62, by Weiss.
The scoring was very slow during the next hour, but
when it reached 600 Byrne made a fine break of 86,
including 22 spot shots. Weiss again drew up, but had
bad luck, and Byrne won in an unfinished break—the
game being 1001 to 960.
Bob Edwards is the only one out of the four
Victorians entered who will race the starter for the
Walker Whisky sculling race. Edwards is in very
active training, and, should all go well with him to the
day, it is said that he will astonish some of the Sydney
folk. He has had a now sliding seat made for the
occasion, and it is, according to “Cloanthus,” a mar-
vellous improvement on all slides hitherto seen in
Melbourne. The writer named says :—“ The slide is
constructed from a pattern supposed to have been
identical with that uaed by Hanlan on the Thames;
and to judge from the number of small wheels (some
50 in all) which constitute the contrivance, I rather
incline to the idea that wheels must, after all, have hod
something to do with the Canadian’s secret."
The morning gallops have been extensively
watched during the week, but no good line has as yet
been found. The best performers have been Spinning-
dale, Lord Barghley, Sweetmeat, Wheatear, Legerde-
main, Monmouth, Etna, Master Avenal, Templar,
Julian, and Martindale. The Pontiff did a grand gallop
on Thursday morning, but pulled up lame, and was
scratched at mid-day. His pastern-joint was injured.
In the betting, for the Hawkesbury, Wellington has
come into favour, as well as Brian Boru. Major, Sooth-
sayer, and Sardonyx have been well supported. Trump
Yoss is also steadily backed. Monmouth still retains
the pride of place for the Derby, and is laid in doubles
with Hesperian, Martindale, Brian Boru and Wheatear,
for the Metropolitan. Monmouth is still favourite for
Melbourne Derby and Cup.
Ed. Trickett’s accident was, after all, not so
terrible as was reported. He says that his boat broke
into two, and he had to swim, but ho was not far from
shore. He further states that Mr. Ward, Hanlan’s big
friend, has invited him to Toronto: —‘‘He has a new
boat ready for me, and wants me to go and spend two
weeks in her under his tuition. I have resolved to go;
and if Hanlan has any secret to his success, I should
now find it out." Prom this it would appear that Ned
thinks, after all, that there was something in the boat
besides the man. By the bye, there was an absurd
rumour in town on Sunday—that a cablegram had been
received announcing the death of poor Ned Trickett.
We are glad that this was merely a canard, and that
the ex-champion is spared for an opportunity to do
something to wipe out his recent defeats. Our best
judges, however, are beginning to think that Trickett
is played out.
The cricket season in England commences as we
close it here, and by our latest files we find that some of
our old friends have been distinguishing themselves.
P. Penn made 102 in the Kent v. M.C.C. match, but was
absent in the second innings, and M.C.C. won. Ulyett
made 112 for Yorkshire against Surrey, Lockwood 109,
and Emmett 41. Allen Hill got 4 wickets for 17 runs in
the first innings, and 2 wickets for 14 in the second.
Yorkshire won in one innings. Hornby scored 41 for
Lancashire against Nottingham, Oscroft for the latter
scoring 12. In the Under Thirty and Over Thirty
match, W. G. Grace scored 29 and 28, Hornby 28 and 43,
Selby l 0 and 28, Emmett, 18 and 8, Ulyett 26 and 10, A.
P. Lucas 7 and 21, Midwinter 37 and 4. Lord Harris
made 34 for Kent against Derbyshire. Jupp made 9
and 26 for Surrey against Gloucestershire, and for the
latter, Mr. W. G - Grace made 21, E. M. Grace 77, Mid-
winter 26, W. E. Gilbert 30, and Bushe 1. Hornby
scored 102 for Lancashire against Kent. In Gloucester-
shire v. Middlesex, W. G. made 64, and E. M. 47, and A.
J. Webbe for the other side 4 and 23. Oscroft made 40
for Nottingham against Surrey.
The Parramatta J C. Races on Saturday were
most successful The attendance was good, the fields
fair, and the starts capital. As usual, however, owing
to the undulating nature of the ground, only one-half
of each race could be seen. When the new course, now
being prepared, is formed, the Parramatta meetings
should be as popular as those at Hawkesbury. A party
from Government House attended on Saturday, but his
Excellency did not show up. The Sydney metallicians
were well represented; while in front of the stand,
members of the very outer ring yelled out fearful odds,
and in nearly every instance paid their wagers. The
"welsher" fraternity was in strong force. In front
of the club stand the Parramatta Band discoursed
sweet music, and a little dancing was indulged In on
the green sward, giving the Government House visitors
an opportunity of seeing how it is done outside of
fashionable circles. For the Hurdle Eace, Darby the
Blast was made the favourite, and he proved public
opinion was right by the clever way in which he nego-
tiated the “ sticks." The Plying Handicap was looked
upon as a foregone conclusion for Sunset, who won it
cleverly in 1.38. Y.G., who appropriated the Galloway
Eace, was sold for £43. In the Sel ing Eace, which was
the best of the day, Stanley won nicely; the second
horse, Fireball, bolted and went three times round the
course before he could be stopped. He gave himself a
great gruelling, and was in a terrible condition when
he came into the yard. The Loftus Handicap was the
great event of the day, and was won by Templar,
Master Avenal being a considerate second. The way
in which the latter ran should gain him some friends
in the Hawkesbury Handicap. Robert the Devil was
made a big pot for the Two and Three-year-old Handi-
cap, and won it in a canter. Following are the results:
Handicap Hurdle Eace: Darby the Blast 1, Pluto 2,
Secret 3. Flying Handicap: Sunset 1. Verdict 2,
Balthazar 3. Handicap Galloway Eace : V.Q. 1, Cceur
de Lion 2, Isabella 3. Selling Eace : Stanley 1, Fireball
2, Murray 3. Loftus Handicap: Templar 1, Master
Avenal 2, Sunset 3. Two and Three-year-old Handicap:
Eobert the Devil 1, Norman 2.
SPORTING OLEANINGS.
Shepherd, of West Maitland, who is a competitor
for the Walker Whisky Trophy, is said to have an out.
side show F. Dnncan takes tho National C.C. trophy
for the highest batting average, 16-19, and Q. Watkins
wins the bowling trophy with an average of 3-5. During
the season the club played 33 matches—winning 29,
losing 3, and drawing 1. They are thus entitled to rank
as the leading junior club. Mr. J. F. Carroll, 25 Fitz-
roy-street, Surry Hills, is hon. sec J, T. Sweededied
at Strood, Bocbester, Eng.. May 13, from blows re-
ceived in a glove fight with J. Macartney, since appre-
hended a charge of manslaughter At Gympie, on
27th inst., James Shannon and William Black wrestle
in the Cornish and Devon style for £2O aside or over.
Mr. George Waller, of Newcastle, shot the first
snipe of the season in the Baymond Terrace district
The admission receipts on Longcbamps course, on the
occasion of last Grand Prix de Paris race, were £lO,OOO
—the greatest amount ever taken on the course...!..A
heavy feeder in Franco won a wager by eating 51bs of
blood pudding in twenty minutes. He washed it down
with a quart of wine A monster grand stand has
just been completed at Chantilly, France, at a cost of
£40,000 Old Nonsense, the well-known steeple-
chaser, is running in a coach in the northern district.
Handball is a favourite game at Orange, where
there are two courts, the best in the colonies At the
sale of blood stock in connection with the annual parade
of the National Agricultural Society in Melbourne, the
following satisfactory prices were obtained: Glasgow
800 guineas ; Keir, 500 guineas; Lord of the Isles, 600
guineas; Champion Oxford, 110 guineas; Ivanhoe, 675
guineas; Marmion, 610 guineas; Fashion o’ the Day
710 guineas; Lyon of Lyons, 800 guineas. The coloniall
bred draught stallions brought good prices.... The
Australasian Tcrr Bbgister for 18801 has been pub-
lished. It is indispensably necessary to every sports-
man At the late Ascot Heath races in England,
Peter, ridden by the famous Archer, won the Hard-
wiche Stakes of 1$ miles, (and worth over £3000) in the
wonderfully short time of 2 min. 42| secs A cable
states that Perigrine has been scratched for the Leger.
A kangaroo drive took place lately at Armidale.
Over 200 persons attended and about 600 kangaroos
were killed Mr. W. S. Cox, of Kensington Park
(Vic.), obtained £550 damages for an injury to a
thoroughbred horse, called Englishman, which had to
be destroyed The cup with which the London
Sportsman people have replaced that won by Hanlan,
is of the value of £2OO. It is first to be rowed for on
the Tyne, during the coming season The Sydney
bred mare Maid of Honour, by Kelpie out of Fairy
Queen, now in Auckland, is to be put to Musket A
match for £lO aside was run on Saturday, the 13th inst,,
ou Lithgow race-course, between Mr, Gummer’s Punch
and Mr. Ellis’ St. Patrick, resulting in a victory for
tho latter by several lengths It appears that Weiss,
who was defeated by Byrne in the billiard match at
Melbourne, can make very little out of the spot stroke.
He plays with great pluck and wonderful patience, and
will yet make his name as a billiardist The champion
medal in the South Australian Bifle Association
matches was won by Private Pelton, of the Eiverstone
Company, with a total of 1670, made at ranges from
500 to 1000 yards Mr. J. C. Wallace has been elected
president, and Messrs. C. Langtrae and Isaac Little
vice-presidents, of the Cobar Jockey Club. An active
secretary is all tbat’s now required to make the club a
success Jack Conway, agent for All-England Eleven,
asks £6OO, besides steamer fares from Sydney and back,
and hotel expenses, in consideration of Eleven playing
a three days’ match at Brisbane, and two days at Too-
woomba or Warwick M'Leod, who rode Mariner iu
the Open Steeplechase at Caulfield, on Saturday, has
been called upon by the stewards for an explanation of
his riding.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Eey. James Pollitt, St. Mark’s, Adelaide, dead.
The Jewish Relief Fund in Victoria now exceeds
£l3OO.
The pew-rents of St. James’s church in this city
are worth £2200.
The Presbyterians of Mossgiel intend to give a
call to the Kev. Mr. M'Cutcheon.
Abyssinia and the United States are the only
two Christian countries where polygamy is tolerated.
The Rev. Charles Strong has consented to
remain the pastor of Collins-strtet Church, Melbourne,
until March, 1833.
On Sunday week, a well-known gentleman of
Orange, formerly a bank manager, amused a number of
residents by getting publicly baptised in the local
creek.
The trouble between the Toowoomba (Q.)
Anglicans and their shepherd, Father Abraham, is to
be disposed of by Bishop Hale ns arbitrator. Abo is
not liked.
A remarkable contrast of voices exists in a
suburban church. As the darkness intensifies the light,
so does the weak falsetto of the curate the sonorous
musical tones of the vicar. Bead, Mark, and inwardly
digest.
At a suburban church, recently, a careless but
thrifty youth gave half-sovereign instead of sixpence
at the offertory collection. Wiien service was over, a
deputation of one waited upon the johurohwardens for
the balance of 9s. fid.
At a Congregational Union meeting in London,
the other day, it was proposed that the Jubilee Fund
should be £5OOO. Whereupon Mr. E. S. Hudson, the
big soap maker, said : “ That's all nonsense. I intend
to give £20,000 myself."
A Presbyterian minister writes to a contem-
porary :—“A Catholic lady, at whose hotel I abode iu
Coonamble, refused payment, alleging that her religion
taught her to entertain ministers free of charge. To
this part of the Catholic faith wa surely cau take no
objection."
The Revised New Testament was “ sot up ” on
the Atlantic by Appleton’s typos, stereotyped on board
ship, and printed otf immediately on the arrival of the
vessel in New York. The bound volume was selling by
the hundred thousand within twenty-four hours of the
arrival of the steamer.
The “ Salvation Army ” seems to have devel-
oped an army contrator already. The War Crt has this
proclamation: "Sisters! send to head quarters for
regulation army bonnet, ready trimmed, neat and cheap
—6s each." Yanitas vanitatis; ready trimmed ! At 6s
each, there should be millions in it.
The St. John’s College annual commemoration
took place on Saturday last. Archbishop Vaughan
delivered one of the most scholarly and elegant ad-
dresses ever heard in Sydney, judging by the report iu
Monday’s Hhrai.d. It should be republished lot
perusal by all students, of whatever denomination.
One reason given by the Bishop of Brisbane,
Dr. Mathew Hale, for net agreeing to a formal co-opera-
tiou with other Protestant denominations, was that at
the Baikes centenary celebration a non-conforming lay-
man was most violent in his language of reproach to
any persons who thought Government had anything to
do with religion.
The Hon, John Campbell, M.L.C., proposes to
endow a new Church of England See, to be sliced out of
the Bathurst and Goulburn dioceses, and gives £lO,OOO
for the purpose. The Goulburn Herald has it that
Mr. Campbell has set apart the money “ for the glory
of God.” We don’t think £lO,OOO will make much dif-
ference in that, however.
The health of the Right Rev. Dr. Barker,
Bishop of Sydney, has, we are glad to inform our
readers, much improved. It is thought that before long
the bishop will have entirely recovered. His lordship-
spends most of his time reading, of which he is very
fond. He is at present in Scotland, and does not
intend to visit Germany as originally projected.
At the Cobar police court, on the 16th, Alfred
Hibble sued the Bev. E. O’Conor, C.B. minister, for
£lO damages, for having, as was alleged, stated from
his pulpit, during Divine service:—“ It was his mis.
fortune and not nis fault that he was unable to siknre
the filthy tongne of the vile slanderer.” Plaintiff was
nonsuited, hnt without eosts. Christians, love one
another.
The new firm of Moody and Miller has gone into
the revival business. Tire senior is Dexter L. Moody,
the famous evangelist, formerly with Ira D. Sankey;
and the junior is E. F. Miller, formerly a workman iu
the car-shops at Denver. Moody and Sankey are said -
to have disagreed as to the division of the proceeds from
the sale of Sankey’s hymn-books, and Miller is to take
the place of Sankey in the new concern.
Said a celebrated ecclesiastic here the other day,
"We have heard of Archpriest Therry, and Archdeacon
M'Encroe." So have we, and we have also heard that
although money was subscribed to erect a monument to
their memory (in conjunction with that of Dr. Fold-
ing’s) these two pioneers of the Catholic faith in Aus-
tralia still sleep without a stone to mark their dark lone
resting place. We shall be happy to contradict the
above at an early date.
At Blaokall (Q.), a meeting to arrange for pro-
curing a Protestant clergyman was held on the 3rd
instant. Independents, Anglicans, Baptists, and Pres-
byterians were present, and cheerfully agreed that
either a Presbyterian or Church of England parson
would suit their complaint. Eventually the meeting
agreed to apply for an Anglican pastor. It really seems
as if the Blaokall Christians understood the spirit of
Christianity. Now, this is surprising. Couldn’t Mr.
Clarendon Stuart intervene.
This is the way te run a church. At the anni-
versary of the Congregational church, Milton, the
chairman “ called upon his deacon, Mr. Miller, to mo-«
a vote of thanks to Mrs. W. W. Ewin for the valuable
present she has handed over to the church, —viz., a
complete set (of twelve dozen each) of cups, saucer.-,
plates, and all the accessories necessary for a tea-
meeting.” Jaml The report from which we take this
concludes in these words —“ Some more singing, the
usual collection, and the Benediction brought a pleasant
re-union to an end."
Writes a correspondent:—“ The deplorable
religions ignorance which exists in some parts of this
colony was never more forcibly illustrated than by an
occurrence which took place the other day in a West-
ern school. A pupil of 14 years said he had never hoard
of Christ, and, when asked whether he did not know
that Christ had died for him, replied— *• I beg your
pardon, sir, but I never heard the gentleman was ill."
The schoolmaster, on appealing to the father on the
subject of his son’s ignorance, was met with—" Well,
sir, the fact is we live so far back in the bush, an 1 are
so poor, that we never see the papers.”
Stephen has a rival in this colony, it
appears. Mary Stapleton, of Black Springs wrote to
Archbishop Cavanagh, on November 15 last, as follows :
—" I have a son, now sixteen years of age, and since his
birth, or at least since he was able to walk, he has not
had the full strength of his left arm, aide, and leg. The
left limb and arm are also both sm.'.ll and weak. From
his lordship, the Most Eevereud Doctor Quinn, Bishop
of Bathurst, I obtained some of the cement from the
holy and far-famed shrine of Knock, and it has made a
great improvement in my boy. I sought some a second
time from his lordship, but he had given it all away,
and hence I am now troubling you for some of the holy
cement. I send yon ten shillings, and beg of yon to say
a Mass for my son.” What’s red flannel to cement,
after this ?
It was widely reported in Sydney the other day
that a certain clever and very well-known (suburban)
divine of the Anglican Church, had. wi h his wife and
family, ’verted to Boman Cathol ci-m The rumour,
which was the more readily believed beenum the
popular preacher in question has always manifested the-
possession of exceidingly liberal views, probvlv had
its origin in the undoubted fact that another cl -rgyrnan
of the same Church, treaty with the au horifiaa
at St. Mary’s for transferring his allegiance to the Pope.
It was fully expected by those iu the secret tha- he
would come forward on a recent Sunday and puMic’y
recant, and a larger congregation than us nil must r d
at the B. C. pro-Cathodral, iu anticipation of theevint.
However.it appears that at (he last moment the rev.,
gentleman changed bis mind, and decided not to " eomc-
to the scratch.”


Tailors, Drapers, fco.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, Qeorge-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAY DURING THIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOB THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEGE
EASGHER CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDEIS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMBRK
JERSEY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OP OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—Wo have opened 3
oases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
heuses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2a lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. Extraor-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK, BLACK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLACK SATIN DE LYON. 23 to 24
inches wide, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6s lid, 7s 6d. These are now much
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
N AUCUNIUM, guaranteed fast black,
every yard stamped on back.
BLACK SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3a 6d,
Ss lid, 4s 6d, Ss 6d. 6s 6d. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS, PLUSHES in
every shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, Ac.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all descriptions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation, Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling, Madeira Work, Ladies’
Cuffs, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
FROM DRESS, so that there will
be no deception after they are
washed. Ladies will find our
Sheetings good value and standard
makes. Prices: 72-inch, rom lOd
to Is lid; 80-inch, is to 2s 2d; 90-
inch, Is 6d to 2s 6d ; 166-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American, Denison House,
& Hoi-rocks' CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 3J long, at all
prices. Coloured ALHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2f long. 3s 6d. TOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT. —It has always
been our study to impart goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
every size, and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
425; 5-8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS, from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMASK DOYLEYS.
round or square, all pric«s. SLIP
DAMASK, 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
BLEACHED TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 6d; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS, all widths; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN, 40, 45. 54 inches
wide; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d to 365, ac-
cording to size; BROWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS, GLASS CLOTHS,
TEA CLOTHS, KNIFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH, PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG-
LING CLOTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33, 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
161
ZING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., out in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra-
tions and directions for mak-
ing np. Sold at prises rang-
ing from fid to 2«. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of tire colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address;
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
JJ AVE YOU BEEN
TO
E. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns axe unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
Tobacconists
J.EVB . TOBACCONIST .149.
J.EYE
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
*
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
1 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
Sr
I*
i
VS
Manufactured by
T. S A TW E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney,
Chemists and Druggists
POTHEC ARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Htpe Park Corker.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the snppert hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
PACTS SPEAK POE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies s
EAMES’S quinine wine
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES —1/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
Chemists and Druggists
CAUTION. —In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boschee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses. For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of oases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst oases
of Rheumatism hare been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will core.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
89 WATERLOO-ROAD, LONDON;
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MANZANITA FRUIT PILLS.
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints.
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Bilionsnees, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaehes, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNE P.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE A GfE NTS.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hall of pharmacy,
(Late Felmingham’s)
78 KING STREET,
Dispensing Establishment.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Medicines sold below the
English marked price. All articles carefully selected.
D. HALE, Manager, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET STDNET.
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
* THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES. ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
gYDNEY PROVIDENT DISPENSARY.
ALL MEDICINES AND PRESCRIPTIONS
AT HALF THE USUAL CHARGE.
MECHANICAL AND SURGICAL DENTISTRY.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
Full Set, £6 155.; Single Tooth, 7s.
Extraction, per tooth, Is.; Children, 6d.
PROFESSORS ARNOLD AND MAURICE,
196, Pitt-street —opposite Farmer’s.
gMALL POX. SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE
JOZBAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, Is.; from all
Chemists.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Seld everywhere.
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
&c., &c. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—R. T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
PROFESSOR WEST’S Limited Adult EVEN-
ING CLASSES, Thursdays, 8 p.m.; Children's
Classes, Saturdays, 2 p.m.; select Adult Classes, Satur-
days, at 4 p.m., at Hall, 344 Castlereagh-street. Pupils
may join at any time. Private lessons on application.
Residence, 161 Liverpool street.
Tailors, Drapers, lie.
8
PEI N G REQUISITES.
JOHN B. YOUDALE.
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S GARMENTS MADE
TO ORDER.
We can ploaso you in DRE SS MATERIALS.
We can also please yon in DRESSMAKING.
CHECKED and PLAIN SA 'EKNS now opening.
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBRICS new opening.
NEW SPRING MILLINERY now opening.
CASHMERE DOLMANS MADE TO ORDER,
Prices 85s, 455, 555, 635.
A GRAND LOT OP SILK NETTED FICHUS,
From 3s 6d to 255.
A New and Varied Stock of Frilling*, Fringes, Tassals
and Girdles, Laces, Hosiery, Corsets, and
Satin Parachutes.
In all DRAPERY GOODS, including Millinery, Man-
chester, and Dressmaking, we can promise to serre you
well.
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHBUNK.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEOEGE-STBEET,
Opposite the Trait Markets.
Established 1884.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
F ASAION ABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED,
B
L A N K E T S.
BLANKET
•• FIRST SHIPMENT OP THE SEASON”
new opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied.”
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Foil directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST'S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 Kino Street, Stdnkt (two doors from Qeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Geo. L. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to Inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the beet goods, work-
manship, &c., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM GEORGE STREET.
« XT IS A WELL-KNOWN PACT” THAT
JL for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s" Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield H > has “N 0 Rival,” either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
5r
i
C
X
<b
m
m
5*
cG
%
v
IP ' Y*
5^
1
University college,
Affiliated to Trin. Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Principal :
Dk. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S L. (Lon.)
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
BODWAY. and the number of students in each class is
strictly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention whieh will alone
secure success. Dr. Rod way’s system is easy and effi-
cient, and he guarantees to pass ev"ry candidate he
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
PEES : Per term, in advance, for each class ... £4 4s,
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be
awarded upon the conclusion of each term.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, 191 William-street. Sydney.
DR. RODWAY PRINCIPAL.


Hotels, &o.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAETIE CASKS,
AND CASE.
AG E N T—G EOEGE LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
OOLALTA WINE CELLAES,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON bears to inform the Publlo
that owing: to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLAES.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLAES at the A.S.N. Cd.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
tar Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Tiaeyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
Royal exchange dining booms,
KING & GEORGE STREETS.
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales and Suite,
PROPRIETOR OF THE ABOVE ROOMS.
Begs to intimate that he is now supplying
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTE A-LA-RUSSE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for Is 6d.
The best INDIAN CURRY, by a NATIVE COOK on
the premises. Suppers ready, hot and cold, from Bto
12 p.m. Separate room for ladies. Arrangements
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and PARTIES, on most
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant for gentlemen.
Your patronage is respectfully solicited.
A. A. WEBB,
ROYAL EXCHANGE DINING ROOMS,
King and George streets, Sydney.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into lib and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places:—
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M'Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolabrn
E. Clarke and C„ Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
streets
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 557 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J, Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, corner of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
I). Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Guinery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G-. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfern
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
Q. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
AND S. PREDDEY.
* SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHE-”.
GOLD LEAF, &o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWIC ti, 2P, GEORGE ST.
Hotels, lio.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PZTT-STREET bare much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed te visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
stall of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Catering £Jompany,
815 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Oentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and fer
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is aver
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
fjHAs. e. Smith,
MANAGER.
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BRIDGE STREET,
(Opposite Bullbtijt Office.)
R. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR.
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
Hotels, tko.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ATT, THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PEE BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cocklmrn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colomy.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, &c
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE,
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
The PuresiStimulant
woR'B
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MEEC HANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
i!ili
oim.
OKNJS
RSLAKDVfSIS
1|1'&
A')
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will And a diSerence of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
BOSS AND CLINCH,
(Late Collins and Eoach),
JEEATED WATEE
AND
COEDIAL MANUPACTUEEES,
438 HAEEIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
COEDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
EOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
i M A E T I N AND CO.,
AUSTEALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLEES,
105 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUAEIE WINES.
Burgundy.
PEIZE ALBUEY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and tho public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MU EE AY EIYEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions i
London International 1862
Paris „ 1864
Vienna „ 18/3
Philadelphia „ 1*76
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIEST
CLASS, and 2 SLCOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. EED.
Eeisling Aucarot Shiraz Hermi ag»
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malb«c
Tokay Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Chamj agne. Dry.
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
la on every Genuine Bottle
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bnll Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous diame-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there,
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J. R CAT FEI.I an
CO., Sole Agents,
06
MAR
B
OAR ‘ S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
8 T O U T
s selected with great care from the best £f the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GLINNESS
nd CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To ba Procured Everywhere.
J B. CAT TELL and CO.,
> Sole Agents.
THOMAS W EARNE,
ENGINEER & IKON POUNDER.
MINING, TEAM, and R.ML'.VAT ROLLING STOCK,
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
&c., &c.
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PR OOP
SAFES
AMD
DOORS.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Tfl 0 W L E R’ S POTTERY
■*" AND
BRICK WORKS,
OAMPEEDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price last on application.
Hookings & co.’s oia
Australian Wine strengthens the
system against infectious diseases.
Opposite Citt Bank, PITT STREET.
V’-A'T
m
•T
-
r.
v „ i-V
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STREET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Honrs—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
15
20 0 10 6
25 0 12 6
30 10 0
60 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREE T, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sous.
T
O SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £6OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market.
London mortgage, loan, and
DISCOUNT BANK,
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OP SALE *n furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, &0.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by "WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential. _
FORMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1856.
lANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
MUSIC.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
P
PIANOS.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpe eking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &c.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal dis. ount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-pa'meat
SySt6m ’ MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and S N,
ARK STREET, SV.
S E Y.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Carandmia were at the Lyceum Theatre,
Shanghai, late in May, but were net doing well, despite
all the marmalade of the local papers, which—ye gods I
—went into eostacies oyer the vocalization of Mr.
Walter Sherwin, in “ The lass ef Richmond Hill.*'
Rose Hersde, after two years’ absence, arrived home in
■June Lytton Sothern, it is said, has definitely de-
■—cided to organise n company for next season, and to try
his fortune in the leading character of " Fogarty's
Fairy," the piece written for his father by W. S. Oil.
bert Edwin Booth, and his wife (whose state of health
is very critical) are at present in New York A small
memorial cross of stone has just been erected in the
cemetery at Southampton over the grave of Sothern,
the actor. The cross stands about 2 ft. high, is enclosed
with a stone coping, the grave itself being only turfed,
and bears the inscription “ Edward Askew Sothern,
born Ist April, 182-5, died 20th January, 1881." All
Shakspeare’s English historical plays are to be per-
formed at Munich in October next Some old violins
sold at Paris, two months ago, brought large sums.
A Slndivarius, dated 1713, fetched 4650 francs, and
another of 1714 realised 4600 francs According to the
Illustrated London News, when Jenny Lind appeared
at btockbalm, in a comedy entitled “The Young Lap-
land Girl," into which the author introduced Swedish
national ballads, there was such eagerness to obtain
tickets of admission that they were sold as high as 45
rix dollars, or £9 sterling; and the receipts of the
evening nmonnttd to 11,095 rix dollars, or £2219 ster-
ling A!f. Massey, the well-known clog dancer, is now
in Cooma, following the occupation of house-builder
and contractor. He gives dancing lessons in the even-
ings The “ Scottish Giant” and Dominic Sonsee.
the dwarf, are now showing at Newcastle Ada Ward
is supporting Modjeska at the Court Theatre, London.
Tilly Andrews, we hear, has married an American
physician and given up the stage. She intends visiting
Christchurch, N.Z., shortly, to see her parents At
latest Lotti Wilmott was at Wanganui According
to the Ltttleton Times, that well-known comedian, Mr.
Hoskins, whose age is generally supposed to be 1600, is
just going to marry a young Melbourne lady with the
two r o’s off The Otago Witness, with regard to
the young Osmond (Pollard’s Juvenile "Pinafore")
imbroglio, says that it has been established that the
benefit was a “ blind ’’ and that not one fartbing of the
takings went into the pockets of Osmond or his rela-
tives De Vivo’s proposed visit to N.Z. with the
Boema Palma-Coy Company has been indeflnately post-
poned. Professional jealousy and continual misunder-
standings on the part of the two ladies are the assigned
causes In the Bondoault divorce case, the wife
stated that Dion was worth a million dollars (£200,000),
to which he replied that he had nothing beyond his
current earnings Morris Greenwall, we are glad to
hear, still continues to improve in health. He is tonr-
ing through the Queensland country, and has already
had to let out the buttons of his coat. When he re-
turns to Sydney his tailor won't know him Mrs. F.
M. Bates made her first appearance east of the Rocky
Mountains at Manager Collins' benefit, at Cincinnati,
and charmed the audience and critics The “ far-
famed U.S Minstrels" are billed to appear in Laun-
ceston. Who are theyP Harry Baker, with selec-
tions from Tom Moore, is performing, with fair success,
in the Tasmanian provinces Bertie Willison, agent
for Professor Rice, writes from Tasmania that they
closed their New South Wales tour, at Eden, on
Saturday, 30th July, aud sailed for the “ Tight Little
Island" on Monday, arrivingin Hobart on Wednesday.
Commenced their Tasmanian season at New Norfolk,
and continued playing at the towns en route, to splen-
did business. Rico returns to Hobart on Monday,
opening at the Town Hall on Tuesday, 16th August,
“ under distingnished patronage," and managed by
Mr. A. Luck man. Cape of Good Hope and India to
follow Fakir of Oolu at Geelong Mechanics’ In-
stitute Johnny Gourlay sailed for Europe llth June
For a good startling theatrical item, commend us
to our spirited contemporary the D.T. Wo learn by
Monday’s issue that “ Last night, the ‘ Pirates of
Penzance’ gave place at the Opera House to ‘La
Somnambula.’ Alice Rees, as Arnicas, achieved a
great success.” “Arnicas" is rather a staggerer.
What does it mean ? We expect there was something
else betides arnica mixed up with this par. The Adelaide
L. V. Gazette is not much better. “ The new burlesque
opera of ‘ Mignon ’ has been produced with immense
success by the Montagne-Turner Company, at the
Gaiety Theatre, Sydney." However, we can make
some allowance for M’Clory. We wish simply to in-
form him that “Mignon” is about as much of a bur-
lesque as he is a cherub, and that far from being new,
it is very nearly the same age as his long primer
Charley Burford played Pantomime at Grafton
last Saturday. The Harlequinade was considered
to be quite more than superlatively tragic
Sam. Howard and Hurry Simmons take a com-
laiy to Wollongong. They purpose playing in
bush towns, out of the usual beat of the “ perfesh.”
By the way, we wonder whether Simmons is any
relation Jto Simousen ? Bandmann is going to
Hobart. Ha is the greatest but why repeat what
the universe acknowledges ? The Towers Minstrels
recently gave a benefit to Mr. J. Clinton. We don’t
know, in the least, who Mr. J. Clinton is, but we are
glad he got a benefit Little Freddy will open with a
strong crowd at the Princess’s, Melb. He will be
joined by his brother. Misses Alma Santon, Annie
Taylor, Gordon, Messrs. Titheradge, Cates, Stirling
Whyte, and others—about the best comedy combina-
tion that Australia has seen for a long time; and
George Gordon will paint the scenery. We hope it
will gee Herr Banimann and Mr. Leake were
recently advertising rival " Hamlets ” in the two
Dunedin theatres. Leake’s advertisement notified to
the public “ Hamlet " (played in English) Miss
Pomeroy has arrived in Melbourne. No wire has
arrived as to Josh.’s whereabouts. Surely—but no—
never Grattan Riggs was doing, up to latest dates,
well in Brisbane. We would say more, but fear that
too much kindness might be Grattan on his feelings.
Mr. Alfred Dumpier aud his two daughters, and
Mr. Frederick Maccabe (“Begone, dull care") are
passengers by the Lusitania Mrs. Charles Jones,
sister of Mrs. Herman Yezin, and who has been over 20
years on the colonial stage, died at the residence of her
son-in law, Mr. D. C. Humphreys, Darlinghnrst, on
Sunday night, and was buried at Waverley on Tuesday.
Lynch Family of Bellringers at Rockhampton.
On 15th July the themometer registered 137 deg.
in the sun, in London.
More than 5,500,000 barrels of English beer are
annually consumed in London alone.
Dr. M'Credie, writing to one of the papers,
says that vinegar is by far the best disinfectant known.
Holloway, of pills and ointment fame, has paid
£20,000 for four paintings by Landseer, Stansfleld, and
Millais.
In New Zealand, it is said, rabbits get used to
phosphorus. Those that taste it once and survive,
never touch it again.
The Tasmanian Steam Navigation Co. are about
to uniform their servants, from the skippers of steam-
boats down —or up—to the manager.
Percy Lefroy, alias Mapleton, charged with the
murder of Mr. Gould in a railway carriage, on the
Brighton line, was ar s ted in consequence
of mformal'on contained in an anonymous letter, and
was found in a lodging in a very destitute condition.
A shopkeeper deposes to having sold him a pistol the
day before the murder.
The following is a lileral copy of an order placed
in the guard-room of the officers’ guard at Aldershot,
under the direction of the present commercial Govern-
ment:—“ The officer on guard is informed that during
the summer months he is not entitled to a whole candle
daily, that a portion (l-sth) must be left to his succes-
sor, otherwise on every fifth day there will be no candle
for the officer on guard."
Clipped from an American paper, which always
tells the truth:—“The bush of Australia is so over-
flowed by the multitude of wild horses that they have
to be shot down in common with rabbits and kangaroos.
I a one district an Arab stallion got away some thirty
years ago, and was never recaptured. He was a ches-
nut, and took a couple of thoronghbred colts with him,
and it has been remarked that a large proportion of the
wild horses of the district are of his colour. Horses
believed to be very old are occasionally seen far away in
distant ranges. One man has shot 3000 horses in two
years,”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
If we love anyone better in this world than we
do other fellows’ sisters it is Jim Kitts. And therefore,
when he announced to us, with that bland and genial
smile that has conquered hearts in every portion of the
globe o'er which has trod the Kittsian bluoher, that ho
had charged himself with the fortunes of the tragic Dew-
hurst, we at once took a very lively interest in the gen-
tleman to follow whose fortunes James lately relin-
quished that hostelrie “ which had a fine theatrical con-
nection.” We must confess, however, that when, on
bribing a certain individual with bullion (or pea-nuts, we
forget which), we obtained the cast of Mr. Kitts’ star’s
opening piece, and discovered that James neither played
the Ohost nor Ophelia we experienced a spasm of disap-
pointment. We bore up, though, as well as we conid,
sustaining nature during the interval by continued
ecstatic contemplation of Mr. Dewburat’s printing and
Mr. Dewhurst’s portraits.
* • *
The piece Mr. D. chose in which to make his
di'h (1 1 in Sydney, was a tragedy in five acts, called
“ Hamlet,” and popularly supposed to have been
written by one William Shakespeare, an author of some
repute in his time, but whose reputation has been, in
our era, eclipsed by the splendid genius of that Owl
bard who penned their inaugural address. With regard
to the play itself, we think we may fairly risk the asser-
tion that it is a creditable production. We admit that
in some parts it lacks the sparkle of Scott and the
polish of Hopkins, and also that it has the disadvantage
of not having been adapted from the French—still as a
specimen of the work of a young man who lived in an
age before Lewis was known, or Darrell dreamed of, it
can fairly lay claim to a modicum of merit. Perhaps if
Mr. Shakespeare were living we would give him a little
more kudos, but there is so little “ banging to ” praising
a man when he’s dead, that we really can’t afford him
any more space this issue.
• » *
So far as the play was concerned, then, Mr.
Dewhnrst hadn’t much to grumble at. Let us now
glance at the cast. The backbone, of course, consists
of Hamlet, the King, the Ghost, Ophelia, and the
Queen. With these characters left out, we consider
that the tragedy would lose a good deal of its interest:
but doubtless this is only a matter of opinion. Mr.
Dewhurst, of course, took the title role, and as this is
called in the programme his “ Grand Creation,” and as
the piece was written in the year of grace, 1580, we were
rather surprised to find Mr. Dewhurst looking so young.
The King was entrusted to the “ celebrated English
character actor," Mr. Newton Griffiths. Mr. J. B.
Steele played the Phantom, Miss Melville the Queen,
and Miss Marian Willis Ophelia. This is the strongest
combination that has shown at the Queen’s since Mr.
Keogh’s lesseeship, and, to judge from the crowded
attendance, the performance excited considerable
interest in the minds of the public. We, ourselves,
plead guilty to having, on Friday, passed a sleepless
night.
* * *
Mr. Dewhurst is a tragedian of very fine pre-
sence indeed ; being, in fact, anatomically sublime. He
has, also, a fine resonant voice, and his “get up” ex-
hibits great taste and discrimination. His reading of
the part, however, is quite antagonistic to the concep-
tion we have formed of it. Of course Mr. Dewhurst
may be right and we wrong; but if we art wrong, why
we have the satisfaction of knowing that wo err in very
good company. To us the performance became, after a
time, wearisome in the extreme. Mr. Dewhurst dis-
play ed so flue (and indeed such little) action that his
role resembled —more than anything else—a long
sermon. We have an objection to acting of the “ robus-
tious ” school, but certainly the coldness of Mr. Daw-
hurst is, to our mind, quite as grave an error even as
ranting. His madness was of the mildest character,
and in the closet scene he upbraided the Queen for her
conduct in marrying his uncle very much in the same
manner that a father would chide his eldest girl for
lingering too long with her “chap" on the family
door-step. He mode nothing of the “ O what a rogue
and peasant slave am I" speech, the lecture to the
players was delivered—like a lecture; and the reception
by the audience of his “ To be, or not to be,” sililoquy,
was as quiet as the manner of Mr. Dewhurst itself.
* * *
In his reading we could detect nothing that was
original, but there was in it much that was crude and
unscholarly. For instance, when Eosencrantz says, on
his exclaiming he ” lacks advancement,"
“ How can that be, when you have the voice of
The King himself for your succession in Denmark ?"
instead of giving the answer as punctuated by the
author —“Ay, sir, but while the grass grows, —the pro-
verb is something musty," he delivered the reply in
one breath, thus: —“ While the grass grows the proverb
is something musty.” Such carelessness (for it can bo
nothing else) is inexcusable, and by passing it over the
critic would be as lacking in his duty as a writer as
Mr. Dewhurst was in his emphasis as an actor.
Finally, we must confess—and we are sorry to have to
do so—that Mr. Dewhurst’s Hamlet was a great disap-
pointment to us. Not only did it never rise above bare
mediocrity, but it was very often below it. We are, of
course, just as sorry to say this as Mr. Dewhurst will
bo to read it. Doubtless, however, the “ taffy ”he
will receive from some of our contemporaries will con-
sole him. We hope so,
» * •
Mr. Newton Griffiths’s King was an astounding
performance. His costume beggars description, and he
went about with the largest Are insurance plate upon
his kingly breast that was ever seen off a flve-storey
building. His voice was so deep that it seemed to come
out of his boots, while his face was so ferociously made
up that murder gleamed in his optics, and burglary was
branded on his brow. You could see the moment he
came on that he would stick at nothing, and we fully
expected to see him bore a hole through Hamlet before
the piece was half over. In the middle of Hamlet’s
speech about the “ witching hour of night,” this
ferocious monarch caused some confusion by “ coming
on ” at the wrong time, but Polonius who (being fond
of the drama) was yet lingering near the players plat-
form, proved equalsto the occasion, by taking his
majesty by the shoulder and butting him back into the
wing. Mr. Newton Griffiths may be (and possibly is—
for he ought to know) a “ celebrated English character
actor,” but, if so, the King in “ Hamlet ” doesn’t suit
him. Perhaps, though, that is because it isn’t an Eng-
lish character, but a Danish one.
* * #
Mr. George Melville made a good Polonius, but
his costume was of the Cock-lane Ghost
to be pleasant. His cloak (and what a lot of it there
seemed!) was of some white material, and his doublet
and trunks being slashed with the same fabric, he
looked like a chess-board in front, and like a ghost be-
hind. And two ghosts in one “ Hamlet" is rather rough
on a law abiding public.
* * *
The gentlemaulwho enacted the|first Player (Mr.
J. Thorpe) was chiefly remarkable for a very hoarse
voice, and his boots—the latter evidently having been
presented by his uncle, the bandit. His acting in the
“ play scene” was such that, when he lay down on the
slab, and hod the beetle-poison put in his ear, the coun-
tenances of the audience betrayed the liveliest satisfac-
tion. The second Flayer, whoidid the deed, spoke his
speech before the slaughter in a manner which stamps
him, at once, as an original actor. It runs (as we all
know) i—
“ Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time
agreeing.
Confederate season else, no creature seeing;
Thou mixture rank of midnight weeds collected.
With Hecate’s ban, thrice blasted, thrice infected.
Thy natural diet, and dire property.
On wholesome life usurp immediately."
Well, to listen to him, it seemed as though he had given
the author best, and put this in
“ Qin-siing, cocktail, egg-nogg, Tom-and-Jerry ;
Long beers, two—that's sixpence—right sir, sherry P
No tick here, my man.—Who called for shandy ?
One claret—here you are—and one dark brandy.
Fire whiskies, one old Tom, a glass ol porter,
A taste of rum, a grin and soda-water."
In fact, the Players proved themselves such howling
frauds, that, when they retired, they were very much
in the position of Hecate’s ban—“ thrice blasted."
* « •
The Grave-diggers Messrs. J. P. O’Neil and W.
Arrowsmith, were both good. The latter gentleman
played Bernardo in the first port of the piece, so it must
have been rather a blow for him to have had to descend
so low in life in the fifth act. Mr. J. P. O'Neil was very
well received, though we cannot but consider a query
that was howled from the pit— ** Who stole the shovel ?”
—as exceedingly uncalled for. The play was fairly
mounted, but the chairs in the third act were decidedly
modern, having figured successively in “ Formosa,"
•* The Belief of Lucknow,” and other classic dramas.
The supers were efficient, and their slippers took ex-
ceedingly well. The efforts of the performers in their
several parts have been already noticed by us, and we
can’t afford to lay on any more butter, now that it is
two shillings a pound. When it’s down to ninepence,
we shall slap it on.
** * *
As we prophesied, “ Olivette ” has completely
got an enlightened public “by the wool.” It is one of
those pieces that are a little bit naughty and a large bit
nice. It is all music, fire, sparkle, and crackle. The
stage is never quiet for a moment. Many “ twinkling
feet" are always on the move, and the twirling of
various-hued legs is eternal. Mr. Fred Mervin, whose
thorax is now all right again, plays Mdrimac in a manner
that shows him to be a very accomplished opera bonffe
artiste. In conception his impersonation of the "sad
sea dog " is as far above his Tambour-Major as the sky
is above the sea. To our idea, his make-up, facially, is
too young, since the fun of the piece hinges upon he
and his nephew marrying the same girl. Now, off the
stage, Mr. Mervin is a much younger-looking man than
Mr. Brennir, and therefore it is essential that when he
is required to show the same face that Valentin does
he should make allowance for the ravages of time in the
physiognomy of his brother actor and for the cherubic
expression of his own countenance. Mr. Mervin, as
Merimao, looks like a mariner, and like a stiff mariner,
but he does not look like an old one. Of course he is
welcome to his own opinion os to how he should dress,
only if he goes in contravention of the libretto, it leads
one ito the conclusion that he considers his judgment
superior to that of the author’s. It is simply bare justice
to Mr. Mervin to admit, however, that he is very great
fun, indeed; and that, with the exception of what we
have pointed out, there is little or nothing to improve
upon.
* * «
One visit does not suffice even to completely
master the beauties of the spectacle. A more symme-
trical collection of women has, we should say, never
been gathered together since the days of Solomon—and
if we are to believe our Bible, which of course we do,
that giddy old boy was a tolerably experienced sampler
of the symmetrical. Some of the faces are very fascinat-
ing—nearly all the forms are faultless. It is no wonder
that
Of the acting there is very little to add, except
to state that the piece rolls on as merrily as a Quaker's
hat before a stiff nor’-easter. With regard to detail, we
may suggest to Miss Laverne that the picturesqueness
of her appearance would be considerably enhanced, did
she not wear so tight a dress. We never like finding
fault without giving a reason for so doing, but in this
instance we are unfortunately debarred by circumstances
(over which we most certainly have no control) from
setting forth the “why and the wherefore.’’ And
perhaps it will be as well to remind Miss Agnes (Jon-
suelo that there are really so many people nightly in
the theatre, that it seems almost unnecessary for her to
keep eyeing herself over with admiring glances. If she
has any of these to throw away, let her cast them in
our direction. We may be seen every night in the most
expensive box, a bunch of violets in the button-hole of
our habit noir, and a thirty-four horse-power pair of
binoculars in our left hand. We stay at the theatre
from a quarter to 8 until it is all over, and then we may
be seen shivering at the stage entrance for one last
glance. This, however, is told in confidence. We have
no desire to lose the respect of our large (and increas-
ing) family.
• ♦ •
Mr. H. E. Harwood is the life and soul of the
opera, and Mr. John Wallace has rarely, if ever, done
anything funnier than Coquelioot. We give “ Olivette ’’
three months—without the option.
# * #
We’re sick of prose, so let us now
Just burst out into song :
The “ Stray Leaves” on the 19th, were
Performing at Molong.
** * *
Clara Stephenson, that charming “ Female De-
tective," has been giving the Temora people a touch of
her quality in “ Flowers of the Forest" and other
lately manufactured pieces. “ The Lady of Lyons” was
also produced, and as we understand this piece was
written expressly for Clara, it may be imagined she
gave a charming rendition of the character. Business
was bad; so when after the second act Beauseant look-
ing round at the audience remarked that they had a
Pauline on the hall, it is no wonder that the company
fell upon him with anger and compelled him to send
over for a gallon.
** * *
His Excellency the Governor (bless his old boots!)
attended the Opera House on Thursday week to witness
the last representation of the “ Crushed Tragedian."
On; that occasion the personnel of the theatre came out
in great style, the übiquitous Dodge exhibiting a
magnificent show of linen. The ushers shone forth in
black|coats and oiled looks, and the disguised Duchess,
who runs the ladies’ room, curled her hair up so tightly
that it has never come out since. The Commander-in-
Chief of the Colony and its dependencies appeared
much struck with the performance, and ho instructed
Dodge to go round and inform Mr. Reeve that he was
quite more than most exceedingly charmed. When the
piece was over, a large crowd of pros., pressmen,
and others assembled at the back of the circle to watch
Bloxsome hoist the old boy into his coat. This being
satisfactorily accomplished, the Vice-regal party filed
down stairs, and drove away amidst the enthusiastic
plaudits of one grovelling spectator.
** * *
The Mastodon Minstrels, when at Cooma, evi-
dently didn’t take the inhabitants of that flourishing
city to bo the aesthetes they are. The niggers, it ap-
pears, produced a farce called “A Woman ofj Few
Words,” which completely shocked the sensibilities of
the audience. It appears that, though the heroine of
the play was “A Woman of Few Words," she was a
woman of a great many hoops, and the display of stock-
ing consequent upon the manipulation of the hoops
aforesaid was more than the Coomaites could stand.
The Mastodons seemed to be aware of this, for, though
they had engaged the School of Arts for the following
evening, they incontinently scooted, never so much as
leaving a lock of their hair for the hall-keeper.—Talking
of the country, we may just jot down that Lieutenant
Rose has been appearing at the Protestant Hall, Lis-
more, and that the Chronicle loves him dearly. That
widely-circulated journal likewise remarks, with in-
volantary sarcasm, that the Lismore Histrionic Club
will/oo« the footlights on Monday week. The editor
must have seen the Bomanys. They generally tamed
their backs to the audience, and contemplated their
boots.
** * *
It has come off as we anticipated. Two days
after the arrival of Ikey Solomon’s show at Newcastle,
the opening business being tremendous, a perambulator
might have been seen being lifted up the steps of a
small church; and had the observer followed it up, be
would have seen a sight that would have done his heart
good—to say nothing of his " cockles " (whatever they
may be)
Mr. Wybert Reeve took his benefit on Friday
night, and produced "George Geith," and “Uncle’s
Will." As an adaptation, *• George Geith" is a very
long way in advance of *• No Name " —being, in fact, a
passable play from a very clever hovel. The acting, all
round, was excellent, Mr. Reeve giving a very delicate
and well rounded rendering of the hero. Miss Annie
Mayor had a good chance, and when she has a good
chance she has the public. Undoubtedly her forte is
pathos, and the higher class the play, the more artistic
does her acting become. The company left for Bris-
bane by the Derwent, on Tuesday, where they open in
the “Woman in White,” with “Diplomacy” to
follow. Messrs. Wybert Reeve and Forbes, and Miss
Annie Mayor will sustain their original characters, Mr.
F. Cates will take Julian Beauclerc, and Mr. Boothman,
ws are told, is to be the Orlofl. We consider this
selection on part of the management to be an error,
since the peculiar bent of Mr. Boothman's genius does
not adapt him for a rdle which is essentially a character
port. The rest of the characters—all good parts—will
he filled by the Brisbane stock company. We hope the
company is a good one ; otherwise Mr. Reeve would do
better to shelve “ Diplomacy." However, that gentle*
man being a veteran, we suppose he knows that what is
good for the public, will he good for his pocket. Mr.
J. W. Dodge goes with them as manager.
*# # *
It is announced that Mr. James Allison goes to
London for the benefit of his health, and in order to
engage high-class talent. This is very good news for
London, and we have no doubt but that James will
create a sensation in the metropolis. In Adelaide Mr.
Allison has worked the oracle to perfection— being now
any amount of things—besides, a theatrical Maecenas.
** * #
The Kelly and Leon Opera Company open at
the Opera House on Saturday, and wa wish them all
the luck in the world. Though collectively tolerably
strong, the troupe might in some cases be weeded with
advantage. Their repertoire comprises some operas
that have not been heard before in Sydney, and they
also propose to give us “ Madame Angot,” “ Les
Cloches," “ Chilperic.” and many more that are very
old (and respected) friends. We shall be very glad to
welcome Mias Emma Wangenheim again in Sydney, and
Mr. Edwin Kelly we will also receive with impressement.
Mr. Lester we will clasp to our hearts on the steamer
wharf; and the ladies —well, we expect there are plenty
ready to crowd us out in the clasping line so far as they
are concerned. We helive that the company opens in
“ Les Cloches de Corneville.”
** * *
“ Lucia ” was announced on Saturday night at
the Gaiety Theatre, with Miss Annis Montague in the
title role; but shortly before the theatre opened, it
became known in Sydney that the talented lady was
indisposed, ana a notice was posted on the doors to the
effect that the opera of " Maritana " would be substi-
tuted, with Miss Eva Davenport as the heroine. This
intelligence—well, to put things mildly—didn’t im-
prove the attendance. It became apparent from the
first that Miss Davenport was heavily overweighted;
and, in consequence of her persistently trying florid
passages which were altogether out of her reach, the
performance merged into a very unenjoyable exhibition.
The audience was a very patient one, but at times
opinions were expressed, which, however complimentary
they may have been to Mias Davenport’s personal ap-
pearance, certainly did not express a very flattering
appreciation of her vocal powers. Mr. Turner even
suffered from the depressing influence of the thing,
and sang, if not carelessly, at least with a gloomy
spirit. Mr. Gordon’s fine voice was in good order, hut
he still adheres to the extraordinary garb of which we
have had occasion once or twice to airily notice.
“ Hamlet ” without Hsmlet would be bad enough, but
“ Maritana," with an indifferent Prima Donna, is a spec-
tacle calculated to conjure up the most murderous
instincts the human mind is heir to. Mr. Caron took
the utmost pains with his conducting, but for all that
it wouldn’t gee. You can bring the ordinary voice out
with a stick, but yon can’t knock out vocal music with
a baton, when it is not there.
** * *
We have received a note from Jimmy South
(who'has issued a writ for £lOOO against Dan Mayne) in
which he states that he is doing well up country,
“ The Pirates ” having begun to knock them. En-
closed is a clipping from the Dubbo Express, relating
to the libel affair, of which the following is a portion ;
—“ We are informed on reliable authority that Mr,
South’s solicitors in Sydney have received a letter in
reply to theirs to the person complained of, in which
he offers *to make an apology and pay the costs.’ The
gallant Sergeant (Mr. South) has thus shown that the
Police of Penzance are not to be maltreated with im-
punity, and that the members of the foorce under his
command are able to protect themselves."
** * *
We see by our Melbourne files that Miss Kate
Thayer made a tremendous success in Kowalski’s con-
cert, for the benefit of Mrs. Marcus Clarke We also
glean that Bland Holt’s “ World ’’ is a big draw at the
Royal, and that “La Sonnambula” draws very large
houses at the Opera House It seems also that
“ Ostracised " goes well at the Princess’s.
** * *
Mr. and Mrs. Carden open on Saturday next at
the Melbourne Bijou—that is if Dick Thatcher, their
quondam manager, is not able to get an injunction in
time to prevent them. This affair is likely to form the
nucleus of a pretty little action, and we look forward
calmly towards seeing the parties dashing against the
legal spikes. Now Dick has got his pub., if he took
our advice he would let the whole thing slide. Rich-
mond knows “ a hawk from a heron shaw,” so therefore
he ought to be alive as to the Cardenal point towards
which to steer his course. There’s more money in
his dingo than in an opera company.
** * *
We notice that the St. Leonards Musical Society
will give a concert, at the St. Leonards School of Arts,
to-morrow (Friday), and that “W. Tunks, Esq., J.P,,
will preside." We shall attend, if it’s only to feast our
gaze on W. Tunks, Esq., J.P.
** * *
We understand that the opera season terminates
at the Gaiety oh the 11th Sept. The troupe will have
produced three fresh operas during the season, Mr.
Turner takes a well-earned benefit towards the close of
the season. The troupe will afterwards tour, we believe,
towards Newcastle and Maitland, leaving Sydney about
the 20th.
UN SANS CULOTTE
The King of Roumania was crowned with a
crown of steel wrought out of cannon captured at
Plevna; the Queen’s crown was of gold. The husband
and wife drove to the place of ceremony in a>carriage
representing a basket of flowers.
As lightly as the butterfly
Upon a rose does flutter.
As lightly as pens Oscar Wylde
That poetry so “ utter,"
As lightly as a maid says “ yes"
When "Bill," at last proposes.
As lightly as High Churcb|diTineB,
At service, blow their noses.
As lightly as—for similes
We’ve no more time to seek —
Yet stay I—as light as ladies’ love
Our hand shall be this week.
The gilded swell, who’s seen the world.
And knows, haw 1 all about it.
Goes, with his heart, to “ Olivette,”
And—conies away without it.
The clerk that, after “ Olivette,"
Up to his room is creeping.
Don't think the “ missus ” looks so nice
As formerly when sleeping.
The tradesman that is in the pit
Gloats on Belle Brooke’s attire ;
And then he mutters—“ Oh, by Jove,
It’s all up with Maria! "
The merchant with his eyes devours
The forms of those frail fairies.
And when he wakes at home, behold!
He d’s “ all those canaries.”
We once were satisfied, and in
Domestic joys did revel;
But, since we’ve been to “ Olivette,”
It’s played the very devil.
Before the altar rail there knelt.
All in a corner shady,
She who small Sonseo's heart did melt—
The sweet magnetic lady 1
The Giant, in his velvet robe.
Embroidered all with lacquer,
Chewed, with a melancholy face,
A bit of plug tobacco.
And now appeared the holy man
Who was for them to cater.
When quickly Solomon rolled up
The dwarf's small p’rambulator.
The book was read, the ring put on.
And fired the joyous gun ;
And then, for ever and a day.
The joyous pair were one.
When we say one—excuse this chaff—
We mean, of course, one and a half.


At the Windsor Volunteer review, before the
Queen, July 9, 62,000 troops mustered and “ marched
past" in Ih. 45m. Among those present was the
German Crown Prince.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or o&ering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any my
infringing our rights.-AMEEICAN WATCH COM-
PANT, Waltham, Mass.—Any.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The B ev. Mr. Dalton was a most obliging per-
.gon and a dignified. Moreover, he liked advertising, and
bad not the slightest objection to tnrning the fntnre
fcing of England and his ugly little brother into some-
thing like well-billed hoardings. If Professor Jones
gent Edward Victor a bottle of Life Restorer, the gift
was duly acknowledged in some bad English under the
reverend gentleman's sign manual. Mr. Dalton
couldn’t or wouldn’t see that Professor Jones didn’t
care whether Albert Victor lived or died so long as he
Jones got a free advertisement, and royal patronage. In
view of the obliging disposition of Mr. Dalton and his
illustrious wards, it’s a great pity that the Corporation
didn’t present them with a sample of the Town Hall
foundations. Sir Henry Paries with soma small-pox
pustules, and The Bulletin with a healthy libel in good
working order.
• * tt
On a station in the Northern district lives a
squatter of the ultra-pious class—a man who, when
drought affects him, believes, or pretends to believe, in
the efficacy of prayer. A man who, if you mentioned
the cruelty of shearing sheep at this cold season would
reply that “ the Lawd tempers the weeind to the shawn
lamb.” A man who has the reputation of liberality be-
cause he gives judiciously in public. For many years
there has resided on his station an old hand who has
collected around him a small lot of poultry. The old
fellow was leaving the other day, and not seeing his way
clear to take with him his feathered tribe, made ar-
rangements with the pious squatter to buy the birds at
one shilling per head. However, the old man was too
nseful to be lost, and his employer thought it well to
agree with him for another term, when the following
colloquy occurred. Old hand : I suppose, sir, our bar-
fain about the fowls is off now, and I may keep them."
'ious squatter: "Oh yes, but you must pay me
eighteen pence a head for them." Is this according to
the revised version ?
• • ♦
It was publicly announced some days before
that prayers would be offered up for rain on Thursday
last in the favoured city of Tam worth. On Wednesday
night, however, Jupiter Pluvius evidently took fright,
as he banged the bottom clean out of his tank, and lot
down a second edition of the Asiatic deluge. This
knocks Elijah stiff in one act, and it also reminds us of
the coon who, seeing a backwoodsman "drawing a
bead ” on his (the coon’s) unprotected carcase, at once
called out, “Is that you. Colonel Boon?" “It nr’,”
said the festive Colonel. “ Then don’t shoot,” replied
the coon, “,I’m a cornin’ down directly." The prayers
.of the righteous men of Tamworth are evidently as
efficacious as were the bullets of the Arkansas ranger.
From a Tamworth point of view, the Deity is a mere
bungling mechanic, years behind the age.
• * •
Some of the musical critics have “ got ’em
again.” The Doleful Distress leads off by confidently
informing us that " The Bohemian Girl” is considered
the best military opera extant, although some are
foolish enough to prefer “ The Daughter of the Regi-
ment." The military element in Balfes chef d'ceuvre
being about as plentiful as the humorous is in the
Distress, we are inclined to believe the above par. was
written either after a good dinner, or a bad collection.
Of course, the Twilight Teaser couldn’t think of
letting its reputation as the champion "messer” of the
colony pass over to a sanctimonious stripling like the
Distress, so the following day Alfred knocks the
Clarence street Cobweb stiff by announcing that a
certain lady and gentleman played the overture to
•“ Norma” in a most effectual manner. Now, as there
doesn’t happen to be an overture to this opera, the
Twilight’s chat will be news to the composer, Bellini
(if he doesn’t happen to be too dead to notice it), and
also to the whole of the musical world in general.
What these critics know and what they don’t would fill
a book big enough to plug up the Town Hall foundations.
* # *
The latest society dodge is to buy shilling
photos, of Bertie Victor and George of Wales, and
jam the same into the family album. When showing
the book to a country visitor the proprietor of the
“pictur cards" carelessly remarks, “Aw, the deah
young Princes sent us those, but we’ve accidentally
mislaid Mr. Dalton’s lettah." These photos, now are
like Soul’s sauce—no respectable family is ever found
without them.
* * *
Some one has blundered. Who ? Thursday
morning’s veracious Herald informed us those unfor-
tunate Princes had safely arrived in Brisbane, and the
genial Alligators had grovelled to them as only saurians
of the first families can, whilst Thursday’s infallible
Nooze lets it’s telegraphic information loose as fol-
lows : —" Victorian intelligence. Melbourne, Thursday.
A very large open-air reception was held at Government
House for the Princes yesterday afternoon; both in-
dulged in lawn tennis. A small party was given in the
evening, and a large riding party was formed this morn-
ing. The Princes receive the Corporation and both
Houses’ addresses this morning." How are we
to account for this contradiction? The Herald
is always right, and the Nooze is never wrong.
Can it be possible that we have lavished our
loyalty on the wrong youngsters, and that the Chester-
field-like politeness of a Davies, and the ’umble unas-
suming modesty of a Smith (in a cab) have been squan-
dered on a pair of unmitigated frauds? Or, on the
other hand, is it possible that the 19th was Alfred’s
birthday, and that he opened his generous heart and a
cask of Toohey’s beer to celebrate the glad occasion.
This is indeed a sorrowful subject, more so even than j
the small-pox.
* * •
Par in the Western back blocks, by the
margin of a dank lagoon, stands the surveyor’s camp.
The sun has disappeared and stars twinkle forth. The
men recline in many attitudes around the c imp fire,
discussing those topics so very dear to bushmen.
"Talking of mosquitoes,” bursts forth the leader of
the party (who, although his veracity is undoubted,
wears hair and beard of such a sulphureous hue that
one would think he had been bare-headed through
Gshenna, for an offence such as Ananias committed):
*' I was once camped at a creek in the distant North, and
the sufferings of the Egyptians from the plague of flies
was a mere circumstance compared with our suffering,
as we had flies all day and mosquitoes all night. I,
however, determined to have some rest, and, accord-
ingly, made a fire in the tent, placed a few green bushes
on it, and in a few minutes it was full of smoke; but
the mosquitoes with an ingenuity I never before thought
them capable of, merely settled on all over the sides and
top of the tent—which they pierced with their bills—
and closing their eyes, thus obtained pure fresh air. Of
course, a good many were smothered, not having room
to settle.”
# # #
In North Queensland, they have a J.P. who
“stands in” with the three-card men on the race-
course—and yet the papers complain. Why, if we had
a magistrate who only did that, we would give him a
statue.
* * *
A delioate clergyman being on a visit to a
Western township was invited by his brother worker of
the place to attend a bazaar which was then being held,
and after being eased of all the filthy lucre he possessed
except a bunch of keys and three-pen’orth|of coppers,
was asked to say a few words to the crowd assembled.
He consented; and, mounting the band platform, began
as follows“ Dearly—very dearly beloved brethren—a
certain man went down to Jericho—” Just here the
bazaar proprietor gave the musicians a signal, and the
rest of the reverend speaker’s remarks were squelched
by the classic strains of Madame Angot.
* * *
Those Bathurst editors are at it again. Eoland,
of the Sentinel, charged Oliver, of the Evening
Handbill, with being at one time of his chequered
career a coal-heaver, upon ; which Oliver turned rusty,
and taunted his opponent with hawking fish. To this
Eoland replied that eleven of the Apostles were in the
fish line also, but the only one who looked like the boss
of a coalyard was Judas Iscariot. This is what is
-called "the retort courteous.”
* # ♦
Poor old Fergy, of Parramatta, is making
desperate efforts to send his little mule wisp along.
He is publishing in it (having, of course, purchased the
right from the author) a story with the simply domestic
title pf " The Sorceress, or the Bandit Clan.” Here we
II. Francesca and Count Claudio.
At last we have struck a correspondent after
our own hearts. He hails from Lithgow, and sends us
this rainy item;—“ Monday morning it has been pour-
ing bravely great part of the night, with a boisterous
wind, and still continuing at 11 a.m." He then says:—
“ I do not wish you to publish my name, please, at pre- ,
sent." Well, we won’t, old boy, this time. But if you
send ns any more of these Junius-like contributions, we
should deem that in withholding your cognomen from
the public, we might be doing the literature of our
country an injury that would be (well nigh irrepar-
able. We prefer to have your permission, of course ;
but in yonr case we regard ourtelves merely as “the
slaves of duty."
• * *
Ideas differ amongst the teachers of the French
language in Sydney. All the young ladies at a certain
school not far from Victoria-street pronounce Mademoi-
selle “Madam Wenzel," and at another seminary in the
same voisinago all the change the scholars give you for
peutStre is “ pointer." The word the young ladies are
most perfect in, however, is “ true so." When we want
to learn French in Sydney, we shall hunt up a Dutch
cobbler.
In Friday’s Evening Alfred, a notice appears
that a first instalment of a new tale, entitled “ The
Forger’s Fate," will appear next day. In due course
the serial was commenced, the author’s name being,
with the characteristic modesty of the proprietors,
withheld. As we like new stories, we dived into this
one, and after reading a couple of chapters, strolled
round to a bookseller, and carelessly turned over some
ten-year-old volumes of the Family Herald. We
couldn’t find (and let Alfred take credit for this) “ The
Forger’s Fate” in any of them, but alighting on a story
called “ Tracked at Last," we came across the following
droll coincidence:—
“ Tracked at Last.” “The'Forger's Fate."
(In the Family Herald). (In the Evening News).
“ Chapter H. “ Chapter 11.
“Sir Raymond Egmont “Sir Raymond Egmont
was the last lineal descend- was the last lineal descend-
ant of an old Norman ant of an old Norman
family, who had owned an family, who had owned an
immense property in Sur- immense property in Sur-
rey for four hundred years, rey for four hundred years.
He had but one brother. He had but one brother,
who married when young, who married when young,
and lived in London; while and lived in London; while
Sir Raymond passed his Sir Raymond passed his
youth at Abbot’s Leigh, youth at Abbot’s Leigh,
the noble mansion which the noble mansion which
the family had possessed the family had possessed
since the reign of Henry since the reign of Henry
the Eighth. Sir Raymond the Eighth. Sir Raymond
married a young and beau- married a young and beau-
tiful lady, the daughter of tiful lady, the daughter of
a peer, impoverished, but a peer, impoverished, but
of a noble family.” of a noble family."
Well, there’s nothing like enterprise in this world!
Only imagine the joy of the author, if he knew how he
was being distinguished I Only imagine the size of the
brick he’d travel 16,000 miles to heave !
• * •
A person signing himself “ Fizgig ” (and who
writes a shocking bad hand), sends us some " poetry,"
which, after much trouble in deciphering his copy, we
discover is about cockflghting in Gonlbum. But it is
not quite all upon that subject: and what is not about
cockflghting is about “ Fizgig.” Imagine him on the
spot, put a piece of lead between your teeth, and
listen:—
“ And Fizgig happened to be there and said it was too
bad
Upon each bird they laid three pounds of course it
wasn’t Right
They 'put the birds together and they Both began to
Fight."
This, we admit, is rather brilliant, though we are at a
loss to see why the bard uses capital letters so indis-
criminately. Further on, however, we come to a pas-
sage which is interesting in its calm appreciation of the
author’s literary merit. Voyons :—
"They’d like to catch old Fizgig who such Funny
things does write
and so they may if smart enough when ever he is tight
The chap who reads in Sydney, will say, that's funny
very
And straight will take this little rhyme to captain
called Fosberry.”
As “ Fizgig” will see in our answers to correspondents,
we shan’t take the trouble to send his MS. to Fos-
bery, although we certainly think! he ought to be
looked up. If we sent it to anyone, it would be to Dr.
Manning.
Some of the crowd dispersed, among whom were Bra-
vadura and Spada, but Fiaramonte remained." We got
this bit round a piece of fried flathead. To-morrow,
we'll buy some Chinamen's sausage-meat, and then,
perhaps, we'll be able to go on with the story.
• • •
The Melbourne Sportsman is an excellent
paper so far as its spotting goes, and indeed many of its
contributors show in their writings evident signs of
smartness. One of these, however, who writes under
the signature of " Paul Pry," is, we are disposed to
think, more adapted for the hammer than for the pen.
As an auctioneer he would shine; as a journalist he—
well, hang it—read this: —“ Oh I ah I thanks. Excuse
mo. Trust I don’t intrude. But really now, what do
you think about Dixon’s gas ? Humph 1 Got any
shares ? No. Catch you being caught. Ha! ha! Sly
dog, sly dog. But I say—what a show up. Wonder
how Dixon will feel when he reads Newbery's * analysis.’
t Oh! (oh! rare, sir, rare. Think Dixon felt bad ? Ha I
ha! rather. Combination of metals. Humph! and all
that. Kerosene, eh I Never spit into kerosene, oh!
oh! Lord 1 my sides ache from laughter. Such flam 1
such humbug I"
The universe is civilized
(At least they say it is),
And yet a man gets paid to write
Such balderdash as this :
"Eh?" »Humph 1" "Ha, ha!" “Oh, ho!” "Hal"
“ Lord I"
Come, take onr tip, Paul Pry:
Jam, thine umbrella down thy throat
And die.
* * #
It is with deep regret that we notice the falling
oS in native humour of the Town and Country
Journal. There was!a time when even the “ Answers
Correspondents" were worthy of Artemns Ward or the
Prophet (Jeremiah in his prime; now they are simply
stale, flat, and unprofitable. As a sample of the “ light
of other days" we clip the following from the flies of
1877:
Q. —" Sir—l am 98 years of age, and I find that of late
my liver isn’t quite as active as it was some 50 years
ago. Can you advise me how to shake it up a little P”
A. —" Yours is a peculiar case, but the following receipe
has never been known to fail. Eat three gross of
Armstrong’s Antibilions Pills (chewing them well)
before breakfast; then borrow a raw-boned, razor-
back, rough-trotting, plough horse ; dress yourself in
a Crimean shirt and a pair of muslin trousers, and
ride that horse barebacked as hard as he can tear over
15 miles of the worst courdory road about your
district. If your liver doesn’t prance about after
this you can bet your boots you’ve got the cholera
inorbus, and the only reliable remedy for that com-
plaint is to swallow a few live leeches, and have both
legs amputated below the knee. Let us hear from
yonr liver again;—and recommend all your friends
to take the Town and Codntet.”
Q. —" Sur —I am a ole man now, an’ I hev bin sech fur
meny yeers. I were one ov the foar elekturs what
humped the ded body of Joolyies Caesar into the
Forum, an’ laid him out on ole Paddy Semproniouses
cake-stall, jist after Brutus plugged im, but bein
Jackass enough to afterwards stand in me bear hed a
listenin to the chat of that ole gas-bag, Antony, I cort
a severe cold and guitar in my hed, frum which I hev
never yet recovered. What’s a good gargil fur a soar
Throat ? His
“ Marcus f Lepidus."
mark.
A. —" Try the following :—Take a quart of kerosene oil,
and boil over a slow fire, adding 2oz. of yellow soap,
Jib of coal-tar, and a fig or two of cheap tobacco.
When the lot begins to simmer, pour in 1 quart of
three-star assafoetida, a gill of carbolic acid, 41b. of
cayenne pepper, 1 bottle of cod-liver oil, 2 pints of
nitro-glycerine, and a couple of dead cat-fish. Stir the
lot until it comes to a boil; then add a nobbier of
Darlinghurst Gaol lymph, and the yolk of two cocoa-
nuts. Strain the whole through an old coat, and take
a quart every 5 minutes, until you find a change of
some kind effected. Recommend this, and the Town
and Country Journal, to all about your district."
Q. —"' Sweet Sixteen ’ would like to know who was
the author of those exquisite lines :
* Oh, would I were a bird.
That I might fly to thee;’
And in what poem they occur."
A. —" The above couplet is from a comic poem, entitled
* Paradise Lost,’ by Mr. Lewis Scott, the sweet singer
of the Sunny|South. He was convicted for the offence,
but recommended to mercy on account of his youth
and previous good character. For full particulars,
see all our back numbers of the T. & C., from 1710 to
the present date."
Q. —“ Sir, I camt get no good ov my boy, George, an’
I’m seriously afraid he’ll join the Kelly gang, or
become a member of Parleyment, or do somethin’
else to disgraze hees family. What kin i do. Sir, to
keep him at home ov nights ?’’
A.—" One of the most efficacious plans is to chop off
his head with a meat axe, and another is to fasten him
up to the wall with a lot of red-hot tenpenny nails;
but the boss remedy of all is to cut a patch about a
foot square out of his dark pants, and fill up the
vacuum with a piece of clean white flour-bag. He
would rather venture amongst his bad companions
with a cwt. of pustules on him than with that one
small patch. Get all your friends to subscribe to the
Town and Country."
Such was the “Pitt-street weakly ” of former days—
now, alas ! none so poor as to even borrow it.
* * *
The scene is laid in Parramatta. It was in a
newspaper office, and the talented editor had been slum-
bering peacefully—a pint pot on one side of him and a
saveloy on the other Suddenly a diminutive comp,
enters. D.C. : "(Want someleader copy." T.E. (waking):
“ Wan’leerer kopsoh. Or-ri." And, putting his hand
into his breast pock at, he pulled out a paper. Two
hours later, when the “ proofs ’’ were brought to him,
his "leader" read as follows: " Memo, from J. Walker,
shoemaker. —Ton don’t get them old crabs of yours
half-soled here till you’ve paid me for the other pair.”
It didn’t appear, of course, but a dissertation on the
habits and customs of the South African man-eaters
was put in instead.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
He was a British seaman. Not an “ ancient
mariner,” perhaps, but briny; also wily in the ex-
treme, and he refused duty. What he refused duty for
—unless for one of those utterly unexplainable reasons
known only Jto the British seaman—did not appear
until he was np before the “Water Beak"—also sea-
man, also wily. “ Well, Jack, so you won’t go to sea ?"
“No, your worship." “Anything against the cap-
tain ?’’ “ No, sir. cap’n’s as good a cap’n as ever I
sailed with.” “ Anything against the first mate ?’’
“ No, your worship, he’s a good man is the mate,"
“ Anything against the second?’’ "No, your worship,
he’s better nor the mate." “ Grub good ?” “ Never
better grub aboard any ship I was on afore." “ Fok’sle
dry ?” “ Dry as a bone, your worship." “ Then why
the don’t you go to sea P” “ Well, your worship,”
with a conciliatory grin, “ you see there ain’t no
conglomeration on board that ship.” "Oh, I see—
three months." And he’s in Melbourne Gaol now,
with a stone hammer and a grievance—only he doesn't
sail under the conglomeration flag again.
“ Sojurs ” are just as bad. There was a poor
devil of a marine on board the Carysfort, when she
was here, hauled up’ for what the sergeant called
“ mutinying.” “ What the devil do you mean by
mutinizing?” said the officer—a gory man of an en-
quiring turn of mind. “ Exciting the min, sorr."
“ How does he excite them ?” “ Says he’llibe d d if
he’ll drink the regimental coffee." The officer had
seen regimental coffee, and the mutineer got off with a
reprimand. But he drinks the coffee now.
She is such a pretty girl—golden hair, blue
eyes, and a Battenberg dress. But she’s aesthetic, and,
worse than that, classical. Calls it Kikero for Cicero,
and Kseaar for Csesar. Got quite savage with me, that
is, of course, prettily savage, when I suggested Cioero
sounded nicer, and that I had been taught to call it so
when I was a boy. Said she had taken lessons from her
brother’s tutor, who had been at Cambridge. Was the
tutor nice looking, and had he ever suggested a novel
conjugation of the verb amo. What business was it of
mine, and wasn’t I impertinent p Didn’t think I was.
Had always called it Cicero as a boy. “Oh, but that
was so long ago." Instantaneous collapse on my part.
Lord only knows what they won’t spell with a " K”
next.
A well-known whist-player here goes in for
problems in the Australasian. Takes the paper home
on Saturday and meets you on Monday with a beaming
smile and a fiendish desire to show you how he has
“ done it," Last Saturday, however, he got hold of a
problem which floored him. After spending Sunday in a
temper, which ended in a domestic row and a threat to
"appeal to my mother, sir,” on the part of his wife, he
came into town on Monday, and want with a sour aspect
to his club. “ What’s the matter ?” said Eattlebrain,
one of the worst players there. “ Can’t make out this
problem,” was the sulky answer.” Can’t you ? why I
put it in." “ The deuce you did. How do you work
it?” “Blessed if I know,” was the scientific answer,
"I just chucked the cards in anyhow." |The whist-
player hasn’t been near the club for a week.
A recently-rejected member of Parliament, noted
for his admiration of the Chinese, was asked, the other
day, whether he did not intend to let the State have
some land—through which it was intended a railway
should pass—at a low rate. " No," said the legislator,
“ I want a good price for it." u But the State, my good
fellow—the State ?’’ “ Damn the State 1” was the legis-
lative answer. " But patriotism P" " Look here, old
man—don’t come any patriotism over me. I know what
that means, my festive Thomas, as well as you do. I
said ‘damn the State,' just now—well, damn patriotism
as well. I’m not going to'be pitched ont of Parliament
and a portfolio for nothing."
He was a newly-joined warder at the Melbourne
Gaol, and aprisoner wardsman was told off to show him
round. “ He’s a first-rate fellow," remarked a senior
warder; “ been here two years—one of the best men in
the place. Killed his mother—but he was mad then."
And the interesting matricidal lunatic showed the new
man round.
Mr. Justice Williams is not a bad actor. The
way in which he banded over the letter, written by the
girl Lewis, to the interesting creature from Queensland
who had cut her throat, would have done credit to the
leading man of any company. But the learned judge is
also as paradoxical as a “ Pirate,” for, after saying that
he considered offences against the person were more
serious than offences against property, he proceeded to
sentence this gentle throat-cutter to two years’ impri-
sonment—having previously given the men who stole
the Ferret eight years. There was some pluck and
daring—not to say brains—in the latter crime: there
was nothing but half-drnnken, all-cowardly ferocity in
the former. But then brains never are appreciated at
their proper value —and throat-cutting is.
“ There’s a good deal of truth in those Proverbs
of Solomon, after all," remarked old Shortgrass, to a
brother bucolic, outside the Athenceum, the other day.
“ It is a great deal easier for a rich man to get hold of
a foolish virgin than it is for the kingdom of Heaven to
get hold of a camel." And he took a eab to Toorak, to
carry out his theory.
Your namesake here has a lively time of it just
now in the libel way. They keep a bull dog on the
premises. The gigantic editor, Joey, is taking lessons
in boxing (he’s a smart fellow is Joey), and Garrett
has had his speotables mounted in iron. As for the
legal proceedings they don’t think much about them.
It is not true that Sir Bryan O’Loghlen has
requested me to act as Treasurer. My not having a
seat in the House would, of'oourso, be no impediment,
for there are precedents for that—but my views of
finance are not broad enough for the honorable
Baronet. Brought up, as I have been, partly in a strict
Presbyterian family, and partly in a Banking Institu-
tion, my ideas with regard to the management of money
matters are too strict for Sir Bryan. He will most
likely send for David Henry or Waxsman, whose prin-
ciples are of a more generous character, especially
when it comes to loan floating.
If anyone doubts that story about the frogs and
the dining table, you can refer them to Richmond
Thatcher. He was in Calcutta at the time and can
vouch for it, and I should like to know who will doubt
his veracity.
I don’t know whether the Bishop suspects me
of any communication with you, but he will scarcely
speak to me now. He hasn’t offered me a cigar for a
week. He’s a “pleasant creature,” too, as Miss
Moucher says, but “ too volatile."
THE KOOKABURRA.
The best end —The dividend.
Nine-tenths of the religion of the present day
is nothing but holyomargarine.
Wagner, the composer, affects cats; and the
Boston Globe says, " So does his music."
Shareholders in the Dixon Gas Co. say that old
Berry was bad enough, but he’s as nothing compared
with Newbery.
The Policeman is the name of a new London
paper. It may be safely prophesied that it will never
appear when people want it.
A “ Mopoke,” dressed in black, with a white
choker round its neck, has been forwarded under cover,
by way of joke, to an unco guid man at Kaiwaka, N.Z.
The fool goeth out in a sailing-boat when he
doesn’t know a boom from a breaker, hut the wise man
picks up pebbles on the shore and flirts with the girl in
a pink dress.
“ I do not think I shall go to the country this
summer. My boiler-iron villa is not quite finished, and
I find that my steel bathing-suit is too short."—
Alexander 111.
Falstaff asks : “ What’s honour P” as though it
was hard to tell. But let one woman sit behind
another in church and she’ll tell what’s on her in leas
than two minutes.
Thus the Sydney telegraphic correspondent of
the Newcastle Cave op Adullam puts itMrs.
Moett, of Dixon-streot, is reported to have small-pox ;
also two children."
“ When I was a young man I was always in a
hurry to hold the big end of the log and do all the
lifting ; now I am older, I seize hold of the small end
and I do all the grunting."
A Salvation Army report reads : —“ We have
received from Mr. Fletcher a large ham and a bushel
of potatoes. Thank the Lord for the ham, but the
potatoes were bad, Hallelnyah!’’
We know a lady who never hurries her dress-
maker. She waits until all the neighbours get through
with her. This lady, by the way, is better posted
in city news than any other woman.
“ It’s a long way from this world to the next,”
said a dying man to a friend who stood at his bedside.
“ Oh, never mind, my dear fellow," answered the friend
consolingly, " you’ll have it all down hill."
Twice armed is he, and fears no check.
Whose girl’s white arms are round his neck j
Thrice armed is he, whose quarrel's just,
And four times he whose blow counts fust.
“ I suppose,” said a quack, while feeling a
patient’s pulse, *• that you consider me a humbug."
“ How odd it is,” responded the patient, “ that you
can so accurately tell a man’s thoughts by feeling his
pulse.”
“ Go where there is most sin, [my son,” was the
advice of the clergyman’s father. He thought it over,
and concluded, that where there was most money there
was most sin. So he accepted the call with the biggest
salary attached.
Carlo, the celebrated bloodhound found dead in
Carlton, Melb., is stated to have died from suffocation.
When discovered, he had apiece of a man’s trousers
half-way down his throat. He ended his career in the
performance of his duties.
A woman skirmished in her husband’s pockets
for letters the day after he had been fishing, and then
she waved her hand wildly in the air and yelled loudly
for ten minutes before she could decide which of the
five flshooks she would extract from her hand first.
“ What does ‘ virgin ’ mean ? ” enquired a very
little girl of a Sunday-school teacher. “Virgin,” re-
plied the teacher, somewhat embarrassed, “ signifies a
woman who has not been married." “ Oh, then," con-
tinued the terrible infant, “my mother’s a virgin."
In a restaurant: “ Waiter, bring me some
mistakes," “ Steaks ? what kind of steaks, sir ? ”
“ Mistakes; mistakes in spelling.” “ Dunno what you
mean, sir. We hain’t got none." “Well, confound
you, what do you put them in the bill of fare for f ”
A well-known public character had just passed
through the initiatory ceremonies of a secret society,
and while the sublime moral teachings and ineffable
grandeur of the flummery were fresh upon him, a friend
whispered in his ear, “ I say, , you are as big a fool
as any of us now, ain’t you
TO BE TAKEN THOUGHTFULLY.
(POISON.)
Euclid has it that the less
The greater can’t contain;
And really this seems to express
A fact that’s pretty plain.
But, yet, at Darlinghurst, of late.
With very fine address.
They have included (people state)
The greater in the less.
IN QUARANTINE.
Pour down, ye rains, and ye winds blow ;
Come hail, come lightning, thunder, snow;
Come! —while we sho with smile serene.
How women fare—in Quarantine.
A squalid, bare, and wretched room.
Made still more hideous by the gloom :
In crannies rich, through which the chill
Night vapours whistle as they will.
The room boasts but a single couch.
In which three frozen women crouch; ‘
While, horror! on the hard, cold floor.
There shiver in their clothes two more!
Pour down, ye rains, and drench the scene,
For they won’t mind in Quarantine.
Come, hail, come, thunder—they won’t cate:
’lhey’re tenderly looked after there I
A SKETCH.
A natty little pair of boots,
A bright block eye, that always shoots
The shyest glances,
A little bang, all crisp with curls
That you’ll be sure that pretty girl’s
Charms are enhancing.
Just do the “ block" one afternoon,
And look about, and you will soon
Have seen her:—
Her rank we know not, but have heard
The legendary little bird
Just whisper—" .”


pHiWi/#
V£s EEiHjmKavn? ■
"T- .
. »
EW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880,
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agrionltura
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Qoulbum, Mndgee>
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-atreet.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 KINO STREET, STDNET.
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND C O.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Public Companies
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A, LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d, 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors;
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
' Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
portionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Lety at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
TNCOMES ASSURED.
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING AND COMMER-
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY, Limited.
This Society provides a certain fixed allowance for its
members when thrown out of employment.
Medical attendance durirg sickness ; assistance in old
age, and when incapacitated from following any employ-
ment through disease or accident; and in special cases of
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence to procure them
suitable re-engagements.
For further particulars, apply to
6. HORTON MORRIS,
Secretary,
W entworth-court,
Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Applications for Agencies invited.
Photographers
f
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6dper dozen.
ROARTY'S STUDIO,
!!»
Sgglif
Mgg
mm
m
m
f*
604 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T HARVEY.
• WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hay and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
S
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G- F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
British, [plate and sheet glass
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
RegentjHouse, 869,George-street South.
i APERHANGINGS| WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street'South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
&c., &c.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 859 George-street South.
J>LATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Public Companies
The mercantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £116,894
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITOEB
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilson,
SECEETAEY s
Hector Allen.
BEANCHES:
687 Georgs-street Brickfield Hill, and Eedfern.
.LONDON BANKEES:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
anoy Business on the most favourable terms,
tills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
Other uroauoe shipped to England for sale.
gCOTTISH
IMPERIAL INSURANCE
COMPANY.
CAPITAL £1,000,000.
FIEE EISKS AT LOWEST BATES.
INGLIS. NIXON, & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BEIDGE STREET CHAMBEES.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
N 0
T I C
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
E.
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PBEMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES &o.
P.
R. L A R K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND QIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlingburst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STEEET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
Forty ye \rs’ testimony for cure
OF INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS.
“ This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
omplaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
8 ifleriug from the same malady.
“ P. M'Carroll,
“ 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney,
« Nov. 24,1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes. Is. 6d., 35., and 4s. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS & P AEKES, Herbalists,
240 George-street.
M
ELBOURNE CTT 15 , 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT JSI EACH.
Bankers —National Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
ABOUT 250 PRIZES.
First Horse £l5OO
Second Horse £7OO
Third Horse £4OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non-Starters (divided) £2700
Ten Prizes at £lOO each £lOOO
Twenty Prizes at £5O each £lOOO
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each £l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques ; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT.
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
Professional Addresses
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
M E -
AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ON TOUR:
Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, till 21st June.
Western Australia to follow.
a mum
MANUFACTORY:
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE
f l '
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE " PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Temporary Premises.
SYDNEY:
No. 11 BLOOMFIELD STEEET,
SURRY HIXLS.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H. S. EARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant., and Plowing TEESSEB
GUAEANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUAEANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling olf in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUAEANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Eetail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
The " CHRISTIANIA. 1
Sole Agent—
W. M. COWARD,
19 Hunter-st.,
Sydney.
Mediaeval Pattern (reg.J
Various other Patterns.
HEAVY —G AfS ILLS.]
W :
ILLIAM SUGGS’ CELEBRATED PATENT GAS BURNERS
give a BRILLIANT WHITE SILENT LIGHT.
Flat-flame, Self-regulating BURNERS, for preventing waste of Gas and Flaring.
With 5 cubic feet of Gas, the ordinary Fish-tail and Bats-wing Burners give a
light only equal to from 6 to 8 spermaceti candles, while the PATENT CHRIS-
TIANA FLAT FLAME BURNER, with self-acting governor for maintaining
uniformity of ores sure, consuming 5 cubic feet of Gas per hour, GIVES A
LIGHT EQUAL TO 16 SPERMACETI CANDLES, or, at least, 100 per cent,
more light for the same quantity of Gas consumed.
ALL BURNERS AND GLOBES BEAR THE TRADE MARKS.
Gold Medal, Paris, 1878; the only Medal for Gas Burners, at York, 1879; Bronze
Medal, London, 1862, &c., &c.
SOLE AGENT—
w.
MONTAGU COWARD,’;
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
fJIHOS. J. BOWN & CO.
ENGINEERS, BRAS3FOUNDERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE.
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
II
II
rpHE INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY’S
Fine Blended Indian TEAS
Are without doubt the PUREST aud CHEAPEST ever
offered to the Public.
EVERYONE OUGHT TO TRY THEM.
To be obtained at
7C5 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
f U 225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
MACLEOD


D
M
Business Announc
’AE C Y READ’!
REDIVIOUS.
ELBOURNE CUP CONSI
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Other Starters (divided) ...
Non Starters (divided)
6 Prises of £lOO each
6 Prizes of £5O each
£llO Prizes of £lO each
This is my fifth Consultation sin
is the best ever brought before th<
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and _IIC
brings the winning number of tickc
If cheques are forwarded exoha
Wherever possible P.O. Order shon
Stamps enclosed for reply and resu
THEODORE B 1
Box 210, Post Office, And
-St
£
FOE GOOD, CHEAP, DUEABLI
PIANOS, ORGANS, HAE:
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit P
Second-hand Pianos taken in excl
A. H.'s is the Cheapest House in
Letters promptly attended to.
A. HUENEEBEIN,
(Nearly opposite the Roy
“ Illustrated Sydney
ART PRIZE COM PE
IN the Illustrated Sydney Ne 1
1880, Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard, i
enriching the columns of that pape
time, furnishing facilities for the
development of native art, offered
Australian Artists, professional
follows: —
I. —For the best Original Black i
illustrative of Colonial Li
ll.—For the best Black and Whi
of Sketches, of Scenery o
New South Wales or Que
HI. —For the next best Drawing,
In response to this offer, a nr
several possessing considerable mer
submitted to the Council of the
South W ales, upon whose recomme
premiums were awarded to Mr. Blaj
Vale, Barraba; Mrs. Collard, Can
H. Hunt. Sydney, respectively,
I The first of the two drawings whi
cipal award will form the Coloured
September issue of the Illustrate!
will be followed, in due course, b
ture. The drawings which obtai
third Premiums are now in the Ei
will appear next month in the or
Illustrated Sydney News.
Stimulated by the marked succei
the Art Competition thus initiate
colonies, Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard,
pleasure of announcing
A SECOND SERIES OP 1
Amounting in value to tl
100 QUINE
As follows!
FIRST PRIZE
SECOND PRIZE
THIRD PRIZE
FOURTH PRIZE
FIFTH PRIZE
SIXTH PRIZE
SEVENTH PRIZE
EIGHTH PRIZE
NINTH PRIZE
For the best Original Drawings,
otherwise, by Professional or Amat
in New South Wales or Queenslanc
The choice of subjects is left 1
with the single reservation that the
Australian in character Among tl
for competition are the following
Incidents in Australian 1
Ov/inmnva f dam ATTOT-DAT.TA
Business Announci
Linoax-J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD.
solicitoei
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE'
and
MACQUARIE STEEET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOE, has con
practice of his profession, at 1
PITT-BTEEET, opposite tl
News Office.
E.
AND F. W.
DEAUGHTSM]
AND
Engravers on
LAND. ASSURANCE, AND GE]
All matters carried ont promptly.
Address —124 ELIZABETH STEE!
11.
A. A B ]
BOOKSELLER AND £
KING STEEET,
(FIVE DOORS FROM PITT
Every description of Plain and Fa
lowest possible pric
«9- A TEIAL SOLI
AGENT for Melbourne AGE
I HAVE this day commence
Stock and Share Broker, and
undertake any commissions either
chase of shares that may be entrust
J'
Eeferences :
Hon. S. D. Gordon, M
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C
Hon. L. W. Levy, MJ
Bichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-stre
No. 12 HUNTEE STI
jyj- R. ELL E ]
(Successor to PAEEOT
Just Eeceived by the Mail, the
NEW COMET SHOE, I
THE EOYAL COURT SH(
MOROCCO BUTTON SHO
FUE-LINED WARM SLIP?:
Choice Assortment of New Fancy
KERCHIEFS, and CHEVEEE
New Spring-top Fur-Lined
Early Inspection Inv
JQ A V I D M
14, Hunter-street, Syi
SADDLEE AND HAENEE
By special appointm
To his Royal Highness the Duke
Excellency the Eight Hon. th
His Excellency Sir Hercules E
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newes
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentian
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
QHEAPEST AND EES']
AT
MARK ISAACS* COEPOEAT
HAY STEEET, HAYM
TEA, la per lb.
Prospectus
BOS P E
of the
CHANGE SLAUGHT]
and
NEW SOUTH WALES FROZEN
" COMPANY, LIMIT
Canital: £50,000, in 10,000 shares of
y to increase to JEIOO.C
£1 per share upon application, £1 p
ment, Ist Call of £1 three mont
and balance by calls not to exce
at intervals of not less than t
quired.
Provisional Directc
A. T. Kerr, Esq., M.L.A., Well
James Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Dal
and Sydney.)
Edwardl Heaton, Esq. (Wright
Limited.)
Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., Gan
John A. Gardiner, Esq., J.P., G
T. L. Richardson, Esq., J.P., D
James Richmond, Esq., J.P., H
H. C. White, Esq., J.P., Glenab
J. B. Rundle, Esq., J.P., Pomer
James Rutherford, Esq., J.P., I
George Lee, Esq., J.P., Leeholi
F. A. Wright, Esq. (Wright,
Limited.)
F. H. Moore, Esq. (Dalgety, Bh
Walter B. Hall, Esq . J.P. (Cob
Thomas. Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Da
T. F. Waller, Esq. (represent
brongh and Co )
William. Alison, Esq., jun., J.P
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STO
Brokers:
CLEMENTS and M'CARTHY, Bat
BURKE, COULSON, and LI
Orange and Sydney
C. J. BUCKLAND, Exchange, Sydr
The departure of the Cuzco, witl
frozen meat from the works of the 0
Company, having conclusively demoi
working of that establishment, the
it is now desirable to extend their o
that view invite the co-operation
chants, and all persons interested ii
port of our surplus stock —thereby
pany to make this a truly nations
which must in a short time assume
To the public, not conversant witl
this Company, it may be explained
sists of killing, freezing, and ship
them on owners’ account. By adopi
opening will present itself to sqnatti
seasons, to send home their own ahe<
derive full benefit therefrom, as i
shipments. It opens a vast field c
merchant, who can thus purchase
send to England, an article on whi
handsome profit, as is now the cai
tallow, &c.
For this purpose, it is proposed to
of the present Company to £50,00'
10,000 shares at £5 each, with pow
£lOO,OOO. The property of the pr<
offered to the Re-formed Company
viz., £25,000.
It comprises about 2100 acres of n
land, abundantly watered and subd;
paddocks by substantial fencing, for
of stock brought to the works for sli
The buildings are designed upon
•and consist of slaughtering pens, c
freezing-chambers, engine-room, 1
dining-room for workmen, hide, skin
in which the digesters are worked.
The machinery consists of one
Freezing Machine, three Pumping
necticns, ons 8 h.p. Vertical Engine
two Steam Digesters, with all othe
complete mechanical working of the
The works are connected by a b
Western Line of Railway.
In addition, there are extensive pi
200 pigs, sheep-yards, stock-yards, i
bone-dust.
The additional capital is require
purposes of: —
lutTo erect more extensiv
machinery, capable of dealing w
50,000 cattle annually, and, as th
still further increase the plant.
2nd.—To charter vessels so as to se
by guaranteeing large quantities
specified periods. The rate now
but overtures have been receive
lsd per lb., provided sufficient q
tain steamers would be contrael
3rd. —To provide cold storage in S
tion of the frozen meat,by the pu
fitted with refrigerating machine
able the Company at all times to
in Sydney; and, when a vessel ri
hulk could be towed alongside
then taken back to the wharf at
receive further consignments
4th.—To furnish sufficient space
where meat could be kept chill
Prospectus
will be declared formed, and a me
Sydney for the purpose of electing: <
Applications for Shares will 1:
Brokers to the Company; and, for
arrangements bare been made w
Joint Stock Bank for the yari
Agencies of the Bank throughont
receive applications for Shares, ai
money to the Company’s account a
institution at Orange.
PE O S P E
of the
COOPER DOWNS PASTORi
LIMITED,
To be Registered under the Com]
Capital—£2so.ooo, in 25,000 Sha
With power to incn
10s. per share payable on applioat
allotment; the balance (as re
exceeding 10s. each, at intervi
three months.
Promoters:
Hon. JOHN CROZIER, M.L.C., :
Adelaide
Hon. R. C. BAKER. M.L.C., Dir
Investment and Land Mortgage
J. L. STIRLING, Esq., M.P., Di
Mines
W. A. HORN, Esq., J.P., Mundi Mt
Hon. R. D. ROSS, M.P., Director o)
ment and Land Mortgage Com]
Hon. J. B. SPENCE, M.L.C., D
Steamship Co.
DAVID MURRAY, Esq., M.P. (J
Murray)
JOHN WHYTE. Esq., J.P. (Lat
and Co.)
Solicitors:
Messrs. BAKER and Bj
Bankers:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH, and .
CHARTERED BANK, .
Brokers and Secretaries (
HORN and WARBURTON. North
SMITH, DOSWELL, and CO., Sn
This Cempany is proposed to b(
lowing purposes:—
Ist. Acquiring and paying for f
4,372,480 acres, of Pastoral
leases from the Government
and New South Wales, part
set forth in the First Sched
with about 2000 head of C
working Horses, Plant, St
on the country to be pure
W, Crozier and Co., as here;
2nd. Acquiring such other P
New South Wales, Queens
lia, and Western Australis
may by special resolutic
desirable.
3rd. Developing, improving,
country to be acquired by t
4th. Borrowing money on debe
of properties acquired by
carrying ou generally the bi
sth. Such other purposes as ma
Memorandum of Associatic
The situation of the 6832 square
shown on the map accompanying t)
For full particulars, see issues—
Sydney Morning Herald —Aug
Sydney Daily Telegraph ,
Evening News, Sydney ~
Town and Country Journal ,
Australasian, Melbourne „
■Rrrr T PTTW SullnOTT
E.
CLARKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
CO.,
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHUEST.
A
ethue cooper & CO.,
WINE AND SPIBIT MERCHANTS,
CENTEAL STOEES:
371 PITT STEEET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Country letters will receive our careful attention.


T
AKE NO MC
bnt try
PODOPHYLLIN LC
Do yon SUFFER from HEA
Then trj
PODOPHY
Do yon Complain of Indigesi
Take a few doses c
podophy:
Do yon Suffer from Oiddines
Spend one shilling, ai
BANDERS
Do you constantly suffer fron
If so remem
PODOPH!
will soon cure, if taken af
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MED
Areany.'of vonr children
can safely give iheia on
for the small members (
TAKE W 1
Eememboi this, and alwa.
Valuable Family Medicine by you
Prepared only by the I
EDWARD ROW and
45 and 47 Qeorge-i
B
Y ROYAL LETTI
The Great*
WONDER OF TH
JOSEPHSOE
AUSTRAiIAN OIM
Guaranteed tc
Free from all poisonous qualii
of Vegetable Matt
Being made from the Wild Pin]
in the Bush of New So
This Ointment is not a mere c
public, nor does it require any p
as it has been so well proved for
that it is impossible that the pub
long deceived. In foot, people an
lous regarding its efficacy (nevei
article of the kind before whicl
relief), that they really cannot be'
Bnt one trial will convince the
High and low, rich and poor, ht
fits from its use, and scarcely a
found without it and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRAL!
is now the household word of the
The quick and instant relief fro;
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP '
which, taken altogether, prove th
to be the Eighth Wonder of the
and tender eyes, stiffness of joint)
hands and lips, bunions, soft cc
casualities attending the human
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALI
the
WONDER OP TH
Who would suffer from Sandy
And immediate relief and be pei
Joseph son’s Australian Ointment
Who would suffer from Externa
may be cured by using Josephs)
most?
Who would suffer from Seft C
moved by applying constantly f
Son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns
can have immediate relief by e
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Exoori
tion when a remedy like Joe
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Files
Josephson’s Australian Ointment
It stands unrivalled. The wo
effected, which is proved by the tea
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the larg
demand, prove it to he still pre-e
of the kind yet known. It is of
the natural extracts of the plants
and totally free from any and a
sonous properties.
ASK FOB JOSEPHSON’S
OINTMENT
which is guaranted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and stor<
and Is 6a each throughout the oo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD E
For VENETIAN
T
HE INDIAN T]
PURE FRAGRANT IN]
Fresh from the Gardens, grown ui
vision, and sold in Original Packag
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses
Applic ition.
Special Rates for Large Orders.
A delicious Tea in the cup. No
Goes twice as far as the best Chine
"We challenge comparison with
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and .
or any of the China teas imported
I N G L I s, nTx d ;
INDIAN PRODUCE ME
INSURANCE AND GENE]
7 Bridge-street Char
DB. STANICH, the EM
announces that POOR PA
DISEASES will receive the Doct<
GRATUITOUSLY, on production
they are not in a position to pay, n:
respective Municipal Councils.
The SEALS of the various Corp
for tho valuable services gratuit
Dr, Stanich to sufferers, are on vie
ING ROOMS, SO WTNYARD SQ
IRON AND BRASS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bols
Sheets, Blankets, Count
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtail
J. LAW L E I
MANUFACTURER AND :
60S George-streei
MASON BRO r I
14 & 16 £
Sj
Have always it
to the TRA
SALE BUYI
IRONMONQE
GENEB
GLAS
EARTH
WINES, BEE!
and
BULK MI
Ag(
JOHN WAL
Old High
J. SORI
C<
J. T.~
Schnapps
A. MELVI
Edinburi
R
Aft'/
■-"I-* JO-O.
f>L/\llSl S jQi
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEf
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED .
Turret Clocks —simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc,, of all
Plain figures—Low pri
H - p a i
PIANOFORTE WAREH
Z333JE
cESXB
—roqT~c s Z
ALL
MU
KB
viG
or cc
Lllfiu
JSS
ALARMING SALE OE BOO r
NOW ONI NOW ON
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BG
510 GEORGE STREP
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If yon are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT <
with those yon have been payi
MAKE NO MIS'.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a ’
FOB ONE MONTH <
JJ/JAKE p
THE EOYAL PUENISHE
NEW AND BEAUTIFU
ATTRACTIVE PEI
A FEEE DISTEIBUTION of C
place daily, giving full information
cal House Burnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
House
House
House
House
The STOCK is of such extent tl
have every opportunity of making
and careful selections. All goods
figures so that parties who are noi
to make purchases can pay visits ol
tain every information in a pleasa:
being pressed to buy.
C A M P H K I, I, HP
Jjl ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND AI
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA.,
which will be found equal to an;
much higher pri
724 GEORGE S
HAYMARKET
O H N MU
(Late J. Murphy &
IMPORTER O
QLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Wk
Tut
Rau
Bru
Ken
Cole


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Tito Kowaru is asthmatical.
Archibald Forbes is expected in Melbourne next
May.
Ninian Melville has been lecturing at Lithgow
on “Spiritism.”
]VTr. Joseph Barrett, a wealthy S.A. squatter,
of 42 years’ standing, is dead.
Dr. Gunson, of S.A., has been installed Knight
of the Order of St. Gregory the Great.
Mr. T. Archer, now in London, acts as Queens-
land Agent-General, duringjMr.’Macalister’s absence on
sick leave.
In replying to addresses at Brisbane, the Princes
said that they hoped to visit Australia again—possibly
with their father.
Hon. W. J. Clarke leaves Melbourne for Eng-
land, Sept. 12. The electors ask him to retain his seat
in the Legislative Council.
Mr. George Crosby Gilmore, son of Captain
Gilmore, of Tasmania, took the degree of Bachelor of
Arts at Cambridge in’June last.
Mr. Justice Williams, who was born in Victoria,
has been congratulated by the Australian Natives’ As-
sociation on his elevation to the bench.
That eminent equity lawyer, Mr. Holroyd, Q.C.,
has been appointed to succeed the late Mr. Justice
Stephen on the bench of the Victorian Supreme Court.
People don’t all know the origin of a certain
little political “ mill ” which is now proceeding. There’s
a family quarrel —and, ®f course, a woman—at the bottom
of it-
Mr. Justice Stephen, of Victoria, has been ill
for some years, and died of one of those slow, mysteri-
ous, wasting diseases which still puzzle medical
iecience.
A monument is to be erected’ to the memory ot
the late Mr. John Donnellan Balfe, politician and
journalist, of Tasmania, and his widow is to receive sn
annuity.
Mr. James Service, of Victoria, declined to
attend the Prince of Wales’ lev4e because the Lord
Chamberlain would not give him the prefix of “ The
Honorable.”
i London society, Oscar Wilde (the aesthetic
leader), his brother, and his mother, are popularly
known as Wilde, Wilder, Wildest—mamma Wilde being
_ the superlative.
, Lr. Rutter, of Parramatta, who has been in ill-
health lately, is onoe more convalescent. The doctor is
eighty-four, and therefore one of the oldest links be-
tween the present and the past.
Mr. James Carmichael, formerly of Tasmania,
who lately edited one of the Townsville papers and
who, while in Sydney, contributed to The Bulletin, is
now sub-editor of the Celestial Empire, published at
Shanghai.
Captain Henry Newton has been appointed
Assistant Harbour Master and Inspector to the Marine
Board in this city. Captain Newton succeeds the late
Captain Collins, and is admitted to be in every way
qualified for the post.
It has been decided by the V.R.C. to give Mr.
a hfe annuity of £2OO, but it appears that an Act
ot Parliament, which Government will be asked to
introduce, is necessary before the club funds can be dis-
posed of in this direction.
Mr. Chaffey, discoverer of the Royal Tasman
gold-mine, Tasmania, who holds in same 10,000 shares,
is to-day worth about £lOO,OOO. At the beginning of the
he was comparatively a poor man. Stone from the
reef has gone as high as 60 to 80 oz. per ton.
It is stated by an English paper that the Queen
has communicated, through Lord Rpwton, her desire
to undertake the charge of young Coningsby Disraeli’s
vacation. She will defray bis expenses to Eton, and
send him to whatever University his father may desire
him to enter.
David Gaunson’s libel claim against the
Federal Australian is £5060. Since receiving the
the F.A. has attacked David “ still more fiercely.”
it s well that Mortimer runs a Melbourne paper. Were
ue m Sydney, he’d (under these circumstances) be in
gaol for contempt.
••nu ll P rox -i Charles Bright lectures on
1 Carles Bradlaugh" for the benefit of Charles Brad-
hugh. Temperance Hall, the place; admission, one
shilling. There should be a crowded house, for the
lecture will assuredly be as worthy ot the cause as the
cause is of the lecture.
We hear that Mr. G. W. Waddell, one of the
trustees of the Milburn Creek Co. is " going for” the
Grenfell Eecord for libel. He is understood to allege
that the Record’s report of the meeting recently held
at Blayney in connection with the company was false
and malicious.
Max A. Von Donop, a German baron, aged 44
years—who had been in Victoria 21 months, during
which time he had received from home several large
sums of money, and had drunk heavily—strychnined
himself in Melbourne Botanic Gardens, Sunday after-
noon. He left a letter, saying he wished to be " buried
at sea in a shroud.”
Mr. James Conly, head-teacher of the Bell-street
State school, Fitzroy, Melbourne, who died last week,
aged only 49, was a noted pedagogue. His school was
famed in the athletic world—among his pupils were
such celebrities as John Conway, Edward Finn, John
Blackham, Thomas Horan, L. Wolfe, and W. Goer.
Elsa May, Bessie Harrison, Lucinda Blackham, and
Fanny Liddiard were also among his elevea.
Mr. John Cameron, of Rosefield, Glen Innes, an
old and respected colonist, who died last week, was
born in Invernesshire in 1785, and was therefore 96 years
of age. He arrived in Australia in 1849, being then in
his 64th year, and went to work in New England. He
has left a widow, verging on 90, and his offspring
numbers three sons, five daughters, 65 grandchildren,
and 50 great-grandchildren—or a total of 123.
Mr. Edward Gordon St. George Boyd, of East
Prairie, Toowoomba, has met with a melancholy death
near Jondaryn township (Q.) He was thrown from his
horse, and left to pass the night stretched on the track
during one of the most severe frosts of the season. How
this occurred appears utterly inexplicable, as a drover
who was in his company saw him fall and picked him
up. Next day one of the Jondaryan boundary-riders
found him dead.
The N. Y. Times says that though on the other
side of the Atlantic, O’Donovar Rossa appears to be re-
garded as a descendant of the Irish kings, and therefore
a great man, in New York ho sells railway tickets and
speaks readily whenever there is plenty of beer to be
had for nothing. All the tyrant oppressors in the world
are killed every night in New York, so far as hard words
can kill. The oratorical regicides then drink beer, go
to bed, and sleep off their indulgence.
Dr. Bennett, who was sentenced, at Young, to
two-and-a-half years’ imprisonment for an alleged
forgery of his brother-in-law’s name to an acceptance,
has had portion of his sentence commuted, and will be
released an September 12. He intends resuming prac-
tice at Gulgong. There was a strong doubt as to the
doctor’s guilt, and his old friends now, as then, regard
him as an innocent man who fell a victim to the ignor-
ance, and possibly prejudice, of a Crown jury.
The registered proprietors of the Sidney
Daily Telegraph are, it would appear, Messrs. John
Boyd Watson, the Sandhurst quartz king; J. J. Casey
(" King” Casey), formerly Victorian Minister for Lands ;
Robert Burrows, of Sandhurst; John MTntyre, of
Sandhurst; and J. G. Francis, formerly Premier, and
more than once Treasurer, of Victoria. However, the
D.T. says that these form but half the proprietary.
The other half are Sydney men, and the fact that they
axe not registered is due to official bungling.
They can point out to you in the North, the
spot where a Judge of the Supreme Court of N.S.W.
was compelled to run a tread-mill for half an hour. Mr.
Portus, one of the pioneers of the Hunter—certainly the
pioneer of mechanics in those parts—had a flour mill
near Aberdeen, and obtained power from a tread-mill on
which assigned servants, and sometimes horses, cattle,
and sheep were employed. In short, anything with legs
that came along was turned to account by the enter-
prising mill-owner. Judge Forbes was on a visit to the
locality, and, struck with the adaptability of the ap-
pliance, was invited on to the tread-mill. There was no
stopping it, and it was not till His Honor was thoroughly
exhausted that he was taken off. His work represented
ten bushels of wheat.
Somebody got Mr. Abigail, M.L.A., the other
evening, to ask in the House :—“ Is it true that Mr.
Justice Hargrave does not take his seat in the Court
before 11 o’clock in the morning, and will not sit after
1 o’clock; if so, will the Attorney-General take the
necessary steps to prevent public inconvenience arising
in consequence?" Mr. Abigail, whose idea of business
probably is that before the Court shutters are down no
work is done, and that when they are up work is over
for the day, got a staggering reply from his Honor the
Primary Judge, who pointed out that he had to work
day and night too, and wound up by politely requesting
the “membah” to call round at the Court for any
further information he might require. So far, we hear,
Mr. Abigail hasn’t left his pasteboard with the Judge.
* ■ The following is the Envoi written by poor
Marcus Clarke to his weirdly imaginative story
“ Holiday Peak.” Now that the hand which traced the
lines has dropped the pen for ever, the passage
possesses a mournful interest; for we fill in the blank
with 34, and say : “ He should have died hereafter”:—
Little Nelly (to the story-teller.) —“ But Mr. Marston,
did you not go back to Holiday Peak ? " Marston —“ I
did not know the way, my dear." Little Nelly—“ But
there must be a way 1 If so many people stop there the
coach should go near the place." Marston—"There is
a coach that goes to the very door, little one—a coach
by which we must all travel one of these days—a black
coach drawn by black horses. Some day they will take
me when I am sleeping soundly, and put me into a big
box, nail me up, and put on the lid a neat brass-plate
JOHN MARSTON.
JEtat —,
For Holiday Peak. With Care.
This side up.
Good Night.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Lady Ayers, of Adelaide, is dead.
Love, like small-pox, is often communicated by
clothing and coin.
The Queen has never visited a theatre since the
death of the Prince Consort.
Few men ever commit a premeditated, cold-
blooded declaration. It is as awful as murder.
From a N.Z. paper:— The mother of George
Eliot, the authoress, is alive in Hobart, aged 90.
Mrs. Abraham Lincoln is daily growing weaker,
and is not expected to live long. Her mind is affected,
and she cannot leave her room.
The “ Offences against Persons” bill, introduced
to N.Z. Parliament by Mr. Weston, prescribed whipping
as a cure for wife-beating. It was rejected by 23 to 19.
Simply to take a little of the pride and superi-
ority out of the fair ones, will they permit us to call
their attention to the fact that all the angels mentioned
in the Bible are male angels ? There are no female
angels on record.
“ Give me an exact definition of the demi-
monde," said a friend to Theodore Barrere, one day.
‘‘C’est," replied he, “c’est le point de l'4chelle sociale
ou la femme qui monte se rencontre avec celle qui
descend."
Dr. Brooks, during the discussion on the Licens-
sing Bill, at the Temperaoce Hall on Saturday last,
advocated giving votes on local option to all females
over 21 years of age.
The other week it was suggested that next year
fashion might compel the ladies of Sydney to wear
cow-bells on their dresses. Writes a fair correspondent:
“In such an event, what a time the male calves will
have !"
Romance of crime! Mrs. Dunlop, who is
charged with the murder of her husband, near Yass,
married again the other day, while out on bail. Her
sureties, hearing of the affair, at once gave her into
custody, where she still remains awaiting fresh bail.
It is not generally known that Miss Anna
Parnell is an artist of considerable talent. Several ex-
cellent works, the product of her skill in oils and sepia,
are to be seen in the Metropolitan School of Art. She
was a diligent student, apparently the gentlest of the
gentle, and nothing surprised her teachers and class-
fellows more than her appearance in the political world.
A society, entitled “ The Rational Dress
Society," has been formed in England, under the
presidency of the Viscountess Harberton, “ to promote
the adoption, according to individual taste and con-
venience, of a style of dress based upon considerations
of health, comfort, and beauty, and to deprecate con-
stant changes of fashion, which cannot be recommended
on any of these grounds.”
Lady Du Cane (wife of the late Governor of
Tasmania), whose eldest son was in the Militia and had
been drilling at Ipswich, England, went down there to
nurse him through a very severe lingering attack of
congestion of the lungs. On being told by his medical
advisers that the case must eventually prove hopeless,
and but a matter of time, the poor lady said : “I cannot
live, I shall die too ” sank into a state of collapse, and
actually expired.
At Charleville, Prance, a village beau, a black-
smith, seduced a strong-minded girl, Eugenie, aged
twenty-four, and deserted her after her confinement.
She took lessons in revolver shooting, and when pro-
ficient waited on her infidel lover. “ You have had the
rose,” she said, “and you must now have the thorns,”
and lodged two balls in his back. The jury acquitted
her. Eugenie laid down that French girls had only her
means to settle with faithless lovers.
Alice Wormald, 17 years of age—committed for
the murder of Gertie Barnett, aged 6 years, at Mary-
borouge (Q.)—explains that when the baby rolled into
the water, and was drowned, she (Wormald) "felt
frightened and stupid, and did not know what to do ; so
she took hold of Gertie and threw her in. Also threw
in Flora, the hilf-caste girl, but pulled her out again.”
Another example of those horrible and unaccountable
impulses which so often lead ta great crimes.
On June 23 the beautiful Miss Nellie Baldock
became Countess of Kilmorey. A fairer bride it would
have been hard to find. The wedding-dress was of the
richest white satin, embroidered with flowers in pearls
and pearl fringes, and trimmed with a flounce of superb
point de Flandre and orange-blossoms. The dejeuner
was superb, and the wedding presents magnificent.
There were bracelets, earrings, brooches,pins,principally
of diamonds, enough to fill a jeweller’s window ; of orna-
ments in silver and gold, china and enamel, galore, with
innumerable mirrors to reflect the bride’s charming
face. Presents were sent her by the Prince of Wales,
the Dukes of Edinburgh, Connaught, and Albany, and
the Duke of Teck.
Some time ago never mind where two
sprightly and beautiful girls were visiting their cousin,
another sprightly and beautiful girl, who, like her
guests, was of that happy age that turns everything
into fun. All three were fond of practical jokes, and all
three occupied a ground-floor room. Two of the girls
attended a party on a certain fatal night, and did not
get home until 11 30 p.m. Not wishing to disturb the
household, they quietly stepped into their room through
the low open window. But half an hour after they had
left for the party, a young Methodist minister called at
the house where they were staying, and craved a night’s
lodging, which, of course, was granted. As ministers
always have the best of everything, the old lady put
him to sleep in the best room, and the young lady
(Fannie) who had not gone to the party was entrusted
with the duty of sitting up for the absent ones, and of
informing them of the change of rooms. She took her
post in the parlour. But alas I sleep overcame her,
and she departed on an excursion te the land of dreams.
We will now return to the young ladies who had gone to
their room through the window. By the dim light of
the moonbeams, as they struggled through the curtains,
the girls were enabled to descry the outlines ot Fannie
(as they supposed) ensconced in the middle of the bed.
They saw more—a pair of masculine boots. They saw
it all. Fannie had set the boots in the r oom to give
them a good scare. They put their heads together, and
determined to turn the tables on her. Silently they
disrobed, and stealthily as cats they took up their posi-
tions on each side of the bed. At a given signal they
both jumped into the bed, one on each side of the un-
conscious parson, laughing and screaming, “ Oh, what
a man 1 Oh, what a man!” They gave the poor be-
wildered minister such a promiscuous hugging and
tussling as few parsons are able to brag of. The noise
of the proceedings awoke the old lady, who was sleep-
ing in an adjoining room. She comprehended the situ-
ation in a moment, and, rushing to the room, she
opened the door and exclaimed : “ Gracious sakes, gals,
it is a man—it is a man, sure enough I" There was one
prolonged, consolidated scream, a flash of muslin
through the door, and all was over. The best ot the
joke is that the minister took the whole thing in
earnest. He would listen to no apologies the old lady
would make for the girls. He would hear no excuse,
but solemnly folded his official robes about him, and
silently stole away. Query—whom was he mad at ?
Sir Henry Parkes is gradually improving in
health, but it will be some time before he is able fully
to resume work.
Mr. William Christie Gosse, Deputy Surveyor-
General of S A., is dead. He was an adventurous
explorer, a good civil servant, and a popular man. He
died in his prime.
Some months ago, two passengers in a suburban
goods train —the E iv. Mr. Ella and Mr. Crawford—had
their arms broken through being struck by the open
door of a passing train. In both cases legal proceedings
were commenced, but they were, after some delay, pri-
vately settled—Mr. Crawford receiving £6OO, and Mr.
Ella £lOOO, compensation.
A SECONDARY CONSIDERATION.
Visiting Justice: “Now, what’s your charge?”
He: “Insubordination and impertinence. She objects to inoculation from that pure source. I believe she thinks it’s small-pox.”
Young Woman of Good Character: “ Oh, no, it’s not that, your Worship.” (Severely reprimanded.)


SINGER’S SEWING
THE
SINGER MANUFACTUI
Have opened a De
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DA
HARBOUR STI
SINGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List se
SINGERS SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOL
INGEE’S SEWING
Write fer address of n<
s
SINGER’S, THE BEST
Have received ICO i'uat J
S
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
S
INGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGER'S MEDIUM MAC]
SINGER'S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
SINGER’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 A
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOI
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
SINGER’S SEWING
HAND OE TEEA
SINGER’S. The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6
SINGER’S, THE BEST
LEAEN. New Improvemenl
SINGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
(RINGER’S, THE BEST A
AUA.M O, J- XlFli DM X A
Sew finest muslins and hi
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
SINGER’S THE BEST and B
Will last a lifetime in cc
s
INGBR’S SEWING
ADDEESS: T]
s
SINGER MANUPACTURI
No. 1 DAE LING STORES, Hai
s
INGEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymar
have been appointed agents fo:
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for ca
SINGEE’S SEWING M
s
INGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recjmmend
Remember, there is
GEE MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—]
applies to the Genuine Mac'
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—I
Cast ir in imitations. Onl,
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER’S SEWING MACH
meats with the Singer (
s
SINGER’S SEWING MA'
cent, discount for cash, or on
s
YDNEY.— Prom TURNE]
GEORGE STREET, opposit
s
,INGER’S SEWING MACH
but 160 FIRST PE;
T
H E
AU S T
"HOME” shut:
AMERICAN LOCKS']
ONCE MO]
Thebe is a pretty local superstition that if you drink the v
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eternal City, drawn thith
thus invoked. te—::.- , *7 —-7 afr..„.
P A LfA c el’e;m p o:r
being an _ institution founded in more recent times (although.";
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition ham
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless. Ft
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. A(
irresistible impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to th
of St. Peter’s ere the enchantress will put forth her magic wane
EMPO:
' 'V
come when .you will —by moonlight or sunshine, cloud or fair—'
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then
cases extending down the centre of the main building for a dista
cases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the prese:
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPOB
may be seen in all its tdory—a sight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATINS of every
BLACK AND COLOUEED GEOS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE, AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBEE RATE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DIT LYON, Black and Coloured
EADZ DE MOET
FANCY OMBRE
MEEVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHER CASE is fitted with EVENING FLOWERS, 1
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying dis
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES' TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
HEATRE ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar,
Treasurer Mr. G. L. Goodman.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS OP
THE NEW COMIC OPERA,
OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
OLIVETTE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may be pur-
chased during the day at H. Soltan's, tobacconist, 116
King-street.
AIETY THEATRE
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and J. Solomonpn.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bay less.
MONTAGUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY,
The charming and accomplished Pritna Donna,
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE,
and
The eminent Primo Tenore,
MR. CHARLES TURNER.
THIS EVENING, and until further notice,
Donizetti's Grand Opera,
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.
In active preparation,
THE DAUGHTER OF THE REGIMENT.
Conductor ... .Monsieur LEON CARON.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
’A R C Y
READ’S
REDIVIVUS.
[GHOST—
A
MUSEMENT AND INSTRUCTION COM-
BINED.
Now ready, at the Booksellers’ —Price 2s. 6d. —“ THE
ROYAL ROAD TO GRAMMAR AND ANALYSIS,”
by HENY EDELMAN, a Teacher, Writer, and Colonist
of long and varied experience.
T
HE YOUNGEST THEATRICAL AGENT
IN THE WORLD.
Mr. BERTIE WILLISON, on tour in Tasmania, with
India to follow. Australian Address : —lBB Russell-st.,
Melbourne (Vic.) Truly, nothing succeeds like success.
DR. J, SIMMS, of New York, the Unrivalled
Physiognomist and Popular Speaker, is deliver-
ing a course of illustrated and amusing Lectures on
Practical and Soientiflo Physiognomy, or, the Revela-
tion of Mental and Moral Characteristics by the
Characteristics of the Figure and Face. The course
will continue with different lectures on Physiognomy
on August 25, 26, 30 and 31; each lecture commences
at 8 o’clock, at the Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.
Admission 2s, Is. Hundreds of Portraits in oil may
be seen each evening.
PHYSIOGNOMICAL CHARTS.—DaiIy during the
Lecture Course Dr. Simms will be in waiting at the
comfortable private ante-room af the Temperance
Hall, in order to supply the public with his large Physi-
ognomical Charts, 240 pp., accurately marked to indi-
cate the Mental and Moral traits of applicants, their
state of health, the occupations for which Nature has
adapted them, and the character of person they should
choose for a life companion. Thousands of men and
women in Great Britain and America are to-day reaping
the benefits of a consultation with Dr. Simms. To
follow his professional advice, communicated orally,
and by means of his Charts, is to pursue the path of
virtue, happiness, and worldly success.
W ILLIAM DENTON’S ILLUSTRATED
” GEOLOGICAL LECTURES.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 26,
THE COAL and SALT PERIOD.
MONDAY, AUGUST 29,
THE AGE OP REPTILES.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31,
THE AGE of MAMMALS and ADVENT of MAN.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
THE GLACIAL PERIOD and AGE of MAN.
ADMISSION : 35., 25., Is.
OF ARTS, -SYDNEY
A DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENT,
under the distinguished Patronage of
THE RIGHT WORSHIPFUL THE MAYOR, and
OTHER WORTHY CITIZENS,
will be given by the
VICTORIA AMATEUR DRAMATIC SOCIETY,
In aid of the Destitute Children of the Randwick
Asylum, in the above Hall, on
TUESDAY EVENING, 30th August, 1881,
when will be produced, the sensational drama, entitled
“THE MOMENTOUS QUESTION,”
followed by the Third Act of
“ OTHELLO."
concluding with the romantic drama entitled
“ THE DUMB MAID OF GENOA.”
Stage) Manager R. Z. EMMETT.
Secretary J. R. STORMOUT.
Treasurer E. H. EMMETT
Pianist P. S. HEALY.
ADMISSION {—Reserved Seats, 35.; Second, 25.;
Gallery, Is.
Doors oj)eu 7.30 ; commence at 8.
IPPO DROME,
Pitt-street—near the Haymarket.
THE COMING EVENT!
MONSTER six days and nights’GO-AS-YOU-PL ASE
TOURNAMENT. Open to the World. Commenc-
ing Monday, Sept, 5, at 1 a.m. £285, IN PRIZES.
Entrance Fee, £4 4s. Entries to close at 8 p.m. on
Saturday, August 27.
GRAND six days’ BICYCLING TOURNAMENT, 12
hours per day, commencing Monday, Sept. 12.
First prize, £5O and Gold Medal; second prize, £25
and Silver Medal; third prize, £lO. Entrance fee.
£2 10s. Entries close on Saturday, Sept. 3, at 8
p.m.
All entries to be sent to the Manager, at the Inter-
national Hotel.
All prize-money will be placed in the hands of the
proprietors of the Town and Country Journal,
Promoters: Messrs. E. Wade and Turner.
J, SEYMOUR,
Manager.
fTIHE YOUNGEST THEATRICAL AGENT
- 1 - IN THE WORLD.
Mr. BERTIE WILLISON, on tour in Tasmania, with
India to follow. Australian Address:—lBB Russell-st.,
Melbourne (Vic.) Truly, nothing succeeds like success.
and MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
ON TOUR-
ADDRESS;
Hobart, October 10th.
New Zealand to follow.
I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Earl Theodore Staigee, analytical
chemist.”—An vr.
LATE THEATRICAL.
South’s company produce “ The Pirates of Pen-
zance" at Mudgee, this (Thursday) evening.
** * *
“Stray Leaves” company did good biz, at
Forbes and Parkes.
** * *
Stephenson and company at Gundagai.
“Our Boys” and “East Lynne.”
** * *
Mr. Stuart O’Brien, we hear, is negotiating for
a lease of the new Geelong theatre.
** * *
Just this from Lon don. ‘ ‘ Patience ’’ is drawing
still at the Opera Comique, and Toole took a “ben.” on
July 22nd and 23rd, assisted by John M'Culloch, Arthur
Sketchley, J. L. Toole, and Mr. Henry Irving.—Dion
Boucicault, while playing Miles-na-Coppalleen at the
Crystal Palace, on July 11, hurt himself while jumping
in to save Eily.—“The Bells,” revived at Lyceum.
—Sotheru’s will proved under £16,000. Here it is
correct, for the first time: “ The testator bequeaths to
his said sister all his furniture, plate, hooks, papers,
household effects, horses and carriages, and £lOO per
annum during the life of his brother, Robert Dempsey
Sothern; and upon trust for his sou, George Evelyn
Thomas Sothern, a policy on his life for £2OOO. As to
the residue of his real and personal estate, one-third is
to go to his sister, and the other two-thirds between his
children, other than his sou Lytton, to whom he has
already given a considerable sum of money.—Both opera
houses are in full swing. Albani, the star at Her
Majesty’s: Nilsson, at the Royal Italian Opera.—Et
** * *
“ Lucia di Lammermoor,” at the Gaiety, is, per-
haps (and we speak advisedly), one of the grandest
musical treats that has ever been offered to the Sydney
public. Miss Montague’s Lucia is a performance which,
for vocal excellence, could not, without difficulty, be
surpassed. The lady, even when struggling with ill-
ness, is a delightful artiste. Her Lucia, on Tuesday,
electrified the audience, although we were credibly
informed that her doctor had positively forbidden her
to appear. Of all the operatic heroines she has imper-
sonated, it is in this beautiful compositions of Doneztti
that we like her best. The mad scene is something to
be long remembered. It is a delicious piece of vocali-
zation from beginning to end—full of light and shade—
brimming with fire and pathos. Mr. Turner’s Edgardo,
though not perhaps the best thing he has done, is cer-
tainly one of his most popular impersonations—all his
his songs being received with demonstrative applause.
Mr. Farley as Sir Henry Ashton, was very great, and
his costume was in excellent taste. A young lady, new,
we think, to the operatic stage, sustained the part of
Alice in a very pretty manner. She has a nice little
soprano voice, and with a trifle more experience should
prove very useful in her profession. Mr. L<Son Caron
conducted with his usual abil—but we’ve got that line
somewhere else, and there is not enough originality left
in us this week to vary it.
# * *
By-the-way, we learn that the Montague-Tur-
ner season comes to a close next week, the
theatre having been secured by other luminaries. Prior
to leaving Sydney, however, Mr. and Mrs. Turner will
sing in Mr. Caron’s prize cantata, at the Garden Palace,
and possibly take, in another form, a farewell of their
friends. Mr. Turner's benefit, at the Gaiety, will take
place Sept. 2, and the only pity is that for the event the
Garden Palace will not be secured likewise. The next
opera produced will be “La Fille du Regiment." We
are not equal to translating it.
** * *
Mr. W. H. Thompson has written us a lovely
letter (from Perth, W. A.), in which he says that busi-
ness is “ terrific.” William was born to be lucky—and
what is more, to be rich. The local papers give him
column notices. Wonderful fellow to work the Press
is W. H. When he was here, we were mere drivellers
ourselves.
** * *
Mr. Dewhurst appeared last night (Wednesday)
as Richelieu. At this late hour we have nofspace for an
extended notice, but we may say that the impersonation
was, especially when compared with the actor’s
** Hamlet,” one in which was embodied a large degree
of excellence. We shall, however, criticise “ Richelieu”
next week.
** * *
On Tuesday night, considering the weather,
there was a splendid house at the Royal. Mr. Mervin
was ill, and his part was taken by Mr. John Wallace,
with only a moderate amount of success ; while Coque-
licot fell to the lot of Mr. Farley, who made a very sad
hash of it. In consequences of these changes Mr. Har-
wood had to work like a nigger, and it was amusing to
watch him acting, singing and prompting—all in one
breath. We are glad to see that the ladies have taken
our gentle little hint. And in doing so they are all the
more effective. And what a delightful thing that is!
** * *
Wilhelmj and party at Adelaide.
** * *
Fred Maccabe opens at the School of Arts on
3rd September.
** * *
The Grand Hippodrome opens at the Hay-
market, September 5. One month’s unequalled excite-
ment.
** * *
The Haaelmayera left for Dubbo on Tuesday
night.
** * *
Mr. C. B. Boss, an American agent, lately with
Chiarini, is in Sydney, awaiting a Novelty Company he
has formed in San Francisco, for a trip through India.
His Show arrives by the Pacific mail-boat. They will
not appear in this colony, but proceed to Tasmania and
Western Australia. Thence to Java.
This is what happened in Sydney on Sunday
week. Tired of the sporadic fluxes of hybrid sacerdotal
babblings emitted by the score of “ open-air ecclesias-
tics,” who Sunday after Sunday haunt the Domain,
about four hundred human beings, for the greater part
larrikins, gathered round a Hindoo, who was holding
forth on his experiences concerning epidemic diseases in
general, and small-pox in particular. They laughed at
him,, and chaffed him—-there was, perhaps, not much
harm in that. Then a larrikin knocked the dark man’s
hat off—that, too, perhaps, might have been construed
as fun, albeit rough fun. But, by-and-bye, some cur
struck the Hindoo from behind, and “knocked him off
his perch.” Two or three young blackguards, seeing
their opportunity, had a|slap at the prostrate man; but
the latter, still retaining his hold of a slender stick, got
up, faced his cowardly assailants, knocked one or two
or them on the head, and then dropping his weapon, let
out with his fists in a style which many an Englishman
might envy. In fact, there wasn’t one of the mob of
howling curs who manifested the slightest inclination
for a fair stand-up fight with the slender foreigner.
Presently a huge brute came from the crowd, hit the
Hindoo from behind, knocked him down—and lacked him,
as also did several others. The black man, who bore on
his forehead the marks of old and serious wounds, went
into an epileptic fit, lay on the ground, kicked and
struggled furiously. Then some people carried him to
the drinking fountain outside, and dashed water in his
face. But he did not recover, so they carried him to
the Infirmary or elsewhere. What a pity the poor
Indian had no weapon—no revolver—which he
could have used as did the Chinaman who shot his two
tormentors the other day. There was no policemen
present.


JOHNSTO
SEWING MACHII
HAYMARKI
gINGER’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S
HAYMARK
gINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2i
JOHNSTt
rjIHE LIGHT RUNNIN
2s 6d per week,
JOHNSTON'S, HATH
gINGER’S SEWING
2s 6d per week, i
JOHNSTON’S [
HAYMARKE
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wit
tacking (or basting), without the i
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wi
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, ai
embroider curtains or antimaeassa
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our office
trades can be supplied. They are e
in running, strong, handsome, a
machine may be had on trial, ENT
CHARGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WERTHEIM Maohi
KEPT IN REPAIR and worki:
YEARS from the date of purchase
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OP CHARG
samples by post. Country age
liberal terms. BEALE and C<
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcast
Bathurst. No matter in what pai
live, we will supply you wit’
MACHINE upon TIME PAYN
NTEREST.
Draftsman for i
REQUIRED.
SALARY: £2 a Week.
No charge for Rations, &c.
“ M. A. C.,”
Mackay, ]
SATURDAY, 27th A
WINDERMERE
ROOKWOOD
IMPORTANT LAND SALE ON
NINETY-POUR (94
CLOSE TO THE
and
SURROUNDED BY MAI
THE RICHEST and FINEST LAN
■pwfWTrNrn Tm twat-nt po»t
N THE ESTATE OF THE LATE D.
NICHOL, Esq.
BY DIRECTION OF THE EXECUTORS.
THE STRATHFIELD ESTATE,
REDMYRE HEIGHTS,
FOUR MINUTES FROM THE STATION.
GREAT SALE, ON THE GROUND
at 3 p.m.
SATURDAY, _ AUGUST 27.
LOT I.—STRATHFIELD HOUSE and highly-im-
proved Grounds, in area about 4 ACRES.
S 3" This is one of the prettiest villas in the suburbs.
The shrubberies, lawns, flower and kitchen gardens, are
all in admirable order.
LOTS 2 to B.—SEVEN BEAUTIFUL SUBURBAN
BUILDING PLOTS, each 100 feet frontage to
NICHOL PARADE, and divided by the roadway
from the Grounds attached to Strathfleld House.
LOTS 21 to 24, 35, and 36.—SIX GRAND VILLA
SITES, each about 90 feet frontage to
REDMYRE BOULEVARDE, by depths of 200
feet each. On LOT 36 stands the pretty and sub-
stantially-built LODGE.
LOTS 28 to 34.—SEVEN very eligibly-situated VILLA
SITES, each 50 feet frontage to STRATHFIELD
AVENUE, by depths of about 180 feet.
«3* These are all grand positions, elevated, and com-
manding good views. On some of the lots there are
well-established trees and shrubs.
THE PROPERTY IS SITUATE AT THE PRETTY
SUBURB of
R E D M Y R E.
TOEEENS’ TITLE.
Cards to view must be obtained from the Auctioneers.
HARDIE ANT GORMAN
HAVE received instructions from the EXE-
CUTORS of the late D. NICHOL, Esq., to
sell by Public Auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
AUGUST 27,
STRATHFIELD HOUSE and IMPROVED
GROUNDS, together with the choice BUILDING
SITES adjoining, and situate in the very best part
of this pretty
SUBURB of RBDMTRB,
between the residences of H. C. Fraser, Esq., and
George Hardie, Esq., opposite the park-like
grounds of C. E. Pilcher, Esq., M.P., and close to
the valuable properties of Captain Cargill, James
Thompson, Esq., Dr. P. Sydney Jones, and others.
The AUCTIONEERS invite attention to this sale of
the STRATHFIELD Property. The POSITION and
SURROUNDINGS are CHARMING, and very con-
venient to the Station.
DAY OF SALE :
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1881.
TERMS EASY.
ARGEST ESTABLISHMENT OP THE
I KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
PmeJ G a e va°Tea Tea | 28 - 2s 6d > 3a - 3s 6d, 4s. 4s 6d. 5s
Pure Indian Tea ) P er
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
MR. THOMAS M‘MAHON is authorised to
COLLECT MONEYS due to The Bulletin for
Advertisements and Subscriptions in the City of Sydney
and Suburbs, and his acknowledgment will he a sufficient
discharge.
Bulletin Office, 17th Aug., 1881,
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
gizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
igher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
828 visitors at the Museum on Sunday.
Two State Governors have narrowly escaped
Garfield’s fate.
Edison is lighting 500 houses in one quarter in
New York with his electric light.
The boss printing office of Sydney—H. E.
Woods and Co.’s, Bridge-street.— Advt.
(i David Buchanan has lectured, at Wagga, on
1 Protection.” Local protection league formed.
The reason who so many are unable to take
cocoa is that the varieties commonly sold are mixed
with starch, under the plea of rendering them soluble;
really making them thick, heavy, and indigestible,
lius may be easily detected; for if cocoa thickens in the
cup it proves the addition of starch. Cadbury's Cocoa
essence is genuine; it is therefore three times the
strength of these cocoas, and a refreshing beverage like
tea or coffee.—Adv.
Kaiser-i-Hind (s.s.), left on Wednesday for Eng-
“Uo, taking 138,000 sovereigns; and Mr. James Fairfax,
who is worth at least as many more.
That smartly-written paper, the Cumberland
independent, has now got a complete hold of the
rarramatta and Hawkesbury districts.
•-Parents in the country, where medical attend-
uce is not at hand, are frequently perplexed to know
imn vi S the best Family Medicine to keep in the house,
unable for all casualties which the flesh is heir to. We
attention to the advantage possessed in the com-
t.li_ B° n of a mild Aperient, and effectual Physic, not in
shape of Pill or Bolus, but a Lozenge which can be
P a t any time to the younger members of the family,
refi u°f a tetter from C.E.: —“ I never knew a child
PHrf 6 them.” Then keep a box of Eandebson’s Podo-
trip.i Lozenges by you, and when once you have
uhem you will never be without. Ask for Kandeb-
a 8 Lozenges, Is. per box. —Adv.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Some scoundrel knocked in the eye of a pet foal
belonging to Mr. Eager, Murrnmburrah A number of
well-dressed persons have been victimising the Auck-
land newspaper proprietors for small amounts by
pretending to be “ travelling contributors” to London
papers. There is a little of this kind of thing in Syd-
ney, too The Cascapedia (s.s.) left Newcastle for
Hongkong with 3450 tons coal, and drawing 22ft.—the
largest cargo on one bottom that ever left the port
palmer Bros, have bought Warrawena Station, Bonrke
district, from Hon. J. Hawkes, for £lOO,OOO At Mel-
bourne, a girl of three years fell into the Tarra. A boy
0 f 10, named Kelso, jumped in and saved her An
antimony mine has been opened at Tindale, Carwell,
near Cudgegong, and a blast erected for smelting
1000 acres taken up at the Star lEiver, Townsville, for
silver mining. Some of the ore assayed 800 oz to the
ton At Brisbane four sailors of the Squadron stole
a boat and deserted E. G Agg, late chief accountant
in the Victorian Lands Department, charged with for-
gery and admitted to bail, has been re-arrested on infor-
mation received that he intended absconding The
Sydney University Union has passed a rule authorizing
the chairman to invite lady visitors to speak at meetings
of the Union The first number of the Sydney
University Review will be issued in a few days
O’Loghlen has promised a Board to consider the case of
Mrs. Jones, of Glenrowan, whose hotel was burnt
when the Kelly’s were not captured for the most
part Ballarat Miners’ Association desire the pro-
hibition of dynamite, except when sinking shafts
Detached Squadron sailed from Moreton Bay on Satur-
day Extremely neat robbery at Dubbo. Messrs. J.
Phillips and Co.'s jewellers’ shop stripped of £4OO worth
of 'jewellery The Victorian Discharged Prisoners’
Aid Society is so well supported that it can afford to
dispense with the Government grant The Federal
Australian spells “Barooo” with a k Payable
gold struck at Native Bear Gully, Grenfell, 235 feet
down. Prospects, two to four grains to the dish
Mr. James Byrnes, M.P., Mayor of Parramatta, was
banqueted at that town last Friday evening Rose
and party have found gold at Goff Harbour. They have
dome specimens which show the precious metal fairly
stone has been got from the Reform gold
mine, Lucknow Hon. John Small, of South Arm, is
turning out about a ton and a half of sugar daily at his
little mill. He uses the mono-sulphide process, and
produces, perhaps, the best sample of sugar yet seen
on the Clarence “iEgles” says that notwithstand-
ing the mauling Dixon’s gas specification got at the
hands of Mr. Cosmo Newbery, there are still buyers
of Dixon Co.’s shares Rich gold discovery at
Nana Creek, near Central Kempsey At Adelaide,
National Mutual Life Assurance of Australasia v.
Hicks, insurance agent, for slander, resulted in £2OO
damages for plaintiffs A new company in 60,000 shares
of 4s each, has been formed to work the Tiaro (Q.) coal
deposits Messrs. John Annear and Co., contractors
for the Maryborongh-Gympie line, are to be banqueted
at Gympie, on Bth September The Neardie (Q.) anti-
mony mine has been bought from the Hon. H. E. King,
by an English company Mr. Comyns, manager of
the Bank of Australasia, Creswick, Vic., has been
thrown from his horse and fractured his skull At
Oundagai, Walter Beilby has been committed on three
charges of horse-stealing... A flight of 400 black cockatoos
passed over Yass, the other day. Old residents say
this is a presage of rain There were 146 twins born
in Queensland during the year 1880—75 males and 81
females. There were three triplet births, in which
there were three males and six females The Nowra
bridge is the longest of the eleven iron bridges of
which the colony can boast. It coat £42,000 A
country P.M. believes that a public-house bar parlour
Is not a public place within the meaning of the Act
Mr. P. Pooley, of Queanbeyan, has shot a
beautifnliy-feathered specimen of that compara-
tively rare and shy bird, the Australian grebe
“ Ted Tarrant,” an old identity of the palmy days of
Gulgong goldfield, is dead Many of the Hodgkinson
reefs are being gradually deserted in favour of the tin
mines. However, antimony lodes are being opened in
various parts of the field The Victory Extended,
Charters Towers, is to be formed into a company of
50.000 shares of £1 each. A history of the mine, to-
gether with specimens from it, have been sent to
Sydney with a view to floating the company here.
About 5000 shares have been applied for on the field
240.000 sheep will be shorn at Toorale station this year.
The Queen No. 2 Co., Towers, have cleaned up
10330 z., and are still crushing W. R. Spicer, ostler,
suicided at Adelaide, by cutting his throat That
notorious convict, Michael Minton, escaped from Braid-
wood Gaol, by scaling the wall with a rope of blanket,
strips, attached to a bucket-handle, which he had bent
into a hook and thrown to the top of the wall The
schooner Rona has foundered off the N.Z. coast. Her
crew of five were all lost 105 tons of stone from No,
2 N. Lady Mary. Gympie.lgave 11540 z The three men
who committed the assault and robbery near Ilford
recently have been committed for trial at Mudgee
The Herefords from Tocal, on the Paterson, carried off
the prizes at the Singleton Show Charters, who
absconded with Christchurch Building Society funds,
has been captured at Bristol, England The S.A.
Government have ordered all foreigners in their employ
to be naturalized Thomas Smith, a prisoner, escaped
from the Cobar lockup on the 18th Much surprise
and regret were expressed in Cobar at the mysterious
death of Mr. E. J. Rawsthorne, formerly C.P.S. of that
town. Mrs. Pawsthome obtained the first news of her
husband’s death from a description in a newspaper
paragraph after his burial Mr. Surveyor Millner is
travelling, at the request of the Government, over the
proposed Tenterfleld-Lismore line of railway A
Lismore public meeting decided in favour of local
option on the principle of a majority and not two-
thirds; amotion favouring the closing of hotels at 10
p.m., except on Saturday, when the time should be an
hour later, was agreed to Four of the crew of the
steamer Glenelg were drowned whilst going in a boat to
the assistance of the ketch Strathmore near Circular
Head. Among the drowned was the chief officer, Mr.
Maline, who leaves a widow and large family unpro-
vided for. The other three lost are Mortimer, the
second mate, Axelson and Coffee, seamen 5000
kangaroos were slaughtered at the annual drive at
Trinkey, near Gunnedah, recently At Glen Innes a
man has been committed for trial on a charge of libelling
a local land agent, by issuing placards in which com-
pjalnant was referred to as a •‘black-leg scoundrel,
villain, and bully." Man lined at Singleton for cock-
fighting Hunter River bridge at Denman swept away
by flood.
TICKS F THE TELEGRAPH.
Yellow feve- s reading in French Senegal,
Africa Movem afoot to testimonialize Healy, the
Land Leaguer,...„ Times, Pall Mall Gazette, and
Spectator comment fully upon the displacement of
Mr. Berry’s Ministry in Victoria. The Pall Mall
predicts that when N.S. Wales shall have alienated her
Crown lands, a crisis similar to that which i ow prevails
in Victoria will occur, and a discontented democracy
will insist upon a large taxation for wealthy landowners.
The Spectator praises Mr. Berry for the moderation
he displayed during the progress of the Reform Bill
through Parliament, and also for his courage
Rinderpest spreading among Lancashire herds
Biggar. Irish member, in the Commons, vindicated the
Irish Land League, and criticised the ability of Forster,
Irish Secretary. His motion to cut down Forster’s
salary by half was, after discussion, rejected Brand,
the Speaker, Erskine May, and others, are to remodel
the rules of the House of Commons Sir C. Gavan
Dully intends to enter the Commons and lead the Irish
party Nihilism rapidly spreading in Russia. Numbers
of nobles are joining in plots to destroy the Czar and
his brother, the Grand Duke Vladimir The masses
in England and Scotland are awakening to the meaning
of the Irish Land League, and an agitation has com-
menced against large estates for fostering game
Guiteau, the assassin of President Garfield, has made a
desperate attempt to murder a gaol warder
Stafford nail-makers strike terminated General
Ignatieff has expressed his {with the
persecuted Jews New Mexican Indiana have
captured four Kansas explorers Dispute between
London shipowners and seamen, settled by a com-
promise The Government refuse to release persons
arrested on suspicion under the Irish Coercion Act.
Bank of England discount rate, 3 per cent
Italian Government have determined to suppress the
agitation against the Pop i German Governmnet re-
ported to contemplate amalgamating Alsace and Baden
into a new Rhenish Kingdom, tributary to Germany.
The Dublin treasurer of the Irish Land League has
received £5OO from Australian sympathisers Lord
Salisbury has waived his amendments to the Irish Land
Bill, which have now passed the House of Lords
Heavy deficiency in American wheat crop French
camp at Cabes, Tunis, surprised by Arabs, suffered
heavy losses before repulsing the assailants Herbert
Gladstone appointed a Junior Lord of the Treasury,
without salary Elections for Transvaal Volksraad
proceeding. Moat candidates bitterly opposed to con-
vention signed with British, which Volksraad will be
asked to confirm 200 more Nihilists sent to Siberia.
John Dillon, M.P., speaking at Tipperary, said the
Land Bill would enable the landlords to benefit them-
selves at the expense of the tenants Anticipated
that British Parliament will be prorogued on Saturday.
Garfield worse again. This can’t last Ayoub
Khan has proclaimed himself Ameer, and means to
conquer Cabul British army still sucking its thumbs
at Quetta Elections for French Chamber of Deputies
commenced. Paris re-elected Reds. Gambetta him-
self only scraped in Town of Ta-hi, in China, half
burned down British negotiating commercial treaties
with Italy.’Spain, ai d Portugal. Probably a slap at the
French English Press animadverting on dearness of
wheat Brigandage rampant on Greek frontier
Phylloxera ravaging Rhine vineyards Hartmann, the
Nihilist, has demanded naturaligation as an American
citizen 372,000 bales Australian bales wool arrived
for the September sales Motion condemning Govern-
ment for arresting Davitt, Irish member, negatived in
the Commons, 61 to 19 Turks moving out of ceded
provinces. Greeks moving in Czar ratified Kuldy a
treaty with China More withdrawals of gold from
Bank of England for America Two-thirds of the
members returned at the Spanish elections favour the
Government The Portuguese Government have
obtained a majority Irish Land Bill assented to by
Crown. Sir Charles Gavan Duffy describes it as a
glorious measure passed by the courage of the Ministry,
and supports the Irish agitation in its favour The
French Conservatives lost 51 seats in the present elec-
tion A cargo of infernal machines expected at
Limerick from America Indian budget shows sur-
plus of £855,000. Affghan war cost £20,000,000 The
Communists and Bonapartists will bo placed in a
decided majority by the result of current elections
Negotiations for a renewal of the Anglo-French treaty
suspended owing to the refusal of France to extend the
operation of the treaty The “Dynamite” conven-
tion sitting, at Chicago, still engaged in preparing
revolutionary and destructive schemes Tranquility
at Tunis Another comet visible at London and
Alexandria The Cobden Club has expelled Redpath
A false prophet preaching at Soudan, Central
Africa. 150 Egyptians killed in connection with his
proceedings Stuart-Wortley, M.P. for Sheffield,
dead More trouble with the Boers, who dispute the
amount to be paid by the Transvaal on account of the
late war, and have seized the Landrost’s office at Pot-
chefstroom Consols, £99 18s 9d. Discount, firmer.
Stocks, declining. Much bullion being shipped to
America O’Donovan Rossahas issued a proclamation
intimating that he means to destroy
English vessels by infernal machines. He cautions
people against travelling by British ships The Pall
Mall Gazette pronounces Gavan Duffy’s election ad-
dress an eloquent appeal to the good sense of the
people.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.T.”: Your verses are very good indeed.
However, the individual to whom they refer is not
known sufficiently well to justify the insertion of the
lines. Try another subject “Finis”: Certainly
“ A Total Abstainer from Spirits”: Greatly obliged for
the pains you have taken, but scarcely fresh enough,
either in theme or treatment “ H.V.”: Thanks
“ J.J.F.”: Arrived too late, and was overlooked
“ J.A.8.”: Thanks “Moleskin”: Good story
“J.H.8.": Much too long, and a great deal too weary
for our columns “ H.R.”: Very much obliged
“ By Hook or by Crook": The phrase originated thus:
When the London corporation were about to re-build
London Bridge, they had to choose bet ween designs sub-
mitted by a Mr. Hook and a Mr. Crook—in other words,
whether it should be “by Hook or by Crook."
“ L.R.”: You want to know the monetary value of your
verses. Well, what the “L.R." we to do to arrive at
this ? Supposing the verses were written on one side
of the paper—which they are not—their value might be
about the square root of '007352 in pence “T.J.0.”:
Received “A.K.": O.K “ S.P.M.” : Your sketch
is very clever indeed. Please call “Ajax”: Un-
savoury. Write as of yore “S.M.”: Glad to hear
from yon often on similar subjects “ Novice ": The
performance was recorded in the Warnambool (Y.)
Examiner in either March, 1869, or March, 1870, and
noticed in some of the Melbourne papers of the time.
“ Things not generally known.” etc.: Send us the
par. in a more intelligible shape. We don’t known any-
thing of the local writer you allude to “J. W.D.’ - ’:
It’s chronic “ E.M.H." : Thanks “Lynceus":
The topic is worthy of notice, but you have treated it
somewhat partially. We will, however, keep it in view,
and probably deal with the practical suggestions you
make, ere long “E. Joty ”: If you read “ Pepper and
Salt ” in this journal, you will perceive that we insert
in these columns neither vulgar nor inane matter.
Your communication is utterly incomprehensible—
being, apparently, a compilation from the slang dic-
tionary. We have given it to the charwoman to make
curl-papers of “J.C.”: Send us as many items as
yon please, but no “ scraps of poetry." The stuff you
send this time is of interest to no one but the local
beadle “Fiz-gig” (Goulburn): You say “send
stamps or cheque ’’ for your cock-fight doggerel. The
point is—how much do you want ? We don’t mind
anything under a million. But we will sell you back
your MS. for twopence “E.W.M.": Thanks f
“Chips”: You have omitted to state at the foot of
your communication that you are president of the
society “M.H.”: Unsuitable “G.L.A.”: Rather
too straight. Next issue “ M.C." : You do not give
exact address at which affair took place “ J.H.W." :
Thanks “T.H.”: Received “G.8.D.”: We can’t
make out your copy “ Nemo ” : Doubtless true, but
“delicate ground.” “Yahoo”: Received late, but
very welcome. Nexc week “Delta”: Not quite
lively enough.
Farm Produce
Bulletin Office, 23rd August.
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at from £3 5s to £3 10s; ditto (old) hay, £2 15s to £3;
medium samples, £2los per ton. Maize selling at 3s 3d
to 3s id. Oats, seed and feed, 3s per bushel. Circular
Head j)otatoes, ditto £4 ss; New Zealand ditto, £3 to
£3 5s per ton. Victorian onions, £l3 to £l3 10s; ditto
chaff, prime, £5 per ton, bags included. Butter, in keg,
Is to Is 9d per lb. Eggs, lid to Is per dozen. Bacon,
4d to sd. Beeswax, 9d to lOd per lb.
Wheat Market.—Since our last report, wheat has
been sold by auction up to 5s 2id per bushel. Holders
are asking a slight advance, but we hear of no sales of
any moment. During the month the Adelaide markets
were quoting 3d per bushel advance in these values.
Adelaide wheat 5s to 5s id; colonial, 4s 9d to 5s 3d;
Victorian, nominal, ss; New Zealand, 4s 8d; Launces-
ton, is lOd per bushel.
Flour Market. —Only small parcels of good brands
are enquired for at the advance. Sydney superfine
flour, £l2 10s; household, £ll 10s; seconds, £lO 10s;
N.S. Wales country brands, £l2 to £l2 10s; Victorian,
£l2 to £l2 10s; Adelaide, £l2 to £l2 15s per ton.
Bran and pollard. Is 2d to Is 3d per bushel.
Poultry Market.—Fowls are selling at 3s to 3s 6d, in
demand; ducks, 4s 6d to ss; geese, 6s to 7s; cock
turkeys, 10s to 12s; hen, ditto, 6e to 7s per pair.
Fat Cattle Market.—At the cattle sides, held at
Homebush yards, there was no alteration. Best beef
worth 15s to 18s per 100 lb. In the sheep market a
decline of 6d to Is took place. 561 b. wethers were
worth 12s 6d to 13s 6d, with good fleeces.
Fresh Meat Market.—At the Riverstone Meat Com-
pany’s sheds, Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh
country-killed meat take place daily. Prices are, for
best beef 2d to 2id per lb., all round.
Instances of canine sagacity. On Friday, at
Circular Quay, a man who was asleep fell into the water,
and in his confusion iwnui away from the wharf. A
Newfoundland dog jumped in, laid hold of him by the
arm, and buoyed him up until he was reached by a boat.
At Maytowu, N.Q., a Chinese gambler lost his pouch,
and hunted for it uuavailingly. On the following day
his dog, entering an opium den, saw that the occupants
were just about to divide the spoil taken from the pouch.
He immediately sprang on the table, seized the purse,
and streaked it. Consternation ensued among the
Mongolians. The runner of the company gave chase,
but the dog cleared for home, and just missed being
caught by a stone thrown by the panting Celestial. The
owner of the dog popped out and met the thief, and
seeing how matters stood “ went for " his countryman.
Virtue was triumphant, and vice defeated. The treasure
was recovered by the loser.


Miacellane
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 loa
S. H E B B L E
416 GEORGE ST
Dispense Prescriptions ch(
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English ]
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spo
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS
Send for a Price List. Count:
ally attended to. Don’t forg(
Ton eannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New
W. KEF
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOC
664 GEORGE STREB
Opposite St. Andrew’i
Medala*of every description, Ms
sentation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND SET
A how and Choice Aasortmen
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, frc
118
KING STREET i
/rt
dm i
Kt*. »
HORNSBY’S
are the
BEST KNOWN
and
MOST POPULAR MACHINES
H O
MOWERS
UNQUESTIO
Write for Prices and
Pull Particulars.
AUSTRALIA.
mm
3^
N
IRE
KB
T
Miscellaneei
Q L I F POE D, L 0 1
TEA IMPORTI
EASTERN AND COl
MERCHANTI
Receive regular consignmen
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualiti
Do. Indian Prize Mec
CHUTNIES—Indian Pri
PRESERYES-Indian P
COFFEE —Plantation N
Do. ~ Pet
Do. ~ Noi
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA —Flake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B'
OFFICES 79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, I
JOHN D
IMPORTER 0]
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brassw
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, J
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
235
PITT STRETI
BEAUTIFUL^J
OR
AtLWOOL
TWEED
CANDTS COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT'S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS,
IB BOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSOK'S PILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IK STOCK.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND lEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all s:
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, F
IN STOCK.
3 a -
WATCHES
FROM ci.4.10.
0 JLW£\-
d. & . 11. H UNTER S
SYDNEY
O SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
IJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TET ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street.
SYDNEY
STi
r
c i :>
OM
And On
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
j u
PRIZE IVANHOE
»
AWAEDED
SILYEE MEDALS
AT PAEIS
DINNEE WINES 10/- per d
SHIEAZ
MADEIEA
W' i *
") Fruity
j Wines j 1
