

THE BULLETIN
VoL B.—No. 93.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1881.
Price—3d
§tilktk
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, ISBI,
A Privileged Plutocracy.
It is strange that in a democratic community such
as our own, persons should be perpetually striving
to create a system of class privileges and caste
immunities. The words “class” and “caste”
in the preceding sentence must be allowed a,
special significance, varied considerably from their
ordinary sense. Generally they carry a meaning
which comprehends the idea of heredity. Here,
however, as yet, they cannot be used in connection
with that idea. There is, in fact, no conception
leas esteemed by our would-be grandees than that
of heredity. At most, they entertain the idea only
prospectively. Retrospectively it is intolerable to
them. Their class is of to-day, and of the here-
after. As for the past—silence. But what they
make no claim to have by inheritance, and cannot
alead that they have been bred to regard as their
peculiar right, they show a singular eagerness to
create for themselves, amidst our free institutions,
and in despite of these institutions, in vulgar and
contemptible, but at the same time dangerous,
imitation of the abuses which in older countries
still survive as relics of the old evil feudal op-
pressions.
• » *
The latest example of this tendency proceeds
from that fountain of corruption —the Town Hall.
His Worship the present Mayor has, since his
election to office, distinguished himself by the
activity to which he has stimulated the officers
charged with the supervision of the street traffic.
It has been during Mr. Harris’ term that men in
the uniform of Corporation officials have assisted
in separating the stream of vehicles on Saturdays,
and sometimes on week days, and in compelling
drivers to observe strictly the rule of the road.
It has been during Mr. Harris’ Mayoralty that
the regulation requiring all drivers and horsemen
to walk their nags over the street crossings has
been enforced. These have been useful regula-
tions, and for the attention he has given to the
matter Mayor Harris deserves the credit due to
a representative man who attends to his functions.
There may, perhaps, be two opinions respecting
the rule winch enjoins drivers to pass over cross-
ings at a walk. It may be argued with some force,
that what is gained in safety to pedestrians is lost
in convenience to both pedestrians and riders,
naamuch as the crossings are perpetually impeded
by vehicles crawling slowly over them, while car-
riages, cabs and omnibuses are provokingly de-
layed. But in deciding upon the existent rule,
the authorities have the support of successful
precedents in other
That, however, is a trifling matter. A truly
important one is that the regulation should be
administered in the same spirit as is supposed to
animate all laws affecting Britons —that is to
say, without respect of persons. The instruc-
tions given to the Corporation officers, who are
■ v .rged with the task of seeing the regulations
-served, are based on that not only commendable,
j vitally necessary, principle. They are told to
bo no respecters of persons. Attention to that
simple and excellent rule will, they are informed,
secure for them permanence in their positions.
We are not aware whether this assurance
is conveyed, accompanied by a wink or
a finger laid along the nose. _ But cir-
cumstances which recently transpired in the
Summons Court, and have since eventuated,
seem to point to a probability that some
symbol of the kind would be appropriate. On
the 15th of last month, a Corporation official, in
the course of his duty, stopped various persona
who drove over the crossings at a pace exceeding
a walk. Among the offenders so pulled up were
Mr. Alderman Daniel O’Connor, M.P., and a
Mr. Wadsworth, not himself a man of special
note, but so far favoured by Providence as to be
brother to an Alderman. These two, with a dozen
or so of smaller fry, constituted the officer’s bag
for the day, and all were duly served with sum-
monses to appear and answer for their transgres-
sions. When the day of judgment arrived, the
members of the Bench who sat to adjudicate were
informed that, out of about eighteen cases en-
tered on the list, two had been withdrawn. • One
of these was the case of Mr Alderman Daniel
O’Connor, J.P., M.P.,—an Aldbrman of the city
°f Sydney, one of Her Majesty’s Justices of the
Peace, and representative in Parliament of the
electors of West Sydney. The other case with-
drawn was that of Mr. Wadsworth, by
Oie grace of God brother to an Alderman. It
transpired that these two dignitaries had applied
to Inspector Seymour for a withdrawal of the
summons, and that the Inspector had, instead of
knocking his head in the dust and instantly dissent-
ing, referred them to his Worship the Mayor. We
a *®i in view of subsequent events, quite in the dark
w hy Mr. Seymour still retains his situation. What
action the Mayor took may be gathered from what
followed. The cases were withdrawn. Mr Pen-
fold, J.P., from the Bench animadverted
caustically upon the distinction so made, whereby
the ordinary citizen or traveller, the poor man
without influence or means, was brought up to
endure the penalties of the law, while the richer
man —the man who made laws—or his relatives, or
hangers on, were shielded and let go scot-free.
The magistrate further declared that, had he his
own way, he would dismiss every similar case
brought before him that day.
Mr. Penfold directed that a fresh summons
against Mr. O’Connor should issue, and post-
poned the case to that day week.
# * «
The impulse expressed by Mr. Penfold was a
natural one, and shadowed precisely what the
effect of unequal administration of justice would
be likely to have upon the general mind. If we
can’t have equitable laws, people will say, let us
have no law at all. Inequitably administered law
is injustice. No justice at all is preferable to
injustice. The Magistrate’s strictures seem to
have rankled somewhere. That afternoon the
officer who had dared to touch the Lord’s
Anointed, in the persons of an Alderman and an
Alderman’s brother, received intimation that, by
order of the Mayor, he was suspended, and on the
following Monday he was dismissed! The osten-
sible cause of dismissal was not summoning
members of the privileged orders at all. It was, wo
understand, “abusive, violent, and uncivil language
and behaviour to Sir George Wigram Allen
when stopping him in George-street on the previous
Thursday.” The villain had been at it again ! But
on his interviewing Sir George Wigram Allen
it transpired that that knight had not made any
complaint of violent or uncivil -language. Sir
George had not relished being stopped, and had
spoken - about it. J3ut he, upon matters
assuming this phase, went and saw the Mayor, who
assured him that it was upon other charges that
the officious offender had been dismissed. What
these other charges were, the dismised man had
still to find out. if he could.
* # #
On the day appointed by Mr. Penfold for
hearing thepostponed case against Mr. O’Connor,
the case was not on the sheet. The Bench again
drew attention to the fact that poor boys, to whose
parents the amount of fine was, perhaps, a matter
of daily brbad, were brought before him—and the
wealthy men, if summoned, had their cases with-
drawn. Mr. George Merriman, the City
Solicitor, then addressed the Bench, saying they
had made certain comments on the last Friday
(when he was absent), and he was certain they
were not cognizant of the true facts of the case.
He proceeded to say “ That the person who insti-
tuted the charge against Mr. O’Connor had since
been dismissed the employment of the Corpora-
tion for violent and abusive language to no less a
person, your Worships, than Sir G. W. Allen.”
That' these charges had been very numerous
against this “ person” (naming none of the charges
specifically), and that he had actually been seen
whilst on duty smoking a pipe at the corner of
the street.
* * «
Here we have two definite, and a cloud of
indefinite, charges. Of the definite charges, one
previously discarded, is repeated afresh, in Court.
The other is smoking a pipe when on duty, in the
street. Awful crime ! But mark here the dex-
terity of the whole business. It is no longer Mr.
O’Connor or Mr. Wadsworth who are defend-
ants. It is no longer the Mayor who has to
explain his conflicting statements. It is the man
who stopped members of the privileged pluto-
cracy, who is put on the rack ! The man tried to
vindicate himself, but, of course, was not per-
mitted. The Corporation solicitor had a locus
standi and. a right to be heard in the Court. The
dismissed man had neither; so the matter stands.
The fate of the offender will be an eternal warning
to his fellow-officers in his late occupation, that
laws are not for members of the Privileged Pluto-
cracy. The common people—the vulgar—must
submit; but the Privileged and superior classes,
aldermen, members of Parliament, chimney-
sweeps and nightmen, beatified by election to
office of any kind, must stand exempt. We would
like to hear,Mr. O’Connor on this subject. He is
given to orating about being a man of the people.
Does he really desire to be one of the founders of
a Privileged Plutocracy, a Plutocracy which will
have shackles/er, and a scourge gules, for emblazon-
ments, and a bar sinister across its ’scutcheon ?
Is it to be understood that the laws are to apply
only to the ordinary populace ; that Mayors, and
Ministers of Justice, and Aldermen are to be
exempt, and their brothers and cousins to the
third and fourth degree ? People who havo not
the distinction of being connected with Aldermen,
or descended from the Pilgrim Fathers, had best
see to this matter, and if a Privileged Plutocracy
is to erect itself over a Servile order, the bases of
mutual relations cannot bo too early defined or
too clearly understood.
The Hon. John Richardson, M.L.C.
The portrait which we give to-day will be
promptly recognized by old colonists of New
South Wales and Queensland, as that of a man of
sterling value, who, while devoting his time, with
marked success, to commercial pursuits, has now
for over forty years lent his aid to the political
advancement of this country. The Hon. John
Richardson, M.L.C., now residing at Armidale, is
71 years of age. During the period of his colonial
life (forty-three years), he has built up two for-
tunes—earning, in connection with the one, the
honour of being a pioneer of pastoral settlement
in Queensland; and, with the other, of being, in
New England—though advanced in years—one of
the most active and enterprising of men. Mr.
Richardson was to the front, years ago, in the
conflict for Constitutional Government, and was
one ot those who battled beside Dr. Lang for the
erection of Queensland into a separate colony.
He was the first representative for Brisbane in
the New South Wa’es Parliament, and was the first
Mayor of Sydney. Mr. Richardson was born in
1810, at Freuchie Manse, Fifeshire, Scotland,
being the eldest son of the Rev. John Richardson,
of that place. He is a cousin of the late General
Sir Thomas Pratt, who rendered signal services in
the Indian campaigns, and received for them
several marks of royal favour. He came to Aus-
tralia at an early age. While in Sydney he be-
came a writer for the Press, and was thus enabled
to pursue the studies he had begun at home. He
graduated at the Sydney University, being
among almost the first who won that hononr.
He proceeded shortly afterwards to Queens-
land, and commenced business in Brisbane
as importer and shipping agent. While
thus engaged, he received several of the
immigrant ships sent out by Dr. Lang. Mr.
Richardson was twice elected for Stanley, and four
times for Brisbane, being three times returned
without leaving Sydney. After devoting some
years to politics and business, he took a voyage
home, but returned to the colony in 1868, and
shortly after his arrival in Sydney was nominated
to the Upper House by Sir James Martin. At
this time Mr. Richardson entered largely into
station investments in Queensland, and during the
period of what is known in the sister colony as
“ the black years,” lost the fortune he had pre-
viously earned. Ten or twelve years ago he re-
commenced business in the New England district,
fixing on Armidale as the centre of operations,
and his old success has again attended him. In our
Legislative Council, Mr. Richardson has at all
times been on the side of liberal and progressive
legislation, and in his capacity as a citizen has
manifested an equally liberal spirit. On the as-
sembling of the first Parliament at Brisbane, Mr.
Richardson was offered the Speakership, but he
was compelled, for business reasons, to decline
the honour. He has been thirty-five years a
magistrate. Mr. Richardson married the third
daughter of the late Mr. Robert Russell, of Sydney,
and has ten children. Three of his sons manage the
business at Armidale, and one of them has now
for the third time been elected Mayor of that
borough. Our engraving is from an excellent
photo, by Solomon, of Armidale.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Legislative Larrikinism.
Mr. Macarthur, in his recent communication to the
Press, indicates our primary school system as the seed-
plot of larrikinism. He is at some pains to prove hie
position, and is not without some claim to success.
Before settling down to the consideration of any single
source of this baneful evil, however, it might be well to
look further and higher for evidence of a kindred
agency. Larrikinism, as we know it, has very pro
nonneed and decided features. Contempt for the wholes
some restrictions of law and order, and for that sober
decency of social life and manner which forms the bond
and preservative of society—this, perhaps, is its most
noticeable distinguishing mark. Anything, therefore*
which goes to encourage or set in motion a tendency of
this nature, may be regarded as a direct aid to the
propagation of that most undesirable oS-shoot from
civilisation. The effect of such an influence, of course*
is proportionate to its importance and publicity. I*
encouragement of this kind comes from an elevated
and influential source, the result will bo deep and per-
manent ; if the circumstances attendant are such as to
ensure publicity, these effects will be widespread and
manifest. This tejpg so, it seems a fair question to
ask—as a corrospeLdent does—if it would not be logical
to attribute the increase of larrikinism in all the Aus*
THE HON. JOHN RICHARDSON, M.L.C.


HOP BITTERS!
ABE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Bucku, Mandrake and Daiadslioß.,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and’
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Bl*od Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask yonr Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If yon are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
1
If yon are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, .worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Yon.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case,
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What Yon Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves an.
steady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant; healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIF Y, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yom will have no sickness or snfferiHg.
MONTBPIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
VAN HAAGEN’S toilet soaps.
manufactured by
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO., PHILADELPHIA,
U.S.A.
BEST, FINEST, AND CHEAPEST
FRENCH MILLED TOILET SOAPS.
These soaps are made of the purest and best materia
and are unrivalled for
DELICACY OF PERFUME,
AND SUPERIOR LASTING QUALITIES.
Pine Rose
White Pond Lily
Prairie Bouquet
Oat Meal
Palma Rosa
Honeysuckle
Fine Honey
Turkish Bath
American Toilet
Pure Palm
Laurel Bouquet
Lilac Bouquet.
Naples Bouquet, etc. etc. etc.,
FOR TOILET, BATH, and NURSERY USES.
FOE SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUAET, & CO.
B
ENJAMIN BROOKES
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP '• v
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great having of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUAET, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.)
OP. GREGORY & 00. 'S
• SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
hearing our Brands,
" ORIENT ’’ and " SOUTHERN CROSS.”
are unequalled by any Tobaccos ever imported into
these Colonies.
MONTEFIORE, STUART. & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
If you were to drink to excess you Druitt.
I Watkin of joke is this P Gough it up P Well, the
I fact is, that the entire Temperance township of Gough
Town having been sold, Watkin and Watkin have
r started another at Mount Druitt and expect everybody
to take their pledge that Mount Druitt is equal to
Gough Town. Five sixpenny drinks down in the £,
Nothing to stagger a man in that. Wednesday next. ;
It was while negotiating, as trustee in the estate
of his deceased friend, Mr. Thrale, the sale of the
brewery of that worthy man, that Dr. Samuel Johnson
rolled out the memorable assertion that there was
ofieredto the purchaser “the potentiality of acquiring
wealth transcending the wildest dreams of avarice."
To anyone who is troubled with that description of
nightmare, we would commend a perusal of the pro-
snectus of the Castlemaine Brewery and Malting
Company.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received,
—Anv.
The best substitute for the present high-priced
meat (and far more wholesome) is Eedgate’s Patent
Meal, or Pood of Health. The Australian Cricketers
is the trade mark, none other genuine. Sold by all
grocers and storekeepers.—Any.
Use Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, fish, milk, &c., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.—Anvt.
“ I will advertise thee.” Eichmond Thatcher
is prepared to provide startling, interesting, and
humorous advertising paragraphs for insertion in The
Bulletin. Tradesmen wishing to increase their busi-
nesses, address or apply to Eichmond Thatcher,
Bulletin Hotel.— Adv.
A fool and his money are soon parted, as the
man found out who paid 50 per cent, more for his goods,
instead of going to Hamburger Brothers and Co., 375
George-street, who are relinquishing business, and sell
their stock of watches, clocks, jewellery, pipes, and
fancy goods, at English cost. Open from 8 to 1 and 2
to 6.—Advt.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless.scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Kael Theodore Staiqee, analytical
chemist."— Advt.
“As if you didn’t know ” that Hamburger
Brothers and Co., Importers, 375 George-street, oppo-
site to the new Arcade, are retiring from business, and
retailing their stock of watches, clocks, gold and silver
jewellery, plated ware, fancy goods, &c., at actual
English cost. Get price list, and compare; you will
find them cheaper than all “50 per cent,” and “as-
signed" sales. Inspect and judge.— Adv.
tralian colonies to the wide circulation given by the
Press to the proceedings of our various Legislatures.
In these reports we read how the Speaker Is defied con-
tinually and persistently, and Parliamentary law and
order, as well as the rules of that conventional decency
before referred to, outraged as a matter of course.
There are some, indeed, who do not scruple to go even
farther than this, to show their sense of their legis-
lators* evil example. It is scarcely a week or two since
the Melbourne correspondent of the Herald, writing
of the proposed bill in the Victorian Assembly, pro-
viding repressive measures for larrikinism, deprecated
the probability of anything useful being done in that
direction; because, as he said, the bulk of the legis-
lators were of the larrikin class, and were consequently
unlikely to do anything against their own order. This
kind of thing shows the bearing of general opinion on
this unsavoury subject. And it certainly seems natural
to expect that what prevails in our representative in-
stitutions to such an overwhelming degree will be taken
up and adopted by the rising generation. The publi-
cation of this state of things intensifies the evil; and
in this sense the primary schools may indeed be said
to foster larrikinism —but only inasmuch as they enable
that same rising generation to read.
Niggard Justice.
Heroes and martyrs are occasionally satisfied to
to take payment for their sufferings in present glory,
or in the hope of future reward; but the man who
spends his life on daily labour is usually and reasonably
anxious for the daily wage. It is somewhat strange
that our high courts of law are almost the only places
where an attempt is made, to-day, to withhold that
payment of labour, where the glory of the deed is
upheld as sufficient requital for the performance—or if
payment is made, it is as a dole of charity, or a begrudged
gift to an extortionate claimant. Who has not felt the
slur oast upon the Ermine by the rudely put question
“ Who’s going to pay me for getting into this box?”
And who has not smiled to see the ridiculous inability
of Judge and Prosecutor to render an answer ? It
seems mean, perhaps, that the needy man or wogaa
should require to be paid for the little act of pt(88
service; but, closely examined, the claim is honest, and
admits of no dispute. The man who is taken from his
work to serve the State in the conviction of a felon
should not be a loser thereby. With the Judge and the
Crown Prosecutor, and the inspector, and the sergeant,
and the constable, he is for the time an instrument, a
tool, of Justice, and, though blindfold, the inner per-
ceptions of duty might surely instruct her that she
has no more claim to the free use of one tool than
another. The rights of jurymen have been very tardily
acknowledged; the rights of witnesses of the Crown
still await open recognition. This little matter might
well be favoured with the attention of our legislators,
if, amongst matters of mightier import, they can afford
it a glance.
The Testimony of the Museum.
Anything reducible to figures, is capable of being
satisfactorily gauged. Abstract principles and air-
drawn theories are all very well—in their way; but for
downright, logical proof of the soundness |of a theory
or principle, commend us to figures. And, touching
the opening of our more popular public institutions on
Sunday—a subject, certainly, on which those interested
have theorised to the utmost—the statistics of attend-
ance are calculated to set this matter in its proper
light, so far as figures can. Thus, for instance, during
the past month of October, while the aggregate attend-
ance at the Museum, on the 21 week-days on which
it was open, numbered 5199, that on Sundays—only
five In number—reached 4426. These facts speak elo-
quently. Of the entire number of visitors who par-
took of the advantages of this expensive educational
agency during the month, about 50 per cent, were in-
debted for that boon to the circumstance of the exist-
ence of Sunday opening; or, to view the fact
generally from another point of survey, by its means,
80 per cent, of the week-day visitors were enabled to
repeat their visits. This fact alone seems to show in
what estimation these institutions are held, while, at
the same time, it evidences a desire on the part of the
public to co-operate with its State-endowed aids to
self-improvement. The showing of these figures may
bo taken as a public vote—a plebiscite, testing general
opinion on the subject. In its light, there can he little
room for doubt as to the feeling on the question of
Sunday opening. A tacit censure is herein conveyed
on that short-sighted inconsistency which opens the
Museum, while interdicting a similar institution. The
Art Gallery, with all its attractive influences and re-
fining tendencies, is still closed to the people on the
one day which is their peculiar property. It is but a
purblind philanthropy which provides passive educa-
tive forces of this kind for those classes which cannot
be supposed to attain to their possession of them-
selves, and yet, in the face of a declared wish, and of
the obtrusive inconsistency of the thing, suspends their
function on the only day on which the great mass of
the public is at liberty to avail itself of their existence.
Perhaps in time the absurdity of the arrangement will
suggest its own remedy.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Corespondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Michael”: Very fair. Don’t confine yourself to
one item- Launch out, and laurels await you
« G.H..J.P." (Tamworth): You have evidently got
some of it. A pity yon live so near Heaven as Tam-
worth. Write again “ Truck Lever’’: We don’t want
any truck with you if you cannot write what we can
understand. If we can’t make it out, we are sure the
public won’t be able to. Have a bottle of soda, and
another try “ Omicron”: Glad to hear from you at
any time “Keepit”: Thanks; but not of sufficient
interest “ Vectis”: Overlooked ; write again
“Wagga”: Thanks; We’ll keep your copy; you may
be down at Christmas to make it out; we can’t
“ Fair Play”: What presents ? We don’t understand;
but if you explain, probably a par. will be inserted
“A.H.” (Penrith): No, he need not raise his hat. It
is true that the Prince of Wales and Lord Salisbury
raise their hats when a lady bows to them; but if a
country chemist gives yon a nod, you ought to be satis-
fied “ Cobar Ball": The little incidents you mention
are no donbt quite true; but it would not interest the
colony generally to know how much whisky George
drank, or what Tom said to his girl. The Bulletin is
ready to go in for any amount of fun, but not for what
are mere personalities and nothing more. Yon will
admit they are petty, won’t yeu ? “ A. 8.” or “ Out-
sider": There is certainly merit in your verses on the
Prisoner of Love, but too many faults for publication.
“ G.J.8.": We don’t know the facts about the
Manly business, but will look the matter up, if time
allow “John Unff”: Scarcely suitable “Bache-
lor": As the lady, according to your own statement,
is now married, nothing can be said. Still we feel for
you; wo were jilted several times ourselves “ F.T.”;
You are right on the gold; send along again—we’ll put
it straight “L. C.” and other correspondents: Next
week “C. B.” : What you complain of is the most
natural thing in the world; we should have been much
surprised if that young gentleman of St._ John’s,
Darlinghurat, did not embrace and kiss his fair fiancee
when he had the chance. Besides, it’s to be presumed
he wished to please the girl. Just wait till you are that
way inclined yourself “H.C.”: Much obliged;
always space for you “H. S." : Just the thing we
want “Ajax”: Thanks. It was A jaxly the thing we
wished to know. Always glad to hear from yon
•‘Broughton Creek": Done inverse: send down some
more short things. Don’t try to embellish “Grace
Darling,” Eefern : Capital, and lovely handwriting.
We wish you’d give some of our scrawling correspond-
ents the loan of your spider “Middle Head”: We
would like to hear from you again. Like the lively
Duchess, we “dote on the military” “Citizen”:
Matter for the dailies. Uninteresting. “ Corn-
stalk ” : Facts not interesting ; but write again
“L.V.”: You can’t run a church and keep two houses
at the one time; it’s not good financing, and not moral.
We should advise you to give up the church
“J.D.M." and “W.H.”: Probably next week
“W.M.”: We’ll give the facts “E.A.M.”: Thanks.
“V.E.”: Good line “Wirenail": You ask our
honest opinion of your own self. How can we give it ?
Apply to the Inspector of Nuisances “W.A.M.":
Your hand is out at poetry. Stick to brick-making till
the first vacancy at coal-mining offers “Loafer”:
Thanks. Send more “Nemo”: Welcome.. ..“J.8.”:
A halter to suit you will cost about ninepenoe “ Sub-
scriber": Thanks. We’ve noted your observations
about that club “Orion”: Thanks “M.D.”:
Send along again “T.Y.”: No; you don’t
•‘ Eazor": We’re aware that the clergyman you refer to
drinks pretty heavily. He says, however, that he is
driven to it by his churchwardens We’ll enquire.
further “ E.W.M.” : Good line. Glad to hear from
you again “F.E.V.”: Next week 11 Woodbine ”:
Thanks; you’re a good girl; let us know when you give
your hand, and you shall have a stanza; write again
“E.E C.” : Next week “Student” (Glebe): Your
note mislaid; write again “Sport” (Wollongong)
Thanks; send along any time “Nihil”: Your verso
re Governor Blackall, and Derwent, are to hand: —
“ We saw his smoko in the morning,
We passed him at noonday.
We saw his smoking in the evening,
And then he died away.”
We’d like to hear from you again; do us a sonnet on a
marlin-spike, and bring it round with you; w» mean the
spike, of course •* V. 0.8.” ; The winning ticket;
write again “ Frying Pan" : Yes, an effort was made
to bribe The Bulletin. The right number included a
tea and coffee service, a spade, a wangle, and a smooth-
ing iron. The effort failed. A chaff-cutter should have
been included *• Lucy” : Can’t insert without
proper authorisation. Marriage is a ticklish thing, and
rumour is frequently incorrect “Ecce Homo”:
First rate; next week “C.A.T.”: Just too late;
next week “Ada C.” : Next week “Lilly of St.
Leonard’s ” a Bather 'good; no room however this
week.
SOCIAL.
The Glen Innes Hospital Ball took place last
week. There were about 100 present, mostly in fancy
costumes; some of the prominent ones wore—Charles
Surface, a Sergeant of Police, a Sailor, Vivandiere,
Swiss Peasant, Starlight, Eed Biding Hood, Officer of
the 10th Hussars, America, Heart’s Ease, Maritana, a
Midshipman, a Plantation Darkey, a Bridesmaid,
Gitana, Unity, Under Two Flags, Lady of Lonis XlV.’s
Beign, a Militia Officer. Large contributions were
given by the residents, and the profits amounted to
£lO, the whole affair being regarded as satisfactory.
The balance of eatables from the supper was divided
between the Public School children and hospital patients
—an excellent idea.
• • *
Wallsend has been second in the field with a
native wild-flower show, which came off amid enthusi-
astic tclat, on Friday and Saturday last. Mr. William
Turner, M.P., opened it with a few remarks, explaining
that the profits of the exhibition would be devoted to
reducing the debt on the building they were iu—the
School of Arts. The ladies beautified the stalls, as at
Manly, and some gentlemen went to immense trouble,
and travelled long distances to gat the flowers.
Waratahs seemed to have been hard to get, but a
goodly number were exhibited, also roses, rock lilies,
Christmas bells, flannel flowers, zamias, white heath,
Ac, A good sum netted.
• * *
It was the greatest day in Bundarra’s history,
on the 14th October. The splendid bridge over the
Gwydir was opened with much ceremony by Mrs. Clark,
a very old resident, and Mr. W. W. Frazer. Banquet
and orations followed, athletic sports, grand procession,
and then, in order that any one who had any energy
left, might quite exhaust his stock of that useful com-
modity, a ball was held in the evening. A good many
people “ took it out” next morning.
# * #
They have had some racing down at Wollongong,
and, though the Melbourne Cup is a decent sort of
affair in its way, it is paltry compared with the style
of thing in the butter district. A local “ sport" kindly
engaged to give us an account of the racing, that is, all
about the horses, and handicaps, and things; and this
is how he does it: —“Just before the big event, the
lawn presented a very pretty study—rosy cheeks,
bright eyes, and oh! such boots and busts I Two local
belles, in black silk trimmed with brocaded satin, were
conspicuously sweet. Miss Blank wore white plush,
and Miss Dash was bewitching in a tartan silk bonnet.
A Newtown lady, in rich black satin train dress, was
charming.” It will, of course, be understood that the
horses were, just at this juncture, having a good feed,
which we believe they always do at Wollongong before
starting on a race. Our “ sport” then goes on with the
racing :—“ I thought Miss Dot took the palm for
beauty, until my gaze was dazzled by a lady who
descended from a four-in-hand, a luminous cloud of
loveliness; her dress, a splendid rose colour, and her
hat, an ethereal creation, to match. From the same
aristocratic conveyance came another bright atom of
beauty in pink, followed by yet another in pale blue
covered with white lace.” By this time the horses had
travelled round the course; but as our correspondent
had his head turned the other way at the moment,
looking at the four-in-hand, he is unable to say which
horse won, or whether there was any jostling, or acci-
dent, or excitement about the finish. But, with this
trifling exception, his account of the race is good.
* * *
The plain and fancy dress ball given by the
Misses Grundy (of Wagga) to their pupils and friends
was a great success. The hall was beautifully decorated,
and there were about twenty couples present. Of the
pupils, Josephine, Queen Mab, Mischief, Buttercup,
Liberty, and French Flower Girl looked the best; and
among the boys, Balph Eackstraw, Yachtsman, and the
Cricketer were the next. The young lady who looked
the most attractive was the one who wore the black
satin. Two others in light dresses, trimmed with blue,
looked very noticeable. We hear it is the intention of
the ladies to give a return ball, which, we hope, will
prove as successful.
# * *
The first diamond wedding in the colonies has
been celebrated at Sandhurst. The parties are aged 98
and 80 respectively.
• * •
Mrs. Martin’s Fancy Dress Ball, on Friday last,
was a most enjoyable affair, over 120 being present!
The characters were as varied as is usual on such occa-
sions, and included sailors, peasants, policemen, princes,
buehmen, students, and coquettes. Some of the last
were not fancy characters. There were also to be seen
Snow, Folly, Lizzie Stofel, Cantiniere, Znleika, a jester.
Deacon Skinner, and Sam Slick. Two sisters repre-
sented Ivy and Gipsy. Myles-na-Coppaleen was a most
correct get up, A railway official, well known on the
Kedfem Station, was King Philip of Spain. Bambini,
in white satin, was not only well dressed, but acted his
part to perfection, and was a vast improvement on
some of the very weak imitations of the character that
have appeared in public during the season, A tall
brunette, in black and red, with black lace mantilla over
the head, looked graceful as a Spanish Dancer. An
English Parlourmaid, though a simple costume, was
one of the best characters, because it was strictly ac-
curate and not overdone. The dress was black, with
dainty white apron and cap, decorated with the ’gay
ribbons which the heart of the parlourmaid loveth. A
small girl with flaxen hair, in light blue satin trimmed
with darker blue and set off with anchors, made a pretty
Josephine. “America" was carefully designed and
much admired: the lady was partitioned off in the
usual manner, all above the waist being stars, and all
below stripes, while from one shoulder was draped the
tricolor flag in graceful folds. A tall fair lady was in
black grenadine trimmed with fern and red beads. One
young gentleman, in his desperate endeavour to attain
novelty, appeared in a nice quiet suit of “red and
yaller,” made out of the family window curtains. He
created a deep impression on the fair sex, but it will be
awkward when he gets home and his Ma finds the
window curtains missing. Another gentleman who
looked, as Byron would put it, " as mild a mannered
man as ever cut a throat,” impersonated a brigand, in
a blue costume of the shade generally worn by butchers
when on duty. His hat was a work of art, a thing that
could be gazed on in speechless wonder, but never
described; and his legs, by some ingenious artfulness,
were made to assume a pleasing symmetry, that is, one
thickness all the way up. A pair of spectacles com-
pleted this truculent gentleman’s appearance. A young
lady with “ frizzy” hair represented Summer —a very
beautiful Summer, too, one of the most lovely Days of
the season—in white satin bodice, trimmed with dark
velvet, embossed, and white skirt covered with roses
and other flowers, also wreath of flowers. The most
novel character was called "Sunflower.” The dress
was a short one, of old gold satin, with stomacher of
chocolate colour, worked with yellow flowers and edged
with dark velvet and spangles. An enormous sunflower
with “ greenery yallery ” leaves served as a head-dress ;
old gold stockings and boots to match, and a black fan
painted with sunflowers. A pair of blue satin dresses,
also several white ones, variously trimmed, looked nice.
Mr. Ingham provided good music, and Mr. Cripps
catered. All was over at 4 o’clock.
» * •
“ Two pennyworth of straw and four pounds’
worth of trimming." Such is the terse description
given of a hat—a chapeau Japonnais —worn by a well-
known belle the other day at the reception.
• * *
The advent of crinoline is no longer a mere
rumour; it has been actually introduced in Paris. There
has been strong opposition to the revival of the old-
fashioned nuisance, a circular protest has been issued,
and an anti-crinoline society is being formed, composed
of some of the best dressers in the gay metropolis. Not
long ago, four American young ladies created a sensa-
tion there by appearing in the streets clad in short
skirts to the ankles, and inflated with steel. One was
attired wholly in green; another all in dark blue;
another in gray; and another in black—they were evi-
dently only en passage, bnt they were dressed with the
greatest elegance. The skirts, which reached the
ankles, were in each instance of silk, and were cut per-
fectly round, without being tied back in any way, and
swayed from side to side like minature balloons. All
the men and many women look upon the coming fashion
with dread, but when the balloonacy is once started, it
will not be stopped. No opposition can stem the tide
of fashion. To oppose it, is like fighting a shadow ; you
never know whence it starts, or what upholds it. The
machinations of Old Nick himself are not more subtle
and insidious than the mysterious workings of fashion.
There is one comfort, though. If Sydney is as smart
in adopting this fashion as it is in everything else, the
evil day is a good way off yet; and we may reckon it
will be about seven years before the first crinoline sails
around Cole’s corner.
« # *
Gymnastics and dancing are not yet combined
in Sydney, but in Melbourne for many years past it has
been a regular custom for the Deutcher Turn Yerein to
give peri dical exhibitions of gymnastics in the early
part of the evening, and finish up the night with a ball.
Their last entertainment of this sort was held on the
24th ultimo, and was in every way successful. Of
course, the German element was very strong; the
“ Kaisers," as a nation, are passionately fond of both
gymnastics and dancing, and excel in both. The first is
part of their national education when at school, while
dancing and music are almost religion to their nature.
POLITICAL POINTS.
There’s now a Buchanan in the House of Com-
mons. This will inspire M'Elhone with new hope.
John Eoseby, M.L.A., is on the war-path at
Singleton, For a dead certainty, he’ll urn the people’s
support.
Mr. Fletcher is not Minister for Mines, but his
paper at Newcastle has a good show of Government
advertisements.
The new Victorian Land Bill has been circulated,
and the main features are that the areas of selection
is extended to 640 acres, instead of 320, and to be paid
for at the rate of Is. per acre per annum. No person is
allowed to select more than 640 acres. The privileges
of the Bill are extended to persons over 16 years of age,
and the value of improvements is reduced from £1 to
10a. per acre. The mallee country to be divided into
two sections. A fringe or bolt nearest settlement to be
leased in blocks capable of carrying not more than
1000 sheep each, and these lands are to be let to per-
sons willing to purchase a right to lease same after 22
years, and pay rent equal to 81. per annum for each
sheep, the lessee to destroy rabbits and wild dogs.
2
Novembers, 1881,
THE BULLETIN.


w.
HOWARD SMI
LINE OP STEAM
Leave STEUTH'S WHARF, f<
For MELBOURNE,
Every TUES
For BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and ROCK
On TUESDA
PARES and FREIGHTS at Gi
RATES.
W. HOWARD SMI
STEAM TO LONDON-
-1881.
The following Royal Mail Stoat
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIG-*
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SY
mentioned dates, for Melbourne,
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, call
And the service will be maint
steamers at intervals of a fortnight
Saloon passengers homewards m
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goi
steamer within a month; but failin
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guineo
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be gra
For plans and full particulars,
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANI
Joint Managers of the line; or to t
General Manager in Ar
G.
QEIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPRI
Special Arrangements have beer
Veyance of Parcels and small packa:
Steamers to London at reduced rat
2a. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a f
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior
Sailing. All freights payable in S
particulars, apply to
Q. SKELTON YUILI
Manager of Orient
367 George-street, Sydney.
KNOWLEDGE IS P
LATIN, FRENCH, AN
TAU O H
THROUGH CORRESPi
by
OR. RODWAY, M.A
PRINCIPAL OP UNIYERSI
191 WILLIAM SI
SYDNEY.
TERMS, STRICTLY IN
TWO f 2) GUINEAS PE]
FOTt acm anm
An interesting
The quantity of Forei
on in N.S.W. for the Half
392,4271 b.
Of this quantity DIXSON & S
paid on
All the remaining manufacture
cigar makers, and others
DIXSON & SONS’ B 1
f< Yankee Hoodie,” “Conquero:
TPT A. A B~
■ BJ ‘* BOOKSELLER AND
106 ZING STREET
(five doors from pm
Every description of Plain and F
lowest possible pri
WA TRIAL SOLI
gn To
Tear
AGENT for Melbourne AGE
gyd net live stc
Having secured the services of
LAND, well-known in Victoria am
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to ass
all interested in the SALE of FAT
and STATION PROPERTIES, tl
shall be directed to this branch of ■
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite
tical knowledge, attention, and
which have made my Wool and Prc
a success, will entitle me to the c<
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homehush ai
a week; allowances made on all S
tended for sale, and proceeds of sale
a week, or when required on days of
Further information if applied foi
MASON BEOT
•WAROASIEii
14 & 16 S
Sy
Have always in
to the TRAI
SALE BUTE
IBONMONGEI
QENEE.
GLASS
EARTH]
WINES, BEEE
and
BULK ME
JOHN WALI
Old High!
J. SORE
Co
J. T. (
Schnapps
A. MELVI
Edinburj
S-V
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND:GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED .
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Low prii
H. P A I
*
ORE
rootcgy
RES
markup
ALU COOP N
Ts
HERS
ACT
I !v-l POR
HOn
«U
WAh\
••Wv
iisgsi^
ih
Mil
IM
Srw
f y " l **'*iiiim
WtlMIUOlt
mwmviTmwliiTO
*t*'
« I
s
f» ;
CilUlL
iALAEMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
MOW ON! NOW ONI
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you aro about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOB ONE MONTH ONLY.
In the Assigned Estate of G. A. Smith.
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOUNT OF £2OOO.
N order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made up the undermentioned parcels, which will be
found vary cheap, and consist of the following, viz.:—
[registered.]
Gent’s Parcel op Jewellery
For £5.
£ s. d.
1 Silver "Waltham Watch,
guaranteed for 6 yeafs... 215 0
1 Silver Chain, massive,
weighing over loz 012 6
1 Full Suite Gold, consist-
ing of solitaires, 3 studs,
and collar 5tud...,.., 0 12 6
1 Silver Locket 0 5 0
1 Good, Gold Stone Signet
Ring 0 15 0
£5 0 0
Ladies’ Parcel op Jewellery
For £5.
£ s. d.
1 Gold Watch, Hallmarked 2 0 0
1 Gold Albert 1 10 0
1 Colonial Gold Set Brooch
and Earrings.,.,,ls 0
1 Fancy Gold King.,./,0 5 0
£5 0 0
Youth’s Parcel op Jewellery
For £2 10s.
£ s.
1 Silver Geneva Watch,
stamped i 5
1 Silver Albert, heavy, with
key and seal 0 10
1 Silver Full Set Studs,
Collar, &c 0 8
1 Silver Scarf Pin...„., A 0 2
1 Silver Locket 0 5
£2 10 0
In the event of these goods not giving satisfaction, they can be exchanged or the money returned within a month-
EVAN JONES, 9 & 11 HUNTER-ST„
Having purchased the above Estate, all Letters should be addressed, and Post Office Orders madi
payable to him. Sent post free to all parts of the colony. .ggf 88 KING STREET.
HAVE YOU SEEN
HUF TON'S NEW SHOP,
638 GEORGE STREET?
8*
V
A
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
V
WT. 1
: j - * ■ - -‘"‘i
a imim
trJ
St*l DEPARiMM.:
O
MASONIC, BOATING, CRICKETING, AND RACING TROPHIES MANUFACTURED ON
THE PREMISES AT VERT MODERATE TERMS.
DON’T MISTAKE THE ADDRESS—
A. J. HUTTON, 638 GEORGE STREET.
3
Novembers, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Chemists and Dm
/CAUTION. —In our style of
sudden changes of temper
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our chile
relatives are so frequently take
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bo
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a ]
and perhaps death, by the nsi
doses For curing Consumpti
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Crc
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derftd, as your druggist wil
Syrup is now sold in every t<
this continent. Sample botth
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BEOTHEES.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into I
two years ago, where thousands
—and one year in Sydney; and som
of Rheumatism have been onred :
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long stai
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Ai
few minutes.
Several oases of Deafness cored b;
HEAD OFFICE
89 WATERLOO-EOAD, i
and
107 CASTLEEEAQH STEEI
S. W. GAMBLE. Fro
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALI
STREET, SYDNI
MANZANITA PEI
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented f
Thousands of people in Sydney hi
have been cured of Biliousness, Ii
ne js, Sick Headaches, and all com;
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO E
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STR:
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro]
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLE!
PITT STREET, SYI
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOR
INDIGEST]
AND
STOMACH COMPLJ
They are also much recommt
tlvo for Females, being safe, gent
their operation, leaving no disposi
and being free from any tendonc
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOP
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEN
OXFORD STREET ]
J.
S. ABBAHAM’3 PILLS
THE GREAT LIVER E
ind successful substitute for Ci
Podophyllum, and all Noa
Famous as a Restorative to Heal;
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disort
Itomaeh.
Most famous as the Only Tome
Bvoa cold, and
10 most delicate of either ser, 1
taka them.
Be careful not to get 1
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invested and Prepared
J. s. A B E A
At the Laborato;
434 GEORGE STREET,
Business Annonnc
LLeqax.J
SHOETEE, FITZGEEALD
SOLICITOR
09 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary ]
Legal.— Mr. t. m. £
SOLICITOR, haa cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-BTEEET, opposite 1
News Office.
Legal.— n. w. cooke, so
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth >
ADDRESS : 16 Sir John Young’s
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
G.
AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIMI
16 Ebskine Stbe;
Every description of Foreign ai
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Morldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., a*
E. LA]
Wholesale and Re
PEODUCB MEE(
P.
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 Qeorge-street West Gate Par
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near W:
Pure Cape Barley, Feed ant
P. E. LAEK
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
778 and 780 GEORGE STRI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayi
CENTRAL FURNISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos, 29. 31, and
Come and inspect our large S
FURNITURE at lowest prices in tl
WE FURISH HOUSES ox
from £lO to £lOOO, at th
NISHING ARCADE, Nos. 29, 3
street.
CENTRAL FURNISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, an
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call tl
public to their largo and magnific
Household FURNITURE, at pn<
petition. Every article marked in p
carefully packed, and sent to all pai
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
the best makers —Errard, I
time payment. CENTRAL FURN
Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
N
OTICE OF El
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUPAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCRI
and EAETHE3TWA
Beg to knixotmoa that they have
REMOVE]
to
Public Compar
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p(
£1,000,000. Reserve Fum
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J<
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office: 18 King Willis
BLANCHES IN NEW SOB
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bonrke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulb
fell, Gulgoug, Hay, Hill End,
Kompsey, Lambton, Maeloiy,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Eockle
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Te
Frana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburu, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE]
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Bavenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
The mercantile bani
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-np Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Honry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wa Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Ja a. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Georgo-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great £
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent— G. H. Alexandi
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favoui
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other nrodnee shipped to England f
gGOTTISH
IMP EE I A]
COMPANY,
CAPITAL ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWES
NIXON & CO
Chief Agents for N. 5
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
c
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
OENWALL FIEE AND B
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
RESERVE FUND
'
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A, LLOYD A 1
IF you are asked to buy a MA
by “ The Singer Co.,*’ but recc
being on the “ Singer System " or 1
take Punch’s advice to those about
SINGER’S SEWING J
AHE MADE ONLT
The Singer Manufacfcuri:
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, HEW '
Chief Office in Eure
39 FOSTER LANE, ]
Depot for New South '
NO. 1 DARLING STORES, HA]
STDHET.
S
I
N
G
E
it
SINQEE’S SEWING M
HATE
All the Latest Improvi
SINGEE’S SEWING M
FOB
Largest Variety of V
SINGEE’S SEWING M
FOE
Strength and Beauty of
SINGEE’S SEWING M
FOE
Embroidery, Braiding, am
SINGEE’S SEWING M
FOE
Plaiting, Binding, and ]
SINGEE’S SEWING M
FOE
Kilting, Cording, and I
Singer’s Sewing Machines against
all the World’s She
FIRST PLACE 160 T
CAUTION 1 CAUTION 11
Soe that our name and trade-mark
without which none are
Ton per cent, discount
2s. 6d. WEEKLY, 2
From all Agents, am
THE COMPANY’S
No. 1 DARLING ST(
HAEBOUE STEEET
S
INGEE’S SEWING
TUENEE & C
AEE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2a. 6d. per week
And ho ihteeest oh
10 per cent, off for c
BEWARE OF IMIT.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING!
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTO)
SEWING MAOHIIS
HAYMABKE’
Singers Sewing .
i« u w /
4
November 6, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


THE UTOPIA OF THE UNCOMBED.
It was a little before sunset —that witching
hour the uninspired term twilight, and novelists the
gloaming. A pleasant evening it was, too, with the
sky delicately dyed with a purple blush, and a cool wind
tapping and whispering through the city; an evening,
in short, that gladdens the hearts of the Moore Park
frisquette-players, and which, is balm unto the souls of
lingering lovers, as they nestle together on Domain
benches, hand-locked and happy. It was Saturday,
too, and the streets were thronged with a busy, buzzing
multitude, that was pleasant for the student of human
nature to contemplate. We stood in George-street,
hard by the Town-hall, gazing upon the stream of
pedestrians as they passed and repassed. Nearly all
the women carried either babies or baskets, and a
mania for indifferent cheroots seem to have sprung up
amongst the male promenaders. Children were plenti-
ful, and the manner in which most of them drew maps
upon their little countenances with the luscious lolly-
stick, spoke equally to the generosity of their parents,
and to their own budding tastes for geography.
« # #
A few minutes’ contemplation of these people
revealed to us the fact that, though a large number of
persons wore making in the direction of King-street,
the bulk of the multitude was wending its way in the
opposite direction. Having on that day no unusually
heavy cares of State upon our minds, we resolved to let
our bleeding country slide for a brief period, and
journey southwards in search of copy. So, mingling
with the crowd, we put into the spectacular lottery-
uncertain whether it would turn out to be a street-fire
or a dog-fight. # #
On. down Brickfield Hill, where lights are
starting up, one by one. in the shop-windows. On past
the butchers, just tarrying for a glance m the window
of one of them where a newly-mamed couple are
nervously purchasing their first fore-quarter of lamb
and the bridegroom is enquiring of his Angelina what s
the best shop to buy the mint sauce at. There, t(w.
standing by the block, is a stout old lady, who is evi-
draSythinking “ what John would like, and how that
pork disagreed with him last Sunday. That little girl
who has last entered, bearing a nice clean plate in one
hand, and leading “Little Bobby” (who has just
" turned five”) with her other, is the daughter of a super
at the Queens’. Her mother has been dead two years,
and she “ housekeeps ** for the family, which consists
of her father and little Bobby aforesaid. She hasoome
to purchase two pounds of tripe for father s supper.
« Father” will be, by-and-by, draining huge goblets of
nothing with great apparent gusto, and carving away at
a great rate at cardboard capons. He will come home
very tired at about twelve o’clock, when Mary will
have his supper, pining hot, all ready *<>r him, ■ even to
his pint of “ two ales,” and his plug of black tobacco.
All these things the little housekeeper purchases
weekly at the same shops, m order that when father s
taking a drop" she may be able to g«k<
shillings. Sue Is os well known on Brickfield Hill as
the down-trodden orators are at the Bathurst-street
column - and Infinitely better trusted.
• • *
On oast the drapers, where everything is being
sacrificed, “regardless of cost.” Every house has
either just purchased the bankrupt stock of another
draper/ or has that day received “ a large consignment
of goods, purchased on extraordinarily favourable
terms by our home buyer.” Look at the window-
tickets i —“ Usual price, ss. 93. Our price, 3s. 9}d.
“Little Tommy’s suit, 6s. 3d." “ Oh, ma, do buy me
that little jacket, 2s. 7d.” No end to thenovelty and
originality of these announcements. We wonder
whom they are composed by. Nothing under an art-
critic,” we should imagine.
» * •
Once in the “well” ot the Haymarket, the
glories of the “Utopia of the Uncombed” burst upon
our enraptured gaze. There waa the blaze of flaring
lights: the hoarse hum of roaring voices proceeding
from the myriads of moving figures; the waying of
painted banners, and the sheen of numberless canvas
booths. In a lew moments we were on the out-
skirts Of the Elysium, in the midst of an atmosphere of
dust and smoke, and steam, and orange-peel that
seamed to rise like an unsavoury cloud from the earth,
and force the pure evening air away up to the starlit
heavens As this sketch is written for the instruction
at that large section of onr readers who have never
hoard of Sussex-street, and who wonder if tripes
alive, we will state at once that the Saturday saturnalia
we are about to describe is held partly on that block of
land so dear to circus-managers, called the Haymarket
Reserve, and partly in a kind of primitive market,
which comprises three detached sections running par-
allel with one another —one entrance to which faces at.
Francis’ Church, and the other the enclosure we have
allnded to. All this is generally known by the name of
“ Paddy’s Market.” By “ generally,” we, of course,
mean to the lower orders—such as working-men, clerks,
and journalists. As we are aware that the term would be,
in all probability, misunderstood by illustrious indi-
viduals who keep mansions at Darling Point and beer-
shops in Sydney, and ©sthetic “ toffs whose families
« e all on” no one beneath the rank of a greengrocer, we
have ventured in onr heading, to give the place a title
more in accordance with their delicate aspirations,
more in keeping with the elevated souls, their intense
predilections. » * *
At about half-past six o’clock, the ‘‘fun of the
fair” had commenced in real earnest, and the scene was
one singularly fall of grotesque life and perspiring
animation. The various stalls and booths were set up
in ’parallel lines, so as to form little streets, and the
hoarse roar of the various vendors as they proclaimed
the excellence of their wares, or the virtues of their
specifics, mingling with the blare of trumpets, the
clanging of bells, and the thunder of the traffic, com-
bined to make a vacarme sufficient to arouse once more
from his grave the corpse of old Hancock. There
eonld not have been less than three thousand people
present in that enclosure, and the multitude comprised
a very curious social mixture. There were hundreds
upon hundreds of larrikins of both sexes. We have a
male specimen, even now, “ in onr mind s eye, Horatio,
as he stood when leaning against the fence talking to
a female companion. Imagine, bine-eyed and golden-
haired reader, a thin, undorgrown, putty-faced boy of
about 17 years, with a cast of features which is stamped
with every vice depravity is heir to. A face so hideous
in its expressive recklessness of decency and order, so
Clammy with drink, so leering with low cunning, so
sunkon-eyed and beetle-browed; a face, the month of
which is drawn, and the lips white, thin, and cruel, and
the eyes small, sunken, steely and shifting; a counte-
nance, in short, that the Devil might possess and be
ashamed of, so hideous is it in its every lineament. This
head surmounts a body narrow-shonUlerod and spindle-
legged ; a body in garments that are greasy and beer-
stabled, yet lit up with a scrap of green tie, and a dab of
brass pin that gives lo them a kind of jaunty flashness.
Between his black teeth he holds a still blacker pipe,
and as he stands there, smoking his foul tobacco ana
«iaculating his foul epithets, he seems to be a weird
representative of the last stage that degraded manhood
can attain to, before being swept into the hell that
ya whs for him.
' f f t
Hifl companion, strange to say, is a girl of about
15 with remarkably pretty features, a trim little figure,
and abundance of curling chestnut hair. There are,
however, a bold defiant expression on her face, a taw.
driness in her soiled white dress, and an abandon in
her attitude, which stamps her, at once, as alamkmess.
A curious thing about her is that she can’t keep still.
Sometimes sheSplaoes her hands upon her hips, and
balances herself first upon one leg and then upon the
other: at others, she will do a break-down step, and
sing a scrap of one of Maggie Moore's songs, having
previously snatched off her companion’s hat and put it
on top of her own, in order to give more effect to the
impersonation. There were troops and troops of these
girls, whirling and dancing about, and mingled witn
them, quite young children, who seemed to regard tne
lively conduct of their elder sisters with singular com-
plaisance and admiration. An extraordinary part of
the tb in g was that, in many cases, the parents of some
of these grirls were on the spot, and although the con-
duct of the young people was, frequently, of the
most outrageous description, no reproof was, m My
case, administered. On the contrary, the old peop
appeared to consider the indulgence of horse-play and
larrikinism on part of their daughters, as quite a chaste
and natural style of amusement to be indulged m on
Saturday night, when surrounded, in a pubUo en-
closure, by the sweepings of the slums, and the dreg
the right-of-ways.
# * *
The amusements provided were many
ons. There was the “ Miner’s Vision sixpence
(an old friend, this!) and the galvanic battery for a
penny. One little tent advertised a {pur-legged hen a
two-headed calf, a model railway, ana a eift-for six.
pence. Clutching at the idea of amusement, instrac^on
and possibly opulence combined, we had sixMnny-
worth of this exhibition, and were much edified [t
was a diminutive pavilion, with a man outsido eievated
on two gin cases, bailing out the attractions of the
Show. He was a very funny man,
embodving as it did, every circus-olown s wheeze that
Sfbff known since Noah did his (nowhistoric
nitch on Mount Ararat, was fully worth the Pfj ce
nrlmission The exhibition was, all things considered,
chamctor. but it had the advantage
of bfing strictly moral. The gifts were displayed upon
a little hoard, and were presided over by a hoy and gxr .
ThiVpresentaconeisted of two metalwatchesachoice
CMdedto view the show. The four-legged hen was m a
basket by herself, and a first sight appeared to have two
leirs only The boy, however, seeing that we were
IflAnHrad nulled the old bird’s feathers aside and
showed us a lump of claw glued
These were the other two legs. The inroad was oi
tin on a round deal pedestal, and travelled round at a
great rate when poked by the first finger ; and the two-
headed kid was stuffed, thereby losing much of its
natural skittishnass and gaiety. This, and a
alligator, in a high state of polish, comprised the exhi-
hitiom—a show which, however severely .it may be
viewed from a natural historical standpoint, was uu-
donbtedly one which, in the the «J O hSS?S
•< was calculated not to bring a blush to the cnee* oi
the most sensitive maiden.”
« * •
A little further on there waa a pie and coffee
stall, and we U stopped and invested. The pie
fthle though a little greasy as to crust, but the inside
appearedTJhave been manufactured out of some por-
tkmof a cow that had died of a broken-heart. Ihe
coffee, of which we took a big gulp, was also only a
Dartial success. The mixture was very sweet, and
very very frothy. It might have been
wanning—even invigorating—but it wasn t coffee.
S this Palace Hotel there was a little
circus navilion, and we went inside to see what was
going on there. There was the smallest sawduatring
we ever remember seeing, and an orchestra for three
lit by a pair of tallow candles. There was a man fixi g
the canvas opposite the entrance, and we mildly e
nuin* of him if it were a circus. His only reply was
theTangry query, “ Well, what’s the matter with it ?
We aK to assure him that his pavUum was
choicer than Chiarini’s, and more gorgeous than Wil-
son’s when, seizing a big stick, he requested us in
foi-ciWn’nhraseology to clear. Upon which, we retired
precipitately, but we hope gracefully. Near this biPP'c-
paviUon was a table, presided over by (i tall, gaunt.man^
In (he dress of a cook—in which garb he looked like a
chefde cuisine who hart turned chimney-sweep, and then
bod changed his mind and turned cook again. A cake
wdftrbrmdmandidagreatstroke; accounted
Sixteen girls and boys, of all ages. hckl ° g . y
ice off egg-cups around the ginger-beer and ice stall.
• * »
In a conspicuous position was a little monkey,
who was dancing with much effect upon an organ. We
nrosented him with threepence, on which he took off
hiThat and bowed politely. Wo remember going to
chanel not long ago, and presenting the pastor with a
swmng! but he made no acknowledgment whatever.
It’s extraordinary what a lot some people have to learn.
* * *
The principal attraction seemed to us to consist
- Timber of swings and merry-go-rounds. The
former like boats, suspended by ropes from
lormer k , w bicb was turned by a muscular
b,-J™*sto “
ih. .«*.-■—a
Sub-inspector Johnson’s moral pic-mcs down the
harbour. # # #
On the side of the enclosure facing Hay-street,
boiled shirt front, and a. yard M
watch-chain. ?® k _ in^j a da consisted of a number of
«-“»• , contents of which wore warranted
small bottles, the < Jontenrs tion to cancer
ailments, of course.included). This
(both these tnniug comedian, and his “ business
man wa B ‘SrwriorTS of George Leopold.
hold up with a cheerful countenance a win*
Sd C ° C t^
stomach when the organs f e £ h iaT in to the
T . he “’ contents would immediately change to a sub-
looked like mutton broth with a raw egg
which That -he would add, in a sad voice,
beaten up in • betokened gloomy triumph, “ that
are poison y t r w b o had just come out of
asyssgv «■ jtrjx S h .a.r
grandfather. Reject u, « { elQctrioal- The
positively howled for his remedies. Wo won-
der how they felt after them
* * •
A little wav from him was that public character
who Pute up a Betof “fire-proof" gold studs (what-
Bbi ms
sStf-asr-ttarfissisatss
lot to onSS. There was also a man who cured
tnoih ache and one who retailed cement of such a
powerful description, that he warranted it to mend the
morals of a Boxing day Bacchante.
• * *
The more serious portion of the '* Utopia of the
TT nmbed or rather, Paddy’s Market, proper is of
intense—of even fearful interest. Everything exposed
i foVsalo within that trio of arcades is about one-third
[hinrica of the ordinary city tradespeople, and about
the fnJnVth as aood. It is in this market that you see
the geMine £>or of the city. _lt is here you behold
thinly-clad women bargaining for purple bacon
cheese • or trying with their bony and trem.
the texture It childrens’ garments that
have been long worn out. or cheapening dingy gowns of
« laahimi nearly half a century old. Curiously enough,
a fashion e Y starred and anxious expression in
of ill-looking fellows about, it is true, but they had
fdesnite their dirt) a well-fed appearance, and, so far as
L eonid observe, purchased little else (save a rusty
w®l C nr »ol besides beer. But, iuside and outside public-
the being swarmed-fllling himself
* while possibly, his wife (sworn to honour
him' ) was haggling for stale vegetables and staler
W scraps, in the market. Glass and crockery stalls
abound and, while we were standing at one of these, a
woman came up and purchased “ two gobhngs —a cor-
ropTon of her own of the word goblet-and earned
away in triumph two little silvered-glass flower-vases,
wherewith to deck the family mantel.
• * *
The lolly-stalls drove a roaring trade. The way
in which women and children clamoured for crystahzed
tooth-ache was appalling to behold. The stuff was m
lumps, and chunks, and slabs, and blocks. It 'vas bl e,
and green, and red, and brown It was mottled, and
streaky, and speckled, and plaid. And «wM a!l the
same price-9d. per lb. Tobacco .was sd. per Bh. plug.
We purchased a lump of this Virginian weed, and had a
blast at it. Since then our taste for smoking has gone.
There were cheese and butter side by side—the . for ' n
at 8d , the latter at 9d. per lb When we enqurf o
th-; merchant the price of the last-mentioned, we aske
him what farm he got it from, whereupon ho became
nearly as pale with anger as the butter itself. Wa were
much interested in a book-stall, at . w h l ° h also were sohl
such articles of stationery as are prized by theuncombed.
That fearful note-paper, for instance, with the Ji t
scalloped edges, and those envelopes embellished mth
the skewered livers and amly-attired cupids. ie
literature of the market, like its viands, was highly
spiced and strongly flavoured. There was Ainsworth s
" jack Shepard,” with the cover off and a limp paper
wrap substituted, on which the bookseller had mEcntod
in indifferent caligraphy “ Jack Sheperd, the burgle,
price 6d.” Then there was a thrilling romance, entitled
••The Boy Pirates,” the fourth number of whioh ended
as follows “ But Harry, nothing daunted, seized a
boarding pike, and in a voice of scorn bidding the Span-
ish cantoin and his followers to ‘ come on,' placed his
back against the cabin door, whore Seraphina was con-
cealed and To be continued wi our next. As we were
about to leave, two ” tumbled" young women rushedup
and bought a volume of 11 Wedding Bells, and taking
it away some distance sat down together on the shafts
of a vegetable cart, and were soon deep in the adventures
of the Duke and the Baroness.
* * *
Bv the time we turned away to leave the
••Utopia of the Uncombed,” the crowd must have
numbered at least ten thousand, and the noise had
SS in proportion. The army of hucksters,
skittle-men, exhibitors, and others had swelled ala m
ingly. and as each small speculator burned a very big
naptha“mp, the effect of the picture, with its mynads
of flitting forms and changing faces, was, at times, even
Bunematurally grotesque. That this peculiar monu-
ment of peculiar industries is worth a visit, perhaps
this liehtly written little sketch will show. If not, let
one of our Recently decorated legislators-or better
still the courtly member for the Macleay—take a stroll
down There on Saturday night, and make it fashionable.
OUR PRISON SYSTEM.
BY ONE WHO KNOW.
Editorial Note.— One more will complete
this aeries of articles, which was written several weeks
ncrrt Tha writer. Carl Cron quest, a map of excellent
a ln'natirai and a most accomplished linguist, being
master of’numerous languages, living and dead, wason
Friday last arrested on a charge of having forgod the
name of the editor of this iournal to a cheque, which,
beSg a clumsy imitation, was at once refused on being
Presented at the bank. Many a good sermon has been
nraached by a bad priest, and we commend to serious
attention the exceptions taken by Cronquist to points
present woiing system, and to the reflections
which he has written.
THE MEN I MET.
'Foremost among all criminals m this colony,
stands he who—unless Cain also committed adultery
with his brother’s wife—is greater in crime than the
fl rat man-slayer; lie, who, not content with seducing
first man-smyer, and torturing his own
w\t only a true-hearted woman could bear
w thont deadly retaliation, killed his paramour s bus-
band and by threats of another murder, compelled his
own'wife to become an unwilling accomplice in the
? -i Louis Bertrand was, in 1866, convicted of the
4 ftJMr Kinder at North Shore, and was saved
Zfth iwTb/ the cleverness of that clever
advocate MrT Julian Salomons, who not only defended
him with force and eloquence, but, after his client s
conviction, got the case sent to the Privy Council on a
fnohninalitv by which delay the murderer s neck was
saved Bertrand now holds the best billet in Darlmg-
hurst Gaol, and expects to be liberate! shortly upon
Tuition He and I were thrown a good deal together,
and have never exchanged an unfriendly word He is
an artist in more senses than one,—painter, modeller,
sculptor and dentist-and. though his crime was of
detestable kind, yet Idon’tbelieve everything
told oThto in prison. He is not altogether a
human fiend? 1 After a prisoner has been a month in
eaol it is with him an article of faith that when
Bertrand was arrested, a diary was m his possession,
containing a long list of infamies perpetrated by him
in the course of his Sydney professional practice.
Bertrand’s prison life has been varied and curious.
While in Berrima in “ separate, he modelled a small
altar surmounted by exquisite diminutive figures and
out Of part of bis ration bread. It is pretty well
birds, one op but, this notwithstanding,
anvon7canfee th B tTt is a’work of art. When he was
sent to Parramatta, He became insane, and was for two
or three years in the Lunatic Asylum. During his
convalescence he was allowed to roam about free m
fhobnsh aU (Staking sketches, and he now bases his
netitioff«Ub y eration mainly on the fact that he did
not then avail himself of the manifold opportunities
had of making his escape. For the last three
years he has been chief attendant, clerk, and ra kon
superintendent to the hospital, and I believe that
both the doctor and the dispenser have the ut-
most confidence in him. But of course he is not
allowed to handle any drugs, except those given
to him under supervision, to make into pills or black
draughts. He is, further, indulged as no other prisoner
in Darlinghurst ever has been, and is consequently the
obiect of much envy. Being a pretty good painter in
oil and having generally two or throe spare hours
daily the gaol authorities, with the sanction the
Comptroller-General, allow him a special cell, where
ho has all the paraphernalia of an artist 8 studio, and
where B he works away with a will Canvas, paint
brnshes &0.. are. of course, supplied, not by the
authorities! but by his outside friends. He has now on
band about twenty pictures of various sizes, from one
to threo feet, which can hardly fail to bring in a handy
“‘ when he gets out-for, of course, some day
S 1886) he will have to be liborated-if not for their
absolute artistic merit, then at least because of the
prisoner-artist’s notoriety Bertrand has no original
power, bat copies very well indeed.
# # *
A question here arises which is much discussed,
and which I cannot allow to leave unnoticed in con-
nection with my subject. It is this. Is it conceivable
that a crime can be committed which is not adequately
punishedby fifteen years’ actual imprisonment ?
Fifteen years means one-fonrth, or more, of our real
conscious life (leaving; out irresponsible
it is an awful period “ m there. The law of the land
replies strongly that fifteen years is not, and shaU not
ba P the maximum, and so institutes life sentence; hut
think, ye philanthropists who P ride yourselves
dotog the good the Master recommended-I say. tbink
to dwell in “the felons’ home five
thousand four hundred and seventy-eight days, and try
to our rulers (whatever may be the
theoretical) to let that be the practical —.
For surely, if a man be not retormeu
or sufficiently punished then, a few years more won t
bring about a better result There was an old man
senb g into the world again, a few months
been in gaol nearly twenty-two years. He knew no
trade sufficiently well to earn a livelihood outside, and
not strong enough to do ordinary manual labour.
The gaol had taken the gist, marrow, and hope out of
him, and the result was, what might been fore-
seen—he came back again, committed for trml. How
ever, although brought up on more than one charge,
the jury acquitted him. Maisil reweadra.
• * *
I have already said that contamination inces-
fmntlv goes on in Darlinghurst, but it is not an easy
you, who have not the slightest imtion of
what such a place is like, comprehend how it is done.
It is done in the yards during recreation, breakfast,
dinner, and supper hours, Saturday afternoon and Suu-
lt is done at labour in the day, and in the
ceUs at night. The lessons-in many
eagerly demanded—axe for ever being inculcated;
and the language that ia used 1 God help those who
are compelled to touch pitch, for they cannot
help being defiled. And the incongruous assembly into
which a prisoner is thrown is, at first, bewildering. A
set of scoundrels—some of them fairly fit for the
gallows—meet confineee, to all intents and purposes
ignorant of the very initiatory rudiments of crime— men,
who, perhaps, have been led astray by sudden tempta-
tion or who may even be convicts by sheer accident; and
again, others whose offences are of such a description
that I, who don’t profess to be a saint, would rather
undergo "a month solitary" on bread and water
(which certainly is not an over-pleasant retirement)
than eat out of the same dish with them. Yet you are
told in thorough earnest that “you ore all equal
there.” Pah I
♦ * *
There are only about half-a-dozen 11 lifers in
Darlinghurst. The majority of this unhappy class
are incarcerated at Parramatta. In Darlinghurst there
are, Bertrand apart, no life-sentencod prisoners of note,
except, perhaps, the redoubtable ‘‘Doctor" Pearson,
who, as a bushranger, in 1869, shot a constable, ana,
by the influence of his relative, a politician of much
note, now deceased, was saved from the tender mercies
of Jack Ketch. “ Dr. Pearson ” is rather an eccentric
man—ia fact, when suddenly excited, is more than half
mad—and has a good many privileges ;it being a tacit
understanding that “long timers” should not be so
Closely looked after (except as regards their safety) as
those undergotng comparatively short sentences. He
is clerk to the Eoman Catholic priest, and is, I under-
stand, suffering from heart disease.
• • •
We all, I suppose, remember tbe Dibba divorce
case, and how a certain landlord of one of our biggest
hotels got into very hot water by what, in the opinion
of judge and jury, was false swearing. Well, for some
mysterious reason, the doctor has allowed the prisoner
in question to wear his long beard all the time he haa
been in prison. The thieves and forgers are very
jealous of this, and express opinions in strong language
that the making of such an exception is tantamount to
Betting up an aristocracy of guilt. However, I suppose
the doctor has some good reason.
• . •
I met in Darlinghurst men who say they can
split bank-notes, thongh I myself am dubious on that
point, and one of the cleverest forgers in the world,
who is besides a brilliant musician and a skilled
chemist. Drink, sir, drink brought him there, and
drink, I may as well plainly state, directly or indirectly,
brings nine out of ten into gaol. I met there the two
youths who were enticed into the Wantabadgery mur-
ders by the notorious “ Captain Moonlight.” They are
rapidly learning their lessons in crime, and will be full-
blown M.A.’s before the irons are knocked off their
legs. Strange to say, neither of them belonged pre-
viously to the larrikin class, and they would he far
better members of society if they were let out now
than they possibly can be if the gates open for them
seven or eight years hence.
» t »
In prison, as well as out of it, society divides
itself into certain sections where the idiosyncrasy of the
individuals who compose them are distinctly felt.
There is a prison aristocracy as well as a common mob,
and '• too-raggers" (men living on “ a spnd a-day ), and
there is quite as much arrogance occasionally displayed
as I witness daily on the part of those who roll in
their carriages towards the humble menial who opens
the door. The officers have, however, in most instances,
tolerable discrimination. _____
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
Yiotorian speculators are petting a hold of all
ill® best mining properties of Tasmania.
Mining in Launceston must be a good line when
Hales leaves the bank and opens a broker’s office.
A Masonic festival, in connection with the Tas-
manian Benevolent Fund, in Hobart on the 28th mat.
The mining mania in Tasmania continues. It is
scarcely necessary to say that duffer companies and
swindling prospectors are out by the sccie.
Some of the best specimens yet seen of tin are
said to be those brought from the West Coast by Mr.
T. Moore, the prospector employed by the New Norfolk
Prospecting Association.
Captain Fisher, late master of the Tasman (s.s.),
has been presented by the manager and employees of the
Tasmanian S.S. Co. with a handsome testimonial, upon
the occasion of his retiring from the service of the Com-
pany.
The Woodlands Stud Distribution was made at
Hobart on Tuesday last. The original number of shares
was 5000. of which the promoters kept 3000 or more.
Horatio, and the best of the lot, passed into the old
owner’s hands.
Mr. John Swan reports having captured a verit-
able English salmon in the Derwent. Mr. Swan has
continually reported the same item of intelligence for
many seasons past. This, we believe, is the first instance
of a swan catching a salmon.
Edward Lee, aged 74, has been for years living,
hermit fashion, in a hollow gum tree, on Mount
Wellington. Lately he was laid up with rheumatic
gout, and the chance discovery of his queer abode
saved him from death by starvation.
Poole’s Juniors are the favourites for the
•Rowine Club's Trophy. Qnrr and Tevelin pull well.
Bradley and Atkinson represent T. William Thomas.
Jones and Rools commenced pulling on Monday ; they
represent J. Smith and Co. Dix, from the Town Hall,
will be their coxwain.
Visitors to Tasmania this season will find that
their personal comforts haye been amply provided for.
In Hobart, many of the hotelkeepers have renovated and
improved their respective premises; and at the fishing
village of New Norfolk, rival hosts are running a race
for the ultimate approval of the public.
“ Lynx,” the one-eyed, in the Tasmanian Mail
of Ist Oct.’, gives, in his own peculiarly facetious style,
an illustration of the snobbishness which prevails m the
“ Tight Little Island." The picture is too true, and
deeply is it to be regretted that one of the loveliest spots
on the face of the earth is disfigured by the vulgarity of
some of its inhabitants.
Tasmania is fated to be the “ harbour of refuge”
for John Chinamau, as the all other colonies have placed
a tax upon his appearance calculated to restrict, if not
entirely to prevent, his intrusion. Tasmania is open to
him free from any restriction; ergo, so soon as the m-
iTfULsintr discoveries in gold, silver, lead and tin become
known, she will have a full flow of the “ Yellow Agony."
Capt Bergin, of Sentwarden, Macquarie Plains,
Tasmania, has lately brought from Bombay two noted
Arab stallions. Pathfinder and Zaida. Pathfinder is a
high-caste chestnut, aged 10 years; he was imported
direct from Arabia to Bombay. As n racehorse, he was
successful at Mhow and Poona. Zaida is a beautiful
cbesnut, 14.3, rising 5 years, of the purest blood, and
handsome to a fault.
The other night in the House, the Colonial
Treasurer stated that Colonel Angelo, Commandant
and Generallisshno of the combined divisions of North
and South Tasmania, had waited upon him seeking an
increase of salary. “Retro Sathanas 1” replied the
Treasurer; but the Colonel had him, nevertheless, as
he the gallant soldier, polite gentleman, and upholder
of discipline and order, informed the minister that 17
members of Parliament had promised to vote for such
an increase.
Tasmanian Volunteers are crying out that the
Snider weapon, with which they are armed, is not
sufficiently accurate for them. When the Home
Government was asked for Martini-Henrys, the reply
was tha Snider was considered a good enough weapon
for the Volunteers in England, and that surely the
gorgeously arrayed Volunteers of Tasmania might be
content with the same. But tha best contented party
will be the first enemy the British or Colonial Volun-
teer has to fight.
Capt. Underwood lately turned down fourteen
hen pheasants and three cock birds on the mns of
Messrs. Allwright and Sherrm, near New Norfolk. The
game came direct from New Zealand, from a well-
known breeder, whose stock (imported from England m
1878) cannot be surpassed. 'The birds are doing well,
and two have already nested Mr. E. Underwood, of
Quirindi, N.S.W., is, we understand, a cousin of Capt.
5
the bulletin.
jroTomber 5. 1881.


T
HEA T B E
Leasee
Treasurer.,
,M
THIS EVENING,
TO-MORROW EVENING,
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Doc
mence at 8.
VI C T 0 B I A
CASTLEREAGH-SG
opposite St. James’s
Lessee and Manager
D’ARCY REi
has much pleasure in a;
that he has secured at gi
THE MOST NOVEL and V
EXHIBITIOI
DIEECT FROM PARI
“ L’AGIOSCOP
never before exhibited in
and will be produced at ti
on
SATURDAY, Novel
commencing wi
•‘THE PASSION 1
or the LIFE OF Cl
The representation of which, at
caused so great a sensation.
Business Manager,
FAREWELL TOI
GREAT W
PRIOR TO THEIR DEPA&TUI
TREMENDOUS SO
Of our openini
THE HOUSE LAST
PILLED IN EVERY
The Artists, Horses, and Appointm
Pronounced tl
MOST PERFECT EVER 1
FAITHFULLY PRESENTING
As Advertised
50 TALENTED PERFI
of both sexes and different
SUPERIOR ARTISTIC
are
CHEERFULLY ACKNO
by all who have seen them, and
have been justly desc
THRILLING, NOVEL, and I
10 FUNNY CLOT"
The most comical of all Clowns.
“AUGUST THE I
EVERYTHING JUST AS E
OUB PERFORMING ARAB!
surpassing all conceptions of
a
The most wonderfu
BEST TRICK STALLIORS II
Perfect pictures of equine beauty
worth more, than any stud o
forming horses in exi
And only one ticket required
HAYMARKET RES
Open EVERY EVENING, and "
SATURDAY AFTER]
COME EARLY, AND AVOL
PPLICATIONS for Victor
dressed to J. F. Scholer, 107
M
B. AND MRS. ED 1
(LEADING OLD MAN A
Another great succe
ME. AND MRS.
Open at Brisbane, Oi
M
R. and
MRS. W. I
ZULU WAR.
ADDRESS:
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTII
HEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or v
■ * the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPO]
HATMAEKEI (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDRff AND
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES t
the soundness of those principles upon which their business i
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OP THE GREAT PAL
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. W<
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SU
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A 7
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, &c.
DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES & CHILDREN
MANTLES, COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERY, &C.
•• FANCY” GOODS.
YOUTHS’ and MEN’S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have ar
and la lOd per yard. Of the truly splem
there are 2000 yards at 2a per yard ; 2200
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3cs
10s 6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GI
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6i
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS an
it will be long before you forget them. 1
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and !
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH
yard. There is the fashionable SARi
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, n
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours
We have a most efficient DRESSMA,
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly
There are CALICOES in all makes a
FIGURED from s£d; TABLE DAMAS
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at Gd;
Is 3d ; WHITE SHEETING (plain), rati
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TU
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED
and the “RENOWNED VELVET PILE
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. Thi
laced. They are durable and fashionable,
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LAD’
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS an
COSTUMES. There is every sort of sha{
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BEET
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innnmer
There is a continuous stream of Cusk
Boys, and for our well-known cheap an
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, CO!
for men.
And the great point to be observed
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever,
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
/mrr \r v ......
PR O S P E
or THE
CASTLEMATNE BREWER'S
COMPANY, Lis
HAY STREET, S
To be incorporated under the (
Liability Limited to the amo
Capital £65,000 in 65,000 Shares
the present proprietors, M(
Prendergast, will accept 25,0<
in part payment of the purcb
Calls ss. per share on applicatiox
in three months, and the I
after the formation of the (
be taken in the Mcmoran
Association to increase the
provide for the increase of tl
Provisional Diei
The Honorable P. Higgins,
B. Biddulph Henning, Esq
J. B. Bundle, Esq.
G. T. Gedye, Esq. (Hangar
Managing Hire
Mr. Robert Pren
Broker ;
Mr, J. Mullens, 34 Hunter
The Company is formed for the
and carrying on the old and we
of the Castlemaine Brewery in
ness is an exceedingly profitab
object of forming it into a C
Mr. Prendergast, the Managini
of the great pressure on him, i
conduct of the business after he
management, as he proposes to ci
The Property of the Company
hold Estate in Hay-street, witl
Houses, and plant thereon. Th
to Hay-street of 344 feet, and
feet, and is bounded by a lane in
line runs at right-angles to th
ment in Hay-street, a depth of 9
The Buildings are most subi
throughout.
The capacity of the Brewery,
as at present, is equal to an out
per week, which can be increased
a small outlay for additional plat
Additional appliances are bein;
facture of the light and whole
“ Lager Beer.”
The MaMing Houses can ma
bushels of malt per annum and :
materially increases the profits o
The whole Plant contains tin
meuta for utility in manufacture
and is in first-class order througl
The property, as under, has be<
Morell, C.E., of 196 Pitt-street,
Hurham, Public Accountant, of
hers. King-street, and comprises-
Freehold and Manufacturh
Moveable Plant and Rollin
Stock in Store and in eours
Loans secured by Bills of
guaranteed by present
Books Debts guaranteed b;
Good Will of the busines
(valued by Mr. Durhai
The Purchase mony is £60,00
£5OOO of capital, which sum, tog£
standing debts guaranteed,—all
used, —all Beer in t tore and in (
—(all of which are included in
will be ample for all purposes, as
rent sales will at once pass to 1
pany.
The books of Messrs. Fitzgera
the past 11 years have been su
Durham, and his certificate of
will is founded thereon.
The estimated value of the pro]
leaves a large margin on the pur
seeing that the works require
Book debts are guaranteed. A d
property, with the valuations o
Durham, &c., may be seen at the
The profits of the business 1
creasing since its commencemer
Dividend from the start. The
a Dividend of 10 per cent, per am
years, during which time they wi
their 25.000 paid-up shares in 1
EON AND BEASS
• Pitted up witl
Palliasses, Mattresses, 801 l
Sheets, Blankets, Conn
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtai
J. lAWLE
MANUFACTURER AND
608 George-stret
THOMAS WI
ENGINEER & IEONF(
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY
FIRE
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 25th October, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
"J\T OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
■y ’ execute and take delivery of the undermen*
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
No. 1053; H. C. Pape; Portion No. 17; County of
Hardinge, parish of Mayo; 20a.; Application No.
Tingha 359.
No. 1117; John Billin; Portion No. 158; County o
Gough, parish of Herbert; 20a.; Application No. 416
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 25th October, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date,
it will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Bathuest Mining District.
No. 119; F, Boyland and others; Portion No 4 Gt*
County of Bathurst, parish Beneree; 10a.; Application
No. Orange 79-5.
Underwood’s, and the fancy for game fowl appears to
run in the family.
The Prime Minister of the Tight Little Island,
petting tired of politics, talks of resigning the Colonial
Treasurership. Well this has long been expected, the
known proclivities of this glib orator for a Judgeship,
has long led Tasmanians to expect a move in that direc-
tion, and, at length, his wordy and elaborate explana.
tioas will find “ ample scope and verge enough m
Bumming up cases. A Judge's salary will be far more
enjoyable, and the prospective pension more consoling,
than the emolument of Colonial Treasurer, coupled with
the difficulty of, and frequent disturbances in, trying to
govern a “ Coaliton Ministry.”
Rather a novelty to find members of the Civil
Service taking the Executive to task, but we have lived
to see it carried out to the fullest extent in Tasmania.
The Scab Inspector, deeming his services unappreciated
by the Parliament generally and the Executive, writes
them a long and sharply reproving letter, winding up
with the remark that “but for his own indubitable
identity with every phase of the Act and the disease,
the scab would not have been eradicated,” a view of his
merit which Parliament, and the Executive in particu-
lar, *• seems to have lost sight of.”—And so, too, with a
Staff Officer of the Volunteers, He, deeming his salary
of £3OO per annum not in accordance with his meri-
torious services, “ buttonholes ” the members of the
House of Assembly, and being successful in his appeal,
naively requests the Colonial Treasurer to “ put him
down on the Estimates for £5OO yearly,” assuring the
Colonial Treasurer that it would certainly be passed,
as he had secured seventeen members to vote for him—
thus being certain of a majority.
6
November 6.1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Coogeo conceive anything more stupid than to
’Arden your heart against the offer made elsewhere by
Bardie and Gorman of villa sites at Bishonsmount and
Arden Yale? Free trams to the ground,'and refresh-
ments sprouting everywhere, such is the natural fertilif y
of the soil. '
Messrs. Montefiore Stewart and Co., agents for
the famous Hop Bitters, have now made a large and
direct importation of Brooke’s celebrated American
toilet soap, &c.
Cole, of King and Georgo-streeta, has received
his usual large supply of Christmas cards. They sur-
pass, in variety and pattern, anything previously sent
out from London.
The Medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence because it contains more nutritious and flesh-
forming elements than any other beveridge, and is
preferable to be very thick starchy cocoa ordinarily
sold. When you ask for Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, be
sure that you get it, as storekeepers often push imi-
sations for the sake of extra profit.— Adv.
There is one luxury which is used and appreciated
alike by all classes and conditions of men and women*
especially women. To ensure the pure and perfect
enjoyment of this universally need beverage, consumers
should ask their grocers to keep The Calcutta Tea
Association’s Tube Indian Tea. The word Calcutta
occurs several times ou the ornamented wrappers, which
are registered in all the colonies. Beware of counter-
feits. Wholesale Wabehouse, 28 Charlotte Place
Absolutely no connection whatever with any other
packet teas m M.W. Pnr*y, flavour, economy, and
strength guaranteed,—Auv,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Some critics when their pen is wet with ink.
Must raze up at the moon for inspiration;
Some cannot write a sparkling line, they think,
Without the rays of Sol’s illumination.
Some cannot write without a maiden’s smile ;
Some love to gaze on the translucent water ;
But when we’d put forth our most lightsome style.
Our inspiration’s in a glass of porter.
* * * *
The revival of “ Never Too Late to Mend ” at
the Gaiety Theatre, has most certainly been the
theatrical event of the past week. Seldom, if ever, has
the pretty little place been more densely crowded than
on Saturday night, when Mr. Dampier was to resume
his familiar part of Tom Eobinson, and Lily that of
the boy Josephs. The cast was, in many respects, a
strong one, and in all respects a long one, no less than
twenty-five names figuring on the bill. Many of these
gentlemen (the piece has only two female parts in it)
are, it is true, as yet, comparatively unknown in the
theatrical world, but as their appellations looked well
on the programme, and they looked lovely on the stage,
we dare say, that before long, many of them will come
to the fore and electrify the world by their impersona-
tions of Hamlet, King Lear, and other star parts.
« # *
The piece was most elegantly and lavishly
mounted. A cook, who appears in the farm-yard scene,
in the first act (the whole of the set being most real-
istic) was a born comedian. He perched himself all
the while on the top of a dog-kennel, reviewing the
efforts of the performers with a critical eye, now and
anon casting reproachful glances at the great black
dog, which, being a mere groveller, did not enter into
the spirit of the thing at all, but gnawed despondingly
at its rope, and was, generally speaking, a dramatic
failure. The prison scene was capitally done, and would
have been perfect but for the fact of an ordinary
cloud-painted “fly” marring altogether the perspective
of the gaol ceiling. The bush scene was a most elabor.
ate effect, and the slab humpy brought forcibly back
to our memories the good old times when we were
shepherding for a pound a week and our tucker, on the
Mnrrumbidgee, before we became a country editor.
# # #
Taken altogether, the piece was most excellently
acted. Mr. Dampier’s impersonation of Tom Eobinson
is one of those finely intelligent studies for which this
charming actor is renowned. There is no fault to be
found with it. The humour of it was quietly yet
effectually brought out, and the pathos skilfully de-
lineated. Dress, bearing, voice, and gesture—all were
appropriate, all artistic. In short, the thorough artist
was apparent from the rise of the act drop to the fall
of the green baize. By way of making a family par. of
this, we may state that Miss Lily Dampier’s Boy
Josephs is a remarkably touching performance, and in
it were apparent the germs of much natural talent and
a world of careful and patient training. But Miss
Lily should remember that though she is a very
charming young lady herself, Josephs was by no means
a very charming boy, and that, therefore, though the
audience is perfectly willing to listen to her pretty
prattle, and to applaud it, they have before them, not
nearly so much the boy Josephs as Miss Lily Dampier.
• * *
The George Fielding of Mr. A. Boothman, was
a performance which, though meritorious, was by no
means brilliant, since it was lacking in light and shade,
and to some extent, feeble as to grasp. Still, in the
third act, and subsequently, when he had thoroughly
warmed to his work, he became much more effective ;
and it is but fair to him to admit that his efforts were
received by the audience with very distinguished
favour.
# * *
Mr. E. Ftewart made an excellent Peter Crawley,
being effective all through, and Mr. E. Holloway
was satisfactory as John Meadows. Mr. Norman
Vane was entrusted with the part of Sulky Bill, and
his voice and make-up were such as to excite in the breast
of the playgoer more “ astonishment" than “ admira-
tion.” We don’t know which he looked like most—A
Loudon Journal Marquis, disguised as a game-
keeper, or a game-keeper disguised as a London
Journal Marquis.
* * *
Mr. Sam Poole made, aa Jacky, a great hit. If
we are to gauge this gentleman’s powers by his im-
Eersonation of the Aboriginal, we must at once admit
im to bo a low comedian of a very high order. Mr. J.
A. Paterson—who was howled at and hissed all the
time he was on the stage—was capital as the brutal
gaoler, and a turnkey called Fry was excellently played
by Mr. W. G. Leslie. Mr. Emmet enacted the parson
with great core and judgment, dressing the character
with admirable taste, and scoring for a small part a big
success. Mr. J. H. Eainford, as the Jew, Moses
(having “ come out of that hat”), was effective, and the
rest of the male performers worked well together.
# * *
Miss Amis Adfiro played Susan, and certainly
made a very pretty picture. As to her delineation of
the character, however, there is likely to be some dif-
ference of opinion. Miss Adere, to our mind, never
thoroughly entered into the spirit of the part. It is
not that she is devoid of the power of grasping it, but
because the r6le is not a congenial one. It must not
be thought, however, that her performance in any way
mars the success of the piece, because it is not so.
Still, at no time does she sufficiently discard her
identity as to stand before us as the simple yet true-
hearted rustic maiden of the novel. Miss Teresa
Horan played Mary, the servant, and the moment she
appeared on the stage, we experienced a heartfelt wish
to at once engage her. She had only one speech,
that was not even as long as the (now historic) “ hands
but she rang a dinner-bell, in the first act,
with that amount of realism, that several men
in the pit commenced to take of their coats, and
tarn up their sleeves, while an old gentleman
in the front seats took out a large pocket-handkerchief,
laid it across his knees, napkin-fashion, and ran his
eyes over his programme, with great interest, under
the impression, for the moment, that it was a bill of fare
* » •
“ Never Too Late to Mend,” on Saturday night,
invoked an immense amount of enthusiasm, and the
success of the piece was undoubted. The audience
was the largest we have ever seen inside the theatre,
and hundreds were turned away (to their intense dis-
gust), long, long before the performance commenced.
The piece should run, at the very least, a month.
* * * *
To-morrow (Friday) will be the last night of
“ Eureka" at the Eoyal. The piece contains several
strong situations, but requires yet that elaboration
which Mr. Williamson generally devotes to plavs in
which he and his clever wife appear, before it can
obtain a hold upon the public equal to that gained
by “Struck Oil." On Saturday, we are to have
“ Struck Oil’’ for a week, and a good grin is in store for
us in consequence. On the 12th, we believe, “ Patience ”
will bo given by J. C.’s opera company for the
first time in Sydney, and no doubt it will
draw big business. There will be a very strong oast,
including Armss Beaumont, Signor Verdi, Miss
Alice Eees, Miss Fanny Liddiard (our throbbing,
beating, surging hearts be still!). Jack Forde, Major-
General Vernon, et autres. J. C. has spent £1500 to
dress and mount the piece in the correct London style.
So, gentle public, there is a good time coming.
* * * *
M. Leon Caron’s cantata, “Victoria,” was pro-
duced at the Garden Palace, on Saturday last, before
an audience of about 2000. It must have been very
gratifying to M. Caron to see so large an audience
assembled, but that gratification must, however, have
been qualified to some extent by annoyance, at the
comparatively small number of choralists who had pre-
sented themselves. Of the “ 300 trained voices " a
considerable proportion did not turn up. Indeed, there
were so few people in the vast orchestra, that they
looked as if they had been sprinkled out of a pepper
castor. The orchestra, also, was inadequate to do fall
ustioa to the composer's ideas.
• * •
The concert was opened by a grand inter-
national selection, composed by M. Caron, and intro-
ducing the national airs of France, Germany, Austria,
Italy, Eussia, America, Belgium, and England. This
was splendidly played by the orchestra, the chorus
joining in the fin do, “ Enle Britannia."
• * •
The introduction to the cantata is very sweet,
but the oadenxa for the flute might have been better
played. The upper notes were quite husky, and the
intervals were not grasped with due precision. Haw-
ever, the player evidently warmed as the concert pro-
gressed, as no more short-comings were noticeable.
The instrumentation of the cantata throughout is very
grand. M. Caron evidently is a master in the art of
instrumentation ; and in the treatment of the various
movements not only are the harmonies worked up
in most telling sequences, but the distribution of the
parts and phrases among the instruments is managed
with a skill which only a composer who is also an
orchestral conductor can attain. Among the reeds,
the oboe has a very prominent part, and, had it been
played with a little more modulation, the effect would
have been very fine, indeed.
* * #
Miss Annis Montague’s ever sweet voice was at
its best in “ O golden day of glory.” Mias Eva
Davenport, in her solo, “ On thy sweet peace,” took her
lower G with perfect ease. Mr. Turner was in good
voice, and pleased everybody ; but Mr. E. Farley’s “ O
thou whose arm,” which was a splendidly delivered
number, narrowly escaped an encore. Some disappoint-
ment was felt at the chorus. It was not sufficiently
powerful to do the Cantata full justice. The orchestra
also was by no means perfect, and at times evinced a
cheerful independence, which though in keeping with
the character of the Briton, “ who will never, never.”
&c., was hardly so conducive to harmony as would
have been a more controllable style of instrumentalism.
* * *
Several of the choruses were given with great
timidity, the efforts even of Barto. and the Veteran at
the top of the orchestra, being powerless, at times, to
allay the panic which appeared to have seized upon the
ladies and gentlemen of the chorus. The altos, how-
ever, sang out well, especially in the fugue, which
occurs in the Amen chorus. In this movement, they
tike the lead, and it was quite refreshing to hear their
voices ring out so powerfully. The finale, “ With
bounteous hand,” for soprano and tenor, accompanied
with full chorus, was well rendered, and fitly concluded
this really fine composition.
** * *
Georgie Smithson has “ got ’em” at the Queen’s.
Her dramatization of “Bleak House” is not, indeed, a
wonderfully skilful arrangement; but it is equal to
most stage adaptions of Dickens. To any one who had
not read the novel, there would probably be some diffi-
culty in comprehending the thread of the plot as woven
into Georgie’s piece. But then, who has not read "Bleak
House?” The strongest situations have been selected,
and the interest revolves around Lady Dedlock’s
secret, and the crime of Hortense. Business is pro-
vided for “Jo,” who for the first time finds himself so
circumstanced that things wouldn’t go so well without
him.
* * *
Georgie has been fortunate in several respects. In
the first place, she is herself a decided draw in the
character rdle. Alike in the grotesque and in the
pathetic scenes her "Jo” is Dickens’s “Jo.” The bread-
and-butter business with Guster convulsed the house,
and Miss Brown, who sustained the part of Snagsby’s
hysterical hand-maid, made a distinct score. Con-
sidered as a bread-and-butter miss. Miss Brown will not
readily be surpassed. Her bites were of alarming mag.
nitude, and the spectators momentarily expected to see
her, not only “take in" the whole of the provender, but
to gulp Jo himself.
* • •
The other respect in which Georgie was in luck
was that the resources of the Queen’s, as regards
alike scenery and personnel, just suited the requirements
of her piece. There are several palatial “ sets," which
do famously for Krook’s rag and bottle warehouse, and
Snagsby’s House. Mr. Steele, who has re-appeared,
is a capital actor when cast in suitable parts. His
Inspector Bucket was so realistic that apprehension sat
on the countenances 'of half the occupants of the pit;
and every time he came forward a young man with
close-cropped hair involuntarily murmured, "Come,
now, where’s yer warrant ? ” Mr. J. P. O’Neil revelled
in the part of Mr. Guppy, and struck the chords in the
human ’art with a dexterous hand. On the whole,
taken right round, the performance was felicitous;
although we might hint that Lady Dedlock was a woman
who exercised wonderful control over her feelings, and
about the last person to go about sobbing and gasping
at every turn,
# # #
The afterpiece, when Miss Smithson has it all to
herself, will have a more lengthy notice in our next
issue. Wo would suggest that Miss Georgie should
terminate her performances a little earlier; but late as
it was on Tuesday night, so well did the sprightly lady
amuse her audience that it was with difficulty she dis-
missed them.
** * *
Wilson’s Circus opened at the Haymarket on
Wednesday. We are only able this issue to give a few of
the words likely to be used by the evening press:—
Gigantic show—mammoth millionaire, James Wilson-
unrivalled arenic artists—immense stud of gentlemanly
horses —new clowns, also new jokes—shoal of per-
formers—matinde on Saturdav—certain to run for
twelve months in Sydney—big crowd opening nights—
hundreds come down by railway and tram.
** * *
Here are some mems The Cardens are playing
through Victoria, but business is very dull. Mrs.
Patey (Miss Emma Weippert) takes a ben. at Hockens’s
Booms to-night. The following crowd are to appear in
addition to the beneflciareMrs. Bowen, contralto ;
little Miss Miller, serio comique; Mr. Amery, the
eminent basso; Mr. Croker, tenor; Mr. George Bromley,
character vocalist; Mr. Cecil Forrester, the talented
impersonator, in his mimic entertainment; and Mr.
Ireland, solo pianist, and Mrs. Bastow, pianiste. The
Bavarian Keed Band is engaged for the dancing The
“ Ned Kelly” Company, at latest dates, were playing in
the North-Eastern district. G. W. Carey advertises
that ho had no further connection with the show, so we
suppose the ghost is only walking with a crutch.
Beechworth —a Kelly stronghold—was the company’s
last dart. The piece, “Ostracised,” is stated, as a
literary production, to be beneath criticism and
beneath contempt.
** * *
The Turners are gone—without Eva Davenport,
and without Mr. and Mrs. Templeton (Miss Lambert),
and without Madame Ceshinna. There was a bit of a
“ muss ” at the last moment, so far as the fair Eva was
concerned, that young lady requiring more “sug.”
weekly—an extra £3. So Turner wired to Miss
Josephine Deakin, and an arrangement was concluded
with her to fill Miss Davenport’s place in a very few
minutes. Josey is, therefore, by this time, sailing the
ocean blue with the rest of the company, cn route for
Auckland, where they open. Well, here’s luck to
Charles and the fair Annis. May their shadows never
grow less I Hold on, though! Perhaps it would be all
the better if the tuneful couple did get a bit planed
down by sorrow. Wilson Le Contour is with them as
business manager. We fancy we see him now, giving
the Auckland girls a treat—” on the door.”
** * *
On Monday night we went to an Ethopian enter-
tainment in Darlinghurst Hall, given by the Spectre
Minstrels. We never heard ;the Spectre Minstrels
before, and will never hear them again—if we can help
it. The performance was for the benefit of Mr. W.
Eyan, who, the announcement said, “has been seriously
indisposed for the past six months.” We don’t know
who Mr. Kyan is, or what has made him so bad during
that long period, but we’re afraid he must have been lis-
tening to the Spectra Minstrels rehearsing. That would
account for any man’s illness. Anyhow, if he sat out
that ghastly performance the other night, wo shouldn't
be at all surprised to hear of his being altogether beyond
recovery.
** * *
In Melbourne “ The World” is running at the
Eoyal during the race week, Mr. Harkins having cor.
eluded what it would appear was an artistically success-
ful season; though whether financially so, we are
unable to determine. He had a benefit on Friday, the
28 th, and played Dazzle in “ London Assurance,”
Wybart Eeeve and Qreville playing Sir Harcourtard
Middle. Miss Alice Eees and Mdlle. Andree Novaro
also took part in it, and a lot of swells went on supet-
ing.... Hudson has migrated with his crowd to the
Athenaeum Hall, and Wheeler (“old Ben.") has suc-
ceeded him at the Novelty.—Mr. Fred. Maccabo is
drawing full houses at the St. George’s Hall, but the
notice he gets in the Australasian is by no means
remarkable for oleomargarine.—Bandmann, who has
been playing with Miss Beaudet at the Opera House
last Saturday, gets fits. After showering upon
tha fair Louise the rose leaves of exotic criticism, the
writer throws cabbage-stalks at the great Daniel in this
wise : —“ln some of the pieces enumerated, Mr. Band*
mann has also taken part, but as his representations
have done little more than demonstrate a certain
alteration of manner he has acquired since last he was
in Melbourne, there is nothing to commend. Ho has
become more voluble and less distinct, so that you may
follow him in vain with a view to comprehending whai;
he is supposed to convey. The only exception to this
turbulence of utterance has been the character he sus-
tained in the fragmentary drama of “ Tom’s Revenge,”
in which he put some constraint upon his impetuosity,
and so enabled the audience to extract a meaning from
what he said and did.” Unless we are mistaken, blood
and hair will fly over this.
** * *
Grattan Eiggg shows at the Queen’s after the
Georgia o f our souls. “ Shin Pane ” for ever! Murd’n
Oirish. Whoop 1
## # #
Mr. Walter Reynolds, having terminated his
season at the Queen’s, left for Melbourne on Tuesday.
Walter did a good business in York-street, almost res.
taring to the old theatre, its quondam popularity.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
We learn from the Molong Express that a
Mr. Wills is now the proprietor of Miss Clara Stephen-
son and her company, and that he is successfully
working the oracle wherever they go. Where there’s a
Wills, you know, there's a way Maccabe has made a
tremendous success, d ce quil parait, at the St. George's
Hall, Melbourne, and we learn that the fourth week of
the “ Tambour-Major ” imp 3 is announced at the Bijou.
Bandmann has done fairly well at the Opera House, the
draw being, not the moat wonderful tragedian in the
world, but Miss Louise Beaudet. “ Borneo and Juliet,”
did not, however, bring in much coin ; as with Harkins
at the Eoyal, the people are rather satiated with the
legitimate. Tommy Hudson is “in it ” to some tune
at the Novelty Theatre, and it is softly murmured that
the great Emerson is on the way out to join him. That
inimitable nigger, will be received, on his arrival, by
the Sydney public, to whom the name of Emerson is so
familiar, with great rej-oyster-ing A correspondent
write* : —“ In your issue of 15th inst., you say that the
late Mr. Walter Sherwin was the first to play Don
Ccosar in Sydney—you have been misinformed, the late
Mr. John Howson played the Don many years before, at
the old Victoria, his brother Frank, Don Jose, Mrs.
Guerin (now Mrs. E. Stewart), Maritana, and Sara
Flower, Lazarillo. Mr. Sherwin arrived here in con-
junction with Farquharson and Julia Harland (Eng-
lish Opera Company), and made his first appearance
at the the Prince of Wales Theatre, as’ Elvino,
in Sonnambula, about the year 1856 or 1857."
Barry Sullivan opens shortly at Baldwin’s Theatre,
San Francisco. His sou Amory is lessee
The Now York Mirror is rough on Dion Bouoicault,
saying that “ he usually steals his plots from France;
locates them in Ireland ; writes them over in England ;
and produces them in America.” De Lias, of Auck-
land, has engaged Wybert Eeeve for a tour of New
Zealand Polly Leake, a stock actress not unknown to
many of the “ perfesh.,” died at Auckland last' week.
She has not been on the boards for some time past
According to one of the Auckland papers, Harry Sefton
painted some of the scenery for “ Foiled," produced
these the other week by Leake Says a writer in the
Canterbury Times : —“ We are extremely sorry to hear
that Miss Adole has been extremely ill in Auckland.
Her malady was pleurisy, and to such an extent did it
enfeeble her that she was obliged to take a rest during
the Marshall season in the North, and keep to her bed.
The climate proved too much for her, and the doctors
advised her at once to return to Melbourne. We wish
Miss Adele a speedy recovery from her painful affliction,
and will gladly welcome her at a future date, when we
hope to see her in some more prominent position than
she was obliged to occupy under the Carden regime.
She is capable of higher things than playing old
women and filling the merest utility parts.” The
Pomeroy Co. issue an entr’acte called the Pomeroy
Bulletin in New Zealand, and it is said to bejflfnost
atrocious production. It is imagined that the IStometin
was written by a circus super., and printed by dPSoster-
monger Lizzie Morgan has evidently got the
Hokitika (N.Z.) amateurs soft. The other week she
was accorded another “ ben.” by them Louise Pome-
roy’s robe, which she wears in the last act of “ Antony
and Cleopatra ” in New Zealand, cost her £5OO in Mel-
bourne A New Zealand critic wants to know if
“ Holloway wears a breastplate under his clothes in the
last act of ‘ Antony and Cleopatra.' Miss Pomeroy’s fall
is magnificent from the front; but we had rather enjoy
a safe seat there than be Antony in the last scene.
Twelve stone of live woman precipitated on you from a
dais is more than a joke.”... .Thompson’s Diorama showed
six nights to crowded houses at Launceston. The me-
chanist, Mr. Leopold, was well spoken of by the papers.
The English Opera and Pinafore Company are playing
in the Mechanics’ Hall, Launceston, to moderate
houses. They were to visit Hobart on the 31st ult
Herr Francik’s concert at Parramatta,on Thursday even-
ing last week, was one of the most delightful musical
entertainments that the residents of that town have yet
had an opportunity of listening to. In addition to the
beneficiare’s violin playing, the performance of a lady
amateur was a very noteworthy feature. She sang
“ Una Voce” with such charming effect that a repeti-
tion was demanded. This lady possesses a pure and
highly-cultivated mezzo-soprano. We shall be glad to
hear her again A New Zealand tenor, Mr. Arthur
Burrows, nephew of Dr. Burrows, of Dunedin, has
made a highly satisfactory defmtat Vercelli, near Milan,
where he was accorded a most enthusiastic reception.
“La Favorita ” was produced on the occasion, with Mr.
Burrows in the role of Fernando. He has assumed the
high-toned name of Arturo Salvini A woman in the
pit, at the Christchurch (N.Z.) theatre, wanted to know
when Miss Pomeroy was going to sing the “Cockatoo”
song. Fact Miss Leaf benefitted in Wellington,
N.Z., with Cary’s Co. She appeared as Josephine in
“Pinafore,” and Mabel in “The Pirates.” Pollard’s
Juvenile Co. drew large pit and stall audiences at
Dunedin, N.Z W. H. Leake played “ Eiehelieu ’’ and
“Hamlet” during his Auckland season Owing to
De Lias’s terms it is just possible the Pome-
roy Co. will not visit Auckland J. C. Williamson, at
last, has decided to visit Maoriland. Ho opens with a
company of his own, in “ Struck Oil,” at the Princess
Theatre, Dunedin, on Boxing-night; Christchurch to
follow on January 31 E. W. Cary’s Opera Co.’s
second visit to Wellington, N.Z., was not a success, the
proprietor losing £BO. At the later end of the season,
“The Sorcerer” was put on to a big house, but was
laughed off the stage. Barry O’Neil was cast as John
Wellington Wells I Both papers slated the production
unmercifully, which Cary did not like, and on
the last night of the season came before the
footlights and abused his best friends, the local
newspapers. The company afterwards proceeded
to Napier, where they were well received in “The
Pirates.” They have “ Billee Taylor ” in rehearsal
Cary’s “ Pirates” took a lot of coin at Napier, N.Z..!!.!.
Lotti Wilmott, when last heard of, was still at Grey!
mouth, N.Z. The local paper, or rather, the editor there,
is in love with her, for in noticing her lecture on “ Court,
ship and Marriage,” he writes that “ it was alike enter-
taining and instructive, pleasant humour and hard com-
mon sense being large infused into it.” Lotti has, at least,
one admirer Miss Lydia Howards and Miss Jenny
Nye had a joint ‘ben.” the other week at Napier,
N.Z Louise Pomeroy Co. did well at Christchurch
Theatre Eoyal, N.Z. The season was to terminate on
Oct. 21th, Bent and Batchelder’s Minstrels opening on
the following night, remaining till Nov. 4th, after which
Towles Amateur Opera Class was to play during the race
week in “ Madame Angot ” and “ Les Cloches.” In the
former Solange Navaro (Miss Digby) was to appear as
Lange, Mrs. Hooper (Bessie Vivian) as Clairette, Mr.
Fox as Ange Pitou, Mr. Monk as Larivaudiere, Mr.
Newman as Trenitz. Musgrove would not allow the
class to play “ Madame Favart," as intended, unless it
chose to buy it outright A (susceptible) corres-
pondent writes as follows:—" Maggie Oliver has been
resting a week in Brisbane, en route for Sydney. She
has a multitude of friends. Her plain, blunt, good-
nature —unobtrusive genuine sympathy—and a ‘ too-
a wfully- jolly-altogetherishness,* make Maggie a favour-
ite wherever she goes." We were that way, ourselves,
once Writes a N.Z. journal of Cary’s Com-
pany “ The ‘ Pirates of Penzance ’ now runs
with the smoothness of a millpond and the
sparkling ripple of a purling brook.” So does
treacle.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Sir Arthur Gordon’s return to N.Z. was quita
unexpected. He was not sent for.
Teloptosio exchanges are now in full working
order in the principal N.Z. towns.
A deaf and dumb man, with several aliases, was
committed for trial at Dunedin, N.Z., ou two charges
of forgery.
The “ accidently drowned ” of New Sonib
Wales, last year, score up a total of 173. In most cares—
‘ couldn’t swim a stroke.”
Mr. John Heriott, manager of the Wodonga
branch of the Bank of Now South Wales, was drowned
on the 2nd inst., at Wodonga.
The foundation-stone of the Freethought
Lyceum, Dunedin, N.Z., was laid with great ceremony.
Mr. E. Stout delivered an address.
The Bathurst Industrial Exhibition was opened
on Wednesday, and was a success. 4000 present. Big
row, however. Mayor not invited.
The boiler-plates of the Victorian ironclad, Cer-
berus, in imitation of the alas I — historic railway
tiros, have worn down from Jth to |th inch.
The “ Sacred Ibis,” a well-known political char-
acter in Queensland, has been declared insolvent. His
seat in Parliament consequently becomes vacant.
The case of the Municipal Council of Sydney v.
M'Beath, late City Architect, re the Town Hall founda-
tions, is now before the Supreme Court, in the shape of
a civil action. The claim against David is for £20,000.
Another tramway accident has occurred in
Dunedin, N.Z. A schoolboy named Adams was ** lark,
ing ”on the car standing at the Botanical Gardens. Ha
was told to jump off, and in doing so tore the flesh of
his leg.
The Orange Slaughtering and Freezing Com-
K undertake to deliver to any address in the United
dom, a frozen sheep, weighing not less than 56
pounds, on prepayment of the sum of 355. at the Com-
pany’s offices in Orange.
Eight on to the Illawarra Railway line, and
straight opposite the proposed station, Batt, Eodd, and
Purves sell the Forest Bond Estate, Gannon’s Forest,
on the 12th November. This is the. locality of big im-
provements for the next two years.
Startling disclosures are being made before the
Board respecting the infamous treatment of persona
recently imprisoned at the Quarantine Ground. Wa
have good authority for saying that the statements
made by Dr. Clune and others are being fully borne out
at the official enquiry.
At a general meeting of the Christchurch (N. Z.)
Industrial Association, a resolution was carried con-
demning the action of the committee in deciding to
support Messrs. Joubert and Twopenny, of Adelaide, in
their projected Industrial Exhibition. Both morning
papers also strongly condemn the action of the Asso-
ciation.
The proprietress of Tattersall’s Hotel, Orange,
(who, wo may state for the information of enterprising
readers, is a widow), held Zulu in the Sydney Tatter
sail’s big Cup Sweep, and clears £3BOO by the spec. A
brother of Mr. Buist, the tobacconist, had The Czar,
and landed £l6OO. A poor man in a Qeorge-street hard-
ware house gets £BOO with Sweetmeat.
A youth named James Deane, a patient in the
Melbourne Hospital, left that institution in a state of
somnambulism one night last week. He was clad only
in a nightgown, and had frightened several policemen.
He was, however, arrested by one more courageous
than the rest. He was in a sound slumber, though
walking fast at the time. When awakened, he said be
thought he was going on a message.
In a pamphlet just issued, the Rev. Tenison-
Woods writes of the Wilde Eiver (N. Q) tract:—
“ Taking all the appearances together, there can be no
doubt of the immense value and importance of this
mineral country. It may truly be called the Cornwall
of Australia, and there are no metallic lodes on the
Continent which can be at all compared with those of
the Wilde Eiver and western side of the range."
Two New Zealand detectives were about to
arrest a man. They were without a warrant, and their
quarry was in a restaurant. They were non-plussed.
Strategy was resorted to. Entering the restaurant,
they engaged him in conversation, and then decoying
him outside, pounced on him. When brought before
the Court, the prisoner was discharged. His arrest was
declared to be illegal, he having virtually been taken
into custody while in the restaurant.
Rolling Stone, otherwise King Tom, of the
Mount Fyans (Vie.) tribe, is dead. He was supposed
to be 90, and his death is attributed to the natural
decay of old age. He was of late so feeble that he had
to be attended by Eobin Hood, the last of his vassals—
one of a once numerous retinue. Owing to some dis-
agreement recently, between the two old men. King Tom
imperiously and royally pushed his one subject into a
waterhole, and thereby drownel him ; so that, with
the death of H.E.H. Bolling Stone, the tribe is now
extinct.
A case of a highly sensational character, which
has occupied the undivided attention of all the scandal-
mongers and young scapegraces in a certain town not a
hundred miles from Sydney, for a fortnight past, was
judiciously settled out of Court on Monday. If it had
come off, matters would have been very warm for four
local well-to-do tradesmen (three of them married), an
alderman, a municipal hack, a timber merchant, two
Government clerks, an undertaker, a distinguished
foreigner, a local bank clerk, a billiard marker, and
others. Just when the whole dirty public were on the
tip-toe of gloating expectation, however, this novel
joint stock company clubbed up and paid “ her" £5O.
Certainly not the least sensational among our
local tales of the sea is that of the hapless ocean-waifs
of the Glimpse. Our seaboard is rapidly acquiring an
unenviable notoriety for this sort of thing, and tho
already published details of this case were ali that was
wanting to lend ihe requisite soupqon of horror to the
too-familiar recital. The sufferings of the crew in their
frail boat, subsisting on their slender provision of raw
potatoes, the want of water, their utter helplessness,
and the death of the captain’s son, are incidents that
tell their own tale. The boy was a true child of the
sea. Ambitious to feel a gale, ho obtained hisfwish to
the full; and as his father, in the bows of the boat
which boro them away from the ruined vessel, shaped
its course in search of succour or laud, the remains of
the son were quietly and seeretly let into the water
from the stern. It is a sad story. But the worst,
fortunately, did not transpire. Every credit is due to
the watchfulness of the officers in charge of the Coonan-
barra, to whose vigilonce and subsequent judicious
kindness the survival of the rest is fairly attributable.
7
November 5, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


PEPPER AND SALT.
’Twas abont the hour when graveyards gape
when the hired girl from an opposite honse rushed into
the hotel of a well-known, tuneful, suburban Boniface,
and informed him that Mrs. , across the road, “was
very ill, and all of a shiver,” The kind-hearted publi-
can at once heated three bricks to a red heat, wrapped
them up in flannel, and told the girl to put them to her
mistress’s feet, and give her a hot drink. It was now
12 30 a.m., and the terrified girl had barely struck the
pavement when the officious Sergeant Shopem imme-
diately pounced upon her; and as the ecstatic bliss of a
big conviction flashed across his raptured gaze, he
seized the parcel, tore oil the cover—and dropped the
contents with a judicious celerity remarkable in one
so young and lovely. The “jug” wasn’t captured that
time; and as the “ foorce ” slunk away, the landlord
bobl>ed out of the top story window and sang “ Not
for Joe” with a vim that brought roars of applause
from all around —bar one, Ta-ran-ta-rah!
* * #
A Mudgee alderman in giving evidence on a
recent libel ease swore he once drank 80 glasses in one
day, and was afterwards able to “ walk a chalk” as
straight as Blondin. How about stoning the false pro-
phets ? Out of the seven crack “ tipsters” only one (Cas-
pian) spotted Darebin, —and even then we are afraid he
“ fluked” it. Neither Santa Clans (2), nor Commotion
(3) were mentioned. The God of Sleep had them all by
the “ wool” this time. We dreamt the Maribymong had
been won by Segenhoe, and the Derby by Darebin —but
this happened on the following Sunday morning.
• * *
Listening to the Hon. W. B. Dailey’s remarks
about the grand old cathedrals of Catholic Spain the
other night, we were sorely puzzled to know how such
colossal structures were raised during the 15th century.
Dan O’Connor, however, solved the mystery by in-
forming ns that the Spaniards used to pass round the
hat at both their services, and a Spanish hat when in
health will hold as much as a three-bushel bag—or a
Mudgee alderman.
» * «
For buying a half-pint of castor-oil from a Boy-
cotted storekeeper, an Irish farmer was made to swallow
it himself, though he wanted it for a sick cow. Next
day, to be even with the Leaguers, he bought a bottle
of Boss’s whiskey for the same purpose, but the
Leaguers were a tender-hearted set, and on this occa-
sion did the drinking part themselves. They said he
shouldn’t mix.
• • •
Some people howl abont the “ hard times” over
here, and vet if any respectable person likes to tramp
along Cleveland-street, Surry Hills, he can reach a
loaf of bread from the first window-sill he comes to,
and a jug of Kiama milk from the next one. Further-
more, if he looks behind the doors of some pubs, in
Woolloomooloo he will find a pint of beer —or perhaps a
policeman.
# • •
The Goulbnm Penny Post is launching out to
finch an extent.that it ought to fetch a few millions
The Post has a poet writing for it now, who is most
certainly either Longfellow or Gnbbins. We are rather
inclined to think it is Gubbins, for he signs G. G,. and
dates from Qininderra. He is a bard of the “ intense ”
school, anyhow, and he calls his poem “ The Drunk-
ard’s Pate.” Mark how he tackles his subject—what
eloquence, what fire is there: —
*• My form, onoe strong, is now a wreck;
My senses they are uumb;
And still I bow, an unwilling slave.
To that thrice-cursed demon, rum.”
Poor fellow, we are quite sorry for him; but onr
sympathy with him would be greater still it the rum,
with which he acknowledges having filled himself, had
not flowed over into his poetry.
* ♦ #
The Black Horse Hotel, at Richmond, is the
oldest licensed honse in Australia. It was first opened
by Paul Bandall in 1817, and remained in the possession
of the family for sixty years. It is a well-conducted
house. These facts are by way of introduction to a
calculation. Say that on an average 20 persons visited
the bouse daily, and absorbed 4 nobblers each. This
would give a total for the fit years of abont 1,625,600
nobblers, at a cost of 4,876,800 pence. Bnt the pro-
prietors lost heavily. Their dart was a picnic ground
adjoining the hotel. The result then would have
stood:—Four picnics a year, with 1500 larrikins and
1000 larrikinesBes present. Average absorption each
day of the gentlemen, 20 nobblers—total for the 64
years, 7,680,000 nobblers; average absorption each day
of the ladies, 10 nobblers—representing a total of
2,680,000 for the period. The grand total on the picnic
score would be 10,240,000 nobblers, which, with the
ordinary trade, would have amounted to 11,865,600
drinks. These figures do not, of course, include what
would be consumed by policemen and bandsmen pri*
vately.
m » m
“ lanthe ” sends ns some poetry, and a sugges-
tion that the name of the colony should be changed.
He says, “ If Britannia were so called as being the land
of tin, why not call this colony Botannia, as the land
of flowers P ” The suggestion is good, for Botannia is
really a very pretty name, and we’ll speak to Parkes
about it the next time he drops in. So that’s all right,
Arthur—“ lanthe," wo mean. But we cannot publish
your poetry, old fellow; it is not devoid of merit, but
there’s too much “ All hail! ” about it. If we were to
fill the paper with
“ Botannia 1 all hail!
Hail, all hail, Botannia I
Firstling of Australia!
Princess of Britannia I
All Hail!”
our subscribers might grumble. Putting “ Hail! All
hail! ” in every line was no doubt a very brilliant and
original idea when it was introduced by the first man
who wrote poetry; but he died in the year 4004 n.c.,
and as every poet since has dragged it in, the “All
hail!" business is not new now.
• * •
About the most interesting and valuable page
in our very weekly journals here, is that dedicated to
the “ Answers to Correspondents.” For instance, we
clip this lot from a recent number“ An Admirer ”
asks—" If A, B, C, and D play euchre, and A deals and
turns down clubs, B makes it hearts, C and D go alone,
and B, having a flush, counts 4, what is the best thing
for C to do? Answer: Advertise in our columns
for seven years, and rub the dog three times a day with
a solution of kerosene oil, coal tar, boiled dynamite,
and Lowland Ointment. You must, however, remain
on the selection for twelve months, but the only reli-
able plan to remove bunions is to boil the feet in a soap-
maker’s vat for half an hour, and then apply ice-cream
and bruised oyster-shells to the parts affected. Also
advertise in our columns regularly, and, in oases where
the Postmaster refuses to give up a boot trunk, we have
often found it beneficial to place mustard poultices be-
hind his ears, and advertise in this journal; or soak
the mule’s head in a Corporation sewer, and if the
inside is out of order, use one of Eansomo and Sim’s
improved turnover hay-rakes.” Any admirer who
wants “ more” after chat dose must be a glutton.
* * •
The other day, at a Rockhampton (Q.) ball a
young blood kissed another fellow’s girl, and so was
incontinently hooted ont of the ball-room. Then he
went quietly home, and told his mother. She rubbed
him with nine oils, tacked a new seat into his pants,
and wept over him. Then sho whispered in his ear,
and, filling his pockets with shot, bade him go and wipe
out the stain upon the family escutcheon. So he re-
turned to the scenes of dazzling light, and, promising
amendment, he was allowed in. Supper occurred just
then, and while the rush was on, he sowed his shot like
barley-seed all over the floor. Then, seating himself
on a rent seat, he calmly awaited the after-supper
galop. The musicians were rather late resuming
their seats, so there was a tremendous muster when
the “Blue Danube” was at length struck up. . . .
By the time the music ceased, there were three sprained
ankles, the bark was off innumerable noses, and in the
centre of the room lay a fine sample of the Eockhamp-
ton aristocracy. That night the evicted guest took
home to his family 15 fans, 7 satin shoes, 4 garters, 75
yards ot ruffling, 10 silver bangles, and enough hair-
pins to make a mile and a half of tram line. He is now
studying for the Church.
* * *
We drop a tear upon the slip as we are writing
this. The editor of the Cobar and Louth Herald has
resigned his post to another Junius. His valedictory
par. is one of the sweetest things we have seen in
journalism since the D. T.’s South Sea Island Commis-
sioner startled the world with his weird and wondrous
tales of savages and
slaughter. Here it is in
full. To mutilate it
would be sacrilege; to
eliminate it, a sin;—
“ The editor of this paper
since its first issue now
retires from office, and
will be succeeded therein
by a gentleman who
brings with him warm
recommendations. A s
some introduction to onr
readers, our successor
has kindly supplied this
day’s report of the police
cases. The retirer re-
quests for his successor
all that generous assist-
ance hitherto so freely
accorded by the public to
himself." We wonder
what the retirer is going
to edit now ? By his
style, we should imagine
a dead-house.
* » •
A man advertised in
last Saturday’s Evening
News for “a second-hand
Secretary.” We know
where he could have been
accommodated with’a
second-hand coffin!
* # #
The Singleton cor-
respondent of the Illus-
TBATED AND MUSICAL
Alfred must be, to say
the least, indiscreet. On
Saturday last he sent
down the following wire:
”T A cricket match takes
place to-day between 11
cricketers and a number
of members of the Dra-
matic Club. The dra-
matists (sio) are to play
111 costume, and embrace
a Turkish peasant female
character." Anice thing
it is for a man to show
up his town in this way 1
We can easily imagine
what kind of a " char-
acter” the Turkish pea-
sant female must be to
And U if tk fhfr,^ en embra u °e her. It's really scandalous 1
what thev u° bad as this in Singleton, think
what they must be here with an our churches 1
Lie back for a yell. He was a young Barcoo
savage; but though, his polite education had been
neglected, he was worth something over £100,000. One
afternoon lately, when on a visit to Sydney, he was
invited to a small garden party. He wandered about
the grounds for a bit, and sat himself down upon a seat
in a secluded alley. Presently a pretty girl in a bergere
costume came tripping along all by herself. As she
passed he called out, “ Hi, young 'un! come here.”
“ How dare you address me, you rude fellow,” she cried,
and flounced contemptuously away. After a bit, when
she had heard who he was, she tripped back again, and,
going up to the seat whore he was discontentedly suck-
ing away at a very short pipe, she said, with a sweet
smile, “Ton must excuse me, Mr. Woolpack, I did not
know who you were just now.” “ I was mistaken, too,”
he growled. “I thought you were Tom Bartlett’s
cook. Ton‘re awfully like her."
* * •
Temperance Concert at Protestant Hall. Bro.
A (in the chair), loq. : “ The next on the pro-
gramme, ladies an’ gentlemen, will be a duett on the
planner forty— ‘ Slee bells.’ ” “ What’s that P" growled
a rival brother, also prominent, and also on the plat-
form. Here, now, was the time lo put him down.
Raising his hand so as to restrain the ardent duellist, he
said, with a smile of calm superiority, “ Brother Eanti-
polo asks me what I mean by Slee Bells. I may
inform the worthy brother that the word is spelt S-l-e-i-
--g-h. He will know how to pronounce it another time.”
Then to the performers, “ Now, gals, toon up."
• ♦ •
There was a Broughton Creek young man.
That loved a pretty maid;
And oft he did walk out with her.
In raiment gay arrayed.
He played without her house one night
Sofc tunes upon a lute.
“ Oh, come,” he sang; and quick there came—
Her daddy’s hobnailed boot.
• * *
Two Saturdays ago the Middle Head heroes had
a go-as-you-please tournament, and it was won by an
Irishman. Directly the news reached Pastor Allen, he
was heard to mutter something about “ bearding the
Pontiff in his Roman lair,” and shortly afterwards
commenced to rapidly
write an article, headed
—“ The Influence of the-
Jesuits brought to bear
on the Military.—An-
other dastardly Papal
plot.” This par. will
give the Protestant
Potterer people the cue
to jam in a pica howl la
belled “Danger threatens.
To arms 1'
* # *
A Candelo man came
down to Sydney recently,
with the wife of his bo-
som, and one day, when
she went off shopping, he
went “en a bust." He
came home after three
days (during which time
she had been a regular
attendant at the dead-
house in the morning,
and a regular attendant
at the theatre in the
evening). “Where have
you been, Rhehoboam ?”
she said, threateningly,
when he at length re-
turned.“Bishnessh shim-
portensh, up linsh,” he
replied. Then sitting him
down in a chair, she
commenced to search
him. All went well until
the sixth pocket, when
she found a conversation
lozenge, upon which was
inscribed in carmine
capitals, “Yon may kiss
me.” The next day a
doctor was attending him
for a contused counte-
nance, and Wigzell was
busy manufacturing him
a head of hair.
* * *
The Grafton post-
men are so smart at
delivering letters that an
idea has got abroad that
whenever they meet on
the road, they repeat to
each other the first
volume of the “Rise and
Fall of the Roman Empire," and get up a smoking
tournament between the chapters. A testimonial from
the leading residents will shortly be got up for the
letter carriers; but we are unable to definitely state,
in this issue, * hether it will take the form of a fly-
blister or a mule.
# # *
When Ninny (who is the coally ladies’ darling)
was driving with the Ministerial party into Lamhton,
the other day, a number of bouquets were thrown into
the carriage. 11 What lovely flowers,” said Parkes ;
“ you’re in luck, Melville.” 11 They’re well enough,” re-
plied the hon. member for Northumberland. Then he
added gloomily, ‘‘l wish, in thunder, they were cauli-
flowers.” And filling his pipe with a bit of tobacco
borrowed from the Mayor, he sighed, and spoke no
more.
# # #
The members of a certain total abstinence
society, up West, invited the local C.E. minister to
preach a sermon suitable to the furtherance of their
views, and the enlistment of fresh soldiers in the army
of the “ Water King.” Ho consented. The day came,
and the members,with their friends (probably recruits),
mustered in great force to listen to the oracle. But,
lo ! consternation reigned in the camp, for he who had
been brought to bless, cursed. Speaking feelingly, he
recommended his hearers to take daily :—Firstly, one
glass of beer before dinner; secondly, two ditto after
dinner; thirdly, and lastly, above all things, to avoid
drinking water neat, but to invariably mix it with
brandy! The local brewer and publicans are contem-
plating a testimonial,
* * *
The Mudgee Independent calls Sydney
Punch ** a respectable journal." This is cruel. Nay,
it is more than cruel —it’s brutal.
* * •
The other day anew arrival from the land of
cakes entered a well-known establishment in this city,
seeking employment. Ho asked one of the foremen if
he could be “ taken on," and was informed that only a
few days previous they had discharged several of their
men, and it would be impossible to give him work.
Not content with this, however, he asked to see the
manager, and was shown into the office of that gentle-
man. After the usual preliminaries, the manager
asked him it he was a mechanic “No, sir," he replied
“I’m no a mechanic. I’m a Mac Duigal.’’ He got
employment.
We are by no means rabid admirers of the Hon.
John Davies, Esq., C.M.G., I.O.G.T., C.P.D., &c. &c.,
but at the same time we will shed our heart’s goriest
gore before we will stand passively by and see him in-
sulted. In describing the mad revelry of the recent
Eandwiek Band of Hope “corroboree,” the Morning
Twaddlkgbaph first grossly insults Exhibition John by
alluding to him in a blasphemous, off-hand sort of way
as “ Mr. Davies,” and then at the finish it rubs the
indignity in, as it were, by saying, “At the conclusion
ot the performance, Mr. S. H. Pearce moved, and Mr.
George Eenwick seconded, a vote of thanks to Daviesj
which was carried by acclamation.” Davies ! Gran
Dio! To speak of the Lord’s anointed— of the man who
patronised “ them Princes thussly I
* * *
“ Mrs. Doyle (proprietress of the Carcoar
Chronicle), with meritorious energy and hardihood,
rode through the pouring rain on Monday alone (but
not uncared for), from Carcoar to Mount M'Donald
and back, something like fifty-two miles, upon business
in connection with the Mount M'Donald Miner, which
she establishes this week. May fortune reward the
brave, and bedeck her with a Garland.—Co wra
Something.
Among the minor poets of Scotland was one
named Peter Livingstone, who some years ago wrote a
piece called “'rhe Anld Kirkyard," of which one verse
is as follows :—
Grim death comes fast upon us
And taks baith ane and a*.
He flies about on fiery wing
And tears our freens awa’.
The father and the mither dee.
The bairnie is aae spared.
Folks are freed frae a’ their sorrow
In the auld kirkyard.
In a late issue of the Monaro Mercury, a poet called
“Uncle Sandy” wrote a piece on “The Cemetery of
the Church of England, Gegedzerick," of which one
verse is as follows :—
“Cold death comes just upon ns.
And strikes down great and small.
On fiery wings he flies about
And takes neighbours, friends, and all.
The children and the mother dies
And the baby, too, lie still;
They are freed from all their sorrows.
In the graveyard on the hill.”
Now, we cannot say that these pieces are just alike,
because the first is fair poetry, while the second is
not; but still there is a similarity. We won’t say
“ Uncle Sandy ” has plagiarised, but merely remark
how strange it is that Peter Livingstone should have
imitated him beforehand !
# # #
A few Sunday evenings ago, a little church,
situate in the sylvan precincts of Surry Hills, was the
scene of a pleasant little series of incidents, which
deserve to be chronicled, if only on account of the
lovely little moral which is pointed by them to the
ungodly. It was seven o’clock in the evening. The
congregation was assembled, and the last crash of the
voluntary had resounded through the building, but no
minister had turned up. After a lapse of about two
minutes (the solemn silence of which was only broken
by a sound like unto the cracking of a nut, which pro-
ceeded from the free seats) the organist, tipping the
whistle to the blower, launched out upon an original'
composition. It was an opportunity he had long waited
for, so chuckling behind his curtain he polled out all
the stops, and sent such a roar out of the instrument
that all the people on the opposite side of the street
put their heads out of their windows, under the im-
pression that Wilson’s circus procession was in the
next street. The effect of this work on the waiting
congregation was peculiar. Some of the younger
members of both sexes left hurriedly, and pairing off
proceeded to pray in the Domain. Others hung about
the church door, and diverted their thoughts from
worldly matters by discussing the chances of Somerset
and Spinningdale for the Melbourne Derby, Inside,
those who could easily dispose themselves to slumber
did so, while many of the adults whom Morpheus
declined to comfort scribbled in their bibles, pared their
nails, or pursued such scraps of the daily journals as
they might happen to have about them. The free seats
made the best of the situation, and undeterred by the
volleying and thundering of the organ got up raffles for
small articles, and “ showed” coin of the realm (odd
man out) for half-pence. The quarter rang out, but
still no sign of the parson. ’Twas then that the eon-
I'm an-only daughter young girl,
A spit-curls-and-frizzes young girl,
A languishing, dainty, all-powder-and-painty,
Sit-np-till eleven young girl.
I’m a would-be-SBBthetic young girl,
A dote-on-the-orts young girl.
A poet-in-embryo, don’t-know-a-thing-you-know,
AU-on-tho-surface young girl,
I’m a novel-reading young girl,
A lie-awake-till-three young girl,
A romantic, half-craay, but terribly lazy,
Lct-ma-do-the-work young girl.
AT THE POLICE COURT.
[A MISUNDERSTANDING.]
“ How do yon plead ?” the Justice said,
The prisoner he hung his head.
Said “ Guilty j"—then his nose did rub.
“ Confound you 1” roared his lawyer; “ why
There is a tip top alibi
Brim full of swearing at the pub.”
Mr. Smiff has asked for a Present Suitable for a Lady.
DRAPER'S ASSISTANT: “Yes, sir. We have some charming costumes in Zoulou
vigogne; or perhaps you would like one of our Souwaraff mantles, trimmed with
jetted passementeries. Drap d’ete in apricot is much admired by the fair partineuses;
or a jacket of cream damaase, opening en chale with a jabot of coquille lace, and
trimmed-” Mr. Smiff says he thinks so too, and makes a frantic rush to the
nearest greengrocer’s to buy a fig leaf.
“The rev. gentleman was then pre-
sented with a tea and coffee service, in
recognition of his fifty years’ service in
the vineyard.”— Country Telegram.
C.M.G.
When I was a lad, I served a term.
At blowing the bellows for a blacksmith’s firm.
That blacksmith’s bellows so well I blew.
That afterwards they let me have a horse to shoe,
And I shod that animal so carefullee.
That I felt I really ought to be a C.M.G.
Of rum and brandy I ne’er did sup.
And Walker whisky, of course, gave up,
I never drank anything stronger than tea.
So they naturally thought I’d make a good J.P.
And this high office so suited me.
That I couldn’t rest till I became a C.M.G.
But I found that then beyond my grip.
So I sought employment as a Government whip;
To any little game myself I'd lend.
And I looked all around for a powerful friend,
I found what I wanted in Sir Eneree,
And I saw in dim futurity my C.M.G.
I knew that ability so vast as mine
Required more space in which to shine.
With pride my bosom seemed to swell.
And I cast my gaze on the L.O.L.
Thinks I, here’s the very thing for mo.
It will help me on a little to my C.M.G.
My influence at last became so great.
My position was subordinate to few in the State;
The L.O.L.’s and the Temperance crowd.
Would all chant my praises long and loud.
And I smole, ha, ha ! and shouted with glee—
I think I’m getting nearer to my C.M.G.
Should a Prince come here, and wish to be shown
The loveliest spots of our harbour and town.
They don’t ask Sir Henry, nor yet bir John,
But they show the royal family the real haut ton.
I carry all my honours so gracefullee,
I’m really so magnificent a C.M.G.
For tea-fights now, I don’t care a jot,
Such matters insignificant can go to pot;
But a dinner or a picnic ! I’m sure to be there.
For it isn’t any secret that I like good fare:
I like it all the better when it’s "on the free,”
It’s the finest thing on earth to be a C.M.G’, I
Let hist’ry’s heroines hide their heads,
Their names will thrill our souls no more;
We sing but the heroic deeds
Of lovely Mary of Carcoar.
We’ve read of Joan, of Isabella,
And female fightists, full a score;
But we, the fame will only heller.
Of lovely Mary of Carcoar.
The cymbals clang; sound loud the trump ;
And with the Pan’s-pipes shriek amain.
The biggest drum bust with a thump.
For Mary’s ridden in the rain.
Oh thou, who hast with soul so brave.
Thy charger spurred through mud and sleet;
It is but meet that thou shoulds’t have
A handsome “ Garland ” at thy feet.
Let orange blossoms thy brow crown.
Two circlets deck thy finger taper ;
Lot bonfires blaze throughout the town—
A four-line par. gleam in the paper.
And let the guests the wine-cup drain.
The rustics yowl a wild “ hurroar
For, has not ridden in the rain
The only Mary of Carcoar ?
8
November 5, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


gregation commenced to cast rebellious glances in the
direction of the organ loft, and to mutter to each other
JP an ffimo tones uncomplimentary things concerning
ta ® m bloomin’ bears wot’s a growling in the gallery."
Suddenly the instrument came to a dead stop, and the
minister appeared standing in the reading-desk.
Woman?—woman it is I— hand overl” “The right
bower—that makes me game. A bob you owe me.”
‘Don't, Robert!” “ Sling pinchin’, bush." These were
the sounds that resounded through the building. Then
came an awful pause. It was broken by the minister
Kiying, “This conduct is atrocious I—disgraceful.
Never in the whole course of my life did I see anything
more abominable. Let ns pray." And amidst a clatter
of marbles on the stone floor, and a clinking of half-
W timers pockets, they prayed earnestly.
We II hold the moral over,
• # »
Says a recent Bennett the Bold—“ A
woman is going to try to keep her month shut three
thousand quarter hours. If this new departure should
become epidemic, what a mighty peace would settle
down over this troubled land 1" Alfred, put it there.
1 on have struck a chord which will vibrate in the un-
nappy breast of every man who ever troubled a coffee
palace. We sympathise with you from the very soul
°f. boots upwards, and, if it will afford yon the
slightest consolation, look round and we’ll play your
own Mozart’s “ Dead March ” on the bagpipes for you.
♦ » t
tf This is what a certain editor sent down to a
stamp-picker ” to set up on a certain day fora certain
leading journal“lt is rumoured Sir Henry Parkes is
about. to take a year’s leave of absence. Sir John
Kobertoon will probably act as his deUrium tremme.”
Luckily, however, the oomp.’s wife called for his screw
that week, and having a level head he made it read
as locum tenens.
# * *
The Phantom Ship, which has for so long a time
been on the stocks in Darling Harbour, and about which
we have had now and again an airy bit to say, is to be
launched on the Bth instant. The ceremony will, we
understand, be very impressive. The christening will
be performed by the great-grandchild of the man who
designed the model, a spinster
of sweet seventy, and it will
be appropriately named “ The
Patriarch." As all the people
who originally had anything to
do with the building of the
vessel have long been moulder-
mg in their graves, or have
otherwise disappeared, the smol 1
boy who hammers the last nail
will occupy as much of the chair
as he can spread himself over.
It has not generally transpired
in what manner the Patriarch
is to be utilized, but as Alfred
has recently exhibited a nautical
officiating as judge at
i, "' ou Vle Bay Eegatta, and as
the Patriarch’s fittings are of an
exceedingly economical descrip-
tion, a report is gaining ground
that Alt has purchased it for a
yacht for the purpose of allow-
mg his descriptive reporters to
explore the bandit caves of the
Parramatta Eiver. If this be
the case, we may shortly expect
to see Alfred on the poop, Chris,
at the wheel, and Davies (for
obvious reasons) on the look,
out. It is needless to state that
wo shall be present at the cere-
mony. And, if we are not fore-
stalled by one of the Bennett
bards, wo shall pour out the im-
passioned inaugural ode our-
solves. It will be quite a sur-
prise, that reminds ns, for the
Balmain people that the
Patriarch has turned out to be
a ship. Po many thought it
was going to be a tea-garden,
while the moss upon its sides
led Mirny to the conclusion
that it had been leased by a
slaughtering company as an ice-
house.
# * *
Mr. D. Kinnear Brown
sends us a copy of No. 1 of the
v » Gazette. This is
rather confusing, since the
other day there was a L. V
Advocate. This latter papcrj
we understand, has merged into
the Countrvman (which we
havn t yet seen), and so there-
fore, Zmnear claims to have all
the pubs, to himself. Mr.
Brown’s Advocate is a small
double-demy rag of eight pages,
set up for the most part in
long primer, and it is printed
by a firm who arrogate to them-
selves the modest title of “ The
City of Sydney Printing Com-
pany." The leader—labelled,
of course, " Ourselves’’—con-
cludes m follows “ We launch
the Licensed Victuallers*
Gazette and Sportsman’s
Guide of New South Wales
upon the tide of popular favour,
under auspices, we aver, more
favourable than have attended
the initiation of any paper that
has wooed the fair winds of
journalistic success.” Under
these circumstances, we cannot
do lees than sincerely congratu-
late the proprietor. The last
paper that started under aus-
picee nearly as favourable as
those was the Australian
Sportsman. That that won-
drone publication has achieved
the success which it prophesied
for itself is well known, since it
is bought up so rapidly that
not a copy is ever to be seen
eyen, strange’to Fay, in the dust-hole.
We wish the Advocate and Mr. Kinnear Brown all the
success in life. And we humbly trust, that when by-
and-bye heis making his millions, he will send the
second footman round to us occasionally with a slab
of imported salmon, ora not-quite-altogether-cleaned-
out sardine tin.
* * *
will probably be startled to hear
Mark Twain is now on the staff of the pious Peoies-
tant Pluqger. It’s no use saying he’s not, because
what other humourist could invent an ad. like this:—
*' ONE THING only required to make existence
complete. Bead and become subscribers to the
Protestant Standard, the only non-sectarian
paper in the colony. Contains Leaders; Popery
violates the Whole Decalogue—The Synod and
the English Church—Eomish Press and the
Eevised Version —Ireland’s Curse—-Tit Bits—
and all the Eoligious News of the Week.”
“To make existence complete” is good. We once
knew a party who subscribed a quarter to the P. 8., but
before he had finished one column of non-sectarian chat
on “Popish Plots," he borrowed a double-barrelled
gun, and went out to see whether he could come across
a Boman Catholic brother in Christ.
* * #
The Qtjeanbetan Gale is getting skittish in
its old age. It reports police cases, with editorial
interpositions. In a larceny case, the editor tells us this:
“ Here Mr. Parr and the sergeant had a shot.” Then
further on:—“ Here Mr. Parr, the sergeant, and P.M.
exchanged some friendly shots.” This style of writing
is likely to become very popular—at Tarban Creek.
* • *
Of all the exchanges we have received since first
The Bulletin became the joy of chuckling millions,
undoubtedly the most precious comes to ns this week
from Mount M’Donald. It is called the Miner, and is
owned, edited, and printed (and we trust ours was
folded, too,) by the fair editress of the Carcoar Mart.
Inside our copy are painted with great taste and finish
some forget-me-nots, and also a rose, which, when we
die, shall be laid upon our grave. The paper Itself is a
specimen of journalistic enterprise which will be fresh
in the minds of succeeding generations when the glories
of the Parramatta Times and the Cowea Free Press
are forgotten. The leader we consider to be unique.
Lord Brougham himself could not have written it. It
ends appropriately with a delicious stanza. Here it is
in its corr useating entirety :
“ When dangers darken o’er the land.
And gathering tempests rise;
When lurid lightnings glance and gleam
Along the murky skies, —
What trusty guardian seeks us then
To shield us from distress
And ’neath its shelter feel secure ?
The Press, my friends, the Press!”
We should think the Miner ought to boa big success.
The agent is Mr. Gibson of Mount M'Donald. Lucky
Mr. Gibson.
* * *
The editor of the Invebell Argus announces,
with a flourish, that he is about to republish an essay
on “ Unoleanliness as Affecting Health.” If the con-
doctors of a penny metropolitan weekly could only
guage the tastes of their readers half so well as the
Inverell man does, they would print, without delay, a
three-colnmn dissertation on whip-lashes.
* * «
This is what Dan Mayne said on the 22n3 ult.:
—“ His Honor Sir Joe Im es is now a judge of the
Supreme Court. This yonng gentleman has indeed
proved himself an adept at polishing up the handle of
the big front door. Who would ever have thought to
see Nasova Joe occupying the elevated position of a
Supreme Court Judge!’’
This is what Sir Joseph said two days later“ Pour
months without the option." Dan is now in the lion’s
den at last. However, his namesake came out 0.K.,
and &c. &c.
* # *
In speaking of “Lucrezia Borgia,” the D.T.
unblnshingly observes: —“ If wo remember rightly, it
is about twenty years since this opera was performed
in English here." The Daily is evidently endowed
with a superhuman memory. Twenty years ago, its
late office was simply a big hole, and in one corner
thereof a board was erected with the following legend
chalked thereon:—“Rubbish may bo shot hero."
Places change with the times—tut not much.
At the Ministerial banquet at Mandelson’a
Hotel, Goulburn, jast before tbe commencement of the
feed, a troop of reporters presented themselves at the
door of the wolfing-room for admission. A local
magnate was apprised of their presence, and while the
scribes were cooliag their heels and sharpening their
molars in the passage, he carefully scrutinized them
through a hole in the door. Then he uttered a smothered
cry of alarm. “Keep ’em out,” he said; “keep ’em
out. If not, there’ll be nothing left for the Ministers,”
And as the chain was being put on the door, the re-
porters filed sadly out, and proceeded, without loss of
time, to take terrible revenge out of a shilling ordinary.
Country Municipalities please copy.
They send big things through the post in
Queensland. A mailman was seen travelling with two
gins tip Palmervillo way the other day. One was ad-
dressed to a postmaster, and the otter to a trooper.
There was nothing for the parson that trip.
* • *
A Murrurundi man married a widow early this
year. She was buxom and blue-eyed, and she had five
children. They lived blissfully together for three long
months, at the expiration of which she put him in gaol
for a like period. 5 [When he came out he found all the
property sold off, and the bride residing with his
mother-in-law. Calling at the house to politely pay his
respects, he was given a pound note and a warning if he
came there again he would bo probably hanged. When
last seen, he was walking about the streets of Sydney,
nursing a baby in long clothes, and asking the way to
the poor-house. The moral of all this is self-evident.
Never marry a widow with only five children.
This is as we got it. It has been no secret that
for the last few days an actress at one of our theatres
has been suffering from indisposition. She was, it
appears, standing in the piazza of the Post Office,
when something made her laugh. At this moment a
short-sighted member of the bar came up and posted
his English letters and papers between the ruby lips
of the comedienne. She is getting better now, but
whenever she coughs she brings up either a page of
The Bulletin or a sheet of writing-paper with a lot
about “the top-most rung of the legal ladder” on it.
Whenever she smiles now at rehearsal, the other perl
formers hold each other by the hand, and the manage-
ment have ordered a kedge anchor for the big drum
from Briscoe’s opposite.
• * »
A Queanbeyan man was recently committed for
trial for stealing. We hope he will got 20 years. It is
evident from the following slice of the evidence that he
must be a ruffian of the most depraved and dastardly
description“ I didn't take much notice as prisoner is
in the habit of coming for the loan of the paper.”
Load him with fetters, and bang his head against the
hardest wall of the slimiest dungeon 'neath the Castle
Moat. Give him the rack, the thumbscrew, and the
branding-irons. Kill him 1
BRIEF MENTION.
Spoon—Cup—Jug ! ! !
Sad for the Ministry—the doctor and lawyer
called in.
Le Premier mot —“ I files my shovel, and hoes
everything."
A “stiff” double—the two T’s. “Lie” tea
and the Daily T.
The railway line from Melbourne up to our
border is splendid. In fact, it is the best part of
Victoria.
The Mudgee Giraffe comes now addressed
“Sydney Buletin” (sic). Evidently the boy must
have left.
Scene: Hunter-street, Newcastle. Stranger;
“ Why is not that tumble-down row of shops cleared
away P" Resident (with a wink) : “ Well, you see, the
owner is getting them insured; it’s expensive, you
know, carting away the stuff.” True bill.
This is the portrait of a typical Civil servant as
painted by Mr, M‘Kean in the Victorian Assembly the
other night:—“A gentleman who at five minutes to
four has his hair smoothed, his coat brushed, and his
gloves on, ready to leave his
work; but who at half-past nino
in the morning is, if required,
rarely to bo found in his office.’*
This is not true of our Civil
Servants; they do not wear
gloves.
We ll shortly be hearing*
that Bishop Barker is on a visit
to Australia.
Things are so gloomy at
Casino that the police have for-
bidden the chemists to sell rat
poison.
A Brisbane restaurant-
keeper has the following notice
in his rooms:—“Persons learn-
mg to spell are requested to use
yesterday’s newspapers."
A Maitland editor said in a
recent issue, “ Wehaveadeadly
weapon waiting for sneaking
cowards.” Whereupon his
friends interfered, and took the
weapon from him lest he should
do himself harm.
“We remember," said the
Tamwokth Observer, “when
the Independent man drove a
donkey cart.” The other follow
retorted thusWe do remem-
bur the cart, but had forgotten
about the donkey. Of course,
the Observer ought to know.’*
Says the Aekidale
Chronicle : “ Bootless the
continuous, careful, and reli-
gious discipline which the reel-
dents of Armldale so earnestly
subject themselves to, is the
cause of such a light calender of
crime." Boshl It’s the result
of having three papers in town.
Most of the cattle duffers br-
ing men of letters, find employ,
ment on the Press.
This fact kills fiction:—A
few years ago two men contes-
ted an election, somewhere in
the New England district.
Three months later they were
both ‘ ‘in quod. ” On eof them—a
capable gentleman, by the way
—got accidentally mixed up in
an affair which led to an en-
forced confinement for three
months. Everyone regretted
it. The other was landed in the
same gaol for an unpaid debt.
So now, is it not strange, that
while only one was elected, two
were returned ?
The Rockhampton
Argus is a very funny paper.
Speaking of a “new arrival " in
the shape of a thorough-bred
horse, the editor, who, it seems
probable, is also bill-poster and
machinist, says “he has black
points and lots of propelling
power, with a good barrel"
Further on it is stated that
“ his ribs are in the right place."
This is, perhaps, true. We
never saw a horse that hadn’t
his ribs in the right place.
What wo have often seen, how-
ever, is a donkey with short
ears.
Emperor William was pre-
sented with a curious pen that
supplies itself with ink while
T[ Tiu ?*; .. The old Kaiser
thanked the donor and said, “ I
should like to own a pen that
would write only what was good
and true. And then I wish all our journalists might each
have one like it, and use no others." This, read bv the
light of the fact that only last mail old Kaiser gave an
his penny morning paper, is very significant. p
That brilliant artillery officer does not wear his
medals now. However, they’re still in the familv A
relation has them. ■'*
On Tlmrsday last a Sussex street lady was
noticed buying a sixpenny cabbage from a speckled
Chinaman. ConfldencQ evidently once more restored
Crown-street waiting-room being rushed aloni?
at lightning speed Tour holes already burrowed in
the sand. Passengers crawl into these when it rains
When it was said thdt a certain medico had
practised his profession for forty years, a wag remarked
that that quite upset the old adage— practice makes
perfect.
As already announced, Mr. J Henniker Heaton
is about to present to this city a life-size portrait of
Viscount Sydney. This is an act of great liberality on
the part of Mrs. Heaton.
We have been asked whether it is right for
parsons to attend kangaroo hunts. Well, it's not
wrong. Parsons are as good as other men. In some
cases they are actually better.
It was not till the members showed themselves
in costume on the cricket field, at Singleton, that it was
apparent the local dramatic club consisted for the
most part of clowns and fourth robbers.
“Edmund Maurier, alias Ondre, was charred
with uttering a c forged cheque for £ 6This is wliat
Saturday a Alfred calls “ Alleged Perjury ” We
consider it “ flat burglary,”—on the part of Alfred.
A correspondent cynically points out that it was
not till he iuheiited his father’s wealth that the Mel-
bourne people began to see in Mr. J. W. Clarke a com-
pound of greatness and goodness. Melbourne is about
right.
Ist Murrumbidgee butcher (who has just come
m on horseback) to another Murrumbidgee butcher.
A DOMESTIC IDYLL.
He had been married but a year.
And with much exultation.
That day he thought it pretty clear
He’d swell the population.
Ho took the tram-car into town
(He dealt in hides and cattle).
And he bought, when it set him down,
A cradle and a rattle.
A powder box ho also got.
Then to the draper’s rushes.
And gets of tiney togs a lot.
And one of those soft brushes.
'Twas then he hied him home, but he
Did buy the “ ickle sing ’’
All on his road (for one-and-three)
A soft gum-punching ring.
And 10, he saw, when ho drew near,
A crowd his house before,
While U tall man, it did appear.
Was guarding of the door.
“ Good people," yelled the hub., much tried,
“ Quick, tell me how’s Maria ?”
** Maria be blowed !" the rabble cried;
“ Yer chimbley is a-fire."
THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
SCENE AT A SUBURBAN VILLA.
[BREAKFAST TIMB.]
fOur modesty is now so well-known, that our readers
wid not be surprised to hear we submit to them, with
a considerable amount of diffidence, this little item.
We, however, refrain from all mention of the hero of
the cpio. If, therefore, dear readers, your thoughts
light on elderly parties in gaiters, we advise you at
once to dismiss them. We have it on oath that ancient
parties in gaiters do not read The Bulletin. So that
settles it.J
He knocked the teapot over, and
He smashed the tea-cups out of hand;
The urn, he overturned it, too,
And sent a fork the mirror through.
His wife rushed in, in such a state.
When, bang ! went the best china plate;
“ Jack," she cried, “ what means this din ?'•
“ They’ve stole," he yowled, “ my Bulletin.”
SYDNEY COFFIN-SNATCHERS.
Hail, ghouls ! who do, in daylight, rob
Th’ afflicted and forlorn !
Who, heedless of the mother’s sob.
Degrade the babe stillborn.
All hail, 3 e blots upon the land.
That fatten upon grief,
Who clutch the poor man’s money, and
Who play the churchyard thief.
Live on, and rob the helpless dead.
And add, thus, to your hoard.
The penalty we all have read.
Is but a pound a fraud!
Jam infants into cases foul.
The weeping widow rob;
And owlish jurymen will rule
You pay hut “forty bob."
Oh, is not this a country, fair,
A country, fair, for ye,
When corpses of their shells ye daro
Rob with impunity ?
Ob, never emigrate from here.
Ye coffln-snatching ghouls;
For robbery, it would appear,
Elsewhere’s against the rules.
9
THE BULLETIN.
November 5, 1881.


who ia In his stop t have yer got to-day?”
2nd Butcher! " (July Hiutton." Ist Butchers “Only
mutton !—#b,y I lost three fine fat bullocks yesterday,
and I made sure .” 2nd Batcher i “ Not me 1
Them good old times has gone by.”
- v. lla 011 _ o . . ... Clrmanoiond
Dancing hells all the rage ill North Queensland.
DaWm! Verdict Pot the defendants in a Gnlgong
newspaper libel action! However, perhaps it wasn’t a
Jury of fcUt.
There's a man at Tamworth who can take fifteen
Whiskies straight. Strange that anything over that
nnmber renders him utterly incapable of beating his
The HERALD reports the Quarrymon’s Picnic
Clontarf in its usual bold and original style. We are told
“the committee had some trouble with the larri-
fans, bat there wasrlittle, ■>} any, unsoem y
This from the Cooktown HbralD :- Birth :
—Chin Chang,—At her residence, Charlotte-street.
Gooktown, on the 22nd inst., the wife of Chin Chang,
of a eon. 1 ’ This means, at least, four jars of preserved
ginger.
In Borneo a missionary has to pass an athletic
ftkamination before the natives to prove his competency
ror the work In the Solomon Islands the natives do all
the athTetic^—in tL Sowy. and then
digesting him missionary, ante
I he Wild Biver(Q.) paper says: I he grow-
mg importance of this place demands the immediate
erection of suitable public buildings. ’ The journal
then proceeds to speak of the inadequate acoommoda-
tion at the lock-up I
Granny says “ his age was 106, and he leaves
a widow and fourteen children to mourn their loss.”
Again, an evening journal remarks of a gentleman
lately deceased“ Ho leaves a widow and several chil -
dren, one of whom is a surgeon at the Infirmary.”
A , mVo .. r, „ v ' , na
A correspondent asks : Can a man who keeps
a howling dog on the premises go to Heaven ? We
are unable to answer such profound questionings but
should say that he would probably go somewhere m
the realms of the unknown, if the neighbours did their
uut f’
The name of Maria ia so popular in Ottumwa
that when a cat climbs a back fence in a weU-populated
n ighbourhood and plaintively vocalizes “Mariarl”
twenty windows are hastily thrown np, and twenty
female heads are thrust out. wildly answering : “
that you, Tom?”
ruined the wheat crop of Mr! Clark, a settler at Stoney
Creek, and killed £3OO sheep belonging to Mr. S. A.
Blackman, of Gooyal.” No doubt some of the Mudgee
people had a great big wet at the same time.
tothfl NrwncTTP Mcrntnc
bydney telegram te the Newcastle Morning
Crab wrap : Considerable indignation is expressed
outside the Assembly for its adjourning till Thursday
next, causing Mr. Fletcher s motion relative to mining
under Crown lands to he struck off the paper. Let s
see. Oh! yes. Mr. Fletcher is interested in the
Cbabwrap.
A lawn tennis club is being formed at Penrith,
and promises to be weff-supported. There is a little
hitcb, however, as one member objects to
Public School teachers being admitted. One
must draw the line somewhere, you know; it would
never do for common people to play on the same grass
as a private “school-marm.”
~ . . t r- l • • • i i •
v, A^ Certa l n Vlct o na “ pussum station, a little
rat^nS^tebi?
tion on tffe place, always returned witn Dig nsu on tne
string, while others who fished, got more minnows than
tritons WTien asked the secret of his singular success,
he explained:—“ I always pray for a big fish. Of course
I can get any amount of little fellows without praying.”
A Manlndto roaldonf tolls nno of tho rumors
thft of worahfp Fu thlt
that there is no Briteetant place ot worsnip in tnat
town, arid argues that the loc»l squatter, instead of
giving £2OOO to a chnrcb at St. Kilda, Melbourne,
might have contributed £2OO church in his own
district. If it’s advancement that's wanted, we advise
starting a lawyer—a gaol will soon follow, (and there
will be work then for all hands.
Now, this is an interesting telegram. It is from
Japan :-“ We held our usual wool sales to-day, and of
80,000 bales catalogued 63,000 were sold, fetching about
45}d all round. There was a good muster of the trade,
and a large attendance of foreign buyers—including a
German Count, two French forgers, an Austrian
bigamist, and an American bank cracker. Large
shipments are now being made direct.”
f. _ ~ ... , ,
At Barnngun there are three public-houses, and
opposite to each of them is a cemetery. In fact, all
over the not very extensive back-blocks of Babylon you
cansee what Hanley Bennett would call “Necropolises.”
When a man dies at Barringun, the first question asked
is, “ which bnrying-ground are yer agom to berry im
bin?” The answer is. Oh 1 we re gom to put him in
Mother King s, or in Mother somebody else s —as tho
case may be.
It was an Onent liner. We 11 not say what
boat. A silt barge had been fastened to the rudder
SSta*
“Cast off at once; castoff." “ Who are von ? who are
vou?” reulied the bargeman “ I’m chief officer of
this boat" “Well d n von • I’m captain here. Go
..a i-iv i' p„„’oJh " J ’ '
. \
Where will our hero-worship end ? A Melbourne
man wears a flattened bullet from the Glenrowan field
on his watch chain, a Tasmanian lady has a lock of
Bertrand’s hair, and we are told a sporting g reveller
here has sent home for the sole of Fred Archer, the
English jockey’s, boots. By the way, smart as Fred
is, he never “ graelled” a Derby winner along in 2.41
as we did in Melbourne. Of course Pendragon will say
th« time was taken by an old Dutch clock; but “ Lot
the galled jade buck.” &c.
* J . ,
A crown of bays will not, m these prosaic days
gain a man a meal. Several of the leadisg Melbourne
maqasins employ commissionaires to hand ladies into
and out of the premises, and to carry parcels to car-
riages. These commissionaires are, most of them.
comparatively young men, and they all display medals.
having from three to four decorations each. They
wear the Queen’s medals, and are in the uniform of-
After its Letter to be a draper’s hired
d th«Hmoam.h-R HrSdm dra P cr 8 Blr ° a
man tnan a monaren s nireu muruerer.
The “consultation” or racing sweep business
basin Melbourne attained gigantic proportions. The
individual who enjoys a practical monopoly of the
trade has this season already negotiated 17 or 18
“ events ” of £2OOO each, 10 per cent, of the total
amount being retained by him as commission. Into
the hotel at which he has his head-quarters you may
any day see hundreds of persons going, for the purpose
of depositing in his letter-box envelopes containing £1
notes. It may be said that a clear majority of these
people are women, and that in many cases they invest
n the sweeps without the knowledge of their husbands,
A mmmkr evidence of the nercentive nowera o f
A singular evidence 01 tne perceptive powers
black tracker, came under the notice of a Queensland
nspector of police the other day. The inspector and
the boy were on their way from one town to another,
brother* te^next^stariOT™ 6
brother was at tne next station, w nen asKea why ne
thought so, he directed the inspector s attention to a
pnrt of a man s track, wluch slight mal-for-
vtion of tbe walker s foot. 1 he blue c ow was right,
■ f is brother, who had been in the Far North, and whom
■ had not seen for several years had arrived in the
Possible for au
reporter to
clear away irom a Diacx tracer.
\ot I.—Scene: Hotel bar, at Ramapatta.
«0 ter captain, secretary, and member of Rowing Club,
• d 20 f*ends; drinks ordered to the tune of £1 6s,
r friends and selves. Put it down to the club. Act
—Room of Rowing Club Secretary : Enter secretary
l treasurer. Bill for £1 6s. presented. Treasurer:
• shall not be paid.” Secretary: "We’ll see." Act
I —Room in Hotel aforesaid: Committee meeting of
k. ring Club. Enter captain, secretary, and members
n , ting three temperance members; sides equal.
i. > * ia it to be done ? Happy thought strikes captain.
••I s one of the temperance members in the chair, thus
liibit him from voting, and is done. Sides. 3 to 2;
passed. Blue fire, drinks and curtain.
„ , , . .... ,
iene : Orderly room. Artillery Barracks at
Is. Officer in charge of detachment reads from
ia Report “ No. 2002, Gunner George Washington,
nt Tattoo Roll Call till 3.30 a.m.—“ What have
got to for yourself ?’• “Well, sir, I waa ec-er
fishing, and—er—l—er—got on a rook, and—the tide
came up, and surrounded me; and—I got back as soon
as I could, sir.” “ Come, come, you can’t expect me to
believe that story. Why, it’s worse than your last one
about ‘haviiii rßisSed the last train from Balmain.’
Come, tell me the trflth—for once in yodr life." “ I
will, sir, I will. I was lying out in the bush, and I
couldn’t get back before, because (this sotto voce) I was
too drunk.” Resnlt: Crime sheet torn up, and exit
gunner beamingly.
We think the Old Girl of Hunter-street ought
to soon think of sobering down. What with the
Express, the Protestant Standard, and the Penny
Grin, Sydney is quite well enough supplied with comic
newspapers without the elderly damsel chipping in.
This advertisement, however, which we clip from a
recent issue, would seem undeniably to point to
humorous aspirations on the part of our little contem-
porary :—“ Wanted, by a respectable Widower, one
child, situation, working housekeeper; wages no object.
10, Rent-street.” This, of course, is“gniver.” How
could a respectable widower (if he were sober) advertise
for a “ one child, a situation, and a working house-
keeper?” We can understand about the housekeeper,
but what knocks us is the child and the situation. Then,
again, if he wanted a situation as a working house-
keeper, what would he require a child for ? We are
inclined to think that either the journal which published
the ad. is a very giddy paper, or else the widower who
advertises is a very giddy old boy.
You cannot now buy a glass of wine, beer, or
spirits at any railway station on the N.S.W. Govern-
ment linos ; and there are refreshment stations, of
which the distinguishing characteristics are the in-
solence of the fat proprietors and their pampered
menials, the toughness of the meat, and the eccentriaity
of the coffee (which tastes like a stale decoction of
senna drank out of a blacking bottle, and smells like a
grilled horse-liver stuffed with garlic and served up in
a wash-house). At one station—which the present libel
law does not permit of our specifying—a traveller asked
for steak, and was handed a piece of some fried sub
stance which looked like meat, and smelt like train-oil,
but felt and tasted very much like dugong-hide or
boiled Wellington boot. He remonstrated with the
man who brought it, and was pertly told that “people
needn’t eat what they didn’t like.” The boss of the
refreshment room, when appealed to on the subject,
said that he couldn’t have the meat grilled—“he
couldn’t be expected to do everything.” In N.S.W.,
for, say eighteeupence, one gets impertinence and stuff
which closely resembles roast ’possum and stringy-bark
sauce; in Victoria, for a shilling, you get a well-grilled
chop, served up by an angel iu blue, whose smile alone
is worth more than the money.
A schoolmaster was leaving a certain district,
deep down in the sunny somewhere, when he bethought
himself he would like a testimonial. He was the reverse
of popular himself, but Mrs. Schoolmaster, a plump
busy little body, had somehow managed to insinuate
herself into the hearts of the rustics. So the pedagogue
commanded her to call upon the leading residents (on
the strict Q.T.) with lists, and see if they would sub-
scribe. So she began her crusade, and the husband
would have been quite happy only one leading resident
(a good-looking young lawyer) required “so much
waiting on” that Mrs. S. seemed to spend two-thirds
of her existence in his front parlour. An elderly doctor,
too, appeared very hard to be “ got round," and a pro-
minent storekeeper said if he were persuaded very much
in the gloaming he might give in; not otherwise. This
went on for about a month; but suddenly this little
woman ceased her canvass, and simultaneously an
advertisement appeared in the local paper stating that
Mr. S. had a concientious objection to receiving a tes-
timonial, and that he had placed in the hands of the
editor, for return to the subscribers, the sum of 375. 6d.
which they had generously donated towards the pur-
chase of a gold Waltham and a single-stone diamond
ring. A week later there was gloom in the township.
The new schoolmaster had arrived and—he was un-
married.
However clever and humane the Infirmary
authorities may be (and nobody but a maniac or the
Demosthenes of the decade, Edward Hordern, would
question either the one or the other), the grammar of
the institution appears to be in a remarkably infirm
condition. A recommendation form for an out-door
patient is before us, from which wo glean’ the following
regulation: “ This paper must be left there to the sur-
geon, and the patient will receive from him a ticket
with his name and number in its stead." As an instance
ofj linguistic novelty, this extract is very refreshing ;
but not more so than the following open and courageous
defiance of the laws of syntax: “Any irregularity
on the part of the patient will preclude them from fur-
ther assistance from the Dispensary.” This item, also,
will be read with interest by those in search of a new
language : “ All ‘ out-patient ’ (sic) must attend at
the Dispensary at least onee every ten days, as their
failing to do so will preclude them from further as-
sistance,'unless they procure a fresh recommendation ”
(sic). We don’t know whom to admire most in this
chaste composition—the gifted author or the astute
printer. If Miss Osbume will kindly furnish us with
the name of the former, we will give him a letter to
the editor of a contemporary who is looking out for an
original descriptive writer.
“ Mr. Hale, in passing sentence, told the defen-
dant that he had no right to resist a constable, however
wrong he might think his conduct to be.”
The last number of the Que anbbtan Age which
is to hand is an exciting publication. It contains a long
account of a funeral, and a small slate-pencil drawing
of the editor of the opposition paper being hung in effigy.
Though he has his points as a descriptive writer (which
we shall presently show), Mr. Gale is only a moderate
success ns an artist. Indeed, a dark suspicion dawned
on us directly we saw the illustration in the Qdean-
bey an Age, that John had a good deal to do a few weeks
ago with the News, when it appeared as an illustrated
paper. In the descriptive article accompanying the
artistic illustration, the writer adopts the tone of a
champion of virtuous women, and endeavours to bear
out his right to the character by printing a hideously
obscene epitaph which 1 some filthy-minded larrikin
had posted up on Sunday morning beside the effigy.
As a funeral chronicler, however, Mr. Gale is
really entitled to great praise, if only on the
score of his great originality. We learn from
his report that “Within the chamber where Death
was swaying his sceptre, preparations’.being completed,
and the sleeping form of the good old man [was]
shut out from view by the fastening down of the coffin,
lid.” There is a grandeur about this passage that
closely borders upon the sublime. Bub hold your
breath, awed reader, and mark the illimitable majesty
of this splendid burst:—“ Outside the hearse was
awaiting (sic) ; and the sacred dust being carefully
placed therein, the procession formed at once and slowly
wended its way to the cemetery.” One of the pall-
bearers, we read, was “J. Gale,” and
“ O, where shall rest be found—
Rest for the weary soul ?
as part of the ceremonies of the Oddfellowa, was given
out, and sung to excellent tune under the precantorahip
of Mr. J. Gale.” The following brilliant passage (fol-
lowed by a eulogium of the undertaker) finishes the
article The assemblage then dispersed (sic), the
various societies reforming, and returned in pro-
cession to their several lodge rooms where they dis-
persed” (sic). This journalistic effort is not only a
master-piece, but a master-stroke. It means a standing
“ ad." from the undertaker while he’s living, and a pins
coffin “ on the never” when he’s dead.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lefroy, the Brighton murderer, is writing his
obituary.
Chief Justice Lilley, Brisbane, will now accept
knighthood.
Colonel Soratohley is inspecting the defence
works at Brisbane.
It is announced that Commodore Wilson has
been made an admiral.
The Marquis of Lome doesn’t approve of his
father’s second marriage.
The Rev. S. P. Steward, of the Manning River,
is the ne iv Presbyterian Moderator.
Captain Brooks, late of the A.S.N. Co., died of
consumption at Tambo, Q., last week.
Mr. George Campbell, of Dnntroon, Quean-
heyan, died in England on the sth October.
A man who “ enjoyed ” a fortune of .£12,000 a
year, died recently in an English prison. No name.
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy stayed with the Irish
Lord Chancellor while in Dublin. But then
Duffy always was a
Sir Samuel Wilson has leased Hughenden Manor
for eleven years. Eleven has been a lucky number for
Australia in England; e g., our cricketing teams.
Mr. W. T. Coonan, late member for the Bogan,
was, on Monday, presented by the people of Forbes
with on address and a purse of 100 sovereigns. What
for?
General C. B Young, London, offers ,£lOO for
definite news as to the fate of his son. Lament, at
Bermagui. He believes the party were kidnapped for
sailors.
Archibald Forbes will reach Melbourne next
April. R. S. Smythe, the much-travelled, who has just
left for England, will by that time have returned to
Australia. ,
“ Sir Vernon Harcourt,” K.C.8., has been
doing Calcutta. He is not at liberty to travel further,
having been arrested on an English warrant for exten-
sive forgeries.
His Honor Sir George Innes Jtook his seat on
the Bench of the Supremo Court on Tuesday. Mr.
Darley, on behalf of the Bar, congratulated Sir George
on his elevation.
The Queen’s cablegram to Mrs. Garfield : —
“ Words cannot express the deep sympathy I feel with
you. May God support and comfort you, as He alone
can.— Victoria, Balmeral.”
Monday’s Echo says : “ Archibald Forbes is on
board the Orient liner Potosi, for Australia." The
Potosi left Sydney for England on October 14. Forbes
will not come here till April next.
A young man named Dickens, convicted of lar-
ceny at Port Adelaide, is said to be a connection of the
great novelist. Up North, a son of Mr. Childers, Eng-
lish Secretary for War, is droving for £1 a week.
According to an Italian paper, the Economista,
Her Majesty the Queen of England has subscribed no
leas than one million pounds to the new Italian loan.
We believe the Economista is an evening paper.
The Marquis of Huntley has left England. His
residence, Aboyne Castle, was advertised to be let.
Mr. Cunlifle-Brookes has leased it for his daughter,
the Marchioness of Huntley. A screw loose somewhere.
Ex-Judge Hargrave was on the Bench for 16J
years, and had six months’ leave of absence during that
time. Recently he fell ill, and applied for another
half-year’s leave; but Sir ’Enery suggested his retire-
ment on a pension.
Mr. Haddon, of the Melbourne Argus,
will, it is stated, publish in March, a history
of the Victorian crisis and its lessons, with a
special essay on the constitution and functions of
modern second chambers.
The present Duke of Wellington has drawn a
pension of £4OOO per annum since the death of his
father. He has also £30,000 a year from estates given
the Iron Duke by the nation, and the interest on
£750,000 voted to his father after the battle of Waterloo.
He is 74 years of age.
Mr. Charles Archer, a Rockhampton Public
school boy and son of the Queensland Agent-General,
after studying at Edinburgh has been successful in
competing for admission to the Royal Military College
at Sandhurst,E.,by heading the list of 107 snccessful can-
didates who secured the requisite number of marks.
Even Mr. William Gladstone takes a sporting
turn at times. In the House of Commons, recently, he
offered to lay Sir Michael Hicks-Beach 10 to 1 on Sir
Wilfred Lawson’s success in the motion about the
Transvaal. Sir Michael did not accept, otherwise Mr.
Gladstone would have been £1 richer, presuming, of
course, that statesmen pay their wagers,
“Baldy” Davis, of Kernbrea Station, is, by
common consent, the most hospitable of Warrego
squatters. The other day James Tyson, the millionaire,
who, by the way, has an unfenced cattle run right
alongside Kerribree, came along, and was invited to
dinner by the genial Baldy, “ Sit down, Mr. Tyson,"
said the host, “ and eat some of your own beef.” The
millionaire carved a substantial slice, put a piece of it
on his fork, and gravely remarked, looking the while
his entertainer steadily in the face, “ Ah, Mr. Davis,
there’s many a true word said in jest.”
Mr. Arthur Hamilton, the exquisite chief clerk
in the Railway Engineer-in-Chief’s office at Brisbane,
suffered an accident, the other day, by a cab running
away with him. Had it been a pretty girl who ran
away with him, we should not have been at all surprised.
Arthur suffered some bruises, and lost three hairs
owing to a cut on the head This deprivation has oc-
casioned him the keenest sufferings, and many sleepless
nights ; but the most terrible trial to his feelings was
occasioned by his coat being wrinkled and his pants
torn. Arthur is a general favourite with The Service,
and in his anguish finds many sympathisers.
“ Another good man gone right.” Referring,
in the Presbyterian General Assembly, on Tuesday, to
the question of having lectures against freethonght
principles, the Rov. Dr. White “ referred to the ability of
Mr. Greenwood as a lecturer, and also as a man who
was for some time connected with the enureb, but who,
in the last year, had ‘ wheeled right round,’ and gone
over to the ranks of * Freethonght.’ He alse pointed
out the fact that Mr Greenwood was raising a large
amount of money by his lectures, and thought he was
making about £lOOO a year." Let’s see 1 It was only
the other day the Rev. James Greenwood was drawing
crowds to his church at Waverley.
In an Anecdotal Photograph of Earl Percy, it is
stated that the first Duke of Northumberland was a
K.G. and Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland. This is a mis-
take. George HI. positively refused the Duke’s per-
sonal application for the Garter, and, in doing so, ut-
tered his solitary mot l am the first Duko of North-
umberland to whom a Garter has been refused," ex-
postulated his Grace, “Yes,” replied the Monarch,
“and you are the first Smithson who ever asked for it.”
It was this Duke’s grandson who was appointed Lord
Lieutenant by the Duke of Wellington, in succession to
Lord Anglesey. Mr. Greville describes him as “a very
good sort of man, with a very narrow understanding, an
eternal talker, and prodigious bore.” A sparkling ac-
count of the rise of the Smithson-Percy race is to be
found in the early chapters of “ Tancred.” We believe
our very own Georgie Smithson is the head of this cele-
brated family. She has long worn the insignia dearest
to her ancestor.
A writer in one of our weekly contemporaries
thus speaks of Mr. Foster, the new Minister for Justice:
“ He is, for example, a man intellectually inoffensive by
the possession of a safe mediocity of eacacity and cul-
ture, which provokes no bitterness. He is ambitions
without being obstrusive—a teetotaller without the ar-
rogance which makes the sect not infrequently hard to
he borne —and he is, in his own profession, a man whose
real merits have not been fairly appreciated or justly
rewarded. As a Churchman, he belongs to that shady
debateable ground in which the lineaments of Angli-
canism, become somewhat confused with Dissent —and
in which it is hard to determine whether the man is in
communion with Canterbury or Clapham. There is,
consequently, little that is distinctive about Mr. Foster.
There was, however, one quality by which he was
specially known to those about him, and that was.
strange to say, an undisguised and unqualified aversion
to the head of the administration which which Mr.
Foster has now joined. No more malignant opposi-
tionist sat in the Assembly than Mr. Foster."
At a certain public place there ia a fine collec-
tion of marble and other busts —among them, those of
Schiller and Goethe, Parkes and Byron—“ all ranged
up one agin the ether.” Well, the other day, a visitor
noticed that several of the marbles had been somewhat
defaced, apparently by some Goth, who, in addition to
having, with a pencil, marked out the contour of Queen
Victoria’s nose, had also blackened the most conspicu-
ous outlines of her chin and cheeks, and had empha-
sized with plumbago the hungry mouth of that ever-to-
be-worshipped patriot. Sir Charles Gavan Dully. While
musing on the vandalism which could have prompted
such a desecration, he noticed an attendant at work,
and soon perceived that what he had taken for pencil
marks on the marble were rea'ly caused by the quill-
stumps of an old feather duster vigorously applied by
the zealous official to the faces of many of the nota-
bilities. But there were one or two who didn’t get the
benefit of the duster—that coincidence, however, was,
perhaps, purely aceidental. To the delicately chiselled
—for in the marble it was delicately chiselled—proboscis
of a certain distinguished Premier, the art-loving
at tin dan t applied chamois-leather with a mixed display
of reverence and awe, which caused the greatest
pleasure to oar informant. Asian-Greek art got the
feather duster; poor old Theseus had his smashed nose
tickled with quills; but the Premier—God bless him !
had his nose wiped with tender solicitude and chamois-
leather. The moral of all this seems to be that we’re
soon forgotten, and that it’s not much good our having
statues unless we’re on the spot to look after them.
Every man’s statue should be “sculped” and put up
in the lifetime of the original.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Sans les femmes, les deux extromitoa de la vie
seraient sans secours, et le milieu sans plaisir.
The newspapers are to be prohibited from pub-
lishing marriage notices in future, because marriage is
a lottery,
“ Beauty is only skin-deep, but ugliness goes to
the bone.” This was said by a young lady in Sydney,
and it is quite equal to some of Solomon’s stray
observations.
A correspondent asks whether any woman yet
lived an old maid of her own free will. Well, we don’t
know. What we’re sure of, however, is this—there's
many a woman who wishes she had.
A woman in New Zealand, who lost her hus-
band by a railway accident, received £5OO from the
Government as compensation. Now, had it been the
other way, the award would have been £lOO. There is
no even justice in this world.
All the daughters of “Mr. Wales” are said to
Inherit the musical taste of their grandfather, the
Prince Consort, Sir Julius Benedict—that giddy young
bachelor^—says, that so far as his experience goes, no
three young ladies of their ago ever gave greater
promise of future excellence as pianistes.
A Mary F. Robinson is said to be the coming
novelist. Vanity Fair says of a work by her in
Frazer's Magazine: —“We have never seen so mnch
excellent work put within so narrow a compass. The
writer has passion, dramatic insight, delicacy, and
power. The dialogue is good to an extraordinary
degree.”
Miss Ehoda Broughton, in her earlier novels,
expresses an unutterable contempt for stout people.
She delights in placing them in positions in which they
are obliged to appear either odious or ridiculous. That
clever lady has seen fit to modify her views, and
promises soon to but, no, we are too gallant to take
that cruel revenge.
Princess Beatrice, who is said to be the wittiest
and most brilliant of all the Queen’s daughters, is
rapidly verging on a royal old maidism, and is very
like the members of the suicidal family ia the old comic
song of “A Norribla Tale,” who never “had no fun
nor northink.” She never makes her appearance at the
theatre or the opera, at court balls or social parties.
The Princess Maud, youngest daughter of the
Prince and Princess of Wales, although only twelve
years of age, has developed wonderful vocal power; but
it has become so great a passion with her little Highness
to exercise it, that her musical studies have beep sus-
pended for the present, the medical and musical
authorities being of opinion that her voice will other-
wise become permanently injured.
Recently in ’Frisco were married Mr. Lee Young
and Miss Ah Chung. The services were peculiar. The
presents to the bride were from her female friends only.
On the second day after the marriage the newly-made
husband gave a banquet to 500 guests. It was a strange
feast, and included swallows’ neats, stewed sharks’ fins
with chopped chicken, roast Chinese goose with ginger
and cucumbers, ducks wrapped in dry orange* peel
stewed, and, of course, tea without stint. While .the
feast was under way a roar of fire-crackers announced
the coming of the bride. She entered the room ..with
a fan before her face, and it was with difficulty the'guests
caught a glimpse of her features. The feasting was
kept up three days, and then the bride entertained her
female friends. The groom was not permitted to be
with his bride until the third day, when he was sent for,
and took her away from her father’s to his own house.
We’ve got a contribution from a lady on femi-
nine shyness. This is how she sums up her sisters, the
nasty tiling“ What is shyness in women. How mnch
of it is real and how much simulated ? Speaking from
my own experience, I have never known a case—no
matter how protracted, how obstinate, or how deep-
seated —which would not fade away at the bare ap.
proach of matrimony. Let a young lady be too shy to
talk, too shy to sing, too shy to dance; she is never too
shy to get married I Men who are shy, are positively
and truly shy. I recall one terrible instance, who was
induced (Heaven knows by what means), to perpetrate
matrimony, but that man never recovered the shock ;
existence seemed to have lost its charm for him, and
the one absorbing idea of his life, was to forget the
horrid fact. I solemnly declare I know a man whom
nothing, no power of earth or heaven, could force to
the altar with a woman; but I mildly protest against
the belief of such shyness in women, all sweet and lovely
as they are. She is not yet born who is too nervous to
get married.” This is severe. But just one question.
Has our fair correspondent’s own shyness ever been
tested ?
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
German steamer, with 40 tons dynamite, for
Russia, seized in Dardanelles 14,000 cases dynamite
landed in Syria Dynamite found at Liverpool, Eng-
land, concealed in cotton bales Germany objects to
Gambetta forming French ministry Healy and
Father Sheehy, Land Leaguers, have left Ireland for
Prance Biot in county Mayo ; several people wounded
l9 survivors from wrecked steamer, Konig Neder-
lands, landed at Aden Turkish debt successfully
negotiated by the Powers Water supply at Now
York and Boston failing Britain rejects America’s
claim to political supremacy over Panama Canal
Kairwan (Tunis) occupied by French troops Qam-
betta elected President of Chamber of Deputies
Elections in Germany unfavourable to Government;
large increase in number of Socialist votes; Bismarck’s
son defeated Father M'Hale. Irish priest, arrested
for inflammatory language Gladstone gratified that
Irish tenants are paying their rents, and hopeful that
peace and prosperity ara returning to Ireland Elec-
tions to German Reichstag; Liberal members returned
for Berlin Ring and Queen of Italy enthusiastically
received at Vienna Frozen meat per Garonne selling
in London for 4d. per lb The R.C. Archbishop of
Dublin condemns the Land Leaguers’ cry of “ no rent."
German Government congratulate Ring of Italy on
his friendly relations with Austria Thomas Sexton,
Land Leaguer, said to be dying in Rilmainham Gaol.
2OO magistrates in county Cork support Irish policy
of Government. Large meeting, at Parsontown,
King’s county, decided to give Irish Land Act a fair
trial Austria’s difficulty with Italy re territorial
rights, satisfactorily arranged Baron O’Hagan, Lord
Chancellor tor Ireland, about to resign Icelanders
emigrating ia large numbers to America.
Correct yon are, judicial Hale;
You’ve on the head hit the right nail.
And evidently you have got.
E’en like a new drawn porter pot,
A head.
Resist a p’liceman I no I J.P. I
Not even if it happens he.
With cruel gibe and savage grin,
In wanton rage should run you in.
When, at the corner of the street,
The “ missis ’’ there you wait to meet.
Resist police! the bare idea.
Is quite blood-curdling— we declare 1
Sweet Hale, why you’d not even holler.
If one grabbed you by the coat collar.
And rammed his knee into your back.
And gave you with his staff a crack.
Dragged you through crowded streets, and then
Shut you up with four drunken men ;
And all because, ah, sad to state 1
Tour “missis " was a little late.
It’s plain to see, immense official.
That yon have got a mind judicial.
And It occasions ns deep pain,
That you can’t distribute that brain.
10
November 5, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


s
ANDGATB. g A
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
Remember the fifth of November, tl
first great land sale
SANDGATE.
BOTANY, BOTANY, B
The SAKDGATE BSTAT
extensive area of 80 acres, on both
Botany-road, extending On the east
Gardens, and Sir Joseph Banks* I
side to the deep Waters Of Botany I
the centre of Botany Township; £
the ridges of elevated land. Th(
course of construction, runs througl
of the SANDGATE ESTATE, and 1
close handy. The property has beei
hy Mr. Surveyor Atchison, the road
and the several sites of unusual d
judiciously cleared and levelled, a
tinctly marked out, and the roads n:
away of the trees between the mai
has opened some of the most cha
imaginable, the views of Sandringhc
the entrance to George’s River ac:
extremely pretty. From the plans
'34 y than the water frontage is pi
nan ESPLANADE, of unusual widt
'.'ve projected pier for steamers, p
parties, will be run out. The Esplt
from the main road by Chelmsford .
fore of noble width. Sandgate in
all the elements of future prosperity
ness sites, seaside villa sites, cotta]
Is bounded on both sides by nrani
that purchasers on the sth Noner
satisfaction of knowing that they In
not in some outlandish spot, away ft
tion with the town, but in a locality
will be running by Christmas, in a li
is at present a large and thrivin
locality where industries and factor
in every direction, in a locality w
sinew of the country must cougreg
sequently (as in all manufacturing c
new world) land must rise in price,
most valuable and marketable
auctioneers’ advice is not to miss t
will take place on SATURDAY .
November, as the land is certain tc
opening of the tramway, as in o
addition to the land, that splendid 1
known as the property and residei
will be sold. This is one of the h
out of Sydney, and is well worth lo
bound to go to the highest bidder oi
REMEMBER the FIRST G
AT SANDGATE
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 5t
tar Substantial cash bonuses, w
those who erect the first five house
in addition, free yearly tramway pas
the builders ef the second five hons
SANDGATE,BC
Churches and Schools already
SANDGATE, BOTA
Mechanics' Institute and School i
Sandgate.
SANDGATE. BOTi
Shops, Houses, Stores, Hotel
necessaries of modern li
Sandgate.
SANDGATE,
next to Correv’s and Sir Jos
SANDGATE,
and beautiful water and <
SANDGATE,
right opposite Botany Bay
SANDGATE,
first sale, SATURDAY, sth oi
on the ground.
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATR
AT SANDGATE
AT SANDGATE
Buy an allottn
Build your cot
Grow flowers, I
You can get se
Abundance of
Schools, Churches
You will have
Bay views, oce
Elevated sites, go
S 3" Be at Sandgai
83" on sth Novem
Oil THE FIFTH OF NO
SATURDAY AFTER]
SANDGATE, S
BOTANY.
MAIN ROAD FRONT
nrvm-KV mv übOW
Cranbrook-road, Rocheater-ro
Margate-road,
Brighton-road, Tunbridge-rood
Edgehill-road,
Clevedon-road, Aylesbury-roa
Kingston-road,
Maidenhead-road, Dewsbury-rc
Sandgate-road.
SANDGATE, BOTANY
opposite to (ORREY’S TEA (
SIR JOSEPH BANKS'
EVERYONE SHOULD GO T
EVERYONE SHOULD BU
SANDGATE.
SANDGATE, the CENTRE
LITHOGRAPHS ARE
SANDGATE! SANDGATE!!
BOTANY 1 EOT.
V The FIRST GREAT SA
place ON THE GRO
SATURDAY AFTER!
sth NOVEMBEI
HARDIE AND GO
Auctioneers to the Botany Li
133 Pitt-street,
JOHN SHEPHERD,
Solicitor to the Botany La*
Pitt-street, near King-
gATUEDAY, sth N
GREAT CONTINUATI
* %
BISHOPSMOUNT AND £
COOGEE HEIGE
SATURDAY, sth NO
at 3.30.
The pice of the easte:
BISHOPSMOUNT
BISHOPSMI
Adjoining the residenc
LORD BISHOP OF
Positively 6 minutes’ walk ft
*#* 46 CHARMING YlL]
Possessing the following a(
Pure ale, good drainage
Elevated position, good ACcEs
Wide sTreEts, back entri
Good depths, east coi
TITLE, TORRENS*. EAf
A Good Road Just Finished 1
ARDEN YALE. ARDEN YA
ARDEN VALE. ABI
ARDEN VALI
Adjoining Bishopsmount.
V 22 SPLENDID YILLj
Each having a grand ocean view am
NOTE THE TERMS FOR TI
20 PEE CENT. DEPOSIT, BALANCE I
MENTS. 6 PEE CENT. IS
LITHOGRAPHS IN A F
INSPECTION OF THESE PROP
HARDIE AND G
AUCTIONS
H
FARLEIGH ESTATE. FAR]
THIS EXTENSIVE, MAG
HIGHLY-IMPROVED ESTATE i
subdivision by Mr. Surveyor Binst
nutted to public compel
SATURDAY, sth NOVEM
At 3.30 p.m., together with that DI
CLASS FAMILY MANSION, kuo
HOUSE, situate on a portion there
BATT, B.ODD, AND
THIS PROPERTY, which is s:
elevated part ef ASHFIELD SOL
designated the CREAM of t
SUBURB, and is in the centre of
class properties, viz., W. SEAW
JAMIESON, Esq.; F. OLISBOLD
RICHARDSON, Esq.; D. ROBE
ROBINSON, Esq.; W. ROSS, Esq
MILES, Esq.; J. H. GOODLI
STUART, Esq., M.L.A.; and M
rounded by good WIDE STREETS
taken by the SURVEYOR that EV]
will have a frontage to a 66-FEi
rendering this property one of the
SUBDIVISIONS ever offered to
fashionable locality.
The whole has a north-easterly as
MAGNIFICENT VIEWS of
PARRAMATTA RIVER, BRUSH
HILLS, and other scenery, ino
MOUNTAINS,
FARLEIGH HOU
Which contains Hall, Dining-ro
(with folding doors), Library, fiyi
kitchen, servant’s room, out-office
will be offered, with exactly
ONE ACRE OF I
But the subdivision is so arrange,
chasing the same can easily I NCR]
purchasing ADJOINING ALLOT
improve the property at the same t
THE TERMS WILL BE EXCEED
viz., 20 per cent. DEPOSIT, am
instalments at 6, 13, 18, and 21 mon
at the low rate of 5 per cent.
The AUCTIONEERS can. with
DENCE RECOMMEND this prop,
iug an investment or a suburban h
respectfully iuvite au inspection of
TITLE, TORREN
Cards to view obtainable a
LITHOGRAPHS NOW
BAIT, ROOD, ANC
AUCTIONEEI
Solicitors to the Ee
Messrs. HOttfEN and L
Castleteagh-stree
fJIHE GREAT SALE OF 1
TEMPERANCE TOW
on the Western 1
MOUNT^DRtn
MOUNT DRUIT
MOUNT DRUIT
The Prettiest Spot to be f(
Line of Railway
The great success attendant up
a Temperance Township on the 1
whole of Gough Town and Gong
numbering about 600 allotments, 1
of, and many re-sold at largely a
induced the vendors to call inf
Western Line a township upon
namely : “ There shall not he er<
land, or any part thereof, any brew<
public-house, or other messuage,
sale, disposal, or manufacture of fe
or intoxicating liquors or wines
whatsoever, or use or permit or i
hnildinar. messuage, or erection r>
FARL E I G H E
CHOICEST POSITION IN
PARLE I G II £
COMMANDS GRAND AND EX']
EAELEIOH ES
EVERY ALLOTMENT OVER
PARLEIOH ES
TORRENS’ TITLE; LIRE
EARLEIGH e
day of SALE-
SATURDAY, sth NCD
BAIT, ROOD, ani
TEM p E Pi
COOK’S RIVER ROAD ‘
UNWIN’S HRIDGE ROAD
RELMORE ROAD
RAILWAY RC
PARK R
(
SATURDAY, 5tT NC
ON THE ESTA 1
WATKIN AND
... ciiuuueiu,jrreenc
Society (the original Land and
New South Wales), will offer for
terms,
TWf U™^ l , l ‘ T,lanned » excellent!
VISION. Havingtho tram t
front, and the Illawarra
yards of the Uwin’s Road ft
residents on this estate witl
to and from the city, leaving
Each lot fronts a goad i
Each lot has a 20-feet wide
Following up the liberal polic
have always adopted, the Cooi
greatest artery of traffic into and <
will bo widened to 66 feet. The p
to the public will rnsVe the wide
along its route from cßiver to
Following up thei estrictionsas
by the vendors, a good neighbour!
teed; no inferior erections wil
whilst allowing the fullest scope
of the architectural talent of s
low minimum value of cost of bui
upon.
ASSISTANCE.—LiberaI assist
the lowest remunerative rate of in
No mortgage will be required.
Every facility for transfers.
The advantage of being able
borrow the money to build on tb
institution, without the expens
release, is too apparent and too v
quire more than mention.
The Title, Torrens’ Act. Plans
The terms only 6J per cent, dep
able by fortnightly instalments <
for every £2O purchased or borrow
PLANS REAL
11
THE BULLETIN.
November 5. *BBl.


Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, fee.
JgIALLON’S PEIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks ef all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
VINETABD:
MURRAY EIYEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions:—
London International 1862
Paris „ 1861
Vienna ... 1873
Philadelphia 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. EED.
Beisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitag*
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
I
ICE ICE ICE
E
riIHE CITY ICE COMPANY, having mado each
ADDITION to their WOEKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE per diem,
are prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, &0..
Apply to
3 WYNYAED STREET,
OR TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
R
OBERT BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Couktet Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
'^'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatio
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
vringer, £4 10s
MANGLES.
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-sheUers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac,
T
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STEEET.
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
* M s
tA
o
s
&
c
'p
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purehasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
120,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4,
No. 2.—Machine for treadle nse only, £6.
No. 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian 11 Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYAED LANE, SYDNEY.
W LOOK FOE THE NAM 11!
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Keni-steeet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
E. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.'s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
JjIOWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS.
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Tobacconists
TIN TAG!
TAG!
Caution to Storekeepers.
ANYONE selling Tobacco with any Bound Tin Tng
other than those bearing our brands
“CONQUEEEE" or “YANKEE DOODLE"
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded against
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Mann,
factnrer has been sending out one of his Inferior brands
of Tobacco with a Bound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YORK STREET.
TOBACCO SMOKEBS,
Note the Above.
fo&y
J.EVE . TOBACCONIST
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Boyal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STEEET.
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES : 700 GEOEGE STEEET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours —9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PEESONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
15 ... ... H. .a . fl
20 ... no e
25 .« ... 012 6
SO ..100
50 „. 1 5 0
And in due proportion up to £luo.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEOEGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
rji
10 SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPEIETOES.
MONET LENT on mortgage of properties, in gums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN,
DISCOUNT BANK,
AND
169 ELIZABETH STEEET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtain >t
advantages upon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bossiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leasee,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annul-
ties. Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acceptances, Ac., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
SUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVB-
IENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
Loans granted without delay,
moderate rates, ou all kinds of security. Rep
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTS.
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next con
King-street. Established 1859.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPEEHANQINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT'S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK, 281, GBOBGE-BT-
Hotels, &o.
ROBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4a per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cookburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15a. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intereolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The compagnoni catering company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior " Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persona, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jatering (Jompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Caf6, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen,
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Mootings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
HA S. R. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
i
S -
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
OBJVz
pßiri]
win
m*a*n
K
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
arc being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTEALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
AG E N T—G EORGE LLOYD,
BEaDGE street chambers.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owirg to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.'s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
ter Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimulant
worV^
Tb? Sam* of U. MOSS & 00.
I* on every Genuine Bottle.
Sh
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of BnlJ Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of tho Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for tho sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
MAR
B
OAE’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
* selected with great care from tho best of the brew-
re of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
J CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J S. CATTELL and CO..
Sole Agents.
12
November 5, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Messrs. J. Vicars & Co.’s Tweed Factory
Sydney.
Tbs other day, we were afforded an opportunity of tho-
roughly inspecting the Tweed Factory of Messrs. John
Vicars and Co., of this city—an engraving of which
appears below—and arrived just in time to see the first
of this season’s wool being unloaded, preparatory to
its being manufactured into the very superior tweeds
for which this firm is deservedly famous, and for which
Mr. Vicars received first-class silver prize medals at
the International Exhibitions in London, Paris, Phila-
delphia, Sydney, and Brisbane. In regard to the
machinery and the whole forest of driving belts, it may
be fairly stated that the eight of them, just at a glance,
is really both interesting and grand. In going over the
factory with Mr. Vicars, he very kindly showed us the
whole affair—the entire processes of this industry, com-
mencing after the wool classing, scouring and dyeing,
with the preparing machines, commonly called “ the
devils ;’* next came carding and spinning, then warping
and weaving, and finally completing the various and
particular processes by milling and finishing the goods.
The various tweeds in the finished state we were next
shown, and were most agreeably astonished at the great
number of really first-class patterns now being manu-
factured by this firm. There were checks, stripes,
plains, and mixtures, in all shades and colours, as well
as in great variety; also indigo blues, which, for make,
colour, and finish, we are satisfied cannot be excelled
by any imported. The factory is well worth a visit,
and an inspection of the process of manufacture and of
the material manufactured will not be without pleasure.
Considerable interest has been manifested lately by
the squatters of the provincial districts with regard to
the mannfaotnre of goods from the raw material, and
very naturally a demand has sprung up among that class
for the goods made within their own colony. Recently,
the highest English onloginm was passed on the tweeds
manufactured by Messrs. Vicars and Co., the judges
appointed at the Paris Exhibition—among whom were
the moat competent English manufacturers—stating
that, for texture, pattern, and finish, they stood unsur-
passed by any other productions in England, America,
or Anstralia.
The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
A ton days’ race meeting was recently held near
New York.
The Mudgee Turf Club have arranged a meeting
for December 26.
The totalisator was
well patronised at the
Wanganui (N.Z.) Spring
meeting.
The annual meeting
of the Albury Racing
Club is fixed for the 16th
and 17 th March,
Only 29 nominations
were received for the
Auckland Cup, against
40 last year. The na nos
of five prominent owners
are absent.
The French St.
Leger, run at Caen on
August Bth, was won by
Count de Legraage’s colt
Albion, beating Lord
Rothschild’s Forum and
three others.
A race meeting has
been arranged to come
off at leverell on the
17th and 18th February.
At the preliminary meet-
ing a strong working
committee was appoin-
ted, and 100 guineas were
subscribed.
Following are the
entries for the Parra-
matta Jockey Club meet-
ing on 9th November s
Hurdle Race 10; Shorts
Handicap, 25; Galloway
Race, 10; Selling Race,
18; Prince of Wales Han-
dicap, 15. The proper-
ties realized £372, and a
good moetingis expected.
At Paisley, on
August 12th, the long-
est established annual
race, first run 261 years
age, was won by Mr. E.
Hunter’s Macadam (7at.
131 b), beating three
others. The race is called
the Silver Bells, and it
him 100 guineas added
money. It was first run
for in 1630.
The “ Hippodromedaries ” are running a show
successfully at Melbourne.
Brian Born was kicked at Caulfield, and had to
be scratched for the Coburg Stakes,
The Caulfield Guineas and Cup are to be run
next year on consecutive Saturdays.
Twilight, the steeplechaser, has been purchased
for the stud by Mr. De Laney Forth.
Pincns, the American trainer, says a horse, to
win the English Derby, must be a good four-miler.
It has been determined to allow three Saturday
afternoons for the Cup contests on the Association
Ground.
Fred Archer won nearly 1000 sovs., in addition
to his mount, by the win of Iroquois in the English
St. Leger.
The owner of Foxhall is now known in Pans as
•« Jjq yainqueur Americaine du Grand Prix de Pans, M.
If
The St. Kilda College Athletic Club’s first
meeting takes place on the Association Ground on 21st
November.
The Victorian Association’s charges on the
matches to be played by the English Eleven are fixed
at ten per cent.
In America, they are training steers to trot.
The time accomplished by one, the other day, was a
mile in 3,30 min.
The well-known N.Z. sport, G. G. Stead, now
in England, has bought nine thoroughbred mares for
Canterbury province.
A second Sheffield Handicap, <£2l, is to be run
for at Norwood Park on 12th and 11th November.
Entries close on November 8.
The Croydon Cricket Club have selected a piece
of ground on Moore Park, and intend to use the mat-
ting for their future matches.
It is stated that Mr. A. K. Finlay, son-in-law of
Sir Hercules Robinson, is about to transfer his stud of
horses to the Darling Downs (Q)
Thirteen events on the programme for the New-
castle Regatta on New Year’s Day, including a £3O
prize for open boats under 21 feet.
The imported stallion, Sterlingworth, half
brother to laonsmy, was withdrawn from sale at Ade-
hide, the bidding reaching only 245 guineas.
The Queensland Cricket Association is anxious
to establish intercolonial contests with us. Protably,
ho first match will be arranged for next season.
Don Carlos, the New Zealand greyhound, who
won several events during the season, and figured as
mmer-np in the Waterloo Cnp, at Dunedin, is dead.
forkshire, in a match with Surrey, had 40 min-
utes left to get 35 runs to win. Bates and Ulyett were
sent in, and they obtained the required number, Bates
scoring 32, while Ulyett, who is considered a fast rnn-
getter, obtained only 2.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) Athletic Association’s
meeting, which extended three days, was a success.
Mr. F. N. Robinson won the Champion Cup, value £lOO.
Lorillard’s Parole won the principal event at
Sheepshead’s Bay (N.Y.) Races, on the Bfch September;
distance, 1 mile 3 furlongs; time, 2min. 24Jsec.; weight,
Bst. sft.
The matches for the Boyle and Scott Challenge
Cup, for junior clubs, have been completed in the first
ronnd. The second list of matches commences to-day
(Saturday).
The bowling match on Satarday at Annandale
between the Annandale and Balmain Clubs resulted in
favour of the former, the scores being, Annandale, 110 ;
Balmain, 47.
The race for the Cambridgeshire Stakes, at the
Newmarket Houghton meeting, on October 25, resulted
as follows: —Foxhall 1, Lucy Glitters 2, Tristan 3.
Another victory for America.
Big scores are the rule in Victoria as well ae
here. South Melbourne mode 181 on Saturday week.
East Melbourne 247, and Kew 211, This speaks os well
for the gronnds as for the batting.
H. N. Abbott, of the United Service Hotel
Auckland (N.Z.), drew his big £lO,OOO sweep on the
Melbourne Cup, on Oct. 20. The list was full some time
before. He opened another, unlimited.
The pigeon-flying ipatch from Springwood, 47
miles, on Saturday, resulted in a victory for Mr. Foot’s
bird Somerset, who homed in 66 minutes, Mr. M’Mil-
lan’s bird second, and Mr. Freeman’s third.
Up to August 20th, F. Archer had won 133
races out of 316 mounts; C. Wood, 81 out of 290;
T. Cannon, 60 out of 201; G. Fordham, 44 out of 227;
C. Morbey, 35 out of 215; J. Goater, 34 out of 181.
The Brisbane Eegatta committee offer a prize of
£lOO for a sculling match on 10th December, over a
three-mile course, on condition that not less than two
first-class scullers from the other colonies compete.
1000 to 100 was taken some time ago that the
South Australian mare, Oxalia, would start for the
Melbourne Cup. The taker of the odds afterwards
purchased the mare, and made a certainty of the wager.
Narrabri Eaces. Second Day :—Prince of
Wales’ Stakes : Reprieve 1, Napoleon 2, Marionette 3.
Narrabri Handicap: Hazard 1, Sunbeam 2, Express 3.
The Flutter : Gamecock 1, Reprieve 2, Little John 3.
Trial Stakes : Recovery 1, Gamecock 2, Trevallyn 3.
Forced Handicap: Hawthomden 1, Mirabeau 2, Ex-
press 3.
The American horao, Iroquois, having won the
St. Leger, scored up a total winning on the English
turf of £17,947. Iroquois is the ninth horse in eighty
years that has won the white and the blue ribbon of the
English turf.
The old-time English jockeys, Frank Butler and
Nat Flatman, had a great aversion to making pace in
races. Very often when ordered to do so they refused
mounts, and maintained that to do so was at least a
71b. disadvantage.
The annual bowling match between the Carlton
and Melbourne Bowling Clubs, was played on the green
of the former on October 21, and resulted in a win for
the Melbourne players by 22 points, the scores being
Melbourne, 98; Carlton, 76.
The Victorian Trotting Club are rapidly getting
thoir course at Elsternwick ready. The principal item
on the opening programme is the Champion Trot, a
sweep of 20 sovs. each, with 100 sovs. added; mile
heats; best three out of five.
Betting is exceedingly great at Christchurch
Tattersall’s on the Christchurch (N.Z.) J.C. meeting in
November. Grip, Lady Emma, and Libeller, are still
warm favourites for the big handicap, and Dauphin and
Amulet in great demand for the Derby.
Tie annual meeting of the New South Wales
Coursing Club was held on the 36th ult. Messrs Q. W.
Thornton, H. M'Quade, W. L. Docker. Capt. Osborne,
and Dr. Belisario were elected as members of the com-
mittee, and a vote of thanks was passed to the secre-
tary, Mr. C. S. Gregory.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Spring meeting was a
success in every way, the principal event, Wanganui
Stakes, 2 miles and a distance, falling to Merlin, 7st. 21b.;
Venture, 7st. 31b., second ; Slander filly, 6st. 71b., third.
Eleven started. Angler won the Hurdles, and Grand
Duchess the Railway Plate.
The Pigeon Match between five gentlemen from
N?w South Wales, and five from Victoria, is to come off
at Brighton Park (Vic.), on Friday, 4th November.
The terms are as as follow; —£20 a gun, 15 birds, 5
traps 10 yards apart, an! the unrestricted use of both
barrels, each side finding the birds for the other.
Berrima Eaces. Second Day;—Trial Stakes :
Barmaid 1, Waxworks 2; both horses were disqualified
for this event. Novel Race: Whalebone 1, Victor 2.
Berrima Handicap, 2 miles: Lord Orville 1, Empress 2,
An Eevoir 3. Farewell Handicap, once round: Barmaid
1, Gitana 2, Empress 3. Hack Race: Wagga Wagga 1.
Another sportsman for Australia. We read in
an English paper:—“ Several racehorses, of no re-
markable excellence, the property of Mr. Dudley
Milner were sold at York (England) recently, Mr.
Milner has not been seen about much during the last
tan months, and he starts shortly for Australia, where
ho intends to reside.”
In a match played between the New Zealand
Loan and Mercantile Agency Company and Moser and
Co.’s Cricket Clubs at Heme Hill, Dulwich, W. P.
Daniels, of the former club, performed the extraor-
dinary feat of clean bowling five men with 5 successive
balls. Mr. Daniels took two middle stamps, one leg
stump, and then two middle stumps again. This per-
formance completely eclipses the ordinary hat-trick.
The Croydon C.C. v. Oxford C.C. Oxford 26,
Croydon 57. Owen and Buchanan for the winners, P.
Slattery for the losers, batted well; the howling of
Dennis and M. Carroll for the Croydon, and the wicket-
keeping of M’Carthy, were exceptionally good.—The
Croydon C.C. v. Derwent C.C. Scores: Croydon 47,
Derwent 34. M. Carroll, Bowtcll, and Johnson for the
winners, and Evans for the losers, were the principal
batting contributors.
The V.A.T.C. committee have decided that the
third money advertised in the conditions of the Caul-
field Cup lapses to the fund, there being only first and
second horses placed. The host sporting authorities
are of the opinion that the money should remain in
the stake, and thus be won by the first horse. Mr.
Ivory is not likely to go to law about it, as he is doubt-
less quite satisfied with the mixing of things by which
his horse, Master Avenel, was placed first.
The Ballarat Cricket Club have issued an at-
tractive programme for their sports meeting on 27th
December. The Christmas Handicap of 130, 250, 440,
and 600 yards has £3O, £l5, £7, and £5; the Mila
Handicap, £l5, £3, and £2; and the Bicycle Race £2O,
£5, £3, and £2 Entries, addressed to Mr. C. W.
Sherrard, the secretary. Pavilion Hotel, Eastern Oval,
Ballarat, can be made until 14th November. Handicaps
appear 6th December ; acceptances, 12th December.
The match between the University and Carlton
Clubs for the Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup was continued
on the 26th ultimo, when the University closed their
first innings for 354, being 53 ahead. The Carltons lost
eight wickets for 121 when time was called, the principal
contributors being Davis, not out, 26; Weame, 19 ;
G. Hall. 14; Webster, 13; Nunn, 11; Callachor, 10. A.
Bannerman was canght by Wright when he had scored
only 8, and C. Bannerman, Nunn, and Callachor ware
run out.
Concerning the visiting English team, the fol-
lowing particulars may be interesting. Shaw, Shrews-
bury, and Lillywhite pay each man £220 for the trip.
With the exception of J. Lillywhite, all of them hail
from the north of England. Shrewsbury has not been
showing good form. Peate is the best slow bowler in
England, but be cannot bat, and his fielding is not up to
the mark. Bates is the best all round man, and puts on
a deal of “ side,” which is sure to render him unpopu-
lar here. Lockwoo 1, formerly captain of the Yorkshire
team, is a fine batsman, and a very quiet and unassum-
ing man. Midwinter always funks at the start of an
innings. Barlow is a grand batsman; his last scores,
before leaving England, were 79 and 96. Ulyett, we know,
is a fine batsman. Altogether the eleven is spoken of as
the strongest combination that has ever visited Austra-
lia, and the matches at Sydney and Melbourne will be
a true test of the strength of Australian cricket against
that of England.
The last match of Lancashire against Glouces-
tershire was drawn, very much in favour of the former.
The scores were as follows: —Gloucester 122 (W. Q.
Grace 32, E. M. Grace 21), Lancashire 102, and 267 for
nine wickets, Hornby scoring 49 and 40, Steele 48 and
79, Royle 5 and 66 (not out). The proceedings in this
match were not altogether pleasant, owing to Grace
pressing Hornby to play on a wicket that resembled a
bog, and Hornby distinctly refusing to take his men
into the field.
Mr. H. F. Boyle, who was appointed by the
Victorian Cricketing Association as the selector of the
Intercolonial team, has arranged two matches —one at
Ballarat, and one at Sandhurst, between the first
elevens of the respective districts against the next
eighteens. He will attend these matches and will wit-
ness the play, with a view of determining whether there
are any cricketers in the principal provincial centres of
sufficient merit to be selected for practice in the inter-
colonial contests.
The selection committee for the Intercolonial
and International cricket matches, Messrs. Massie,
Beal, and Faithfull, have chosen the following for
practice:—A. Bannerman, C. Bannerman, Davis,
Downes, Evans, Garrett, D. Gregory, E. Gregory, A,
Gregory, Geary, Hiddleston, Jones, Massie, Murdoch,
Spofforth, and Wearns, It is not yet certain whether
Evans, Murdoch, and Spofforth will play; but if all
chosen are available, the selection committee will have
a difficult task to make the final choice.
Sporting men will regret to hear that Mr. S.
Gardiner, of Bundoora Park (Victoria), has had the
misfortune during the past few days to lose three fine
yearling colts by Tubal Cain, from the well-known
mares Lurline, Coquette, and Solitaire. As all racing
men are well aware, Lurline and Coquette are the dams
of those good performers, Darebin and Progress, and it
is thus evident that the loss to Mr. Gardiner is a very
heavy one, as these youngsters would have brought a
very high figure at his annual sale of yearlings.
The Public Instruction Department Bowing
Club held their usual half-yearly regatta on Saturday,
21st ult., in Eushoutter Bay, with the following re-
sults:—lst. Single sculls for senior! members, for the
season champion cup, presented by the club —winner,
Mr. T. Kinninmont. 2nd. Double sculls (junior)—A.
Kinninmont and Mercer. 3rd. Pair oar (senior) —T.
Kinninmont and Bothell. 4th, Single sculls (junior)—
A. Kinninmont. sth. Double sculls (senior) —M'Cann
and Green. 6th. Pair oar (junior)—Bassan and A.
Kinninmont.
The averages of the three highest batsmen of
the late English teason, are as follows:—Hornby, eigh-
teen innings with 53 3; A. G. Steele, eight innings, 50 3
Barlow, eighteen innings, 39 9. Steele captured forty-
two wickets at a cost of 10‘37; Barlow fifty-one wickets
at a cost of STS—a very creditable performance.
Hornby’s average is far higher that that of W. G. Grace
(who is credited with 36 9 for 16 innings, his highest
score being 182 against Notts), a most gratifying result
to the public generally, for they are beginning to tire
somewhat of the Graces and their manners. Mid-
winter’s batting average is 16.12 for 15 innings, and bowl,
iug average 4-4 wickets at a cost of 16T9 runs per wicket
The weights for the Epsom Derby have under-
gone several changes. In 1780, when Diomed won it,
the weights were—colts Bst., and fillies 7st. lift. These
weights were continued until 1784, when colts carried
Bst. 3ft., and fillies Bst. Another change occurred in
1801—Eleanor’s year—when colts (carried Bst. 3ft., and
fillies 7st. 10ft. Two years later the weights became
Bit. sft. for colts, and Bst. for fillies. In 1807 there was
a further change of Bst. sft. for colts, and 8:t. 2ft.
for fillies. These weights continued until 1832, when
the weights were altered to the present standard.
Sat. 10ft. for colts, and Sat. 7ft. for fillies.
Additional "trophies have been offered by Mr.
Summerfleld and Messss. Lamb and Fairfax for com-
petition in the Thomson Junior Cup matches. A
player leaving his club to play in a senior match for-
feits his right to any of the trophies. The effect of
the junior matches upon the progress of cricket is
already being felt, and the secretaries of the big clubs
are on the war-path seeking to strengthen their tails
with recruits from the successful performers iu those
matches. Moore Park has supplied players like Hid-
dilston, Downes, Apperly, and G. Hall; and there is no
reason to doubt that this season will bring many more
of the same calibre to the front. Several matches are
arranged to take place on the 9th November.
The match between the Warwick and Albert
clubs, for the Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup, was continued
on Saturday, and the Albert succeeded in making 22
rtms more than the Warwick score of the previous
Satarday. The principal contributors were Bcrghotf
who played a good hitting innings for 62; Moses a
splendid innings for 55; Massie, a streaky 55; Pletch'er
a well-played 44; A, Gregory, a smartly earned 23
Downes bowled very well, and the fielding of the War!
wiclts, witht he exception of Cleland, was very good'
Nettle, the wicket-keeper, is one of the smartest men
behind the sticks that we have seen. The Warwick
lost 3 wickets for 21 in the second innings. The match
was continued till 6.30. p.m„ and the light was very
bad for cricket. J
Pendragon says “ Americans are so puffed up
with their one or two successes that they look upon
defeat as a great national insult. If they can but
charge the enemy with foul play they get rid of thoir
superfluous steam that way; but if there is no nos
sibility of doing that, woe to their unhappy represen
tatives. I would not wish my bitterest enemy a worse
fate than that of being an American would-be shearer
who was compelled to return homo shorn There is
yet a lesson they might learn from this effete old
country. They might learn to try and meet their
opponents, especially in international matches on
fairly even terms and without endeavouring to obtain
undue advantages. When they have succeeded in doing
this, they may have also leamt not tin make a demigod
of a man because he has succeeded, or to contemn him
as a blackbeetle because he comes back a failure TT-aw
would this suit Austraia ? '
A complimentary pic-
nic was given by the
Sydney Amateur Sailing
Club, on the 27th ult.,
to Mr. J. H. Burton,
captain and owner of
the schooner-yacht As-
toroid, and hisl friends,
Messrs. T. Littledalc
and A, Deacon,
These were the Cup
prognostications, as sent
to a Melbourne journal:
—Duchess was named
by ,181; Waxy by 174;
Irnmp Yobs by 148;
Lord Burleigh by 131-
Sir Modred by 122; and
Sweetmeat by 121. Of
the others some were
close up to the 100, while
many did not possess
more than one suppor-
ter 1
The conditions of
the special match for the
Queen’s Prize, to be com-
peted for at the Vie-
torian Rifle Association
“eeting, are as follows :
—The distances are 500.
600, and 800 yards, seven
shots at each, breech-
loading rifles, not less
than Martini-Henry bore.
The principal prize is a
Sold cnp of the value of
£lOO, offered by the
Government.
The bowling season
was formally opened on
2oth nit. at Annandale
by a match between a
combined team chosen
from the Annandale. Bal-
main, and City Clubs,
and a team from the Par-
ramatta Club, resulting
in a win for the former
by 19 points. In the
evening, Mr John Young,
the president of Annan-
dale Bowling Club, gave
a dinner, over 100 gen.
tlemen being present.
A very handsome trophy, valued at 30 guineas
has been offered by Messrs. M‘Lean Brothers and
Rigg for the highest average scorer in the Cleeland Cun
matches, in Victoria. 1
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this Index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general. 18
RACING.
Victoria E.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1. 3. 5
November 9.'
November 9.
.NJirra.»n. q
Canterbury (N.Z.) j. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10, ll"
wv -; November 9, 10.
Brighton Part (Vie.) November 13,
Wyndham (Vie.) November 19
Mumimbidgee Turf Club November 23. 34. 25
Bendigo jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23 24!
Mnrrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23* 21 25
P. Augusta and Flinders J.C. (S.A.)...November 28. 29.'
Dunedm (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting.... Nov. 30, Dec. 1
Wellington Eacmg Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30.
Oootamundra December 1 2
Oamaru (N.Z ) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.*
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora. December 8, 9.
Tasmanian J.C December 10.
Bathurst Amateur Turf Club December 10
Queensland December Kb
Hamilton (Vic.) December 14. 15.
WiUiamstown (Vic.) December 24.
Bairnsdale (Vic.) December 26, 27.
\Vanalda J.C. Annua1......... ..■••••«••. ............December.
A. J.C. Summer Meeting December 2fi!
Mudgee. December 26.
Demliquiu. December 20,
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Kensington Park (Vic.) December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26; Jan 1 2
V.R.C. Champion January' l!
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
Forbes January 2.
Glen Lines January 2, 3.
Brouloe January 26 and 27.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 15, and 16.
Tasmanian Turf Club .February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) AutnmnMeeting...Feb. 23,24.25—1882.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar, U f 12—1882.
AQUATICS.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Menmbula Regatta November 0
Victoria Rowing Club November 12.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November is;
MESSRS. J. VICARS & CO.’S TWEED FACTORY, SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
13
November 5, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


PEICE LIST OP WI
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WI
RED.
Case
SPIRITS.
Rum,
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
42s Od
38s 6d
8s Od
11s Od
8s Od
10s Od
6s 6d
9s 9d
Hennessy’s
Brandy ...
Hennessy’s *♦’*
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Burke’s *** Case
Whisky
Other Brands Irish
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od
ALES AND STO
per doz.
Bulldog Ale, qts.... 11s Od
Bulldog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
Foster’s Ale, pints.
Aitken’s Ale, qts...
Dryborough’s Ale,
pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Rum,
Jar
Rum,
Jan
Braxu
Gas
Gin,
15 1
size
Gin,
15 ]
size
Wolfi
Boar’
pin'
Fostc
Pig”
qua
Pig 1
pin!
•SP Country Orders for Ales an<
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints oi
6d. per dozen extra will be charge
A Sample Dozen of assorted botl
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Olli
All Goods delivered carriage fr
town or to the Wharves or Red!
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on givi
T, VIVIAN BAP
WINE & SPIRIT ME:
65 Pitt-street, Sy
gMALL P 0 X. S
PREVENTION IS BETTEI
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHE'
VENTFVE of SMALL-POX,
Chemists.
. ,■ ■ T~- ■■
JOHN 8
AUSTRALIAN CH
and
NEW YEAR CAI
This Collection has been special!
much needed requirement, name!
cards suitable for sanding home ca
our friends an idea, not only of
ssenery and flora, but, at the si
advance Australia, and Sydney in
in the Fine Arts.
There being an erroneous idea
ttieir excellence—that these cards
in Europe from colonial designs, I i
of informing the public that thej
drawn on stone by Artists in my e
by the Chromo-Lithographic proc(
and are the result of a competit
Gallery of N. S. W., in May last,
value of fifty guineas, given by mi
mas Card Designs. 'These are thi:
and include, amongst other cards
Life, Australian Animals, Fruits,
Insects, Colonial Scenery, Amus
Pastoral and Allegorical subjects,
have verses appropriate to the oc
those gaining the premium of
recently given by me.
The cards will be on sale On
October 17, and may be obtained al
colonies, and direct from
JOHN SANDS
CHROMO-LIT HOG RAPH
374 George-stre<
Department of I
Sydney, 281
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS F(
LEASES.
OVERS OF GOOD
<_ "" "
We beg to draw 3
PARTICULAR ATTI
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TE
Packed|in pounds and hal;
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s, and!
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
2s. 6d. a
PUEE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d. a
PUEE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. a
Special Quotations given to Wl
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA CO]
279 PITT STREET (next S
SYDNEY.
UNIVERSITY
Affiliated to Trin. Co
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM S
Principal :
Dr. EODWAY, M.A., P.I
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY ar
EODWAY, and the number of stu
strictly limited to TEN, so that
gentleman that individual attenti
secure success. Dr. Eodway’s sys
cient, and he guarantees to pass
sends to the University—Law, C;
Public Examinations.
PEES: Per term, in advance, for (
Trade mark, Waltham, Maas. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
taring same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.— Adv.
Trickett v. Banian November 22.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion Regatta December 17.
Holdaworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
Raymond Terrace Regatta December 26.
Newcastle Annual Regatta January 1.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club Sports Nov. 9.
WaUsend Sports November 9.
Windsor Sports November 9.
Eskbank Athletic Sports November!).
Sheffield Handicap, Norwood Park..... November 12,14.
St. Kilda College Sports, Association Ground... Nov. 21.
CRICKET.
All England v. Sydney .December 9.10.12.
All England v. Victoria .December 16.17,19.
Intercolonial, at Melbourne December 24. 20, 27.
Holdaworth-Gardyne Cup matches
1881
Nov. 5, Albert v. W’rwick
Nov, 12, Albert v. Uni’ty
Nov. 19, W’rw’k v. Carlton
Nov. 26, W’rw’k v. Carlton
Dec. 3, Albert v. Carlton
Dec. 17, Albert v, Carlton
1882
Jan, 7, Warwick v, Uni’ty
Jan. 14, Warwick v. Uni’ty
Jan. 21, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Jan. 28, Carlton v. Uni’ty
1882
Feb, 4. Albert v. W’rwick
Fab. 25, Albert v. W’rwick
Mar. 4, Carlton v. Wrw’k
Mar. 11, Carlton v. W’rw’k
ivrar. 18, Carlton v. Albert
Vr n r. 25, Carlton v. Albert
1, Albert v. Uni’ty
aL. 8, Albert v. Uni’ty
A„r. 15, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
22, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
LATE SPORTING.
The New England Jockey Club have arranged a
meeting for January 26 and 27. A Handicap Foot Race
is an item in the programme.
At the Quarrymen’s picnic, the all-comera’ race,
200 yards, was won by J. M'Clurkin, with P. H. Giliard
second, and W. Cousins third.
Pirate and Warhawk fell when running in the
Hotham Handicap, on the first day of the V.R.C. meet-
ing, and Warhawk broke his leg and had to be shot.
M. Callaghan, the late caretaker for the M.E. C.,
has rented Reynolds’ boat sheds at Balmain, and is
building, to the order of the Glebe Rowing Club, three
clinker sculling outriggers.
I f A billiard match at Molong, between Mr. P. B.
Fenner, a local player, and Mr. Harry Cohen, of Miss
Clara Stephenson’s troupe, 250 up, resulted in a victory
for the former by 65 points. The winner made breaks
of 46, 37, and 32. Harry Leston was looking on.
$ Zulu, the winner of Jthe Melbourne Cup, who
started, by the way, at 100 to 1, was bred on the Man-
ning River. He commenced his racing career by win-
ning one or two small prizes in that district, and was
then brought by his owner, Mr. M’Donell, to Sydney,
The St. Kilda College Athletic Club intend
holding their first meeting on the Association Ground,
Moore Park, on the 21st Nov. Amongst the events ars
an All Schools’ Race, 440 yards; Stranger’s Race, 300
yards (handicap); and an ex-Studsnts* Race, 300 yards
(handicap). There will also be a two-mile Bicyole
Race, open to all those who never won a prize at any
athletic sports. Entries will he received until 10th
November.
Following are the results of the first day’s
racing of the V.R.C. meeting Melbourne Stakes, li
mile: Captain F. Osborne’s Wheatearl.C. G. Baldook’s
Wellington 2, Hon. J. White’s Bathurst (late Tele-
phone) 3; time, 2min. 15}seos. Hotham Handicap, li
mile and a distance: F. Wentworth’s Saunterer 1, J.
Whittingham’s Attache 2. W. Forrester’s Gipsy Cooper
3 • time, 2min. 52isec. Maribymong Plate, 5 furlongs :
Hon James White's Segenhoe 1, Mr. E. de Mestre's
Navigator and Sir T. Elder's Guesswork ran a dead
heat: time, Imin. 4seo. V.R.C. Derby, li mile : Mr.
P F Dakin’s Darehin 1, Mr. Dowling’s Santa Claus 2,
mV H. Phillips’ Commotion 3; time, 2min. 41iseo.
Essendon Stakes, 2 miles : Mr. H. Fisher’s Sunset (late
Raroona) 1, Mr. S. Gardiner’s Coriolanus 2, Mr. H.
Phillips’ Pall Mall 3; time, 3 min. 593*0. Coburg
Stakes, 1 mile: Mr. H. Fisher’s Courtenay 1, Mr. R. T.
Moore's Pawnbroker 2, Mr. D. S. Wallace’s Napper
Tandy 3; time, Imin 45sec.
The Double Bay Regatta was a great success.
The race for third-class yachts was won by the Mabel,
pt 7 tons (J. R. Love). The pulling race for residents
Double Bay was won by the Young Harry (J. Morris
<utd J. Began), and the, winners in the other events
•were as follow Canvas sailing boats, not exceeding
Vsft Era (W. Kethel). Maiden Double Sculls—Sydney
Rowing Club (C. H. Caswell and W. F. Kloster). Open
boats, 22(t. and upwards—Dreamland (C. Balisario).
Youths under 16, single sculls—Young Harry (Leo
Masmifico). Open and half-deck boats, 20ft. and up-
wards—Adelphi (24ft ), M. A. H. Fitzhardinge. Mem-
bsrs of the Alexandra Literary Institute—Grace Darling
fH Morton and J. MTntosh). Dingies under canvas—
Ouida (A. Carmichael). Senior members of rowing
o üba in alnb skiffs, double sculls—Pinafore, M.B.G.
(Messrs. A. O. and C. A. Bros). The tub race—D.
Morland, of North Shore.
The hounds had a run a few days ago up North,
throwing off about half-past 4, in the Duninald pad-
docks (Mr- S. Reynolds’). A dingo, “ borrowed ” from
a Morpeth man, had received the usual grace, but in a
most ungrateful manner did not go in the direction
expected, so the hunt was a disappointment —to all
accept the dog. The first fence arrived at had been put
lap by contractors who never did anything in the Town
Hail line, consequently it would not tumble down. Xu
the red etraak of rail not the ghost of a gap, and the
field wae stock up for a while. A useful man, however,
discovered aa opening at length, and the score of horse-
men went on. They passed through Mrs. Studdart s
E-operty into Mrs. Arnold’s, Stradbrooke; across her
wnT through the Tocs.l paddocks, to the Paterson
River, wid there the hunt ended. The dingo got
across, so did his friends the hounds, who were anxious
about him; hot the gallant riders stopped on the near
ride and watched afar off, “while Jordan rolled be-
tween ” The riding of some made a deep impression—
<sn the soft earth ; but there were not many tumbles,
fences wore not numerous. The dog got clear away.
CRICKET.
Modem High School v. Commercial School, on
Moore Park, resulted in a victory for tho former
The Croydon wicket-keeper, M‘Carthy, is a coming
mmii Bingera v. Eulowrie resulted in a win for the
former by 10 wickets. Munro, with 14 runs, top eeore
fox Bingera Clio v. Raymond C.C. Scores; R.C.G.
39 (H. Roberson IX); C.C.C. 56 (G. Dickens 19. J.
Blatter 18). For the latter, A. Sweetman took 8
wickets for 11 runs. R. Hall, for the Raymond, kept
the wicket splendidly Tho Parramatta Alfred y.
Balvidere, at Parramatta. Scores; P.A.C.C. 77 (Brodie
42 Rutter 11); Belvidere 66 (Holden 19,; C. Richardson
12) ....Parramatta Alfred v. Warwick Second Eleven, at
Parramatta, resulted in a victory for the local team by
31 runs The contests for tho Association Cups, for
junior clubs represented in the Association, commences
Vm Saturday, in the Domain. The Petersham and
Stanmofo Clubs are the first to try conclusions The
gtoldsworth-Qardyne Cup matches will occupy three
aturdays. The fixtures will thereby he materially
altered Hero of .Waterloo v. East Eedfern. Result
■ft Win for the former. Scores, 67 and 15 respectively
Highest scorers for the Heroes were J. Clune, 16; J,
(Watson, Hj A. Furso, 12; C. Newhery, 11
Ivanhoe C.G. v. tyalmain Waratah C.C.; wou by
the former by sis tuna. Scores i Ivarhoe 16, Wara-
tah R). The howling of Rdmondpop. Walker, and
Marshall, was effective. We should say bq.
■\yhat is a paradox, Charlie ? Weil, dear, “ those
who lose can’t win,” and those gain's can win.
It seems to be the current belief in China, that
the digestion of an Australian assimilates closely to that
of the emu, and that consequently turmeric, iron
filings, gypsum, “ exhausted ” tea leaves, and other
nameless abominations, will find a ready sale in Aus-
tralia. Another cargo has just been condemned in
Melbourne, and some of the rubbish will doubtless be
shipped on here. Be on your guard. Turn over a “ new
leaf.” Ask for Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas, the best, most economic, and palatable tea ever
sold in Australia. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte
flflce. DO not be prevailed on to take any other.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
James M'Knight, Mulgoa, stuck up by a man
;n the bash, near Grecndalo, on Saturday night; after
desperate struggle, the man bolted; M'Knight slightly
wounded Michael Kush has sold his business at
Eocky Mouth... .Another rich reef opened at the Barmed-
man, Temora In N.S.W., 17-' million acres hare been
selected Hugh Lavery, Eochester (Vic.), sentenced
to death for trying to poison his stepson Melbourne
Exhibition building to bo retained for show purposes.
Eich gold discovered at Cmowindra (N.S.W.),
28|oz. from 501 b. stone Netherlands Government
want 88,0001 b. of Australian beef next year South
Australian Government arranging for coolie labour from
India for North Australia Schooner Schoolboy
wrecked near Port Stephens; all hands drowned
Splendid new reefs struck at Temora Captain Eay-
mond, of ship Theophane, fined £lB9 by Melbourne
Customs for smuggling opium Captain Cudlip killed
at Wallaroo mine (S.A.) by explosion Omoboni, an
Italian, sentenced to death at Bathurst for rape......
New large cafs and dining rooms have been opened in
Melbourne Three publicans at Wellington (N.Z )
were fined recently for reducing rum by the aid of
water to 32 under-proof The tallest Public School
teacher in N.S. Wales is at Crookwell. Height, 6ft.
7}in Denton, the geologist, says that there is coal at
Skipton, near Smythesdale (Vic.) Large number of
boats capsized in Sydney harbour last Saturday
Building trade very brisk in Sydney; bricklayers'
wages 14s. a day Property of E. C. Bagot, Mel-
bourne, to be “ art unioned” in 4000 shares of one
guinea each Ketch Ben, from Sydney for Port Mac-
quarie, missing; supposed to have been wrecked in late
gale Another forged Crown grant discovered at
Maryborough (V.) Da Costa and Symons, who
embezzled £BOOO from Kronheimer and Company,
Melbourne, have been arrested in Tasmania
Mr. S. A, Deacon, a Cape Town ostrich farmer, pro-
poses to settle in Hawke’s Bay (N. Z.), with the object
of establishing ostrich farming in that province
When the common jury were being sworn at the
Supremo Court, Wellington, N.Z., recently, one •( the
jurors, named Kebble, asked if the Testament handed
liim was the revised edition. Upon being told that it
was not, he declined to be sworn. His Honor said that
he did not know that there was any authority for
swearing jurors upon the revised Testament, though ho
believed it to be a more correct version than the old
one. Kebble then consented to take the oath on the
Bible At the Dnnedin (N.Z.) Police Court, George
Eowley was charged with bigamy. _ A remand was
asked for to allow of evidence being brought from
South Australia, whore the accused was first
married. The constable who arrested the accused at
Christchurch deposed that he admitted being married
to two women right enough, and if the warrant had
not come he would have been off to Sydney to his
second wife. In Court the accused said the first mar-
riage was not legal The late southerly gale did much
damage at Wollongong, the sand drift choking the har-
bour Mr. A. Willoughby. Andrew, travelling inspec-
tor of the Australian Widows’ Fund Life Association,
presented the Maitland bazaar with a five-guinea chair.
A more appropriate gift from the Widows’ Association
would have been a mangle...... The wine industry at Port
Macquarie making grand progress Nine mines in
Clunes have yielded, since their opening, £1,250,000
Miners complain that the Church and School lands of
the colony are practically locked against them The
Northern Eailway carriages to be lighted with gas first
week in November Money being subscribed in Vic-
toria to oppose the local option principle of licensing....
The Eavanna’s London cargo valued at £200,000
New South Wales has now about 32,000,000 acres of
land alienated, and 166,000,000 remaining; Victoria has
alienated 20,000,000 acres, and has only 36,000,000 left....
A Sydney brewer turns out 100,000 barrels of Colonial
every year A sweet boy in N Z. skins rabbits, and
lets them run skinned till they die All the N.Z.
Government consent to do in respect to Joubert and
Twopenny’s exhibition is to proclaim the building
a bonded store At Oamaru (N.Z.), the Inspector of
Nuisances had occasion to summon one of the Muni-
cipal Council for a breach of the borough by-laws, and
“ the worthy alderman” thereupon challenged him to
fight.,....The brigantine Lapwing, from Newcastle to
Dunedin (N.Z.), encountered fearful weather. Her
decks were clean swept, and a Swede named J. G. Nils-
sohn drowned A Brisbane barrister has announced
his intention of jiving opinions to clients without the
interposition of solicitors.,,...The number of Sunday
visitors to the Brisbane museum is rapidly increasing....
The Detached Squadron is cruising in Chinese waters.
The frozen meat per Cuzco, from Mr. John Gar-
diner’s estate, Gobolion, Wellington, is described by an
eyewitness in London as “quite a picture." It’s
“drawing” a good price, too The Victorian popula-
tion is 862,366, or about 4009 above the estimate......A
Eational Sunday Observance Society, in Geelong (Vic.),
wants the Government to run trains to Queensclifle on
Sundays Wild-flower show at Waßsend great suc-
cess A Mudgee alderman says he has “got through
80 glasses in a day.’’ Wiljiam M’Namara, contractor,
Brisbane, killed on Saturday Fine specimens from
South New Zealand claim, Gympie; estimated yield,
over 100 ozs. to the ton Sales at Sydney Art Socity’s
exhibition amounted to £5OO On Monday 906 bales
of wool arrived in Sydney from Melbourne 39,383
bales of wool arrived in Sydney last month Denton
says there are thousands of dead volcanoes in Aus-
tralia William T. Tapseil, stonemason, killed at
Eookwood Eailway Station A poisonous weed killing
cattle at Dubbo Shearing finished on Darling
Downs; fair season Queensland Premier banqueted
at Eoekhampton Sparrows doomed in S.A Jim
Kelly and Wild Wright committed for trial at Wagga
for horse stealing Sydney Municipal Council have
called upon contractors to make good all defective
plastering in Town Hall-,,...The Victoria Becreation
Ground, at Goulburn, was sold cn Saturday, end realised
about £5OOO The average school attendance of the
various colonies are—New South Wales, 47.28 per cent.;
South Australia, 48.44; New Zealand, 51.62; Queens-
land, S 5 00; Victoria, 52.02 A rabbit catcher in
Waiparapa district, N Z>, cleared £3OO in threo months,
from skins alone. There are numerous other rabbit-
catchers, who have not been so successful Judge
Innes was once Sir Alfred Stephen’s Associate
Eichard Harrison has been gaoled for two months, for
assaulting a married woman near Hyde Park..,...J. B.
Plummer, a public school teacher, has been charged
with committing a capital assault upon one of his
pupils, a girl of ten, at Vorong Creek, near Wagga.
The girl is seriously ill Great speculation in sugar
lands near Cooktown Mrs. Unman, Brunswick, Mel-
bourne, has cut her throat. Unlikely to recover
At Temora, 600 tons washdirt yielded over 1 oz. to the
load West Maitland winegrowers protest against
abolition of Australian wine licenses Eeported
outrage by natives at Lizard Island, Torres
Straits. A lady and two children missing
Indian merchants about to cultivate indigo in
Northern Territory Over 60,000 bales of the now
clip delivered in Sydney Francis Hubert fined on
Tuesday for selling indecent photos, in Sydney
Most of the Queensland Ministry recruiting in Sydney
and Melbourne The Brisbane Observer has apolo-
gised for alleged libel against Mr. William Hemmant,
and offers £lOO for funds of Girls’ Grammar School.
Two Kanakas hacked to death near Spring-
sure (Q), by a fellow-countryman, who had just
previously been baptised 2o owt, (not oz) to
the ton, is what the specimens lately unearthed
at Temora are estimated to run Half-caste children
are being arrested in Queensland to be educated
Messrs. Howard Smith and Sons have ordered a new
steamer, which will be twice the size of the Leura, and
the largest yet built for our coast service Wild
Wright and James Kelly have been acquitted on one
charge of horse-stealing, and immediately re-arrested
on another Sheep-stealing is the latest game at
Temora. It’s a more profitable spec, than euchre
The Chinese workmen at the Goulburn tannery dis-
charged T. D. Thornton perished in a snow-storm
On Mount Macadon (Victoria), on the 21st Oct A hap.
dresser's hai; j}o’,iday movement has been initiated by
C, E. Wigsell, the welhknowu Sydney pgrn; qm
Bobert Johnson has been sentenced to death at Narra
coote, S.A,, for the murder of Trooper Pearce in May.
A Melbourne newspaper recently hinted that
there were no £1 orders to be forma in the Wolfe
Schnapps label or wrapper. M. Moss and Co., the
Sydney agents, have sent to the office in question 430
£1 orders presented and paid since Ist January, 1881.
Wo have received a copy of a waltz, entitled
“ Dolce Domun,” composed by Miss Alice Whiteman,
and dedicated to H.S.H. Prince Louis of Battenburg.
We are glad to see the gentler sex coming to the fore
as composers of music, and would fain like to say (just
by way of encouragement) that the waltz is strikingly
original, tandibetterJChopin’s best style, etc., etc ,—but
truth forbids; so we content ourselves with saying that
the music is pretty and graceful, with a flowing melody
throughout.
Marcus Clarke’s last poetry, “ We banish love,”
has been set to music by Kowalski. The music is
strange, and requires an educated singer to render it
effectively, as it abounds in quaint modulations and
difficult intervals. The song is to be sold for the bene-
fit of the widow and children of poor Marcus, and can
be bought at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s for two
shillings. To buy it will be about as agreeable a way of
doing a kindly thing as could be devised.
Armidale is a now country and a new climate.
By and bye, when the railway opens, it will have hosts of
people up from Sydney, who seek a rise in the world of
four or five thousand feet. Armidale is like England, in
respect to climate, and we believe is nearer. You some-
times eat your Christmas dinner beside a big fire. The
other day you could have seen the youths of the town
pelting their worthy’Mayor with snowballs. And you
might have seen the Mayor a little later spending a note
in the purchase of a free pass at the other end of the
town. Strange that, on the occasion referred to, the
aldermen escaped. The fact is most of them have only
one hat. There is a young and an old party in Armi-
dale. The party of progress are, of course, triumphant.
Armidale has its watch-house and its council chambers,
with a largo back yard, where the aldermen take it out
of one another at every sitting. Recently, the town
was provided with a new gaol; this was when the third
paper was started. The climate of Armidale is not
good for newspapers; people can’t sleep out there, even
though they’ve been on the evening newspapers in
Sydney. Two of the offices are in dilapidated looking
bam-like structures, forty feet in from the roadway.
“ Why this space in front ?” enquired a stranger. •* Oh,
it’s convenient when selling them off,” replied the
auctioneer. “ But have you no asylum here ?” “Oh
yes,” replied the auctioneer again; “we have three.”
“Oh,” said the stranger, “I don’t mean lunatic asy-
lums.” And the conversation dropped. Armidale has
enormously rich antimony mines ; it is to have a £4OOO
Town Hall. Eight or nine months hence tho train will
bo opened there.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, November 2,1881.
On the Wharves, Tuesday, prime old lucerne was selling
at from £2 10s. to £2 15s per ton; no prime green hay
arriving, but market overstocked with inferior new
hay, which is extremely dull of sale at from 20s to
40s per ton. Maize, 3s 3d. Oats (seed and feed), prime
quality, 2s 9d to 3s; inferior, 2s to 2s 6d per bushel.
Circular Head Potatoes, £4 10s to £5 per ton. Vic-
torian onions, £3O. Do. Chaff, £4 15s to £5 per ton,
bags included. Butter (in keg) 8d to 9d per lb. Eggs,
Is per dozen. Bacon, 4d to 7d. Ham, 8d to lOd. Cheese,
61 to 9d. Honey, 3id to 4id. Lard, 4d to sd. Bees-
wax, 9d to lOd per lb. Millet Brooms, 9s to 10s per
dozen.
Fresh Meat. —At the Darling Harbour railway ter-
minus, Riverston Co.’s meat depot continues well
supplied, and ready demand at auction sale. Daily
trade is brisk at, for prime beef bodies, 2|d.; medium
quality 2£d. to 2sd. per lb. all round. At the Glebe Island
abattoirs, there is always an abundant supply of fresh
beef and mutton, with a good demand. Beef in prime
bodies sells at 2Jd,; medium, 2Jd.; and inferior, IJd.
per lb. all round. Mutton, prime, at Ifd. j medium,
lad-; inferior, IJd. per lb. all round.
Flour. —At present we have several lines of N.S.W.,
Victorian, New Zealand, and Adelaide, of inferior
quality, which the holders cannot place at a reduction
upon our quotations : Good brands are firm and moving
at out prices:—Sydney superfine mill flour, £l3 10s :
household, £l2 10s ; seconds, £ll 10s; N. S. Wales,
country brands, £l3 10s ; Victorian, £l2los to £l3 10s;
Adelaide, £l2 15s to £l3 15a per ton. Bran and pollard.
Is i d to Is 2d per bushel.
Wheat. —Good qualities of wheat are in demand,
and are readily quitted at our quotations. In the Ade-
laide and Victorian market prices rule as during last
week .-—Adelaide wheat, 5s 9d to 5s lOd; N. S. Wales,
5s 9d to 5s ; Victorian, 5s 8d; Launceston, 63 6d ;
and New Zealand, 5s to 5s 3d per bushel.
Fat Cattle. —At the Homebush fat stock sales, a
short supply of fat cattle were forward and the market
was hardly so firm. Best beef 245. to 255. per 1001 b.
Fat sheep market abeut the same: 601 b. wethers, shorn,
worth 10s. 6d.
PouLTßy.—Fowls are selling are selling at from 3s. 6d.
to 55.; ducks, 4s. 6d. to os.; geese, 6s. to Bs.; turkeys, 7s.
to 145., in demand.
14
November 5, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Business Announcements
G. CHUECHWOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
■OFFICE and STORES :-147 YOR2 STSEET,
SYDNEY.
OUEE CHINESE TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART & CO.
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the French Cafd),
AN AGENCY FOR THE FAMOUS
LOON SHAU TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co. will also submit for
jblio approval Silks and General Merchandise,
t N.B. —Mr. QUONG TART has just returned from
a visit to China, where he in person selected the above-
mentioned Teas, so that their purity can be guaranteed.
INSPECTION INVITED.
300 GEORGE STREET-SHOW ROOM, UPSTAIRS,
Near Hunter-street.
WE. TOOSE. JEWELLER, &c.,
• of 655 GEORGE STREET,
is now selling his large and well-assorted stock at a
great reduction, owing to his removal to 418 George-st,
F.T. WIMBLE m
STEREOTYPE\
-AND- X. IV
Foundry
Also
—AND —
PRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St„ Hunter St.,
i at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STSEET. MTLB QUEUE.
s
HEEIDAN & PULLFOED,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
04 PITT-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hkhk? A. Shbiudan, formerly Manager! of the! Com-
mercial Bank, Maitland.
Jiues Follvoed, of West Maitland,
J 3 UEKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
’ READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
Y'-'-yr/vC TUKkO b! Pf ANC B NU'a N
■* S L I C; , O .
WAUGHS
has a wide, reputation for
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
and the chemical Judges of the
SVQNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
have CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST AND
BEST IN THE WORLD
a - aWAK O ■ N 6 To U S T H £
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
Gi' C N iN THE BAKING POWDER SEOF .~ N
Fi R ST DEGREE OF MER T
SO'DF VERY WHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLAfE
WILLIAM &. COY.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G, F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
S
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
B
EITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869, George-street South,
IAPEEHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street^South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
&c., &c.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
P
LATE GLASS. PLATE G;LASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House* 869 George-street South.
mi
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877,1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mndgoe*
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at Melbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
„ I HE ..Universal Sewing Machine
Has ailthe latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHETJNK
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 184, GEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEQE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTEENS,
DIEECT from the MANUFACTUEEES.
F ASAION AB_Liii
and
FIEST-CLASS GAEMENTS
TO OEDEE.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PEEFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
T
HE NEW SOUTH WALES TAILORING
COMPANY.
WM. CHS. HAEDING, in succeeding to the business
of Geo. L. Linekke, begs to inform the public that he
will carry on the same under the above name, and
hopes by strict attention to business, combined with
moderate charges, to retain and increase the patronage
so liberally bestowed on his predecessor.
W. C.H. also begs to state that he has secured the
services of the late proprietor, who is known as an ex-
perienced and stylish London CUTTEE, to take charge
of the Cutting Eoom, and act as General Manager
during his absence on Country rounds.
H
AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
JJLISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS.
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PAEK STEEET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
o>7 KING STREET,
CJ 4 Sydney (two doors
from George-st.,) and 23 Vic-
toria Arcade, Bonrke-street,
Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOEEST'S
Perfect fitting AMEEICAN
CUT •>APEE PATTEENS.
Newest styles
from Paris and
every mail
New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d. j Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HAEEIS.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAMIPwEIGEL’S
| Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., out in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOUENAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address;
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
r^M
a
*5
&
'A
m
m
\N
SSL
M
CL
m
<3c
GO.
W
wm
%
&
A
M‘M I N N AND CO..
• AUCTIONEEES, PEODUCE MEECHANTS,
and
GENEEAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accounl
Bales promptly rendered. Intercolonial, Shipping, ant
Country Orders executed with despatch.
a— —
taoar
Ss
BEASSFINISHEES, COPPEESMITHS,
Plumbers and Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS.
BON ACCORD WORKS.
9 Macquarie Place,
SYDNEY.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches. Stores &o • is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. * ' lB
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Talk w used, and wood for the furnace™
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas inrnace ,
to CoaHtaL™’ GAS mado With AiS APPAEATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, fto. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies,
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both, the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
FOUR FRIZES.
PARIS, 1878.
SYDNEY, 188 0.
MELBOURNE, 1881.
BftRFFS RUSTLESS PROCESS
ANTI CORRODOTUBES.
PRICES APPROXIMATELY SAME AS GALVANIZING.
Quotations given for every description of Ironwork and all re-
quirements for Railways, Wharfs, and Mining Companies.
Unlike Galvanizing, it affords a perfect protection to the Iron,
being, as claimed, Rustless and Incorrodible.
the
RUSTLESS AND GENERAL
IRON CO.,
3 Queen’s Place, Cannon-Street,
LONDON, E.C.
ANTI-CORRODO (Barff’s) TUBES
& FITTINGS,
For Gas, Steam, and Water; also Black (not
treated) Galvanized and Enamelled
LAPWELDED BOILER TUBES.
Sole Agent for the Australian Colonies—
COWARD & TEMPLE,
19 Hunter-street, Sydney.
JpiANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS, AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &c.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may bo had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stoek.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
WORMALD,
112 OXFORD STREET.
JJ A V I D M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus . Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875,
THE Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL'S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/. and 50/. the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Stdnet
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
"ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP,
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part 6f
the CoiOuy.
15
THE BULLETIN.
November 5, 1881.


MARTIN £ PAIN,
3SI QSORQE STREET, SYDNEY. S
rj;-O.E HORNSfiv
Steel Stripper
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial ai
it is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRER
«T FARMERS see the HORNSBY
BKFORB OUDBR.INQ ANT OTHER.
s
HOBNSg
Are im
__ »S>
They are th
The* are tb
Tfijft are th
They are th
They ate M
They do the
WE CALL
THEM
THE DBT
THE PINI
THE DRD
THE DRL
THE FIN(
We Guan
FARJIRI
No otto
SEND ]
Sole pi
Agents ■■
389 GE
0
r£HE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY
ONE
aIA *
Th
And
On
o**^2
E. WIGZELL
Oxford-street
SYDNEY-
-139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per (
SHIRAZ } Fruity
MADEIRA ) Wines J U ‘‘ »
BURGUNDY
RIESLING
\ Dry )oi/
S Wines j 2l/ *
G. H. STEPHEN & C(
Wine Growers and Merch
13 Bridge Street
MOST PLEi
WANTED TO
that, the hest clca;
TANT and Deodoriser foi
SMALL-POX and all othe:
CONTAGIOUS D
can be found bj
PANTER AND PARRY'S
OF SOAI
which not only contains
dients for the greatest cli
ever yet introduced to t
composed in its manufacti
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROI
PLANTS
known, and admitted in i
throughout the globe. Con
it is free from all iujuri
pleasing smell, will not inj
cate hands, is the greate
labour, rendering any arti(
with of the purest white
marvellous short space of t
NO HOUSE SHOULD 13:
as it cannot be surpassed
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Croc
Paint, Floo
and every Househol
DIRECTIONS for whicl
EACH PACKET, which
from all Grecers and Stoi
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORG
SYD N E
IN THE W(
Dispense Prescriptions ch«
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English ]
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spo
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS
Bend for a Price List. Count:
ally attended to. Don’t forg<
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New
W. KEF
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOG
664 GEOEGE STEEE
Opposite St. Andrew’:
Medals of every description, Ma
eentation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND SET
A sew and Choice Assortmen
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, fro
[INC STREET i
TA II AD
LIFFORD, LOi
TEA IMPORT]
EASTERN AND COl
MERCHANT
Receive regular consignmen
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qnalit
Do. Indian Prize Me<
CHUTNIES—Indian Pr:
PRESERVES—Indian P
COFFEE—Plantation N
Do. „ Pei
Do. „ No
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B 1
OFFICES:—79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, I
JOHN D
IMPORTER O:
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brassu
Gas fittings. Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, I
119 LIVERPOOL STREEI
E
B
E
A
T
E
D
H. L. SUMMER
ECONOMY IN CLOI
—o—
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS FROI
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE’S T
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAI
sent to any part of the <
The particular attention oi
dents is requested to thi
Any style of Garment made t
SUMMEEPIELD
GUIDE TO BELF-MEASI
16
November 6, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.
