

THE BULLENTIN
Vol. s.—No. 63,
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1881.
Foiled Fanatics.
A moee ludicrous instance of reckoning without
the host than was furnished by the ultra-Sabba-
tarians in the Legislative Assembly, under the
entirely appropriate leadership of Ninian Mel-
ville, could scarcely be conceived. Whom the
gods design to destroy they first afflict with mad-
ness, says an ancient adage. The conspirators
against personal liberty had gradually worked
themselves up into a condition of light-headedness.
They were puffed up with small successes, which
they were too infatuated to perceive meant
nothing, and deluded by appearances which
seemed to be specially arranged for their mystifi-
cation. They had managed to force their coercive
will upon the Sydney School of Arts, and fancied,
poor creatures, that a similar transaction in Par-
liament would differ in nothing except the scale
of the operation. This was natural enough to
people in their frame of mind. They could not
afford to confess even to themselves that their
victory at the School of Arts was merely due to a
sort of corrupt practice. They would have
strenuously denied to any enquirer that they owed
their success on that occasion solely to a brazen
recourse to roll-stuffing. They would have scouted
with hysteric passion any statement to the effect
that had the decision been left to the ordinary
members and habitual users of the School of Arts,
the Sunday opening would have been approved.
They dared not let their minds dwell upon the
shifts and dodges they had recourse to, to snatch
that victory. They were compelled by the exi-
gencies of their professions and situation to forget
these facts with all their might, and to invent for
their mutual satisfaction a shallow legend to the
effect that their adversaries are a handful of
wicked and perverse people, diabolically active,
but hopelessly estranged from the sympa-
thies of the community as a whole. Having
been under the necessity of solacing their
uneasy consciences with this flattering fiction,
they proceeded to act upon it. But this was not
the only delusion which afflicted them. Since the
great Sir Henry struck the religious line of
business, and was inspired with the idea of arrang-
ing his eternal salvation by palming a series of
pious promissory notes upon his Maker, the whole
army of fanatics has come to regard him as a sort
of brevet Apostle, and to look upon him as little
short of inspired. As some of the old savour of
worldliness still clung around their idol, they
instinctively reckoned by that also in some degree,
—and remembering how sedulously Sir Henry
has at all times striven to trim, and how frequently
he has succeeded in trimming his personal con-
victions to the prevailing blast of public opinion
tor the time being, they were immensely encouraged
by his declaring for their views. It appeared to
them, probably, that they must be safe in suppos-
ing they had a sweeping majority at their backs
since Sir Henry Parkes had committed himself
k° Ju ir without any of those reservations
or that shuffling which profane people pretended
he used in his unregenerate days to signalize that
he was feeling round for the safest seat. But, as it
happened, poor Sir Henry has not yet attained
inspiration; and just this once—very awkwardly,
not only for himself, but for the unlucky social-
tetters men—he had completely mistaken the sense
of the public. He fancied, apparently, that be-
cause the cause of Secular Education had served
him as an irresistible wave upon which to ride to
P*? wer > and inasmuch as members of Protestant
churches were prominent in swelling that wave, 1
and some Sabbatarians are conspicuously con-
nected with Churches, that therefore as many as
avoured Secular Education would support ex-
aggerated Sabbatarianism. To him probably each
m °,T® me nt appeared very much alike. Each was a
political engine to him, and the differences in the
principles involved, profound as these differences
are most likely never engaged his attention. In
each case he perceived very much the same body
fug.emen making a great fuss about affairs
eemmgiy not dissimilar, and the inference would
nggest itself as equally in each case that it would
a line adopt the ticket. It does not
kaye occurred to either Sir Henry or the
of u 1?. e circumscribers of other people’s liberty
i action that a yast proportion of those who lent
their aid to the movement for secular education
did so expressly because they were actuated by a
determined repugnance to anything like clerical or
sectarian _ domination. They constituted the
majority in favor of getting rid of thraldom then,
and they form the majority opposed to admitting
it now. Nothing except the infatuation of bigotry
could have prevented the phylactery-men from
comprehending that this would be so. Freedom
is not understood by any except bigots or idiots as
the right to_ prevent others from doing anything
except what is pleasing to ourselves. No person has
attempted to interfere with the freedom of priests or
parsons to preach or of congregations to enter the
churches. Physiologically, we believe such a
method of occupying the day of rest injurious to
most persons who are occupied during the week in
sedentary occupations. Intellectually even, it
would be exhausting to such individuals as have
to exercise their faculties greatly in their ordinary
avocations were it not that the quality of the
preacher’s lucubrations is not generally of a
standard involving any great intellectual strain
upon the hearers. But every man has a right to
choose how he will spend his day. It is not
because they go to church that the anti-sabbat-
tarians have fallen into such disrepute, but because,
fancying they had the power to play the tyrant,
they showed their disposition to impose their
authority to deprive others of personal
freedom. They may perhaps be blunderheaded
enough to try again. They will certainly pursue
their crazy infatuation wherever they see a chance,
as at Schools of Arts and institutions of that kind.
well to pause and consider
whether they may not provoke reprisals, and find
some day a righteous majority (all majorities are
righteous) turn their own weapons upon them,
and try how they like the edge of a Parliamentary
u i °l° se churches on Sundays, and indict
all clergymen for “ pursuing their ordinary avoca-
tions on a Sunday.” The advocates of freedom
may yet go crazy in turn, may abuse their power,
and may find a Paekes to be their catspaw, and
make catspaws of them—perhaps Sir (Henry
himself, fresh adjusted to suit the times.
The Hon. John Campbell, M.L.C.
What part of the British empire is there that has
not been distinguished by the wisdom or the
prowess of the Clan Campbell ? In the Mother-
land, in India’s “ burning zone,” amid the frozen
snows of Canada, have scions of that illustrious
House won fame and fortune. It is significant,
too, that their achievements have been equally
remarkable in war and in peace—in the councils of
the nation and the counting-houses of merchant
princes. The annals of Australia are illumined and
enriched with the name for three generations ; and
it is not likely in the bright future —of whose dawn
we can already mark the indications —that it will
disappear. Many men, who made a more ephemeral
reputation than the two worthy whilom owners of
Campbell’s Wharf, are now comparatively for-
gotten. The late Ben. Boyd is barely a tradition,
and few Australians know what the intelligence of
men like Henry O’Brien, of Yass, and many others
we could mention, did in hard and trying times
for the country. The Campbells occupy a very
different position in popular recollections from
the individuals alluded to. They have from
their youth upwards been identified with the
political and social amelioration of their native
land—in the encouragement of Art, Literature,
and Religion. This assertion, true though it is'
does not convey the whole truth. It is not enough
to say that they have been “liberals” in politics
and philanthropists in promoting the welfare of
their fellow man. To accentuate this statement,
it is to put it more emphatically, and
assert that they have never breathed a breath in
any antipopular cause, or ever, even for an hour,
joined the side of the once powerful oligarchs of
the colony. This is the more remarkable, as well
as creditable, inasmuch as by birth, education, and
wealth they had all th.e prestige of the very pink of
swells,” or “pure merino” as they (the oli-
garchs) were designated. It is difficult to treat of
the public career of the Hon. John Campbell
unless we associate him with the bright, manful,
and intelligent conduct of his late hon. brother—
a man honorable in every sense of the word—the
late Robert Campbell, a merchant of Calcutta,
who caane on business in connection with a ship-
wreck in 1796. On his return to India, he spoke
so favorably of the mother-colony as a place for
profitable mercantile enterprise, that he returned
in the ship Hunter to settle in Sydney, which he
did in 1797, and here married a Miss Palmer,
afterwards distinguished for her charities. After
some conflict with monopolists and speculators,
he managed to start a lucrative trade,
on the spot where his famous wharf
was afterwards erected. Curiously enough, his
place of business was called Campbell’s “ go-
downs” for many years—certainly up to 1827.
His name heads the list of merchants for that year
in Howe’s Almanac and Directory. The name of
Robert Campbell, junior, ship owner and
merchant, Bligh-street, is also recorded there.
Mr. John Campbell is probably the oldest native
of Sydney, as he was born here in 1802, and is the
senior of Mr. George Hill by more than a year.
He was taken to England in 1810, where he
remained at school till 1819, when he returned to
the colony, and began business in his father’s
counting-house. Assiduous and prompt, he soon
enlarged the transactions of the firm, and helped
to lay the foundations of that princely fortune in
which the churches and charities of Sydney have
largely participated. His manners have been
always unassuming, but extremely courteous, and
although all his sympathies were with the party
of progress—with the Wentworths, the Blands,
and the Lowes —still he refrained from entering
public life till his election for the representation
of the Sydney Hamlets in the Legislative
Assembly (1856). His brother Robert, a man of a
more fiery temperament, and who possessed a
dashing manner, had come to the front in oppo-
sition to transportation and in demanding
a Constitution for the colony. He presided at
most of the great meetings held at Macquarie-
place, in 1848 and ’49, to protest against the
duplicity and bad faith of Earl Gray in attempt-
ing to revive transportation somewhat dimly
veiled from its old hideous forms—notwithstanding
that an Order in Council had several years pre-
viously been made for its prohibition. Robert
Campbell was one of the most resolute leaders of
the agitation that ensued, and to him the country
is much indebted for a prevention of so obnoxious
a revival. It may not be out of place to quote a
few stanzas, written a few days after his death, to
show how greatly revered he was, and to show
also the special qualities which won him reve-
rence :
“ An honest man’s the noblest work of God!”
The poet chanted to us long ago;
Alas ! We’ve laid beneath the grave’s cold sod
The mortal part of one supremely so!
There are of readier speech and apter phrase—
Quicker of wit—more deep to plot and plan—
Thau thou hast been; but those who knew thy ways
Emphatically called thee honest man 1
Oh, genial eye, that ne’er saw want in vain;
Oh, open hand, too ready to relieve;
Oh, willing sympathy with woe and pain—
Now for the first time cold! We well may grieve.
To return to the subject proper of our sketch:
it is satisfactory to be in a position to state that,
since the Hon. John Campbell’s appointment to
the Legislative Council, he has devoted a con-
siderable amount of time to the duties of his
position. He was nominated in 1860, and still
retains his seat. There are some semi-public acts
of distinguished citizens that we cannot submit to
the garish light of journalistic eulogy—such, for
instance, as a gentleman’s acts of benevolence or
charity. It will suffice for the present that, in
this respect, Mr. John Campbell has not been
excelled by his noble and generous brother
Robert, and that is saying a great deal on the
subject. Although not distinguished as a Par-
liamentary debater —in fact, having no pretensions
whatever to oratory—it is well known that Mr.
Campbell devotes his best thought and attention,
to every subject of importance that comes before
him as a legislator, and may certainly be looked
upon as the Nestor of the Council. "What a line
of distinguished contemporaries has he known—
Governors, like Bourke and Young; statesmen,
like Deas-Thomson, Charles Cowper, and Hubert
Plunkett; clergymen, like Bishop Broughton and
the Rev. Archdeacon Cowper! He is still hale
and hearty, full of days, and most deservedly
honoured in his native land.
The Intercolonial Boat Race.
The intercolonial eight-oar race, to be decided over
the champion conrse, Parramatta Eiver, on this
(Saturday) afternoon, promises to be the grandest
aquatic struggle yet witnessed in Australia. Hitherto,
each of the two contesting colonies has been successful
on its own waters, and from all appearances the rule
which has so far been established bids fair to hold good
in the issue of this year’s race. The time-trials of the
two crews have given almost identical results; but
though the representatives of each colony are equally
confident of being first to pass the now historic
“ Brothers,” the more equal distribution of weight and
power over the New South Wales boat, coupled with
the fact that our men seem to be possessed of staying
powers superior to those of their rivals, points to the
conclusion that victory will, on this occasion, remain
with the light-blue—and this though the contest may
maintain its interest from start to finish.
THE HON. JOHN CAMPBELL, M.L.C.


The other day, a Hobart man, when asked if he
had anything to say to a charge of ''drunk and dis-
orderly,” offered to “preach a sermon." Declined i oy
their Worships, with the unappreciative remark trial
Thomas’ fate was "five shillings or twenty-tour
hoars." ¥
The well-known wines of the lyanhoe Vineyard
are advertised in a novel and attractive manner In i
issue by the proprietors, Messrs. <3- H. Stephen
of Bridge-street. Th sis looking at the unfermented
wine question from another poiut of view— l Bup
similar Biblical authority to that already quoted in our
morning contemporary.
Trademark, Waltham, Maes. The Amenoan
Watch Company, of Wal'ham, >1 aasaohusetts U. »- *•»
hereby give notice that theii trade mark, Waltham.
Mass., is now registered in the Australian oO^“ I '^ d
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed
ings will be taken against any persons copying or mb
tating same, or any venders selling or offering for
watches bearing colourable imitations, or
infringing our rights.-AMEKIOAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.— Anv.
SOCIAL.
Ought people to get married on let April ? We
say, yee.
The belle of Newcastle is now on a visit to
Parramatta.
That Wedding March on the Burwood organ is
for a time postponed.
A Newcastle belle has enlivened the fashionable
circles of the Glebe during the last few weeks.
The Mayor of Yass gives a ball on Queen s Birth-
night. A large number of invitations will be issued.
A marriage has been arranged between the
daughter of an ex-At>orney-General of this colony and
a naval officer. Date not yet fixed.
The Burwood Musical Society goes in for the
charms of beauty as well as the charms of voice One
of the prettiest girls is insured in a Pitt-street office.
Enmour says that a well-known Ministerial
politician will to-day (Saturday) lead to the altar of
St. Paul’s, West Maitland, the handsome and accom-
plished daughter of a Maitland resident.
In Tasmania, the Court (or. rather, society) will
go into mourning f >r nine months for the loss it has
sustained by the departure of H.M. ships of war. It
will resume its tone at the expiration of that time, as
they will then return
There is to be an enquiry into that little Mel-
bourne gambling affair. The friends of the good-natured
hut weak-miuded loser have determined to look into
the matter with a view to making the lucky winners
disgorge the unholy spoils of the festive night.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel de Groen, of this city>
gave a most enjoyable ball at the Protestant Hall, on
Thursday evening last at which 150 ladies and gentle-
men (including a number of Melbourne visitors) were
present. The Australian Band provided the music,
and Cripps catered in excellent style.
A jealous woman, the wife of a well-known
Sydney gentleman, recently attempted to shoot her
husband in the New South Wales Court at the Mel-
bourne International. The husband, we are informed,
left his home “to look after some ‘ art' exhibits.' His
wife found his words to be only too true 1
A lady lately from Petersham was soon to be
married to a young gentleman well-known in the Tnmut
district. She, on arriving at her new locale, tried to
show the natives how to ride, but her horse bolted and
threw her, —and now, the day for the marriage having
arrived, she declines to appear in church with ecchy-
mosed optics.
The incumbent of St. James’s no doubt thinks
that the yonng lady and gentleman who, on Sunday
evening last, remained during the whole of the service
with their arms linked together, and kept up a
continual whispering and looking at their watches,
might have carried on their flirtation with greater
comfort to themselves, and without disturbing the
congregation, if they had taken a walk in Hyde Park
instead of going to church. _
A worthy up-country resident, of a practical
turn of mind, on being asked by a well-matured indivi-
dual for the hand of his daughter, agreed on condition
that a certain bill for a few score pounds should be paid
by the suitor. His terms were accepted, and the
nuptials duly celebrated ; but now the fair one refuses
to live any longer with her husband on the ground that
she got married, not to please herself, hat to “ please
papa.” The Zulu custom of selling one’s daughter in
exchange for cows would evidently be a failure in
N. S. Wales.
WOMAN ITEMS.
An American lady of fashion was recently
decked with a necklace and jewels worth £21,000.
In love it is not as in finance : when a woman
makes advances to you it is because she has no capital.
Police Court scene. J.P., to painted beauty :
“What is your business? ’’ The young lady (with still
atraoe of modesty): “Ahem! No. —Elizabeth-street."
The mother thought the requests of her
daughter’s future husband rather exacting. _“ No
matter, mi," remarked the daughter; “ they’re his last
requests.”
The flower girls’ mission in London, the latest
philanthropic work of the Baroness Bnrdett-Ooutts,
intended to win young girls from the street, is a great
success.
When a deacon saw the other day a fashionable
young lady polishing her brother’s boots, and then
proceed with the family washing, he conjectured that
the girl was bent on marrying a penny newspaper re-
porter.
It is computed that fully 2000 duels have been
fought in France over disputes about women. The
redeeming feature of the record is that in most cases
the woman married the survivor—some say for love,
others for revenge.
.The experiment of admitting women to the
classes of the University College, London, has proved a
great success. There are 170 students, and one of
them—Miss A. Heather-Bigg—carried off the Joseph
Hume scholarship after keen competition with members
of the opposite sex.
Lady Egerton Turner, famed in London, so the
papers say, for the lavish yet unobtrusive character of
her charities, is coming on to Sydney from Christ-
church, N.Z. The object of her visit is to find a field
of emigration for the poor of London. Lady Turner
liaa a very large fortune at her command.
A little cloud.
An oath aloud,
A broomstick’s flight aerial;
Another swear,
A clutch at hair—
The rest is—immaterial.
In Babylon, bo Mr. Hesiod telle ns, twice every
year all the marriageable damsels were put up at
auction. The sums obtained for the girls sold served
as marriage portions for those whose plainness debarred
them from finding buyers. This old plan is suggestive
in view of the present condition of the Australian
marriage market.
Miss Flora Sharon (daughter of the San Fran-
cisco millionaire of that name), who is to be married to
Sir Thomas Hesketh, has had settled upon her as a mar-
riage grift or as pin money by her father and I s ir
Thomas the sum of £lO,OOO annually. The brilliant young
lady is shortly to be presented at Buckingham Palace.
Her diamond necklace cost nearly £20,000.
We love those fondest whom we do not win.
The moon-illumined walks we never tread
Are lovelier than those we journey in ;
The girls we woo are not the girls we wed.
The shadow o’er the substance will prevail
Until this visionary race is dead; _
And too ambitious love will ever wail:
“ The girls we woo are not the girls we wed! ”
Stamped tin ornaments are worn on bonnet-
strings at the sides of the face, like guards against kiss-
mg. For that purpose, however, they ought to go over
the mouth. A deacon recently fastened a sheet of tin
over his wife's mouth, for safety, on leaving her at a
revival meeting, t>n returning he was told that the Pre-
siding Elder had been seen going into the place with a
can-opener in his hand.
May never lady press his lips, his proffered love retum-
Who makes a furnace of his mouth, and keeps its
chimney burning, .... . , .
May each true woman shun this sight, for tsar Jus
fumes might choke her.
And none but those who smoke themselves have kisses
for a smoker I
Oh, say not so, fastidious maid; in self-defence we do
it.
We know how sweet your red lips are (or time was when
we knew it);
And judging that perhaps our own are sweet in oscula-
tion.
We kindly spoil their taste with smoke, removing sore
temptation.
THE FASHIONS.
[BY TH E "MAN-MILL[?]R,]
Bodices are worn pointed back and front.
Coal-scuttle bonnets are fast gaining faronr.
Short walking costumes are now called tnttoirs.
Plush bonnets, “ Grannie ” shape, are much in
vogue.
The plush fashion has become very general im
Sydney.
The Mother Shipton bonnet is new and beoom
ing to some.
The last thing in tea-gowns has got the revo-
lutionary name of Jean Robespierre.
Bands of painted relvet are much worn on the
neck at home. Black predominates.
The new shade is called “ Corbean ” deriving
its name from the plumage of the crow.
Fashionable cloth jackets are worn long, and
moat of them are lined with bright plash.
Dresses are now seen made of ivory lac* over
ivory foulard. The effect is charming.
Embossed plush, on a bright color ground, is
much used for trimming evening dresses.
Cashmere trimmed with fur will be the leading
fashion for demi-toilette. It looks seasonable.
The last thing intrains for evening is to have
one side round, and the other coming to a point.
Sufede gloves are all the rage in London. Tan
colour and slate seem to be the favourite shades.
Tartan ribbon strings are seen on most elegant
bonnets. They look warm and are most becoming.
For evening dresses, 11 Worth” uses satin em-
broidery, and lace more than any other combination.
The ends of basques are how worn out in
battlements, and bordered with a rich galoon or cord.
Breakfast caps are made of light-coloured plush,
soft crowns, trimmed with lace, and gilt-headed pins.
Roses worked in chenille on a transparent
ground moke an elegant trimming for evening dresses.
4 ‘ Crystal ”is a new shade of white; also blano
mat, a dead white; and blanc frais, which is beautifully
clear.
The favorite makes of plush are the thick furry
kind for millinery, and the short pile for dresses and
jackets.
Marie Stuart shape bonnets of black beaver
trimmed with plush and feathers axe elegant and
becoming.
Skirts for evening are worn extremely long by
matron ladies, and axe cut so as to follow the wearer
«n serpent.
Hungarian jackets made of otter, and of
chamois leather, bordered with fur, are worn by young
ladies in New York.
Ladies carry small silk pocket-handkerchiefs,
tar tan- bordered. Some of them have the day of the
week embroidered on them.
Spanish and Alen«?on laces are the two makes
most in vogue, and are seen in abundance on almost
every dress for evening wear.
Violets are the favourite flowers this winter in
London. Fashionable ladies are never seen without a
bunch, either natural or artificial, in their dress.
Parisian dress-makers are copying all their
fashionable costumes from the pictures in the Louvre,
representing the styles worn at the Court of Valois.
For full dress, bodices are made very low and
round ; for less ceremonious occasions they are out out
square back and front, and filled im with Spanish lace.
White is the color for evening at present in
Paris. Young and old have taken to white in prefer,
enoe to any of the new tempting and becoming colors.
Vandyke collars and deep lace cuffs with a large
plush Rubens hat trimmed with plume of feathers, is
the correct thing for those who wish to dress with
artistic taste.
The latest novelty in neck ornaments is a
lobot of rose leaves, all green, wide at the throat and
decreasing at the waist, finished with a clump of red
roses at the top.
For evening dresses, pale pink tulle will be
trimmed with dark red plush and dark red holly berries.
Brown tulle trimmed with pink roses is much affected
in Paris this winter.
Gloves are worn very long, even over the elbows.
This is to be regretted when the arm is well moulded,
which, unfortunately, is not often the case with young
girls. Hence the fashion.
The “ Olivette ” cap, in either rich satin or vel-
vet trimmed with pearls end lace, is the very last thing
in head-dresses tor young ladies. This article is all the
rage in London at present.
“Queen’s hair,” “stifled sighs,” “indiscreet
murmurs," “vain desires,” “heavy eyes," and “need-
less regrets," are the singular names of some of the
new colours in Paris this spring.
The materials most in vogue for evening dresses
are heavy white satins and gold brocades, white tulle
with gold braid ; also cloth of gold; the trimmings are
gold beaded gimps, and pearl laces.
In dressing for the hair, the latest things in
.rogue axe floral combs. Those composed of a round of
shaded rosebuds or white lace, or forget-me-nots are
particularly elegant and much in request for evening
wear.
Plush “Mother Hubbard” cloaks are very
popular at home as theatre and evening wraps, especially
m red lined with quilted satin and bordered with
delicate ostrich feather trimming. They form beautiful
mantles.
Sash draperies of shaded satins are quite a
novelty; they are shaded across the breadth, the
darkest color being at one edge and the lightest at the
other; the latest colors are crimson graduated into
pink, and deep red into pale rose.
A small revolution has taken place in bracelets.
Hitherto they have been worn on the bare arm, and,
when long gloves came into fashion, on the glove Now
they ore seen on the sleeves of the ultra dilutes, and
consequently they are large and massive, and suspended
from them are ancient coins, quadrupeds, charms, *o
The fashions are now going to extremes. In
Paris, the costumes a good deal in vogue are fac-simi'es
of those worn in the reign of George HI., towards the
end of the last century. This was the time when,
under the influence of the French Revolution, fashion—
ever in extremes —rushed from hivh-peaked stays and
figured sarins, yard-long waists and hooped petticoats,
into the lightest and slightest products of the loom,
which clung round the form, and were girdled ab-
solutely under the arm-pits.
The most fashionable colours of the season in
Paris, London, and New York have been of art'Stio
tones, such as porcelain bine, sapphire and huisi-sxd,
rose d* the and every shade of pink corah “ Candahar
is a bluish tone of ruby. All the range of tesra ootta
shades are among the new introductions, and of these
the last is a tone called “ cheese,” resembling Cheddar.
Lucifer is a red like that seen on the tope of matches
Ivory, of a deep rich cream shade, is more worn than it
has ever been. Old gold is only fashionable when in
bright tones, and is now called new gold. Emerald
green has been revived. A new yellow, tinged with
bronze, is called dragon, and asperge, a lighter tone,
will be the rage later on in the season. Fleur-de-peche
is a charming colour for day wear; but “C ampagna, a
reddish sand shade, is the very newest of all tones, and
appears in everything.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Parliament was prorogued by proclamation on
Wednesday.
The Land Tax passed the Victorian Assembly,
t.Vin Government successfully resisting all amendments
emanating from the Opposition.
Sir William Milne will not l®se his seat in the
Adelaide Council because he happened to preside at an
election meeting for the Assembly.
The Grafton people say that, should Dr. Ken-
wiok's present constituents ever leave him out in the
cold, he may count on a seat at the hands of the elec-
tors of the northern city, who do not soon forget
favors.
Sir Henry Ayers, in the course of a recent
speech at Adelaide, said that what few industries New
South Wales had she took good care to carefully cover
with a cloak of protection. This is true about
kerosene and sugar.
A memorial is being extensively and influentially
signed by the residents of Wagga and the surrounding
districts, petitioning his rw.se the non.
member for the Marrumbidgee, Mr. J. H. Douglas, to a
seat in the Upper House.
An individual who was recently a candidate for
a seat in the Assembly, has applied for and been given
an appointment of potmdkeeper in a suburb ‘ over the
water " Such is life! However, we all know that a
fellow may be a “ pound-keeper and a gentleman.
The Hon. James Watson has been “ Boycotting
the Evening News by refusing to supply it with his
departmental advertisements and withholding fr#m it
official information supplied to other journals. “ But,
if Mr. Watson," says our contemporary, "imagines that
his official shortcomings are going to be treated ten-
derly by ns in consideration of his advertisements, or
that this journal will be in any way influenced in its
treatment of his politics! conduct whether he advertises
or not, he never made a greater mistake since he com-
mitted the presumptuous blander of accepting office
at aIL”
There has been, and still is, a good deal of talk
in town abont the following little affair, concerning
which Mr. M'Elhone in the Assembly on Tuesday night
asked two questions. It is rather strange, by the way,
that no reference to the question was made by the
morning papers. Mr. M’Elhone asked the Colonial
Secretary“ (1.) Is it a fact that certain surgeons
operated on some woman at the Benevolent Asylum for
a tumour, and the case was one of pregna i cy; if so.
what are the names of the surgeons who performed the
operation P (2.) If the case referred to did not take
place at the Benevolent Asylum, at which Institution,
Infirmary, or other place did it take place ? Sir Henry
Parkes answered,—I find that no such case has occurred
either at the Benevolent Asylnm or at the Sydney In-
firmary. Probably, however, the honorable member
refers to an operation recently performed at the Bene-
volent Asylum in a case which was not supposed to be
one of tumour, but one of abnormal pregnancy demand-
ing immediate operation. The patient had been ex-
amined by Dr. Sydney Jones and Dr, Schuette, and was
admitted, for operation on the latter gentleman’s rec-
commendation. Dr. Warren operated, and was assisted
by Dr. Schuette and Dr. Milford. Mr. Wright admin-
istered the anaesthetic, and Drs. Cox, M'Lanrin, and
Messrs, dune and Hogg were also present." We have
to compliment the compiler of the foregoing reply.
[To be continued next session of Parliament.]
LATE THEATRICAL.
Grand concert at the Royal on Good Friday
| night.
Mr. W. H. Leake’s D’Artagnan in the “ Three
Musketeers" did not ** fetch " all the critics at Mel-
bourne.
The Boema concert combination has been more
I successful in Sydney, artistically and financially, than
any since the advent of Ilmade Murska.
1 Signor De Vivo has arranged for a series of six
' Boema concerts in Adelaide, commencing on Easter
Monday. Signor De Vivo, with the Boema combination,
will visit New Zealand after the tour of Australia.
A grand sacred concert, with augmented chorus
and orchestra, will be given in the i heatre Eoyal on
Good Friday, under the direction of Signor Qiorza. All
the leading artistes at present engaged at the theatre
will take part.
The Kelly Opera Company are doing a great
strok at the Town Hall, Brisbane. Miss Wangenheim’s
Josephine is eulogised by the critics. If Miss Emma
returns here shortly, we shouldn’t wonder if Mr. |
Williamson whispered in her ear.
The New Zealand papers, in discussing the
Bandmann-Eeynolds dispute, refer to Mr. E. 8. Smytho
as “ the cutest agent extant." At any rate, the much-
travelled would have prevented the brawling actors from
washing their dirty linen in public.
Miss Maggie Moore, who has been suffering
from severe hoarseness ever since she sang Buttercup,
has quite recovered, and will make her re-appearance on
Saturday evening as Ruth, (the Piratical Maid-of-all- j
Work) in “ The Pirates" on Saturday evening.
Mr. Hudson, of Hudson’s Surprise Party, writes j
us, under date 21st February, to the effect that since
leaving Sydney his company have done splendid business
in Ceylon, India, Burmah, and the Straits Settlements, i
and were at date doing extremely well at Shanghai.
They hope to be in Sydney again about June or July.
A treat for the Bathurst people on Easter
Monday. South’s “Pinafore" Company opens there,
commencing a tour of the colony. The Major-General
has secured the sole right from Mr. Williamson for this
opera; therefore, another company vowing to do their
dooty will find things made unpleasant for them.
Major-Generals, we all know, are not to be trifled with.
The company consists of (amongst others) Miss Edith
Pender (pupil of Giorza), Vernon Eeid, the Misses
Horan, and the entrepreneur. This ought to be a throw
in for the bucolics.
In addition to the re-appearance of Miss Maggie
Moore, the new cast of “ The Pirates of
will include a new heroine (the part hitherto so artisti-
cally sung by Miss Deakin, who is to have a well earned
re«t for a couple of weeks), and a new Major-General.
Mabel will be played by Miss Elsa May, the English
prima donna, who was engaged for the part some weeks
ago ; and “the Model of a modern Major-General” will
be represented by Mr. Howard Vernon, who arrived
from Melbourne yesterday. These important changes
in "The Pirates’” cast will date from Saturday
evening.
Louise Pomeroy re-appears at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, on Easter Monday, 14th April, as Eosaliud
in “As You Like It.” On Saturday, 21st idem, “A
Winter’s Tale" will be produced on a scale of great
magnificence, Miss Pomeroy appearing as Hermione and
Perdita for the first time on any stage. The scenery will
be in Hennings’s best style, and the costumes, etc.,
entirely new. The company to support Miss Pomeroy
during the forthcoming season will be one of the strong-
| est seen in Melbourne for years, and will include Messrs.
W. H. Leake, H. N. Douglas, Appleton, Jones. Deenng,
Holt, Brown, Metcalf, Holloway, and the Misses Myra
Kemble, Flora Anstead, Docy Stewart, Mainwarmg,
Edwin, etc.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Waterloo church choir ia said to be equal to
any in the colony.
Six Presbyterian pulpits in Chicago are vacant,
and another was likely to become so soon.
The Rev. Joseph Mayson, for forty years
incumbent of Swan port, Tasmania, is dead.
The clerical staff of the Honolulu diocese con-
sists of a bishop, four priests, and three deacons.
The Queen’s eldest daughter, the Crown
Princess of Germany, is a confirmed freethinker.
According to the Wkkklt Advocate (Wes-
leyan). about 50,000 persons in H.B W. attend the
Wesleyan Church.
There are 8,000,000 of Christian communicants
in England and Wales. The average Sunday attendance
at places of worship is 10,000,000.
A Baptist “ Year Book” for 1881, shortly to be
published, will show that there are 2,296,327 regular
Baptists in America, the net increase for 1880 being
163.293.
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York
reports a Catholic population of 600,000 There are 564
secular and 120 regular priests, 190 churches, 39 chapels,
and 25 stations.
The Christians of England and Wales hear
80,000 sermons every Sunday, or 4.000,000 a year. The
cost of Christian worship and benevolent enterprises is
estimated at £16.000,000 yearly.
Bishop Moorhouse in a new character! An
advertisement in a Victorian provincial paper recently
announced "a social meeting, consisting of songs,
music, and addresses by the Lord Bishop of Mel-
bourne."
The remains of the Rev. Father O’Brien, of
Maryborough (Q ), whe died suddenly at Bundaberg,
have been conveyed to the former town, and placed in-a
vault in the church in which the deceased gentleman
was pastor.
The Roman Catholic missions in Ceylon gained
last year 769 converts from heathenism and 144 from
other denominations. Upwards of 6000 persons were
admitted to confirmation. In the various schools were
IS, 461 pupils.
The Free Presbytery of Aberdeen has adopted
a motion, by a maiority of one, for the transmission of
an overture to the General Assembly, censuring the
commission for suspending Professor Bobertson Smith
on a charge of heresy.
The Emperor William is said to have lost all
faith in religions; for years he has been a shuttlecock
among the Roman Catholic, Protestant, and Greek
churches. He occasionally attends the Protestant
services, hut more for example than for any real intent
in church worship. The Emperor is 88 years of age.
The Sustentation Committee of the Presbyterian
Church find themselves in the fortunate position of
being able to declare, out of the sustentation fund, an
equal dividend in actual cash of £3OO per anuum to all
the ministers of the Church entitled by the regulations
of the Sustentation Fund Act to receive the same, with
a perfect assurance that the figure will be maintained.
The Church op England Record, com-
menting on the case of the Rev. Charles Strong,
of Melbourne, says that “it is one of the
saddest signs of onr times that any man who propounds
a theory which is counter to any of the established
truths of the Gospel becomes at once a hero, while
those who adhere to the old truths are counted as old-
fashioned, narrow-minded bigots."
Lord Shaftesbury is a great supporter of open-
air missions. He said vast sums of money had no donbt
been put to good use in building churches, but he
thought if they had been, in part at any devoted
to sending missionaries over the laud, adopting the
primitive method of spreading the Gospel by open-air
preaching, England would not now be standing upon
the brink of a precipice. Open-air preaching was not
only primitive and apostolic, but actually divine in its
origin.
The Christians in San Francisco constitute only
<i a little flock/* The San Francisco Occident reckons
that “ two-thirds of the people have no religion. They
are sceptics or indifferent " Of the regaining third it
says, “ How few have a living faith and a well grounded
hope." Of the 12,000 communicants in the Protestant
churches of the city, it makes tbe moderate estimate
that 2000 are not true Christians. This leaves hut
10 000 Christians out of a population of 250,000. or one
in’twenty-five. Truly “a little flock." "But,” says
the Occident, “let the 10,000 true believers in San
Francisco be faithful and take hold on the arm of God,
and they can revolutionize this great city."
“Is the church going backward.” In reply to
the above question the Chr'STian at Work indicates an
affirmative answer, and gives some facts to sustain that
view. In more than 200 of the 526 Congregational
churches in Massachusetts there was not a solitary
addition to the membership during the year 1879. The
same is true of over 100 Congregational churches in
Illinois in 1880. In 5400 Presbyterian churches the net
increase in membership did not amount to one each for
the last year. This ia not pleasant reading, but it is the
truth, and a truth that is appalling. And the worst is
that there is no reason for believit g that the other
Protestant denominations—the Protestant Episcopal
possibly excepted—can make a much better exhibit.
One of the most accomplished of Sydney
pulpit orators is tbe Rev. Thomas Kernmis, of St.
Mark’s. He never ui-es notes or manuscript of any
kind, and generally preaches holding a small pocket
Bible in his hand. Seldom even during a long sermon,
can any symptoms of drowsiness be seen among his
audience. To a commanding presence and dignified
manner, he adds a magnificent, voice, which ranges with
facility from the snbdned earneetu ss of sympathetic
appeal to sonorons and pas.-ionato declamation, but is
always under perfect, control. His diction is clothed
with all the graces of scholarly culture, refined enun-
ciation, and a masterly ease in delivery. He is a
thinker, and a bold one, and a fearless speaker of what
he thinks. Freethinkers, However, do not receive
much favour at hi hands. There was no indecision in
his utterances at All Saints’ last Sunday when be spoke
tbe following words " Proctor and Company tell us
that God, who is cradled in immensity, is unknowable,
and that we can never understand hi m. Bat,” continued
the speaker, holding aloft, the Bible, while his tones
rang sharply through the building amid a silence un-
broken by the slightest movement, “if Proctor is
right, then this Book is a lie. Away with this false and
blasphemous doctrine If one thing is
driving souls to the devil faster than anything else, it
is the popular theology which has spread so much of
late.” A moment’s pause followed, almost as if an
answer were challenged to such remarkable statements,
and then the preacher resumed hi* usual calm, easy
manner: but upon the hearers whose acutest attention
was riveted upon bis words, an impression remained
which will not soon be removed.
IT WON’T GO DOWN.
« Yon say yon are a candid friend,"
Said Paries to S. C. Brown;
All sorts of friendship you pretend.
Bat Steve, it won’t go down !
At times yon rise and speak for me,
O legislative brother.
And when you’ve praised my view, yon see,
Yon just vote for some other.
When yon and Greenwood both were here
My confidence yon stole.
And yet you tried, ’tis pretty clear,
Te put me in a hole.
So therefore Stephen Campbell Brown
Your “ friendly" caper won’t go down.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
The Lusitania, on her last trip, brought out 194
passengers.
Playfair is to be next Mayor, so M'Beathism is
at a discount.
Pupil teachers in Public Schools to be prevented
from punishing pupils.
The EHamantina is a total wreck on the coast
near the Manning Heads.
The Norfolk bronght on 64 passengers from
Wellington (N.Z.) to Sydney.
A m»u arrested on suspicion of causing the fire
at the HbraU) Office, Temora,
Mr. Downes, late Commissioner of Insolvency at
Adelaide, is about to enter political life.
The barque Jonathan Chase was five days off
Sydney Heads baffling vainly with wind and current.
The Midlothian and Argomene, English vessels
which arrived last week, bronght cargoes valued
at £-89,000.
An Australian edition of Justin M'Carthy’a
« History of our ewn Times” has been issued by Mr.
George Robertson.
The four New Caledonian arrivals have been
arrested for vagrancy by the authority of the Queens-
land Colonial Secretary.
The Grafton people mean to get their railway
on the Boycott principle. It is proposed to deal no
more with Sydney, but with Melbourne.
265 piok-and-shovel men came on from New
Zealand to this port by tbe Botomahana, under engage-
ment to the contractors for the Great Northern
Railway.
Ramshaw (an alleged larrikin), who was shot
at Hamilton, near Newcastle, by the m&il-boy Gordon,
Was arrested on Friday night on a charge of highway
robbery.
When the projected dam at Port Hacking is
bnilt, the Zoological Society wi-1 have at the National
Park a stretch of 35 or 30 miles of fresh water for their
fish experiments.
The youth Kent, who from motives of jealousy,
last Tuesday, shot a fellow-workman, at Newcastle,
named severely wounding him, and afterwards
shot himself, is dying.
50,000 lbs. of beef, veal, mutton, and lamb
slaughtered in this city were taken by the Orient in the
ice chamber for rise on the passage. Babbits and hares
will be obtained in Melbourne.
Some statistics for the Sabbatarians: 5831
persons visited the Free Library during 50 Sundays in
1380; total volumes read, 7680. Lending Branch:
visitors, 1253 ; volumes issued, 1328.
The Victorian Commissioner of Customs, in the
matter of the smuggling of silk from Sydney, has in-
flicted a penalty of £1173 in one case, and £1226 in
another —being treble the value of the goods seized.
By the Devon 392 immigrants arrived. Of these,
there were 133 English, 208 Irish, 38 Scotch, and 15 of
other nationalities; the religions were 201 Protestants,
179 Boman Catholics, and 12 of other persuations.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month of March, 1881.—Week-days 5625, Sundays
2951; total, 8576. Increase over attendance for preced-
ing month Week-days 1550, Sundays 748; total in-
crease, 2298.
One of the kindest acts that has been known in
this city for some time was done by the directory of a
Park-street building society. Though victimised by
their (former) secretary, they gave their fees to his wife
for three months, amounting to six or seven guineas a
week.
At the Wagga assizes a man named Robert
Williams, charged with murder, was found guilty of
manslaughter. His daughter was anxiously waiting
outside the court for the result of the trial, and when
told the verdict was one of guilty she. thinking it
was guilty of tnnrder, ran screaming to the river and
attempted to drown herself.
A stationholder on the Darling who bored in
search of water, on reaching a depth of 100 feet, was
unable to go further owing to the “ country" being so
dry that it would not hold the auger. The bore some-
times blew up air sufficient to extinguish a candle; at
times it was quite aalm. Of late it sucks down; then
follows a calm, and it blows up again.
Some rich specimens of alluvial tin have been
brought into Hobart from Sorell Creek, about 14 miles
north of the capital. The information as to the spot
was conveyed in an indirect way to the prospector br a
man now under a long term of imprisonment in the
Hebart Gaol. Gold also has been found at Oyster Cove,
near Hobart, and some rich specimens brought to town.
The ground is being pegged out in all directions.
Mr. C. G Millar is the Melbourne gentleman
who has bought the fine schooner-yacht Bed Gauntlet,
the property of the unfortunate Mr. C. C. Balfour, who
died suddenly the other day at Boggabri, and who, it
will be remembered, was severely injured some months
ago by falling L orn the first story of a city hotel, Mr.
Balfour was the possessor of a more than princely
income, and was “ lord of himself, that heritage of
woe.”
“ Old Jack,” a Scotch plumber, started from
Forbes en route for Mount Browne—a journey of 600
miles—tbe other day, with a wheelbarrow, containing a
complete *• rig-out,” including his tools of trade, per-
sonal effects, kc On his barrow he had a small water,
tank, holding sufficient water to last two or three days,
a plumber’s stove, and several other tolerably weighty
articles, including 30 lb. of solder—weighing altogether
not far short of 2cwt.
Large numbers of Russian carp and English
perch, and over 2000 Tasmanian trout ova have been
distributed to the various river streams and lagoons of
the colony by the Zoological Society of N.S.W. The
experiment with the trout ova has been very successful.
50,000 salmon ova received by the s.s. Zealanuia,
Captain Chevalier, were unfortunately destroyed in
transit from the steamer at Sydney to their destina-
tion. The oscillation of the mountain train did the
mischief.
One of the oldest and wealthiest residents of
Croydon delights in a good joAe. He sometimes at
early morning, attires himself in the garb of a working
man, and with pick and shovel on his shoulder, offers
his services at so much per diem. With a bumptious
new arrival, the other day, he harangued for half an
hour as to whether it should be 6a 6d or 7s 6d a day.
Two hours afterwards, “ the individual" called on the
old gentleman to ascertain if he could arrange a mort-
?age on a house for £3OOO. It was not till the old gen-
tleman laughed that his identity was made manifest.
Another line of choice old Australian wines has
been received at Mr. H. Hocking and Co.’s cellars, Pitt-
street, opposite the City Bank.
Mr. J. L. Hordern, of Pitt-street, has enlarged
his premises by constructing over his shop a depart-
ment devoted exclusively to new and fashionable milli-
nery business.
Messrs Bafct, Rodd, and Pnrvea announce the
sale, this day (Saturday), of some building sites at Black-
heath, Govett’s Leap, Blue Mountains, the sanatorium
of New South Wales. They also announce the sale on
Saturday, 25th inst., of valuable land at Auburn Downs,
Parramatta Boad.
Without the aid of protection, Sydney is dis-
tancing Melbourne in some important manufactures,
and this in the Adelaide markets. The American
Novelty Company, who commenced the other day the
manufacture on an extensive scale of the new descrip-
tion of rooking horse, have now orders to supply several
* ar ?e Adelaide houses. The make is considered in-
•jnitely better than the imported, and tbe price is ton
or hfteen per cent, lower. What will the protectionists
say to this P The articles manufactured are on view at
Novelty Company’s establishment, Pitt-
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Russia economising.
Difflonlties in Basutoland renewed.
Insurrection against Ayonb Khan at Herat.
Lord Beaoonafield continues dangerously ill.
Bank of South Australia declared 10 per cent,
dividend for the year.
Vigorous administration of the Coercion Act in
the county of Cork.
Germany asking the European Powers to unite
in an effort to repress Socialism.
Terrible earthquake at the iEgean Island of
Chios. Killed and wounded said to number 3000.
The British-India steamship Roma, with the
Queensland mails, left Port Said on the 28th March.
Imperial decree issued at St. Petersburg assent-
ing to a thoroughly representative system of Govern-
ment.
Serious conflicts at Tunis between the Tunisians
and the French—the result, it is said, of Italian inter-
ference.
Bradlaugh’s appeal dismissed, and he is con-
sequently deprived of his seat in the House of
Commons.
Appalling earthquake at Chios, an island in
the -Egean Sea. Wide-spread destruction; 3000 killed
and wounded.
Die Preicheit, the Socialist paper in London,
suppressed for eulogising the assassination of the Czar, ,
and the editor arrested.
The Boers in South Africa oppressing and plun-
dering inhabitants in the Transvaal who remained loyal I
to England in the late war.
A Tasmanian loan of .£300,000 at 4 per cent. !
issued in London. A Fijian loan of £150,000 at 4J per
cent, is shortly to be issued, j
Writs for Northampton (Bradlaugh’s vacant 1
seat) and Wigan (the electorate of Mr. Powell, who has j
also been unseated) have been issued.
The City of New York, mail steamer, due at San |
Francisco from Sydney on March 2‘, arrived, many
days overdue, with injured machinery.
The English quarter’s revenue, .£27,875,100; j
increase £750,000. The year’s revenue, £84,002,500;
increase on the previous year, £2,750,000.
Gladstone made a splendid budget speech, which
he says will probably be the last he’ll ever deliver. The
finances of the country being prosperous, he purposes
by an arrangement of gradual payments to reduce the
National Debt by sixty millions in twenty-five years.
He, further, abolishes the legacy duty, reduces the
income tax, the tax on silver plate, and on foreign beers
and spirits. £ per cent, is added on to the probate
duty.
LATE SPORTING.
Wandering Jew did a splendid gallop on Tuesday
I morning.
I 100 to 2 was offered on Hanlan daring his raoe
with Laycock. No takers.
MoShane got a good spot in the second innings
of the South Australians, and they collapsed.
MoShane gave four chances fo? his 58 in the
j second innings of the match with South Australia.
i The 1000 yards’ race, for the captaincy of the
St. Leonards Swimming Club, will take place at the
Lavender Bay baths this (Thursday) afternoon.
A race in connection with the Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club took place on Saturday last, between the
Ettie, Ouida, Eegina. and Nereid The Ettie led all
through the raoe; and won easily; Nereid second.
Hanlan used a wind-sail in his race with
Layoook. It slewed him out of his course at one point,
but otherwise it was a decided adrantage. It has not
yet become patent to colonials that this is a fair device
in sculling contests.
The members of the Windsor Rifle Club com-
peted on Saturday last for the Captain’s Cup and
quarterly prizes—seven shots with one sighter, at 500
and 000 yards respectively, prone position. Private
Carroll was top, with 58 points.
Layoook met with a handsome reception at
Adelaide. The Mayor received him at the Town Hall,
and in the evening a large audience assembled at the
Theatre Eoyal, when he appeared on the stage, and was
presented with a purse containing £B6.
The Taniwha had her bowspnt broken short off
at the stem-head during her race with May Queen in
Hobson’s Bay, on Saturday last; albeit she managed
to get in six minutes ahead of the Melbourne-built
yacht. The Janet was scratched just before the start.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
How I bamboozled the card-sharpers,” <fco.:
Children shouldn’t play with Are "Dame Trot”
(Grafton): Eeoeived; thanks " A. 8.0.” (Bega);
Only locally, not generally, interesting "Constant
Header" (Marulan): The joke is old “J. Thorn”;
Yes, we know all about it "W. V. E.” (West Mait-
land): Quite true; but" hot.” "P. P. Z." : Point-
less personalities "Satire” (Rockhampton): Thanks.
“ A. L.” : We fail to see the point of your joke
“ One of the accomplished Governesses": We have
already alluded to the matter "C. P. H.": Eeoeived;
we have already referred to it “ C. D." : We never
“ oblige” anybody by publishing verse such as would
inflict unutterable misery on our general readers
“ O’Connell”; We are not aware how the mistake oc-
curred. We only know that the advertisement in
question did appear “Veritas”: Next time they
throw orange-peel from the balcony ring their bell. If
no one answers the door, knock a hole through their
window and see whether there’s anybody inside
“X. Y. Z." s Eeceived L. E. X." ; Eeoeived.
“E. B. C.”: No you don’t “ J. H. N. (Gondagai);
Eeoeived " C. L." (Grafton): Thanks “ W.M.”;
Thanks "Valerie" : Eeceived "Quack”:
Letter alluded to did not reach us “ E.M D.” Not
good enough “ A Surry Hills’ Man”: Alluded to
long ago "MM.P.K.”: We don’t deal in such
things "W. H. 8.”: Mach obliged for the in-
formation "Aquatic Fanatic” : You mean well,—
and that’s all " H. 8.5.” (Melbourne) : Thanks for
the suggestion, which we shall endeavor to carry out
next session “J. D.”: (1) Were we to publish the
summary, we’d have to do the same for all clubs. Our
space is too limited for this. (2.) Call on our publisher.
“Harry M.”: Good sentiment, bad verse "Mai
de Mer”: Eeoeived; will read for next issue " Bona-
fide”: We print the substance of your communication.
"H.B. : Received “E.D.": Eeoeived “999”
(Gympie): Eeceived; next issue " Agent” (Camp-
bell town) : Next issue “Clerical Call”: Next week-
" Spectator”: Eeoeived “ Anonymous” (re boat.
raoe): See editorial notice "to our readers.”
Owing to a great pressure on our apace we find
ourselves at the last moment reluctantly compelled to
leave over to next week extended notices of Cole’s ;
circus, the performance of the " Eomanya,” at the j
Gaiety Theatre last evening, and a vast number of
other items of interest.
Now that the tramway is being extended, in- '
vestments in land about Waverley are increasing.
Chesterfield, Waverley, near to the projected tram
terminus, is now in the market, the sale being fixed for
this (Saturday) afternoon, by Messrs. Hardia jc Gorman.
CRICKET.
A orioket matoh was played in Moore Park on
Saturday week between the P.oneer 0.0. and the Young
I Oxford C. 0., which resulted in a victory for the former
by 9 runs. Scores: P.0.C., 32;_Y0.0.C., 23. The
( bowling was very good on both sides The match,
on Saturday week, between the Underwood 0 0. and
Young Australia C.C, resulted in a win for the former
by 40 runs. Scores: 58 and 18 The Woodbine C.C.
of Parramatta defeated the Sydney Grammar School
C.C., on Saturday last, by 15 runs —the scores respec-
tively being 95 and 80 Byrnes and Watson batted well
for the winners, making 40 and 12, while Segal made 18
and Salway 17, for the Grammar School. Schwartkofif
bowled very well for Parramatta, as did also Sankin
for the losing side. The Woodbines also defeated the
Newington College C.C., some short time ago, by 1 run.
The scores were 33 and 32 respectively. Young
: Oxford 0.0. v. Australian Sorry C.C., at Moore Park,
‘on Saturday. Forme* club won easily by 15 runs
Orleans v. Shamrock, at St. Leonards, on Saturday.
The former, who had won two previous matches in
succession, sustained a defeat by 98 runs. Scores: 33
and 131 respectively. The small score of the Orleans
was occasioned by the destructive bowling of Clarke
and Wheeley; and their bowlers, A. Diud and W.
Horsey, had plenty of practice, if not altogether com-
bined with success with the ball Glebe Britannia v.
Surry Hills Britannia, at Victoria Park, March 26.
The Glebe team won by 3 wickets aud 3 runs Glebe
Britannia v. Oriental, at Glebe Point, on Saturday, 2nd
inst. Resulted in a draw in favor of the Britaunias.
Scores: G.B.C.C . 37 and 31 j G 0.C.C., 27 and 17 for 6
wickets Thorntons v. Albions. These two olnbs
met last Saturday afternoon. Result, a drawn game.
Scores: T.0.C., 56 runs; A.C.0., 7 wickets down for
42 Britannia C. C. v. Merksworth C. C.. at Moore
Park, on Saturday. The latter won. The batting of
Broadbent for the losing club was good ; as were also the
batting of Pearson and Tipps, and the bowling of
Carioss for the victors.
Mr D. Holborow, J.P.
We give on our fourth page the portrait of a gentleman
■ who for a number of years has actively identified himself
with the commercial interests of Sydney, and the
r material advancement of its suburbs. Mr. Holborow
is a successful man of business, who, since amassing a
fortune in honourable enterprise, has devoted his time
and means to the general welfare. The prosperous
suburb of Ashfleld owes fnuch to the energy he dis-
played in connection with the local Borough Council
for effecting important improvements, and it was
no doubt in recognition of these services that he
was elected unanimously seven years in suoces-
sion to the Mayoral chair. Mr. Holborow was born at
Oromhall, Gloucestershire, in 1818. He was educated in
London, for commercial pursuits, and after concluding
a course of studies, entered one of the leading soft-
goods houses of Liverpool. He married in Bristol in
1339, and in the same year came out to Sydney. He
commenced business here in 1348, and was so successful
that he returned to England in 1846, with the intention
of remaining at home; but the colonies proving a
greater attraction, he returned four years later. He
’ eeumed business in 1860, and toured once more to
England, where he remained one year, returning
again in 1866. In 1869 he finally retired from busi-
■ •ess, and, investing largely in Gadshill Estate,
iat Ashfleld, turned his attention to municipal
i work, securing for that rising suburb a public
I park. He was largely instrumental in getting
I Ashfleld incorporated, and in 1874 was elected second
Mayor of the borough, which position he held eight
years in succession till his retirement. In 1874 Mr.
1 Holborow was nominated to the Commission of the
[ Peace, and his services on the City benches have always
rally justified that nomination. He is most assiduous
in the discharge of his magisterial duties, attending the
• Central and the Water Police Courts with the regularity
of a stipendiary magistrate. On his retirement, last
, February, from the Mayoral chair and municipal work
!at Ashfleld, he was banqueted by the aldermen and
leading residents, and now a presentation of an address
and a testimonial embellished with photographs is
arranged to take place in a few days. Mr. Holborow
has several times been asked to stand for Parliamentary
election, and he assented in 1878, only, however, to
retire (when pretty certain of return) to allow of the
election of Sir Henry Parkes after his defeat in East
Sydney. Mr. Holborow’s son (Lieut.-Colonel Hol-
i'orrow, of Richmond,) is now in Parliament, having at
'he last general election been chosen to represent
Argyle.
The Oaks Steam Brick Works, North
Shore.
f Tetftbk is quite as ranch enterprise at the North Shore
now as in any other of the suburbs of Sydney. Several
tirst-olass industries have recently been established,
and employment given to a large number of workmen.
I The most prominent—because the most extensive and
i successful—of these is Mr. P. Hayes* Steam Quadruple-
Pressed Brick Works, which are situated at the Oaks,
about two miles from the Milson’s Point Perry. The
locality is such as to facilitate active operations, and
to furnish a material for the bricks that is not to be
excelled, if eqoalled, anywhere all over the metropolitan
fiistriot. The works comprise an area of about twelve
acres, and are furnished with three large kilns, ex-
tensive factory, drying sheds, workmen’s cottages, etc.
'The excavations from which the material is obtained
exhibit a great depth of light-colored shale, which is
especially adapted for the manufacture of this superior
description of bricks. It is removed by means of a
I steam trolly to the works, where, by an ingenious
| appliance, it is emptied into two pulverisers, which
feed two steam brick mills operator g beneath. Three
appliances are of the very latest description, and are
equal to any in these colonies. They give four
distinct successive impressions, equal to nearly 100
tons, and they turn ont the bricks with a
s'irface as polished as cut granite, and an edge
us trne and as straight as possible. These machines
turn out 25,000 per day. After being subjected to this
powerful pressure, the bricks are removed to the large
k tins adjoining, three in number, which are permanent
structures, and so erected as to ensure thorough burn-
ing. The bricks when burnt are of snowy whiteness,
and as hard as adamant, and when struck together they
sound like bell metal. As might be expected, the prin-
cipal architects and builders of Sydney soon found the
value of these quadruple-pressed bricks, not only on
account of their evident strength and durability, but
for their handsome appearance and suitability for the
fronts of residences and other buildings of a superior
description. Houses built with these bricks require no
oement. Hence the success of the undertaking is
already very great—the demand being much greater
than the present capabilities of the works.
BRIEF MENTION.
No ooal in Victoria yet!
Hundreds die, By-the-way.
Two D.’a—Death and Darlinghurst.
How many more deaths at Darlinghurst Gaol?
Average of prisoners dying in Darlinghurst per
week—four.
The trams at the Railway Station are shamefully
mismanaged.
What time, dear journalistic brothers, by your
“ Eodanow ?”
Will Dr. M'Gibbon allow the Art Gallery to be
opened on Sundays ?
Will anyone offer a big prize for the champion
pedestrians to walk—off ?
Who object to the condemnation of the rook-
eries ? The rooks of caws.
To be consistent, Sir ’Enery should not have
had the oensns taken on Sunday.
Those Grafton telegrams to the Noozb ! Cir-
culation going up ; lies coming down.
Another verdict of “ alcoholism.” Nothing about
“two potatoes and a cold cell ” Quod.
Several Bulletins issued about Beaoonsfield’s
health. Imitated again. This time in Loudon.
“ Pompadour ” dresses are no longer fashion-
able at Qundagai. The local black gins wear them.
The only solid foundations in connection with
the Town Hall are foundations to certain rumours.
The Maytown (Palmer River, N.Q.) publicans
have combined to raise the price of drinks to a shilling
each.
“ The Pirates of Penzance ” is being played on
Sundays in New York with the concurrence of the
authorities.
Sentiment for young ladies who find themselves
chased by lecherous tub-thumpers. —"Should auld
acquaintance be forgot ?
It is expected that there will be some straight
talk at next Easter meeting at an ancient city church.
Women at the bottom of the scandal.
Prom the Twopenny Morning Halo :
"A Plat to let. Barrack-street.” Only one flat 1 We
suppose this means the "dramatical cricket."
M‘Elhone says the best Christians we have are
the Jews. This conclusion, it is said, was arrived at by
John after carefully studying our “religious ” papers.
The sentence passed on Evans, the Lands Office
defaulter, says the Western Champion, is exactly
what Tom Cannon received for stealing an old gun at
Blaokall.
It is now a considerable time since Mr. M'Beath
lectured at the Temperance Hall. Here’s a good
subject for him when he next pitches—“ Apostolic
ter-rnbble."
“ You see that beautiful terrace of houses ?”
“Yes." " Well, that’s being put up by a tram con-
ductor.” “Indeed! and so soon 1 I thought it was a
policeman.”
It is stated that a subscription-list has been
opened on Charters Towers to buy T hade us O’Kane, of
the Mines, a looking-glass, in order that “ ha may sea
himself as others see him.”
That rag geoponical.
Yclept the Cairns Chronicle,
So the song there is sung.
Has gone carefully “ bung.”
Larrihinism at Rooky Month is encouraged by
the editor of one of the district papers, who is of
opinion that hotel-keepers should allow people to come
to the public table without their coats.
The Weekly Harchbbushitp informs us that
“the Basutos are again troublesome in South America."
This shows what a grand thing it is to “ know yer
joggraphy,” as the man in the play says.
Prom the S. M. Herald of April 5: — “The
concert in the Town Hall on Saturday, for the benefit
of the survivors of those who lost their lives by the recent
torpedo accident, was crowded j the Governor was
present."
Professor Pepper has made an assignment of his
estate at Adelaide, the colonies mot proving a payable
field for his Polytechnique science. Let us hope that
soon, in more pleasant places, of his lines this Pepper will
| be tbe Caster.
The Gympib Miner, which is irate with the
1 Gtmpib Times, attacks that journal in the following
exhaustive essay People say that the continual
‘ nagging ’ and vile personalities of the Times is not
journalism." The spirit is willing, but the grammar is
weak.
In one of the suburbs the other day some wild
excitement was caused by an irate father, who, having
accidentally or otherwise obtained possession of certain
letters, publicly and straightway proceeded to horse-
whip a young man. Young man took his flogging with-
out remark.
Every week for four months a Sydney man
posted a copy of The Bulletin to an Albnry friend.
Not one copy reached its destination. Having ascer-
tained this fact, the sender resolved for the future to
swathe the paper in a Telegraph wrapper. It's never
been stolen since.
Sometimes one meets with “ jam ” instead of
gospel in the 8. M. Herald. Says (bat journal, in its
report of the Austrian Band ball" The most finished
dress in the room was a Chines© costume worn by a
lady who carried her disguise co the extent of staining
her face, and by other similar means hiding her
identity." But then, dear Qrannt, you shouldn’t rave
about yonr friends. Chinawomen have small feet.
He was a surveyor from beyond Dabbo, six feet
four high, and s()in. round the chest. He went into
C impagnoni’s for lunch, and ordered roast-beef. The
waitress brought, tastefully spread out on an oval dish,
three exqnisitely-thin slices of meat. Surveyor rolled
these up, and swallowed them without using his knife
once. Then he thnmped his fist on the table, and
roared, “ I want no more of these early bits of meat; I
want something that won’t bend. Fetch us the joint.”
Up in Queensland, lately, a rather antique
specimen of “ God’s image out in ebony" hod two
serviceable grinders knocked down his throat in a
tussle with the centrifugal. The lady of the plantation,
observing his disfigurement, offered her condolences.
‘‘Nev’ mind, missus," jauntily responded Eden tat us;
“ byme-bye I get plenty money, get lot new teeth, just
like yon,” And, with a slight but graceful gesture of
admiration as he indicated the present locals of my
lady's “ company set," Urepara Sam retired to the
‘nigger quarters."
Many know that representatives of the New
South Wales Bowing Association met the Victorian
crew on their arrival at the Bedfem Eallway Station,
but few are aware of the romantic adventures in con-
nection with the greeting in question of three leading
aquatic *’ sports” from North Shore. The train was to
arrive at an early hour. So they rose “ betimes," and
in the grey misty dawn rnshed to the steamer, which
left one end of the wharf as they arrived at the other.
Foiled but not crushed, they went by the horse-boat and
soon arrived on a cabless shore. They had no time to
walk, so they bailed a greengrocer’s cart and jumped
into it, much to the surprise of the proprietor, who
imagined they wanted to buy cabbages. One of them
sat beside the driver, the other two in the body of the
vehicle. The elegant equipage reached Paddy’s
Market without any mishap, except that a gin-oase gave
way on the road, and the two gentlemen behind fell
among the vegetables. They dismounted—ca «a sans
; dire—some little distance from the station, and walked
up to the platform, where few of those who watched
I their lordly bearing and admired the courtly aecueil
extended to the Southern oarsmen, imagined for a
moment that the three had, but two minutes before,
: been calmly reposing on a bed of what the Whitechapel
, man in the song calls—
" Cabbages and turnip-tops,
And cauliflowers and brocoli."
The following charming piece of news is from
the Melbourne Herald :—“ On her trip home, the
steamer Orient will carry all her meat ready killed and
preserved by the refrigerating process. The quantity
Erring.
Green isle of praties and of pigs,
hike other isles, surrounded by the ocean.
Land of illicit whisky stills and jigs,
Whose famine fnnd is in perpetual motion.
In search of overdue farm-rent or taxes
Should some deluded man thy precincts enter.
As soon as he thy sous for payment axes
An ounce of lead perchance may reach his centre.
And should the bullet drop the mean curmudgeon,
The plucky son of Erring, nothing fearing.
Prom some dark comer draws the weighty bludgeon.
And beats his skull in while their friends are cheering.
St. Phandrig and the great Colnmba’s deeds
Drove out the snakes, but left the trained assassin.
And every other day a landlord bleeds.
Shot from behind a hedge as he is passin’.
Erring, they say, was blest in other days.
But how much more was blest the unhappy stranger
Who in an evil hour his money pays
To buy a home in which his life’s in danger.
In her the idle peasant and his chief
Are men of murderous words and cowardly actions—
To all right-minded men, a source of grief—
Who lire on plunder and nnjnst exactions.
’Tis hard for erring sons to-day
To know that their arch-fiend is quietened;
To know their leader ran away—
To share their danger too muoh frightened.
There are some sons of Erring’s soil
Who order, law, and labour cherish.
And sure these hardy sons of toil
Will lire while lazy brawlers perish.
B.


required is 50,000 tons (!!!), and it is all to be of the
primest quality."
There was great joy in the office of an evening
contemporary on the opening of the Fish Company
next door. It's lent. We don’t allude to the fish.
The Rev. Mr. Mahoney remarks intbeDiSTEESS:
—“ Turkeys are only one shilling each in Cooma." This
reminds us of the remark of “ Mrs. P’s. Aunt ’’ —
“ There’s mile-stones on the Dover road.” The rev.
author of the above essay doesn’t give the price of
geese. Pourquoi done ?
George Alfred knows ! The honorable for New-
castle the other evening in the House took upon himself
to lecture the Government about recklessly floating
loans, and delivered his experienced opinion that
"credit was a ticklish thing.” George, it will be ob-
srrved, used the past tense.
The Evening Discord must have been hard up
for a sensation the other day. A man’s horse shied at
the tram at 12 o’clock, and at 4 the incident appeared
in the paper, commencing—“ A most miraculous escape
from an untimely end took place in Elizabeth-street.”
Wonderful are the ways of journalism !
The Herald of the Nevah-Nevah country,
under its new proprietary, publishes contributions by
a writer who signs himself “ Blunt Knife.” It is not,
however, only his knife that is blunt, since his wit is
about as pointed as an ironbark slab. For all this, we
wish him well—and a better occupation.
Smoking is now allowed on all railway stations,
and railway carriages, etc. The notice reads thus:
" Any person found smoking is liable to a penalty, etc."
To smoke, you see, is no offence, but to be found
smoking means 40s. In other words, to rob a till means
nothing, but to be found robbing one means “ quod."
We see that Mr. Balfour’s schooner-yacht, Red
Gauntlet, has been purchased by a Victorian yachting
gentleman, who is intent on a cruise in the South Seas.
We would recommend the Solomon Islands as the first
place of call. We've heard of the Gauntlet having
been run there before. The Solomons are a favourite
picnic ground.
On Mr. Horn being elected an Alderman of
Goulbum, he, in returning thanks for his election, said
that “ he never thought they should be reduced to the
condition they were in." This remark was received
with terrific enthusiasm by the other side, and — how-
ever, he is one of the honest hom-y handed, so Horny
soil qui mal y pense.
In a recent number of the Evening Grab :
“ The new Emperor of Russia has already produced a
favourable impression upon other nations as well as his
own subjects. The auspicious commencement of his
reign is as welcome as it is unexpected.” Next day :
Another determined attempt has been made to blow
up the Winter Palace.”
Unfermented wine (not the unclean thing
referred to by Timothy—we don’t mean Timothy
Doolan) is to be obtained in any quantity at the Tem-
perance Hall—whence all the advertisements against
fermented wine (the unclean thing aforesaid) emanate.
Lavers is in it; and yet they say the unfermented
article is not the unclean thing.
At Campbelltown, when a man wants to de-
liver bills to his customers, he quietly puts them on
the church seats of the persons for whom they are
intended. The accounts are not enclosed in envelopes,
but left open. This not only ensures punctual delivery,
but causes the debtors to say more prayers in a given
time than any other people known.
Mr. Watson, editor of the ShoalhavenNews,
was fined, the other day, for having assaulted an
apprentice. We learn from a local paper that the pre-
siding magistrate “ expressed his surprise that defen-
dant, a professed newspaper proprietor and editor,
could so far lose his temper.” It’s after all only the
country editor who thus forgets himself.
At a dinner given recently by certain German
members of our community, in celebration of the birth-
day of their venerable Emperor, champagne flowed
freely. However, one of the guests quaffel, on the
occasion, a pint bottle of colonial wine, saying he was
too good a German (or too good a patriot) to drink the
Emperor’s health in the vintage of France.
Says the theatrical critic of the Australasian :
" Concerning the rest of the characters (in the “ Three
Musketeers”), Miss Kemble must be spoken of next.
You need not consider whether she exactly resembled
the Anne of Austria of history. But if Anne of Austria
resembled Miss Kemble, it is easy to understand the
competition there was to gain her favour.” Jam !
It is said that the Grafton people, finding that
there is no chance or their securing a railway at pre-
sent, are getting up a petition asking Government to
stay its hand in the almost useless expenditure of
£30,003 on the Clarence Heads entrance, and to expend
the sum named in erecting a poor-house at Grafton.
Sir Henry will be asked to lay the foundation-stone.
There was an election of aldermen at Goulburn
recently, and Alderman Horn was returned by a small
majority. In expressing his thanks, this gentleman
took occasion to state that he would play up general
brimstjpne with everything and reform it altogether.
Prom what we can gather, though, the Goulbum people
seem to think there is a good deal of 11 blow” in the
wind of this Horn.
There is to be a Bulletin started in Welling-
ton, which is to contain all our wit, without any of our
“ objectionable features.” So says the prospectus.
We have no doubt that the fledgling will contain all our
wit, from the fact that the editor will possess a brand
new pair of scissors. As for our “objectionable
features,” it’s a hundred to one he’ll clip them too and
never know it. Bosh I
The following telegram is from the Cooktown
Herald : —“ L’Estrange made a successful baloon (sic)
ascent from Sydney, but in alighting the baloon (sic)
struck the roof of a house at Wooloomooloo, and ex-
ploded. It immediately became a mass of flame, but
the aeronaut managed to get clear, and no one was hurt.”
Is it possible that the influence of our Barrack-street
contemporary extends as far up North as Cooktown ?
The most courtly people who have yet visited
Sydney are the officers of the Japanese man-of-war.
They bowed to everybody—to the tailor, the boot
maker, the livery-stable keeper; they kissed the bar-
maid’s hand, gravely saluted the hotel cook, and took
off their hats to the waiter. “ They were very polite—
in other words they were a little insincere.” This
quotation comes from the French, but of course doesn’t
apply to the Japs.
We breathlessly hasten to acquaint our readers
with the fact that the first bora of the Princess Thyra
of Denmark, and the Duke of Cumberland, has been
christened George William Christian Albert Edward
Alexander Frederick Waldemar Ernest Adolf. This
young man ought to have a good time until he is con-
firmed, so many illustrious persons being responsible
for his sins until that interesting period. His mamma
we hear, requested Denmark’s monarch to choose the
names, and His Majesty sent them on a post-card from
Copenhagen. ’ Twas thus it was or-Dained.
There is a person at the Glebe who keeps fowls,
but they have been disappearing so rapidly at night of
late that he has put the matter into the hands of the
police. Those active and intelligent officers are at
present taking considerable interest in the proceedings
of certain persons who are residing in a house in the
vicinity, and who have taken to sleeping on newly-made
feather beds after midnight chicken suppers. The other
day a constable who passed crowed like a cock, upon
which some maize was thrown out of the window, while
a female voice started “ Cluck, cluck—chookey,
chookey! ” But, of course, there’s nothing in it.
We don’t say, of course, that the Herald’s
Vienna correspondent writes from Dubbo, because we
don’t like to say anything that would hurt the feelings
of the self-denying missionaries who conduct that
journal; at the same time, we cannot but feel a little
sceptical as to the honafides of the Austrian “copy,”
when it contains passages like the following:—“ Last
night the Austrian Crown Prince left his father’s home
to undertake a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. As he
kissed the Emperor’s hand, in Austrian fashion, the
tears rolled down his face, and his eyes sought those
of his father with a beseeching look.” This is a deeply
affecting picture, and we have wept over it ourselves.
We should, however, have wept a little more were we
not aware that the Crown Prince in question is six-
foot-two in his balbriggans, broad in proportion, with
a moustache as long and as fierce as D’Orsay Ogden’s;
and that he disobeys the old man with sublime cheer-
fulness on every possible occasion. Were it not for the
Herald’s bawbees we expect that writer of this hash
would be exceedingly Hungary in Austria.
A New Zealand paper called the Liberty prints
George E. Simms’ Dagonet Ballads as original, and is
putting on frills in conseauence. Bat then frills are
the natural adjunct of a, front. It is not often that we
italicise, but it is necessary sometimes.
A practice (says a Victorian exchange) is pre-
valent at the Geelong Police Court of inserting pins
with the points up in the seat cushions, and, strange to
say, the police are the suspected perpetrators, of the
pointed practical joke. And yet the people who sit
down hardly ever get the pin, but most invariably the
needle. We consider that the wax used in our police
courts for this purpose . But no! The stentorian
tones of a certain luminary legal are recalled to our
memory. And we ter-remble!
It is a positive fact that a new live penny daily
is about to be started in Sydney by a proprietary pos-
sessed of almost unlimited capital. The paper will be
called, we are informed, the Daily News, and it will
neither be priest-ridden nor Exile-bossed. Spacious
premises have already been chosen, and overtures made
to a number of gentlemen who can write a news-par.
without a blunder and a critique without a bull. The
point to be considered is — “ What will the Morning
Exile people now take for their lamp ? ”
This is how they do it “ deep down in the sunny
South-west:" —A “literary man "gets appointed as a
census-collector, mounts his fiery steed, and, according
to his own account, completes his extensive district in
a single day. The fact is, however,, that instead of
doing the work himself, he has had a deputy doing it
for him, notwithstanding that he has declared iq, legal
form belore the enumerator, that he himself would
faithfully perform his duties in accordance with the
Act. The Colonial Secretary might look this little
matter up. and* insist IB davit being supplied by
each collector.
Fate seems to be “ letting up” on the Austra-
lian magistracy just now. For in addition to the
peecadiloes of our own and the Northern Shallows,
we read that “ Peter M'Cluskey, a justice of the
peace, residing at Bacchus Marsh, on remand from
Bacchus Marsh, was charged before Messrs. Akehurst,
Glenny, and Long, J. P.’s, with having, on the sth day
of March, at Ballarat, feloniously married one Anne
Farrell, his wife, Mary M’Cluskey, being then alive."
Both ladies appeared, and each was equally adamantine.
Poor Peter, who had only committed a drover for the
same offence a few weeks before, was heard to groan
audibly when gazing upon the causes of his sorrow—
“ How happy could I be with either.
Were t'other dear charmer away."
List of donations to Australian Museum for
month of March: —Fossil remains of principles under-
lying the Constitution, Sir H. Parkes ; meteoric stone,
which fell with such force as to make the -Gap in the
cliffs at Watson’s Bay, Sir John Robertson leaf from
time-book at Lands Office, Mr. Hoskins; specimens of
copper ore from Milburn Creek, Mr. E. A. Baker;
petition from officers of Treasury, asking leave to
participate in public holidays, Mr. James Watson; an
obliterated postage-stamp, Mr. Suttor; petrified orange
from Parramatta, Mr. Lackey; outer covering of a Fiji
banana, which was presented to him by King.Cacoban,
Sir George Innes.
There has been much trouble in North
Queensland town. A little while ago two informers,
accompanied by a woman whom they apparently used
as a lure, arrived from the South, and laid several infor-
mations against residents for sly-grog-selling. The
other night a couple of prominent citizens went to the
woman’s house. One of the informers was in, and
“ pitched into ” the visitors, one of whom had his leg
broken in several places by blows from a pick-handle.
The local papers have studiously avoided all reference
to this nice little affair. The “ gay Lothario,” who is a
single man, did not institute legal proceedings; but
some of the inhabitants gave the informer a thrashing
before he left the town.
“ E’en as a bird, released from its captivity.
Doth plume itself, and shake its wings rejoicingly;
Fluttering upon its perch, mute with extreme delight.
Doubtful the power of its wings—fearful to take its
flight:
So my Spirit—held captive by my sinful earth.
Did droop its wings, and pine, and suffer death.”
This magnificent verse is contributed to the Eedfern
Times by someone modestly signing her or himself
“ W.” Well, we are sorry to find your spirit in such a
bad way, whoever you are, and recommend you to see
to it at once. We don’t consider it so much the spirit
as the stomach. Take our advice “ W." now, and get a
box of pills. There’s nothing like it. We knew a
youth once who got an idea into his head that he could
play Hamlet. Two pennyworth of Epsom Salts cured
him of that delusion so well, that he told us later that
he never saw a play of Shakespears without feeling the
taste in his mouth. A good box of “ Dandelion Investi-
gators ” is your line. Take them, and you’ll never
either imagine there is anything wrong with your spirit,
or that you can tell us what is the matter with it in
poetry.
i Oar Adelaide imitator is, we are glad to hear,
getting on splendidly. A writer in the S. A. Register
recommends that a public meeting be called to take
steps for the suppression of the Adelaide Bulletin.
This should prove a lovely advertisement.
; The Inverell Bond says that Mr. Murray,
their member, “is quite sick and quite exhausted by
biis last wonderful effort on the railway policy of the
Ministry, which we published in its entirety in our last
iisue. The grand preroration (sic) of his four-line
speech has been too much for Mr. E. L. Murray, and
the result is—a doctor." When Mr. Murray read this
brilliant paragraph, he, while consigning the rag to the
dust-bin, remarked that —. Well, it doesn’t matter
what he said.
This is from the patriotic Dick Thatcher; —
The Japanese were rolling by
In sailors’ togs, all dressed so smart;
They seemed quite to the manner bom.
For well they play the soman's part.
A British tar was passing by.
“ Could you lick these ?” I him did ask.
“ You couldn’t, mister, give," he said,
‘‘An English chap (jap) an easier task.”
Says the Presbyterian :—“ Mr. H. Hussey,
editor of the Australian Journal of Prophecy, lec-
tured last week on the * Millennial Kingdom of Christ.’
Mr. H. expects the personal reign of Christ on earth
for a thousand years.” Now, we had never before
heard of the Australian Journal of Prophecy, so we
suppose that it hasn’t a very large circulation, and that
the editor wouldn’t mind taking another appointment.
Anyhow, we want a good prophet on our staff, to round
up the winners of the Sydney Cup and the intercolonial
boat-race, so Mr. Hussey will please call at his earliest
convenience.
The Sporting Atkinson has lately attracted
some attention, and not a few “remarks” from the
‘sporting community of this city, by devoting nearly its
whole attention to “ Russia —her policy and object."
This subject to the boating man] is doubless of enthral,
ling interest, and the turfite, of course, will gloat upon
the page. Our sympathy, however, is with the solitary
angler What has this secluded bait-bobber to do with
the object of Enssia, except to object to it ? When he
looks at his paper, he wants to read, not about the black
eagle of Eussia, but the black bream of Port Jackson
—not about the mutterings of Gortschakoff, but of the
last catch: of flathead. II faut vans ranger, Thomas.
Never mind about politics: go in for schnapper or else
you’ll mullet.
Some of the New York Holt Howls are per-
fectly frantic in their appeals for money. “ A short
time ago one of them, the Christian Advocate,
apparently in desperation, held out a nearly sure
promise of eternal salvation for one full year’s sub-
scription, and asserted that a little boy who had saved
enough money by walking instead of travelling in
horse-cars to school to procure the paper in question
for his mother would almost certainly go to heaven.”
Dr. M’Guven takes an opposite course. He plainly
intimates that if you take the Standard you’ll go to
heaven, whereas if you take the Freeman you’ll go to
“ That land that is hotter than this.
Where never a collar will stand.
Where the people all bubble and hiss—
You’ll go to that beautiful land!
John Cleeland, the popular Melbourne sports-
man, and owner of the horse Wollombi, has retired
from business, and the famous Melbourne hostelrie
‘‘The Albion” has passed into other hands. The
Herald says;—“ Mr. Call, P.M., in sanctioning the
transfer of the license on Monday, paid Mr. Cleeland a
high but deserved compliment for the manner in which
the Albion had been conducted during the nearly
quarter of a century that gentleman had been land-
lord." This praise is by no means undeserved, since
John was the very model of a boniface—in stature,
appearance, manner —tout le tremblement. He was a
man who was very generally liked, and so was his
“ Saserac.” The former has gone—the latter possibly
remains; yet the Albion without Cleeland will resemble
Hamlet with the title role left out, and the property
man doubling the king and first grave-digger.
Spiritualism has lately received some nasty
knocks. In the first place it has been proved that the
“ denomination ” is so poor that it can’t support a paper
—and Cyril’s Freethottght was a capital one of its
kind —and in the second, the disclosures which are con-
tinually appearing in the public press respecting the
doings of mediums, are calculated to completely extin-
guish the now feeble spiritualistic spark that glimmers
in the colonies. In the Melbourne Herald, in the
Lament will case, we read the most astonishing details
respecting magnetic influence being brought to bear in
order to secure enormous sums of money. We read of
a man being alienated from his relations, and induced,
on the evidence of unimpeachable witnessess, to make a
will leaving his own kith and kin practically penniless.
The details are extraordinary—so extraordinary that in
Melbourne, at any rate, spiritualism has almost re-
ceived its death-blow, tl en Stait temps.
The Evening Eeport, with its general ac-
curacy, has credited Mr. Garrard, the Balmain Demos-
thenes, with Mr. Garratt’s motibn—“ That so much of
the standing orders be suspended as would preclude
the passing through all its stages in one day of a bill to
validate a license purported to be granted under the
Sale of Liquors Licensing Act of 1862 to Patrick Di-
mond on the 11th day of June, 1880, and all sales made
by him by virtue thereof." This, of course, mnst he
highly gratifying to the feelings of Mr. Garrard, who is
a rabid Good Templar—never having, in his life, swal.
lowed anything stronger than the political doctrines of
Mr. Angus Cameron. While touching upon the Dimond
case, one may take occasion to remark that the whole
affair' betrays evidence ef how ludicrously priest-ridden
are some people, and what ridiculous bunglers are others.
Dr. M'Guven has scored a win this time.itistrne; and
therefore, like the man in the play can “laugh con-
sumedly.” Now, however, that the Premier is bossed
by the Holt Howl, the thing to be considered is whose
is the next head that the doctor will require on a
charger. Were we in the position of the editor of the
Witness we should feel far from comfortable. We
know, though, that mighty M'Guven loves us dearly;
and so we are happy.
Paste-slapper of the Inverell Bag is very
angry with us—almost as angry as he was with his
rival editor, when that gentleman accused him (with
what pretensions to truth we know not) of “ carrying a
skunk in his carpet bag.” The little paper says : —“ The
editor of the Sydney Bulletin accuses us of having
been under the influence of soda and brandy when we
wrote a certain paragraph.” Well if we said this we
meant it in joke, for we are aware that no one in In-
verellwould “shout” for Mr. B. unless the alterna-
tive were an instant and agonizing death, and we should
never have been so mad as to indicate that Mr. B. would
have been so extravagant as to pay for the liquor him-
self. As, however, the gentleman has reminded us that
his little fly trap still lingers, we will take the oppor-
tunity of entreating him to order another second-hand
mangle in which to machine it, and to hang up a new
pepper-castor to punctuate the paper. The Inverell
Rag is really such small fry, that we are afraid this
item will scarcely be of interest to the majority of our
readers ; we have no doubt, though, that the Inverell
people in general and the editor more particularly will
peruse the par with some interest. The Inverell public
mnst, indeed, be composed of good-natured persons if
it will support, month after month, a paper which has
all the appearance of having been written by a Pata-
gonian, and printed by a lunatic on a gunny-bag.
We are always having our pleasant illusions
shattered. Just as we were living in the calm and
pleasant belief that there existed at least one Austra-
lian author who had wealth at his command, lo! the
murky cloud of disillusion descends upon us. Writing
in the Leader, Marcus Clarke, who, he himself admits,
is the most successful of the antipodean writers, has
the following ominous par.:—“ Business is cut very fine
just now, and the tactics which were suitable to the
old days of banking monopoly are quite out of date.
My own manager—one of the haughtiest officials, who
has never been known to smile or bend his back —may
be compelled to bite the dust [A-ha-aa!!] before long ;
and in that hope I live and bear with the curt notes—
the greater portion of them printed—with which he so
frequently favors me.” Dear, oh, dear! And all the
time we were picturing Marcus reclining upon a marble
terrace with fountains playing before him and Angora
kittens playing behind him—the illustrious author him-
self attired in a flowered cashmere dressing-gown, a
pink-silk skull-cap with a balloon tassel, and smoking
a half-mile hookah, encrusted with myriads of priceless
brilliants. And now what do we learn ? Why that, in
all probability, the illustrious author of “ His Natural
Life” experiences lively satisfaction when keg-butter is
down to three pence a pound, and considers it a stroke
of luck when the milk-man exhibits a “free-hand” with
his matutinal penn’orth. It’s disheartening.
A Maitland doctor had a turkey, which was the
pride and pet of his household, and which was being
carefully nurtured that it might eventually grace the
festive board of Galen. Not far off there lived several
banking bachelors, who decided on giving a spread, at
which the turkey aforesaid should figure as the pjepe
de resistance. In the dead of night they accordingly
visited the doctor’s hen-roost—the result being that the
turkey consented to go home with them. The feast
was spread ; the doctor, who was a guest, gaily took
his seat, and was asked, on the score of his anatomical
ability, to carve the turkey. “ Splendid bird,” he ob-
served, as he passed the knife across the breast. Then
he was asked to relate an old reminiscence of which he
was the hero—to tell how he once clandestinely
annexed a cask of wine, which had been sent to an
intimate friend of his—the P.M. of a northern town.
Some one asked if that wasn’t stealing. “ Stealing, my
dear fellow !’’ replied iEsculapius; “it was only a
practical joke.” It wasn’t until next day, when the
doctor was deluged with telegrams and letters asking
for “ more turkey," that he appreciated the situation.
However, he aftewards confessed that, having been at
the bankers’ house the day before the feast and seen the
splendid bird hanging up outside, he was at the time
sorely tempted to carry it from its resting place to his
buggy, and was only restrained from so doing by the
facts that (1) he had attended Sunday-school when
young, and (2) that the servant was looking.
Mr. Withers, M.L.A., is now one gigantic
smile. His dream is at last realised, and Sydney
possesses a fish company. The idea, which originated
with the genial alderman, is a capital one in a double
sense, Mr. Withers being the chief promoter,
and, we believe, principal shareholder. We went over
the premises the other day, and enjoyed ourselves
greatly. In the crabs we took quite an interest, and
our admiration for the cray-flsh knew no bounds. The
freezing-room is great fun. The place is as cold as a
“ cockatoo shanty," and every facility is afforded for
banging the top of one’s bell-topper against the ice-
encrusted pipes. All the fish were as hard as
nails, most of them having their tails curled round, as
in protest against the Arctic treatment to which they
were subjected. The manager is Mr. Huntley, and as
he knows rather more about fish than Neptune, we
reckon he will make the concern hum like a metal
top on a cheese-plate. Poultry is also to be had there
already dressed and frozen, and the way the Hite of
Sydney were howling for chickens was “a caution.”
There is a pretty little fountain in the shop, in the
basin of which are gold-fish and a collection of shells
that would delight the heart of Dick Thatcher. This
fountain, we believe, is a little monument erected by
the other directors in recognition of Mr. Withers’
efforts on behalf of the Kenny Hill scheme. It is a
good idea, for when reclining in view of the pretty jet
d’eau, he can console himself when jostled by the
customers for the failure of one scheme by the success
of another.
The Auckland Observer, though written, as
it says, on our lines, cannot geton without abuse. Inare-
oent number of our contemporary we find the following
par:—“ Like most people, we have always thought Mr.
W. J. Hurst a preposterously conceited imbecile, but we
were scarcely prepared to see his vulgar blatancy carry
him to the lengths it did at the Police Court the other
day. Who, we should like to know, is Mr. W. J. Hurst
that he dares to lay down the law on free-thought and
blackguard a man in open court because his conscience
forbids him to take an oath. Things must be coming
to a pretty pass when boobies of this calibre are
allowed to sit on the bench to dispense law, and the
sooner the J.P. roll is purged—and well purged too —
the better it will be.” Now this style of thing, though
decidedly forcible, is not clever, and though we have
not the faintest idea as to the merits of the case, we
deprecate this kind of writing because, you know, abuse
is ungentlemanly. When, however, the Observer goes
in for humour, the subjects of it don’t seem very well
pleased, if we are to judge from a letter which is pub-
lished in the same issue:—“ Chambers, 42 Queen street,
15th March, 1881. Sir,—l have had my attention called
to a notice of me which appears in the Observer of the
12th instant, in which I consider that my character has
been attacked in a most unwarrantable manner. Acting
under the advice of friends, in whose judgment I place
confidence, I now demand from you an immediate ex-
planation in writing, in language which will admit of
no dubiety, what you meant when you presumed to
make the statement ‘ I can command favors from ladies
which many a younger man pines for in vain.’ ” To this
fiery epistle the Observer replies as under; —“As for
withdrawing or retracting the sentence of which Mr.
Mowbray complains, we distinctly decline to do any-
thing of the kind. The words will not bear the
construction he and his friends have put on them, and
we defy him to prove a libel. Let him go to _ his
solicitor and be—blessed.” This leads us to believe
that things will be lively in Auckland shortly ; and also
we incline to the conclusion that though the Observer
may be deficient in humour it has any amount of pluck.
MR. D. HOLBOEOW, J.P.


The Referee.
Sportinp and Athletic Mems.
Silty Victorian sovereigns for Laycock !
The Moore Park cricketers are weather-proof.
Mr. C. C. Skarratt is going to England shortly.
Nancy Lee was thrown in for the two events at
earcoar.
The training tracks at Hawkesbnry are highly
praised by the “ talent.” 8 7
Eockhampton sends a crew to the Maryborough
regatta on Queen’s Birthday.
The gates for the Hawkesbnry race meeting
were sold on Saturday for £264.
Mr. T. P. Fenner has resigned the secretaryship
of the Victorian Amateur Turf Club.
The winter meeting of the Bendigo Jockey Club
is to be held on Wednesday, 29th June.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club gave 355 sovs
as added money at the Caulfield meeting.
King ef the Valley, who cost Mr. Gibb, M.L.A..
of Victoria, £lOOO, has just died from cold.
A foot-race, for .£25 a-side, has been arranged
between Pedley and Quinlan, in Queensland.
The Victorian mile runner, O’Brien, is said to be
the beat long distance ped. this side of the line.
The South Australian Volunteer team won the
match with the Western Australian team by 108 points.
There are very poor sportsmen along the line
who pop at the flying pigeons doing a morning “gallop.”
The Commodore and Telephone steamers will
follow the Intercolonial Eight-oar race to-day (Satur-
day).
The drawing for S. J. Byrne’s Sydney Gold Cup
Sweep takes place at Brisbane on Monday, the 11th
instant.
It is anticipated that ,£lOOO will be collected for
Laycock. The lists will be finally closed on the 20th
instant.
The Victorian team who played at Adelaide
were entertained at the Town Hall by the Mayor of
the city.
-£3Bl 6s 6d was the return, after paying all ex-
penses, for a £5O share in the late| Australian Eleven
speculation.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club intend to hold
the closing-of-the-season demonstration at Athol on the
30th instant.
Mr. Long sympathises with those who have
made Gipsy Ceoper second favourite for the Hawkes-
bury Handicap.
A five-miles’ go-as-you-please race is one of the
items for Easter Monday at the G.U.O. Odd Fellows’
sports at Bathurst.
Cann, of Geelong, announces that he will walk
any pedestrian in the Australian colonies seven miles
for £5O or upwards.
A complimentary banquet is to be given to the
Victorian crew at the Exchange Hotel, Gresham-street,
this (Saturday) evening.
The Patrick’s Plains Jockey Club have issued
their annual programme for the 16th and 17th May. It
contains half-a-dozen handicaps.
Laycock presented to the Mayor of Adelaide the
identical colours under which he won the Hop Bitters
match, as well as Tricketfs colours.
Grand Flaneur, in Jones’s sweep, has been drawn
by a well-known professional sculler. Luck lurks about
the Woolloomooloo Bay boatsheds.
Palmer, of the Australian Eleven, goes to Ade-
laide as professional bowler for one of the leading
clubs. Murdoch remains in Sydney.
A successful concert was given, on Thursday
last, at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, in aid of the
funds of the Newcastle Cricket Club.
An Australian National Trotting Association
has been started in Victoria by a Comoany whose capital
is to be £5OOO, in 1000 shares of £5 each. * P
•A foot race for a handsome trophy will take
place this (Saturday) afternoon on the Association
ground, between two well-known amateurs.
M‘lndoe has not responded with commendable
alacrity to Corbett’s acceptance of his challenge to swim
for £5O and the championship of Australia.
The distance for the Caulfield Cup, won by Blue
Eibbon, was a mile and a quarter and 240 yards—a favour-
ite stretch which moat horses can compass.
A foot-race came off at Bigga on the 17th ult.
between G. Platt and Hailstone, for £2 aside; distance!
125 yards. Hailstone won easily by 7 yards.
The Echuca races did not come off. Says a local
sporting tradesman, “ The Berry Government and the
Exhibition have killed the town." That’s why.
The Grand National Steeplechase at the Liver-
pool Spring Meeting on Friday, March 25, was won by
Woodbrook,;Regal second, and Saunterer third.
Mr. J. E. Fairfax and Dr. Mackaller have been
appointed treasurers to a fund for the relief of the
widows and| children ef the late William and Thomas
Langford.
Speculation on the Hawkesbnry meeting has not
been brisk during the past week. Lord Burghley and
Gipsy Cooper have been heavily backed for the Autumn
Handicap.
The club trophies won by the Gemini and
Adelphi were presented to the winners at the monthly
meeting of the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club on Friday
evemng last. J
On Wednesday last Mr. W. Small, of Swan
Y re ®s> Clarence District, suffered heavy loss by the
death of his imported draught stallion. Royal Lincoln,
trom strangles.
A largely-signed petition has been forwarded to
the Minister for Lands by the inhabitants of Carcoar
tor the purpose of getting a grant to purchase the
present racecourse.
The hon. treasurer of the M.E.C. has passed an
account for three dozen new towels, but they have not
yet appeared in the dressing-room. Perhaps the com-
nuttee can explain.
Nash, the owner of the hurdle racer, Darby
me Blast, writes an able letter to the Maitland Mek-
toßT on the subject of the encouragement in N.S.W. of
cross-country racing.
, . Tb ® Ingest scores made in the Australian
motet held this season are by G. H. Bailev fTas.
(Tictoll “ l ’ “ aslls “
South Australian cricket has vastly improved
ill® not a cas e of “ veni, vidi, vici ” with Victorian
;™ s jmw-a-days, though the present is not a good re-
presentative Victorian eleven.
IJ 0 results of the first day of Tankerooka
naces are as follow Maiden Plate, Nyanda 1, Ed-
bk?v S i° n 2 ' Moselle 3 - Hurdle Race, Mr, Naylor’s
Turc oola 2. Tankerooka Handicap,
Lyanda 1, Edmondston 2, Joshua 3. P
m 3 9 Ro “ a (Q-> Athletic Sports Club hold a
na e t„ ® on Easter Monday, but in the programme sent
anvJ 6 + Becr o. tar y. Mr. S. Tolano, we do not notice
Sydney 60 * 8 whlcll 3 hould tempt competitors from
N ’ e 'T cast l e Jockey Club have issued the
afis m ° DS °/ tbeir Maiden Plate for May. The Club
of Tt™ SOVB to , a , pwee P of 5 sovs (for starters) ; winners
Penalties ear '° d Stakes admitted, under 31b. and 51b,
re l ußa °f to o Meredith (Vic.) races are as
<SR~£ ,uden Plate . : Minto 1, Montrose 2. Mere-
HnrHut> dlca i > U Terrific L Cracksman 2, Handicap
The two Lords, Burghley and Liagar, have been
doing good work at Eandwick The stable are taking
fancy prizes about Lisgar for the Hawkesbury Guineas
and as it is thought that he may prove the better
horse when the day comes.
A generai raeeting of the Queensland
Turf Club is fixed for April 7 to consider the position of
the club, which some subscribers regard as unsatisfac-
tory- An attempt will probably be mide to reduce the
secretary s salary considerably. Poor Dawbara!
At last Tumnt raoes, all the large prizes
amounting to £l2O, were won by one owner-an indil
vidual, by the way, who though by no means opulent,
always runs his horses to win, and almost invariably
receives at the hands of Fortune surprising’ favors.
The long-tfUhed-of match between two local
I*3d3, Teddy Hanson and A. Reid, takes place this
(Saturday) afternoon, on the military road. North
Shore. Hanson is being trained by A. Merchant, a
mile runner, and Eeid by W. Hand, a sprinter of repute.
Mr. R. W. Cameron, one of the leading sports-
men of America, is now sojourning in Melbourne. He
imported to America the great sire Leamington, who is
the sire of the famous American horse Parole, and the
grandsire of the Australian two-year-old crack New
minster. *
Mr. E. E. Jones entertained some of his sporting
friends, to the number of 25 or 30, at an excursion up
the Parramatta Elver, on last Friday afternoon—during
which an opportunity presented itself of seeing the
Victorian Eight at practice. A very pleasant afternoon
was spent.
The results of the Prospect races are as follow :
—Flymg Handicap—Speculation, 1 ; King Cole, 2 • Lady
\ G o ll0 a a^- Ha “dicap-Calima, 1; Quail, 2*
Pm«nflef oS w er ’ii : Sel walk over for Grace.
Prospect Handicap-King Cole, 1; Margaret. 2: Fire-
bell, 3. Hack Sace, Mary Ann, 1.
9hfflP o ui Ze ' fi^o^ t 0 plac ® at aeslo y Wood, near
Shefiield, on 29th January, between two local pugilists
named Joseph Goodwin and Walter Ward. Ten rounds
were fought when Goodwin collapsed under a tremen-
dous blow on the forehead, and Ward was declared the
victor. Both men were severely punished.
Boyle is the third member of the Australian
Eleven who has distinguished himself since its disband-
meat. He made 103 in the first innings in the match
Victona v. South Australians Alexander 128. and
ought 205, not out, are the others referred to: the
scores were made in a club match in Victoria.
The fieldsmen are generally ba lly placed in the
Moore Park matches. A batsman who does not cut
does not require a point or cover-point. Those men,
placed in the slips, might secure some of the numerous
chances that are given, owing to the nature of the
bumpy ground and the insecurity of forward play
thereon. * J
_ aTld Roberts are playing together in India.
Roberts wins most games ; he won a 750 game by 118
points, a 1000 up by 217, 500 up with the spot stroke
barred by 101 points, and four out of five games in a
pyramid match. The Rajah*. who are fond of billiards,
are hiving their heads turned by the phenomenal play
of the champions. 1 J
A race is being arranged in Saratoga between
James Eiley and George Hosmer, neither of whom, it is
reported, did himself justice in the late English aquatic
carnival, owing to the excessive rigour of the climate
America does not add fresh laurels to her faculty for
invention by adopting Australia’s excuse for her
vanquished heroes.
Menser - of Parramatta, has inst
concluded his consultation on the Cup, with most satis-
factory results, and has now another under way for the
great event of the Parramatta meeting. Mr. Menser
has secured the confidence of the public in these under-
takings—and confidence in these speculations is, as we
all know, everything. *
The rain stopped the important cricket matches
on Saturday. The matches on Moore Park were
persistently persevered with, notwithstanding the
showers that prevailed during the afternoon. A most
interestmg match between juvenile clubs for ninepenoe
a bat (very reprehensible, by the way), was watched by
the unemployed talent. *
A foot-race was run off at Homebush, on Satnr-
G - Stettler and A. Auleyark—l2s
yards, for £5O a-side. Auleyark was favourite. A false
start was made, owing to the cap snipping, both men
runmng the race out, Stettler winning by three yards,
it being declared no start, the race was run over again
and Auleyark won easily. & ’
Randvfncb, the Sydney horse, who won the
Wanganui Stakes Handicap of 250 sovs., two miles
).;™ e 3 “V »*B-. if an elder brother of Gipsy Cooper
The odds against him were 4 to 1, though the
totahsator, which is allowed in New Zealand, showed a
total of 321 tickets, 65 of whom were on the winner
being equal to about 8 to 1.
There is little or no betting on the eight-oar
race which takes place this week—a healthy fact that
should highly reccommend these contests to the favour,
able notice of the public. It is desirable that an
amateur contest, closely assimilating to that between
the great Universities of England, should be conducted
with the confidence of the public.
en^ere d against Haidee, the winner
of the Queen’s Plate at Albury races, on the score of her
having won the Two-year-old Stakes at Talangatta.
The protest was upheld, the stewards being of opinion
that Messrs Patou Brothers had entered Haidee under
the belief that a winner of a two-year-old stake was
entitled to compete in a maiden plate.
The results of the Caulfield Amateur Race Club
meeting, which took place on Saturday, are as follow •
-Hurdles: Jack Tar I, Discount 2, Union Jack 3.
Nursery Handicap .-BilliHa 1. Venture 2, Cantata 3.
Cup: Blue Ribbon L Eoblie Burns 2, Aspen 3. Steeple-
chase : Fau-l.e 1 Panjee 2. Qlowlight 3. Corinthian
l, Wizard 2, Bunyip 3. Selling Race :
• Duncan, n °t Dunedin, as was stated in onr last
issue, has accepted Albert White’s challenge to row for
the championship of New Zealand. Hearne, of Wel-
lington, issuing to row White, but he is unable to
I?: 1S i e wM e -f tak T? of £2OO re q air ed by White. He suggests
tlmt White, Duncan and himself should each deposit
£5O, and pull in Wellington Harbour for the stake and
championship.
The results of the Kensington Park March
meeting are as follow :-HandicapHurdle Race: Young
Fireworks 1, Lilydale 2, Conservative 3. Selling Hurdle
Race, for ponies : Jessy 1, Dandy and Bapta dead-heat
to-second place. Handicap for Galloways : Commodore
Nutt 1, Sauna 2 Van Tromp 3. Selling Race : Lilydale
1, Toots 2, Wantagi 3. March Handicap : Langulac 1,
Moyart 2, Mariner 3. 8 *
The results of the Wyndham Racing Club
mating are as follow:-Novel Nursery Handicap:
Biihlla 1, Venture 2, Fancy Free 3. Manibourin
Handicap: Morning Star 1, ABC 2, Little Queen 3.
Handicap Hurdle Race: Tommy Dodd 1, Novice 2.
Lochiel 3. Galloway Handicap: Flying Bee I, Darkie
2, Commodore Nutt 3. Grand Stand Handicap • Lan-
gulac 1, Josephine 2.
Langham and Dillon are at last matched to
play for the handball championship of New South
Wales and £lOO aside. The match will be for the first
five 21 s, to be played at the Rising Sun ball-court. Mr
Gieeson, of Auckland, New Zealand, has offered to back
two New Zealand players against any two of New South
Wales, for any part of £5OO, and will also allow expenses
for the match to take place in New Zealand.
The following are the latest weights of the
Eight-oar crews:—New South Wales- Bro« list •
Gaden, Hst. 131 b.; Arthur, 12st. 31b; Analow, list
10!b.; Brett, list. 91b.; Salmond, 13st.; Finlayson,
12st.; Lord list. 71b.; total, 96st. Victorian : J
i?K g R S ’A n ; £ llb - J-L. Irvine, list.
11b.; R. D. Booth, 12st.; H. Hopkins, 13st. 41b.; W. H.
St!Ttofiu&. ii - Brown ’ llBt - 81b - ; G - E - Upward *
The Totalisator is causing bother in South Aus-
tralia. It upset the betting at the Northern Jockey Club
meeting. The bookmakers were compelled to shorten
tneir odds, and the owners could not get anything at a
good price. The bookmakers connected with the Vic-
torian subscription-room have entered into a compact
not to bet on any event of the Adelaide Club unless the
Xotahsator w abolished. In fact, their ;occupation is
gone in South Australia.
On receiving the news that Mason Brothers had
offered £3OO as a Walker's Whisky Trophy for a
i scaLLi ng match, Michael Rush sent along the following
characteristic wire from the Clarence :—“ Shall be de-
lighted to compete for the Whisky prize. If haycock
and others are willing would throw in £5O or £lOO each
for a sweep, to be added. Must canvass for English,
Irish, and Scotch to drink nothing in the spirit line
during the incoming winter but Walker's whisky.”
The Victorian Bowling Association has selected
the following team to play against New South Wales in
Sydney:—Messrs. Smith, Mair, Falconer, Moss,
Burton, Forbes, Mountain, Aitken, Alcock, Fisher,
Martin, Butler, Grayson, Buckhurst, Shaw, Fraser,
with Holden as 17th man.
Mr. S. Cleave secured the trophy presented by
the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society. The neat thing to
occupy the attention of pigeon-flyers is a valuable silver
trophy presented by Mr. J. Kellick, of Moore Park.
The races for this trophy will be from the following
places and on the following dates :—Douglas Park, 45
miles, on the 16th April; Moss Vale, 86 miles, on the
7th May; and Marulan, 114 miles, on the 28th May.
There are some twenty odd competitors entered, and
good sport may be anticipated.
Following are the results of the Bungendore
races, contested on Thursday and Friday week First
day—Maiden Plate : Dundreary 1, Archoress 2. Hack
Race: Victor 1, Temptation 2. Town Plate: Dun-
dreary 1, Reckless 2. Prince of Wales Stakes : Ariel 1
Starhne 2. Second day—Substitute Handicap, 2 miles :
Reckless 1, Kexnbla 2. Ladies* Purse, once round:
Reckless 1, Kembla 2. Publicans' Purse, 14 mile •
Dundreary walked over. Forced Handicap, 1 mile and
a distance.- Tim Victor 1, Dundreary 2.
The monthly prize shooting of the Torpedo Bifle
a ?J* eld , on Saturday, 2nd inst. Seven shots at
000 and 600 yards. Corporal Hammond took first prize
scoring 64 points, including a handicap of 4. Captain
J?l^cr,' >who was at scratch, made 54 points, securing
third prize. After the prize-shooting, a sweepstakes
was competed for amongst the members, the conditions
being five shots each at 600 yards, and was won by
Captain Walker, with 22 out of a possible 25. Private
lodges tied with, this score, but was beaten in shooting
for Popularity the irrepressible
D. C. F. Moodie has entered himself in the six days’
go-as-you-please tournament in Adelaide. The follow-
mg are the competitorsAbley, Ballarat -DCF
Moodie, South Australia; Baker, New South "Wales
champion ; Edwards, Australian champion ; Swan New
Zealand champion: J. Campbell, J. Williams, and T
Seymour, New South Wales; W. Byrne, Melbourne!
J. Malcolm, J. Cotton, New Zealand. We shall, there-
fore, expect after four days to see Moodie in the van-
driven home in it!
The results of the Carcoar race meeting are as
VV°*V~; FirBt Plate: Unknown?, Little
John 2, Repeals Prince of Wales’Stakes : Masque 1,
Iron Duke 2, Rosebud 3. Publicans’ Purse : Nancy Lee
was the only starter Flying Handicap: Lottie 1,
Reckless 2. Second day.—Ladies* Purse: Lottie 1
Rosebud 2, Basco 3. Town Plate : Nancy Lee was the
only starter. Forced Handicap: Little John 1, Un-
known 2, Eva 3. Members’ Purse: Little John 1.
Crucker 2, Reckless 3. Hack Selling Race: Eva 1,
Paddy-go-Easy 2, Mendacious 3.
The results of the St. Patrick’s Day sports at
Gympie are as follow;— Boys under 12 Race, 75 yards
J. Houngan 1 Boys under 15, 100 yards, T. Hourigan
1. Race for AU-comers, 200 yards. Murphy 1, M’Donald
2. Running High Jump, W. Still 1,4 ft lOin. First
event of Grand Handicap, 300 yards, Mahoney 1, Brad-
ford 2 M Donald 6 Cornish Wrestling, F Mortimer
I, J. Shanahan 2, M. Mortimers. The prize takers in
this event are all natives, none of the Cornish or Devon
wrestlers in the district caring to tackle them; they
were trained by Walter Ratcliff, a Devonshire wrestler.
Boys vaulting ™th pole. Kilde 1, Bft. lin. Second
event of Grand Handicap, 150 yards, Bradford 1, Ma-
honey 2, Murphy 3. Hop. Step, and Jump. F. Mor-
timer 1,37 ft. lin.
Several of the pupils and friends of Professor
J. Meenan, the well-known athlete, have tendered him
a complimentary benefit, which is to take place on
i riday evening at the rooms at the corner of Sussex
and Liverpool streets. Professors Miller. D’Harcourt.
and Adam West (not the trap-door man) will assist, and
the wind-up is to be between the benefieiare and Larry
f , ( ? le y-. T he above names should prove an additional
attraction to the popularity of Mr. Meenan, whose
obliging and gentlemanly demeanour and general
bonhomie should secure a bumper house for him. Feats
with the single stick, sword, dumb bells, clubs, and
gloves comprise the evening’s entertainment, and with
the talent assembled the exhibition should be first-class
and worth the patronage of lovers of athletics.
Messrs. Mason Brothers, the well-known Sydney
firm, have offered the sum of £3OO to be given as prizes
for &n aquatic contest for all-comers in outriggers on
r? e J ac^s on. The prize is to be termed
the “Walker Whisky Trophy," and they suggest that
Bh ? a W be three prizes, the first to consist of
£2OO, and the second and third as may hereafter be
decided. Mr. P. J. Clark has been entrusted with the
management of the affair, and has received a cheque
for the sum above mentioned from Messrs, Mason
Brothers. He intends to form at once a committee to
make all necessary arrangements. This liberal and
spirited offer should produce numerous entries, and
as doubtless Laycock will enter it will be the means of
testing the merits of Rush. Pearce, Messenger, and
others against those of the great oarsman just returned
from England.
A slight misunderstanding has, during the last
few days, arisen between the gentleman who by
common consent is the handsomest of the NSW
crew, and his comrades; and. as usual, there’s’“a
woman at the bottom of it.” It occurred in this way.
The oarsman referred to said he wanted to go np the
line for a day or so on very urgent business. He
was accorded the desired leave; but it was not long
before the crew found, to their horror and surprise
that he d ‘ been and gone and got married." This is a
new way of training for a boat-race. The offender has
now been fully forgiven on condition that he doesn't
transgress in a similar manner on the occasion of the
next contest. However, though this little trouble has
been settled so far as the present crew are concerned, it
18 intended to submit the matter to the Association
with a view to hiving it made a condition of selection
in future that no oarsman shall marry and train at the
same time.
Footscray, who hold
the Clarke Challenge Cup, and have never yet been
beaten, and who, it will be remembered, were able
to run away from our last Eight in practice on the
saltwater River, are said to have a curious style of
j£ are “ manual labour men,** and,
allowed to row as amateurs in Victoria, are not
eligible to compete under the rules of the New
South Wales Rowing Association. It is quite a
common thing for one of them, when a little late for
practice, to rush down to the landing stage, pull off bis
coat and boots, knock the ashes out of his pipe, and
wade in at the rate of 52 per minute—which speed
they kept up for fully half-a-mile in last race for the
Clarke Cup. Nothing appears to tire them, and their
motto seems to be “ Strength, not style.” They have
t u e ? la , rke trophy twice without the slightest
difficulty, but an attempt will, we believe, be made next
JSfJ b J, *L al r ba \m (an English University man who
stroked the Victorian Eight in the first Intercolonial
race) to get together a powerful and strictly amateur
crew with a view to lowering their colours.
The annual report of Tattersall’s Club should
prove highly satisfactory to the members. A committee
room suitably furnished has been added to the club
premises, and a splendid collection of sporting works
has been provided. The financial position of the Club
is in a sound and prosperous condition, there being the
°J interest at fixed deposit in the Bank of
New South Wales. The subscriptions during the year
fr ° m £m in 1879 to over £558 in 1830
and !881. The race meetings held under the auspices
of the Club have, as of old, been most successful, and'
the increased value of the prizes offered have tended to
make Tattersall s Club meetings the most successful
gatherings in the colony. There have been fewer cases
of disputed bets for decision than in any previous year
for some very considerable time. The following gentle-
men were elected for office-bearers for the ensuing
season Mr. J. B. Olliffe; Treasurer, Mr!
G. Kiss ; Auditors, Messrs. S. Ackman and A. L. Park •
Committee, W. Dargin, W. Forrester, g!
Curtis, H. Pnnce, W. Gannon, J. Daly, and G. Adams.
The Albury annual races eame off on Thursday
and Friday, the 31st March and Ist April. The
threatening weather interfered considerably with the
attendance on the first day, but on the second day, the
weather being fine, there was a great improvement.
The races generally were well contested—the following
th ® day. Maiden Plate, 1} miles:
4™ e I, i )hTer 2. Mulhsran 3 ; Handicap Hurdle Race,
: Rosewood 1 Mariner 2; Alhury Racing Club
Sw'* 18 , OV9 -. H miles and a distance: Mafaina 1,
Eueen 2. Albyn 3 j a grand race; time, 3m. 7.13. Selling
V ou “^ hl R° se 2, Aristocrat 3.
Telegraph States, i mile : Viking 1. Lexicon 2, Victory 3.
belling Hack Race, once round .- Fleur de Lia 1. Bowl.
S o CO ?r (l . da ? : ~Ladies’ Purse : Jokes 1. Lord
of Clyde 2, Valentine 3. Grand Stand Handicap:
Albyn 1, Marama2,Eileen 3. Steeplechase: Count was
tne only one of the three starters to come past the post.
* H “ d . lca y : lexicon 1, Jokes 2. Viking 3. Prince
of Wales Stakes: Mountain Ro el. Laycock 2, Nutmeg
of Clyde S tlon Sfcakes : Mariner I» GHenorgan 2, Lord
The dispute between the Mercantile and Glebe
Rowing Clubs has now been finally settled by the Rowing
Association, to whom it was referred for decision,
ihe prizes are to be handed over to the Mercantile Club
T “ e question was after all a technical one, the
tact of a foul having occurred not being disputed, but
i+n a/ 16 matmer which the umpire gave his verdict,
aver *ed that he decided without being
appealed to, and further that the appeal was not in
writing. The association adjudicated as follows:
After mature consideration and examination of
witnesses, as well as perusal of various documents
submitted, we are unanimously of opinion that no
valid reason has been shown why the decision of the
umpire should be reversed, even were such a course prac-
ticable, which we hold is not the case, as the latter clause
of Rule 10 clearly lays down in the most stringent
terms that the decision of the umpire is final and con-
clusive. If the umpire’s decision be irrefragable,
according to Rule 10, we scarcely see the necessity of
tne Association’s trouble in examining witnesses and
perusing documents submitted. Rule 10 settles the
matter beforehand.
The glove encounter at Newcastle between Pro-
fessor West and young Dutchey, for £lOO aside, fittingly
took place on the Ist April. Great efforts had been
made to give an air of importance to the combat, and,
as an additional attraction, it was stated that a magis-
trate would preside and several police officers
be present to see that there was no breach of the
iaw. The attendance was very large, the miners from
tke surrounding colleries mustering well. After
a few rounds, young Dutchey hit the Professor
amy, ana without sustaining* any injure, we
believe, the latter fell through a trap-door. The Pro-
lessor, of course couldn’t come again to time, so young
Hutchey was declared the winner. Then the fun com-
menced. The miners thought it a very nice affair, and
clamoured for the return of their money. Others cried
out it was the first of April. Neither young Dutchey nor
Professor West appeared on the scene to return thanks
for the liberal patronage bestowed on their entertain.
. Hl-natured people say the finale was arranged,
but this is evidently a Newcastle lie. P.S.—Libel ao-
pending against a Northern paper for impugning
Mr. West s honesty in the little affair.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY ONE OF Us.)
The Rev. W. H. Parkinson has left Ipswich for
Sydney.
XV A korso & ed near Port Douglas recently from
the effects of a stinging tree.
Rutter the Queensland Times* par. on
Angus Mackay’s appointment.
Martin Hogan has wonderfully improved during
his connection with Kelly’s company.
The new theatre which is being erected in
Brisbane is speedily approaching completion.
George Curtis is the Rockhampton agent for the
Trade Protective Institute of Sydney. The agencv is
in good hands. e J
Rutledge says he doesn t take up cruelty cases
for the sake of the fees; he does it “in the interests of
the brute creation.”
The Beatrice-Ogden troupe of “ 16 star artists”
open in Rockhampton on the 22nd in “ East Lynne ”
Enthusiastic reception.
Money must be, plentiful on the Hodgkinson
The Hodgkinson subscription to the Parnell Defence
Fund amounted to £ll3 13s.
Thirteen events set down for the July meeting-
of the Rockhampton Jockey Club, carrying prizes to
the amount of over 750 sovs.
The plant of the Free Press, Mackay has
been sold for £lBO. Mortgagee foreclosed: didn’t care
a rush for a free press, did’nt respect it.
x . Th ® Seagrave Company are to follow the Bea-
trice-Ogden troupe in Rockhampton. Rockhampton
play-goers are having a good time.
A new steam-boat company has been started in
Cairns. The A.S.N. and Companies were not
quite up to doing the Cairns tr®TS.
Dr. L. G. Thompson, late of Tasmania, has
arrived in Ipswich, and has entered upon his duties as
resident-doctor of the Ipswich Hospital
“ Saggitarius’ - Archer and Jack Living have
been appointed directors of the Central Meat Exnorfc
Company, of Lake’s Creek Works. Rockhampton. ,
Inglis was highly complimented for his render-
ing of the villain in “East Lynne” at Rockhampton.
The occupants of the back benches cursed him.
The Gympie sharebrokers are trying to work
the B^aha“eites up to a pitch something similar to that
of the Sydney people during the Hill End excitement.
An £? a Ma , who according to Morehead. 'is
“The Queenslander who discovered America ” is about
to occupy the editorial chair of the Town and Countrv
Journal. 1
The Bo wen School of Arts is to be opened on
Sunday. The hint might be taken with advantage bv
the management of a similar institution in an older
town we know.
The new question for legal candidature in
Brisbane : “ Supposing Ebenezor Thorn had been found
guilty in that larceny case, who would have had the
best right to the cow ?”
Railway cars used between Brisbane and the
Downs, are well supplied with newspapers—not for the
passengers to read, but to stuff in the windows to keen
the frames in their places.
The proprietor of a certain private house in
Br l sb “£ e * whereat persons meet to play billiards, cards,
and other httie games’ upon Sundays, is not yet under
the lash of the Evangelical Standard.
The new Brisbane Grammar School building
formally opened by Sir Arthur Kennedy on the
28th in the presence of a great number of persons
Proceedings comfnenced with a capital representation
of the play of “ Julius Caesar ” by the boys*
Price, of the Brisbane Waterworks Office tells
a good story of his collecting days. He surprised
pious old lady on his round one morning The old
lady was calling out, “Yes, Lord. I’m comin’-Fm
co nun . Price; ‘ Hadn t you better pay your water-
rate first, mum ?” He had to call again for those taxis.
, y, T p^ foilowing par. appears in a recent issue of
the Poet Denison Times without a leading article
~A^L t f t K lCk 0f j our old enem y having placed us hors de
combat, by rendering our good right hand useless pro
tem. must be our excuse for the present issue.” Wnat
couid it have been ? Couldn't have been :-oh. dear no
it couldn’t have been that. ’ °’
Tavares played “ Hamlet ” and “ Richard 111 ”
in Rockhampton, to admiring audiences. By the wav
he played Hamlet on another occasion, when his
Cnost got tight on him, and did not “come
on when he was wanted until Hamlet had promised
him a nip When he did come on the trouble was
to get out of his way, not to catch him. aS
“ Young Queenslander,” who does the sporting-
column in the Queensland Times, has chosen a verf
appropriate now, deplume, for “young” he is. decided]/
ThplJ led . hl K ?fi nd at tlppinl? for the Gatton races'
fl y -e even . ts on the programme, and he
wal t *^ t o e , W1 v ner ln any of them, which he says
was not so bad for him. 1


Tailors, Drapers, Sec.
COUNTRY ORDERS promptly despatched and
carefully executed. Send P.O. Order. Now open,
a choice selection of Fancy and General Drapery, in all
the Departments—New Dress Materials such as Pap-
laines. Serges, Cashmeres. Satin Cloths.
FIRST CLASS DRESSMAKING.
AUTUMN AND WINTER MILLINERY
Our own Manufactured Glove Registered.
2 Buttons 4 Buttons 6 Buttons
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
Basted 3s. • 4s 5s
Cut paper patterns, all garments, 9d to 2s.
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
6 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMO BEST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. SOU Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is,; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
87 Kino Street, Sydney (two doors from George-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Molbourne.
T
HE MISSES GIBB,
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Co.),
52 MARGARET STREET,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Three Doors from Mr J. Spencer, Dentist,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE.”
No. 12 PARK S iREET, SYDNEY.
Six door* from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are. always sent per return of poston
receipt of stamps or money order.
f( ]T IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
JL for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porinm on the Brick held Hill has “ No Rival," either
for Value, Variety, or Extent, of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRA SIGH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
Q.EORGE L. LINEKER,
TAILOR, & c.,.
3 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
FROM LONDON,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises as a FIRST-CLASS
TAILORING EST VBLIfcHMENT. My principle
will be to supply the best goods, workmanship, and
ag->od fit, at moderate prices, for cash.
Country orders will receive prompt attention.
TWEED SUITS, from £5 ss.
N.B.- 2 DOORS FROM GEORGE ST.
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 60s.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
27 KING STREET,
Where you can be fitted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern. to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Suita, to Order, 50s
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Bauuockurn Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order 50s
Trousers toOi ler Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16s 6d 16s 6d 16s 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Canadian Two d Trousers, to Order, 16s 6s
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s fid
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
N B. —Gentlemen should inspect this stock of choice
Scotch Suitings, as the above prices for Suits to Order at
50s are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address— .
127 KING STREET.
JSC
H
£
heS
&
V .
\
ifkX&k
&
V M
'• i ~ Krr - m fcA,'iiSECi
Tailors, Drapers, Sec.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362 George-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAY DURING THIS MONTH. '
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOE THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEGG
CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDRIS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMEEE
JER-EY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—We have opened 3
cases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
houses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2s lid, 3s 6d. 3s lid,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6a 61. 7s 6d. Extraor-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK, BLACK
BROCADES. BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLaCK SATIN OE LYON 23 to 2-1
inches wide, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6a lid, 7s 6d. These are new much
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
N AUCUNIU M, guaranteed fast black,
every yard stamped on back.
BLAi. K SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS. PLUSHES in
eveiy shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, Ac.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all d -script ions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation. Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling. Modeira W' rk, Lalies'
Cuffs, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
FROM DRESS, so that there will
be no deception after they are
washed. Ladies will nd our
Sheetings good value and andard
makes Prices: 72-inoh, torn lOd
to Is lid ; 80-inch Is to 2s 2d; 90-
inch, Is 6d to 2s 6d ; 100-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American Denison House,
& Hot-rocks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 3f long at all
prices. Coloured aLHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2i long. 3= 6d. 1 OILET
COVERS at all prices- and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT.—It has always
been our study to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of PIR9T-CL ASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
, every size, and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
42 a; 5 8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6dj
3-4 NAPKINS from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMASK DOYLEYS,
round or square, all prims. SLIP
DAMASK 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
ELt ACHED TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 61; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS all widths; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN. 40, 45, 54 inches
wide ; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12a 6d to 365, ac-
cord ng to size; BROWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS. GLA--S CLOTHS,
TEA CLOTHS, K.sIFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG
LING CLOTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
B
L A N K E T S.
BLANKETS.
“FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON"
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST V ALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE. FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied."
JjjJ ANNIX B E O T HE E S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COL ONY
FOE
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
'T
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall, im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
Business Announcements
[Legal.J
HOETEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHES
1 SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, STD-NET,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERT,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
MACLEOD,
POETEAIT PAINTEE,
__ 225 BOURKE STREET. WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
\T ICTOE I A VAENISH COMPANY
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT.
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room end Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, STDNET.
gANDEE LAZAEUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMEEICAN HAEDWAEE,
CHINA, GLASS, EAETHENWAEB,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERT,
STATIONEEY, CLOCKS, JEWELLEEY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
TORE STREET.
G. CHUECHWOOD
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
OP
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS,
GK
147 YORK STEEET.
AND S. PEEDDE
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
QHEAPEST AND
BEST GEOCEEIES
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
4
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Good- packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
PEEMEWAff, WRIGHT and CO.
(LIMITED).
Capital —£100,000, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1858.)
RAILWAY and GENERAL CARRIERS, CUSTOMS
and
SHIPPING AGENTS,
Hon. HENRY GUTHBERT? MX.C.
C W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson)
JOHN PERMEWAN, Esq. J.P. 1 M ■ Directors
JOHN E. WEIGH, Esq. ) managing xurectors.
Registered Office —121 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Sydney Office —King.street, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Branch Offices at
With Agencies at Adelaide. Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Bourke, Balranald. Booligal, Forbes,Parkes, Wilcannia,
Hillston, and M long.
Si dney, Ist February, 1881.
HOMASW E A E N E,
ENGINEER & IRONFOUNDER.
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND.
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
&e., &c.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY
Office and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STREET.
EPOT.IN SYDNEY.
NO. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS FREE t
mHE WONDERFUL WERT HEIM
-1 SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
very fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and tnmmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at I: UK OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine so'd by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purobase, altogether FREE
t)F COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for T 1 ME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OP CHAKGE. Price lists and
samples by post Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a WEKTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT. WITHOUT
INTEREST.
T H
E AUSTRALIAN
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
S
O
e
n/v
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
prac'ised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I. Hand Machine, £4
No. 2. —Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3 —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £ 7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
■S3* LOOK FOE THE NAME ! I!
IBjON AND BRASS BEDSTEA S
.Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters. Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets. Counterpanes,
■Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.
M ‘ C A L L ,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Enrl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.CM.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.G,
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
baud.
Awarded First Prize fer Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.


Hotels, Bee.
O lb
EXHIBITIO
PEINCE ALFRED
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODA [TON
Plunge and Shower Hatha
WINES and SPIRICS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. hil:
O
CC1DENTAL
WYNTAED SOU,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTJ
WM. TANNEK, Pro
(Late Club House Hot
HOTELS
Hotels, &<
mHB COMPAGNC
CAPE AND CATERING C
_i
The ladies* and gentlemen's EES 1
IS NOW OPI
The Company have secured t
Marriette, late chdf de cuisini
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinm
Three hours notice required for p
The spacious rooms of Messi
been greatly enlarged, re-deco
Every attention will be paid t
establishment.
SAMUEI
June 30,1880.
PALAoE
serve up in their hi
OYSTER S’iEWS
OYSTERS SCOEI
OYSTERS PRIE1
and
OYSTE IS NATUJ
Patrons of our Theatres and Ci
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposi
WEHLOW’S WOOLI
PARE AM ATI
SUPERIOR ACC0MM0DATI01
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the
moderate charges. First-class B
use of those who are fond of recrt
rjlO ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighl
and the Public gei
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW 1
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT VICTo;
la in the midst of all that is worth
Mountains. First-class accom
and gentlemen. Comfort, cle
combined with moderate chars
J. G. C O U S I
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE Ffi
78 & 80 CASTLEREA
Opposite Theatre
or
LEBA
MU
lilt ill
SB
Eii'-i
■-*' - '; ;
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOl
Hotels, &
aOBEET B U T C
(Late William '
WINE AND SPIRIT »
53+ GEORGE ST
OPPOSITE TOWN HAT
Cochtrt Orders Rbckivk P
I
ICE. I C ]
E
FROM FILTERS
StTPPLn.D IK ANT Q
AND AT REDUCE!
Direct from i
CITY ICE COMPAQ
WATERLO
Office— 3 WYNTAE
T
HE
GENUINE EAT
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by t
c
Manufactured
JOHANN MAEIi
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. ((
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Re
By appointment to His Roj
Prince of Wa
Prize Medals:—London, 1851: Ni
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (
• Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili
1876; and Capetown, 1877. i
not represented.) Sydney, 187
Notice. —The Public are canti
spurious IMITATIONS, fraud t
Colognes; and notice is hereby
Murks being duly registered, all
needed against to the full extent
JOHANN MA
WHOLESALE A
MESSES. EABONE, ]
3 WYNYARD SC
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING M
THE REALLY GOOD TI
SENTED TO
S3
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
«!?*£ worv^
The BEST ALE and tfTUI
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEI
MEECHANT
yirgoe, son^Tnd
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE I
t a ORJf.E 1
ORILg
Will
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should be carefully co-npa
are being imported into New £
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevi
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK
other brands, when they will fl:
least 10 per cent, in favour of
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,TNE
AGENTS.
C.
W
J.
(Late COLLINS &
SEATED WATERS, G:
and
CORDIAL MANUEL
438 HARRIS STEEJ
JgJ ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND A
strongly recommend the:
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to a:
much higher p
*24 GEORGE I
HAYMAEKI
DIPMATm-n rnA nn nr m .
The Name of M, MOSS & CO.
every Gheuuine B< ttle.
JUNIPER Ti
This celebrated Dutch Gin me
all storekee] era a d respectable
trial will pri ve it s perior to the
tured Gin now so la gelr eonsu
rd
rl
SB
m
9
Wholesale Agent—0 HA
2 BRIDGE STREET,
A
U,
Lxi
IT isnot the clearness or condit
Ale thai preserves this brai
aiation. Common bitter crude be<
but no other brand has mo same :
ter, the fulness on the palate, a
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. <


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession,]
Pomeroy goes to New Zealand
The Empsom family are at Cooma.
J. L. Hall’s benefit at Adelaide came off right.
At Tamworth, 8000 persons visited Cole’s big
show.
“ Tambour Major ” still draws crowded houses
in Melbourne.
Theatre Royal, Hobart, has been shut up again
for two weeks.
“ Mother and Son” had a very successful run
at the Bijou, Melbourne.
At latest dates the Haselmayers were still in
the Nelson (N.Z.) district.
“ Fatinitza,” at the Novelty, Melbourne, ran
successfully for a fortnight.
Lottie is not doing well in N.Z. At least, from
the papers it din-Napier so.
Ketten is treating with Saber Bros, to play in
Rockhampton. “ He vant a full guarantee.”
From an advertisement in another column it will
be seen that there is now a good public hall available in
Wellington.
Little Mattie and har father and mother played
at the Temperance Hall, Balmain, on Saturday night.
The weather was a damper.
Simonsen has been doing well at Napier,
although Miss Carrie Godfrey is laid up. Miss Martina
has been the draw as amina.
Herr Bandmann has once more informed the
world that he is “ the grandest actor in the universe."
Cela commence d devenir monotone.
Signor and Signora Coy, Miss Rosina Carandini,
and Madame Tasca, sang recently in Melbourne at a
very successful charitable concert.
Mr. W. Hoskins, as “ A Party by the name of
Johnson," was very successful in 11 The Lancashire
Lass,” at the Princess’s, Melbourne.
The Montague-Turner Opera Company, who
open at the Gaiety Theatre, Sydney, on Saturday, 11th
inst., left Melbourne by steamer on Wednesday last.
Subscriptions to the endowment fund of the
Dramatic and Musical Association, inaugurated at
Melbourne by Mr. George Coppin, are coming in very
slowly.
Carden opens at the Queen’s, Dunedin (N.Z.),
on the 15th. A good company goes down from here to
support him and Miss Marston Leigh. Dick Thatcher
has his agency.
Mlrabile dictu ! The educational authorities in
the “City of the Plains” declined, without thanks
even, the Herr’s offer to give the school children some
. hints on elocution.
Mdlle. Charbonnet gave a very charming
matinee at her residence. South Yarra, Melbourne, on
the 27th ultimo. The Marchioness of Normanby was
present. Mdlle, was to give a farewell concert to-day
(Thursday),
We are informed by Mr. South that since he
started in the patter song in the “ Pirates ” there has
been a run on the dictionaries at all the booksellers.
What the people want to fathom is the “ square of the
hypothenuse."
A company, consisting of Messrs. George
Gardner, Mat Kiley, Henry Bussell, and George Hard-
ing, were billed to open in their entertainment entitled
“ Ireland and America,” at the Old Court House, Wil-
oannia, commencing on Monday 28th ult.
The Pollard (Tasmanian) Juvenile “ Pinafore”
troupe, after a very successful season in Invercargill,
opened at the Queen’s, Dunedin, to a capital attend-
ance. The performers are nearly all members of the
Pollard family, who muster 21 at the meal-table.
George Darrell is, so the very latest advices tell
us, a “frost” in ’Frisco. The swells there say they
don’t care if they never see George or the Corpse back
from anywhere again. On his arrival, the “ Australian
author-actor ” was interviewed by the reporters, to
whom he said he had made a fortune in Australia by
his dramas. A man from the News Letter put the
question, “ How much ?” upon which the pride and
glory of these shores promptly invited him to take a
drink. As full of resources as ever, you see.
This is how “ East Lynne” was played at Tiaro,
Queensland, recently by Mr. Ogden and Miss Beatrice :
—“ The play was performed in 17 acts, the stage being
only 4 feet deep, affording no room for changes of
scenery. The only scene was a brilliant bush landscape,
in which bananas and ringbarked eucalypti figured
numerously. Lady Isabel carried her child on the
stage and laid him down to die at the foot of a gum
tree. Later she herself died under aclump of bananas
in distemper. Everybody said that the landscape was
a vast improvement on the unromantic bedroom scene,
and sincerely hoped the actress did not find the floor
damp.”
The Kelly Comic Opera Company (opened in
Brisbane on 27th March. For some time past the only
public entertainment in that city has been that provided
by the “ Salvation Army," which every Saturday even-
ing takes up a commanding position at the “ Bridge’s
Head" (vide Macaulay), and with its left flank resting
on a certain useful municipal building is formed up in
hollow square, with the standard-bearer (a sort of
colonial Long Tom Coffin in a white smock) carrying a
red rag on a hope-forsaken clothea-prop, and the band
consisting of a modern Miriam, with an eccentric
accordion, well in the centre. The chief |Sky Pilot is
an attractive female of some seventy odd summers, who
possesses sufficient lung power to run the machinery
of a steam-dredge and lift the Collaroy with the
exhaust.
We have to acknowledge with thanks about
25,000 marked Queensland papers from Mr. D’Orsay
Ogden aud Miss Beatrice, all of which contain flatter-
ing notices of their performances in Maryborough,
Bockhampton, etc. We are pleased to observe that
these genial artistes are successful in their venture up
North, aud we thank them heartily for favouring us
with the printed record of their dramatic progress. At
the same time, if they would have the kindness to blot
the liberally marked papers with which flhey so freely
favour us, it is possible that we should be able to gain
an additional insight into the critical opinions on their
performances of the Northern literati. “ Oliver Twist,”
“Led Astray,” and “East Lynne," seem to be the
general bill of fare, although on Saturday nights pieces
are produced whose very names cause one’s soul to
quiver, and one’s blood to curdle,
Sara Bernhardt, stung by the fierce denuncia-
tions of the American clergy, has rounded on them in
this style : —“ A great many occupants of pulpits are
simply showmen. What, for instance, is the essential
difference between the calling of an actress like myself
and that of the mountebank, Talmage, always on the
scent for the freshest bit of scandal ? This but
important one, that I support myself by interpreting
to the people the grandest thoughts of the grandest
men who have ever lived, while he gains his living by
pouring into the public ear his own verbose nonsense;
but though in this sense his profession is certainly the
same as my own, I can scarcely consider him a bon
camarade. . . . Hereafter I propose to take the
matter into my own hands, and any person, be he
clergyman or otherwise, who attempts from this time
forth to blacken my reputation by proclaiming and cir-
culating false reports about my life, of which he knows
and can know nothing, will be summarily brought into
court to answer a criminal charge. To fasten the par-
ties in cases of this kind I have already engaged two
stenographers in two of the large cities, which I soon
shall visit professionally, to watch for the slightest
approach of slander coming from any pulpit."
Miss Slattery’s concert in Burrowa on St. Pat-
rick’s night, was, it would seem from the Souther*
Arcujs a very brilliant affair indeed. Our contempor-
ary positively exhauts itself in its endeavours to award
Miss Kate and her coadjutors sufficient kudos. The
Arguts says :—“ Little Shamrock ’’ was rendered in such
glowing form, that her audience seemed to be trans-
ported to some other sphere, so visible was the enthu-
siasm and delight marked in unmistakable character
upon the features of all. At the end of each verse, they
gave vent to their pent-up feelings by a very hearty ap-
planse. At the close of her song the stage was decora-
ted with a very choice collection of bouquets thrown
from different directions. [We are glad to find that at
Burrowa the "posies” don’t all come from the same
direction as they do in Sydney sometimes.] An impera-
tive encore was insisted on, and very gratuitously (sic)
ceded to." Then later —“ The Prima Donna (Miss Slat-
tery) then came forward to make herself the theme of
eulogy by her perfect rendition of ‘ I know that my
Redeemer liveth.’ Words are inadequate to describe
the finish rendered to this sublime piece by the gifted
cantatrice.” We can truly say with Moore: —
Music, oh how faint, how weak.
Language fades before thy spell.
Why should feeling ever speak
When thou canst breathe her soul so well r
Messrs. Hinchy (especially), Kelly, Fitzpatrick and
Hollingdale also came in for a humming notice. We
congratulate all concerned on their success, and heartily
trust they they may never meet with a more ill-natured
critic, than the representative of the Soothers Argus.
“ Herr Bandmann, the actor, has quarrelled with
the Christchurch Press, and has refused admission to
his hostile critics.” This paragraph, which we extract
from a New Zealand paper, is exceedingly instructive.
Mr. Bandmann is a very clever actor in some characters,
but a very indifferent one in others. There have, how-
ever, been critics unscrupulous enough to praise him in
every part he assumed; and now, behold, Daniel cannot
bear a little honest comment. And therefore he adopts
the manly procedure of “ refusing admission to his
hostile critics." There are many actors in Sydney and
elsewhere who strongly resemble Mr. Daniel Bandmann,
and who refuse admission (which means a free list) to
any but the slavish slip-spoilers who bespatter them
with praise. Or if the free list be not refused, such
degrading conditions are attached to it as to render its
acceptance an insult to the paper. It is a positive fact
that, on the representative of a certain journal
(which, if it has not the circulation of The Bulletin,
is at least a great decl older and more “ respectable,”)
is applying for admission at a certain theatre,
he was informed by the theatre people that
ticket would be granted, which would admit
the reporter of the paper on two days of the
week only, and that the notices of the theatre in
question were to always take precedence, and were to be
invariably favorable. We did not enquire if the ticket
was accepted under these circumstances, but we trust
it was not. Such impertinence, however, only de-
monstrates what contempt contemporary criticism
must have fallen into with theatricals when they
impose such humiliating restrictions upon newspapers
which seek gratuitous admission for their represen-
tatives. As we have before remarked, the freelist is in
any case an undesirable institution; but when it is
hampered by the ludicrous restrictions we have men-
tioned, it is high time that it was relegated to the “ far
away obscurity of forgetfulness.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It is curious, in this world, how many people
there are who mistake their vocations. We have, here
in Sydney, architects who think they can draw; bards
who imagine they can sing; journalists who labour
under the delusion that they can write; actors who lay
the soft unction to their souls that thf y can act; and
lawyers who confidently believe that they can plead.
We have also dramatic authors —save the mark!—in
whose heads some mischievous sprite has instilled a
notion that they can construct comedies. These
geniuses pooh-pooh every composition excepting their
own draggle-tailed effusions —which are, of course,
pooh-poohed by the general public.
♦ * •
It is to one of these pseudo-authors that we are
indebted for the comedy, “The Guv’nors,” which was
produced on Monday night for the benefit of Miss
Marion Melrose and Mr. Harry W. Emmett, who are,
we may softly whisper, “ united together in holy matri-
mony.” The author is one Mr. M'Ardle, whom
we remember as editor of the Glasgow Bxillie, and
who, perhaps, as a litterateur, is about the most dis-
tinguished failure on record. He has written execrable
pantomimes, blood-curdling “ addresses," and, in col-
laboration, more dramas which have been damned by
first-night audiences that any other playwright either
living or dead. The latest effort of this demoniac
dramatist is the play now under notice, the proper title
of which is “Our Fathers,’’ but which Mr. Emmett
altered to “Our Guv’nors.” Some interest was excited
in the representation, from the fact that many believed
the comedy to be identical with “The Guv’nor,” a
most remarkable piece, by an anonymous author, which
has been running at the London Vaudeville during the
past half-year. The authorship of this play, it may be
remarked, was attributed to Mr. Geo. R. Simms, the
“ Dagonet ’’ of the Loudon Referee ; but that gentle-
man, in a letter to his paper, modestly disclaimed the
authorship in these terms: —
“Dear Carados,—The rumour that I am the author of
‘ The Guv’nor ’ is without foundation. The only
‘Guv’nor’ that ever I had anything te do with is the
author of me. —Yours, * Dagonet.’ ”
* * *
Any doubta, however, which may have existed
in the minds of the audience prior to visiting the theatre
as to the identity of the two comedies were dispelled
after a five-minutes’ contemplation of the ineffable
drivel which Mr. M‘Ardle has inflicted on the
public. “Our Gnv’nors” is a play the corn-
complications of which consist in all the male characters
bearing the same name. This expedient for mannfaotnr-
ing a plot was originally adopted by Marlowe, and can,
therefore, fairly lay claim to the most intense origi-
nality ! But, even though the author does name all his
prominent characters Blunker, he does not contrive to
extract one gleam of fun, one spark of humour, out of
the whole business. However, when we state that as a
literary work “ Our Gov’nors” is both beneath criticism
and beneath contempt, we have not yet shed daylight
on itsjmostjobjeotionable features. The play abounds
with aouble-entendrts of a shameful character; but not
even these plaisanteries can put a sparkle into the
dialogue, which throughout would be an insult to the
common sense of a Charity-school boy. Added to this,
let it be said that the part of principal male character,
played by Mr. C. Seagrave, is one concantenation of low
cockney idioms and vulgar expletives. The author,
being a professional punster of the very worst school,
has entrusted Jem Blunker with various samples of
his powers in “jaw-jangling,” all of which are up to
the same standard of ineffable dullness. The exhibition
was, indeed, a most painful one. When repartee was
essayed, the retort was about as sharp as a clothes-prop,
and not a single joke in the whole piece was more
humorous than the Massacre of St. Bartholomew.
« • *
Concerning the fable, all that the audience
understood was that there were four Blunkers—two
fathers and two sons. Both sons were named James
(O skilful expedient!)—the fathers, however, rejoicing
in different cognomina, to particularise which would be
tedious. Both fathers appoint to meet their sons on
the same day, at the same time, and at the same place.
The letters are delivered to the wrong sons, and thus
the trouble —the very sore trouble—commences.
* « *
In regard to the way this rubbish was inter-
preted, there can be but one opinion. With one or two
exceptions, the acting was execrable. It was so bad
that the people, in the middle of the piece, yawned
over their play-bills, and longed for nuts to crack.
Anything even a fire —would have been a relief
from the intolerable antics of some of the performers.
Few of them knew their parts, and very few their
business. During the first act everybody seemed to get
everybody else’s cue, and the effect was a long stage
wait, during which the actors moved about and smoked
disconsolately, while the Ipitites beat the devil’s tatto
on the floor with the iron-bound heels of their four-
and-ninepenny bluchers. Talking of smoking, it would
seem that the management must have been extremely
liberal in the matter of cigars, for the male per-
formers smoked like lime-kilns all through the piece.
They smoked on the beach, in the grounds, and in the
drawing-room. They quarrelled smoking; made love
smoking; and embraced while in the aet of sucking at
obstinate Manillas.
• • *
In speaking of tbe acting in detail, we shall be
brief. The heneficiaire then assumed the role of Jennie
Stainton, who is described in the programme as being a
light-hearted girl, but who is also light-headed. Miss
Melrose looked—as she always does look—charming;
and her dresses were gorgeous in the extreme. The
character, however, was so inane that it gave her no
chance; and, consequently, all her sprightliness was
thrown away. Some of her lines, too, might, with
advantage, have been eliminated. When, for instance,
she confidently informs the pit that “ she likes to be
tickled,” the pit yells with delight, but the effect on
the dress-circle is different; the general impression
pervading the minds of even comparative “ gentility ”
being that if a lady likes being tickled she ought to
keep it to herself. However, the playwright, and not
Miss Melrose, is responsible for these highly-spiced and
; therefore, the only blame
we lay at her door is in not indulging in what H.J.
Byron terms “ a more liberal application of the P. K.
• * •
Jem Blanker, “ a bathing-machine proprietor,”
who dressed the part like a Greenwich fair Cheap-Jack,
and spoke in the rustic dialect of Whitechapel, was, as
we have said, played by Mr. Charles Seagrave. Mr.
Seagrave is a clever young actor, and we would be the
last to do him the injustice of denying this. At the
same time we venture to remind him that there is laid
down no known principle in low comedy which sets
forth that the performer shall keep his knees bent
during the whole piece, as though in the act of " taking
a back;” and furthermore, we may gently hint that,
while a "low comedy” leer gives, at times, point to a
facetious saying, it loses its effect after being constantly
practised during two long acts.
* * *
Mr. W. J. Sweeney played an “ Australian politi-
cian,” and was, all things considered, the best in the
piece. It is true, the words put into the mouth of the
politician aforesaid would never be heard, in this
country, out of Gladesville; still, that fact considered,
it redounds all the more to Mr. Sweeny’s credit that he
made a success of the part. For the rest, Miss Melville,
reproduced her Mrs. Jarley so forcibly in Mrs. Marforth,
that we expected every moment to hear the familiar,
"Walk up!” Mr. W. H. Seagrave played “ Jonathan
Blunker, a Devonshire farmer.” This festive bucolic
had, apparently, from his dialect, passed a good slice of
his existence in Cornwall, but he never took the
audience into his confidence sufficiently to inform them
of that fact.
• • •
Miss Polly Brown played a servant of the
marchioness type with some spirit, and howled at in-
tervals in a manner, to quote a distinguished brother,
journalist, " equal to real." Miss H. Tullock was as
much at sea in the character of Alice Marforth as an
Orient steamer is In mid-ocean. Besides, nearly all her
periods were “inaudible in the gallery”—we mean
dress-circle.
» * *
A couple of “noblemen” were enacted by
Messrs. Cargo and Leslie. One was a “ lord," and the
other an “ honourable.” Both these gentlemen were of
the type of the “ swell" who comes on in the panto-
mime, and gets knocked about by the clown. The
proceedings of these scions of the nobility were so
inane, that after they had strutted their little five
minutes on the stage, we would have given a handsome
sum to have seen the clown come in, and butt them
both through the butcher’s shop window.
» » *
The mise-en-scine was the only funny thing in
in the piece. The first act representing “ the sands at
Winkleton” was a chef d'ceuvre. It consisted of a bit
of the briny ocean a good deal the worse for wear, and
a mysterious platform not unlike that upon which the
Ghost is wont to appear in Hamlet. There was also a
bathing-machine ingeniously constructed from a car-
rier’s waggon and a digger’s tent. The effect of ths
whole was therefore extremely realistic.
* * *
“ Our Guv’nors” was followed by the balcony
scene in Borneo and Juliet, which was performed by
Mr. Emmett and Miss Annie Barclay, an actress from
America. Mr. Emmett looked magnificent, and acted
with spirit. His interpretation of the romantic lover
was, however, somewhat crude, and he has yet to learn
the art of modulating his voice in the tender passages.
When you hear-
" Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
That tips with silver all the fruit tree tops,”
fortissimo, the effect is as though you were swearing at
the moon and not by her. Miss Barclay was uneven.
She apparently laboured under an attack of nervous-
ness and lime-Ught. The audience, however, was kind,
and the lady was considerately (or inconsiderately)
applauded.
The benefit was, we believe, a financial success.
We are glad of this; but our joy would be much
increased could we conscientiously say that it was an
artistic success, also.
* » *
Now that the “ Pirates ” are beginning to get
sifted, it seems that the best character is that of the
Major-General. At any rate, attheEoyal, that officer
has plenty to do and is always funny. Curiously
enough, Mr. South, who plays the part, was the only
member of the company who, through a combination
of circumstances over which he had no control, had
only a few days’ notice prior to appearing on the stage
in the opera. Under these circumstances Mr. South is
undoubtedly deserving of no inconsiderable praise for
his successful assumption of a difficult part.
* • •
For the rest it is “the same old thing.” Mr.
Williamson is funny. Miss Deakin improving, Mr.
Verdi sonorous, Miss Liddiard charming, Mr. Beau-
mont fair, and the rest—well—painstaking. By the
way, the Buie Britannia picture is an innovation. It is
pretty, of course, but Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan are
not responsible for its appearance. The point is who is
responsible? Well, we suppose Mr. Gordon. So let it
rest. It is not a very heavy responsibility.
• * *
The Gaiety Theatre has been closed during the
week, and will re-open on the Saturday before Easter
with the Montague-Tumer Opera Company. We shall
notice the prospectus, at length, when the proper time
arrives.
* * *
The business done with the Minstrels during
the final week of their engagement was capital.
* * *
Mr. Henry W. Chapman gave a series of Shakes-
perian, dramatic, and humorous recitations at the
Protestant Hall, on March 30th. Henry’s eloquence
was much admired —by his friends.
* » *
M. Henri Kowalski’s lyric drama, “Veroinge-
torix,” with the Austrian Band to play it, the Boema
combination to sing it, and the composer to conduct it,
drew one big house at the Garden Palace last week.
The opera, though a grand classical composition, will
never, in our opinion, be popular with the public. Both
the vocal and orchestral instrumentation exhibit signs
of skill; yet there is a lack of melody in the solos which
renders the composition, at times, monotonous. The
success of the opera was a succes d’estime, and with that
M. Kowalski will have to be content. The vocalization
of Madame Boema attained to as near perfection as is
permitted to mortals, but the same can by no means be
said of that of Signora Palma and Mr. E. Farley. How-
ever, “ Vercingetorix” has been given under the most
favorable possible auspices, and whatever its illustrious
author may have to complain of in regard to the public
reception of his opera, he cannot, with reason, grumble
that pains enough were not expended upon its repre-
sentation.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
Over the doorway of the Colonial Bank’s new
Melbourne premises are the very massive statues of
two giant forme. They are evidently in great tribu-
lation, for they are tearing their hair, and their faces
wear a very stony look of despair. It is asked whether
they are not the portraits of people who have been
refused an overdraft by the pale-faced Mr. Leangraw ?
There is evidently money in Melbourne —and
money for newspaper enterprise too, as is evident from
the fact of the appearance of Mr. Mortimer Franklyn’s
new paper, the Federal Australian. It is a demy-
4to. journal of 32 pages, printed on straw-coloured
paper and exquisitely got up. The leading contributors
are, as nearly as we can gather, Messrs. James Smith,
Marcus Clarke, Garnet Walch, George Walstab, and the
proprietor. As a literary production the Federal
Australian is an undoubted success, and from the
number of advertisements with which it starts it
bids fair to be a paying commercial speculation also.
If the paper has a fault, it is on the side of solidity.
While it will suit the tastes of the highly educated we
incline to the opinion that it will be found rather too
dry for the general public. This fault, however, can
easily be remedied, and must be remedied, if an all-
round circulation is looked for. We wish our contem-
porary the prosperity it deserves.
PEPPER AND SALT.
It is again reported that the Duke of Cambridge
contemplates retiring at an early date from his position
as Commander-in-Chief, and that he will be succeeded
by the Duke of Connaught. The old duke is a capital
fellow, but he does not shine as a Commander-in-Chief.
Some years ago there was a review in honor of twins
being born to the Duchess of Lagerbierfurwonansix
abottlingen, and H.K.H. assembled, after many
consultations, 15,000 men in Hyde Park. After they
had been well manoeuvred, and had got a bit mixed, the
Duke suddenly discovered that he couldn’t .get them
out of the park again. Orders were given to weed out
the dragoons from the militia, and to find the big drum
of the fusilier guards, which had somehow gone astray
amongst the lancers, and then for the troops to
stand at ease. Meanwhile, a consultation was held,
and the warriors beguiled the weary hour with gambling
for trouser-buttons. At last a brilliant idea struck the
duke, and he hastily whispered to Lord Cardigan; on
which that gallant officer immediately rode in the
direction of the crowd, which was assembled by the
Knightsbridge railings. Some words and some money
passed beween the unsoaped and the noble lord, and
shortly afterwards the whole of the railings came
down with a crash. Then the troops marched out with
music playing and colours flying. Next day the papers
commended the duke for the faultless style of his
manoeuvres, but censured the disorderly mob for their
conduct in destroying the property of the people.
• • •
Now hark this, ye Benedicts, and abstain in
future from platonic toyings with bewitching wait-
resses. It came to pass about one o’clock last week
that the wife of a well-known merchant tripped into his
office, and suggested that her husband should take her
to lunch at the Coffee Palace, as she “ wanted to see
what it’s like.” In vain did the soft goods prince
state that he was busy—that he never lunched—the
lady was inexorable. So they started for one of the
Coffee Palaces, and proceeded upstairs to the banquet.
Having his own reasons for wishing to get up first, the
husband mounted with gigantic strides, and turned the
corner of the room a good six lengths ahead. Hardly
had he time to look round and perceive his wife rapidly
approaching, than a charming little black-robed Hebe
danced up, and with a laugh said, “ It’s a sell to-day,
Johnny ; Ethelinda has gone to Parramatta.” She had
not perceived the lady That meal
passed off in funereal silence, and since this event the
merchant takes anchovy sandwiches to the office in a
brown-paper parcel, and sends over to the hotel for his
“ half a pint of English.”
* ♦ »
A writer in the Parramatta Popgun is evi-
dently a terrible fellow. In speaking of two gentlemen,
he says that they have “ cut him dead, and, what is
more, have threatened the Woolpack with the with,
drawal of their custom unless he (sic) follows suit. So
that now instead of being able to pay the lordly six-
pence for a glass of beer, I must perforce fall back on
the beggarly threepence unless I take double the
quantity.” We have no doubt in the world, that he
could accomplish this much without the faintest
struggle either of thorax or of conscience, since nearly all
the pellets of the Popgun are redolent of the
aromatic aroma of shee-oke. But no matter! Un-
deterred by being “ cut dead," this hero returns to the
tavern, when, says he: “ Lord! how they scattered
when I, hearing what threatenings and slaughter they
were devoting me to, walked in and greeted them with
a smiling good evening!” Then with an apt quota-
tion :
“ Scattered conscience-smitten, like a brace
Of treach’rous hounds, that, having slipped the leash
And gorged on stolen, murdered mutton, sneaked
Off to the kennel when the whip appeared.”
We have, of course, no clue to the identity of this
valiant hero—we wish we had. It can’t be, anyhow,
that chivalrous scribe who, some years ago, in conse-
quence of having been so frequently kicked, took to hav-
ing his pantaloons armour-plated. If, by any chance —and
we are almost sure that it is impossible—that the
Popgun Bayard should be identical with the former
proprietor of the steel-; rotected garments, all we can
say is, that he must have taken “ double the quantity ”
on the occasion of this marvellousidisplay of courage.
* * *
It is a matter of regret to tia to have to chronicle
the fact, that the Marquis of Lome and the Princess
Louise are not in the enjoyment of that connubial
felicity which should be the meed of all young and
handsome couples. The truth is that the Princess is
aesthetic in her tastes —is a little bit of a sculptor, a
very small piece of an artist, and a mere morsel of a
musician. The Marquis, though none of these; at an
early stage of bis married life lost the respect of all
right-thinking people by writing and publishing a
poem. The book was called “ Guido and Lita," and is
written in a metre entirely invented by the Marquis.
The fact that nobody has ever since adopted the noble
lord’s stanza is sufficient indication of its merit as a
poetic measure, and when we take into consideration
the fact that the book has sunk into oblivion, it must
be apparent that the husband of the Princess was not a
very brilliant poet. Here is a specimen of the verse; —
“ As Lita kneels by Guido’s side the while.
And looking on his son and on the maid,
‘ Let nought against thy love and her be said,
He slowly speaks, ‘ she came to bind my hurt
She brought the warning to our town inert,
She reft the infidel of Sarad’s aid.
Her timely help the battle’s chances swayed,
By her the fire throughout the day was stayed,
And safe retreat ensured for wife and maid.’ ’’
It will be seen by the above that this Lita was no
ordinary craft, since she “ bound his hurt," and warned
his town inert” (possibly Dubbo), and “reft the infidel
of Sarad’s aid,” “ the battle’s chances swayed " —and a
good deal more which we decline copying. Well, this
poem had an effect on the Princess which considerably
exercised the Marquis. She railed at Guido and sneered
at Lita, and whenever he used to read it to his friends,
she would plug her ears with cotton wool and shriek to
be taken home to her mother. When, by way of dis-
pelling the gloomy cloud which obscured |the brightness
of his domesticity, he dressed himself in Highland cos-
tume and danced before her, she requested him to hire
himself out at a snuff shop, and give her the proceeds
for modelling putty. On this he trotted over to Marl-
borough House, and complained to “Wales.” The Prince
offered him a little consolation, and some ginger-beer
with a dash. Having accepted both these without feel-
ing any better, he took a first-return to Windsor, and
saw the old lady. Her Majesty received him in the
white dr’awing-room with affability, but did not suggest
any refreshment. 'When he had told his story, and
had thrown himself on his knees before her, the Queen
said, “Your poem, we own, Archie, was hard to bear;
but there is more the matter than this. Can yon have
alienated Loo’s affections from you ?” “ Can someone
else?” said he sadly. But then his face brightened.
“ No, it cannot be,” he continued; “ for she calls me
* Ducky ’ even in her sleep." On hearing these appa-
rently simple words, an extraordinary scene occurred.
The old lady fainted clean away, and it was not until
the Countess of Macclesfield had administered some
ginger-cordial with a colouring, and John Brown had
burnt the feathers in Lord Lome’s shako, that Her
Majesty recovered. A few months after this, the
Marquis took Ms wife to Canada. She is now back j he
isn’t.
* ■* *
In the sylvan quietude of the backwoods, the
Marquis often wonders why the Queen fainted that
day: and yet, curious enough, he is the only one in the
Court circle that is not perfectly aware of the reason.
» » »
What we like to see ia a healthy Good Templar
trudging briskly up to the top of Steele’s Hill, on
Moore Park —throwing back his head, expanding hia
chest, and flinging out Ms arms like an industrious
semaphore, as he exclaims, “ Ha I there’s nothing like
the glorious oxygen, after all.” When he’s “full" of
this performance, he gives one the idea that he is the
coming Father Matthew; but when we subsequently
find him behind a fence, busying his month with a
square bottle, we are inclined to believe he slightly con-
fuses the different classes of gins. After this, the gins
retaliate and confuse him.
* * *
The question of assisted immigration is apt to
shortly put “ snakes in the boots ” of our protected
friend across the border, as recent statistics show there
axe now 170 medical students in active training there,
besides the gallant band of regular duly-qualified
licensed jala-pvictuallers. Now, allowing these 170
celts only kill 20 patients each per month (which is, we
believe, a very fair average), they will put away 4080
every year, and tMs, joined to the splendid results now
obtainable from the Tan Yean mixture, will make


I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmlessscenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being- a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore Staiger, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
“ Stamnore.—To Messrs. Edward Eowe and
Co., Sydney.—Dear Sirs, —Being convinced that a good
safe Family Medicine is a great boon to Parents with
children, and believing from my own experience that
the introduction of Randerson’s Podoph.vllin Lozenges
is on© of the greatest improvements to my mind in
medicine, there being no disagreeable taste with them,
I have pleasure in stating that I have'fonnd them a safe
and useful aperient, and recommend them to all need-
ing such a physic with confidence.—Tours very truly,
L. Morgan,— Sydney, April 28,1880.” —Advt.
■Melbourne one of the most flourishing bone yards out-
side of the Solomon Islands.
• • *
As we expected, the monster comet show is
postponed for the present, and the divine arts of court-
ship and roost-robbing are once more in full swing.
Just here we have a word of caution to drop in. Our
park seats will shortly receive their usual winter coats
of paint, and young people of antagonistic sexes who
happen to rent the same for the purpose of discussing
the cremation business or the Basnto question, would
do well to look before they sit. The silvery notes of
Love’s flattering tale, the meeting glances of liquid
eyes, and the bumps of two hearts that beat as one, are
all very well in their way—but when coupled to the
knowledge that the amorous pair are squatting in about
a yard of green paint, and neither axe particularly
anxious to make a song about it, the courting goes
slow, and the lovers feel about as full of contented joy
as a well-fed alderman who endeavours to shave his
double chin.
• * *
Original verse appearing in our contemporaries
is always of interest to us. VV e are continually going
over our exchanges searching for a Milton II. and never
finding one. We have noticed that lately, since we have
reprinted, with good humoured comments, portions of
the poetry published in the country journals, the verse
in those rustic classics has considerably diminished.
This is a bad job for us, because we not only derived a
considerable amount of pleasure from the perusal of
these fugitive pieces, but a considerable* amount of
copy also. In the Campbelltown Herald, the other
day, we chanced upon half-a-cohimn of “ stuff” entitled
“Midnight Reflections,” which had the appearance of
verse. A closer inspection, however, betrayed to us
that the contribution, to the C.H. was not verse at all
but prose, and, furthermore, that the author of it is
one “ F. J. H." From an attentive perusal of some of
these “ Midnight Reflections" we are disposed to think
that “F. J. H.” “reflected” them on those nights when
the moon was at her full, and all the dogs in the town-
ship barking. Ha simpers—“If thy neighbour abuse
thee, discomfit him with a smile." This is evidently a
misprint. It should be: “ If thy neighbour abuse
thee, discomfit him with a stick.” We therefore par-
don our young friend this item. Another of this dis-
tinguished author’s reflections is evidently founded on
a speech of Alderman J. D. Young; but there is no
acknowledgement on the part of “ F. J. H.” as to the
source from whence he derived his words of wisdom
He ecstatically remarks“ Seek not to erect for thy.
self a castle upon earthy foundations, lest when thou
feelest most confident of its stability, it suddenly col-
lapse and bury thee beneath its ruins." This is taking,
we consider, too broad a view. If any one will
“ shout us a castle, and allow us to choose our
cwn architects and contractors, we will risk the col-
lapse. This genius should remember that the world is
not entirely composed of Evers, Kennedy a, and
M’Beaths. Then again “ The sun shines as brightly, •
the flowers smell as sweetly, and the birds sing as
blithely for the beggar as for the monarch.” This shows
how little our reflector knows of human nature. Let
him take a walk in the Botanic Gardens and he will at
once see that the beggar can never see the sunshine for
the shadow of the policeman, and that, if he went near
enough to a bed to smell a rose-bud, he would be im-
mediately removed in irons. As for the birds “ singing
as blithely for the beggar,” &c., this is really a serious
error. For is not the scarecrow modelled after the
beggar, and whoever heard of even a mopoke warbling
in the presence of a scarecrow ? One lastChoose
for thy friend the beggar who halves his last crust with
a hungry comrade, rather than the rich man who hoards
up his gold while his fellow creatures are starving
around him." This requires consideration. If you’U
send along an extra clean beggar, perhaps we’d choose
him; but, in the absence of such a mendicant phe-
nomenon. we think we’ll risk it on the rich man. For
see how many beggars we could have washed with his
money. Altogether we recommend “F. J. H.” to
relinquish his midnight reflections, and, if he really
requires some nocturnal employment, to go cat-shooting
with a borrowed musket.
* * *
Chanty cometh well from all, but from the
hands of lovely woman it comes with a grace celestial.
One day last week a portly old lady, weighing about as
much as a loaded tram-car, met a “ poar 'omeless little
orfin" on the park, peddling matches and looking
hungry enough to eat Buchanan’s boots. Having first
ascertained that “ mother was dead, father in gaol,
sister hooked it, etc.,” the pious old dame gladdened
the rirchin’s heart and cheered his downcast soul by
buying two boxes for a ha’penny. It was an edifying
sight, and we felt our manhood touched. About an
hour afterwards, however, we met the pair again. This
time the good old Samaritan was holding the “poar
’omeless orfin ” up by the ear with one hand while she
hit with the other because half of one box
was empty, and the lucifers in the other had
no heads on. However, she put a head on the “ ’ome-
less one,” and her reward will doubtless arrive per
favour of the next bush Missionary.
* * *
Vengeance! We’ve wildly resolved to wreak a
fell and fierce revenge. Let the fiends who persist in
shattering our finely-attuned nervous organizations
with their excruciating balderdash know that we have
decided to print their ravings and affright the ruthless
incendiaries with the rythmic ruin they have wrought.
Last week an assassin sent us in the following—a
moral bombshell. The wildest freak of Nihilism is
nothing to it. For sheer level bloodthirsty despera-
tion it takes the crust off creatiou. In his note the
sender confesses himself an admirer of Kendall, of
whose spirit he has indeed drunk deeply, as the
accompanying will show Personally—let us breathe it
gently—it strikes us he has drunk deeper of bad whisky.
For weird, ghastly frenzy it would do honor to
Bedlam in its wildest intervals. But commengons —
He was a sensible reverend divine, and the ether
Thl f Sensible ruler of a branch of the Civil Service,
ne res rave occasion was a funeral, and the pair were
orrymg up religion as they went along, when the C.S.
ruler observed“ Now revealed truth is all very well,
Mr. Clerious, but do you really mean to tell me, as a
rational being, that you believe there’s a 45-acre-hell
full of impenetrable darkness, and yet brimming over
with flaming pitch and other pleasantries—filled to the
brink with grinning devils, and yet not possessing even
a tissue paper bottom —can these things be F No ; you
know they do not, and now, why do you preach them ?”
“Mr. Laicus,” replied|the divine mildly, "you are an
officer in a certain Government office. Now do you
honestly believe in all your office says and does ?” “No,
certainly not,” said the frank official. "Very well,”
continued Mr. Clericns, “ then why don’t you throw up
your billet, even at an enormous loss ?’’ Mr. Laicus
perceived this was just the point to change the conver-
sation, and putting his legs upon the reverend gentle-
ihan’s lap asked what he thought of those boots for a
pair of fifteen-shillingers.
The captain and officers of the Japanese man-
of-war Euijio, new lying in Farm Cove, were yesterday
presented to his Worship the Mayor during the meet-
ing of the finance committee. His Worship shook
hands with them; but reminiscences of other days,
when an adjournment to the Mayor’s room would have
been a fitting compliment to the visitors, began to rise
in the minds of the Aldermen present, who returned
to business with a laugh anything but pleasant, inquir-
ing * What about- the champagne ? ’ —Echo answers
* What ? ’ ”
It is stated on good authority that a well-known
impressario intends to introduce the “Tambour Major,”
and a few other opera bouffes amongst the poor
benighted heathens of the Solomon Islands; but the
thing was tried once before amongst a similar crowd,
and failed. Mr. Explorer Stanley was the boss of the
show, and he opened with La Belle HtUne, at the Lake
Nyanza Theatre. All the distinguished men fifty miles
round rallied up, decorated with sky-blue paint and fish-
bones stuck through their noses, whilst the ladies were
attired in red beads and door-mats. The papers stated
next day the piece was a decided failure from the first
scenes ; the pious natives being totally unused to
French indelicacies. Many turned their heads away,
and all pronounced Offenbach's music Meyerbeerish
and crude, and his libretto decidedly low and vulgar
And the last quotation says : “Only one old villain sat
it out and said he liked it, but he was the proprietor of
the Nyanza Chronicle, and wore pants, and no one
even thought of consulting his opinion or even noticing
him in the streets, as his habits were so disgusting,”
We would therefore caution all theatrical agents from
trotting over immoral French plays to the pious South
Sea Islanders, who as yet are not sufficiently educated
down to them.
* * ♦
The Western train was getting under weigh at
Eedfern last Saturday night, when a tall, dusty
weather-beaten old fellow stepped into a car, and, flop-
ping into a seat, exclaimed, with a 40 horse-power sigh
of relief, “ Well, thank the Lor’! I’m out of that con-
founded dead-and-alive hole at last.” Wondering where
the party was raised who could look with contempt on
the massive foundations of our Town Hall, the princely
grandeur of our Central Court and Lock-up, and the
glittering splendour of our asphalte pavements, we
leaned over and said, “ Indeed; whereabouts may you
reside, then, mister ?” To which the mudhead replied
“Me P Why up at South Creek. That’s yer place for
tan-yords.” We immediately held him up by the ears
and dropped him over a 25000ft. embankment. Book-
wood is his address at present.
♦ * »
An “Inventor” (from Melbourne) writes to
know how it is the majority of our Parliamentary wind-
mills over here are run by water. We don’t know,
unless it is because it’s cheaper. Anyway, what we
want is an invention here to stop them, and if the man
■from Melbourne is up to this he can command a colossal
fortune.
* * *
Someone had a pain in his head, we
imagine, when the Express gave their new musical
critic his ** fling 99 at Burrowa last week, and it is now
evident a new era in this art will not dawn first in
Hunter-street. Mr. Fitzpatrick sang the sentimental
s 9 °* the Life Boat/* which describes the wreck
of a gallant bark, the shrieks of her drowning crew, and
other like attractions; and we are told his fine humorous
manner made him very popular. The man who could
throw humor into a shipwreck deserves to be popular,
ai *d we would like to know what he could do with
‘‘Close the Shutters, Willie’s Dead/* or the “ Death of
Nelson.” The whole critique, however, positively
bristles with gems. The duet from Trovatore is
delicately alluded to as a song. Mr. Hollingdale’s
voice “ went wonderfully through all parts of the
building as he executed the ‘ Raft ’ with much dis-
crimination,” and Mr. Kelly's “ really beautiful voice
was actually brought into requisition " in rendering
one of Moore’s ballads. This is a decided innovation
on Mr. Kelly’s part, and other vocalists would do well
to rally it round, and see if it is worth while cultivating.
Miss Slattery wore a very prepossessing green satin
dress, and the comments on her singing knock our own
Sappho’s most brilliant frills as high as the price ef
railway fares. There will be another critique in the
next issue, and we intend to present each of our sub-
scribers with at least a dozen copies.
* * •
It was the last wet day we had, and a couple of
animated crow-roosts were occasionally hauling and
sitting down on the pole of a Pitt-streer ’bus, which
was filled to the bung with dripping lumps of chilled
humanity, and amongst these sat a lady dressed in a
thick ulster and a dandy little “new-chum” hat. The
rain was pelting down “a few,” and ns the usual other
lady stopped the ’bus for admission, the conductor
good-naturedly poked his nose under the “ new-chum
tile,” and said, “Will you ride on top, please, to oblige
a lady ?” The hat said certainly not; it was a lady also,
and as the intending passenger skipped back to the path
the astonished conductor took one long survey of the
fare inside, and then observed, “ Well, if you all—l’m
blowed if you haven’t got your old man’s clothes on.”
His nose is now bridged by ajhandsome plaster.
» • *
Apropos of plays, a well-known tragedian was
la'tely throwing the immortal “ Bella" to the Auck-
landers instead of the Peruvians, when the part of the
Sentinel had to be given on a moment’s notice to a
“ supe,” who stipulated that the dialogue should be all
cut out, as his good lady was hourly expecting to make
her first addition to the population, and he naturally
felt a little “obfuscated." When the time came on,
however, the tragedian so lost himself in the part as to
forget his promise, and of course went on—“ Hast thou
a wife? ” The Sentinel, rather taken aback, replied, “ I
have, Mr. B.” “ And children,” asked Bolla, as he
bit off his moustache with suppressed rage. “Well,
to tell you the truth,” said the gallant Sentinel, in an
off-handed way, “I be hanged if I know, Mr. B.; you
see I’ve not been home since morning.” And when he
subsequently left the hospital he said the officials had
done all they possibly could for him.
• * ♦
The most considerate man in this world turned
up on Saturday last. On the previous Monday night
he was knocked down, and had his face stamped in, and
his watch stolen, by an amateur friend; and for a whole
week he followed that friend to tell him not to trust
that watch, as it lost ten minutes out of every hour.
What a Christian-like example for us to follow !
V.
Wrestling with the Devil at Ashfield.
Ths Presbyterian is a paper which we invariably
receive, but very seldom look into. At one time wc
used to open it, and take a cursory glance over its
columns; but as we discovered that the principal
original portion was composed of frantic appeals to
the public for money, we gave up even opening it. So,
for many weeks, it has been consigned, wrapper and all,
to the dustman. The other day, however, a marked
copy was forwarded us by a subscriber, and at his
request we read an article therein, headed “ The Work
at Ashfleld," and signed by a Mr. “ John Auld.” The
lucubration of this gentleman is supposed to bo an
account of a service at the Ashfleld Presbyterian Church,
with an evangelistic struggle with the devil in the cla.
room afterwards. Now, although we are aware that we
are bringing Mr. John Auld into undue prominence by
alluding to a few paragraphs written by him in an
obscure sectarian paper, we feel constrained to immor-
talize him on account of the amount of ridiculous cant
and rant which is embodied in his communication—
features which render it, to the ordinary reader, posi-
tively offensive. The service, it would seem, was per-
formed by Mr. Maclnnes, M.A., 8.D., but it was after
the service proper that the “ wrestling " commenced.
The M.A., 8.D., is therefore entirely acquitted by us of
putting the “Maclnnis grip” upon any of the Christian
Young Men or upon His Satanic Majesty. The writer
says—“ When the services were commenced, we did not
cease to wait upon God. God sent his servant the
evangelist; but we did not then look to the evangelist
to do the work. We did not forget that it is God’s
work.” The “ evangelist ” was Mr. John Walker, of
the Y.M.C.A., and this really seems rather a tough jar
for him. John, however, soon recovered, for, to quote
Mr. Auld, "the discourse was still more deeply im-
pressed on the audience when, at its close, Mr. John
Walker rose, and amidst breathless silence sang one of
Mr. Sankey's soloj. No one regarded the solo as a
devotional exercise otherwise than the discourse may
be regarded as such.” The meaning of this latter period
is probably understood by the writer. We have neither
the time nor the inclination to attempt the elucidation of
Mr. Auld’s conundrums, so we’ll wait patientily until he
unlocks the casket of his “ buzzim,” and hands out the
answer. It is farther on, however, that the spirit of
Stiggins becomes more rampant. After the service a
general invitation is given to the congregation to join
“ Mr. John Walker and others ” in the class-room. And
this is how Mr. Auld describes the scene that ensued
“ The young men did not get much time to hesitate about
going. As they left the church, kindly invitations were
addressed to them by Christian young men, who were
watching for them at the gate. If they showed signs of •
wavering, loving arms were passed around them, and
they yielded to the gentle pressure. We were present
at one of these young men’s meetings. We shall never
forget it, and there were young men there who shall
never forget it either.” Possibly not ; and it will be
some time before the Sydney public ceases to remember
the ridiculous rubbish with which Mr. Auld has handed
the scene down to posterity. The Ashfleld people must
possess temperaments of a singularly equable nature.
If these “ loving arms ” had been passed around some
people we could mention, instead of " yielding to the
gentle pressure,” they would have acted in such a
manner as to necessitate, on the part of the Christian
young men aforesaid, a liberal expenditure of the
articles raw beefsteak and arnica. One last quotation,
and we have done“ There they stood, the dear young
fellows, while we prayed for them. And such praying!
It was the strong crying and tears of those who were in
earnest. Never was there a more determined effort to
prevail with God by weeping and supplication. And we
did prevail; for there were some that night who yielded
their hearts to the Saviour. God bless the lads, and
keep them near to Himself! Before the young men
separated, Mr. Goodlet rose, and with great earnestness
and point pleaded with them to close at once (sic) with
Christ.” Much of this kind of thing would turn a
Diogenes into a driveller. We do not know, however,
which to pity the most in this evangelistic mounte-
banking—the professional wrestlers, the amateurs, or
their wonderfully descriptive historian.
The Parsons and the Priests.
The Holy Howl has, in its last issue, a column and a
half of long primer, wherein it is stated that a Roman
Catholic priest was the other day found beneath a bed
in a house of ill-fame in Eiley-street. That when dis-
covered “ he was ordered to come out, and begged hard
not to be made to do so. He entreated that he might
not .be dragged out. He solemnly swore that he was
not the one wanted, but the searchers were inexorable.
Out he must come ; and out he did come,, and what a
sight—a man—a Catholic priest! With all the pro-,
testations of regret, and with all the entreaties not to
expose him which a man could utter, on his knees, he
entreated and begged for the love of God and of the
Blessed Virgin that he might be allowed to go. The
woman said that she had found him in George-street
under the influence of drink, but that the fright had
sobered him; anti that as she supposed the searcher
was a Roman Catholic, she hoped the priest would not
be exposed I ” Now. we like a good scandal, and, were
the news market dull, we’d rather rejoice to find a
bishop, or even a fat doctor of divinity, running away
with a pretty burlesque actress. But what we want to
know is whether The Howl didn’t get its information
on this subject from a certain policeman who drinks
“to the pious and immortal memory,” and wants to
get on in the “ foorce ?” Also, why the policeman in ques-
tion did not arrest the irreverent offender, as he could
under the Vagrant Act have done? If The Howl is
hard up for a scandal we can supply the deficiency out
of our waste-paper basket, in the contents of which
clergymen of more than one denomination would be
interested. For instance, we could lay our reverend
friend on to two pious frauds who, with their white ties
still on, left a revivalistic bun-feast the other
evening to pursue two ladies on their way home
—with what intent, let a severe castigation by a brother
of one of the ladies and the subsequent proceedings ex-
plain. What we want now to know is the name of the
loliceman who found the priest: this information the
' Inspector-General should soon be able to supply. This
policeman who winks at criminal offences and this
priest who contributes to the support of immorality
should be dragged into the light of day. Either the
priest should be prosecuted, or the policeman should be
dismissed—indeed, under circumstances such as those
narrated by the Holt Howl both events might fittingly
take place.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country on the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focused,” to which column the
attention of our readers is specially directed.
Correspondents should in’all cases send either their
full names or noms deplume. Commun cations in which
this rule is not observed cannot be noticed.
A KENT)ALLYC IDYLL. (!!!)
Gloomy spectres gleam upon us from the dark shores
far away.
Stretching out their livid fingers o’er the blood-
beslobberd bay;
And the noises of the demons on the slaty, dismal
hill,
Come like hell-calls, wildly sounding on the night air
calm and still.
Now the wind in moaning ghost-calls, howling from
deep eaveraed cells,
Comes Kke'shrieks of new-freed devils—screaming wild
in horrid yells.
There the wild blue lightning streaming through the
gum trees’ withered branches
Shows their crouching figures cursing—sitting on their
dripping haunches,
While the rain-drops falhng ever from the wat’ry voids
of air
Bring forth muttered maledictions from the wet things
cringing there;
And pale wand’rers passing onward hurry by with
nervous tread.
Gazing at the ghastly crouchers with a look of nameless
dread,
For the moaning of > the night wind carried them, the
curses said,
And they thought their ghouls were feeding, growling
over troubles dead.
Hark ! the grim street-mongrel crying—crying for the
bald-faced moon.
Hidden from his grieving eye-balls by the elouds o’er
heaven strewn!
But the figures breathing, cursing, move not from the
dismal place.
Spell-bound by the screeching spirits fastened to the
dead tree’s base.
Now from out the deep dank darkness glares a face of
ghastly hue—
Glancing rays of deep red lightning out from both his
dead eyes flew.
And his jaws were smeared with blood-streaks—relics
of a tearful feast—
When he growled in deep contentment o’er the bowels
of a priest;
And he f shook his sanguined finger wrathful at the
crouching three,
But they only mocked his menace—cursing loud in
fiendish glee.
But the lightning streaming downward, striking on the
ancient tree.
Hurled the phantom and the cursors in the bloody,
seething sea.
tThis.so far as we can make out, refers to an episode
fi the future state of the editor ©f the Holt Howl.
“CONFUSION TO THE MAYOR.”
A JAPANESE TOAST.
The Euijlo had anchored in
A lovely Sydney bay.
When on the shore the officers
All came in grand array :
We had not seen for years, perhaps.
More merry chaps than those dork “ Japs.”
’Tis true there great resemblance was
In all their swarthy “ mugs,”
And nine-tenths of their noses were
What’s commonly called “ pngs
Yet was each native of Japan
An officer and gentleman!
They went into the hostels, and
Harmoniously did quaff
The festive gin-and-bitters, and
The foaming shandy-gaff: '
’Twas also said those dusky tars
Spent quite a fortune on cigars.
A messenger accosted them—
Quoth he, “ A welcome all!
The Mayor invites you ev’ry one.
Bold tars, to the Town Hall
On which each one said “Jap.” for “ Hip-
Hoo-ray,” and smacked his nether lip.
The orderly, with scornful glance.
Received them in the lobby.
While they were eyed suspiciously
By an attendant “ Bobby
At length, however, they were shown
Where sits the Great Mayor on his throne.
His Worship rose, and said, “ Moi nong
Gan parley Japanese,
Nor my bear-leader, Davies;
Nor yet can Sammy Lees.
Your visit still's perhaps an honor—”
“Come, where’s the key ?’’ cried Dan O’Connor,
“ Your welcome to this land, which is
The finest of ail lands.
How ’do—ah! non comprenny—humph!—
Well, yea—you may shah; hands."
And then, amidst a death-like calm.
They grasped his Worship’s unctuous palm.
On this, amongst the aldermen
There rose a busy hum.
While all the Japs did wonder what
Was really next to come.
But, lo! his Worship made no sign;
He gave his oil, but not his wine.
The City Fathers then set up
A very dismal yell.
And one voice told the worthy Mayor
To go to— . . ’Tis as well.
Perhaps, not to repeat the word.
Though really all this row occurred.
And sadly those Japs did file out.
Amazement on each face.
Quoth they, “ The Civic honors are
Done grandly in this place!
We strangers in this distant land
Have been let take the Mayor’s hand!’’
So then they laughed aloud with glee.
And, eyes suffused with tears.
They all crossed over to the pub..
And shrieked out for long beers.
Then, with a shout that rent the air.
They drank " Confusion to the Mayor !”
Some Astronomical Questions to which
Answers are Earnestly Desired.
Oh! Proctor, thou hast fled too soon,
And left our minds revolving,
An endless host of queries past
Our feehle powers of solving.
We fain would know a deal more yet
About the Heav’nly bodies.
To elevate our minds above
“ Eum-hots” and whiskey-toddies.
Alas! far from us thou hast fled.
Thy heart with pity aching—
The grime of Sabbatarian dust
From off thy garments shaking—
Scorning a people ground beneath
The heel of Mrs. Grundy,
Good folks who heed no stars save those
Of Hennessy on Sunday.
Yes, thou art far away whose themes
And lectures never tire;
We can’t commune with thee, it seems.
Except by post or wire.
Well, be it so; then write thy thoughts;
Ton know we love to con ’em;
Tell us how comets’ tails are made.
And how they’re fastened on ’em.
Oh! mighty Proctor! thou who canst
By telescopic vision
Discern how many stars make five.
With accurate precision.
Tell us who chums the milky whey ?
In what celestial dairy
Is lunar cheese prepared, and, say.
Is Ursa major hairy ?
Perish the thought that I should place
This theme in aspect comic!
Your pardon, but a thought intrudes—
One purely gastronomic.
Would crab (zodiacal) be had
To eat at night ? pray answer—
Would abscesses result, you think,
From midnight feeds of cancer ?
Would Pisces palatable be
With milkey-whey and fennel ?
Is Taurus branded T near rib ?
Has Canis got a kennel P
Say, hath Orion’s sword a sheath,’
Orion’s belt a buckle ?
Has the celestial Bam got chops,
A sweet-bread, and a knuckle ?
The Heavenly twins —what mystery
Enshrouds their birth!—like others
We venture to presume they had
God-fathers and god-mothers—
But, tell us, was their birth announced
(The thought is somewhat solemn)
In a celestial newspaper.
And in the proper column ?
Did old Aquarius take a hand
At all at their baptism.
And did his sprinkling lay the seeds
Of future rheumatism P
The Virgin—bless us what a time
Upon the shelf she’s tarried !
Say, Proctor, aint it nearly time
That poor old maid was married ?
Stay—p’r’aps it’s just as well she aint j
More twins might come a-squalling.
To’ complicate the Zodiac ;
The thought is too appalling!
She must be old: ’twould not be hard.
One fancies, to resist her ;
And, save the party in the moon.
Where could she find a “mister ?”
Hold on ! —there’s that old file, you know.
In mackintosh and gaiters.
That sends those sluicing showers to help
Along the Spring pertaters.
Aquarius, always damp, may yet
Be worth a dozen dry men;
Perhaps some day he’ll rivet on
The rosy chains of Hymen.
And when into the spheres some six
Or eight more twins have toddled.
We sort of think the Zodiac
Will have to be remodelled.
The music of the spheres!—we long
To find out all about it ;
We’d fain get near a spherical
Kehearsal, just to tout it.
Do the sounds come from piccolos,
Or harps, or barrel-organs—
Played by a standing army of
Celestial Johnny Morgans ?
Do they still play the Scales ?—’tis time
From scales they were emergin’;
Why don’t they learn some little tunes.
And serenade the Virgin ?
These, and a thousand things like these.
To know we’re simply dying.
Oh, thou who ’mong celestial things
Incessantly art prying.
One query more, and we have done—
One most important question :
Tell us, would areo (lights) affect
An earthly cat’s digestion ?
IRONBARK.


Public Companies
10MMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Biohard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A, Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :.
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. K. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Scarvell.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; P. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
Lohdon Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; P. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
A i, idale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
; -.ayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Oampbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamun Ira.
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurimdi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass,
Young, With the following %
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia :, The Bank ot south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : .The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland ; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland,
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Cetlon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China,
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bonk discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the aboveuamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSUEANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
wanting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
The inteecolonial life and fiee
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEOEGE-
STREET.
• ■
Capital, £IOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors :
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M G., M.P., President,
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P, j Hon. P. Higgins.
T, J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. ( E. J. Rubie, Esq,
T. R. Smith, Esq . M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums' received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
PIKE DEPARTMEN I.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BO IH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANT Office tn the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY.
Secretary.
TNDUSTEIAL & PROVIDENT PEEMANENT
JL BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
lor Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsioe land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do, £4O do. do, 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 Tork-
Street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Atlas foundey and engineeeing
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with desi atch, and beat
price given for old metal.*
Public Companies
The mercantile bank op Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 187 S
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £115,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Horn. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECEETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
lOENWALL EIRE AND MARINE INSUE-
' ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted by
Q. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
m
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Mabkets.
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
LOMEE’S
T3ARLOUE
JT gTUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d per dozen.
BOYD'S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blao
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will he produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
jp EO BONO PUBLICO.
THE MUTUAL TRADE PROTECTION ASSOCIA-
TION OF NEW SOU L’H WALES. AND
COMMERCIAL AGENi Y COMPANY.
J. HUES!', Secretary.
Offices: 32 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Opposite the Exchange).
Established upon the most improved mutual principle
for the protection of Merchants and Traders, against
fraud, imposition, or had debts, under the auspices of
the leading Mercantile community.
AGENTS & CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT
the WORLD. The following business is undertaken,
either direct, or through the intervention of the
Society’s Solicitor: —
The recovery of rents and debts by legal process or
otherwise, by written or personal application, through
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or assignment, drawn out
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, and Preferable Liens
executed or registered free of charge, when done, as
security to the interests of members.
Legal Processes served in town, suburbs, or country
districts, through autt orised legal Agents.
Wills, Patents, and Registered Documents of all kinds
The Certificates of fradulent or unprincipled insolvents
opposed in the interests of creditors, and, when
necessary, absconding or fraudulent! nsolvents prose-
cuted or traced.
Debts proved in insolvent estates, and Books audited
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and made to surrender.
Deeds, Leases, and Documents of all kinds copied or
chromographed upon moderate terms.
Searches and Privaie Inquiries made as to the commer-
cial st anding of any pei son or firm in business through-
out either of these colonies.
A Credit Guide issued periodically, and “Warning
Notices ” sent to members when required.
Assigned Estate supervised or liquidated.
Searches or Inquiries made and answered in regard to
all kinds of Mortgages, Bills of Sale, Preferable
Liens, Protection Orders, &c.
Postages Cash Outlay for Court Fees, &c., charged
accordingly.
Records Filed at the Offices of the Association con-
cerning all Registered Acts executed in Canada,
United States. England, Scotland Ireland, and the
Australian Colonies New Zealand &c.
N.B.—The facilities thus offered to the mercantile
public enable those who wish to be safe in credit
transactions to achieve both legal rights and protec-
tion by the powerful co-oparation of unity, as based
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Branch, only 10s fid per
annum. Membership for General Branch, £1 Is per
annum.
RELIABLE COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
IM
m
m
WAUGH.
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
J AOMOWUBUI TO SB TUI BIST IN THE WORLD I
\MAMurAerunMß BT W. DA Yl£SiCfcoulburh N.SJK I
m
wt
jihe
BEST PAINT IN
THE WORLD
It
&
&
C v
Y 4>
*
*
fimAtt
lAsrie
ECONOMICAL
m
a*
m
3*N*
c?
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us“Woollahra August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
E CIBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with fences."
ONE GALLON OF Pacific RUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
Ag. chubchwood,
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Major.un on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAN DT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
GLASSO N ’ S
STEAM COACH AND WHEEL WEIGHT
WORKS,
Habkis-steeet, off Gbobgb-stbbbt,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify tnat he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
w
H . A R I E
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
543 and 345 Kent-street, neae King-steeez
L L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 315 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, S 6 Castlereagh-street, next comer
Ring-street. Es+e.blished 1859.
BA ZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840,
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extendve
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
vte than at anv other house in the colonies.
, buyers h orally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture.manatacWired"to.order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO..
Manufacturers and Importers.
EW REFLECTING LAMPS POE GAS OE
KEROSENE.
v l/\\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, Ac.
BAEWELL AND FISHER'S DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, Ac.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MARKET STREET.
LBERT S. MANDEES AND CO-.
(Latk'Geant, Mandees and Grant),
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE.
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can supply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers with Articles, Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind of business transacted in Melbourne by applica-
tion to us.
m-
The above Firm have Agents in all the colonies, from
whom they get all the earliest Sporting News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels, Clubs, &c.,
with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
HOUELT TELEGRAMS OF PRINCIPAL CRICKET MATCHES,
&C., SUPPLIED.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any part of the Australian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the termi-
nation of the day’s sport.
Special arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania.
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TYPOGRAPH. Send for Circulars. Will print 5000
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Music, &c., on permanent
paper, and on any paper. No washing-out required.
P. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
(JIHOMAS WEBB AND SONS,
GLASS AND CHINA MERCHANTS.
BOND STREET,
SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL AGENTS
FOR
WEDGWOOD & MINTON’S POTTERY.
Inspection invited.
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S PARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation,
This is not vain expatiation;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication;
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation,
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration —
Just use your powers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination.
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation.
Then—friends of suffering creation—
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation.
Called “ Farmer’s Friend,”— ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like BOW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. BOW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.


Business Ann on
W. H - p
PIANOFORTE WA
352 Qeorge-st]
PIANOFORTES. PI
JUST RECEIVED. JU
from the
■BEST FACTORIES of EURO!
A splendid stock to s
EVERY RENOWNE
AMERICAN 01
By the celebrate<
W. BELL, A
Which gained first and
OVER ALL 01
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIC
HARMONII
BT
ALEXANDRE and other REJS
in all the various
A PEW GOOD SECOND-
at low prices, now
W. H.'PALING, agent for Erar
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman's, and I
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Watt
and Warren’s, and Smith am
352 GEORGE !
Opposite Wynyar
Sydney.
WINE GROWER AND
Splendid DINNER WINES, fr
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21
FINE OLD WINES, suitable f
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40
Country Orders receive pi
[KAijjnqatfc
Tobacconis
JAMES
CELEBEATI
EXCELSIOR SMOKINi
Cut Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold L(
Best Imported B
Havana and Manilh
Pipes Mounted and
159 PITT ST
Next Post Off
TIN TAG TOB
None are genuine but the
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANK
DIXSON & S(
155 TOEZ STREET
SMOKE
EUREKA GIG,
MILD, PEAGRANT, 4
fa
Manufactured
T. S A Y W E
AT THE
EAG LE TOBACC
Clarence-street, J
rp HO' S. J. EOT
ENGINEERS, BRASS]
Importers o
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, f
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
Chemists and Dr
AKE NO MO
but try
PODOPHYLLIN LO
Bo yon SUFFER from HEA
Then try
PODOPHY]
Do yon Complain of Indigest
Take a few doses o
PODOPHY]
Do yon Suffer from Giddinesi
Spend one shilling, an
RANDERSi
Do you constantly suffer from
If so rememl
PODOPHY
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBI.L.IOUS MED]
Are any'of your children sicl
can safely give diem. on<
for the small members o
TAKE WE
W Remember this, and alwaj
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the P
EDWARD ROW and
45 and 47 George-s
B Y ROYAL LETTE
The Creates
WONDER OF TH]
JOSEPHSON'
AUSTRALIAN OIN:
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Matte:
Being made from the Wild Plan-
in the Bush of New Soi
This Ointment is not a mere Cf
public, nor does it require any pu
as it has been so well proved for t
that it is impossible that the pnbl
long deceived. In fact, people are
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli
But one trial will convince the n
High and low, rich and poor, hav
fits from its use, and scarcely an
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the c
The quick and instant relief from
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF T
which, taken altogether, prove the.
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
casualties attending the human ft
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perf«
Josephson’s Australian Ointment?
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephson
ment p
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ai
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment ?
_ Who would suffer from Exooriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained J
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson’s Australian Ointment if
It stands unrivalled. The wonc
effected, which is proved by the testii
of undoubted respectability, and i
communicated with, and the large i
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S A
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what ii
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storeki
and Is 6d each throughout the colo;
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO - '
ENTRAL PF.
78 (Late 84) KING ST
Chemists and D:
jp U B L I C
THE following I
WATSON'S RENOWNED
MEDICINE!
so well and favourably known to 1
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ar
Watson's (Vegetable) W-
Watson's Gingerbread W
Watson’s Compound Chi
Watson's Strengthening
Watson’s Australian Ver
Watson’s Excelsior Toot
Watson’s Concentrated C
Elixir (a most valual
can be obtained, wholesale and
factory—
WATSON’S DEUC
581 GEORGE ST]
P O T H EC ART
14 OXFORD STI
Near Hyde Park
(N.B. —The Tram-car stc
W. D. EAMES, I
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCEEDS
GOVERNOI
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and N(
W, D. E, thanks the public aj
for the support hitherto accorded
Irrespective of Club prescript!
has dispensed 34,000 original pre
ALL THE LEADING MEDIC \
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR TI
Every prescription is CAREF
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numb
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDI6ES!
May be easiest cured by the fol
EAMES’S QUIN]
Which improves the appetite
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGEST
For severe cases where the gas
and when sickness and flatuh
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANI
Which relievo the bowels gently,
naturally healthy functions
organs.


B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINI
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINi
B L
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINI
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINI
A combination of Oxygenated Sa
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, aiid OEi
Taken according to direction <
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a i
rational remedy as a preventive or cur<
all Functional Irregularities of the Li
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitual (
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickne
Indigestion, the effects propuced by
dulgence in rich food, ©r the atm
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, Ac.; at
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtheri:
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climi
diseases, it is especially serviceable
and should entirely supersede the i
aperients. Children take it with pie
vigorating effect of an occasional dose
to successfully combat the insidious at
It effectually destroys the Poison Gen
contracted in our daily walk through
alterative and enriching qualities it p
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy i
functions in the wonderful economy a
piece—Man. Remember this is _ N
supplied by the Science of Chemistr
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SA3
may justlv be termed a BLOOD DISH
4 PPROYED BY THE
Government I
10th Jan
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I hav
that the parcel was received in good
reason of my not writing to you before
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should
am now directed to inform you that
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and <
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithful
“Reginald B
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH
B
The Australian Churchmai
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYES
We can honestly recomme
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFAC
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FEUP
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Pa
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale —Messrs. Elliott Bros., S
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND.GEN]
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks —simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc., of aH 1
Plain figures—Low pric
fi] N J O Y L
1
TUr CRT AT HFNTRAI
nnr
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOO
MENTS IN THE WC
A Visit of Inspection E
We are in a positon to sell and
Establishments in the
NO DAMAGED Q<
OHE CUSTOMEES EEAP TI
OUE LAEGE CASH PI
Wb But fob. Cash—Ws Si
Only those who have visited our
conceive the advantage
COME AND SEE THE NI
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
• 1/9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents’ English
Galt Boots, sewn,
10/6—best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15/6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Our Stock is always
New.
For every week's
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10/6.
Our immense pur-
chases enable os to
undersell all other
establishments.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Soots, own make,
6/6.
Tor every week's
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
We abstain from giving a
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
” OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
GOWING BROTHERS’ 10s 6d double
SILK NAGASAKI
332 & 500 Frames, are the best'
Quality, ditto, ditto,
GEORGE STREET. °P eBed thia week
CATE shipment of th
GOWING BROTHERS’ ready made
in CUT, MATERIA
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, exi
tion of gentlemen sp<
QNCE
USED
ALWAYS USED
GQSiiB
Trademark “Arm and Dolly" on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
SSI
MARK
TRADE
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL. Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &o.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
F
ACTS WHICH CONCERN EVERYBODY
AT SOME PERIOD OP LIFE.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
FULL INFORMATION GRATIS.
House furnishing is not an easy task, but our Guides
are of great assistance; they show clearly what is ob-
tainable for certain sums of mony, and bring to mind
many things which might otherwise be forgotten.
THE NEW GOODS CONSTANTLY ARRIVING
KEEPS EVERYTHING NICE AND FRESH.
If you have £l5 to spend
If you have £25 to spend
If you have £35 to spend
If you have £5O to spend
If you have £7O to spend
If you have £lOO to spend
If you have £2OO to spend
If you have £3OO to spend
YOU CAN SPEND IT TO
ADVANTAGE
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
Open every evening until nine o’clock.
M AN L T
BEACH.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS.
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry. Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
s
IMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
TREAT ALL DISEASES WITH HERBS.
BOOKS FOR NOTHING-GET ONE!
You will get information that may save you pounds,
and perhaps months, or even years of suffering.
: 240 GEORGE STREET NORTH,
Opposite Charlotte Place,
SYDNEY.
INTAGLIOS.
The Bracelet.
Why I tie about thy wrist,
Julia, this my silken twist.
For what other reason ia't-
But to show thee how, in part.
Thou my pretty captive art F
But thy bond-slave is my heart.
*Tis but silk that bindeth thee,
Snap the thread and thou art free.
But 'tis otherwise with me.
I am bound, and fast bound, so
That from thee I cannot go;
If I could, I would not so!
Go Your Way.
Sweetheart, go your way!
I will go mine.
The summer days are squandered.
The summer days are squandered.
And left no sign.
Sweetheart, lift your head.
What matter now ?
The sun will shine as brightly.
The world will laugh as lightly
As once, I trow.
Sweetheart, think a while;
Tears are not wise;
Smile that the past was pleasant.
And that will light the present,
So dry your eyes.
Sweetheart, ask yourself.
Or I have done.
What, though the day hath found us.
Is the white dream that bound us
Not something won ?
Sweetheart, go your way!
We are but two ;
The world of change and chanoes
Grieves not for dead romances.
Then why should you ?
The Spring and the Ocean.
(FROM THE FRENCH OF VICTOR HUGO.)
The spring from the rock was falling.
Drop by drop to the awesome sea ;
The ocean, terror of mariners.
Said, “ Why comest thou to me ?
“ I am the tempest, the fearful;
I end where the heavens commence;
Do I then, little one, need thee,
I who am the immense ?”
“ I give, not with noisy glory,”
Said the spring to the salt abyss;
“ The thing that thou lackest, vast ocean—
A water-drop such as this.”
A Dedication.
The sea gives her shells to the shingle,
The earth gives her streams to the sea ;
These are many, but my gift is single.
My verses, the first fruits of me.
Let the wind take the green and the gray leaf.
Cast forth without fruit upon air;
Take rose-leaf, and vine-leaf, and bay-leaf
Blown loose from the hair.
The nighKshakes them round me in legions.
Dawn d .ves them before her like dreams ;
Time sheds them like snows on strange regions.
Swept shoreward on infinite streams ;
Leaves pallid, and sombre, and ruddy.
Dead fruits of the fugitive years;
Some stained as with wine and made bloody.
And some as with tears.
THE KOOKABURRA.
The Pirates of Polynesia—Missionaries.
Take no sauce from anyone but your cook.
The man who gets into prison will be more
guarded in future.
It is only when she is past ninety that a woman
is proud of her age.
The murmur of the Shell-out—The dropping of
coin on the church plate.
You thrash the wheat to get out the grain, and
the boy to get out the chaff.
Strange you cannot smoke a cigar too short
unless you smoke it too long.
It is better to be laughed at for not being
married, than to be unable to laugh because you are.
The meeting of the Waters—Licensing day with
a bench of teetotallers and a certain police inspector.
The most bashful girl ever known was one
who blushed when asked if she had not been courting
sleep.
It is common to hear of a “ club with home
comforts.” Would not a home with club comforts be
an equally good idea ?
“ I presume you know my business,” said the
census-taker to the acrobat, “and I merely wish to
learn your occupation.” “ Oh, I tumble to you,” re-
plied the acrobat.
Uncle Robin (looking at shop window): “ Ah,
they don’t make such amusing toys now as they used
to make sixty or seventy years ago—do they, Dick ?”
Uncle Eichard : “No, by George ; nothing like.”
A poor law guardian in the north of Ireland
lately addressed his audience thus: “ Mr. Chairman
and gentlemen of the Board, the eyes of Europe are
upon it—the apple of discord has been flung in our
midst —and if it be not nipped in the bud—it will burst
into a conflagration—which will deluge the whole
world! ”
The eternal truth of phrenology.— Professor:
“Your bump of causality is well developed—that is,
you’re a seekei after the meaning and truth of things.
Your bump of honesty is very large, indeed. (Suddenly
facing patient, and extending his hand)—Oh, I forgot.
Fee first; eighteen-pence, please, or I don’t go on.
I’ve been ‘ had ' too often.”
An Editor’s Difficulty.
One evening, while reclining
In my easy chair, repining
O’er the lack of true religion and the dearth of common
sense,
A solemn-visaged lady.
Who was surely on the shady
Side of thirty, entered proudly, and to crush me did
commence.
“ I sent a poem here, sir,”
Said the lady, growing fiercer,
“And the subject which I’d chosen, you remember sir,
was ‘Spring,'
But, although we scanned your paper.
Sir, by sunlight, gas, and taper,
I’ve discovered of that poem not a solitary thing.”
She was muscular and wiry.
And her temper sure was fiery.
And I knew to pacify her I should have to fib like fun ;
So I told her ere her verses,
Which were great, had come—to bless us.
We’d received just sixty-one on “ Spring.’’
And I added, " we’ve decided
That they’d better be divided
Among the years that follow—one’to each succeeding
spring.
Go, your work, I’m pleased to mention.
Will receive our best attention.
In the year nineteen-forty, when the birds begin to
sing.”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Thomas Elder has left Adelaide for England
by the Bokhara.
The will of the late Rev. Dr. Cairns, of Mel-
bourne, has been proved at £lO,OOO.
The will of Mr. Hoffman was proved at Mel-
bourne on the Ist under £78,000.
Mr. Thomas Shanahan, J.P., of The Briars
Molonglo, died very suddenly recently.
Sir 6. Duffy is wintering in the south of
France. This item wintery we took from a summary.
Mr. Docker took his seat for the first time as
chairman of Quarter Sessions at Coonabarabran on the
31et March.
Judge Andrews was warmly congratulated by
the Bar on taking his seat for the first time on the
Adelaida Bench.
The ex-Empress Eugenie has completed her
purchase of Mr. Longman’s villa, near London, the sum
being definitely fixed at £50,000.
The Chief Justice of Tasmania is not going to
resign yet. The probabilities of another term of vice-
royalty are too sweet to Lady S.
Miss Josephine Sturbide, daughter of the
former Mexican Emperor, is to receive from the present
Eepublican Government a pension of £lO,OOO a year.
Mr. Commissioner Deflfell, after twenty-five
years’ uninterupted service in the Insolvency Court,
has obtained a year s leave of absence in conseouence of
ill health.
Sir George Grey ran the expenses of his Govern-
ment up to £llO,OOO a week during the period he held
oflice. Rigorous retrenchment is now the policy of his
successors.
Sir P. A. Jennings presents the Zoological
Society with £loo—an example that might with mani-
fest advantage to the colony be followed by other
wealthy gentlemen.
The two lawyers who the other day quarrelled
in Rockhampton Court-house and then proceeded to
fisticuffs outside were the .Hon. S. Dick Melbourne and
Mr. Rees R. Jones.
Sir Herbert Standford, who was presented a few
days ago by the British Exhibitors with a gift of £3OO
has decided to spend the money in the purchase of pi<>
tures of Australian scenery.
Mr. W. H. Archer gets the position of Librarian
at the Melbourne Public Library, the dispute between
Mr. Berry and the trustees of the institution having
been satisfactorily adjusted.
Charles Darwin is confined to his room. He
has never fully recovered from his sufferings; on board
the “ Beagle,” fifty years ago, when he was prostrated
with sickness most of the time.
The Vicar of Stratford-on-Avon having caused
the ground in the vicinity of Shakespeare’s tomb to be
disturbed, it is suggested that the remains of the poet
should be transferred to Westminster Abbey.
An old Forest Creek (Vic.; miner, who used to
live in Dogleg Gully and whose wife recently died,
leaving him to take care of nine children, has been left
a fortune of £84,000 by a relative of his deceased spouse.
E. H. Home (“ Orion ” Horne) writes to a
London paper that the friend to whom Carlyle lent the
manuscript of his “ French Revolution," and whose
servant used it for lighting the fire, was John Stuart
Mill.
Mr. John Shepherd has a gold mine at Mitchell’s
Creek, Bathurst. The weekly yield is 50 oz. It takes
about this to carry on Dibbs’s insolvency case. “ Down
with the dibs, or gold v. coal,” is Shepherd’s motto
low.
Now that George Eliot is dead, it is agreed
among the best English and American critics that
Thomas Hardy is the greatest of living English
novelists. He is a native of Dorsetshire, and only 40
years of age.
The Empress of Germany, whose seventieth
birthday was celebrated a few weeks back, carries the
weight of her years gracefully, and gives no personal
evidence of such an advanced age. The Empress, unlike
her Imperial consort, is a devoted church woman, reli-
giously places a half-sovereign in the plate, reads with-
out spectacles, and sings in English with as much ease
and effect as in German.
Two sons of the Eight Hon. W. E. Gladstone
are members of the House of Commons. These gentle-
men have, up to the present, emulated the example of
Mr. H. H. Cooke—maintaining on all important topics
an eloquent silence. Not that Mr. Cooke won’t break
out one day. Only let a man of Forbes apply for a
viaduct commencing from his own “stoop,” and Henry
Harrie will be all there.
Some time ago there was in the Assembly a
member who, in the words of one of the Ministers, had
“an objectionable habit of eternally expectorating.”
Well, one evening, a messenger gravely brought to his
place in the House a neatly-got-up brown paper parcel
with the Speaker’s card outside. The member took off
the wrapper,—and—asked the messenger what it was ?
After careful consideration the messenger pronounced
it to be a spittoon.
A. M. Topp, the little man who caused such a
disturbance by his article in the Melbourne Review on
“ English Institutions and the Irish Race,” has not yet
got ont of trouble. The other day in Melbourne a
well-known priest said he was astonished that some son
of Erin had not smothered the presumptuous little man;
and now appears in the Review an elaborate defence of
Irishmen in particular and Celts in general from|the
ipen of Mr. Patrick O’Brien.
Sir Henry Watson Parker, whose death was
recently announced, and whose estate has been proved
under £llO,OOO, was married to a niece of Sir William
Macaithur, of Camden Park. He was consequently
related by marriage to Captain Onslow. Sir Watson
was once Prime Minister and Colonial Secretary of this
colony, and the chief incident of his ministerial career
was the public horsewhipping he received in the
Botanic Gardens, from some political malcontent who
afterwards was sentenced to two months imprisonment.
Some 13 or 14 years ago, a well-known indivi-
dual ivas stumping the country, and lecturing on
“ Bobbie Burns" as he went. One night he arrived at a
town in a great coal-mining centre, and asked the sup.
port of the community to his oration on the ground
that the proceeds were to go to a “great charity oh-
ject." The lecture was well patronised, and next day
the speaker was asked to “ dub up.” Replid he, “ Good
mun, d’ye ken a poorer mon in this community than
mysel’ ? And it’s a grund charity to be giving anything
Prince Albert Victor and Prince George of
Wales, now in the Bacchante with the Flying Squadron
recently entered with much zest into the ceremonies
attendant on crossing the line for the first time. Both
the princes were shaved and ducked in the conventional
style, as was also their companion. Prince Louise of
Battenburg. Their Royal Highnesses were blindfolded
below, then led on deck to be shaved, every inducement
being offered them to open their mouths for the further
application of the brush; they were afterwards suddenly
capsized off their chairs into a tub and dried with wet
ropeswabs.
Latest advices from the North are to the effect
that Mulligan’s and Stenhouse’s exploring parties
have both left Thomborough—the former going first
towards the Wild River, thence eastward to the head
of the Burdekin, and thence in a circle back to the
Hodgkinson. Halpin’s party go due west from the
Hodgkinson to the Tate and Lynd waters. Halpin’s
intention is to thoroughly test a patch of country
which he visited some years ago, but the precise situa-
tion of which he does not at present divulge, for
obvious reasons. Good specimens of gold were
obtained there some years ago.
Colonel Roberts, of the N.S.W. Artillery, holds
the Crimean medal, the Turkish medal, and the Italian
Order for military valour. He was seriously wounded
while with the Right Siege train in the advanced trenches
at the Crimea, Sept. 2, and on the 15th Nov., during the
Right-gun attack, was severely and dangerously
wounded. Recovering rapidly from his injuries, he
continued at the front, and was knocked down by a
spent cannon ball. His promotion followed, on the
personal recommendation of Lord Raglan. In 1866
Colonel Roberts married one of the daughters of* the
late William Bradley, Esq., of Goulburn.
Captain Boycott has been “ Boycotted ” in
London as well as in Ireland. The Railway Passengers*
Assurance Company decided, after the affair in Ireland,
that “ it was inexpedient to maintain the risk on the life
of Captain Boycott."
Baron Maclay, the distinguished Russian scien-
tist, who is actively moving, and, we are glad to say,
succeeding, in the matter of a permanent observatory
and laboratory at Watson’s Bay, for the study of Aus-
tralian fauna, has been well rece'ved at Melbourne
The sum of £2OO has already been subscribed in Sydney,
and the Government promise a donation of £3OO. The
remainder of the money necessary, about £lOO, is ex-
pected to he furnished without delay by the capital of
the sister colony. Tenders have already been called
for the building, which is to be a plain edifice, contain-
ing five work rooms, and it is to be devoted, not only
to the Baron s use, but to that of any zoologists who
may pay Australia a visit.
Dr. Gordon, of Murrurundi, has a small mena-
gerie, which the agent for Cole’s circus called the other
day to see. The latter having expressed a wish to
sedure a large kangaroo, alive, for his show, the doctor
told this to one of his sons, who, with three other
Murrurundi boys, went out next day, and caused a
muzzled dog to run down an “ old man.” When the
kangaroo was bailed up the boys dismounted. Two of
them—Gordon and Bruce —seized the marsupial by the
tail; the other boys—Banstried and O’Neil—ran up and
all fell upon the monster, which they (after having*
their clothing torn into ribbons, and their legs and
arms cut) managed to tie with cords. They then went
for their cart, into which they with difficulty put their
captive, returned to Murrurundi, and had the
kangaroo safely housed by 12 o’clock.
The news of the wreck of the Lady Darling,
labour schooner, brings to mind one of the most melan-
choly incidents in maritime exploration, namely, the
loss of La Pdrouse and his party. The Lady Darling ap-
pears to have been lost on a reef outside the Island of
Malicolo—the spot where the ship of the great French
navigator met destruction in the darkness. It was
along this reef that Captain Dillon, after many dangers
and disappointments, found what were afterwards in
Paris indisputably proved to be relics of the French
vessel. From the natives the captain gathered that
the catastrophe occurred at night and that before day
came the ship had broken up. It was added that the
few survivors, to save themselves from being eaten,
went out to sea and perished. Many Malicolo boys are
employed as labourers on the sugar plantations of
North and Central Queensland.
Before the close of the Victorian Police enquiry,
evidence will be given by no less an individual than Mr.
Otto Berliner, now a private detective in Melbourne,
and who was for many years in the police force of
N.S.W. and Victoria, besides being more recently a
detective in the southern colony. Mr. Berliner knows
a good many things and will have to speak them out.
much to the annoyance of some of the “ big wigs” of
the great police army.
According to Sir John Robertson, a man who is
a member of the Legislative Assembly has at least
a few advantages over other people. “He’ll always
find some tailor who’ll supply him with a pair of
trousers; any publican will give him a dinner; and he
can occasionally get a bed in the Assembly library or in
a railway carriage. He gets his notepaper free; his
drinks at the expense of the Ministry; and his brains
as often as not come, not from his progenitors, but
from his constituents.”
‘The Penny Morning Exile, in its issue of
Monday, somewhat gleefully republishes the comments
of a certain newspaper correspondent in regard to a
thrashing said to have been recently administered to
the editor of the Auckland Observer, a “society”
paper, by an individual who considered himself
aggrieved by certain printed remarks for which the
scribe had declined to apologise. The Exile authori-
ties evidently consider that all successful “ Serciety ”
editors should be thrashed, and they, no doubt, reprint
the remarks in question on the verb, sub, sap, principle,
as applied to Sydney. A dozen or fifteen Sydneyites
may have read Monday’s Exile, and we therefore deem
it but fair to state that the Auckland journalist over
whom so glorious a victory was gained is Mr. Kathbone;
that he is a son of the well-known English politician of
that name; that he is five feet three or four inches in
height, is an extremely delicate man, and weighed, when
he was in Sydney a year or two ago, exactly seven stone
eleven pounds, but was plucky out of all proportion to
his size. That a man of list. 61bs., well versed in the
science of fisticuffs, should smash up a little fellow like
Bathbone may, no doubt, appear a wonderful and
meritorious achievement to people of the Exile stamp,
but to persons who take into consideration the full
facts of the case the feat doesn’t seem to be a very great
act of valour. This little incident reminds ns, by the
way, that certain people in this city obtain immunity
from physical chastisement for two reasons—the first
being that no one but a fugitive cabman ever reads their
newspaper, and the second, that nobody desires to
attend an inquest “ in charge,”
rThe late Frank Bnckland finished his last and
most interesting work, “ The Natural History of
British Fisheries,” just two days before his death.
This was the dead naturalist’s simple creed: “To put
matters very straight, I steadfastly believe that the
Great Creator, as indeed we are directly told, made all
things perfect and * very good ’ from the beginning;
perfect and very good every created thing is now found
to be, and will so continue to the end of time."
In L’Ameriqne, the steamer that wafted Mdlle.
Sara Bernhardt to New York, there was another lady
passenger who was bound for the same port, but who by
no means visited America for the first time. On the
arrival of the steamer, half New York turned out to
welcome Sara—so many people being on the quay that
it was found necessary to have a cordon of police to
keep the mob back. No one, however, took aay notice
of the other lady. They both landed together—the
actress in costly furs, the other passenger plainly, if not
poorly dressed. The carriage of the ethereal actress
drove up. “ Stand back !” shouted the policeman to
the simply-dressed lady, and pushed her to one side to
make room for half a dozen busy hands to open the
carriage door; and the proud eqnippage rolled out, while
the other woman took the arm of a lone acquaintance
who came to receive her, and with whom—a small
satchel in her hand—she started afoot toward the city.
The carriage lady we have named. She who went away
on foot was Mrs. Abraham Lincoln (
It will be remembered that Mr. H. L. Nelson
.was at one time member for Orange, and was most in-
defatigable in vaunting of the agricultural capabilities
of his district. Sometimes he’d bring down to the
House samples of prize wheat, at other times gigantic
gooseberries; but on one particular occasion all his pride
was centred in twelve monster apples, which he would
have laid on the table of the House had such been per-
missible, but which in default he found a place for on
the refreshment-room mantelpiece. He buttonholed
members and waltzed them in two at a time, one on
either arm—to inspect the fruit, which was, in sooth,
lovely enough to have convinced even Bradlaugh or
Charley Bright that “the lady in fig-leaves** may really
have “damned us all for a bite at a golden pippin.’”
John Hurley, the facetious, was duly marched in by
Mr. Nelson; and John’s eyes twinkled at the sight.
Then Mr. Nelson got hold of the Honorable the
speaker and marehed him off towards the horticultural
show, the while explaining to Sir George that the
apples “were destined for the table of his Excellency
the Governor.” Sir George entered the refreshment-
room, and was just about to exclaim “ They are indeed
lovely apples, Mr. Nelson,” when it was found that
the mantelpiece was graced, not by a dozen rosy apples,
but by twelve big, mis-sbapen, dirty potatoes. Mr.
Nelson wept, and Sir George sniggered
Hurley invited all the religious Members of the House
.to 4 take tea with him in the refreshment room next
evening, and when he, from his place at the end of the
table, enquired, “Will any gentleman take an apple
dumpling?” a deathly pallor o’erspread the cheek of
Nelson, who on that day refused to “ do his duty.”
The late Gerard Krefft, Curator of the Museum,
fought a big fight before he was deprived of his position.
Of the way in which he was finally beaten nothing need
here be said. But Gerard literally made the names of
the Trustees “ ‘ stink’ in the nostrils ” of the people of
Sydney; and this he managed to do with the aid of a
Mg sunflsh. Many people will remember the fact of
the monster in question being captured in “ our
’arbour,” but it was not till Skinner, of Manly, a great
authority on whales and gudgeons, especially gudgeons,
pronounced it to be a monster of the deep, that it was
thought good enough for the Museum, Gerard, it
appears, was consulted as to the purchase of the
specimen, but he said it was “ too far gone" to be
cured. It was exhibited in Sydney for some days, and
when it was conveyed to the Museum it was, to quote
Mr. Krefft, “in a. complete state of mutton pie.” For
the first time in fifty years crows perched on the kerb-
stones of Sydney. Inspector Seymour of course had a
cold in his nose. The work of preserving the specimen
was entrusted to an amateur, but Mr. Krefft, always
willing te assist the Trustees, tendered his advice. That’s
why the amateur attempted to cure an immense mass of
decomposing fat and blubber by further exposing it to
the rays of a hot sun. _ The Grammar School boys had
a month’s holiday during the interesting process, and
the William-street school was on half time, the other
half being occupied by pupils’ funerals. Gerard got all
th. 6 trustees together to see how the affair was going
on. The age of four of them was shortly afterwards
stated to be 76. Meanwhile Gerard was moving the
press. The “ amateurs " and the trustess “ got it hot.”
Four suburban boiling-do wn establishments which had
been run in by the police, were allowed to continue
their operations. At last the big sunflsh could stand it
no longer; it fell off the props and ran away. Ever
afterwards Gerard used to soliloquise thus Veil ef ve
loose de blessed sunflsh ve gain too grand points. Von
is I rub de dam sunflsh indo de drustrees; and de Oder
is I make such a dam schmell about de museum dat
some beeples in authority hat to meet their fine ladies
some place else -- not keep my blace open efery night.”
THE FANCY BALL.
It is all over. The curtain has fallen upon the pageant;
the stage-carpenters have trampled on the blue fire ;
the gas has been turned off the moon; the supers have
exchanged their mediaeval trappings for the moleskin
pants and bluchers of a prosiac world, and realism once
more reigns supreme! Even as we write this with a
black smear over one eyebrow, and a red stain over the
other, the sun is streaming through the windows of
the Garden Palace, and lights up a scene of desolation
which only the pencil of a could adequately depict,
or the pen of a Dickens describe. When the last guest
had left, we stood there under the mighty dome,
and let our gaze wander over the vast interior.
It was a melancholy picture. Where a feW
minutes previously all had been brightness and action,
a ghostly silence reigned, broken only at intervals by
the gutteral exclamations of departing bandsmen, and
the drowsy anathemas of worn-out waiters. The floor
of the ball-room was thickly strewn with miscellaneous
articles of ladies fair. It seemed as if the angels above had
been holding carnival, but suddenly repenting of their
levity had once more assumed their wings and trumpets,
and hurled their finery at this wicked world. On second
thoughts, though, this hardly applies, for we should
imagine if the seraphs in question did go in for
jewellery, they would hardly invest, even for casual
adornment, in ornaments that would not " stand the
acid." The articles] we picked up were more various
than valuable. On the table before us, cheek by jowl
with our own wig and Caasarian helmet, stands a little
pile of heterogenous articles, the aggregate intrinsic
value of which we should estimate at ninepence.
There is a tin brooch with a large lump of green glass
glued on to it, and the pin missing. This was ap-
parently the jewel that bravely gleamed in the feathered
hat of some noble cavalier. Three stars of the same
precious metal, which have fallen from the costume of
some angelic ‘‘Queen of the Night” next attract our
attention. The wooden heel of a lady’s “ long quar-
tered town mades” is prominent amongst the trophies,
while a “ busted” blue garter should not be forgotten.
There are also a broken feather, a woollen sword-knot,
a fugitive "imperial,” and pieces of muslin amounting
in the aggregate to about five miles. Any, or the whole
of these articles may be had on application to this
office, each separate valuable to be, of course, fully
identified by the owner.
The ball was a success—socially, anyhow, if not
artistically. Last night when mingling withjthe giddy
vortex we heard people saying that itjwas “ splendid,”
"grand,” “magnificent,”—a patch from Elysium—a
chunk from a fairy dream. There was the crash of the
music, the delirium of the “light fantastic,” the
silvery tones of musical laughter, the balmy scent of
patchouli. These, of course, tended to dispel all prosaic
ideas, all unromantic thoughts of this “work-a-day
world.” Men attired in Charles 11. costume looked
complacently into looking-glasses, and even experienced
—so carried away were they with the excitement of
the hour—a kind of feeble desire to see the dress they
wore come into fashion again. Yet, could these same
individuals behold themselves so attired in the broad
daylight—perceive what ferocious ruffians their false
moustaches make them, how thick their trunks make
their thighs look, and how thin’their tights make their
calves look—in short, what unutterable scarecrows they
appear—their hearts would be shivered into a
thousand splinters. Let it 'not, however, be thought
that we except ourselves so far as fancy dresses are
concerned. Ear from it. As we regard the martial
attire in which we stalked so complacently on Tuesday
night huddled up into a corner, the mean aspect of it
casts a gloom of sadness upon our soul. What —mad
visionaries that we were, —we considered bright and
beautiful in our attire as we basked in the smiles of
loveliness is very sorry-looking fustian now. The
sword of which we were so proud seems but a jack-knife
in a candle-box, while the bullion that gleamed so
brilliantly in the gas light now appears but the most
trashy tinsel. And unpleasant thoughts crowd upon
us. We have now a clear remembrance of boys jeering
at us as we went in, and dogs barking at us as we came
out; and a general feeling of having cut rather a sorry
figure permeates into the very cavern of our soul. No
matter, however; with all this, we have been there
—and in character. That’s something, anyway!
It was about ten o’clock when we arrived in the halls
of dazzling light. Being ushered into the cloak-room,
we delivered up our ulster, and received a ticket
exchange, with a smiling request from the presiding
functionary that "we would not forget the plate.”
Having promised to keep the willow-pattern in our
most cherished remembrance, we proceeded to stalk
proudly out, when suddenly we discovered that we had
no place in our costume in which to carry the ticket.
This dilemma necessitated a faltering request for a pin
from a person in authority with a foreign toumure, to
which he responded by handing us, with a bow, one
rather over the size of an ordinary marlin-spike.
Having, by means of this weapon, skewered the ticket
to some unobtrusive portion of our regalia, we entered,
the ball-room, to the accompaniment of the ethereal
" Blue Danube.”
The scene was brilliant, if net impressive. To the
inspiring strains of the stirring music, some 500 couples
were in the throes of the waltz. Like the Biblical hero,
“we watched and waited.” By thus temporarily with-
standing the blandishments of Terpsichore, we were
repaid by receiving much instruction. Before con-
templating this dance, we had never imagined there
were so many varieties of the waltz before. A sailor
dancing with a Gipsy particularly attracted our atten-
tion. Ealph Eackstraw did the deux temps, and Esmeralda
the trois temps, so the result was that when they were
not cannoning against Lucrezia Borgias and Eigolettos,
their heads were bobbing up and down like corks in
a gutter. The dresses—like the company—were very
mixed. A great many were picturesque, and a very
great many grotesque. Some, notably the costumes of
the ladies, were in exquisite taste and keeping : others,
more particularly the dresses of the gentlemen, were
marked by eccentricities of design and colour that were
positively bewildering. That "noticeable man with
large gray eyes” was of course present (when is he ever
absent ?), bearing on his arm a charming young lady in
white (“Beautiful Snow,” probably), and possessing an
immense wealth of wavy tresses. Mr. E. Lewis Scott,
the well-known prologue-writer, was there, attired as
Asmodeus. At least we were told that it was Asmo-
deus by a Knight of Something who said he knew
Lewis’s aunt. It is some time since we have read
Blanche’s book, so our critical acumen With regard
to the “ exact correct ” in the matter of types
travesties is getting rather shaky—therefore we
are not in a position to deny that Lewis did represent
that Liable Boiteux. At the same time we have seen
the same dress, bar the horns, worn by Eosencrantz, by
THAT BUBERS HAT: A Sketch at the Fancy Dress Ball.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
SINGER MANUFACTURE
Have opened a Depd
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DAE
HARBOUR STRE
SINGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
Singers sewing
BEST TERMS TO WHOLE!
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for address of nea
SINGER’S, THE BEST F
Have received 160 First Pi
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, fer ci
SINGER’S, BEST FOE I
SINGER'S MEDIUM MACH
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. w
s :
INGER’S THE BEST I
See the New No. 4 Mt
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition 1
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOR
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-!
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OR TREAD
s
SINGER’S. The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d
SINGER’S, THE BEST;
LEARN. New Improvements
NGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all!
s
s
INGER’S. THE BEST A 1
Sew finest muslins and he
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
s
INGER’S THE BEST and M
Will last a lifetime in co;
s
INGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TB
8
INGER MANUFACTURE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hor
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymar
hare been appointed agents foi
machines.
Call and see them —Mouth’i
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cas
SINGER’S SEWING Mi
8
INGER’S SB WING MAG HI
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is «
GEK MACHINE. See th<
Mark on the arm
INGER’S MACHINES.—h
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER'S MACHINES.—B
Cast ir >u imitations. Onlj
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER S S EWING MACH!
meuts with the Singer C.
INGERS SEWING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on '
8
8
8
YDNBY—From TURNEE
GEORGE STREET, opposite
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH!
but 160 FIRST PRI
YOU ABE
EBBPECTFUXLT INVITED
TO VISIT
HORDERN’S
IN
PITT STREET.
t
S. W. BOWING ASSOCIATION-
* INTERCOLONIAL EIGHT OAR RACE,
Saturday, April 9.
Tickets from TURNER & HENDERSON, Hunter-
street.
TO TRAVELLING COMPANIES,—A new
HALL will be opened at Wellington, N. S. Wales,
on the IBth April. Good stage. Apply to R. Porter,
Gazette Office, Wellington.
(JITY (JATEEING (jOMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET,
CATERERS, COOKS, PASTRY COOKS, CON-
FECTIONERS, and HOTEL KEEPERS.
We respectfully beg to announce to our friends and
the general public, that having secured the above
premises (lately known as Harris’ Victoria Caf6), we
are now in a position to get up on the shortest notice.
Public Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts, Picnic Parties,
and Balls, in a style to suit all classes of the community.
MODERATE TEEMS BEING OUR MOTTO.
The very fact that the names attached to our Circula r
(the same being under the management of our Mr.
Chas. E. Smith) we think should be a sufficient
guarantee that there will be nothing wanting on our
part to suit the public taste, both as regards the
Restaurant or the Catering department.
CHAS. R. SMITH,
Manager.
PRIZE “I VAN HOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878.
—o—
TWO FIBST PRIZES
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL.
—o—
DINNER WINES,
LIGHT akd DRY,
10/- PER DOZEN.
BURGUNDY')
>2l/- per dozen.
EIESLINQ )
it Wl
:> m\
“ Drink no longer water,
but use a little wine for
thy stomach’s sake and
thine often infirmities."
—1 Tim. v. 23.
“ Wine maketh glad the
heart of man."
—Ps. civ. 15.
L
AWARDED
TWENTY. NINE
MEDALS
AND
CERTIFICATES.
—o—
FRUITY WINES:
MADEIRA A
[■ 14'- Per Dozes.
SHIRAZ )
PER GALLON:
5/6
IN JARS AND KEGS.
lyanhoe Vineyard,] B. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Hunter River, ) SYDNEY DEPOT— I 3 BRIDGE STREET,
Wine Growers
AND
Merchants.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
BRASS FOUNDERS AND PLUMBERS,
COPPERSMITHS, GASFITTERS, AND GENERAL BLACKSMITHS,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. BRASS WORK OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
IMPORTERS OF
DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, &c.
MANUFACTURERS OF
BRASS WINDOW-SASH BARS,
POMPS. SINGLE ADD DOUBLE ACTION, 4 HTDEiDLIC LEATHER HOSE PIPES. 4c.
SHIPS WORK DONE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF THE MARSHALL PATENT WINDOW FASTENER.
fJIHE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot bo too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTEEMANN AND C».,
Sole Agent?*
674 George-stwst,
Florizel, by the comic serving man who announces
that “My Lord is arrived,” in Matt. Lewis’s melo-
dramas. In short, we hardly remem ter an old play in
which someone has not worn almost the very counter-
part of Lewis’s costume. The dress consisted of a red
jerkin, and tights of the same colour, long shoes, and
(of course) spectacles. Our author was, however, a
success. That is to say, he attracted a considerable
amount of attention. He was very lively, too—in fact
quite übiquitous. You couldn’t miss him for five
minutes together; and if you did you could always
chance on him away from the refreshment counter.
The public element was strongly represented, and cer-
tainly our bonifaces and their families turned out in a
very gorgeous manner. One of the most attractive
figures in the room was that of the wife of a well-known
George-street hotel-keeper. She was dressed as Marie
Antoinette, and the costume suited her admirably—so
admirably, indeed, that there was more than one
mnrmurer present, who envied the landlord we have
alluded to something else besides his license. Mr.
Hunt, of the International, appeared decorated with
three medals. He evidently considered these trophies
of valour to be adornment, enough. Had, however, the
witty boniface chosen three stars instead of three
medals as an embellishment, it could not have been
termed inappropriate Alderman J. D. Young was in
great force. His Highland costume was a really splen-
didly appointed dress, and his form towered above the
other mimic personages like a poppy among dasies.
Mrs. Young was charmingly costumed as Marguerite—
and was a contrast, by the way, to another representa-
tion of Mephistopheles’ victim, who had apparently
donned the attire of a singing chamber-maid by
mistake. Mr. Tidswell appeared as a Knight of the
Order of St. Jabbernock. We are not certain of the
precise order, but will risk it on St. Jablteruock anyway.
Mr. Sharp shone as a Freemason—wearing on his manly
bosom a golden medal gained, we are told, in the battle
of Kasherwoller. Now we come to think of it, we are
not quite sure that Kasherwoller was the battle.
However, it’s the ninth hour and there is no time to
make any corrections; so we’ll risk it on that too.
Sam. Lazar, feebly disguised as a waiter, was not
absent; and the scene was further illumined by the
noble figure of Mr. Montague Scott, who, though but in
evening dress, possessed a charm of his own that not
the most brilliant costume could heighten. Mrs. Scott
looked attractive in a bewitching dress with a killing
toque and a very short skirt. We are not sure of the
character, but it was either the Bohemian Girl or
Mariana at the Moated Grange. One or the other, we
are certain, or perhaps both. There were a good many
“wall-flowers.” These were an interesting study, and
we studied them accordingly.
One of the ladies appeared ns Britannia. In gazing
upon her, we were affected nearly to tears, t he expression
of her features was so very, very melancholy. Her attire
was typical of her facial expression; there was nothing
bold about it. Even the lady’s helmet seemed shrunken,
and her shield appeared warped. She sat in a chair,
gazing pensively before her, and never once rose to dis-
play the full glories of her ambitious get-up. A well-
known Cook’s River medico gleamed conspicuous, and
as he sauntered to and fro in his quiet evening dress
many a gentle blue eye peeped from beneath a silken
lash in his direction. The wife of this gentleman wore
a black ball-dress, with magnificent diamonds, which
before she had been long in the room became the uni-
versal theme of remark. Mr. E. D’Arcy Towns assumed
the costume of the Pirate King, and, for a time, he was
the cynosure of all eyes. A great feature of his dress
was a magnificent black wig, manufactured expressly
for him by Wigzell, of Oxford-street. And this reminds
us that the success of most of the characters was owing
to the taste and skill of this prince of tonsorial pro-
fessors —long may he reign!
One gentleman came out in a red coat as a Sportsman,
and, like Mr. Nat. Winkle, would have excelled in that
character had he not borne an equal resemblance to a
general postman. There was also a masquer figuring as
an Artillery Officer, but he irresistibly reminded us of a
barber in disguise. We noticed, too, with much plea-
sure, a harlequin. This character was only a moderate
success, since the impersonation of that sprite-ly j
personage not being anatomically adapted for the part,
had padded tor it with more conscientiousness than
success; since one piece of wadding had slipped down
and made a lump on his right ankle, and another had
made a tumour in the small of his back. A male
Robinson Crusoe was much admired, as far as the end
of his goat-skin knickerbockers. The admiration
stopped there, for a certain reason. Robinson was not
a who did things by—calves. One of the Othellos
was very much admired. He looked the part to the
life. Indeed a murmur went the round of the ball-room
that he had blacked himself all over. He was, in conse-
quence, much respected. The Government House party
had an alcove to themselves, and Gussy and Reggie
looked, as they always do look, lovely. The prome-
naders appeared much interested in the vice-regal
party, and their refreshment counter was the source of
a considerable amount of envy. The reason of this, it
may be stated, was that some of the waiters employed
by the caterers were exceedingly brusque—not to say
truculent —and that therefore many of the ladies and
gentlemen present preferred fasting to being subjected
to the impudence of these men. Comnaguoni and Co.
supplied, as they always do supply, the best of every-
thing ; the only difficulty the public experienced was in
obtaining it. It was, of course, impossible for any
one man to keep under personal supervision such an
army of hirelings, but doubtless the company will
thank us for calling their attention to incivility on
the part of their lacqueys. Civil servants are
naturally uncivil, but waiters, though not civil
servants in one sense, should be so in another.
Cardinal Richelieu was there in aU the glories of
merino robes with oat-skin edging. He looked every
inch the Cardinal—at least, the cardinal one sees in the
minor theatres. A well-known advertising tailor
glistened as an officer in the New Zealand army, to
which he formerly belonged. He looked very valiant;
and if he was only half as good a cutter-down as he is a
cutter-out, he must have made things unpleasant for
the Maories. A great sensation was caused some tune
after twelve o’clock by the arrival of Mr. Verdi in full
fig, as the Pirate Captain, and Mr. J. A. South as
the Major-General. The fierce outlaw had a very little
lady on bis arm, to whom be attached himself to the
whole night—to the evident disappointment of a fair
bevy of admirers, the pulsation of whose hearts kept
time to his long footsteps. James brought Mrs. S.
with him, like a good benedict as he is. The lady (Miss
Edith Pender, of tuneful memory) threaded the mazy
dance a bewitching Maritana. Another very pretty
dress was that of Miss Amy Bowdler, who was dressed
in a fantastic costume composed of the American
colors very artistically arranged as to detail. A young
lady, who adopted the name of our paper for her
costume, created quite a farore. Her popularity as our
emblem is, of course, only an additional assurance of
the favour in which The Bulletin is held by the public.
Not that we want any additional assurance, because—
bnt we wont disclose facts. We are good-natnred (in the
main)and don’t want to make our contemporaries squirm.
Miss Raine donned one of the most chaste and elegant
dresses at the ball. It was a white satin robe, trimmed
with shells and seaweed. There was grace in the cos-
tume and grace in the wearer, therefore the effect of
the picture was ravissant. Jewish ladies and their
attendant cavaliers showed in great numbers. There
was Mr H E. Cohen (a good deal grayer since the last
election), chaperoning his daughter-an elegant young
lady, draped in white satin, and wreathed m smiles.
Another dark yet fair Oriental sylph looked positively
bewitching as Italia. One feature of the ball-and a
pretty feature —was “that Rubens hat, which was worn
by a fashionable young lady from one of the Points.
Elegant coiffures of this description are supplied (this
looks very like an advertisement) by Mr. Menton, the
celebrated man-milliner, of Pitt-street. The appear-
ance of a certain Hebrew gentleman, who personated a
naval officer, we can scarcely commend, since, to _]udge
bv his motions, he appeared as much at home m the
nautical rig as a kangaroo in a sealskin jacket. Mr.
Woolley appeared as an Irishman ; the only thing really
Irish about him was the wig, which he seemed to have
put on wrong side before. Mr. Maodermott, the en-
quiry benefactor to humanity at the G.P.0,, paralysed
his Mends (and they are legion) by making his appear-
ance in the garb of a Spanish brigand. In this character
he looked like Haidee’a father—
“ The very mildest mannered man
That ever cut a throat or scuttled ship.
His dress was very handsome particularly the
hat, which, by reason of its great height, attracted
the general gaze. It was a very nice hat,
bnt there were—as, indeed, there are with nearly
every species of splendour—certain inconveniences
attach edto it. When he got it well plugged over his
wig, it was impossible to take it off without 4 ' carrying
away" his wig-string, and once it did come it took the
united efforts of 25 friends to jam it on again. His
calico sash, however was quite dazzling in its brilliancy,
while the rosettes upon his shoes were more gorgeous
than Malvolio’s when bethought he had made it * right
with Olivia. Although masks were not permitted, the
representative of a contemporary indulged in a thorough
good wash, and thns went fully disguised.
The members of the committee being for the most
part conspicuous by their absence, there were ill-
natured persons who sneered at the ball as a one-horse
affair, patronised only by the middle and lower-middle
classes. This idea though, we are happy to state, was
entirely dispelled by the appearance of our friends Mr.
Tom Robertson and party. _ „ , . ~
The decorations were really " 0.K., and we should
have deemed them to be quite new, had we not feasted
our gaze upon them before. The lighting was very
well managed indeed ; but the efforts of the manage-
ment in this direction appear to have been thrown
away, dark corners and solitary terraces being the most
favoured spots. Why this should have been we really
don’t know.
The oleak-room was well conducted, and the shilling
which the employes howled at you to put into the
pla e was well earned. ,
All things considered, we liked the ball very much.
We shall manage to survive, though, if a quarter of a
century or so elapses before we are required to attend
at another.
His Grace the Duke of Manchester gone to New
Zealand.
Kowalski goes home by the Orient. He joins
the vessel at Melbourne.
Layoock arrives in Sydney to-day (Thursday),
and will be given a public reception on Friday
afternoon. He was most cordially welcomed at Mel-
bourne by the Mayor and leading citizens.
Those magnificent steamers, the Orient and
Cathay, hauled off from the foot cf Pitt-street on
Wednesday at noon, and immediately steamed off m
company towards Melbourne, en route for London.
Scene.—Sunday school. Clergyman: “Suppose,
my dear children, yon liesird that the world would be
destroyed by fir© to-morrow, what would you do r
Young hopeful: •*'Why, Pdl get into one of Weame’s
fire-proof safes.” fAiTT.I
How is it that the Bowenfels Coal Mining
Company, which was to have proved so grand a financial
success, has paid no dividend for six years? Meeting
takes place at 3 p.m. on Friday, the Bth, at 7 Waterloo
Chambers, George-street.
Co-operation. —Public School teacher : What is
co-operation f Smart pupil: Co-operation is a man
taking unto himself a wife, and they two forming them-
selves into a committee with power to add to their
number.
Thomas Webb and Sons, of Bond-street, have
just imported large lines of Menton’s and Wedge wood’s
celebrated china-ware. The articles completely eclipse
the best description of similar goods shown at the
Sydney International, and the wonder is that the
leading private houses of Sydney should be without
them.


WITHOUT RESERVE. W]
SATURDAY. SATURDAY,
9tb
ON THE GBOUNd]
ON 1
BLACKHEATH. BL
GOVETT’S LEAR GO
THE MOUNTAINS. THI
I WHY GO TO EUROPE in sear,
BLACKHEATH in but a C(
JOURNEY by rail from Sydn
lowing extraordinary advanta
Ist.—BLACKHEATH is famed fa
SENATORIUM of NEW SC
2nd.—BLACKHEATH—THE DC
3rd.—BLACKHEATH CANNOT ;
and is gradually getting dotted
PUL COUN TRY RESIDENC
Messrs. EVA SS, POPE, HA
and many others.
4th.—BLACKHEATH lots are I’
POSETE, and some ADJOIN 1
TION.
Sth.—BLACKHEATH VIEWS
PASSED FOR BEAUTY.
VAREETT.
6th.—BLACKHEATH allotments
the LEVEL OF THE SEA.
7th.—GOVETT’S LEAP—The W
VETT’S LEAP—is within
WALK OF THIS ESTATE.
Bth.—BLACKHEATH—ONE of tl
MOUNTAIN SCENERT gent
interest beyond their imm«
THES, however, DOES NOT
HEATH, which is within E
KATOOMBA, the WE NT ft
HARTLEY VALE, MOUNTS
LOCAL PLACES of interest,
GOOD WIDE ROADS.
9th.—BLACKHEATH FOR HE A
RECREATION,
ENTIRE FREEDOM from tl
PLAINT—ENNUI.
10th.—BLACKHEATH is unde
TITLE.
ATTEND THE S
SATURDAY, 9th APRi;
of the
BLACKHEATH ESTATE, in al
MENTS, varying in size from 1
by
BATT, EODD, and PURV
ON THE GROD
WITHOUT REST
TERMS VERY EASY, viz.:—
per cent, in 3 months, and the ba
24 months, with only 6 per cent, ii
«ST AN ALLOWANCE OF 2*
if paid within 14 days from date of
INTENDING PURCHASERS
either the 7 a.m. or 9 a.m. ORD]
be in time for the sale.
NO FREE TICKETS will be is
in FULL will be made to ACTUA
the cost of their Railway Fare.
REFRESHMENTS on a liber
«sr TICKETS for either of thet
may be had at the Offices of the
the nominal charge of 10s Ist clasi
and the amount will be refunded t
SALE PLAN and LITHOS. rei
TITLE, TORRENS’. TITI
NOTE the DAY of
SATURDAY, 9th APE]
BATT, EODD, and ]
88 Pitt-stree
AUBURN DOWNS. AUB
tST A Magnificent Blo<
in AREA
upwards of 150 a
With Frontage t
AUBURN PLATFORM and the I
BATT, ROOD, and PURYI
struotions to sell by, PU
SATURDAY, the 23rd April, at 3
ON THE GROI
gYDNEY IN:
To Mr. JOHN STREET, one c
SYDNEY INFIR
Sir, —
That there shall be NO
ERRONEOUS STATEMENTS ]
LUNCHEONS PROVIDED FOl
DIRECTORS. I shall give yo
PUBLICLY TESTING THE FE
SCRIBEBS, to whom alone I an
first general meeting, by inviting
the resolution referring to me,
forward yesterday at the Board S
" Milton,” Darlinghurst Road,
6 April, 1881.
F
ROZEN
ME\T! P
FROM ORA
NOTICE TO BUT<
The Orange Slaughtering Coi
treat wi th Butchers for the sale
Beef, Veal, Pork, and Lamb, one
mence delivery of same about thi
They propose to supply cult tl
enter in an agreement with th
their customers with frozen me
exclusion of all other. The na
will be published in the daily p
sons authorised to sell the Comp
Prices will be adjusted from <
Sydney cattle market. No mea
ordered by letter or telegraph.
For all further particulars ap
the Company at Orange, or t
112 Pitt-street.
J. B - 60
HAIRDRESSER and H
(Late assistant to J. (
Has commenced Business at
B
OSS AND
(Late Collins and I
-SEATED W
AND
CORDIAL MANUFAI
438 HARRIS STREE
First Prize, International Ex
for Soda Wate
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Len
Ginger Beer, i
CORDIALS OP ALL
The Trade lupplied withlpromp
NOTE THE ADDB
BOSS AND (
438 HARRIS STREET,
NOT I C ]
JROARTY,
• PHOTOGRAPHER,
tio4 georg:
„ . BK
Begs to inform his numerous pati
completed extensive alterations
ducive t'» the successful working c
ness, having imported, at great
most modern appliances from the
and having a staff of first-class
studying the comfort of his cue
success, in e ery particular, he tn
tinuanoe of that patronage which
possessed
J. R. wishes also to be underst
no Door Touter to annoy passers,
considers degrading in the extrem
Portraits in all the latest styl
patch. Carte de Visites, artistic;
to 7s 6d ner dozen, 7s 6d per dozen
O. E O. L. L I
HIGH-CLASS CASH
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MI
Begs to inform his friends and tl
opened the above premises
gentlem n who wish to have i
manship, &e., at a low price fo
Gentlemen requiring this with W
should give me a trial.
Country orders nromntlv
THIS VI
SATUEDAY, A
THE GEEA
WAVERLEY LA
OPENING OP
TRAMWAYS TO Wj
FREE S ECIAL I
APPLY POE TIC
CHESTERFIELD.
CHES
THE FINEST POSITION ]
<»■ ——
THIS DAY, SAT
APE I L
SPECIAL FREE IF
WILL LEAV
HUNTER STREET, at 2.13
i
QUEEN ST., WOOLLAHB
APPLY POE TICKETS.
APF
THIS DAY, SA
APRIL £
59 VILLA SII
EVERY SITE HAS AN 0
WIDE STREETS. 20 P]
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
f|l H E A T 8 E
WILLIAMSON'S OPERA
BRILLIANT BUC(
of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Melo-
THE “ PIRATES OP PE
IMPORTANT CHANGE
Re-appearance of MISS MAC
(after her severe indisposition), i
Ruth, the Piratical Maid o
Special enslavement of MISS ELSI
Piima Donna, and of Mr.|HOW
the populn,r Teno
With the RECONSTRUCTED CAS
SCENERY, DOUBLE ORCHE3T
GORGEOUS COSTUMES and CR
"THE PIRATES
Will be repeated every evening t
ARTHUR Qi
U E E N ’ S TH
Me,
NEW DRAMATIC AND MUSI
For Six Nights Only—
UNCLE TOM
UNCLE TOM
UNCLE TOM.
For Five Nights Only,
Commencing on SATURI
April the Bth.
An engagement has been etfectei
Jubilee Company, numbering 30
appear each night
in
UNCLE TOM,
supported by the full .strength of tl
QUEEN’S DRAMATIC (
Further particulars in future t
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
One of the richest mines in Victoria is that of
the Duke Co., Timor. Operations stopped some time
back by inundations. Water now grappled with; dis-
charge 3500 gallons a minute Sydney tramway system
to be rapidly and promptly exten led Japanese steamer
open to public inspection, last Sunday Miiburn Creek
Copper Mine Company re-imborsed by Government in
gum of £16,000, result of a departmental bungle in
granting lease Liguria (s.) left the Cape for Sydney
March 29 Catania sailing from London 15th May,
fitted with freezing chambers capable of holding 250
tons fresh meat One case of typhoid fever on the
Lusitania Freight on wool to London to be the same
from Queensland ports as from Sydney The illicit
trade in liquor in the Islands of Banks, and Bass Straits
is said by a recent visitor, Bev. Canon Brownrigg, to be
doing much harm One-hilf of an opal mine in
Queensland has just been sold for £4OOO. Dr. Robinson,
an Indian geologist of high repute, says that opoi
matrix from this mine is the largest and finest he has
ever seen The steam-tug Gerald has been purchased
by Mr Charles Levie for £4OO The Melbourne In-
tematioual gold medals contain £8 10s werth of gold.
A “found drunk" at Sandhurst had £339 in his
pocket The Starlight, a second Susanne Godeffroy,
put into Sydney, coal-laden from Newcastle, making
water very fast. The crew forced the captain to make
the port,.....The Lusitania brought out on her last
trip 36301 b s. of frozen English and 8 sottish fish
A 120 oz. nugget found in Forster's claim, Temora, on
Friday The Queensland hotel, at Temora, has been
purchased by a Melbourne man for £2250 Opening of
the new cemetery at Newcastle actively agitated . ..
The week’s output of coal at Newcastle, 21,159 tons—
Shepherd and Hurley’s claim, Mitchell’s Creek, yield-
ing an ounce to the ton ; lode 30ft wide Large land
selection' at Cowra Six tenders sent in for the
supply of 36,000 tons of coal for the Victorian railways,
Census taken in all the colonies last Sunday
night The office hours of the Adelaide Customs are
lengthened an hour, and less officials are to be employed,
owing to the dearth in the shipping business A man
named Donaldson is being prosecuted at Adelaide, for
perjury, in a case where a man upon his evidence got
two years’ imprisonment Profits of the Adelaide
Commercial Bmk, £10,000; dividend, 2s 6d per shore
Four Europeans have died at the Johnstone River)
one being Mr Gumming, formerly of Richmond
plantation. M ickay. Fever has been very general
A shark, fourteen feet long, chased a robust gentleman
to the steps of the Gooktown bathing-house A final
survey has been made of the route of the proposed
tramw ly from Campbelltown to Camden. It is thought
that the tram will be running in time for the Christmas
holidays M’Laughlin and Co. are now the proprietors
of the Rockhampton brewery, and are producing beer
of first-class quality 863 people at the Australian
Museum on Sunday, 3rd April The Gooktown
Herald, in view of the present neglected condition of
the far North, proposes the formation of a Cook Mining,
Commercial, Pastoral, and Agricultural Associa-
tion, witn branches at Maytown, Thornborough, Kings-
borough. Port _ Douglas, Cairns, Granite Creek, and
wherever there is an embryo settlement Near Cook-
town, the other day, an alligator marched over 40 yards
from the river to reach half a slaughtered bullock, with
which it walked off.
SOME REVENUE FIGURES.
The stamp duties gave .£35,146.
The Post 0350 e returns rose from £61,392 to
£72,352.
The Customs showed an increase of £28,875,
being £285,711.
Public School fees amounting to £9BBB appear
for the first time.
The railways gave a return of £291,914, an
advance of £53,728.
The expenditure for the quarter was £1,043,941.
Balance, £1,796,412.
The quarter’s revenue is £1,393,246, being an
increase of £464,765 on last year’s quarter.
Tobacco, cigars, spirits, tea, and other lines
exhibited increases; sugar, ale and beer a decrease.
The Land exhibits the principal increase, the re-
turns being £011,462 against £286,100 for the corres-
ponding quarter of last year. The sale department
yielded £300,000. Deposits on conditional purchases
were £117,799, an increase of £5B 218, and the interest
on conditional purchases amounted to £60,106 as against
£36,652


MARTIN & PAIN, 38
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
single-furrow Ploughs. We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information, v
RAKSOS
KITCHI]
HORNBY'S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
HO'WAP D’S New Pattern Ploughs, jois# brought
out, and shown lor the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
and 3. Th
We invite (
infoi
HARROWS—Zh
We recommend BOWAEI
have other makes, some of w
Howard’s ,
Ztgsag kjj»|
Barrows. }
Our Stock of Harrows includ
sizes. 1
MARTI
■ 389 GEORGE STREET,
BLACKET AND
119 BATHTJEST STREET, SYE
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangte Bbos
„ w
* a
Pm
oq m
• S°
'A A
O g
« §
H M
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATIN'(
Engines and Boilers of all siz
Jack Ceabs, Cbanes, Bellows, Fo;
IN STOCK.
EYES
PERFECT
PURI!
Non-poisonoua ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Ant
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in t
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for house
by all classes of Society. From Rei, Geo. Woolnough, M
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Syi
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing 1
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2Js
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-s
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sy<
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BATHS.
139 and 111 OXFORD STREET, op f
T> 7? A HTTP. A T. TJ A TTfC!TT r i
Miscellaneous
C
LIFFORD, LOVE
TEA IMPORTS!
EASTERN AND COT
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignment
in receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualitii
Do. Indian Prize Med
CHXJTNIES—Indian Prn
PRESERVES—Indian P
COPFEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pe
Do. „ Nc
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B 1
OFFICES :—348 GEORG
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
TOH N D
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswx
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric 1
Butchers’ Brine Pt
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &<
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
£.85
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL
d,a >l
ALLWOOL
T R(J Twe E D
TO
»
Miscellaneo
B
EISCOE, DEYSD
397 George St
76, 78, 145, 147 Yor
33 Pitt Stri
lEONMONGEES, lEONME
IMPOETEE
Invite attention to their extern
which besides being the largest ii
varied; and comprises all the lat«
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, I
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lam]
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chan
Brass Foundry, Locks, H
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, C
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Bope, Boiled J
And
GENERAL lEONM'
W 1
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEY
A
416 GEORGE STI
MEEICAN MACHII
H. P. GEEGORY i
No. 11, PITT-STE
Importers of all Descr
M A C H I N
Have for Sale-
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—Sydney Exhibitio
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pun
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-
tucks packing round and squai
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Fo
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Send or Circulars an
KING STREET S
TAILOR
mt.
c
s.
nJM-
Q
