

THE BULLETIN
¥ol. S.-No. 99.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1881.
Pric®—3tl,
SATURDAY. DECEMBER 17, 1881.
The Decision of the Court.
By a majority, tho Fall Court has refused to
grant a new trial in the now celebrated Bulletin-Clob-
tarf Case. Wo may say-that despite the obvious
Justice of the grounds upon which application was
made for this new trial, and despite assurances from
the most learned barristers in Sydney that not only
justice, but also law and precedent supported tho ap-
plication, but very faint and flickering hopes have been
entertained that a new trial would be granted. The
application had to bo considered by throe Judges, of
whom two had already committed themselves to an
adverse opinion? Sir William Manning had to sit in
judgment upon his own competency; and as he had,
during the course of the trial, sought the support of
the Chief Justice Relative to the very point in question,
Sir James Martin- had also been drawn into giving an
ad captandum*opiuion.
• « •
The grounds upon which application was made
for a now trial were so simple and straightforward that
any man can, without being a unflerstand their
purport and significance. The “Clontarf Case’’ was a
suit brought by the proprietors of the grounds at Cion-
tarf against the proprietors of The Bulletin, to re-
cover damages for a leading article, “ The Larrikin
Residuum,” which, after moralizing upon the causes of
larrikinlsm, and the injury inflicted by juvenile
rowdyism upon tho community, quoted, as a
glaring example of the unchecked license which
prevailed, scenes that had occurred at Clontarf
on Boxing Day, a week or two previous to
the publication of tho article. During tho course of
the trial, a crowd of witnesses gave evidence, which not
only bore out every statement in the article, but went
far beyond anything alleged in it. The counsel for the
plaintiffs,with consummate dexterity, shifted his attack,
and directed all his efforts to diverting attention from
the real issue, by introducing matter having no refer-
ence to the plaintiffs, larriklnism, or the particular
grounds of complaint alleged. He employed all his
talents to raise a separate issue. He pressed upon tho
attention of the jury two articles, for publishing one of
which the defendants had already been cast in fIOCO
damages; and upon the other ho placed his own con-
struction, without a tittle of evidence as to what the
article really meant. Tho defendants’ counsel ©ejected
to this intrusion of extraneous matter, and Judge
Manning quitted the bench to take hasty counsel from
the Chief Justice—then engaged in hearing another
cause in another Court. Fortified by the Chief’s
opinion, given under such circumstances. Sir William
ruled that tho plaintiffs’ counsel might continue the
device he had adopted; and the counsel for the defend-
ants urged in vain that, if extraneous articles were to
be commented upon, his clients should be afforded
an opportunity of giving evidence as to what these
articles really signified. The defendants had previously
been denied the right of bringing evidence to show the
general character of Clontarf. The plaintiffs were per-
mitted to urge against tho paper an article for which it
had already been punished, and to comment, without
any evidence at all, upon the purport and significance
of another article in no way referring to thorn, which
the defendants had no opportunity of explaining. In
short, the proprietors of The Bulletin were tried for
one article, and condemned on others. This they felt
to be contrary to the spirit and intentions of the laws,
and appealed for a new and fair trial. This appeal has
been dismissed by the voices of tho very Judges who
made it necessary, and in despite of the pronounced
protest of tho only Judge who had not previously ex-
pressed an opinion concerning the merits of the defend-
ants’ objection.
* * *
No contrast could be stronger than that afforded
by a comparison of tho judgments delivered by the Chief
Justice and Judge Manning, and Judge Windeter.
The Chief Justice did not support his argument by a
single authority. The only precedents he referred to
were those submitted by the counsel for the defen-
dants, and the only one he particularly touched was
dead against the view taken by himself, the
ruling of Chief Baron Pollock having been that
“ even if the rule were that counsel might call upon the
Judge to permit the reading of another paragraph in
the 'same paper, still, if, when examined, it is found to
have nothing to do with tho matter, I think that the
allowing it to he read would be ground for a new trial.”
Chief Justice Martin can see nothing in this opposed to
Judge Manning’s ruling. The rejection of the para-
graph in the case on which Chief Baron Pollock •
decided as above was ruled on tho ground that it ” had
nothing to do with tho matter, and had no tendency to
explain, modify, or control the other paragraph." Still
tho Chief Justice cannot sao the absoluteness of tho
parallel. “ This,” he declared, “ cannot be said of the
two articles allowed to be read by the plaintiffs in this
notion. Those articles, no doubt, do not refer to the
libel on plaintiffs, or refer to them in any way, but they
afford some evidence of the character and tenor of the
newspaper in which the libel was published, and from
such character and tenor it is.competent for the jury to
draw an inference as to the hona fides or otherwise of
the strictures for which the present action was
brought.” To complete this argument, it was incum-
bent upon Sir J ames to show that the article disal-
lowed by Chief Baron Pollock did not also “afford
some evidence of tho character and tenor of tho
newspaper in which the libel was published.” But, even
according to Sir James’ own remarks, it did afford such
evidence. The plaintiff in that case was a Roman
Catholic. Of the paragraph objected to, Sir James
states“ It does not appear from the report what were
the terms of this paragraph; but it may be inferred
from the heading of it, taken in connection with tho
tenor of the libel complained of, that it contained state-
ments respecting the Roman Catholic religion which
afforded some ground for unfavourable comment on the
professors of that religion."
* • *
But, enough of this. Law is but common sense
reduced to system. The ruling that paragraphs may be
intruded into a specific action merely to show the ten-
dency of the paper, carries its own condemnation. An
acute lawyer would need only to ascertain that he had
before him a jury of Eoman Catholics, in order to make
sure of a verdict for a client who brought an action for
specific libel against a Protestant sectarian organ, snob
as the Standard. By dragging in a few scathing para-
graphs about the Scarlet Woman, or tho Pope, such as
the Standard fulminates in most issues, the tendency
and character of the paper would bo sufficiently
damned for verdict - gaining purposes, and the
paper would bo cast—not because tho particular
charge of libel had been proved, but because
*t had assailed Catholicism. Two, at least, of our
daily contemporaries would he liable to bo mulct every
time they are brought into Court, because it will he com-
petent for tho plaintiff’s counsel to comment upon the
publication of obsoeho quack advertisements as affecting
the horn fidea of their claim to havo published in the
public interest the subject matter of any libel they
may be charged with.
• * •
•
Mr. Justice Manning’s judgment may be dis-
missed In a few words', inasmuch as that Judge did not
support his contention by either law or argument. His
deliverances consisted mainly of a series of supposi-
tions, which the defendants felt as imputa-
tions levelled at themselves. Thus, ho put
tho supposition that proofs were tendered that a
newspaper proprietor had expressly instructed a writer
that he need not bo particular as to the exact truth,
provided he wrote so as to arouse sensation and to
promote the sale of the paper, or that the writer had
avowed that his object was to please a particular class
of readers by “ sensationalism.” It would surely have
been quite as easy for Judge Manning to have framed
his suppositions in accord with the evidence which
had been given before him, as to wander out of
his way and invent suggestive instances precisely con-
trary to that evidence. The impression which anyone
would gather from such passages in Judge Manning’s
judgment would necessarily be that something of tho
kind had transpired in the course of the case, whereas,
in fact, the writer of tho article was known to be a
journalist over whom the proprietors of The Bulletin
had no control, and who had sworn that the article was
written without instructions, and at his own initiative,
and published word for word as he wrote it, without any
alteration whatever. He also swore that he wrote it
absolutely in the public interest, sickened and horrified
by the scenes which he had witnessed.
* * *
The legal aspect of the case has been so com-
prehensively and trenchantly dealt with by Judge Win-
dstne, in his judgment, that little remains to be said on
that head. As that Judge stated : " Whatever may be
the value of the arguments in favour of the plaintiffs’
ontention, it is admitted that no case can be cited
where suoh evidence has been allowed, or ovon ten-
dered ; yet, since actions for libel have been brought in
Westminster. Hall, the cases where opportunities of
offering evidence of this kind havo presented themselves
must have been innumerable. This itself points to a
consensus of opinion against its admissibility.” It is,
perhaps, not generally known, however, that tho very
point upon which tho appeal was brought has been
decided by an Australian Judge. In a libel action
brought against the Observer, of Ipswich, Queensland,
an attempt to thrust in articles iu the same newspaper
not directly bearing upon the alleged libel, with the
declared object of showing an alleged tendency to
sensationalism, was made by tho plaintiff’s counsel.
The late Judge Lutwytche, who presided at the trial,
decisively refused to admit suoh evidence, oh grounds
identical with tho reasonings of Judge Windeter.
Thus it is apparent that the decision of Judges Martin
and Manning is opposed not only to the spirit of
British justice, but to sound law as established by
precedents both in Great Britain and in Australia.
• # •
Finally, reviewing the ease by the light of public
expediency and common sense, the mischievousness
must be obvious of a decision which is tantamount
to a ruling that a newspaper which has,
by intention or mischance, admitted into its columns
matter which cannot he justified, shall bo judged
by that, and debarred from attempting to strike
out a fresh course and do yeoman’s service to tho com*
munity. Even admitting, as may be satisfactory to
Judge Manning, that every contention which the
plaintiffs' counsel ware paid to make against The Bul-
letin were true, the decision is equivalent to a declara-
tion that a newspaper or an individual who is some-
times wicked must never venture ;to bo virtuous lest
the oooasion of his grappling with a scoundrel be made
an opportunity for pnnishinglhim for having previously
assailed a good man.
The Late Hon. Michael Fitzpatrick, M.P.
The demise of this honoured and respected gentleman
has evoked a grand, because profound, expression of
sympathetic regret from the community in general.
Although there were asperities of character—rough
rudiments of idiosyncrasy—in the late Member for Tass
Plains—they were rather the outcome of his life’s
severe discipline than anything’essentially the product
of his temperament, which was exceedingly genial,
artistic, and, in some high respects, aesthetic. He
devoted two-thirds of his spare time to sacred music
and as his years advanced, ho became more attached to
that divine minstrelsy which formed the centre of his
aspirations when he was a boy. It is not often the
chief of an office—afterwards the chief of a bureau—
developes into an efficient statesman ; but it can bo con-
fidently asserted of Mr. Fitzpatrick that he brought
the best fruits of nearly forty years’ official experience
to bear on his administrative duties when he became
a Minister of the Crown—the Colonial Secretary of New
South Wales. We have no intention to exaggerate his
good qualities j but we shall not shrink from avowing
how much we admired what was frank, public-spirited,
and genial in his long intercourse with his follow-
colonists. The facts of his life are the best evidences
of a useful public career. Mr. Michael Fitzpatrick, tho
subject of our memoir, was born in Parramatta on the
16th December, 1816, three years after tho great Wont-
worth-Blazlaud expedition over the Blue Mountains.
He was tho youngest of four sons, and was originally
intended to bo a disciple of Crispin Crispianus—in other
words, a cordwainer; but, through the intelligent zeal
of his mother, he received an education far in ad-
vance of many of his contemporaries of lowly fortune.
How intensely he reverenced that mother in after
years 1 Ho first went to school at St. Joseph’s, on tho
site of tho new St. Mary’s, and was, consequently, one
of the alumni of tho late venerated Archpriest Therry,
In 1829, he entered Captain Beveridge’s Mathematical
Seminary, Priucos-streot, whoro ho was tho fellow-
studontof tho Hon. G. Thornton and other distinguished
Australians— teste, Morriman, thrice Right Worshipful
Mayor of Sydney. Mr, Alderman Palmer can also tell
how Master Michael Fitzpatrick walked off with tho
prizes. To Dr. Lang’s Australian College (tho academe of
many of our best Australians—he was next transfer,
red (1831-32), and in it he won high honours. Afte
wards (in 1835) ho joined tho Rev. Henry Carmichael
as assistant-master in a collegiate school founded by tho
latter. Here ho continued—in the famous Normal Insti-
tution—for nearly three years, during which time ho
and tho Hon. Geoffrey Eagar, were intellectua
athletes or pals. He gave up the functions of pedagogue
in October, 1837, and entered tho Civil Service of the
colony in tho Lands Department. Ho rose rapidly n
his official career; and was placed on the permanent
staff, after a rigid examination, in 1839, and became a
cleik of tho first-class in 1846. Ho was appointed Clor
to tho Executive Council in 1851, and became
a kind of vizier to tho late Honorable Sir Edward
THE LATE HON. MICHAEL FITZPATRICK M.P.


HOP BITTERS!
ARE
THE PUREST ARD BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Baohn, Mane rake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the gieatest Livtr
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you ore suffering from poor health,
or languishing on a bed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Yon.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Yon.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case,
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If yen are in the workshop, on the .
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxdca-
ting,
Hop Bittera is What You Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, health r,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, Ac., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTBFIORB, STUART, ft CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Genera] Agents for Australia.
YAN HAAGEN’S toilet soaps.
manufactured by
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO., PHILADELPHIA,
BEST, FINEST, AND CHEAPEST
FRENCH MILLED TOILET SOAPS.
These soaps are made of the purest and best nmterit
and are unrivalled for
DELICACY OF PERFUME,
AND SUPERIOR LASTING QUALITIES.
Fine Rose Fine Honey
White Pond Lily Turkish B ith
Frame Bouquet American Toilet
Oat Meal Pure Palm
Palma Rosa Laurel Bouquet
Honeysuckle Lilac Bouquet.
Naples Bouquet, etc. etc. etc.,
FOR TOILET, BATH, and NURSERY USES.
FOR SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONXEPIOBE, STUART, & CO.
Jg ENJA M I N BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass
Faint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greas
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishin
Bright Surfaces.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great'saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEF.ORE, STUART,’& CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,;
P. GREGORY & CO.’S
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOLACCOS,
bearing our Brands,
“ORIENT" and “SOUTHERN CROSS."
are unequalled by any Tobaccos ever imported into
these Colonies.
MONTEPIORE, STUART, & CO.
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The latest atrocity perpetrated by Hardie and
Gorman has been the distribution of Cnristmas cards
RdverUsing toe sale, on Saturday, of allotments at
Highhelds. We shall Hit an allotment, and never look
upon a Christmas card IVe know the wiles of
H. and G. Their axi rm ve will be to write the bills
for the purchase money on Easter eggs, and send them
round to nnsmp . .ting customers.
The most important land sale of the season.
It will be observed by advertisement in the daily papers
that that magnificent estate, Fits William Place
adjacent to Parramatta Part, known as Wentworth’
ville Estate, is subdivided iato allotments from I acre
to 10 acres each, and will bo sold upon the most extra-
ordinarily easy terms, on tho ground, this Saturday,
December 17. The sale will commence sharp at 2
o’clock. Free special train will leave the Sydney sta-
tion for tho ground at 120 o’clock p.m. The ordinary
passenger train will leave at 1.45 o’clock p.m. on day of
sale. Free railway passes and lithographs can be ob-
tamed at the rooms of W. Pritchard, auctioneer. 289
George-street.— Ad v.
Deas-Thomson, the then Colonial Secretary, That was
the time Mr. Fitzpatrick showed the beat " mettle of
his pasture.” Patient, painstaking, assiduous, and up-
right, he helped “ the thinking machine ” of the Fitzroy
vice-regal days over all the troubles of the gold dis-
covery. Previously, Sir George Gipps had recommended
him —in a despatch, dated 1816—as a gentleman worthy
of special promotion. When Responsible Government
was inaugurated here, in 1856, he was selected by Sir
John Hay to fill the office of Under-Secrotary for Lands
and Works. On the severance of these two offices, ho
continued in the Lands Department till he finally left
the Public Service. He came in for pension, after over
thirty years’ service, in 1869; and was returned, in the
December of that year, as the representative of Yass
Plains to the Legislative Assembly. He has been four
times returned M.P., and although twice opposed
was never defeated. Ho did "yeoman’s service” f°4
the Cowper-Robertson party, afterwards for the Mar-
tin-Bobertson Coalition; and, finally, he became
Colonial Secretary in the Farnell Administration.
How efficiently he did'his duty as a Minister of the
Crown has been acknowledged by Governors and Sir
Henry Parkes. Mr. Fitzpatrick, in 1816, married
Theresa Anastasia, third daughter of the late Captain
Small, formerly superintendent of Hyde Park Barracks.
He leaves four sons and two daughters, one of whom is
the wife of Mr. Hubert Dillon, J.P., of Campbelltown.
It is hardly necessary to state that Mr. Fitzpatrick
was an advanced Liberal, in favour of immigration
from the British Isles, and was also a severe fiscal
economist. Ho was a fair speaker; but the sweetest
solaces of his life were found at St. Patrick’s Church,
Sydney, where, for nearly forty years, his fins baritone
voice found matter for expression in ihe sublime
musical conceptions of Hadyn and Mozart. We could
considerably enlarge on other mental attainments of
Ms, but sufficient has been advanced to prove that we
have lost a worthy fellow-colonist.—Our ergraving is
from a photo, by Boyd.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Marred Rites”
That the mortal remains of Michael Fitzpatrick
should have been consigned to earth without the
usual ceremonies of the Church to which the deceased
gentleman belonged, may appear shocking lo such as
attach importance to the funeral ceremonials of the
Koman Church, To sturdy Michael Fitzpatrick it
would probably have been a matter of small concern,
judging by the slight regard which, while living, he
paid to kindred functions. Mr. Fitzpatrick was an
example of the sort of Catholic whom the hierarchy of
that sect apprehend will be created by the existing
Public School system. Although born within the fold,
and at first trained within its seminaries, he was, while
yet a boy, removed to the school conducted by the late
Dr. Lang ; and, in the Presbyterian atmosphere learned
to take a partially Protestant view of affairs ecclesias-
tical. Although he never formally separated himself
from his communion, he permitted the ties which held
him to it to lie very loossly upon him. Whatever may
have been his secret purposes a* to making his pence
with the Church in the end, he knew that should he he
suddenly out off, as unhappily has keen the case, he
stood without its pale. For years ha had omitted to
comply with the essential rule which requires all
Catholics to attend at least once a year at communion.
He died " uashriven, unhonseled, unanelled.” The
public has been led astray by inaccurate statements.
There was, wo are assured by relatives of the deceased,
no unforeseen occurrence at the grave. Mr. Fitz-
patrick’s connections knew from the moment his eyes
closed in death that there was little likelihood of a
priest performing the burial service. Before the coffin
was carried to the grave, it hod been definitely ascer-
tained that the rule of the Church would be inexorably
adhered to. No priest had said, os was stated in the
B.M. Herald— always eager to jump at anything likely
to reflect discredit upon Papists—“ that he feared the
deceased had lost his soul.” What was said was in the
opposite tone, that "he hoped the deceased had not
1 ist his soul.” There was no pause of expectation at
the graye, because no priest was expected. Sir
Patrick Jennings and Mr. Frank M’Dermott had
vainly endeavoured to procure some departure from the
ordinary rule in such cases, and all the relatives were
perfectly cognisant that the funeral must be conducted
informally. There was nothing new, nothing surpris-
ing in what occurred. The Komish Church is
afflicted with a consistency which, while constituting
its present strength, ensures its ultimate destruction.
Had that Church ” the wisdom of the serpent ” com-
monly ascribed to it, it would sedulously avoid parading
the rigid intolerance of its maxims on occasions certain
to arouse the spirit of freedom among its own mem-
bers, and to stir up their minds to thought and inquiry.
B inded by devotion to dogmas only fitted for mediaeval
times and mediaeval peoples, it wrestles stubbornly
with the spirit of progress, and courts its own over-
throw. While among Protestant denominations there
is a universal tendency to meet the times by abandon-
ment of the original dogmas, confessions, and creeds,
and by the substitution of modified tenets—till Protes-
tintism is,in many instances,barely distinguishable from
nationalism the Church of Roma will abate no jot of
its pretensions, no tittle of its dogmas, no matter how
ridiculous the ones may appear viewed by modem
lights, no matter how oppressive the others may be
felt by men accustomed to modern liberties. Thus,
while the tide of thought carries Protestantism with it,
it leaves Catholicism behind it—the one overwhelmed,
the other stranded. That the Premier of the colony
should have stood up in that Assembly which is sup.
posed to represent the people without distinction of
creed, and there made the embittered and virulent attack
upon the religion which a large section holds as sacred,
is as horrible as if a Free-thinker were to arise in that
House and cast ridicule and obloquy upon those beliefs
of Protestant Christians which are the very core of
their hearts. Virulent sectarians on one tide or another
may enjoy and applaud such effusions, bnt Parliament
has been over and over again declared to know
no sect, and can only he degraded by being con-
verted into an arena for savage polemical wrangles.
All who join with us in esteeming men, not by their
professions, not on account cf the accident of their
being bora to this or that religion, but by the coarse of
their lives, and their actual value in the varied relations
of life, will deplore that anyone should have chosen
such an occasion to stir up afresh religious animosi-
ties. The men who, while pretending to honor r their
late associate, Michael Fitzpatrick, and to hold his
memory sacred, snarled and spat at their fellow-mon,
in the name of religion, almost over their comrade’s
bones, treated the dead man with far more contumely
than did those vain priests who imagined that for lack
of their mumblings a golf could be opened between the
soul of an upright man and the bosom of his Maker.
The Apotheosis of Parkes.
The testimonial nuisance has become so intolerable
that it will be a positive relief to most people to know
that Sir Henry Pabkes has categorically refused to
accept a presentation of money. The distinction which
Sir Henrt so ,>ms to draw, in his letter declining the
preposed testimonial, between a presentation of money
and gifts other than specie, appears unfortunate.
Money’s worth is quite as likely to expose to calumny
a public man whe accepts it as is money in coin or
cheque. The inferences which were drawn from the
intention of Mr. Waddell to present Mr. Thomas
Garrett with a fifty-guinea gold watch must he fresh
in the minds of the public. It would have been prefer-
able had the Premier comprehended in his objection all
objects having an intrinsic and convertible value.
Without looking too closely into the Premier’s motive
in—however tardily—terminating the movement to
bestow a presentation upon him, the grounds which he
states may bo gratefully acknowledged as providing a
useful precedent. The less public men dabble in testi-
monials the better. The line which separates a testi-
monial from a gift, a reward, or a bribe, is very fine ;
and the practice of making presentations might, with
great ease, grow into a custom of corruption.. Sir
Henry Pabkes needs no testimonial from the people
of New South Wales. The position which he occupies is
in itself the most convincing of all proofs of the place
which beholds in the estimation of his fellow-oolon-'sts.
Were the most complimentary language known to
experts in adulation to bo blazoned in letters of gold, it
would fall short of the significance of the fact that Sir
Henry quits oht shores the chosen leader of the
people, and the man to whose direction they have
elected to repose their chiefest common interests.
Amongst ourselves, in what may be regarded as our
domestic affairs, it is permissible to rate our public men
with perfect freedom, to remind them of the blemishes
in their character, and to exhort them, in downright
language, to mend their ways. But the moment they
leave our shores, and thus, as it wore* emerge from the
privileged privacy of the household, all our care should
bo that they should enjoy the honours due to their
representative station. Sir Henry goes forth, not ns a
simple citizen, but as the Premier of Now South Wales.
In that capacity, he will mix with men of position in
England. As our leading man, by him will the intelli-
gence of the colony be guaged. The test will be more
than fair. Sir Henry stand- head and shoulders above
his contemporaries, and there need bo little appre.
hension- lest when brought in contact with the great
minds of the mother country he will give any but a
favourable impression of Ihe calibre of colonial states-
men. To the rumour that Sir Henry leaves us for ever,
we attach slender importance. That ho cherishes am-
bitions to achieve successes beyond all he has yet
attained, is but natural. Finding hero no peer, he may
conceive that he could measure himself with advantage
against the inhabitants of the British Brobdignag. Bnt
Sir Henry will return.
Mr. Harris’ Second Term.
Mr. Harris has been quite good enough as Mayor to
make his re-instalment in that position welcome. His
Worship has not managed to bring about any radical
changes in the manner in which the afiairs of the city
have been mismanaged by the Municipal Council; but
during his twelve mouths of office, be has, at any rate,
kept his own hands clean, and used his influence to
prevent others from soiling their Angers afresh. In the
matters coming especially under his personal control,
Mayor Harris has been industrious and painstaking.
In the inspection of hovels and their condemnation, he
has emulated the activity and determination of his pre-
decessor, who set so excellent.an example. Mr, Harris
has devoted himself to the duties of his office assidu-
ously. In many respects, ho answers to the description
of what it is desirable that a Mayor should be. Having
no trade business to occupy his time or to foster at the
expense of tfce citizens, and being in circumstances
which remove him from the temptation to enter into
league with others for the spoliation of the city treasury,
Mayor Harris has worked at his post as steadily as
though ho wore a salaried official, dependent for his
living on close and regular attention to his duties. Ho
has now had a year in which to feci bis feet and learn
where to flud the handles of the various wires which
have for years past been pulled by different schemers,
.in connection with the outlay of municipal funds and
patronage. If ho makes use «£ the opportunities now
afforded him to become the active leader of a Reform
Party in the Council, he will win for himself hosts of
enemies whom it will bo an honour to have for foes —
a crowd of professing friends, who will never return him
adequa'e gratitude—and a small band of Arm admirers,
who will stand by him, as one deserving of zealous help,
as long as he lb es. If Mr. Harris seek to do good for
the sake of any reward, he will be disappointed; but, if
he enter hpon his labours merely for the single desire
to benefit the community, he will have his reward
without seeking.
Off their Feed.
It is encouraging to learn that, in consequence of the
article published in last week’s Bulletin, respecting
the ordinary feasting of scrutineers and others at the
annual election of directors for the Sydney Infirmary,
these officials have declined to be lunched at all. This
determination comes, however, somewhat awkwardly.
This year, thanks to Alderman Hordern's practical
protest, the free feed would not have been defrayed, os
it was last vear, out of the funds provided for the relief
of the sick and wounded. Wo would gladly believe
that those of the officials who now turn away from their
victuals ard prompted by repentance or magnanimity.
We greatly fear, however, that they are merely stung
into pettishness. Mr. Hordern had opposed misap-
propriation of the funds belonging to the sick, but he
had offered handsomely t* stand the cost of the usual
spread. And now it transpires that some of these
persons who were not too nice to eat at tho cost of the
poor sick inmates of tho Infirmary, have stomachs too
proud to accept viands at the cost of Alderman
Hordern. We may be permitted to compliment these
lofty-sonled individuals upon the delicacy of their
self-respect. One scarcely knows how to express one’s
sentiments towards persons who, while not too
squeamish to have a feast paid for out of
the poor-box, are yet too . lofty to eat at the
expense of a substantial citizen. It may interest
the subscribers to the Infirmary to learn that the
Sybarites who condescend to attend to the details of
elections, have been accustomed to lunch at the cost of
ten shillings per head—not, we believe, inclusive of
liquors drawn from the stores kept for the use of
patients. This information will be fresh, probably, to
most subscribers, and even to some directors of the
Sydney Infirmary, inasmuch as, although the caterers
were paid at the rate of ten shillings per head for pro-
viding a slight bnt elegant refection, for the spoilt
darlings of fortune, the committee had brought before
it accounts for only five shillings per head. It is really
worth inquiring how the difference was made up, and
out of what funds it was openly or surreptitiously paid.
But, this is by the way. Little arrangements of that
sort may indicate cooking of accounts and deception of
the public, or merely veil the generosity of some
modest individual. It is useful, anyhow, to know how
to value the gastronomic status of a scrutineer. Ordi-
nary cits may spend a modest eighteen pence with the
Catering Company or Compagnoni for their luncheons.
But, so exhausting are the labours of an election official,
that he must have brought to the scene of his exertions
a banquet at half a sovereign per head, washed down
with wines intended for the sustainment of the sick.
Colonial Military Defences.
The question of Colonial Military Defences is one of
growing importance, and the sooner it is taken in hand
with a view to the inauguration of a system consistent
with our form of government the better. It has been
the custom to relegate this question, whenever any
popular pressure has been brought to bear upon it, to
professional men. The advice of distinguished military
officers has at various times been taken and acted upon.
Military commissions have been appointed, which with
great diligence and ability have reported upon the sub-
ject. And, unquestionably, the ablest and most com-
prohensive report yet furnished is the one whose produc-
tion was superintended by Sir James Martin. Valuable f
however, as many of the suggestions in this report are
from a purely military point of view, the vital question
of defence is almost left untouched. No one will deny
that a fully-disciplined force, permanently embodied, is
necessary for the purpose of giving back-bone to the
Executive Government—to keep oet fortifications and
munitions of war in order, and by its'presenco to check
any tendency to internal disorder—prevention being
better than cure. But it requires no professional
or technical knowledge to estimate the numerical
strength of a force that would be required to repel a
foreign enemy. And it is equally easy to understand
that the cost of such a force would be far beyond our
means. Nor is expense the only objection. English
military officers are apt to place too much reliance on
drill and discipline, and to disregard the importance of
numbers Their chiefaimistohaveabodyof men, how-
ever small, always ready for fighting; and the natural
sequence of this would be a desire to fight. Whereas, the
true policy of a country which has no internal enemy
to subjugate, and no foreign or alien power -on its
border, is to prevent fighting, or even the desire to
fight. Great armies are a great evil, wherever
they exist. They are more frequently the cause of
war than its prevention. And it will he a sorry day
for these colonies if ever they should become inspired
with military ambition, and its concomitant desire for
glory and aggrandisement. But, so long as a large
portion of the world remains barbarous or semi-
civilized, it will behove all countries, however peaceful
their circumstances, or however distantly situated from
the turmoils of other lands, to make some provision for
the defence of their hearths and homes. In our case,
gratitude to the mother-country should be a strong inccn.
tive. England has never, of late years, engaged in war
merely for the sake ef conquest, nor is she ever likely to
do so; but she has now a great burthen in the mainten-
ance of her prestige, in which also her colonies are
deeply concerned, and the beat assistance we can render
is to relievo her of all anxiety in regard to us by helping
ourselves: not everlastingly looking up to her like chil-
dren for assistance, but as becomes our strength and
growth, taking our stand beside her with a confident
and loyal front. The first lesson we have to learn is
confidence in ourselves. Just as we have undertaken
to perform all the functions of Civil Government, so
should we trust ourselves to lay ;the* foundation of a
sufficient and an '.efficent system of defence; and, in
furtherance of this, it would be well to keep steadily in
view that our local military organization should, like
all other phases of government, bo made a stepping
stone in building up onr nationality. Military training
should begin in onr primary schools. It inculcates
self-control and habits of obedience; and better than
anything else teaches the value of concerted ac-
tion. Moreover, physical advantages accrue from
it which are very valuable. In the higher
schools opportunities should be afforded, as in
America, for the study of tactics, fortification, and
scientific gunnery. And above all, when the youth
of ihe country emerge from school, there should be
means afforded and every encouragement offered for
pursuing practically what they have learned theoreti-
cally. This is not to bo done by regulations which
encroach too much upon the ordinary avocations of
life, or by enforcing a harassing, and for the
most part useless, routine of drill and training,—or by
endeavouring to persuade ourioung people that they
are of comparatively inferior mental calibre, and fitted
only for the ranks, and never for command ; but rather
by trusting in their patriotism and ability, and urging
them to aspire to the highest positions, and recognising
them in every way when they acquire them. In this
way, it is probable that every family in the country
would in time be represented in the Citizen Defence
Force. The question of payment, to which many
attach great importance, is, after all, a matter of detail;
but it muot be admitted that purely volunteer service
has never been eminently successful anywhere, and, in
our opinion, there should in this country ho payment
adequate to the service rendered, or, at all events, suffl-
cicnt for necessary expenses. The most that should be
expected of a citizen soldier is his time. And the
choice of citizen officers should not be limited to the
wealthy.


w.
HOWARD SMI
LINE OF STEAU
Leave STRUTIFS WHARF, f
For MELBOURNE,
Every TUEf
For BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and BOCB
On TUEf
FARES and FREIGHTS at Gi
BATES.
W. HOWARD SMI
STEAM TO LONDON-
-1881.
The following Royal Mail Steal
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIG.
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COM PA 4Y, will leave SY
mentioned dates, for Melbourne,
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, call
And the service will he main!
steamers at intervals of a fortnight
Saloon passengers homewards m
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, go
steamer within a month; but failir
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinoi
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be gr;
For plans and full particulars,
and CO., and ANDERSON, AN:
Joint Managers of the line ; or to
General Manager in Ai
G
o
RIENT LINE OF
PARCEL EXPRI
Special Arrangements have bee
veyance of Parcels and small paoka
Steamers to London at reduced rai
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a:
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of i
Packages will be received at thi
issued, up to Noon of the day prior
sailing. All freights payable in S
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILI
Manager of Orien
267 George-street, Sydney.
T
HE PAINLESS COE
A Sure Relief, and in multitude
Cure for Corns
Prepared only by John Clowes, Cl
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Ell:
ney and Brisbane; and sold by
vendors.
ASK FOR HAND!
OP GOOD
We beg to draw ;
PARTICULAR ATT]
to the
ASIATIC TEA (
PACKET TE
Packed Jin pounds and hal
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
PORE JAVA TEA,
2s. and
2s. 6d. a
2s. 6d. £
2s. 6d. £
In the Assigned Estate of G.
TO PERSONS IN DIFF
the Mutual Trade Protectio
cover your debts or obtain the bee
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pi
WANTED, SUBSCRIBE
net Bulletin. W. Ec
News Agent, and Stationer, Queen*
JOHN S
WHOLESALE, EE'
and
MANUEACTUEING S
374 GEOEGE STEEET,
The designs selected by Mr. San
mas Card Competition, inaugurated
a-o now ready, and may be obtains
and Stationers in Australia.
These cards are essentially Aust
being designed by Australian Artis
by Mr. Sands’s own lithographers,
wort sas above. Persons wishing t
this new Colonial industry, are renue
each card bears on in Mr. Sands’s ti
Gins*. This 1 caution is necessary, as
being offered to the public, which, a
in character, are of European produ
In addition to the cards of his
Sands has imported the most varied
in the colonies. Those desirous of
lected with artistic taste, cannot do
his stock, which includes the variou
the home competitions, together wi
tions from the principal English
American Manufacturers.
Mr. Sands has also on view the p-
premiums of One Hundred and Fift-
hibitioD, lately held at the Art Gt
CHEOMO-LITHOGEAPHL
November, 1881.
MASON beot;
AU £
14 & 16 S 3
Sy<
Have always in
to the TEAL
SALE BUYEI
lEONMONGEE
GENEEI
GLASS
EAR T H I
WINES, BEEKI
and |
BULK MEI
A get
JOHN WALE
Old Highh
J. SOKIN
Co*
J. t."g
Schnapps :
A. MELYII
Edinburg]
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GENI
COLONIAL AND IMPOETED J]
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, i
Spectacles, etc., of all k
Plain figures—Low pric<
H * PAL
Gent’s Parcel on ,
£For £5.
1 Silver Waltham liV
guaranteed for 5 y<
1 Silver Chain, ma
weighing over loz.
1 Full Suite Gold, co
ing of solitaires, 3 £
Ladies’ Parcel of Jewellery
For £ 5.
£ s. d.
1 Gold Watch, Hall marked 200
1 Gold Albert. 1 10 ' 0
1 Colonial Gold Set Brooch
and Earrings 15 0
1 Fancy Gild Eing 0 5 0
15 0 0
"South's Parcel op J
For £2 10s
1 Silver Geneva Wa
stamped
1 Silver Albert, heavy, \
key and seal
1 Silver Full Set St-
MCLELLAND ANI
Beg most respectfully to invite the attention of their kind patrons, am]
stock of
PROVISIONS, PRESERVES, FRI
Which they have specially imported from the very best houses, for the i
largely-increasing Christmas trade. They congratulate themselves on
goods of the choicest quality, which they are snre will give their patron
The first item we shall mention will bo
HAMS. HAMS. ]
Our stock of genuine York Hams, cured by Verey and Sons, and spec
strongly recommend.
By arrangement with the various curers in the Merimbula district, we h
nice handy sizes, specially well-cured, rich, juicy, and of a delicious J
the highly flavoured CJ brand, now made famous by the immense numbe
satisfaction they have given to purchasers.
Our Choice Streaky Breakfast B
From the same district, in nice small sides, will, we are
CHEESE.
Prime Bodalla and Edam Cheese of the ver
Very Choice OX TONGUES in Ci
Large size, well cured, and specially selected. Also, Ox Tongues, S
and Soups, Ac., in tins.
IN FRUIT
We have secured the finest lot of Valencia Saisius we have ever seen in
in flavour, and of delicious sweetness.
Our new Vostizzi Currants are large fruit, and of splendid quality.
We have exercised the same care in the selection of all our other Chri:
Sultana Baisins, Candied Peel, Preserved Ginger, Chow Chow, Cumqni
Fruits in Brandy, Jordan Almonds, Soft Shell Almonds, Barcelona and
OUR STOCK OF WINE!
Is from the very choicest vineyards, and comprises very choice old Pc
&c., in pints and quarts. We also have continually in stock Ale and
Bull Dog, Boar's Head, Ac., which we will sell at the lowest possible pri
We trust that our efforts to supply goods of the very best desert
meet with the approbation and consequent patronage of all our old frien
personally wishing them all a Merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
' =_
M'GLELLAND AND ROACH, FAN
666 GEORGE STREET, BRICKEI
"PARISIAN FRUIT SALT, la. 6d. per bottle,
is a gentle APERIENT ; a BLOOD-PURIPTING
TONIC, and a cooling EFFERVESCING DRAUGHT,
slod by all Chemists and Grocers. S. P. HOGG & CO.,
12 Wyayard-lano.
THE “EENEITH AEGUS ” will appear cm
7th JANUARY. W. WEBB, Proprietor.
WANTED, an ENGEAYEE on WOOD
Apply, E. and F. W. MASON, 124 Elizabeth-
street.


EW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1831,
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultural
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mndgee,
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
1 No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Speeial Prize at Melbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
671 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine,
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OPPCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND C G.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Tailors, Drapers, Sco.
R.BURGIS
TAILOR.
VISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coidny.
JJ aye
YOU
TO
BEEN
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
E
LISE'S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ELISE,"
•184 GEORGE STREET,
DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled i
stylo, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
87
KING STREET, SYDNEY
(two doors from George-strcet),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles erery mail from Paris and New York.
Poll directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications ore Folios of
fashions. 600 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is. } Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MAD AMITwEI GEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illoatra
tions and directions for mak.
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the celonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney,
7
r lfi
m
&
m
■0
m
m
m
'Wk
m
&
a
&
J) A T I D M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
. SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness tho Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustas Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddlesjat the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1876,
Business Announcements
P
UEE CHINESE TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART & CO.
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the French Cafe).
AN AGENCY FOR THE FAMOUS
. loon shau teas.
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co. will also submit for
tmblic approval Silks and General Merchandise.
1 N.B —Mr. QUONG TART has just returned from
a visit to China, where he in person selected the above-
mentioned Teas, so that their purity can he guaranteed.
INSPECTION INVITED.
500 GEORGE STREET-SHOW ROOM, UPSTAIRS,
Near Hunter-street.
READ THIS !!.'S:|
THE BAKING POWDER '•
1 U H ED. BY-U£ AND KNOWN"
-■-0 a WIDE REPUTATION FOR ' : -
EXCELLENGE OF QUALITY
• AND-THE chemical judges of the
SVONIEV INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST AND
BEST IN THE WORLD
B v AWARDING TO Us the
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECT 10Kl
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERY WHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
WILLIAM SY DAV Y IES COYv
NEW BUILDINGS, New Buildings, Now
Buildings, CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
29, 31, and 33, Park-street. Christmas, Christmas,
Christmas. Make your purchases at the Central
Furnishing Arondc, where yon can bo supplied with
every article requisite for household furnishing, _at
greatly reduced prices, in consequence of the coming
festivals. H, LEW and CO.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS, Christmas pre-
sents. —We respectfully invite the public generally
to inspect our extensive stock of vases, breakfast and
tea sets, dinner sets, electroplate table cutlery, and
flasswaro suitable for Christmas Presents. CENTRAL
’URNISHING ARCADE, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
H. LEW and CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, 29. 31,
and 33, Park-street.—Take a walk through our
extensive show-rooms, where you can see one of the
largest stocks of general furniture in Sydney, at greatly
reduced prices 11. LEW and CQ.
AT THE CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE
you can inspect a large stock of Pianos by the best
makers—Erard, London ; Rechter, A. Bordt, &c., Ac.—
t upplied on time payments. 20, 31, and 33 Park-street
HOUSES furnished on Time Payments, from
£l5 up to £lOOO, at the Central Famishing
Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park street.
H. LEVY and CO
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 2nd December, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
T\TOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
-131 execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date,
they will bo declared void.
* ARTHUR EENWICK.
SouxheenlMinxng District.
No. 63; Edward Curtis and others; Portion No. 13 •
County of St. Vincent, parish cf Dangera; 9a. Ir. 18a. >
Application No. Nowra 80 3.
No. 67; John P. Seccotnbe; Portion No. 15; County
of Dampicr, parish of Noorooma; la.; Application No.
Ncrrignndah 16.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Gth December, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
TVTOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
-AM execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date, it will bo declared void.
’ ARTHUR REN WICK.
No. 1139; Henry Miller and others; Portion No. 11 ml
ounty of Murchison pari hof Delungra; 20a.; Appli-
ition No. Warialda 10.
Department of Mines
Sydney, 2nd December, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES,
O OTIOE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
31 executes and take delivery of the undermen-
oned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
ate, it will be declared void.
’ ARTHUR EENWICK.
No 1123; John Payne; Portion No. 21; County of
Gordon, parish of Gundy; 20a.; Application No. Wel-
lington 80-9. „
T is hereby notified that an examination of
Candidates for employment as Cadets in the De-
rtmeut of the Surveyor-Geueral, will be held in the
mmher of Commerce, Exchange, on the 13th February
xt (and following days, if necessary). Candidates
;st have attained the ago of sixteen years, or they
11 not be eligible for examination. Intending com-
titors can obtain full information by applying either
letter to the Surveyor General ; or, personally, to
e Secretary and Cashier, Elizaboth-street (North),
dney.
3n.rTe.yor General’s Office,
December 2,1881.
Hyde park sale-yards and horse
REPOSITORY,
Adjoining Park House Hotel, Park-street, Sydney.
E. THORNTON GILBERT (original Proprietor in
1869 of Gibson’s late Horse Bazaar, Pitt-street) will
SELL by PUBIC AUCTION, daily, at the above-named
Yards; and trusts by his undivided attention to the
interests of his constituent*, that ha will meet with
that support from his old friends that will justify him
in the belief of future success. Sales at Camperdown,
or elsewhere, will be attended to with punctuality and
fidelity. E THORNTON GILBERT,
Auctioneer.
cmcrt
BEASSPINISHEES, COPPEESMITHS,
Plumbers and Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 Macquarie Place,
i\ SYDNEY.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace •
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, &c. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
THE " PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Boothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Shin with*
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons over intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A gpreat scientific discovery. ”
Vide Lanckt.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESSES
GUAEANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUAEANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUAEANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
482
LATE
*8
N> .oA
y o'
*
CV,.
'V
c
484 GEORGE STREET
i ro>!b| s:x '^
THE
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
,;OP POSITE THE F^UITMARKETS.
ESTABLISHEDIBE4 •
LARGE and WE LL, SELECT EE) STOCK
VVO OLLE N S, NEW PAT TER N S,
;'SIREC.T from THE• MANUFACTURERS v
FASHIONABLE, :
. FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
ALL vyoOL TWEE D, TRO USE RS, TO ORDE
IE R, i 2 Jg.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & IRONPOUNDER.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
[BOXES,
&0., &o.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY,
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
Belmont house and hotel
LAKE MACQUARIE,
IS THE BEST, HEALTHIEST, AND PRETTIEST
PLACE in the Colony ter Ladies and Gentlemen requir
ing REST, or CHANGE of AIR, or good SALT-WATER
BATHING.
GOOD BOATS FOR HIRE.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Bahics and
Children.
Cartes be Visite, 7s. 6d. pee Dozen.
V
B
UEKE, COULSOfi, & LEEDS,
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.


Chemists and Dr
CAUTION. —In onr style (
sudden changes of tcmpc
and sunshine often intermingle
it is no wonder that our chi
relatives are so frequently tal
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of B
Syrup kept about your hom
will prevent serious sickness, a
and perhaps death, by the ui
doses For curing Consnmpt
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Ci
of the Throat or Lungs, its sue
derful, as your druggist wi
Syrup is now sold in every i
this continent. Sample boti
regular size, 3s. Wholesale j
BROTHERS.
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOR
INDIGEST
AND
STOMACH COMPL
They are also much rocomm
tive for Females, being safe, gen
their operation, leaving no dispos
and being free from any teudem
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer
F. E. SLOI
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEI
OXFORD STREET
J.
S. ABEAHAM’S PILL!
THE GREAT LIVER I
And Successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all No;
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Diaor
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Be careful not to get ]
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare<
J. S. ABBA
At the Laborato
434 [GEORGE STREET,
HENRY’S COLONIAL 01
AUSTRALIAN WORM 1
Prepared only by the Inventor
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750. Georg(
third door from Commercial Bank.
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amei
Linctns, yon will not be able to
WASHINGTON
Pouch’s Hotel
H. SOUL’S, 177
Tickle your appetit
trallan Relish, made by V
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
CH ARLES
(from Messrs. P. N. Russ
Manufacturer of Cooking Stov
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 Gee
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), S
JpiANOS. AMERICAN 01
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORG
J. MASSEY and
beg to inform their friends and th
they have opened those
No. 10 PARK STB
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN 01
WAREHOUSE
The stock of instruments now oi
Business Annonni
LLesaii.j
.HORTEE, FITZGEEALE
• SOLICITOi
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEJ
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
T EGAL.-Mr. T. M. I
SOLICITOE, haa co:
practice of his profession, al
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
Legal.—n.w. cooke, s<
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth
ADDEES3 : 16 Sir John Young’
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
OF e;
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUPAC
and
IMPOUTEES of EVEET DESCE
and EAETHENWi
Beg to announce that they have
EEM 0 V E
to
269 GEOEGE STE
Next but One to the Merc
A magnificent selection of New G
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEOEGE STE
Christmas and New
JUST OPENE
The Largest and Most Elega:
ever seen in Austr
WILL BE SOLD AT LON I
EDWARD R.
IMPOETEE OP BOOKS AN!
Comer of George and K:
[Extract from the Evening News
Mr. E. E. Cole, the bookselle:
George and King streets, has an
and varied collection of Christm:
liAen oTinurn Vitt him cnma wortr
Public Comps
IJIIIE AUSTRALIAN JOIN
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with i
£1,000,000. Reserve Fui
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman;
Esq.; W. A. Long, Eiq.; i
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wal
- General Manag
Vincent Wanostrochi
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE SI
City and Suburban Branches: 1
Glebe, Burwoo
Loudon Office: 18 King Will:
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Annidale, Ballina, I
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Con
bran, Coonamble, Goxieland Nortlj
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen luues, Goull
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rock!
ton, South Grafton, Temora, T
Uraua, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend
Maitland, Wilcannin, Woodbum,
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, AUora, Bowen, Charte:
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mai
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stan
Tswngville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colo:
the World genera
I
HE MERCANTILE BAN
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wils<
SECRETARY
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES
637 Goorgo-street Brickfield E
LONDON BANK]
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Cha)
Agent—G. H. Alexani
This Bank transacts all nsual B
Agency Business on the mostfavoi
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other nrodneo shipped to England
COTTISH IMPE R I A
( COMPANY.
CAPITAL ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWI
NIXON & C
Chief Agents for N
7 BRIDGE STREET Cl
Sub-Agents wanted in Tow;
IyON FIRE
INSURAN
Limited.
Chief Offices—s LOTHBURY,
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital, £200,000. Res
Annual Income ... ...
FIRE INSURANCE ou every d.
iu town and country, at LOWI
promx>tly adjusted and paid in Syt
SINGER'S SEWING
ABE MADE ONL
The Singer Manufactu:
Head Offices
31 UNION SQUARE, NEYv
Chief Office in En
39 POSTER LANE,
Depot for New Soutl
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hj
SYDNEY.
160 FIRST PEI
EAST TEBMS-23. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERY
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM. STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET. TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR.
No. 1 DARLING STORES
HARBOUR ST]
jgINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per week
And no interest ch
10 per cent, off for o
BEWARE OP IMIT.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
0 :X
THE ONLY “ SING]
TURNER &
Opposite i
JOHNSTOP
SEWING HACHIK
HAYMARKEI


JJ IGHLAND G A
ON NEW YEAR’S 1
PROGRAMME OF
“HIGHLAND PIPING and HI
for Adults and Boys (under 15);
£43. For particulars sea future lui
Hornpipe; three prizes, £1 10.-
Jig, £2, £l. Pole Vaulting. £l, £
Jump, £2, £1; and other events.
FLAT RACES—(To be run i
requisite). 100 yards Maiden PI
have never won an advertised pri
£2; entrance, 2j 6d. 151 yards H
£l2, £3, and £l. 440 yards Hand
£2, and £l. One Milo Handicap
and £l. Entrances to Handica
trance will be received unless tin
writing the races competed for
1870, and the position taken; ai
statement not bearing verifieatic
fled. Any protest made to be ii
in to the hon. secretary before
Colours to be stated at time of ci
Entrances will be received by
the undermentioned address, and
DAY EVENING. 17th Decemh
tabling entrances will bo rocei
EVENING, 19th December.
WALKING MATCH, 1 mile i
prizes, £6, £3, £1; entrance, 2s-6c
The committee reserve the ri
sports in the event of unfavoural
Alt communications to bo left
Pitt and King.streets.
H. J. CHISHOLM, Cap)
JJ 0 N D.I BEAC
BONDI PACIFIC P
Open every SATURDAY AF]
o’clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Son
G. Bailey’s Excelsior Brass Ba:
in attendant
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIRST-CLASS BILLI
The finest double SKITTLE AI
J. HEINZ, Prop
N.B.—Open for engagement foi
JUST OPE
NEW STOCi
Consisting
DOLLS, TOYS, AND F
Every Department in this Es
precedentcd attractions to those
BIRTHDAY AND WEDD]
Either Useful or Oi
A LARGE Collection of In
perfect substitute for 18-
with such elegance of design ai
bear comparison with the most ex
Lockets, Bracelets, Earrings, I
graved, with various ornaments
gold patterns and best workmans
Cheap, Elegant, and Ui
Writing Cases, Travelling Bags, ]
Desks, Mahogany or Rosewood
Dressing Cases, lined with silk ve
Do. with silver fittings
Gentlemen’s Travelling Dressing
Pocket Books, Letter Oases
Key Boxes, Jewel Cases, Perform
Port Monnajea and Tablets
Card Cases, in pearl, silver, and t
Albums and Scrap Books
Insfcands, in bronze, ebony, walnr
Reticules, Carriage Bags
Envelope and Stationery Cases
Ladies' Companions, Croquet, Aa
Velvet Frames—latest styles, T
and Novelties imported expn
CELLULOID CORAL JEWE
fatalities of CORAL place it far
that has yet been produced. T
this excellent substitute for ai
Gold Jewellery, will soon bo in es
loid Coral Jewellery will not ta
and will never Change its Colot
the most fastidious and particnl
neat and elegant. Yet the prici
roach of all.
IMITATION DIAMONDS—TI
IMITATION DIAMONDS—M
r|l H E A T E E
Lessee
Treasurer 1
THIS EVEN
Gilbert and Sullivan’s Nov
PATIENCI
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Do
mence at 8.
w ILSON’S GREAT
We have hung:
“ BANNERS ON THE OIP
And the cry
“STILL THEY
And the best reason is that all v
witnessing n
ENTERTAINMENT OP SI
A PROGRAMME OF EAR
A PERFORMANCE FIEST-(
DETAIL.
Nothing objectionable placed i
the eye or ear of the me
*3- A CIRCUS ENTEBTAINM
REMEMBERED, AND NE
SATURDAY, DECEME
First time in Am
of the
MELODRAMATIC, PANTOMI
THE BRIGANDS OF I
A first-class and Gigantic Hipj
Events, Situations', Tah
Beautiful Bali
WILSON’S MO’
I Give the Maximum c
at the Minimum o
POPULAR PRICES POPI
MATINEES EVERY W
and
SATURDAY AFTER
JJ ANDEL’S
MONDAY NEXT, 7.
MASONIC HA
The Sacred Choral Associatic
Oratorio complete. A few cards,
chairs, as per plan, now at Messrs.
■yiCTORIA
" CASTLEREAGH-ST
(Near King-etreet, close to Tram
TO LET NIGHTLY. ON TEEM.
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENT
The above Hall has Seating A
people, is WELL VENTILATE
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., v
WINGS, &c., and is in all respect!
the School of Arts, which it now s
Half-price charged for Chari!
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOI
107
TOWN HAL!
MAIN HALL open for Eng
December next. First-class Scenei
Applications to be forwarded to
EBENE2
ETIHEATRE ROYAL
OPEN FOR ENGAGi
Will seat seven or eight hundn
with Gas; lately patronised by the I
Terms moderate. Apply to
ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPOR
HAYMARKET (ONLY
rjIHE GOOD TIME OF CHRISTMAS ie coming, and with it
In no part of Australia will they be found in sn
HAYMAEKEI
e enumerate a few, but, for the want of space, cannot me
EXHIBITION.
COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO, ANI
ADDRESS IN FULL X<
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EJM
HAYM A R K
(ONLY).
Trade
Mark.
KEROSENE 150'
THIS VK
AMERI
IS N(
Por Safety, Purity,
no sM o ]
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in ci
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole
tl ? cir ?rder, and tin gut


A , P e ™ ori 2; 1 . will *> e erected over the grave of
the late Mr. Fitzpatrick by subscriptions among the
members of the Legislative Assembly. The fund will
be bmited to 100 guineas.
. Hookings, of Pitt-street.haa completely mastered
the art of blending colonial wines. Thus the wines of
the various zones of our continent are to be found in
one establishment. This is a double advantage—one to
he public and one to the vine-grower.—Any.
“Who composed the Deserted Village P” do
manded a schoolmaster. No reply. *<Come, come!"
cried the pedagogue, “ some of you must know. Oliver
Oliver • Oliver Twist! " yelled a smart boy,
inspired for the occasion. The deserted villiage
sweetest of the plain, was named Auburn, and Batt
Eodd, and Purves are reviving it at the antinodcs’
They sell the very spot that Goldsmith pointed to
(through the globe) on Saturday. The associations
alone are worth all the purchase money. at ° US
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, o’ Waltham. Massachusetts. USA
hereby give notice that their trade mark. Waltham
Mass., is now registered in the colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedmgs will be taken against any persons copying or
muting same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale watches bearing colourable imitations, or in anv
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The success of “ Patience ” is now established
beyond all question, and it is a curious study to mark
the readiness with which even the perspiring pitite
accepts the numberless points that glisten in Mr.
Gilbert’s dialogue. But, singular enough, one of the
funniest things in the libretto—a masterly piece of
sarcastic writing—seldom excites even a smile. Gros-
venor s poem, which ho recites, about Teasing Tom
being a very bad boy, ends, fatally for the hero in these
terms:—
** The consequence was he was lost totally.
And married a girl in the corps de bally I ”
On this Angela, after an ejaculation by Saphir, ex-
claims:—“Marked yon how grandly—how relentlessly
—the damning catalogue of crime strode on, till Eetri-
button, like a poised hawk, came swooping down upon
the Wrong-door. Oh, it was terrible ! ’’ It speaks well,
however, for the intelligence of the community, that
this is the only point which has paased without special
recognition.
• • •
On Wednesday last, Madlle. Andrea Navaro
assumed the role of Lady Jane, vacated by Miss Maggie
Moore in consequence of her departure for New
Zealand. We had formed great hopes of this lady,
partly because she appears to have been moulded by
Nature for the part, and partly on account of
a reputation which she possesses for being a
clever exponent of opera bouffe and burlesque.
Our anticipations of her success, however, were
very far, indeed, from being realized. In some
things. Miss Navaro is possibly truer to the author’s
conception of the character than Mrs. Williamson,
notably in her “ make up,” and in the manner in which
she delivers some of her lines in her great scene in the
second act with Bunthorno. ’ But there all comparison
must end. It is impossible to deny that oven a slight
French accent, like that of Miss Navaro, would militate
against the success of a still more gifted performer in a
purelyJEnglish (we may even say “ Early English”) pro-
duction like that of Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s last
new operatic fancy. This, however, is not Miss
Navaro’s fault, and, therefore, it would be unfair to
further dilate upon it. But her general conception of
the part, as developed in her acting, oven if a just one—
(which we mnch question), is very far from being pleas-
ing; while her singing is often flat, besides being
frequently inaudible in the dress-circle. To onr minds,
also, the lady displays a decided tendency to over-act,
and this in a piece in which demonstrativeness
of any sort becomes painful to the spectator. Miss
Navaro’s “ make.up” may also be termed an exagger-
ated one; for, although it is given out in the libretto,
that Lady Jane is plain, it by no means follows that she
should be made to look repulsive. Atogother, we are
compelled to admit—and unwillingly so—that Mias
Navaro’s success in the interpretation of the role of
Lady Jane is very considerably hampered by limits.
** * *
The preparations for the pantomime at the
Royal are in full swing. The title of it is “ Sinbad the
Sailor,” which has been localized by a Sydney literary
man. The cast, which is of unexceptionable brilliancy, is
as follows: —Sinbad, Mias Maggie Oliver; Haftan, Mr.
Bland Holt; Caliph, Mr. R. Stewart; Whangdoodle,
Mr. Harry Leston; Hafiz, Mias Lena Edwin; Ogre,
Mr. R, Daly; Head Cook, Mr. Ryan ;'Zobeide, Miss
Maggie Stewart; Fairy Queen, Miss Nellie Playfair;
and the Princess, Miss Theresa Horau. The scenery
will be by Mr. Alfred Clint—whose two sets in Bun-
thorne are so much admired —and the whole will bo
produced under the personal superintendence of Mr.
Richard Stewart.
** * *
The “ Black Flag,” a new drama by Mr. Henry
Fettitt, a dramatic author of the blood-and-thander
school, has been produced with considerable success at
the Gaiety Theatre. The piece, albeit the incidents ore
to a certain extent commonplace, displays an extra-
ordinary amount of constructive skill, and it is placed
upon the stage in a highly artistic and eSectiva manner.
On the whole, the Gaiety management are wise in
putting the “Black Flag" upon the boards. Wo live
in an age, unfortunately, when Shakespeare means rain,
and Byron bankruptcy; when “ Hamlet" and “ Marino
Paliero” would be played to the property man’s relations
cracking nuts in the pit, a policeman in the stalls, and
a fireman in the dress-circle while a grotesque con-
glomeration, like the " New Babylon,’’ would fill the
house for months from floor to ceiling. The “ Black
Flag’* is not an artistic play from a literary point of
view, but it is very effective, and the interpretation it
received was of a high order.
« * «
Mr. Dampier, who was, of course, the virtuous
hero, who is temporarily crushed, but eventually trium-
phant, gave a brilliant exhibition of his histrionic
ability. At times, however, the effect of his lines was
somewhat marred by his over-anxiety for the success of
his daughter Lily. This young lady has a good part as
a street arab, and sustains it in an intelligent
manner. She would have made a success had
she adapted her facial expression to the tenor of her
remarks. Pathetic periods and snnny smiles, however,
by no means, run in harmony. Mr. Norman Vane came
out of his shell as Captain Handyside with a vengeance,
his “ make-up ” being extraordinarily artiitic, and his
acting effective in the extreme. As a brutal collier-
captain, he succeeded in subduing his identity
thoroughly, which is more than he generally does.
* * *
Mr, E. Palmer—a capital actor, always—made
a splendid Owen Glyndon. Mr. A, W. Boothman
had a thankless task in the part of John Glyndon, the
conventional favoured, but wicked son. Mr. Boothman
walked through the part without apparent interest, for
which it is difficult to blame him. He succeeded,
anyhow, in looking the character. Mr. H. W. Emmett
was amusing as Augustus Scarum, and Mr. Sam Poole
played a Jew of the “ Ezra Lazareck ’’ typo, his gag
about the “slinter” watch-guard—one of the most
wondrous pieces of stage jewellery wo have ever beheld
—being singularly happy. Miss Amio Adore played
Naomie Blandford charmingly, and we intend to testi-
monialize Miss M. A. Melville (our own dear Mary
Anne) for the clover manner in which she interpreted
the role of Ruth Glyndon. Miss Marion Melrose sus-
tained the part of Tppsy Carroll, landlady of the Lion
of England Inn, so bewitchingly, that if aha will only
condescend to keep a public-house in real life, we will
go and live there for ever. The piece, in short, is a
great succes, and should be seen by everybody.
• * •
Mr, James T). Cox will take a benefit, proffered
to him by the management, on Wednesday next, when,
if only a tithe of his army of friends roll up on the
occasion, the roadway before the Gothic facade of the
theatre will be blocked up at an early hour of the even-
ing. This is the first benefit Mr. Cox has taken but by
no means the first to which his unvarying courtesy has
entitled him. For this remarkable event we shall most
assuredly sacrifice two half-crowns on the altar of
geniality.
** * *
Mr. Wilson, of the Opera House (one of the best
of men and cleverest of painters), is singularly unfor-
tunate in his efforts to cater for the theatre-going
public. The Carden season has proved so far a great
financial failure, and this in spite of every effort on part
of Mr. Wilson to suitably mount and cast the pieces
produced. Mr. Carden at first tried romantic drama,
and when that didn’t take produced eccentric comedy.
When that didn't do he clutched at that rock in the sea
of theatrical despair, “East Lynne," and when that
dreadful production wouldn’t draw a thirty-shillingpit,
ho put on “ The Streets of London.” He has therefore
gone in for every phase of the drama, except tragedy—
and we sincerely hope he won’t go into that.
* * #
saw some of “ East Lynne,” and we have
likewise sampled some of “The Streets of London.”
Both these pieces, however, we have a dim recollection
.of having seen before, and it is in the highest degree
probable that we shall see them again. Mr. Carden
plays well in both pieces. His Badger is good, and his
Archibald Carlyle excellent. And the same may be said
of the efforts of Miss Marston Leigh. But there it all
ends. It would be wearisome work alike to our readers
and ourselves to have to give, at this hour, a compte
rendaie «f both of these patriarchal dramas.
* # #
Miss Marston Leigh takes a benefit on Friday
iiiext, when she appears in the “Lady of Lyons” and
.the two last acts St East Lynne," Wo frest the pro-
gramme will draw, bat we do not think it will. Bulwer
Lytton’s drama, as performed elsewhere in the city, is
associated in the minds of the public with much misery.
Many people are so unhappy concerning it that when
they see it billed they rush away in the suburbs and get
up a cockfight. But as Mrs. Carden is a gentle and
talented lady, we hope she will have a good house. A
new piece, however—and there are enough of them in
their repertoire !—would bo a far better speculation.
** * *
The Circus still attracts admiring millions. We
wont there one day last week, and paid particular atten-
tion to the performance. It is really an excellent one
throughout, albeit one gets a little too much sometimes
of Mr. Max Schumann and his trained horses. To
Adolphe, we especially commend our friends. He is
undoubtedly the finest horizontal-bar performer that
has been seen in Australia. He is pleasant to look
upon, also, being all sunny smiles and graceful gestures.
His spring-board jumping is also splendid, and he im-
parts a peculiar charm to every portion of the perform-
ance in which he engages. Djorling, the “lion-king,"
is a positive wonder. It is no exaggeration to say that
his part of the show is terrific. There is no mistake
about the fierceness of the six beasts whose cage he
enters. The way in which they howl is blood-curdling.
We should like to see a few of our Supreme Court friends
go through the same performance.
** * *
As might have been expected, owing to greater
attractions elsewhere. Signor Giovanni Vittorini’s con-
cert at the Masonic Hall, on Tuoraay night, was but
meagrely attended. Mdlle. Charbonnet contributed
two pianoforte solos—the first, Weber’s sparkling
Polonaise, was encored. Signor Vittorini has a powerful
organ, which he has not yet learned to modulate. His
first solo was encored, and he responded by singing “ A
Soldier’s Life,” from “ The Bohemias Girl," fairly
well, Mr. Hinchy sang “ Smile, and bid me live," with
much feeling. The other performers did their host,
which, in somo cases—well, the loss said the better.
** * *
The Bur wood amateurs played—of all pieces !
Colmau’s “ Heir-at-Law,” at the local School of Arts,
last Friday night, and enjoyed themselves im-
mensely. A Mr. Thompson played Dr. Pangloss
in a manner which did not remind us of John S.
Clarke, and the Lord Duberly of a Mr. Matthews
recalled to our mind, with great distinctness,
the great Qustavus Gubbins, of glorious histrionic
memory. The rest of the characters were played as
only the Burwood Club can play them, and the in-
dividual efforts of each performer to get down to the
footlights, regardless of the stage directions, were
beyond all praise. The shoe-buckles of the ladies were
much admired, aud when Cicely Homespun learns what
to do with her hands, she will be a performer of much
promise. We consider her to be, however, to be at pre-
sent rather too conscious of her stockings.
** * *
Mr. J. G. Hunt, of the Lytton Amateur Dramatic
Club, writes to say that they play at the Victoria Hall
on Friday next, and that wa announced their appearance
a week too soon. We make this correction because we
would not bo the means ot bringing about a national
catastrophe. Weshall give tho Lyttons a critical notice
next week —something, we trust, they can travel on.
** * *
Mario Conron is to appear at tho Melbourne
Opera Honse, as Olivette, at Christtras, and Paulina
Kita is to appear also. These <wo ladies will strengthen
the company materially. They iu-e now giving “ Les
Cloches’’ with grfat success—Morvin having made an
immense hit as Gaspard. We rre glad to hear that
Fred is somewhat better •* Georgia" is at the Boyal,
doing “Joand she plays Dick there at Christmas, in
the pantomime of “ Dick Whittington,"
** * *
The “ Stray Leaves ” sent us last week .£2 for
Marcus Clarke’s widow, so that they have other quali-
ties beside cleverness. Mr. Taylor writes as follows
concerning biz.:—“We lost heavily on onr ‘Central
Australian ’ trip. The Darling pea killed our horses,
and tho bad weather killed our business. We lost five
horses, and about £3OO. The largo towns paid well—
Bourke, Cobar, and Wilcannia, splendidly. On the last
night in the first-named place. Miss Carrington was
presented with a very handsome gold locket ana chain.”
** * *
The Zip Musettes (Ogden, Beatrice, and the
Hewetts) have appeared in Calcutta with much success.
Miss B. getting the Nabobs with great completeness,
** * *
Macoabe is in his seventh week in Melbourne—
drawing crowds to St. George’s Hall. Fred Hiscocks
is so rich now that ho buys two hats a week, and gets
shaved three times a day.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
Corresondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
Mr. JohnDewhurst has been playing at Ipswich,
Toowoomba, &0., and has mot with but indifferent suc-
cess. Kitts no longer pilots him, and Miss Lester is
his leading lady, the pretty Miss Brandon having gone
South Haeelmayer, “ with his canaries," has been at
the Albert Hall, Brisbane. Poor houses The dress
circle of the Brisbane Theatre Eoyal is being altered.
The original mistake in its construction has coat the
proprietor a large sum. The house re opens on Boxing
Night, with a pantomime. The company and the title
of the opening performance are kept secret. A Mr.
Lacey, solicitor, is understood to bo sole proprietor.
He is hot a new chum in matters theatrical, it appears,
and rumour credits him with uprightness and “ spons,"
so the pros, may turn their attention to this land of
“sin, sweat, and forrow," with some certainty of not
being “stuck." D. Maccallum is Mr. Lacey’s right-
hand man, and has carte blanche in everything relating
to the management Kohler s waxworks are at Christ-
church. Dick says ho believes in a show that eats nothing.
Hart’s “Happy Hours” Christchurch....Wilhelmj is
a great success iu Dunedin. II en itait temps! Miss
Lambert had a benefit at Newcastle on the 7th inst
Mr. D.whnrst advertises that he has no connection
with the Brisbane Theatre Eoyal company Miss
Carry George has accepted an engagement for Tasmania
from Walter Beynolds. It will bo remembered that
this lady (who was Mrs. Lawrence) recently married
Mr. M'Padyen. She is a very clever leading lady
The Qairindi amateurs cleared £35 in two nights. No
show but a circns has ever done that before in the
district The Cobar paper says:—“The Canadian
Variety Troupe is now performing to fair houses in
Cobar, aud their performances are considered of a
rather superior quality, especially the sleight-of-hand
and fire-eating of Professor St, Loo." The Misses
Marie and Madeline St. Clair have been performing
before good audiences at Portland and Hamilton (Vic.),
in English opera Mdme. Elmblad, daughter of the
late Mr. Meuzies, of Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne, has
appeared at a grand concert at Berlin, and has been
most favourably noticed by the critics. Mdme Elm-
hlad was a pupil of Signor Qiorza The Lyceum
Dramatic Society netted £25 14s. 9d. by their recent
entertainment in aid of the families of tho three men
smothered recently>t Monk’s Vinegar Works Miss
Eoche, who is to play Lady Jane in “ Patience," at the
Standard Theatre, New York, is said to “weigh nearly
three hundred pounds, and to have a voice nowerful in
proportion." This places even Miss Barnett in the
shade, and Miss Navaro—query? Simmons’crowd
are doing good biz. They are the Aus. Comedy and
Op. Bout. Co. That’s all! The new opera, “The
Mascotte,” is a far greater success than “Olivette.”....
Mr. G. B. W. Lewis, of the Melbourne Bijou, is reported
to have lost £BOO in eight weeks. Bough on tho
veteran. We know a Sydney manager who has lost
that, too, and who dee *n't blow about it, either
Before Pollard left Dunedin, recently, he had a benefit
given to him by the amateurs...... Barry O’Neill essayed
John Wellington Wells, in “ The Sorcerer,” recently, at
Auckland. The people lifted up their voices and wept.
This is how the Townsville Bulletin speaks of the
talented Dr. Lynn and his beautiful blushing bride
“ Dr. Lynn has turned up at Cooktbwn as godl as new.
The fragile Amy is with him, and the decapitation trick
is still postponed on account of her indisposition."
The Lynchs have been at Clarence Eiver. They come
to Sydney shortly.,...Mias Clara Hamilton has been sick.
Curiously enough, she waa taken so after singing for the
Highland Society—which she had formerly renounced.
Mr. DeLias has taken the Qneen’s, Dunedin, for
January and February, for the Harkins* season The
Georgia Minstrels were at the Queen’s, Dunedin, for
two nights at the commencement of this week The
majestic Bignold may; be looked for in Victoria about
Christmas Day. Ho brings “ Youth," and several pieces
new to Melbourne Mr. Fred. Marshall will take to
N.Z, with him his company now performing at the
Princess’, Melbourne—thirteen in number Mr H. J.
Byron has written a new play, and called it “Lights."
We trust it will be a long liver A Mr. Hobson, an
English Shakosporian reader, has arrived in Invercar-
gill, N.Z Sam Bickey, the clever Irish comedian who
ran so wofully to seed here, passing the latter portion
of his stay in the Eoaeption House, and worse, has
made a tremendous hit at the Bella Union (’Frisco) in
“Bad Whiskey,”-“A Hair of the Dog that Bit Him."
etc...... Lydia Thompson has given np burlesque—
or it has given her up—whicli ?—and has made
a great success in high • class comedy, in
London, supported by Mr. Lionel Brough
“ Zulu ” Thompson is fetching them in New Zealand....
Harkins opens at Wellington (N.Z.), where he will be
supported by Jenny Watt-Tanner, Edith Adelle, Mr.
and Mrs. M’Gowan, Elliott, Welsh, Sefton, West, and
others...... The Hart Family opened at the Queen’s.
Dunedin, recently, to a good house Quintette Club a
fearful “frost" in Newcastle, and little bettor farther
North. This should be good news for the “ stilts ” and
dog-shows Professor Popper had full houses at
Townsville all through his stay. At latest, he was
playing at Charters Towers Emily Soldene’s hus-
band, Mr, John Powell, is dead,
« * •
In tho “ Savoy ” Theatre, to be opened shortly
in London, electric lights are to be used all over the
building, and a pair of rich quilted satin curtains are to
take the place of tho ordinary printed drop-scene
“ Mankind" is tho title of a new drama by Pettitt and
Conquest, and it has been produced with great success
at the .London Surrey. It is in seven acta I Edwin
Booth, the actor, and his wife have separated. Trouble
arose from certain business connections in the family.
Miss Braddon is writing a play for tho St. James
Theatre Tennyson has just finished a new play for
Henry Irving Mr. Howard Paul has ceased to be
manager of the London Alhambra. His regime there
was the greatest financial success the theatre
has ever known De Belleville (formerly of
Garner’s London Comedy Company) has had four offers
to play leading business, but will remain at the Union
Square, New York, second to Thorne, at £25 per week.
Craig (late of Lingard’s company) has been engaged by
Bartley Campbell for juvenile business at £lO per week.
Charles Wyndham, from the London Criterion, stars
at ’Frisco this season Stetson, Yankee blood-and-
thunder actor, comes to Australia Mrs. Alice Oates
is expected to arrive in Sydney. John Fulton, pilot
Beal Blondin at Berlin. Furore
VANITY FAIR.
Plush is appearing in a great many phases, some
striped, some shaded, and some shot. Pointille, or
dotted plnsh, looks novel and well, hut the watered
plush is not a success, as it has a crushed appearance.
:t is also beaded and used for trimmings Nasturtium
is one of the prettiest new colours, and canary green is
another; there are also coming in, flame colour (though
it is hard to see what new in this line can be intro-
duced), dead leaf, old green, faded gold which is not
pretty, and a lovely pink such as is seen in the heart of
a melon fully ripe The Princess bonnet is remark-
able for the small amount of trimming on it, for instance
merely a bow and string of silk ribbon, or a few flowers,
leaves, or nuts; watered silk is used for strings, or for
a made howto fasten under the chin Pale cream or
tea roses are sometimes placed in funeral wreaths
An eight-fingered waltz (d huit doigts ) was played re-
cently at a London party by four young ladies, who
each used only one finger of each hand, the other digits
being secured by ribbons to ensure fair play, or, more
correctly, fair playing. The four sat to one piano and
tinkled out the music most prettily Blondes are to
be the fashion, so ladies had better start their hair to
grow that shade without loss of time. Care should be
taken now to order only babies with fair hair; if any
others are sent, they should be at once returned A
Paris house lately made a flannel petticoat of navy blue,
with a flounce, and many rows of navy blue military
braid, which weighed only three quarters of a pound.
Ladies’ cloth jackets are generally tailor-made now,
some trimmed with gold braid and buttons, military
collars A dress made by Worth for an elderly lady at
a Paris wedding, was of gray moird, at the sides and
back of the skirt were bands of grey satin, and round
the edge the new festooned plaited flounce; the bodice
was fastened with emerald buttons; the bonnet, of
white rice straw, was trimmed with white lilies of the
valley, and with a sunflower at the left side. The heart
of the flower was emeralds surrounded with diamonds,
and another sunflower fastened the lace strings A
rather remarkable costume was a dross of striped black
and white satin, made with flounces; a scarf sash tied
round the hips, and a Spanish lace bonnet, trimmed with
"roses da roi;” an enormous garland of red
roses commenced behind the left ear and de-
scended slantwise across the bodice to the waist
A bride’s dress was India muslin over pink satin,
trimmed with muslin embroidered in pink; the bodice
and sleeves were both plaited, and the latter wore con-
fined round the arm in three places, with narrow pink
satin ribben tied at the back of the arms; natural rose-
buds and orange blossoms in the black hair. The
fiancee’s young sister was in white moussoline de soie
over blue silk; plaited bodice, trimmed with festooned
'muslin bauds worked with blue silk; forget-me-nots in
the fair hair Among the now materials destined for
evening wear, satin striped with gold and covered with
lace-like designs in white and delicately coloured
grounds, takes the first rank. Then there are brochd
flounces imitating hand embroidery, some of them 24
inches deep; a favourite design for them is peacock
feathers on a light ground Satin still remains the
fashion. The now Ehadames, which is thick and twilled,
is woven self-coloured, also shot with two colours, and
reversible, shot on one side and plain on the other.
Then there are Dnohesse, Renaissance, and Merveilleux
satins in many new shades Princess Christian at a
recent wedding, wore a cap made entirely of steel beads.
....High heels are no longer seen in good society, and the
plainest boots are the most stylish Worth, the great
milliner, is thinking of adding a dainty little tobacco
pouch or cigarette pocket to all his new dresses
Charming evening boots and shoes are now made of
netted silk, showing the stocking through. This is very
coquette and distinguished, but only suited to pretty
feet Very large hats are to be worn athomethis win-
ter, rather on one side, if one may believe report, which
will give the fine world generally a vastly rakish air.
For those of a staider mood, the capote and the snug
“ Bolero ” will still be available. Drawn silk and
satin bonnets will vie with those composed entirely of
plush....... Short dresses are still well worn, but trained
skirts are on the increase. Moveable trains are very
useful, converting a walking costume into one suitable
for evening wear in no time. Brown continues in the
ascendant, but pink and blue are favourite tints for the
evening, especially with quite young ladies, whose com-
plexions can bear the brunt of criticism The fashion.
able colours of the coming season will be peach-blos-
som for evening dress, and dark blues, browns, and
neutral tints for walking dresses. Pekins and plush
will be the materials in vogue for demi-toilette, and
brocades and satin for full dress “This autumn,”
says a fashion writer, “ there is going to be a big fight
between big hats and little bonnets. Pretty women
will be enlisted on the side of the latter, while plain
women will support the former, and I'll tell you why ;
the big hats which have been so generally worn during
the summer are a boon to women whose own attractions
are small, because they render the wearer striking and
picturesque.” Lady Walter Campbell, wife of
Lord Walter Campbell, who passed some three
years in training for business on Wall-street,
js regarded as one of the London beauties. She
is the daughter of a Manchester manufacturer,
and has a largo fortune The Princess of Wales
declares she will not wear the “ disfiguring
garment,” crinoline, and many Englishwomen of
rank, of course, follow her example Dr. Le
Breton, of Jersey, father of Mrs. Langtry, the
Jersey Lily, is spoken of as the probable successor of
Doan Close, the venerable Dean of Carlisle, who was
married last year at the age of 84, and has just given in
his resignation Daring the hearing of a case, at the
Liverpool Police Court, recently, it transpired
that a money-lender named Goldstein had made an ad-
vance on some sealskin jackets of £23, for which he
J charged interest at the extraordinary rate of 849 per
cent, per annum Like the Baroness Eothschild,
Mrs. J. W. Mackay, wife of the Californian Bonanza
King, has her own travelling carriage on the French
railways. It is literally a fairy palace in its appoint-
meats and decorations, and cost her husband £5500 be-
sides an annual tax of £BOO for keeping it in running
order, and a very large additional charge for the cost of
transportation .-...The Qaaen has betrothed another of
her sons, Prince Leopold, as a matter of course, to a
German princess. The young lady is named Helena
Fredericka Augusta, fourth daughter of George Victor,
Prince of Waldeck-Pyraont, and was horn in 1861, so
is now nearly 21 years old. The family is not one of
any political importance, and the match is supposed to
bo one of affection A professional actress, who is
herself charming, says of Mrs. Langtry: "She is not
strictly beautiful. She has a fair skin, and large, round
dark eyes, which she uses very expressively, and with
all the art of a professional actress, in conversation.
The natural colour of her hair is chestnut, but she is
often seen with very light or reddish frizzes, which
greatly enhance the effect of her really fine eyes.”
A fashionable wedding in London was a perfect
harmony of _ colour, the seven bridesmaids being
all attired in the same material, but of different
shades; the first in the palest old gold, and
the colour deepened with each one, till the seventh
reached a rich bronze-....A new fantastic trifle is e,
pretty scent reservoir, to be carried bv ladies inside the
glove. It is very minute, and generally highlv chased
and valuable Paris inventors have brought out a
moonshade, called the “paralune," as they contend
there s more harm in moonlight than in the rays of the
tun. Byron thought so, too; and if he had ever
been to any moonlight picnics in onr beautiful
harbour, he would have been quite sure on the
point. The paralunes will be very useful
Pans in the world of fashion now serve many of the
purposes of albums, and some of the queens of society
exhibit, by means of them, splendid trophies of the
world in which they move, such as a lily painted by
Alma Tadema, a moon-naisy by Burne-Jones, a couplet
by the Laureate, a fragment of Browning, a sketch by
Millais, a melody by Wagner, an autograph of Knskin,
a criticism by Oscar Wilde—all may be garnered up in
the fan. It is easy to picture the bewildering variety
that might be possessed by one of society’s favourites •
but ladies of less renowned tame would probably find it
difficult to collect such valuable treasures from tha
hands of the “lions” of the day The haut monde iu
England adopted crinolettes at the first State ballot the
season, and they seem to be slowly, but surely, creeping
into fashion. There are various kinds—short horsehair
ones, about twelve or fifteen inches, which are little
more than small dress improvers; longer horsehair
shapes, of various sized semi-circles extending down
below the knees; and several kinds with the real old
crinoline steels; there is also a longer sort of crinolette.
made especially for reception dresses, much fuller than
could be worn with a short dress The little prin-
cesses of Wales are dressed with extreme simplicity.
Whether for riding, walking, boating, or even opera,
their dresses would seldom cost more than a couple of
pounds. For the opera, a white muslin; for boating
plain serge; and for summer walking, just a washing
print. Some of the wealthiest mothers are following
the sensible example set by the Princess of Wales
Why can t men wear trimmings too P “ When a sunil
mer dress does not fit,” says a fashion paper, “ cover the
corsage with a pretty fichu, crossed on the bosom.”
Not that its necessary, for men would never discover
whether it fitted or not, but it just shows how the poor
males are always under some disadvantage. A man
wouldibave to Vear tha confounded thing if it didn’t fit
any more than a sentry-box, or else buy a new one, and
all for want of a paltry fichu New plush goods have
extremely long pile, which is cut in irregular depths, to
form the figures of the fabric Ladies of an mathetic
tnm of mind delight in costumes of cream white, pale
rose, blue or mauve, with fichus and sashes tied high
up under the arms The mob cap has been added to
the costume At a Church bazaar, “a
comfortable cottage and garden in Sussex ” were the
chief prize in a holy raffle. The prize was won by a
young mechanic, who rushed joyfully to tell his sweet-
heart. They talked gladly over it, and she named the
day. He went to inspect his prize, and found a toy—a
painted cardboard house! Yet this cruel hoax was for
a church.
LATE SPORTING.
Tho match between the All-England Eleven and
N.S. Wales Ten, on the Association Ground, was, per-
haps, the best that has ever been played here. The
English bowling was perfect, and their batting good, bat
them fielding in many cases needed improvement. The
Colonials played up to their expected form, their field-
ing being almost perfect. Following are the scores
All-England, Ist innings 272. Barlow, TJo ; Selby, SC •
Ulyett, 47; Scotton, 2C; Shrewsbury, 23; Emmett, 13 •
Midwinter, 10 Second innings, 162—Midwinter, 48 |
Barlow, 23; Selby, 24: Ulyett, 17; Shrewsbury, 12.
New South Wales, Ist innings, 210—Murdock, 58 •
Massie, 56; C. JJannermann, 23; Davis, not out, 16 • A
Bannermor, 15: D. Gregory, 15. Second innings, 156
Massie, 76; A. Bannorman, not out, 30; Murdoch 21 •
C. Bannorman, 11. The All-Englaud eleven thus won
by 68 runs. The absence of Jones and our lack of bowl,
mg talent other than that of Evans and Garrett made a
great difference in the prospects of New South Wales.
The Australian betting ring won .£260,000 over
the. last Melbourne races Racing sweeps have been
entirely suppressed by the Indian Government Turf
revival in Tasmania Selby, the English cricketer,
beat Stephens m a 50-yards’ race, at Botany, on Tuesday
afternoon, by about six inches Mr. J. M. Bryant an
old Victorian cricketer, is dead No reduction in the
railway fares for the All-England Eleven Edwards is
miles ahead of Swan in the go-as-you please contest at
Melbourne Uljott did not get a wicket in the first
innings of the N.S. Wales team. The Hebald given
him credit for 6 for 10 runs. According to the bowling
analysis published in that journal the English bowler
secured 14 wickets against 10 batsmen Solomon and
M’Leer were to have rowed a race for £5O a side, at
Brisbane, to-day (Saturday), but M’Leor forfeited his da-
posit....The Cootamundramatch was played on matting
......A foot-race (150 yards) for £5 aside came off at the
Numba race-course, of the 10th instant, between J
Greenway and D. Keefe. After a good start, the men
kept together for 50 yards, when Keefe forged ahead
and eventually won by 4 or 5 yards ; time, 15lseo ..
The best in the Y.R.C. Champion Race are Progress
Wellington, Martindale, Commotion, Somerset, and
Santa C1au5......A new training track is to be formed-at
Caulfield (Vic.) The case against Pereira, the pro-
moter of Adamastor’s sweeps, in Melbourne, broke
down, the evidence for the prosecution being insufficient
Wheatoar first favourite for V.R.C. Champion Race!
An amateur athletic club is to be formed in iho
Eastern suburbs .....Laycook and Solomon were dis-
qualified in. the pair oar race at Brisbane, their boat
having a sliding seat. Laycock won the champion
sculling race easily A foot-race for £lO o-side. be-
tween two well-known peds., takes place at Botany on
Saturday, 17th, between 4 and 5 p.m.


PEPPER AND SALT.
He was a loving husband, and coming home one
day, he entered the room softly, and perceived to hia
amazement that his wife was actually sewing a button
on the back of n shirt. Before she could perceive him,
he stopped up to her on tip-toe, and bestowing an
affectionate kiss upon her cheek, took the garment
from_ off her lap. Then his rhapsodies subsided. He
saw it was the coachman's. For further particulars,
see Victorian Supreme Court cause list. It will be a
really lively case. Four co-respondents.
The Evening Lyre announces that “ Mr.
James Smith, the well-known literateiir (sic)-, is about to
leavo for England on account of ill-health.” This i#
not the first record of a man of letters going without
his T.
• • •
“ What did you discharge your check-taker for ?”
aid a Melbourne lawyer to a local theatre manager.
* Because he built a terrace of houses,” replied the
impresario.
■ *
Not many weeks ago it was our pleasing duty to
record a splendid donation to th.© mendicant young men
of Sydney. It gratifies us now to give publicity to a
similar act, those benefited by which are the aged
paupers at the Hyde Park Asylum. The families of two
well-known citizens have bestowed the whole of their
truly splendid wardrobes upon these aged females I A
special board meeting will be held in order to move a
vote of thanks for this noble donation. The ingratitude
of the lower orders is, alas, proverbial, and it does not,
therefore, raise more than a passing sigh in our bosoms
to hear that one ancient dame was heard to ejaculate
with scorn that *• the whole kit wasn’t worth a penorth
of baccy 1”
* * *
** Malt,” after this, should be for e’er
The pushing politician’s " morter,"
Maclean, last week, was licked by Beare,
And Wilson now is squelched by Porter,
* * m
Monday’s aesthetic asphodel Alfred says:—
“The grating running to the sewerage pipe at the
corner of James and Washington streets has been
ohoked now for the last six weeks or two months, and
the stinking water, &c., has been laying there ever
since.” What a nose that boy has, to be sure I Sits in
hia Pitt-street sanctum , and yet carefully sniffs the
sewerage pipes in James-street. Now, here’s a sugges-
tion. Let Seymour edit the Nooze, and let Alf. polka
round as Inspector of Nuisances. Mayor Harris would
do welljto look to.this.
* * *
B During the past week i wo more Waterloo veterans
have died in these colonies. After all, there wasn’t
much for the “ Long-nosed Hook " to blow about over
that fight,—because if he only commanded one-half the
veterans who have died this side of Waterloo, he must
have bossed a force six times as large as that of the
“ Little Corporal.” After this, we will not insert any
more “ Waterloo deaths,” unless the corpse is willing
to be sworn before a bench of licensing magistrates.
• • ♦
Tom Garrett has withdrawn his Press Bill.
Tom now knows that there are times wTien it is highly
undesirable that the newspapers should|have liberty to
comment on anything.
• * *
A North Queensland tom-cat resembles a Sydney
tom-cat just as strikingly as a North Queensland alder-
man resembles a Sydney alderman. While the Premier
of Bananaland was visiting a certain Northern seaport
town, the other day, the Mayor and ex-Mayor were
sitting coatless under a shop verandah in Flinders-
street. It was Sunday morning, and the honorable the
Prime Minister just missed seeing the two municipal
magnates dart into a sausage-machine room—through a
crack in the wall of which they feasted their eyes on
the form of dignity.
• • •
** The Newcastle Dispatch, in noticing the
Quintette Club, says:—“Any ‘rot’ will take here,”
We should assume by this that the Dispatch was a
gigantic financial success.
• • «
A gentleman, who signs Wm. Boss, and dates
from “Dilga," advertises for a “ working superintend-
•nt ”in the Molong paper. The candidate for the
situation (the yearly salary of which is £601) must be
“ of sober and industrious habits, given neither to grog,
tobacco, lying, cursing, or swearing, his moral habits
Al. To bo able to lib a flea to a flunkey, be able to
plant, prune or bud any sort of tree, or plant, as well as
build up or pull down. Dig, mow, sew, plough, milk,
clean stables, or pig sties, cut and draw firewood, a
good hand to drive a team of horses, or bullocks, wheel
n barrow to driving a coach.” But this is not all. We
have learned what he must do, but now we are told
what ho must not do: —“ One thing he must not do
married or single, not to make love to the women,
maids, or black gins without permission from the
master.” The wonderful composition ends ns follows:
—“ I did the above for over nine (9) years for oursesi
growls, and kicks.” Can the boundary-rider on the
next station really have lured away Burrungullah
M*ry P
* # «
Can anyone inform the Haymarket public why
the trees iu Belmore Park are still fenced in while those
in Hyde Park are not ? The only shade to bo had at
present in the former “ city lung” is under a couple of
rickotty forms, although luxuriant trees line the outside
path. Some respectable citizen should step round some
night with an axe and give ns a trifle of what we pay
our taxes for.
• • •
Missionary Isaac Sharp, 75 years old, baa just
delivered a lecture here on tho great good he has done
amongst tho heathen of Labrador, Greenland, and
Madagascar. Now, Isaac, we can go into high society,
and pick out a dozen heathens, compared with whom
your worst Greenland vagabond is as Hyperion to a
Batyr. Why waste your sweetness on the Arctic air ?
Take a walk round Macquarie-street, or if you are fond
of high life buy a ticket for the picnic down at—hush !
—here’s tho judge coming. Lot us, dear friends, be
moral.
• * •
Writing to the Gitndagai Times, a “ special”
Beys:—“The Opera-Bonffe Co. opened their show, and
he company appeared in attractive bills, and as they num-
her some fourteen or fifteen artists, they are able to pro-
duce some sterling pieces.” Fancy the regal Navaro, the
symmetrical Consuelo, or the dainty sylph-like little
Laverne doing their soul-entrancing biz., clad in an
Entr’acte, or a City Catering Company’s m«nM, Adelong
must really be down the harbour.
• • •
In granting costs, His Honor Judge Forbes has
a remarkable penchant for performing that surgical
operation which was known to the Ancient Greeks as
“ skinning the cat.” The other day he allowed the cost
only of one bed for two witnesses; and when asked for
his reason he said they were man and wife. Now, where
in thunder did His Honor think the pair would fit ?
Isn’t he big and comely enough to know by this time
that a double-breasted bedstead always costs more than
a single one, or does he for one moment imagine that
the old man was mean enough to crawl into bed himself,
whilst the old lady had to “ doss ” on the floor ? Be.
sides, why, we know a case where a South American
Supreme Court judge used to leave his wife at home
and sleep about two miles further down [Memo- It
afterwards cost the learned gentleman £lsoo], and yet
we presume Judge Forbes would expect a paltry two-
and-six to pay for both these parties’ lodgings. Lastly
there was the case of the old Athenian, who weighed
17 stone, and whose wife weighed 18 ditto, and being
interviewed one day this classic Daniel Lambert said—
“ when my wife and myself agree, a little cot is qnite
enough for us two to roost in, but when we don’t the
whole of Greece can scarcely hold as.”
* * *
Memo, for the Sabbatarians and for Mr. Com-
missoner Goodchap, The people of Surry TTilla some-
times go to church. However, ns the trams now run a
Surry Hills saint has either to get up in the middle of
the night to catch the 10.6 cars, and then hang about
the liquor shops for half-an-hour before the church
opens, or else take the 10.56 cars, and toe all the over-
tore, which, wa are credibly informed, starts at It
sharp. Now, a train at 10.30 would induce the whole of
iSunr Hills to flock to church en masse ; thousands of
erring souls would be sent to heaven weekly; and Com.
missioner Goodchap on stepping on the “Golden
Shore," would be presented with a testimonial purse of
sots., the biggest harp and wings in Paradise, and a
free pass to the other place.
* * *
The present libel Law of N.S.W., and the style
in which it is administered, have a most salutary effect
on newspaper enterprise. The other day, a man who
was going to start a daily journal asked a city firm
their terms for printing and publishing it. They gave
him the figures, but added that before they allowed the
type t® knock together oe his behalf they would require
him to deposit £so*o in the bank as a guarantee against
libels. Or course, the paper came out.
This reminds one that Parliament and Press both
represent the people, and that in N.S.W. it is the privi-
lege of members of Parliament, who need not neces-
sarily know how to read or write, or swim—or bathe—
to stand up and say anything they like about anybody.
While, in the same New South Wales.it is the privilege
of the members of the Press, who must necessarily be
decently-educated men, to tell the truth in the public
interest, to prove their case up to the hilt in court, to
have their motives questioned, to be slated by juries
chosen from the lower stratum of society, to have it
"rubbed in" by apparently cross-eyed judges, and to
rot in gaol if they can't satisfy a writ of Ji.fa,
was a smart, intelligent young man andhe an-
swered the Norwegian Gas Company’s ad., which called
for an active person to test meters. On beine ushered
man BJorston Bjnornswm’s office, this gentle-
man asked how long have yon been in the gas line f”
~^ urt ®® n years, replied the applicant, ‘‘and lam
thoroughly acquamted with all its branches." “Good ”
B “and if the terms suit we’ll engage
* a “ £ m . tQ satisfied,” responded the delighted
2SJ&n J«? A hav ® he J a 17 respectable certificates
* a ® Steady, sober, and strictly honest .”
Oh 1 is that a fact ?* replied Bjnomston, “I am glad
New - y°«ng man, kindly turn the
handle of that door, and pull it towards you. Good
* * #
honourable and corpulent
mri?n f ?- rbldd # mg of fruit-vendors. has
been productive of much suffering in the Waste Acre
Department. Now that orange-gorging and banana-
matches are tabooed, the officers are positively without
refreshment for two hours and a-half at a stretch, and
are obliged to resort to other diversions to prevent
their reeling brains giving way under the strain of
official labour. It is intended to hold a monster meet-
ing in the back yard of the department, to secure a
restoration of ancient privileges, and, in the meantime,
the “zealous and responsible officers’’ only avert
softening of tho brain by indulgence in such relaxations
as making 2s. books on the cricket match, sending
fictitious orders to the fruit shop down the street, and
practising rapture and stained-glass attitudes behind
tho press, while a messenger watches the passage to
| announce the arrival of “ the chief.’’
Tho Auckland Observbr complains that they
wouldn’t let its representative into the gaol. The
Governor, it seems, said that the rules of the establish,
meut did not permit of persons making special arrange-
ments for their accommodation before hand. The
Obsmbvir man, he intimated, would have to taka his
chance with the other boarders.
# * #
Biz. was dull in the boot-shop; so tho boss,
calling one of his assistants, told him he could go to
the cricket match. But he said ho didn’t core for that
“orfQi’tha circus, nor the Museum, nor the Art Gallery.
* What will suit you, then ? ” enquired the master of
the boot-shop. " Please, sir,” said the boy, “ there’s a
picnic down the harbour this afternoon, and if you’ll
advance me ten bob. I’ll take Liz, too. It’s the only
place where you can have a bit of real fun without the
police interfering with you.” He took his next day’s
holiday driving nails into working men’s bluchers.
* * *
Mr. Corrie Johnson, the publisher of a religious
periodical, has commenced an action for libel against the
oottthern Cross, a Presbyterian newspaper company,
in consequence of certain articles appearing in recent
issues of that journal.’’—Herald.
During the census-taking in the Lower Hunter,
one of the collectors entered the shop of allttle “ widow-
woman to help her through with the paper. There
were at that time about seven matrons there, who had
looked to for the same purpose. “ Any children,
ma am i* inquired the census-taker, casually. “ Five
sons, sir,’* replied the widow. “ And so have we."
cned the matrons. “And where are they all?" said
the census-man. Chorns of mothers : “ In the General
Fost Office. Let s see: who is the genial member for
the Lower Hunter ?
* * »
Mr. Henry Halloran [wrote the “Song of the
Smallpox Fiend," in the Ecxo of the 10th Inst. It
began as follows
, ' T flbidous t cry, haV0|3tamp,d m ° out: ’ tis a vain and
The puirddown. 8 l0nS amdde0p * ere m 7 yellow flag is
I fight in the open street, in the darksome comer I lie.
A of n tho I town ldOUS n ° W 0X6 passing thro ’ every part
First go ‘the dogs and the mules;’ but the terrible
months are nigh
Wh thctown" Sha11 jauutily fly on the highest roofs in
of . it > however, is that the last
word in tlio contribution is—***Mowbray.**
f ♦ •
A daily paper without a name is reported to hare
S m S!S ti ’ Probably this venture is in
Wltlx the Sydne 7 Journal that is mu without
• *
Mr. S Freshman, agent for Dr. Keeley, of
Chicago, has rooms at 359 George-street, where he docs
business in the doctor’s chloride of gold remedy for
drunkenness. At half-past 10 o’clock last Tuesday
morning, there met in the passage of the drunk-euro
office, 3 Lands-office clerks, S solicitors, 17 members of
Parliament, 9 ministers of the Gospel, and 45 honorary
magistrates. There was a silence for a brief instant,
when there arose this chorus.- “ I’ve just looked in to
make some enquiries for a friend."
* • •
Three probable candidates for Yaes Plains—or
anywhere :-M«ssrs. Dalveen, A. B. Rae, and G E.
Maclean.
• * *
Creek young man,” signing
.., F,F '’ * .V s evidently in a bad way. Ho sendfns a
lament, which he says he “picked up on the road”—
atale whmh resembles in probabiiity the now historic
pitch of Ezekiel the Deserted. The poor follow un-
questionably felt what he wrote; and, when the quality
of Ins poetry is taken into consideration, it seems to be
rather a pity he did not feel better. Mark how many
moans there are in tins stanza, and how little metre
“ Maude, is there such a thing as love ?
It may or may not be.
Your brother said I could seek your hand •
Why didn’t you come to mo ? "
jA*?? 811 transpire in the course of the poem why she
didn t come; but apparently she didn’t, as the bard goes
on in the following melancholy strain *
“ A word or a kindly look
From you would have led me right •
But I never got it, and thus it is
I am lamenting here to-night.”
This truly touching stanza ends a poem which should
find its way to every butter-shop
“ Then the little house by the dear hillside
No more shall hear my tread :
They will carelessly ask where is he?
And some will say found dead.”
AU this is very sad in manuscript, but it doesn’t deceive
us. You won’t commit suicide, “ F.P,"—not von!
You 11 travel on broken-hearted to the next township,
where you II buy some patent medicine, and take a job
•nu ., ng to ,. a blacksmith, and before a week is over
will be gone on the hired girl at the Bushman’s Arms
• * *
He was a spruce young fellow, in the Harbours
and Rivers, and he was riding down to his office by the
morning tram, when two ladies he knew—both high-
toned, and one of whom he surreptitiously adored—got
m at Crown-street. He entertained them with conver-
sation on fashionable topics, until Market-street was
reached, when, having some business of importance to
wansact with a three-pemny barber, he bade them adieu.
and walked away. Hardly had he reached the kerb,
stone, when he heard his name called in sweet-toned
accents. Just then the tram started; but not to be
beaten, as the fair ones were beckoning, he girded up
his loins, and raced the locomotive to King-street.
Arriving breathless at the compartment in which were
ensconced the ladies, one of them pointed, with a light
laugh, to a something which lay on the seat—a some-
thing which was composed of smashed bread, mashed
pickles, and underdone beef. A light flashed upon the
brain of the man from the Harbours and Eivers: it was
his “lunch.”
• *
When it was bruited about the town on Monday
night that Mr. Wisdom was to be Acting-Premier dur-
ing Sir Henry Parker’s absence, all the Government
clerks who had relations in Morpeth not yet provided
for, sent them an intimation to jump into their Snnday
clothes and oome along. Those, however, who are not
provided for, have only within the last two or three
days attained the necessary age to qualify them for
entering the Government service,
* ♦ #
Young lady, looking over the Eome. on Sunday •
“ Why, the ship's all on ono side !” Smart middy •
“Yes, miss; there’s more ladies on this side. If
yen’ll come with me across the deck it will be all
right." Young lady: “Thankyou, sir. Good gracious,
Manar, I didn’t think we’d make so much difference 1"
V.
BRIEF MENTION.
Final Court of Appeal—King-street.
A blue bore—The Sydney University
Eeview.
“The bagman sculptor” is what an Adelaide
paper calls Marshall Wood.
St. Mark’s Church, Darling Point, is the fane
favoured by fashion and—fleas.
Mother Shipton was right. The Day of Judg-
ment has come—for the Bulletin
There is in New Zealand a Good Templar who
runs a Licensed Victuallers’ Gazette.
So seldom near and yet so often far : —Mr.
James Allison’s trip to England, and Mr. William
Hoskins’ retirement from the stage.
A correspondent writes that in a certain North-
ern town five storekeepers sell gunpowder, and only
one of them holds the necessary license.
From Thursday’s Herald “ Wanted, Alfred.
MO Pitt-street, to-day.” See what it is to be famous I
Some one evidently wants a little poem jerked off. or a
novel written.
Since last week’s Bulletin came out no
Sydney sorceress advertisements have appeared in the
papers. Fancy our preventing the crossing of Alfred’s
hand with silver!
They’ve got an Irishman on the Herald now.
On the 2nd, that ordinarily sober journal announced
the sale of “a vacant block of land, with building
thereon, in Castlereagh-street.”
A Now Zealand firm of solicitors offer ,£25 for
information that a certain gentleman is alive; but
they II give £lOO for proof that he’s dead. Here’s £75
premium for killing a man going begging.
At a funeral that passed Argyll street, the other
day, it was noticed that seven of the occupants of th#
mourning coaches were laughing, three were smoking,
two were eating sandwiches, and one was asleep.
We notice that there is a column called “ The
Looking-Glass” in the Evening Feegt. We are sur-
prised to see this, as we have always considered that a
looking-glass is the very thing John ought to avoid.
“Giraffe” says that Dr. Eenwick, the dapper
little Minister for Mines, is the hero of the four M.’s.
In medicine he is an M.D., in politics an M.P., in culture
an M.A., and in statesmanship he is thoroughly M.T.
At Jembaicumbene, a man charged a squatter
who let loose a cat on his selection ss. a week for its
keep. It would be interesting to know what figure this
same man would ask weekly for boarding a bush mis-
sionary.
There are in the Maryborough (Q.) cricket club
between 30 and 40 members, about 15 of whom attend
practice. At a recent committee meeting, out of the
15 practising members, seven were appointed practice
captains.
An interesting sporting fixture eventuates, it is
understood, on next Sunday morning, when the popular
captain of a big ocean steamer will swim, for a wager,
against a fascinating barmaid, who is at present the
favourite in the betting.
Three curly-haired individuals, belonging to a
Sydney firm, either have just entered or are about
to enter the hymeneal condition. And yet one of the
physiognomists tells girls that they should never trust
a curly-haired young man.
Cole, the big Melbourne bookseller, says he sells
more fortune-telling and dream books than Bibles. One
of the fortune-tellers is the sister of a member of Parlia.
ment, and has done so well that she can sport her buggy,
besides owning considerable property.
“ Here’s a clean shirt sent for you,” said tho
court crier to a juryman, who was one of the locked up
at the last criminal sessions. “ Shirt bo blowed,” re-
plied the juror, who was in the coal trade, “ Tell ’em
to take it back and send me a cake of tobacco and tho
hair oil.
A half-caste lad at Grafton, lately, fell 40 feet
whilst 'possum-fishing on the “ Sawbath morn.” Tho
old yarn again. He merely sprained his wrist; whereas,
if he fell over a form at Sunday-school, ho would have
cracked hia neck, as sure as ever Mr. Adam’s " Missus ”
stole that apple.
"I’ll have justice, if I go to the Supreme Court
for it, cried an irate defeated plaintiff outside the
Central. This elicited a loud guffaw from the entourage.
At this the speaker grew red in the face with fury, when
the pomt of the jqke dawning upon him he lapsed into
a broad grin also.
The letter on The Bulletin case in the Herald
of Tuesday, signed “ Z.,’’ is said by the cognoscenti to
have a strong judicial flavour. We wouldn't hint, of
course, that—naturally, the dignity of—at, the same time
man is but mortal, and But, on consideration, we’ll
adjourn the court.
A certain clerical president of a literary society
not 4000 miles from Newtown occasionally dissolves
his Parliament with all the promptitude of a second
Cromwell. When things g» against his grain, he goes
for his hat first, and the door after. This closes the
whole proceedings.
Why is the St. Andrew’s gas turned down when
the Dean preaches ? Is it to allow the flock to eniov
that line which says “ He giveth His beloved sleep ?”
And why does tho pious worshipper, who drops 6d. into
Dr. Ellis s plate, only drop a tram ticket to cheer the
Dean r Answer paid.
“You bad boy !” cried a teacher to a recalci-
trant scholar, the other day, at the Benevolent Asylum.
111 teach you to be impudent to me 1” And three or
four sounding slaps resounded through the schoolroom
“Here, stop this!’’ cried the boy at length: "if von
hit me any more, I’ll tell Ikey." y
At a case at Gundagai, a man summoned in an
affiliation case, agreed, in court, to marry the plaintiff
within a week. The case was then adjourned for that
period; aud in the scented hour of morning, tho
plaintiff and defendant walked out together, and went
arm-in-arm to the pub, for a beer.
The other day, while Mr. Trotter, of Cooktown.
was on a visit to Townsville, Mrs. Trotter got a tele-
gram informing her, somewhat abruptly, perhaps, that
‘‘Mr. Trotter was going to be buried the same after-
noon. Yet Mr. Trotter wasn’t dead, and the telegram
was only the Far Northern idea of a joke.
Wallgend is the home of the “local.”
Every young man who can read and write there thinks
he can 'splain and 'spound the Scriptures. Such are
sometimes liable to err, like other mortals. Thus, at a
"camp meeting ” recently, a great gun, after “ splitting
the ears of the groundlings,’’ and cleaving the air for
a full hour, his stentorian voice being heard about a
mile off, wound up with—" Ma dear friens, aa wad like
A MODERN M.P.
When Parliaments wore planned and HretEdesigned,
They aimed at ruling wisely all mankind ;
’Twas theirs to strain each nerve in mending ill,
To check and mould for good the vulgar will;
'Twas theirs to fashion wise and healthy laws.
To aid, at ev’ry risk, their country’s cause;
Eeform abuse; set Justice up on high.
Performing all their measures ’neath her eye;
In short—to link with Virtue hand in hand,
And whip the monster Vice from out the land.
That these ore good and worthy aims indeed.
By all, but fools or madmen, is agreed,
That they are always carried out with zest
Perchance by bigger fools may be confest.
For even now thrills thro’ the land a talo
In which foul sham and wickedness nrovail;
Now Purity doth droop her gentle head.
And Honour, Truth, and Justice, all are dead;
Now Fraud uprears his bold audacious form.
While in his train attendant demons do swarm j
Now under Vice’s iron foot, low bowed.
Poor Virtue sobs her few last sobs aloud;
All instincts, heaven-sprung, now fade and die.
So reeks the air with bold Hypocrisy.
"Lo I what is this,” some innocent exclaims,
“ That ev’ry vice exalts and virtue shames f
" Who could foresee that in that chosen band—
" The nation's flower—the wisest of the land—
“ Where ev’ry unit strives with heart and soul
“ To form one noble, pure, and perfect whole—
“ So foul a weed could spread its noisome root,
“ Corruption for its soul, and Sin its fruit ? ”
Oh, shades of Pitt and Brougham I lend your aid
To show the theme in truthful tints arrayed;
And let a startled land in wonder see.
Unmask’d and bare, the thing we call M.P.
And should the Muse trace rough and rugged lines,
In which no softened glow or colour shines.
No pardon she would ask—content to know
Her picture foul—the real is doubly so.
A hero she selects, in whom we see
The type of all the rest—a real M.P.
His name is Grimes—’tis surely quite enough
Without “Burke’s Peers” to shew him proper stuff:
His birth—no matter what—suffice to know
His ancestry he won’t or cannot show:
Besides he’s rich—again, no matter how
He got his worldly goods, he’s got them now.
Whate’er his birth or name might once have been.
He drops a curtain o’er the hateful scene;
Erects a mansion, costly and immense.
And, for the time, is careless of expense;
Buys an escutcheon, adds a country seat.
And thus, with skill, performs the wondrous feat
Of ranking in the country’s first dlite.
Not yet content, our hero looks around
For where more fame or honour can be found:
Unlettered and untaught, 'tis not his lino
To offer aught upon the Muses’ shrine;
The realm of Science stands with open arms.
But he, with open mouth, surveys her charms :
Perplex’d to find a gutter to convey
The dregs and scourings of his mind away.
Ho views each plan, but cannot yet decide
How, void of brains, and laying toil aside.
He may arrive at Glory in a stride.
But see I how chang’d his ev’ry feature now—
Gleams his dull eye, expands his sordid brow:
And now his face assumes that well-known form.
When Wit’s sharp arrows take the mind by storm :
| happpy thought! ’’ he cries, “ what visions bright.
Of pow r and greatness, swim before my sight 1
The sky of Fame reserves a place for me—
A star I’ll twinkle there, a bright M.P.”
What fires now burn within our hero’s breast 1
How pure the zeal with which he is possessed '
He, panting o’er his country, lauds her worth.
And finds her cause his destin’d aim on earth.
Now to applauding countrymen he roars
A plastered tale of dying in their causo—
All ills he’ll cure, all evils will amend.
Prosperity to all will quickly send ;
Disorder in their midst, he swears he’ll quell
And raves in language that he cannot spell • ’
With vigour he his trade of bunkum plies, ’
And stuffs his hearers full of smooth-faced lies.
Behold him now I his dreams at length fulfill’d
And moving in the sphere that Fate has willed •
With aims unknown, and “ silence ’’ as his text—
He means each night to make a speech the next.
Time dwindles on—he daily acts the farce.
While still the precious moments idly pass ;
But, when some measure others may propound
An eager second he is always found.
Some chief he licks, and always at his side
Is dubbed by him a friend both true and tried •
Our cunning hero all his measures lauds. ’
Proclaims them spotless, though they stink with
frauds;
Such faithfulness at length must be repaid
And straight our friend a Minister is made.
But, as the sun, his zenith having passed.
Pales slowly from our gaze, and sinks at last—
But bursts again upon another world.
In fiery robes of lustrous light impearl’d—
So Grimes, Ambition’s dizzy heights now gained.
No longer to a side by int’rest chained,
Eeoants the oaths of faith and zeal he swore
And, spuming those he fawned upon before, *
His star sets on their cause; but soon its light
Breaks on another side, undimm’d and bright
And those—to whom, in falsehoods learnt by heart
He swore to act an upright, manful part—
Are now dishonour’d, ev’ry trust betray'd
And all their int’reats by his own are swayed •
His inborn cunning magnified to Fraud ’
Morebmzen goes, till, stalking forth abroad
Neath Virtue s wmg, his clutching talons seize
Whate er he likes, if but their aspect please.
Now, Gnmes, we leave thes—eagerly to run
A conrse so well and cunningly begun •
Beneath the curb of Prudence never chafe.
Nor let thy eager aims o’erstep the safe •
Be double-faced, but show the world the side
Which thou art sure it longest will abide •
Be treach’rous and corrupt, but on thy wiles
Let Virtue seem to lend her brightest smiles •
Then, Grimes, ’tis well 1 set all your doubts at rest:
Hold high your head, and swell your manly breast • ’
A Patriot, by all thou art confest I
THE PREVAILING EPIDEMIC.
When “ Stiggins” wants a holiday,
Altho’ with fortune fat;
His congregation know that'they
Must circulate the hat.
A wealthy shopman goes away
On his own bns’ness; —yet
His starveling shopmen know hat they
Must give a “ coffee set.”
A bulbous-visaged “ trap” can’t leave
His district—" in a mess”—
Without, bless you, he must receive
“ A clock and an address."
A batsman pfnys an innings that
Is “ splendid," his friends state;
When “ out” is bowled that brilliant “ bat”—
They trot round with the plate.
The Premier goes (tho cup of gall
This fills up to the brim!)
And then his “ friends” it does befall
Pass round the hat for him.
What! law again! ye holy men,
Have ye revengeful feelings ?
Can ye not wrestle with revenge
With all yonr humble kneelings f
Can—after all—ye not control
Tour smoking, smould’ring fury p
And must ye " sling” your pray’rs, while ye
Appeal to judge and jury ?
And yet to think that ye give out
That ye are self-denying;
That ye convert the wicked, and
The couch soothe of the dying!
If ye are bonnd for heaven straight
(The road ye seem to know there),
Bnmfall of sin as we may be.
We do not wish to go there*.


to see vara mooch more sinners aboot me, ’caause aa’s
sure if nae party won’t heerd naothin* as is baad, he
canna hear nothin’ as is good; ah, hen-ee, I’se sure thoo
knaws what aa mean."
Mrs. Jones, who has been awarded compen-
sation for the destruction of her house by the police,
kissed Ned Kelly during the famous Glenrowan fight,
and the question of whether she was entitled to com-
pensation turned upon the delicate query as to whether
she Kissed the desperado in lovo or in fear.
We clip the following interesting item from a
Northern exchange :—“ We notice the enterprise of
Mr. —who has imported eleven oranges from Grafton,
one unfortunately having gone bad on the road. The
stock is most varied, consisting of four mandarins, three
marvels, and four of tho common variety/'
k a sir! at Eylstone who plays euchre
with the men at the pub., wins their money, and takes
it home to their, wives. The correspondent who for-
wards this item is silent as to what the lady does when
, s i? n!flcant circumstance, however,
that only the bald old topers will play with her.
Advertisement from tho D.T. “ Healing the
poor. Mr. Milner Stephen regrets, that owing to tha
prevalence of small-pox, he must postpone tha public
healing on Wednesday next.” Why. we alw-vs
thought that Milner could cure anything, from measles
and small-pox to “ nervous debility” and elephantiasis!
„ haa once more leaked out that one M'Lachlan
Neal died some time ago, leaving £350.000 to the Queen,
and a family Bible to his own relations! This is just
the kind of man who should die—a pauper. Perhaps
part of the legacy went to buy John Brown a lawn
mower, or a bob-tailed suit of tweed, and enabled him
to get his boots half-soled and heeled.
Good Templarism has lost caste in a Far North-
em township not fax from Cairns. Five weeks after the
establishment of a Good Templars’ Lodge in Port Doug,
tos, the Grand Chief” attended a meeting in an awful
state of inebriety, and proposed “(Hie) That the (file)
sum of (me) seven pounds in hand be spent in a jolly
good sproe (h\c) amongst (hie) members 1 ’’
Down the Coast there is a very pious and
humane man who manages an industrial company, and
one day he lectured a workman for half an hour, and
threatened to discharge; him, because he kicked a cat
that stole his dinner. A few days afterwards, this
good man s horse stuck him up on a journey to the
township. Though humane, he is not courageous, so
he did not hit him while on his back j but, getting off,
the prudent pietist tied him to a tree, and, going to a
safe distance, threw stones at the rebellious moke till
it had as many bumps as a leopard has spots. A true
Christian never risks his life unnecessarily.
A letter from the Department of Public In-
struction took eight days reaching the Campbelltown
Herald, and the editor is very indignant. What a
little it takes to put him out! Why, if some of our
subscribers got their papers even within three weeks of
the day of publication, they would go wild with delight I
But then, of course, we are a popular paper.
According to Wednesday’s “ auck-in ” edition
of Eve* Nooze, “ a gentleman standing near the King-
street Arcade on Monday had a ‘ narrow escape; ’ a
piece of hardwood, 15 feet long, having fallen from the
second floor on his bead, inflicting a severe scalp
wound,” This is certainly the narrowest escape on
record, and reminds us of the man who blew out his
brains to escape drowning.
The other day, a boy sent out to service by the
Adelaide Destitute Board died, leaving a younger
brother still under the suptrvision of the Board. The
chairman deemed it to be his duty to convey to the
latter the mournful intelligence of his brother’s death.
This is the letter he sent: —" Dear . Tour brother
died • safe in the arms of Jesus,' on day of . TTia
end was peace. Go thou and do likewise.”
The T. and C. has just discovered that “ the
milk of the elephant, according to Dr. Charles Dormus
(America), is the richest that he has ever examined,
containing less water and more butter and sugar than
any other. It has a very agreeable taste and odour."
After this, we presume the morning nectar of the Down
and Cowtraet staff will consist of Queensland rum and
the butter-and-sugary milk of the circus mammoth.
Herr Schott is leader of the Hobart Artillery
band. The other day, when the new Governor arrived,
* Blowing Ned,” who is major of artillery, stood hat in
hand, by the gangway, and at the impressive moment,
thus gave the order to commence playing:—“ Strike
up, Schott, and take the wind out of ’em !” Guffaws
from crowd, and “ God save the Queen" from band
followed. By tho way Schott is one of the best living
oboe-players.
At Bnrwood, they have patented a new style of
stage embracing. It is unique of its kind, and admirably
adapted to a warm climate. The parties concerned
approach one another from opposite sides of tho stage
at a fearful velocity, threatening hopeless amalgama-
tion ; stop short before it takes place, and surprise tho
audience with a miserable half-and-half-sort of an
affair. To the spectators, it’s as cold and unsatisfying
as trying to kiss a pretty girl through a pane of glass.'
A pedagogue up Broughton Creek way, having
“got religion,” closed his first service by the following
rovisad benediction:—
" All flesh is grass, and grass is hay.
We’re here to-morrow, and gone to-day.”
And yet, when “finding Jesus” elevates men’s ideas to
such sublimity as this, wicked infidels say revivals make
people go wrong in the head!
As one official means of stamping out variola
consists of slaughtering all the cats and dogs about au
infected house, we anxiously ask why don’t the ambu-
lance squad make a raid on the fleas and mosquitos
also ? What could spread tho disease more than for a
flea to dine off a pustular party for a whole night, and
to then skip off and perhaps bite or inoculate a young
ladies’ fashionable boarding sohool ? This is a fearful
subject, indeed, to us, because members of Parliament
and aldermen often ride in the trams with young ladies
from boarding-schools.
An effort is being made in Victoria to put down
betting and sweeps, and lotteries generally, by Act of
Parliament ; and there are indications that we are in
this respect about to follow in the wake of our Southern
neighbours. But it will be hard to suppress gambling
by such means. The fire insurance offices are always
laying wagers—they will at any time bet you (say) £lOO
to ss. that your house will not bo burnt down within
twelve months, and they are ready to lay you liberal
odds about the continuance of your own life or that of
your mother-in-law. Where is the lino to be drawn f
The Giraffe” has got some poetry in his
Mudgee rag this week. Here is a sample of his powers
of versification
When Sir Alfred Stephen pardons rapes,
And * Bulls ’ turn into Dead Sea Apes,
When Skuthorpe shows old Leichhardt’s bones.
And Christians get to glory without groans.”
What a long time they seem to let a man live in
Mudgee. Or can it be that onr tall friend goes about
with a blook-tm lining to his hat and a cast-iron seat
in his pants P
The Newcastle Herald tells a pleasant yarn
about ” a person (name unknown) who made a fortune
and has now retired from business, but is still pestered
by receiving samples, &c., from London, France, Ger-
many, and America." And all this comes of advertising
in that Herald s “ Newcastle Directory.” For solidity,
depth, and general massive gorgeousness, that “cable,
gram knocks the Town and Country as stiff as the
backbone of Governor Bonrke’s old statue. At the
same time, however, we believe it. A man who has
D6en before the Palladium once would believe anything.
The Armidale Chronicle “ Ventilator ” has
been at it again. He is writing about a water-cart this
time, and here is a pustule from his muse
" Instead of skirt and flannel shirt.
Our clothes are fit for onions—
To sprout through in their native dirt
As big as camel’s bunions.”
There are evidently only two places in the world where
men like this are allowed to live. It is needless to
state that they are Armidale and Sydney.
A correspondent deep down in the Sunny South
wants to know whether it is proper that a postmistress
should be so ignorant as not to be able to read the ad-
dresses on letters; also whether it is right that she
should for days either altogether close the office while
she goes hunting pigs, or else leave it in charge of those
who should not be there ? We can’t express an opinion
in this matter, but we may be permitted to observe that
it s much better—for addressees—that the postmastres*
should be unable to read what’s on envelopes than that
she should be fond of reading what’s inside them.
* a the horsewhipping of Randle, at
i t , he An , EI ' AIDK , Bulletin considers that the
have been “barking up the wrong tree.”
But tho odupp fulmiba that he is only •* Bpeakimr from
memory.” “ if the assailants felt ag/rieve.l” h«
“they should have interviewed our Fighting Editor’
and, as wo never give up names. they would have been
warmly received." Wo have hoard a good deal of th«
Bayard alluded to, and we have it on good Sthority
that, however often a person may happen to call to
beard this pugilistic terror in his den, ? he will always
bo found to have “just gone out with the cart.” y
Speaking of a recent concert, the Mail’s Sappho
observes: “Signora Fabris excellently rendered the
Inqaesto Simphce (from ‘Betley,’ .an opera by Doni-
xotti, resurrected in Australia by Miss Cora Miller).”
We non t expect a correct concert critique from Hunter-
street, of course, but Sappho might buy a shilling
Gragdia s Italian dictionary, and learn to spell. “ In-
questo" has too much of the “ found drowned ” about
it for a concert programme. The title is “In Qnosto
bimplico, and the air was resurrected when Madams
Bushello used to enchant Sydney ears, and Sappho
was a girl in “pinnies.” This happened some time
ago.
Just another grievance in Surry Hills. Only
t 7 T P° llCom6ll have been seen up there since the days
or Julius C»sar, and those two merely came to make a
raid on a couple of honest, straightforward publicins.
Almost e very Saturday night, landlords are cheated and
intimidated by a lot of drunken bullies, and yet they
have no more protection than a trader has in the
Solomon islands. Every Surry Hills publican has to
defend himself—the nearest member of the “ foorce ”
never being closer than Oxford-street—and if Mr.
Fosbery doubts this, lot him call around and ask the
pubs, themselves. There is no king up there but the
larnking.
They have an artist in words—probably a Ger-
man on tho Newcastle Herald. He was reporting a
tire last Sunday night, and said, among other things, that
no horses could be found to man tho flra-bell” (which
weighs about a pound). Further on, ho tolls us that
this second well, however, proved equally too deep as
the first, ’ and he positively covers himself with glory
“° lets au astonished world into the secret that
Mr. Johnson. living in Dawson-street, had the big toe
of ono of his feet smashed while assisting to carry out
some heavy furniture.” When Mr. Johnson sees it
covertly insinuated that ho has toes on his hands, or his
ears, he’ll rise from his bed of agony, and go for that
German fire-reporter with a pole-axe.
A concert—a “ grand concert ” —was held at
Eiama, under C. of E. auspices. One local paper
describes it in the most glowing terms of praise—it
was laughter, applause, success, and appreciation all
through. The other paper says it was an unlively,
sleepy, oppressive, and altogether ridiculous affair. A
great deal of petty feeling was introduced into the
affair; so were carrots, turnips, cabbages, etc. Bou-
quets are scarce down there, but. the people will not let
performances go unappreciated—hence the vegetables.
There was one narrow escape from a sad accident.
While a young gentleman was singing, a maiden
launched a cabbage with deadly aim at his mouth;
fortunately he just got it—the mouth—shut in time, or
the cabbage would have been lost for ever.
Judge M'Farland, in a magazine articleroom*-
plains that a man in the Southern district, who was
recently made a J.P., was, a few years ago, cook to
some shearers employed by the member for tho dis-
trict. Thus “ tha Giraffe”:—
“ When I was poor, I served a term
A-cooking grub for a shearing Arm ;
I cooked all the victuals without any aid.
And now I am a member of * the great unpaid.*
And when the steaks were duly fried
My bosom swelled with a greasy pride;
My pudding-cloth was a shearer’s pants.
And the plums in the duff were tho weevils and the
ants.
Etcetera, eto.
“ Scissors to Grind” exposes some choice pieces
of rascality that are going on at North Shore, about
the cemetery, the streets, and the police, and wants ns
to pnbllsh the particulars, because he does not like to
do it himself. Thanks, old fellow. Not to-day, how-
e7er-* . If ycmr yarna were lies, we would print them
straight away; but as they are true, we decline. Yon
say, “ telling the truth is one thing, and proving it is
another.” Quito so, and paying for it is a third. It is
the most expensive thing we know of. There are
countries where the truth can be spoken honestly by
newspapers, but this is not one of them. At least, not
at present. In the sweet by-and-bye, we may write
some obituary notices. Then wo shall speak, for the
truth must be told some time or other.
In tho London Zoological Gardens, the bears
are tended more carefully than almost any other
animals, owing to their peculiar habits. The animals
ore naturally so scrupulously clean, aud so restless in
thoir movements, that this is necessary; to treat thorn
otherwise would be cruel. But in our Botanic Garden
collection there is a striking contrast to be seen. In a
small dark den, hardly large enough to move round in,
a ™ two miserable little animals that no one would bo
able to recognise if they were nob labelled ” Cinnamon
“ e ?;T s ; They like sunshine, and are condemned to-
twilight; like plenty of room, and are “cabin’d
cribbed, confined;” like pure air, and are obliged to
be content with an atmosphere reeking with stench.
They have no bed of straw—their hair is falling out in
masses—their distress is pitiable.
About the most satisfactory account of a bat thy
we ever read is to be found in Wednesday’s Nooze •
He put about forty minims on the towel, and placed it
to the patient’s mouth, allowing him sufficient space
for him to breathe. The patient struggled slightly, and
in about two minutes witness put on a second applica-
tion of about thirty minims, the first having bocoma
exhausted. The patient now became quiet.” In the next
clip, AIL observes:—Shortly afterwards Nugent showed
signs of collapsing, and efforts were made to keep an
artificial respiration by the galvanic battery and other
means for half an hour, without result, death havinri
talcen place.” To most of us, that seems a very sulfl«
oient reason. Tho man who would show signs of life
after “death had taken place” would be unworthy of
the name of a British sailor. Alfred, your humorous
pars, “takes well.”
The Sydney Arcade people have trotted out
their electric light, which nightly attracts to King-
street admiring crowds. Thera is as much difference
between tho electric light and the flickers pro-
vided by that holy corporation, tho Sydney Gas Com-
pany, as there is between tho radiance of tho sun and
that of a new tin-billy. We bopo soon, at least, to soo
our main streets lit by electricity instead of gas, not-
withstanding that the Arcade entrance smacks of
theatrical moonlight, and that one’s neighbour, when
met in front of the Arcade at night, looks as if he woro
just about to go to a funeral in the capaerfr
gentleman in the box.” The eloctric-light; which is
the natural enemy of rouge and “the ffiUr-baml *
mercilessly exposes cosmetics and paint-filled wriukLek
and will show up in their true colours Sydney's
horde of peripatetic cocottes. y y a
some people
have! Mr. Richard Seymour, in a letter to the Mavor
w ™ Slr / ame3 Martin ’ s small-pox effusion to the
Herald, does not appear a bit afraid of the Chte£ :
Justice. He makes out that his Honor has
lappmg cream out of the wrong pail. Mr. Seymon*
says:-” To the.assertion [that the contagion las Seal
by means of the rubbish-boxes] I give the molfem
phatic denial, and m doing so will state the
dealing with the premises referred to, and their refuse
as far as my department is concerned, so as to assure
your Worship that these alarming and erroneous
ments are without the slightest fLndaUon " He does
state the manner of dealmg with infected premises ™
it is beyond a doubt highly satisfactory. He“onol’udas
as followsl trust that your Worship will
satisfied that the statements referred to are entirely
false. After all, the only true social freedom is that of
a man entirely unconnected with the Press. The PW
Justice may be monarch of his own dunghill, but when'
he comes down from the bench to fl<*ht Diet
onjhe Corporation rubbish heap. Sic^aX^
T.J. h ?- Sur^- Hilla . deba , tGrs had more trouble
This time it is a struggle to determine the merits of
Cook and Livingstone. As they are both dead tfLJ
might have let them rest. But young mm'iZ
beards and brains both start sprouting at the same time
always like to show how much they don’t know so tb
worried the poor dead travellers until they probably-
squirmed in their graves. A good young man who
teaches Sunday school, took advantage of Cook’s recent
fC IS T h - M ? 9 hai ' aetcf one shade less villanoSs
w-fL y f’ because be did not loid his ships
with tables for the savages. If the great circum
navigator,ijould have known what the spouting Solon
would say of him, he’d have thanked the Owhyhea
heathen for giving him a happy dispatch. As bells foot
belles, dear comp.) are scarce in Surry Hills, the
“MOVE ON.”
When Members meet upon the street
With Milburn heroes great.
And converse hold, so sage and sweet.
On the affairs of State,
The “ Bobby,” then, comes into view.
And shouts his endiess gruff halloo,
“ Move on ! ’’
“ Move on I move on! ” with savage leer]
He yells into poor Hinny’s ear!
RINGMASTER: “YOU'LL HA TO GO THROUGH IT, TOM!”


RILEY BRO
386 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, }■ 1
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWC
AND
10 COLEMAN STREE
THE CH E APEST
nr the
AUSTRALIAN CO
THE OEIG NATOS
NOTED £5 B.
JES Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
largo size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards W inoey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
S pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2j yards Gambroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
11pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 doz. Pocket’kcrchiofs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. &c.
Me
2 Li
2 L
!c
ifi
1L«
4 In
2 In
2 In
1 In
1
2 In
1 la
i d.
£
Puli
1 Pi
2 Bi
1 pa
1 In
1 I
£
C
1 J
I
£J
1 pa
1 lai
10 ya
20 ya
12 St
20 W
10 go
6 ya
A
weari
J 55 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shorts, large
size
1 best Felt Hot, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Bolt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars. Ties, &c.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies' Camisoles
2 Ladies* Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longoloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5
1 pa
1 wl
5 ya
10 wl
C
6 wl
12 ya
12 ya
4 pa
ifi
6 sti
6 Bi
4 lai
3 ya
T
T
£5
25 yd
3 ya
1 do
1 BL
1 La
1 Tr
1 pa
RILEY BROT
<£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
• Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
JG2 Stockman’s «o
Parcel. **
£2
<
1 Hai
Lot
rid
1 lafa
Sqv
silk
1 Inf!
Sill
Ca
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
2 Nig
2 Cho
Obtain a Litho. at
HIGHFIELD, HI(
WAVERLE
COMPRISING the PRO PERT!
Mr. Pitzhardinge, and
property of W. Cary, Esq.
51 OP THE GRANDEST VIL
SITES ever submitted to
Judiciously subdivided by
Mr. SURVEYOR T
and codtaining ai
of
TEN ACRE
of the
MOST yaluabl:
in the
HEART OP WA
BEING WITHIN ONE MI
OP THE TRAM
subdivided as folic
THREE ALLOTMENTS,
FRONTING SO
TWO ALLOTMENTS,
FRONTING
*«* These five allotments have
the CHOICEST in WAVER LEI
most lovely and uninterrupted vie l
are admirably adapted for Vl.’
SITES.
TWENTY-SIX ALLOTMENT
FRONTING WA
NINE ALLOTMENTS,
FRONTING LL
SEVEN ALLOTMENTS,
PRONTIN
POUR ALLOTMENTS,
FRONTING
Each of these allotments has a fro:
road, those on the south front
extensive and charming View
PETERSHAM districts,
GOOD BACK ENTI
TO NEARLY EVERY AL
ON THE PROPBI
is A
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY I
KNOWN AS
LANSDOWNE HC
containing 8 GOOD ROOMS.
chairman at last pulled the good young man up by an
obligato on the water bottle. Geebung did not take long
to go bung, and spent most of his ten minutes sketching
the gallant Cook on the black board, d la Wangenheim.
Wo are told that the great sailor’s descendants have
since instituted a libel action against Geebung. When
the debate was finished, the result was immediately
telegraphed to the British Government and the Eoyal
Geographical Society.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
.£70,000 subscribed for Mrs. Garfield.
Mr. Dan. O’Connor, M.L.A., has been confined
to hie bed, owieg to a severe cold.
The Melbourne Herald Bays that Sir Henry
Patkes has an idea of seeking a seat in the House of
Commons.
Mdlle. lima de Murska is expected to arrive
shortly in Australia. The great cantatrico this time
visits us on her own account.
M. Kowalski intends to establish a Conservatoire
of Music in Melbourne, and has gone to England for the
purpose of securing a staff ef professors for it.
Crouch, the author of “Kathleen Mavoumeen,’’
and who was the friend of Thackeray, Douglas Jerrold,
Thomas Campbell and Samuel Rogers, is now, at the
age of 73, working os a varnisherin a Baltimore factory.
It is thought that Mr. W. W. Meudell, now
branch manager, at Sandhurst, will succeed Mr.
Matheson as general manager of the Bank of Victoria.
Mr. W. H. Miller succeeds Mr. Shann as sub-manager.
The Queensland Premier, while in Townsville,
was entertained by the Map or and Aldermen at a ban-
quet, which was attended by 140 guests. As Mrs.
MTlwraiih accompanied the Premier, ladies were pre-
sent at the affair.
Within the last three years, at Melbourne, no
less than three suburban town clerks have committed
suicide—namely those of Fitzroy, Emerald Hill, and
St. Kilda. Insurance societies will shortly have to get
out a special line of insurance to cover town clerks’
risks.
Mrs. Fisko, the Bnrdett-Coutts of America, has
just died at Syracuse. U.S. She was the wife of Pro-
fessor Fiske, of Cornell University, and her wealth was
estimated at 512,000,000. Her palatial residence at
Ithaca was the finest in the United States, and cost
§2,000,000.
Dr. Iffia, of Melbourne, has appealed to the
Privy Council respecting the verdict against him for
negligence in giving a certificate to imprifon a man
named Smith in a lunatic asylum. The doctor had to
pay the amount of the verdict, and Smith gave security
to refund in case the Lords decided against him,
Johann Strauss, the Viennese composer, is in
his 56th year. Ho composed his first waltz at the age
of 0, and has made an immense fortune by his musical
compositions. He has written, altogether, 398 waltzes,
polkas, and quadrilles. After this, Herr Strauss can
fairly lay claim to be a man of musical tendencies.
The recent examinations at Melbourne Uni-
versity were the first at which women were admissible
as candidates for examination for degrees. Throe
ladies were successful in the examination for the first
year for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. One of these
was Miss U. A. Hearn, daughter of the Hou. Professor
Hearn.
After all, it turns out that Madame Eliae, the
London bonnet-maker, has obtained possession of
Hugheudcn Manor, at least temporarily. Sir Samnol
has taken Hughendou for eleven years, and having
already the largest house in Grosvenor-fquare on his
hands, has lot it for twelve months to Madame Elise, of
Regent-street.
Captain Farquhar, manager for the N.S.W.
Fresh Food and 100 Company, and formerly for many
years one of the most popular of the Peninsular and
Oriental Co.’s commanders, died somewhat suddenly nt
his residence, Elizabeth Bay, last week, from conges-
tion of the lungs, consequent on a chill received In one
of the freezing-rooms.
Lieutenant-General Sir J. H. Lefroy, accom-
panied by Lord Augustus Loftus, Sir- Henry Parkes,
Colonels Scratchloy, Richardson, and Roberts, and
other gentlemen, visited the harbour batteria* and tho
torpedo station on tho afternoon of Friday last, and
witnessed some interesting practice with the guns and
some torpedo experiments.
Mr. W. T. Coonan, ex-member for tho Bogan,
was invited up to Forbes, the other day, and presented
with a “ hundred quid ’’ and an address. Walter was
much impressed with both—particularly tho former-
no inconsiderable portion of which was “melted" at
the Royal. Mr. Coonan was only put out last election
by a (lake. Ho will go in this timo for a certainty.
A ca que I'on dit —anyhow.
Tho ground on which Mr. John Deane, battery-
owner, of Charters Tower?, recovered £!O3 damages
from Mr. Thadeus O’Kano, of the Nortiieru Miner,
was that defendant printed a paragraph, which, in the
opinion of the jury, contained an imputati n that
plaintiff had improperly “ annexed ’’ gold, tbo property
of his customers. Mr. O’ Kane denied that any such
imputation was intended.
Mr. Parvee, the eminent Victorian barrister, at
the trial Smith v. Ifiift. frequently alluded to “ Spiritual-
ism," and asked tho doctors whether t hey would pro-
nounce a person of unsound mind i f that person
pewusted in maintaining a belief in it. The
answer of the medicos was a strong and instant affirma-
tive Mr. Purvcs, however, did not know that the
.defendant doctor was one of tho high priests of the
vSpiritnallstic cult.
Mr. Charles Hardy Buzacott baa admitted Mr.
William M' llwraith (brother of the Queensland Premier)
as a partner in the Rockhampton Morning Bulletin.
Now this is really funny. It is said that Premier MTI-
- helped Buzzy the money to buy into the Bris-
bane Courier, and then started the Observer to com-
pote with that journal, and now Mac’s, brother buys iu-
to Bnzzy’s Bulietin. We'd like to see a statement of
accounts all round.
It is said that tho gold watch which Sir Hanry
Parkos wears, and to which Mr. Garrett made reference
in his defence, was a gift from Mr. William Hay, M P ,
on behalf of some Kiverioa people, for services ren-
dered. Mr. Hay did not at all relish tho insinuations
mod/! concerning the "ticker” by tbo ex-Miuiatar for
Lands, asd was about to interrupt him, when a member
asked him to desist, pointing out that an excited man
often made statements which he would aftorwaide be
glad to recall.
A rumour comes by cable to the effect that Sir
Charles Gavau Duffy is to fee appointed to the Covernor-
ehip of Ceylen. However. hie family know nothing of
the matter. The veteran p Utioian ha- beea spending his
(third) honeymoon in tho Rui. ra. On the 10th Novem-
ber ho married, at tho aburch of the Madeleine, Paris
a charming young bride, daughter of Mr George Hall,
of Rock Ferry, Cheshire. S) that tho accompli:.heel
Mr. John Gavan Duffy, M.L A , of Victoria, has now a
stepmother aged 23
“Will Honeycomb” says that Mr. Wisdom, the
Attorney-General, has made £3'\ooo to £40,000 by suc-
cessful speculation. Also, that Mr. Hoskins, the Minis-
ter for Lands, “has fared £lO 000, or thereabout*, and
is known to lire on £lOO a year and have some pooket-
money left." This is rather rough on the genial James,
inasmuch as it is covertly iusinuated that he resides at
a “twenty bob” a week boarding house and eats hash.
As Mr. Hoskins suffers from tho gout, tho Dubbo man’s
statement is probably at variance with the truth.
That careful and trustworthy nursegirl, Cissie
Wprmald, who after (according to her own confession),
coolly murdering her infant charge, was acquitted of
the crime by an intelligent jory, and has for a couple of
months “ starred it ” before a sympathetic audience at
Rockhampton, has started with her mother for Ballarat.
Here is a chance for some poor parents in that golden
city, with large families and small means, to secure her
ervices, which could probably be had for next to no-
thing—in fact, perhaps for the mere chance of keeping
her hand in.
It is not generally known that Sir Wilfrid
Lawson, the great teetotal advocate, is a cattle dealer;
but he is, and those are his latest transactions He
I ought a cow four years ago for 500 guineas, and has
just sold it at auction for 36 guineas; another, par-
chased at 605 guineas, went for 72 guineas; and a third,
which cost him 360 guineas, was got rid of for 32 guineas.
Those transactions show that Sir Wilfrid’s cattle deal-
ing is very profitable—to other people. The talented
teetotaller may understand all about cold water, but
he’s not a success among shorthorns.
Relating to a rumour in England that Fronde,
the historian, was to bo made a peer, a London paper
observes:—“ We fear there is no foundation for the
rumour. It is customary to make peers of worn-out
statesmen, of troublesome politicians, of successful
men of business, of wealthy squires; but monarchs and
governments do not care to recognise the aristocracy
of genius. Literary men, however splendid their work,
are not considered eligible for seats in the Painted
Chamber.’’ We ought to be glad that we live in a
country where only men of the highest genius are
chosen to fill vacancies in our “ Painted Chamber,” in
our Town Hal', or on the Bench of Justice.
It is stated that Soudry, who had the little
unpleasantness with the late Mr. Qreer, and the little
pleasantness with Mrs Gr-er, returns from Franee to
open a business agency in Melbourne. Some of the
Southern papers have been waxing very virtuous over
this, and say that "they le;ru with great surprise,”
Ac. But, though Soudry is by no means a saint, it is
hard (in face of the fact that some Victorian Supreme
Court Judges, and several Victorian Premiers only need
shooting to be on a perfect equality with the distin-
guished Frenchman) to know waat all the fuss is about.
By the way, the infant child of Mrs. Greer has been
adopted by a lady at Warruambool, Victoria.
*Thera have been, as everyone knows, some very
late sittings of the Assembly during the past week or
two. The other morning, abont half-past four o’clock,
a certain honorable member who lives near Darling,
hurst thought, on reaching his domicile, that he would
like some rum and milk. The first-named liquor was
plentiful, but as the milkman had not come, it for a
moment seemed to the legislator that there was an
insuperable bar to the fulfilment of the wish nearest his
heart. However, in the M.P.’s bright lexicon there was
no such word as “fail;” so, at about 4 50a.m , a most
distinguished Parliamentarian might have been seen
milking a cow, the property of a neighhouringdairyman,
into a dish.cover
Charles Lamb Kenney died in London Aug. 25,
at the age of iflfty-eight. Ho was a son of James
Kenney, the dramatist, and Charles Lamb stood sponsor
for him at his christening. He commenced his literary
career at the ago of ninteen, and ha was associated
with* Albert Smith, Tom Taylor, Shirley Brooks and
Dion Boucicault in the writing of many plays. In after
years he associated himself with Do Lesseps in the
formation of the scheme for the Suez Canal, and also
with Sir Joseph Paxton during his organization of the
transport service for the Crimean War. Kenney
was instrumental in popularizing opara-bouffe in the
English tongue. He wrote the libretto for “The
Grand Duchess," “The Princess of Trebizonde,”and
“ La Belle Helene,”
It is understood that the little trouble between
Professors Elkington and Nanson, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, occurred through the former accusing the
latter of desiring to learu, by subterfuge, how the
voting for the Chairmanship of the Professorial Board
stood, prior to giving his own voice in the matter. The
accused indignantly repelled the insinuation, stigma-
tising Mr. Elkington as a liar. Thereupon the latter
knocked his opponent down. Prom the result of the
poll, it would appear that every professor, rave the
knooked-down member of the order, voted for himself
as the best fitted for the Chairmanship. The Univer-
sity Senate have called on Mrs. Elkington and Nanson
to show cause why they should not be deprived of office
and emoluments for a term of three months and two
months respectively.
“ Mr. Henniker Heaton has been spending a
mouth in Ireland, and beside takinft part in the pro-
ceedings as a member of the Social Science Congress,
was entertained by Mr. Parnell, Mr. O’Kelly, Mr.
Dwyer-Gray, and other leaders of the Nationalist party
on the one hand, and by prominent members of the
landlord class and resident magistrates on the other.
At the invitation of Mr. Parnell, he accompanied that
gentleman to Cork, and witnessed the immense land
League demonstration there befere the coup d'dtat of
Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Forster. With his wife, Mr.
Heaton visited Galway, Cork, Limerick, and other
towns in the south and west.” Let us see but we
don’t know an Irish war-cry, or we’d give one.
On the motion of the Premier, the Assembly
adjourned on Monday in respect to the memory of Mr.
Fitzpatrick. Mr. Buchanan pointed out that the House
had point-blank refused to adjourn in the case of the
late Mr. Myers, though it was the custom to adjourn
for horse and boat racing. He wanted to know whether
members would put the memory of Mr. Fitzpatrick in
the some category with cricket matches, horse and boat
races, and dog fights—whether they would adjourn in
this case, after refusing to do so in that of General
Garfield, and after having often adjourned for the pur-
pose of grovelling iu all the immoralities of the race-
course. The Speaker and the Premier professed to bo
horrified at this plain speaking, and so did many other
members, who failed to see that the member for Mudgee
was speaking by the card and narrating simple fact.
A New Zealand correspondent writes that Te
Whiti is one of the most propossessing-looking natives
he has ever seen. His presence is not commanding,
being rather under size, but through the features
of the man intelligence beams out.- His com-
plexion is very light, his hair dark, streaked freely with
grey, and his features mobile and expressive when at
rest. His face is very sad, with a look of meditation;
hut in conversation his features become animated, his
eyes sparkle, and his pleasant smile wins one’s good-
will at once. He is very fond of controversy, espeoially-
on Biblical subjects, and possesses a good stock of
general information, shewing that he is a reader of
newspapers. One loses all consciousness of his insigni-
ficant stature in watching his face when addressing the
natives. His address js then commanding, his eyes
flash fire, and his voice is impressive. Tohn, the other
“ spirit," is the very antithesis of Te Whiti. He is a
big, beetle-browed, scowling Maori, with hatred of the
pakeha expressed in every motion and feature. It is a
common saying with the natives that ha has never been
known to laugh. Perhaps the presence of a pakeha is
particularly provocative of ill-humour in Tohu, but all
European testimony amply confirms the native remark
The best proof of TeWhiti’s intellectual power is that
he has kept this ugly customer under c mtrol, and com-
tdetojy inooulated him with his own opinions. If Tohu
had had his own way, blood would hate been shed on
the Plains long ago.
We notice that among those present at the
winter session of the Yonng Ireland Society, lately
held at the Ancient Concert Rooms, Dublin, was Mrs
Kevin Izod O’Doherty (“ Eva ” of the Nation), wife of
Dr. O’Doherty, of Brisbane. Mrs. O’Doherty, whose
maiden name was Eva Mary Kelly, was born in 1820
Her father was a Galway gentleman, and she was little
more than a girl when her contributions began to
attract attention in the columns of the Nation news-
paper. Kevin O’Doherty was at the time a young
medical student in Dublin, and from admiring “Eva’s ”
verse he took to admiring the author. 1819, however,
brought a rude interruption to Kevin’s suit. He was
writing unmistakeably seditious prose, whilst “ Eva "
was assailing the constituted authorities in rebel verse -
O’Doherty was arrested and brought to trial Twice
the jury disagreed. The day before his third arraign-
ment he was offered a virtual pardon—a merely nominal
sentence—if he would plead guilty. He said ho did
not ijka the proposition, but asked her what he should
do. “Do ? ” answered the girl; ”why, be a man, and
face the worst; 111 wait for you, however long the
sentence may be.” Next day, fortune deserted
O Doherty. The jury found him guilty, and he was
assigned ten years’ transportation. Eva was allowed
to see him once more m hia cell to say adien. “Be you
faithful,” she said; “I’ll wait.” And she did. "But
terrible must have been the shook to her gentle nature
when her patriot lorer was borne off a convict, and
shipped for England's penal settlements in the far
Southern Seas. She believed, however, that they would
meet again, and she knew that neither time nor dis-
tance could chill the ardour of their mutual affection
The volumes of the Nation, published during his
captivity, contain many exquisite lyrics from Eva’s pen
mourning for tha absent one, with others expressive of
unchanging affection and the most intense faith iu the
truth of her distant lover.” Years fled by, and the
young exile was at length allowed once more to tread
f” 1 * Two da y s after he landed at Kingstown
(1855) they were married. She returned with her hus-
hed to Australia, and for many years they have been
settled in Brisbane, whore the Hon. Dr. O’Doherty is a
prodigious favourite. He has for years sat iu the
Queensland Assembly as a liberal member, and at pre-
sent occupies a seat in the Upper House.


\uB U B N
AUBURN DOWNS* AU
AUBURN DO
GREAT CLEARANCE SAL
GREAT CLE
EVERY LOT MUST BE SOLD.
POSITIVELY TV:
SATURDAY, SATURDA
DE
AT 3.p.m„ ON THE GROUND.
*** Keep this Sale BEFORE
ACCOUNT FOEQ]
V To meet the WISHES of
CHASERS, and ia answer to
QUIRIES, the owners of this V.
have iHStruoted BATT, RODD, a
the whole of the UNSOLD SEC
AUCTION, on
SATURDAY, 17th I
ON THE GROL
’•’THE TERMS wil—on
DEPOSIT a *V h t EORMEK sal
J • the balance m equal
and 21 months from date of sale.
5 per cent.; and tho whole will bo
WITHOUT RESERVE, to cl
TRUST.
NOTE—Every Allotment MUS
fractions are to clear olf the wh
*•* This VALUABLE ESTATE
of oars to recommend it to the PI
Sal , e * when over 1
ESTATE wore disposed of (want '
number of allotments, alone prev<
being’ sold), SPEAKS FOR ITSE]
HOWEVER
Wo cannot help pointing out thi
have been cleared and made, are C
STiTmv °:, er 2°° JMSET IN Di
that sme ‘ ? the last sa
INCREASED IN VALUE VERY
IN CONCLUSI
all we ask is—INSPECT THE LA
satisfied with tho RESULT.
TITLE, TORRENS
of F th?v H i ? LANS> « h «>wing the U
of the Estate, are now in the print
l>e ready iq tho course of a FEW I
remember-
SAT ÜBDAT, 17th D
at 3 p.m. #
ON THE GROUJ
BAIT, RODD, AND
SATURDAY, DECEI
THE PICK SPOTIOFJTHE GRI
RAILWAY.
HOLLY PARK,
NEAR BOWRAL.
NEAI
CLOSE TO THE^BURRADO
FRONTAGES TO’THE 61
WINGECARRIBEE I
To WINGECARRIBEE
< 72 pooplo at the Museum o
- Mr. Gannon has been elect
“f. Meydon by two to
the district stood to the other ca
Mr. E. Graveur, of 190 Geo
us a sample packet of Xmas car
which strike us as excellent value
At Sunday school,
made of?” Teacher: “
(seeing cloud of dust)-
being made !’*
Little t
Of dust, r
“Oh, 100
At Brisbane, a bag, said tc
has been handed to Mr. Griffith;:
witn the reimbursement fund s
expenses incurred by him in visit
cute the famous Steel Kails inti
»old M w^e^er the bag
Prom Messrs. Turner and 1
received specimens of their nov
floral cards for 1881. These are
and are very pretty. Messrs. T
cliiuu the distinction of having 1
Ushers of Australian Christmas
flora ’ tileir first series ha\
ib/y.
The American Novelty Com
ported some really useful art
juveniles. They are in the shap
ances of every description—steam
pumps, saw-mills, eto.—which w<
the juvenile intelligence than an
be got. Toys and presents of thi
up for school distribution iu i
£2 10a. to £5 and £lO. 1
Mr. Johnson, in his “ Ch
Lite,” pointed out that Cocoa
consumer with too much of its o
a variety of farinaceous substan
rather thau a beverage, Thi
admirable nutritive flosh-formin
Power- In Cadbury’s Cocoa ]
tamed and concentrated, providi
fusion, not a starchy soup. "
holders.”—Adv.
UNDERWOOD
SUMMEE-HI.
Next SATURDAY A
on the Ground, at 5
22iBUSINESS and VI
fronting
PARRAMATTA-ROAD and K
DEPTHS, 200 F
TERMS:
10 per cent, deposit.
15 per cent, in 0 months, WIO
Balance—6, 13, 18, ando2t mon
at 5 per cent, per annum.
SOCIAL.
r.w n of fc . lie bkore3 Department took
place on the sth December, at Pearl Bay. The Prince of
Wales was chartered for the trip and a capital luncheon
Wh r eL th i° h , 6£Uth of the superintendent
was proposed In reply, he proposed the health of his
w^rdJ ’ a nd r the aeeeantant responded, to whom, after-
£fa rd ?’ a diamond scarf pm was presented by his
friends. Return to Sydney about six o’clock.
• • •
Thera was a Wesleyan bazaar at Wollonsonc
iiniM urc* h r ld l a th ?, old cburch at thc Toax of the now
sMe John a H was babel and beauty; whileout-
®d• A Ollll tbe . Beloved invited sinners to enter There
™ 3 .‘ hl9 uanaldmpUy of useless articles, which wore
wintfri thnnf , h9 f T UaJ Beft . buyers—not because they
tSfa 1 » t hm. bn^T 8e tbey llad not tbe courage to
dear y dldn 4 T ant tbem - And, indeed, the
fuse Wf CaS6 e WOuld . haro Uoou very hard to ro-
nromen«d« n ty pQrsieten “ were their appeals. A
announced. and, naturally.
ffm^ d 4 £ e musio wou ' d . un der the circum-
nc s n« besacred - But the bandmaster, being a publi-
the' “Oh i c ° nSQ ? ne , nt ly’ not a saint, had forgotten all
vonth bo . jo ,T ful , tunes he had learned in his
toketlTo null tbo "? bt lt wotl ld bo a good chance to
•• hnn "fh f b i*, e oS ?°f° new tunes for the weekly
„ b °, p ’.„ tbe band launched out on the Prince Imperial
quadnUes, following with “Nymph of the Wave”
waltz, and other sinful oempositions. The disciples
K but i tbey could not do without the
music, and taa band could not play anything else Of
course, no matter how restless tiny feet may have felt
d™™*” 0 dancing; but demure maidens who attend
aU f U COuf f s tbeir carn al misdoings at
1 ’ d d n 2 fc Be . em t 0 see any harm in getting up
w& fi °T 1C Y th f Plan 0f a “ Cllp consultation,”
wShnnH, ,!™ 39 3 ’ who could not road the Canticles
+u!r2!r • b , , ln!r v ? ent rOUQd unabashed, dilating on
the merits of certain nether garments, which gentle-
men, as a rule, are not supposed to even guess the uses
of. In the baby raffle, the chief civic magnate was the
lucky winner, and, of course, had to buy a cot to keep
his prize. The cattle sale was not grand, but the
bazaar resulted in a fair amount of profit, to say
nothing of the show which it gave the girls. y
• * •
Mr. Needs gives his annual ball to his pupils on
2 lst instant. It will be plain, fancy. and
• # »
*wW eld ’-,. the Renter of lawn tennis,
wtmrTnlavbiff I?* wf 1 * 1 n ? fc ad o p t a sensible costume
when playing i,,. He says he sometimes has a vision of
Lll ,°T CU v5 ? % U : nic ol white flannel! with a roll
tha l °f cherry silk tied round her throat,
evtf if f- ? d showing from under the white collar, a
aTOund f herw n e itf lncbeslo ?K. a oherry-coloured band
a h ThTf^ urt, and a pair of continuations of white
5““ eL . |bat seems a sensible, as well as a modest
d ' B ?Vbut be scarcely hopes ever to overcome female
1 rejudice so far as to get it to be generally worn.
• « • •
lon^ h on re tw°iw a grand ri ancy dross ball at Ade-
bb v 6 l b Ja “ a ¥ - y-. The local ladies have'ad-a.
cherished wish for ifc, ** Only Dorsnna nf tnAcm
respectability i Will be ad,nitted ; and, therefore, says
the town wag, tuere will bo no need to hire a largo hafl
• • «
i sensation in affairs matrimonial has
boon the severe cow-hiding administered by an out-
nd on *™S e °us) mother-in-law to her two-days’
son-in-law. The marriage took place in Sydney, and
fhniSt,i r * lnadoai l IQI ? odiata starfc f or the residence of
the bride s parents, about ten miles from Picton. For
re "fou or other, the husband of a day left his
! Campbellto wn, promising to join her at Picton.
' to th ? surpri3a and indignation of the lady’s
?’ tbe f- a ma4ron of sphinx-like proportioas-her
daughter turned up at sunset, ou tbe evening of her
wedding, alone I The incensed mother arose betimes
on the following morning, and. knowing the road her
™- mda 7 would take on his way to his own homo, met
’ w f prefor drawing the veil over what
Suffice it to say. when the young fellow was
“Twfu ~a s t 0 4he cause of the weals and stripes that
rendered him not unlike a zebra, he declared “ the old
woman only hit him with a bar of soap.”
♦ ♦ *
A bazaar in aid of the Roman Catholic presby-
tery at Camden is announced to take place early in
A p ril next; and, as the tram connecting Gampbelltowu
with Camden will be completed long before that month,
a trip from Sydney will be rendered easy and agreeable
Consequently a large number of visitors from the city
is expected, and already the local belles are haunted
with bright visions of metropolitan conquests ad lib
Aarly in the day as it is, feminine minds and fingers
are busied ou the construction of costumes meant to be
charged with the most alluring properties.
# # *
The assemblage that filled the grand-atand and
paraded the lawn, on Saturday, was probably the largest
that has gathered at a cricket match in Sydney. Good
as was the cricket, there were many hundreds present
who could not have seen anything of the game—for,
once caught in the tide of beauty and fashion that moved
ceaselessly to and fro on the lawn, under the cool shade
of the stand, there wore so many well-known people and
such elegant dresses that attention was much distraught.
Two costumes, iu the throng of promcnadors, wore coni
spicuous above all the others. One, worn by the hand-
some daughter of a Jewish gentleman from Wynyard-
square, was satin and watered moire antique of a rich
grass green, with edging of embroidered silk flowers,
black sunshade hand-painted with largo yellow roses
and an enormous straw hat. The other was a maguifil
cent maroon brocaded silk, worn by a married lady
from Yictoria-street, set oil by ribbons of shaded gold,
and a bonnet of brilliant golden satin with Large sun-
flowers. A third dross, perhaps equally handsome, was
worn by a lady from a leading fashionable hotel, but was
in obscurity on the stand most of the time. It was of
rich maroon velvet and. satin, with hat and feather to
match; and as the wearer was both handsome and
stately, she lost heaps of admiration through sitting
down. Tho petite daughter of a Judge was daintily
pretty in an airy summer costume, coloured flowers on
a light lavender ground. Two head-dresses, composed
entirely of birds' plumage, were remarkable. Towel
dresses were worn by some ladies, and looked very cool
and charming. The daughter of an M.t.G , from Dar-
ling Point, wore brown satin and dcru cream lace, and
carried a large parachute entirely covered with cream
lace. Several figured sateens, finely gathered at the
neck and on the arms, but loose fitting, looked pretty
on young girls. An cx-Mayoress was in a robe all pea-
cock blue, with several rows of sunlight bead fringe,
white bonnet, and hand-painted parachute. A slender
blonde, from Woollahra, a noted beauty, was in
black brocaded silk and cream lace bonnet. The
daughter of a Police Magistrate was in brown and
cream satin, well combined, with blue bonnet.
A heavy purple velvet, richly corded and puffed, was
prominent. Two daughters of a Doctor of Divinity
wore satiu dresses of a peculiar hue, which can be, if
not elegantly, at any rate, truthfully, described, by
saying they were putty colour. To anyone who likes to
see ladies’ raiment the colour of putty, or unboiled
prawns, the dresses would highly recommend them-
selves ; but to anyone else, it would seem a pity that a
nicer colour was not chosen for what were really beauti-
ful dresses in every other respect, very glossy and
elaborately made. Two young ladies wore remarkable
dresses—one of French gray and the other of dark bine
sateen, both trimmed with variegated ribbons and
beaded fringe, and with edging of embossed silk
and stamped work. Those dresses would have been
prettier had they been a little plainer. A costume of
several shades of blue satin, with white lace, was ad-
mired for its delicat e harmony of colour. A young lad v,
who is evidently in tbe early stage of “ testheticism ”
had a white polonaise over a greeuery-yallary under,
skirt, and wore large sunflowers ou her breast and hat.
The white portion of tho dress had a somewhat “ every-
day ” look, but the tout ensemble was “ admirable for a
beginner.” A good many sunflowers aud lilies ware
displayed by various members of the fair sex.
* * *
A complimentary return ball was tendered to
Professor West last Monday night, in the Town Hall
vestibule, and a pleasant evening was spent by about a
hundred guests. There ware only a few fancy char-
acters—a sailor, a cricketer, a couple of gipsies, and a
judge. A sad-looking individual went as a Red Cross
Knight, and he looked about as much like a knight, as
ho did like a Red-Cross jam tin. Personally, no doubt.
this gentleman is a very estimable individual, hut he
Till t ?° ‘ limp audclinginj, “ for a representa-
tive of chivalry. Decidedly the richest drees was that
worn by Mrs. Smith, of cardinal and cream satin,
artistically puffed, with cardinal figured train, richly
trimmed with silver and silver fringe, head-dress to
match, very conspicuous was the dress in which a
substantial young lady was arrayed, being a happy
«^ bUl £ , 0f n hlt ° and old « old satin, figured gold
sssh. old gold collarette and puffed sleeves. A splendid
tnrnod-up white satin hat, with one feather white and
one gold, completed an excellent dress. A married
lady wore a handsome white silk with long train. The
: blae blondes wo £e d ‘'inty and dazzling, as on a
previous occasion. Three sisters, in brocaded pink,
white and Pink, and light blue, respectively, looked
elegant, and danced beautifully. A number of the
bBen Professor West’s ball a fortnight
Before, and wore the same charming costumes. A guest
from Pitt-street was all in white a’s a French cook
and carried a largo spoon, no doubt significant of his
Hhorl lV i ltl - 63 ' A httl ? mai I cen from Oxford-street, with
short hair, was neat and pretty in quiet gray A
brunette was prettily attired in a satin bodice* and
tan h sMrt doeP A Ul a i ra^ arin l. bl V 0 ’ with crca “ tarle '
tan shirt. A slender blonde from Point Finer
Koad was in chocolate silk and flora lace. Several
white silks trimmed with flowers, also ferns, were nice,
thn con ? ld ®ratioa all the requisites for a belle)
the fairest rose in the garden of girls was certainlv the
Kinder rn whfta! with
F S? ue , sas ‘b. whose symmetrical figure was grace-
fully displayed in the evolutions of the minuet This
Well PPrtprmed by ten conples. and
the slow elegant movements—retreat and advance bow
and curtsey, and the measured glide which formed its
chief characteristics— were exceedingly interesting
The music for the dance was mostly wait z time with
DanT whi P eb nS Qa f n grilles and Spanish
iianco winch, were danced, are not usually on uro-
grammes._ Decorations were good, but the eiforts of
the musicians did not elicit enthusiastic admiration
* * •
Jbe Compagnoni Catering Company have ob-
CafT^omSete 1111 S G~ TWh i -C!l makes their celebrated
hi the city. * Th bar 1S oao of the handsomest
* * *
A bazaar, in aid of St. Luka’s Church will he
fair^sex'a£° th°dl £ atnrda i r * , at Liverpool.’ All the
the ••? dy - tow S are h’MJ’ a t fancy work, and
martyrdom. r W*dly making up their minds to
• » •
vingr COU in Wollongong were so bashful
that they got married early in the morning so as to
avoid the presence of spectators. However several
them a” ffih^ch" 8 * SPBCial C “ orfc ’ aud eveil
• * *
It is proposed to erect a monumental urn over
the grave of Franz Hillman. Who docs not recollect
dance fit? Po f lka >. :tnd the girl with whom he
danced it r In these tostimonialismg days, there are
mem^rftA b Af r <i) UOIIS *° i OOl " 6 foolish objects than to a
f A he ““ w ho invented a dance which has
spread over the whole world.
* * *
la - Wn - t ennis pariy ia to b e given at Mr.
Weaver s picturesque residence at Double Bay on the
afternoon of the 17th. The invitations are mmerous
Compagnom caters for the occasion. numerous.
• • •
An enjoyable private picnic, at one of the most
attractive spots in the harbour, is fixed for tho 17th!
n! n Jarn° n n ar ° lssuod 'w a well-known lady of
gu™S! H ' C ° mpaSUolU and Co - Provide for seventy
* * *
Grand wedding festivities at 16 Kellet-streef
eightyf ° a th ° 10tb JaHuar y- Invitations to
* * *
wn f° r . nn^s bas just been com-
pleted at the residence of Mr. John Pope, Ashfield.
* # #
Mr^F^sinhhc, (Glebe Point), last Friday night,
v n ' Fl ,^' st nbbs gave one of her well-known charming
balls. The hospitable lady quite excelled herself on
W ° C D C Q f;° n tho arral ;gemonta for the comfort of
her guests, who numbered over seventy. The ball-
room was very prettily decorated with flowers and
ferns, as also were the spacious verandahs, One of the
daughters of the house looked very pretty in a pink
satin dress, under a silk madras muslin of the same
colour. Another wau attired in a costume which was
quite anthetic, being composed of soft cream-coloured
Indian muslin, with a gold waist-band aXtiny gold
coins studded here and there over the skirt of the dress
The dancing ot a tall young lady, dressed in nale blue
and p mk roses, was very graceful. Numerous^Chinese
lanterns shed a soft light over the garden, in which tho
various shady seats, although unadapted for “diking
age. were well patronised by “ wbisp’ring lovers * ?
was Curntm 3a,m oniPaglioni ’ a best st * le ’ Dancia S
* * *
There is a probability of the Russian squadron
uow at Auckland, spending Christmas here. ’
* # #
At a breaking up party at a college, Ashfield,
lash week, a very enjoyable evening was spent. Several
young ladies looked charming. Amongst the belles was
fair young lady, in pure white, who hails from Eedmyro
A young fifty,in pink Madras muslin, trimmed with sash
etc., of straw colour, may also be added to tho list of
youth and beauty.
* # *
A gentleman of Ashfield, who acquitted himself
well in the lata cricket match, will shortly lead to the
altar the accomplished daughter of a Flvedock million-
aire.
* # #
Another ball on tho tapis at Liverpool—Masonic
fancy dress.
* * *
Dancing has greatly improved of late years by the
introduction of tho practice of reversing. Homo people
seem to have a vague idea that there is impropriety in
going round the wrong way,” but if putting the left
shoulder foremost is proper, it is difficult to sea why
putting- the right foremost should be improper. There
is no plain reason why we should necessarily gyrate
always in one direction, except, perhaps, that it is a
trifle harder to do it in tho other. Dancers who have
mastered tho art of reversing are unanimous that it
has immense advantages in comfort aud convenience •
and it is certainly very pleasing to watch a pair of
good reversers in their movements, la the old style
the only art seems to be in trying to imitate, as nearly
as possible, tho twirl ot a humming-top, till the con-
stant turning one way makes the head dizzy and the
i feet shoot out wildly in all directions, quite beyond
control. The reverse obviates this giddiness, which is
snob an obstacle to many waltzers. How often have
gentlemen, when taking a lady’s programme, had their
pencil arrested by—“not a waltz, please any other
dance ?” Any one who can reverse never has to make
this appeal. The tendency of dancing, at pres ant, is
not only to turn the opposite way, but to make the
movements as irregular as possible. Of old, dancers
went round as regularly and smoothly as planets in
their orbits it was almost treason to deviate from tho
track round the room ; now, eccentric motions aro the
fashion. A tarn one way, a few steps back or forward,
then a turn or two Hie other way, gliding in any direc-
tion where there to bo an opening in the
crowd. There is great charm in this, but it requires
considerable skill to do it easily and gracefully. When,
however, proficiency is attained, bumps and collisions
can hardly occur, because tho dancers can alter their
course to escape a block, with the utmost readiness.
This, of itself, ia one reason why all professors should
teach _ their pupils the reverse. Performing the
steps is only one-half of the art of dancing; skilful
steering, so as to save your partner from bnmps, and
others from annoyance, ia the other half, which is un-
fortunately too often neglected. Plenty of well-mean-
ing persons, by dint of vigorous exartion, get a good
swing, grab one another firmly, and then so long as
everyone else keeps out of the road, get along all
right; but it is rather trying on others, who have
to be always keeping a look-ont for these impetuous
and clumsy couples, and dodging out of their way,
Collisions between dancers who can reverse wall are
rare, giddiness never troubles, both feet are equally
In sW*’ d th ? gra . ce of movem ent is much enhanced.
vor^ ns , l * one of tho best innovations yet
come d th f° ’ al ll° om * and th e objections to it
reSr.\ l c«JiSTd,‘i h .“ e " h<,io ” t,ik ' i “
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
He T^es^oSand iBh ° P ° f Bal,arat * a * ain « n ™ll.
teotoSZa«»* er 5 y ’,j t i3 x> Said > his converted to
teototafism 60,000 Australian Roman Catholics
publisher of religious
Sat Mf'm 1 ! writat Melbourne, on 2nd December,
against Mr. M. L. Hutchinson, publisher, and several
J he registered proprietors of the
doptheen Cross, for the recovery of £2OOO damages
Sr a Krt° f H aUeged Hon. JaZs BaTfZr
Mr. Robert Harper, Mr. Officer, M.L.A., Mr. Davis
Z dZnd^nta eVe «5 ral ° therpromineilt Presbyterians are
stated wfltb^w 01 ?? 7 ei J atartling revelations, it is
for hearimr o 'Th° UBll , t . hght when the ease comes on
nuito a spufoH^ 10 potion of Mr. Johnson has caused
quite a sensation in the religious world,
Sasser between the teachers of the
very o,‘f« Scll^ ol J * a,ld Superintendent is a
ScKSiff 1 indeed. The diaconato of the
what thn 7™ v thls Bch ?° l 18 a branch, refuse to hear
io-nnrn+if . teac . hefs complain of ,• in fact, thay totally
connected wffh e^ nC °i, S ,T e ° f the tea chers have been
theh- o h tho , scho , ol tea and fifteen years, and by
bonrhnm? 1^8 0d w ? bas been done ia the neigh-
in - * Jn the rules of tbo cliurcli it is provided
thoneac^S 1 ! 011 th ® di ® cussioa of whi °b may disturb
bar “ ou >' of the church, must first go be-
is b!*tnf laC ° nate | or .their consideration j and hence it
° f , the , .latter to stop what, in their
aa?“o- d *° dl8 ?ord and trouble. This is a
referredTS se £f e of th , e wcrd - for the matter
meetfc? ?ght *i P and discussed at the monthly
wmlrn f* th V 3, no d °nbt the action of the diaeouate
would be generally condemned, by the members


Hotels, fee
Kiama hote
G. TOET, Pro
| Commercial Travellers, Exoi
seekers, and persons travelling ge
hotel the best and cheapest on th
splendid table kept, and every con
travelling shows, Ac. Sample r<
Travellers.
The “ LgyCock” Coach meets th
passenMSs, luggage, &c., to and fre
part of the country. Buggies ai
hire. Billiards.
ICE ICE
E
fTHHE CITY ICE COMPANY
ADDITION to their WOEK!
Manufacture upwards of TEN TO
are prepared to Supply the LUX
PEOACHING SUMMER, at a 1c
For prices, &c.,
Apply to
3 WYNTAED STI
OR TO VAR
B
OBEET BUTC
(Late William Is
WINE AND SPIRIT MI
634 GEORGE STE
OPPOSITE TOWN HA LI
Country Orders Receive Pri
T
HE A U S T
"HOME”SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS
SEWING MAC
express
OSS .
*
</
6l\i
TO eSectually stop the decop
practised, every Machine n<
is specially made for that clime, or
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the woi
must look carefully to this, and if
upon them under false pretences
design, we will not be responsibl
work.
120,000 N OW IN USE IN j
No. 1. —Hand Machine, £i.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use c
No. 3.—Machine as above, wit]
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian
Machines, marked as above, are nc
send them direct to purchasers on
or reference. Cases and packing 6
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS &
WYNTARD LANE, S
tr LOOK FOE THE :
W
H. A R
PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMIS!
343 and 345 Keht-strekt, nea
SOLE AGENT for the underment
E. Whittingham aud Co.’s Lon
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victor
Bencraft & Co.)
Swullrinr and Arioll’a Vir»f/vMo
Hotels, fco
ROBINSON’S PITZ
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOO.
ALL THE BEST BEANDS OP I
Is PEE bott;
lEISH AND SCOTCH WHTSKE
all round.
N.B.—Cock bum’s Grape (POE
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Amt
Thurston’s Best Billiard Tabic
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVEET EV
The compagnoni cati
OP PITT-STEEET have n
nonneing to the pnblio, that to rei
want of space to accommodate the
Luncheon hour, they have conv
Banqueting Hall into an additioi
"which is now open, and where e
■directed to visitors patronising th
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a anpei
is under the management of a first
branch of Catering undertaken, a
staff of experienced and polite wai
Through continued misreprosen
heg to mention that they are not i
with any other person, or persons,
SAMUEL PA
NOW OPEN,
THE
£)ity (Catering
Hotels, & o.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Tobacconia
%
TIN TAG!
TIN 1
Caution to Store]
ANYONE selling Tobacco with
other than those bearing on
“CONQUEEEE" or “ YANI
is infringing our rights, and will
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notic
factnrer has been sending out one
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPE
DIXSON AND j
155 YORK STB]
TOBACCO SMO
Note the Abov
"Ot)V
J.
EVE
. TOBACCO!
JAMES ET
No. 149 KING ST
(Opposite Theatre Eoyal Sta
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambe
149 KING STEEI
Loans granted witi
moderate rates, on all kinds o
menta to suit convenience of borrc
LOAN OFFICE. 96 Castlereagh-a
King-street. Established 1859.
jp LA T E AND SHE;
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPEEHANGINC
(a really splendid st
BOOM and PICTURE-FRAME
KENT’S BEUSHI
GOLD LEAP, &o
r nv * \rnrm r»r
mzmm
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANTS
VIRGOE, SOnTaND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
CRN*;
itORIfJE
W&j&ntuJ
It is of the utmost importance I
bottle should be carefully compan
are being imported into New Sc
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevei
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will fin
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
VIRGOE* SON,"AND
AGENTS.
MARTIN
AUSTRALIAN WINE M
AND BEER BOX
105 PITT STEE
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN
Prices from 12a to 42s ]
ALBUEY WIN!
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTEE RIVER V
Claret
Lambrnscat
POET MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
COOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ThePure&tStimuiant
The WOR^
The Kerne of M. MOSS k 00.
erery Genuine Bottle.
IT is not the clearness or oonditi
Ale that preserves this bram
matdon. Common bitter crude beoi
but no other brand has tho same n
ter, tho fulness on the palate, ai
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C
fore cautioned against traders wh
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog.
CO., Sole Agents,


RETIRING FROM
£25,000 S
MUST BE DISPOSI
EDWARD J]
Begs to notify to the Public of I
consequence of recent severe four
failing health, hia intention to
Retire from the Drape
in favour of his Sons,
ME. EDWARD IIOEDEE
ME. PEECY HOBI
and ME. HUG:
who has held a responsible positi
ment for many years
THE NEW F
WILL COMMENCE 1
on the
FIRST DAY of JANUA
Under the name and s
EDWARD HORDERI
Meanwhile, to reduce the stock {’
one) it will be offered to tho Publh
Tempting Pri<
that a speedy Clearance must folio?
EDWARD
4 4
RETIRING FROM ]
£25,000 STOCK to di
EDWARD HORI
IMPOETEE OF FIEST-CLA
668 Brickfield Kill (only) ‘
BABE CHANCE FOE COMMIS
EAEE CHANCE FOE HOTEL
iEAEE CHANCE FOE HEADS
EAEE CHANCE FOE STEAM-BC
EAEE CHANCE FOE EVI
There is as much immorality amongst the hop-
pickers of Kent as there is at moonlight picnics.
London shop assistants have been agitating
early closing. Their monster meeting had to be held
on Sunday, the only day they could attend, and then
some of them had been at work 18 hours the previous
day. They consider if they can secure 12 hours a day
they will get a great boon.
Oxford-street, London, has been re-numbered,
in spite of protests from the residents, and the incon-
vemence caused can be imagined when it is borne in
mind that some of the shopkeepers have been advertis-
ing certain numbers, which are now known the wide
world over, for over half a century. Oxford-street,
Sydney, too, has been in trouble lately.
A deodorising punkah has been invented, which
ought to bo of great use, especially whore epidemics
prevail. It is simply a rough towed saturated with
carbolic acid, or caustic soda in solution, stretched on
a frame and swung punkah-fashion from the ceiling of
the sick room. Though it answers its purpose well, it
is not likely to become fashionable. Naaman did not
like to be told simply “ to wash and bo clean," and rich
invalids would far sooner have some mystic nostrum at
a ruinous expense than a plain remedy like this.
Some facts have recently] come out which
Indicate pretty clearly the consternation with which
the eldest sons of all the English dukes in 1871 heard
the nows of the Queen’s intention to look at home for
Princess Louise’s husband. Lord Kildare, the Duke of
Leinster’s son, speedily engaged himself, and an-
nounced a marriage in the near future. The son of the
Duke of Manchester gave out that he was yachting in
Iceland, and then hid himself in some Scoteh bunting
preserve. The Marquis of Stafford, and the young
and unmarried Duke of Hamilton, left incognito for the
Continent. The nephew and heir of the Duke of Rut-
land, although not titled, was somewhat timorous,
and, it is said, stayed in Paris. Poor Lome, however,
unconscious of the impending “slaughter of the
first born," was in Scotland. Tho royal, hand came
down, and the game was bagged.
We are in receipt of a copy of “ Wright’s Aus-
tralian and American Commercial Directory and
Qazetter, for 1881-82." It is an American production,
and is about the most complete thing of tho kind con-
cerning the colonies that has yet been issued. The
work embraces an immense mass of practical infor-
mation about each of the colonies separately, and Austra-
lasia collectively. A good deal of the information is new,
and the statistics are up to date. Particulars arc given of
every township, large and small, in the seven colonies.
The directory is elaborate, and forms a complete busi-
ness guide. In addition to all this, a capital map of
each of tho colonies is given, and tho information for
their production would appear to have been gathered
up to the last moment. The typography of the work
bears the stamp ot tho excellence of American taste
and design. The figure at which tho book is sold—
two guineas—is extremely moderate.
There is a paper published in Maitland by one
Tipper. It is called the Maitland Post, and is a rag of
the Melbourne Bulletin type—an organ devoted to
the interests ot scullery-mai ls and stable-boys. Bat
for all this, it has a musical critic, and this worthy
having attended a concert at Maitland, the other day,
has delivered himself of a critique, which is certainly
a great curiosity. In remarking upon the different
kinds of music in the programme, tho writer says that
“ the performers took the three sections the reverse to
(sic) their merits, the best music being the worst, tho
second oeing sung very fair (sic), while the third was
sung tho best of all." Then, alluding to an oratorio by
a local Arthur Sullivan, which ha considers is of a
revivalist class, he says:—“This may be owing to the
great rage there has been for Moody andSankey’s music
of late years, and as the composer as well as the com-
position is of that class,” &o. Tho first portion, it
appears, “consisted of songs and other arrangements
(sic) taken from the oratorios of tho best masters;’’
and we regret to heaf, that later on, “ Miss L. Browne
forgot herself for a moment, but was brought back
without any mishap.” There is a column, altogether,
of this brilliant writing, and the few gems we have
quoted are only some of hundreds which coruscate in
the critique. There should be an opening for this
critical genius in Sydney; and, if he will call round
here, wa will give him a line to one of the dailies. He
could eke out a very comfortable living, should hia
services be accepted; for while he was concert editor
of the Snorter whan the shades of night had gathered
o’er the city, there would bo nothing whatever to pre-
vent him driving a water-cart in the day-time.
“Can You Swim?" —Professor Cavill, the world
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and be back within the hour. Return boat fare,
including bath, fid. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5,
Adtt,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Williamsfcown (Vic.) December 21.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Racing C1ub..... December 26.
Baimsdale (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December 26.
Parramatta December 26.
Mndgee ....December 26.
Deniliquin. December 26.
Dubbo December 26.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Kensington Park (Vic.) .December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Dec. 26; Jan. 2, 3—1882.
V.E.C. Champion January 2,
Tattersoll's (Sydney) January 2.
Forbes i... January 2.
Wilcannia January 2.
Hay January 2, 3*
Glen Innes January 2, 3.
Port Macquarie January -8, 4.
Marton, Eangitikei (N.Z.) J.C January 2 and 3.
Victorian Betting Club January 7.
Geelong January 26, 27.
Broulee January 26 and 27.
New England J.C January 26, 27.
Wellington (N.Z.) R.C. Summer Meeting ..Feb. 2 and 3.
Vegetable Creek Febuary 9, 10.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, IS, and 16.
Inverell ■. February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24,25.
V.E.C March 4,9, 11,
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12.
Albury rn March 16,17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club ...March 16 and 17.
AQUATICS.
Glebe E.C December 17.
Snail’s Bay Amateur Regatta.. .......December 17.
Printers’ Regatta Deesmber 17.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion Regatta December 17.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December 24.
Raymond Terrace Eegatta December 26.
Pyrmont Eegatta u December 26.
Newcastle Annual Eegafta January 2.
Lane Cove Eegatta January 2.
Port Macquarie Annual Eegatta January 2.
Stockton Eegatta January 26.
Hanlan v. Boyd, on the Tyne April
PEDESTEIANISM.
Bathurst Athlectic Sports December 26.
Highland Society, Association Ground ....January 2.
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven: —December 16, 17, 19, against 11 of
Victoria at Melbourne; December 23, 24, 26,
against 18 of South Australia at Adelaide; Decem-
ber 31, January 2 and 3, Combined Australian Eleven at
Melbourne; January 12,13, 14, against 22 of Otago at
Dunedin; January 16 and 17, against Oamaru or
Timaru; January 20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January!26, 27, 28, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2,3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park; February 17, 18, 20, against
Combined Australian Team at Sydney.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Another Australian eleven is being organized.
Richmond is advertised as a sire of the season.
Peate is the grandest bowler that England has
ever sent to the colonies.
Mr. L. B. Myers, at New York, on October 8,
ran 1000 yards in 2 mins. 8 secs.
Liberator and Atlantic have been scratched for
the Victorian Champion Stakes.
The racehorse Fleur-de-Lys was accidentally
drowned in the Murray last week.
At the special meeting of the Glebe Rowing
Club, Mr. A. Ickeraon was elected captain.
Michael Rush, the sculler, has bought a business
in—Grafton, not Sydney, as has been stated.
Our tail men did not play as well as was ex-
pected in the first innings against the English Eleven.
The Englishmen say that, though Massie is a
grand batsman, he wants to make his runs too quickly.
Mr. W. A. Long’s string is to be offered at
auction on December 22, He is about to visit Europe.
Tumnt and Adelong meet on the cricket field
to-day (Saturday), in a contest for the Mandelsohn Cup,
On Saturday week the Rover C.C. defeated the
Kingsborough C.C. by 10 runs with three wickets to
spare.
Mr. Joe Thompson, the Leviathan bookmaker,
intends to visit England, via America, during the winter
season.
It is not true that Murdoch took =OlOOO to .£5O
that he would score 100 runs in the match against the
Englishmen.
Allen, the University colt, was, at his own
request, left out of the selection of a team against the
Englishmen.
The new cricket club at Adelaide intend to
engage good professionals. McShana and Midwinter
are suggested.
The Victorian Cricket Association have decided
that the coming Intercolonial match shall bo played on
the Melbourne club ground.
At West Maitland, on Saturday, the Albion
Club defeated khe Cambridge Club by two ’ wickets.
Scores : Cambridge, 43 and 97. Albion, 74 and. 8 wickets
for 86.
At a regatta held on the Yarra, on Saturday,
the maiden pairs was won by the Yarra Club, the
maiden fours by Yarra, and the senior fours by Ballarat
City Club,
The occupants of the new grand-stand were
delighted with the splendid view they had of the cricket
match. Several of the pavilion ticket-holders preferred
the stand.
On Saturday, the Melbourne’Club finished the
match with South Melbourne Club for the Cleeland
Challenge Cup. The contest resulted in a win by 22
runs for the former.
A person summoned for playing monte on the
Parramatta Cricket Ground, on the 7th instant, was
discharged, the apprehending constable not having seen
the offence committed.
The recently-purchased thoroughbred mares of
the Hon. J. White arrived per steamer Moray. They
are said to be a very grand lot, and will be a good ac-
quisition to the stud of the colony.
The good wickets on the Association Ground
gave the English bowlers no chance. The ball couldn’t
bite, and the break did not come off. Massie, as usual—
well, 56, with 10 fourers, in about half-an-hour.
Laycock was champagned on board the steamer
before he landed at Brisbane. In the course of his
remarks he said that he and Trickett, prior to visiting
England, had been only "yackering” and that they
had both ** learned to row in the old country."
’ The following programme has been fixed for the
Anniversary Regatta:—Youths under 17, double sculls
skiffs Laidley sculls, amateur championship, 16ft
dingies, all-comers in skiffs handicapped, maiden fours
18ft and 19ft skiffs, first-class yachts, second-class
yachts, third-class yachts, senior fours, all-comers’
champion belt, 20ft and upwards boats handicapped,
14ft open boats, 22ft open boats, junior fours’ outrigger,
11ft skiffs under canvas, merchant ship gigs, all-comers
in outriggers who never won an all-comers race or stake
of £5O, Vernon boys' race, men-of-wor barges.
A rifle match for a trophy, presented by the
Mayor of West Maitland, took place on Saturday at the
East Maitland rifle range. Sergeant Byrnes was top
scorer, with 55 points. The trophy has to be won three
times.
Mr. Pond, who died lately in England, was a
speculator in the first All-England Eleven who visited
Australia. The original promoter failed, and Mr.
Pond, with his partner, Mr. Spiers, took it up and
“ struck oil."
The six days’ bicycle contest at Melbourne, for
the championship of Australia, was won by Rolfe, who
covered 910 J miles. Press was second, 892 miles.
Irish covered 830 J miles, Schackleford 719 miles, and
Hoskins 426 miles.
Ihe team which represented N.S.W. in the late
match Was without doubt the best we have, and the
Selection reflects credit on the committee, particularly
as oils member seldom, and another never, attended the
selection practices.
Following is the team selected to play for
Victoria against the English Eleven .-—Allan, Black-
ham, Bonnor, Boyle, Cooper. Edwards, Groube, Horan,
Macdonnell, M'Shaae, and Palmer; emergencies,
Coulthard and Moule.
Following are the names of the Eighteen who
play for Cootamnndra against the English Eleven: —
Allman, Belcher, Evans, Ferguson, Healy, Hobbs,
Howard, Iceton, Keyser, Meyrich, Moran, Murdoch,
Nash, Simpson, Smith, Thompson, Wardle, Waugh,
Adelaide Park (S.A.) Eaoes, Saturday. Hurdle
Race: Shamrock 1, Goldfish 2, Forester 3. Sapling
Stakes: Lady Elizabeth 1, Sterling 2, Surprise 3. Han-
dicap: Minna 1, King Lud 2, Turretfleld 3. Steeple-
chase .- Cissy 1, Charbo 2, Flying Stakes: Little Dick
I, Bouloveranka 2.
Laycock won the big money at Brisbane regatta,
beating Solomon easily. M'Cleer, who started, upset
his boat. A race for £5O has been arranged between
M'Cleer and Solomon. The amateur sculling race was
won by T. O’Sullivan, and the champion-fonrs by the
Commercial crew.
A frisquette club has been formed in the neigh*
bonrhood of Eveleigh. At a match played last Satur-
day, Mr. Borthwick’a side scored 213 points, and Lieut.
Mulholland’s side 200, of which ho himself scored 113.
Mr. Ironside, the inventor of the game, officiated as
umpire and scorer.
A challenge has been issued to the Players of
England, on behalf of the Gentlemen cricketers and
University representatives, to play matches in 17
counties of England. Half the gate-money is offered
to the Players. We presume the other half will he
offered to the other players.
Eight hundred householders petition for a
further lease of Parramatta Park for the requirements
of the local Jockey Club. Were Parramatta not so
completely "eaten up" by despicable party feeling,
there would be no need for the petition. The lease
would have been granted long ago.
This is from the ’Frisco Daily Examiner
Lord Harris, who is a good-natured-looking young
man, had not donned the regulation white flannel
cricketing dress, but played in a white linen shirt and
a pair of ill-fitting grey pants, that had apparently come
from some Liverpool Cheap John store.”
Fortitude Valley (Q.) Races, Saturday. Maiden
Plate: Warfare 1, Ben Lomond 2. Chester Valley
Handicap: Proctor 1, Nabocklish 2, Moor Lad 3.
Corinthian Stakes: Eclipse 1, Warfare 2, Pastime 3»
Flying Handicap: Moor Lad I, Liberty 2, Nabocklish
3. Consolation Stakes: Nabocklish 1, Zanco 2,
Liberty 3,
Bathurst Amateur Turf Club Races, Saturday.
The Bracelet: Speranza 1, Rosebud 2. Ranger 3. Turf
Club Handicap: Harebell 1, Velox 2, Partner 3. Welter
Stakes: Ranger 1, Jupiter 2, Kal Kal 3. Welter Sell-
ing Race: Surprise 1, Flustration 2, Not Known 3.
' Free Handicap; Norman 1, Kelpie 2, Speranz 1 3. Pony
Rice: Tom Thumb 1.
The Cleeland Challenge Cup, for which the
principal Melbourne cricket clubs are now contesting,
is the gift of Mr. John Cleeland, the owner of Wol-
lomai, the Melbourne Cup winner of some years ago.
The cup is of solid silver, and is nearly a foot and a half
in height; on the top is a figure of a playing
costume, and cricket emblems are otherwise introduced.
The programme for Pyrmont annual [regatta,
on Boxihg Day, is published. It comprises twenty
events, amongst which are a race for all-comers, who
have never won a race is outriggers; all-comers, light
skiffs, single aoulls, handicapped j all-comers, pair
oars; men-of-wars* race, single sculls ; all-comers, who
have never won an advertised prize, single sculls, light
skiffs.
Another industry destroyed by nineteenth-
century iconoclasts. The “ correct cards’ ” right for
the cricket match was purchased by Messrs. Hardie and
Gorman, who distributed the scoring forms gratuitously
for advertising purposes. This was viewed with great
disapprobation by the genus Arab and larrikin, who
saw a prospect! re “ tuppence in the hob ” vanish into
thin air.
Q. Hiddlesbone was the hero of the first day of
the late match. His phenomenal right and left-handed
catches will be ever remembered by those who had the
pleasure of seeing them accomplished, and his success
made the aspect of the game alter greatly! The War-
wicks are justly proud of him; especially as he has
not yet expressed any intention of leaving them to
join the Carltons.
Tho match All-England Eleven v. Cumberland
Twontj-two resulted in the first defeat the English team
has experienced. The Twenty-two was good, but the
ground was bad, and the bowlers’ averages were pheno-
ruenal. The scores are as follow Eleven, first in-
nings, 61—Midwinter 21, Shrewsbury 11—Second
innings, 64—Selby 22, Midwinter 14, Ulyett 10, Twenty-
two, first innings 78—J. Seale 11, Maybury |lO, second
innings, 16 wickets for 48—Brodie; 19,
Temora Races, December 8 and 9. First day:—
Maiden Plate: W.H.J. 1, Oolddiggor2, Tambour Major
3. Prince of Wales Stakes: Ariel 1, Laura 2, Star of
the Hills 3. Town Plate: Rainhbw 1, Messenger 2,
Evidence 3. Two-year-old Stakes: Cootaban 1, First
Light 2, Little Queen 3. Hurdle Race: Mavis 1,
Bnllooky 2, Juggler 2. Plying Handicap: Blackbird 1,
Faith 2, Scud 3. The Ladies’ Purse fell through.
Jockey Club Handicap : Rainbow 1, Minnie Warren 2,
Gazette 3. The settling passed off satisfactorily. £414
was paid- away in prize money. The principal winners
were:—Messrs. Abrahams, £139; M'Donald £47; G.
Davis, £4O; Poplin, £4O; Cain, £2B; F. Davis, £2B
The late match has proved that the English
team are as strong in batting as in bowling. Garrott
and Evans bowled like demons, but could not keep the
runs down. Of the batsmen, we think Ulyett to be the
best. Bites the fastest run-getter, Barlow the most
patient, and one of the most stubborn batsmen that
Australian bowlers have met. Midwinter, when he
settles down, is a powerful batsmen ; Shrewsbury is,
perhaps, the most stylish bat of the team. Selby is
always a trouble to the scorers, and has improved greatly
on the form shown during Ms last visit to us. Scotton
has a free style, but should only bo effective with loose
bowling. Bates, in his innings on Monday, reminded
ns greatly of Massie in his free wrist play. The team,
of course, has a tail, which the Melbourne bowling
ought to find out.
The following races have been arranged for Mr.
J. R. Fairfax’s prizes, presented to the R.S.Y.S Ist
class.—Prize £35; 20th January, 1882. Course : Flying
start off Fort Macquarie, down round boat off North
Head, off Long Bay, back round Shark Island, Fort Deni-
son, Shark Island and back to flag-boat off Fort
Macquarie. 2nd and 3rd class—lst prize, £3O; 2nd
prize, £l5; 21st January, 1882. Course: Plying start
off Fort Macquarie, round a boat off South Head, off
Bondi, round Shark Island, Fort Denison, Shark Island,
and back to Fort Macquarie. 4th class.—Prize, £2O;
28th January, 1882. Course: Plying start off Port Mac-
quarie, round Ray’s buoy at Manly, Shark Island, Fort
Denison, Sow and Pigs, Shark Island, and back to Fort
Macquarie.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The female go-as-you-please,” at Brisbane,
was not successful. The affair was left in the hands of
the imported stock, the local pods, not considering it
pod enough. Disputes were the order of the day. and
two of the “ ladies ” came to fisticuffs and claws, when
much skin and hair flew about The Wilcanuia Eow-
-Ihave organised some scratch races for to-day
(Saturday) Hero of Waterloo v. Newtown United at
Eveleigh : H.W.C.C. 9S—J. Watson 30, Q. Watson 16.
£ n( ?s, e, ?a (not out) 15. N.U.C.C. 78-Galvin (not out)
bmitli 15 Caxton v, Balmain Waratah resulted in
an easy victory for the Caxtons, chiely through the
excellent batting and bowling of Waugh The pur-
chaser of the gates in connection with the cricket
match All-England v. Cumberland, lost £7O over the
transaction. The attendance was not anything as good
as was anticipated...... Mr. Stevens,recently a detective
m the Adelaide police force, has started in Sjdney as a
professional runner. He is to race Selby, the English
cricketer, next week—so yards, for £5O.
THE KOOKABURRA.
“ Now, what were the Plagues of Egypt F”
First boy, *' Moses." Second boy, “ The Jews, sir.”
Hoping against hope:—Taking a ticket in a
monster sweep. Thiukiug that monster sweeps will
ever be suppressed.
There was an old lady of Brighton,
Who always drank rum to get tight on;
But not so her daughter,
She drank soda-water—
The stuff the old lady got right on.
Mr. Longmore, of the Victorian Police Com-
mission, says it is a very remarkable fact that it is the
loose women of the community who get tight, and it is
still more remarkable that the looser they are the tighter
they become.
With features weary and worn.
With eyelids heavy and red.
He dragged himself to the cradle side.
And those are the words he said :
Rock, rock, rock.
The whole of the blooming night.
How much I wish that dreadful babe
Had never seen the light.
Oh I for a respite brief
From its horrid squalling cries.
To let these aching ears have rest,
And close these weary eyes.
, It’s yell, yell, yell.
My agony seems to mock;
No blessed leisure to read or smoke.
But only time to rock.
I groan out "hush-a-by babe!”
In a dull monotonous rhyme,
But the imp that they say is the image of mo
Keeps yelling all the time.
It’s oh! to be single again.
And indulge the illicit kiss,
If this is the lively sort of thing
They coll connubial bliss.
My gay old pals drop in
And shout “ A splendid boy 1"
As if they loved a joke at mo.
And twit me with their joy.
Oh I men, with sweethearts dear,
If you want to lead happy lives.
Love all the single girls you like.
But don’t make sweethearts wives.


SCHWEPPE’S MINERAL WATERS
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND BOTAL
FAMILY,
can ba obtained of the principal hotelkeepers, wine
merchants and chemists throughout the colonies.
58 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
WANTED to bo known, that the cheapest
place in Sydney for the best Christmas
Groceries is at MORAN'S Cheap Cash Store,! 113
CAMPBELL STREET, near Riloy-street. All orders
punctually attended to.
SODAWATER,
LEMONA D E,
GINGER ALE,
TONIC,
MAGNESIA
Waters.
51 Beeners-street, London,
and
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv,
THE HALF-CROWN WILKINS.
We live in a progressive age. Things which we
did not dream o£ possessing a couple of years ago are
now household words in the colony. Wo have the
electric light, tramways, patent suspenders, Mackinnon
pens, freezing machinery, and waterproof blacking.
There is even a four-logged hen on view in Qeorge-
street; and Japanese Dados are as common at Darling
Point as black eyes are in Clarence-street right-of-ways.
These manifold proofs of tbe march of civilization
being in evidence, it should surprise no one that the
literature of the colony should be supplemented by the
publication of a review. That work is now before us,
and, having made a careful study of its contents, we
feel ourselves in a position to cheerfully admit that the
Sydney University Review is quite as great a cariosity
in its way as the feathery phenomenon wo have just
alluded to.
• • •
The Review starts on its career —like a loco-
motive upon its journey—with a number of very load
puffs. From an advertisement on the title-page, we
read that it “ will be a publication of about 100 pages
Royal Bvo., exclusive of advertisements, and will com-
prise articles on literary, philosophical, classical,. his-
torical, scientific, legal, political, and social subjects,
also reviews and poetry;” and likewise we glean that the
new venture will be " under the direction and manage-
ment of members of the University whoso object is
the establishment and maintenance of a high-class
periodical in which the culture, literary taste, and
critical judgment of the Australian colonies may have
expression.” All this gratified ns very much. There
was a cheery hopefulness about it that we considered
to be very pleasant; and, consequently, it was with
feelings of no ordinary expectation that we purchased
the volume and settled down, in a shady nook, “far
from the madding crowd,” to peruse the work “in
which the culture, literary taste, and critical judgment"
had, at length—great Heaven I—found “ expression."
• • •
A glance at the publication reveals the fact that
it has no editor, but is managed by a committee of nine
University men (only!), amongst whom wo find the
names of the genial and accomplished “Toby” Barton,
Dr. Beattie, F. Morrish (!),and other gentlemen equally
famous in the world of letters. Forty-eight other gen-
tlemen arc announced, however, as having promised
to contribute, amongst whom wo see Judge Docker,
Professor Pearson, Archbishop Vaughan, Dr. M'Gibbon,
and (we print this last one as a kind of bonne houche)
“W Wilkins, Esq.” The “business manager” (how
suggestive of the circus this term is !) appears tobe "Mr.
Alfred K. Wilkins,” audaswe are anxious to send Alfred
along, we’ll give him a hint how to advertise the Review
cheaply and succe'*- f - illy. Let him appear at the office
window at regular'y advertised periods of the day, and
sing the following (which embodies the whole of his
prospectus) to the tu .e.of the Major-General
This is the very pattern cf a modern publication, sirs,
’T has all the “literary taste” and judgment of the
nation, sirs;
The articles are “legal,” “philosophical “his-
torical,” ...... . ,
“ Political,” and “ classical, .and just a hit Itheoncal.
Its papers “ scientific,” will poor Tyndall just a flooring ■
And at the “poetry,” with envy, all the bards will roar-
ing be;
The “social subjects are [quite sure to ’get the
bulge ” on Christendom.
( Volheredfor next rhyme)—Christendom—Christendom—
(Struck with an idea) — . ....
And trenchant its “ reviews ” are all, you must admit,
now, isn’t ’em ?
(Joyously), And trenchant its " reviews are all, you
must admit, now, isn’t ’em ?
« * #
As wo have shown, the advertisement of the
U eyiew announces it to contain " poetry.” We suppose
however, that attention to this branch of the belles-lettres
has beempost poned till the second—or possibly a future
issue, since in the one to hand, although we find three
copies of verses, we cannot discern any poetry what-
ever. Mr. Henry Kendall, who contributes a kind of
metrical preface, has, as may be expected, succeeded
better than his lyrical collahorateurs, but even his verses
are very far indeed from being up to that standard of
excellence which the “ culture, literary taste, and criti-
cal iudgment of the Australian colonies” would load
us to expect. In this case, Mr. Kendall’s muse has
evidently taken flight at the gloom of her surroundings.
The piece is called “ From the Forests,” and it predicts
tto order, as is painfully apparent) the great success of
the publication of which Mr. A. K. Wilkins is business
manager. He says
•• May every page within this book
Be as a radiant hour ;
Or like a bank of mountain brook,
All flower and leaf and flower
May all the strength and all the grace
Ot Letters make it beam
As beams a lawn whose lovely face
Is as a glorious dream.”
This is very sad indeed. Fancy the face of a lawn being
like a glorious dream! Can lawn be a misprint for
brawn? That is "a glorious dream” for many of the
denizens of Lower George-street. But, let ns quote a
couple more of tbe.stanzas
•i Here where the free frank waters run,
I prav this book may grow
A sacred candour (sic) like the sun
Above the morning snow.
May noble thoughts in faultless words—
In clean (sic) white diction—make
It shine as shines the homo of birds
And moss and leaf and lake.”
As much as we should like to do so wo can see no
Tense in “ sacred candour," any more than -,f the words
“mvar candy” were substituted. It would seem,
indeed, as if Henry had been playing a joke upon these
University people, and it’s an oven w«sr that, he had
Ms tongue in his cheek all tbe time be wrote the verses.
With regard to the last stanza, it simuld. considering
the clerical element is so strong m the Review, evi-
dently read like this:
May parsons— holy heaven’s crumbs !
In clean white “ dickies’ make
The Half-crown Wilkins hum, as hums
The beetle by the lake.
« • •
Hnt if Mr Kendall’s contribution is open to
criticism, we wonder what will be thought of the
mysterious metrical monster to. which a writer signing
A injlralie” has given birth in the same number.
The piece is called “Lost Hours" (a painfully sngges-
tive title!) and is furthermore announced as a Song
t-m- music ” Tbe sub-title is also appropriate enough,
since the verses are decidedly for music from the fact
of their not containing any. It is difficult, however, to
Armine what a song can be./sf, if not music unless,
toS it be for an advertising butcher, to be published
in the form of a handbill. Perhaps “ Austrahe has
her own reasons for especially setting down the mob/
of this, her last lyrical contribution to the literature of
the universe. The destination of the lady s preceding
may have had something to do with it.
How is this, now, for aspecimen of “the culture, literary
tosto, and critical judgment” of the Australian
colonies ?
“ ’Oh hours so full of power and life.
What seed for a harvest ye held, .
What love had been sown, and wh»,t ]oyhad been raised.
Had I then all your richness beheld,.
Come back, come back, oh yo lost, lost
5® answered, • Re-live not the perished hovers (sic).’
One more slab of this metrical mystery :
“ The searcher went onward and ever on.
But still in vain he did mourn .
For those babes of Time in life s.flying arms
To Eternity’s Home were borne.
• There I dare not to meet ye, oh lost, lost hours.
Wtopered Jfercy. ’Christ gleaneth man’s wasted
If Kw B wMApered this last bit, why it would be
charitable to suppose that she had been at the eau de.
(Sue T but we will not think it of her. A more pam-
fal piece of maudlin incoherence we never'remember to
have met with since we perused for curiosity’s sake the
extraordinary effusions of the Dclla-Cruscan drivellers
so powerfully satirised by Gifford in his " Baviad and
Mteviad.” In this satire occurs the following
couplet, which, with a change of names, would sweetly
apply to the lady whoso contribution we have just
notieed
“ See Thralo’s gray widow with a satchel roam
And bring, in pomp, her labour’d nothings home.”
* # #
The third bard is Mr. Henry Halloran. This
gentleman has written, all through his long life, verse
good, bad, and indifferent—chiefly the latter. Mr.
Halloran has, however, scribbled some graceful little
Sieces, many of which, we have no doubt, live to this
ay in the remembrance of his relations, and there is,
moreover, a sonnet of his npon ‘‘Coolie Labour,”
which will be immortal from the fact of its having
called forth from Sir Henry Parkes another sonnet,
encomiastic of the author, in reply. As Sir Henry’s
poetry—bewildcringly beautiful as it is—is now com-
paratively forgotten (it all having gone to England, in
the form ef shoe-trunks), we will crave no excuse for
reprinting the sonnet. Here it is, then, in all its melt-
ing beauty:—
Now, Mr. Halloran is, on the whole, a better
poet than Sir Henry, yet his sonnet in the Half-crown
Wilkins is by no means superior to the weird effort of
the Premier’s that wo have just quoted. Like the
dread production of “ Australie," Mr. Halloran's con.
tribution to the Review is a mystery. It has not even
a title. In it are combined the mysticism of Algernon
Swinbnrae, and the versification of Amos Cottle. The
four commencing lines —a period complete in itself—are
as follow:—
“ A wandering up and down, in agony :
O ! wearied feet that cannot rest in rest;
0 ! stormy heart and shadow shatter’d fsic) breast;
01 lips that speak not, yet disdain to sigh,”
The first lino is worthy of Mrs. damp. This word-
jangling for the mere sake of alliteration is pitiful,
indeed; but the mere jotting down of “ words, words,
words,” for no apparent reason but to spin out a certain
number of rhymed couplets, partakes, in our opinion,
as much of insanity as the asking of one’s mother-in-law
on a visit. But we may as well quote the rest of the
bard’s production :—
** Let not thy faith depart, or thou must die ;
Dio of a sorrow not to be confess’d;
There is a God—no matter for the rest j
He rules, —wo know not how, —and ask not why :—
Enough, that in the wild and shifting maze.
Where Truth and Justice seem to halt and fail, —
While brass-brow’d falsehood rushes to the van ; —
Thro’ all this tangle,—all this blinding haze, —
Thro* all that may deceive, and may assail, —
Believe that God still guards—his creature Man I”
We should not have dared to write the couplet we have
italicised. Mr, Halloran, however, is doubtless spe-
cially privileged in the matter of contempt of Court.
See what it is to be mixed up with all these groat
people 1 We have quoted the whole of Mr. Halloran’s
stanza for a purpose, and will now leave to our readers,
without further comment on our parts, the task of
wading—
“ Thro’ all this tangle, all this blinding haze.”
* * *
Since nothing oonld be, by any combir ation of
adverse circumstances, worse than the pretry of the
number, wo can conscientiously state that there is some
improvement in the prose portion. Put the spirit of
much of it is inconsistent with the objects of the
Review, as announced in a mild " editorial ”
which immediately follows the rhyming preface of Mr.
Henry Kendall. In this lugubrious lucubration, it is
stated that “ religious or sectarian discussion will be
avoided," and yet, for all this, there is a vestry-like
odour of plum-cake and port-wine pervading the whole
issue. The best prose-paper, on the whole, is Mr.
Dailey's, “ A Plea for Horace Walpole,”—a chatty bit
of biography culled from acknowledged sources and
dished up in the lively stylo with which “Blackwood”
has made us all so pleasantly familiar. Mr. Dailey
endeavours to show Horace Walpole—whom the world
has known through his own writings (more especially
his letters to Horace Mann, to be a man of the world,
thoroughly imbued with cynicism) in the light of a one-
souled creature, who is all simplicity and ingenuous-
ness. In this attempt at the apotheosis of the gay
Horace, Mr. Dailey is only moderately successful —the
case he makes out for the dead and gone roue being one
which could only bo on relied to “ go down " with a
Bathurst jury. Even in the letter, whereon Mr, Dailey
lays such stress, in which Walpole offers a share of his
fortune to Sir Horace Mann (no wonderful piece of
generosity considering that Manu was his oldest friend,
and, in his own words, ho had “ no debts, no connec-
tions; indeed no way to dispose of it particularly") —
even in his letter which contains tiro offer, Walpole
says:—“ If I ever foit much for anything, which I
know may bo questioned, it was for my mother.”
From a literary point of view, Mr. Dailey’s work, in
this instance, though never brilliant, is always credit-
able ; but surely *his portion of the article will not
quite bear the strong light of criticism“ This letter
is as natural, as peaceful, as affecting, as that delight-
ful essay on * The Citizen of the World,’ in which
Goldsmith speaks of the magnanimity of the poor in
bearing misfortune, and illustrates from the lips of*he
wooden-legged soldier, British fortitude and intre-
pidity.” We have no idea what “delightful essay on
‘The Citizen of the World’” Mr. Dailey alludes to.
Goldsmith certainly wrote a series of good-humoured
satires under that heading, but there was not one of
the papers that bore the title Mr. Dailey quotes
specifically.
• • •
Judge MTarland has a paper on the appointing
of magistrates which is labelled “ The Unpaid,” a title,
which, unless we are much mistaken, will be typical of
the position of the proprietors of the Review when
those persons whom they have trusted for copies of the
first number shall have perused it. Mr. M’Farland’s
article, which is rather longer than a cracker motto,
is—if it be remarkable for anything—remarkable for
extreme feebleness of diction and crudeness of
style. In the innosenee of his legal heart,
the author makes the following suggestion ;—“ He [the
Chief Justice] should have the appointment of all
Ordinary Magistrates, in and for the Colony. He
might or might not, as he thought fit, communicate
with any other Judge of his Court, or with any Chair-
man of Quarter Sessions, or with any local Bench, as
to the requirements of any districts, or the fitness of
any individual: but he, and he alone, should be respon-
sible for every appointment made to the office
of Justice of the Peace.” This reads like a
slice from an indictment for horse-stealing—except-
ing always the italicised parts, and italics are not
usually used by the writers in high-class reviews.
Possibly, however, there may be an excuse in this in-
stance. But, though Judge M’Farland’s article is very
short, it is not very logical. Magistrates are at present
appointed by the Governor upon the recommendation of
the Colonial Secretary, and the writer of “ the Unpaid ”
says “ It is very rarely, indeed, that the Colonial
Secretary knows, or can know, personally, anything of
the gentlemen thus recommended, and nominated. He
takes them on trust 5 and His Excellency makes them
Justices on trust." Here it is patent that the admira-
tion which Judge M‘Farland has for Sir James Martin
causes him to view the matter in a light which very few
beside the Chief Justice’s relations will be disposed to
do. It seems to ns that if the appointment of magis-
trates were vested, as Mr. MTarland advocates, in the
Chief Justice, he, too, like the Colonial Secretary,
would have to take the various nominees for the Com-
mission “on trust.” So far as wo are concerned, we
are inclined to think that Sir James Martin is invested
with quite sufficient power; and, unless we are much
mistakes, the country generally would have fully as
much confidence in the discretion of Sir Henry Parke?,
or any other Premier, to appoint magistrates as in that
of the Chief Justice. Taken as a contribution to a
“ high-class periodical, in which the cilture, taste, and
critical judgment of the Australian colonies ” has ex-
pression, Judge M‘Parland’s paper can by no means be
regarded as an astonishing success. This kind of thing
is not quite in His Honor's • • line.”
• • •
Dr. Garran has an article entitled “ Carlyle in
his Reminiscences,” which is more worthy of a Um-
versixy Review than any other in the number. How
far this is duo to the circumstance that Dr. Garran has
been ?o liberal with the scissors, that there is more of
Carlyle’s writing than of his own in the article, is a
question which readers may determine for themselves.
At any rate, if the editor of tbs Herald has done no
more than to furnish the setting for the gems, it must
be admitted that his selection of the jewels has shown
both taste and discrimination. Dr. Garran has obvi-
ously written with a fixed purpose, which makes his
article distinctly suitable foe a University Review,
that purpose being clearly to impress upon young men
entering upon life, and aiming at making a mark, the
need of patience and the virtue of steadfast faith and
perseverance. Amidst much that is elegant, there are
passages of slipshod diction in Dr. Garran’s contribu-
tion. Here, for instance, is a passage which deserves
to become as popular from its innate peculiarity as the
song of the Major-General, in “The Pirates”:—“ The
prevailing incentive to write was personal, (sic) and
consequently the personal element runs like a thread
through the texture of the whole narrative. The lives
of others furnished the text, the incidents of his own
run alongside as p parallel commentary” (sic). In
“Patience,” the Duke says, after Bnnthorne has
recited his poem about the amorous colocynth, “ Wei 1 ,
it seems to me to be nonsense.” “ Nonsense, yes,”
replies the Lady Saphir 3 “ but, oh, what precious non-
sense!” Then, a litths lower down, the same fair
sneaker exclaims—and the advice may be tendered alee
to our essayist“ Yon are not even Early English,
Oh, be Early English ere it is too late!”
• • «
Dr. Ellia tells us what ho knows about cathedrals,
and the paper is interesting, if only from the fact that
it proves beyond all risk of contradiction that a person
may be very lively indeed in the pulpit, nnd very dull in
a Review. Here, now, is a specimen of Dr. Ellis’s style
when writing in “a high-class periodical in which
the culture,” &c.: —“When we remember that the
Choir School of S. Gregory Magnus turned out five
Popes, that Wnlstan, Bishop of Worcester, was once
the humble chorister-toy at Peterboro’, and that somo
of the most accomplished Precentors, Minor Canons,
and Organists at homo, were once choir-boys educated
under the shadow of somo great Cathedral, we cannot
help uttering a prayer that God may put it into the
heart of some of our wealthy churchmen in this colony
to endow a school for thejehorister-boys of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, What a boon this might bo to the sons of
our poorer clergy ! ” This appeal is all very well in its
way, doubtless; hut it is in the wrong place. It should
have been in the advertisement ppges of the Half,
crown Wii kins, where the charge, wo are informed, is
7s. 6d. per inch.
• « *
The Rev. A. Lukyn Williams furnishes a paper
on “The true text of the Old Testament —Our materials
for discovering it.” In dilating upon that thrilling
theme, the rev. gentleman occupies no less than fifteen
quarto pages, therefore we must plead guilty to not
having gone through the whole of it. This particular
passage struck us, however, as being one which would
interest in no small degree the reading public of the
colony:—“But none cf these is as famous as the codex
of R. Aaron ben Moses ben Asher, the MS. which has
been the standard to which all western Jews have re-
ferred almost since it was first completed. Of this Ben
Asher himself almost nothing was known even so late
as 1836. But now we know, at least, his full name—and
hia home, Tiberias—and his date, the first half of the
tenth century. Whether he was a Karaite or an ortho-
dox follower of the Rabbis is very disputed.” And this
note will be welcomed as a piece of cheerful light
leading at many a peaceful fireside : —“ Sehiller-Sziu-
essy’s Catalogue of Hebrew MSS. at Cambridge, vol. 1.,
No. 12. The very learned writer has promised an
Excursus on this MS., but it has not yet appeared.
This MS. has been overlooked by German writers, pro-
bably because Znnz not having seen it, but accepting
Kennicott’s judgment cursorily dismisses it with
•Das Datum, a 856, iet jedoch ein oifenbares Falsum,
da die Handschift viel jiinger ist.' (Gesh. und Lit.
1845, p. 215).”
• • •
An article by Mr. W. Forster, M.P., on “Upper
Houses," is written in a scholarly, though somewhat
ponderous manner, and will prove instructive to snob
of those politicians as have not previously heard Mr.
Foster’s arguments advanced.
• • «
The most astounding paper in this extraordinary
periodical is, without a doubt, the effusion contributed
to it by Dr. J. J. Beatty. It is called “ The Revised
English New Testament,” and is a sectarian article of
the most hysterical kind. In this stupid sermon—for it
is nothing more—the author has exposed his unfitness
for the work of the ordinary journalist iuamost striking
degree; but yet we apprehend that that will not cause
any contribution of his to be the less acceptable in future
to the committee who preside over the literary depart-
ment of that periodical in which will “ have expression
the culture, literary taste, and critical judgment of the
Australian colonies," The introduction of Dr. Beatty’s
article is a marvel of bad taste. It is even more than
this. It is a ludicrous, pedantic tirade, which reveals,
at every turn, not the accomplished writer whose work
is to command respect, but the religious enthusiast
who converts the Review into a pulpit from whence
he can air his eccentrio fancies to a more general con-
gregation, and ventilate his bizarre doctrines to a few
unfortunates, who, not having already heard them
delivered by word of mouth, may chance to drop across
them in the lugubrious pages of the Half-crown
Wilkins. We will content ourselves with quoting the
Doctor’s opening paragraph, and will leave the
succeeding twelve pages to those who choose to expend
two-and-sixpencein the purchase of the new periodical:—
“ Tho main purpose of this paper is to present for con-
sideration a few of the less obvious thoughts suggested
by the latest Revision of our English New Testament.
While on the one hand my desire is to do this after a
familiar fashion, keeping sedulously out of view the
whole apparatus of the critical art, and addressing myself
rather to the thoughtful than to the learned reader, I
must nevertheless give duo notice that I have on the
other hand nothing to say that will commend itself to
the ‘ man of the world’ (as significantly enough he loves
to be called), to whom learning is just as distasteful as
religion [!!!] whose delight is in the ‘ progress ©f
modern thought,” whose oracle is ‘public opinion,’
whose Paraclete is ‘ tho Spirit of the Age,’ whose foun-
tain of law is ‘ the great heart of the people,’ and whose
standard of truth is ‘ the will of the majority.’ Rather
do I write for the unprogreesive and unenlightened few
to whom ‘public opinion’ is only another word for
human folly turned by a more than human craft and
malice to serve those evil ends the attainment whereof
is to ‘ the great heart of the people’ (and to the great
heart of the people’s god, the Spirit of the Age himself)
so intensely dear." Writing like this needs but little
comment, and in an obsonro religions paper would
excite no surprise. But in a publication which claims
to bo possessed of the highest possible literary merit,
and from whoso columns “religious discussion” is
rigorously excluded, it at least calls forth the remark
that its appearance is as much out of place in the Re-
view as the Review is out qf place in the high-class
j literature of modem times.
# * *
The Sydney Uuiversttt Review appears in
this first issue to lack an editor and writers. We
do not think this wili be its principal want another
time. It will be then readers that will be lacking.
When the Half-crown Wilkins was about to
appear, we were requested to give the publication a
preliminary paragraph, and we did so ; but when it was
published, the authorities evidently considered it tho
wiser course not to send us a copy for review. We,
therefore, were obliged to purchase the cerulean pheno-
menon, as we have stated elsewhere. But the publisher
will get no more ®f our half-crowns. We shall order
tho Sydney University Review, in future, through
the nearest butcher.
♦The Stdnet Uhiveesitt Review, Sydney s-d. K,
Wilton*, 2«3 George-streot.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Fiat Lux Glad to hear from^ you 0ften......
** Vectis”: (Thanks “ Queanboyan What, wo said
merely implied that the late President Garfield did not
attach himself to any of the current creeds. Robert
Ingersoll, the Freethou?ht lecturer, was hig
bosom friend. We cannot help the fact that
“ the unknowing public" often regard the free-
thinker and the atheist as necessarily identical
‘‘Pluto’* (Forbes): Letter posted “W.D.”: The
subject is one which it would be difficult to illustrate
effectively. However, we may do something with the
letterpress. Write again ‘‘W.H.": Capital: but
too late this issue “S.W.": A most interesting
item. Please write often “ Zaphyrous” (Eylstone):
Thanks. Write again, but separate your items; and
only soil one side of the paper “ Stockwhip": Very
mild, indeed. Get a little skull polish, and have another
shy “F.F.” (Parramatta): We do not think a guard,
whatever his name may be, is justified iu sitting down
or lounging on the seats of a first-class carriage. If
your friend is too grand for a guard because he is related
to a cricketer, let him drive a milk-cart or travel with a
giant. At tho same time, wo don’t think the man who
threatened to report tho official had much to growl
about “ Toxopholite" : Nothing in it “ C.L.”
(Mount Lambie): Thanks. We had it already,....,
“ Vegetable Creek”: What do yon mean by all this
galimatias about Old Tom, a fish-hook, a cork and a
frog ? If the people up your way would like to read
this sort of thing, then let them subscribe to tho Holt
Howl, or order up a hundred or two of Dowie’a hand-
bills. What do you think, now, our readers would do
with ns if we printed even this, the ending of your
thrilling narrative:—“ Poor Tom, take my adyice, lessen
the weight of your beef, and I have no doubt you will
be successful in your next excursion.” If you have any
morel copy in hand with such a lot of “ Old Tom” in it,
don’t trouble to send it to us; but try the D.T
“E.W.K.": What is it to you or anyone else if tho
person you write of chooses to pay his bills in monthly
instalments ? We consider that in these days the mere
fact of a man paying at all is sufficient to canonize him.
Perhaps you do not agree with us, however, on this
point. Never mind attending to private matters—send
ns some nice little yam about your uncle the bailiff.
Ho’s a public character “ Traveller ": No good to
us; write again "Aurora” (Wollongong) : Glad to
hear from you "J. G. Wilson": Your facts would
bo too expensive, because they are true We don’t
publish facts that are true "Tangent” : U5ed......
“Guppy": Thanks; had to condense ‘‘Oooee’ :
Much obliged ; shortened, as space is scarce.
tear" (Kiama) : Keep it up ‘‘Humanity”: We
notice your remarks about bears .“X.Y.": Much
obliged “ K.” (Clarence Kiver): The matter is one
undoubtedly requiring attention at tho hands of the
Press, which, however, has its hands tied You should
write to fhe Postmaster-General “ Subscriber ”
(Newcastle): Eight you axe "OH. and J.” :We
cannot be expected to published ex-parto statements of
such a character. "Aliquis”: Excellent ; write
again “ News-devourer " (Terrara): Received......
“ Narrabri ” : Your name and address do not
accompany your communication, which, however,
would, in no ease, be of much interest “ Spes.” :
You haya a good deal of inveotivo power, but you
cannot spell, and until you loam, your writing wont
be marketable. It is true that many great writers have
been bad spellers, but defective orthography at the
outset prejudices a man in tho opinion of an editor,
just as much as a nasal wart or a pair of knock-knees
prejudices a burlesque actress in the opinion of the
soulful-eyed young man “H.N." (Gympie): Can’t
make out what you are driving at. Write more plainly.
We have no time for deciphering the pot-hooks and
“ E.F.W."; Yon should have told ns the circum-
stances of the case “E.K ”: Very good; will appear
next week " Sammy P”: At least one capital jok* - ,
Hope to .hear from you often “S.LK”: Your in-
tentions aro excellent, your verses not so “ Aroz. :
No; we can’t afford to advertise lolly-manufacturers
free “Paterson”: You are evidently jealous...
The correspondents who have favoured us with com-
ments, relative to tho funeral of the late Mr. Fitz-
patrick, are informed that communications on the
subject were too numerous for separate treatment.
The matter is referred to another part of to day’s issue.
Pedantry ”: Will read it when we have time
“ Sympathy ”: We, too, have a “ d iwn ” on that kind of
theology “ Sigma " (Kiama): Yes ; we’ll be there
“Youth”: You don't say what part of the world you
write from. However, we gather from your remarks
that its more likely to be Murrumburrah than Pai is
“Obadiahßeceived “Mrs. C.C.”: Thanks,.
“Unanderra”: Will give you a show next publication.
“ W.C L.”: Glad if you will write again “Sub-
scriber" (Kiama): Held over for a week “Magna
est Vei ft as Capital, but crowded out this time
“ Lynecus": Held over.
Yass Plains nominations, 4th January ; polling
day, 10th January.
A woman in Wales has been convicted of
drunkenness and rioting 162 times, and she has become
quite graceful in her manners through her constant
practice in curtsying to her friends on the Bench.
The idea of perpetuating the memory of great
Australians by associating them with the loveliest spots
in this country, is a happy conception. Wentworth-
ville is the name given* to a charming spot, which Mr.
W. Pritchard will soil, in allotments, on Saturday.
It is not generally known that anyone may
become a dispensary student of the Sydney Infirmary
for the small fee of £3 3a. We hopo that this will be
taken advantage of, as there is an efficient and com-
petent staff of dispensers present at the above insti-
tution.
When Mr. Kobert Fowler was almost unani-
mously requisitioned to stand for Newtown, he declined
on Ihe ground that he had a Government contract in
hand. It was pointed out to him how that could be
“ facilitated.” Mr. Fowler didn’t contest tho election
—a lesson in political integrity that might bo studio
with much benefit in tho Macquarie-street academy.
The Heart of Midlothian is considered by many
Sir Walter Scott’s finest work. The Heart of Waverley
is about the finest situation around Sydney, and in that
favoured spot Messrs. Hardie and Gorman will, next
Saturday, sell some grand blocks.
The late Dr. Lang has left on record, metrically,
his love of native names. He would have been charmed
with such as Burradoo Station and the Wingecarribeo
Eiver, albeit the old English twang of Holly Park and
Mossvalo sounds as sweetly in Saxon ears. All these
places are on the Great Southern Railway, and Messrs.
Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist will sell the pick of the land
in those neighbourhoods on Saturday next.
Why should everyone go through fire and water
to get under wood ? This is an entirely original con-
undrum, and the balance will appear in 6,12,18, and 24
months, with interest at 5 per cent. Give it up ? Don’t
do that, bat apply to Richardson and Wrench, at
Underwood Estate, on Saturday, first reading their
advertisement.
“TO HENRY HALLORAN.
" On reading a beautiful sonnet by him, entitled
• Coolie Labour.’
“ Great God be thank’d that there are men like thee,
Who ever rise in sovereignty of mind.
Lifting against the oppressors of our kind.
The voice of genius still most sovereignly (sic)
When boldest waxeth their aroh-villany.
Who for the tyrant’s purpose have combined 1
I thank Almighty God, who intertwined
Strong hate of wrong with high mentality,
Tor such as thou, true poet! (I) nothing can
Enchance the strengthening joy which now so thrills
me
In knowing how thy heart beat in this cause;
Though thy remembered kindness, Halloran I
Comes like a smile through the deep light which fills
me
With happy thankfulness and pure applause ” (sic).


JJRUNKENNESS CURED,
CUBED.
jjrunkenness cured.
jQRUNKENNESS CUBED.
yyRUNKENNESS CUBED.
CUBED.
JJBUNKENNESS CUBED.
JQRUNKENNESS CUBED.
JJRUNKENNBSS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED,
D
RUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
RUNKENNESS CURED.
D
RUNKENNESS CUBED.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
GRAND
CHRISTMAS PRES
THE LONDON AB
are offering the fol
MAGNIFICENT FU.
OF
•-*
LADY OE GENT]
GOLD JEWE
The small amount charged will baj
of advertising, registered carriage
The following is a list of the C
offered to LADIES. One article <
but, to obviate the likelihood of
bag, it will be advisable to send foi
Lady’s Elegant Gold Brooch,
different stones
Gold Necklet
Lady’s Goldßing
Earrings
Lady’s Gold Albert
Gold Locket
Bracelet .
Total
Any of these articles may be sen!
as before stated, it will be to the n
secure the whole in one parcel.
THIS
GRAND CHRISTMAS PE
will only be made to each lady read
cuts out the following Coupon and s*
Art Society, 191 William-street, Syd
sary sum noted above, to defray all
LADY’S PREMIUM (
for
ONE FULL SUITE GOLD ,
On receipt of this Coupon, I,
will redeem it by sending Brooc
Earrings, Gold Albert, Locke
upon receipt of £l l3s. 6dr, requit
and other expenses.
All Coupons must be out out <
sent to LONDON ART SOCLE'
street, Sydney, within five (5)
date.
(Signed)
J. H. WILSON.
Manager for I
Lend
NOTE THESE INSTRL
No parcel or separate article will
the following conditions are strict
and the distribution will take place
applications are received
Ist. Every address must be distil
2nd. Any single article or the v
applied for.
3rd. No order will be entertain*
tion of live (5) weeks after this datf
4th. Only Bank Drafts and Post (
received.
The LONDON ART SOCIETY
arrangements to present each GE
with the following suite of jewellerj
Gold Scarf-pin
Set of Gold Studs...
Set Gold Solitaires
Gold Albert
Gold Locket
Gold Ring
Total
For these articles cut out the fo
and forward as directed
FBUEN DOWNS EST.
Great clearance s.
RESERVE.
SATURDAY, 17th DECEA
GROUNE
E
VERY ALLOTMENT MI
Title, toerens’. te
AS BEFOR
gATT, RODD, AND PUR 1
PRICE LIST OP Wl]
VJ SPIRITS.
Claret ..
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy ...
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL Wl]
RED.
per doz.
... 9s Od
... 10s Od
... 11s Od
... 12s 6d
... 13s Od
J.T. ]
Adela
(riel
type
Adela
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bonffier's Pineau..
WHITE.
Browi
Musct
Adela:
Tokaj
9s Od
10s Od
lls Od
15b Od
FOREIGN WIN
Good Port ... 21b to 36s Od I Good
Wolfe
ALES AND STOI
Ball Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
„ „ pints
„ Stout, qts.
~ „ pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts ...
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts
lls Od
8s Od
lls Od
8s 0a
10s Od
7s Od
10s Od
7s Od
10s 6d
Bass’s
pint
Pig E
quai
Pig I
pint
Boar’s
quai
Boar’s
pint
Helle;
Lag
Kaiaei
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. B
4 dozen in a cask; pints, 8 dozen.
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case,
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pint
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Hea
in case; 7 doz. pints,
ter Country Orders for Ales and
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwis<
will be charged.
A Sample Dozen of assorted bott
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Offio
All Goods delivered carriage fr«
11,_ Tin n.jr
THE NEWSLETTER.
At Chicago, out of 1359 cases of small-pox, 40
per cent, have proved fatal.
The last trip of the Orient shows theft one con
now travel from London to Sydney in 34 days.
The Mount Bischoff tin-mine has paid its thirty-
eighth dividend, making a dividend total of £228,000.
A family at Port Waratah have been poisoned
by tinned lobster. However, thongh much prostrated,
they wore all brenght round.
Albert Bolton, 11, got six months at the Scone
Sessions, for placing stones on the railway line. The
dear little fellow said he only wanted to see a smash.
The Union Co. s s.s. Eotorua smashed her pro
pellet some weeks ago by fonlirg the chains of the
Melbonrne Harbour Trust dredge. She has now been
fitted with a new propeller at a cost of £4OOO, which
amount the Company intend the Harbour Trust to pay
_ and U. Shying, Undertakers
v. StdiTet Daily Telegraph, has been amicably settled
Defendants stated that plaintiffs had tried to cram a
pauper into a coffin too small for the body, and they
subsequently admitted having made the statement en
incorrect information.
Ada M Laughlin, 14, while bathing in the
Campospe, Echuca, accidentally got into deep water.
wT.»Jl aS dro *'° l , ng ' when a companion, Elizabeth
aged 14, went to her assistance. They were
When recovered, they were found
loosed in each, other s arms.
The four persona who, at Hahndorff, S. A.,flogged
corespondent of a newspaper, were not
Fa i ' The thrashers were grown-np males,
and the thrashee an undersized lad of 17. who, how-
ever, makes just as effective a Supreme Court plaintiff
as a much bigger man. £lOOO claimed.
A select committee of the Imperial Parliament
evor y bill of sale shall be
fw .iT.n i,? it is registered; that no bill of sale under
wgistered; and that in cases where exfeor-
-0Ilej,l?nd ® r3 is Proved, summary relief shall
be granted by the County Court Judge." We wonder
££L l £??f J ' lenders won l d fara Sydney were effect
given to these recommendations here ?
nr^i t I l , ref 5 rei l C 9 Minnis > the erstwhile local
thrm^rW d J°P^- maSter A char S ed a t Brisbane with
(knTtk 1 ° f Pl , ln ? er . the general opinion is that
therecanbe little doubt as to who committed
the murder, it will be difficult to find a jury who will
?urv in k thP , ac fT^d, man on the present evidence. The
o£Tof Jh«J. aBt trlad were “way from home twelve days.
One of them, a portly grocer, came out a stone lighter.
•fThe~ T u horn v - fmumel, decided in favour
hP^r e n F-rl nt ff i. has , cau « d much excitement at Goul-
hh. hM ?5f eld y commenced an action against
,L.. n„ htoar °? the opposite side, Mr. A. Gibson,
totoe J hlch casfc *25.000, comes close on
°i 8 *!2 t S d boundary. It is estimated that the 210
acres gained by Thorn are worth £12.000 at least. The
valuable? 1 * ola,med bom Mr - Gibson is still more
A fine young man of 30, named Klein was
swimming across the Kolan Kiver (Q.)/the other
day, to visit a neighbour, when a shark caught him bv
Kloin*nlnofcil ab ° T ,. 6 th ° elbow * derating it terribly 7
Klein plnckily got away, reached the bank, rouirhlv
He wl? wo ® nd » and fainted from loss of blood 7
t e nTrn A und h °? r , or y*° afterwards, and conveyed
be h °Bpita ' where amputation was found to
law Government agent of the
in/?** tr l d —* MabeI i Mr. James Hampshire (the mate),
the™Pn?fei a Q s ® a!lle ®» have been killed and eaten at
the Island of Smto. The men went ashore in a boa*
wf^Mt'dLT 8 L ade to tomahawk Hair, whoVhot
nis assailant dead, whereupon a large crowd set nmn
BarvKoll* dfopjfagtbaa, Hret np and then down. Tho
foSCIPex?^ 98 ° f the ° ther Tic tims, were
believe they have at last arrested
Andrew D.gnam, "wanted" and 100 ed for durin*
ftMassination nT**! f °£ b }u alle ?, 6d sVar ® in the brutal
assassination of the brothers Pohlman, hawkers, at
Namidera. The unfortnnate men, it may be remem-
W ivrP robbed aud murdered and their bodies
BUSniHon^PkL• th a £ ■ Ono man has been arrested on
suspicion of being Dignam—among them, a hardwork-
“i*, 11 ™“«r known as "Dublin Jack,” who, three years
o, ." asdr^« ed awa y from his claim on the Hodgkin-
the North Queensland police, and brought down
Gairn f* w bere Sergeant Carroll, of Wagga, who was
him to P b?tKronTmi°n n 88 *° pr ° nounced
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
een Victorian Assembly
fanner® ° f a ‘"“'keeper is half that of a
opossum skins sent from Braid wood
.? Melbourne Two miners got 37 oz. gold in a week
* C imn n y. ame ’ ° n f °I the oldost goldfields in Victoria.
s« » i ° T «?• ont of a flook of 15.000. were smothered
havn^ud^T 4 *? 0, onlh ? 3rd The Norfolk Islanders
on -TW& twelve whales thla season. Yield, 60 tons
h w . er i ver y tam e, and gave little trouble
S.S? “ a ® P * a on the Victorian Bail ways, took
trom a, storm ; a train suddenly approached, and
wm tW^i S K ln fn° U i t ln an endeavour to open the gates,
« “ and kmid lo ®°motiye a great distance along the
believed k mstanteneoualy A broken gun-stock,
w 4 P^V otl ° T f the weapon need by the
murderer of Mr. and Mrs. Jarvis, at Maryborough (Q ).
seven months ago, has been found in Jarvis’ paddock
r^™. ERTO S A ?- V f RTISER Parted by Dr. Myers, late of
Tnwr(m 9r r[ C i ° f £lo ° a^ainst Thady O’Kane, in a
, • bhel case The stud horse Fisherman,
Head * ot Merriwa, has been found
the Cassihs police; prosecutions to follow Eich
H° ny ’ 2 w mde * strnck 3 miles from Eylstone
?b ■ ■ l^ aSOn nd Co ' 8 tender accepted for
m 9 railway from Nyngan to Bourke
rosid™? o? H ii am ‘ many yeare a ro spected
resident of theShoalhaven district, died last week
At the Great Western, Wild Eiver, two miners have
™!r D d SP - e 0 a £!?- by blaoks ' 811(1 a third, who has disap-
peared, is believed to have fallen a victim to the niggers.
A miner named Oliver Hawkins, known as ** Holly,”
nas succumbed to hardships experienced while travelling
Hn ’^ , L H A £ t ? n Bndthe Tat o Bates and party’s
!i a MS!; at Mole Tableland, are looking wall. No. 1
down 30ft. on lode, 4ft. 6m. wide: stone estimated to
pe - r c 5 a »V No. 2 down 16ft. 6 tons of 85 per cent.
stone raised. No. 3 promising The dead body of a man,
whose name is believed to have been Joseph Clutter-
wJ° - w , aa recently found near Bullock Creek, between
dAd™? d a ?d Hughenden (N.Q.) He had apparently
dl ®j! S* thirst Dunng the month, Messrs. Hardie
rot ri?u ha ,™ ? old cifc y Property to the value of
AOtCOO. The Frisco mail took £157.000 worth of
g0ia......Tw0 batchers got horse-flesh and sold it in the
-bnglish market as Australian beef; they afterwards
got two months. Two armed men entered a woman’s
house at Blackwood, Victoria, at 2 o'clock in the morn-
-0,1 800- 2; they dragged her (so she says) out of
bed, presented a revolver; at her head, and threatened
to shoot her. They took £lO. No arrests. Payable
gold struck at Stony Creek, 26 feet down. Eeported
yield, an ounce to the ton Girls’ Friendly Society
being magurated at Melbourne William Gardiner,
who was injured two yean ago in the Parramatta rail-
way accident, died recently from concussion of the
brain, the result of injuries he then received Ash-
ton s Circus was recently blown down at Bibbenluke
An ex-constable, named Hicks, bas been arrested at
Geelong, for arson; he had recently done a term of
imprisonment for a similar offence Piracy of trade
marks has becotbe so extensive in Victoria that special
legislation is demanded. Several German firms are
suspected of doing business extensively in the manu-
facture of fictitious labels Night smugglers at work
on the southern border of N.S. W 627 acres of vine-
yards destroyed about Geelong to cheek phylloxera;
more to be destroyed Euseian squadron of three
vessels at Anckland Hoskins, the well-known actor.
married to Miss Douglas.
It is said that the Englishmen would have been
entertained at a harbour picnic but for fear of a jury of
—faugh!
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, December 13,1881.
On the wharves prime green J uoorne .was soiling at
£3; second quality £2 ss. to £2 10s. per ton. No.
enquiry for old hay; inferior new hay, market over
stocked, and very difficult to dispose of at from 20s. to
255. per ton. Maize, 4s. 63. Oats, prime, 2s. 9J. to 3s.
per bushel. Hunter River onions, new, ss. 6d to ss. Bd.
per cwt., bags inclusive. Butter, in keg, 7d. to Bd. per
per lb. Eggs, Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per dozen. Bacon, 61.
to 7d. Cheese, 6d. to Bd. Ham, lOd. to Is. Honey,
4d. to 41d. Lard, 43. to 51. Beeswax, 9d. to lOd. per
lb. Millet Brooms, Bs. to 10s. per dozen.
Poultry. —Fowls are selling at from 3s. 6d. to 4 1 5
dneks, 4s. 3d; geese, Bs. 63. to 9s: cock turkeys, 20s.
to 25s : hen ditto, 7s. to 9s. per pair, if good.
Fresh Meat. —At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s sheds,
Darling Harbonr, the usual sales of fresh country,
killed beef take place dally, a fair supply arriving, and
Belling freely. Prime bodies of beef, Ifd. to 2d. per lb.;
medium quality, to IJ3. per lb., nil round.
Fat Cattle. —At the Homebush sales a fair supply of
fat cattle were forward, and on easier feeling prevailed.
Beet beef 17s. 6d. par 1001 b.
Fat Sheep.—Full supply forward, and market un-
altered. Best quality 551 b. wethers worth 9a. 6d. to 10s.
Flsur. —There are no transactions in dour of any
moment worth noting; some outside brands of New
South Wales, Adelaide,and Victorhn qualities are being
pushed off at less than our quotations. Prices arc, for
Sydney mill flour: Superfine £l3, household £l2,
seconds £11; Victorian flour, £ll 10a. to £l3; New
South Wales, country brands, £l2 10s. to £l3; Adelaide,
£l2 te £l3 10a. per ton. Bran and pollard Is. to Is, 3d.
per bnshel.
Wheat.— Thera is no quantity of wheat of any
description for sale, and samples offering arc readily
quitted. On the whole an easier tone exists. New
South Wales wheat, ss. to sa. 6d.; Adelaide, ss. to ss.
6d,; Victoria, 55.; Launceston, 4s. 9d.; New Zealand,
at 4s. 6d. per bnshel.


MARTIN Sc P Am,” “
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE IMPLEMENT &-MACHINERY BUSINESS.
Sole Agents for the W. A. WOODS' STRING-BINDER, with all improvements.
THE WOODS
String-binder
is quite SELF-
ACTING. A boy
w work the
WOODS’ MA-
CHINE SUC-
CESSFULLY.
■
W. A. WOODS’ 1881 STRING BINDER.
THE WOODS has
Wrought Iron
EOAD WHEEL,
Wrought Iron
CUTTER BAE,
Steel Plated TIN-
GEES, and all the
1881 improve-
ments.
THE WOODS IS A PROVED SUCCESS, NOT AN EXPEEIMENT.
Farmers should write to us for all the IMPLEMENTS, MACHINEEY, &c., they require. We have the Best
Goods, and the Largest Stock in the Colony.
MARTIN and PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
msm
n
SYDNEY-
rpHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TEYONE. V FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING ,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS
_ And Ornamental Hair Work,
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
VIN OEDINAIEE
8/6
PEE GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen.
SHIRAZ ■) Fruity '1..,
MADEIRA i Wines S l '
BURGUNDY-) Dry
RIESLING j Wines i il,m
G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
wines.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
4c., &o.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PER GALLON.
m
g K K W iVI MMAL/L
'Tib veiling
QUALITY yachting
STANDARD
\EADY- MADE-SUITS
usiness
PftOM ENADE
CT3
m
o
pa
C 3
*
bd
hd
co GC
33
P l f i r Picnicing;
Durfihihly _ . , .. »
UNSURPASSED CPlCketlllg
CO
-<
a
" Standard ” Summer Tweed Suits £1 5
“ Standp„rd ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112
“ Standard ” Superior ditto 1 15
White Military; Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
?P
XSI
W
FEiiPES ana SHAW,
PE APES and SHAW.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumen Damp Course. ENORMOUSL" 1
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION which re
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
OLIPFOED, LOVE, AND CO.
TEA IMPOETEES,
' EASTERN AND COMMISSION
• MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are in
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES :—7O YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrro, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
C
E
Zi
E
B
B|
A
T
E
D
T
n
o
u
s
E
US
H. L. SUMIKERFIELD,
ECONOMY IN CLOTHING.
-o- '
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY PROCURING
YOUR GOODS FROM THE
DIRECT IMPORTER.!
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR,
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT
sent to any part of the country.
Kg" The particular attention of eountry resi-
dents is requested to this notice.
Any stylo of Garment made to Pit by using
SUMMERFIELD’S
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT.
235 PITT STREET,
Trousers..... 16s. 6d., 205., 255.
Suits ... £3 35., £3 10s, £4 4s.
3000 PATTERNS TO CHOOSE FROM.
THE PATENT RIVETTED BUTTONS
ON ALL TROUSERS.
EVERY GARMENT THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
FIT GUARANTEED.
SYDNEY.
s
u
I
T
3
•
r
H
R
B
E
G
U
I
N
E
A
S
E. GREER AND CO.'S
PRIZE
ALBUEY WI NE S.
Eei> Wines s
Burgundy
Caxbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS t
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
The Terms of subscription for The Bulletin are—in
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly,
35.; booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances may
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z.,
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H. Traill & Co., at
The Bulletin office, 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, BT.S.
Wales.
MOST PLEASANT
A
S
N
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
con be found by using
PANTEE AND PAERY'S NEW EXTRACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the most deli-
cate hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grecers and Storekeepers through,
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
a xi
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English puces.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, esc.
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address-
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings.
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STEEET. SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
K
KING
STREET
m
'°* GV o*S»
s
m
SYDNE’
TAILOR Qg
.Am POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER
FIT GUARANTEED!
Alt HANDWr£
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
JJI O W L E E’S P 0 T T E E T
AND
BRICK WORKS.
OAMPEBDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on i
