

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 84.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1881.
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1881.
Mr. Copeland’s Motion.
The individual weakness of “ the strongest
Government ” has been repeatedly exposed when-
ever members of the Administration have been
placed under the necessity of striking out a line of
action for themselves, or of justifying such action
when accomplished. But all previous exhibitions
of this kind were surpassed by the feebleness of
he attempt made by the Colonial Treasurer to
reply to the motion and strictures of Mr. Cope-
land, on last Tuesday night. That motion might
with perfect justice have been made infinitely
more comprehensive in its scope; but it is easy to
understand, in view of the present condition of
the Assembly, why the mover elected to base his
censure upon one detached feature of the mal-
administration for which the Ministry is respon-
sible. There has been, ever since this Parliament
was called together, an unmistakeable timidity on
the part of new members, when called upon to
review the acts of the Administration, and a
patent disposition to condone any blunder—we
might almost say any crime—which might be
due to Ministerial incompetency, in preference
to facing the responsibility of bringing about
a change of Government. The wider the
scope of censure, therefore, which a member in
Opposition should give, the more avenues for
escape from recording a vote on the logical merits
of the case would weak-kneed members of Parlia-
ment have discovered. Mr. Copeland adopted
a sagacious course in narrowing the issues, and
cornering shufflers. The debate might cover
what ground the forms of the House permitted,
but the ultimate question to be affirmed or
negatived remained always—whether in shutting
up healthy persons in premises occupied by
sufferers from a malignant, most infectious, and
deadly disease, the Government had or had not
exercised their authority in a legal, an intelligent,
humane, and commendable manner.
** • •
Taking the legal aspect alone, what could have
been weaker or more disingenuous than the reply
of the Colonial Treasurer ? Mr. Watson quoted
a clause which did not meet the charge of illegality
at all. That clause, upon which he relied for
justification, confers, indeed, authority to cut off
persons sick of an infectious disease from the
general community, but it gave no power
whatever to coop up with the patients un-
happy people who have no malady at
all. But, even supposing that Ministers had,
by raking the statutory dust-bins for some enact-
ment which should justify their hysterical acts of
impotent flurry, turned up some clause which had
actually conferred upon them the power which the
law quoted by the Treasurer did not confer,
would that have been justification ? There lie in
the statute-books many obscure enactments, the
evidences and outcomes of human fallibility and
antecedent perversity, which have fallen into
desuetude and oblivion, as being contrary to the
spirit of justice and the public good. Had there
existed any law—any clause—which could, by the
ingenuity of rulers eager to escape the penalty
due to their own incompetency, be twisted into
meaning that they might lawfully coop up healthy
people with sufferers from a malignantly infectious
disease, would that justify the act ? Could the
recorded stupidity and inhumanity of a past
generation of law-makers justify adoption of like
ideas by Administrators of to-day ? If such a law
had existed, it was plainly—nay, glaringly—repug-
nant to modern knowledge, to public decency, to
ordinary humanity.
* * *
Take the case of those most unfori unate victims
of the Government, who were imprisoned in the
house at the Haymarket. Sixteen people, all at
the time without any symptom of disease, were
cooped up in premises of limited dimensions,
poorly ventilated, and in a densely crowded part
of the city—in which premises one sick of small-
pox had been lying for days. Two of these most
unhappy prisoners have caught the malady : how
could it have been otherwise? Was it humanity—
was it necessity—was it sense—that such means of
“stamping out the disease” were taken? This
is the question which Mr. Copeland has asked
the representatives of the people to decide. For
this decision, the people—perhaps not yet tho-
roughly aroused to perceive how vitally the issue
affects the popular liberties, nay, the very right
to existence —will, sooner or later, call their repre-
sentatives to account. No one but a fool—or a
member of the “ strongest” Government —imagines
that we have seen the worst of the epidemic. Con-
sidering the trouble which the Government has
been at to establish centres of infection in differ-
ent parts of the city—and to stock them—it is but
reasonable to look for a spread of the disease to
which its present prevalence will be as a flea-bite
to a cancer.
# # #
It could not, of course, be expected that the
discussion would be restricted to the particular
feature of mal-administration challenged by Mr.
Copeland. The air has been too heavily charged
with the bruit of kindred neglects and iniquitous
incompetences for that. The Government have
seemed neither competent to arrange one thing
nor another. While they shut up healthy people
to catch the disease, they drag patients in high
fever from their beds, and. depositing them in
a leaky open boat, tow them through the raw
drizzle of a wintry morning, down the harbour.
They place sick patients on board of a “ hospital ”
ship where there is no nurse. They destroy the
garments of their detenues, and neglect to provide
substitutes. They give them rough shanties for
their better cure, and religiously keep commodious
and airy buildings closed against them, because
these are for “ first-class ” ship passengers.
# # *
To all these charges, their replies are of an
invariable kind. They plead incompetency, in
fact, and cower behind the professional gown of
their medical adviser. It does not seem to occur
to them that a man does not need to be a doctor
to have common sense, or to hold a medical
diploma to have the talent for governing. The
genius of the man born to rule consists in no
slight measure of an aptness for distinguishing
capable instruments, a promptness in discovering
the right men to perform what the exigencies of
any situation require, a resoluteness in substitu-
ing efficients for inefficients without delay, and an
instinct for rapid organization. The Ministry
have exposed their deficiency of all these qualities;
yet the majority in the Assembly are disposed to
let them continue to govern. In taking this
course, that majority pays to its own members a
poor compliment. Admitting that the weak and
insufficient men who make up the nucleus of the
“ strong Government” are fit to lead them, how
do they fix their own rating P
The Late Right Rev. Dr. O’Quinn, Roman
Catholic Bishop of Brisbane.
The late R.C. Bishop of Brisbane, who died on
the 17th August last, had been identified for so
many years with the colony of Queensland that
his successor will scarcely fill the blank created by
the decease of the late prelate. Bishop O’Quinn’s
imposing figure and dignified face were familiar to
all Brisbane people, and indeed had been seen in
most parts of Queensland where settlement had
taken place. Dr. O’Quinn was born at Rathbawn,
County Kildare, Ireland, in 1819, and educated for
the priesthood, under the guardianship of his
uncle, Monsignor Doyle. His preliminary studies
were conducted at a classical academy at Dublin,
whence he was removed, at the age of 17, to the
Irish College at Rome. There he graduated with
high honours, receiving the degree of Doctor of
Divinity, and a gold medal, from Pope Gregory
XVI. Dr. O’Qninn devoted himself to educa-
tional labours, and founded with the proceeds of
a legacy left him by his uncle a Catholic school at
Dublin. This he conducted with so much ability
that the then Rector of the Catholic University
now Cardinal Newman, admitted the school to
affiliation with the University. Cardinal Cullen
also became aware of the talents of Dr. O’Quinn,
and on his recommendation the appointment
of the first bishop of the See of Brisbane was
conferred upon the successful instructor of youth,
then first attaining the fulness of his mental
powers and vigour. The Bishop reached Brisbane
via Melbourne on the 10th May, 1861, and entered
upon the duties of his episcopate with an ardour
which never abated to the day of his death—a
demise clearly accelerated by the exposure to
which the Prelate subjected himself in travelling
through the diocese. There is scarcely any part of
Queensland where settlement spread or gold discov-
eries attracted population .that has not been visited,
and generally early in its career, by this active
pastor. Violent rheumatic attacks gradually
undermined Dr. O’Quinn’s physical strength, and
latterly the saddle-horse was abandoned for the
huggy. The energy of the Bishop was, however,
no whit abated, and up to the last the guidance of
his flock filled his mind and occupied his time.
Dr. O’Quinn was a man of commanding stature,
fine presence, and regular (though somewhat
stern) features. In society, he was seldom
seen, but when thrown by accident, or in
pursuanie of his duties, into mixed companion-
ship, his manners had all the polish of the Irish
gentleman, and no inconsiderable tinge of the
humour belonging to his race could be discovered
in his genial conversation. His life was not un-
chequered by trials. There were times when—
even by some among his own flock—he was mis-
understood, and his purposes misconstrued. He
was accused of building up a fortune for himself —
a charge shattered with mournful completeness by
the terms of his will, which devised all his posses-
sions to the purposes of that church for which he
laboured so well. The remains of Bishop O’Quinn
rest in the Cathedral of Brisbane—a monument of
the devotion of a single generation, a noble pile,
which has grown up where the Bishop found a
mere hamlet.
[From a bust by Simonetti.]
The late Marcus Clarke.
Subscriptions in aid of the widow and children
of the late Mr. Marcus Clarek, the distin-
guished Victorian journalist and author of
“His Natural Life," will be thankfully acknow-
ledged by the Editor of The Bulletin, who
will also be glad to receive subscriptions to the
memorial volume of Mr. Clarke’s collected
writings, now in the press. One guinea will be
the price of the book, orders for which, accom-
panied by cheques, must be in before 30th Sept.
Apart altogether from the value of the volume
as a substantial and interesting memento of the
most brilliant man of letters this country has
yet seen, the object of its publication, now well-
known to our readers, is such as to commend
itself to the sympathy of every Australian.
Special attention is directed to the matinee
performance which takes place on Wednesday
next, at the Theatre Eoyal.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Water!”
From the very earliest dawn of Australian history, this
simple cry has dominated over all others. It has been
a plague and a torment to ourselves, and a bugbear t«
others who were eager to join us. It came in a bitter
wail of lamentation from the lips of early explorers,
parched and withered by the blasting drought. It
came with growling and cursing, and savage complaints
from burned-out pastoral itss, driven backward with their
perishing flocks ; the digger and the farmer have joined
in it; and, at various epochs, the whole community
have joined in prayer and supplication, or blaspheming
and complaint, according to their divers moods, —
and the one form of utterance has been as prolific of
result as the other. Men might have howled till the
world grew cold as the moon, and the inner land
would have remained unlocked; but, happily, there
were a few practical pioneers who had very little faith
in supplication, and a very great faith in applied force.
They went out with pick and shovel and plough and
scoop, and made tanks and dams, and found straight-
way that the Heavens were sufficiently bountiful to fill
them with water. The arid desert became a fable, and
many back-block properties became worth six figures.
Later on, gold glittered through the sand, and the
miner went out for it—by hundreds, by thousands. He
would go by tens of thousands, but for the old cry of
terror. He might be led out as the sheep of the pas-
toralist and located upon pastures lucrative and secure.
He would thrive there, and the heart of the continent
would unfold itself to his efforts. Mount Browne
might, within five years, become world-famous as
Ballarat or Bendigo, had the paternal Government of
New South Wales but the same regard for the perse-
vering miner, the hungry squatter has for his sheep.
Who can tell us why nothing is done to provide even a
temporary water supply for those inland diggers ? Is
it because they have no political power out there ?
They are without votes, and the unfortunate devil in
that position is to the paternal Government even as a
sheep which will grow no fleece. A hamlet with a popn-
THE LATE RIGHT REV. DR. JAMES O’QUINN, R.C. BISHOP OF BRISBANE.


lation of a couple of thousand, and a couple of members
in the House, yells for a railway, and a million is given
it as a sop. Two thousand men ask the expenditure of
teu thousand pounds to give them means of labour and
life, and ask in vain. That new life started upon the
northern skirt of the colony might, if fostered, become
the focus of a civilization vast as the metropolis upon
the seaboard. Neglected and despised, it may become a
memory of horror and despair—a break upon all great
inland progress for a century to come. But the rail-
ways will be pushed on, and the banquets cooked and
digested, though, for the lack of a water-hole, a thou-
sand men may perish of hunger and thirst. Votes arc
the purchasing power. If you want water, buy it at the
ballot-box. There is but one Parkes, and politics is
his profit. Unfortunate Mount Browne I Unhappy
Temora I
A Wandering Digger—At Best.
Goldfields’ civilization is a product indigenous to
itself, and its prevailing types of character are dis-
tinctive and peculiar. Bret Harte has done much to
individualise these as they showed themselves on the
Sacramento, in the early days; and his idylls of Red
Dog, and his prose epics of Sandy Bar, are true enough
to nature to be fairly descriptive of the same class
among ourselves. We question, however, whether any
of his sketches, racy of the soil as they be, are of them-
selves more intrinsically interesting than many of the
incidents chronicled for us, in so commonplace a way t
from time to time, by our own very commonplace
newspapers. Take the last to hand, for instance —start-
ling by the very meagreness, yet completeness, of its
details. The bones, boots, and hat of a digger have
just been found in Northern Queensland, on an ant-bed
—a swag and a half-emptied bottle of rum by the side of
the remains. “It was supposed that he was journeying
to the Palmer, and, in a state of intoxication, fell on
the ant-hill, and had his bones picked by the ants.”
That is all—no more. Two lines sum his obituary, his
dirge, and his requiem. Yet the remains of a man lay
there, with all his unattained capabilities, and perhaps
unfulfilled responsibilities! And the story is so com-
mon as to have become matter-of-fact. Nobody pro-
fesses to be startled at an intimation of this sort now.
When all the stories of the search for gold in Australia
come to be told, the volume will display many a similar
tragic page. It may well be donbted if any romance of
olden days—of chivalrous quest or wild amour—ever
wreathed itself about incidents and scenes of peril and
adventure more thrilling than those illustrating the
struggles of the colonial race for wealth. Tales are
related, of local interest and familiar fame, more weird
and wonderful, and more tragically realistic withal,
than any ever woven round the recital of knightly
search for Holy Grail. Greathbad, the Pilgrim, finds
his posthumous type in the sun-bronzed, bearded
miner; and the legends of fancy and romantic story are
replaced in our practical day by the more tangible, if
not less startling, realities of the lust for gain. Who
will tell the tale ?
Complex Simplicity.
Great men, as a rule, are sparing of their words. The
disciple or the neophyte may be verbose and vague ;
the master is terse and plain. More especially does
this law hold good in the science of theology, which
being a matter of absolute certainty,‘and beyond all
hypothesis or doubt, admits of plain speaking more
readily than those elementary matters whereon we as
yet rise step by step. And churchmen, as a rule, when
dealing with fundamental matters do speak right on,
and in un mistakeable terms. The little difficulty is
that their utterances do not always conveniently couple
the one with the other, or march orderly in parallel
lines. Very recently now we have become sadly per-
plexed by apparently contradictory statements from
very high authorities. The case stands thus. His
Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury (how strange it
would seem to write His Grace Paul of Tarsus) said in
a speech not long ago, “ I believe that the Church
must hold to the land." Another bishop nearer home
said also in a synodical wrangle about the possibility of
joining hands with Dissenters, “ They do not believe in
State aid." Now those two utterances go side by side.
The big bishop must have the land, and tbe little one
the revenues. But it is not enough that two agree.
Theology demands unanimity from the fountain head
to the farthest limits of the extended stream. We go
back to the fountain head—turn backward in time’s
record about eighteen hundred and fifty years—and we
find there a man whose teaching these bishops pretend
to follow in every line, giving a list to his first fol-
lowers of their temporal requirements, and —can it be
possible ?—these things--land and state-aid, are not once
mentioned. We find something of scrip and staff, and
one coat, and a sword, and sandals, but of lands and
revenues, not a word. And there are many other things
which bishops, priests, and deacons do most impera-
tively need now. These are stole, and cope, and chasu-
ble, and gaiters, and apron, and tnrned-up hat, and
mitre, and tiara. Can it be that they also are unmen-
tioned in that first marching order ?—the complicity
of simplicity becomes dreadfully perplexing when we
begin to compare in that fashion. We get mixed in a
maze, or floundered in a deep sea. We want more
ight, and do pray desperately for some kind soul to
aid us in putting this one and one together so that they
may not make two.
The Child, Marshall.
The fullness of time has surely come for on amendment
of our common laws. Day by day fresh proof is educed
of their utter impotence to rule things aright. They
break flies upon the wheel, and allow great malefactors
to escape unharmed. They are ponderous as a batter-
ing-ram, and unwieldy as a Volunteer army corps.
We see them break down in an attempt to punish
robbery and murder; we see them, under the guise of
quarantine regulations, tolerate brutal cruelties upon
sick or suspected persons ; and, lastly, we are compelled
to witness a tyrannous outrage inflicted, in due course
of law, upon this most unfortunate child, Fannt Mar-
shall. The case, apart from the eomplexities in
which the legal processes have involved it, is very
simple. The father kept a shanty—the child, obeying
parental instruction, supplied a caller with a drink;
the caller informed the police of the transaction ; police
prosecuted, and the Justices being satisfied that Fannt
Marshall had sold the liquor, sent her to gaol for a
term of three months. That is but the first act of the
play closing in a most effective tableau.—the stern-faced
J igtioea upon the bench, and surrounded by the minions
of the law—the weeping child led away to a sisterhood
of Susan Fishers, and possibly to the tender mercies
of a Melbourne Maurice O’Connor. The second act
discloses the father in distress; ho has escaped the fine,
but. lost his child; he misses her—she was useful to him
—aud he seeks recovery by process of law. But the law,
as interpreted by Judge Hioinbotham, is powerless to
annul its own decree. The real delinquent will not be
punished; the informer will not be rewarded; —but the
child will be duly inaugurated into Satan’s fold, and
besmirched with shame and branded with infamy for
life. And yet we prate of the sovereign majesty of the
law I —the sovereign majesty that, with iron hand and
thunderous voice, strikes down an innocent and tender-
hearted child to the depths of unmerited suffering and
contagious shame.
Random Impeachment.
“ Ouida and Zola are not the only beings to whom
immorality is almost a second nature.” In maxing
this great quotation one is tempted to add, “ and
Pecksniff is not the only being to whom lying come B
almost as naturally as the purveying of hypocrisy and
cant.” We do not propose to take up the cudgels on
behalf of Louise De La Rameb ; we are not prepared to
dispute the oft-quoted commonplace, that her works
are an apology for her life. Even so, the apology is
very satisfactory ; but we do protest against the system
which strives clumsily to cast a veil of decency about
men who have sinned in high places or wallowed on
bags of gold, yet makes a woman the target for the ill-
aimed shafts of a mocking satirist. The inner life of a
Lord Chief Justice is one shameful continuation of
fornication and adultery,—his sins are “the eccentri-
cities of a too consanguineous temperament." The
White Czar revels with his paramour, while his wedded
wife dies of a broken heart —he is “ the victim of a most
unfortunate infatuation." The hard-working, true-
loving, Qon-gifted worker dies, with some unproven
sins at her door —she is gathered as a brand to the burn-
ing, amid general acclamation. While such shams are,
the time will not call for plain speaking in vain ; and
the broadcloth hnmbug too ostentatiously protruding,
will not go unvisited by the lash.
The Russian army is thoroughly impregnated
with Nihilistic tendencies. Last Ascension Day there
were disturbances at Saratoff, and the troops were
ordered out to disperse the people. While they were
thus engaged, the police searched the barracks, And
found revolutionary proclamations hidden in the
soldiers’ quarters. It does not seem to have occurred
to anyone to institute a search of the police quarters
while the “foorce" was thus engaged. In Russia,
“ the policeman’s lot is not a happy one." Tarantara I
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Premier of N.Z. intends to introduce the
cUture, similar to Gladstone’s famous regulation.
A Royal Commission of seven — including four
members of Parliament, viz., Basisto, Fincham, Tucker,
and Mirams—will revise the Victorian Tariff. Sop 1
Mr. Gladstone is credited with a plan for giving
the colonies power to elect their own Governors, the
experiment to be made in the first place with Canada.
Mr. Forster’s motion of censure re vaccination
of prisoners and warders from a33-times-convicted pros-
titute in Darlinghurst Gaol stands adjourned till
Tuesday, 12th instant.
In view of the expiration of aid to Denomina-
tional schools at the end of next year, Government
intimates that it is willing to negotiate for the purchase
of Denominational school property.
When, last Friday, in the Assembly, Mr. Cope-
land dilated on the usefulness of diamond drills for
putting down boros, Mr. Purves gently suggested that a
few of the machines should be kept in the House.
In the Queensland Assembly, it has been agreed
that when attention is called to the presence of strangers,
the Speaker shall at once put th a question, without de-
bate, whether it is the pleasure of the House that
strangers withdraw.
The Wilcannia Times complains that the
free trade Parkes Government have discontinued snag-
ing operations on the river, because they do not wish to
facilitate the water communication of the district, as it
does not tend Sydneywards.
We are authorised to state that there is no
truth whatever in the rumour that Mr. Fletcher, the
clever member for Newcastle, has been offered the
portfolio of Minister for Mines. The Evening News
is responsible for the report.
Bismarck, says the Whitehall Review,
wants a second war with France—which is to convince
her that Prussia is more than her match, and that she
can retain what she has won— within the next twelve,
months; and he generally manages to get what he
wants. Spain afforded a pretext on the last occasion.
Will it be Italy next ?
When Sam. Griffith, the leader of the Queens-
land Opposition, went home to worry up a case against
the Premier, anent the now “ bust up ” steel rails affair,
some of his adherents started a subscription to re-im-
burse him his expenses. Ministerial scribes now gibe at
Samuel, and want to know when the presentation is to
take place. They pretend to be alarmed lest the
immensity of the sum should tempt someone to break
into the bank where it is deposited.
Melbourne Punch has received the following
telegram from its home correspondent:—“ Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy has determined to re-enter political life.
He will lead the new Irish party. He has determined
to relinquish the drawing of his pension, as he cannot
reconcile it to his conscience to draw money from Her
Majesty’s Exchequer, and yet oppose Her Government
tooth and nail. This high-minded resolve has drawn
forth the highest encomiums from the London press."
One of the most telling points in Sir Henry
Parkes’ speech upon Mr. Forster’s motion last
Thursday, was his facetious reference to those members
who “ expected to be Ministers.” But it is difficult to
see where the joke is in such a remark. If it is a
crime to expect to be a Minister of the Crown, Sir
Henry is probably one of the oldest offenders in the
House; if, on the other hand, such an ambition is
commendable, the observation lacked relevancy, and
the applause with which it was greeted was very cheaply
earned.
There was a scene in the Queensland Legislative
Assembly the other night. Mr. William Rea, member
for Rockhampton, said Mr. Lumley Hill had stated
that the Premier had charged the Treasury with the
sum of £lOOO. the expenses of his wedding tour, where-
upon Mr Hill ejaculated. “ It’s a lie! ’’ Mr. Hill
having explained, he withdrew by order of the Speaker.
A long and aorinomous debate ensued on a motion by
the Premier that Mr. Hill’s explanation be accepted.
During the disturbance, Messrs. Rea, Hill, and Walsh
were ordered outside the bar. Mr. Hill’s explanation
was eventually accepted by 18 votes to 15.
SOCIAL.
Says the World : The magnificent mansion.
9 and 10 Grosvenor-square, belonging to the Earl of
Crawford, has been hired for the season by Sir Samuel
Wilson, an Australian millionaire, who, it is believed,
will shortly become the purchaser of this fine lease-
hold."
« * «
Some “agony” advertisements from the Mel-
bourne papers:—“Will meet Smouldering Volcano
anywhere proposed, if not this world, next. Cannot
forget you, never will.” Apparently, this about the
“ Smouldering Volcano ” is in response to a taunt that
she is “ cold." The next specimen affords us a glance
of a healthy volcano in active eruption :—“ Bertie is
thinking lovingly of you whilst you read this Am
banished 16 days, otherwise G.’s blood—the hound. Be
good, sweet doodoo. Serai must answer when I write.
Love is a tyrant. I must flee. An revoir, darling, G.’s
blood —the hound.” Ha! ha 1 What ho! Draw, vil.
lain! Come on. Macduff However, it’s all quite harm-
less, and Macduff’s blood will not be spilt. Bertie is
probably a mild-mannered youth, with an incipient
moustache, who will resign his sanguinary purposes at
the intercession of his “ sweet doodoo.” The last
specimen is in the vein of the sentimental and melan-
cholic Maudle: —“Only a Worm. To-morrow, to-day,
yesterday. No matter, the day is ever present."
* • •
Among the passengers to Europe by the Kaisar-
i-Hind, were Professor and Mrs. Smith. They intend
making but a short stay at home.
* * «
Says the Freeman’s Journal : — The adorn-
ment of society and the vindication of our refinement
are functions which, under our existing institutions, are
entirely surrendered to and efficiently discharged by
Mr. Burdett Smith and other gentlemen of similar tastes
and equal attainments."
# # *
At the Masonic Ball on Thursday last, under
the aupices of the Scottish Constitution, there was lots
of room. We don’t know exactly what a Scotch Con-
stitution is, but the mention of it at once brings to mind
ideas of bare knees, plaid stockings, and porridge. We
diligently looked for these things, but could not find
them. The peculiarities of Scotia's sons in this in-
stance seem to have developed themselves in a gorgeous
irruption of regalia. A ceremony called an ‘ ‘ induction ’ ’
took place before the dancing commenced, which of
course only the initiated could be expected to under-
stand. An imposing body of brethren carrying drawn
swords, and aprons that were marvels of ornamentation
and embroidery, marched up on to the dais, clapped
their hands till their kid gloves began to split, without
any apparent cause, and then marched down again be-
tween two rows of Masonic sword-bearers. Almost all
Masons seem to be officers of high rank, and it takes on
an average about an alphabet and a half to indicate each
officer’s status; but even a Eight Worshipful Deputy
District Grand Assistant Full Blown Private—if there
are any privates—requires at least a dozen letters to ex-
press his precise value. The swords looked rather for-
midable, and it was only by repeated assurances that
they were very blunt, and that the bearers had not the
remotest idea how to use them, that the agitation of
the ladies could be calmed, and serious business begun.
Nothing occurred to mar the pleasure of the ball. The
floor was good, and the music lively, the dresses charm-
ing, and the faces fair. Fancy costumes were in the
minority. Those most prominent were:—A good fisher-
man, and a very mild, inoffensive looking pirate; a slim
youth who seemed to have borrowed his little brother’s
blue yachting clothes, and his big brother’s red cricket-
ing cap; a Highlander in full dress, or rather, in as
much of it as a “ hardy highland wicht ” ever considers
necessary; a pestle-and-mortar hero in a scarlet mili-
tary uniform ; and an individual in what looked like a
bed-quilt, but turned out to be a suit of postage stamps.
Of the ladies, decidedly the most conspicuous were
Miss Conway, chiefly in blue, as “ Follow the Drum,"
and Miss M'Laughlin in a handsome dress as “ Carmen."
Others were, little Miss Kelly in blue satin as “ Star,”
“ Lizzie Stofel,” “ Bed Biding Hood," Miss Gourlay as
“Bohemian Girlj” the Misses Hinsch represented the
Tricolour, No. 1 being in red, No. 2 in white, and No. 3
in blue; Miss Young as “Saladin Fisher Girl," with
net; Miss Webb, Highland dress; Miss Higstrim, in black
satin, carried a tambourine : there was a quiet quartet
all in deep sky blue. Of the evening dresses, Mrs.
Woolf wore a splendid black velvet heavily trimmed
with gold, and Mrs. F. Smith a drab silk with long
train; Miss Birney, cream satin edged with black; a
stately blonde, black dress with broad gold fringe; Miss
M‘Bnde was pretty and vivacious in plain white satin;
a little mite of about eight years old looked and danced
extremely well; there was a lady with a winsome face,
and a wondrous wealth of hair, that everybody nsticed,
and a “ smart young party ” in cream and cardinal,
whose dancing caused her partners to be objects of any
amount of envy. Messrs. Churchwood and Andrews
spared no trouble to make things go smoothly, and were
quite successful. The music consisted mostly of Scotch
airs played by the Head-quarters’ Band, who introduced
a novelty at the last waltz by singing and playing the
music alternately, sometimes both together. The effect
was delightful. The programmes were printed specially,
the design being quite too precious. On one side were
square and compass, and some other emblems with very
indistinct outlines, and on the other side was a some-
thing that might stand for a thistle, a shuttlecock, or a
torpedo. The artist no doubt had good intentions, but
the result of his efforts was one of the most consum-
mately ugly cards ever seen in a ball-room. During the
evening Dr. Sedgwick, E.W.D.G.M., was presented by
the lodge with a portrait of himself, and an address.
His rejily was not at all likely to rob Demosthenes of any
of his fame, but he spoke feelingly and bore himself as a
gentleman. The portrait was a life-size one by Mr.
W. Macleod, and was a very flue illustration of the
abilities of that eminent young artist. The solids and
liquids were laid out under the galleries, and guests
could obtain all that they wanted without trouble. All
was over shortly after four.
# * #
An old married fool of Greytown, N.Z., has
eloped with a widow and children, leaving his own wife
and children behind. From which we gather that she
likes her children better than he likes his.
# # #
Some of the ladies of Temora are about to give
a ball in aid of the local hospital.
* * #
This really occurred at a quadrille assembly,
held by the aristocrats of a North Queensland town :
Mrs. A. (excitedly): “Oh, Kate, is it really you?”
Mrs. B.: “I beg your pardon—l—.” Mrs. A.: “ Don’t
you know me ? I was cook on station when you
were housemaid.” Tableau.
* # #
A large number of civil servants of a certain
class" wept bitterly upon hearing of the demise of a
recently-deceased financier. They will certainly miss
his delicate attentions. He never failed to visit them
on the first of the month.
# * #
The bachelors of Bourke give a ball, at that
extremely central town, on the 6th Sept.
• * •
The bachelors of Tamworth have issued two
hundred invitations for a ball, on the 6th Sept., and
intend to make the affair a success.
• # *
The Auckland Observer publishes what
purports to be an explanation of the recent illness of
Earl Clanwilliam, at Sydney. Of course there’s a woman
at the bottom of it. However, the Observer happens
this time to be barking up the wrong tree altogether.
It wasn’t the Earl —it was somebody else, in one of the
other vessels.
* * *
A recently-married bride has jrst returned
from her preliminary canter to the mountains, and paid
a visit to her home. Her little sister is now convulsing
the circle of her acquaintance by informing all who
ask after her sister, that she’s looking so well, and says
she’s enjoyed her week so much.
* * *
‘“I heard a young fellow kissing my daughter
over the garden gate ’ ” said an old friend to me yester-
day. “ * I was smoking a cigar in the garden and I heard
it distinctly.’ ” * What did you do —order him off ?*
“ ‘ No, I waited till Bessie had gone in, and then, meet-
ing him at the other comer of the fence, I asked him
what the devil he meant by making such a noise
over such a very simple operation ? Bashful young
cuss ha must be, for I haven’t seen him since.’ ‘And
Bessie?’ ‘Oh ! she says he’s such a fool.’ And the
artful old bird went winking on his way. The girl’s
mother would have ‘ raised Cain.’ ” This comes from
Melbourne.
« • #
They have got a new kind of bon-bons at private
parties now. The more private and the fewer the parties
about the better. These bon-bons are placed in a sort
of lucky-bag in assorted colours, and at a certain hour
you are supposed to draw one for yourself and
one for your partner. If they are of the same colour,
which, curiously enough, they generally are, you grace-
fully unfold the paper, to find two chocolate drops
attached by a silver cord. Yon put one drop into your
mouth, and your partner takes another in hers, and if
you can succeed in biting through the cord before she
does you are entitled to a kiss. The difficulty is that
in the middle of the cord is a ’pin, a contact with
which is unpleasant. They call these things Thorns of
Paradise, but Scullertrain, wholfirst introduced us to
them, always manages to get the pin out first and so
walkjinto Paradise withoutjworrying about the thorns.
The other is a tedious process and a serious waste of
time.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis, of Sandhurst, who enter-
tained 250 people at the celebration of their “ diamond
wedding" last week, and who are aged respectively 98
and 80 years, had a family consisting of 17 children, of
whom nine are still living. They have 38 grandchildren
and 13 great-grandchildren alive. The father of Mr,
Lewis died at the advanced age of 107 years, and his
mother was more than a centenarian. Mr. Lewis was
75 years of age when he left England, and has ever
since then resided in Viotoria—nearly a quarter of a
century. The festivities were most enjoyable, and the
venerable couple, whose faculties are perfectly pre-
served, appeared to be in excellent spirits.
* * *
The Braidwood Literary Institute ball on 25th
ult., was a success.
• • •
At a conversazione held on Wednesday after
noon, at the Town Hall, the Mayoress, Mrs. John
Harris, was presented with a brooch, purchased with
the balance remaining from the Presentation Fund—
raised, as all our readers are aware, to recognise the
liberal hospitality of the Mayor and Mrs. Harris. The
brooch is in keeping with the handsome set of orna-
ments already presented to the estimable lady.
* * •
The Newcastle Rowing Club’s fancy dress ball,
which took place on the evening of Thursday, 27th
August, was undoubtedly the event of the season in the
Northern District. The hall was most tastefully de-
corated, the chief features being the flags of all the
Sydney clubs, with the Rowing Associations ensign in
the place of at one end of the room. The cos
tumes were brilliant, the most attractive being those of
Miss Lochhead (“ Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary ”) ; Miss
Cloudy (Vivandiere), Miss Smith, (“Gaddess of
Liberty’’), Mrs. John Wood (Lady of the Court of
Francis I.), Mrs. E. M. Geary (“Snow”), Miss Gibb
(“Night"), Miss Suter (Swiss Peasant), and Miss Boss
(“Germaine”). Miss Lochhead’s dress, which wasmost
artistic and admirable, was composed of three materials.
The petticoat was of quilted pale blue satin, bearing
Sictures (representing “pretty ladies all of a row ”) and
otted in places with flowers. The overskirt of pale
pink cashmere, handsomely trimmed with silver bells
whose tintinabulations, heard amidst the danee
merrily kept time with the music, added an additional
charm to the costume, which, for the rest, had at each
end of the sleeves insertions of puffed pale blue muslin.
Half way down the sleeves, also round the neck, were
bells, and hanging at the lady’s side were “Mary’s’*
garden tools in miniature. The hat was of straw,
scolloped all round and turned up in the front, which was
filled with delicate flowers, pink and blue strings coming
down each side and tying in front—a silver bell hanging
to each string. Shoes and stockings to match com
Quarantine.
[VIDE CARTOON.]
Each Sunday, prayers for those in pain.
For those in danger, those on ships.
From those who do or don’t want rain.
Are mumbled on the people’s lips.
But if a supplication e’er
Was needed, to the Great Unseen,
We surely need a special prayer,
Just now, for those in Quarantine.
We ought—indeed, we ought—to pray
For those who, in unquestioned health.
From homes and friends are dragged away.
To live —half-olothed, ill-fed—in filth;
To feel the stings of cold neglect—
For want of clothes, almost obscene —
Their business ruined, houses wrecked.
While they are kept in Quarantine.
Whose bungle this ? or is it spite ?
Or is our freedom at an end—
That guiltless men may only write
What red-tape fools may choose to send ?
There must be something secret wrong.
That these officials don’t want seen.
But men must know, and that ere long,
The ins and outs of Quarantine.
It surely cannot be a fact.
That nurses there (as has been said)
Behaved as heathens would not act
To patients on a dying bed 1
Can it be honestly denied—
Can it be said no case has been —
Where men in agony have died.
Through sheer neglect, in Quarantine ?
Oh ! shame, that in a Christian land—
Whose Premier is so just and right.
That men of science may not stand
And lecture on a Sunday night—
We ever hear such tales as these !
Can Ministers, with conscience clean.
Walk through the streets in stately ease.
While such things be, at Quarantine ?
In Memoriam.
MARCUS CLARKE.
The nightwind sobs on cliffs austere
Where gleams by fits the wintery star ;
And in the wild dumb woods I hear
A moaning harbor bar.
The branch and leaf ore very still;
But, now the great grave dark has grown.
The torrent in the harsh sea-hill
Sends forth a deeper tone.
Some sad, faint voice is far above;
And many things I dream, it soith.
Of home made beautiful by Love
And sanctified by Death.
I cannot catch its perfect phrase ;
But ah, the touching words to me
Bring back the lights of other days—
The friends that used to be.
Here, sitting by a dyinglflame,
I cannot choose but think with grief
Of Harpur, whose unhappy name
Is as an autumnjleaf.
And domed by purer breadths of blue.
Afar from folds of forest dark,
I see the eyes that once I knew—
The eyes of Marcus Clarke.
Their clear, bright beauty shines a space ;
But sunny dreams in shadow end.
The sods have hid the faded face
Of my heroic friend.
He sleeps where winds of evening pass—
Where water songs are soft and low—
Upon his grave the tender grass
Has not had time to grow.
Few knew the cross he had to bear.
And moan beneath from day to day.
His were the bitter hours that wear
The human heart away.
The laurels in the pit were won :
He had to take the lot austere
That ever seems to wait upon
The man of letters here.
His soul was self-withdrawn. He made
A secret of the bitter life
Of struggle in inclement shade
For helpless child and wife.
He toiled for Love, unwatohed, unseen.
And fought his troubles band by band.
Till, like a friend of gentle mien.
Death took him by the band.
He rests in peace'! No grasping thief
Of hope and health can steal away
The beauty of the flower and leaf
Upon his tomb to-day.
The fragrant woodwinds sing above.
Where gleams the grace of willow fair;
And often kneels a mournful Love
To plant a blossom there.
So let him sleep, whose life was hard I
And may they place, beyond the wave.
This tender rose of my regard.
Upon his tranquil grave.
HENRY KENDALL.
Camden Haven.


THE GENUINE AMERICAN
HOP BITTERS!
Manufactured by the
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO. OF
ROCHESTER, N.Y., U.S.A.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK.
The aboro Company are well-known as being the
originators of the
HOP BITTERS PRIZE,
The great boat race rowed on the Thames, and so sue*
cess fully carried off by the
GALLANT LAYOOCK, of AUSTRALIA.
HOP BITTERS
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEAPEST MEDICINE
EVER MADE.
They are compounded from
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (Podophyliin),
AND DANDELION,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and Valuable
Medieines in the World, and in addition contain all
the best and most effective curative properties of
all other Bitters, being the greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent on earth.
REMEMBEB THIS 1 IP YOU ARE SICE,
HOF BITTERS
will surely aid nature in making you well again
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a resident of a mias-
matic district, barricade your system against tno
scourge of all, countries—malarial, epidemic, bilious,
and intermittent fevers—by the use of
HOF BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are suffering
from any other of the numerous diseases of the
stomach or bowels, it is your own fault if you re-
main ill, for HOP BITTERS are a sovereign
remedy in all such complaints.
If you ore wasting away with any form of Kidney
disease, stop tempting Death this moment, and
turn for a cure to HOP BITTERS
If you are sick with that terrible sickness Ner-
vousness, you will find a " Balm in Gilead “ in the
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL diseases of the Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure or help, or
for anything impure or injurious found in them.
That poor, bedridden, invalid wife, sister, mother,
or daughter, can be made the picture of health bv
a few bottles o{ He; 3t*gCc ~ , trine.'
WILL YOU LET THEM SUFFER 1
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yon will have no sickness or suffering.
Large square panelled amber colour bottles. White
label with green Hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other.
Price ss. No other form, size, or price is genuine.
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
To be obtained at all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIORE. STUART, ft CO.,
85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER !
LATIN, FRENCH, AND WRITING
TAUGHT,
THROUGH CORRESPONDENCE,
by
DR. ROD WAY, M.A., F.R.S.L,
PRINCIPAL OP UNIVERSITY COLLEGE*
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
TERMS, STRICTLY IN ADVANCE,
TWO (2) GUINEAS FER QUARTER
FOR EACH SUBJECT.
JJR RODWAY also guarantees to prepare per
mail and pass every country candidate he sends
np for the Matriculation, Law, and Civil Service Ex-
aminations.
Fees for either Matric., Law, or Civil Service, THREE
GUINEAS per Quarter, payable strictly
IN ADVANCE.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor
awarded at the conclusion of
each Term.
N.B. —DR. RODWAY'S system is easy and efficient,
and he guarantees proficiency and success to every
student he accepts.
ALL LESSONS CONDUCTED THROUGH
THE POST.
i
ADDRESS
DR. ROD WAY, M.A., F.R.S.L,
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY.
■Dieted this charming and much-admired costume, which
was made expressly for the occasion by a Sydney firm.
Amongst the gentlemen, the costume of Mr. D. Dobie
as *‘a Spanish Brigand” was a perfect disguise, and it
mav almost be said, consequently a great success. Mr.
H Bauclaud (“ a Jockey”), Mr. Timkins (“an Arab of
the Desert”), and Mr. J. C. Brown (“Indian Prince"),
appeared to advantage. The music provided by the
Great Northern Band, was tolerably good, and the sup-
per, provided by Lashmore, would have charmed
Amphitryon. The dance ended at dawn, and was so en-
joyable that the club intend making it an annual affair.
The Woollahra Rinking Club gave another of
their enjoyable dances on 24th ult. In spite of the
rain there was a good attendance, and there were four
dances in addition to those set down on the programme.
One gentleman and his partner measured lengths on
the floor. Much interest attaches to the forthcoming
Sink ball, which is to close the season of ’Bl.
* # #
On Saturday week last a picnic on a large scale
was given at Sandringham, to Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8.,
K.C.M.G., in celebration of his 79th birthday. The
party consisted of Sir Alfred’s sons, daughters, and
grandchildren, and a few other relations, making by
themselves, we understand, somewhere about fifty in
number, or more ; and there were also several friends
of the family amongst the guests, including Mrs. Canon
Walsh, Mrs. Stirling, Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Campbell,
Mr. E. Lee, Captain Osborne, Mr. 6. Miller, Mr.
Nathan, and others. The giver of the entertainment,
Mr. S. A. Stephen, had spared no pains to ensure a
thorough day’s enjoyment, and a sumptuous repast was
provided, iu Rust’s best style. After full justice had
been done thereto, and the champagne glasses again
replenished, Mr. Stephen briefly asked the company to
drink Sir Alfred’s health, which was, of course, done
with unbounded enthusiasm. In proposing the toast,
Mr. Stephen called attention to the curious coincidence
that his father was that day 79 years of age, and that
the number of persons sitting (not including the guest
of the day. Sir Alfred) round the table was exactly 79.
Rounders and other outdoor amusements were then
resorted to; and Mr. Willie Stephen was heard
offering his father to play anyone on the ground at
quoits for a “ fiver,” but we don’t know that the offer
was accepted. After sufficient exercise had been taken
at rounders, dancing was commenced; and Sir Alfred
• did ” a polka with his partner sitting on his shoulders,
instead of, according to the orthodox custom, encircled
round the waist; but as the partner was one of his
little grandchildren, the innovation is not to be won-
dered at. About five o’clock the guests betook them-
selves to the different conveyances provided for them
by their host, and reached Sydney shortly after dark,
all, we are sure, wishing that Sir Alfred might still live
to see many more happy gatherings of a similar kind.
* • *
The animal ball in aid of the funds of St.
Vincent’s Hospital will take place on Tuesday next.
September 6th, at the old Exhibition Building. The
principal modistes have for some time been busy on the
costumes to be worn on the occasion.
** . *
At the West Maitland School of Arts Quadrille
Club ball, on Friday, the 26th ult., there was a goodly
array of pretty faces and pretty frocks. Dancing con-
tinued till 5 a.m., when all retired thoroughly pleased,
and expressed the wish that before long the club would
give another reunion of as pleasant a nature.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Orient Co.’s s.s. Liguria arrived at Adelaide
Wednesday.
New journalistic enterprise projected for New-
castle and Maitland.
The Protos passed Gibraltar with all her meat
in excellent condition.
The Darling Range, Perth. W.A., is described
by a correspondent as one mass of tin.
At Uralla, on Tuesday week, the country was
covered with a coating of about 10 in. of snow.
Dr. Clune says that neither Hughes, Mrs.
Bonnor, nor Mrs. Kelly, ever had small-pox at all.
A lying-in hospital will probably be established
in connection with the Sydney Benevolent Asylum.
The N.Z. Legislative Council have thrown out
Sir George Grey’s Law Practitioners’ Bill by 20 to 0.
A motion for the establishment of a school of
medicine and surgery, is before the N.Z. Parliament.
Arrangements are being made in Melbourne for
the production of a large quantity of vaccine lymph.
The double line of tramway in Oxford-street is
very nearly completed, and both lines will be used
shortly.
The equity suit between Heffernan, of the
Shamrock, Sandhurst, and J. B. Watson, has been
settled.
The Victorian Government made a bid for the
steamer Ferret, intending to substitute her for the
Victoria.
The death sentence of Marovitch, for the murder
of his wife land her paramour), commuted to life
imprisonment.
In the great Queensland Parliamentary case,
Miles v MTlwraith, a verdict has been entered for the
defendant which will carry very heavy costs.
Susan Fisher is declared by a board of doctors
to be sound in health, and therefore likely, before she
dies, to be convicted thirty-three times more.
At Temora, for the week ended 27th August,
the diamond drill went down 45ft., passing through
dyorite and quartz veins. The bore is now down 230 ft.
The boys Hall, one of whom murdered the
Chinese lad. Tommy Wing Hock, have been sent to the
Vietorian Industrial School, to improve the other
boys.
Big carpet snakes this year in the Cook district.
One of 15t feet, which disgorged the body of a tom cat,
was captured the other day by Mr. Napier, of Cook-
town.
A Chinaman, 30 years in Victoria, had amassed
a fortune of £l2O, and was going home to enjoy it. Two
larrikins garrotted him, and took the lot. Larrikins
not caught.
The other day a petition, bearing 726 signatures,
in favour of a tramway to Petersham, was presented to
Government. A strong counter-demonstration is now
being got up.
Mr M'Kenzie Grant, a West Australian
aauatter, will forward to England by next mail a most
valuable pearl, found in the Kimberley district, and
valued at £2OOO.
Had Lefroy not been found by 7th July the
unparalleled course of a house-to-house enquiry
throughout the United Kingdom was to have been
taken by the police.
At Bruce, S.A., a contractor named Smith was
set upon by two men, and knocked down. One held his
legs while the other cut his throat and robbed him of
£3O. He may recover.
Sir George Grey’s bill, providing that both men
and women may join the ranks of the legal profession
on examinatian without serving as articled clerks, has
passed the N.Z. Assembly.
The example set by the Rockhampton doctors,
who fought the other day, has been since followed—court
proceedings excepted—by other inhabitants of the city
of “ sin, sweat, and sorrow.”
The Brisbane Observer urges that the salaries
of the sessional reporters of Queensland Hansard be
raised from £2OO to £3OO annually, with a view to the
permanent retention of their services.
At Tenterfield, a family, thought to be infected
with small-pox, were found to be merely suffering from
a skin disease—the result of bad food and uncleanliness.
They had lived for weeks on salt pork and bread.
James Smith, of Harrington-street, hurled his
daughter aged 17 months, across a lane 10ft. wide.
The child, who struck the wail of the next house, bled
profusely. James will stay in gaol for six months.
The London Daily Telegraph, which, by the
way, has a circulation of about 230,000, published por-
traits of General Garfield and of Lefroy in its ordinary
issue. However, the pictures were by no means artisti-
cally successful.
The first step taken towards the construction of
the Glebe tramway. Some poles laid along a p irtion
of the route. Local residents intend to oppose all
applications for the invariable “ extension of time.”
The agents of the Ferret decline to pay the
wages of the sailors for any period beyond the date of
their arrival at Melbourne, on the ground that the
men sueing are criminals, connected with conspirators.
The friend of an unfortunate hospital patient
who tried to dispose of the invalid’s coach-whip for 25s
in Is tickets at Newcastle, was prosecuted by the police
under the Lotteries* Prevention Act. Case broke
down.
The Inspector of Nuisances at Alexandria has
had one of the councillors fined twice lately for allow-
ing his horse to wander. The council, the other
evening, voted the officer £5 to defray the expenses to
which he had been put.
Agg, accountant of Victorian Lands’ Depart-
ment, committed for embezzlement. It came out in
evidence that he admitted his offence, and wished the
amounts stolen deducted from the sum to which he
was entitled for long service.
It is a significant fact that the committee of the
E. C. Christian Doctrine Confraternity of the Sacred
Heart have, in view of recent disclosures, decided to
give no harbour pic-nio this year, as it is considered
impossible to keep away the rowdy element.
Further dividend of £9 per scrip declared by
Reform G.M. Co , Lucknow. 17cwt. stone from mine
yielded 2450 z. gold and 550 z. silver. Net value per ton,
£lO3l 8s 6d. Dividends of £36 per share declared since
2nd J une last £25,000 cash offered for mine.
Griffin, one of the Clarke gang of bushrangers,
died the other day in Dubbo hospital, of consumption.
He had served 15 years’ in gaol. By the way, Minton,
another of the same gang, who escaped from Braid-
wood Gaol, the other day, has not yet been re-captured.
The Salvation Army are “going it” iu Mel-
bourne. They march along on the footway, screeching
“ I do believe, I will believe,” and number among their
members some corpulent people, who, when they collide
with other foot-passengers, land the latter in the gutter.
The Cooktown Herald points out that some
years ago the site of one of the North Queensland tin-
fields was explored for gold, and several pieces of tin
lode then found were carried a little distance and
pitched away as useless, owing to the ignorance of the
prospectors.
The Braidwood woman supposed to have been
been murdered by a Chinaman has turned up. The
Mongolian, arrested on the evidence of children who
said they had seen him washing blood-stained clothes,
has been discharged. He has thus narrowly escaped
the gallows.
Immediately after Aaron Sherrit was shot by
the Kellys, his brother John was appointed a police
constable. Shortly afterwards he was discharged Iby
Mr. Nicholson, Acting Chief-Commissioner. He is now
petitioning to be re-instated. The Anglican 'and Pres-
byterian clergymen of Bteohworth have signed his
petition.
The great lawsuit over the New La mb ton
Colliery,' between Messrs. J. and A. Brown, and the
Messrs. Dibbs, which has been proceeding since August
1873, will) probably bo settled shortly. Pending the
result of some Privy Council appeals, the Messrs.
Brown have taken possession under agreement with the
Messrs. Dibbs.
In leas than three months two mates on the
Wild Eiver (Q.) raised £4OOO worth of tin. One shaf* is
down in that district for fifteen feet eight by ten, and
so far there is no sign of hanging wall or foot wall 1
There are hundreds of tons of ore at grass; for instance,
O’Loan and party are on one solid mass of ore 10 foot
wide. They have 200 tons splendid ore out, some of it
assaying 68 per cent.
Larrikinism of a certain kind is very rampant
just now at Forest Lodge On Sunday last a number os
respectably-dressed larrikins, aged from 12 to 14 years,
who had probably been sent by their parents to church,
passed the time smoking and swearing about the streets,
robbing gardens, and promoting dog-fights. There
was, as usual, no policeman about to interfere with
these exciting amusements.
Mr. Chater Miles, charged with assaulting Mr.
Montague Mosley, editor of a Christchurch publication,
was fined Is., without costs. This decision, according
to the paper, •* is nothing less than a premium for
brutality, lawlessness, and lying." The Liberty— for
that is its name—makes some other observations which
lead one to conclude that another and bigger row is
brewing. Several agents of the paper have been
assaulted.
Jim Kelly (Ned’s brother) and Wild Wright
were arrested in bed at Chiltern, on the 17th ult., on a
charge of horse-stealing. Jim had a six-shooter under
his .pillow. While drinking at the bar on the previous
day Wright said to Jim, “ Now,” and Jim responded by
stroking his face in a peculiar way, this being supposed
to be a signal for some course of action, but for reasons
known only to themselves, not carried out. The pre-
vailing idea is that a case of daring stioking-up has
been thwarted.
The boarding-out system of dealing with State
children, so far as it has yet been tried in New South
Wales, is said to be a splendid success. It is anticipated
that under the regulations which have just been con-
firmed by the Executive Council, it will very rapidly
extend. In Victoria the system is administered by
associations of ladies but (while accepting volun-
tary assistance) the New South Wales Government has
wisely placed it under the management of a Board, and
a responsible Boarding-out Officer.
Pour men have been fined for playing at pitch-
and-toss on Sunday, in Bathurst-street. Their solicitor
will apply for a prohibition to three grounds :—l. That,
as the summons contained the words *’ to the annoy-
ance of the inhabitants,” some of the inhabitants
ought to be examined to prove the nuisance. (2.) That
the game was not “ pitch-and-toss” but “ headings.”
(3.) That as the coins used were half-crowns they conld
not be gambling impliments, the least of which, ac-
cording to the Act, must be pennies.
There was a very lively little hearing at the
Shoalhaven Police Court on the 23rd ultimo. Thomas
M’Grath sued John M’Gee for defamation of character,
and valued his injuries at a tenner. The defendant had
stated that plaintiff kept a bad house. Another Italian,
named Patrick Cafferty, was called as a witness, and
deposed, among other things, that defendant had
charged him (Cafferty) with having murdered "Old
Kerby" (who was found dead some time ago), in the
bush, because Cafferty owed Kerby money. In the
end plaintiff recovered £2 for his damaged character,
and defendant was further fined 10s. for using abusive
language in court. But who did kill ” Old Kerby ?"
It is not’generally known that an industry, as
extensive probably as any other of its kind in the world,
is nestled away amid the romantic wilds of Eookwood.
The Sydney Meat Preserving Company commenced
operations there within the last decade ; and now holds
large contracts for supplies of preserved meats to the
British, French, Belgian, Swiss, and German Govern-
ments. It exported last year one million and a quarter
tins, containing 120,000 sheep, and nearly 15,000 cattle.
Besides which, there was an enormous colonial con-
sumption. and a large trade in hides, tallow, and bone-
dust. The manufacture of neatsfoot and other oils is
a speciality at these works. The manager is Mr. Alban
Gee,
A frightful accident happened to the express
train from Brighton to Melbourne, on Tuesday morn-
ing last. The cause was the breaking of the tire of the
wheel of a smoking carriage, which ran off the line and
drew the others after it, one crashing on top of another
and smashing it to splinters. There were 120 people in
the three carriages. Although there were quite a
number of school girls in the train notone was injured,
principally because two out of three of the smashed
carriages were smoking carriages. The killed were the
Rev. H. H. Garrett, Baptist minister of Brighton, Mr.
Balliere, the publisher, and Mr. J. G. Jamieson, law
clerk. Amongst those injured are Mr. Elmslie Stephen,
brother of the late Judge Stephen (severely);
a son of Mr. Frank Stephen, solicitor; Mr.
A. E. Moore, surveyor; Mr. Thomas Miller,
solicitor, Mr. W. F. Fosbery, of the Master in
Equity’s Office; Mr. Bruce Gaunson, of the Lands
Department; Mr. Hodges, barrister; Mr. Henry
Edwards, of the firm of engineers; Mr. Crisp, solicitor;
Mr. C. H. Pigott; Mr. Lucas, of the Alliance Assur-
ance Society; Mr. Alfred Bliss, auctioneer; and there
are believed to be others who left for their homes, aud
have not been reported.
The Hobart Municipal Council is making hot
running to emulate the now far-famed Corporation of
Sydney. They have borrowed some £300,000 from Par-
liament for sewage and water-supply purposes, but
can’t agree as to how it is to be done, and who shall have
the doing of it. If they would send a delegate to Sydney,
they could be put up to some plan of making the distri-
bution comfortable all round. Meanwhile, they read
“ sewage ” to mean roads, and “ water ” to be synony-
mous with footpaths; and have seen their way to spend
£7OOO agreeably to all parties, in experiments with tar
and gravel, crushed stone and asphalte footpaths. It
has singularly occurred (by a coincidence quite appre-
ciated in Sydney) that the portions of streets which
required to be so treated have been " convenient ’’ to
the properties of Aldermen and their familiars. The
matter of the misappropriation of the £7OOO has been
brought before Parliament.
LATE THEATRICAL.
A terrible apparition—in short, the Ghost of
D’Arcy Read —is about to walk again. The Victoria
Hall is to be ‘the scene of the visitation, which has
announced its second coming for Sept- 10. We hope
D’Arcy’s “ Ghost ” will walk, to some purpose.
** * *
We see that Alf. Stevens had a “ ben.” on the
17th, at Rockhampton Dan Briggs played for him.
By the way, we wonder how old Dan is f Someone told
us he was jester to Henry VIII.; but we don’t believe
this—albeit we believe nearly everything.
** * *
Dr. Simms is a very clever fellow. Hia “ pitches”
at Temperance Hall are really masterpieces of humour.
And he has any amount of science as well, to balance it.
We know, now, more about the human physiognomy
than is good for our peace of mind. We are not
above whispering that since hearing the doctor, we
have discovered traits in our mother-in-law which have
been of considerable value to us, and have much en-
hanced our domestic comfort. Her nose being, accord-
ing to Dr. Simms, typical of an unselfish disposition,
we have stopped giving her the wing of the chicken;
and the same reservation may apply to the last new-laid
® re ‘ * * * *
Maocabe opens on Saturday night at the School
of Arts, and we trust that there is enough of intelli-
gence and refinement in the community to ensure him
the welcome such a truly distinguished artist deserves.
We have seen Mr. Maccabe in other climes, and, if our
readers will only take "the straight griffin" from us
in the;manner’,they usually do, the Hall will be unable to
contain the crowd that will throng to the most extra*
ordinary entertainment ever given by a single indi-
vidual. If Fred has only half the luck we wish him,
he’ll do the biggest business that’s ever been done yet.
** * *
Johnny Cowan’s benefit comes off at the School
of Arts to-night (Thursday). Although it is rather a
delicate topic to touch, we think we will befriend
Johnny by stating that the few millions be had saved
up in the bank are now expended, and that onr old
friend is anxious to rake in the ” spons," as he wishes
to invest in some Milburn Creek stock. The Mercan-
tile Dramatic Society show for him, and Johnny does
the Postman. We hope this time the crowd will roll
up. If it will constitute a further attraction, we may
bfushingly state to an admiring public—that wo shall
be there.
** * *
Miss Carrie Godfrey, the contralto of Simonsen’s
company, mad e a great success at Kowalski’s Exhibi-
tion concert, in Melbourne, on Saturday night. She
sang “ Alas, those Chimes," and, in response to an
encore, gave " Turnham Toll.” In the second part,
her allotted number was “ Let me Dream Again,” and
for this she was enthusiastically recalled, when she
sang “ II Segretto," KowaUki himself honouring her
by nlaying the accompaniment. She also appeared in
a duet from " Trovatore," with Signor Palodini. By-
the-way, this promising young lady’s benefit at Christ-
church, New Zealand, resulted in the biggest house of
Simonsen’s very successful operatic season—in which
Martin is said to have netted a good deal over £3OOO.
** * *
On Tuesday last the Victoria Dramatic Club
gave an entertainment at the School of Arts. The per-
formance consisted of the " Momentous Question,” the
third act of “Othello," a musical olio, and the
" Dumb Maid of Genoa," all this sandwiched by
musical earthquakes perpetrated by the Victoria Brass
Band. We saw the " Momentous Question,” we saw
“ Othello,” we heard the musical olio, we beheld the
" Dumb Maid of Genoa,” and the result of the whole
in onr brain is—confusion. The exhibition would have
been very funny, had it not been very painful. The
performance took place amidst a whirlwind of shrieks,
yells, hisses, and cat-calls, the whole constituting a
vacarme that has never been heard since M’Elhone last
addressed the electors. In the first piece. Miss-
well, we are too gallant to give fair young creature’s
name—appeared in a red petticoat and a Garibaldi that
looked as if it had been washed ashore from the wreck
of the Eric the Red. When we know that neither the
Smiths nor the Eomanys are performing, we do not look
for ethereal beauty in the exponents of the various
characters; but, certainly, when a lady appears as
“ the beauty of the village," the size of whose shoes is
apparently large thirty-sixes, we think that we shall
not be termed hypercritical if we state that it required
a very large amount of forbearance on part of the audi-
ence to prevent their indignation taking the form of
orange-peel. As it was, at the close of each act, and of
each item in the programme, the performers were
hilariously called before the curtain, and enthusiasti-
cally hooted, the lady who had left her teeth at home
coming in for a large share of public attention.
# * •
To individualise would bo cruel, but we may
state, generally, that if we had the option between
going to Quarantine and sitting out another perform-
ance of the Victoria Dramatic Club, we should most
unhesitatingly go down the harbour.
*♦ ♦ *
Costa’s “Eli,” with Turner, shortly. For
further particulars see small bills. Start the engine.
Whoopi
The “Marcus Clarke Fund" Matinee.
The members of the musical and dramatic professions
have most generously placed their services at the
disposal of the committee appointed to arrange
for the matinee, on Wednesday next, in aid
of the fund for the widow and children of the
late Marcus Clarke. As elsewhere stated, Mr.
George Musgrove has, with great liberality, given the
use of the Theatre Boyal for the occasion, free of all
charges, and Mr. Frank Hutchinson has volunteered to
write a prologue for the performance. It is designed
that the entertainment shall be of a lively character,
and diversified to the utmost degree. All professionals
and amateurs who are willing to give their services
will be kind enough to communicate with Mr. Langley,
at the Athenaeum Club, before Friday evening.
871 visitors at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon last.
Messrs. H. R. Woods and Co., the pushing young
printing firm, of 13 Bridge-street, have since commenc-
ing business made things scuttle along in the fine-art
branch of printing. Their manager (Mr. Hart) has just
turned out for the house probably the most handsome
and tasteful show or window card ever produced in
Sydney. In the composition of this work, black, green,
and gold are harmoniously employed, and seven differ-
ent impressions were needed to produce the ultimate
triumph.


BRIEF MENTION.
Small-pox getting into good society.
The battle is not always to the (Rev. Charles)
Strong.
At Darlinghurat, they vaccinate not from le veau
bnt from la vache.
In Rockhampton, pre-eminently, patients die
while doctors fight.'
How to avoid catching small-pox.—Go slow and
you’ll never catch anything.
It once was—“ Have you seen our harbour?”
It is now—" Have you seen our Bulletin ? ”
Love levels all. So does the small-pox. The
brother of our esteemed Lady Mayoress being the last
victim.
The larrikins are trying to put down the “ Sal-
vation Army" in Adelaide. A clear case of similia
eimilibus curantur.
All the fellows yon see out early, walking like
wild-fire, and swinging their arms about level with
their chests, are “ goes-as-you-please."
Since his last fracas, the editor of the Christ-
church Liberty has resigned in favour of a six-foot
man, who hits well with both left and right.
The Temora people are preparing to form a fire
brigade. They have sent to Sydney for ladders and a
bell, and will probably get some water sent up next.
Protestant Ascendancy in danger again ! Small-
pox has attacked a Marist brother. These insidious
priests will not even leave our small-pox to us.
The “ prise ” was a Brummagem locket
studded with “ diamonds.” Now, isn’t this carrying
the well-worn advertising " trophy ” business a little
too far?
Susan Fisher, la vache from whom the Gaol
doctor of Darlinghnrst took the lymph for vaccination”
is said to be perfectly healthy. And yet “ crime runs
in the Hood.
Conversation heard behind the scenes of the
Theatre, Sydney:—lst musician to 2nd musician:
*• Doing anything. Bill ? " “ No, not yet. I was en-
gaged to play at a wake to-night, but the man didn’t die
after all.”
“ Alf.” must laugh consumedly in the sleeve of
his “ seven-half-crown hand-me-down long-tailed blue,"
to think that while he gets pars, from every source
known to penmen, no one ever borrows a solitary item
from the Snooze or the Down and Contrary, unless it
be something that owes its interest to its contempt for
Lindley Murray, and its humour to unintentional
nonsense.
The Parramatta Nightly Shriek announced
on the 23rd ult. that “ Jeanneret’s tramway is going
ahead. The bad weather has caused the contractors to
suspend opera ions. Everything is being pushed for-
ward with energy, and the line will, when completed, be
something that will make Messieurs Lackey and Good-
chap hide their diminished heads." Under a tombstone,
we presume.
The Aamf ~ ' WM “ ,non<w : &S. 'A HebaLD
knows his mark. In wiring details of the wreck of the
Euro, steamer, he reports that some women took off
their flannel apparel to wrap round the rescued men.
The consequence of this supernatural delicacy is that
all the young men of Sydney are bursting with curiosity
to know what sort of thing a flannel apparel is, and
how it is worn ?
At Collingwood Petty Debts Court, the other
dav. a poor debtor admitted that he was in constant
employment at 355. per week, bnt pleaded that he had a
wife and seven children to support. The debt sued for
was for milk, and the bench was disposed to be lenient,
but it transpired that the eldest suckling was one-and-
twenty, the second nineteen, the third seventeen, A
case of rum and milk perhaps#
Sir George Innes proposes to introduce a clause
of a most Ferocious character into the Criminal Law
Amendment Bill. It will, if passed, admit of children
seven years old receiving eighteen lashes, if they should,
in childish mischief, pluck a flower from a public park
or garden. We particularly commend the clause to the
notice of those legislators who have little children.
“ Fijian Joe” is a great statesman, and a great lawyer,
and ought to be put on the bench —or in the Upper
House —without delay.
Things journalistic are becoming lively at Parra-
matta, which has now three papers. The Evening
Times says:—“lt is rumoured that a local editor is
likely to be horsewhipped by a lady in connection with
the Parramatta Bowing Club ball. The coward, &c. &c.
This of course means that John would like to see some
fair creature flourish a whip in order to give him a
lively paragraph, for which there is plenty of room in
the Vespernal Fish- wrap. Why doesn t John do it
himself P
Saturday’s Evening Evangelist plants the
following par. amongst its side-splitting “ Brevities:
—“ A correspondent draws attention to the distribution
in the streets to young people of both sexes, of a
quack’s pamphlet on the cure of certain diseases which
he designates ‘ the scandalous, soul-blasting, health,
destroying, immoral production of a dirty mind. He
thinks the distribution should be stopped. Good boy,
Alf.—but what about those naughty ads., which
guarantee health in exchange for one guinea and twelve
stamps ? Let us be moral.
Herein a fair yarn:—“l was driving a cab in
Sydney for a bit, and was on the stand in King-street,
one day. Swell come up. Says he: Cabby, are you
engaged ?’ 4 No, air,’ says I. So I pulled the
nose-bag off, got on the cab, took hold of the
whip, and made ready to start. Says he: ‘Do yon go
to funerals?’ ‘Yes, sir,’ says I. • Bnt mind, says he,
4 1 haven’t engaged you yet; however, I U take a run
round, and if I can find a respectable corpse worth fol-
lowing, I’ll come back and let you know. Says I:
• I’d like to follow you to (handwriting
illegible).
They lately had a teetotal doctor on, say the
Barron, N.Q., and of course, he was rather a novelty.
The licensed surveyor, a jovial Teuton, asked him to
have a drink. “No," replied the medico, ‘I am a 1
strict teetotaller—a Good Templar, in fact; bntjif you
don’t mind, I'll have a cigar," and he took a cigar. But
a short while after, when he and the barmaid were left
tSte d Uie, said he : “ Give me a nip of brandy, please.
“Oh,” remarked the Hebe, “Thats the sort of “a* l
von are is it P ” “ Hush, hush," exclaimed the doctor
excitedly - " Surely you don’t want to ruin a man’s
■character!’’
A shabby man waited on a Victorian M.L.A.,
the other day, and after carefully removing a pair of
shabby gloves and depositing a half.worn bed-topper
on the 7 table, looked very grave and sighed. The sigh
smelt very strongly of lavender water—or some other
■water. He wanted a situation. He was not able to
work like a common man, he was not used to it. He
knew the member long ago, in the sweet gono-by. His
ancient claim on the “membah’ consisted, it ap-
peared. in the fact that the latter had, in days of yore,
while an humble tradesman, courted and married his
father’s cook. Such is life.
He was a man-o’-war’s man, he had taken to the
bush, and was contemplating the purchase of ahorse.
Having heard that it was a customary thing, he de-
manded a trial. The owner of the animal—a young colt—
■willingly acquiesced, and “ Johnny Haultaut mounted.
The animal set off bucking and plunging down the
street of the township, but Jack hung on “ like gnm
death ” now on the neck, now on the crupper. Return-
ing at last to where the owner and his friends stood,
roaring with laughter, the sailor dismounted, and was
ouickly asked what he thought of the horse. Well,
said Jack, critically, “he’s not bad style; canters a
little rough, though, don’t he ?
Two journalists in the Hunter district have par-
ticular fortes- one being great at church meetings, and
the other a " dab ” at sporting affairs. When they
get off their respective “ beats, the most awful conse-
quences ensue. Recently, the sporting man was. m the
absence of his brother-scribe. put down for a tea-fight.
He described the clergy present as the ring, the col-
lectors as “ metalliciansspoke of “ the clever way in
which the refreshments were negotiated; feared one
■energetic parson had “ given himself a great gruelling,
and was quite eloquent at “ the evident absence of
welshers," and “the proper way in which everyone
stumped up.” The edition sold well.
A Chinese storekeeper of has been
sentenced to two years for fraudulent insolvency.
Another department of industry invaded by the
abhorred Mongolian.
The new Licensing Bill, if passed, will put a
pound a week on to the screw of every member of the
“fooroe,” and be as good as a small legacy to all ser-
geants and sub-inspectors.
“The Bond Or libel action cost the Morning
Post upwards of £30001" says an English paper. After
all, that should be cheap for London, seeing what
people in smaller places can do.
It is related of an unpaid magistrate, resident
near Newcastle, that he incorrectly spells his own
name—which contains the only words he is able to
write. He spells it orally one way, and omits two
letters in his autograph.
A Waverley assassin, the other day, addressed
our civic fathers as “ The Messers, the Members of the
City Council," and that body deliberated a lot whether
they had been found out, or whether the fellow’s know-
ledge of French was defective.
Diphtheria has appeared at Carcoar —only one
case, however. The malady had the impudence to attack
the son of the hospital doctor. The doctor won. The
vicinity of the hospital is the worst drained place in the
neighbourhood. This shows the cleverness of the com-
mittee.
Native regiments in British employment are to
be commanded in English. For instance, the instruc-
tor is to dwell on the word “ Are,” which must be given
slowly, but still with decision, avoiding all hurry and
confusion. Just as was done at Majuba Hill, for
example 1
A “ Methodist Mother,” writing to the Pres-
byterian, thinks that better entertainment might have
been found for the Royal Princes, when here, than the
ball-room and the theatre. A gathering of Sabbath-
school children in the Exhibition building and hymns
would have been appropriate.
The Moss Yale Literary and Debating Club
want to know “Are municipalities desirous tor our
district ?’* The members must be identical with those
individuals who came down to town to hear “ Willum-
jay" fiddle, and who think that ‘‘Doo’nrst" is
“middlin'” as “Eiohyloo.”
A Melbourne undertaker is in trouble now. It
is alleged that he, only on Thursday last, after proceed-
ings had been commenced against him, buried the
bodies of two children, which were given him for
interment on the 19th and 21st May. He found it so
difficult to “ part,” we suppose.
A writer —evidently an old soldier—in the
Mackay (Q.) Free Press, exclaims, " I have listened to
the strain of martail music when the terrib’e Lan-
caster guns were burling their projectiles into Sebas-
tapol.” No doubt; no doubt. Martail music. The
drummers are the executants, aren t they ?
Judge Holroyd, of Melbourne, is determined not
to fall into the same mistake as poor Williams, who
took pity on Colley and his inamorata. He drops his
eyes whenever a lady passes him, and is reported to
have obtained the photos, of the most fashionable
lortttes in order that he may not bow to any of them
erroneously.
The landlord of a Palmer’s Island public-house,
in advertising that his place is to be let by tender,
stipulates:—“ The bar to be closed from 11 p.m. on
Saturday until 6 a.m. on Monday, and the lessee to be
bound to serve no spirits or beers of any kind, except
at dinner, daring that time. Lessee must engage not to
sell spirits on credit.**
Mr. Bent, the Victorian Minister of Railways,
has to receive sometimes fourteen deputations in a day,
and feels certain that when the House meets he will be
presented with sufficient specifications of linos to make
the colony look like a game of “ fox-and-goose.’* Every,
one who has a quarter-acre allotment wants at least two
lines to run through it.
The Rev. R. Taylor, in his vain attempt to cover
the illiberality of the recent scandal at Newtown ceme-
tery, counts the bodies which sleep in the sleeping place
“ among the cold hie jacets of the dead " as on the same
footing as “ aeat-holders." A brother clergyman cyni-
cally observes that “ the only sense in which he can see
the possibility of their being alike is the sleep, which
may be merely a matter of difference of degree inside
and outside the walls of St. Stephen’s.”
We are in receipt of a copy of a Bathurst
evening paper, but as our magnifying glasses have been
lent to Dr. Dansey, we cannot at present give the
Journal’s name. It is evidently neatly printed on a
four-penny postage stamp, and probably contains much
sound advice on the Irish question, and concerning the
proper way to kill fleas in poodles—all of which in-
formation we fervently hope will catch Gladstone’s eye
before he manages to wriggle himself into any fresh
financial troubles.
The trustees of a certain Grammar School north
of Sydney lately appointed a lady principal for the
girls’ division, and this lady has given considerable
trouble to various landladies whom she has interviewed
on the subject of apartments. At one house she inti-
mated that she required two single beds in one room.
* ‘ Why ?” enquired the landlady with some astonishment.
“Oh ” replied the lady principal, “ I always have two
beds in my room, for in hot weather, when I feel too
warm in one bed I generally get out and plunge into the
other.” The trustees will evidently have some trouble
with this lady.
Mr. Kerr, M.L.A., on Thursday last, presented
a petition tor leave to introduce a bill for the bettor
management of the affairs of the Presbyterian Church
in New South Wales. What can the matter be ?
Mr. Dooley, M.L.A., did not please tbe Hobart
Mercury the other day, so the Morning Monopolist
whips it into him after this fashion:— 4 We had hoped
that by this time we had licked into shape Mr. Dooley."
A suburban churchwarden, who makes noc-
turnal appointments of an amorous character,
has been spotted for a crim. con. action, which has
been taken in hand conaniore by a city firm of solicitors.
This is how the Parramatta Evening Times
commences a leaier:— ‘‘When the archangel blows the
trumpet of doom, and Sir Henry Parkes and the present
Ministry hare to turn out of their comfortable graves
and give an account of themselves "
Writes a correspondent from Thornborough,
Hodgkinson River, N.Q. This town is very dull in-
deed just now. The police and their prisoner amuse
themselves by playing marbles. The prisoner (horse-
stealer) can wipe out the police at big ring.”
All over the colonies papers intended to imitate
this journal are rising up and adopting its name —
which, with thousands of unacknowledged paragraphs,
is about all they do derive from us. In short, though
they may be our 44 descendants,” they’re, so far, all
literary bastards.
At a recent trial in Ireland the jury were a
pretty average lot of ruffians. The judge was about to
pass sentence on the prisoners, of whom there were
several, when a witty Irish barrister said, 44 Not too
long a sentence, my lord; you’ll want them before long
to try the jury!”
A city medico tells this story. A girl from
Elizabeth Bay came to him with her mother to be
vaccinated, and was terribly nervous about the matter,
just as the doctor was going to start work, she threw
her arms round the old lady’s neck, and sobbel: 44 One
last kiss, mamma, before the operation 1 "
Well-known Western squatter to whip of Cobb’s
coach: “ Have you any room for leevin’ luggage P"
44 Oh, I dare say I have. What is it—a dog, or a oat, or
what ? " 44 It’s just some leevin’ luggage X want takken
in the boot." 44 Well, I’m in a hurry—what is the
luggage ?" 44 Ou, it’s only my son Tonald."
A cow alarmed the inmates of a Rockhampton
pub. by walking in during the night and entering a
gentleman’s bedroom. At first he thought it was a
bar-maid. It is conjectured that the spirited pro-
prietor was equal to the occasion, as the place flowed
with rum and milk on the following morning.
Trouble about Lands Office draftsmen doing
private work after hours, in competition with out-
siders. Remedy suggested —that the offenders should
be given plenty to do during office hours, so as to fill
them up with that sort of work. Lots of Government
officers waste no cerebral tissue in office hours.
Teetotallers are not encouraged at Goulburn. A
gentleman, who recently passed through that town,
states that, on a Saturday night, he applied at five
hotels and confectioners* shops for a cap of tea, and
was informed that it could not bo had. The local
editors, of course, in consequence of this difficulty,
don’t drink tea.
The following notice is posted on a store at
Herberton, Wild Blver, N.Q. “Selling off—selling
off. Following telegram just received. Grandmother
dead. Fortune left you. Come home quick." A party
of would-be-purchasers were going into the store when
one of them said;—“ Oh! this cove has plenty of
money, let’s go somewhere else." And they went.
There was a deuce of a fuss recently made in
one of the other colonies over the fact that a certain
individual who “ filed up 11 awhile since had generously
paid his creditors in full and had been presented by them
with a testimonial in recognition of his commercial
probity. However, it wasn’t stated that the total
liabilities of the estate amounted to forty sovereigns.
The late banquet to the Mayor of Parramatta
has disturbed the harmonies in that celebrated Little
Pedlington. The promoters of the festive event, hav-
ing had a thorough good time of it so tar, have had
their little bill sent in, and there is some difficulty
about paying it. The providers won’t take less, the
managing committee think the capitation charge too
high, and the happy medium has not been struck that
will settle this very unpleasant difference amicably.
It may not, perhaps, be known that a man
wearing dark clothes is more liable to infection from
contagious diseases than he who wears light-coloured
garments, because particles which emanate from di-
seased or decaying bodies are much more readily
absorbed by dark than by light fabrics. This is easy of
proof. Expose a light and a dark coat to the fumes of
tobacco for five minutes, and it will be found that the
dark one smells stronger than the other of tobacco-
smoke, and it will retain the odour longer.
Two drivers met last week about half way in
one of the seven-mile lanes in the Northern District-
no get out, six wires and a top rail —when the following
dialogue ensued :■*—lst drover (bluffingly), “you llhaveto
turn back, I’ve got fats.” 2nd drover, “ See youd-—d
first, let’s toss." They tossed best two out of three,
and one sadly retreated the long three miles with his
sheep. After clearing the entrance, the wily old winner
presented his victim with a “ gray,” saying : “My friend,
I'm old enough to be your father, so take my advice and
never travel stock in this district without one of these
1 in your pocket."
From the Witness we gather that “ on the
Bellinger Eiver a neat church has been erected, and
a manse is being built. Mr. Robert Allen has been
labouring there." We are not aware whether it was the
church, or manse, or town hall, that Robert was labour,
ing over, but we can safely swear that he didn t work
for a penny a day, as the other Bible heroes used to do.
This is how the N. Y. Clipper welcomes the
Lingards to New York: —
“ William and Alice have returned —
Too long away their lights have burned —
‘ Will’s ’ brought his daughters, as he onght.
But William’s son he has not brought.”
Our Jim says he could Maggie Moore effective joke than
that.
From a recent issue of the Ulladulla and
Milton Times, we clip the following: “ James
M‘Quire, describing himself as at present living at Con-
jola, and employed looking after insulting language, v. S.
Pickering, for using insulting language, whereby a
breach ot the peace might have been occasioned. Ver-
dict—ss. fine and costs of court.” “ Looking after
insulting language” is good. And if Signor M'Guire is
short of work, we can recommend,Macquarie-street as a
certain find, when David is in health or the M'Elhone
in humour.
The post office in one of our Northern townships
is at a small general store, the presiding genius of which
is an ancient dame, wholly deaf and nearly blind. The
other day an important letter was expected from
Sydney, and being due, the “expecter” called again
and again and yet again, to no purpose. Finally, as-
sured that, bar accident, the letter must have arrived,
the gentleman declined to quit the premises till a tho-
rough overhaul had been made. The aged Megatherium
was terribly indignant, but rummaged behind shelves
and under cases, and after half-an-hour’s hard work,
handed from the depths of a case of boots—three days
over-due, torn and dirty—the missing document, re-
marking, with a senile smile : “ Well! well! well! sur-
pri-siu ! Who’d ha’ thought it ?” What did he say ?
Never mind. Place aux dames.
The man who prances about with his mission of
Terenth and Love, and whose feet obstruct the whole of
the pathway on which ho stands, was holding forth,
with his back against the shutters of a shop in Snssex-
street, last Sunday morning, and informing his pious
flock (which consisted of two small boys, a cockatoo,
and a Chinaman) that he was ready to stand by the
Evangelists and their Gospels—and, if need be, to fight
and die for the sake thereof —when one of the youngsters
in front called out, “ I say, mister, you’re a-leanin’ up
agin a house wot’s got the small-pox in it.” The way
that apostle immediately went for Coogee Bay suffl.
oiently proves that, if he starts for the coming “go-as-
you-please ” festivity, it’s all up with Baker or Blower
Brown’s chance ef raking in the needful.
A Coonamble item: —“ Not long ago a promising
young man, residing somewhere between the South
Pole and the Equator, thought it would be a good thing
to marry a certain highly-popular and eccentric trage-
dienne. He has some doubts now as to where the
laugh comes in. The lady is partial to cucumber and
lobster suppers, and just at that hour when graveyards
gape the promising young man finds his throat gripped
with a cast-iron (grasp, his head banged violently
against the wall, and the quondam Mrs. Macbeth
shrieks in his ear, " Slave! dids’t search beneath thy
bridal bow’r? Lie midnight assassins and traitors
vilely securely slumbering there I What, ho 1 hast firmly
bolted yon casement lattice, and bid the springs and
wheels of Time’s tell-tale dial move onwards to regu-
late our horizon ? Hast set the milk jug on the outer
wall; and hast thou placed the soothing paregoric near
where our infant smiling sleeps, and sleeping smiles ?
Hast locked the fowl-house door and set the fatal
trap to entice the unwary midnight mouse. Spe-a-eak 1
Spe-e-eak ! or I shall go mad 1 mad! mad!” Then she
breaks her hero’s spine with the water-bottle, and sit?
on his head, and recites the whole of “Julius Caesar.”
About the neatest dodge to secure the maximum
of a square feed at the minimum of expense, was neatly
played off, not long ago, on an unsuspecting cafe pro-
prietor, and the modus operandi jogged along as follows;
—A tall, aristocratic-looking gentleman trooped in, dlo
Wybert Reeve as the “ Crushed Tragedian,” and, taking
his seat, called for and placed himself on the outside of
seven-and-sixpence worth of victuals worthy of the
Prince of Wales —and then diluted the lot with a bottle
of the sparkling “ flz "of Louis Roederer. Just as this
bon vivunt was wiping his mouth, however, a military-
looking gentleman entered, explained to the cafe pro-
prietor that he was a detective, and had tracked his
prey to that very room. The description of the culprit
tallied in every way with the person who had just forti-
fied his inner man; and the host, with tears in his eyes,
begged the man of law to get his prisoner out as quietly
as possible, as it would ruin his business were such a
scandal known in public. Two minutes later on, the
distinguished-looking party at the table was politely in-
formed that a gentleman was waiting in a cab at the
door to speak to him, and with a majestic air he stepped
out —first expressing a wish that dessert might be
served during his brief absence. Once in the street, he
was, of course, arrested, and driven, as the anxious
imagined, to the nearest station. Next day
the latter landed round to the detective’s office, with a
bill for the arrested’s dinner, but none of the staff had
ever heard of such an officer or such a prisoner. It was
a clean “ do," and the subsequent remarks of that host
are totally unfit for publication.
Mr. J. J. Riley, Mayor of West Maitland
The marvellous change in the condition of affairs in
West Maitland during the last ten or fifteen years may
he largely assigned to the activity and judgment of a
few of the leading men of the town. A short time ago
it became a question for serious consideration whether
another site for a township wouldnot have to be chosen.
The Hunter, at each successive flood, was gradually
wearing a way into the heart of the town, and half the
business houses were in jeopardy of destruction. The
resolution of two or three men initiated and completed
a work that belonged to a previous generation. In this
good and substantial service Mr. J. J. Biloy, (now the
Mayor of the town), took an active part; in fact, it
was he and Mr. Jacob Gorrick, who managed the whole
affair. The river, on the side from which the town was
usually submerged, was embanked and protected for a
stretch of three or four miles, and to this work, which
cost several thousands, the Government and the resi-
dents mutually bearing the cost, may be ascribed the
saving of West Maitland. Mr. Biley was bom in
Cheshire, England, Ist January, 1836, and came to this
colony with bus parents three years later. He received
his education in Sydney, and in 1849 settled with his
people at West Maitland. Being successful in business,
later in life, Mr. Biley took an active part in municipal
and political affairs. In 1872 he was elected to the
Maitland Council, but was defeated at the following
election, and strange to say, it was during the period of
his absence from the Council that he did his greatest
service to the town, by starting the work of embank-
ing the river. Eventually, his energy and ability were
fully recognised, and the position he holds to-day is the
reward for his valuable services. The financial con-
dition of the West Maitland Council is very sound }
improvements are going ahead, and the town is highly
grosperous. There is no Council to which the Sydney
orporation could be referred to with greater advantage.
The Mayor does his work fairly and fearlessly, and by
his “seventh final notice” does more in the mat-
ter of rate-collecting than legal processes could ever
effect, Mr. Biley in his early days was a cricketer of
considerable repute, his wicket-keeping being a matter
of sperting record. He is a brother of Dr. Biley, for
many years located at the Maitland hospital,—of Mr.
A. J. Biley, importer, and of the well-known business-
men, Biley Brothers, of this city.
The Parisian Salon, between 1673 and 1880, has
exhibited 165,523 works of art, by 87,692 artists.
A pitiable story is told of a little boy who
starved to death in Pittsburg, Penn., because of a
throat disease. He lived four weeks without eating or
drinking. Suffering terribly just before he died, he
asked his mother if he would get any dinner in heaven.
There must have been a substantial grievance
among the English telegraph operators when Post-
master-General Monsell, upon investigation, is com-
pelled to ask for an additional appropriation to pay
them of £68,000 a year, with a prospective increase of
£150,000 yearly
MR. J. J. RILEY, MAYOR OF WEST MAITLAND. (From a photo. by Moss, of Maitland.)


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Wo shall be glad to have this index posted tip by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
EACING.
A J.G. Spring Meeting September 8,6, 8,10.
Cooktown September 7, 8.
Northern Jockey Club September 14,15.
Ballarat Hunt Club September 17.
Murrorundi September 21
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Kensington Park September 24.
Maryborough <Sc Carisbook (Vic ) T. C... September 29,30.
Melbourne Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Hawkes’ Bay (N.Z.) Earing Club October 12.
Wollongong October 12,13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria E.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8, 10,11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
Wellington Earing Club (N.Z ) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
WiUiamstown (Vic ) December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vie.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26. 27.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26 ; Jan. 1, 2.
V.E.C. Champion January 1.
TattersalTs (Sydney) January 1.
AQUATICS.
Bash v. Laycock September 2.
Walker Whisky Trophy September, 5,7, 9.
Champion Fours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9.
Eush v. Power, £3OO September 12.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Melbourne Eowing Club Umphelby
Challenge Cup September 21.
Melbourne Eowing Club, Challenge Pairs.. September 21.
Electric Telegraph Annual Eegatta October 1.
Boss v. Hanlan (Toronto) October,
Sportsman Challenge Cnp, 200 guineas—New-
castle. on-Ty ne October,
Public Schools’ Eace—Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
M. Trial Pours October 8.
N. Rowing Association Eegatta October 8,15.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oax Outriggers December.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Tenterfleld Athletic Sports September 1.
Six Days’ Go-as-yon-Please—Sydney September 6.
Sheffield Handicap—Norwood Park September 12.
Brennan v. Goodburn, 48 hours Go-as-you-
please, £5O, Osborne Hall, Forbes... October 5.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
Tam worth September 10.
BICYCLING.
Six days’ Tournament September 12.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Eupert was sold to Mr. A. Benson for £330.
Cricket practice was commenced on Moore Park
on Saturday.
Football in New Zealand is played under the
Eugby rules exclusively.
An athletic sports meeting takes place at Ten-
terfield to-day (Thursday.)
The Electric Telegraph Office annual regatta is
arranged to take place on October 1.
The King’s School Athletic Club meeting takes
place on Saturday, 17bh September.
The “welshers” are on the war-path for the
Eandwick meeting. Backers, beware I
The Dunedin Jockey Club have purchased
Forbury Park racecourse ground for £30,000.
Mr. Frank Gardner, the well-known coursing
judge, died at Geelong, on Monday alternoon.
The rabbit coursing match, on Saturday, at
Lithgow, was won by Mr. G. Jack’s Le Loup.
The Gem, after being beaten by Monmouth in
the Guineas, was not persevered with for second place.
Rugby v. Redfern, on Saturday, resulted in a
victory for the former by one goal and two tries to nil.
Carlton v. Melbourne, on Saturday, at Mel-
bourne, resulted in a drawn game, each side obtaining 3
goals.
The gates and booths for the Eandwick meet-
ing were sold on Tuesday for £1928. The gates brought
£l3OO.
The number of telegraphic messages dispatched
from the Grand Stand, at Epsom, on the Derby Day,
was 6001.
Second Parramatta v. first Eton, at Parramatta,
on Saturday, was won by the local team by one goal
and two tries.
The New Zealand string—including Sir Modred
and Somnus—arrived safely in Melbourne on Friday, by
the Te Anau (s.)
Up to June 24, Archer still headed the list of
winning mounts, 75 being credited to him ; Wood, 62;
Cannon, 31; and Fordham, 30.
At Wimbledon a shooting match between six
Canadians and six British, resulted as follows:
English, 1222; Canadians, 1105.
Bob Sawyer, the winner of the Public Auction
Stakes at the Hawkesbury meeting, was sold after the
race for £92, to Mr. J. E. Onus.
Trump Yoss, by his easy victory in the Hawkes-
bnry Handicap, has jumped into the place of first
favourite for the Metropolitan.
It is to be hoped that at the coming Eandwick
meeting the “ books of the races ” will not fall short of
the demand as at the Hawkesbury meeting.
The costume football match on Saturday, at
Melbourne, for the benefit of the Marcus Clarke Fund,
was a great success. £74 was the amount realised.
The three largest stud farms in the world are
M. Lefevre’s, in France, ex-Govemor Stanford’s in Cali-
fomia, and Sir Thomas Elder’s in South Australia.
The Wallaroo and King’s School clubs met at
Parramatta on Saturday, and the " marsupials” got a
drubbing, the school winning by one goal and a try.
Azella (Madame Largette), champion pedes-
trienne of New Sonth Wales, completed 76 miles in 26
hours, on the 27th ultimo, at Liverpool. A match is on
the tapis.
Monmouth won the mile easily, and just won
the mile and a quarter. How will he stand at the end
of a mile and a half, with Spinningdale going the journey
with him ?
J. J. Miller received and disbursed in sweeps,
last year, £36,000 on the Melbourne Cup, £14,000 on the
Champion Eace, and £2OOO, on the Australian Cup. In
all, £52,000!
The value of this year’s Two Thousand Guineas
was £6450j; One Thousand Guineas, £5050; Derby, £6375;
Epsom Grand Prize, £4762; Oaks, £4800; Grand Prix
de Paris, £6974.
A football match, on the St. Leonards Reserve,
on Saturday, between the Glebe and St. Leonards clubs,
resulted in an easy victory for the local team by 2 goals
and 2 tries to nil.
Nat Thompson is giving a trophy, to be con-
tested for dnring next season by the junior clubs Fred
Ironside is drawing up the conditions, which will be
published shortly.
A rowing club is to be formed at Balmain.
There is a great opening for amateur scullers, judging
by the S.E.C. and M.E.C. representatives for the
Association regatta.
Martine and Morgan’s 100 yards spin, for .£5O
a-side, on the Association Ground, on Tuesday after-
noon, resulted in a win for Martine, who got the start
and kept it throughout.
The pension of £2OO per annum granted to Mrs.
Bagot during her lifetime, is to be continued, in the
event of her death, to her children, until the youngest
attains the age of 21 years.
The Commodore and Prince of Wales, the
steamers engaged by the N.S.W. Eowing Association,
will be the only vessels allowed to follow the races for
the Walker Whisky Trophy.
A handicap billiard tournament for a gold watch
and chain, value £lO, is to come off shortly at the
Bulletin Hotel. Entries will be received by Jack
M’Kenna till 7th September.
A pigeon-shooting match took place at Picton
on Saturday, the 20th August, between Mr. J. Eiley, of
Bowral, and Mr. Capon, of Picton, for £lO, which re-
sulted in a win for the former.
The Garrison Hall pedestrian contest at Dunedin
ended as follows : Twenty-four hours’ walking match,
J. Drummond, 106 miles, 5 laps; Twenty-four hours' go-
as-you-please, Crofts, 116 miles.
Chatterer, who is heavily backed for the Mel-
bourne Cup, had a slight mishap lately, which neces-
sitated easing him in his work for a few days. He is
again in work, though going a trifle tender.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
eight-oar outriggers, to be contested for in December,
is to be an eight-oar boat, to become the property of
any club whose representatives win it a third time.
The second trotting meeting at Boccaccio Park,
Melbourne, takes place to-day (Saturday). It consists of
a Distance Handicap, Pony Eace, Maiden Plate, Time
Handicap, Trot, Selling Eace, and Handicap Consolation
Stakes.
Mata has again been sold, the latest purchasers
being Messrs. James Hezlett and John Stephenson. As
they are members of the Auckland Jockey Club, it is
very likely that the disqualification by that club will be
removed.
The V.R.C. have decided to fix the minimum
weight for flat races of a mile and under at 6st 81b, for
three years and upwards, and for all distances over a
mile to be only 6st. In steeple and hurdles the lowest
is to be 9st.
According to Benson’s chronograph, Iroquois
won the Derby in 2m. 50s. Bend Or’s time was 2m. 465.
P. Archer scored his third Derby win on Iroquois, his
two previous successes being on Silvio, in 1877, and last
year on Bend Or.
•
The nominations for the Adelaide Hunt Club
meeting comprise : 15 entries for tbe Maiden Steeple-
chase, 15 for the Club Cup, 15 for the Flat Eace, 8 for
the Drag Cup, 11 for the Members' Hurdle Eace, 18 for
the Hunters’ Stakes,
The race for the One-mile Bicycle Championship
at Wolverhampton, England, on June 9, resulted in a
victory for Howell, in 2 m. 512-5 s., being 14 ss. behind
the professional best on record, and about 3s. better
than tbe amateur record.
The handsome silver cup given for first prize in
the pigeon shooting handicap at Lithgow, on Saturday,
was won by Mr. Seamans, of Bathurst, who killed five
birds out of six. Mr. Tait, a local man, took second
prize, and Mr. Hayley, third.
The Queensland Cricket Association cannot
come to terms with Mr. Conway with regard to the
visit of the English Eleven. The latter play their first
match in New Sonth Wales, at Parramatta, where a
two days’ contest has been arranged.
The Maitlanders figure prominently as sup-
porters of,„ the Sydney Hunt Club; and we have it on
good authority that if the Sydneyites don’t roll up
better within the next fortnight, |the hounds will be
transferred permanently to that district.
The Glenheads and Balmains played an interest-
ing match on Moore Park, on Saturday. We ore in-
formed that the Glenheads intend to join the Associa-
tion next season. We congratulate them; their fast
play should come off under the altered rules.
Christchurch (N.Z.) Hunt Club Steeplechases,
August 5. —Cup: Fakir 1, Winfield 2, Flora 3. Gone-
away Stakes: The Agent 1, Quamby 2, Clarence 3.
Tally-ho Handicap: Winfield 1, Forsaken 2, Lucy 3.
Consolation Stakes : Clarence 1, Flora 2, Levant 3.
Two 100-yards’ races took place on the Asso-
ciation Ground on Monday, the 23rd instant —Swogler
v. Slattery, for £l5 a-side, resulting in a win by two
yards for Swagler; and Summerfleld v. Hoare, for £lO
aside, the former winning easily by about four yards.
The Gaming and Lottery Bill, just passed
through the New Zealand Parliament, forbids betting,
legalizes the totalisator, and suppresses sweeps, but
allows those already started on the Melbourne Cup to
be proceeded with, the Act not coming into force till
November.
The coursing at the Hawkesbury was brought
to a close on Saturday, with the following results ;
Hawkesbury Cup, Wyndham first, with Harlequin as
runner-up. Purse: Windsor first, with Leanthe as
runner-up. All-Comers’ Stakes : Madman, first, with
Eva as rnnner-up.
Goulburn v. Yass, on Saturday, at Goulburn,
resulted in an easy victory for the local team by five
goals and several tries to nil. We should like to see
the Goulburn footballers visit the metropolis next
season; they should give a good account of themselves
against the Sydney clubs.
South Australia v. Geelong, on Saturday,
resulted in an easy victory for Geelong by 8 goals and 26
behinds to only 1 behind. The Sydney and East
Sydney ought to invite the South Australians to
Sydney next season. Judging by the performances of
each, a close match should be anticipated.
In commenting on the Yankee victory in the
Derby, the Field says : —“ We await now the time, and
we hope it will not be long distant, when, from the far-
off antipodes, we shall see a horse led into the weighing-
room paddock at Epsom amidst the shouts and cheers
of a mighty concourse of people, * Advance Australia 1* ’’
H. N. Abbott’s £lO,OOO sweep on the Melbourne
Cup will be drawn at Auckland early in October, as
the N.Z. Gaming and Lotteries’ Bill becomes
law in November. The passing of the Bill will be a
good thing for promoters of consultations in Sydney
and Melbourne, as the money is sure to come over the
water.
The following are the entries for the six days’
go-as-you-please contestC. Swan and J. Cotton, of
New Zealand ; W. Edwards, champion : W. Baker, J.
Campbell, T. Palmer, J. C. Williams, and T. M - O’Con-
nor, of New South Wales ; J, H. Le Petit, Paris ; J.
Eaynor, Victoria; W. Bennie, New York; J. Clifford,
Adelaide.
A rifle match, on Saturday, at the Paddington
Eifle Butte, between the Parramatta Corps and the Ist
company Naval Brigade, resulted in a victory for the
lattter by 20 points, the scores being—Parramatta?, 451;
Naval Brigade, 471. The Parramatta team shot under
a disadvantage, as the day was very windy, and they
are unaccustomed to the disc marking.
A four-oared race took plaee over the Henley
course between the Cornell University Crew (U.S.) and
the Hertford College Crew, who won the Stewards’
Cup at Henley regatta. Cornell went off with a stroke
of 42 to the minute, leading slightly, but their steering
was bad, and after twice fouling the bank they ceased
rowing. The Hertford four won easily.
The Gentlemen and Players’ cricket match com-
menced at the Oval, on June 30—the day previous to the
mail leaving. The Players went in first, and when the
stumps were drawn the scores were: —Players, 197|;
Midwinter 16, Ulyet 57, Lockwood 62, Hill 11. Gentle-
men, 160 for two wickets; W. Q. Grace 96 (not out),
A. N. Hornby 20, A. P, Lucas 25, F. Penn 21 (not out).
We understand that the Domain will be open
for practice during the coming cricket season, though
the wickets will be far from good. The Government
have not kept faith with the Cricket Association, as it
was premised that the Domain should be restored in a
similar state to that in which it was taken from the
cricketers. A veto of a couple of thousands will |re-
deem the Ministerial pledge.
The Balmain Waratah Cricket Club held their
annual meeting on Wednesday evening, 24th August.
The following were elected office-bearers for the ensuing
season : —President, Mr. S. H. Hyam ; treasurer, Mr.
E, H. Penson; secretary, Mr. J. Killian; captain, Mr,
E. B. Crogo; working committee, Messrs. Julian,
Burke, Fordham, and Griffiths ; selection committee,
Messrs. Franklin, Julian, and Fordham.
The Messrs. Chinnery, with a view to improve
English professional sculling, have promised a sum of
£lOOO to be devoted to the encouragement of oarsman-
ship during the ensuing five years Once a year, prize
money to the extent of £l5O will be offered for compe-
tition amongst scullers of all calibres who are natives
of Great Britain and Ireland. An additional sum of
£5O will be given as prizes for scullers who have never
won £2O in a sculling race.
The weights for the Hurdle Eace and Steeple-
chase at the A.J.C, meeting were declared on Monday.
King of Trumps heads the Hurdle weights, with 12st
71b, and Tribulation is lightest, with Bst 71b. The
constant Jupiter is let in at 9st 61b. For the Steeple-
chase, Twilight is steadied at 12? t 71bs, Tribulation
carrying the feather at Bst 71b. In addition to these
jumping races, the A. J.G. have introduced a Hurdle
Onp, to be run for on the last day of the meeting.
The great chess match between Mr. Blaok-
burne, the English champion, and Herr Zukertort, the
winner of the International Tournament at Paris, com-
menced at London June 27. The first and second games
were drawn ; the third game (two sittings) was won by
the Prussian, who scored also the fourth and fifth.
Then Blackburue rallied and placed the sixth game to
his credit. Game at latest stood —Zukertort 3, Black-
burne 1, drawn 2. 15 games in all are to be played.
Gympie Turf Club Eacos, August 24 and 25.
First day.—Maiden Plate: Nabocklish 1, Gympie 2,
Lady Town 3. Annual Handicap : Buck Pasha I, Syd-
ney 2. All Aged Stakes: Moorlands 1, Viscount 2,
Sydney 3. Queensland Plate : Buck Pasha 1, Naboek-
lish 2. Second dny.—Miners’ Purse : Jibboom 1, Qoda-
lius 2. Town Plate: Buck 1, Viscount 2. Stewards’
Cup: Godalius 1. Ladies’ Purse: Moorland 1, Nitro-
gen 2. Forced Handicap : Jibboom 1, Moorland 2.
Charters Towers race meeting August 24th and
25th. First day. Maiden Plate: Wheel of Fortune 1,
Annandale 2, Mouse 3. Handicap: Lupus 1, Talleyrand
and Pelham, dead heat, 2. District Plate : Plying Scud
1, Monogram 2, Prophet 3. Second day. Hurdle Eace:
Peter Finn 1, Grenadier 2, Eoanoake 3. Eailway Handi-
cap : Mignonette 1, Mouse 2, Monogram 3. Club Han-
dicap : Acel, Annandale 2, Lupus 3. Members’ Welter
Handicap ; Argus Scandal 1, Monogram 2, Flying Scud
3. Forced Handicap : Wrangler 1, Zulu 2, Tallyrand 3.
The Walker Whisky Trophy Committee have
adopted a rule that in the event of a foul the umpire
shall order the whole of the competitors in that heat
to row over again. There is something sensible in the
idea, as it ensures the heat being won by the bast man.
The umpire, however, should have some discretion in
the matter, as fouls may take place having no con-
nection with the result of the heat. It would be hard
for a competitor having a decided load to see the beaten
second and third boats fouling, and thus rendering
another race necessary.
Amongst some novelties introduced into the
programme to be carried out at the naval and military
sports in Melbourne, is one which gives ample scope for
a very exciting event. It is an “ Obstacle Eace ’’ of
300 yards. In this the competitors will be required to
climb up slanting poles and lower themselves down a
rope; then after running a little further, to struggle
through a network or maze of ropes; next to pass
through barrels with the heads knocked out, and finally
to crawl under a beam 18 inches from the ground, and
go on to the winning post.
Rush and Laycock’s race takes place on Friday
afternoon. Laycook is decidedly the favourite, but
Eush should row a great race, for he is in ibe pink of
condition. As Laycock is not in his best form, it is
quite possible Eush may lead his younger opponent
home. Kush is as confident as ever about the result of
the race. Were both men at their best, there would be
no doubt whatever about the issue. We know what
Laycock has done in the past; we also know that, by
rowing himself to a standstill, tbe plucky Bush can do
a certain distance in a certain time.
A football match, under N S W. Association
rules, was played on Moore Park, on Saturday, between
the East Sydney Club and the newly-formed Petersham
Club, resulting in a victory for the senior club by four
goals to two. A high wind was blowing all the after,
noon, and the consequence was that during the first
half, the East Sydney, who kicked with the wind, se-
cured three goals and numerous behinds without a score
going to Petersham. When goals were changed, the
itter club soon made up for it, and at one time looked
like winners, but as they tired, the Easts played up and
gave them a most unmistakeable beating, by kicking a
goal against the wind.
The annual meeting of the Ashfield Cricket Club
was held on the 17th August. During last season 17
matches were played, of which 5 were won, 11 lost, and
1 drawn. The winners of the trophies were :—Mr. F.
Dickens, for batting, average 7i runs (!), for a trophy
presented by Mr. F. Crane; Mr. G. Houghton, for
bowling, with an average of 4 11-30 runs per wicket, for
a trophy presented by Mr. J. B. Gibbs; Mr. J. Hair
won Mr. G. Fitzgerald’s trophy for highest individual
score, and Mr. A. W. Crane won Mr. Ashwin’s trophy
for the best bowling average in one-third of the matches.
Following are the office-bearers for the ensuing season :
—President, Mr. G. F. Fitzgerald; vice-presidents,
Messrs. F. Clissold and E. Eidge; hon. secretary, Mr.
W. Gibbs; hon. treasurer, Mr. W. M. Mills; com-
mittee, Messrs. F. Crane, T. Dickens, J. Aitken, A.
Gibbs, Q. Harris, A. W. Crane, Q. Armstrong.
Amongst the principal turf winners during tbe
past season in N.S.W., Mr. Long heads the list with
£7852, and of this Grand Flaneur (unbeaten) won eight
races and netted £6954; Mr. W. Branch is second on the
list with £6226, won principally by Progress and Eoyal
Maid; the Hon J. White is third with £3052, Mr. K.
Whittingham £2214, Mr. M. Loughlin £2122, Mr. T.
Chimside £1738, Mr. Ivory £1712, Mr. J. Morrison £l6ll,
Mr. J. Mayo £1377; —these are the principal winners.
The horses with largest gains next to Grand Flaneur
and Progress are —Eoyal Maid £2240, Spinniugdale
£1640, Wellington £1421, Welcome Jack £1205, Aspen
£1075, Sir Peter £lO6O, Mata £lO4O, Pontiff 1040. Yat-
tendon occupies first position among the sires, with
£13,476; then Panic, £7899 ; then comes Angler, Mori-
byrnong, King of the Eing, The Drummer, Kelpie, Bar-
barian, Irish King, Bethnal Green, and Fireworks.
A curious case is now being discussed in betting
circles. At a recent southern meeting, A backed a
treble for a thousand to one. The first and second
events came off, but his horse in the third was second.
Only two horses were placed in this event; protests
having been entered, they were both disqualified, and
the stewards, there belhg no other placed horse, de-
clared it no race. A wants to know how his bet stands ?
Some consider that it is a draw, others that he has lost
his wager; but we think that, as he would have lost had
he not picked the winners of the first and second events,
his chance of winning should be held good until the
third event is decided. As that is declared no race he
has won two-thirds of the wager. There is apparently
no other way out of the matter, for as the backer stood
a chance of losing on the first and second races, he must
also have some chance of winning which cannot be de-
stroyed by the untoward result of the third race. Any-
how, the wager cannot have been lost by the backer.
The aunual meeting of the University C.O. was
held on August 24. The balance at credit is £42. The
first eleven, during the last season, were engaged in
19 matches, of which nine were won, four lost and six
drawn. The trophies were won os follow: —Mr. S. P.
Jones, the cup presented by Sir George Allen, with an
average of 38.8, also Mr. H. M. Faithfull’s trophy for
the highest aggregate with 616 runs, and Mr. T. Gar-
rett’s trophy for the highest single innings with 104
runs. Sammy has also won the club’s bowling trophy,
with an average of 8.1 runs per wicket —in fact, he hr*
taken all the trophies for the season. Following are
the office-bearers for the ensuing season Patron, S'i
W. Manning; president, Sir G. W. Allen; vice-presi-
dents, Mr. Justice Windeyer, Professor Liversidge, Mr.
M. H. Stephen, and Mr. E. Barton; hon. secretary,
Mr. T. W. Garrett; hon. treasurer, Mr. E. C. Aden ;
assistant hon. secretary and delegates, Messrs. E. Teece
and Faithful; committee, Dr. Sly, Messrs. E. Powell,
Roberts, Ayres, Merewether, Davis, Neale, and Jones;
selection committee, Messrs. Powell and Allen.
Hawkesbury Race Club Spring Meeting may be
considered as one of the most successful held since the
club's formation. The attendance was numerous, and
the weather fine. The Guineas was shorn of interest
by the scratching of Spinningdale, who met with a
slight accident on the morning of the race. Tbe A. JO.
Derby is now anticipated with additional interest, as
Monmouth, having now vanquished, all other oppo-
nents, will then meet for the first time as a three-year-
old the speedy daughter of Sappho. The Handicap turri d
out to be a gift for Trump Yoss, thereby justifying the
support which his stable accorded to him. Following
are the results :—First day.—Hurdle Eace : Radical 1,
Sportsman 2, Jupiter 3. Public Auction Stakes : Bob
Sawyer 1, Coolamidgin 2, Doctor 3. Guineas: Mon-
month 1, Marmora 2, The Gem 3 ; time, Im. 47 2-10 s.
County Purse : Zulu 1, Warhawk 2, Brilliant 3. Maiden
Plate: Sardonyx 1, Rupert 2, Primrose 3. —Second
day.—Mares’ Produce Stakes : Monmouth 1, The Gem
2, Marmora 3. Hawkesbury Handicap : Trump Yoss 1,
Sardonyx 2, Warhawk 3. Members’Handicap: Verdict
1, The Exeter 2, Master King wood 3. Prince of Wales’
Stakes : Rupert I, Stilton 2, Speculation 3. Turf Club
Handicap: Gipsy Cooper 1, Guinva 2, Waxy 3,
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
W. Snook, of the Moseley Harriers, has beaten
previous record time by running two miles in 9m.
33 3-5 s George Hosmer has had a shell built
weighing only22lb lOoz A big N.Z. “consultation”
is advertised as “ The Melbourne and Christchurch
Novelty Company, capital £lO,OOO Joe Pombeitou,
of Lithgow, has issued a general challenge to wrestle,
oatch-as-oatoh-oan, for £lOO aside At Gympie races,
£2OOO was put through the totalisator Hawk shot at
Tynedale, the other day, by Mr. M'Qregor, measured
3ft. Sin. from head to tail, and 7ft. from tip to tip of
wings The rule in the English Public Schools ohal-
lenge competition is that the crew shall not use sliding
seats. But the Bedford schoolboys got over the diffl.
culty by greasing their trousers and sliding on fixed
seats. They won Jnpp, the cricketer, was to (e
given a benefit by the Surrey C.C., in the shape of the
proceeds of a three days’ match between North and
South A fine fox, probably a wanderer from the Little
River, was the other day killed on Harton Hills station,
Hamilton, Yio 200 acres have been reserved for a
racecourse at Burrowa Great mortality among the
herrings in the Upper Manning. Thousands lie dead
on the banks and taint the air On 22nd June, at the
International pigeon match, shot at Notting-bid,
London, Mr. Q. Leo Lord, secretary of the Sydney Gun
Club, wr« one of 61 competitors. He gra lid his four
first birds in rare style, but the fifth was too much for
him. It was noticeable that he was the only man wl.o
stood at scratch with his gun held down well below the
elbow No less than three well-conducted stand-up
fights occurred at Singleton, ou the afternoon of Sun-
day week, in one of the paddocks adjoining the station-
house. “The nearer the church,” &o. There was, of
course, a woman at the bottom of the best “ mill.”
None of the pugs, were summoned —probably because
“braising” doesn’t come under the cock-flgbtin-'-
clause The case in which a Singleton bootmaker was
charged with cock-fighting on his premises, caused
great local interest. The witnesses called for the prose-
cution were apparently all favourable to the defendant.
They admitted that 30 or 40 persons and some game
cooks were in Crispin’s back yard on the occasion in
question, but denied that they saw any fighting. Defen-
dant was,however (as(already stated), fined £1 and costs.
The informer is said to have been a Wesleyan preacher,
who didn’t show up to give evidence At Singleton
racecourse, on Saturday week, W. Hamilton’s ch m Mari-
gold and Peisley’s ch g Smoker raced 400 yards for £lO
a-side. Smoker got a little the best of the start, and
maintained it to within 100 yards from home, when the
mare went to the front, and ratjhome a winner by abo t
half a length—to the great surprise and chagrin of the
country talent. A good deal of money ohangt d bauds
on the event At Townsville races, a boy of 12 (step-
son of Mr. Wellington, an old resident), while racing
his pony across the coarse, collided with another horse
and rider, coming from an opposite direction. When
the mail left he was still insensible. Mr. Andrew
Deane, also, had his collar-bone broken on his way to
the races There are now two gun clubs in Rock-
hampton The well-known N.Z. horse Natator re-
cently met with a very severe accident and is not likely
ever to be himself again An Auckland paper says
that a N.Z. gentleman drew a horse in a certain big
Melbourne consultation, and was duly notified of the
fact by the man who runs the sweep, the latter, at the
same time, asking him what ho would take for the
ticket. The h dder replied that he wished to keep it,
whereupon the sweepmaker wired : “ Owner won’t start
horse unless you go halves." Brennan, of Grenfell,
and Goodhurn, of Forbes, engage in a 43-hours’ “ go.
as-you-please," for £5O aside, at the Osborne Hall,
Forbes, on sth October A big billiard handicap,
thirty players, is in piogress at Holt’s Hotel, Rock-
hampton Mark Early—formerly well known as an
owner of jumping and other horses, notably Calaba. a
promising flat racer, who never performed np to Mark’s
expectations—died last week, in Melbourne The
“obstacle race” was first started at the Rochester
Football Club sports, England, May 23th, the competi-
tors not only having to negotiate hurdles, but t >
wriggle under a pole raised a few inches from the
ground, and crawl through a bairel A riflo tnafo’i
between Parramatta and Sydney cadets took p ace a
Parramatta on Saturday (six shots each at 100 and 2 <)
yards), resulting in a win for the Sydney team by 5)
points Since Mata’s sale, he has gone buck in the
betting for the Canterbury Cup. Harry Prince, who is
now in Melbourne with his string, will probably sett e
there, he having sold off his household goods, &o ,
before leaving Dunedin George Jackson, of Miuto
(U.S.) ran a foot race with Andrew Rrewn recently, tbe
conditions of the contest being that the former sboud
mn 100 yards while the latter covered 50. handicapped
with a man weighing 1501 b on his back. The race was
won by Brown by 25 yards Mr. Thornton, the great
hitter, made 146 in a match at Twickenham on J rme 4.
He made two sixes, a five, fifteen fours, eight twos, and
only five singles A 100-yards race for £lOOO, between
E. B. Mathison and A. M’Comb, was decided at Denver,
Col. (U.S.), on Saturday, June 1, Mathison winnii g
easily ; time, 9|aecs Writes a N.Z. sport;—“ Rocket,
Mr. Quinlan’s third-rate local horse, won his Derby u
Wanganui in 2min 49jsecs. Iroquois, the American
wonder, won the English Derby in 2min 50-secs. Wb t
are we to conclude from this ? Either that the English
Derby candidates were not high-class this year, or that
the course was against fast going, or that the winner
was not timed by a Yankee clock.” Another Hop
Bitters race, for a purse of £6OO, divided into four prizes,
takes place on Saratoga Lake shortly. Hanlan,
Trickett, and Eiley, among others, say they will
enter A well-kncwn quarter-back declined to play
in the match against King’s School last Saturday,
“because there are never any spectators in the Park."
The Newcastle E.C.’s new outrigger is expected
daily at the coaly city, when a crew will be finally
selected to do battle for the clnb at the Association
Regatta. A crew, which doubtless includes the majority
of the Newcastle representatives, is at work daily, anil
shows good form.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Rev. Father O’Keefe has died at Inverell.
Archbishop Steins, S.J., of N.Z., is dying at
home.
Canon Crookall, who was in 1867 offered, ami
declined, the E.C. Bishopric of Goulburn, is to succeed
the late Dr. Darrell as E.C. Bishop of Southwark.
Dr. Hahm, a Leipsic savant, claims to have
found fossil organisms in certain meteorites. This i-t
of the greatest interest. Once prove the in habitability
of other planets, and the existence thereon of organic
life, and a revolution of thought would be brought
about, before which all existing theologists’ theories of
our existence, its purpose and its future, would crumble
into nothingness.
On the occasion of a recent “ anti-Bradlauph”
meeting at Glasgow, a E.C. Archbishop and some Pies


Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOUI
358, 36#, 362, George-
OPENING NEW G<
for
WINTEK SEASC
EVERY DAY DURING TE
FIRST GENERAL £
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSI
FOR THE WINTER £
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAME:
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEQE ANGO
KASGHER CASHMERE
BTOCZINGETTE VALPj
AND A LARGE ASSORTMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, aomethi
handsome, dire
bouses in Lond
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR
SILK, Rich V(
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, :
SILKS, in a vai
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, Si
6s lid, 7s 6d. '
worn, and stn
for wear, and fl
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard stai
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
axe light and sc
under usual
SILK VELVE
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in eve
imitation, Emb
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collars'
Lace Ties hr
Spanish Lace 1
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w
FROM DRESS
be no decepti
washed. Lad
Sheetings good
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-h
inch. Is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americi
& Horrocks’ C.
QUILTS, from
prices. Coloi
QUILTS, 2i lo
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 am
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our study
this class of i
character. By
year after yeai
of FIRST-CLA
are now show!
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, bot
Damask. Thes
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. Wo <
MASK CLOT!
425; 5-8 NAPK
8-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DA
round or squar«
DAMASK. 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 5
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, froi
cording to size
ISH TOWELS
TEA CLOTHS
TURKISH D
Tobacconists
J.EVE . TOBACCONI
H
rS
m
JAMES EY 3
No. 149 KING STB
(Opposite Theatre Eoyal Stall 1
All brands of Tobacc ) and Cigars of tl
Pipes mounted and ambers
149 KING STREET
TIN TAG TOBAC
None are genuine but the BO I
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE
DIXSON & SONS
1 YORK STREET, £
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGAI
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4 D 1
vs
a
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E L
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO
Clarence-street, Syd
H. A E
PROVISION MEECH
AND GENERAL COMMISSK
348 akd 345 Rent-street, near
SOLE AGENT for the undermentior
w
Tailors, Drapers
8
BRING EEQU
JOHN B. YOUDj
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S G
TO ORDER.
We can please you in DRESS
We can also please you in D 1
CHECKED and PLAIN SA ' EE
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBRI
NEW SPRING MILLINERY
CASHMERE DOLMANS MAI
Prices 355, iSs, 555,
A GRAND LOT QF SILK NE
| ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHBUNKj
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, OEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1804.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d,
AND A PERFECT PIT GUARANTEED,
B
LANKE T S. B
“FIRST SHIPMENT OF T:
now opened at
EDWARD HORDE!
668 BRICKFIELD HILI
The BEST VALUE ever recer
lian market. SNOW WHITE, F
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth ins
“ Competition defle
MBRICAN CUT PAPE
MADAME DEMO
Perfect Fitting
Newest styles every mail from P
Full directions and illustrations wi
MADAME DEMOREST’S publii
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to
Magaeine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, grat
MISS LOUISA H
87 Kino Street, Sydney (two doo
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-str
G
E O. L. L I I
HIGH-CLASS CASH 1
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. Mil
Begs to inform his friends and th(
opened the above premises f
gentlemen who wish to have tl
manship, ke., at a low price for
Gentlemen requiring this with Wei
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly (
K.8.-TWO DOORS FROM GE
(( TT IS A WELL-KNOW
A for Household or Pamil-
Hordern’s” Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H 1 has
for Value, Variety, or Extent of St
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A
T
HOM AS
WEBB
BOND-STEHE3
Beg to inform their customers thi
OPENED a LARGE COSSIGNMI
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, a,n
byterian ministers, noted for their aggressive Protes-
tantism, met on the same platform.
1000 Mormon converts have recently arrived in
America.
The theological cry in Victoria —Strong, Scott,
Stewart, and Secession.
The organ of St. Barnabas’ will be free from debt
by Christmas —at least, the congregation think so.
Bishop Hale, of Queensland, says that in his
colony a sense of man’s responsibility to God is wanting.
The site of Newington College, Stanmore, which
was a legacy, is worth £20,000. The paid-up subscrip-
tions total £11,967.
Rev. J. G Fraser, M.A., has resigned the
pastorate of the Congrtgatioual church, Woollahra, on
account of ill-health.
The Witness attacks Professor Denton, and
advises him to “leave the truths of the Bible alone,
for he cannot overthrow them.’’
The New Testament revision is resulting in new
schisms. Protestantism seems likely to split into Old-
versionists and New-versiouists.
The revolutionary speeches of certain Roman
Catholic priests in Ireland led to some rather lively
pourparlers between Downing-street and the Vatican.
Rev. Charles Spurgeon thanks the Victorian
Evangelistic Association for its invitation to visit Mel-
bourne, but declines it on the ground that he has too
much work at home.
A “Triduum” has been celebrated at Rome,
“ to implore the forgiveness of the Holy Virgin for the
insults offered to her image in the Borgo Nuovo, which
was pelted with stones and dirt."
The late Mr. John Donnelly, ef Parramatta, be-
queathed his property to the Marist Brothers and the
Nuns’ schools in that township, after his wife’s interest
has ceased. The property is worth £4OOO.
The Australian Churchman hears that an
energetic Australasian priest is about to take legal
action to discover whether the Church of England in
this hemisphere is governed by laws or episcopal
ipso dixit.
The Queen was recently present at a funeral
service over one of her servants, a Scotch Noncon-
formist This is the first occasion on which the “ Con-
gregationalist minister at Windsor" has had Her
Majesty amongst his audience.
Curate versus Incumbent. —It is not generally
known that presents given as “ thank-offerings’* to
Sydney curates for performing religious ceremonies,
such as baptisms and marriages, are claimed and ap-
propriated by the incumbents. Remember the poor
curate—ahem 1
Two butchers of Adelong have subscribed, one
£lOO, the other £5O, towards the new parsonage, the
foundation stone of which is about to be laid. The
parsonage will cost £lOOO, not including out offices.
The church adjoining, a very barn-like building, will
sink into insignificance when compared with its lordly
neighbour.
The handsomest Anglican cathedral in New
South Wales is in course of erection in Goulbum. It
is being built of pure white stone, and the style is a
mixture of Italian and Gothic. The edifice is very nearly
ready to receive the roof. When completed, it will have
cost £30,000. At Newcastle, whieh is a wealthier diocese
and has been more munificently endowed than Qoulburn,
the cathedral is frequently mistaken by strangers for the
gravedigger’s residence.
The Catholics of Parramatta, although individu-
ally poor, manage by some means to raise very large
sums in aid of their local churches. They have just
undertaken to pay off a church debt of £850; build a
convent at a cost of £1000; a spire to the church tower
for £500; and expend £2OO upon repairs to the presby-
tery. Whenever there is evidence of this very
practical Christianity flagging, the Archbishop drops
every member of the congregation a note with a
jocular motto, and, frequently, a clever sketch in the
corner. It is said that the number of these missives
despatched to the various parishes during the first half
of this year, would fill three clothes baskets—and they
are all in his Grace’s own writing.
A bitter quarrel is proceeding between the
Marquis of Bate and the Presbytery of Rothesay. A
century ago. the first Lord Bute built a chapel in the
grounds of Mount Stewart, which for two generations
was used as the parish church, and the "worship"
was always maintained there until the present Mar-
quis became a Catholic. It is now proposed to re open
the chapel as a Catholic school, and the whole island
is in a flame at the notion of such a sacrilege. The
authorities of the Scotch Church dispute the right of
the Marquis to appropriate an edifice which was s«
long under their control to any suoh purpose. The
reported " joy " at the birth of the heir has been very
evanescent, in fact it never really existed.
The Protestant Standard evidently views
with alarm the success which has attended Archbishop
Vaughan’s efforts to raise funds for the completion of
St. Mary’s Cathedral, and says that the names of those
Protestants who have given large sums in aid of the
work in question are being used as “ decoy ducks ’* by
his Grace. The Standard further intimates that it
will place on record from week to week in its columns
the names of such Protestants as may be found “ aiding
the same cause throughout the colony, at concerts,
dances, bazaars, raffles, &c., and of those clergy and
laity who may romanise or vaticanise in any way. These
people must be supposed to desire publicity, and we
shall be able to gratify them and warn others by thus
enrolling them under the head—C.P.T., Companions of
the Permanent Tablet, or, if they please, Conspiracy of
rotestant Traitors."
The remains of the late Pope Pius IX. were
recently removed with solemn pomp from the tem-
porary sepulchre at St. Peter’s for re-interment in the
cemetery. In the procession were 6000 torchbearers.
An enormous crowd lined the route, and began to cry
" Viva Vltalia!" “ Viva Oarihaldil" The processionists
retorted with cheers, " Viva Pio Nona I" (long live Pius
XX.), which seem a trifle inappropriate, considering
that they were escorting his corpse, and he is, probably,
dead. A regular row ensued. The torches were
snatched from their bearers’ hands, and a free fight
ensued. The funeral car was jogged forward at a trot,
and the attendant priests had to trot along so fast that
they bad no breath for chanting. Of the 6000 torch-
bearers who started, only a few hundreds were at the
cemetery. The only person in the affair who preserved
his coolness was Pio Nono himself. He made no
emark.
This is what Pastor Daniel Allen, of Hyde Park
notoriety, says about the revisers: —“l do not see how
the ministers of this very New Testament are to escape
the sentence in Rev. xxii. 12, ‘ And if any man shall
take away from the words of the book of this prophecy,
God shall take away his part out of the book of life.’ I
do not believe they can escape this sentence only (sic)
by repentance and doing works meet for repentance, by
giving us back those portions of God’s Holy Word
which have never been absent in any one of the 30 ver-
sions and editions of versions in our English nation
from 1385 to 1881. What a daring presumption in these
modern, half-taught men to tell us that they know
better than Wyciitfe, Tyndale, Coverdale, and others,
the blessed bishops and the blessed scholars of James
1., in 1611." The Presbyterian remarks that Pastor
Allen " may be an adept in Greek, but his English will
barely pass muster."
Speaking at St. John’s College, the other day,
Archbishop Vaughan, in attempting to bring out the
meaning by a comparison, told a story about three
Dutchmen who were smoking and drinking together
After they had almost lost themselves in a cloud of
smoke, one slowly drew his pipe out of his mouth,
rolled his eyes towards his companion, and asked this
question : —“ What d’yon tink ? Dutchman No. 2
continued pulling away for a considerable time, as if he
had not heard a sound; and then, putting down his
pipe, took up his beer and drank a steady draught, and
then replied, ‘ I link like you 1 ’ All three then smoked
together vigorously; then, at last, Dutchman No 3
broke the profound silence by remarking, in a guttural
tone, without removing his pipe from his mouth at all,
‘I tink so, tool’” The Protestant Standard savs
that " those three Dutchmen are really the Pope, the
Priesthood, and the laity of the Papal Church, flhe
Pope asks the priesthood : ‘ What d’you tink ? ’ The
litter replies, ‘ I tiuk like you.’ And the laity having
well drunk the enp of delusion, chimes in, ‘ I tiuk so,
too.’ Why, here we have veritably, in a nutshell, the
whole pretended unity of the Papal Church.” This is
really funny.


Hotels, fco.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STEEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
wont of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Alcock " table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACK HAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Catering (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris* opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and EESTAUEANT for Gentlemen.
EEFEESHMENT BOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies,
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthdav Cakes. Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONEEY of the purest description.
QUAEANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEINQ and management undertaken for
Bolls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
f)HAS. E. gMI T H,
MANAGES.
OLBY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BEIDGE STEEET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
E. W. FOLEY, PEOPEIETOE.
BOAED AND EESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIAEDS.
Hotels, &o.
o LD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &o.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
aT.L THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING,
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
*
AGENT—GEO RGB LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON beers to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Qimv, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
Royal exchange dining rooms,
KING & GEORGE STREETS.
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.B.H. the Prince of Wales and Suite,
PROPRIETOR OP THE ABOVE ROOMS,
Begs to intimate that he is now supplying
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTE A-LA-RUSSE
Prom 12 to 3 p.m. for Is 6d.
The best INDIAN CURRY, by a NATIVE COOK on
the premises. Suppers ready, hot and cold, from Bto
12 p.m. Separate room for ladies. Arrangements
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and PARTIES, on most
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant for gentlemen.
Your patronage is respectfully solicited.
A. A. WEBB,
ROYAL EXCHANGE DINING ROOMS,
King and George streets, Sydney.
THE
TAEPINB MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is mode up into 11b and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
P. M’Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M’Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Prancis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahm
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. P. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., comer of Crown and Devonshire-
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, comer of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M’Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M’Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M’Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook's River
A. Guinery, Miller's Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Prazer, Newtown.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
J>LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAP. &c.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 231, GEORGE ST.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
c
The PurestStimuiant
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MEECHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
I
pBLAKDYIHIS
BND
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOKNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,“AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
ROSS AND CLINCH.
(Late Collins and Eoach),
SEATED WATEE
AND
COEDIAL MANUFACTUEEES,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
COEDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:—
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
Jjl MARTIN AND C
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLERS.
105 PITT STEEET,
0.,
SYDNEY,
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
GALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris 1864
Vienna „ 1873
Philadelphia ~ ... 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermii ag»
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
The Same of M. MOSS & CO.
I* on every Genuine Bottle.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti
nation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
0
Off
MAR
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand’of
T O U
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUE GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot bo excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
THOMAS W EARN E,
ENGINEER & IKON FOUNDER.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK,
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS.
DEED
BOXES,
&c., &c.
Works; SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 230 PITT STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
POTTERY
Cl 0 W L E R’ S
AND
BRICK WORKS.
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Hookings & co.’s oid
Australian Wine strengthens the
system against infections diseases.
Opposite Citt Bank, PITT STEEET.
Money.
TJ
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STREET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows:
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
IS 6
20 0 10 6
25 0 12 6
30 10 0
50 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern mid hons.
rjio
SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 Georgo-street, Hay.
market.
J^ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN,
DISCOUNT BANK,
AND
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James*
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upou easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OP SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annni-
ties. Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-streot, next corner
King-street, Established 1859.
J3IANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &o.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-pajment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Madame Sembrich is engaged for the next two
seasons of Italian Opera at St. Petersburg and Moscow,
at 5000 francs a night A new play, by MM. Erok-
mann-Chatrian, has been accepted by the committee
of the Theatre Walter Reynolds received
£4OO from Pollard, as consideration for abandoning all
Toture rights, etc., to the Juvenile Pinafore Co
George Rignold was lately playing at the Theatre Royal,
Wolverhampton Mrs. Fairburn (May Holt, only
daughter of Clarence Holt) has achieved some success
as an authoress. Her one-act comedietta, “ Waiting
Consent,” is favourably spoken of by the Era Just
before his death, Charles Dillon was conversing with
two members of his company at Harwich, when he
stopped and exclaimed “ I’m going to faint I’’ He fell
down and died instantly The Lyons party of Tourists
only did medium biz. at Christchurch (N.Z.), where the
show was pronounced very mediocre. Most of their
music and pieces, according to the Times, are anti-
quated A new theatre, to have a stage as big as that
of the Melbourne Royal, is on the tapis at Christchurch.
... A hitch has occurred in the arrangements for a visit
to Christchurch of Fred Marshall. De Lias and the
lessee of the theatre have quarrelled about the matter of
rent The sudden departure of Carden from Auckland
caused great trouble to De Lias Lotti Wilmott is
in the.Mauawatu (N.Z.) district. Local journalists
speak of her as “ this talented lady" and of her lectures
as “eloquent, instructive,’' etc. The horsewhip will
evidently not be trotted out on the Manawatu The
Lynch Variety Co have been playing at Rockhampton
to large audiences. “The backbone of the entertain-
ment,” says a local paper, “is of course the playing of
the handbells by the brothers Lynch.” This backbone
appears never to get stiff At Rockhampton, Francis
and Oddone’s “ Imperial Agioscope, the mechanical
eifeots of which defy competition,” holds possession of
the Town Hall. Mr. J. A. Patterson is descriptive
lectur< r, and Miss Fanny Rogers descriptive vocalist.... !
Sara Bernhardt is, by the official utterance of the Con-
servatoire, declared to be thirty-six years of age, having
been born in 1814 The fascinating Jenny Gramer, j
who is a very charming singer, is now almost as much
the rage as was the divine Sara when she first came to
Loudon Nilsson will not return to America before
’B2-83, if at all The second and last state concert
at Buckingham Palace was unusually crowded, even for
a royaljcrush. Nilsson vied with Albani for the honours
of the evening.....,,Miss “Ivy Fane,” the erstwhile
ballet-girl, who is sueing Jem Mace, alleges that the
great pug. promised her marriage. Jem, on the other
hand, avers that he merely paid her cab-fare home from
the opera several times, and that that is the extent of
his intimacy with her. Moral; Never pay cab
fares for ballet girls A Mr. Robson is giving
recitals in the we.-torn district of Victoria Sara
Bernhardt has indigßanUv denied the “infamous
report ’’ that she was to appear “ in Prussia.” Her
tour, which commences in October and is to extend
over six month®, includes every other country in
Europe Miss Ellen Terry, in the “Belle’s Strata-
gem," wears a dress, the material of which is said to
have cost five guineas a yard Byers, an old Austra-
lian actor, ianow located at Bundaberg (Q.)....Children’s
“ Hamlet ”is the latest London novelty Kate Foley
has joined the Edouin “Sparks" company in the
Spates Master Augustus Victor Benham, the Ameri-
can hoy pianist and composer, and pianist to the
President, is about to visit London. Although bub ten
years of age.-he is said to be a marvellous performer.
“Patience” is the biggest thing now going in
Lo idon. Crowded houses every evening An Eng-
lish piper savs that Barry Sullivan is unquestionably
th-* greatest Richard HI. living Modjeska has not
ma le a hit in Loudon in “ Frou Prou," despite the fact
that she dressed her part magnificently Emilie
Melville played Maria de Comines to Walter Moufgo-
meryV i ouis Xt, in 1870, in America. By the way, the
do ir little woman was, at latest dates, organising a
company to play “Patience,” through America, com-
mouein at the Bush-street Theatre, San Francisco I
Bake* and Farron have been playing “ The Emigrants"
to full houses in San Francisco, of which city Farron is
a na'ive Four years ago, Henry E. Dixey, a well-
known American comed : an, was the “hindlegs" of the
danciug heifer in “ Evangeline.” Next season ho will
bo the loading comedian of Rice’s Surprise Party, at a
salary of £56 per week An American reporter thus
describes a Miss Claire Elliston, an actress who has
b oen playing with Emily. Soldone—" The Elliston is a
dimpled little beauty, whose skin-tight jersey empha-
sises the kinship she bears to a butter-ball,” The
Taranaki Minstrels rehearse in a Baptist chapel
Frod Marsh ill opened at the Auckland Royal in
“Blow for Blow,” sustaining the role of Charley
Spraggs. There was an £B5 house. The general
opinidn was that the place was “ a had one to begin
with. ” The h 'uses, subsequently, were only moderate.
He is supported by the ordinary company, and gets £7O
a week from Da Lias, whose weekly expenses are £3OO.
* It was probable that the troupe would visit Christ-
church In one of the representations of Wilkie
Collins’ “Frozen Deep,” during the Carden engage-
ment at Auckland, a leading lady executed a very
artistic swoon too near the footlights, and then had to
get up and do another faint, in order not to be left in front
of the fiats when they were slid together De Lias
has offered Mr and Mrs. J. C. Williamson £5OO fora
three weeks’ season at Auckland At latest dates,
Teddy Davis and wife were in British Columbia The
Austrian Band, after their grand Sunday military
parade, gave a concert at the Rockhampton Volunteer
drill-room. The attendance was large—outside The
first night “The Pirates” played at Oamaru, the
Volunteer-hall was regularly rushed, and there was
every prospect of a general row Hudson’s Surprise
Party have announced their last four nignts at Bris-
bane. They go up the line next The Albert Hall,
Brisbane, is nearly completed, and will be opened
shortly Professor Pepper has commenced a series of
farewell lectures in a large room at Brisbane At
Eubc-nstein’s first recital in London, there was £539 15s
in the house. His second recital brought £667. This
is unprecedented Phil. Kirby is agent for the Robert
M'Wade combination There is a probability of
Jarrett’s “ Fun on the Bristol” combination coming in
searoh of Australian gold At the Grand Theatre,
Chicago, duriug August, W. H. Lingard intended to
produce Searrell’s “ Wreck of the Pinafore,” with
himself as the Admiral, and the other characters by the
old Chicago Church Choir Company with a local chorus.
At the beginning of July, Haverly’s Mastodon
Minstrels, with Billy Emerson and Rice to the fore,
were carrying everything before them at the Bush-
street Theatre, California The N.Y. Dramatic News
says Emily Soldene has “ a voice like a oacklinghen and
a! mouth like an oyster." Whengh I Kyrle (Harold
Dominick) Bemew, is at the Court Theatre, Chelsea,
where he has greatly added to his reputation by his
excellent acting in “ The Bachelor of Arts." .Geo.
Warle, late of the London Comedy Company, appeared
in June in Nor.v.oh, as Pygmalion, in “ Pygmalion and
Galatea.”, The Candelo Amateur Minstrels are about
to visit Bega W. H. Thompson and his Zulu War
Panorama go from Perth to N.Z., via Hobart 1
William Horace Bent is back in Melbourne, organising
a first-class company for N.Z Mr. A. Fitzgerald, once
a very popular actor in Melbourne, has settled down
permanently in ' New York When the Pomeroy
company were la iving Melbourne for N.Z,, Mr. Hoskins
and Mr. F laming came on board and both claimed the
same berth Hoskins appealed to the steward, who,
after consulting the passenger-list, replied—" You are
70. sir." A facetious actor present remarked, “ Well,
Billy (meaning Hoskins) looks 70, but you don’t Flem—
so give the old man the berth.” De Lias is advertis-
ing for a complete dramatic company, also panto-
mimists, for a six months’ tour of the Islands
Kennedy and M Carthy have organised a “ Happy
Hours " party, under the pilotage of the well-known
S dney agent, Mr. J. O’Brien. They open in the
Victoria! provinces Pomeroy opens at Dunedin
o i September 3, for 19 nights; thence to Christ-
church for a month. She will be supported by
Mr. and Mrs. W J. Holloway, Mr. Neil O’Brien, the
Deorwyus, and Herbert Fleming Kohler's waxworks
at B.oan’s Theatre, Invercargill Cary’s “Pirates of
Penzance” are a great success at Dunedin; crowded
houses being the rule. To Miss Leaf, Signor Morley,
and Mr. Cary fall the chief honours The Leake and
Theo. Hamilton party are in the N.Z provinces, doing
only small busine-s. TheyJ were at Christchurch at
I‘’est.....'.Batidmann played to good houses at Timarn,
where, as also at Oamaru, he was supported by Mrs.
V* alter Hill De Lias has issued a writ for breach of
ash eement against the Cardens Q. E. Sims
(“ Dagonet” of the Referee) has sold the sole
provincial right of his comedy “ Mother-in-law,” to
Mr. Alfred Hemming, for—it is said—£lo,ooo Levy,
the cornet player, charged at New York with bigamy,
was bailed out after his arrest. He subsequently stated
that if his wife persisted in her legal proceedings he
would leave America and go out of her reach, but if
let alone, he would pay the maintenance money as
regularly as possible. A cool proposal, seeing
that he makes £l2OO a year by tooting
J. E. and Lillie Taylor, the “ statists," at last advices
were performing at the Cape of Good Hope Miss
Josephine Deakin, who has now gone to Adelaide with
the Williamsons, played Mabel in the “ Pirates" at
Melbourne, and completely captivated all the critics
Edwin Brown is in ’Frisco with a company of
Australian stock people Over 50,000 people turned
out at Havre to welcome Bernhardt on her return
from America Soldene and Co. are running “Billee
Taylor ’’ in the States It is said that M’Cullough,
Irving, and Booth, will shortly give a series of per-
formances in New York “ The Great American Pie
Biter" is the latest side-show novelty Violet J.
Sanders, a four-footed girl, is being exhibited at Illinois,
U.S Louise Bsaudet’s benefit at Dunedin was
crammed. By the way, the charming little woman
did some song and dance business in the shape of
“Pretty as a Picture." Nyum, nynm! Soherek,
of Dunedin, is trying to arrange with Boema, to pay
Dunedin a visit George Darrell, according to the
N.Y. papers, has written two new dramas George
Rignold is said to be meditating another visit to the
colonies Lingard’s Zoalandia Panorama, with Sidney
Colville as lecturer, was at Belfast, Ireland, at the
beginning of July, doing big biz., and was very highly
spoken of by the local press Lieut. Manfred Rose,
the Mind Reader and Illusionist, after a most success-
ful country tour in N.S.W., proceeds to Fiji on pro-
fessional business—perhaps to| resume his navy
appointment The Parramatta Amateur Dramatic
Club intend to produce “ Our Boys ’’ shortly, for the
benefit of a local institution. The Club, as on previous
occasions, will be altogether independent ®f professional
assistance, all the ladies’ parts being taken by lady mem-
bers ... Grattan Riggs, at the Theatre Royal, B'-isbane,
is not a big success, financially or otherwise. The com-
pany is indifferent. The management go in for new faces,
but the public do not go into rhapsodies over the
“ talent." Miss Wilton is fairly liked, and Medus has
made himself popular; so also has Julia Featherstone.
Professor Anderson’s appeal against his conviction
and fine of £2O tor distributing gifts by lottery at Bris-
bane comes off Sept. 6.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On Saturday night, there appeared another
operatic Richmond in the field in the person of Mr.
Edwin Kelly—his gallant followers being no less per-
sonages than Mias Emma Wangenheim, Mr. E. Lester,
Mr. Martyn O’Hagan, et autres. The opera produced
was Planquette’s “ Les Clcfches de Corneville,” which
is, perhaps, one of the most successful works of the
kind ever written. We have had this opera produced
here before, but it was only a comparative success—
“ The Only Leon,” who undertook the part of Serpo-
lette, giving a rendering of the character which was
musically and histrionically of so eccentric a descrip-
tion as to stagger even the oldest playgoer, whilst Mr.
Melchior Winter’s Baron was, perhaps, the moat extra-
ordinary performance ever seen since Mr. Coates played
Romeo.
• * *
The interest in the present revival of ‘‘Les
Cloches ” chiefly centres in Miss Emma Wangenheim,
who has now resigned her former part of Qer-
maine for that <>f Sarpolette. Miss Wangen-
heim is a very hard-working little lady, and
has been endowed by Providence with a voice of
considerable flexibility and power, and she has also
histrionic ability of no mean order. But, mingled with
these advantages, there are many serious faults. Essen-
tially an actress of the German school (we mean by
acquirement—not nationality). Miss Wangenheim em-
bodies in her representation of Serpolette numerous
mannerisms, which, however acceptable they might be
to a Berlin audience, find but little favour with the
hard-beaded crowd of this sunny city. When Miss
PattfS Laverne, for example, becomes ultra-vivacious,
she is unpleasantly shrill; thus, when Miss Wangenheim
endeavours to clutch the consummately arch, her quite
too too-ness borders on the superlatively quite. In say-
ing this, however, we must admit that we are not
altogether free agents. We—but learn all in this
pathetic ballad: —
Br'ef, then, Miss Wangenheim is a clever little
woman, and she has certainly wonderfully improved
both in her singing aud her acting. This statement of
ours will be read with pleasure by a large number of
people, for the lady has as many friends as a minister of
the Crown has poor relations. We hope (and belie ve)
she will draw as well ns Qus. (only in another sense),
aud if our hopes and anticinations are realised we will
gladly give her the lo in of The Bulletin drag to carry
her bullion down to the steame”. One last word, “ Don’t
overdo the arch business, mademoiselle, or one evening
some demoniac pitite will mar the harmony of the per-
formance by audibly ejaculating, ‘ Woa Emma I’ ”
• # *
Mr. Kelly has surrendered his part of Gaspfird
the Miser, and plays the Baron. Possibly in doing this
he has been influenced by outside considerations, but
the wisdom of the step is, in our opinion, very ques-
tionable. Mr. Kelly’s Miser was a performance which
stood out in distinct relief as a masterly impersonation;
bis Boron is only praiseworthy, without being brilliant.
He is not, certainly, like Mr. Melchior Winter was, all
hat, coat, and waistcoat; he looks well, acts well, and
sings—fairly well; but this part affords him no scope
for the exercise of those peculiar abilities which have
secured for him a world-wide celebrity.
* * *
Mr. Kelly, junr.—we should say Mr. E. Lester —
has' inherited the sabre—or rather the Qaspard—of his
sire, and a very good copy of the “ old man’’ he is.
Mr. Stuart Bolton was good as Grenicheux, and Mr.
Martyn O’Hagan (avick!) very good as the Bailie. Miss
Lucy liTazer as Germaine was more than intensely nice,
and sang in a surprisingly piquante manner. We say
“ surprisingly” advisedly, because it is only a short
while since that Miss Lucy stood at the side and sang
“solos” with seven or eight other ladies chipping in.
Her present satisfactorily elevated position is doubtless
not only due to her pretty voice, but to that sublime
grace which she formerly exhibited when drinking deep
draughts of nothing out of gorgeous goblets, and
feasting with appetite upon card-board capons. The
efforts of the other performers in this opera call for no
special mention.
** * *
The announcement that the Montague-Turner
Compiny terminate their present season in Sydney, on
Saturday, will be received with regret by a very large
number of people. The novelties produced by them,
during this, their second stay amongst us, have not
perhaps been so numerous as could have been desired,
but we understand that unavoidable circumstances
have intervened which precluded all possibilty of the
company’s repertoire being increased in Sydney for the
present. For all this, however, the efforts of Mr. and
Mrs. Turner, and their following, to amuse the public
have been very generally appreciated. We have seen
produced “Mignon,” “Faust,” “Maritana,” “II
Trovatore,” " Lucia,” and “ The Eose of Castile.*
All these operas bare been given with good scenic
effects, orchestra, and chorus. Though not numerically
strong, individually the Montague-Turner combination
is by far the best opera troupe that, at the present time,
could be got together in the colonies. The number of
the company being necessarily limited (and the popu-
larity of the principals unbounded), on occasions when
either of them has been indisposed business has very
considerably suffered, as it became known to the public
that no subordinate members of the company were
capable of undertaking the leading parts, and there-
fore the moment an announcement was placarded out-
side the theatre, or an explanation given inside that Mr.
Turner or Miss Montague could not appear, a stampede
was the immediate result, and £30 or £40 was lifted
from the box office in five minutes,
* * •
Mrs. Turner was good in everything. She has
proved herself to be an artiste of the highest class, and
certainly her capacity for work has been extraordinary.
Whether in “ Mignon,’’ “Maritana,” “Faust,** or
what not, her performance was always delightful—ever
fresh. Miss Montague is going away j ust as she has
made a complete conquest of the public—including our
humble selves.
• * *
Mr. Turner has always proved himself to be a
worthy coadjutor of his charming wife. He has kept
faith with the public, through sickness and every other
kind of contretemps that operatic directors and tenors
are heir to, with an indomitable spirit of perseverance
that cannot be too highly commended. He is what the
public know him t® be —a singer of distinguished ex-
cellence, and an actor of intelligence and culture. Mr.
Farley has never in his life sung better than he has
done this season, and Mr. Templeton has always been
satisfactory, and sometimes brilliant. All the others,
including Mr. Leon Caron, have worked con amove for
the general result, and it is in a spirit of sincere regret
that we bid adieu to a company of performers from
whose efforts we have derived so much pleasure.
* * * *
“ Olivette” is still to the fore at the Royal, and
“ biz.” has been humming all through the week. There
is nothing new to record, except that Mr. Mervin’s cold
plays old Harry with the cast —the gentleman who im-
personates Coquelioot being only a little bit funnier
than a midnight assassination. Mr. Wallace makes a
hard fight for success as MtSrimac, but, as he can’t
manage the singing part of it, the effect of his acting is
considerably marred. is more ot a character
than of a low comedy part, and more of a musical eocen-
' trieity than either. Thus Mr. Wallace, with all his
talent, is considerably over-handicapped in being
temporarily cast for the part. The women are all as
fresh and as pretty as ever; and the “ corner men ” in
the circle are as diligent in their attendance as of yore,
though not quite so lavish of their bouquets. Miss
Pattie Laverne is undoubtedly very clever, and we are
pleased to see (and it is a proof of her intelligence) that
she is not above taking a friendly hint. Nellie, as the
Countess, is—haw! —
A pictyar from out of a frame ;
A vision that makes your heart flnttah ;
There’s a positive chi-arm in her name—
She is quite too ethereally uttah !
We haven’t made these lines quite scan, on purpose.
The above, however, is a fair sample of the “ stage-door
poetry ” penned by the gentlemen with the exceedingly
high collars, and the excessively low foreheads. Mr.
Harwood has built up his part in a surprising manner,
and hops about the stage all the time like a big human
cracker: both going off and coming on unexpectedly.
Lots of his fun, however, is spoiled through the obtuse-
ness of the gentleman who is the Coquelieot of the
hour. We have only to add that the Musgrovian
countenance is wreathed with smiles, and that—
In the bright orb of Una Brooke,
Oh, there is such a melting look!
On Consuelo’s brow is seen
A smile that is— more than serene!
On—bah! we’ve got a cold—ur-tishoo!
So no more rhyming gaga this issue.
* * * *
We are not precisely aware whether the late
I Lord Lytton, while engaged in his favourite astrological
researches, ever in drawing a horoscope of his fate,
observed in the House of Life (left-hand corner, and
ring the bottom bell) a gigantic Foot. We regard it as
probable, because the author of “ Zanoni ” and “A
Strange Story ’’ was constantly observing similar
phenomena, at odd times. If he did, the prediction
was certainly remarkable, considering the fashion in
which his Lordship’s works were destined one day to
affect the fortunes of our ownest Kitts. There is pro-
bably not a dead-head in Sydney who has not, at one
time or another, become aware that James has a most
impressive foot. It was written that when Shake-
speare gave James a drop, Lytton should pick him up
again. We have already delicately hinted that Mr.
Dewhurst’s conception of Hamlet would not have been
likely to revive Shakespeare had that extinct person
ever been treated to a view of the performance while
suffering from low spirits. And, when the eminent
tragedian remarked, in the character of the moody
Dane, that “ By Heaven, I’ll make a ghost of him that
lets me,” we felt sorry for Mr. Steele, who had let Mr.
Dewhurst make a ©host of him.
* * ♦
But Lord Lytton, that horoscope, Jim Kitts’
magnificent foot, and Richelieu, put a different aspect
on the affair. Perhaps it’s easier to interpret Lytton
than Shakespeare. Possibly a man may glow through
the romantic historical melodrama with intelligence,
yet fall short of elucidating the subtle philosophies of
“ Hamlet.” Anyhow, Mr. Dewhurst makes a much
more satisfactory Cardinal than he does a Prince of
Denmark, and if we continue to have any influence
with Pope Leo he shall ere long but, no matter.
We have been told that when Mr. Dewhurst read our
opinion of his Hamlet he became purple. Having seen
him in his Cardinal*s robes, we now understand that
that was only returning compliment, as there can
be no doubt that purple becomes Mr. Dewhurst. That
eminent tragedian is perhaps too robust to make his
presentment of the Cardinal entirely satisfactory.
The hollow eyes are belied by the very substantial
frame and well-nourished cheek. The hectic cough
business doesn’t fit in well, and Mr. Dewhurst would be
wise to tone his pulmonary demonstrations down.
Hawking at intervals, and then looking to see what he
hadn’t brought up on bis handkerchief may suggest a
decline, but on the whole the effect might be produced
by more agreeable means.
# # *
The play opens, as everyone knows, very
quietly. Richelieu, on his first appearance, is chez lui,
and tells his people lies about his feats at the siege of
Rochelle, and brags about the plays he has written, j
The first hit of the performance was made when His
Eminence called for his falchion, and brought Defries
immediately into the minds of the audience. When
Francis (Miss Marion Medway) hauled forward the
weapon, with an elaborate demonstration of having as
much as she—we mean he—could manage, even the
family weapon of the Defrieses was surpassed. Riche-
lieu’s little vanities were seen through at once. The
weapon was so obviously and transparently constructed
for pantomimic purposes, and the probable equipment
of Giant Fee-Fo-Fum, that a unanimous wink went
round the house; and it was decided that Richelieu, as
a state-man, reminded one very much of Parkes, and
that Joseph, for his agreeable complaisance, deserved
to be made a C.M.Q.—
The sword, my lord, which at Rochelle
You handled with such ease,
Reminds us of that other sell—
The sabreTof Defries.
The falchion of Defries, my lord.
Was steel, and bright and strong;
Your weapon’s wood, and, on my word.
As broad as it is long.
Oh, put away your trusty blade,
And never mind its faults—
Brag of the thousands you have " slayed ’*
When taking Rochelle—salts.
* * *
Mr. Dewhurst, when disassociated from this
preposterous sword, and during the intervals between
his coughs, presented a very satisfactory impersonation
of the Cardinal. He did not “tear the passion in
tatters ” —in fact, had he ripped it a trifle more than he
did, the piece might have gone none the worse.
• » •
The De Mauprat of Mr. Steele was a perform-
ance entirely satisfactory. For once, Mr. Steele was
in his metier, and so genuinely successful, i hat it is
astonishing that he should ever step out of it, to the
distraction of his audience and critics, and to his own
mortification. As De Mauprat, he looked and lived the
character, and gave the audience real enjoyment. Mr.
Newton Griffiths played Baradas with great energy
and a Scotch accent. Mr. Haygarth’s Joseph was a
semi-burlesque. Miss Marion Willis was, of course,
the Jnlie of our dreams ; Mr. Barry made an excel-
lent Monarch, and his nobility comprised some charming
legs.
** * *
Professor Haaelmayer has again successfully
played off that standard anecdote of his about the orange-
seller. The Professor stops the itinerant merchant, buys
some fruit (or eggs will do) and opening it or them, ex-
tracts a half-crown from each. Then the vendor re-
fuses to sell any more, and going to a secluded spot,
smashes up all his stock, looking for half-crowns. This
is a very good story, indeed, and wears exceedingly well.
We don’t know whether it was found in the papyrus
wrapping the mummy of an Egyptian soothsayer, as a
little story about Moses, or whether the oracle of
Dodona related it in a moment of confidence, but we
know it is an antique. It was an egg-woman in New
York who was the deceived one a year or two ago, and
the other day it was a Maori in New Zealand. But in
every case the local editor seemed to have followed the
victim into seclusion, and watched the denouement.
“ Will Honeycomb,” in the Dubbo Dispatch, described
minutely the working of the Chinaman’s countenance—
it was a China-orange-man—at Dubbo. Of course the
humorous climax was that John yelled “no savee.”
John always says that, when properly handled by a
newspaper funny man.
** * *
In the Evening Epidemic of Thursday last,
appeared the following thrilling announcement; —
SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
TO-MORROW (Friday), 26th August,
Grand Dramatic and humorous Recitals
by
Messrs. HENRY W. CHAPMAN
and
S. H. TEECE.
Full Particulars To-Morrow’s Papers.
Immediately on the appearance of the “ to-morrow’s
papers," there was a rush of the hungry public to
purchase them, and ascertain the “ full particulars ”
respecting the “ grand dramatic.” etc. They did not
appear, and, what was worse, Messrs. Chapman and
Teece did not appear either. This was the most
unkindest cut of all, for many thousands had passed
a night of sleepless and feverish excitement in antici-
pation of the “grand dramatic,” etc., that loomed as
a beacon light of joy on the evening’s horizon. And
no wonder, for had not Henry W.’s brilliant abilities
inspired his friends with such boundless admiration
that they gave him a benefit in the Protestant
Hall, attended by nearly two millions of peo-
ple, not one of whom was asked to buy
a ticket ? And had they not presented him
with an address, illuminated at a lavish expense of
thirty shillings, for his intelligent rendering of
“ Dicklns, MacaulEy” and others ? Surely, Henry W.
would have filled at least three Opera-houses right off
if those “ full particulars” had only been published.
Then why didn’t he ? But there was even more ecstasy
promised. Teece was to appear, the sole Teece, the
six-foot Teece, the runner, the rower, the walker, the
orator, the champion “boy reciter,” the only actor in
Sydney who ever gave a correct rendition of Gimlet-
no, we mean Hamlet! But he did not appear, and the
public have been consumed with anxiety ever since, and
rave to know the why. Only one feasible reason
suggests itself. Henry W. and Samuel Harry have one
besetting weakness, and that is—modesty. We may
doubt Susan’s health, or the foundations of M’Beath’s
fame, or that John gave “ those oranges" ; but the
modesty of these two distinguished amateurs wo can
never, never doubt. A gentleman who can tafee posses-
sion of the platform and stay there for two hours and
three-quarters, while he recites twenty-one pieces, with
no other asaistance than a white necktie and forty-two
sips of water, can only be equalled in his shrinking
modesty by a gentleman whose histrionic humility
renders him content to make his first appearance on
the stage in the paltry and subordinate part of Hamlet.
Yes, it’s clearly modesty.
** * *
We regret to hear that one of Mr. Alfred
Dampier’s pretty little daughters (Rose, we believe,) is
seriously ill. Mr. Dampier arrived by the Lusitania,
and is, we understand, to go into management either
here or elsewhere. We have already given our readers
a list of the London plays of which Mr Dampier has
secured the Australian right, and we look forward with
no small interest to seeing Mr. George R. Sims’s
“ Mother-in-law,” which is said to be the funniest of
all the funny modern comedies. We trust the little girl
will soon be all right again, and that Alfred will
speedily get into harness, and give us a taste of his
quality.
** * *
The libretto and dresses of “ Patience,” also
those of “ Billee Taylor," have reached Mr. J. 0. Wil-
liamson, who will decide as to the casts in Adelaide,
where his company open with “ The Pirates " ©n Satur-
day.
** * *
Walter Reynolds has abandoned his proposed
New Zealand tour with “ Tambour-Major," on account
of the extravagant rents demanded by some of the
theatre proprietors in that island—such extraordinary
sums in some cases being demanded as to render it
impossible to make dates for such an expensive under-
taking. One modest proprietor valued his house at the
trifling weekly rental of one hundred pounds.
** * *
Marshall has made a capital engagement by
securing young James O’Brien—commonly called Jimmy
O'Brien—the jeune premier of New Zealand, for the
Princess Theatre, Melbourne, for six months from
October. O’Brien began life as a stockbroker, and
afterwards, as lecturer for the “ American War,” tra-
velled through India, China, and Australia. He has
since developed into a clever, painstaking, and always
carefully dressed actor.
** * *
Miss Clara Hamilton, a Scottish lady, gave, on
Monday night, a concert at the Protestant Hall, which
entertainment, with considerable originality, she en-
titled “ Twa ’oors at Hame.” We don’t quite know
what this means just now, but will try and construe it
before we are called up to do the trump and angel busi-
ness in a brighter sphere. Miss Hamilton was assisted
not only by Mr. T. Rainford, but also by Mr. A. Bowen
Mr. Radcliff, Mr. Massey, a gentleman rejoicing in
the classic cognomen of Smith, and a smart vocalist
whose name appears on the programme as Mr. J.
M’Skiming.
* * *
The hall was crowded, the audience compris-
ing the dlite of the Scottish residents of this city.
The ladies were, as a rule, of fascinating appearance,
but the gentlemen appeared to be rather a hard-headed
lot. Indeed, on glancing round during an interval of
the performance the whimsical idea occured to us that
all the Highlanders before the snuff-shops had de-
scended from their perches and had gone to the Pro-
testant Hall to do honour to Miss Clara Hamilton.
* » »
Miss Clara is a lady who possesses a very large
amount of confidence, but not a very large voice. Of
what she has, however, she makes the best possible
use, and her dialect ballads appeared to find immense
favour with the audience. They found immense favour
with us, too, and we should have been quite more than
excessively enchanted had we been able to gather even
a glimmering of what they were all about. But, for all
the meaning we could make out of the ballads of Miss
Clara, she might have been singing translations of the
inscriptions from off the Chinese tea-chests, or warbling
free renderings from the 119th dissertation by Confu-
cius on abstract theology, Mr. T. Rainford had a
magnificent reception, and sang “ Scots Wha Hae” in
fine style. All the other performers were efficient,
particularly Mr. J. M’Skiming, whom we heard sing
“ Ower the Mair among the Heather" in a manner
In days of yore, when we were small.
In ev’ry kind of weather,
We sucked the luscious taffee-ball,
Aud played hop-scotch together.
We lavished apples, ginger-beer.
And lolly-sticks upon her,
And now to think she does appear
A full-blown prima donna!
One afternoon, just at the time
Miss Braddon calls the gloaming.
We were—oh, memory sublime I
In child-like converse roaming:
She said —(Ye Muse, oh, would ve had
The sweet tongue of O’Connor 1) —
“It is peculiarly my fad
To be a prima donna.”
Aud now she sings “ tra-lee, tra-la,”
Scorns “ Sally in our alley,"
Is scintillating like a star
’Midst chorus and ’midst ballet.
Of what avail would it be now
T« lavish tops upon her P
There’s gloom upon our classic brow.
For she’s a prima donna.


which reminded us of Mario, when that illustrious
tenor was at the height—of his decline.
* * *
It was announced in the programme that Mr.
Angus Cameron would occupy the chair, but that dis-
tinguished friend of the horny-handed didn’t turn up,
so, at the last moment, a gentleman named Telfer took
possession of the presidential fauteuil, in which
elevated position he looked most particularly unoom-
portable. His voice was, when giving out the items,
like that of Mr. Fitzpatrick—inaudible in the gallery.
The pecuniary success of the affair was undoubted, and
we were pleased to see the fair cantatrice raking in the
<i bawbees.” We were really so charmed with this
young lady’s vocal efforts, that had there not been in-
surmountable difficulties in the way, wo should, at the
conclusion of the concert, have made a communication
to Miss Hamilton which would decidedly have savoured
of the de-Clara-tory.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
He was not then in the Legislative Assembly,
nor had he been admitted to the Bar. He was merely
at this time running a boiling-down establishment in a
country town, in an adjoining colony. He was sum-
moned as a witness in a case that was down for trial.
The difficulty was a rig out, for his unmentionables ex-
posed him to scorn. “Turn them round," suggested
a fellow-workmen. “ Mon, d’ye want me to be arrested,
for certain ? ’’ “I bave it,” then said the ingenious
friend: “ Wait till I get the glue-pot.” A square foot
tweed was cut from another article of apparel.
TVen the embryo statesman, throwing himself against
the paddock fence with his face downwards, received
repairs where he most needed them. ‘ Mon, but the
glue is verra hot.” However, it stuck splendidly, and
would have answered all through but for the heated
state of the court-room. It was under cover of dark-
ness that the great man returned to his home. Now
will anyone send along the gentleman’s name ?
# * #
The News speaks of Dr. Manning as “ Sir
William Manning, Inspector General of the Insane.”
A slight misunderstanding—Sir William only presides
over j uries of four.
• « «
When Mr. James Fairfax, of the S.M. Herald,
said something at his farewell picnic the other day
about endeavouring to supersede steam in the Herald
printing office by electricity, he must have been think-
ing of Samuel Warren’s “ Diary of a late Physician.”
They have tried all sorts of things to make the old girl
lively—now they are going to galvanise her,
* * *
From a New Zealand exchange we learn that the
Maoris have a superstitious dread of leaning their
backs against the wall of a house. Some miscreant has
evidently told them all about our Town Hall. Truly,
as the local poet of Stratford-on-Avon sang, “ The good
that men do dies with them,” but the evil is hawked
about by theatrical agents and paper men until the very
slaughterhouse crows and pademelons do learn to
chant it.
♦ * *
Saturday’s Sydney Morning Howl contains
the following sprightly ad. : —“ Wanted a Bible woman
for the city. Apply, Ladies’Evangelical Association,
Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.” How would Mrs.
Potiphor, or Jezebel, or Delilah do to counteract the
disastrous effects of opera-bonffla on our frisky elders,
or what sort of a comforter to the small-pox patients
would Mrs. Job make? The Queen of Sheba would
certainly give a tone to the Association, whilst the
purple-clad lady on the scarlet-coloured beast would
be useful to visit such of the suburbs as cannot yet
support a tramway. These are all “ Bible women,” and
Jim Kitts, we, believe, is their advance agent.
* * *
In his Epistolarum ad T. Pomponium, Cicero
says “ It is the nature of a man who only rides in the
tram-car once every year to spread himself over four
seats, and to occupy all the space in front with his
boots and breeches; whilst the man who rides four
times a day stands sadly by, and hangs on by the skin
of his teeth to the guard-iron.” Human nature is
?retty much the same to-day as it was when Marcus
'ullius banged the Rostra, and yelled out, and la our own
Dauvid, “ Gen-tul-mnn o’ th’ Joory.”
# # »
This is, indeed, a wicked world, and the sooner
it is fenced in and whitewashed the better for all con-
cerned. The first Australian edition of Ouida’s
“Moths” was cleared in three days, but the Revised
copies of the New Testament hang fire like the property
pistols of the Queen’s Theatre. —Ora pro nobis,
* m *
Some time ago, a young colonial “aristocrat,”
who is now enormously rich, and will one day be more
than a millionaire, undertook to present a prize to his
cricket club for the highest average score of the season.
He was going to England at the time, and said he would
send out the trophy from the old country, where a better
article could be procured—for less money. The laurels
are now to hand. They consist of a pair of hair brushes
in a case. The ticket still adheres to the box, and on it
is written 16s. 6d. The happy recipient says that when
he brushes his hair in the morning he feels as if he were
being rubbed the wrong way.
* * *
A well-known N.S. W. “ beak ” is noted for the
piousness of his homilies from the Bench, and the un-
merciful severity of his sentences with respect to
breaches of the seventh commandment. Recently a
victim to youthful indiscretion was ordered to pay
“ever so many bob” a week, with the customary alter-
native, and the inevitable exhortation. He hunted up
the moral beak’s antecedents, and this is what he
found ; Swingeing damages for a cruel breach of promise
—imprisonment in a colonial gaol—a good wife grossly
deceived —a gigantic scandal, with appropriate verses in
the local press—the concubine thrashed publicly by the
outraged wife —and lastly our beak quite openly prosti-
tuting his magisterial functions for revenge on political
i opponents. Yet this model J.P. is a shining light in his
community. He still dispenses justice and morality
and regularly attends church. There is only one town
in the colony in which all this could happen, without
the man being hanged, and that is—Oh ! no, you don’t.
* # *
If Johnny Davies, Parkes, and Cos., contemplate
a dinner over the opening of the small-pox hospital,
I suppose the courses will be—Soup: Variola conflu-
ent. Entries: Cotelettes ala Poc Marc aux sauce
piquante d’On Chong, saucisse de Rout, cotelettes de
veau aux lymphe, ragout bruit? d’ “Ocean.” Fromage
et c«l(l)erie de Darlinghurst. Dessert: Olla podrida
des pustules. Wines: Black-wattle Hermitage, abat-
toir sherry, Woolloomooloo port.
* # *
“ The Imperial Government have resolved to
grant £IOOO to Edmund Galley, as compensation for his
wrongful conviction, and forty years’incarceration for
murder." —Vide English telegram. What can Dr. Glune
hope to receive for his incarceration P
• * *
The defendant in a recent big action —the pos-
sessor of enormous wealth—is said to be the meanest
man in his district. A rather good story was told of
him at his club, the other day. He once invited a well-
known doctor home to dinner, and the medico (who is
notorious for his love of good cheer) went full of hopeful
anticipation of the coming spread. The feed was not
equal, either in quantity or quality, to a sixpenny
“ ordinaryand immediately it was over the disgusted
doctor was asked if he “ would just, in a friendly way,
prescribe for Mrs. and two of the children,” who
were sick —which he did, and left. His fee, if he had
attended professionally, would have been at least
twenty guineas.
* * *
Why do we do it P The man who fills his head
with the idea that opera-bouffe is a creation of the
nineteenth century, builds his belief on a basis quite
as shaky as that of our never-to-be-sufficiently-con-
domned Town Hall. Certainly, we have no printed
record of the taste of primeval man as regards the
matter of the leg-itimate drama, but if we are true chips
of the old flint-razor and blue-metal-musket blocks of
Other days, we may safely infer that our very-much-de-
parted ancestors used to crowd into the stalls of their
great bear caves, and fling their Pandanas bouquets,
and yell their back hair off to win a flokle smilo from
some antediluvian Stella—whilst the “ go it ” sons of
the first families waited n fc the stage doors to escort the
nymphs of the ballet to a midnight repast of stewed
Megatherium, or Silurian trilobites on the half-shell,
and washed down the lot with the glorious vintage of
the old Bed Sandstone Period—just as we do ourselves,
bar the Megatherium, at the present day. Coming
later down, we have proof positive that the ancients
were as mad after the naughty attractions of opera-bouffe
and the ballet as if they were reared in a non-sectarian,
compulsory educational country like our own. Two
thousand years ago one Callias, a very respectable but
rather bald-headed old Athenian grocer “ gif a barty,”
and Xenophon, who was there, tells us a ballet was
enacted in the great hall, in which ballet a Syracusan
lady and gentleman performed the parts of Ariadne and
Bacchus with such fidelity and love that they not only
“took well,” but, as the historian gravely tells us,
as soon as the fun eqded, not only the married guests,
but some who were not married, “ took horse and rode
back to Athens with the best and briskest resolutions
one could well imagine.” The makings of a No. 1
theatrical critic for a daily Sydney journal went to
waste in the person of this Mr. Xenophon, and his chat
on the doings of the ballet world in his day would not
only edify and amuse our readers now, but would also
probably lead to the seizure of ourselves and our plant
under a certain Act which should not even be named
amongst us. Luckily, however, our consistent Govern-
ment has placed the Grecian’s sublime compositions at
our disposal on the shelves of the Public Library, and
we can safely say one hour with Xenophon is as good as
a whole act of “Tambour-Major.”
To return to our mutton, however. Let us sit down in
a cool spot, and ask ourselves, fairly aud squarely, why
do we pawn our clothes to raise the price of a stall
ticket and why do we push and crush, and
kick and swear, to secure a front seat —when a
“Tambour-Major” or an “Olivette” show is billed?
Is it because we are the enlightened people of a musical
city, and prefer the seductive charms of the St.
Cecilian art to the festivities of even a Lord Mayor’s
ball, or a Gospel tent reunion ? If it is, why do we
talk politics while the colossal choruses of Bach and
Handel are being sung, and why do we fall asleep when
the tender strains of a Mozart or a Weber are warbled
for us ? It is because we love to hear and ponder over
the words of wisdom and wit which fall from the actor’s
lips ? If it is, why do we oblige the sprightly Sheridan
with a back seat, and why do the gloomy Dane aud the
hot-tempered Moor strut their brief hour to a house
whose total receipts will scarcely pay the gas bill ? Is it
because our aesthetic love for the enchanting symmetry
of the human form divine compels us to crowd round
and gaze open-mouthed whenever a sight is to be had
amongst us ? If it is, why are our artists’ “frosts”
and our art galleries as silent and empty as the tombs
of so many Egyptian mummies P Is it because we love
to sit and gloat over the sight of the shapely
limbs of the fairest of the female sex when the
same are placed before our raptured eyes au naturel,
and is it because we long to perch ourselves in the best
seat, and to squeal as did the Roman rips of old “ when
from the actors roll the luscious lines ?” If it is—well,
if it is—it is—and that’s about all we can say on the
subject until the weather cools and someone toots
along with a revised edition of the present Libel Act.
m * *
In his recent defence of the much-injured Mrs,
Bard(w)ell, Sergeant Buzfuz Davies observed that the
lady was not only an excellent scholar but she also spoke
French and German with the greatest fluency. Now,
most people imagine that someone must have told John
all this, and many of our readers will let loose a ghastly
smilo when we assert that as a linguist John has no
living equal. Not only are the sculptured scrib dings
on the tombs of Karnak and the mystic signs on the
coloured water-bottles in our chemists’ shops the
“ biggest print ” to John, but he has also an eagle eye
for the living tongues as well, and can now actually spit
on his hands in seven different languages.
En passant, Monsieur Jean—how’s this for high
in French ? Le plus haut qu’un homme est <?leve, le
plus soigueux devrait il etre d’dviter de tomber. Don’t
you think so, neither ?
And again—to use the melodious tongue which
we used to wag under Manheim’s linden bowers as we
drank our Kaiser’s “ goot health ” in the flowing lager,
and when the “ ultra-poetical super-msthetical ”
“ Bolony ” made its cheerful presence known to
every one with a nose south of Spitzbergen—
Herr Johannes, what is your candid opinion of the
“ ghwienlieberfeldt und drauzeu auf der hochbegluck-
terschweizenderwhol wo das mein sohu er gort-
damverechustenboostenvusten ant derhoch aboud them
oranges ?’’ Call round in your carriage, and smell our
new three-star “Limbarger” cheese.
# * #
Speaking of the late Collie-Lewis case, in our
last issue, that innate goodness of heart which is about
our only failing prompted us to express a wish that the
loving couple might be happy yet, and we even threw
out a gentle hint that they could try worse things than
marriage. It now seems they couldn’t. Collie—who
has hitherto borne a most commendable character, and
always read his Bulletin—writes to say that he is
thankful for our good wishes and advice, but as he
happens to already have one wife and family living, and
as the teachings of the Salt Lake school are notin
favour over here, it is to his advantage, just at present,
to remain a sort of grass widower. We apologise, of
course, for what may seem to be a breach of that
respect which we owe and pay to society at large, but
the fault —as one of our legislative luminaries would
say—is one, “ not of the 'art, but of the ’ead." Like
the “ Pinafore ” sailors, we meant well, but we didn’t
know.
* * •
Some years ago, when Palmer was Premier, and
the vivacious and irascible William Henry was Minister
for Works, the pair entered a Toowoomba train, and
were just comfortably seated, when a “new-chum”
ticket-collector (who couldn’t tell either of the Ministers
from Julius Cmear, if he met the pair together) ap-
approached the carriage and called out sharply,
“Tickets, please.” Minister Henry: “What do you
mean, you scoundrel, by asking me for a ticket?” Now-
chum collector: “Ha! ha! Damned good joke, that—
but I’ve got no time for foolin’. Now, let’s have the
pasteboard." Henry: “ Why, you jumped-up idiot, I’ll
discharge you this very week. I’ll—l’ll—(dumb with
rage)—Yes, by G , I will!” New-chum collector
(taking off his coat) : " Now, look here—up with that
ticket, or, by the jumpin’ Moses, I’ll haul you out aud
wipe the platform with you." Palmer (in a confidential
whisper): “ Don’t mind, my friend. This fellow’s a
raving lunatic, on his way to Woogaroo, and I’m his
keeper." New-chum collector (now pacified): “ Holy
snakes ! Well, I thought as much as soon as I saw his
face, but I didn’t like to say so.” That man is still a
porter.
* * *
The life of a Singleton Mayor is evidently not a
happy one, as the good he does during his official career
(if any) not only dies with him, but his successor’s first
care is to religiously obliterate every trace of the gentle-
man who fought and bled before him. For instance.
Mayor A., being of an eesthetical turn of mind, plants a
quivering asphodel at a little of his own and a great
deal of the public’s expense, in the centre of a certain
park. Next year. Mayor B. comes along, and, being a
practical, self-made “ mahn," at once observes, “ Well,
dam plantin’ them good-for-nothin’ geebungs, anyhow,”
and he immediately hoists the asphodel over the fence
to a herd of goats, and puts up an 80-candle lamp in
place thereof. Byand-bye, Mayor C. gets a “ deal" of
the civic dignity, and, hearing that old B.’s lamp is a
sort of officious nuisance to certain young persons of
antagonistic sexe 3 , who use the park when they want to
give the old people at home a rest, he at once chops
down the lamp and builds up a drinking fountain.-
Mayor D. then takes the reins of state, and, being a
member of the Licensed Victuallers’ persuasion, he
bangs that “ blarsted water-bottle," as he irreverently
terms his predecessor’s work of art, into chips with an
axe, and erects a skittle-alley. After this, Mayor E
steps in, and, being a “ Francesca di Bimini miminy-
priminy out-of-the-way young man,” he immediately
bursts up the skittle-alley, and builds a gorgeous band-
house, where the sad, melodious strains of Beethoven,
Bellini, and Cos. may assimilate with the soothing sighs
of the balmy breeze, the chimes of the vesper bell, the
bell-bird’s song, and the gurgling noise caused by the
conjunction of the bombardon-blower’s mouth and a
square bottle, and with divers other sounds of a like
romantic nature. Mayor F. then appears on the civic
scene, and, as he “ don’t see the use of a lot of
blarsted idiots snortin' ont Eyetalyin hog-wash music
three times aweek,” he blows the band-house to a tract
of country known as “ everlastiu’ blazes," and erects
—ah, well—never mind what. Solomon must have been
a Singleton Mayor, or he could never have hit on that
happy remark which he made on Vanity.
• » •
Our engines may no longer run haphazard •
So says the Oracle, Sir —,
A man of iron will and subtle wit.
For driving donkeys made by nature fit;
And, like Horatius, ready now to take
The post of danger for his country’s sake.
* Gentle reader, there’s nothing in the rhyming dic-
tionary to match this. Besides he isn’t knighted yet.
• * *
At Brisbane, the Princes went out riding.
Seeing them a couple of cometists struck up “ God
Save the Queen.” This was appreciated by the Royal
Party, who halted and cooled their heads, but the
national anthem was broken suddenly off,and “The Wear-
ing of the Green” substituted. A “ Frinchman, born in
Madrid,” with five shillings, was the cause. Those
cornetists have not shown up since.
tt • •
The Darlinghurst Delilah will doubtless be duly
grateful to the Premier for causing a quartette of
medicos to certify that she is in robust health, pure,
and untainted. It will be an immense business benefit
to her on resuming the active practice of her profession
This reminds us that sixteen doctors viewed the body
of the murdered Abdul Aziz. And they all said he
suicided.
• • *
The Macleay Herald inscribes on the un-
dying roll of fame the tact that the Princes presented
Mr. B. B. Smith, M.P., with their photographs, and
says:—“ It will probably occur to her Majesty that
conferring on our member the distinction of C.M G.
would be an appropriate compliment." We think so
too. It will, probably, also occur to her Majesty to
confer the distinction upon the cabman who so materi-
ally assisted Mr. Smith in his now historical feat of
stopping that State carriage.
* * *
We read that “ a retired lawyer in Paris, con-
sidering himself libelled, brought a suit against thirty,
six newspapers, and piled up Ids demand for damages to
an aggregate of £62,500. The speculation was not a
brilliant success, as he won only two of the suits, aud in
those the damages allowed were five francs without
costs." And yet people will persist in gassing about the
civilization of France. Why, out here, a retired lawyer
with a hand like that would scoop in enough to buy the
whole of the known world, and give the pole and
equator a coat of green paint as well. Thirty-six libels
and not even six and eightpence landed! As Victor
Hugo would say. Stuff! Rot! Bah ! Pouah!
• * •
True as gospel, every word of it. At the in-
stance of the home agents of a large colonial firm of
drapers a young shopman reoeutly came out from Lon-
don to Melbourne. However, as he heard good accounts
of the colony he entered into no definite agreement with
his new employers, but merely had a verbal under-
standing with their representatives to the effect that
his salary on commencing was to be something like £4
weekly. When he reached Australia he found that
times were bad among drapery hands —that hours were
long, pay small, and masters exacting. Ho found,
moreover, that his employers were hard nails
and that they refused to pay him more than
fifty shillings a week. He could get nothing
batter, and “ knuckled down." But one morning, after
he had been in the service for a little while, it was
discovered that £IOO was missing, and that he was the
only person who could have taken it. In fact, it was
known that he had taken it. To him the master : “You
have stolen from us the sum of £100.” “ It is false—l
have done nothing of the kind. It was not I who took
it.” But they confronted him with proofs, and sent for
a policeman, pending whose arrival he said he wished to
see the “ boss” alone. The young man asked him for
God’s sake not to break his wife’s aud his mother’s
heart —to have patience, and he would pay him all. He
had, he said, gambled the £IOO. He would
repay it in weekly instalments of ten shillings to
be deducted from his salary. The master had seen the
assistant’s wife and knew her to be a nice little woman
—good, pretty, aud delicate. Ho relented. He would
give the man a chance —for the sake of his wife. Per-
haps, after all, his decision was brought about by purely
sentimental motives, and was in no degree prompted by
any desire to retain the services of a man who was,
after all, a clever assistant, and cheap at his wages, and,
at the same time, to save himself from altogether los-
ing the £IOO. On the pay days of the two following
weeks the shopman accordingly drew only £2, and on
each occasion got a receipt for “10s on account of
advance." One day he walked up to his master in the
office, and airily said: “ I’m off back to England."
“ Yes, when you repay that money,” answered the big
draper. “No, indeed, I’m going next week," was the
reply. “ If you again tell me that you have any such
intention, I shall give you in charge, at once,” retorted
the defrauded one. “ My dear fellow,” continued the
smart young man, “look ye here. Do you see this
receipt for 10s ? Well, I got this last Saturday, and I
got another one, which I keep safely elsewhere in case
of accidents, on the Saturday before. Now, if you try
on any of your tricks, you’ll find yourself charged with
compounding a felony." The young man went to
England.
» • *
It is said that the cook attached to the establish-
ment of that very eminent counsel, Mr. D., has got the
small-pox. We shall stroll into the Supreme Court on
Thursday morning, just to —see the effect of this par,
# * *
For many years we have had a yearning to be-
long to the’ Young Men’s Christian Association, and
several times wo have been on the point of mounting
the stair-case in Pitt-street, but our hearts have failed
ua. One day last week we resolved upon renewing the
attempt to get a pass to Heaven from Mr. David
Walker, when a Wagga friend happened to drop into
the office, and with one fell blow shattered the idol.
Hardly had we exchanged with him the ordinary civili-
ties of the hour, when he proposed refreshments. On
our sternly declining his proposition, and informing
him that we purposed that morning paying our sub-
scription to the Y.M.C.A., and clutching at a halo, he
emulated the example of Scrub’s antagonists, and
“ laughed consumedly.” “ Look here," he said, “ I be-
long to that holy body—and when I was going away to
Melbourne, to see the Exhibition, the secretary gave me
the address of a respectable boarding-house. On my
arrival, I said to the landlady, * Madam ’ (and here I
j proudly smiled), * I come, recommended by the secre-
tary of the Y.M.C. A. What are your terms ? I intend
to stop two weeks.’ ‘ Thirty shillings a week, sir,’ re-
plied the landlady, affably. Hardly had I taken posses-
sion of my bed-room, when she entered, and softly
whispered, ‘ I will trouble you to give me, sir, three
pounds in advance. The last gentleman who was recom-
mended by the Y.M.C.A. stayed hero three weeks,
praying thrice daily, and, at the expiration of that
period, he went away with my husband’s boots, a
lodger’s great-coat, the cook’s watch, Mr. Simpkins’
umbrella, and the new cruet —leaving, in payment of
his bill, a slip of paper on the kitchen table, on which
were inscribed the words, “ The Lord will provide.” ' ”
This choked us off.
» * *
He was rich in goods, but poor in brains. She
was an “ opera-buffer.” And he loved her. She re-
sided in a delightful little house, in a spot full of
rusticity, and they billed and cooed (he did both, but
especially the former) for a considerable time, unmind-
ful of either the march of time, or of the political
situation. At length Lyster’s Italian Opera Company
arrived, and her passion for his hundreds didn’t equal
her admiration for their tenors. So he left the scene.
When the company had departed, jumping into a
hansom, he returned to the scene of his former
happiness. “Nellie in?" he enquired of the slave
who swung back (we like to work up the thing) the
portals. “ In ? ’’ cried the woman. “ Why she’s been
carried off by sciatica.” “ Confound it," ejaculated the
gentlemanthose infernal Italians again 1 ”
# * *
This is straight. Up the lino about a score of
miles there resides a soft-goodsman, who, being of a
paternal nature, is very fond of children, little girls of
the age of 17 or 18 being his favourites. Well, last
Sunday, he invited one of these latter infants to come
round rather late in the evening and pray with him.
She came with alacrity, and her father came with a
malacca. A few momenta later a tall form in a black
pair of pants, and the remains of a black suit, might
have been seen crashing through the parlour window.
A form answering this description was seen, on the
following morning, his face ornamented with a black
eye, his arm in a sling, and knee-cap out, arrive at the
Kodfern station. " Where to P '* said the cabman.
"Supreme Court, quick,” said the draper. “ I’ve got
to serve on a jury.”
# * *
A miserable friend of ours (a Blue Thursday
man, by the bye,) accepted a billet as canvasser for
advertisements, the other day, for a new weekly, and
started hopefully on his first day’s journey, expecting
to realize something encouraging. He oven insisted
on shouting. We saw him at the end of the week. He
had spent about ten shillings in busses and trains, ho
had worn out a pair of boots, he had been bitten by a
dog, the proposed editor of the paper had borrowed five
shillings from him, and the capitalist had gone out of
town for a month. He is not a revengeful man, but he
runs that paper ue more.
• * #
We have received from Townsville the prospec-
tus of a Bulletin, the first number of which is to
appear in that magnificent metropolis to-day. Wo
think the paper will be a success, because the pro-
prietors announce that " great care will be taken to
give our subscribers full and correct shipping news,’*
and that “ by expressing the general * concrusus ’ of
opinion of the Townsville people on political, social,
and other matters," etc. etc. “ Concrusus ” is good,
and so is the "shipping.” When we were wavering
between a paltry thirty-nine to forty-thousand, by way
of attaining millions at a jump wo employed a shipping
reporter, and sent him to write something sketchy
about a regatta. His copy, though of absorbing in-
terest, was a little too exciting for a quiet paper like
The Bulletin. It commenced: —“The undulating
sheen of Phoebus glowed down upon the limped rocks
” We didn’t read any more, but handed
him the fifty-pound note which constituted his weekly
salary, gave him a letter to Alfred, and resigned.
When we last heard of him, he was editing, with dis-
tinguished success—a saw-mill. But to resume. We
prophesy for the Townsville Bulletin a brilliant
and magnificent career, partly because of the
adoption in its policy of the desiderata already
quoted, and partly because of the statement in
another portion of the prospectus : " That by giving to
its inhabitants on the two mornings of the week on
which the present local papers do not issue, a liberally
conducted paper, we shall be supplying a public want
and assisting its further development.” If our name-
sake, however, wishes to keep out of trouble, it will do
well to accept, in a cheerful spirit, the following
straight tips:—Never write the truth, but always butter
up the local auctioneer. When yon publish a musical
criticism, content yourself with saying that the director
conducted with his usual ability. Never expose an
abuse; but, if you should do so unwittingly, rally up a
friendly rogue and three meandering numskulls for
jurymen, break one of yonrjrelation’s heads with a nine-
pin, and prop him up in court, to command the sympa-
thy of the judge and jury. Then you’ll be all right.
We ourselves fully appreciate the value of this advice,
and wo know wo ought to charge for it. However, as
you have adopted our title, dear Townsville people,
there is quite enough trouble before you, without our
adding to it by mulcting you iu the price of three
drinks. ■
* * •
“ A man named Martin M'Grath applied for
admission about five o’clock yesterday afternoon to the
Infirmary, but he was refused. His dead body was
found a few hours afterwards in a hay-loft on the pro-
perty of Mr. Miller, a dairyman, at Lyndhurst, with
whom he lodged.”— News.
His lips were parched, his eyes aglow.
His poor hands with fever burning;
He staggered, as with head bent low,
He into that dread lodge was turning.
“ Oh, lot mo in, or I shall die,”
Ho cried j—but roughly was denied.
Ho turned away, and heaved a sigh,
Crawled to his garret home—and died.
# • «
The editor of the S. M. Herald either has or
has not a keen eye for sharp satire. One reads in Mon-
day’s issue that, at the banquet given by the Bar to
Judge Windeyer, the toast of the evening, “ Our Quest,”
was received “ with much enthusiasm, and every mark
of respect.” Why does 11 the leading” journal stab His
Honor thus ? Was the remark necessary f Rochefort
couldn’t have put the case more neatly.
V.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Co-hop-erative amusement—Assembly balls.
The M.R. Times spells prison “ goal.” Surely
“ the jug " isn’t the goal of the editor's ambition.
“ Doctor, please cut along the seam,” said an
affectionate wife to a physician, who was cutting open
her apoplectic hujband’s shirt.
A Cheap Treat. First Loafer : “ Goin’ to shout,
Bill?” Second L.: “Haven’t got a red cent. Spent
the last tanner in toothpicks.” First L.: “Wot’sto
be done, then ? Suppose we go and be vaccinated."
“ Hurrah for old Ireland,” said an Irishman at
a meeting, jumping as he cheered. Having fallen
heavily on the corn-ed-toes of a “bobby," the latter
exclaimed, “Hurrah for h —l." “Justso," said Paddy,
“ everyone for his own country.”
A ’Frisco firm consists of seven partners.
Their safe has seveu different locks, and each partner
has a key, and the firm has to be unanimous before any
money is withdrawn. When a collector comes one
partner is invariably “ not at home."
A clergyman said, while preaching, that the
Lord fed 500 people with five loaves. The clerk whis-
pered from below, “ Sir, the reading is 5000.” “Hold
your tongue, you fool,” was the reply; “ it’s just as
much as they can do to believe the 600.”
Scene: Tropics. First Yankee skipper: “Yea
—met an immense crowd of mosquitos the other day.
They went clean through my new main-topsT, and left
nothing but the bolt-ropes.” Second Yankee skipper:
" Ah, yes; that must have been the mob wo sighted on
the 24th, and they all had canvas knee-breeches on,”
He was a bushman. Walking into a swell city
barber’s, he said: “You’re a dermatologist, I see.”
“ That’s me," observed the barber, drawing himself up
to his full height. “Well,” said the bushman,
“ what’ll you charge to put up ten rod of four-rail
fencing P” Curling irons for one—sticking-plaster for
two.
Scene -. A shop window. Ist aesthete, to 2nd do.
(gazing into window): “ And. Anastasia, that diapha-
nous fabric, how insufferably precious—how its opal
tints commingle in one roseate blush of too soulful, ex-
quisite, and pure hue 1” 2nd do.: "Ah I how too
intensely fragrant!—a poem, a gem, a rapturous idyll 1"
“ Bobby” (who has been listening in bewildered amaze-
ment, and who takes the pair for “ furriners,” and looks
on them with suspicion): “Now, ladies, move on, if ye
plaze.”
She was a domestic servant, and being in
extremis, the clergyman was sent for. He tried to
comfort and enlighten the moribund woman, who was
silent for a long time, but at last rose up and sent the
holy man fairly aghast by her spirited avowal—“ I
know nothing, and I don’t want to: but I’ve heard
what you’ve got to say, and all my remark is that if I
can get my day out once a fortnight, I am not particu-
lar as to where I go ; but I must have my day out once
a fortnight."
There was an abominable scene on the Newtown
Boad, near the Glebe, on Sunday last. A drunken and
abandoned outcast howled out lewdness and profanity
before a number of young people for half-an-hour
without interference, and finally trundled off under the
“ protection” of a Chinaman.
“At Majuba Hill,” says a correspondent of a
contemporary, “ the British soldiers seem to have
fallen a prey to disgraceful panic, and to have shown
absolute cowardice. Although there were four or five
hundred English soldiers they were driven off the hill
by under 200 Boers, with a loss to the latter of one man
killed and eight wounded.”


A
m
W\
i
s
A
%
m
m
unadulterated
BEH/WC POWDER
l»T8 BB p»I SWT IN THI WOULD
str W./lk}l£ti Cf 09OLMURn.HA*t
EW
DAVIS
SEWING
VVs!
->
MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880,
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition.
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Gonlburn, Mudgee*
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KING- STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Public Compan
C
OENWALL FIEE AND M
ANCE COMPAN"
CAPITA!,, fIOO.OC
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AN
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEE
SIDNEY.
The mutual assueanc:
VICTOEIA (LIMIT!
Established a.d. 185
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Sy(
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chau
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life
granting of Annuities and Endowmei
STEICTLY MUTUAL, awarding' t<
proportionate amount of the entire
Society at every distribution thereof
LOANS granted on Mortgage or oi
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. M
Bei
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING
CIAL PKOVIDENT SOCIET
This Society provides a certain fixe
members when thrown out of emplo;
Medical attendance durirg sickness
age, and when incapacitated from foil
ment through disease or accident; am
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence •
suitable re-engagemei
For further particulars, apply to
G. HOETON MOEEIS
Secretary
Wentw
Eli
Applications for Agencies
Photographer*
PAUL
U It
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) PI
805 QEOHGE STE
Opposite the Eailway Ter:
Especially esteemed for his portrai
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d per i
BOAKTY'S STI
S g
ftf!
.
Ml
Public Compa:
'PHE MEECANTILE BAN
-L ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP
Paid-up Capital.,
Eeserye Fund....
DIEECTOES
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hob, Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip QicUey King, M.I
AUDITOKS
Jas. Soroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGEE:
P. A. A. Wilsc
SECEETAETi
Hector Allen.
BEANCHES ;
687 George-stxeet Brickfield H
LONDON BANKI
The National Provincial Ban!
Loudon Office, 30, Great 1
Director—Edward Chap
Agent—G. H. Alexam'
This Bank transacts all usual Bt
Agency Business on the most favou
BEIs discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mi
other nroduce shipped to England
gCOTTISH
IMPEEIA
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ...
FIEE EISKS AT LOWE
INGLIS. NIXON,
Chief Agents for N.
7 BEIDGE STKEET CE
Suh-A gents wanted in Town
0 T I
CEIPPS’ CATBEING <
Having token those COMMODIOT
door from Hunter-street, in Eliza
PAETIES CAN BE S
with a
LAE G E E O
for
HOT DINNEES or MI
BALL PAETIES
E.
]
Wholesale and Se
PEODUCE MEE<
Corner
GEOEGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEE
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pai
And
Darlinghurst Eoad, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed anc
P. E. LAEK
Wholesale and Retail Wine ani
778 and 780 GEOEGE STEI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Hay]
FOETY YEIES’ TESTIMO
OP INDIGESTION
PEOFESSOE THOMSON’S INDI
MANUFACTORY:
N.ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Jto.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace ;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
™ at °?®. &ln ?, le application stops the Hair
falling oft in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Tiy it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS,,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BAEEOW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIE PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
The “ CHRISTIANIA.’
Mediaeval Pattern (reg.J
Various other Patterns.
HEAVY GAS BILLS.
WILLIAM SUGGS'
CELEBRATED PATENT GAS BURNERS
GIVE A
BRILLIANT WHITE SILENT LIGHT,
FLAT-FLAME, SELF-EEGULATING BUENEES, for preventing waste of
Gas and Flaring.
With 5 cubic feet of Gas, the ordinary Fish-tail and Bats-wing Burners give a
light only equal to from 6 to 8 spermaceti candles, while the PATENT PH'Rrq
TIANA FLAT FLAME BUENEE, with self-acting governor for maintaining
uniformity of pressure, consuming 5 cubic feet of Gas ner hour ftiVFs a
LIGHT EQUAL TO 16 SPERMACETI CANDLES, or. at least, 100 ner cent
more light for the same quantity of Gas consumed. * "
All Burners and Globes bear the Trade Marks.
Gold Medal, Paris, 1878; the only Medal for Gas Burners, at York, 1879 • Bronze
Medal, London, 1862, &c., &c. ’
SOLE AGENT —W. ~MONTAGU COWARD
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHOS. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFOUNDERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BAT HURST-STREET, SYDN EY.
rJIHE INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY’S
Fine Blended Indian TEAS
Are without doubt the PUEEST and CHEAPEST ever
offered to the Public.
EYEEYONE OUGHT TO TEY THEM.
To be obtained at
7C5 GEOEGE STEEET, HAYYIAEKET.
W MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO,


Chemists and Dm
POTHECAEIE
14 OXFORD STEI
Near Htde Park C
(N.B.—The Tram-oar stopi
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded hi
Irrespective of Club prescription
has dispensed 34,000 original presci
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THE
Every prescription is CAEEFUI
the BEST DRUGS, copied, number!
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May bo easiest cured by the folio
E AMES’S QUINII
Which improves the appetite an
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGESTI
For severe cases where the gastri
and when sickness and flatulent
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTI]
Which relievo the bowels gently, ai
naturally healthy functions o
organs.
PEICES —1/-, 1/6, 2/6,
PREPARED ONLY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 1
Department of M
Sydney, 23rc
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS I
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that i
execute and take delivery
tioned Mineral Leases within
this date, they will be declared t
No. 970; Clifford Wilson and othc
county of Gough, parish of Tent Hi
cation No., Vegetable Creek 396.
No. 972; W. B. Henderson; porti
of Gough, parish of Highland Horn
cation No., Vegetable Creek 405.
Department of M
Sydney, 23rc
8
Business Announce
HOETEE, FITZGEEALD,
SOLICITORS
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary P
Legal.— Mr. t. m. si
SOLICITOR, has com
practice of his profession, at 1
PITT-STREET, opposite tl
News Office.
Band p. w.
• deauohtsmi
AND
Engravers on
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND QEI
All matters carried out promptly.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREI
No. 12 HUNTER STB
E. E L L E I
(Successor to PARROT
Just Received by the Mail, the
NEW COMET SHOE, 5
THE ROYAL COURT SHO
MOROCCO BUTTON SHOI
FUR-LINED WARM SLIPPI
Choice Assortment of New Fancy
KERCHIEFS, and CHEYERE*]
New Spring-top Fur-Lined
Early Inspection Invi
D
AVID
M
14, Hunter-street, Syd
SADDLER AND HARNBS
By special appointnu
To his Royal Highness the Duke
Excellency the Eight Hon. thi
His Excellency Sir Hercules E<
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.Q.
Best Coursing Material of Newest
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Qentlem
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
QHEAPEST
AND BEST
MARK ISAACS’ CORPOEAT
HAY STREET, HAYM.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally ohea
Go d packed and delivered free <
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LII
WITH.
Ag. c h tj e c
• 147 YORK ST E
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUFi
Coffee, Peppers, Spi<
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE II
for Liverpool and Black Hon
Choicest Sago and Majoram on b
Prospectus
PE O S P E
of the
COOPEE DOWNS PASTORS
LIMITED,
To be Registered under the Com]
Capital—£2so.ooo, in 25,000 Shf
With power to incr
10s. per share payable on applicat
allotment j the balance (as re
exceeding 10a. each, at intervi
three months.
Promoters:
Hon. JOHN CEOZIEE, M.L.C., !
Adelaide
Hon. E. C. BAKER, M L C., Dir
Investment and Land Mortgage
J. L. STIRLING, Esq., M.P., Di
Mines
W, A. HORN, Esq., J.P., Mundi Mt
Hon. E. D. ROSS, M.P., Director ol
ment and Land Mortgage Com]
Hon. J. B. SPENCE, M.L.C., D
Steamship Co.
DAVID MURRAY, Esq., M.P. (i
Murray)
JOHN WHYTE, Esq., J.P. (Lat
and Co.)
Solicitors:
Messrs. BAKER and B.
Bankers:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH, and .
CHARTERED BANK,
Brokers and Secretaries (
HORN and WARBUETON. North
SMITH, DOSWELL, and CO., Su
. This Company is proposed to h
lowing purposes:—
Ist. Acquiring and paying for 6
4,372,480 acres, of Pastoral
leases from the Government
and New South Wales, part;
set forth in the First Sched
with about 2000 head of C
working Horses, Plant, Sti
on the country to he pure
W. Crozier and Co., as herei
2nd. Acquiring such other Pi
New South Wales, Queens
lia, and Western Australia
may by special resolutio
desirable.
3rd. Developing, improving,
country to be acquired by tl
4th. Borrowing money on debei
of properties acquired by
carrying ou generally the bn
sth, Such other purposes as ma
Memorandum of Associatio:
r The situation of the 6832 square
shown on the map accompanying th
For full particulars, see issues—
Sydney Morning Herald—Augi
Sydney Daily Telegraph ~
Evening News Sydney „
Town and Country Journal „
Australasian, Melbourne „
Bulletin, Sydney „
Melbourne and Adelaide papen
Prospectus, with plans, and full
the Agents.
GRIFFITHS and WEAVI
CHAS. BROWN, 43 Bourl
PR O S P E
of the
ORANGE SLAUGHT
and
NEW SOUTH WALES FROZEN
COMPANY, LIMIT
Capital; £50,000, in 10,000 shares of i
to increase to £IOO,C
£1 per share upon application, £1 p
ment, Ist Call of £1 three montl
and calls not to exceed £1 per si
of not less than three months, i
Provisional Directo
A. T. Kerr, Esq., M.L.A., Welli
James Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Dal
and Sydney.)
Edward Heaton, Esq. (Wright
Limited.)
Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., Gan
John A. Gardiner, Esq., J.P., G
T. L. Richardson, Esq., J.P., D
James Rishmond, Esq., J.P., H
H C. White, Esq , J.P., Glenab
J. B. Bundle, Esq., J.P., Pomer
James Rutherford, Esq., J.P., I
George Lee, Esq., J.P., Leeholi
F. A. Wright, Esq. (Wright,
Limited.)
F. H. Moore, Esq. (Dalgety, Bli
WoUn- R M«ll V™ T P IP.nK
Chemists and Dm
CAUTION. —In our style of
sudden changes of temper
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bo
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the use
doses For curing Consumptic
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cro
of the Throat or Lungs, its suoo
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every to
this continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into L
two years ago, where thousands <
—and one year in Sydney; and sonn
of Rheumatism have been cured i
using it.
Old paims of any kind of long stan
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Ac
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by
HEAD OFFICE
89 WATERLOO-RO AD, 1
and
107 CASTLEREAGH STREE
S. W. GAMBLE. Fro]
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE
STREET, SYDNE
Manzanita fru
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented ft
Thousands of people in Sydney ha
have been cured of Biliousness, In
ness, Sick Headaches, and all comp
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO R(
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STRE
S. W. GAMBLE, Prop
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLES
PITT STREET, SYP
ALL OF PH
(Late FnLKiKftHA.il
78 KING STB
Dispensing Establish!
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, St
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Medi<
English marked price. All articles
D. HALE, Mj
STEER’S EH
AND
GINGER P:
FOR
IXDIGESTI
AND
STOMACH COMPLA
*„• They are also much recomnei
tive for Females, being safe, gentl
their operation, leaving no disposi
and being free from any tendency
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOI
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT
OXFORD STREET £
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
* THE GREAT LIVER R]
And successful substitute for Ca
Podophyllum, and all Noxi
Famous as a Restorative to Healt
Famous as an Invigorator of the f
Famous for the Cure of all Disord
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
rnu. n I,- nn U n nf mam’ (r
| TEAMWAT TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
G R O C E R S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
198 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.


T
HE INDIAN TB
PURE FRAGRANT IND!
Fresh from the Gardens, grown unc
vision, and sold in Original Package:
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses,
Applic ition.
Special Rates for Large Orders.
A delicions Tea in the onp. No C
Goes twice as far as the best Chinee
We challenge comparison with o
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and A
or any of the China teas imported tl
INGLIS, NIXON
INDIAN PRODUCE MEI
INSURANCE AND GENRE
7 Bridge-street Cham
gYDxS E Y LIVE STO
Having secured the services of :
LAND, well-known in Victoria and
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assv
all interested in the SALE of FAT <
and STATION PROPERTIES, th
shall be directed to this branch of t
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite ,
tical knowledge, attention, and s
which have made my Wool and Proi
a success, will entitle me to the co
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush an
a week ; allowances made on all St
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales
a week, or when required on days of
Further information if applied for
MASON BROT
14 & 16 S]
Sy:
Have always i»
to the TEA!
SALE buye:
IRONMONGEH
QENEE.
GLASS
i
EARTH]
WINES, BEER
and {
BULK ME
Agei
JOHN WALi
Old High!
J. SOEII
COi
J. T. C
Schnapps
A. MELVL
Edinburg
R
AHDSiSE
I
tyrz
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Lew pric
H. PAL
pti■wrni’n'RT'w wimm
T
AKE NO MO
but try
BANDERSON
FODOPHYLLIN LO
Do you SUFFER from HEA]
Then try
PODOPHYI
Do you Complain of Indigesti
Take a few doses ol
PODOPHYI
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, an
BANDERS!
Do you constantly suffer from
If so rernemb
PODOPHY
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDI
Are anyftfvour children ,itl
can safely give ihen. one
for the small members oi
TAKE WE
•V Remembei this, and alway
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pi
EDWARD ROW and
45 and 47 George-s'
B
T ROYAL LETTE
The Greates
WONDER OF THI
JOSEPHSON’
AUSTRALIAN OINT
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Matte
Being made from the Wild Plan-
in the Bush of New Sot
This Ointment is not a mere os
public, nor does it require any pu
as it has been so well proved for ti
that it is impossible that the pnbl:
long deceived. In fact, people are
lous regarding its efficacy (never
argute of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli
But one trial will convince the n
High and low, rich and poor, hat
fits from its use, and scarcely an
found without it and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIi
is now the household word of the <
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF T
which, taken altogether, prove the
to be the Eighth Wonder of the \
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
oaapolitiee attending the human fi
all-healing properties of
JOSBPHSON'S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THI
Who would suffer from Sandy I
And immediate relief and be perf
Josephson’s Australian Ointment f
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephsoi
ment P
Who would suffer from Seft C<
moved by applying constantly fo:
eon's Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ai
can have immediate relief by aj
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoria
tion when a remedy like Jose
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles '
Josephson’s Australian Ointment i
It stands unrivalled. The won
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-en
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants ti
and totally free from any and all
sonoua properties.
ASK FOB JOSBPHSON'S .
OINTMENT,
which is gu nr an ted to be what
Barely vegetable compound.
"Sold by all chemists and store!
and Is 6d enA throughout the cob
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD BC
GR
bootcI!
i aiJMW' 11 1 *
(
*hi
£Vkviv
m
mi
ST jSShmSB
i 7^UWMVV
«W
jyu
CtllflUL
ALARMING SALE OE BOOT
NOW ON! NOW ON
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STREE
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If yon are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT (
with those you have been payi
MAKE NO MI S 1
This is the only Genuine Sale, a ]
FOB ONE MONTH <
M AKE YOU PURCHASES
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving foil information respecting eeonomi-
cal Honse fnaniahing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £26
Houses furnished for £35
Heuses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATB
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
4*6 A 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
| N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM,
SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
JjJASTEEN SPECIALITY '
CABLES AND AN
strongly recommend their
Ba. TEA,
which will be fonnd equal to any
much higher pri<
724 GEORGE S'
HATMABKET
O H N MU
(Li/ns J. Murphy A
IMPOETER Oi
GLASS (all sizes out
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Whi
Tori
Raw
Brue
Kero
f!nln


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lord Harrington is dead.
Mr. Justice Williams is a noted pedestrian.
Ninian Melville has never tasted strong drink.
Hobart Pasha recalled by the Sultan to Turkey.
Lord Normanby has greatly improved in health
during his stay in Sydney.
Report says the prison regimen has reduced the
claimant Orton from 28 stone to 11.
Mr. Maxwell, general manager of New Zealand
railway 8 ’ has resigned his position.
Mr. Josiah Mitchell, the well-known Victorian
agriculturist, died last week, aged 49.
Sir Arthur Gordon visits Fiji immediately after
the dissolution of the N.Z. Parliament.
Mr. Roope. for many years a member of the
Tasmanian Legislative Council, is dead.
Seventeen busts of Lord Beaconsfield, by dif-
ferent sculptors, are in course of completion.
The naval element in the Army and Navy Club
was averse to the re-admission of Colonel Valentine
Baker.
Dr. Sohomburgh, of Adelaide, has been elected
Hon. Member of the Imperial Hubenthal Society of
Vienna.
According to the Buerangonq Chronicle,
Messrs. Baker and Lynch, M’s.P., have purchased
Cudgello Station.
Mr. L. Tannert, the well-known Melbourne
artist, has been appointed master of the Adelaide
School of Design.
Major Smith, late Minister for Mines in the
Berry Government, has been very unwell, and unable
to leave his house.
1 The wedding of Madame d’lmeoourt and Paul
Musnrus Bey has been declared null and void by the
Civil Tribunal of Paris.
Lord Rowton’s recent interview with the Queen
had reference chiefly to the publication of Lord
Beaoonsfield’s correspondence.
The “ coming scholar,” who has written some
of the most brilliant papers ever submitted at Sydney
University, is the son of a saddler at West Maitland,
and was, in his younger days, a noted runner.
The first instalment of
« A Cruise in a Collier," by
our old friend, “The Vaga-
bond” (Mr. Julian Thomas),
appeared in last week's
Australasian.
The Rev. James Jef-
feris, of Pitt-street Congre-
gational Church, writ ng at
a late date, says the doctors
can find in him no trace of
pulmonary disease.
Granville people com-
plain that the Mayor-pre-
sumptive compromises the
dignity of the office by
ticketing himself second-
class whenever he travels
by rail.
The new Minister for
Lands in Victoria, Mr.
Walter Madden, was for-
merly one of the heads of
that department, and was
one of the Black Wednes-
day victims.
Major Heaphy, Y.C., of
N.Z., is dead. He won his
distinction during the
Maori war, by returning,
under a heavy fire, for a
wounded comrade, and
bringing him off.
The Ministry have
caved in. John Davies,
C.M.G., has wilted before
the breath of public opinion.
Mrs. Bardwell is to be
transferred from Crown-
street public school.
William Doyle, a labor-
ing man, won £45, the chief
prize in an Hospital lottery
up-country, the other day,
and returned £3O as a dona-
tion to the institution. This
savours more of the widow’s
mite than any £lOOO we ever
heard of, given by a man
•who had £20,000 per annum
more than he knew what to
•do with.
The farewell banquet
at Melbourne to the Hon.
W. J. Clarke, is fixed for
Tuesday, 6th September, at
the Town Hall. It is in-
tended to issue tickets, ad-
mitting ladies to the bal-
cony. The ladies’ amuse-
ment will, under the cir-
cumstances, be very harm-
less. It will closely ap-
Sroximate to the pleasure
erivable from looking into
a cook-shop window when
one’s hungry and hard-up,
or in trying to kiss a pretty
girl through a pane of glass.
Mr. R. H. Burnett, locomotive engineer, has
been suspended, charged with insubordination. Mr.
Scott, locomotive overseer, is locum tenens.
Dre. Clune and Caffyn will both sue Govern-
ment for losses sustained by their detention in en-
forced quarantine. The former claims £lO,OOO.
Our dear friend, Lord Harris has, with Lady
Harris, left England for a prolonged tour in the East.
He is iirst going to Japan.
Mr. William Henty, late Colonial Secretary of
Tasmania,, died at'.his residence, Brighton, England, in
bis 73rd year, on 11th July.
Mrs. Crowley, to whom Professor R. A. Proctor
was recently married, is a daughter of the celebrated
warrior, General Jeff. A. Thompson.
A Kyneton, Victoria, widow and her daughter
have been left a fortune of £ll,OOO by the death of an
English relative. Hotel charges at Kyneton are rising
in consequence.
The late Mr. Frederick Joy Pirani, of Mel-
bourne University, was buried without any religious
form. An oration was pronounced at the grave by
Professor Andrew.
Mr. F. Doswell, who at one time occupied an
excellent position in Victoria, and was one of the
original prospectors of the Eookwood diggings, died
recently at Cooktown.
We hear that a son of Mr. Millais, the great
English artist, has arrived in Australia, and entered
into a squatting partnership with Mr. Fred. Wolseley,
brother of Sir Garnet.
Mr. Frederick Curry, vice-president of the
Antiquaries, is dead. He was confidential solicitor to
many important persons, among others to the late
Charles Dickens, who gave a pleasant sketch of him in
one of his stories.
F. Morrish and A. B. Piddington (equal); F. B.
Wilkinson, E. A. M. Merrywether and C. P. Davis
have come out in Class I. at the Divinity Examination
of St. Paul’s College, Sydney University. H. M. Bay-
liss'passed in Class 11.
Mr. Millais, who has concluded his sittings with
Cardinal Newman, is jubilant over the sketch he has
made of the somewhat difficult features of his Emi-
nence. It is said that the portrait, which may find a
permanent place in the National Gallery as a present
from the Duke of Norfolk, will be the finest work of the
groat English master of portraiture.
Dr. Morton, by advertisement in a local paper,
informs the inhabitants of Tenterfleld that he has
resigned the apppointment of Government vaccinator,
as he cannot conscientiously vaccinate, otherwise blood-
poison, the population.
That “ child of many prayers,” the future Duke
of Norfolk, whose title is now Earl of Arundel and
Surrey, proves to be, beyond all doubt, blind, though no
exterior defect is visible in his eyes. However, the
Duke and Duchess have not given up all hope for their
hild.
The Australasian, in a leader, “ Archbishop
Vaughan on University Education,” says that, “ though
no one can accuse the Archbishop of indifference to his
church, he displays a manliness, and breadth of thought,
and a refinement, which are as welcome as they are
rare."
Lansell, the Sandhurst mining millionaire, who
was a working miner ten years ago, and had the screw
put on him by the Berry Government when he had a
dispute with his hands about wages, is now in America,
and has sent £lOOO to the Melbourne and £lOOO to the
Bendigo Hospitals.
Modesty is the true test of merit. The secre-
tary who arranged for a concert in Wollongong, a few
weeks since, knew this. That was why he described
himself on the bills as the “ grandest and most gentle-
manly comic singer in the colonies,” and then coolly
signed the programme,
Mr. James Hemming Webb, the Victorian
Government shorthand writer, died at his residence,
Caulfield, Melbourne, last week. Mr. Webb, who hod
for some time been in bad health, was a very old civil
servant, and a most genial and popular man. He was in
Gurney’s London office prior to entering the Victorian
service.
It is said that one of the most recent sufferers
from small-pox is the most fortunate yet. When the
premises—which are commodious and airy—were placed
in quarantine, the fair patient’s engaged lover was on a
call. He is impounded, and if fervent prayers (by a
professional expert at the business) avail, the lovely
sufferer is safe.
Lord Mulgrave, eldest son of the Marquis of
Normanby, Governor of Victoria, has developed very
High Church principles. Notwithstanding his prospects
as heir to a title and property, he is in orders, and is
perpetual curate of St. Mark’s, Worsley. Here he has
received a considerable number of clergymen holding
the same opinions as himself, for the purpose of
spiritual meditation, and the consideration of clerical
matters. The gathering seems to have been held some-
what similarly to the retreats*much in voguelamongst
rigid Roman Catholics. ~
The Marquis of Tweedale, just elevated to the
Peerage of the United Kingdom, is a pronounced Free-
thinker, and recently appeared on the platform at
Northampton at a meeting in support of Mr. Brad-
laugh, M.P, The Marquis was a Scotch representative
Peer for years, but was not chosen latterly on account
of his religious opinions.
An article written by Lefroy, the alleged mur-
derer of Mr. Gold, on “Conservatism,*’ and published in
the Weekly Dispatch, ends with a gloomy sentence
which will ere long probably attach itself to his own
name, in a way belittle anticipated when he penned it.
The words are these:—“Down, down, to the deep un-
fathomable depths of well-deserved oblivion.”
Mr. Thomas Fox, who failed in business many
years ago, and who recently paid his creditors in full,
was invited by the Hon. Charles Moore to meet a num-
ber of prominent citizens at dinner, at Mr. Moore’s
house, Wynyard-square, the other night, when many
complimentary remarks were made concerning the
honourable course adopted by the guest of the evening.
When Herr Most, the editor of the Freiheit,
was committed for trial, he was treated as a convicted
criminal and put to pick oakum. On representations
being made to the Home Secretary he ordered the
arrangement to be immediately stopped, as it was
utterly illegal. Herr Most’s friends intend to bring an
action against the Governor of Newgate claiming
damages.
President Garfield’s assassin, Guiteau, was
recently introduced to the family of an American
gentleman in New York, and asserted that he was on
the eve of being appointed American Minister at
Vienna. Guiteau proposed to one of the young ladies,
and, upon receiving a refusal, and being requested not
to “call again,” behaved so outrageously that' the
police were called in.
Twelve months ago the bench of the Victorian
Supreme Court consisted of the Chief Justice, Mr.
Justice Barry, Mr. Justice Molesworth, and Mr. Justice
Stephen. To-day the Court is almost completely re-
constructed, and Mr. Justice Barry and Mr. Justice
Stephen have gone before the Judge of judges. Mr.
Justice Higinbotham was appointed to membership of
the Court less than a year ago. Only the other day Mr.
Justice Williams received the ermine upon his youthful
shoulders, and, quickly succeeding him, Mr. Justice
Holroyd abandons his well-known place at the Equity
bar, to ascend a bench which his large abilities are
certain to adorn. In fact the bar has been transferred
to the bench.
Mrs. Langtry’s brother, Mr. Maurice Le
Breton, Deputy Postmaster-General at Rajputana, was
clawed to death by a tiger, on 2nd June.
Mr. Richmond Thatcher, when in London, wrote
for a newspaper called the Fireside Companion, a
brochure Apropos of Mr. Alfred Dampier’s jouriieyings
round the world, entitled “ A Travelled Actor, a Ro-
mantio Reality,” which is to be republished in book
form for extensive circulation in Australia. Some of
the descriptions of colonial institutions, written when
the author had no intention of returning hither, are of
decided interest.
People may smile at the libel action threatened
by Gaunson against the Federal, but it’s going to be
something serious. Mortimer says he will show up
Davie, and David returns the compliment. Of the
two, however, the gentle American, with all his ’cute-
ness, is likely to come worse off. Melbonrners all
know a lot (and good, too) of David. The other is a
comparative stranger, and you can always get what is
called more pioturesqueness out of a stranger than a
friend.
The mental condition of poor Mr. Kennedy,
formerly Registrar of Sydney University, is, we are
sorry to hear, now considered perfectly hopeless. He
is tenderly cared for at that admirable retreat for the
mentally afflicted—Gladosville ; and seems exquisitely
happy in his delusions. He imagines himself to be
possessed of great wealth, which ho lavishly distributes
(in promises) amongst his fellow patients. His physical
condition is not quite so vigorous as when he was first
admitted.
Prince Herbert Bismarck is not going to marry
the Countess with whom he eloped some months ago.
Putting aside the fact that the marriage would be
contrary to German law, the Chancellor has peremp-
torily ordered his eldest son to abandon any such pro-
ject, on pain of disinheritance, and it is reported in
Berlin that be will be attached to a distant Embassy
for a year or two. The Countess, too, would lose a con-
siderable fortune if she married him ; and, as Germans
are always business-like, the episode may be considered
“ closed.”
John Hurley’s company, to work the coal mines
at Burrum, Wide Bay (Q), is favourably commented
upon by Vanity Fair. The directors propose, in the
first instance, to raise £120,000 as a first charge, bear-
ing 7 per cent, interest, on these coal-fields. We can
very well remember the time when William Henry
Walsh, now a member of the Queensland Legislative
Council, was proprietor of the Burrum coal mines, pnd
could not have raised a £5 note on the property to save
bis life or fortunes. That was little ten
years ago.
Mr. F. F. Bailliere, the medical bookseller of
Collins-street, East Melbourne, killed in the Jolimout
railway accident, on Tuesday morning, was quite “ a
character" in the Victorian metropolis. A few years
ago his “den," as he used to call it, was the constant
resort of many of the medical and literary celebrities
of the city. His recent law-suit with the well-known
Dr. Beaney, and the amusing disclosures made during
its progress, are doubtless fresh in the public mind.
Mr. Bailliere had not prospered in a worldly sense, and
was in difficulties some time ago; but his last smash,
poor fellow, was the worst of all. He arrived in Victoria
in 1860, in the interests of the British Museum.
James Stephens, the ex-Fenian Head-centre,
thus expresses his opinion of O’Donovan Bossa and his
associates :—“ I have no patience with that Skirmishing
Fund. It is at once the wildest, lowest, and most
wicked conception of the National movement, and its
parent is a Cerberus I shall not name. Could I believe
that Mr. Jeremiah O’Donovan had ever been in the
grasp of delirium tremens, I could then hold him irre-
sponsible for the hideous monster. How otherwise?
His lights are dim, and he believes that brass and noise
can make up for everything—not, of course, excepting
brain and culture, which he knows he (Mr. O’Donovan)
has not."
When chronicling the death of M. Dufanre,
Rochefort headed his article “ Un de Mains," and con-
tinued thus: —“ M. Dufanre has died aged eighty-three.
Buffon never said that crocodiles were wont to live so
long.” He concluded by declaring that M. Dufanre
must have died of chagrin at not having been permitted
to assist at the torture of Bessy Helfmann. By-the-way,
the mention of Rochefort’s name reminds us that the
S. M. Herald insulted him when he visited Sydney, on
the occasion of his departure from which city Mr. David
Buchanan and some other sympathising people, with a
keen appreciation of humour, presented him with a
gold-mounted—walking-stick.
The Queensland bar are about to erect a monu-
ment over the remains of the late Mr. Justice Lut-
wyche. Mr. Thorold has been appointed secretary of
the committee to whom the arrangements are en-
trusted. It would appear that the deceased judge left
the wood-cut of the form of a cross which he would
like to have placed over his grave, and also left the form
of inscription, which with the date of his death of
course left blank, when written will read, “ Here lies all
that could die of Alfred James Peter Lntwyche, the
first judge of the Supreme Court of this colony. Born
February 26, 1810. Passed away, June 12, 1880. ‘Yet
in my flesh 1 shall see God.’"
Billy Hoskins has, we hear, once more entered
into the toils of matrimony—this time with Miss
Douglas, a Melbourne lady of nineteen. William is
handsome, but not young—in fact, portraits of him
appear in the oldest illustrated editions of Shakespeare
we remember having seen. We were just going to
express a hope that the apparently immortal William
would live to be still more married; but this, we now
consider, would not be fair to Mrs. Hoskins, to whom
we offer our cordial felicitations, for if she has not got
a brand-new husband, she has certainly got an experi-
enced one.
The following gentlemen have been appointed
to act as a committee in Sydney for the purpose of
raising funds to provide for the widow and family of
the late Mr. Marcus Clarkei—Messrs. Hugh George
(hon treasurer), W. E. Langley (hon. secretary), A.
Mackay (Town and Country), A Mackay (Daily Tele-
graph), W. H. Traill, Frank Hutchinson, Thomas
Wilton, T. E. Price, J. F. Archibald, T. E. Butler,
John Warde, P. W. Ward, Richmond Thatcher, John
Bennett (Evening News), W. J. Tarplee, S. Cook, and
W. S. Berdoe. Mr. Musgrove has most generously
placed the Theatre Royal at the disposal of the com-
mittee for a matin Ae on Wednesday evening next.
Oscar Wylde, the aesthetic poetaster, has pub-
lished a volume of verse, of which a home writer says :
“It is affected in places, confidently imitative in places,
juvenile in places, and utterly and inconceivably silly in
places. Yet somehow it is not a failure. Whenever
Mr. Wylde throws away the grossly inane affectations
which silly persons have petted him into adopting, he
really writes like a human being. Ido not venture to
say that he is a human being. It would be impertinent
in the face of the pose he has chosen. I merely say that
he writes humanly on accasion, and that 1 find his
pathos more touching than I can well say. Sometimes
he falls on a success in the way of descriptive writing.
When his descriptions are good at all, they are very good
indeed.”
The new Victorian Government ia about to do a
sensible thing, t e., make a just appointment to fill the
vacancy in ; the,Government Librarianship of the Public
Library caused by the death of the lamented Mr.
Marcus Clarke. It has been the custom hitherto to
give such billets to decayed or supple politicians, and
the Parliamentary Librarianship bestowed upon an ex-
brewer’s traveller, who, when in the House, obliged his
“party," was one of the strongest factors towards
opening the eyes of the Victorians to the iniquities of
the Berry Government. It is said that Mr. A. P.
Martin will succeed Mr. Clarke, and his fitness for the
office, by reason of his training, ability, and love of
literature, will piove that the new team intend to
bestow their patronage upon deserving candidates,
and not solely to oblige their friends.
Jarndyce v. Jarndyoe
—we mean Campbell v. the
Commercial Bank —has been
settled by a compromise.
The costs in it have been
at least £20,000. The “com-
promise” consists in the
bank keeping all it was sued
for and handing the unfor-
tunate plaintiff the Dead
Sea fruit of law.
Lord Rosebery has
stirred a tumult in the
veins of “ White’s," a fash-
ionable club of London, by
introducing his jockey.
Constable, to dinner there ;
but he is too great a favour-
ite to touch, and the
Duchess of Westminster
had set the example by din-
ing Archer,the rider of Bend
Or, at Grosvenor House.
Mr. Warner Sleigh, son
of Sergeant Sleigh, now of
Tasmania, was himself a
smart practitioner, with all
the readiness and “ cheek ”
necessary for successful Old
Bailey practice. But Mr.
Sleigh lacked steadiness and
ballast, and drifted from bad
to worse, until his practice
forsook him; and he died,
and was buried at sea, hav-
ing exhausted bis friends
and all that is worth having
in life.
Our Melbourne corres-
pondent wires “If you
meet a gentleman named
Normanby, you would ob-
lige the Melbourne public
greatly by informing him
that the sooner he returns
to his sorrowing friends the
better (or all parties. There
are about twenty thousand
Crown grants and fifty
thousand leases awaiting
bis signature; besides, he’s
such a hospitable old boy
that one misses him here.’’
The Hon. W. J. Clarke,
M.L.C., the Victorian mil-
lionaire, who is about to
leave for Europe, has been
banqueted by his tenants
at Ballarat. One hundred
were present at the affair,
which was a moat enthusi-
astic one. Many trbiutes
were paid to Mr. Clarke’s
sterling qualities as a gen-
tleman, bis liberality as a
man of fortune, and his con-
sideration and generosity as
a landlord. By the way,
Mr. Clarke has given a £5O
subscription to the Marcus
Clarke Fund.
Mr. Charles Bright re-appeared at the Royal on
Sunday, after some seven weeks’ severe illness. His
voice had lost none of its power, though he was some-
what weak. He thanked those who hod helped him in
his sickness, and hoped he would be able to continue
lecturing till his lease of the building expired in
December. His friend. Professor Denton, had recom-
mended him to try a method of re-establishing health
which had been efficacious in his own case, namely,
long walking tours. Mr. Denton’s health, when it
brake up, twenty-five years ago, had been renovated by
such a course, and he (Mr. Bright) meant to try it. He
intended to walk on the Blue Mountains from Monday
morning till Thursday evening every week, returning to
town for the Sunday’s lecture. He had not much faith
in allopathy, homoeopathy, etc., but he believed this
new plan, which might bo called “ foot-path-y,”
would prove effectual. Sickness had not changed his
freethought opinions in any way. Ho then gave a
brief lecture, daring which he answered the accusation
so often made against freethinkers, that they take
away the faith of the orthodox, but give nothing in its
place. There was a very crowded audience.
Isaiah or “ Wild” Wright, the most noted as
sociate of the Kellys, is upon his trial for horse-stealing,
and the Victorian police will not be sorry to see him put
in some safe place. Probably no single man ever gave
the force so many and such severe pummellings. Be-
fore any hair grew on his face he was the bite noir of the
Mansfield constables. Whenever they had to arrest him,
they generally received a considerable amount of rough
treatment, and sometimes he would stack three or four
of them in a heap before they secured him—to the great
delight of his admiring sympathisers. He was a great
reaper, and could fairly claim to be an “acre-a-day
man.” As a wrestler few could tackle him. He went
into Riverina for the shearing for several years, and
soon became known both for his quaint expressions and
irrepressible rowdiness. Though not a scientific fighter,
his bony strength and endurance made him an awkward
opponent. He frequently walked into a hut full of
total strangers, and asked whether “ any flash man
would care about a round or two” —but he was very
seldom accommodated. As most men have a favourite
exclamation when excited, Isaiah had his; generally it
was “Hi for Hogan 1" or “Hogan’s ghost!" In fact,
the mythical Hogan seemed to be his patron saint on
all critical occasions, and to that personage his poean of
victory was always addressed. Wright would fight any
man for pure love; it was quite immaterial to him
whether there was any point at issue. As an indication
of his endurance, on one occasion when the frost lay
thick on the ground, he swam a mile in the Murrum-
bidgee before breakfast, for a ridiculously small wager
THE LAST DAY!


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
8
INGER MANUFACTUI
Have opened a Dc
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1
HARBOUR
BA
ST]
8
INGBE’S SEWINC
Illustrated Price List se
8
IN GEE’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOL
8
INGEE'S SEWING
Write for address of n
8
8
INGER’S, THE BEST
Have received 160 First:
INGEE'S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
8
INGEE’S, BEST FOR
1 SINGEE’S MEDIUM MAC
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 1
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No additioi
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOl
Se© the New No. 4 Vibratini
8
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OR - TEEA
8
INGEE’S. The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work ;
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. <
8
INGER’S, THE BEST
LEAEN. New Improvemen
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
8
INGER’S. THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and h
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8
INGER’S THE BEST and!
Will last a lifetime in o
INGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: T
8
SINGER MANUFACTUR]
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Ha
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymai
have been appointed agents fo
machines.
Call and see them—Month 1
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cai
SINGER’S SEWING M
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
T3EMEMBER, THERE IS (
GEE MACHINE. See th.
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—;
applies to the Genuine Mac
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—]
Cast-iron imitations. Oh
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER'S SEWING MACH]
ments with the Singer C
8
ANGER’S SEWING MA
cent, discount for cash, or or
8
YDNEY.— From TURNER
GEORGE STREET, opposite
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHI
but 160 FIRST PEL
T
H E
AU S T
"HOME" SHUT"]
AMERICAN LOCKS’]
ONCE MO]
Thkbb is a pretty local superstition that if you drink the t
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eternv City, drawn thith
thus invoked. The
iiPALACE E.MPOR
being an _ institution) founded in more recent tin..as ('although,
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition ham
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless. F<
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. A|
irresistible impulse. It is said yon must go by moonlight to tl
of St. Peter’s ere th enchantress will pu forth her magic wane
ipalacM'empo
come [ when 'you will—by moonlight or sunshine, cloud or fair —
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then
oases extending down the centre of the main building for a diets
cases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the prese
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPOI
may be seen in all its glory—a sight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATINS of ever;
BLACK AND COLOURED GEOS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE, AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBRE RATE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON, Black and Coloured
RADZ DE MORT
FANCY OMBRE
MERVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHER CASE is fitted with EVENING- FLOWERS,
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying die
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES' TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering Nr sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any wtar
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.— Adv.
SATURDAY, SERI
ON THE GROl)
WAV E R I
UNRESERVED
TWELVE CHOICE Yli
fronting
AEDEN STEEET,
COOPER STREET,
GREVILL
portions of the well
SEA VIEW HILL
TWO ALLOTMI
fronting
ARDEN STREET and CARI
portions of th<
HE PLUS ULTRA
TWO ALLOTMI
fronting
KEITH STE
portions of
MUNDARRAH VAL]
PIT E L O
fronting
EVANS and VIOLET !
FOUR ALLOTM
fronting
ORANGE and HAMILTON
being portions of the w
HOOFER GARDENS
CORNER LOTS,
GOOD FRONTAGES,
GOOD DEPTI
PIN
EASY TERMI
MILLS, PILE 7& Gl
SECOND GREAT SUI
UNRESERVED
ON THE GROI
SATURDAY, SEPT
AT 11 A.M.
SPECIAL TRAIN ON D.
PEEK TICKETS IN D
Refreshments Provided-]
CARD-PLANS AND LITHOS.
OF THE AUCTIOI
The Illustrated Sydney News is, of course,
beyond compare the art journal of N. S. Wales. Now. to
keep a paper up to the top standard requires, equally,
taste and liberality. Messrs. Gibbs. Shallard, and Co.
appear not to be wanting in either quality. By the
inducements they hold out to artists in N. S. Wales and
9, u ™ en !v —tbeir Proffer of prizes to the value of
AlObu-they probably give a more direct stimulus to Art
in these colonies than it has ever previously received.
On the 30th ultimo there were 38 houses in
Sydney quarantined, of these 14 were disinfected and
soon to be released; 9 others had been released • 36
Europeans and 2 Chinese had been sent to the Quaran-
tm ? ground, suffering from smallpox, and 37 Europeans
and 2 Chinese, not from infected houses, but not actually
ill, had also been sent down. Number sick at Quaran-
tme : On board Faraway fall convalescent except Lind-
say), 6 Europeans and 2 Chinese; in hospital 10
convalescent and 7 progressing favourably and likely to
be convalescent in 8 or 10 days; Margaret and Mary
Lindsay, serious oases; total, 19 Europeans. Nr mber
of deaths : In Sydney, 3; at station, 9; of whom 7
were adults and 5 children.
The reason who so many are unable to take
cocoa is that the varieties commonly sold are mixed
with starch, under the plea of rendering them soluble •
while really making them thick, heavy, and indigestible!
This may be easily detected; for if cocoa thickens in the
cup it proves the addition of starch. Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence is genuine; it is therefore three times the
strength of these cocoas, and a refreshing beverage like
tea or coffee.—Adv.
For physical power and dare-devil recklessness, “ Wild ”
Wright is a remarkable character, and if bushranging
breaks out again in the north-eastern part of Victoria,
he, more than any other man, is likely to be its leader.
The Rev. J, G. Fraser, M.A., has resigned the
pastorate of the Congregational Church, Woollahra.
11l health.
Mr. Arthur Feez, son of Albrecht Feez, M.L. A.
for Rockhampton, and a genuine old Capricorsian
identity, has been called to the Queensland bar.
Mr. Boodle, a college friend of the late Bishop
Tyrrell, of Newcastle, N.S.W., has published, in Lon-
don, a volume on the life and labours of the deceased
prelate.
The wife of Robert Chapman, ex-Registrar of
the Dunedin (N.Z.) Supreme Court, by the death of her
uncle (ex-Governor Sutherland) receives a fortune of
£30,000.
Rowley Pickering (“Nemo”) came off again as
a tipster at the Hawkesbury. He named five winners
the first day, and four the next; and so warm were the
congratulatory hand-shakes of his thousand friends
that Rowley’s fingers are still black and blue from the
marks of rings.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The fashion prevalent in England, of wearing
nothing but a string o( diamonds in the hair, is vastly
convenient for the average woman.
The Figaro asserts that of twenty marriages in
the higher and middle classes in Pans, five are the
work of professional matrimonial agents.
At Cairn castle, Antrim, there lives Miss Mar-
garet Bailey, who has attained the age of 110 years.
The record of her years is well-authenticated.
A Bathurst girl says she has given up all
thoughts of matrimony, and that she will never marry
unless she can get hold of a red-headed Chinamen.
General Phra, first eunuch of the King of Siam,
has arrived in Paris. When at home he rules over 350
young ladies in the royal harems, his aids in the service
being females.
It is reported that the youngest daughter of
W* H. Vanderbilt is to marry Viscount Dupplin, son
and heir of the Earl of Kinnoull, and a nephew of the
Dnke of Beaufort.
Perhaps the neatest compliment ever paid a
woman came from Sydney Smith. They were in a gar-
den, and she remarked that a certain flower had not
come to perfection. “ Then," said Sydney, •• let me
lead perfection to it."
A Paris letter says ; “At a recent Maokay ball
the costume of the hostess was a poem." An airy cos-
tume for a ball, too; but we are glad to know that it
was a poem. Suppose it had only been a two-line par.
Oh, dear 1 oh, dear 1
The orinolettes—those springy appendages which
now thrust out the backs of some dresses like an ani-
mated bustle—are simply odious 1 Their use, of course,
is supposed to consist in lifting the gown away from
the heel, and so keeping the lining clean.
From Melbourne Age “ Wanted, board and
residence, for lady and two children, where the land-
lady will devote herself to her domestic duties, instead
of gossiping about her lodgers’ business. None other
need reply. Address ' Worried,’ Aoe offloe.’*
A newspaper man interviewed Bernhardt lately,
when she grew enthusiastic over America, and expressed
the wish that the nation had but one mouth that she
might kiss it. The reporter instantly suggested that ho
represented the nation to a certain extent, and he had
“ but one month."
The Queen signified her intention of attending
a /s? den party to be given by the Prince and Princess
°f Wales, at Marlborough House. The papers hoped
that people would be ready with an ovation to show
how pleased Her Majesty’s subjects would be to see
her oftener among them.
The Queen has had a headstone placed over the
remains of a son of her late Head-Forester, John
Grant. Deceased died in South Africa. A home writer
suggests that if Her Majesty could show her regard for
some “ Pat" or ” Murphy ’’ it would go far towards
the pacification of Ireland,
Miss Edmonia Lewis, the sculptress, is the
daughter of an American Indian by a negress. In her
native land, she was constantly insulted on account of
her colour. In Borne, Pius IX. blessed her; Lord Bute
purchased a Madonna, carved by her, for £6OO, and now
she has abundance of orders at high prices.
Outside a fanoylgoods shop. First thief: “We
could get three shillings for that walking-stick."
Second thief: *• Or three months."
Of the 18 healthy people shut up in the infected
house at the Haymarket, to catch small-pox, two have
’taken." The Government should be satisfied with
this success.
The fact that-small-pox has not yet broken out
in the Survey Office is conclusive evidence that
obnoxious smells (such as arise from back yards of ill-
advised construction) are not conducive to the spread
of that terrible disease.
The Pope condemns the maxim that political
power proceeds from the people, and can only be
exercised by their act of delegation. To the operation
of that principle the Pope attributes the existence of
Communism, Socialism, and Nihilism.
Mount Hilo, a volcanic mountain in the Island
of Hawaii, Sandwich Group, has burst into eruption,
and overwhelmed the town of Hilo with a flood of
molten lava, from three to five feet deep. Most of the
sugar-planters had removed their machinery, and the
inhabitants their goods, in anticipation of the catas-
trophe, to a town on the opposite side of the Island.
The following is a list of the competitors who
have entered for the six days’ go-as-you-please tourna-
ment:—C. Swan, N.Z.; J. Cotton, N.Z.; W. Edwards,
champion; W. Baker, N.S.W.; J. Campbell, N.S.W •
W. Emnue, New York; T. Palmer, N.S.W.; J. m!
O Connor. N.Z.; J. H. Le Petit, Paris : J. Clifford,
Adelaide; J. C. Williams, N.S.W.; and J. Baynor
Victoria.


ARGEST ESTABLISH!
* KIND IN AUSTB
ASIATIC TEA COI
279 Pitt-street, Sj
(Next School of A
„ RETAIL PRICE ;
Pare Ceylon Tea - ),.. „ „
Pure Java Tea (,2a, 2a 6d, 3a,
Pore Indian Tea )
CHINA GROWN TEAS, la 2d,
2a per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tig
121bs of any of the ab<
Special Quotationa given to wh*
Country Orders Promptly and C
Snowdrop Crystal Sugai
Very Nice Sugar, almost W
OHIAL
lIP
c®
s/
■lr
I
2
28
m ASSO'
fjl H E INTERC
HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEO
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. SUBSC
LIFE and FIRE IN8 T J
LOWEST RATES of 1
•ST Policy holders participate t
fifths in the profits.
JAMES 8.
T
HEA T R E
Lessee
Treasurer..
.Mi
THIRD WEE
and
THE EXCITEMENT I
to witness
THE LATEST AND BEST
of the day.
OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE.
TO-NIGHT. AND EVER
OLIV E T T
Admission—ss, 3a, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle
chased during the day at H. Solti
King-street.
AIE T Y T
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bay
General Manager
montague-turnebTopi
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENI
IL TROVATOJ
FRIDAY, Septeno
FAREWELL B;
to
Mr. CHARLES Tl
LUCIA DI LAMM]
SATURDAY, Sept,
positively the last night <
FAUST.
Conductor ... Monsiet
JAMES .
QPE R A
Sole Lessee m
Manager ”
Musical Director ,M:
IMPORTANT ANNOU
JOHNSTO
SEWING MACHI
HAYMAEK]
gINGEE’S SEWINC
JOHNSTON’S
HAYMARK
gINGEE’S SEWING
Ton per cent, for cash, or 9
JOHNST
IJIHE LIGHT EUNNIN
2e 6d per week,
JOHNSTON'S, HATS
gINGEE’S SEWING
2s 6d per week,
JOHNSTON'S I
HAYMAEKE
gT. VINCENT’S
ANNUAL BALL,
PLAIN AND FANG'S
EXHIBITION BUI]
TUESDAY, Septen
Under the distinguished Patrona
the Bight Honorable LOR]
LOFTUB, G.C.8., Lady 1
LOFTUS, and SUP
COMMITTEE
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
I ASH PRICE LIST OF WII
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WII
RED.
A City Bank clerk and a Lands Office official got
woinated together, on Monday, from the direct
■onroe The medico is now at a loss which to proceed
‘Kamst for the death Qf hig calf v
Jannaach’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
hr™’ ’ milk » » sweet during the hottest weather,
utiW) 6 ni simple process ; no deleterious chemical
keanl-/ 0 » , i*ad °* grocers and country store-
nepers. Ask for Jannasch's Conserve Salt.—Advt.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
James Hacks, a Hamilton (Vio.) selector, sen-
-tanced to five years’ gaol for stealing 150 sheep Mr.
j. J. Moody, who died at Alburv, was buried with
Masonic honours. He was one of the oldest Masons in
the colony Mr. Salomons, Q C., has commenced the
Milburn Creek enquiry 50 head of horses have dis-
appeared from the Wild Eiver tin mines (N.Q.), and are
supposed to have been stolen Great uneasiness at
Wellington (N.Z.), in consequence of the Wakatipu
having landed passengers without performing quaran-
tine. New regulations framed Fever epidemic at
Mount Perrv (Q.). Seven residents died during one
week. There have also been a lot of deaths at Stan-
thoroe (Q ), several hundreds of miles distant, from
peritonitis. The curious circumstance is i hat both
places are considered exceptionally healthy, and stand
on granitic rock and sand The Indian Government
has communicated with the Government of South Aus-
tralia relative to facilitating Coolie immigration for the
Northern Territory Daily average attendance at
Jonbert’s Adelaide Exhibition, 6000. Beats both Sydney
and Melbourne At Rockhampton, stringent sanitary
measures, including the appointment of a medical in-
specter and sub-inspector, have been taken. One doctor
tendered 'or the first-named position at £l5O, and
another at £5O per annum. Latter accepted Since
the late rains, the water-supply in the Botany dams has
been increased to about sufficient for four mouths* con-
sumption The barque Sarah Bell, whose mate and
sailors mutinied, has sailed from Adelaide for England
with a fresh crew There is a great land mania at
Rockhampton. Very high prices are asked The
Orange Slaughtering Co., on Thursday last, sent over
50 tons of mutton for shipment per Garonne The
statistics collected in April give the stock in N.S.W. as
follows: 395,981 horses, 2,580,040 horned cattle,
32,399,517 sheep, 308,205 pigs, and SC.MG’s Ash-
field and Burwood have gas now M’llwraith,
*M'Eacharn, & Co., of Rockhampion, are importing a
*JOO-ton coasting steamer The wool clip of N S.W.
this seasen should amount to about 175,000,0001 b
There are only 628,000 electors in Italy out of a popu-
lation of 27,000,000! The Viotoriau“autherities have
offered a price for the now celebrated Ferret (s.s.), the
intention being to ntilise her in lieu of the Victoria,
which is too expensive a ship for Government work
A nugget of pure gold, free from quartz, has been found
at a depth of 125 feet, six miles from Quirindi The
Great Cobar Copper Mining Company has paid £70,000
in dividends since March, 1880 No. 2 North Lady
Mary, Gympie, crushed 109 tons quartz for Hs4oz
N.Z. census papers disclose the extraordinary fact that
a girl of 9 years of age has a baby 2 months old. The
report was naturally doubted at first, but investigation
established the fact A Chinaman has applied for a
publican's license at Riverton, N.Z A Dunedin agent
who sold the Christchurch Libertt (shouldn’t the title
be Li cense ?) has been horsewhipped in his own shop by
a man with a grievance. It is the agent who has the
grievance now Townsville P. and A. Show was a
great success. The affair included an exhibition of
many very creditable paintings and drawings by ama-
teurs Joseph Spindle (“ Black Joe") found dead in
his waggon near Aramac The bleached bones of a
child of four, named Painter, who was lost twelve
months since at Urilla, Jiagera country, have now
been found A N.Z. Chinaman was committed to
Lawrence gaol for two months, and having appealed,
was admitted to bail. The appeal was dismissed, but
meanwhile the gaol was closed, and there being no
longer a “ Lawrence’’ gaol he could not be arrested
Mr. James Anneti, tutor In a private family at Con-
dobolin, fell out of Cobb’s coach at Forbes, and broke
his neck Wall, the unqualified medical practitioner,
charged at Sandhurst with causing the death of
Margaret Smith, by procuring abortion, is 68 years of
age Tired of big gas bills, two of the leading
licensed victuallers of Dunedin have sent to America
for the latest means of lighting by electricity Mark
Marks, a fruit-seller, has (deliberately drowned himself
in the Yarra. Supposed cause—the fact that one of his
sons lately got into trouble, .....A Nebo man, who had
found !a nugget and was trying to catch his horse to
take the nugget in for sale, finding that he could not
get hold of the animal became vexed and threw the
nugget at him. The nugget was lost 155 tons
stone from the North Glanmire claim, Gympie,
gave 2680zs 87 tons stone from the Star
of Peace claim, Hill End, gave 98oz retorted gold
The libel action, Perkins (Queensland Minister of
Lands) v. Evangelical Standard, resulted in a verdict
for plaintiff, with £3 damages and costs 70 tons of
•quartz from Facinus’ claim, M’Kmley River, S.A.,
have yielded 500 oz. gold. Hains and Clarke’s Stapleton
claim has been sold to a party of English capitalists,
who intend working it with a large capital James
Bean, a drunken pensioner, aged 75, who had previously
attempted suicide four times, cut his throat and arm
with a razor. He will probably die, and is row
in Sydney Infirmary Hidden Treasure Com-
pany. Copeland, have crushed 370 tons of quartz
for 12160 z. gold Splendid prospects at Matilda Reef,
Nana Creek, Grafton A Melbourne " Chamber of
Manufacturers ’’ has been formed Government will,
probably, get back a stiff percentage of the amount
spent on the Nepean water scheme in the shape of duty
on grog, and fines paid by navvies and sly-grog sellers
A company forming to take over L. L. Smith’s
champagne business : capital, £25,000 Pioneer plan-
tation, Mackav, sold for £95,000 cash by Mr. John
Spiller, to M’Kinnon and Co , 1 Melbourne. Plantation
contains 5000 acres, capable of growing 4000 tons sugar
yearly 66 tons stone from Nos. 2 and 4, North Gian-
mire, Gympie, yielded 117 oz gold North Lady Mary
Co., Gympie, have banked lOOoz specimens.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Sic itur ad astra”: Received “ J.H.G.”
Keep it up “ E.R.” (Emerald): Always acceptable.
......“ C.P.8.": So many descriptions of the place have
already appeared, that your letter loses point. How-
ever, we shall be glad to hear from you again “An
Ashfleld Girl”: Received “ Subscriber ’’ (Adelong):
Next week “R. M.”: You have sent a “ consulta-
tion ' order in your letter “Anti-B.": Held over.
......“AH Saints": Received P. Will look
the matters up for you “ Beta In such cases, we
. “hist have name and address. Our “ Social" column
isn’tintended for lampoons “E. B. D Will consider
.......“Omega": In such oases, jou should send some-
thing not partaking of the nature of a burlesque
Paddington ”: No general interest can attach to your
Par., as you do not state exactly where the affair was
he1d......" J. P.” : Many thanks “Silverpeu" (Bris.
Dane): All right; go ahead “L. S. D." : Very good.
“ Tatters ": Wire in. Will be thoroughly wel-
®>m(“ “Esperance”: Next week “Lucy M.”:
See “Poor Player” “T. J." : Pirst-rate
Dandy : Thanks. Will be attended to “M. M.”:
Next week “Harriett Stanley”: Yes; besides
uncle Tom’s Cabin, or Negro Life in America,”
Harriett Beecher Stowe has written “ The Minister’s
Wooing”; a work entitled “The True Story of Lady
syrons Life”; also, a sequel. “A History of the
syron Controversy," both the latter infinitely nasty
Woks, stuffed full of prurient details, and unnatural
Wgestions t 4 B, Sutherland M ; Capital—will very
hkelyproduce it shortly “ Skeetur”: Eight you are.
”r- E - w. M.” Received “L. H. W.” : Received;
f OO3 S. P. M”: You have the artistic idea. Can’t
you send something elaborated? “Viola": Very
we1c0me......“ C. E.": You should send your name, and
us all about it. Such things must be anthenti-
G- Ciesman, Cntler-st., Albert Ground,
r' 6a f er , n : The P.O. authorities return your papers
mar f. e -S not; tnown.” Please advise present address.
’ Not original. Why “ British ” public ?
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Yellow fever at Barbadoes Gladstone is going
to Hal—igoland, to recruit his health Fight between
French and Arabs at Hannmanreb. 400 Arabs and 40
French killed ti million votes for Republican. 4 mil-
lion for BonapartUt, and 1 million for other candidates
for French Chamber of Deputies Garfield still fight-
ing against death Ayoub Khan started out to fight
Abdur-Rahman Volunteers in camp at Edinburgh
attacked with sickness. Wet weather the cause
Irish Land League proposes to present Michael Davitt
with a farm Russian Government increasing its im-
port duties Turkish troops burnt the town of
Kaitza, before abandoning it to the Greeks Russian
Government have demanded from the U.S. the extra-
dition of Hartmann, the Nihilist A Libel Law
Amendment Bill has passed both Houses of the British
Parliament Riots in County Limerick. Forcible
evictions the cause At the international wool exhi-
bition, Crystal Palace, gold medals were awarded to the
N.Z. Government and Sir Samuel Wilson (Vic.) j silver
medals to Sir Samuel Wilson and Messrs. Russell and
Simson; bronze medals to N.Z. Government, John
Ware (Vic.), and Mr. Carter. A Prussian Prince, with
a prodigious name, also got a gold medal More
arrests in St Peter ■iburg for plots against the Czar
It cost the Government £9OOO to prosecute Parnell, and
fail...... Edmund Galley, wrengfully transported 43years
ago, is to have £lOOO solatium The nailers on strike
have won the struggle. The masters have conceded an
advance of 20 percent British Parliament adjourned,
prior to prorogation. Prorogation on Saturday
Persistent rains threaten the crops in England The
Queen reviewed 40,000 Scotch volunteers at Edinburgh.
The Marquis of Tweeddale and the Earl of Louth
(Scotch and Irish peers), Baron Reay, Sir Harcourt
Johnstone, and Sir Dudley Coutts Marjoribanks. have
been made British peers Frightful earthquakes in
Asia Minor, near Smyrna N.Y. Press says the
dynamite convention is bosh Sir Charles Gavan
Duffy denies that he intends to form a new Irish party.
......Mr. Gladstone has been questioned as to a Land
Bill for England. Not this session Blackman has
beaten Thomas in a sonlling match on the Thames
New Mexican Indians have captured a village and
massacred 70 residents Investigation indicates that
blowing up of H.M.S. Dotterel was due to insufficient
ventilation of magazine John Dillon says the Irish
Land Bill will be useless. He retires into private life.
Tunisians rallying against the French Dillon
banqueted at Tipperary Movement on foot for estab-
lishment of a Land League for the whole of Great
Britain. Justin M'Carthy and Joseph Cowen, M.’sP.,
spoke at the first meeting, held at Newcastle-on-Tyue.
......Garfield better. Hopes of his recovery now enter.
tained In Ireland, while the'tenants of a Mr. Colt-
hurst were celebrating his marriage, they were fired
into, and several of them wounded. Assassins escaped.
Farm Produce Report.
August 311881. p
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at £3 to £3 10s; ditto old hay, £2 15s to £3 ; medium
samples £2 10s per ton. A good supply forward and
fair demand. At auction this morning, lucerne hay
realised from £1 16s to £1 17s; oaten hay £3 3s to £4
10s per ton. Maize 2s 10s to 3s. Oats 3s per bushel. Cir-
cular Head potatoes £3 10s to £4; New Zealand ditto
Sss to 45s per ton. Victorian onions £l3los to £l4; ditto
chaff £5 per ton, bags included. Butter Is to Is 9d per
lb; eggs lOd to Is ; bacon 3s 6d; cheese 5d to 8d; ham
6d to 8d ; honey 3d to 4d; lard 4d to 6d; beeswax 9d to
lOd per lb. Fowls 3s 6d to 4s ; ducks 5s to 7s ; geese 7s
to 8s ; turkeys 8s to 16s per pair. Millet brooms 10s per
dozen. The flour market: Owing to the rise in the
Southern markets, the prices here have advanced.
Sydney superfine flour is selling at £l3; household £l2;
seconds £ll. N. S. Wales country brands, £l2 15s to
£l3 per ton; Victorian flour £l2 to £l2 15s; Adelaide
£l2 to £l3 per ton. Bran and Pollard Is 2d to Is 3d per
ton. The wheat market: Holders of wheat are firm at
quotations. Prices are—for Adelaide wheat 5s 3d to 5s
6d; Victorian 5s to 5s 3d; N. S. Wales 5s to 5s 6d;
New Zealand ss; Launceston 5s per bushel. Fat cattle
market: At the Homebush sales the fat cattle market
was firm. Best beef 18s per 1001 b, fat sheep market not
so firm, 501 b sheep with good fleeces 10s each.
Victoria v. 2nd Arforma. These clubs met at
Petersham on Saturday last, and, after a fast game,
resulted in an easy win for the former by four tries to
nil.
Shares in the Orange Slaughtering Co. are being
steadily applied for, and it is beyond all question certain
that the company will be re-formed as advertised, at an
early date. The public generally are subscribing freely.
The men most interested in this freezing business—
seeing that it is an insurance against a recurrence of
low prices—are the most backward; and this seems the
way with this class always. There are some exceptions
to the rule, however, for wo learn that several leading
squatters in the Northern part of the colony, who own
sheep and cattle that cannot well be sent to the com-
pany's works, have liberally subscribed for shares in
the Orange Co.; and there are other notable exceptions
in the South and West. Millions of fat sheep always
available, and the company's charges at per pound for
killing, freezing, and shipping meat, are on very reason-
able bases.


Miscellaneous
L I F FOE D, LOVE, AND CO.
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are in
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES —Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. ~ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA —Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
o™ CES; -“„ EET f
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
JOHN DANES*.
IMPOETEE OP HI
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gas fittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
ti 4
Butchers’ Brine Pump
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET, SYDNEY.
n
235
PTTT STREET SYDNEY
DIAG °HAi
ALLWOOL
TMT
■f&sutte
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
_S*»I
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
FROM
1h lsummerfielr
PITiySYDNEY
PATTERNS
AND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
16s. bj.
B.
CELLAES:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY ; Printed by H. E. Woods A Co., and pub-
lished by W. H. Teaill A Co. at the Bull** 1 *
Office, 24 Pitt-street,
HORNSBY’S
are the
BEST KNOWN
and
MOST POPULAE MACHINES
HOEN SET’S
—PARAGON—
MOWERS AND REAPERS
are
UNQUESTIONABLY THE VERY BEST
Write for Prices and
Pull Particulars.
AUSTEALIA.
m
.1 i
WE GUAEANTEE
all our
HORNSBY’S
MACHINES.
WRITE TO US FOE PEICES AND FULL PAETICULAES. POST FEBE.
MARTIN AND PAIN,
389 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
BLACKET AND DAVY.
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Solb Agents bob Messes. Tangtk Bros., Birmingham.
Miscellaneous
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10b
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Waxjror
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
ill
)
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, Ac.
ALL KINDS 0» DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address— .1
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings.
iMmayii
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals’of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER 1
A mew and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
STREET
KING
m
SYDNE
TAILOR
m
<JPA>
&
°0
ERT
AND POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER.
FIT GUARANTEED!
yvU- HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
J. H U F T O N,
-• WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER,
636 George- street,
* Four doors from Liverpool-street.
WATCHES and JEWELLERY Repaired on Premises.
All Work Guaranteed.
The original and genuine Jewellery Sale is still pro-
ceeding at A. J. HUFTON’S. A rare opportunity for
intending purchasers wishing to make wedding presents
or other gifts to their friends.
A splendid Stock to choose from. No puff I Come
and see for yourselves.
A.
Note the Address —
J. H U P T 0 N,
636 George-street.
JM ‘ M I N N AND CO
• AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
and _
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial, Shipping, and
Country Orders executed with despatch.
C A N D T S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT'S BELLOWS,
TAN GTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND lEEIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Obabs, CbaNis, Billows, Fokgbs, itc.,
in STOCK.
SILVER V WATCHES
FROM . 4.10.
W&ym'
' iCNtuf*'
9. lI.HUNTER STREET.
‘ CHES SYDNEY. , GOU
ml
GOLD WAT CHES
SEND FOR , tR'OM <£.310.
CATALOGUE. '
fJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TEY ONE. FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING ,
SYDNEY STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
*o* *
And Ornamental Hair Work,
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE “I VAN HOE” WINES.
AWAEDED
SILVEE MEDALS
AT PAEIB
FOE
HEEMITAGE.
DINNEE WINES
SHIEAZ
MADEIEA
BUEQUNDY
EIESLING
1 Fruity ■)
{Wines (
} Dry I
j Wines J
.10/. per dozen.
14/- ..
21/" I, •>
AWAEDED
SEVEN PEIZES,
SYDNEY
INTEENATIONAL,
&c., &c.
WIN OEDINAIEE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
' G. H. STEPHEN & CO., 1
* Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street. J
PEUITT WINES
5/6
PEE GALLON.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
K. ■. KIRCSBURY,
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
