

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 51.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1881.
Price—3d.
%\t bulletin.
SATURDAY. JANUARY 15, 1881.
Banks and Enterprise.
A great deal haa been said, of late years,
respecting the influence which modern banks have
had in stimulating industry. Banks in Australia
are very peculiar institutions. Except at the
very outset of a new bank, of the capital whiph
professedly is placed at the service of the public,
very little is ever lent out at all. According to
the latest issued quarterly returns of bank
liabilities and assets, the paid-up capital of all the
banks doing business in the colony amounts to,
in round numbers, nine and a half millions. But
not a fraction of this reaches the public. The
colonial banker resembles a bird-catcher. He
knows that yellow-bird loves to chink itself
against yellow bird. He cages his own in a sort
of trap as a decoy for more, and so reaps his
advantage. The capital of the banks is mostly
represented by real estate, handsome premises
with strong-rooms for the decoy gold, that
essential in gold coin and bullion, and sundry
balances sent out of the colony to branches,
mostly, and similarly utilised. Banking corpora-
tions in the colonies, in fact, do not provide the
public with money of their own. They merely
occupy the place of reputable money-brokers, who
stand between borrowers and lenders, and whose
own substantial position as a man of means gives
people confidence to deal with him. The return
just quoted shows that, in September last, the
banks in this colony had over seventeen and a half
millions of other people’s money in their hands.
Of this they had lent out again sixteen and a half
millions. That is to say, they retained a million
unused, besides their own entire capital, so far as
lending to the public was concerned. Of course,
it must be granted that banks must have buildings
and must retain a reserve. But the fact is
apparent that that is all their capital
suffices for. The shareholders do not, in
fact, lend a penny of their own money.
They could not very comfortably afford to permit
a million of their borrowings to lie unemployed,
seeing that they held no less than five and a half
millions of customers’ money without having to
pay a fraction of interest upon it, or to deposit
with their creditors a pennyworth of securities.
Besides this, the public had accepted and held in
circulation considerably more than a million of
the banks’ several promissory notes, for accepting
which no one got a farthing of interest. Bank
notes, in fact, are promissory notes without inter-
est, and based on the peculiar plan that such
security as exists remains in the maker’s own
possession. Thus practically the banka in this
colony were actually enjoying the advantage of
handling upwards of seven millions sterling of the
money of the public without paying a fraction for
the use of that remarkable amount of accommo-
dation. It is rather striking that it is the indus-
trial and enterprising who are on the wrong side
of the hedge all the time. Of the deposits in the
hands of the banks, over five and a half millions
do not bear interest, and that sum obviously
represents the aggregate working capital of our
business people. Similarly, it is, in the main, safe
to reckon that the twelve millions of deposits
bearing interest belong to people out of business.
It seems certainly very hard that as a practical
rule the man who is hard at work striving to make
his way should receive nothing for his money,
while the leisured man who takes no active part
in the industrial business of the country is paid
for the use of his funds. This seems to be jnst
common sense upside down. Of course it has to
be admitted that the difficulties in the way of
keeping accounts with owners of current accounts
are almost insuperable. But that admission does
not affect the statement of principle. Fogeydom
has nearly twelve millions sterling which it has
not the energy to employ for itself, and for
tiie use of that money the banks pay it four,
five, or six per cent. Enterprize has generally
some five and a half millions sterling in the hands
of the banks, and cannot get a fraction for the use
the banks have of that sum. When, however,
Enterprise requires money, he has to pay through
the nose in order that Fogeydom may get his
interest, and that bank shareholders may draw
dividends for services rendered. The weight is
all so adjusted that the active and energetic man
must sustain everybody’s share, and drag along
with him the fortunes ot the idle rich. The trades-
man or speculator has imposed upon him a stupen-
dous task. It is not sufficient that his persever-
ance or his talent enables him to carve out a good
thing for himself, and a fair return for his accom-
modation. He procures from a bank some part
of Fogeydom’s twelve millions, or of Enterprise’s
five millions and a half. This money costs the
• bank some three to four per cent, per annum.
But the industrial operator who obtains it on loan
in order to extend or vivify his business, haa not
merely to pay fair equivalents. He has not only
to pay enough to recoup what Fogeydom has
bargained for, with reasonable commission io
the bank as broker and insurer. He must be bled
to the last drop which can be extracted from him
without killing him altogether. The bank share-
holders, who have not lent him any money, must
receive thumping dividends. Industry in this
colony pays to Ease a tremendous tribute. The
shareholders of the Bank of New South Wales
drew as their last dividend 17| per cent, on the
capital which they did not risk. The Commercial
shareholders netted last year 25 per cent. Other
banks returned to their proprietory from 15 per cent,
down to 8. All this had to be provided by the
industrious classes, and most of it paid to the
class which has ceased to be industrions, if ever it
has been so. The boot is evidently on the wrong
leg in Australian banking finance. The share-
holders returns are out of all proportion to the
risks they undertake and the services they render.
The same is true in Victoria, yet people wonder
and sneer because men of the people talk of the
need for a National Bank. The banks themselves
can and ought alter this state of things.
The Hon. Richard Hill, M.L.C.
Native-born Australians of the first and the
second generations—more especially the settlers on
the banks of the Hawkesbnry and the Nepean—
were generally men and women of fine physical
development, homely in their habits, permeated
with a spirit of kindness, passionately fond of
open-air exercise, and very hospitable. They
have been succeeded by a generation of feebler
physique, but probably of equal intellectual poten-
tialities. We do not wish to establish any odious
comparison, but merely to note a fact that has
been observed by dozens heretofore. It is not,
then, as laudatores temp oris acti —panegyrists of
the past—that we call to mind many of the typical
men of a former era. A few of them still survive,
hale and hearty, although they have passed
through the three score and ten years said to
round off a venerable age. Of all the families in
or near Sydney, whose career reminds us of energy
and perseverance, that of Hill is the most signifi-
cant. Mr. George Hill, who must be considered
the head of the House, has been for years a pains-
taking magistrate and a useful citizen; and his
brother, the Hon. Richard, whose portrait
appears on the first page of to-day’s Bulletin,
has been long identified with the political and
intellectual progress of the colony, and his sons
are sure to follow the good example of their
father. Mr. Richard Hill was born in Sydney in
the year 1810, and is the junior of his brother
George by seven years. He was partly educated
at Mr. Wood’s Academy, in Macquarie-street, an
excellent institution, of which several dis-
tinguished colonists were alumni, amongst others,
Mr. W Pitt Faithful and Mr. Thomas Underwood.
Mr. Hill afterwards read for a couple of years
with Mr. Timothy Cape, whose conscientious
devotion to the education of the youth we have
frequently commended in these columns. Mr.
Cape taught his pupils to think and reason, and a
large number of them are now in possession of
some of the highest political and official positions
in the colony. Love of country seems to have
developed very rapidly in the New South Wales
of fifty or sixty years ago, as we find that the
members of the group whom we may call “ the
oldest inhabitants,” have a brighter patriotic
spirit at their advanced age than most of the
youngsters who appear on the public arena. Mr.
Richard Hill was nurtured in politics by one of the
most potent orators of his age, the late William
Charles Wentworth, who was his brother-
in-law. . It was the singular good fortune
of Mr. Hill, on leaving school, to be appointed
to the management of Yaucluse, where he had
frequent opportunities of hearing Mr. Wentworth
dilate on those constitutional principles of Govern-
ment of which he was so genuine an interpreter.
Mr. Hill devoted a quarter of a century to farming
and horticultural pursuits. He established the
Lane Cove orangery, one of the largest in Aus-
tralia, where he made (and afterwards unfor-
tunately, lost) a fortune. But he was not easily
dismayed. He turned his attention to sheep-
farming in New Zealand, chiefly in the southern
province; and after a decade of years devoted to
that pursuit, he returned to Sydney, where hia
liberal views and public spirit were soon recog-
nised. He was elected member of the legislative
Assembly for Canterbury without any active
movement on his part, and he continuously repre-
sented that constituency till he was accidentally
defeated by Sir Henry Parkes, under circumstances
still fresh in the memory of political students. On
his return from New Zealand, Mr. Richard Hill
bought fine stations on the Lower Macquarie, which
he still holds. During his Parliamentary career he
was an active and vigilant member. _ His work in
select committees was well appreciated, and his
criticisms in debate were often caustic and to the
purpose. He surprised Sir John Robertson a few
years ago with an ornithological joke—indeed if
that worthy knight had studied the universal fit-
ness of things, he would have a ‘‘kookaburra”
emblazoned on his escutcheon ! Mr. Hill has a
large family —ten sons and one daughter —who are
all living. His sons hold good positions in the
public service or at mercantile pursuits, one of
them, Mr. Frank Hill, being the able, active, and
obliging chief of the money-order branch of the
Post office. The honour lately conferred on Mr.
Hill, his being called to the Upper House, was a
just recognition on the part of the Government
of many years’ well-directed public services in the
House of Assembly and as a magistrate of the
territory. He is not likely to become a somnolent
member of the “ Lords ” —his temperament is too
lively for that. He is mnch more likely to wake
up ‘‘the peers” by giving them something
practical to do —or something to think about.
Two Scenes, —Malta and Sydney.
(BY ANGLICUS)
Scxsra I.—Some few months since I was in Malta, and*
of course, did not fail to pay a visit to the Cathedral «C
St. John, of which I had heard so much. When I got
inside, the I saw and the sounds I heard were, for
beauty and sweetness, far excelling expectation. Tha
building was immensely lofty, and on every side—above,
around, everywhere—there were paintings which, for
exquisite loveliness, are quite beyond description.
Some were so large that they stretched from the floor
of the cathedral to the roof. Then the music and the
singing, which came now softly stealing, now rushing
in a tempest of song through the mighty building, wereso
enchanti igly beautiful that I am sure if an angel had
been passing by he would have stopped to listen. And
among all this grandeur and beauty, with hundreds of
white-robed choristers and priests around, there knelt
on the flagstones in front of the altar railings a little
ragged street boy, about 12 years old. His hair hung
about his head in a dirty tangled mass; his legs, as far as
the knees, were naked and dirty; bis clothing, consisting
only of a tiny blouse and short trousers, was all in
rags and covered with mud ; bis face and hands, to
judge from their appearance, had not seen soap and
water for weeks; he was in fact, a true living picture
of an Eastern street-arab. In the body of the cathedral
were a number of persons, some kneeling, sitting
on chairs. The floor was paved with tesselated tiles, and
the chairs were placed in rows down the centre, around
the great pillars, and along the sdes. The
little ragged urchin was not contented with
staying behind the congregation, or near the
door, but had gone in front of them all, and,
when I ente ed the cathedral, he was kneeling
about 10ft. from the altar ra lings. D'd any one
turn this little ragged, dirty waif out of that beautiful
edifice, with its t- weet-smelling it cense, its heavenly
singing, its arti-tic loveliness? No—far from it; he
was not even sent behind the congregation. The in-
cense swung on just the same, right over the little
fellow’s head, actually fanning, over his dirty unwashed
face, perfumed air. The singing went on just as
sweetly, and no one took any notice of the piously-
inclined little “Arab.” When I left, after staying
about an hour, he was still kneeling in front of every-
one, near the alrar railings. So much for scene No. L
Now for scene No. 2 _ . . . Last Sunday
morning I went, for the first time, to St Philips’s.
And I was at once amused and certainly disgusted,
not so much with the service as with two little scenes
which took place apart from it. Firstly : I was amused
at the pew-openers, who were not contented with con-
fining their energies within the church, but took upon
themselves to go to the doors and beckon to the weary
pedestrian to come in and have a seat. Secondly: X
was disgusted at a scene I witnessed there about half-
an-hour after the service had commenced. This is
what it was : Just as the Second Lesson had begun, a
woman came in and stood by the door, inside the
church. She was very poorly clad, and looked horribly
wretched, dirty, a*-d poor. A lady, occupying a pew
near where she was standing, very kindly beckoned to
the poor creature to share it with her, which invitation
she eagerly accepted. For a few moments she sat and
gazed earnestly at the clergyman, and seemed abso-
lutely drinking in every word he uttered. Now
and then she guiltily repeated his words over to herself,
and then, most likely with bygone, happy, innocent,
youthful memories crowding in upon her mind, she
commenced softly to weep, but so low that only those
immediately in front could bear her. 'No doubt she
would soon have subdued her feelingaett she had bean
THE HON. RICHAED HILL, M.L.C.


o
E D E E OF
of
SUNDRY PROPERT
TO BE SOLD BY PUBLIC
by
BATT, RODD, and PU:
at tbeir Rooms, 88 Pitl
on
THURSDAY, January 20, at
MARRICKVILLE. COTTAGE a
Maria-street. MENT, knowi
property, just■
Road, and near
butcher.
SUMMER HILL,
ASHPIELD,
Underwood Estate.
BALMAIN,
Rountreet-street.
ALEXANDRIA,
Rodfera.
SEVERAI
ALLOTMENT!
improving subi
and 28, sectioi
lots 8,9, and 10,
200.
TWO COTT
three rooms,
house, on large
and known i
property.
TWO COTW
Stone, the othe
Wyndham-stre
known as Mr.
the Title is Lei
AUBURN PARK
ESTATE.
SEVERAI
BLOCKS in
future advertii
particulars.
WATSON’S BAY WATER Eh
RESIDENCE,
built of stone,
kitchen, bathi
Torrens’ Act.
NEWTOWN W. B. COTT
QUEEN-STREET, kitchen, stable
&c. Rent 15:
property is ki
ley’s property
Act. Terms e
COOQEE BAY 4 GRAND B
HEIGHTS as follows, vi:
CORNER LOTS P, 37 feet 6
BEACH and I
and lots 2, 3.
tion F, each of
STREET, by ;
at the Rooms.
N.B.—THE PIGEON GROUND,
lotments. On the ground, SA
22, at 3 p.na.
For further particulars and cards
BATT, ROD
To BUILDERS, INVESTORS, anc
mr THE PIGEON GROUND!
GROUND! !
BALMAIN. BALM
GRAND ALLOTMENTS, with lari
DARLING, BOOTH, and other
BATT, EODD, and PUR' 1
instructed to offer the who
TIONALLY VALUABLE ESTA'
situate in the CENTRE of BAI
auction,
ON THE GROUP
on SATURDAY, the 22nd ,
THIS MOST VALUABLE PROI
the HEIGHTS of BALMAIN, am
NIFICENT VIEWS of the 1
RAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY, at
country, and is the ONLY LAND
can possibly come into the MARKI
NOTE the DAY OF SALE—£
JANUARY.
LITHOS. NOW READY AT
na r r »xm obtat
left alone; but, even if she had done so, her low sobs,
either of repentance or grief, disturbed no one, at least
I thought so—and I was sitting quite near to her—but
I was mistaken. T*vo or three pews higher up there
sat a badly pomatumed, and still worsely-scented,
gentleman and Christian (?) with his wife and children,
all devout Christians no doubt in their own eyes.
Well, this gentleman (so called), hearing suppress'd
sob, turned round and beheld the poor wretched out-
cast I have above described —beheld her rags, her
tears, her wretched misery—beheld them all, and what ?
pitied her, and prayed to God to bless the service to
her ? Oh no ; nothing of the sort. He got out of his
pew and beckoned to a pew-opener, and in a suppressed
but loud whisper ordered him to “ turn that creature
out.” Whereupon the pew-opener beckoned to the
“ creature," who did not move; neither did the lady,
whose pew she was sharing, take any notice of the pew-
opener’s efforts to obey the order of the Christian in
front. As the woman did not move, and the man was
getting tired|of beckoning, he resorted to other measures
to “turn her out.” He went to the pew and caught
her roughly by the shawl and dragged her out (I say
“dragged" advisedly), and, half leading, half pushing,
he got her to the entrance, where he gave her a final
shove and shut the door.
The Fate of Leichhardt.
The following telegram reached Mr. E. Du Faur, at the
Lands Office, on Wednesday:—
“ Blaokall Station.
“ Letter, with particulars, by mail. Journals and
other relics heavy, how will I forward them for safety ?
Have Leichhardt’s and Classan’s journals, Leichhardt’s
for the whole of trip, Classan’s from about half; both
in good state of preservation.
“ (Signed)
JNO. RICHARD SKUSTHORPE."
The Bulletin’s Home Thrusts.
The straight hitting of The Bulletin ia its last article
on “ The Larrikin Residuum” has been felt in the right
quarter, and we have evidence of the additional fact that
the public have been roused to the real nature of this
growing evil. We have been threatened with all kinds
of proceedings by the parties to whom the lash was
applied; but,.nothing daunted, we will revert to the
subject arain, and force the legislature to provide a
remedy. Here are extracts from a few of the letters
we have received :
“ A Parramatta J.P." writes as follows :—“ Bravo,
Bulletin, your leader of Saturday last, ‘ The Larrikin
Residuum,* was an excellent and forcible one. Con-
tinue in your good work until our local magistracy,
clergy and politicians do their work in crushing this
crying evil, and you will then receive the heartfelt and
just thanks of a suffering community."
“ A Parent” writes: —“ You have done right good
service in your article last Saturday on Larrikinism —
the only real evil that faces us in this country. What
I say now is the truth, and I regret it much: The
youth of this colony, at least of all the cities and
large towns, are growing up without religion, without
principle, and without respect for themselves or those
above them."
A “City Member” says:—“Your article in the last
issue was in true Bulletin form. It has thoroughly
roused public attention to the larrikin danger.
A “C.E. clergyman” writes: —“Your able leader
should be read by every parent in tbe city. With Dean
Cowper I have been preaching against larrikinism for
years. I hope yon will follow it up until the authorities
are thoroughly aroused.
Honour to Hurley.
STRANGE INCIDENT AT A BANQUET.—A FACT.
The banquet—at one guinea per caput —which took place
at Compagnoni’s, on Wednesday, has been rendered im-
mortal by an address (short, but eminently to the
purpose,) delivered by Sir Henry Parkes. In rising to
propose the toast of the day, the health of the dis-
tinguished guest, Sir Henry said: “ Gentlemen—lt has
devolved upon me to propose the health of Mr. John
Hurley. (Applause). This gentleman being, in his
natural state, an individual of such transcendent merits,
it would, in any ordinary course of events, be a pleasing
duty for me to perform; but when I add that Mr. Hur-
ley has been one of my most earnest and—a-hum !
consistent supporters throughout the length and—a-hum
—breadth of his political career, to propose his health,
from a duty becomes an honour. Mr. Hurley is about
to proceed to—hum I—yes—to—England—to transact
some important business. (Hear, hear.) Well, gentle-
men, before he goes, we must endeavour to extract from
him one promise: that is, that he will not desert us
lor the glittering honours that yearn for him in those
gilded European Courts, which hunger for a statesman
of his world-wide reputation. (Applause.) Prince
Gortschakoff is, I understand, about to resign his
portfolio in the Russian administration. Let not
our guest be persuaded to take his
position.—(Cries of ‘ Please don’t, Johnnie; oh I don’t,
now —don’t.’)—No doubt Bismarck is anxious to secede
from his appointment as Chancellor of the German
Empire: let not our guest desert us by stepping into
the great diplomat’s shoes. General Gariba'di is on
the verge of the tomb: let not our distinguished com-
patriot yield to the million-and-one voices of the Italian
Kingdom, who will howl for him to succeed the gallant
patriot.—(‘No, No!’) —Gladstone, despite his marvellous
mental activity, cannot glow much longer a meteor in
the diplomatic world: let not our beloved John sacri-
fice his dignity by joining the British Cabinet.—(Cries
of ‘ Don’t leave us, John 1’)—No; let him, after he has
brightened the Channel Islands by the refulgence of
his mental and physical beauty, return to this land,
where he is beloved and appreciated, and accept, at the
hands of a grateful country, the honourable and dis-
tinguished post of Pound-keeper of Hartley. Mr.
Hurley, gentlemen, and three times three!”
THE LAST MINUTE.
Libel case on the tapis at Campbelltown.
Kenny Hill appears to be a scheme after all.
The Hon. the Postmaster-General returns to
Sydney from Melbourne this week.
The Austrian Band will give their first per-
formance in Sydney on Anniversary Day.
Mr. Bechet’s premises, at which a conflagration
took place on Tuesday night, was, it is rumored, folly
insured.
A Campbelltown farmer prayed three days for
rain over a dry waterhole. “ The prayers of the
wicked,” Ac.
Mr. E. E. Waters, of the Evening News, is,
we regret to hear, so ill that there is little chance of
his recovery.
Proctor’s cheerful testimony to the excellencies
of “ my friend. Mr. Smythe,” was worthy of the illus-
trious astronomer.
That was a beautiful cup Mr. Charles Byrnes,
M.P., was thinking of presenting for the anniversary
events at Parramatta.
A publican, of Adelong, who recently became a
widower, is the latest victim of “ ask mamma.” He did
ask, and was accepted.
It is as good as settled that Miss Christian will
not return to Melbourne without giving a large circle
of Sydney admirers an opportunity of hearing her.
Mr. Justice Faucett has only taken one year’s
leave of absence, not two, as reported “in the paper
that is always right." His Honor will leave Sydney on
the 27th inst.
Herr Wilhelm], the famous violinist, who was
to arrive in Australia, with a company, last November,
took E. S Smythe’s advice to postpone his visit until
after the Melbourne Exhibition.
The committee have fixed the 9fch April next for
the Intercolonial Eight-oar Bace. Messrs. Medcalf,
Benson, and Deloitte are the selection committee.
Oarsmen desirous of representing this colony must send
in their names before the 9th of next month.
A recent arrival at Temora writes : —“ They
don’t wear clothes here—that is to say clothes. The
diggers say, ‘we can’t wash the geld; how can we wash
ourselves ?’ All of them were clean when they came up
here. I’m clean now. When will we have rain,” Ac.
Mr. R. S. Smythe informs us that Miss Emilie
Gavin, American dramatic reader and impersonator,
purposes to visit Australia, and also that Mr. Charles
Du Val, comedian and humorist, who has been for
several months in South Africa, will shortly put in an
appearance.
Mr. J. Hurley, ex-M.P. for Hartley, was enter-
tained by his friends at a luncheon at Compagnoni’s on
Wednesday, prior to his departure for London, where
he purposes endeavoring to float a Queensland Coal
Company. Several members of the Government were
present. Sir Henry Parkes made a very strange speech,
which is reported elsewhere.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. C. W. Readett petitions against Mr. Jacobs’
return for Gloucester. Grounds are trivial.
The Australasian says some of its politicians
are very thick-skinned. Some of ours are not.
Queanbeyan election, nomination January 24,
■ lolling January 27. Candidates in the field: Messrs.
Rutledge, Gale, Wright, and Hodgkinson.
They know everything at Parramatta. They
say there this week that a Minister is to temporarily
resign his portfolio, and that it will be conferred upon
an ex-Mmister, who once wrote a highly instructive
letter to some little boys.
It is stated that one of the successful candidates
for the Murrumbidgee. with some of his committee,
visited the lock-up at Hilston and liberated a prisoner
by paying a fine of £4 10s. They then brought him to
the polling-booth, and he voted —informally, as the fates
would have it.
In Victoria, members of Parliament have to be
out of the House for six months before being eligible
for a Government situation. In view of three
tions now ready here, that is, when the Government axe
ready, will some patriot members insist on the Vic-
torian rule by moving the necessary resolution P
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
TTn.nla.-n has sprained his wrist (P).
Kimberly fortified against attacks of Boers.
Address in reply Queen’s Speech drags slowly on.
Native plot to assassinate the Europeans at
Eolapore.
Plying columns of troops have been despatched
to Ireland.
Alliance, offensive and defensive, between
Greece and Servia.
Returns of French municipal elections favour-
able to Republicans.
Fenians have attempted to fire London Custom
House. Attempt failore.
Sir Donald Stewart has succeeded Sir F. Haines
in command of Indian army.
Forster, Secretary for Ireland, charged Parnell
with being author of disturbances.
First batch of workman started for the scene of
the operations at the Panama Canal.
Humour that the Fenians intend attacking
Chester and Gasport, Isle of Wight.
English and American fishery dispute discussed
amicably in Washington House of Representatives.
Parnell, moving Amendment to Queen’s Speech,
said coercive measures would ensure rebellion in
Ireland.
The marriage between Prince Rudolph of
Austria and Princess Stephanie of Belgium has been
postponed.
A Birmingham clockmaker, instructed by
Nihilists to make an infernal machine, applied to police
for protection.
The Pope condemns the Irish land agitation,
and asks the people to confide in the jnst intentions of
England to reform the laws.
The disaster to the 94th Regiment, near Pre-
toria, is officially shown to he more serious than at
first reported. The Boers attacked the moving column
in overwhelming numbers, killing 112 j men, and cap-
turing and disarming the remainder.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Two affianced in Macleay-street, and two in
Wynyard-aquare.
Mrs. Sandy, of Eathgael, will give a ball to-
night, January 14.
A Surry Hills clergyman’s son has proposed and
been accepted. Early date.
Turkish towelling has suddenly become a popular
material for walking dresses.
Hon. John Frazer gave a dinner party this week
at his residence, Quiarang, to about twenty guests.
Mrs. Thom, of Prestonville, Darlinghurst, gave
a splendid ball on Tuesday night. About 100 guests
were present.
A North Shore lady is the reigning belle in
Dunedin, (N.Z.). Seven offers of marriage in one week
—and all accepted.
Mr. Eupert Bedford, of the Oriental Bank, son
of the late Dr. Bedford, is engaged to Miss Laycock, of
Hunter’s Hill.
Intercolonial University match, on M.C.C.
ground, 7th, Bth, and 10th inst., was won by Sydney in
one innings, with 105 runs to spare.
It is said that the lovely and accomplished
daughter of one of the Glebe Aldermen, is shortly to be
the bride of the son of a Jewish Eabbi.
The “ leading milkman ” of Bondi will shortly
marry his eldest daughter to a wealthy surveyor. The
house is being built in the same suburb.
A promising young Sydney lawyer, residing at
one of the fashionable parts of the city, has captured a
rich Jewess— a belle of East Melbourne. Marriage
shortly.
Miss Belgrave, daughter of Dr. Belgrave, an
accomplished young lady, who recently arrived from
Belgium, is to be married to Mr. Capper, of West
Maitland.
The members of the Chamber of Commerce will
give a grand banquet to the Premiers and other mem-
bers of the Australian Governments, in the Exchange,
next week.
Those large hats trimmed with wreaths of field
flowers and lace are becoming even more fashionable
for ladies and children. They are not only remarkably
pretty, but extremely suitable for the present season.
Some very pretty dresses for children may now be
seen. One particularly elegant costume for a little girl,
shown at Farmer and Co.’s, was composed of pale
cream-colored cashmere, trimmed blue silk and fluted
lace.
We understand that a marriage has been ar-
ranged between Mr. Thomas Higgins, of football fame,
[ eldest son of R. G. Higgins, Esq., Potts’ Point, and
1 Miss S. M. Lyons, eldest daughter of Capt. Lyons,
Branxie, Balmain.
We have been asked by a dozen correspondents
to indicate, however so slightly, who are the Balmain
heiresses waiting to be won. We can’t do that. All we
say is—they’re there.
A match has been arranged to come off in the
merry month between the happy and contented-looking
daughter of a well-known doctor (who, however, does
not practice his profession) and a very high official in
the Education Office, Woollahra.
The marriage epidemic is spreading northward.
Happy girls! A wealthy gentleman of Maitland is to
be married to the handsome daughter of a Newcastle
sea captain; and a retired surveyor, of the same
locality, has found at Lochinvar the solace of his life.
Pompadours are as much in favour as ever this
season. A very graceful and effective costume for a
young lady which attracted much attention in the
Gardens, was made of remarkably pretty pompadour,
cut away in front and displaying a skirt of sky blue
sateen, trimmed with frill, bows, and embroidery.
English society papers, like the Australian
society paper, The Bulletin, are all the rage, yet they
are hard pressed when they inform us that Lady
Bomilly has been “trying her skill as an angler.” Are
not all ladies unjustly accused of being anglers ? Cer-
tainly it is added that her ladyship was successful in
lauding a big fish—only it was a salmon 281bs.
The Bathurst wedded couple referred to in our
last, resolved to spend the first week of their honey-
moon on the Blue Mountains at an excellent hostelrie,
where, however, accomodation and servants are not
plentiful. The breakfast, dinner, and tea table had
other visitors, so the cooing of the doves and the pour-
ing out “my husband’s tea” were deprived of its in-
terest. Maude and Frederick only remained one day.
Thompson and Giles showed in their window
this week some very handsome dresses. One a costume.
Princess robe, of dove-coloured silk with pleted front of
satin, pipings of blue and quiltings of the same color
for sleeves and underskirt, was very attractive. There
was also another rich dress of navy blue silk, with
pleteings of blue satan aud ribbon bows of the same,
and quiltings of scarlet for underskirt.
Home Dressmaking.
[WRITTEN SPECIALLY FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The comfort and satisfaction of being perfectly well
dressed mast be universally allowed. What lady can
deny the pleasant influence of always having a good
stock of elegant dresses,—or, on the other hand, the
discomfort of being obliged to restrict her wardrobe to
limits too narrow for convenience ? It is obvious that
if home dressmaking were more generally practised,
ladies could afford double the number of new dresses,
as the price of making a costume is in most cases amply
sufficient to purchase another; and the disappoint-
ments, delays, and annoyances attendant upon having
work done out would be considerably lessened, much
to the comfort, not only of the ladies themselves, but
of numerous over-worked dressmakers, who so fre-
quently find it impossible to keep pace with the heavy
demands upon their time and labour. How often,
during the busy seasons, we hear ladies complaining of
the difficulty of getting their holiday attire made
because every dressmaker has already too much to do.
Strangely enough, the idea of setting to work on their
own account, seldom occurs to these ladies. If such a
thing were suggested, they would probably reply, “But
I cannot make a dress—l never did so in my lifeand
dismissing the idea as quite impracticable, continue
their search until they are perhaps fortunate enough
to find someone who will undertake the work at a much
increased rate. Making a dress under some circum-
stances is certainly by no means easy. Many, who are
adepts at plain sewing, might reasonably be daunted at
the very thought of cutting out and fitting; and others,
though able to arrange their in-door attire, would never
think of attempting a walking or ballroom costume.
Within the last few years, however, obstacles which
rendered home dressmaking impossible to all hut
practised hands, have either vanished altogether or
become so slight as to be readily surmounted; for the
best sewing-machines are so cheap and easily obtained
that one or more may be found in almost every dwell-
ing, and patterns, so varied in style as to suit any taste,
and so accurate that even a novice can use them with
good hope of success, are so reasonable in price as to be
within the reach of all classes. It is scarcely necessary
to enlarge upon the numerous advantages of home
dressmaking. How many mothers of large families
whose ever-increasing wants are a source of heavy
anxiety, would be so glad if one of their daughters
were to devote a few hours daily to contriving garments
for her little brothers and sisters! ‘Would not the
young ladies themselves, whose time hangs heavy on
their hands, find making pretty costumes almost as
agreeable an occupation as covering the tables with
wool mats and wax flowers, or the chairs and sofas
with antimaccassars which seem to us as ugly as they
are useless; and would not many fathers, relieved from
the necessity of continually inspecting dressmakers’
bills, rejoice in the useful, helpful, eldest daughter
who had made herself a comfort to the household?
It cannot be denied that the general practice of home
dressmaking would be not only a pleasant employment
for young ladies, but a blessing to numerous families
who could not fail to be benefited by its convenience
and economy. I know one lady in this city who has
studied dressmaking as an art, and at a ball a few weeks
back both herself and her sister were the most attrao-
live by far of all the ladies present
F.R.
To our Headers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad,
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially oh matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be I particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bcmrriif
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor wiH
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
Probably the largest army ever assembled for
battle was that of Xerxes at Thermopylae in 481 B. C.
Herodotus estimates the number of combatants at
2,5000,000.
.£300,000,000, according to the Statist, is require
to buy up the Irish landlords. It has been ascertained
that the absentee landlords received £30,000,000 per
annum out of the total annual rent of £10,000,000 new
paid to all landlords.
Rival Magnates.
AN AUSTRALIAN PASTORAL.
IN PROSE.
In a smiling town, deep down in the sunny south-west,
there were, each blooming in the zenith of his popu-
larity, two great men. They were both so great that
none dare say which was the greater ; and, as is com-
mon all over the world with gorgeous potentates of
nearly equal splendour, they fell out; and so seriously
did they fall out that two cross-slander actions were
pending between them. One was the Mayor of the
town, and a man, who though he condescended to collar
the venal six-and-eight-pences of the local cockatoos,
lifted his head as high as Haaman but no ; the
metaphor (won’t “ gee ” anyhow he was in his own
estimation (and indeed in that of many of the local
bucolics) as big a man as was ever encased in a suit of
Geelong tweed. The other man was a doctor of medi-
cine—or rather had been a physician but had flung aside
the jalap for the pen. There were some who said that
he slung around his paregoric (which he had prescribed
for all diseases —cancer included) better than he did the
ink of his newly-adopted profession ; but that of course
—like Melville’s merit—is merely a matter of opinion.
The doctor had, it is true, a slight advantage over his
antagonist from the fact of possessing the paper ; since
he was enabled, from time to time, to lampoon the
worthy Mayor in the Poet’s Comer of his journal under
the headings of “ Lines to an Owl," *’ Stanzas to a
Turnip,” etc.; still the man of law chipped in occa-
sionally by the withering satire he indulged in over the
billiard table at the Royal. When the quarrel was at
its height, a certain well-known Sydney gentle ■nan
visited the district, and in the course of his peregrina-
tions encountered the Mayor. After they had greeted
one another, his worship drew the Sydney man aside,
and said, “ I say, yon know that fellow Bones —Bones,
of the Grazikrs’ Champion—well he’s the biggest
scoundrel out. Why, it was not long ago since a name-
sake of his—a doctor —got seven years for forging
medical certificates. He sold them wholesale to who-
ever would buy them, and, let me whisper, Bones—
Bones of the local rag—bought one of ’em." Hardly had
Ahe Sydney itum time to shift away and digest this some-
what startling “ personal item," than he encountered
Bnmu hietmll After they had indulged in the usual
refresher, the ex-doctor took him by the coat cuff and
said, “A word in your ear. You know that six-end-
eight-penny scarecrow, the Mayor ? Well, I was at the
Eoyal Hotel the other day, and a lot of fellows were
standing about as ‘his worship’ entered. ‘ Hullo 1’
cried one, ‘ why that’s so-and-so; he used to work
in the same chain-gang as me at the Cape.’ ” Well the
actions went on, and each party, to use an expression
much in vogue in the district at that time, “ went in a
■jerisher.” Bones tore up to Sydney to inspect the
Mayor's papers of admission to practise at the Supreme
Court. He found everything tom out but the bare
“ admission of solicitor." Then he groped along until
he discovered that between the time his antagonist was
admitted as an attorney by the London law institution,
until the period at which he mysteriously turned up as
jound-keeper of a small township near the scene of his
i uture mayoralty, that there was an enormous blank.
So what did Bones do, but he fitted the chain-gang
episode into the blank, and submitted the completed
Mosaic medallion to “ his worship.” In the end both
drew their actions, and shortly afterwards Bones died.
The quondam mayor, however, was afterwards a mem-
ber of Parliament, and is now a “ haw-haw” lawyer of
Sydney, who has become so short-sighted that he hardly
ever recognises a man from the pastoral districts —and
never by any chance one from the Cape of Good Hope.


NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[BY ONE OF US.]
At a mayoral banquet given to the officers of
the French war steamer at Cooktown, the health
of the Queen was proposed by the Mayor, and
responded to by Mr. W. S. Hartley. Mr. Hartley’s
brother is married to the late Postmaster-General’s
daughter, and it is probably on that account that he
felt called upon to represent royalty. Cooktown is
proud.
The civilizing process adopted by Inspector
Fitzgerald, of Cooktowu, to bring in the blacks, has
not been so successful as the Brisbane Courier antici-
pated. According to the Cooktown Herald the blacks
made speedy use of the tomahawks received from a
paternal Government, by chopping up the settlers’
cattle. The Herald now suggests that the Govern-
ment should give them rifles at once, and let the abo-
riginal question be fought out fairly.
An amusing incident occurred at Kingsborough
a short time back. Boyett, the late editor of the
Hodqkinson Mining News, feeling sore about the loss
of his paper in the libel case brought by Hamilton, the
member for Gympie, endeavoured to fulfil the predic-
tions of “King Billy’s” subjects, namely, “that no
issue of the Hodgkinson Independent should appear
on the following Saturday." He journeyed to Kings-
borough and sought out Love, ostensibly to put him in
the hospital for a week or two at least. Having found
him, Boyett, gesticulating violently, demanded him to
“come out.” Love, nothing loth, eyed his man coolly
for some moments, and then, with a smiling face, set
to work in the orthodox style. The result was that,
after three rounds, Boyett was knocked out of time and
much disfigured. The Independent boys, elated with
victory, “uncorked,” and the usual amount of talk en-
sued. It transpired that Hamilton, foreseeing journa-
listic difficulties, had some time previously instructed
Love in the art of self-defence, and it unfortunately
happened, as above stated, that he was the first on whom
his pupil tried his arts.
OUR MELBOURNE LETTER.
[FROM GRAND FLANEUR.]
The Countess of Ellesmere sets a good example
to Victorian ladies. She anticipates the wants of her
father and husband by those little social attentions that
are so becoming in woman.
A Sydney gentleman lately paid a visit to our
great metropolis. He had occasion to visit some friends
in one of the suburbs, by omnibus—fare, 3d. By some
unaccountable error he paid twice• Finding out his
mistake, he told the busman, who jokingly re-
marked, “Well, take a ride back again for it." But
no, he waited his chance, and the next evening, being
invited to dine at the same friend’s house, waited nearly
an hour in Bourke-street till he saw his man, when he
mounted the ’bus and reminded the driver he had paid
his fare the previous day. Is this an example of Syd-
ney liberality? [lt all depends. Was the man an
alderman ?— Ed.]
Sir Arthur Nicholson, Bart., is spending a few
weeks at Lome with several young (?) fellows, for the
good of his health.
Rumour tells a queer tale, nevertheless true, of
of a Sydney swell who came overland to Melbourne to
see the Exhibition, taking with him an introduction to
a private lodging-house. After faring on the fat of the
land for several weeks, he, during the unsuspecting ab-
sence of the landlady, slipped 2s. 6d. into the servant’s
hand, and bade her thank her mistress for the kindness
he had received during his visit, shouldered his carpet-
bag, and was seen no more. His name appeared in
the Argus next morning as a passenger per rail to
Sydney.
Much has been said about employing children in
the theatres, and truly the baby element is too
strong at the Bijou. When one sees that small child
of not more than two years of age at the very outside,
come out of a flower at 9 30 p.m., and dance steps to the
tune of “The Perfect Cure,” one cries shame on the
mother for allowing it, on Mrs. Lewis for engaging it,
and on the public for witnessing it.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ A. 8,” : Send another item. “P.”; Next
week, possibly. “CampbellownSee “Facts and
Fancy Focussed.” “ C.H.A,” : Next week.
“ J.L.”: The lash next issue. “ B.B.”: It’s useless to
send us heavy, lengthy epistles; brevity, brevity.
“ R.W.M.”: Of considerable merit, but too lengthy.
“ W.M.” : Capital enigma, but we don’t publish any ;
something else. “ Dirk You ask us to attack
Prank Warden; now, why should we ? “J.M.W.”:
Send along some items ; concise, interesting, and good-
humoured. “X.”: Held over.
The Bulletin.
It is with some satisfaction—and it is always a satis-
faction to us to please our readers—that we call the
attention of our supporters to the fact that this
journal appears again on toned paper, a shipment of
which has just reached us. Future editions of The
Bulletin will be printed on tinted paper—a continual
supply having been arranged for Haynes and Archibald.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Mr. B. Craig, 75 years of age, and for 30 years
a resident of G wlburn, is dead. Municipal election
at Molong said to be a sham, and likely to come before
the Supreme Court. Mndgee bank overdraft, £llOO.
Mrs. N. P. Bayly has had erected in St. John’s
Church, Mudgee, two handsome stained-glass windows,
in memory of her husband. James Mara, publican,
of Wollar, well known about Mudgee, has been com-
mitted for cattle-stealing. Delegate miners’ meeting
at Lambton decided to raise the men’s weekly contri-
bution to the general union fund from Id. to 3d. A
woman named Jones, given to intemperance, walked
into the harbour at Newcastle, and quietly held her
head under water, in the endeavour to commit sui-
cide. She was dragged out of the water by an
engineer named Sutton The man-woman, De Lacy
Evans, exhibiting at Newcastle. Newcastle weekly
output of coal 14,446 tons. The banquet at Waggato
Mr. A. G. Jones, as a solice to that gentleman over his
recent political defeat, has been postponed owing to his
illness. Mr. Aland, the Opposition candidate, at
Toowoomba, has been well received. Old School of
Arts to be replaced by splendid building for the National
Bank. One prisoner for the Grafton Court of Quarter
Sessions. An Australian fruit salt offered to the
public. George Fitzgerald, 13, dead from snake
bite, Kowit Creek, Victoria. Will Tucker, of
Melbourne, disappointed in love, shot himself. —-
The Goulbum escort last Friday was 3247 or., of
which Adelong contributed 1050 oz and Temora 1176 oz.
The Pandora, steamer, snagged in the Darling, has
been raised.—Wool steamers delayed on the Darling
owing to low water. Terrible suffering of cattle,
horses and drivers on the stock routes in the Far
West. People journeyed seventy and eighty miles
to attend the court at Condobolin, only to find
no magistrate. The Siam took £88,899 in specie.
King’s School grounds, Parramatta, are being
greatly improved. Rev. G. F. Macarthur, the principal,
is a scholar and a gentleman, and believes that all sorts
of athletic exercises are good for his boys. Mr.
Latham Fullager, son of Mr. William Fullager, the
well-known auctioneer, died of consumption at his
parent’s residence, Parramatta, on Sunday. The first
British India Steam Company’s steamer will leave Eng-
land early in February prox. under the new Queensland
contract. Two hundred and fifty-seven ounces of gold
were taken into Gladstone last week, being the result
of a crushing of about 100 tons from tbe Advance Reef
at Milton. Mr. Thomson, M.P. for Queanbeyan, has
resigned. John Shorten, of Moruya, thrown from
his horse and three ribs broken. Ellis is building a
prize 22ft. boat for National Regatta. Captain Mar-
shall, of schooner Zephyr, murdered at Choisel Island;
leaves a wife and three children, L’Estrange once
more on the “balloon racket." Epping Forest,
England, thrown open to the public, the City Corpora-
tion having bought it for £250,000. Mr. Balfour
(30,000 a year income) fell from his bedroom at the
Royal Hotel. Taken to the Infirmary, but removed by
his friends; progressing satisfactorily. Fairclough
and Elsa May open at the School of Arts on the 17th
instant. Letter carriers of Melbourne presented an
address to the Hon. J. B. Patterson, Postmaster
General. Caledonian escapees been granted writ of
habeas corpus in Brisbane. Adelaide Marine Board
sat on Chimborazo disaster. Witnesses fined £lO each
for non-attendance. Dr. Day, of Geelong, dead.
Charles Langhorn, miner, severely injured at Wagga.
Every appearance of rain all over the colonies.
Two sailors of the barque Haidee, Newcastle, jumped
overboard while drunk, and with difficulty rescued.
Captain refuses to prosecute. Outrages in Solomon
Islands becoming more frequent. Large number of
Chinese murdered. Rev. C. D. Newman, of the Wol-
lombi, dead. Conference commences on Thursday.
Dr. Clark, of Blayney, died on Tuesday of inflam-
mation of the lungs. Mrs. Elizabeth Dunlop arrested
at Yass for the murder of her husband, by poisoning
with strychnine. Ship Hereford, 1440 tons, wrecked
off Barwon Heads. Mr. Proctor has left for ’Frisco.
A man nnmed Theodore Hoffman found dying of
starvation in Elizabeth-street. Mr. W. B. Fennell
bravely saved Mrs. Loham and family from drowning.
A fire has occurred at Mr. Solomon Cooper’s hair-
dressing saloon, 309, George-street. Both premises and
stock insured. A boy named Tucker shot himself at
Rosstown, Vic., on account of disappointed love.
Mr. Terence M’Mahon, of G.P.0., presented with silver
napkin-rings and salver by G.P.O. Mutual Benefit
Society. The Bathurst Free Press has got foul
of the Inspector of Charities, in re his report on
the local Hospital. The Inspector still lives.
Larrikins at the Glebe committed an outrage by
mutilating a cow belonging to a resident. The police
are investigating the affair. Messrs. M’Elhone and
Bussell Barton, M.L.A’s., were sworn in on Tuesday.
A large fire at Bechet’s on Tuesday night. The
Daily Telegraph office narrowly escaped. The
Legislative Council met on Wednesday for the first
time after the recess. Millsom, boat-builder, Wool-
loomooloo Bay, won £lOOO in E. B. Jones’s Tattersall’s
Cup “Consultation.” The case of assault, Sergeant
against Hon. James Munro, has been The
witnesses were ordered out of court. Mr. Trickett,
M.L.A., Mayor of Wollahra, has spoken. In conse-
quence of the bad quality, short measure, and high
price of the beer supplied by the Sydney brewers, the
Licensed Victuallers’ Association is preparing to estab-
lish a joint stock brewery in their own interests.
Fearfully crowded train last one to Parramatta each
Saturday night. The Sydney Hibernians have a big
fill out on the 17th. Parramatta Park trustees set
aside a portion of the reserve for the Rose Hill Bowling
Club. Mr. W. A. Brodrie, for many years C.P.S. and
Land Agent at Parramatta, and for the last two years
connected with the firm of H. H. Nunn and Co., has
started business as auctioneer, land, estate, and general
agent at the above-named town. Campbelltown
aldermen are to have a uniform of red serge. Belles,
bankers, and billiards rule at Campbelltown. It’s
the beauty, not the liquor, that is the attraction at that
Campbelltown hotel.
BRIEF MENTION.
Business barometers—Fires.
There are three Young members in Parliament.
No sober effort has yet been made to establish a
Press Club in this city.
A certain morning newspaper man always goes
to the theatre in a critical condition.
’Buses licensed to carry thirteen never carry
more than twenty-six—from the theatre.
The beau of Balmain is yclept “Johnny,” and
he is better known than the local member.
It may be that the French colonizing expe-
dition is only an effort to Rays the wind after all.
The Queenslander’s discussion on the Native
Police question is locally called a study in black and
white.
The great political plotter, drawing an I 0 U
the other day, said to himself, •* I believe this is a bad
owe-men.”
“William Tucker shot himself, owing to un-
requited love.”—Hecker.
Once she wouldn’t have her Tucker,
So he couldn’t have his bliss;
Now she cannot have her Tucker,
’Cause he couldn’t swallow his.
The motto of the Cairns paper is intended as a
joke. Here it is :
“ Cairns you will yet see flourishing and great.
Fortune helps those who best know how to wait.”
UP to the present, nothing but the paper has been
waiting—waiting for subscribers to pay up.
“ Peter ” has had plenty of chaff thrown at him
over his “Christmas Cherries.” He says they were
'■ picked by a pleasant person.” Well, Pete generally
is alone in his opinions, and possibly this case is no ex-
ception to the rule. Still, it is haul for a “ pleasant
person " to pick cherries for public profit, and for the
public to pelt him with the stones.
The courteous old Piddington offered his hand
last Monday to an elderly matron. Of course the lady
was getting out of a ’bus.
A well-known hardware firm in George-street
are about altering their name. It is to be hoped they
will alter their hours also.
A Riverina journalist went straight away and
got married when he drew a good horse in Goyder’s
sweep. He didn’t win : now he’s weeping.
At the next religious festival, Bass Hodge will
have his license transferred to that church. Then he
can charge for the liquor as it’s consumed.
Some of the Central Cumberland magisterial
fledgelings appear, from recent decisions, to have a very
hazy idea of the Landlord and Tenants’ Act.
A Gosford J.P. directed his jury, at an inquest
recently, as to their finding, and their verdict was —
“ Died by the visitation of God, accelerated by drink.”
At St. Mark’s, while the clergymen and choir
enter, and while they are departing, one half of the
congregation stand up, and the other remains sitting.
Westwood’s greatest hymn was : “ Come dows,
Sal —come down, Sal —come down, Salvation!!! ” Need
we wonder that the larrikins never waited for salva-
tion?
The Snails Bay people say their clergyman is
not fast enough, as they want more in-tress-ting dis-
courses. Is it necessary to say that this comes from a
sinner P
The four railway employes, somewhere about
the Junction, who are always complaining of the
drudgery of the service, weigh 68st. exactly. Goodchap’s
simply killing these fellows.
There are two insurance managers in this city
who walk, talk, sing, sigh, smile, and dine together.
“ Would they would court together,” says the young
lady of the cate that they patronise, “ those old gentle-
men are so tiresome."
The Brisbane Courier says “it was an un-
fortunate thing for Christmas to fall upon a Saturday.”
Now, Bnzacott, we put it to you, as a consistent
Methodist, whether it would not have been worse had
Christmas fallen on Sunday ?
The young fellow at Lassetter’s, who dropped
into a fortune of £15,000 all through sending his Uncle
The Bulletin, has received further good news—a form,
giving a rental of £2O a week, is also left him. Happy
boy! He is already en route to England.
The Christian Weekly, our neatly printed
contemporary, devotes two columns in its last issue to
the “Religious Wakening." It concludes with the
words, “Such, then, are our thoughts.” And to think
that they only ask sixpence for them.
The late mayor refused toaccept Alderman
M’Elhone’s resignation, written in haste, and with-
drawn at leisure.
The chance we waited for in vain
Is fled. It won’t occur again.
Hark to the Mail in its last leading article on
the Great Central Plains :—“ The continent of
Australia is like a slandered hut virtuous woman,
steadily outliving detraction.” So is Granny. She is
unquestionably a slandered but virtuous, etc.
A women who went to a pawnbroker’s was
entrusted with a half-crown, for which she was to get
change. She left her baby in the shop as a pledge for
her return, but she never came back. The pawnbroker
now advertises a perpetual alarum for sale cheap.
Dr. Beg’s biz. at Chalmer’s Church is not look-
ing up. “When do you expect your drought to break
up ? ” enquired a Victorian farmer of him. “ When ? ”
replied the doctor, thinking he was referring to the
church, “ when ? That’s just what I’d like to know."
A recent analysis of Parramatta River water
has returned—one part beer lees (from Vallack’s Brew-
ery), one part cesspit sewage, 10 per cent, mud, 10 per
cent, hospital poultices, and 30 per cent, muddy water.
And this is the mixture the Parramatta people have to
drink.
The Parramatta journalist who tried to get into
a Petersham pub., on the Sunday after Christmas Day,
and was mistaken for a policeman, has since drawn
attention to the fact that Petersham bonifaces sell on
Sundays, and that the police ought to look into the
matter.
A hiokstract from the current week’s Sorrow :
—“ Such arch-agitators are, to Mr. Punch’s mind, only
one remove from Parnell, inasmuch as they extoll (sic.)
assassination and murder." We suppose “ Mr. Punch’s
mind” is too lofty to descend to learning how to spell a
dissyllable!
From the Brisbane pantomime, “ Lalla Rookh:”
“ If Somthing lesser you would wish to see.
Go to the Australian—but, there, let me
Bolt knives —or balance ladders on my chin.
Hi I hi! walk up, just goin’ to begin."
Oh dear!!! 1
We’ve been asked by the Municipal authorities
whether we’d like Bridge-street changed into The
Bulletin Parade. We’ve replied. No, it would be a
bad precedent. Punch’s Corner would soon follow, and
then we’d have twenty such comers within a radius of
200 yards of Castlereagh-street.
A grand country this ! A travelling photo-
grapher now rides in his landau —the result of per-
severance, energy, and—marrying the richest, though
perhaps the plainest girl in Sydney. The family motto
is, “ Have you seen the Ghost ?"
A local candidate beat the sitting member up
West somewhere. The beaten man, however, revenged
himself by putting the bailiffs in possession of his vie-
torious rival’s premises. So now the unsuccessful one
goes about chuckling, and says he is cleverer than the
Good Templars: for he can put a man in all by himself.
When a certain authority in “ comic ” journal-
ism was dancing with an old woman at a public insti-
tution on Christmas Eve, an innocent new chum who
was present said to a friend, “ Who is that old gentle-
man skipping about over there—what asylum does he
come from ?”
Two empty beer barrels were found on the
grounds, at Broughton Creek, where a temperance
society, on the previous day, had been holding high
carnival. This is very encouraging. It shows that the
reprehensible habit of “ taking it behind the door” is
fast dying out.
Is this the news of a battle we read, or does it
mean that Temora is just getting over a great big
drunk. The Evening Lyre correspondent says:—
“ With the exception of a number of /alien bodies and
logs of trees which are still obstructing the main
thoroughfare, Hoskins-street has been denuded of all
the forest timber,” »•
We seldom remember reading, even in the
Penny Thakambau, a more horrible case of crim con
than that presented by the editor of the Camden
Times to his subscribers’ families, on January 6,
wherein it is stated that “ Henry Small was tried and
committed for trial for, etc.”
A polished tea broker, who has more than once
threatened to buy out all China, and rule the market
all over the world, walked into a George-street house
and asked, with the air of a big speculator, what their
tea was invoiced at in China—in rupees. He retired
with his ta«l in the usual place.
The superintendent of the Parramatta fire
brigade has been away from town a fortnight. The fire
bell rang the other night, and there was only one
gallant brigadier and two boys to get out the engine.
Yet the Sydney dailies recorded that “ the brigade and
appliances were promptly on the spot.”
They’re still keeping up Christmas at the office
of the Evening Muddle, to wit, the following :
“ Mann—January 4, at her brother-in-law’s residence,
of John V. Mann, aged 35 years, native of Dublin,
youngest daughter of the late John Cunningham, per
ship Northern Light. Sweet Jesus have mercy on her
soul.” Bier.
Last week, the employes of Messrs. Toohey
Brothers presented Mr. J. T. Toohey with an address,
and invited him to a banquet, and after that, suitably
enough, to a “ hop.” The spirits of all on the occasion
were exceedingly ale-arious, and some danced so long in
the brewery that it was considered a miracle how they
could Standard.
A number of bank friends, at Newcastle, were
cheering a departing acquaintance on the steamboat.
Ninian Melville and Turner, the recently elected, were
on board, and "took the demonstration to themselves."
Ninny bowed his acknowledgments, and was just about
to make a speech, when a shrill voice unmanned him.
“ It’s not you. Ninny; put on your hat."
Brutus writes : “ Geoffrey Eagar, Dr. Badham,
Sir Alfred Stephen, Sir James Martin, Sir Henry Parkes,
Hon. Charles Moore, and six others have sidings agin
their doors on the Blue Mountains. It is absurd for
the whole Australian public who travel west to grumble
at their stoppages. They only cost £SOOO a year.” We
would be glad to hear that Brutus is a perverter of the
truth.
The Lieutenant of Granville is not nearly so tall
as he used to be. A local i üblican placed a stuffed bear
in the fork of an adjacent tree, and for two hours the
Lieutenant peppered away with a Henry rifle. When
the moonlight streamed through Bruin’s ribs, the
Lieutenant said, “ Why, d —- it, he must be dead ; he’s
tied there.” He got a ladder, went up, and —came down
again.
“Reader:” We have received your abusive
letter, which looks as though it had been written with
a olothes-prop on a sheepskin, and the three-syllable
words appear to have been spelled by the younger son
of an English duke. You say that we can have your
proper address on application. Thank you; but we
have not yet had leisure to give Mr. John Cecil Bead
a call.
Can Alfred Allen be writing a tale in the Wide
Bat and Burnett News ? Here is a verse of poetry
out of it, which is very much in Alfred’s style:—
“ Come, blow ye winds in the morning.
And blow ye winds, heigh ho ;
To sweep away the morning dew,
Come, blow ye winds heigh ho.”
Heigh ho!
Spiritualism in France ! The French Govern-
ment is wise in its generation through expelling the
Jesuits. What connoiseur does not relish Chartreuse ?
The latest information is that “ the Government has
decided that the monks of Chartreux, famous for their
liqueur which adds so much to 1 he excise revenue of the
country, shall remain unmolested.” Their spirits
saved them.
The following conundrum from our Barrack-
street contemporary has a true Victorian ring about it:
—“ About 1 o’clock yesterday, while attempting to cross
the rocks by a pathway only used by foot passengers,
in front of M'Caskey’s clothing store, Balmain, a
butcher’s boy had a very narrow escape. His horse’s
foot slipped, and it and its rider rolled over and over
down the steep incline.”
We see by the “ Never Never” papers that Dr.
Smith, physician of Charters Towers, has been sen-
tenced to six months’ imprisonment for drunkenness
and disorderly conduct. It was only the other day a
Towers publican was fined £3O for supplying the medico
with a drink. Two or three nobblers are said to render
the doctor a lunatic, and when he got on a “ bust," on
rum, he was particularly rum-bustical.
The editor of the Lithgow Mercury is ap-
parently hard-up for an apt quotation. The only one
he could call to mind seemingly was, “ Not wisely, but
too well,” and this he glued over a par. about the sad
death of the Queensland Atttorney-General. The
Lithgow Junius is one of those of whom Horace spake
when he said, “ DeVphinum sylvis appingit, fluctibus
aprum.” It grieves us to have to shoot yet one more
arrow into this Targett.
Municipal affairs in Charters Towers are getting
mixed. The Q. N. Bank lately dishonored all the
Mayor’s cheques. The manager wanted promissory
notes from members of the Council, and such is the
confidence of the aldermen in the financial position of
their municipality that they cheerfully declined to
accede to the request. The Council employes are now
going about the Towers, striving to swop their cheques
for second-hand slabs and old kerosene tins.
One of the Jones’s,” in the Freeman, who has
arrived at No. 15 of his “ Goldfields Sketches ” (each
about four columns in length), began his fifteenth with
the ingenuous observation: “I have thought it possible
that some readers may consider these recollections too
diffuse.” Well, for our parts, we murmur—just with
sufficient hesitation to maintain our proverbial polite-
ness —that we can quite sympathise with the thoughts
of “ One of the Jones’s ’’—and with his readers.
This is the text“ Mr. Francis J. Morgan,
a well-known grocer, has been thrown from a horse, and
killed, his skull being fractured." This is the tragedy.
The deceased married a lovely songstress named Clara
Lee. They lived happily until a friend poured venom
into her ear. The result was the young wife went
insane, and was removed to Glades ville. When the
time for her last confinement drew near, she was
removed from the asylum to her husband’s residence,
and it was while the poor lady lay up that the'|death of
the husband occurred. She is again in the asylum—
he in the grave.
Judge Hargrave on the Equity bench. Fie !
most learned Judge, to say that, when administering
equity, you attempt to mislead the counsel addressing
you, by appearing to agree with them that they may
shorten their addresses (see Herald evidence given
before committee of Legislative Assembly on Law
Eeform). The venerable old Judge makes a good joke
when before the committee by explaining the method he
adopted to save the time of the Court ; but did it ever
occur to “Old Equity" that it is impossible for a good
judge to give effect to his rule without doing in.equity f
If the Judge wishes to stop a counsel’s argument, does it
not seem to the non-legal mind as if the Judge had not
already made up his mind without hearing the case at
all. We once knew a learned equity judge who could
sleep through a counsel’s address; but the late lamented
Edward Butler used to wake up that Judge by dropping
a large book upon the barristers’ table. When that
ruse failed, he would wait till the Judge woke up!
Barristers know the weaknesses of the Bench quite as
well as the Bench know the Bar, and it is frequently a
case of diamond cut diamond between them. The real
sufferers from both are the unfortunate equity suitors.
Some sensation has been caused in London by
the publication of a work, “ Our Australian Cousins.
It is by “ Maori ” (Mr. James Inglis). This work con-
tains two or three extracts from the daily newspapers
and from N.S.W. parliamentary debates. Forster, while
praising the colony, said there was a deterioration in
our public men. But what he said sinks into flattery
in the face of the Sydney Daily Telegraph’s talk on
July 30,1879, to the British public about our political
adventurers: —“ The representation of the people in the
(N.S.W.) Legislature has degenerated into a scramble
for the loaves and fishes. The petty spirit of localism
has dragged down the noble office of representative to
a sort of huckstering commission agency, and the
patriotic desire to benefit the country at large has been
replaced by a sordid policy of securing favours for one’s
own constituency and friends," <fcc. &c. But —horror
of horrors!—the work before us also contains a full
report of M’Elhone’s dreadful charges against our most
distinguished statesman, such as abusing his position
by robbing the country of rich coal land—conspiring in
the Dransfield and Grimes case to ruin the member for
Camden—robbing the widow and orphan—obtaining a
promissory note for £4OOO from James Wilshire by false
pretences, and which he never paid—being characterised
by the Chief Justice of the colony as a man who ought
to be at Cockatoo Island, instead of walking the streets
of Sydney—as one who lived on his position as a politi-
cian, borrowing money from all sorts of men, thousands
of pounds, and when asked to pay, had gone up King-
street —and of drawing two sorts of cheques, one marked
fer payment and one which was not to be paid and of
borrowing money from members of Parliament which
was never repaid. Then follows particulars of a dis-
graceful scene in the Legislative Assembly. The book
is published by Macmillan and Co., the most eminent
of English publishers. It is handsomely got up, and
copies have been sent to the leading writers and states-
men of England who are known to be in correspondence
with our distinguished statesman. It is, too, the talk
of the Clubs. We, of course, deeply deplore this publi-
cation, and we hope that attention will be called in
Parliament to these untruthful and malicious state-
ments, so that the work may be suppressed.
The following ominous adv. appears in the
Evening Staggerer ! —“ Clifford. —‘ Clifford Dramatic
Club,’ please call at Sydney Bill Posting Co-, 120 Pitt-
street.’” Can it be that “Harold Vane’s Fire; or.
Saved from his Dreams,” has gone bung. And yet we
can remember the time when Mr. Clifford —like Mr.
Wopsle—was going to reform thedrama. We trust that
the histrionic career of this talented tragedian is not
INTAGLIOS.
Woman’s Tongue.
(WRITTEN FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Sometimes pleasing, often times teasing.
In the centre hung.
Both ends nagging, never flagging,—
Such is woman’s tongue.
None can stop it, ’less they lop it.
All that’s said or sung.
Gravely, quaintly, can but faintly
Faint that awful tongue.
Strange, too, is it, diseases visit
Heart, and chest, and lung.
But nought I know of stops the flow of
That perpetual tongue.
A shrewish wife wrecks many a life.
The sons of men among :
Unhappy man! you never can
Escape a woman’s tongue.
But perhaps I’d best let matters rest.
Or mayhap I’ll get stung
By some elastic, keen, sarcastic.
Everlasting tongue.
Sydney, 10th January, 1881.
TOMORROW'S TROUBLES.
We sit down, wayworn and weary.
And think of the days to be.
And forget there’s a silver lining
To all the clouds we see.
We fret over care and trouble
E’en before it is begun.
And think of stormy weather—
We forget the warm, bright sun.
To-day is ours, but to-morrow
Perhaps we may never see;
Then why should we borrow trouble
For a day that may not be ?
Leave to the future, brother.
The trouble it may bring;
In the sunshine that God gives us
Be glad of heart, and sing.
Destiny.
Three roses, wan as moonlight and weighed down
Each with its loveliness as with a crown.
Drooped in a florist’s window in a town.
The first a lover bought. It lay at rest.
Like snow on snow, that night on beauty’s breast.
The second rose, as virginal and fair.
Shrank in the tangles of a harlot’s hair.
The third a widow, with new grief made wild.
Shut in the icy palm of her dead child.
A.F.
January 15, 1881.


sheer done; and above all, we hope that nobody has
Dun-shea.
Hic-icknp!
Burnt out for .£16,000.
Humour’s tombstone.—Sydney Punch.
An old curiosity shop—the Australian Club.
Two plagues—France-wolves ; Sydney-bores.
Some spiritists of Sydney love their fellow-man.
A terrible rumour—Buchanan’s new protective
speech.
P IThe signal of journalistic success—journalistic
jealousy.
’UTMultum in parvo —a long beer in a “ hungry”
reporter.
For a really good three-hour sermon go to St.
Barnabas’s.
Highwaymen, actors, and bush missionaries take
to the road.
New mot: The earth’s the free selectors’, and
the fullness thereof.
Why don’t we have a female dentist. They’re
good at the jaw, yon know.
The Albury bakers are now claimed to be the
shampion light-weights of the colony.
Punch ; “ Your’s (hie) a d fine paper, ol’
boy." Telegraph : “ Thank (hie) you, ol’ feller.”
The Weekly Micky is always exact. It calls
Hiss Parker “ the English female swimmer."
Critical opinions differ regarding what the
Evening Outrage terms “ very fine portraits in oil."
It is a strange thing, isn’t it, that the only tree
growing in the debtors’ prison, DarUnghurst, is a will-
«we.
What was most out of place, strangely enough,
at South Head last Sunday was a flash young pup in a
dog-cart.
The Hay Standard and the Melbourne
Herald have both the same motto—“ Impartial, not
neutral."
Roger Bacon and Galileo languished in priestly
dungeons, but Peter Campbell was clewed up by the
frost, at Temora.
Sir John Robertson tells of the late Captain
Moriarty a good story. Unless told by Sir John, it’s
stript of its glory.
An American paper states that divorces are not
granted in Australia. Satisfactory to know they think
so well of ns abroad.
“ Drop all your bad acquaintances,” said Peter
Campbell to a Temora digger, and thereupon the digger
knocked Peter down.
Mr. Weber, of the Post Office Hotel, has lately,
we ber-lieve, realised a large profit on his antimony
mine on the Macleay.
Now is the “ season” in Tasmania, so the Com-
modore with his ships make for the capital of the
“ Tight Little Island.’’
The 61ete of Hereford-street, Glebe, sing
" Grandfather’s clock" all day Sunday. Prayers in the
evening, after dancing.
The Express says that a man was killed “ by a
▼an rollingover him as he attempted to get on it at tight
o’clock p.m.” A fatal hour!
The Campbelltown Herald remarks that
“ the popularity of the Sydney Punch is at an Hicks-
tremely low ebb at present."
The house fly, if in good health, can lay 20,000
•ggs in a season. The Danbury News thinks it a pity
a fly can’t be grafted on a hen.
Consternation in the capitals of Europe through a
cablegram announcing that Sydney larrikins had
mashed up Reuter’s agent’s cow.
During the Monaro election, electors breath-
lessly paraphrased Shakespeare, as follows: “ Too-hey,
or not Too-hey, that is the question 1”
A student asks : If it took 20,000 Zulus to kill
500 British soldiers, how many Chinamen would it take
to annihilate the whole British army ?
There is an Italian proverb that the man who
sells the skin before he has caught the hear is a fool.
Not so; we think it’s the man who buys.
We see that the Sydney Mail is not above
•opyiug The Bulletin. Now it has a column entitled
“ Ecclesiastic.” Where will all this stop ?
The Farthing Bam makes an allusion to the
“nomms (sic) de plume” frequently applied to a con-
temporary. Are all the night-schools closed ?
Mr. Fuller’s paper, the Cumberland Mer-
cury, has a story called “ The Blood-stained Christmas
Card ” This reminds us of Alfred at his best.
Captain Garrett, a naval officer, was recently
heavily fined at Portsmouth for allowing his dog to
worry a cat. Was this a relation of our Tom’s ?
It is announced that Mr. Selig, jeweller, has
two owls. He should find a good market for them at
the office of “ the paper that always is wrong.”
“ Will you accept my resignation?” said a mem-
ber of the Trades Protection League to Mr. Q. R.
Maclean. “ I will accept anything,” was the reply.
An elderly pair at Newtown who had enjoyed an
uninterrupted courtship for ten years and then got
married, are now looking round for grounds for divorce.
A Parramatta sporting man has offered to bet
twenty to one that not a clergyman will be seen in the
neighbourhood of the Parramatta Fork on next race
day.
Hicks’s Curlpaper calls Melbourne Punch
“our comic brother.” When Tom Carrington takes a
trip over here our Punch had better camp out for a
week.
A milliner compels her porter, a lad of 15 or 16
years, to tramp with heavy loads to Petersham, Ash-
field, Burwood, and other suburbs adjacent to Market-
street.
A suggestion ; That the niches in the new
Governmeut offices shall be filled withstatues of Phillip,
Wentworth, Laing, Blaxland, and other Australian
heroes.
After Proctor’s lecture on “ Dian’s Orb,” in
Nelson, N.Z., the young men of the audience showered
flowers upon the lecturer. They were evidently “ moon-
struck.”
We notice that correspondents of country papers
are always “ having their attention drawn” to things—
chiefly things that are to be sold at an alarming
sacrifice 1
“ Pinafore,” by the Kelly troupe, has knocked
the Rockhamptonites. O. Miss Wangenheim’s
Josephine, they say such things, that —well, now
really !
A well-known bush missionary recently in Syd-
ney was trying his arts on a wealthy widow. Now we
know what he meant when he told us he was doing a
capital business.
Dr. Wazir Beg has been appointed Oriental
interpreter. The poor old devil (we don’t mean the rev.
Dr., hut his proUgt old Clootie), will now have a show
at the police courts.
What we would like to see just now is a chapter,
by the future historian, on Sydney in 1830-81. Whet
castigations for dead aldermen. That is, of course, if
they’re not forgotten.
We understand on good authority that Mr.
Michael M’Girr, of the Freeman, is about to do the
grand tour. [N.B. —Of the country districts, hunting
up the “ tin pennies.”]
“None of us are perfect,” remarked Peter
Campbell, and a wag remarked, “No ; especially about
the understandings.” Peter replied, saying, “ Let us
read the next chapter.”
Parramatta gas is said to possess 30 per cent,
higher illuminating power than tbe Sydney commodity.
If the company would only get civil officers they would
leave nothing to desire.
Two men, well known in Bathurst, quarrelled
over some matters connected with a flower show.
“You’re a liar, sir,” said the one. “You’re a Wesleyan,”
retorted the other. Legal proceedings follow.
A Vst-man at Bourke whipped a giant there
recently in retaliation for a slur on the fair sex of the
district. The little man is now in receipt of all sorts of
presents from the ladies.
The bridge across the Parramatta River is said
to be a gigantic departmental blunder. The steamer
was detained there twenty-five minutes the other day
for the movable section to swing.
Aestheticism is reaching Sydney. There is a
certain ’bus Jehu who drives all day chewing a rose-
bud. He has evidently read of Mr. Bosetti always
entering a room with a lily in his hand.
“ If you do not bring The Bulletin home you
shall get no dinner” were the parting words of the wife
of his bosom when she despatched her husband, a well-
known banker, to town on Thursday last.
The newchum who was knocked down at the
corner of William and Crown-streets on Christmas
Eve wrote home to his people that he did not appreciate
the Australian idea of a Christmas bumper.
The clerks in the Colonial Treasury, says a
correspondent, were compelled to work all day on
Sunday, 2nd January, by order of the Minister. Two
remonstrated as strongly as they could consistently with
their safety.
“In honor of his late father,” the King of
Dahomey again had a massacre in October. 400
prisoners were slaughtered. The British residents in
the King’s dominious received invitations to be present,
but actually refused.
“ Thomas Duggist has been lost near Blackall,”
said the Herald’s telegram. '* Thomas, a druggist,
has been lost near Blackall," said the New’s message.
And “ Thomas Duggist, not lost at all,” is Thr Bul-
lbtin’s correction.
One of the morning journals is well up in yacht-
ing. Hence,|we read that “ the Edith May, should, if
heavy weather prevail on the day of the race, put the
others on their metal (sic).” Pewter would have been
a much better word.
HThere is .£421 to the credit of the Parramatta
Park trustees. If the Park is in such a condition that
the trustees can properly hoard up money in this way,
the Government aid should be withdrawn, because it
clearly isn’t required.
Mr. Webb, the well-known tailor in Pitt-street,
drew in Jones's consultation on Tatt.’s Cup the horse
Milbrodale. The next day his establishment was be-
sieged by the Children of Israel, who pestered him to
take £3OO for his chance. Mr. Webb, however, confident
in the speed of his horse, declined to part with his
chance. As things at present stand, you have only to
whisper the dread word “ Milbrodale" on the other
side of the street, and a savage laugh immediately floats
upon the summer breezes.
Adelaide Punch is a comic paper, and in it,
as a natural sequence, appears comic verse. Here is an
inch of it: —
“ When his haystack was burnt.
The owner said, ‘ Oh, dnm it! ’
And he looked very blue.
He hadn’t hard to try
To bet, to look awry.
Who always is a Skewe."
A man who can write like this requires looking after—
looking after with a strap.
We hail with satisfaction the wonderful efforts
of the temperance apostles in New South Wales. The
consumption of spirits, we felt, must show a con-
siderable decline. The Colonial Treasurer has, how-
ever, undeceived ns. He triumphantly points out that
the great increase in the revenue is due to the more
flourishing state of the liquor trade. Total revenue
last year, £1,173,271, of which £6OO 335 was for spirits
and £41,239 for wines, a total increase on previous
year’s consumption of £84,107. Holdsworth and John
Davies explain.
There was once a paper published at Hill End,
called the Hill End Times. Its proper publishing day
was Saturday, but it appeared occasionally on Wednes-
day week, and not unfrequeutly on Friday fortnight.
A man, therefore, called at the office one day, and said
he had a new name for the paper—the Hill End Some-
times. The editor thanked him cordially, and then
dropped him promiscuously down a dis-used shaft.
Then he howled over the top of the pit, “ Good-bye—
the parting shaft is mine!” All the parties are since
dead—including the paper.
The Cobar and Louth Herald has ap-
parently received a shock. The last issue to hand was
in a condition of death-like pallor, relieved by a pro-
fuse perspiration of printers’ ink.
A boot-black in America, recently, shot a man
because he called him a liar. Good job a legislator we
know is not so sensitive as that boot-black. There’d
be dead men lying about in all parts.
The Canterbury Times says, “ Victor Hugo
wears a green dressing-gown covered with large
flowers." So does Lewis Scott. Only natural the
sympathy, you see, between two great writers.
A portrait of Mrs. Langtry, the most beautiful
woman in London, and known as the Jersey Lily, is in
the possession of Sir Henry Parkes. Of course, it is
at his official residence. Oh, yon giddy old hoy 1
Several American bishops of the Reformed
Church are forbidding young women to wear frizzed or
banged hair. Peter Campbell, however, beats them all.
He strictly prohibits elderly maidens eating onions,
“Remittance men,” t.c., that gentlemanly-
looking class who trade on the faith of remittances
from home, are increasing in Melbourne. Two are now
in trouble. Those in Sydney are just coming out of
j— ;we mean trouble.
Sir Henry Parkes only looked foolish once. He
stood up to open the ball at Young with a charming
little lady. He chassez-croistd and retired, leaving his
partner in the dilemma of dancing with an imaginary
member of the nob persuasion^
The new lunatic asylum at Callan Park is to be
paved throughout with Seysell’s compound, at an
expenditure of £40,000! The finest cement flooring
would not cost half the amount. Query: What is the
whole institution likely to cost ?
The Lithgow Targett says:—“Mr. John
Hurley, our ex-member, is about visiting England. Can
it be that he is going to have a shot at the House of
Commons ?” Well, yes: perhaps he might from out-
side, with a piece of orange-peel.
The editor of the Macleay Herald entered a
chemist’s shop the other day to obtain change for a
note. The dentist hadn’t got it; but it took four power-
fully-lunged men and one speaking trumpet to convince
him that he hadn’t been insulted.
The Lyre is al ways paying people doubtful com-
pliments. Last Saturday, it said “ the parishioners and
more intimate friends of the Rev Canon Moreton will
be glad to hear that he will shortly take his departure
for England,’” &c, &c. This is as had as saying that
The splendid proportions of Sir Henry Parkes’s features
show out splendidly in the photograph.”
The Hekka has turned out a strong Pro-
tectionist organ. On Friday, January 7, the following
appears:—“Under the operation of our tariff, the
sugar industry has greatly developed here with the
advantage of a £5 per ton protective duty.” Is it a
dream that the Herald proprietary are Free-traders ?
Or do they “ cut up” badly at times on principle as well
as grammar ?
The editor of the Cooktown Herald is buck-
ing because, when the Mayor of that port entertained
the captain and officers of the French war steamer,
“ D’Estrees," at the Town Hall, at 1 p.m., the editor’s
card did not reach him till half-past. He proudly
says:—“We have to thank the Mayor for an invitation
which, however, did not reach us until 1 30. It is not
customary to send late invitations to the press, nor for
the press to accept them when they are late, and the
absence of our reporter is thus readily explained.”
Well, we know certain members of the press in this
city who never wait for an invite—late or early.
The astounding success achieved by Mr. Aaron
Wheeler in his political campaigns seem to have fired
a scion of that noble house with a devouring ambition
to emulate the deeds of his great ancestor, in the
municipal arena. In the daily papers we read, with
bated breath, an address to the electors of Annandale
Ward, Petersham, in which his embryo wor-hip in-
forms the ratepayers that he is “ a candidate for their
representation.” This is an honour to tbe ratepayers,
truly, to be asked to represent Mr. John Wheeler, if it
were only possible for them to hit upon some way of
carrying the idea into practical effect.
A person called P. Price, managing clerk to
Sachs, the large Adelaide iron mongers, is, we see,
sentenced to six months’ imorisonment for embezzle-
ment on one charge and committed for trial on another.
This was the gentleman who, when Hudson’s Surprise
Party were in Adelaide, used to sit at the feet of a fair
soprano, peel grapes for her, and hand them up in a
wine-glass. He has now taken a preliminary contract
for supplying the S.A. Government with olive oil. It
may be remarked that during the brief hours he could
tear himself away from his idol, Mr. Price was a local
preacher. There seems to be an epidemic amongst
these holy men!
Parramatta is excited. They were doing amateu
theatricals, and he ought to have given her the orthodox
stage kiss. But the old Adam was strong within him,
and he imparted poetry into that kiss. He imprinted
upon her chaste lips an impassioned salute, with such
vigour that it echoed right up among the rafters. The
osculatory performance didn’t come off with the ultimate
success it deserved. The damsel was indignant (there
were so many people looking, you know), and now they
talk of excluding him from the Club. He is a leading
tradesman, sings “ Moody and Sankey ” every Sunday,
and is a Benedict as well. Worse remains to he told—
since the occurrence here related, home matters have
got rather lively.
The stipendiary bard attached to Hicks’s little
Sixpenny Groan must evidently have been more than
usually hungry when he penned this stanza, which is
supposed to immortalise a well-known University Pro-
fessor :
“ Amongst the foremost Grecians of the world—
We thank good Fortune who hath sent thee here;
Thy life and work hath (sic) been one protest long,
’Gainst Mammon’s slaves who e’er at culture sneer.”
Now we’ll try one:—
Dull little Punch, when you lay on the butter.
In stanzas that are staggerin’ and stammerin’,
Just, prithee, try, when you that butter utter.
To slide a modicum of English grammar in,
W e have received the last number of the Bar won
Argus, enclosed in which is one of the most Igorgeous
almanacs it has been our lot to feast our entranced gaze
upon for some time. It is only printed in one color—a
delicate cerulean—but the magnificent style in which
the sheet is got up is positively invigorating to con-
template. There are some visionaries in Sydney who
imagine that they are " sum pumpkins ” at the typo-
graphical art, but we feel, notwithstanding that there
are occasionally turned out some rather spicy things
from this office, that we must all bow our heads in
humility before such a really unprecedented triumph as
the Barwon Almanac. As they can never excel this
effort, we advise the Argus people to issue no more.
Such splendour is more than their wretched typo-
graphical rivals can bear.
This is the sort of thing—and the italics and
small capitals are the writer’s—that is labelled “ Funni-
menta majora ” in the Castlereagh-street asylum for fly.
blown pleasantries : —“ A friend of mine says he saw
the other day, while tiffinising in a great dining hall
largely patronised by the most pretentious ton, the latest
t wuveauti in the science of dining, imported from the
premieres salles d manger of Parree : this he says con-
sists of heavily-moustached swells, who indulge in
soups and ragouts freeing their hirsute appendages from
adherent savouries, ever and anon, by means of a slice of
bread, and then eating the besmeared portion of the petit
pain ” Now the kind of man who could write this
galimatias would walk into an eating-house, enquire the
prije of truffled turkey; then pull a herring from his
coat-tail pocket, and ask the waiter to cook it and lend
him two-pence.
Considerable interest was excited the other night
at the Gaiety on the entrance of a lady and gentleman
to the orchestra stalls. Both looked so happy and
smiling that it was impossible not to see they were
fresh from the hymeneal altar. The gentleman is well-
known as “ Zulu Thompson,” and the lady was none
other than the blushing bride. The general opinion of
the male portion of the audience—audibly expressed,
too—before the performance had proceeded far, was
that “W. fl. had the luck of it.” We endorse this
heartily, so far as we are concerned, and with much
pleasure inscribe to the happy pair the following
rhythmic trifle:—
There is a little paper published in Adelaide
called the Australian Star, and it is edited by a long
Englishman named Allerdale Grainger. Allerdale is
not, to tell the truth, a very bright journalist, but he is
as tall as a corporation lamp-post, and has a pair of
hands almost, as large as M’Elhone’s. Well, he never
could get a free-list from Allison for his rag, so when he
goes in to see a new play he has to “ part” for the
stalls. However, he takes it out of the management
by standing up at the sides, and bo-ho ing at everything.
Sometimes the dialogue runs thus:—Heroine: What,
Reginald? “You love me not!” (Grainger; Pooh!
Ba-a-a!) Heroine: “Sophronia! Could you think me
false, my love ?” (Grainger: Bah! boo-hoo!) Heroine:
“ What bliss is this 1” (Grainger: Bosh! bah! bahoo!)
and so on. Once an u«her formed a wild idea of turning
him out, but when the man found he would have to
borrow a pair of steps to re <cb Grainger’s coat-collar, he
gave up the thing in despair. One night Allerdale
brought in a cocoa-nut (this was during the Bracey
Optra season), scooped it all out while the first act of
Lt s Cloches was goin g on, and in the interval sent the
shells round to the baritone, art vising him to eat them,
“as nothing could by any chance render him more
husky." Allerdale will be killed one day; then it wiß
take all the Adelaide carpenters a week to make him a
coffin.
Come out, thou little hunchback, in the light!
Nor seek to shun the sunlight bright and clear;
Come out! —nor strive, dull dwarf, to take to flight—
We hold thee, mournful puppet, by the ear !
Wake up, dull doll! and quickly answer now
Dost think that genuine humour ever flows
From addlepates, whose feeble brains e’er bow
Before the mighty monarch— Great Glucose ?
Dost think that thou canst pen a merry quip,
Oh, say, thou most forlorn of “ comic ” chaps.
When all thine inspiration thou dost sip
From thine own dear familiar spirit—Schnapps
The satire which a Jerrold graced can ne’er,
O thou poor little timber-skull, be thine;
No lightsome verse, nor prose with humour rare.
Can emanate from bad colonial wine!
There is not, O thou ugly little toy.
In thy whole composition one small grin :
Thy transient venom is but the alloy.
Embodied in a bottle of cheap gin.
Now, go—thou small embodiment of rum;
Thou ’rt free again to sound thy beery squeak;
Go, hide in the flat-box which is thy home.
And at thy leisure—masticate the leek.
To the Spirit of PUNCH.
Awake, once more, the dearly-cherished harp I
Awake the lyre, now laid aside too long.
And tune the strings unto a measure sharp—
The cadence of a short satiric song.
May your days for ever be
Calm as the unruffled sea.
And your path of life be bright
With prosperity’s sunlight.
When the cherubs do appear,
May each little rosy dear
Be the image of its ma,
And as clever as its pa!
And long may you have the sway
On the dioramic lay.
And the lovely Zulu War
Prove a devil of a draw!
And long may you circulate,
’Mongst a public so elate.
Not just merely your good wishes.
But gilt clocks and butter-dishes;
Drawing-room suites and pictures gay.
And gold watches give away.
In a word, we wish you well,
And, we hope, a short farewell.
SPIRIT OF THE PRESS.-CHAPTER II.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Albury doesn’t give much support to sport.
Mr. Mayo has purchased Hesperian for 255
guineas.
A coursing club is being established In South
Australia.
Forbes had a first-class day’s sport on New-
Year’s Day.
The racehorse Melbourne is not dead, as was
telegraphed.
The Balmain Bowling Club has been fully
inaugurated.
Exile and Congoola, Victorian horses, have been
sent to India.
The V.R.C. intend holding a Winter Steeple*
chase meeting.
Robert the Devil i»England has won <£18,970 in
stakes lest season.
Alick Bannerman plays with the Sydney men in
the return Intercolonial.
Archer, the jockey, has ridden 117 wins, Ford-
ham 103, and T. Cannon 77.
‘ Strop is 14 years old. He ran a poor third in a
race at the Hobart meeting.
The Australian Eleven left Melbourne on the
11th inst. for JJw Zealand.
Young Downes, of the Warwick C.C., is hardly
good enough yet to bowl against first elevens.
The revenue of the Victorian Amateur Turf Club
last year was £1338. There is an overdraft of £3446.
The last match that will be played by the
Australian Eleven will be for the Melbourne charities.
An American paper says Jem Mace took all the
odds offering against Hanlan in his race with Trickett.
Pearce is rapidly improving as a sculler in out-
riggers and bids fair to be the best of the coming men.
It is still probable that Grand Flaneur will be
sent to England to try conclusions with the English
cracks.
The Second Warwicks defeated the Second
Stanmores by three runs on Saturday on the Stanmore
ground.
The stumps were drawn at 5 o’clock in the
University match on the M.C.C. ground owing to the
bad light.
The Governor of Victoria will be present at the
International Dog Show, which will open in Melbourne
on the 13th.
£lOO was collected in a few hours for the widow
of the jockey Nolan, by the secretary of the Auckland
Racing Club.
Hales has won the Champion Stakes four times,
with Richmond once. First King twice, and Grand
Flaneur once.
A great match is being arranged for country
players on the Association Ground shortly before the
Intercolonial.
A Victorian paper incorrectly states that Mr.
W. J. Clarke, and not Mr. W. Long, is the owner of
Grand Flaneur.
Mr. Noel, of the Hindmarsh Club, in a match
on the Oval on Saturday against the South Australians,
made 128 (not out).
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club will hold
another meeting on Saturday, February 5. Entries
close on January 24.
Mr. W. A. Long received £1260 for Grand
Flaneur’s win of the Champion Stakes. The total of
prizes paid was £3765.
The match between the Australian cricketing
eleven and an Auckland team has been fixed for Febru-
ary 21st, 22nd, and 23rd.
The weights of the City Handicap, mile, and
Cup, 2 miles, to be run at the New England Jockey Club
Meeting, have been published.
Previous to the start for the Champion Race
Wellington was purchased by Mr. Baldock for 1000
guineas. He is booked for India.
The railway employes who won E. E. Jones’s
£lOOO sweep on the Randwick races, have presented
eight guineas to the local hospital.
Captain Standish has accepted the position of
private secretary to Sir Hercules Robinson. The
V.R.C. will thereby lose a good member.
The Sydney Gun Club had an outing last
Saturday at the grounds at Botany. Several sweep-
stakes were organised, and the shooting was very fair.
In a one innings’ match, the Downs team beat
the Brisbane by nine runs; but the latter turned the
tables on their opponents in a pigeon match —25 to 14.
A cricketer would like to know the reason why
the Newtown C.C. charges 50 per cent, more for the
use of its wickets than any other club in New South
Wales.
A match has been made between Ramsay Bane,
o JBulli, and B. A. Nichols, the well-known Illawarra
ped., for the sum of £25 a-side, distance 150 yards, to
oerun at Bulli.
Bad grounds everywhere in consequence of a
scarcity of water. Ned Gregory makes a raid on the
adjoining lagoon for watering the wickets on the Asso-
ciation Ground.
A trotting match took place along the Botany
road on Friday afternoon between Mr. E. Gordon’s bay
horse and Mr. W. Browne’s chestnut, resulting in an
easy win for the bay.
The settling on the Tattersall’s Club Races at
Grafton passed off very satisfactorily. £2OO including
the President’s Cup was paid over to the largest winner,
and £124 in smaller amounts.
“Bonner made his 55 while A. Bannerman was
making 2. His hit on to the roof of the stand off
Midwinter in the second innings was one of the best
ever seen on the Melbourne ground.
Ned Gregory’s dogs will disappear some day ;
several “ fanciers,” with a view to future coursing
matches, have had their eyes upon them during their
peregrinations on the cricket ground.
At Grafton on New Tear’s Day, a horse named
Mick Rush raced another named Hanlan. The former,
which was well named, won easily. He came with a
rush at the finish and astonished everybody.
The Australian Cricketers were entertained at
luncheon on Wednesday, when the cups, presented in
England by Mr. F. T. Sargood, were personally presented
to them by Mr. Butler, a member of the firm.
The Persevarce and Oxford C.C. played a match
on Saturday last, resulting in a win for the former by
44 runs. The P.C.C. scored 78, of which Miller made
15, Chippendale and Hinchy 10; the Oxford C.C. scored
The sailing match at Newcastle, between S.
Smith’s Young Australia and Mr. Morris’s Kate, for
£lO a-side, resulted unsatisfactorily. The Kate cap-
sized, and the Young Australia sailed over the course
alone.
The Association Ground is in a very bad state
for want of water. The practice wickets are almost as
bad as Moore Park; the match wickets, however, are
kept in fair trim by water from the lagoon near the
ground.
The second day’s racing at Adelong, resulted
as follows: —Steward’s Purse Handicap, Deserter;
Prince of Wales Stakes, Feathertop; Town Plate,
Rebin; Ladies Purse, First Love j Forced Handicap,
Josephine.
A “ welsher” was chased all over the saddling
paddock, at Flemington, on New Tear’s Day. He
jumped the fence and ran across the straight running,
and had eventually to seek the protection of the police
from the rage of his victims.
The Sydney University team played a match at
Yarra Beach on Wednesday, the sth instant. The large
score of 315 was obtained, of which Sammy Jones
made 104, Coates 63, Sly, 41, Wright 36, and Wilkinson,
not out, 32. The Asylum players made 66 only.
There is some talk of sending our best Eleven
home by public subscription, to meet the best English
team. The names are as follow ;—Murdoch, Spoffovth,
Palmer, Boyle, McDonnell, Blackham, Alexander,
Bonnor, Evans, Massie, Garratt, and Horan.
The Tasmanian Jockey Club Summer Meeting,
on New Year’s Day, resulted as follows: —Maiden
Plate; Queen. The President’s Plate: West Coast.
Hurdle Eace: Sir John Moore. All-aged Stakes:
Customs. Two-year-old Stakes : Wild Eose.
The first elevens of the Parramatta Albert and
the Newtown clubs met at Parramatta on Saturday last.
The match resulted in a victory for the former, with
101 runs to spare. The scores were —Alberts, 158;
Newtown, 57. Eutter played a grand innings for 83.
It ought to be pretty well known that thieves
liberally patronise townships at race-time. Forbes is
the latest instance. Mr. W. Eichards, while asleep in
an hotel there, was robbed not only of his winnings,
but of other cheques and money besides. No capture.
An eleven from the Herald office met the
second eleven of the Warwick C.C. on Monday, and the
match resulted as follows :— Herald Office, 69 runs—
Balien 19, and Magooney 12 being the highest scorers.
Warwicks, 44 runs—Brady being the only double figure
scorer with 17.
Preparations will have tij be made at once to
select a team for the International Match, to be played
in February. It would be no harm to appoint a fresh
selection committee, as several mistakes were made in
the last selection. It is to be hoped Sheridan will get
a place in the next team.
The weights for the Geelong Cup and Handicap
are now published and inquiries are already being made
about Progress, Savanaka, Suwarrow, and Darxiwell
for the former, and Darriwell, Napper Tandy, and
Camballa for the latter. Intrepid has been backed by
his owner to win the steeplechase.
It cannot be said that we lost the Intercolonial
for want of practice. “ The hoys” were at it from 10 till
3 every day on the M.C.C. ground, with an adjournment
for an hour to the pavilion for a cold lunch. It is not a
matter of surprise that some of them got as stale as the
sandwiches that were provided for them.
The third-class yacht race in connection with
the Eoyal Sydney Yacht Squadron will not come oil on
the 15th instant as previously arranged. New sails are
are being obtained for the Harpy but they will not
be ready until after that date ; and Mr. Want will not
be back from Melbourne in time to race his yacht.
South Australia sends to compete in the Inter-
co'onial Yacht race at Melbourne, the Edith, 42 tons ;
Enchantress, 28 tons; Zephyr, 28 tons; and Vivid.
N.S.W. sends none because our Anniversary Eegatta
cannot be neglected. It is to be regretted that the
Victorian Committee did not fix upon a more convenient
date.
The following are Grand Flaneur’s seven suc-
cessive victories :—V.E.C. Summer Meeting, 188), Nor-
manby Stakes; V.E.C. Spring Meeting, 1880, Derby,
and Mares’ Produce Stakes; V.E.C. Spring Meeting,
1880, Derby, Melbourne Cup, and Mares’ Produce
Stakes; V.E.C. Summer Mooting, 1881, Champion
Stakes.
The 19-ft. skiff race, for which the Lucia was
the only starter, at the Pyrmont Eegatta, and which
was ordered by the committee to be re-sailed on
Saturday afternoon, resulted in a win by the Lucia with
ten seconds to spare. The competing skiffs were Lucia
and Pandora. The prize, presented by Mr. W. Collins,
was a trophy valued at £l5.
The Olios and Cambridge C.C.’s met on Satur-
day last on the Darlington ground, and the match was
another win' for the former by 70 runs. Scores: Clios,
103; Cambridge, 33. For the winners Messrs. P. Mill-
wain, E. Abel, J. Westman, and E. J. Smith batted in
fine form for 23,17, 16, and 14 respectively. For the
losers Wilson batted well for 6.
Evans just touched Allan’s off-stump in the
second innings but did not succeed in shifting the bail.
Elliott had a drink of water between each over. When
8 were out for 82, it looked a certainty for Sydney, and
Dave was preparing the speech of the captain of the
victorious team. Evans shivered the wicket several
times, but alas ! it was not to be.
Midwinter’s charge of <£3o to play in the com-
bined team against the Australian Eleven was certainly
exorbitant. Of course, he has a perfect right to place
a price upon his own services, but the arrangements
should have been completed earlier than they were.
The Australian team had to succumb rather than
disappoint the public. Midwinter has got into the
English way of working these affairs.
Cricket is now an expensive sport; it costs a
member of a club practising on the Association Ground
not less than £lO per yer—viz., club subscription, £llos,
match expenses £3, materials £3, tramway fare £llos.,
and Association subscription £1 Is, Why don’t the
authorities endeavour to induce the Superintendent of
Tramways to take the cricketers to the gate opposite
the ground without charging the extra fare.
A match was played at Farmer & Co’s ground
on Saturday last, between the Croydon and Pyrmont
Excelsior C.C., resulting in a win for the former clubby
21 runs. The scores were Croydon 40, Excelsior 19.
Clark, 10, for the Croydons, and Williams, 6, for the
Excelsiors were the highest scorers on each. side. A.
Drums, of the Croydons obtained 7 wickets for 6 runs,
and Williams for the Excelsiors also bowled well.
A correspondent, who assures the London
Sportsman of the correctness of his figures, has
reckoned the result of backing the undermentioned
jockeys mounts from March 15th to October 15th,
inclusive A stake of £25 on each amount forms the
basis of his calculations: —Archer, £750 gain- Con-
stable, £4BO gain ; Fordham, £3lO gain ; Eossiter, £3OO
gain; T. Cannon, £lOOO loss; Luke, £ll5O loss; C
Wood, £3700 loss.
The practices on the Association Ground are
now limited to three afternoons, Mondays and Wednes-
days being set apart for match engagements. This is
short-sighted policy upon the part of the trustees of
the ground, for while the extra day adds but little to
the revenue, cricketers in general lose too much of the
practice required, and good wickets at the present time
are so very scarce. The Domain, however, will shortly
be ready for matches.
A general monthly meeting of the Sydney Ama-
teur Sailing Club was held on Friday at Aaron’s
Exchange Hotel, Commodore S. H. Hyam in the chair.
After technical business had been disposed of, the
prizes won at the late regatta of the Club were pre-
sented by the chairman to the respective winners, and
it was decided, on the motion of Mr. Johnston, that the
races for the Commodore’s trophies be sailed on the
afternoon of the sth February next. The meeting then
adj ourned.
The following extract from Carrington’s evidence
at the inquest on the body of Nolan, the jockey who was
killed at the Eaces on Boxing Day at Auckland fully
explains how the accident happened :—" The collision
and the accident were caused by the foul riding of
Nolan. Nolan crossed, and before I could pull out.
King Quail struck Libeller on the quarter and both
went off their legs. Nolan deliberately crossed my horse
and before I could pull clear, the horses cannoned and
both went down.”
The members of the Union Club donned the
flannels on Monday on the Association Ground, when
the town members succeeded in defeating the country
members by 40 runs. The German band enlivened the
proceedings during the day, and the pavilion was
graced by the presence of several ladies, who manifested
Considerable interest in the progress of the game, with
a decided leaning towards the country team. The
cricket displayed was far above the average ®f “ muff ”
matches. The fielding and batting, as a rule, was
excellent.
Mr. C. A. Seth and Harry Kelley represented
Laycock at the meeting to arrange the necessary pre-
liminaries in connection with the Sculling Champion-
ship match. Mr. Soult, of the Hop Bitters Company,
withdrew his offer of £lOOO, as the men had been able to
obtain funds to make the match. The articles were
drawn up for the race to be run over the Thames Cham-
pionship Course on the 17th January, for £5OO aside
and the Championship of England, with the Sportsman
Challenge Cup. A deposit of £250 aside was then posted,
and the balance was arranged to be pat in on the 16th
January.
It is worthy of notice that before definite news
was obtained of the Intercolonial Match, we hazarded
the opinion that the bad light on the Melbourne
ground was the cause of the collapse of the New South
Wales team in the first innings. We were strictly cor-
rect in our opinion; and the small scores of the com-
bined eleven are attributed to the same cause.
Commencing an innings in the afternoon the batsman
has to face the sun', the wipkets running east and west
for the convenience of the occupants of the new
grand stand, which has been built on an improper site.
On a dull, cloudy day this does not matter much; but
when the sun glares as an Australian sun knows how,
the batsman has a very poor chance of getting set.
A general meeting of the members of the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron was held on Thursday last, at
the Club-rooms, Pitt-street, Commodore Gilchrist in
the chair. A sub-committee, consisting of Messrs. H. C.
Dongar, M.P., W. J. Trickett, M.P., G. S. Caird, and
E. Binnie, was appointed to prepare handicaps and
select the courses of the races for Commodore Gilchrist
and Vice-Commodore Mackellar’s prizes. Mr. E. W.
Knox was appointed hon. treasurer, in lieu of Mr. T. F.
Knox, who is leaving the colony. The following letter
was drawn np and posted to Melbourne in reply to a
communication asking whether it was the intention of
the Squadron to send a representative yacht to compete
in the Intercolonial Yacht Eace :—“ Sydney, January 6,
1881. Sir, —Eeferring to your letter of the 31st ultimo,
addressed to the Commodore of the Eoyal Sydney
Yacht Squadron, I am instructed by my committee to
state that we are not aware that any representative
yacht is to be sent to compete in r,he forthcoming
regatta on the 15th instant, as that date is inconvenient
owing to important yachting engagements accruing
here so shortly afterwards. I have the honour to be,
sir, your obedient servant, Henry Cornwell, hon,
secretary.*'
The combined eleven made a very poor show
against the Australian Eleven, although it was antici-
pated that a close contest would taxe place. The
selection of the combined team was faulty as several
important substitutions could have been made with
advantage to the team. Arthur Gregory had done noth-
ing in the Intercolonial to justify his selection, and his
“pair of spectacles” look very ominous in addition to
his missing an easy catch in the field. Tindall has
evidently gone off in his bowling, for he came off in
neither of the matches; but having been picked as a
bowler in the second match, it is worthy of remark that
he was asked to bowl only 16 balls: he was, therefore,
a dead man in the team, for no one expected him to
score against Spofforthand Palmer. Of course, Donald
Campbell selected himself; but why he and Maekay of
the Victorian contingent should have got a place before
Edwards, is still a matter of wonder. The selection
committee were Messrs. D. Gregory and Campbell, and
it is therefore a matter of surprise that these gentlemen
should have made such mistakes, particularly as the
team would lose the services of Allan and W. H. Cooper.
However, the Australian Eleven proved their immense
superiority in every department of the game—their
fielding and bowling are wonderfully improved, and they
are able to cope successfully with any eleven we can
pick in the colonies. Alick Bannerman has returned
to Sydney, not being able to come to terms for the New
Zealand tour.
The training performances of Laycock and
Hanlan are watched with considerable interest by
sporting people in London. Laycock is acknowledged
to have wonderfully improved, and the critics freely
state their opinion that he is the better horse in the
Australian stable. He has shortened his sculls, and
they are believed to suit him admirably. Hanlan is
still the favourite, but there is very little betting. It
is satisfactory to know that both are in excellent con-
dition, and that it is probable they will come to the
post fit, and that the better man will win. As the race
will take place before our next issue, it may not be out
of placehere to speculate as to the probable result of
the contest. A line can be taken from the Trickett-
Hanlan race. As Trickett was confessedly over-
trained, we are not surprised that he lost the race; but,
in his questionable condition, he made Hanlan pull for
a mile-and-a-half. Now Laycock defeated Trickett out
of condition at our last Anniversary Day Regatta;
therefore, in a mile : and-a-half, he would have left him
far behind. Laycock has defeated all his men easily;
in fact, he has not yet been asked to pull in England.
Hanlan has also defeatad his men easily, but has had
to pull his best in some of his races, notably with
Trickett for the first mile, with Courtenay, with Boyd,
and with Wallace Eoss, who defeated him, and who
was defeated by Laycock. It may therefore be antici-
pated that Laycock will make a good race of it, and un-
less Hanlan be the phenomenon the English papers re-
port him to be, he will have to play second fiddle this
time to the Australian.
The match Warwick v. Carlton C.C., which was
commenced on Saturday on the Association Ground,
and is to be concluded on Saturday next, attracted a
great deal of interest in cricketing circles, principally
from the fact that a close contest was anticipated, and
that Alick Bannerman would play, in addition to
Messrs. G. Bannerman, Weame, Hall, and Hiddlestone,
who played in the late Intercolonial. The attendance
was greater than at any previous club match this
season, but the general play was far below the standard
of even first-eleven cricket. A most reprehensible
delay occurred, the wickets not being pitched till nearly
half-past two, when the Carlton captain, Geary, having
won the toss, went jn with C. Bannerman to open the
game. Downes and Ogilvie were the first Warwick
bowlers tried, and Charley Bannerman was bowled by
Ogilvie for a duck-egg. Downes did not bowl with his
usual form, and did not succeed in getting a wicket.
The Warwick fielding was very loose, nearly every one
of the Carlton team having two lives. M Crea gave a
chance to a third man before he scored a run, and he
afterwards scored 31. Geary got 21 in a very non-
scientiflc manner. Davis played very well for his 20,
but might have been run out easily by a swift throw-in
from Alick, which was not taken by the bowler and an
overthrow for 4 was given to the Carltons. Alick
caused two overthrows by his smart returns; he hadn’t
Blackham to take them. He went on to bowl himself,
but did not come off, the fieldsmen being averse to go
for a catch. Burcher elected to take a very easy chance
off him on the hop, and Noble tried to emulate Boyle
by standing in front of the batsmen, but he refused the
only chance given to him. Bob Fan-weather proved an
easy victim to the slows, as usual, but it was quite
apparent that Luland, in stumping him, took the ball
before the wicket. However. Bob did not appeal, but
retired, satisfied that he was out. Nunn played a fine
batting innings for 52, and much to Mick Moloney’s
satisfaction, was bowled just as he had succeeded in
gaining a tie with the latter for the trophy for highest
individual score in the Carltons daring the season.
Weorne made 15 by some fair batting, but
the best innings of the team was played by
Callachor for 17. He plays with great vigour, and
with dashing style, is a good run-getter, with
a strong defence. He is also a very smart field, covering
a deal of ground, and returning the ball smartly to the
wickets. He was caught behind the wicket, but he did
net seem satisfied with the umpire’s decision. How-
ever, we think the same umpire favoured him in a pre-
vious decision as to a run-out. The innings closed for
174, and after the ground was rolled, Hiddlestone and
Alick Bannerman went to the wickets. Wearne and
Nunn did the trundling for the Carltons, Geary having
a bad hand and not able to bowl. Nunn was fortu-
nate, for he dismissed Alick in his third over for 0, by a
beatiful break-back, which sent the off bail flying.
Cleland was bowled by Wearne for 0, and Ned Gregory,
who is completely out of all form, not having had any
practice, was caught by Callachor off Wearne for 1.
Ogilvie paid no respect to Nunn’s bowling, and soon hit
np 18, but had at last to succumb to Weame. Hiddle-
stono showed very bad form, and apparently has had too
much battipg. There was none of his usual dash; it
was the worst innings we have seen him play ; he was
bowled by Weame for 10. When time was called the
Warwicks had lost six wickets for 49 runs, Oatley 8,
and Eiley 3, being the not out men. Oatley played
well for his runs, and may put on a lot of runs next
Saturday if the others can keep up the wickets.
Weame bowled splendidly, and was almost unplayable;
he should give a better account of himself in the next
Intercolonial. Hall took the wicket fairly, but missed
Hiddlestone. The match, as it at present stands, looks
like a one-innings victory for the Carltons.
The Great Cricket Match.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN v. COMBINED ELEVEN.
BY “OURS."
Of coarse all have read the scores of this match, and
know ere this that the second Australian Eleven won
by 178 runs. So far so good; but now for the play, and
the causes which helped to lead up to the result. In
the first place then, the beat combined eleven was not
by any means got together—to wit, GiJfeii, South Aus-
tralian; Bailey (of the first Australian Eleven), Tas-
mania, did not play—reason not assigned; nor did two
who were present taka part—l mean Allan and Edwards
—lf they bad results might have been different, for in
the first named’ we have about the safest bat in Aus-
tralia, and when fit, about the best bowler, and his
fielding cannot be questioned. The second is as staunch
an all round cricketer, albeit young, as Victoria pos-
sesses. He is a confident and scoring bat, a sterling
bowler, and a brilliant field. For Allan’s absence some
ridiculous ret son about his not wishing to bowl, denied
by him, was assigned; for Edwards none, though he had
acquitted himself against the Eleven for 15 of Victoria,
and in the Intercolonial in a manner most creditable
style. If these two had been in the team in place of Tin-
dall and Campbell, and Cooper had played in place of
the emergency (A. Gregory;, the match might possibly
have ended in a victory for The Australians, but not
such a victory as they scored. Again, the Combined
Team had no luck iu that they had to play the com-
mencement of both their innings in the proverbially
bad light wnich throws shadows over the M.C.C.
ground alter 5 in the evening, and this alone made the
difference of a large number of runs. Coming to the
play, the batting of Evans, Massie, and D. Gregory was
the best shown in the match. As regards Murdoch,
McDonnell, and Horan, though reputedly our best
bats, they did not show much form. Bonnor did some
grand hitting, and A. Banuerman some tiresomely
patient play. The rest did nothing worth mentioning.
In bowling, Evans, Midwinter, and Spofforth carried
off the palm—the former being wonderfully true, and
keeping up his reputation as the great trundler that
he undoubtedly is. In fielding he also proved
himself equally great —and in fact he maintained
beyond all cavil his position as the cricketer of
Australia. In Massie we have the coming bat. For
dash and style, he excels any we have turned out yet,
even Charley Bannerman, when he was a bat. Indeed,
when set, it would be difficult to look at a more
brilliant, punishi%, true cricket playing bat. His
fielding is also Al. With Evans and him on another
Australian team, the Britishers would have their work
cut one. There >s a dreadful falling off in Campbell and
Horan, and your colt. A. Gregory, failed as a performer
in a big match. Tindall was nowhere. Blackham was,
of course, facile prince ps behind the sticks. Elliott
acquitted himself well in the same position. Garrett
was a good all-round man, but was disabled during the
second innings. Taken altogether, the Australian
Eleven disappointed expectations in their batting—
their fielding and bowling, especially with the assist-
ance of bad light, being up to the mark.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
Hill and Pox, the young Australian illusionists,
are contemplating a Tasmanian tour shortly.
The reigning bell of Hobart is Miss Innes
(daughter of the President of the Legislative Council).
Rev. G. B. Richards (President of Hume Col-
lege, Tasmania) retires from office at the end of the
year, through ill-health.
Joe Stumps (late of the Collegiate School, Ho-
barton) is on a visit to Melbourne. He has passed the
Melbourne University— outside,
A number of the productions in the Tasmanian
Court at the Exhibition are arranged so badly that they
cannot be seen. Who’s to bland ?
W. Renwick, of the Melbourne ’Varsity, has
been selected from the whole University to fill an im-
portant position under the Harbour Trust.
The author of a geography of Australia, a man
well known in scholastic circles, has again been the
laughing stock of the Council of Education of the other
colonies.
Barclay, manager of the Commercial Bank
(Hobarton), and Ireland, of “ Rat’s Castle,” practice
four hours daily at the shooting (butts. There’ll be
murder yet.
Bennett, of the Derwent C.C. (Tasmania), goes
to England shortly, to be married to a beautiful and
accomplished young lady there. Who wouldn’t be a
good eucherer ?
Mr. G. William Bianchflowers, 8.A., late of
Wesley College, England, and the Geelong (Vic.) Col-
lege, has been appointed Head Master of the Icvercar-
gill High School.
Hobart Town Ireland says he would like to
pistol the man who wrote that par, in The Bulletin
the other week. Very well. A. I. Pistols and coffee
for two —coffin for one.
“'Fred. Joy Pivain (Logic Nat. Phil. Lecturer
at the Melbourne ’Varsity) has been creating havoc
again in the recent examinations. Though joy to him-
self, he brings grief to others.
Rev. C. Vaughan, of Campbelltown, Tasmania,
intends reading for aB. A. degree shortly. Young par-
sons find a few magic letters useful even in such out-of-
the-way places as Campbelltown.
At the new Debating Club at Campbelltown
(Tasmania), the other night, the stage was strongly ad-
vocated by a leading Wesleyan storekeeper of that town,
although opposed by his reverend pastor.
Rev. Cumins (late of Ballarat) taking locum
tenens work for. the Rev. Canon Charr, at St. John’s
Church, Ladrobe-street, Melbourne, previous to the
departure of the former South Australia.
A certain Campbelltown (Tasmania) doctor
barely escaped a good horse-whipping for serenading
beneath the window of the wife of another medico.
Another second, and he would have been “nailed.”
In tbe recent Associate of Arts Examinations,
conferred by the Tasmanian Council of Education, all
the schools but two passed students. Tee Scotch Col-
lege (Hobart) was again prominent Bby its absence.
Ninium ne credo colori!
Ed. Ellis Morris (Head Master of the C. of E. ■
Grammar School, Melbourne), has been paying compli-
ments to Victorian boys. Perhaps Edward still remem-
bers the Morris-Hartley reign of terror a the Bedford
(England) County School.
The Registrar of the Melbourne University is
the most obliging man in the Southern hemisphere.
Weary reporters (especially those hunting up the recent
matriculation lists) will ever remember him. No sign
of red-tape business there.
A Hobart schoolmaster, who has more spare
time than those of his confreres, and who has for many
years devoted that time to mining speculation, is said
to have lost a “ pile of money" by it. Better to have
kept to “recitations” and Saturday Exames !
Tasmanian schools, and Hobarton ones espe-
cially, seem to have their periodical “ tugs of war.”
Not long ago the High School the “Pea Soup” riots
were on the tapis. Then the little kickings over the
Collegiate sports (Hobart.) But the Scotch College
boarders-bread-and-butter rebellion has eclipsed the
whole lot. Report says that the Principal’s wife has
bullied the boarders ever since. Poor Monty !
On an average sixty patents are annually taken
out by women in the United States.
Women have cheek enough to wear men’s hats
on their heads, but there is one thing they dare not do.
Not one of them dare remove her hat in public, and
dust off the bald spot.
A bridal dress lately worn had these for its sole
trimming, the long trained skirt being perfectly plain,
and the bodice having only the feather fringe at the
edge of the long basques, and a baud of the same round
throat and wrists.
The effect of a very interesting sermon in a
suburban church was entirely lost last Sunday to a
great portion of a fashionable congregation inconse-
quence of the debut of a certain lady in a really
magnificent dress of cream heliotrope.
Wo have noticed a dress consisting of a red
plush petticoat, short and quite plain, with" polonaise
of black satin, embroidered in silk, with a wreath of
roses and their leaves in natural colour, fringed with
chenille and looped with red silk cord and tassels
rather high over the skirt.
January 15, 18S1.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAYID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits.
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
Comprising Coat, Vest."]
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner. J
32s 6d
per suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; ause-\
ful and durable suit [
for business and ordi- f
nary wear. J
35s per
suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
fin light Homespuns and
thin Cheviots and Ban-
nockburns. for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for! 48s 6d
general wear, in neat I per suit
checks and mixtures. )
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
("Specially Light and't
Durable, the materials I
having been well J- 6 ®*? er
shrunk before being
made up. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
Htn Superior Oriental']
I Tweeds, cut in the | fia
latest style, and “
finished the same as ( per 3UIC "
a ordered clothing.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Serg Suits.
(■Beautifully light in>
3 Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
) colour and very dur- ( per suit
C aide in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
('Special attention is in-')
Ivited to our Orient j
Clothing, as being ( Gonlemens
the best value, and }■ Orient
most perfect in style I Clothing,
and flush procurable |
in the colony. • J
Gentlemen’s (In Superior Tasmanian N
Cricketing and ' Flannel, thoroughly I
Boating ; shrunk. ( 108 ou
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
(China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each,
j Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
■I All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
1 Superior Serge Coats, 21s each,
j Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
In fine Black Alpaca, 225.6 d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
C ln
]ln
(.In
In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
Black Merino, 30s.
Super Sergerette, 655.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
'ln Superior, all WoolV
' Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
„ finished. J
The
Orient.
r
Special Dress Over-']
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- (
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING,
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’ '
Knickerbocker
Suits;
' 'i 7s 6d, 8s
In neat fashionable 1 Bd, 12s 6d,
■Tweeds, neatly cut I 13s 6d, Ids
and well made, and f 6d, 17s 6d,
finished. 1 19s fid per
j suit.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
'ln new shapes, veryV 12s 6d to
J prettily trimmed, and > 19s 6d per
_ thoroughly well-made. 3 suit.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
In fancy and plain') r ... -
Drills, trimmed ini; 8 . 1 " 1 ', 8
new and effective tJJ. * t 5(1
styles.
Boys'
Sergerette
Suits
(For dress wear, extraN 9n „ t „
J finished, superior' , M l ° -J*
■material, and excel-J per
lent shape.
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
In superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
24s 6d to
27s fid per
suit.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
(In light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- j 21 s fid
to
able styles, well Vto 23s fid
trimmed and strongly | per suit,
made. J
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
In fine durable Esta-i
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and f fid.
general wear. )
Tonths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
:(
For dress wea
trimmed and made
a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STEEET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are bow making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINEET.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Eooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly-
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
' comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies' Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Orna-
, ments, &e
THOMPSON .
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPAKTMENT.
4
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPAKTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PAEASOLS
and
UMBEELLAS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. Wehavealarge
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPAETM KNT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
J signs and trimmings. An immense
j variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
, other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and prirted Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
-{ ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to B|d; French Percales, from 9|d
to ltd; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Eoyal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from 10#
to ltd; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PAEA-
SOLS and UMBEELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
\ of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
„ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
a
Jj
ACE CURTAIN S.”
EDWAED HOEDEEN
(the “ HOEDEEN ” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OP LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in PERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
ANN I X B R OTH E R S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THU
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOE
FIEST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
—o—
To Country Gentlemen,—
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
Business Announcements
LLegal.J
HORTEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
’ SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
find
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
X EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PIXT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURSE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
Gr.
AND S. P R E D D E Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
10 Eeskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.
R
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Ebcf.ive Prompt Attention.
V
ICTORIA VARNISH
COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
AVhite Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
X HARVEY,
* WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac,
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS.
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
TJOOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILD E R ’ S
NEW B O O. T SHOP,
G7O GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
K. II I L D E E,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
£NOALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb.
net, not onlv in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, lire bars, Ac., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPHINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town:-
18s. Best double screened Y
17s. Ditto single ditto
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines J
235. Ditto double-screened I
225. Ditto single ditto i
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, Ac., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
■jp E I N T IN G
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Coalcliff.
Newcastle.
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “ THE BULLETIN.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
656
B. Y O U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
GEOEGE STEEET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OR POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JEST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OF BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DRESSMAKING.
MILLINEEY.
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BAEGAINB and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN'S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, tfhich
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for Bsd PEE
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2a 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
g "EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
§ 171 PITT STREET.
| EDMUND WEBB,
w NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
W
a 14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
£ TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS,
r- All wool and well shrunk
tz 50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
W Sac pattern.
H well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
pq taste.
Q
« ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
rpHE
BEST AND LARGEST
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
STOCK
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’b
MARKET CLOTH HALL
482 (late 484) georgk sTb'eet,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM Se 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
tar All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
L
ONDON
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET.
(Near George-street),
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers..; 12s. 6d.
„ Suits 50s,
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
E. L. LINDSAY.
xx
xxxx
XX XX
XX XX
XX XX
XX in XX
XX PITT XX
XX STREET XX
XX AT XX
XX HORDEN’S. XX
XX XX
XX GENTLEMEN’S XX
XX GOOD XX
XX NIGHT SHIRTS XX
XX 2s. lid., 2s. lid. only. XX
XX XX
XX Don’t forget the shop. XX
XX XX
XX COME AND SEE XX
XX THESE NIGHT SHIRTS. XX
XX XX
YYYYYYXYYXYYXYXXYXXXXXXYXXXXXXX
ON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements :
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marchd of the Southern Hemisphere.
BECHET,
* GENERAL IMPORT MERCHANT,
7 Barrack-street, Sydney.
BEST SELECTED GOODS FROM EUROPE AND
AMERICA ON SALE.
Hardware
Chandeliers for Gas and Kerosene
Enamelled Baths of all sizes
Herring’s celebrated Champion Safes
The well-known Steinway’s Pianofortes
French Mirrors and Veinna Paintings and Chromos,
all sizes
Lamp-posts for Kerosene and Gas
Fountains and Iron Vases for Gardens
French Clocks, Jewellery
Watches, &c., &c.
Perambulators, Velocipedes
Lanterns of all sorts and sizes
Cutlery, Silver and Plated
Wines, Cigars, Preserves, and Lager Beer.


Hotels, &c.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Oo.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra flue quality, 425. per dozen.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplim) in ast Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office— 24 O’CONNELL STREET.
T
HE GENUINE . EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished hy the Label
il/tj
asr-
'el&c/vd *
'<*
Manufactured hy
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/-Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts-
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New Y0rk,1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown. 1877. (Paris, 1878 —Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will he pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the low.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jfllichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE •
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taepinq Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuncoloured Teas, atid admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“Analytical Chemist.”
Agents;
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxtord-streot.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
R. S. TIGHE. Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington.
ffi
T. B U R F I T
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
T,
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
Hotels, &c.
T
HE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late ch£f de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compaguoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
ETIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
- Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
T
ATTEESALL’S
TEEEARA
PATEICK STANTON,
(Late of Sydney and Mittagong),
Proprietor.
HOTEL.
W None but first class ALES, WINES, & SPIRITS
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to Visitors who will find Good
Accomodation.
TERMS MODERATE.
ALCOGK’S FULL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLE.
HORSES and BUGGY always in readiness.
KT Commercial Travellers and Visitors to SHOAL-
HAVEN supplied with Private or Public Conveyances
on receipt of telegram or letter. Also a commodious
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “Bulletin” Coach meets Steamer twice wee ak
from the Hotel.
N
E W
ZEALAND.
To Tourists and others Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWEEA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, EOTOEUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 21
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TEEEACE HOTEL. TAEAWEEA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed EOTOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLEESLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “ The
Manager,” at Ellerslie, the fullest information will bo
immediately supplied.
ROBERT GRAHAM, Proprietor.
THE MEDTCL VIRTUES OF THE WAIWEEA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY Dr. ECCLES,
Lake House, Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. I have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mr. R. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities, whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from Ihe last-mentioned place) are such that
every person possessing the means ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels havu been
mode to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8., Cantab; F.R.C.S., L.M., Edin.
N
E W
ZEALAND,
The Hotel par excellence in New Zealand is the
ALBEET HOTEL,
QUEEN STREET, AUCKLAND,
R. J. DAVIDSON (late of the Star Hotel), Proprietor
Tourists visiting Auckland should first write and secure
accommodation at THE ALBEET.
Apartments erv suite for ladies and families.
Superb accommodation in each department, and all the
et-ceteras of a high-class hotel.
T
0 TOUEISTS AND OTHERS VISITING
NEW ZEALAND.
The Auckland Route is the shortest, safest and beat
route to the wonderful Hot Lake District. The STAR
HOTEL, Albert-Street, Auckland (in close proximity
to the Wharf and Railway Station), offers special and
advantageous inducements to travellers. This magnifi-
cent Hotel is luxuriously furnished and replete with
every appurtenance and appliance of a really first-class
house.
Visitors to Auckland would do well to inspect the
suburb accommodation obtainable only at “ THE
STAR,” before deciding where they will locate them-
W. A. CLARKE Manager.
ADAM CAIRNS Proprietor.
IJIO ENGLISH TOUEISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Westem
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
P O W L E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Hotels, &c.
OCCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Gleb House Hotel, Okakoe.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
J.
C. W A L K E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
.HEATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
R
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
=138 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Hotels, &c,
VO~B TE R.
SF3V
'
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
=\
Sou)
J
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
EEMOYED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
T» H E L L Y E E,
-*-*• ELECTEO-PLATEE AND GLLDEE,
42 Park-street,
SILVEE-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
EEMOYED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
E
CABLES AND ANDERSON
Direct special attention to their PRICE LIST of
CHOICE TEAS—
c
A good useful tea
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
A fine blend of Indian and China 2 6
Finest blended tea, unsurpassed, 3/-
Pinest Indian pekoe 4/-
Superior coffee 1/6
V 3
16
CABLES AND ANDERSON.
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMAEKET.
M
ONE Y.
MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours : 9to 5; every evening. 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery, Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
0 7
0 10
1 0
I 5
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
M
ONE Y.
MONEY.
MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6ii in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and‘DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers OENTRAX
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimmt
The Nanse of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
SSSJ?
£
cs
2
C|
&
$
SiS
SUPERIOR toISCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELE and
CO., Sole Agents,
RAOt
MARJC^
B
OAR'S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To bo Procured Everywhere.
J. E CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
”,599 actresses in Paris.
Patti is a great billiardiat.
Miss Pomeroy opened at Ballarat, Jan. 10.
Edmund Marshall has not been well for some
time.
Dampier returns to the colony about the end of
April.
Hennings scenery is grand at the Royal, Mel-
bourne.
There is an idea of re-modeling the Opera House,
Melbourne,
Cole’s circus plays for nine nights at Adelaide
from the 15th.
The People’s, Melbourne, will be for the future
a variety theatre.
Professor Pepper invested in some trivial law-
suits at Adelaide.
M‘Lean’s Troubadours are doing shaky business
at Charters Towers.
There is every probability of a “ Passion Play”
being produced in Melbourne at an early date.
George Rignold’s “ Henry V.” has been a great
success at Bristol.
W. H. Leake has gone to Hobart. He follows the
Williamsons there.
Shepherd played with remarkable success in
“ Pink Dominoes.”
Madame Adelina Patti gets .£450 a night while
performing at Berlin.
Garner’s Company intend doing Robertson’s
comedies at the Royal.
J. C. Williamson goes into management in Mel-
bourne in a few months.
GreviUe’s pantomime, at the Queen’s, is a diet
of humour and entertainment.
The Dampier juvenile troubadours will shortly
make their appearance in Sydney.
K The Opera House, Melbourne, are doing grand
business with Fa File de Tambour Mayor.
The Dukes, or Novelty Theatre as it is some-
times called is closed again, “ no ghost.” •
Dr. Nield, the Melbourne theatrical oracle,
calls “ East Lynne ” a blubbering drama.
Henry Lyons late of Cooper and Bailey’s circus,
is looking after the programme for Cole’s great circus.
Hoskins opens his dramatic school at Melbourne
is a few weeks. The International agency acts for him.
It is said that a new theatre, larger than the
Royal, is to be erected at the comer of Pitt and Bathurst
streets.
lima di Murska appeared at the Opera House,
Cork, on 2nd Nov., and, says a critic, ‘‘sang charm-
ingly.”
Mr. Fairolough and Miss Elsie May are about to
appear at the School of Arts in recitations and solos.
Miss May will do the solos.
Miss Annie Mayor, the young Australian actress,
is to have a testimonial presented to her previous to her
tour of the colonies.
Dave Hayman is coining money with the I.eon
Minstrels in Melbourne. The Only Leon is, as he
deserves to be, a gigantic draw.
“ A Young Girl’s Career ” has been played at
the People’s Theatre, Melbourne. The pvblic cat this
young girl’s career remarkably short.
The great success of the Royal Pantomime is
due to Miss Lena Edouin Bland Holt and B. N. Jones,
the stage manager under whose direction it was pro-
duced.
The Williamsons are in Hobart with “ Struck
Oil ” and the Chinese Question for a change. Flora
Anstead is with them, and they are playing to crowded
houses.
It may not be generally known that Harry Leston
was originally intended for the Church. Perhaps this
is why he assumes a clerical appearance and green specs
off the boards.
E. D. Davies and Company, after a week’s good
business in Grafton, gave a benefit to the Grafton Fire
Brigade. They play at South Grafton and Rocky
Month, each for one night.
J. C. Williamson will in all probability go into
management in Sydney and Melbourne with his novel-
ties. All the new wardrobe for “ The Pirates of Pen-
zance " is now on the way out.
In “ Pink Dominoes” Mr. Titherage stands out
as usual a bright particular star. His performance
being, as all his performances are, masterly in its every
detail. He plays Graythorne.
Miss Annie Barclay, an American actress of note,
will arrive in Me bourne by the Te Anau. Miss Barclay
has achieved marked success in all her impersonations,
and even the great Modjeska has never surpassed her
emotional efforts.
Fred. Stokes still holds his own as one of our
best amateur comedians. His rendering of Mr. Mould,
for Maggie Oliver’s benefit, and Melter Moss (“Tioket-
of-Leave Man”), for the Masonic benefit, was in both
cases up to professional standard.
One of the members of Garner’s Comedy Com-
pany thus advertises in a London paper:—William
Barren, jun., having visitedSlthe principal Australian
cities, returns home per Orient mail steamer Cuzco,
arriving about the end of November.
Greville and Lance Lenton had to do the
“ locals ” for the Pantomime at the last moment.
They were in a fix, as pros, as a rule do not take an
interest in politics. The only exception is J. J. Welsh,
who is a walking Hansard, but he was out of town at
the time.
J. J. Welsh sustained the part of Dick Deadeye
in Kelly’s troupe during the Queensland tour. Johnny
was such a success as a vocalist that he is now thinking
of eschewing “ old men ’’ and character acting and going
in for his lower G. to shine as a basso profondo in the
next Opera Company.
The English Comic Opera Company opened at
Temora in “Maritana” to a crowded house. Ward’s
new theatre was the scene of their operations—and as
it subsequently appeared, of their triumphs. The
Company comprises Miss Lambert, Miss Bessie Royal,
Mrs. Pox, and Signora Cechina. Messrs. Templeton,
Lester, Rosefair. Mr. L. Raphael is the manager.
The Tonic Sol-fa Association gave a concert at
the Athenaeum at Melbourne on December 30. The
specially interesting item of the evening was the singing
by the choir of a part-song written for the occasion, and
never until the moment of singing seen by those who
sang it. This may have been an excellent task of the
readiness of students of this method to read at sight,
but for our part, we prefer to listen to choruses which
have been well rehearsed.
The Australasian critic, reviewing the per-
formance of “La Fille du Tambour-Major,” at the
Melbourne Opera House, speaks of “the sparkling
vocalisation of Miss Laverne, the well-sustained man-
liness of Mr. Brennier, the solidly honest pathos of
Mr. Mervin, the cormscating liveliness of Miss Jessie
Grey, the well-directed humour of Mr. Harwood, the
grotesque fun of Mr. Wallace, and the severe dignity of
Mrs. Woolridge.” The dictionary, please.
Cole’s ‘‘famed metropolis of Pleonastic Miracles”
shows in Melbourne on 3rd February. They afterwards
will work their way overland to appear in Sydney about
the sth April. This is about the largest combination
that has ever been seen in Australia. It includes
a troop of Indians, six trained thoroughbred stallions,
650 feet of crawling reptiles, the Queen of the Blazing
Zone (the only seven-horse rider living), amongst other
novelties, and the show is illuminated by the electric
light day and night.
The London Comedy Company’s great success
here may be largely ascribed to the ability unvaryingly
displayed by Mrs. Stammers. This lady when playing a
“ stage old woman,” no matter what rank in life her
role may at the time depict, is always true to nature.
As the grande dame she excells, and her by-play is in-
variably inimitable. |The debt of the brother and sisters
actors In the London Comedy Company is universally
acknowledged by them, and should suitably be appro-
ciated by the public.
The pantomime at the Queen’s Theatre stil
draws crowded houses nightly. The caricatures of
Messrs. Greville. Leston, and Lenton evoke roars of
laughter, and the vivacious acting of Miss Kate Foley
charms the audiences. The scenery is admirable, the
set representing the “Congress of Nations” being a
triumph of the scenic art, and, with the splendid ap-
pointments and dresses of the ballet, it forms a brilliant
tableau. The transformation scene is worthy of a more
pretentious theatre.
Morton Tavares, after appearing for one night
only as Richelieu, has gone back to his carrying.
Mortone delivery in both roles is much admired, and it
is considered probable that if he perseveres in his
parcels express and promptly obeys the customers’ call
he will grow Rieh-in-lieu of necessitous. “ Jesse,” we
hear, is blooming, and still sits meekly in the shadow of
her lord. She says she likes the carrying business
better than acting, because the former is always a
certain draw, while the latter wasn’t. At her husband’s
“ben,” while the old party was going it about.
The burlesque at the Opera House displays an
evident want of preparation. Very little attempt is
made at anything like scenery, and beyond two local
songs by Messrs. Simmonds and Melville, the text is
but slightly localised. Miss Edith Pender sings and
acts charmingly, and Miss Alice Johns is very suc-
cessful in her songs and dances. Mr. Harry Simmons
revels in the serio-comic part of Brutus. The harle-
quinade is more pretentious, and the clown and panta-
loon, Messrs. J. A. South and J. Tolano, are very
successful in their endeavours to amuse the audience.
The tricks introduced are not new, but are well worth
repetition. The Woolloomooloo giant is a most amus-
ing feature of the performance. The dancing of the
Misses Ford, Miss Murray, and Mr. Cottier is
admirable.
Mr. Gordon’s scenes of England and Australia
evolve rapturous applause nightly at the Royal. The
comedy of “Pink Dominees” follows, and with the
refined acting of the Comedy Company, its rendition is
stripped of much of the coarseness which characterised
its previous representation here. Miss Stammers as
the tolerant Lady Wagstaffe, and Mrs. Gordon as the
unsuspecting Mrs. Qraythome, sustain their characters
very successfully, and Miss Annie Taylor throws great
color into the part of the innocent Rebecca. Mr.
Shepherd, as Joskin Tubbs, adds to his list of successes,
and a word of praise must be also accorded to Messrs.
Vincent and Titheradge. Robertson’s comedy “ Ours ”
is in preparation, and will be produced on Saturday
evening.
At the Gaiety Theatre the success of “ Quilp”
is in the full tide of success; and it is a refreshing
indication of the intelligence of the community that
this should be so. Encomiums on Mr. Fred. Marshall’s
performance are needless, since his excellent pourtrayal
of the demon dwarf is now so well known. Miss
Marion Melrose is becoming daily more and more
popular; and we, to our certain knowledge, are cog-
nisant of certain grey-haired veterans who nightly
haunt the the theatre and bedew the turkey carpets
with their tears. These old fellows, however, are
irrespective of press representatives who nightly
sit spell-bound in the front seats. Little Annie
Wilson is always to the fore as Mrs. Gossip. It
is long now since that little lady was playing at nine-
inch page in Rockhampton, under the wing of Miss
Joey Gougenheim, but we can safely say that Miss
Annie has not, while shooting up physically, allowed
her histrionic abilities to drag one whit behind. The
piece which is to succeed “Quilp” is, so far as we
know, not yet in rehearsal, and this is a sufficient indi-
cation of the enormous hold that Dickens’s touching
story has obtained upon the public.
PEPPER AND SALT.
We clip this m its full beauty from the Evening
Thackombau :—
Armour. —Jannary 1, at the residence of Mr. John
Hannabus (his father-in-law), William, the (Henry
Dymond Bargo Yanko), Julia, the wife youngest son of
Mr. Samuel Armour, of McGrath’s Hill, Windsor, aged
36 yeais.
Now, calmly and collectedly, what in brimstone does
this mean ? Some one is evidently dead. Now, who is
it P Is it “ William," or is it Henry Dymond P is it
Bargo, oris it Yanko? Supposing it to be Julia, the
wife, how can she be the ‘’youngest son of Samuel
Armour, of McGrath’s Hill, Windsor ?" Are they all
dead P If not, is it the wife, or the youngest son, or
both, or neither ? Such an advertisement as this is
worth considerably more than the half-crown charged
tor it—for its humour only. ■ How this facetiousness
may be appreciated by the friends of the deceased
person or persons, it is not, of course, within our
province to enquire. In America, such a loo-se system
of advertising deceased persons is usually punishable by
by “club-law."
The Editor of Adelaide Punch ia J. C. P.
Johnson, formerly Sub-Editor of The Eegistee. People
in Adelaide call him “ Alphabetical Johnson,” andhe
is (as indeed it is usually the case) the last man in the
world that ought to ever think of running a comic
paper. Johnson’s integrity is unquestionable; but on
the other hand he is afflicted with a chronic melancholy
bordering on despair. His contributors are nearly all
Presbyterian hypochondriacs, with the exception of his
laureate, who is a Baptist with an incurable complaint.
The compositors are all young men who walk upright
in the paths of virtue, and go to Glenelg on Sundays in
shiny black suits and clean cotton socks. When Punch
was first started it was three-pence a copy, and it
wouldn’t “gee" at all. So " J. C. F.," as a master-
stroke of policy, doubled the price, and sacked his only
humorous writer. Since then the paper has looked up.
Johnson, however, is not always prosaic: sometimes
he reallv comes out with a dazzling gleam of facetions-
ness. Here, for instance, is a par. which really is not
so bad for little Johnny, and what’s more—as he would
himself delightedly ejaculate — “it’s true;" — “Our
Almanac is out after a good deal of trouble, owing to
holidays and other causes. We think it speaks for
itself, and if not it is useless for ns to speak for it.
That it is a good six-pennorth moat who see it will
admit.” How this extract smacks of the witticisms of
our Castlereagh-st. contemporary I
As it is very seldom the Hebald treats its
unfortunate patrons to a little pleaeantry.it is only
fair to give aU publicity to its last bon mot, and we
trust it will be welcomed with that solemnity which it
well deserves. That giddy little flirt. Miss Stella, who,
by the way, seems to have no other society but that of
lords, dukes, and princes, has had occasion to give our
Hebrew cousins a torn in her last epistle, after
describing the whole of the fight in her best style,
gravely adds, “ Elias and Mizrael will now com
forward, and relieve the Jewish nation from the foreign
joke under which it groans." A joke which is funny
enough to make a whole nation groan must be a big
thing in its line, and if Messrs. Elias and Mizrael have
any more on hand. The Bulletin will be happy to take
the lot at their own price. It is easily seen the festive
Wayzir goose didn’t survive this Christmas. ,
Notice. —In consequence of there being a
possibility of this present world coming to an end in
1881, the Government have decided to postpone all work
on the Woollahra tramway until such time as it can be
proved the line will be required and the earth will be
there to hold it. —By order, Hon. Abby Dabby.
Owing to the intense excitement to get a fair
start for the Eefreshment-room, we regret to state that
part of his Excellency’s opening speech was lost, but
the matter will be found to be as follows “ Gentle-
men : Nature has endowed you all with two ears, but
only one mouth. Will the majority of you kindly take
the hint, and use only those organs of which you have
the greatest supply on hand. God save the Queen."
The general tone of the replies, however, was "doit
yourself, old man." And, behold, he didn’t.
Scene 1. —Randwick — Dramatis persona. A
gent fashionably clad in a puggaree and cotton umbrella;
he rushes frantically to and fro in his wild endeavours
to make up a sweep; he only wants one more to fill the
pool, and if he doesn’t soon get that he’ll surely die, or
burst up or blow away, or do something else equally
desperate. At length, a party holding five shillings
draws near, and the puggaree man is saved; he rakes in
all the cash; locks it up in his pants, and then crawls
up on the fence to see the race. Scene 2.—ln this act
the excitement is all carried on by the other fellow.
During the fuss of the race it seems that an inquisitive
horse attached to a parcel delivery van reached over
and eat the man with the gingham’s book, and then the
man with the gingham reached back and eat the horse,
and things at last began to grow so unsettled that the
second man hasn’t seen either the sweep or the sweepist
since. And all this in a Christian land.
The Church of England Record wants to
know why will some real lovers of sport come forward
and race themselves and their horses for the honor of
the concern alone, and thus do something to stop the
fearful curse of betting. Now, there are times when
this fearful curse happens to possess what we might
call a few surroundings of a remarkably taking nature.
So far as I can strike the subject, it seerfls that the
most fearfully fearful part of the curse is caused by
backing the horse who runs second last or there abouts.
Eight sons of toil at the Parramatta railway station
put in half-a-crown each, and drew Woolstone in Jones’
£IOOO sweep. This is a fearful curse most people would
like to try a slice of now and then, and when we come
to consider the immense amount of barter and bibles
and other necessaries of heathen life which could be
bought for a cool thousand we wonder our Record
friends don’t club together, and walk in the broad, but
rather desirable path of the sinful clerks of Parramatta.
We drew a blank—-and there really Was a little fearful
cursing flying about on that occasion also.
Once upon a time, when John Davies was in the
full blast of his popularity, there was an indifferent
gang of actors doing Hamlet at one of our theatres
here, and the party who played Laertes had been to the
races that day for the good of his health, &c. Constant
visits to the bar of the chemist’s shop next door caused
Mr Laertes to play in rather a social, off-hand style,
and by the time the duel scene began it was very evi-
dent that he would seize the first opportunity of going
to sleep, and give Hamlet a chance to win the bell
and championship. Finally, however, Laertes fell, and
Osric, rushing over, exclaimed, “ How is’t Laertes ?"
But Laertes either didn’t know, or he didn’t care, for
he lay as limp as a bag of wet guano. A hitch was
evidently about to take place, and, seeing this, Osric
bent down over his sleepy friend and begged him to
pull himself together, and say anything at all to save
his reputation; upon which Laertes propped himself
on one hand, threw up his hat to the ceiling, and yelled
out, " ’Kee cheers f’r John Davis, and all goo’teeto-
shallers!” The ghost walked that night, and so did
the brave Laertes.
Mr. Evangelist Strang has been lecturing lately
on " Lessons suggested by the late elections.” I learnt
a tew myself, by the way—one being to get down to the
poll sufficiently early to prevent my compelling a friend
to skip in and do the voting for me; and another is to
always see that I get cash down for my influence before
I ever begin to use it. There are many other blessed
thoughts connected with the late elections besides the
above, but I don’t wish to crowd Mr. Evangelist Strong
out of a good subject.
It has been wisely, or foolishly, said (either
word will suit) that a man who marries his second wife
didn’t deserve to have lost his first: but it’s mighty
evident that our friend the Czar is of a different
opinion, as it appears that he was on with his new love
almost before he was off with the old. I also notice
the Ninilists don’t blow him up so much since the
wedding. This is no doubt a direct indication that the
Nihilists have no great wish to interfere with other
people’s business, after all, and the fact of their leaving
the blowing-up now to Mrs. Char, betravs a know-
ledge of married life on their part that very few would
have given them credit for.
Talking of political subjects, reminds me
that although the crude African in his wild state has,
generally speaking, the hardest skull in the animal
kingdom, there are instances also where the cul-
tured coloured gentleman runs his missionary-eating
brother mighty close. Asa sample of this, I once
heard that Mr. Billy Wilson, the sweet, singer from
Georgia, was a waiter in a large American hotel, and a
bet was made one night between the boxer, Heenan,
and a few friends, that Heenan couldn’t thump a dint
in William’s head with one blow. The lights were then
turned down; Master William entered, bearing a tray
and glasses, and Heenan immediately struck him a
clout that would shake the Town Hall. The only effect
it had on the silvery tenor, however, was to cause him
to turn round and observe, in a slightly injured tone,
" Gemmen, please be more car-ful wid your elbows.”
Our comic friend, the Distress, is as gay as
ever; and amongst other exciting items this issue, we
find that “ Genial Host M‘Grath, formerly of Balmain,
is to be found at River View Hotel, where he dispenses
good liquor to thirsty souls ad lib." What kills us
most is how the Distress falls across these items. All
the members of the staff, excepting two being staunch
teetotalers —and as these two happen to be the paste-
pot and scissors, it is not very likely they rake up the
information either. Tuhi, the Maori murderer, how-
ever, was an authority on this matter, and Tuhi says,
“ Let drink be destroyed from the earth, and all trouble
will cease.” They destroyed Tuhi instead, because he
didn't run a journal. The other Toohey, however,
says, “ Try our five-gallon kegs—you can’t lick em.”
The man who invents the fashions appears to
have been in capital form of late, and after a mighty
wrestle with the summer—hat question, has struck out
for fresh fields and pastures new, and brought out a
novelty in the stocking department that would be some-
thing new to even Solomon. The latest sensation is the
stamping of pictures, portraits, etc., on ladies’ hose;
and we read that the effect is something too awfully
lovely for the general run of those who profess the male
persuasion. Personally there seems to be something
out of place in the fact of a lady going round with
St. Cecilia playing the organ on one extremity cover,
and the “Battle of Waterloo” or “Cornin’ thro’ the
Rye” on the other; but, of course, if the fashion
inventor says it’s all right, we don’t object, and our
belles can troop about with enough Murillos and
Claudes and Gustave to stock an Exhibition.
The following letter has been handed to us :
“ To the Editor of The Bulletin.— Sir,— You do not,
it seems, in a general way admire my poesie. How
strange! Now, I assure you whenever I buy any verses
from my friends, and then read them some of mine they
always admire my lines immensely. A man came to my
house the other day and borrowed five shillings. After
giving him the two half-crowns, I read him my last
inspiration. It pleased him so much that ho borrowed
half-a-sovereign. I then offered to read him some more,
but he stated that he preferred to take them away with
him and peruse them by moonlight, and that he would re-
turn the M.S. and the money together. I have no
since seen him, but what a gratifying thing it was now I
wo* it not? Enclosed you will And a little love song.
It is inscribed to one who understands me! I intend
(when the mosquitoes get fewer) to sing it outside her
chamber window, accompanying myself on the triangle.
The triangle is my favourite instrument. It is so sweet 1
I am trying* to persuade “ Bam" to send yon a trifle of
hers. But she is bashful —poor old dear I—so bashful—
and so shy.—Yours, with ecstatical sweetness, Liryc.”
a LOVB SONG.
(To be warbled by “ Liryc" into the enchanted ear of
“ Philip Dale.’’)
Bright gleams the moon above, my love—
Now think not 1 am tight!
’Tis my feelings and not whiskey, for
I melt in pure delight.
My love,
’Tis gospel quite that I ain’t tight—
I melt in pue-hure de-light I
[Triangle symphony.
Nocturnal Zephyrs will, sweet Phil,
E'en kiss they cheek of rose—
If I hiccup, my sweetest duck,
Now don’t think it’s “ glucose.”
Sweet Phil,
’Tis gospel quite that I ain’t tight
I me-helt in per-hure de-light.
[Triangle symphony.
To say good-night ’tis hard, sweet bard;
'Tis agonising qu-nite—
This quaver is emotion, dear.
And not because I’m tight.
Sweet bard,
’Tis not gospel quite, that I ain’t tight—
I mee-elt in pure de-li-hi-hight.
[Triangle symphony.
It is needles to state that we await with breathless ex-
pectation a contribution from the pen of dear old Mary-
Ann.
Her maternal relative was washing 1 potatoes in
the kitchen. Ann Jane was reading “A Mother’s
Crime ’’ in the “ front room.” “ Ann Jane, take them
things off the line. “ But the girl read dreamily on.
room which had been prepared for her with such lavish
generosity. She threw off the dark cloak and the veil
which had so little served her purpose. The mass of
dark shining hair fell in picturesque disorder over her
stately figure." “Ann Jane, the dust's a-spilin’them
clothes.” _ But even as one ’neath the influence of the
narcotic influence of the seductive poppy, she con-
tinued. . . , "' What am I to do ?’ Vivien cried,
with clenched hands and trembling lips—' what am I to
do? I will die rather than yield !’” Then she looked
up and saw her mother with the copper-stick in one
hand, and the family strap in the other—and for the
next two or three minutes the street sounded as if
forty-five giants were beating their dining-room
carpets.
From a Queensland paper we learn that the
Hon. H. A’Court, son to Lord Heytesbury, has been
appointed clerk to the Queensland Parliament. This
gentleman is—or has been—an " eccentric” of the most
pronounced type. Seven years ago he and his partner, a
man known only as “ Charley,” were working a small
claim at a place called;New Zealand Gully—a partially-
deserted digging, about 19 miles from Rockhampton.
A’Court was known far and wide for the studied indif.
ference he paid to his personal appearance ; and it was
a curious sight to observe the “ Hon. Holmes A’Court,”
clad in a ragged pair of pants and a fearful hat, slouch-
ing into the bush post-office for his letters. His claim
didn’t pay, so after many long years he has returned to
the surface again. We wonder what’s become of
“Charley?”
That sparkling journal, the Express, is really
going it and no mistake. In alluding to the Pope’s
paper, the Aurora, it says : “ Our existence and humble
efforts have not escaped the observation of Monsignor
Scafflni, the very able editor of the Aurora, who ha*
written to us encouragingly, and asked our assistance
for his columns, which we shall, of course, be only too
happy to afford him.” “His Holiness’ rag is now fixed up
all right, and if Mr. Rubie and Dean Leonard will only
take a trip over to Rome now and then, just to look up
a few ads. and keep the libels out, we wouldn’t wonder
in a few years to see the Aurora quite a promising
little paper—not, of course, possessing the glitteringly
splendid success of the Express, but a steady paying
little rag, with all the standing patent medicine and
sewing-machine advertisements.
The London Chartered Bank shareholders held
their annual meeting in London in November, and de-
clared a 6 per cent, per annum dividend. Growling
would have followed, but for a hopeful cable message
read by the Chairman, from a new broom who had been
sent out to Australia to boss it over all the others:
“ Have secured a most important new customer.” The
new customer turns out to be a Me mber of Parliament,
by name Gaunson Melville, or Mirams—we are not at
liberty to say which.
The following stanzas are good-naturedly in-
scribed to Mr W. H. Hickses Sixpenny Side-
Splitter :—'
A comic rag this town’s within.
That weekly does a mournful croak.
That never can inspire a grin—
And yet which is a standing joke.
’Tis funnier than a shipwreck, true;
But yet, alas! it does befal
(Thus “ owls " do humour misconstrue),
'Tis less droll than a funeral!
Its prose is just the “ comic ” dodge,
Penn’d by the Gladesville lunatics;
Its verse smacks of the beer of Hodge,
And therefore bears the stamp of “ hies !! ”
A “ bard ” wrote for this mournful tract
(Nor was the “ pay ” to him denied).
We only state the honest fact; —
That poor bard “ sickened,” and he “ died.”
A guileless youth a volume stole—
Quoth he, “ I’ll take it home and laugh.”
That night he rendered up his soul.
And Hickup wrote his epitaph 1
And as he sank the poor man cried—
" Put on my grave a cypress bunch.
And on my tombstone, ‘ This man died—
Killed by an overdose op Punch.’ "
VERSICLES.
(SUGGESTED BY THE TESTIMONIAL MANIA.)
Of what’s a testimonial ?
So often emblematical?
Of merit patrimonial ?
Or merit intellectual ?
Which is it, gentle reader, eh ?
For we don’t really care to sav
*»» » J »
“ He robbed me,” the grave merchant said—
“ ’Twas but a hundred—that was all;
I must discharge him—yet poor Ned!
You’ll have a testimonial."
* » * * •
He tried to sing a little part
Upon the stage op’ratical:
He failed —but he did not depart
Without a testimonial.
♦ » * • »
The giant crusher once runs in
A Liliputian larrikin;
A meeting’s called, and then they all
Subscribe a testimonial.
* » * • •
Judas Iscariot is dead,
A good job too, or 'twould befall,
They’d drag him into Aaron’s, and
Give him a testimonial.
“SYDNEY PUNCH’S” STANZAS ON THE “TELE-
WAG.”
[INSPIRED.]
“ But the Telegraph came, and its manifold roots
Struck deep into Lit’rature’s soil;
Fresh and fair was its bloom, strong and steady its
growth.
Past the power of rival to foil.
“ Oh! so bravely its stands in the withering blast.
Nor yields to its fury an inch;
Then a health to the beauteous and promising plant
And its planter and nurseryman. Lynch ! ”
OUR STANZAS ON THE SAME.
[UNINSPIRED.]
No! the alien rag—why it never can laat;
It’s beginning already to flinch;
Bnt what matter ? There’ll live, when it’s day is long
past.
Those bright “ monuments,” Mackat and Lynch.
They both came to instruct us—they failed—what of
that P
For the course now before them is plain:
Each can put on his coat, take his stick and his hat.
And go back to Victoria again.
[N.B. —It will be observed here that we have managed
(and without much exertion) to complete the rhyme of
our anapaestic stanzas. But we can give any of Hicks’s
bards a rhyme and a drachm at any time.]
The sub-editor of the Evening Salad is evi-
dently an ingenuous person. He quotes from the
Chcbch of Ensland Record the following.—“ Sydney
swarms with publications of the most questionable
character. Some of these represent the ignorance and
infidelity of the day; others supply the licentious with
pabulum which their depraved natures crave after.”
And yet to pretend not to think that the parsons’ shaft
was not levelled at the Lyre’s astounding murders,
suicides, and outrages, clipped holus-bolus from the
wildest and most sensational Yankee papers! At the
end of the par. the writer philosophically remarks: —
“Gilded vice, like the coated pill, is the easiest to
swallow.” [!!!!]


MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREB IF THE SYU.]
When is the Melbourne Athenaeum going to wake
■upf
The police system in Victoria is in a sadly rotten
state.
When Mr. St. John Topp, the eminent equity
barrister, narratates a joke it makes one weep.
Judge Higinbotham is believed, will be offered
the Chancellorship of the Melbourne University.
Under proper management the Melbourne Inter-
national would have been a great financial success.
The other Saturday the “amusement” notices
stretched over nine and a-half columns of the Aegus.
The fire look-out in Melbourne is situated up in
the tower of the Collin s-street Independent Church.
The Exhibition organ has at length spoken.
Like everything else at the International, it is a
failure.
Some of the “ children of the sun ” have been
basking up the country amongst mountains and
fern-dells.
All Melbourne is ruralising. The city has been
handed over to the rustics, and therefore presents a rus
in a rhe appearance.
Why doesn’t Mr. Carrington, of Melbourne
Punch, study perspective ? The cartoon of the 6th inst.
•was a terrible jumble.
A baby-show is to be held in the Exhibition on
the 25th January. George Collins intends removing
hki whiskers for the event.
The “Duke’s Theatre” has reverted to its
former name, “ The Novelty.” It pays at present. So
Sam may make Amery thing out of it after all.
Modest David Syme, who scorns being called
“a public man,” will soon clear out for Europe. May
he not come back for an “ Age ” is our hearty wish.
M. Jules Joubert and the Exhibition Commis-
sioners don’t pull well together. Monsieur Jules is too
• active for the sleepy proprietors of the White Elephant.
late of the Evening News, intends
starting in search of Leichhardt in order to claim The
Bulletin award. He has got as far as the Victoria
•Coffee Palace.
That den of literature, the Melbourne Athenaeum,
has awakened to a little paint, but the reading-room is
still as dingy, and, on the arrival of the English mail,
mells dreadfully of potted ham.
The principal promenades of the Exhibition are
blocked with the wool exhibits. W. J. Clarke, Sir
Samuel Wilson, and other squatter commissioners are
tired of art and cry Revenous nos sheeps.
The Botanical Gardens, the pride of the city, are
drying up for want of attention and water. This is
Berryism again. We could have preferred “trenching”
instead of “ retrenching ” in this instance.
Your namesake and imitator here has made a
discovery. He says that to make a child’s eyelids grow
one has only to cut them occasionally. It is not stated
that this has been yet proved by experiments.
The Aegus devotes daily two columns to a con-
troversy which has started on the Doctrine of Atone-
ment. “ Hell" and “ blood ” are not pleasant subjects
to talk about when the thermometer is 100 in the shade.
The organ at the Exhibition has commenced to
play. The amount of water used to blow this instru-
ment during one performance, would suffice to lay the
d ist of Sydney for the remainder of the summer.
Water Shame!
The Australian Eleven were very sore because
they had to pay Midwinter £3O foi the big match. Ten
p mnds of this Midwinter wanted to recoup himself for
a bet in which he lost that sum in backing Nottingham
v, the Eleven.
Good judges say that Sykes, the organist of our
Sb Francis’ R.C. Church, can beat David Lee, the
Melbourne Town Hall and Exhibition organist, into
fits. It would be a sad sight to see David seized with
epilepsy or apoplexy.
The Melbourne illustrated journals are a dis-
grace to the colony. Many people positively refuse to
dispatch them to the home country, for fear of remov-
ing the impression as to our noted proclivity for pro-
gress. The engravings are far behind the age.
The other day, a man who is very fond of cards,
announced that he was about to leave town for a holi-
day, whereupon a wag wrote on an ace of clubs the
letters “ P.P.C.,” and the name of the departing one,
and placed the card in the letter-rack at the club.
Who can deny that this is a purely commercial
world when he learns that the Prince of Wales sold
some wild animals ha brought from India to the “ Zoo”
Authorities. The poor Prince is, it is said, badly in
want of £40,000 ; hence the dealing above named.
The Baby Pantomine at the Bijou still continues
to draw. The smallest mite in the company is about
t welve months old, and crawls off the stage to the air
of “ The Perfect Cure.” Dear Rosa, we think the pub-
lic would be in the right if they Rosa-gainst such an
exhibition.
Little Ada Willetts, one of Melbourne’s
prodigies, and who appeared last year at the Town Hall
.as a pianiste of more than ordinary ability, is an en-
gaging little child with handsome features and long
curly hair. Kowalski has dedicated his “Belles of
Melbourne waltz to little Ada.
It was asked the other day in this journal;
What had become of Harry Kelly, the clever negro
deheuator ? We believe Harry died in an American
lunatic asylum some years ago. Frank Weston has
gone to Adelaide, and as soon as he returns to the
Eastern Arcade we will interview him on this matter.
There is a member of Parliament here, named
Bolton who appears in the Vie. “ Men of the Time ”
a book in which anyone who has not committed a mur-
der can write his own biography by paying two guineas.
Bolton forgot to mention in his life’s history how apt a
scholar he is in learning by heart speeches written for
him.
I am told that Evans, the cricketer, is going to
devote, in future, more of his time to playing the
“noble game.” as he has become to some extent in-
dependent through his wife being left money by her late
brothers—the Yorkes, of your city. It is to be hoped
tnis is true, as we can ill spare our star from the
onoket field.
H The unfortunate Chinaman who had his eye
, shanghied” by some respectably.connected larrikins
aere has had to have that organ taken out. And yet
the young gentlemen (?) who caused this were acquitted
by a sympathetic bench. I am sorry I can’t give you
the names of the worthy magistrates who so clearly
snowed what their idea of justice is.
There appear to be good reasons for believing
tnat a new daily journal, in the interest of the
Ultra-Radical party, is to be started here. The “ head
and front of the offending ” are Berry and Andrew—
lormerly one of our august Assembly, who went home
and purchased a few tons of type. The brains are to
cattle here—by Umbrella Mirams and such other
ns levey is an extremely hard-
ttmes ‘t^nleoi 6 *2 travel round the world four
imes to please a cruel Government, he is obliged to
° f luiurious eise to Please the dictates
tL reins ote 11 " * and n . ow haB to handle
himself fit for +Vio 6 °P\ e , B , ” in order to render
in Spring Gardens * htUe blllet that is awaiting him
I)7“Little*
* pro,olra ' 01
to^ydif ev^thnl , at 011 his first visit
“The +A^ U U mteBof city and its inhabitants:
nlwe * a nar row-streeted, dusty, windless
Place, but with some fine buildings :’real arch Sire
brown stone—no stucco. The inhabitants speak English
fluently. They are a great deal behind the Mel-
bournians, and hare a different style—very languidly-
lackadaisically-awfnlly-awful.’'
Some men rise to respectable positions in a
most remarkable manner —to wit, one solicitor here,
who is a member of a good firm of attorneys, the sec-
retary of a charitable society, the plate-carrier in a
certain church, and the owner of a supercilious grin
capable of making the fortune of an “ Aminadab Sleek,"
gained his present exalted position through the warm
regard a late judge had for his other half. “ It’s an ill
wind that blows nobody good.”
Professor Reuleaux, the lordly German Com-
missioner, and his secretary were, the other day,
thrown out of their buggy and slightly shaken. The
Professor went round to the papers and requested that
no mention should be made of the accident, news of
which, he said, would cause a deep sensation in Europe.
However, it has since turned out that the learned
Professor was afraid that Punch, which has of late
anno ved him by publishing specimens of his English,
would have something to say about it.
The girls have been showing up well at the
recent matriculation examination, the proportion who
have passed being far in excess of that of the “ boys.”
Of six who passed with credit, three were girls. Again
we see the truth of the proverb, “ Pools rush in where
angels fear to tread." No girl “ goes up ” to get
“ plucked," but is certain before she enters the lists
that she will win ; a “ boy " never thinks of this, and
goes in “ neck or nothing,” and generally confes out
worsted, and a laughing-stock to his sex.
The marked disrespect shown by H. E. the
Marquis of Normanby to Sir Henry Parkes during the
visit of the latter to Melbourne, during the period of
the Intercolonial Conference, has been much discussed.
The Age in a satirical article predicts that Sir Henry
will invite Berry to the Zig-Zag and once more point
out to him the sublimities of Qovett’s Leap. “ Give us
your coal and your harbour,” said a Victorian politician
once, “ and _wa will give you our Legislature, and be-
come the brightest spot on the face of the globe.”
The agony column of the Argus still swells
with the weak warblings of lovers. One of those strange
creatures who cannot keep her sentiments locked up,
advertised under the name of “Eunice” that she re-
quired the “ lend of a fellow,” during the Christmas
holidays. The advertiser received letters from a host
of “fellows,” selected one, and, in the Aegus of the
7th instant, intimated that she condoled with the un-
lucky "fellows” and quietly advised them “nil des-
perandum.” We have heard of a “ loan of a lover,”
“ a marriage by proxy,” but “ a loan of a fellow ” is
beyond our grasp.
Melbournites are looking forward with pleasure
to the return of Emilie Melville, who, privately as well
as professionally, was perhaps the most popular actress
we have yet had amongst us. There is even a pretty
story to the effect that when a cabman drove the dear
little woman from her hotel to the theatre, he in-
variably refused to accept payment, and expressed
himself as content with the mere honour of in any way
serving her. One canid quite believe this little anec-
dote were it told about anyone but a cabman. Credat
JucUeus Apella, say I.
The Argus was very wrathful the other day
because the Hamilton Spectatoe had the boldness to
assert that the Milk-anp-Water Thundbeee had
been “got at ” over a railway job. It not only indig-
nantly repudiated the charge, but set itself up to give
a dissertation on what constitutes a gentleman. This
outburst created not a little amusement, as its stan-
dard of a gentleman is taken from the—as Higinbotham
called them—" wealthy lower orders" who belong to
the Melbourne Club, and can give good dinners.
Gowen Evans is fond of dinners!
TLet it be known in Gath and within the gates of
Gaza that a shopkeeper in this city, by name Kenneoz,
has been won over to the side of humanity, and has
supplied the young women who wait - in his shop with
chairs, on which they can rest their two oft-weary
limbs when not engaged in attending customers.
Doubfless others will follow the good example, but the
shopping ladies ought to have seen to this long ago.
Yet, I suppose, it is difficult for those who can buy at
shops to look upon shop-girls as women like them-
selves. The purse creates a great gulf between folk.
Sir Salmon Wilson was taking a turn in the
Exhibition the other day, when a friend approached him
and held up to the knight a pinch of wool, saying,
“ What d’ye think of this ?” Sir Salmon examined the
substance with a critical air, and said he “didn’t think
much of it —lots of better wool in the Exhibition.”
“ That may be," replied his friend, “ but the wool I’ve
showed you is some of your own wool, taken from the
Ercildoun bales.” Notwithstanding the fact that Sir
Salmon coughed, re-examined the staple, and observed
that “ the light wasn’t very good,” this little incident
seems to point a moral.
Report says that Berry feels sick at Standish
being been appointed to a snug billet at the Cape. This
is the work of your late racing Governor—the Her-
cules—who has a penchant for Standish because he once
was a leading •* bettist” in the Old Country, where he
looked after Lord Jersey’s stud, and lost so much
money at one meeting that he he had to clear out sans
anything save his honor. It was for this reason that
tne gallant captain coaid not, some years ago, accept
the Duke of Edinburgh’s invite to go to “Home,
sweet home." If he had. what would have been saved
about the Kelly buisness!
Dr. Reuleaux, Chief Commissioner for the
German Empire at the Exibition, has been lately doing
Femshaw (one of the prettiest epots in Australia).
The Doctor thus blossoms forth into song in the
Visitor’s Book:
Be heartily thanked, the Fernshawman, *
May visit him whoever can ;
Enormous are the giant trees.
But dreadfully scarce the wallabees.
Not bad for a German. Go it. Doctor! By careful
study in the same line, you may yet Eeuleaux-ver
Prussia.
It is amusing to watch the “ side ” put on by
some foolish young men. At the late cricket match
tnere stood, surrounded by several gushihg females, a
creature in man’s shape, dressed in a light tweed suit,
having on a pair of patent leather boots, and a pair of
loudly-yellow gloves, one of the hands in which kept
twirling a gold-tipped cane, while the other worried
the few hairs protruding from the shapeless upper lip.
1 wonder what his poor frther, who screwed and saved
m 2? ey . a 8 “ all watchmaker in Aberdeen, would have
saw of this killing ” descendant of his, who cannot
?7®£ , h ®P distinctly. Something like this, I guess-
i^n. Jock, me lad—you’re no a gill !**
On Xmas Eve a well-known journalist, catching
the generous spint of the season, went to the market
and a large and beautiful bouquet for his wife.
At tlie V onck Club odds were freely laid that the
a® ad “ ired by at least one barmaid before
$ U wnf r *v lie not,ice of the fascinating Mrs.
Inkslmger. Whether or not such was the case is not
known, but it is a fact that Mr. I. turned up on Sunday
J ery seed y- Said he to a friend (in strict
confidence, of course). “Well, old fellow, I got
very horizontal the other night. Fact is, I lost my
way, and woke up four hours after in a place at the rear
of Garton s Hotel. But ‘ Providence guards the body
when the nund has gone to commune with the gods.’ I
still had the flowers in my hand I”
Here is a short history of baronets out in these
parts. In Victoria there is one, a storekeeper at St.
Arnand, who styles himself, even at a Governors levee.
'T ar f en white > Marquis d’Abille. Neither of
.bodies is to be found in “ Burke "—not even in
tne Chads’ list, which enumerates those claiming
rank not acknowledged by the authorities. Another of
our baronets is Sir Arthur Nicholson, whose name also
does not appear in either of the above lists. But there
does appear in “ Burke" the name of Sir John Farmer.
Dart., of Mount Pleasant, Co. Sussex, and he is alive in
a small settler’s way at Bacchus Marsh, in Victoria.
But he does not assume the rank rightly here, wisely
preferring to be a simple Mr., when he has got no coin
wherewith to do justice to the Sirship and himself
There is also in Queensland another “ Burke "-recorded
baronet—Sir John Macartney, a nenhew of our Dean
Macartney. You had one in New South Wales, but he
has left.
You have heard of Sir George Bowen—that
Governor of ours who was cajoled by Berry. Well, his
family history is odd. It is this: —George’s father was
T\° one occasion was employed by the
late Duke of Abercom. The Duke took a fancy to the
young doctor, and, having a rich living at his disposal,
induced Bowen pater to discard the knife for the pulpit.
In this his gift of the gab (so powerfully inherited by
his son, our late Excellency,) obtained him no small
fame, and secured for his son the patronage of a wealthy
and influential political family. It is said he was so
deferential to the noble family who had taken him in
hand that, on the occasion of the Duchess being
“ churched,” the text of the service was so far altered
as to refer to her Grace, not as “ this woman,” but as
“ her ladyship.” Who can, wonder at poor Sir George’s
plausibility and blarney when this incident in his
father’s career is borne in mind ?
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
[FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.]
Friday, January 7.
New Tear’s Day of 1831 was ushered in here
amidst sunshine and a cool sea breeze. The amuse-
ments for the day, regarded as a public holiday, were
numerous, the greatest attraction being on the race-
course at Flemington, where 18,000 persons assembled
to witness the V.R.C. Champion Race Meeting. His
Excellency the Governor and party arrived about half-
past twelve, the Governor as usual driving his tour-in-
hand.
The Countess of Ellesmere’s dress was composed
of blue satin, made with a gathered body and trimmed
with lace, a lace cape and bonnet, and parasol of blue
and cream.
Mrs. Malleson wore a costume, made almost
entirely of cream colored material, satin and cashmere.
The prettiest underskirt was of cream satin, and
the richly embroidered scarf-front worn over this was
most effective. A most exquisite little cream colored
bonnet, trimmed with feathers, and a parasol to match,
completed one of the most elegant costumes on the
lawn.
Mrs. W. J. Clarke’s dress also excited much
admiration, and some discussion arose as to the proper
name for the prevailing color, which some pronounced
to be cherry, whilst others declared it to be pink and
others again flame color. It was made of satin; the skirt
was worn short, being trimmed with narrow fittings
and puffings, the front being beautifully gathered in
honeycomb pattern. The vest and drapery were com-
posed of rich gold colored Indian silk brocade, orna-
mented with gems. Toque and parasol to match.
Mrs. Maloney wore a cream satin, with a long
train edged with pale blue satin; the bodice was of blue
and gold brocade, and the skirt was draped with pale
blue satin and gold brocade blended artistically and
indescribably. Her bonnet and parasol matched the
rest of the costume.
Mrs. Inglis also wore cream color with a Tam-o’
Shanter hat of the same color, made of plush and
feathers.
Miss Morphy looked very pretty in a cream
color and blue dress, toque to match. Miss Beatrice
Stephen also looked very charming in cream color, re-
lieved with wine colored satin and a lace toque.
Miss Petty, who is one of the acknowledged
dressers of Melbourne, wore an exquisite costume of
pale blue and silver brocade, heavily trimmed with
silver fringe and a cape made entirely of silver.
The prevailing color was cream of different
shades, as is often the case now in large assemblies.
There were fewer Madras muslins worn than on pre-
vious occasions. I expect people are getting tired of
them. Most of the young ladies had simple costumes
of sateen or muslin. A great many of the dresses were
made with gathered bodices and belts, several rows of
gathers being worn across the shoulders in yoke
pattern, as well as at the waist. Sashes of moderately
broad, bright colored ribbons were also worn, with
many of the dresses tied in front a little to one side and
having long ends. For young girls this style is ex-
ceedingly becoming.
A pleasing innovation was noticed in the shape of
satchels to match the dress or trimmings. These were
suspended from the waist, and as in some cases they
were made up to look old fashioned and antique the
effect was charming. Short dresses were quite the
prevalence, and a great deal of rich Indian embroidery
was worn on some of the handsome toiletts. Large
loose hoods are still worn. These have quite given
place, as I before told you, to the smaller bell-shaped
ones at first introduced. The straw Tam-o’Shanters
seem to be quite discarded, which is a good thing, as
they were very unbecoming. They are now mostly
made of plush or some such soft pliable material.
Dr. Ti. L. Smith, the sporting and advertising
practitioner, has administered a dose to the public far
excelling his celebrated pills. His unknown colt,
“Liberator,” won the two-year-old stakes at the
Champion Meeting, and the public had not backed him
for a penny. The “ Leviathan ” bookmaker, Thompson,
on seeing him lead down the straight, was heard to
exclaim, in ecstasies, “ Here’s a skinner!” It is said
that the doctor’s dose has taken due effect on the bet-
ting portion of the community.
On New Year’s Eve, Mrs. Newell, wife of the
Commissioner for the United States, gave a large dance
at her residence, East St. Kilda. There were about 150
guests presents, and dancing was kept up until close
upon the dawn of New Year’s Day.
The next evening Mrs. Newell gave a juvenile
fancy dress ball. More than sixty children were pre-
sent. They were entertained in a marquee erected for
the purpose, and as they flitted to and fro through the
brightly-lighted, gaily-decorated room, they formed a
pretty picture. Mrs. Nicholl’s little girl, who was
dressed as “ Folly," was much admired, and her dress
was quite a credit to the costumier at Robertson and
Moffatt’s. This reference calls to mind the fact that
my lamented friend, the late Mr. Edward Wilson, of
the Aegus, was the initiator of these interesting
juvenile entertainments in the colonies, when he gave
the first children’s fancy dress ball at Toronga, years
ago, when most of the young men and women of the
present were children.
Mrs. Griffiths also gave a dance on New Year’s
Eve. At twelve o’clock, the company sang the time-
honolured Auld Lang Syne,” and then danced till
early in the morning.
The Governor, the Marchioness of Normanby,
wid party attended the Opera House on New Year’s
Eve. On Tuesday evening they were were*present at
the performance of the pantomime, “Goody Two
Shoes.’ at the Bijou. The Countess of Ellesmere on
this occasion wore a very handsome white silk dress
a crimson satin cap, and exquisite jewellery. Miss
M Intyre was also present, and her diamonds attracted
attention. Observant people in Melbourne society are
charmed with the polished manner of the Countess of
Ellesmere, the deference she always pays her father in
public being noticed with highest eulogium.
There is a rumour—not yet confirmed, however
—in Melbourne circles, that Captain Standish has re-
ceived a splendid appointment at the Cape, and the
question naturally arises—what will the club, the
opera box, future distinguished visitors, and the Mel-
bourne belles do without the genial-hearted captain ?
On Wednesday evening, the Rev. Charles Strong
was presented with a testimonial in commemoration of
the termination of the fifth year of his pastorate of the
Church. Mr. K. J. Jeffray presided, and after an intro-
ductory address, presented Mr. Strong, on behalf of the
congregation, with a handsome silver salver and a
purse, containing a cheque for £2OO, accompanied by an
aridress expressing the high appreciation in which Mr.
Strong is held by his congregation. The rev. gentle-
man briefly and eloquently expressed his thanks. We
are all anxious for the result of the inquiry that is to
be held next month by the Presbytery into his alleged
want of orthodoxy, and considerable indignation is felt
at what is regarded as persecution against so excellent
a man.
A recent article in the Lancet informs us that
female drunkenness is on the increase in all classes of
society. This is very distressing—but is it to be won-
dered at when a clever intelligent man like Dr. Maloney
denies ns even the luxury of tea: declaring that the in-
mates of our lunatic asylums can trace their present
position as much to the abuse of tea as to the abuse of
spirits r
A new industry has been brought under the
notice of colonials by Mr. Theodore Piesst, who is a
member of the firm of Piesse and Lubin, Perfumers,
London. He strongly recommends ns to go in for
flower-farming. J should think this would be a much
pleasanter and more congenial employment than the
rearing of silk-worms so strongly advocated by Mrs.
Bladen Neil.
An elopement is reported from Geelong. The
young lady is the daughter of a gentleman occupying a
high official position in that town, and the gentleman
with whom she has eloped is well known in Melbourne
contracting circles.
The Governor and the Marchioness of Normanby
visited the Exhibition on Thursday afternoon, and his
Excellency was allowed by a Swiss exhibitor to take
one of the tiny Swiss watches from a case, to show to
the Marchioness, who was resting in the American
Court. Two Custom House officers shortly afterwards
arrived on the scene, and, on matters being explained,
I am sure they must have felt quite aggrieved that no
smuggling case could be proved. It would have caused
such a sensation if they could have arrested his
Excellency!
Mrs. L. M. Alexander, of Norwood, gave a large
dance on Wednesday. A marquee was erected, and the
garden illuminated with Chinese lanterns.
Two of the Brighton ladies were discussing the
reason of a wealthy match lately contracted by one of
the young demoiselles of that locality. “My dear,”
said the initiated friend, “ her parents live near the
Beach. From the garden to the water’s edge is a
covered avenue of trees. It’s all as plain as possible.
Give a dance —invite attraction—the delicious mazes of
the trois-temps waltz—a stroll in the garden, a listless
wandering in the romantic walk, the moon shimmering
through the trees—the soft breeze fans the cheek, and
the murmuring sound of the wavelets steal upon the
senses—and before the end of the avenue is reached
the words are spoken that settle their destiny.” This
is useful advice to mothers of marriageable daughters.
The determination to cause Mr. Blair to resign
is very generally regretted. His fault was simply care-
lessness ; and after 24 years’ service, the decision seems
very cruel. Mr. Blair was a general favourite at Toorak,
and his being so was a high crime and misdemeanour in
the opinion of our bilious tempered Attorney-General.
People wonder in what circle Mr. Yale is a favourite,
and if he can ever hope to have
“Honour, love, obedience, troops of friends!”
In a recent high-faintin' article, the Age
gravely told its readers that our Minister for Railways
gave expression to the universal conviction of all true
Liberals when he said that the great object of the party
should be moderation. Very kind, is it not, to preach
mod era! ion after the “party” have been thoroughly
beaten and forced to relinquish their policy of broken
headl and flaming houses.
One of the subjects that the Victorian delegates
are to bring before the Conference to be held on the
15th is a bill to facilitate the arrest of runaway husbands
and fathers. ‘From a woman’s point of view, it is a
matter of regret that our sex cannot send a well-
selected and initiated delegate to represent them at the
meeting, and see that this matter has the attention it
deserves.
There is to be a grand doll show and fancy fair
held in the Town Hall, Melbourne, during the second
week in March for the benefit of the funds of the
Victorian Asylum and School for the Blind. Prizes are
to be given for the best dressed dolls representing
allegorical, mythological, and historical characters,
ancient and modem, and as the competition is open to
tradesmen, dressmakers, costumiers, and all other
colonists alike, young or old, the entries will certainly
be very large.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Man legislates—Woman ornates.
The fashionable shade —Sunburn.
Princess Louise travels under the name .of Lady
Sandridge.
What’s a table richly spread.
Without a woman at its head !
A ball report says : “ Miss H. was full of eclat
—in fact, the eclatest lady present.”
Thirteen relicts of Brigham Young live in one
house. Lively times all the year round.
As for the women, though we scorn and flout ’em,
We may live with, but cannot live without ’em.
London society women purpose organising a
raid next year against the professional beauties.
A London lady appears in the surf at a French
watering-place in a fringed tunic, crimson tights, and
ankle bracelets.
The world was sad. the garden was a wild;
And man, the hermit, sighed, till woman smiled.
It was a Ballarat woman who, when her hue-
band was brought home intoxicated, thanked God be
was not a blood relation.
He is a fool who has the power and skill
To turn the current of a woman’s will.
Its good that a woman’s heart does not always
follow her head. One half the year the muffs would
have it all to themselves. ,
The Duchess of Edinburgh is the member of
the Royal Family who is the least known to the world
of fashion and the people of England generally.
* The Baroness Burdett Coutts has given
£lOO,OOO to the poor fishermen of Great Britain? She
was near giving her heart to an American angler.
Queen Victoria and her inseparable Beatrice
have cast aside the curtains of their retirement, and
were present recently at a Scotch cricket match.
After a girl has spent half a day in sewing red
trimmings around the bottom of her dress, nothing
bothers her so much as to have a friend whisper
“ Your petticoat is coming off.”
It is said the Baroness Burdett-Coutts has only
postponed her wedding day in order that her intended
might grow a little older. Unselfish woman ! she never
thinks of growing older herself.
A Brisbane boy sat beside his girl for just an
hour one night, and during that time kissed her ninety-
six times out of a possible hundred. The other four
times she got in a hurry and kissed him.
The Princess of Wales, when at Sandringham
has little tea parties, for which she herself makes the
butter in a silver chum, and spreads It on slices #f
bread which she cuts with her own hands.
Convenient divorce law in the arctic regions.
The husband walks out of the house in high dudgeon,
and does not return for several days. The wife takes
the hint, packs up, and shifts to the next iceberg.
After all, they are much ahetd of us in the
States. A bride waiting at the altar for her loved one,
receives a telegram, “I can’t marry you,” and faints.
The pastor, moved to tears, marries the girl himself
and thus saves the wedding breakfast.
The newest mania among fashionable women in
England and America, married and unmarried al’ke is
to make their bedrooms beautiful. The lately-acquired
taste for decoration is taking that turn just now, to the
utter neglect of parlors and ether apartments.
Amelia, in a moment of effusiveness, exclaims :
“ George, darling! I promise you that I’ll never go to
supper at the house Brebant with anyone but you ”
“ Why not at the house Bignon, also ?” Don’t be
unreasonable, dear. I’ve promised that to Herman.”
A volume containing descriptions of all the
presents ever given to a queen is certainly an oddity,
but it is said that Queen Victoria proposes to issue
such a book. It is to be illustrated by photographs,
and to include not merely costly gifts, but simple
tokens of affection which have been given by her poor
subjects at Balmoral. J y
It was only a summer flirtation.
That each had enjoyed, with the plan
That the matter should reach consummation
Exactly at where it began.
And yet it gives each of us sorrow
To think we apart hence must roam ;
But her husband comes for her to-morrow,
And wife writes for me to come home.
Mrs. Harris, a daughter of Brigham Young, is
the wife of an actor. She is handsome, and is the
un5 hter of Br igham*s handsomest wife. All the
children, she says, were strong and hearty. There is si
good deal of secret polygamy at Salt Lake, and the
marriage is announced after three years. Amelia, the
seventeenth wife, she believes, is married in that way.
Hie Mormons, Mrs. Harris says, are all democrats.


CHRISTMAS SHIPMENT OF FA
Ex Orient steamships LUSITAN A and ]
Peapes and Shaw are now mak:
NOVELTIES for PEESENTATION, SUITABLE to the S;
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
FOE
CHRISTMAS PEESENTS
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESK
ASSORTED SCENT CASKE'
ROYAL CABINETS OF GAM
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CAS'
SILVER BROOCHES AND EAER
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING (
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRA(
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET G
LADIES’ FANS FOR DRESS OR PRO
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS H(
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF
CRIBBAGrE BOARDS AND ROULI
LADIES’ Firmi) TRAVELLING I
Public Compan
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Incorporated by Act of Cor
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with po’
£1,000,000.
Eeserve Fund, £175,(
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Cha
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremi
William B. Walford, Esq. | Willia
Moses Moss, Esq
General Manage:
Vincent Wanostrocht (
Head Office, Stdb
City and Suburban Bej
Haymarket 1 Eedfem
London Office—18 King Willi.
Branches throughout the Coloi
Wales and Queensland, and Agen
Colonies, Great Britain, America,
&c„ &c.
THU BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GE
business-
IHE MERCANTILE BANI
ESTABLISHED 1!
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF P
Paid-up Capital.
Eeserve Fund...,
DIEECTOKS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon, Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King,
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Gei
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great £
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—Alexandi
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the mostfavom
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
CORNWALL FIRE AND i
ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £100,0
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD A1
Agents,
318 GEOEGE-STE1
SIDNEY.
The national mi
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRf
Established 18®
The only Life Office in the Austn
has been conducted on PUEEL1
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pi
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown am
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Bi
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole ef the profits made
belongs to the policyholders, and is
every THREE YEARS. The bor
been exceptionally large.
Public Compan
IOMMEECIAL BANKING
' SYDNEY.
Established 183J
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £550,000. Deserve F
Directors :
Kichard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.: L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Mi
. Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. B. S
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson £
Messrs. Cape and Westg
Head Office—George-str<
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. .
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Georj
Oxford-street.
Loudon Office—39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M
Esq.; P. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wales
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Begi
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, I
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Cot
Ora, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes
Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gundagt
uing, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong
Murrunmdi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narand
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qu<
Eichmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wei
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisb
Maryborough, and Bockham;
Agencies in the Coi
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria,
Australasia, Colonial Bank oi
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia: The Bank of 5
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank c
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem
New Zealand : National Bank of '
Agencies beyond the (
London : The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union ’
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland ; The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank c
San Francisco : The Bank of Br
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York; Messrs. Drexel, Morgi
India, China and Singapore : Th
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lone
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercanti
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of I
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, al
fixed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, ai
lects bills payable at any of the at
elsewhere, at current rates; collect!
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the r- ion
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
1HE MUTUAL ASSUEANC
VICTOBIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. If
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Si
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es>
Andrew Drysdale, Esc
This Society is established for Lif
granting of Annuities and Eudowmi
STBICTLY MUTUAL, awarding i
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution therec
LOANS granted on Mortgage or c
combined with Life Assurance.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL
7
m P
ft
i'MMj
0
J
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS, *
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Coi
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad wit
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free fi
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for fun
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to
/M
&
M
TJEPHT AND
IMPORTERS OF
SON,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled) 1
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
TVfTYDD PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, Gity or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
Gr.
A. S M I T
88 KING STREET
(Prom Rotherham's, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
H,
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
rjuTF BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., £ gal., and } gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
nB; —“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
aad Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city,
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
IS
or
$
quradl
ELASTIC
I
as
squares


Business Announcements
W.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE.
352 George-street.
G
♦•-a
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Aucher’s,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-streot,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blae
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
F. fcSojSf
REDGATE’S
MEM,
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON
■eld by all Grocer* and Storekeeper*]
Tn AND F. W. MASON
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS
All matter* carried out promptly. Plans prepan
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEA
- Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
manufacturer and importer,
609 George-street.
Tobacconists
E
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
Sr
o y
m
vs
a
T.
Manufactured by
S A Y W E L L,
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
rjl H 0 S. J. SOWN & C £).,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
SCOFFER PIPE,
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
OHEISTMAS PRESENTS.
/
N
i
A. J. HUFTON,
636 GEORQE-STREET SOUTH.
Cheapest House in Town.
N ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
VISIT
/T)
o
W 3?
r
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INVESTMENTS,
PIANOS, ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Jra.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
Chemists and Druggists
tm.
m
1 Vo- V
p
ÜBL I C
NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson's Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEOEGE STREET.
APOTHECARIES’
14 OXFORD STREET,
HALL,
Near Hyde Park Corker.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
fW. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
, ■ ~ uni i lll .’fTTL.iH
CAR 5 E
ITapot
?’■ T-a
Sk
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Ckib prescrix>tions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,600 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
PACTS SPEAK FOE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription ii CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sims akd Parkes,
Sirs, —If it is any benefit to you, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time, you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlarge-
menof the Liveraud Spleen, withal! the accompanying
pains and aches. For FOUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer, and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, but my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, as a Last
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE,
Grose-Street, Camnerdown, N.S.W.
October 27,1879.
SIMS AND PARKES,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies, on receipt of Cash and Post
Office Order. Address—
-240 GEORGE STREET, opposite Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson's American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctns, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
TATTERSALL’S CUP. — Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee —£1. First,
£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. AU net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. “ Senior Wrangler,”
core H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.’*
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE
NO MORE
but try
PILLS
EANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE F
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time P Yon
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
«ar Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
JJY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson's Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
I
MPROYED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced npon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOE FIVE TEARS.
Reduced Price List:—
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand.
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing. Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and beet
price given for old metal.


K
ATOOMBA! KATOOMBA!
ABUNDANCE OF WATER.
PURE FRESH AIR.
If you never read an advertisement in yonr life before,.
READ THIS.
The Echo, with an exultant cry, says:—
“KATOOMBA, ‘THE HOME OF THE CRYSTAL
SPRAY,’ is at last IN THE MARKET POE SALE.
“ The owner has sold ‘ THE FAIREST SPOT IN
NEW SOUTH WALES’ to a purchaser, who is cut-
ting it up into ‘MOUNTAIN HOMES, LUXURIANT
VILLAS, and FLOWER WREATHED SANATO-
RIUMB.’
“ It is one of the GRANDEST WATERFALLS IN
AUSTRALIA, at the head of perhaps the most mag-
nificent gorge in the whole BLUE MOUNTAIN
RANGE, within a convenient distance of the RAIL
WAY LINE, and ONLY 66 MILES i ROM SYDNEY.’*
IS NOT THIS ENOUGH ?
NO. THEN READ ON.
The late owner, who only removed from the resid-
ence on the 4th, never allowed
A GUN TO BE FIRED
on the Estate, and, in consequence, the beautiful woods
are crowded with
MOST BEAUTIFUL BIRDS.
READ THE LIST.
LYRE BIRDS IN THOUSANDS.
GANG GANGS GALAHS
BUTCHER BIRDS
BLACK AND WHITE COCKATOOS
ROSELLAS NAL'IVE THRUSHES
BLUE MOUNTAIN PARROTS
LAWRIES GOLDEN SPARROWS
and many others,
filling the air with MELODY, and decking with their
BRILLIANT PLUMAGE
TURPENTINE TREES, 18 ft. inCIRCUMFERANCE,
CHRISTMAS TREES, 150 ft. HIGH,
SATINWOOD TREES, 8 inches DIAMETER,
MYRTLES, BRYONIAS, RED GUMS,
EUCALYPTUS,
and their brethren of the forest.
Here, vying with the feathered songsters in many
hues, are
CHRISTMAS BELL FLOWERS, 10 inches long,
and
FIFTY KINDS of NATIVE FLOWERS,
WALLABIES
skip in graceful freedom, BUT
NO OPOSSUMS or NATIVE CATS
are to be found on the estate, an immense advantage,-
which will be readily acknowledged.
In the PELLUCID WATERS are the delicious
TROUT
AND ALL VARIETIES OF FISH.
THE FRETFUL PORCUPINE
displays his quills in peaceful contentment.
ENGLISH FRUITS
of every description grow in rich profusion in every
corner of this
LUXURIANT GARDEN.
NO MOSQUITOES OR SANDFLIES
will disturb the sloepingor WIDEAWAKE purchasers,
the great altitude, 3100 feet, precluding the possibility
of their existence in this
PERFECT EDEN.
In various parts of the property are to be seen some of
THE FINEST FOSSILS IN THE WORLD.
HEALTH IS ITS HERITAGE.
As a proof of this it needs but to be stated that after
scouring America, England, and Europe, that eminent
Physician,
Dr. SYDNEY JONES,
has selected the locality for his own residence. During
the occupation of Mr. J. T. Neale he never knew
ANY DISEASE AMONG POULTRY,
and he says that it is a place in which
TURKEYS ARE EASILY REARED.
Add to all the above the fact that here is
WOODLAND SCENERY
which visitors "declare to be
UNSURPASSED IN NATURE ;S
that here is the
MASTERWORK OF AQUAFLUENS,
the far famed and enchanting
KATOOMBA FALLS,
and a little further on
MINNIEHAHA,
the
LAUGHING WATERS
and numberless other
SPARKLING RIVULETS.
Again consider the boon of
AN UNTAINTED ATMOSPHERE,
which an
EMINENT PHYSICIAN
prescribes for himself;
THE COMPLETE SECLUSION,
and yet withal the fact that yon are
NOT FAR FROM THE CITY,
and say, are we too bold, or do we exaggerate, when wc
say that
FAIR AUSTRALIA
does not hold a spot so fair, a homo so decked with the
BEAUTIFUL AND RARE,
as the retreat to which we invite you—
KATOOMBA.
READ THIS ;
THE PUREST OF WATER EVER RUNNING.
NO FACTORY CHIMNEYS.
NO DUSTSTORMS.
NO SHRIEKING TRAM MOTORS.
NO CAPSIZING OMNIBUSES.
All the delights of a
RURAL LIFE
within a hour or two’s easy travel to
THE CITY PLEASURES.
No need to visit foreign countries for
GLORIOUS MOUNTAIN SCENERY,
or
GLITTERING, DAZZLING CATARACTS,
but here everything beailtiful and entrancing is to be
had for a moment's walk —in fact,
AGIN YOUR OWN DOOR,
and some part or other of it
YOUR OWN PROPERTY.
READ THL- !
ON ANNIVERSARY DAY,
the 26th instant, an opportunity will be given to
INSPECT THE ESTATE.
RAILWAY FARES, which will
INCLUDE LUNCHEON,
will be advertised in due course.
VISITORS wiU be subjected by
THE PROPRIETOR
to one condition, which will be rigidly adheared to —
NO GUNS WILL BE ALLOWED
on the Estate, so that the
WARBLERS OF THE AIR
may not be decimated or disturbed.
KATOOMBA,
in all its glory, will be . T „
OFFERED FOE SALE,
in capitaUy arranged portions
ABOUT THE END OF JANUARY.
SEE IT 1 BUY !
CONGRATULATE YOURSELVES!
r j H, A E I E L L-
V • provision merchant,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
313 and 315 Kent-steebt, near King-street.
SOLE Agent for the undermentioned
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groav
Swallow & ArieU’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle a d
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria TViletand Mottled So.< j ■
DiUon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders a.v*
Sauce.
313 and 345 RENT-STREET, r>o«r Kmg-street.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —beat Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CC
H
CO
LU
CD
oe
CD
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OP
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But fob Cash—We Sell fob Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
G
ENT.’S SILK UMBRELLAS AT ENGLISH COST.
J. E. GOWI N G,
Having bought (for cash) a Large Consignment of GENT.’S SILK UMBRELLAS considerably
under Manufacturers’ prices, has marked the same at English cost.
GENT.’S DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED SILK UMBRELLAS, Foxe’a Paragon Frames,
12s. 6d. (English cost). ~ , ..
GENT.’S TWILLED SILK UMBRELLAS, for sun or ram, 12a. 6d. (English cost).
EXTRA QUALITY
DOUBLE TEXTURE
TWILLED SILK
NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS,
POKE’S PARAGON FRAMES,
ENGLISH
COST.
J. E. GOWING’S TRADE SYSTEM.
ART. GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
So Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Goods at the very lowest
quotations.
J. E.- GOWI N G,
MEN’S MERCER, OUTFITTER, HATTER, &c.,
% 332 GEORGE STREET,
Half wat between Post Office and Hunter Street.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUS
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
A Ways
v#
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL. Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RADCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. SEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our easterners the best possible value P
And WHERE ABE THOSE who will not take advan-
the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
* FOR COLLECTION AND YAEIETY, The Boyal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. P ARTIES DESIROUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double—Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies' and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enatnbled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the no w extendingfoot rail—Patent
Sanitorv Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
recommended by all doctors —Toilet Sets,'
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites—Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards—Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials—An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames —Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables —Papier-
mache goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets—Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match— Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from—Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables —Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets —
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, - Inkstands, Paper
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Separate tables being laid out with
SPECIALITIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street. .
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at ttie BON MA.RCHE, and se© tlie beautiful
MILLINEEY BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
3s lid. Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
from la lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from 4Jd per
u'lir. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fiechus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, Ac., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
U : ve ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
What does a ship weigh ?—lts anchor.
The iron horse has but one ear—the engin-eer.
Where to go when short of money—Go to work.
If you wish to take care of your health, take
air.
Darwin must be right. Are not most women
tale-bearers ?
A hanging isn’t necessarily a burlesque because
it's a take-off.
What better time to be buried in slumber than
at the dead of night ?
A woman took the veil. It was in George-street,
and she got one month.
Heat has a musical effect upon some things. A
cold tea kettle never sings.
The oysters got into a devil of a stew when they
arrived at the Coffee Palace.
Patti didn’t like the Welsh papers. She got
tired of the prints of Wales.
The little boy, when threatened with a whipping,
went out and hung his head.
Lightning travels so fast, it has never yet been
beaten, except by a rod or two.
Professor: “ What are the constituents of
quartz ?” Student : “ Pints.”
If you would be wealthy get upon a mule. You
will soon find that you are better off.
A hen perohed on a fence is much like a penny.
A head on one side —tail on the other.
Shouldn’t women be hon. members of the fire
brigades ? Who look so well after the hose ?
It is difficult to become familiar with the wheels
of a watch, so many of them them travel incog.
Text to hang up in the cabin of a Middle Harbor
lK>at“ In the midst of the berths we are in deaths.”
“ Gentlemen,” said an unpopular stump speaker,
“ emulate the hen, and lay your eggs more gently at my
feet."
The fastest trotting horse is a mare, and it is
strongly suspected that the fastest man is an “old
woman.”
“ This is the set I belong to,” clucked the old
hen as she walked up the step-ladder to get on a nest
full of eggs.
A country debating society is wrestling with the
question : “ Is a woman’s waist the best plaee for arm-y
movements."
It is hardly fair to assert that an “ honest man
is the noblest work of God.” If it were true, God
would have made more of them.
Truth crushed to earth shall rise again ; but not
so quick as a healthy lie will get up after having been
knocked down in the first round.
King David once said: “I have said in my
heart that all men are liars." Yes, he was afraid to say
it out loud. That was after he lost his sling.
He rested his hot brow upon his hand and
sighed, “ Three months ago she vowed that she would
never, never marry me, and now she is sueing me for
breach of promise.”
A French writer says there was once in the
environs of Rouen a miller’s daughter so pretty and so
cruel that the sighs of her lovers served to turn the
sail# of her father’s mill.
A man who married a Jewess, shortly after-
ward joined the temperance society, and never dared
to kiss his wife from that day, because he had con-
sidered himself prohibited by the pledge from meddling
With Jew-lips.
Gardeners nine times out of ten marry widows.
They seem to have a passion for eradicating weeds.
But Peter Campbell was no gardener, yet he tried to
eradicate a weed the last time he was down here.
“ Box 224. G.P.0.”
Old Westwood would press his services on a
notorious rascal in North Queensland who was about to
be executed. On the platform the recreant gave the old
pastor a parting cut: “That’ll do, just now,” he said.
“ I’ll see you later.”
A man went into the office of an evening news-
paper and said he wanted the paper. “ How long f ”
enquired the counter clerk. " Jess as long as it is,”
replied the man, “Ef it don’t wrap the bottles up well,
I can tear a bit off myself.”
First six-year-old : “ Ah, now I’ve got a doll
what opens its eyes and shuts them, and speaks when I
want it to.” Second ditto : “ Ah, that’s nothing. My
little sister’s got the heat of the blood, and it’s all out
over her arms. Now, then !”
Had a newspaper been started first, Eve would
never have run the risk of trying that apple. She
could have learnt all about it in the agricultural
columns. Of course, an evening newspaper wouldn’t
have done. She would have had her doubts still.
Within a wall as white as milk.
Within a curtain soft as silk,
A golden apple doth appear.
Bathed in a bath of crystal clear ;
No doors or windows 1 behold,
Yet thieves break through, and steal the gold—
An egg.
“ I 3 your programme full, Miss Beetlecrusher ?”
asked a young man of a Townsville damsel, who had
just struggled out of the refreshment-room, with dis-
appointment in her eye and an order of dances in her
hand. “ Programme full,” said the sun-burnt girl.
“ Well, I guess not. I haint hod nothing but a piece of
cake and an ice-cream, and they go far toward
filling my programme, I can tell you."
With ghastly eyes and foaming mouth
Before the glass he stood,
And waved on high the gleaming blade,
And muttered, d n the blood.
I rushed to save the rash young man,
I thought he must be raving;
• I grasped his arm, he turned and said —
“ Don’t bother me, I’m shaving.”
Thoughts in Church (St. Barnabas’ particn-
larly):—“ This sermon is a bore." " How much longer
will he preach ?" “ I’m hungry for dinner.” “ That
mar, isn’t at all bad looking.” * I wonder if Emma is
engaged.” “ Well, it old Mrs. ■ isn’t wearing a
turban, too.” “ I wonder how much that bonnet cost.”
“ It sounds as if he was going to close up the sermon.”
“ I’ve a great mind to have it trimmed with scarlet.”
“ I must order a pair of new shoes to-morrow, and the
material for that wrapper.” “ How that girl does lace.”
“ Amen ! My, isn’t it nice to get out again ?”
A clergyman past middle age, after having
united a loving couple in the holy bonds of matrimony,
was asked bv some present at the marriage feast how
he, a bachelor, could consistently engage in such
ceremonies. The good man’s answer was significant:
“ la a man’s life there are two periods when he is likely
to marry : one when he is young and has no sense the
other when he is old and lost his sense. He was glad
to inform them that he was past one, and had not yet
reached the other.”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Gresley Lukin settles in Melbourne.
The Duke of Manchester was at Burenda (Q.)
on the sth.
The Italian Consul-General gave an official dinner
in Melbourne on the 6th.
Captain Walker, of the City of Adelaide, is well
again, and once mOre in charge of his ship.
The Hon. George Oakes sold his fine orangery
at Parramatta this week, to Mr. Ballard, for £4OOO,
J. B. Thompson, M.L.A. for Queanbeyan, has
resigned. Cause: Government require his services as
a valuator.
His Grace the Duke of Manchester is a Grand
Master of the Orange Lodge of Ireland. He says he
has met no more genial gentleman and companion in
all his travels than the Knight of St. Gregory. Lord
Robert Montagu, the duke’s brother, is a convert to
Rome, and a very enthusiastic one too.
Mr. Longman, the well-known publisher of
London, has sold his estate at Famborough Hill to the
ex-Empress Eugenie, for £50,000. It consists of 257
acres and a picturesque mansion. The ex-Empress
intends to build on the property a memorial chapel, to
receive the bodies of the ex-£mperor and the late
Prince Imperial.
Lord and Lady Belmore and
the Hon. Charles and Mrs. Berke-
ley have left England to pass the
winter in Egypt.
Mr. Commissioner Goodchap
has returned from Victoria, and
is now busy with the arrangements
of the Albury opening.
Mr. M. Law, late manager
of the Newcastle branch of the
Bank of New Zealand, left on the
22nd December, to take charge of
the Christchurch branch.
The Hon. William Forster
intends to reside on his property,
Kissing Point Road, near Parra-
matta. Extensive improvements
are being made to the dwelling-
house.
It is understood that the
York brothers left their brother-
in-law, Mr. Evans, the well-known
cricketer, a handsome income.
More time now to be devoted to
the noble game.
The hon. Charles Moore,
M.L.C. (N.S.W.) entertained on
the 7th, at Scott’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, at luncheon. Dr. Ren-
wick, M.P., Mr. John Davies,
C.M.G., M.P., and several other
Sydney gentlemen.
The Maori who murdered
Miss Dobie assigned his crime to
intemperance. His words were:
■“As I am to die, let spirits die
also.” What a world of rebuke
for civilization is there in these
words of the tawny savage!
Mr. G. R. Dibbs will be at
liberty to do what he pleases on
the 10th April. Mr. Dibbs has j'
during his retirement displayed (j
his usual industry. Not satisfied
alone with the lathe and the
ivory, he took to ship-building.
He has now fabricated a splendid
14ft. sailing boat, copper-fastened
throughout, &c.
The Grafton letter-carrier,
Watham —we beg his pardon,
Thomas Watham, Esq., late of
Grafton —who recently came into
a fortune of £40,000, paid the
General Post-office a visit last
Monday, en route to England.
He received quite an ovation from
the’ officials, high and low.
Knowing dogs these fellows.
“ Good day!”
The late President Thiers
was again honoured in Paris a few
days ago by the unveiling of a
statue, with the inscription,
“First President of the Repub-
lic.” He holds the map of
France in his hands, with the
word “Belfort” standing out in
large gilt letters, indicating the
fortress which he successfully
expended every effort to wrest
from the Germans.
Dr. Russell, special corres-
pondent of the London Standard,
has bowled Lord Lansdowne out
in a very curious transaction.
The noble lord is the owner of
135,500 acres in Ireland, and he
rules his tenants with an iron
rod. Lord Lansdowne borrowed
the “Board of Works” Relief
Fund from the Government at
3| per cent, for 35 years, and
benevolently lent it to the ten-
ants at 5 per cent.
The Gazette has the fol-
lowing extraordinary notifica-
tion :—“ Whereas fears are enter-
tained for the safety of Mr. Dalton,
police magistrate, Forbes, who
was last seen in Murrum hurrah
on or about the 28th of November
last, when he left by rail for
Gerogery, he being then in a bad
state of health, and suffering from
defective eyesight. And whereas
there is no reason to suppose that
Mr. Dalton has wilfully absented
himself from official duty without
leave, and there is good ground
for apprehending that some ser-
ious mishap has befallen him, it
is requested that any information
that may lead to the discovery
°f Hr. Dalton, or to his present
address, may be communicated
to W. E. Plunkett.”
. Marquis of Normanby and suite are staying
at Uatrobe for a few days, where there is good fishing
and shooting.
• *^ os i a h Strickland, of Wendaburra Station,
m the Forbes district, is dead. The deceased gentle-
man, who was 68 years of age at the time of his death,
was widely known and respected for his hospitality and
uprightness. Mr. Strickland was a native of the
Uawkesbury, but was a resident of the Forbes district
lor over thirty years.
v The - is a £?°d story told of a wealthy old store-
keeper (Sam. Dixon) of Morpeth, now some years dead.
ii j '^ ness he was attended by Dr. Bulmore,
wno had very few cases, and had just experienced a long
frost in professional line. “ Look here,” said the
aoctor, “ you are going, old man; but I can save you.
it u cost five guineas, though.” “Tut, tut," replied
Samuel, “ five shillings.” “ No,” said the doctor, hold-
JM.k 18 ground, “nothing less than five guineas."
Uh, very well, then,” said the old patient, with an
expression of agony; “but you must take it out in
sugar. Samuel became worse, and a trip to Sydney
l or a consultation became necessary. “ What sort is
ne r enquired one of the Sydney doctors. “Oh,” said
-oufmore, “ pluck him well: he’s a fine turkey, but
tough.” Sacred to the memory, &c.
Very few persons know that Sir John Robertson
enjoyed the personal acquaintance of Lord Palmerston,
of+n 18 a fact ' and the worthy knight tells the story
oi the connection in a way quite to rivet attention. Sir
uohn s parents had several “ assigned servants,” and
Among them was a young fellow evidently well-bred.
Young Robertson was at this time of a slightly roving
disposition, and being about to take a trip home, was
asked by the “ servant” in question to deliver a letter
to'his mother in England. Arrived in England, he duly
forwarded the letter, which, it appears, spoke in very
feeling terms of the kindness of the Robertsons, and
especially of young Jack. When, a few days after,
young Robertson called at the Colonial Office, he was
informed there was a letter from Lord Palmerston, the
first man in England, requesting an interview. This
almost knocked him out of time, but he repaired to
Downing-street as requested, and there saw the great
man. The noble lord took him warmly by the
hand, and thanked him over and over again
on behalf of a dear friend for the kind treatment shown
that young man in Australia. Then Lord Palmerston
asked much of him about the Southern land —little
thinking, perhaps, of the important part that youth
would in future years take in the affairs of that
distant clime —and finally wound up by offering him a
most pressing invite to his country seat. Young
Robertson “went down,” as requested, and, arriving at
the noble lord’s mansion, Was received with every mark
of attention. The young colonial couldn’t make it
all out. At last he got a letter, in a curious way,
asking him to go a little further down to see a Mrs. G.,
to whose son he had been so kind. “ More mystery,”
said young Robertson. But he went. Five minutes
after he arrived, in walked. Lord Palmerston. “ Now,”
to use Sir John’s own words, “ I was supposed to be a
green ’un —a regular cornstalk from Australia, only 18
years of age; but, ha! ha! you can stake your life
I wasn’t three minutes in that house when I knew who
Mrs. G. was, and who that young man in Australia was.”
A Literary Scorpion.
This comes wafted upon the orange-scented breezes
from the Old Township, and, it being a nice little story
with a nice little moral, we have much pleasure in dishing
it up with sauce piquante for the edification of our readers.
A publican of Sydney, having done well with his hostel-
rie, experienced a desire for rusticity; and therefore pur-
chased a very large first-class hotel in that picturesque
town sacred to immaculate public institutions. Well,
he came to terms about the house he wanted, was
successful in obtaining the transfer of his license, and
moved in accordingly. A short while after his installa-
tion, a well-known peripatetic hotel-broker, who alleged
that the transaction was completed through him, sued
the boniface for commission. This claim the landlord
repudiated, and in due course was sued by the com-
mission-agent in the District Court. The plaintiff
stated his case trippingly on the end of his tongue, and
all seemed to go well with him until the appearance of
a weird figure in the witness-box, who came there
subpoenaed by the other side. This ghastly phantom
said that he had managed the transaction alone and
unaided, and his testimony completely squelched the
case of the commission agent. Three or four days
afterwards the publican received a bill from his confid-
ing witness for £64, being commission on the purchase
of his new hotel. On this the landlord “ bucked ” more
than ever; but it was of no avail. A Supreme Court
writ was issued, and tfie boniface had to cash up. By
way of revenge, however, he wrote across his witness’s
receipt “blood money,” had it framed and hung up in
his bar. On this the witness immediately issued a writ
for slander—damages, £2OOO. The publican now says
that he wishes he’d never left Sydney.
SOME SOLID FACTS.
There is a coloured German in Boston, U.S.
Taxes in China are very light, but unfortunately
the money raised is absorbed by an extravagant court.
Sir Edwin Landseer could draw two different
objects at about the same time —one with his right
hand, and the other with his left.
M. Pifre, with his new reflector and boiler, under
a clear sky, made fifteen gallons of water boil within
fifteen minutes, utilising the heat of the sun.
Lynch-law was never more prevalent in some of
the States of America than now. The gaols are burst
open and the culprits conducted to the nearest tree.
Are there any Blakes in this country ? we ask.
Because there is £145,000 belonging to the heirs of Mrs.
Helen Blake of Kensington going begging for the want
of heirs.
An American paper says that a child, 11 years
old, was recently sent as a parcel by rail from Kansas,
where her parents live, to Philadelphia, a distance of
1900 miles, and arrived quite safely at her destination.
She had a ticket hung round her neck, and the railway
authorities took and gave a receipt for her, just as if
she had been an ordinary express parcel.
A curious story is told of a noble lord, who is
M.P. for a Midland borough, who paid his constituents
a visit to preside at an agricultural dinner. The parish
bell ringers, eight in number getting wind of the affair,
set to work to give his lordship a merry chime in honor
of his visit, and for their services were rewarded with
two small silver sixpences between them, which they
politely returned next day in postage-stamps.
The English papers are publishing the expendi-
ture of the Lord Mayors of London. Alderman Stone
spent £3,228 during the year of office; Alderman Lusk
spent £3,828; Sir Thomas Owden spent about the same
amount; Sir C. Wetham spent less ; Sir Sydney Water-
low spent £3,606 and Sir Francis Truscott spent more
than £4,000. Why we have had Sydney Mayors,
notably Mr. Alderman C. J. Roberts, who spent £4,5000;
and we have also had Sydney Mayors who spent half of
their salaries, viz., £4OO to £5OO a year, and pocketed the
other half.
Banda of music are forbidden to play on most
of the large bridges of the world. A constant succes-
sion of sound waves, especially such as come from the
playing of a band, will excite the wires to vibration. At
first the vibrations are very slight, but they will increase
as the sound waves continue to come. The principal
reason why bands are not allowed to play while crossing
certain bridges, the snspension bridge at Niagra, for
instance, is that, if followed by processions of any kind
they will keep step with the music, and this regular
step causes the wires to vibrate. At suspension bridges
military companies are not allowed to march across in
regular step, but break ranks. A regular trotting gait
of a large dog across a snspension bridge is more dan-
gerous to the bridge than a heavily-loaded waggon
brawn by a team of large horses.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Bishop Barker almost convalascent.
Three Jesuit teachers arrived in Sydney last
week.
The Marchioness of Ripon has joined the Earl
in India.
The Y.M CA. of Victoria is using special
efforts to remove a debt of £5OOO.
Rev. Canon Moreton leaves, in accordance with
medical advice, on a trip to Europe.
Three-fourths of the Jesuit scholars passed the
University at the recent senior examinations.
The Bishop of Waiapu is, according to a con-
temporary, a brother to Alex. Stuart, M.L.A., of this
colony.
Five new Roman Catholic schools with accomo-
dation for 1000 children were opened in the diocese
of Sydney during 1880.
Mr. James Gordon gave ,£2OO towards the
£5OO required for the new roof and other repairs of
Christ Church, Sydney.
The most beautiful service heard in Sydney for
some time took place at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on
Sunday evening last. The anthem will long be remem-
bered.
Last year, the Bishop of
Auckland confirmed forty Maoris.
Archbishop Vaughan will
preach at Parramatta next Sunday
morning.
There are not more than
twenty preachers in the Victorian
Assembly.
The C.E, Working Mens’
Literary Association of Goulbum
have handed the Bishop £Boin aid
of the new cathedral. Here’s an
example.
Mons. Scaffingi is editor of
the Pope’s new journal, the
Aurora. He has written to Arch-
bishop Vaughan, asking a contri-
bution from the pen of that dis-
tinguished gentleman.
An American paper says the
pastors of the various churches
appear to have caught the conta-
gion for unrest which so seriously
affects the people of the States.
Ther° is no such thing as a settled
ministry.
Wonderful discovery! The
evening preacher at St. James’s
affirms that the drought is a pun-
ishment for our irreligioun, larri-
kinism, political swindling, and
other prevalent vices. Well, how
comes it they have wet weather
in Victoria?
There is an Anglican clergy-
man at Parramatta who is really
of those who “do good by stealth
and blush to find it fame.” He is
famous for fossick! g out cases of
real distress irrespective of the
religion of the sufferer, and afford-
ing relief from his private means.
The new infants’ school
attached to St. Patrick’s (R C.)
Church, Parramatta, is finished.
It is a fine commodius building
and will bn opened next week,
clear of debt. The manner in
which the building has been com-
pleted reflects great credit on the
contractor, Mr. Herbert Coates.
Letters received by the
Cathay state that the Bishop of
Tasmania and his family are en-
joying their holiday in England,
and purpose leaving for Tasn ania
again early in June. The Dean’s
health has derived considerable
benefit by the change of air and
rest from active work that is be-
ing afforded him.
An alliance between a num-
ber of High Church clergymen and
“ high-toned ” actors and actresses
under the name of “ The Church
and Stage Guild ” has been formed
and the Guild has held its first
meeting at the Dilettante Club in
Argyll-street, London. Many
English and American actresses
were present.
Smart for St. James’s ! The
curate said last Sunday evening :
“In the matter of the Bible, if
the weekday thoughts of most of
you were recorded, the smallest
atom of paper would suffice to
contain the record; but were the
talk and thoughts of pleasures and
fun and fashion put in print, the
same would fill ” * * * a Bulletin.
We wonder if the writer of
the notice referring to the illness
of Bishop Barker in the Champion
Firebrand and calling him an
angel on earth, is the same indi-
vidual who recently grossly in-
sulted his Lordship, and in fact is
partly responsible for his Lord
ship’s illness through his persis-
tent disorderly behaviour and dis-
obedience to the amiable Head
of the Church of Engand in this
colony.
On Sunday, the 2nd, Mrs.
Webster resumed her ministerial
functions at the U nitarian Church,
Eastern Hill, Melbourne. In the
course of an excellent sermon to a
very numerous congregation, she
denounced in earnest language
the proceedings of the philoso-
phers whose materialistic theories
were designed for the subversion
of the spiritual realm which the
Great Teacher came to establish
by a mighty sacrifice.
Dr. Talmage is forty-eight years old. Beecher
has just entered his sixty-eighth year, and has a greater
degree of vitality than any other American preacher of
his years.
It is the true revivalist that does the mischief
to religion. A prominent supporter of Moody and
Sankey in San Francisco called the revival “ campaign-
ing for Christ.” The Rev. Mr. Harrison, who occupied
Talmage’s tabernacle for a time, declared one night “ he
must save fifty souls right off, as he wanted to make
hell mad.” Some of the American journalists say that
the sensational preaching and antics of Beecher have
made more infidels in Amt rica than all the freethonght
works yet published. In San Francisco, Moody and
Sankey made it “hot for Satan,” and the result was a
frenzy lasting about a fortnight. There were no real
conversions.
There is a great deal of significance in the fact
of three dissenting ministers joining the Anglican
Church in Sydney the other day. The significance is
that the Church is absorbing Wesleyanism. A promi-
nent minister of that persuasion, well-known for his
eloquence, remarked to a gentleman recently that
Wesleyanism was dying out; most of his brother
ministers who could better themselves thinking it not
respectable enough for them. This is rather an unplea-
sant thing to publish of any denomination, but the
Wesleyans may be assured that we give only the words
of a minister dear to them all. On the other hand,
an Anglican clergyman nnologiaed for Bishop Barker’s
low church proc !
way for Wesley
dditions we g< ■
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND, SYDNEY BRANCH, PITT STREET.— (EXTERIOR VIEW.)


G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
This and Every Evening,
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL
In his Great Character as
QUILP.
JAB. D. COX, Treasurer.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 29th December, 1880.
OTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
executes and takes delivery of the under-
mentioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty days
from this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
Hunter and Maclkay Mining District.
No., 231; Duncan M'Rae and others; Portion No.,
16; Paddy's Creek, parish of Topi; 5 acres: Application
No., Bulladelah 29.
No., 233; W. Masters and others; Portion No., 17;
Lady Mary Reef, parish of Teleraree ; 5 acres; Applica-
tion No., 37.
No., 244; Vitch Murray and others; Portion No., 42
Little Wonder Reef, parish of Teleraree; 3 acres; A
lication No., 76.
80., 245; Jonathan Goldspink and others; Portion
No., 45; Golden Bar Beef, parish of Teleraree; 3 rudes,
15 perches; Application No., 82.
No., 248; Leo Plania and others; Portion No., 14;
Aurora Reef, parish of Topi; 2 acres; Application No.,
97.
No., 250; P. Cannell and others; Portion No., 51;
Perseverance Reef, parish of Teleraree; 4 acres; Appli-
cation No., 124.
No., 260; W. Alway and others; Portion No., 26;
Who’d-a-thought-it Reef, parish of Teleraree; 3 acres;
Application No., 26.
No., 261; B. Barrett and others; Portion No., 3;
Golden Star Reef, parish of Curreki; S acres; Applica-
tion No., 42.
No., 263; James Lulham and others; Portion No.,
35; Golden Bar Reef, parish of Telearee; 5 acres; Ap -
plication No., 57.
No., 365; W. Lulham and others; Portion No., 39;
Great Wonder Beef, parish of Taleraree; 2 acres; Ap-
plication No., 77.
No., 266; J. Lulham and others; Portion No., 38;
Great Wonder Reef, parish of Teleraree; 3 acres; Ap-
plication No.. 78.
No., 267; W. Paterson and others; Portion No., 44;
Curreki Beef, parish of Teleraree; 2 acres; Application
No., 80.
No., 275; F. Marshall and others; Portion No., 46;
Exhibition Reef, parish of Teleraree; 5 acres; Appli-
cation No., 106.
No., 277; J. Goldspink and others; Portion No., 47 ;
Exhibition Reef, parish of Teleraree; 2 acres; Applica-
tion No., 113.
No., 278; S. M'Kay and others; Portion No., 48;
Mountain Widow Reef, parish of Teleraree; 2 acres;
Application No., 118-
No., 279; H. T. Hoare; Portion No., 52; Queen
Mary Reef, parish of Teleraree; 3 acres; Application
No., 125.
No., 287; Joseph Franklin and another; Portion No.,
14; Evening Star Reef, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres;
Application No., 67.
No., 289; W. Henderson and and another; Portion
No,, 7; Mountaineer Beef, parish of Coolongolook; 3
acres; Application No., 73.
No., 290; Donald M'Kinnon and another; Portion
No., 15; Morning Star Reef, parish of Coolongolook;
3 acres ; Application No., 74.
No., 291; John M'Lean and another; Portion No.,
13; Morning Star Reef, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres;
Application No., 86.
No., 292; D. M'Kinnon and others; Portion No., 8;
Mountaineer Beef, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres;
Application No., 91.
No., 293; J. Murray others; Portion No., 1; Queen
of the East Reef, parish of Coolongolook; 6 acres; Ap-
plication No., 92.
No., 294; Hugh Murray and another; Portion No.,
4; Queen of the East Reef, parish of Coolongolook;
2 acres: Application No., 93.
No., 295; James Murray; Portion No., 2; Queen of
the East Beef, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres; Ap-
plication No., 94.
No., 296; C. Gordon and others; Portion No., 3;
Queen of the East Reef, parish of Coolongolook; 3 acres;
Application No., 96.
No., 297; W. M'Cartney and others; Portion No., 5;
Lady Loftns Reef, parish of Coolongolook: 3 acres ;
Application No., 102.
No., 298; C. Gordon and others; Portion No., 6;
Lady Loftus Reef, parish of Coolongolook; 3 acres;
Application No., 103.
No., 305; J. Franklin; Portion No., 16; Bandicoot
Beef, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres; Application No.,
117.
No., 339; W. M'Cartney and others; Portion No.,
23; Colona Deuereaux Reef, parish of Coolongoleok;
2 acres; Application No., 119.
No., 340; Leo Plania and others; Portion No., 21;
Aurora Reef, parish of Topi; 3 acres; Application No.,
120.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 31st December, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given, that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from
this date, they will be declared void.
E. A, BAKER.
Peel and Ur all a Mining District,
No., 186; William Penson; Portion No., 2; County of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Application No.,
Glen Innes, 79-2.
No., 187; Sydney Penson; Portion No., 3; County of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Application No.,
3.
No., 190; John Drew; Portion No., 5; County of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Application No.,
«.
No., 191; Alfred Kerr; Portion No., 7; County of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Application No.,
7.
No., 192; C. W. Seale another; Portion No., 10;
County of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 8.
No., 194; G. Wright and another; Portion No., 16;
County of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 16.
No., 196; John J. Cotton and others ; Portion No., 9;
County of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 11.
No. 197; R. A. Lewis and others; Portion No., 12;
County of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 12.
No., 198; B. A. Lewis and others; Portion No., IS;
County of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 13.
No., 199; George Carvell and others ; Portion No., 15;
County of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 15.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 31st December, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES,
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Gold-min-
ing Lease are hereby called upon to show
cause, within thirty days from this date, why the
lease should not be cancelled, for non-observance
of the conditions thereby imposed.
E. A. BAKER.
Tambaroora and Turon Mining District.
No., 136; Joseph Shand, John Longmore, Griffith
Williams, and Alexander Anderson; Portion No., 1213;
Hawkin’s Hill, county of Wellington; 2 acres, 1 rood,
21 perches; Application No., Hill End, 1240.
T
HE NEW LIGHT ! THE NEW LIGHT t
BOYLE and HOGG,
Bond-street Stores,
SOLE AGENTS for the
ALPHA GAS MACHINES
beg to inform the public that this splendid Invention
is now on view at their warehouse, in Bond-street,
close to the Exchange, and an inspection is invited.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE IS
SUITABLE for all PRIVATE HOUSES and SHOPS
SUITABLE for MANSIONS and Public Institutions
SUITABLE for STEAMERS and SHIPS
SUITABLE for PUBLIC HALLS and THEATRES
SUITABLE for LIGHTING TOWNS.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE IS
BETTER than COAL GAS because it is CHEAPER,
costing far less
BETTER than COAL GAS because it gives a better
light, and, therefore, less gas is required to be
burned
BETTER than COAL GAS, because it is made no
faster than it is consumed
BETTER than KEROSENE, because there is NO
DANGER of an explosion
BETTER than KEROSENE, because no trimming of
lamps is required
BETTER than KEROSENE because there is no offen-
sive smell.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE IS
SUPERIOR to anything of the kind yet invented.
Ordinary Gasfittings are suitable.
The ALPHA GAS MACHINE is used for LIGHT-
ING TOWNS; it is also used on beard Her Majesty’s
TRAINING SHIPS in England.
TESTIMONIALS from Residents in the Colony who
have the machine at work can be had on application.
W The Public are warned against spurious imita-
tions. This is the only economical, satisfactory light.
STANDARD
FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE CO. OF NEW
ZEALAND.
Capital £1,000,060.
FIRE AND MARINE RISKS ACCEPTED AT
LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
ROYLE AND HOGG,
Agents.
gANDEE LAZARUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET,
r A
NjADE JO «w
pi/UN
WATCHES, j.RESENTS, JEWELLERY.
Our new goods for this festive season are worth your
inspection; please call —read the PRICES yourself
and secure best value for your money at
334 GEORGE STREET. 334
Professional Addresses
M
M
R. S. L A Z A R.
ADDRESS :
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private—“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
R. J. R. GRE Y I LL E.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
M
R. L. M. B A Y L E S S.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MR. FRED. MARSHALL.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
M
R. H. H. VINCENT-
ADDRESS :
St. Kilda Cottage, 99 Palmer-street.
M
R.
J. DO
ADDRESS:
Hobart, Tasmania.
D G E.
M
ISS FLORA ANSTEAD.
ADDRESS :
Hobart, Tasmania.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
MR. & MRS. HARRY W. EMMET.
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
MR, ALFRED LYSTER.
ADDRESS:
Hodge’s Commercial Hotel.
Mr. r. b. w i s ema n.
ADDRESS :
Opera House, York-street, till February.
K E DMUND HOLLOWAY.
ADDRESS :
Opera House, York-street, till February.
N.
Mr. m. s a l a m o
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Misses alice and Constance
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS:
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
R. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON.
(Zulu Wak).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
HILIP STUART,
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
M
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
OF THI
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
CHEISTMAS AND NEW YEA R’ S PRESENTS!!
Welcome news for all those affectionate Fathers, Mothers, Sisters, Brothers, Lovers, Wives
Husbands, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., &c., and all who wish to gratify those they love with a
NICE LITTLE PRESENT on CHEISTMAS or NEW YEAR’S DAY, but who “ really don’t know
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS’
PALACE SHOW ROOMS,
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELTIES from every civilized country under the sun,
INCLUDING
' FANS,
ALBUMS,
r BRACELETS,
' OPERA GLASSES,
DRESSING CASES,
FANCY PERFUMERY,
ILLUMINATED ALBUMS,
RUSSIAN LEATHER GOODS,
LOVELY DOLLS FROM Id. TO £5,
SEALSKIN PURSES, POCKET BOOKS,
WORK BOXES, PORTFOLIOS, WATCHES,
STATUETTES, OLEOGRAPHS, JEWELLERY,
LADIES' COMPANIONS, CLOCKS, CONCERTINAS,
JET ORNAMENTS, MANTEL - PIECE ORNAMENTS,
TRAVELLING BAGS, SCRAPS, STATIONERY, VASES,
WORK BOXES. FRENCH TOYS, GERMAN TOYS, PURSES,
TOILET SETS, PHOTOGRAPHS, CARTE DE VISITE FRAMES,
CHINESE GOODS, INDIAN GOODS, MIRRORS, TOILET GLASSES,
DRESS HOLDERS, NECKLETS, INK-STANDS—TOGETHER WITH A VERY
FINE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER GOODS TOO NUMEROUS TO PARTICULARIZE.
And you cannot fad to make a selection, and your friends happy! BUT NOTE THIS FACT
lAT OUR ONLY ADDBESS IS
ANTHONY HORDERN 4 SONS,
HAYMAEKET (only),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
£JHEAPEST
AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, 1b per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
tt OTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Opposite Theatre Royal.
LUNCHEON AND SUPPER ROOMS.
First-class accomodation for travellers.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
Proprietors.
N
EW
SOUTH WALES NATIONAL
REGATTA.
ENTRIES will be taken at Aaron’s Exchange Hotel
on SATURDAY NEXT, 15th instant, at 8 p.m.
FRED. THOMAS, Hon. Sec.
Sydney, 12th January, 1881.
S
ERGE SUITS TO MEASURE,
BLISSE’S BEST SERGE,
Reduced to £2 15s.
WALLACH BROTHERS,
163 GEORGE STREET NORTH,
Opposite Coffee Palace, No. 2.
G, CHURCHWOOD,
* IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
or
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS,
147 YORK STREET.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon MarcM and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.
Wholesale and Retail
PEOBUCE MEECHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street).
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAE KIN,
Wholesalk and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, 4c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
E. CLAEKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
(Opposite Conrt-honse),
DARLINGHURST.
J GLASSON’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEEL WEIGHT
WOEKS,
Haebxs-stbket, off Geoege-strbet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Eailway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, Ac., 4c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.


I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodors |Staiobr, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
Bank of New Zealand.
We give in this issue two engravings of the branch of
the Bank of New Zealand, situate in Pitt-street, in this
city, the views being of the interior and the exterior.
With these sketches we purpose giving a few par-
ticulars concerning this well-known banking institu-
tion, which will doubtless be read with interest.
In 1860-1 the commercial importance and growing
prosperity of New Zealand were such, and the banking
facilites then offered by the few branches in that
colony, of one or two foreign institutions, so inade-
quate, that the time seemed ripe for the establishment
of a financial institution which would meet the press-
ing requirements of the mercantile community of the
day. Some of the leading men of Auckland (then the
capital of New Zealand) consequently determined to
start a local bank, and the result is the subject of this
article: an institution the remarkably rapid progress
of which has placed it second to none of our colonial
banks for prosperity, influence and sound standing.
Established in October, 1861, with a paid-up capital of
£lOB,OOO, its success was so pronounced that during the
first half-year 17 branches and agencies had been
opened in the principal towns of the colony, and at the
close of that period the proprietors were rewarded for
their enterprise by the payment of a dividend at the
rate of 6 per cent, per annum, the reserve fund being
started at the same time with £3OOO.
An office in London, with a local board of directors,
was established before the year was out, and at the
close of that period 10 per cent, dividend was paid,
£6OOO being added to the reserve.
The bank’s business thus rapidly extended, and in
October, 1864 only three years after commencing
business —the dividend and bonus were increased to an
equivalent of 15 per cent, per annum. Although on
five or six occasions 17 per cent, was paid, the former
has been, and may now be said to be the nominal rate
returned to proprietors in the capital.
The present magnificent reserve of £555,000, equal to
more than half the paid up capital, has been steadily
accumulated. Prom the start of £3OOO already noticed
it was rapidly augmented, additions being made each
successive half-year until within the short space of
five years it had reached the sum of £150,000, which
was the limit at that time fixed by the Banks’ Deed of
Incorporation. The directors, however, seeing that
such a restriction was unadvisable, subsequently took
stops to remove it, and they have new the gratification
•of “showing a strong reserve of over half-a-million.
An idea of confidence reposed in the institution by
the public may be gathered from the fact that its de-
posits are now in excess of eight millions.
The demand upon the bank’s reserves necessitated
the increase of its capital from time to time. The
£lOB,OOO originally subscribed has therefore been added
to by calls as occasion required untillthe paid up capi-
tal has reached the present figure of £1,000,000.
Branches and agencies were opened wherever and
whenever sufficient inducement offered, and from 17
offices in existence at its commencement, the ramifi-
cations of the bank have so extended that to-day it is
represented at no less than 96 different parts of the
colonies. Until 1872 expansion in this direction was
confined to New Zealand, but in that year an office was
opened in Melbourne to meet the increasing trade
between Victoria and New Zealand. It was, however,
three years later —in April, 1875 —that the Sydney
branch was started. Operations were commenced in
Small temporary offices at 32 Hunter-street, and in July
of the same year more commodious premises were
■Opened at 99 Pitt-street.
Even these offices were, within the next five years,
found inadequate to requirements, and advantage was
taken in July last of the removal of the Australian
Mntnal Provident Life Association to their new build-
ings opposite, to purchase their old premises, 60 Pitt-
street, at an outlay of £25,000. The premises were
ill-suited for the pursuance of banking business, and
previous to occupying them the directors of the Bank
•f New Zealand decided to effect large alterations.
Accordingly, the services of Mr. W. W. Word ell being
availed of as architect, and the contract for the altera-
tions being placed in the hands of Mr. C. T. Saxton, of
Cleveland-street, Eedfern, the result has been that the
former gloomy offices have been metamorphosed into
light and pleasant ones, and we have now an edifice, as
may he seen from the accompanying engravings,
about equal to that of any other banking institu-
tion in the colonies. The new premises reflect the
highest credit upon the contractor, Mr. Saxton, who
admits himself indebted to Mr. E. B. Holt, the
manager, for many of his ideas.
Besides the branch in Pitt street, the Bank of New
Zealand is represented in New South Wales at New-
castle, where premises have been purchased and altered
at considerable cost. An office has also been opened
recently in Qeorge-street, opposite the Town Hall, in
•his city.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Mittagong refreshments are not tip-top.
Larrikmism in Campbelltown increasing.
Lieut. A. Le Petrouel is still in the Artillery.
Athletic sports at Appin on the 20th; 200 yards
event £lO prize.
Frenchman’s claim, Temora, 140 loads foz. to
the load, and 110 loads loz. to the load.
Serious accident at Campbelltown—Youth fell
from a tree, breaking both arms and both shoulders.
The farmers round about and their cattle drink
together at Campbelltown. The cattle return home
sober.
It is likely a good bit of Sydney capital will find
its way to Temora, now that its richness is beyond
dispute.
On her last trip, the City of Adelaide brought
260 passengers from Melbourne. Immigrants from a
new port.
A boy named George Franklin, aged 13, died a
few days ago at Berrima from the effects of a bite of a
brown snake.
A divorce case between parties in high life in
Melbourne is likely to occupy the Supreme Court at
its next sittings.
“ Christie,” the future representative of Camp-
belltown, has returned, and the inhabitants are arrang-
ing “ bonfires,” &c.
An Adelaide telegram states that Kate Kelly
is in that city, and not at Oberon, in this colony, as re-
ported by the Sydney papers.
King’s School, Parramatta, is to have another
storey added. Newington boys obtained many of the
laurels at the Uni verity examinations.
A very pleasant quadrille party, to be given by
a local literary society, will take place in the new Glebe
Town Hall, on Friday evening, the 13th instant.
A prominent shipping-office official fell from a
passenger-boat into the harbour last Sunday. It was at
the Circular Quay, and the water was low. Sufficient is
said.
It is a curious fact that women are employed at
the Peunent Hills stone quarries, near Parramatta.
They do precisely the same kind of work as the quarry-
men, and are able to earn £2 10s a week easily.
Professor Stanich, the aurist, has been at logger-
heads with some of the Melbourne doctors, and he now
challenges them to a test for £l5OO. The professor
undertakes to effect cures with any other man in the
colony.
The grand Darling Point ’bns, with its four
greys, well tooled by Dwyer, is the admiration and pride
of the people. Yet the omnibus is a horrible rattle-
trap, and, strangely enough, only ladies can carry on a
conversation or be understood.
We have received a well-bound and interesting
“ Guide to Melbourne,” which the National Mutual
Life Association present to visitors. The information
it contains about Melbourne and the Society itself is
very interesting. The book is admirably got up.
The Divisional Boards Act is a pronounced
success in Queensland. It facilitates local improve-
ments, ensures a better and more general expenditure
of the public funds, and greatly relieves the Legislature
of much work of a municipal character that usually fell
to its lot.
Mr. O. O. Dangar, of West Kempsey, is not, it
appears, to be the police magistrate for the Macleay.
That gentleman has not sought the position, nor is he
likely to accept it if it is offered to him. He believes
that the appointment of a police magistrate to the
Macleay would be a waste of public funds.
That was a strange case of somnambulism at
Lambton. Dr. Gabriel was returning home about mid-
night on the 6th. He met a child, asred four years
patrolling the streets sound asleep. The little thing
had got out, unnoticed by its parents, in a state of
somnambulism. The doctor recognised the child, and
took it safely home.
A man who was the other day a candidate for
one of the Macquaries was accosted on the Camperdown
Boad, New Year’s Eve, by a band of larrikins. They
insisted on being treated. He refused. Thereupon
they seized him, hoisted him on their shoulders, and
took him straight to a waterhole. The rascals were
just about to duck him, when a policeman arrived.
They immediately dropped him on to some metal, and
scampered away.
It may not be generally known that Trickett and
Punch made up friends sincerely the night before the
former left for England. Mr. Charles Cowper brought
the affair about, and poor Jim ordered champagne, and
finally offered to take Trickett home on his own ac-
count on the following morning. As a memento of the
affair. Punch gave Mr. Cowper his portrait, wrapped up
in Trickett’s colours —a bit of rugged sentiment that
was readily understood and appreciated by both
Trickett and his patron.
A young man named James Diamond, the other
day at Newcastle, courageously rescued a Miss Annie
Leonard from drowning. The lady was washed out of
the Bogey Hole, into which she had accidentally
stepped, and was taken over a very steep rock into deep
water. There are a hundred chances to one against a
rescue from such a place, but Diamond faced the
danger, brought the drowning girl ashore after a great
struggle, and then carried her a quarter of a mile to
have her attended to.
Yet another massacre ! The schooner Chance,
from the South Seas, brings news to Brisbane of the
capture of the schooner Borealis, of Auckland, at
Malayta, and massacre of her crew, with the exception
of the captain, cook, and Government agent. The
vessel was subsequently recaptured by the schooners
Dauntless, Stanley, and Flirt. The Chance also brings
the information that the boats of the Jabberwock were
fired on by the natives of Tanna, and that the house of
Mr. Hall, a missionary of Apia, was accidentally burnt.
It turns out to be incorrect that the hours of
labour at Mr. Vicars’ tweed factory are very long, and
that very young children are employed there at work.
The youngest is eleven or twelve years of age, and the
labour apportioned them is really little more than exer-
cise. The hours are from 8 till 6 for the older hands,
and the pay is is considerably higher than that ruling
in the Victorian factories. Besides this, Mr. Vicars
treats his employes with every consideration, and is
anxious at all times for their moral and physical
advancement. Half-holiday every Saturday, &c.
The Victor won the 24 ft, aailing-boat race at
Pyrmont. On Monday night, the prize—a silver cup
said to be of the value of £24—was to be presented,
with other trophies. The owner and sailer rejected the
prize in a very off-hand style, saying it was not worth
more than £7 10s.; that, in fact, it was a sham. Three
members of the committee (Messrs. Byrnes, Carter, and
Gibbons), determined to resent the iusnlt. They pro-
ceeded to three of the most respectable jewellers in
Sydney, neither of whom had furnished the prizes, and
obtained from them certificates attesting that in weight
of silver alone, at the ruling figure per ounce, the cup
was worth £23, and, with stand, engraving, etc., well
worth £25. Now somebody must eat the leek, —and let
it be done decently.
The particulars of that fatal fire in South
Australia are truly harrowing. The bush took fire in
the Hundred of Boothby, and it was not expected to
touch the Hundred of Hawker, but an avalanche of
flame forty feet high swept down, destroying cattle and
dogs in its track, and finally enveloping the house of
the settler M’Carthy. Quick but terrible was the
death of the unfortunate inmates. The remains found
were those of Mrs. M’Carthy, aged 50, and of the
daughters, Mary, 19, Norah, 11, Catherine, 9, Bridget,
4, Ellen Agnes, 2, and a son, Joseph Francis, aged 7.
M’Carthy and his four other sons saved their lives
through being to the leeward of some fallow land, a
short distance from the house. The remains of the five
daughters were found in the kitchen, and those of the
mother and son outside, near the tank.
“ Dr. Basto” has now been committed for trial
so many times, that the public have almost ceased to
take any interest in him—the sameness of the proceed-
ings in each case tending to render the subject mo-
notonous. One thing, however, should, it would seem,
be considered: that is that the prisoner is evidently
non compits mentis. This being the case, and being
admitted by the prosecution, it would surely be the
proper course, instead of entailing upon the country
the expense of prosecuting this lunatic, to relegate
him at once to an asylum for the insane. So far as the
evidence in the various cases goes, no one has actually
suffered pecuniary loss by the prisoner; and, moreover,
the law provides that if, at the time of his uttering the
cheques, he really possessed the hallucination that he
had these large sums of money to his credit, he would
be entitled to an acquittal an all the charges: in which
case he will be once more cast upon the world.
LATE SPORTING.
The Carthona C.C. defeated the Thornton C.C.
on Saturday last by one run. Thornton fielding was
very bad.
Sheridan, of the Newtown C.C., made 205 for
seven innings, and E. Boberts, of the Petersham C.C.,
255 for five innings.
Christ Church C.C. beat Rugby C.C. on
Saturday,Bthinst.,by 28 runs. Scores: Christ Church,
60; Eugby, 32. The bowling of Moss for Christ Church
was very good, securing six wickets for nine runs.
The Alexandria and Eureka clubs met last
Saturday at Double Bay, and the match resulted in an
easy victory for the former, the scores being as follows:
—A.C.C., 81; E.C.C., 31. The bowling of Macintosh
and Ellis for the former was very effective.
The North Sydney Cricket Club played Kiama
C.C., at Kiama, on New Year’s Day. Scores :—Kiama,
Ist innings, 95; North Sydney, Ist innings, 6; 2nd, 27 j
total, 33. Kiama thus won in one innings by 62 runs.
A champagne supper at the Eoyal in the evening con-
cluded the affair.
A match was played at Newcastle last Saturday
between the eleven of the Newcastle C C. and eighteen,
of the Charlestown C.C. Scores:—Charlestown, 41 1
Newcastle, 177, for 7 wickets —Hall 34, Chapman 25,
Lawrence 22, not out, Bufaut 20, Wooden 20, not out,
Clarke 18, and Barrett 17.
The Woollahra, Victoria, and Arundel JJC.C.
met at Camperdown last Saturday. The former in-
cluded in its team Arthur Gregory, but he was bowled
by Peir for 7, and the innings closed for 52. The Arnn-
dels obtained 119 for 7 wickets—J. M'Credie (not out)
35, Apperly 25, Peir (not out) 23, A. M'Credie 22, being
the principal scorers.
The Parramatta races, on the 26th, promise to
be a great success The properties were sold on Tues-
day, the gates bringing £191; grand stand and booth,
£3B; No. 1 booth, 19; No. 2 booth, £2O; right of
course, £l5; right to sell and supply cards, £l7. The
saddling paddock was put up at £l5O, but there,being
no bids it was bought in for the Club.
The Borough Cup Match, Glebe v.
Anniversary Day, is likely to be a very close one.
Glebe team will probably be—Kelly, Maidment, App
Sullivan, Preiddy, Burton, Brown, Dummett, Bob
son, Valentine, and Westman; while E. Fewings, El
Sweetman, Hall, Hawken, Pier, E. Fewings, Hatfie
Sparkes, Tindall, and Gribble will do battle fo
the Darlington.
The National Regatta Committee have decided
to recognise the Bowing Association Begatta and the
intercolonial eight-oar race as public events. This is
the proper course, as it would be absurd to allow the
winners of important races like the Victoria v. New
South Wales “ Eight-Oar,” “ Sydney Mail Cup,” and
the “ Josephson Cup” to compete at the National
Eegatta in the maiden races.
The Ironclad C.C. met the Glebe Strathmore
C.C. last Saturday and gave them a leather-hunting.
The “heroes of the battle of Morpeth, fought on
Boxing Day,” were disposed of for 43 runs, and when
time was called the Ironclads had lost 8 wickets lor
156 runs, the principal scorers being B. Toby, 44; F.
Toby, not out, 30 ; Fitzpatrick, 22; Newton, 17; J. D.
M'Queen, 14; and P. M’Queen, 11. A Maidment 11 for
the Strathmore C.C.
Athletics looking up at Albury. In a pole-
vaulting match for £5 a side, Laroombe, of Wagga,beat
J. Cochrane, of Albury; the records being, the former
9ft. IHin., and the latter 9ft. Cochrane is quite a
lad, and after the contest, Larcombe put him on his
shoulder, carried him into the pavilion, and com-
plimented him. Larcombe declined a match with
Cochrane’s brother, who won at the Highland Gathering
last year.—A footrace between Brooks, alocalped., and
Burlett, a stranger, for £2O a side, 200 yards, resulted in
a win for the latter. Time, 21tsecs. Burlett is one of
the “ dark horses,” who travel round as strangers,
picking up some handsome prizes.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND, SYDNEY BRANCH, PITT STREET.— (INTERIOR VIEW.)


Miscellaneous
£1 LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET*
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass wrro. Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY
o
2.83
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL,. rfjK riC*
*AI
OR
ALLWOOL
TWEED
TR olk
los.Gj.
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
1c3.8s
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooofatterns'°choose from
H L SUMMERFIELD
PITTS T SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
B.
GREER AND CO.’S
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Bed Winks: White Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
Reisling
Yerdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS;
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the Propnctoca,
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offioee fl€
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
TIBYSDALE AND ROBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied ; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-hodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Hon, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
ILLCOX
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WAUfTJT
Wood,
&c., &c., &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers »f all Descriptions o
A C
E R
T,
H I N
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Bmery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &e.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
*
KING
STREET
m
SYDNE
TAILOR
n/M-
-is
MHb POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
W^J/A/AT/r.
TO ORDER.^C
FIT GUARANTEED]
jAlt MNDYfOKK-
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
quinetum wine.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W
ELCOME TO HON. WM. FORSTER.
The friends and supporters of the Hon. WILLIAM
FORSTER who have not already given in their names
to join in weleoming him on his return to Australia,
■“ 40 “ "‘ThENNIEEE HEATON.
St, Canice, Darling Point, January 5.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Beos., Biemingham.
mu
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINES T,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Ckabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
EY £ S
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : .
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should berpatronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolrumgh, M. A., Ashfield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney .—Jeyes' Perfect Purifier has 'no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.——
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney:— My child had sore eyes for 24 years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laureuce, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney :—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street, Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (.184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited). London. Agents wanted for the Country.
CJ
0*
oe
D
Cocoa
CO
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Teh First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
CD
*
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CO
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
READY MADE,
from 30s. the half-dozen.
HIISM & MANNELL,
THE ONLY
PRACTICAL SHIRTMAKERS
IN THE COLONY.
298 GEORGE STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
RINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ATT, former tears outdone.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five ymrs’ standing, enjoying
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
YMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
he universal locestich sewing machine
lave you not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
08 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
389
George Stree^VV
SYDNEY.
SO LB
Agents
FOB
*
<6
Hornsby’s
Anttraliaa
STRIPPERS
& PAIN
AND
'VJB7 & *B9
Vs
WITH
*
w*
Rtaaeav
Farmers
York
St
to examine
*
%
56
56
6
Hornsby’s
STRIPPERo "
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest-
er HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
nbine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvement
an Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMN tNbUM
f VEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
»e Leading House in the Agricultural Implement Business.
