

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7.—No. 85.
SYDNEY. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1881.
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1881.
Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin.
When, on the wall of the banqueting hall, the
letters of fire glared on Belshazzar and his
guests, the startling phenomenon did not deprive
the spectators entirely of judgment. The Mon-
arch proceeded to adopt the most suitable course
open to him. He took immediate steps to dis-
cover what the apparition signified ; and did not
abate his researches until he had received a reply,
apparently conclusive. At this point his supply
of wisdom seems to have run short. Belshazzar
took no adequate steps to avert the catastrophe
which impended. But, perchance, he perceived
that time was denied him, and that the warning
came too late to permit of his profiting by it.
* * *
The writing on the wall has, in this colony, been
done by human agency. Mr. M'Elhone has
limned on the very panels of the Parliament
House, the menacing characters. It is not a little
curious to observe the deportment of different
people as the words of fire and blood stand out in
front of them. The Ministerial carcass wallowed
impotent like a reptilian deprived of its head. Its
torpid pulses beat, and its inordinately developed
tail wagged with faint convulsiveness ; but for all
purposes of perception or volition, it was insensible
and impotent. The headless Ministry, confronted
with the writing on the wall, writhed, but showed
no coherent consciousness either of apprehension
or responsibility.
# # #
In these times, however, the wise men and
soothsayers are not so diffident as in the days of
Belshazzar. They wait no invitation, and need
no initiative before tendering their counsels. The
Press has spoken with various voices, but all to one
feeble no-purpose. There is much of the Chinaman
in the constitution of Europeans. Conventionality
and habit have fast hold. When a phenomon occurs,
people with one accord get out their accustomed
pots and pans, fire off their crackers, and go through
the regular ceremonial process appropriate—
according to established usage—for scaring away
the dragon that is eating the moon. In no single
quarter does there appear to have been evolved
an idea other than to raise a clatter which shall
intimidate M'Elhone. The sole thought seems
to be that if the member for the Hunter can only
be roundly rated and made sensible of the disgust
which in all well-ordered minds his expressions
have created, all will be well. So long as the Press,
as the voice of society, denounces Mr. M’Elhone
in good set terms, and the Parliament, as repre-
senting the collective power of the people,
disclaims sympathy with, and formally places on
record its dissent from, his violent utterances, it
is assumed that everything will be satisfactorily
settled.
« * # *
There is, indeed, a gleam of originality about a
proposition made by the S. M. Herald.
Acting on an assumption that whatever
it is possible to pretend to ignore, will thereupon
cease to exist —the Herald sedately suggests
that Mr. M’Elhone’s words should be expunged
from the official records of Parliament. This, it
appears, the Herald conceives will be tanta-
mount to annihilating the utterance altogether.
Unrecorded, the words will be unspoken This
gallinaceous conception—closely related to the
ostrich’s device of obliterating creation by bury-
ing its head in the sand—would, we fear, be
inoperative to roll the world back on its axis.
Words that are spoken can never bo recalled, even
hy a device so ingenious.
# # #
We venture, for ourselves, to suggest a
totally different departure. We incline to the
resource adopted by Belshazzar, and submit
that it might be judicious to consider, with the
most serious attention, what may be the actual
significance of Mr. M'Elhone’s startling declara-
tions. The essence of these is : first, that should
a certain legislative measure become the law of
the colony, its effect will be so to stir up animosity
between classes in the country parts, that men
will oppose to its influence the expedient of shoot-
mg such persons as shall endeavour to profit by
its provisions, to the detriment of others; se-
condly, that Mr. M'Elhone himself (one of the
people’s chosen representatives) will be prepared
to furnish the actual murderers with the funds
requisite for successful assassinations; and,
thirdly, that Mr. M'Elhone is so confident that,
m thus speaking, he gives voice to sentiments
which will be endorsed at the ballot-box by a
majority of electors in certain constituencies, that
he can afford to challenge promoters of the mea-
sure, and his censors, to try the issue with him by
that arbitrament.
• « •
These three propositions are distinct and inde-
pendent one of the other. What Mr. M’Elhone
is, or is not, prepared to do in the way of abetting
murder may be conjectured, but can only be posi-
tively known to himself. We will add nothing to
the shower of abuse with which the man—we beg
his, and humanity’s, pardon—the member for the
Upper Hunter—has been pelted Words are inade-
quate to express the full force of one’s admiration
for a man—we mean a member for the Upper
Hunter —who, wishing murder to be done, will
skulk behind his money-bags, and send on bolder-
spirited creatures to do the deed. The third
proposition is the easiest to handle It is surely
competent for the Assembly, on a substantive
motion, to take cognizance of Mr. M'Elhone’s
speech, and to expel him from the Chamber. A
suitable person could be readily found to take up
his challenge, and meet him at the hustings on
the test question whether or not the electors, even
of his own constituency, approve his sentiments
and endorse his declarations.
• « •
But Mr. M’Elhone’s first position, as stated
above, is not so easily dealt with. Assuming that
it should be proved that the majority of electors
disowned sympathy with him, it would be more
than sufficient to establish his position were there
any who endorsed his statement by again record-
ing their votes in his favour. Of late years there
has been a tremendous change in conditions.
The potency of a desperate minority—be it ever so
small—has been enormously enhanced by modern
invention. That can no longer be accepted as a
feasible policy, the operation of which drives even a
small unction of the community to desperation. The
power of autocrats has been shattered to atoms, and
the predominance of a majority has ceased to be
absolute. The weak have been given strength,
and the few made terrible to the many. The only
condition requisite to invest these weak and those
few with a force almost (if not quite) irresistible
is that they should be so dealt with as to be ren-
dered hopeless of remedy and reckless of all con-
sequences. Despair has always been the terror of
tyrants, even when it was relatively impotent.
Since the rifle came into every man’s hand, and
the fearful potency of explosives became popularly
understood, despair has become irresistible.
• * #
There are, of course, degrees in desperation as
in ever j thing else. Irritation and hopelessness
of remedy may touch only that stage at which
sullen men skulk behind cover and seek to take
the lives of others, without being wound up to
the pitch of not caring to save their own. Un-
fortunately, the temptation to attempt this is
considerable in sparsely-populated neighbour-
hoods, especially where residents are in any
degree leagued together by a common sentiment
ot indignation, or sense of wrong. From every
quarter of the world—especially of the civilized
world —come identical teachings that violent
methods are resorted to with increasing frequency
by minorities, in proportion to the ease and im-
munity with which they may be adopted. To
eject Mr. M'Elhone with disgrace from the
Legislature, to beat him at the hustings, to drive
him into a shameful retirement, will not suffice
now-a-days. It is absolutely requisite to arrive at
the exact significance of his speech. If its pur-
port be true, its warning must bo taken. If the
law against which he so vehemently declaimed
he truly such as would by its operation drive
ignorant men to desperate courses, there is in it
a radical defect when considered in relation to the
times. A law which brings outrage in its train
must be practically—whatever it may be theoreti-
cally—an unwise law. We do not pretend to
know in what degree Mr. M'Elhone spoke the
voice of any class. But the considerations we
submit should be pondered. The true significance
of the writing on the wall should be ascertained.
It were worse than folly to try to cover it over,
or to wipe it out. What is needed is not a
sponge, but a Daniel.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lawyers and Conciliation.
Mr. De Salis’s motion for the creation of Tribunals of
Conciliation must surely have had more in it than was
generally supposed. Its design was to limit litigation.
By some opponents it was argued that to that end the
proposed Tribunals would not contribute. On the other
hand, it was remarkable that the opposition was most
active on the part of lawyers—the very class with whose
profits, derivable from the pockets of litigants, these
Tribunals would (if successfully established) have inter-
fered. The Minister for Justice openly referred to the
proposal as an attack upon lawyers. If consideration
for disputants, and efforts to arrange for settling differ,
ences, be identical with injury to the legal profession,
then Sir George Innes was probably right. But Sir
Alfred Stephen was the most formidable opponent of
Mr. De Salis’s motion. He denied that any lawyer,
except those of the low and bad class, would advise a
man to go to law when it was his interest not to go to
law. Sir Alfred does not appear to have properly
appreciated the importance of the exception he made.
" Lawyers of the low and bad class ” are unfortunately
but too plentiful; and, surely, any measure which would
tend to protect the pnblio from the ill effects of advice
given by these gentry should be welcome to all those
disinterested lawyers—not belonging to the “low and
bad class ’’ —who would never advise a man to go to law
against his interest. If that were all, the Tribunals of
Conciliation would not interfere with the business of
lawyers of the high and good class at all : unless it
were, indeed, that their influence would be employed
to convince one party that he was in the wrong, and
should pay up—in which case, of course, even lawyers
of the high and good class would go nn-feed. But,
surely, there may be more which a Tribunal of Con-
ciliation might effect than merely settling whether it
were to one man's interest to press proceedings.
Within the scope of the functions of such a Tribunal
would fitly come the persuasion of a disputant to look
beyond “ his interest j *' to consider not only what ho
might make out of litigation, but also in how much he
might waive the strict due of his legal rights, and abate
the severity of his pursuit of one within his mercy.
Again, Sir Alfred did little credit to his own dis-
interestedness, as one of the high and good class of
lawyers, when he perorated by denouncing as founded
on romance, and quite Utopian, a plan which is use-
fully working in France, under the designation of
Cornells desPrudhommes (Councils of Commonsense Men)
If a lawyer of Sir Alfred’s high standing and character
can thus have his judgment distorted by professional
habit and prejudice, how is it possible to base confidence
on other lawyers of the high and good class invariably
giving to clients advice against these advisers’ own
interests P Mr. De Salis’s measure was, perhaps, crude
and heterogeneous: but the quality and terms of the
opposition seem to indicate that the principles of the
measure, if properly digested, might afford some
alleviation of the existing horrors of the law.
Equity!
Not the least good conferred on the world by Dickens’
masterly writings was.their laying bare the consecrated
and venerable abuses of official circumlocution and
Chancery tardiness, which it may be said he first ex-
posed in all their systematic deformity. The case of
Jarndtce v. Jaknetce is more familiar to the English-
speaking millions, merely fictional though it be, than
any actual legal squabble that ever agitated wig and
gown. It acts as a sort of moral spring-gun or admoni-
tory notice to warn unwary trespassers off the domain
of equity. But to some minds there is as much fasci-
nation about an action-at-law as the dust-drenched,
thirsty tramp finds in the orchard’s temptingly-laden
branches; so protected though they be, he still
braves the man-traps and spring-guns, and slights the
admonitory notice, impatient to clasp the delusive
golden fruit. Bat to think that this sort of moral
infatuation is confined to older countries, or that the
jaws delays, and unrequited expense of wealth and
tissue, are merely the result of venerable customs
and conservative usages, inseparable from the very
antiquity of English legal traditionary forms, is to take
too sanguine a view of the colonial offshoot. Even
with us, “ pure equity" is one of the least equitable
things we know. We have our own local cases in which
this same “ pure equity" sucks the substance of con-
tending parties, and casts the confiding and unhappy
litigants but the rind of the orange. One of these has
just terminated. Campbell v. the Commercial Bank is
a case whose title is Jas {familiar to our readers as a
household word. It might well have been kept ready
set up in type, in the offices of our contemporaries, for
years past. Actions and cross-actions, appeals and
trials, with verdicts alternately gained and set aside,
allowed and disallowed, have sufficiently familiarised
the cause to the public. The costs must have been at
MICHAEL RUSH, THE CLARENCE RIVER SCULLER.


The West Coast Maories have re-commenced
their old game of pulling down fencing. None yet
arrested.
One hundred passenger carriages and two hun-
dred new goods trucks are to be placed on the Victorian
railways.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month of Auisu't. 1881:—Week days, 5537; Sundays
(four) 3341; total, 8881.
A tall gentleman of Ashfield will shortly marry
a handsome young widow with five daughters. A
good start is everything.
A bank manager, possessing the most ancient
name on record, goes to the sacrificial altar next
month. Cooma district.
Grand Oddfellows’ ball at Townsville on the
25‘h ult. was attended by a tout forty couples. Young
holv from the Eoyal, in blue silk and white tarletane,
said to be belle.
The latest Bulletin (Hotel) snare is a South
Sen Island soear. A constituent asks what it is.
Johnny uncovers and bows his head Dick says, in
broken accents, “ Poor Bishop Pattison.” Then they
laug h and have drinks, the dogs.
The rage for Pinafore has not yet died out, but
has merely taken afresh direction Pinafore cigarettes
are now the furore, and Mr. I Morris, of King-street,
(an ngmving of whose piace of business appeared in
'I he Huu-itis the other day) finds the demand grow as
the fr.icnu.ee of the wh'lfs becomes more and more
widely appreciated
Those accomplished knights of the cue, Byrne
and J..UIP-, play billiards, for £4OO, at the Exchange
Hotel, t oi- (Thursday) evening. Next Monday, a handi-
cap tonrn ■ rnant will take place for a purse of sovereigns
and a. set f plate, between several of the best players
in tho colonies; Mr. E Newton handicapper. All en.
trie., are t» be handed in by 10 o’clock Friday evening.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Register your dogs!
Hotel near Sale (Y.) burnt, and landlady roasted
to death.
There are now in Cooktown gaol 17 prisoners,
ah Chinese.
A tremendous meteor fell at Wide Downs,
Queensland, Tuesday evening.
Victorian railway officials on the N.S.W border
and the police, are to be vaccinated.
Departmental enquiry proceeding into the ac-
counts of a Southern railway station.
The curriers’ strike, after lasting 28 weeks, has
terminated owing to the men wanting funds.
The Pull Court of Queensland has upheld the
verdict in Perkins v. Evangelical Standard.
Messrs. W. Jolly and J. I. Kettle, the well-
known Sydney magistrates, both died on Monday.
One of the undertakers engaged in bury-
ing small-pox victims has been attacked by the
disease.
The S.A. Education Committee have invited all
head-teachers (400) to give evidence on educational
matters.
J. B. Stephens, the Melbourne undertaker to
whom the bodies of two children were handed for inter-
east £20,000. And now the whole business is settled
by a compromise, which leaves everything just as it
was at the onset, not a single point being decided, but
that every-recurring " question of costs.” The golden
fruit is gained at last—to turn to ashes at the lips.
“Supposed on Board the Faraway.”
When society dealt with its lepers of old, it left no
doubt about the treatment. The curse of social death
fell upon the victim simultaneously with the other. As
soon as the symptoms manifested themselves, he was
civilly and morally extinct. He was looked upon as a
corpus mortuum—a, dead body. The burial ceremony was
performed over him while yet in the possession of his
faculties—his funeral obsequies were performed in his
presence. Like the crazed emperor of history, he
listened to the chanting of his own requiem. The rite
was solemnized, and the dirge was sung; and he was
led forth to die alone. The busy world had cast him off
—thrust him coldly beyond the pale of its sympathies
and its cares. There is, therefore, a rude precedent for
the action of our authorities in this matter. The lot of
the lepers of old was not harder than that of our small-
pox patients to-day. Chaucer's leper was scantily
vested in a mantle and a beaver hat: our patients are
not too sumptuously arrayed I Through the whole
history of the business it is only too apparent that
someone has blundered, and that grievously. No pro-
vision seems to have been made for the sick —the care
ceased when the afflicted had been separated from their
kind. That this separation was effectual has recently
been sorrowfully instanced. “ Died, supposed on board
the Faraway, of small-pox "—so runs the obituary of
one of the victims of our epidemic. And this is the way
the history of the scare is being written. Brief as the
notice is, it seems a fitting commentary on the abject
terror and spasmodic efforts of those charged with
society’s safe-keeping in straits such as these. The
relations in this instance have not even the small con-
eolation of knowing where deceased’s last hours were
passed. " Supposed on board the Faraway.” There is
a world of mournful bitterness in these few words. If
the surmise be correct, it is a worthy envoi to a suffi-
ciently tragic Jtale. And what a picture does not the
supposition disclose I Within that narrow doorway,
through which the nurse had to break to enter —in a
wretched lazaret, worse than any prison cell—lighted
by a porthole, perhaps, through which the sunlight
glanced warily, as if satirically afraid to infringe the
regulations—with family and friends ignorant of his
whereabouts, and of his needless pangs —neglected (if
we may judge from the particulars of a similar case)
he lay there in his solitude, to die in hopeless despair.
And this is the humanity of a great city, and of liberal
institutions like ours I
A Relie of the Imperial System.
JusxiflE—rigorous, even-handed, —never parodied itself
more bitterly than in the case ef Edmund Galley. In
1835, this unfortunate man was convicted of murder,
but through what doubtless at the time appeared a
flaw in the legal mechanism, he escaped the last
capital penalty. Hel was transported to this colony,
then a convict settlement; herded with criminals of
the vilest class, he has, doubtless, worked bis time in
shackles in a chain gang. He, himself, best knows,
what share he had in the horrors of that semi-bar
barons time. A grim caricature of law, and summary
puni-hmeut, visited the slightest misdemeanour; and
assigned convicts were, in treatment and condition,
but little less low than negro slaves. Their lot bore
hard on those who merited their original sentence, —
how much more so on one condemned unjustly I Tears
wore on, and the material hardship passed away
Galley was at length released, and re-entering on his
sphere of citizenship, he earns his neighbours’ esteem
Can it be believed, however, that the stigma was ever
entirely overlain P—that the evil repute of crime, and
the murderer’s brand of Cain ever concealed themselves
wholly even frem the eyes of the most friendly of his
well-wishers ? Time, meanwhile, still wore on and at
length a weary term of forty-four years has passed
away. Human beings that were prsttling infants when
Galley was convicted, are now nr - u and women whose
careers have more than half run and whose pri" it
visibly on the wane. Ardent youths and tru il
maidens, who whispered the c'd, <M story beneaf 1 • lie
trees of Galley’s birthplace when ho left it att hood
of the foulest crime, are now hoary sexagen*v uns
whose responsibilities are already fulfilled, —tott - - 'ng
on the margin of the grave. The face of the worVl has
b on modelled anew —fortune and fame hare been lost
and won, —the convict settleme'' has become n flourish-
ing State, and the mother there' f. A generation 'ud a
half have passed away, and th • Gov vument wuose
ageuts condemned Edmund Galley stand se'f accused
of having done him a grievous ard irreparable wrong
His innocence is recognised. Yet another instance of
the law’s glorious uncertainty 1 another leaf from the
romance of crime, —if the expression will bo tolerated
i n this connection. And the victim is offered £lOOO as
the price of his wasted life-time ! An insolvent debtor
can save that sum by a year’s incarceration ; yet is it
considered suffl uent return for forty-four years com-
pulsorily sacrificed on the altar of justice—or mistaken
law!
ST. VINCENT’S BALL.
St. Vincent's Ball very largely attended by al
classes of society,land went off without any contritem/ps.
The active members of the committee, all through the
evening, seemed anxious to make everything enjoyable,
and did not spare trouble. Owing to the number
present, a little jostling among the dancers was in-
evitable ; and though the sets sometimes took a good
while arranging, the masters of ceremonies did all they
could. The Governors, who arrived with pleasing
punctuality, wore plain evening dress, with their re-
spective decorations. They did not dance. Fancy
dresses were in the minority. Of course, in any attempt
at description, some good characters fail to receive men-
tion, but the following were among the most noticeable:
—Lady Jennings wore a handsome cream satin drees,
long train trimmed with flowers; Mrs. Harris, the
Mayoress, appeared in black satin, Spanish lace, wreath
of holly and ivy and diamond ornaments; Miss
O’Brien, evening dress, with ample train of rich ruby
plush velvet, white and blue satin, and pearls j Mrs.
O’Grady, rich dress of flowered r.ilk, cream and amber.
Mr. E. Cohen, “ Earl of Leicester ’’ —a good, correct
make-up. Mr. E. D’Arcy Towns, the “ Pirate King,”
did not dance much tor obvious reasons. Miss Bowdler
was “ Ameri< a,” with silver stars on a black dress, and
a few broad stripes of vivid colour: this dress was very
distinctive and tasteful. A pretty pair were Miss
Norat Sweeny, scarlet satin and bells, as “ Polly,” and
her sister, Miss Mary, as “ Pearl,” in pale blue satin,
thickly strung with pearls. Miss Martin wore a dress
which was—externally, at least —made of paper, a good
fit, and represented the “ Evenino News small print
on the body, the title repeated in layers down to
the bottom of the skirt, the type growing larger
gradually till the row of bottom letters became
nearly poster size. The paper had a large circulation,
and this was decidedly the most interesting issue of
our contemporary we have ever seen. Mrs. P. Warskitt
was a "Spanish Dancer,” in black and scarlet, and we
never saw a more dainty,one. Miss King was “ Madame
Vine.” "Galatea” was personated by Miss Bourke, a
tall, dark girl, in pure white cashmere thrown loosely
over one shoulder and suspended by a slender band on
the other, the skirt falling quite straight. The dress
was purposely left without trimming, and the white-
ness was unrelieved by any shade of colour. The result
was as charming as it was unique. Miss Carugati, as a
“ Greek Girl,” wore a satin costume of green and red,
large green flaps to the sleeves. Mr. Eury wore a dress
which displayed more novelty than good taste; it was
pink jersey and tights, trimmed with long pink wool
and covered with large meshes of thin silver card net-
ting. It was said to represent “ Will o' the Wisp,” but
we hope it won't be worn again,; unless modified
A female “ Eobinson Crusoe,” in a long white woollen
garment (fashionable no doubt in Jnan Fernandez last
century), and hat to match, carried a little net of dead
birds, shot, apparently, by a very harmless-looking
wooden gun "Crusoe” was evidently accustomed to
guns, for she carried her’s slung in her lap. Miss
Mannix, in white skirt, rakish hat, and green satin
body, also quiver of arrows, scored some marks as an
“ Archer,” and was much admired. The daughter of a
Goulburn alderman, in a white toilette, looked very
elegant. The “ Cupid” of the Mercantile appeared with
long fair hair, in a rich dress of amber satin. Two
Misses Jennings appeared in twin costumes of blue
satin, red sashes, and red flowers in hair, having a very
tasty effect. Miss Burgis, as a "Continental Market
Girl,” had on a velvet bodice and jaunty hat of green,
and pink and lighter green skirt. A gentleman had a
scarlet Court coat, trimmed with gold, white stockings
and wig. A terrible man was Mr. A. J. Maodermott,
from the G.P.0.; his long curls, of a cheerful coal
colour, end his truculent and generally “ flash ” air at
once suggested thoughts of sanguinary encounters in
mountain passes, enormous ransoms, and horrible atro-
cities, and the ladies shuddered as this fearful being
went by.
# * #
The following dresses can all be characterised as
pretty .—Miss P Smith, French Coquette; Miss Hin-
man, Christmas; Miss A. Jennings, Irene; Miss
Webber, Claudine; Miss Tighe, ns Marie Stuart, white
satin long train, correct head-drees and long string of
pearls; two Colleen Bawns; Miss Etheridge, tall and
slender, with blonde hair, as Marguerite, in long white
cashmere dress, edged with narrow blue scroll work ;
Miss L. Cross, Patience (or Bnnthome’s Bride). This
was a carefully prepared dress, and had a pleasing
effect though, of course, the character was not gene-
rally known ; Miss C Apted, Maid Mgrian ; Miss E.
Smith, Cautiniere; a Page of the Court of Charles II;
Mrs. J. H. Davies, Mary, Queen of Soots, very correct;
Mrs. O’Brien as a Lady Abbess, was excellent, and
chose a dress that well suited her ; Miss Mary G ood-
man, Claudine; Mrs. Logan, Norwegian Peasant; two
Lizzie Stofels ; a Buttercup ; Miss Burr.. Hungarian
Peasant, wore dark dress, trimmed with fur and fur
hat, a complete and pretty character. Two ladies came
as Cards; Miss E. Jones, as Edith, a daughter of
Major-General Stanley, was fascinating, and wore a
short dress of gold satin, large hat, same colour, lined
and trimmed with dark purple pansies—one of the
belles, decidedly. Miss Moore, Esmeralda; Miss
Brynes, Drummer Girl, very short striped skirt of red
and white satin, blue stockings, and blue
satin body, faced with white —a charming dress
and dancer. Three Bohemian Girls; Goddess of
Wine; Mrs. Beveridge, Norma; Miss M. Tighe, Ger-
maine ; Mrs. C. Smith, one of the handsomest evening
drosses, of umpt ions cardinal and cream satin,
trimmed with silver, long train. The splendid figure
of a tall dark young lady was graced by a short satin
dress of many roseate shades, beautifully blended, the
body of light pink, arms shaded off a little darker, and
the skirt gradually darkening towards the lower part—
but, though beautiful, very difficult to describe. Ano-
ther dress was rich cream satin, crossed diagonally
with a broad ruby band, and trimmed with heavy gold
fringe. Miis Cooper, Indiau Huntress; Mercy Merrick;
Arline; Mrs. K. Driver, Duchess of Devonshire, in the
well-known dress of white satin and ample skirt, large
blue hat; Miss Ada Jennings, Ninette; a Marie Antoi-
nette. Two Surry (Hills sisters wore a Dutch Girl and
Gypsy respectively; Miss Spencer, blue dress covered
longitudinally withrows of white lace; her sister wore
a pretty and very gay dress ; Innocence, a lady all in
blac lace, wasjnoticed ; a pr. tty piqunnte young lady
was attired in iScru satin, studded with small bunches
of violets, and looked irresistible. Many thought the
belle was Miss Adams, in a short salmon satin dress,
trimmed with brown stampsd velvet leaves, as Ger-
maine Of the gentlemen, there were Mr. Menton as
Polly, in black silk tights, black and red satin jacket
done in points, lavishly trimmed with silver bells, hat
and ruffles to match; Mr. J. H. Davies, Dauphin of
Franca; a Prior, Squatter, Stockman, Digger, and
Indian Ch ef; Mr. Topharn as a Punjaub Merchant;
Mr. K. K. Cox as Monthabor; Mr. Seigel, French
Ambassador ; and a “ Caxton,” in newspaper raiment.
Football found a solitary representative, and there was
a dowdy Yachting guernsey visible. There was a gen-
tleman as the T. and C. Journal, and another as the
Nooze. The programmes were exactly the sameaslast
year. The rendezvous were those used at the Citizens’
Ball ; the attendants at the cloak room were exceed-
ingly prompt and careful. The||music pleasing if not
perfect. The catering was well done, but as on previous
occasions, the supper tables were laid in the gallery.
The committee m«y have some reason for having all
the refreshments carried up two flights of stairs, in-
stead of being provided on the level floor, as in the case
of .other balls, but no one seemed to know what this
reason could posainly be, and the more tired the twelve
hundredjds.ncers became, as the night wore on, the more
those two lights of stairs irritated them. This mis-
take was really the only one calling for reform.
# # #
Tuere wore other pretty dresses, too. A charm-
ing ivory satin duch ’ss, trimmed with white Bretonne
ret and lace wreath, and chatelain of white lilac and
forget-me-nots, worn by the daughter of a legislator.
Mrs. Beattie wore a very beautiful gold satin and black
Spanish lace dress, with an exquisite wreath and trim-
mings of shaded hop blossoms done in patches of six
shades, dark red to cream. Mrs. William Hughes wore
very rich black satin meryoilleux, trimmed with gar
lands of pink and cream crush roses, wreath en suite.
M’ss O’Sullivan, Newcastle, had on a very pretty and
suitable costume of apricot groa grain, with plush body
made in aesthetic fashion, trimmed with old point.
Mias Spencer, as Meuhistophiles, black satin, trimmed
witn cream amber and cardinal, with sulphur dust,
loosed n-ce; Miss Mary Hayes, cream cashmere, cream
satin and lace, with exquisite floral trimmings, wreath
of baby roses; Mrs. M’Carthy, Shepherdess, white
Ham a, wreathed with chrysanthemums, r,-td |May pole,
golden wig.
AQUATICS.
Rash v. Laycook.
It was a day of dust and smoke, of oaths and
laughter. Circular Quay, at an early hour on Friday
last, became demoralized. Men who bad backed Rush
issued from the public-houses, full of brandy and en-
thusiasm j persona who had “ piled it on" to Laycook
swaggered about the wharves, replete with beer and
bravado. Ou board the steamers, prior to departure,
the Bushites, dudeen in mouth, disputed with the Lay.
oockites, and the Laycookites disputed with the Rush-
ites; so, altogether, there was more howling, swearing,
and spitting going on in the bright sunshine that after-
noon than has been witnessed since last South Sydney
election. The result was a surprise—to those who could
be surprised at anything. What the “ talent" averred
to be a moral for Layoock turned out to be a certainty
for Rush. Rush, whom the cognoscenti averred to be
“ stale,” proved to be “ pink," while Layeock, who was
stated to be as " fit as a fiddle," came out according to
the event as stale as a hop-pole. The man who had
beaten Ross, Hosmer, and Rush (the latter several times
with the greatest ease), was licked without an effort,
apparently, by Rush himself; and the result in the
miad of the guileless spectator is chaos.
* « *
There was a great deal of interest taken in
the event; yet it is hard to say why. We are
pretty tired of Trickett v. Rush. Triokett v. Laycook,
and Laycook v. Rush. We yearn for something new.
Once upon a time, when we fondly imagined that the
Equator, and the North and South Foies thrown in,
were located on the Parramatta River, and nowhere
else, we used to bow down before these venerable
aquatic celebrities as jefore the Great Mokanna.
Napoleon was as nothing compared with Ned Trickett,
Laycock was the incarnation of Australian genius, and
Mick Rush was a demi-god. But it’s all over now.
Since Hanlan knocked us out of time, what we used to
regard as the races of thoroughbreds are in our sated
eyes as the contests of cart-horses. To go down the
Parramatta, and see the “ great boat-race between Rush
and Laycook," is as unsatisfying to the average fully-
developed man as trying once more to take an interest
in marbles, or waltzing with a Chinaman.
• • •
So far as we were personally concerned, we
looked upon the affair purely in the light of a steam-
boat specvlation ; and as we have not, as yet, had time
to buy any steamboats, our interest in the tussle was
very feeble, indeed. And, talking of steamboats, that
afternoon brought forth upon the waters some of the
most extraordinary-looking craft that it has ever been
our lot to witness. Every old rattle-trap that could
raise half-a-ton of coke and a steam-whistle flaunted its
rusty funnel upon the ocean. We struck a steamer at
first (name unknown) and intended to do the journey in
her. But, as shortly before the start, she commenced
barking, we hurriedly said our prayers and left. The
harbour-regulations seemed to be utterly set at naught,
and every boat was packed from stem to stern, persona
even perching themselves on the gunwales and teasting
their faces round the funnels. The start, as is invari-
ably the case in regard to sports aquatic,
was (late, and the wait, with a powerful sun and an
atmosphere of strong oil and stronger tobacco, was one
of those treats which it takes a life-time to forget.
* • •
Well, we got down to Eyde at last, passing on
the way large cro vds on the principal points of vantage.
The odds before starting were from 6 to 4 to 2 to 1 on
Laycook; but it was noticeable that some of the
“ talent" were more ready by far to take than to lay.
When the men rowed past, up to the starting station—
Rush bare-backed and bare-headed: Laycock attired,
d la Hanlan, in the most (esthetic of pink silk jerseys—
the result of the contest, it seemed probable to an out-
sider, would, after all, be but a repetition of past races
between the pair. Laycook, as usual, looked more
sinewy than muscular: Rush, more muscular than
sinewy. Rnsh seemed strong: Laycook enduring.
People who didn’t know anything of oarsmanship, and
paid regard rather to the general appearance than to
the mechanical accuracy of a sculler, would have liked
Rush, who looked bigger (but, by-the-way, scaled 2Jlb.
less) than his opponent. Laycock stepped into his
boat at 12st. 71b.
# # »
Much has been said concerning alleged changes
in the respective styles of Rush and Laycock, but there
was little alteration manifested on Friday. Just after
the start (a very level one) was effected. Rush,
who had the inside station, dashed away, as
everyone had expected, with the lead, pulling
a very quick and, tor a time, a splashy stroke;
Laycock rowed more eoolly and made no mistakes in
style. Before 100 yards had been traversed, the men’s
sculls almost overlapped, a foul nearly occurred, and
Laycook gave way. Rush at once took the lead, pulling
"all he knew." Laycock, rowing a steady, slaughter-
ing stroke, kept for a while half a boat’s length behind,
but after Uhr’s Point, a quarter of a mile from the
start, had been passed, Rush increased his advantage,
and suddenly put halt a clear length ftf water between
the boats, continuing to creep ahead yard by yard,
until he was more than a boat’s length away. Rush
steered for the"north side. Layoock look a short cut
right across to Blaxland’s, and when again they met off
the Point, Rush was two-and-half boat’s (lengths in
front. One mile in smiu. 53socs. Bet ween Blaxland's
and the Point the same tactics were adopted by both
men, who, when again they met off Putney, were found
to be at least three lengths apart. Both were still
rowing strongly, and as a question of form and “ go”
it seemed to be any odds on Laycock, for he was
breathing through his nose, and apparently taking it
easy, while Michael appeared inclined to commence
wobbling, and was not only showing his teeth occa-
sionally, but also steering in a manner which inclined
one who attentively studied his countenance through a
glass to the conclusion that he was going to " crack.”
But it was not to be. At Famell’s Point things were
unaltered; at the Hen and Chickens (2£miles in ISmin.
20sec.) Layoock was 'still rowing a stern chase on the
same terms, and at Gladsville Wharf the Clarence
River man maintained a pull of 2$ lengths. At One
Man Wharf, Elias livened up—so did Rush,
who increased his advantage in the tussle
by a quarter of a length. Laycock then dropped
it, and Rush rowed leisurely in, several lengths—it
doesn't much matter how many—in front. Official
time—2lmin. 2Sseo., the fastest on record here, but not
so very fast when the circumstances under which the
race was rowed are considered. Beside, a good many
made it 21min. 36sec., and oyer. The stakes, £2OO aside,
were paid over in the evening at Hunt’s International
Hotel. Laycock was unrepresented.
# # #
Elsewhere we give a portrait of Rush, whom
every one knows and respects. He was born in Ireland,
and arrived in Australia while still a child. He is a
man of means, acquired for the greater part in
busine-s on the Clarence River. He has rowed many
races, achieved many victories, and sustained many
defeats, but whether in good or bad fortune has always
proved himself worthy of the confidence of his friends.
He loves sculling for its own sake —because it is manly,
and because he believes with reason, that in it may be
displayed many of the sterling qualities which make
Britishers what they are. He has the heart of a lion,
encased in a Herculean frame—one which, added to
Michael’s manly face, would command attention in any
city in the world, of which it has long been his ambi-
tion to be champion sculler. Had Rush commenced to
row earlier, and been trained properly, he might have
easily realised his dream. But now, he is getting to-
wards forty. “ All things come too late.”
Walker Whisky Trophy Competition.
MONDAY’S RACING.
The entries were as follow:
First Heat —First Division. —W. Trickett, Sydney ;
J. J. Power, Twofold Bay; J. C. Laycock, Sydney : S.
Edwards, Melbourne.
Second Division.—E. C. Laycock, Sydney; D.
M'Douald, Clarence Eiver; E. Shepherd, West Mait-
land ; E. Wing, Melbourne.
Jhird Division.—M. Bush, Clarence; C. Messenger,
Sydney; B. Edwards, Melbourne; W. Greenland, Mel-
bourne.
Fourth Division.—H. Pearce, Sydney; C. Beynolds,
Sydney; T. Edwards. Sydney; G. Priddle, Baymoud
Terrace,
• * *
In the first division, which afforded by far the best
race of the day— in fact the only one in which any real
interest was taken —Trickett, Power, and Laycock
started, the latter, however, being clean out of it.
Power went away with a slight lead, which he soon in-
creased to a very stiff advantage, Laycock being second
and Trickett third. The latter man shot past
Laycock without an effort, and tried to get
on level terms with Power, whom he approached,
but apparently on sufferance, as the Twofold Bay man
spurted “ Power "-fully, and kept a substantial lead
—varying from two lengths to a length. Eventually,
however, Trickett got a bit nearer his man, and gradu-
ally worked the nose of his boat to Power's stern.
Then there was a slashing and moat exciting race.
Power did his level best, but Trickett, rowing in a
greyhound-like, determined style, completely wore
down his more substantial-looking antagonist, who,
when William drew away a few feet, “cracked,” threw
up the sponge, and gave his backers a good insight
into the value of his chances in his approaching match
with Bush. The course was from the Hen and Chickens
to Eyde. Time, Iflmin. 19sec. The water was lumpy.
• •
For the second division (Eyde to GladesviUe),
E. C. Laycock and Shepherd were the only starters.
The affair was a mere procession, and a wretched pro-
cession at that. Shepherd can row’just about as well as
he can fly—for racing purposes, anyhow—and in the
lumpy water he made a most depressing exhibition
of himself,! pulling, at times, with one hand only.
Elias paddled over the course, and won by as much as
he liked—somewhere between half-a-mile and a mile.
* # •
For the third division (GladesviUe to Eyde)
Bush, Messenger, and B. Edwards started, the last
named going away in front, and gradually increasing
his advantage as regarded Messenger. Bush pulled on
the south side of the river, the other pair keeping to
the north, and appearing to race, not against Bush,
but merely against each other. When the men came
together at Bloxland’s, Bush, who was taking it easy,
had a strong lead, while Edwards had a substantial
advantage over Messenger, who, however, managed to
come up in the smooth water—partially owing to Bob
having carried away his weshboard in the rough open.
Bush won by three lengths; Edwards beat Messenger
by a length. Time, ISmiu. 17sec.
• * #
For the fourth division (Eyde to GladesviUe),
Pearce and Beynolds (a coloured sculler) measured
blades. Beynolds, a muscular and cleauly-built man,
on this occasion pulled his first race in a wager-boat,
and rowed in a style and with a determination which
give promise of better things. He told Pearce, at the
start, that he would “ warm him up" before they got
down, and he did his bet-t to keep his word. However,
Pearce almost immediately got a lead, and kept the
bow of Beynolds’ boat just behind the stern of his own
for the whole distance. Towards the finish, when
Beynolds spurted, Pearce responded so vigorously as to
show that there was a lot of rowing in him, and that,
plucky as was the darkey, ho had no real chance. Pearce
went away, on nearing the flagboat, and won by, say,
two lengths. Time, 17min. Sseo.
** * *
The second heat on Wednesday afternoon was
rowed in two divisions. First Division—M. Bush, H.
Pearce, J. J. Power, and E. Shepherd. Second
Division—E. C. Laycock, W. Trickett, B. Edwards, and
0. Beynolds.
# * *
Of the first division, Shepherd did not start.
The respective stations were—Bush, northern ; Power,
middle; Pearce, southern. Power went away at the
jump, closely followed by Pearce, who soon got
on level terms, and then took the lead.
Bush the while astern. After passing the Hen
and Chickens, Pearce had a pronounced and steady
lead of a length, Power being a little ahead of Bush.
At the mile distance, Bush collared Pearce. The pair
rowed scull and scull for some time, Pearce having all
the while a stiff lead, and maintaining it without
trouble. Then Bush got an advantage over Power, who
spurted vigorously, and regained his lead. A ding-dong
race followed, past Eyde Wharf, but Bush “cracked,"
and gave up. Power could not reach Pearce, who won
comfortably, Pearce and Power were loudly cheered:
Bush wasn't. Time, ISmin. 45aec. Course, GladesviUe
to Eyde.
* • •
Second division (Charity Point to GladesviUe).
William Trickett, southern station; B. Edwards,
middle; Laycock, northern. Trickett got the lead,
closely followed by Edwards, Laycock half a length
behind. At TJhr’s Point, Trickett and Edwards were
level, Laycock two lengths in the rear. Crossing over
to Blaxland's, Laycock rowed by the other men, and
Trickett got a length’s advantage of Edwards. Laycock
was never afterwards caught, and Edwards gradu-
ally dropped three clear lengths of water behind
Trickett, but the plucky little Melbourner stuck to
his work, and when Breakfast Point was negotiated,
had closed up to within a boat’s length of Ned’s brother,
whom he fairly rowed down, after a splendid race, in
which both men did their best. However, Edwards
could not catch Laycock, who won by a length. Time,
20min, 25sec.
« * #
Owing to the result of the first division race,
Pearce’s chance for the final heat on Friday is much
fancied.
LATE SPORTING.
The rowing season is to be opened on Oct. 1, by
a procession of Club boats.
In the Go-as-you-please Contest, Williams walked
101 miles without leaving the track. Cotton and Palmer
retired on Tuesday morning. Swan, Edwards, and
Baker are keeping well together, and a great struggle is
expected on Saturday.
Messrs. Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co., have
offered a cup, valued at 150 guineas, to be competed for
by the senior Cricket clubs, and to be retained by the
club winning it three seasons consecutively.
A. J. C. Spring Meeting.—Metropolitan Day.—
The Shorts, 6 furlongs: Surrey I, Queensberry 2, Gov-
erness 3. Spring Maiden Stakes, 1| mile : Bathurst 1,
Gudary 2, Yosemite 8. Great Metropolitan Stakes, 2
miles: Hesperian 1, Waxy 2, Wellington 3 ; time,3min.
324 10sec. Selling Plate, 1J mile: Courtenay 1, Bob
Sawyer 2, Baudalbion 3. Squatters’ Handicap, l|mile:
Zulu 1, Soothsayer 2, Velox 3.
M. Rudolphe, a billiard-player of renown, is on
a visit to Sydney at the present time, and contemplates
giving a series of displays of his skill. At the carom
game, M. Eudolphe is regarded as invincible. In
America he met Cook, and demolished him. At tours
deforce and fancy strokes, also, M. Eudolphe is, judging
by notices which we have seen, very great indeed. The
time and place of his exhibitions have not yet been
determined.


ment in May, and who did not bnry
did not when summoned appear. .
for his arrest.
At Cobar, the diamond-drill, i
some comparatively poor ore, ha
deposit cf great richness.
A small-pox hospital has been e
Should the disease break out, doct
patients will not be quarantined.
The German steamer, Europs
capacity of the Protos, has been
frozen meat from Australia to Engl
Diamond drills are at work
passing through a sft. seam of gooi
down 250 ft.; and at Hexham, dowi
A gang of fellows provided
marked cards, peculiar masks, a
quantity of stolen goods, have b
Adelaide police.
The Tamworth Show was onl
The exhibits were not numerous, i
principal prize-winners were Me
Loder, and Oobcroft.
Another young Melbourne g
three months for stoning a China j
a plum, with the preliminary of s
have got three years.
Burglars at Wollongong. T
of a local newspaper office; but
stated in the S.M. Herald, win
hardly have believed it.
The new School of Arts, at As
on Monday last. The building is i
tasteful design. Mr. Howe, the arc
success with this structure.
Constable Frieze, of Lambton.
with a rifle on Saturday morning
spondent for some time owing to
sent to Qiadesville Asylum, of whicl
an inmate.
It is stated that the Marquis i
abandon New Ireland as a settb
Bonka, one of the Solomons. 120 s
New Britain (s.s.), and 1000 Spauiar
from Manilla.
Says Judge Dowling: —“ A re
his wife with the necessaries of 1
borrow money with the intention ol
saries. If she does so, the husbam
for its repayment."
The production of tin ore at
Eiver, N.Q., goes on at an enom
Towner reports that 3000 tons arc
Herberton Tin Co. want a pull bef
lators find the place out.
An action for .£5OOO is bein
the Minister for Works by agent!
have received an appointment in t
years ago, but who has never be
any worn in connection therewith.
The brother of David Done
while conliued as a patient in low .
sueing David’s wife for £475 —the
personal property. Plaintiff alle ;
brother married ho was mad. Prob
H.M.S. Wolverene has visited
Guinea coast, and four natives {in
plicated in the murder of a Europea
Three sailors wore wounded, but a
Wolverene will arrive at Brisbane a
Use Jannasch’s Conserve Salt
game, fish, milk, &c., sweet during t
by speedy and simple process; no d
used. To be had ot all grocers
keepers. Ask for Jannasch's Oonse
A Sydney policeman, who die<
was found to be the possessor of £7l
or five thousand pounds worth of
of which goes to a distant relativ
s hows what can be done by honesty
to business.
A respectable lad, who gave i
blackened silver in payment for ft
charged with issuing counterfeit
now appears that the respeotabl
scientific turn of mind, had merely
over good money.
At last the Far Northern dart
civilized. We learn from the Coot
« During the last two days the blai
gregated on the North Shore, to tl
150, lighting signal-fires, to lemu
police that more beef is required.”
The display of merino sheep 1
Sheep-breeders' Association, at the
Goldsbrough’s, Melbourne, was spiei
prize for merino xam fell to Williar
Pyans, for a ram over years, by fc
Sir Thomas. Longwools were fairly
1 hundred-guinea premium o
an Government for the best ne
riage, combining completeness, u
apness. Open only till 16th Sap
)nd premiums of 100 and 200 guu
the best designs for a new bridge
for the brother, who had suddenly
disease.
Miss Wailes, of Queen-street
was attacked by small-por, the othi
day, and was buried at Waverle
decease of this young lady is att
painful circumstances, as she was
riage with a minister of the Congr
who, in fact, was on a visit to ]
took ill.
The other evening, at I
Supreme Court, Patrick Lennane
perjury, but recommended to men
wife and family. He was sentenced
labour ; and a few minutes afterw
put into the police car to be conv
the muzzle of a revolver into his n
self dead He had been out on
searched before entering the dock.
The Age has been pitching in
ing the pace of the Melbourne su
accelerated, alleging that the rt
caused by this order. Considering
tunate Minister did was to susrvest
THE GENUINE AM
HOP BIT -
Manufactured by
HOP BITTERS MANUPAC
ROCHESTER, N.Y.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT
The above Company are well-ki
originators of tl
HOP BITTERS
The great boat race rowed on the 1
cessfully carried off
GALLANT LAYOOCK, of
HOP BITT
are the
PUEEST, BEST, AND CHEA!
EVEE MADE,
They are compounds!
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAI
AND DANDELI
The Oldest, Best, most Eenowr
Medicines in the World, and in a<
the best and most effective cura
all other Bitters, being the greatei
FLEE and life and health restorin
EBMBMBEB THIS I IP TC
HOF BITTE]
will snrely aid nature in making
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a r
matic district, barricade your s
scourge of all countries—malarial,
and intermittent fevers—by the ui
HOF BITTES
If you are costive or dyspeptic
from any other of the nnmerou
stomach or bowels, it is your ow
main ill, for HOP BITTEKS
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with ar
disease, stop tempting Death t
turn for a cure to HOP BITTEE
If you are sick with that terril
vousness, yon will find a “ Balm i
use of HOP BITTEES.
In short, they cure ALL disease
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kid
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will nc
for anything impure or injurious i
That poor, bedridden, invalid wi
or daughter, can be made the pic
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, cost:
WILL OU LET THEM
CLEANSE, PUE AND ENE
with
HO BITTE
and yon will have no sickness
Large square panelled amber col<
label with green Hop cluster one
other.
Price ss. No other form, size, <
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Eocl
To be obtained at all Chemists and
MONTEFIOBE, STUA
65 PITT STEBET, STDNE
General Agents for Am
KNOWLEDGE IS P
LATIN, FRENCH, AN
TAU G H
THROUGH CORRESPO
by
DR. RODWAY, M.i
PRINCIPAL OF UNIVERSI
191 WILLIAM SI
Wanted to be known, that t
disinfectant and deodoriser for the
pox and all other contagious disea!
using Panther and Parry's Net
which, not only contains the purest
greatest cleansing properties ever y
public, but is composed in its tnai
the best disinfectants (made pure
plants) known, and admitted in
throughout the globe. Combined
free from all injurious colour, has a
not injure the most delicate hands,
saving of labour, rendering any ar
with of the purest whiteness in t
short space of time. In fact, no
without it, as it cannot be surpass
and cleansing of clothes, hands, cr
floors, and every household purp
which will be found on each pad
obtained from all grocers and store
the colony, and at the Works,
Sydney.— Advt.
HEEIDAN & FI
STOCK AND SHAKE B
94 PITT-STREE
SYDNEY.
Henry A. Sheridan, formerly Ma
mercial Bank, Maitland.
Jakes Fullford, of West Maitlai
L
AEGEST
ESTABLISHMI
KIND IN AUSTBA
ASIATIC TEA COM!
279 Pitt-street, Syd
(Next School of Ar
EETAIL PRICE L.
Pure Indian Tea )
P
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, 1
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tigh
121bs of any of the abov
Special Quotations given to wholi
Country Orders Promptly and Ca
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Lefroy, the supposed Brighton murderer, was
formerly at Adelaide. He went there from Melbourne
At Wellington, N.Z., a man named Arthur Craig tied
his feet to the sofa, covered himself with tow, lighted it,
and sent himself off in this fiery chariot to the Happy
Land At Mudgee, a boy, who found a dynamite cap,
and pricked it with a pin, had his thumb and forefinger
blown off A snake bit a dog on the leg, the other day,
at Graeemere, and the dog bit its mistress. A Rock-
hampton paper says that neither dog nor woman is a
“ bit ” the worse Some opals, which were found at
Keeroongooloo, Cooper’s Creek, and sent to Amster-
dam to be cut and polished into gems of 8-carat weight,
are creating a little sensation in Brisbane At Perth,
W.A., during the hearing of a debt case, the plaintiff,
enraged at a statement made by defendant, very awk-
wardly placed before the magistrate two account books
to prove that what was being said was false. The
magistrate, greatly provoked, rose from his seat and
dashed the books oyer the bench on to the floor. Plain
tiff, however, to put the finishing stroke on, delivered
the books a vigorous kick. The magistrate ordered the
plaintiff to be removed for contempt, which was done.
He was, however, shortly released At Rockhampton,
a thief ran off with a £5O case of jewellery, but was
speedily captured Perth, W.A., although 50 years
old, has no public baths. The Sydney alderman who,
some time ago, said he hadn’t washed his body for 20
years and didn’t see the use of baths, probably came
from Perth A woman named Ellen Kendall has
been committed for trial, at Goulbum, for
wilful murder, by the coroner’s jury, for poisoning
her employer’s child, Ada Williams, six months’ old
Frederick Morant, for shooting Caroline Parry, at
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Ist Feb. last, has been committed
for trial. Prosecutrix gave her evidence unwillingly,
saying she wished the case could be dismissed altoge-
ther ; and when her mother gave evidence strongly
against accused, she threw herself on the floor of the
court, and shrieked loudly, as it in convulsions It is
likely that the tin deposit discovered by J. V. Mulligan
and party, 20 miles from the Wild River, will turn out
exceedingly rich Messrs. Robertson, Wagner, and
Co., who have purchased Ournil Station, Upper
Murray, propose to breed mules there on a large scale,
and, with that view, have imported a Spanish jackass,
at a cost of £lOOO. Already they employ mules in
coaching—especially in the more remote portions of
the interior, and have found that, in every sense, their
use is more economical and satisfactory than that of
horses A very rich silver lode has been found near
Murrurundi, at a depth of 81ft., by some well-sinkers.
A wholesale dog-poisoner is at large in Bathurst
In a ploughing match for £2O a-side, at Bathurst, be-
tween J. Morris and J. Edwards, Morris won by four
points. Had Edwards paid more attention to finish
of work, he would have been successful
A storekeeper at Cooktown has a young six-foot croco-
dile chained to the verandah post Land in Collin.
street, Melbourne, sold last week, realised 3200 times
as much as it brought 43 years ago George Wylde,
butcher, of Waverley, suicided last week by taking
strychnine, which he bought “to kill rats.” He was
49 years old, sober and steady, and told a constable
before he died “that he had troubles.” His wife,
examined at the inquest, said she did not know why he
should have killed himself William Jager, adver-
tises in the D. N. Arous, (Rockhampton: “All animals
subjected to Homoeopathic treatment up to 7p.m."
A mob of bullocks were recently sold in the Ballarat
markets at the enormous price of £lB per head
Nine of the Chines mines have yielded over £4,000,000
worth of gold since their opening At Cootamundra,
a man lay down beside the railway line, and while asleep
laid hold of one of the rails with one hand. The train
came along and cut off all the fingers Jules Jouhert
and Twopeny, who are now running the Adelaide
Exhibition, intend to “show” in Perth, W.A The
right to wash sludge tailings at the, Duke claim, Timor,
Maryborough (Vic.), realised at auction £3240, the
highest sum ever paid for a similar privilege The
proprietor of the skating rink at Jamestown, S.A., who
absconded, has been taken back by the police, and
charged by the father of the young girl he abducted
with inducing her to leave her home An antimony
lode has been found near Mount M’Ghann, seven miles
from Thornborough, Hodgkinson, N.Q. Several tons
of ore have already been raised At Gympie, a team
of horses attached to a dray-load of dynamite took it
into their heads to bolt the other day. An upset, fol-
lowed by an explosion which would have blown Gympie
into the middle of the week, was only prevented by
the presence of mind of Mr. Lukin, the warden, who
happened to be passing The remains of some old
firearms have been found in a cave at the Nepean River.
They consist of three flint rifle locks, one horse pistol
barrel and lock, and seven or eight door and safe keys.
It is supposed that they belonged to the bushrangers
who infested that place some thirty or forty years ago.
Two cases tobacco were surreptitiously removed
the other evening from a Melbourne bond by two em-
ployes of the proprietor, Mr. B. Nathan. The latter
has been fined £lOO, despite his assertion that the
cases were taken away without his knowledge
Dr. Silvester (“ The Fakir of Oolu "), who has for
some time turned his attention to the manufacture of
gas, has succeeded in making an article for which he
claims superiority over any other illuminating agent at
present in use A well-known Townsville character
has been committed for trial for brutally ill-treating his
wife He had been to see Dr. Lynn’s performances, and
was trying to imitate the decapitation trick As soon
as the prospectus of a third newspaper was issued at
Townsville, the other two papers, which are bi-weeklies,
annonn ced that they would in future publish three times
a week Tobacco show to be held at Melbourne on
the 22nd instant Rich ironstone discovered at Mt.
Keira, near Wollongong. The Mt. Pleasant Coal Co.
are preparing to smelt it Successful meeting at
Grafton to sympathize with the Jews of South Russia.
At Camperdown, Vic., a family named Clarke have
been poisoned through eating’rabbits snared in a pad-
dock where phosphorised oats were laid. They are,
however, expected to recover Hon. W. J. Clarke, of
Victoria, has offered a 50-guinea prize for a champion
ploughing match, open to all the colonies—to be in-
creased to £lOO should the competition be good A
paper is to be started next month at Herberton tin-field.
A Rylstone correspondent says that tin can be
found in every rivulet in that district A carpet
snake—2lft. Sin. long, 32in. in girth, and 791 b in weight
—has been caught on the Normanby, N.Q., by Mr.
Freeman. Alleged that the monster swallowed an 801 b.
pig, but this isn’t vouched for Oxford-street double
tram line opened for traffic at last The Queensland
Govt Savings Bank returns show £20,000 increase in
deposits during August Adelaide S.B. Co propose
to get out two steamers of 1000 tons each, to run 16
miles an hour, and make the voyage from Adelaide to
Melbourne in 31 hours Melbourne musical experts
pronounce Fincham’s Victorian-made organ, used at the
Melbourne Exhibition, one of the finest in the world
Horses have died at Wagga through eating chopped
wire from binding-machines with their chaif Mr. P.
M'Mahon, J.P., Milton, has received from N.Z. 42
English skylarks, which he intends liberating in various
parts of the district The new post and telegraph
offices at Brisbane are to be opened Oct. 3. Ministers
are to be invited The much-hunted Chinese leper is
now located at Wylie Creek, near Wilson's Downfall.
Mr. Hutton, an eminent Queensland miner, says
Mount Browne will be a great reefing field The lis-
sima Aubert, an old S A. colonist, has poisoned himself.
Prospectus issued of “ The Australian Fruit and
Vegetable Preserving Company, Adelaide,” to purchase
and work Puileine’s evaporationprocess and plant.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Hartmann, the Nihilist, reported to have of
offered to turn informer Great delay with the
Panama Canal works French sending reinforcements
to Algiers owing to increased hostility of natives
Dean Stanley died worth £84,000 German Govern.
ment and Vatican becoming friendly Albanians pre-
paring to rebel against the Sultan Disclosures re
corruption among high Turkish officials Trenton
(a s ) wrecked near Algoa Bay; only 27 lives saved out of
200 Ayoub Khan still making preparations prior to
marching towards Cabul Conservative re-action in
Lincolnshire and Durham. Mr Lowther, formerly
Beaconsfleld’s Irish secretary, who was defeated at last
election, has beaten a Liberal candidate by a thumping
majority, and Sir George Elliott, Conservative, has
beaten a Liberal at Durham Fears of an emeute by
the soldiery in Egypt The British Consul-General of
Cairo, has been sent on a special mission to ask for
Turkish troops, to keep order in Alexandria, and also
for Turkish ironclads to visit Egyptian waters
Drought and consequent fires inflicting immense damage
to farms in Canada Sir Stafford Northcote, formerly
Lord Beaconsfleld’s Chancellor of Exchequer, speaking
at Sheffield, dwelt on the importance of the Colonies.
Garfield’s physicians think him almost sufficently re-
covered for removal from the White House to his home
in Ohio The Doterel Court Martial has elicited the
fact that the explosion which blew up the vessel was in
the coal bunkers Apache Indians have whipped the
U.S. troops, killing General Carr and 117 officers and
men Religious insurrection in Egypt, Viceroy’s
troops defeated Sir Stafford Northcote has spoken
hinting in favour of reciprocity, instead of one-sided
free trade Great fire in Thames-street, London.
34,000 persons emigrated from Britain and Ireland
to America during last month At Hamamet, 40
miles north of Tunis, the Arabs outnumbered and de-
feated the French. The latter were subsequently re-
inforced, and turned the tables French troops in
Algeria and Tunis are being largely augmented Anti-
Jewish feeling in Germany continues. Government
taking strongest measures to restrain it Pitts, of
Maidstone, S. A., won a silver medal for merino fleece at
the Crystal Palace wool exhibition Muttoulanded ex-
Protos. in grand condition, fetching 6Jd per lb Nine
of the crew of the wrecked steamer Protos arrived at
Capetown in a boat More small-pox. Vesu-
vius in a state of eruption Big floods in Switzerland.
Great damage Explosive packages received by citi-
zens of Lille (France); several deaths Peasants at-
tacked constabulary at Limerick. 15 persons shot or
wounded Ayoub Khan declares aholy war against the
British. A dodge to gain adherents before fighting
Abdul Rahman Garfield has had another slight re-
lapse Terrible railway accident at Charenton-le
Pont, Department of the Seine. 30 passengers and
officials killed; 15 seriously injured Emperors of
Germany and Russia meet shortly The French
Resident of Tunis says th-t the Bey is inciting the
Arab tribes to war by order of the Sultan, and urges
that Tunis be occupied and the Bey deposed by the
French Final returns of French elections give 459
Republicans, and only 88 Monarchists and Bonapartists
combined, elected to the Chamber of Deputies
Reports are current that Earl Cowper is about to
resign the Lord Lieutenancy of Ireland, and to be
succeeded by the Earl of Ken mare.


BRIEF MENTION.
Quarantined 76 days—for a cold!
Layoook’s gumboil ended in a gumboil over.
Motto for vaccinating doctors :—“ Keep it up.”
Gniteau, the American assassin, says he wanted
Garfield to git, oh 1
Graham Berry continues to be lucky in his
mining speculations.
Commission appointed to enquire in quarantine.
Great rise in whitewash brushes.
The reputation of the Quarantine station as a
a picnic ground in now “ Cooked.”
The Mudgee people have now a paper called
The Locomotive. It ought to go ahead.
A Judge and Jury Club has been formed at
Blayney. We hope they’ll practice on libel cases first.
A cow, sold at the Wanganui pound, brought
only ss. Five shillings in the £ is about the state of
things down there.
The best disinfected fellow in tow n is the am-
bulance corps man who swallowed carbolic acid in
mistake for whisky.
Surely it isn’t true that any Sydney paper sent
ont an edition on chance naming Laycook as the winner
in his match with Rush P
To be beheaded and to be North-Headed, are
about the same. “It don’t make any difference,"
except in the length of the undertaker’s bill.
Idolaters of old bowed down to calves of gold.
Worshippers of the girls in “ Olivette ” bow down to
calves of sawdust. Thus does the world deteriorate.
From Saturday’s Herald :—“ Death. —August
30, at the residence of his mother-in-law, 40, Foveaux-
street, , youngest son of , aged three months 10
days."
The Campbelltown Herald and some other
papers are publishing a tale entitled—“ Partners: A
true story, by a country attorney.” They’d better get
a serial written by a city attorney and say that it’s true
too.
First larrikin : “ Innes is passing a law to flog
us." School of larrikins (in chorus) : “ Who cares for
a * larruping ?’ " Second larrikin: "Watson says he
will send us into quarantine." School of larrikins (in
chorus): 11 Oh, murder !"
Some sanguine idiot wishes the Victorian
Government to go in for third-class carriages. What
lower pitch of discomfort he wants, it is difficult to
guess. A few real second-class carriages might be
desirable—for Heaven knows there aren’t any in Mel-
bourne now.
The Evening News says Laycook maintained
an appearance of “ conscious superiority.” We thought
Haulan was the sole and undisputed possessor of this
title. Let us substitute “ unconscious inferiority*’’ or
“ a supercilious smile of gentlemanly incapacity."
However, the latter wouldn’t suit.
The first snipe of the season was shot by three
people: on the Djgtrap, by Mr. Holborow; at Cook’s
River, by Mr. Fred Gannon, the lawyer; and at New-
castle, by a sportsman there. A Parramatta scribe savs
Gannon can be backed for choice, as he is generally
prompt at bringing down a long bill.
Mr. Jackson, Mayor of Charters Towers, has
been offending Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, who in last issue refers to him as “ a mulish
chump and a Bully Bottom," and advises the iudepen-
pent aldermen “to get a good purchase on his nasal
promontory and bring him to grass.”
Citizens ! Do not be alarmed ; there is not the
slightest danger of our race of statesmen being played
out at present. Last month 37 boys were convicted of
robbing their masters’ tills 1 Let us open up on the
27th hymn, and chant “ There is a better land—far far
away.” Half fare for the doable journey.
They are crowing fearfully in Melbourne about
the high prices realised by Australian frozen meat in
England. All Smith, of the Treasury, knows, is that
he pays nearly double (125.) for the family leg of
mutton what he paid this time last year, and, as a
matter of fact. Smith likes not the picture.
Shaw and Hanby, who were associated together
for some time past on the literary staff of the Cumber-
land Mercury, have separated. Hanby has transferred
his services to the Sydney D.T. Shaw remains.
They will meet on that beautiful Shaw,
In the sweet by-Hanby, over there!
Last week, a very lively undergraduate was
asked by the Professor of Natural Science “ What are
the tests for silver?” ‘‘As if you didn’t know," re-
plied Sammy, introducing “ Olivette" into the
University. ** Walk out, Mr. ,’’ said the Professor.
Verily, it is hard to knock a joke into a Scotchman’s
head.
The Victorian Government have got eight billets
to give away, and exactly eigbt-and-forty men to square.
A nice algebraic problem to work out satisfactorily. A
suggestion has been made to send over forty to Sydney to
enquire into the causes of the small-pox, and report in
six months, but it has not been favourably received.
There is no rush of candidates.
Writes a correspondent:—“lf Messrs. M‘El-
- and Melville would only root all the female Bard-
wells out of the telegraph department they would
confer a blessing on every man who does business at an
office of which a virago is in charge. This more es-
pecially in cases where aforesaid viragos have the
offices in their own private hands.”
A self-sacrificing man is Mr. C. H. Lay, secretary
the Mnrrurundi A. and H. Society. They voted him
30 guineas, the other day, in recognition of his services,
but he declined to receive the money, saying that, in
attempting to extend the usefulness of a small local
society, the only recompense he hod expected was the
gratification of succeeding in his efforts.
When the Narandera champion draught-player
was being “ put through” by the back blocker, ten-
year-old John supplemented his relative’s defeat with
the question : “ Did you ever play this game before,
uncle ?” and Charley, the bushman’s backer, who had
scored six empty "Zulus” (porter bottles) during the
tournament, led his friend off in a hurry.
The Bhbbanqong Chronicle, or Chronic-
kill, as some are pleased to call it, has just changed
hands for the sixth time since 1876. Mr. Reynolds, the
new proprietor, is thinking of changing the name of
the journal to that of Reynolds’ Newspaper. Some
of his friends, however, consider that the “ Hot
Potato” would be a more appropriate title.
It won’t do to mention names, but it is still
permissible to remark that strolling players who show
in country towns shouldn’t rehearse Caudle lectures
behind the curtain before the performance—and allow
their audience to share the fun. By the way, the
particular entertainment to which reference is made is,
as a study of comparative anatomy, first-class —as far
as it goes.
Saturday’s D.T. lets out the following par.,
concerning which we demand that a special enquiry be
at once instituted: —“ Mr. Batrie, a grocer, was driving
a horse attached to a spring cart, in George-street,
yesterday, when the bridle fell off, and it bolted.” What
we want to know is whether Mr. Batrie, or the spring
cart, or the horse, or the bridle, or the reporter bolted,
and, if so. what effect it had on the question of assisted
immigration.
The editor of the Armidale Chronicle
picked up an ill-spelled billet-doux the other day, which
he prints, with a tew lines of sarcastic comment. He
heads his par., however, "A Fugative (sic) Love-
Letter,” which inclines us to whistle—
Before you at the spelling laugh
Of any other elf,
Or do a country yokel chaff.
Just learn to spell yourself.”
The terrible railway accident which recently
happened in Victoria may be duplicated any day in this
colony. It was eaused only by a broken wheel. In most
countries the carriage inspector at locomotive stations
—whose duty it is to see that carriages, springs, coup-
lings, etc., are perfect and fit to proceed on the journey
—is compelled to strike the wheels, to see if there be
any flaw or defect. Wheels become cracked first, and
then breakup while in motion. The Railway authorities
in Victoria know all about it now.
Writes a city Anglican clergyman: — Dearly
beloved brethren who get awfully tight shouldn’t go to
church; but if they do go, they shouldn’t interrupt the
preacher.”
Apropos of the proposed new Hay Bishopric,
the Fastoral Times remarks that unless the prelate bo
able to bring rain lust when it’s wanted he needn’t
come to Hay.
At <he late Murrurundi Show, a gentleman
brought a live hedgehog for exhibition as a curiosity.
The man who ran the Show put it in the poultry section
because it bad quills.
A Hay man has a team of four horses which
always go in a direction different from that which they
might reasonably be expected to take. He now calls
them “the Jury team.”
Here is a hint, re a new colonial industry, taken
from a country paper :—“ Old has made eight wills
during the last 16 years. They are all in favour of
transferees of selections.”
At Parramatta, on the evening of Bush s race
with haycock, the respective merits of Irishmen and
natives were severely canvassed. Some blood was spilt,
but no one was seriously hurt.
The cheapest, grandest, and most sociable way
of getting up a birthday party is to get into a restau-
rant, invite the manager, four male friends, and halt a
dozen waitresses. If you cannot enjoy life then at a
cheap rate, you never will.
The policeman on guard at On Chong’s quar-
antined premises saw a rat coming out of the place
and drove it back, remarking that ” his instructions
from the Inspecthor-Gineral absolutely prohibited him
from allowing agress.”
“ Are you married ? ” asked his Worship sternly,
looking as though he thought the prisoner fit for any-
thing. “ No, Sir,” replied the prisoner with indigna-
tion, “ I was a while in Woogaroo and three months
in Rockhampton gaol, but not that.”
More law ! A new chum up North was lately
instructing one of the finest equestrians in the district
in the art of properly mounting and managing bis
Pegasus, when, lo I in the midst of his discourse, he
found himself embracing mother earth “ wid his
shkull,” his nag, the while, endeavouring to kiok a fly
off the top of an adiacent gum-tree. The joke being
considered too good to pass, the aforesaid agent duly
appeared in certain cartoons with writing beneath
them pasted on the walls of the local commercial ex-
change. The amateur professor of equitation now sues
the caricaturist for damages.
Mr. Yeo was once an indefatigable stock-
inspector in the Northern District. Mr. Lamb, who
had stations in the North, conveyed thither two young
Merino rams in his bnggy without giving the required
notice, and was in consequence summoned to appear
before Mr. Shepherd, J.P. It turned out strictly a
pastoral affair, this conjunction of Ram, Lamb, Shep-
herd, and Yeo!
We hear that, owing to a “ little arrangement”
made by some bookmakers with the railway depart-
ment, H.M. mails were, on the evening of the 27th
August, detained 35 minutes at Parramatta. The same
mail train was within an ace of running into a goods
train on the Mount Victoria Zig-zag, and had to return
to the Mount Victoria Station to get out of the way—
which little rencontre caused another delay of half-an-
honr.
Thus the London Printing Times “ The
Federal Australian is the title of a new paper that
has been started at Melbourne. It consists of twenty-
two pages demy folio. Mr. Freeker, late of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, has been appointed printea.” This
is a mean, round-about way of saying: “ We have re-
ceived a copy of the new Melbourne paper, the Federal
Australian, which is well printed." Not a word about
Mortimer. .
“ After the opera was over*” the other night,
there was nearly being a lively little mill, between a
couple of “ young bloods ” and a rising tenor, who
had all the best of the trouble.
They have back-yard burial grounds at New-
castle. You can step from your door to your grave in
several places. There’ll be lots stepping that way if
the grounds are not soon closed.
Consequent on the recent smash, the Victorian
Government are going to get some new railway carriages.
The decrepid one which caused the accident was
probably a Government mis-carriage.
Mrs. Hampson the revivalist, has once more
taken up her abode in Auckland, There is still plenty
of work for her to do there, for many of her former
converts require putting through the mill again.
The mere fact that a man holds a good position
in the Civil service should not entitle him to go to the
Turkish baths and systematically “ prig"—for that’s
the word—money from the pockets of other visitors.
Learned counsel to insolvent country store-
keeper : “ How did you keep your books —by single or
double entry ?" “ Faith, I didn’t keep ’em in any
intry at all, but under the counter in the salt-barrel.”
A venerable lady, aged 70, died on Friday last,
in Darhnghurst Saol. She had a record of 9(, convic-
tions. It is strange that, with so splendid a subject
available, anyone should have preferred Susan Fisher,
who had been only 33 times convicted.
The other day a portion of the wall of Murru-
rundi gaol was displaced by a stiff breeze, and to keep
it in its position, logs had to be placed against it. As
the local editor sapiently remarks, the occurence shows
the necessity of getting another wall soon.
Fifty people were “infirmaryed” by the recent
Victorian railway accident, and never a poet or amateur
cornet nlaver among the lot. The
after all—Fortuna favet fat uis, favours
well, fatuis means fools, but we can t afford to say so.
When a Corporation official gets into trouble
the Council take a ballot on the question of his
retention in the service. This enables aldermen to
speak in his favour and vote against him, or else to
loudly denounce his real or alleged iniquities, and vote
straight for “a brother.” The system uuder which a
civic dignitary (who, if he act fairly, can surely afford
to act openly) promises with one breath to save a
man “ from the sack." and with the next undertakes not
only to help in making the coveted billet vacant, but in
getting it for a certain particular parasite, is in strict
keeping with Corporation tactics.
Scene at the “True Son of the Sod,” near
Maitland. Collector to landlord—“ You’re a Home
Ruler iv coorse, Mr. Bofferty; I’ll want your huln-
scription" Mr. E. “Is it a Home Ruler ? If
coorse. Why shouldn’t I ? There’s Dxnny Blake in
my house bey ant there, this four months, and divil a
pinny rint he’s paid me. Home Ruler, be dad, why
shouldn’t I ?”
Adelaide has enjoyed the sensation of an earth-
quake. John Alexander Howie’s Salvation Army con-
sider the convulsion was a special caution to the in-
habitants of the farinaceous metropolis. However, it s
equally logical to assume that the Almighty intended
the little trouble as a suggestion that the army,
John Alex, included, should without delay be put
through a full-sized sausage-machine. It s only the
bigoted who refuse to hear both sides.
An itinerant minister was, last shearing, going
his long-accustomed rounds of the stations, and, on a
Sunday morning, preached from the text, “ Gather up
the fragments, that not a morsel may be lost. At
dinner-time lie went to see the men feed; and, just as
he came in, the cook tripped up and fell with a lot of
meat. One pious youth immediately exclaimed, ‘Gather
up the fragments, Jimmy, that not a morsel may be
lost.’ You can dish them up again to-morrow.”
The Australian Dramatic News, published
at Melbourne, where the Press is almost as free as in
Old England, has a warm leader on the subject of the
prosecution of Mr. John Ferguson, of the Cumberland
Evening Times, by Mr. Byrne, J.P., of Parramatta, at
whose instance John has been committ<ffi for trial on a
charge of criminal libel. As it won la probably cost
£10,000,000 to reproduce the A. D. News article in
Sydney, all we can do is to call attention to it.
An enterprising man of band contest notoriety
is. it is said, about to treat the Sydney public to a
chaste entertainment. After much cogitation, in the
course of which he was undecided whether he would
present grand opera, high class comedy, or a popular
science lecture, he has, at length, decided upon giving
a " Fat Woman Show.” We advise him to at once
endeavour to get entries from several ladies distantly
related to the Municipal Council. We know one who—
bn* on consideration we will pass the sherry. Our
foreman has not arrived from Dartmoor yet.
A Sydney firm doing big biz has been compelled
to sticfe up the following :
“ Notice, —The hours of attendance in this
office are:
To Canvassers for Church Subscriptions,
10 till 2
Book and Insurance Agents,
2 till 4.
Commercials, Beggars, & Advertising Men,
All Day.
We attend to our own Business at Night ”
As the Nooze would say, “ we are pleased to
find that ” our illustrated journals are not above taking
a hint from our valuable columns. Acting on sugges-
tions thrown out from time to time, some of the
pictorial prints now underline their Raphael-like illus-
trations by the much-needed information of, " this is a
shipwreck,” or, “ thisis a cow,” as the case may be and
we are, therefore, no longer left in doubting dread as to
whether the photo, over which we gloat is that of the
seraphic Nellie Stewart or old King Cakabau; and our
sapient minds immediately recognise the difference
between the execution of Charles I. and a Clontarf
pio-nic. This is good; and, in the fullness of time, will
become better.
Dr. M'Murdo, who has been vaccinating Syd-
neyites by the hundred “from the calf,” came over
from Mahurangi, N.Z , and to oblige a friend brought
with him as part of his luggage, six kegs of butter to
be the means of opening up traffic between Sydney and
the capital of Rodney. Some one whose inquisitive-
ness had gained complete mastery over him, ventured
to pump the gallant Mac. as to the contents of this
portion of his luggage. “ Oh,” said Mac., *‘l suppose
you know I have been sent for by the New South Wales
Government to vaccinate the people of that colony,
and, as I always like to be sure of the tools I am using,
I am taking over my own lymph. Those six kegs contain
lymph." The doctor is evidently fond of cows and their
belongings.
We have it, on good authority, that there are
clerks in the Lands Office who can eat more oranges and
read more newspapers in six hours, than any other
Civil servants in the universe. On Bulletin mornings,
the basement is over-run with newsboys and fruit
hawkers, and the free-selector of every age, type, and
nationality may be seen writhing in anguish all over
the building. Every question of an applicant for a
section of well-watered country, is answered by a
sounding chuckle, and a quotation from " Brief
Mention,” while a customer in search of the map of
section 964, of the Jackeroo Ranges, is a good deal
more likely to carry away the inside sheet of The
Bulletin in an official envelope, than the litho. for
which his soul hungers. This, of course, is popularity,
and we like it. If we should have business at the
Lands Office on a Thursday, however, we shall defer
publication until after we have completed arrangements
for the purchase of that 100 square miles of undulating
downs which we have long had our eye on.
Peter Campbell, the “bush missionary,” has
been distinguishing himself in Adelaide. He publicly
insulted an absent lady because he happened to differ
from her on doctrinal points, and when one of the
audience told him to “ leave her alone and speak for
himself ” he swaggeringly asserted that he was “ a
muscular Christian." Subsequently a man interjected
to Peter, “I deny that in toto," whereupon Peter
walked into the centre of the room and told the
obnoxious one that he’d turn him out if he opened his
mouth again. The man remarked that that was hardly
Christianlike, and that Mr. Campbell had been speaking
falsehoods, whereupon that gentleman sent out for a
policeman, and informed the constable that the offender
had been accusing him of telling lies, and had attempted
to break up the meeting. Yet, immediately afterwards,
according to the S. A, Advertiser, Peter remarked
that “ spiritualism was|a thorough swindle —one got up
by men who denied the divinity of Christ, and who to
make money had invented a new religion.”
Some time since, Mr. Justice Harding, of Bris-
bane, gave a man an excessive sentence of three years
for an offence which would have been amply punished
by six months’imprisonment. The jury before whom
he had been tried were as much shocked and surprised
as the public when his sentence was known ; and their
foreman, on their behalf, addressed a letter to the
proper authorities setting forth their opinion. It hap-
pened that last month the same foreman was colled on
again to serve on a jury. He answered to his name,
passed unchallenged by the counsel engaged on either
side, and was about to take his place when he was
challenged by the Judge! There was nothing whatever
against him. As a man and a citizen he was in every
respect the equal of the Judge who challenged him;
his private character was as free from blemish, his
conduct as irreproachable; and those who know the
two men say that in natural intelligence he was quite
a match for Mr. Harding. He appears to have been
subjected to this unprecedented insult merely because
he expressed an opinion shared by every man in the
community capable of forming one. So says Queens-
land Punch.
Mr. Joseph Creer, J.P., Mayor of
Newcastle.
The Mayor of Newcastle, Mr. Joseph Creer, whose
portrait appears in this issue, is a native of the Isle of
Man, and arrived in this colony in 1855. After expe-
riencing the ordinary rough and tumble common to
new comers, Mr. Creer settled down at Maitland as a
builder, being a carpenter by trade. While thus engiged
Mr. Creer took active part in parochial affairs, and was
elected an alderman of West Maitland Borough. Him-
self a heavy t-offerer by floods, he took an active share
in the Flood Prevention agitation, and was otherwise
an active member of the Borough Council for many
years. The losses and hardships he had sustained
owing to floods, however, necessitated a change of base,
and Mr. Creer found it requisite after years of honour-
able toil to start life afresh as a cabinet-maker in New-
castle, in 1870. Here he was out of the reach of floods,
hut ill fortune still pursued him, and another element
wreaked the will of destiny. The great fire of 1872 left
him once more a ruined man. Nothing daunted, Mr, Creer
renewed the battle, this time with success. He started
in business as an auctioneer, in which capacity his
undeviating probity and prompt business tact got full
scope, and enabled him to achieve a success far exceed-
ing his oft-blunted expectations. Once more Mr Creer
was enabled to give attention to public affairs, and in
1875 was elected Alderman for the City Ward of New-
castle, in which capacity he has ever since been active
and prominent in all movements for the benefit of his
community and the improvement of the city. As a
Son of Temperance and Good Templar, he has been
successively raised to the highest positions in each
Order, and still remains a faithful and consistent mem-
ber of both. At the last annual meeting of the New-
castle Borough Council, he was unanimously chosen to
be Mayor of Newcastle, and was shortly afterwards
gazetted as a magistrate of the colony by the present
Government. He was, also, nominated a member
of the Public School Board by the present Minister
of Education, Sir J. Bobertson, K C M.G , and stood for
the representation of the county of Northumberland at
the last election, but was defeated by Mr. N. Melville,
one of the present members. Mr. Creer is highly
esteemed by all who know him, on account of his
steady, straightforward conduct, and for his undaunted
pluck upon all occasions in defending the rights and
privileges of the citizens. To the rising generation he
affords an ever present example of what may be ac-
complished under the most untoward circumstances,
and it is the generally-expressed wish that he may lop?
be spared to fulfil the honourable and important duties
appertaining to an honest Australian citizen.
MR. JOSEPH GREER, J.P., MAYOR OF NEWCASTLE.
STOKER : “Hi, stop her. Bill! Blowed if we haven’t run over a chap.”
BILL (with deep feeling): “Ye don’t say so. And I cleaned them wheels only this very
morning.” ( Expressions of annoyance.)


The Referee.
SPOTTING FIXTURES.
~v, B hall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Northern Jockey Club September 14,15.
Ballarat Hunt Club .September 17.
September 21.
fcdnoy Amateur Turf Club September h.
September 24.
KeStouParC September 24.
Maryborough & (Vic j T. C... September 28,29.
Melbourne Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide Hunt Club «£££? 7
Adfllaide October o, 7.
Hawkes’ Bay (N.Z.) Racing Club October 12.
Wollon2oui? October 12, 13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October IS, 15.
Nnrrabri October 18, 19-
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria RC. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 13. 5
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meetmg...Nov. 8, 10. 11.
Saeensland T. 0 ....November 9, 10.
inrrumbidgee Turf Club.. November 23. 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov.
Munumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 35.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z ) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting....;....December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Williamstown (Vic.) December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 2u. 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26 27.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26; Jan. 1, 2.
V.R.C. Cha npion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
AQUATICS.
Champion Fours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9.
Rush v. Power, £3OO September 12.
B Edwards v. D. M'Donald £2OO September 13
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Melbourne . Rowing Club Umphelby
Challenge Cup September 21.
Melbourne Rowing Club. Challenge Pairs.. September 21.
Electric Telegraph Annual Regatta October 1.
Ross v. Hanlan (Toronto) October.
Spoetsman Challenge Cup, 200 guineas—New-
castle-on-Tyne October.
Public Schools’ Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
M.R.C. Trial Fours October 8.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 8,15.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Sheffield Handicap—Norwood Park September 13.
King’s School Athletic Club Meeting September 17.
Brennan v. Goodburu. 48 hours Go-as-you-
please, £5O, Osborne Hall, Forbes... October 5.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
Tamworth September 10.
BICYCLING.
Six days’ Tournament September 13.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Football has had its last kick this season.
Saunterer was sold for -£lO5, and Stella for .£BO.
A skittle club is in course of formation in Wool-
loomooloo.
Laycock wants to row Rush again for .£5OO a
side. Of course he does.
A thoroughbred, full brother to the famous
Bend Or, has arrived at Adelaide.
The entrances for the annual races at West
Maitland, this month, are the best ever received.
JEIOO has been guaranteed towards a Hunters’
Stakes, to be run at Caulfield (Vic.) in October next.
Which is the better man—Martin or Morgan ?
They have had three races now, and neither appears
satisfied.
Mr. W. Pitt has been appointed judge, and
Mr. W. Pratt slipper, for next season of the New South
Wales Coursing Club.
Arrangements are to be made for an Inter-
colonial Cricket Match between Queensland and New
South Wales during the coining season.
A meeting of the A.J.C. was held on the Ist
instant. An important resolution, with regard to
private matches on the course, was passed.
A football match at Moore Park, on Saturday,
between the second Redfern and the first Glebe, re-
suited in a win for Redfern by 2 goals and 3 tries to 0.
A South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion has been formed at Adelaide, for the purpose of
regulating rowing matters, and arranging intercolonial
matches.
The Bathurst Coursing Club held a meeting on
the 31st ultimo, at Wallaroy. near Kelso. A sixteen-
dog stake was won by Lady’s Maid—by Sportsman, out
of Ready.
Racing is to be resuscitated in the Northern
capital of Tasmania. A new club has been formed and
immediate steps will be taken to issue a programme for
next summer.
In the grand handicap pigeon match, at Albury,
on the Ist instant, the principal prize-takers were
Messrs. J. Kennedy, W. Frew, A. Frew, J. Matthews,
and W. Lamport.
The Gentlemen v. Players match resulted in a
victory for the former, by six wickets. Dr. Grace,
Messrs. Hornby, Lucas, and Penn were the chief con-
tributors for the victors.
A Carcoar man has made a match to ride 180
miles in twelve consecutive hours, on as many horses as
he thinks necessary, on the Carc6ar racecourse, 11th
October, for a £5O wager.
All the advertised consultations have been
negotiated, though in some cases the pre
posed number of tickets was not sold and the distribu-
tion will have to be pro rata.
The return football match between the T amworth
Club and 14 representatives of the Somerton Stragglers,
took place at Attunga on the 26th ultimo, and resulted
in a win for Tamworth by one goal to nil.
The Wimbledon rifle shooting meeting closed on
the 23rd July. The Princess of Wales distributed the
prizes. The Lords won the Viziangram Cup, and the
Canadian team won the Kolopore Cup.
At the annual meeting of the Grafton Tatter-
sail's Club on 30th ultimo, Mr. F. Norrie was re-elected
president, and Mr. T. G. Hewett, vice-president. Con-
siderable alteration was made in the committee.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke, at a banquet given to
him by the Victoria Yacht Club, on the Ist inst., said
that if Mr. Miller would send his yachts to compete in
Sydney, he would send also his new yacht Janet.
The programme for the Maryborough and
Carisbrook (Vic.) race meeting includes the Mary-
borough and Carisbrook Handicap,li mile, of 50 sovs.j
Tallaroon Handicap, 1 mile ; Hurdle Race, 75 sovs., 2
miles.
Laycock beat Trickett all the Englishmen, and
all the Americans, except Hanlan. Rush has beaten
Laycook easily, and ought to stand a tolerable chance
with Hanlau, Michael, go homo at once —to the
Clarence.
The English cricketing team, which is to visit
the Australian colonies during the ensuing season, will
embark at Liverpool on 17th September. Several
matches will be played by the team in Canada and the
United States.
A new grand-stand is to be erected on the Asso-
ciation Cricket Ground. The old one has been removed,
and the foundations of the new structure have been
commenced. It is to be completed by the 3rd Doc., and
the estimated cost is £7OOO.
His Worship the Mayor of Sydney has presented
the N.S. Wales Rifle Association with a handsome gold
cnp, to be competed for annually in connection with,the
International Match —the cup to be held from year to
year by the captain of the winning team.
The entries for the N.J.C. meeting, which will
take place on the 14th and 15th instant, closed on the
Ist with the following results: —Plying Handi-
cap, 21; Maitland Handicap, 24; Northern Jockey
Club Handicap, 21; Epsom Handicap, 24; Duckenfleld
Park Stakes, 31.
The annual ploughing matches of the Albury
Agricultural Society resulted as follow : —Champion:
T. Oliver 1, W. Wells 2, B. Wyatt 3. Amateur : J.
Wells 1, P. Muncey 2, W. Morrison 3. Boys: D.
Kelton 1. Double furrows :©. Pollard 1. Best turn-
out : J. Francis.
The Tiaro (Q.) Jockey Club —the secretary of
which is that well-known Queensland sport and turf
writer, Mr. J. H. Greville-Pountney—held a successful
meeting on the 31st ultimo, with the following principal
resultsTiaro Jockey Club Handicap: Viscount 1,
Farewell Handicap: Sweetbriar 1.
Last Saturday the Singleton and Wallsend foot-
ball teams met at Singleton. The local club won easily
by 3 goals and 7 behinds to their opponents’ two force-
downs. Bowman, for Singleton, soon after play com-
menced, made a splendid drop-kick from nearly halt
way, and secured, first goal. There was a good at-
tendance.
The neatest thing in an aquatic sense ever seen
was that young lady on the sliding seat in an out-
rigger at Neutral Bay a few evenings ago. The lady
handled the sculls with great dexterity, and worked the
slide in capital style, sending her tiny craft spinning
along the water at a great pace. She greatly outpaced
a waterman’s skiff.
The starts for the 205 yards’ Sheffield Handicap
have been published. J. Griffiths gets shortest, 70 yds. ;
and J. Morgan next, 72 yds. Most of the names are
comparatively unknown ; but of those whose perform-
ances have been in public, D’Arrietta seems to be best
iu, with 84 yds. But in pedestrian you can
never tell where the dark 'un may turn up.
The M.E.C. representatives in the N.S.W.
Association Kegatta are as follow; —Eight-oar crew :
Brett, Williams, Coker, C. Bros, A, Bros, Mountcastle,
Bull, and M‘Benzie. Maiden fours: Pickering, Cor-
bett, Boulton, Johnstone, and Croall. The junior crew
has fallen through, but a private crew has been formed
comprising Bull, Coker, Blaokstone, and Wilkinson.
E. Edwards, of Melbourne, and D. McDonald,
Of the Clarence River, were matched, on the Ist instant,
to scull for £IUO a-side in outriggers. The race is
fixed lor Tuesday afternoon, September 13. As the
men are undoubtedly the two best light-weights in the
colonies, a great race may be anticipated. By the way,
as Power will, after his defeat by William Triokett,
probably forfeit to Bush, the Edwards and M'Donald
match may come off a day earlier.
A public meeting was held at Balmain on Mon-
day night, for the purpose of making arrangements for
the annual regatta, which is to take place on Nov. 9.
Alderman Watson announced his intention of giving
a sum of 25 guineas, on condition that Mr. Perdriau gave
the same amount, for a cup to be called the Balmain Ferry
Co. cup, for any race the committee should think fit to
arrange.
The practice of recording in a boat race the
strokes per minute of the contestants is good where the
styles are similar. But in the case of Laycock v. Bush,
or Hanlan v. anybody, where one rows a long slow
stroke, and the other a quick stroke, it is, as regards
comparison of speed, a matter of supererogation. The
English papers haven’t done so much of it since Hanlan
has been around.
The six days’ go-as-you-please tournament com-
menced punctually at X a.m. on Monday morning, when
nine competitors started on their long journey. AU
are going well with the exception of Williams, who
was troubled with the “ slows” from the start. It is to
be hoped that a good finish will be made, and that this,
the first six days’ contest in Sydney, will be charac-
terised by good performances.
The Victorian A.T.C. Spring Meeting, Oot. 13
and 15, will comprise the following :—Selling Bace, 50
boys.- Hurdle Bace, 2 miles ; Great Foal Stakes, 1
mile)’ 200 sovs. added money; Caulfield Guineas, 200
sova • Welter Handicap Steeplechase; Toorak Handi-
cap, 1 'mile; Selling Hurdle Race, Nursery Handicap ;
Caulfield Cup, with 300 sovs. added; Corinthian Han-
dicap Flat Race, Steeplechase, and Windsor Handicap.
When the old wooden grand-stand existed at
Randwick, and the distance-post was just opposite,
there was seldom a question as to the correctness of the
judge’s decisions. The distance-post having now been
shifted below the Grand Stand, spectators look from an
angle of at least 45 degrees, and iu cases of close
finishes, where one horse is running very much outside,
the eye is deceived, and the decisions are constantly
brought into question.
The sergeants of the First Regiment, Volunteer
Infantry engaged in a series of contests with the rifle,
at the Range, on Saturday week. The first tournament
resulted iu a victory for Colour-Sergeant Gee, Sergeant
Briguell taking second prize. An international match
followed—the Australians scoring 108 points, against
English 99, and Irish 77. A company match resulted in
a victory for No. 1, with 91 points, against No. 2, 86;
No. 4, 81; and No. 3, 30.
The final meeting of the Victoria Coursing
Club was concluded on the 31st ultimo. The Vice-
President’s Plate was won by Mr. W. Patterson’s
Wanton Lass, the Hon. J. Bromell’s Duke of Welling-
ton being runner-up. Tasmanian Plate: W. Patterson’s
The Secret and W. Watson’s The Unknown divided.
Coal Stakes : W. R. Thomson’s Talent and S. Benwick’s
Rewa divided. Rnpertswood Stakes: R. Sandford’s
Ludwig won, W. M’Cullooh’s Medea being runner-up.
Following is a list of the winners at the late
Hawkesbnry meeting : —Mr. W. A. Long, £478 10s;
Hon J White, £450 15s; Mr. F. Wentwonh, £l9llos ;
Mr W Forrester, £125 ; Mr. C. Macdonnell, £112; Mr.
T Shore £102; Mr. F. Mortineer, £81; Mr. W. G.
Orbell £75; Hon. J. P- Bell, £6l; Mr. J. A. Dallas,
£44 5s • Mr. J. Mayo, £36; Mr. W. E. Royds, £l5; Mr.
E. De Mestre, £l5; Mr. J. Monaghan, £10; Mr. C. T.
Roberts, £10; Mr. T. Ivory, £10; Mr. T. Chirnside,
£5. Total, £1823.
The Boccaccio Park (Melb.) trotting track has
been widened ten feet, and, haying been rolled in the
American style, is quite hard Accommodation has
been made for 5000 visitors. A nice lawn has been
fitted with seats and set aside for a ladies reserve, and
suitable stands provided for judges, reporters, etc.
The course is but three minutes walk from Brighton
Beach Station, At the trotting meeting, on Saturday,
the principal event was won by Master George. Toung
Stockham won the Maiden Plate.
The Croydon Cricket Club held its annual
meeting on the 2nd instant. During the past season 37
matches were played, of which 18 were won, 12 drawn,
and 7 lost. The balance at credit was £ll 11s. lid.
The trophy winners for the season, were: Batting:
Messrs. A. Dennis, M. Carroll, J. M Carthy, and
O’Hara. Bowling: Messrs. A. Dennis and Bowteli.
1 Following are office-bearers for the ensuing season:—
President, Mr. T. M’Master; vice-president, Mr. A.
Dennis; hon. secretary, H. Shying; treasurer, H.
Johnston; selection committee: Messrs. O Hara, »u„ •
ing, and M’Carthy.
Shanahan and Buckingham wrestled at Gympie
on 27th ultimo, Cornish style, two out of three falls, fo
r
£2O aside. Business commenced at about 3 o’clock, and
from that time till 5, though there were some splendid
exhibitions of main strength, neither succeeded in
throwing his opponent. Buckingham, despite his
superior weight, was shy of Shanahan, and declined to
close with him. It soon became plain that the one who
had the greatest staying powers, and could put up with
the largest amount of worrying, was bound to be the
winner. These qualifications were apparently possessed
hy Shanahan, who about 5 o'clock gave his man a regular
flying-mare fall, which had the effect of bringing matters
to a climax, for having hitched again both shortly after
came heavily to the ground, Buckingham underneath.
Buckingham retired, and Shanahan was declared the
winner,
Dick Thatcher’s hotel is, at the present moment,
one beehive of “ peds.” The house is not large enough
te contain them. They are to be seen sleeping on
dining-room tables; they are to be found in passages,
and it is even whispered that some of them camp
upon the roof. Preparing for “ go-as-you-please
tournaments,” they train actively in the drawing-room,
and perspire freely in the kitchen. All Dick’s carpets
have now become mere things of shreds and patches;
and the only talk you hear at the Bulletin Hotel is
about “the time in which I will do my first hundred,"
and “we think Edwards is rather soft on the heel."
Dick is one of the bosses in the affair; but, as he
gloomily remarks, while he is a stake-holder in one
sense, the “ peds." at his hotel are steak-holders in
another. The result, so far as it has gone, has only been
to raise the price of cattle. Richmond, kowever, con-
soles himself by continually repeating the maxim,
“ There’s millions in it.”
Tiicbett has been receptionised in Canada. He
took part in the regatta at Ottawa, on Dominion Day,
when, as we are aware, he was well beaten; but we learn
now that he was thoroughly out of form, and only ap-
peared on the invitation of the Ottawa people for the
sake of helping to make the celebration a success. The
Ottawa citizens, grateful for this, got up a splendid tes-
timonial for him, in the shape of a purse and a hand-
some cup of sterling silver . The design was that of an
egg-shaped bowl, supported on three crossed sculls,
bound at their juncture with a wreath of laurel. The
blades of the oars supported the cup and the handles
rested on a richly finished base. The bowl of the cup
bore the following inscription “ Presented to Edward
Trickett, Champion Oarsman of Australia, as a mark of
esteem, by his friends in Ottawa, Canada, July, 1881.”
A large and enthusiastic crowd witnessed the presen.
tation, and Ned had to shake hands with everybody.
He made a neat speech in reply, and said that his Aus-
tralian friends would be pleased ts hear of his treatment
in Canada. He left Ottawa for Toronto, where he became
the guest of Edward Hanlan.
Nat. Thompson’s Junior Challenge Cup should
give an impetus to Moore Park cricket next season.
The clubs eligible to compete must have been properly
organized last season; members of senior clubs (either
in the city or elsewhere) will not be allowed to play; a
committee of five, to be elected by the competing
clubs, will manage all matters ; the opening match will
take place on Saturday, BthfOotober; all matches not
§layed out in two afternoons are to bo decided by the
rst innings ; no player shall represent more than one
club ; it the entries are numerous, matches are to be
played in heats, so that the trophy must be won in one
season according to the wish of the donor; a special
trophy is to be given to the first century scorer; clubs
are to appear in proper distinguishing uniform, and all
matters not provided for in Mr. Ironside’s conditions
are to be decided by the committee. Negotiations are
being made for the Eastern cricket ground, which, if
secured, will be worth the trouble of keeping in good
order, and we would advise the competing clubs to sub-
scribe for that purpose. Various trophies for bowling,
batting, and fielding, in these matches, will be given.
This is where the Association should come in.
Merrill and Myers, the American amateur
pedestrians, were subjected to very rough treatment at
Birmingham, on July 9th. A Nottingham walker,
named Wyatt (who had 25 yards in a mile walking race,
with Merrill at scratch), was disqualified, and the
crowd turned on the Americans Merrill was abused,
threatened, and finally hustled off the track, and Myers
was also received with jeers and hooting. The mob
wound up by smashing chairs and tables. How does
our misreported treatment of Lord Harris look, com-
pared with this exhibition of English fair play ? By-
the-way, these Americans seem to have knocked spots
off the English amateur pedestrians. At Fulham, on
July 2, Morrill easily defeated G. P. Beckley, of the
London Athletic Club, in a three-mile walking match,
in 22min. 4sec. Myers, on the same day, won the half-
mile level running race, defeating six opponents, by 11
yards, in Imin. 56sec. —the best time on record. He
also beat the best man in England, in a quarter-
mile rvm, in 48 3-5 sec , and finished fourth in a 100
yards flat race, the same day. The English amateurs
object to the Americans entering for the championship
of England, as they contend that that is reserved for the
lest Englishman.
About 10,000 people assembled atßandwick, on
Saturday, to witness the opening of the A.J.C. Spring
meeting. The Hurdle Race opened the programme, and
Albyn won one of the best hurdle contests ever
witnessed on the course. Dogherty, on Musjid, had a
nasty fall, and was severely hart. The result of the
Trial Stakes evoked loud criticism re the judge’s
decision, as, apparently from the Grand Stand,
Bathurst beat Primrose by nearly a length. However,
judge avers Primrose won by a nose, and ought to be
right, considering that he was in a better position than
anyone else to decide. The great crack, Monmouth,
proved to be a "cock-tail” at a mile-and-a-half, and
didn’t even struggle when asked, but compounded
shamefully, not even getting a place. Waxy won the
Epsom comfortably; and Wellington cut Marmora down
like a racehorse in the Spring Stakes, and then
extended his gallop to two miles. Sunset won the
Welter Handicap cleverly. Following are the results
Derby day. Hurdle Race, 2i miles : Albyn 1, Pluto 2,
Molly Asthore 3. Time, 5 min. Trial Stakes, 1J mile:
Primrose 1. Bathurst 2, Hesper 3. Time, 1 min. 14 8-10
sec. Derby, li mile; Wheatear 1, Sardonyx 2, The
Gem 3 Time, 2 min. 52 sec. Epsom Handicap, 1 mile
1 furlong: Waxy 1, Courtenay 2, Milbrodale 3. Time,
Imin 57 4-10 sec. Spring Stakes ; 14 mile: Wellington
1, Marmora 2, 1 osemite 3. Time, 2 min. 47 8-10 sec.
Welter Handicap, li mile : Sunset 1, Zulu 2, Saunterer 3.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
By the victory of Trump Yosa, several Cooma
men land £5OOO in a consultation sweep The Essex
and Albert Victor C.C.'s opened the season by a well-
contested game on Moore Park, Aug. 27. The Essex
won by 22 runs. Scores; Essex, 46 and 39; A.V., 49 and
14 'fhe Newcastle gymnastic club have commenced
practice at their rooms, the old Watt-street theatre
The buyer of the winner of the Victorian Waterloo
Cup, Lady Maryborough, is (says the M and D.
Advertiser) a thriving young squatter named Patter,
son who has made a fortune in less than five years, and
can’ well afford to sport £2OO on his pleasure. It is
stated that he bought a new station the other day for
£85,000 According to late American papers, Trickett
and Eiley had signed articles to row three miles on
Saratoga Lake, late in August, for £lOO aside Mr.
Wallace has been appointed secretary of the Cobar
Jockey Club Mr. Bryce Hawthorne, who claims with
some reason the title of champion shot of New South
Wales, sends the Maitland Mbbcurv the following
record of his prowess “ I have been doing good work
on the quiet with the old man and wallaby. Kangaroos,
5372; wallabys, 7418; wallaroos, 257; dingoes and wild
dogs’, 118; rats, bandicoots, and cats, 362; eaglehawks,
204; Snakes, 167. Total, 7898 distinct animals.”
Two Goulburn lads, of about 18years, quarrelled, and on
Monday week they and their friends hired a coach, and
went a few miles on the Braidwood road to “ have it
out.” They stripped and fought, but only for 3 min.,
when one of them gave in. They have since been
brought up and committed for trial A gun club is to
be started at Lithgow M‘Shane leaves South Aus-
tralia at the end of September for Victoria, to play
once more for the East Melbourne Club On Satur-
day, the 27th ultimo, a 100 yards’ foot race took place
at Inverell between E. Collins and J. Thomas, for £2O,
resulting in an easy win for C011in5.......A Townsville
sporting medico, who has lately had a turn of luck,
having secured two prizes at the recent turf club meet-
ings, attributed his wins to the fact that he had fed his
horse on lucerne and linseed, and trotted him on the
sandy beach before daylight 1 Hero of Waterloo C.C.
v. Kedfern United C.C., at Eveleigh, on Saturday.
Kesfilt —a draw. A. Pople and Austin batted well for
the Heroes, as did Dark and Garland for the Uniteda.
Scores: Uniteds 76, Heroes 59 and 2 wickets to fall
It is mpre than likely Mr. A. P. Lucas, the crack Eng-
lish gentleman player, will he out here next cricket
season Onzalo, better kuown aa Wener, the trainer,
intends leaving Melbourne for Sydney to take down Joe
Assenheira, in a 50 mile walking match Dick
Rowe, the cross-country rider, has been severely
injured while schooling Cara Mia (sister to Sus-
sex) over hurdles at Melbourne The Victoria and
Pyrmont Acme football clubs met at Camperdown on
Saturday last. After a fast game, the former won by a
goal to nothing The South Melbourne Football Club
beat the Geelong on Saturday by 4 goals to 1 The
cricket match, Balmain Waratnh v. Albion Club, re-
sulted in a win for the former by 10 runs The Per-
severance C.C. beat the Underwood C.C. by 24 runs, at
Moore Park, on Saturday. Scores : P.C.C. 57, N.C C. 33.
'l he Asteroid, pleasure yacht, 55 tons, owned and
sailed by Mr. Burlow, has arrived in Melbourne from
England A new jockey club is talked of at Coona-
barabran. It is to be hoped it will pay the old club’s
debt Every second man in Dubbo is going in for game-
cocks 100 acres of the Elizabeth Farm, Parramatta,
are under oiler to the local jockey club for a racecourse.
* # #
Foxhall, the winner of the Grand Prix, was put
down on the card with the number 13. Last year,
Robert the Devil bore the same number. This coinci-
dence ought to shake the faith of those whobebevo
that 13 is an unlucky number. However, in the latter
case, it was the “ Devil’s number.” Rumoured that
the Earl of Rosebery intends to give up the turf,
having been persuaded to take this course by a clergy-
man, who has constituted himself the Earl’s spiritual
adviser Mr. Bulmer’s Flirt and Mr M'Mahon’a
Colima have a spin shortly on Taree racecourse for £5O
aside Another batch of racehorses has been sent to
England by Lorillard. Two of them. Sachem and
Gerald, are entered for all the principal two-year-old
events, and Aranza will probably start f >r the Cscare-
witch Bogardus has been challenged by W. T.
Mitchell of Va., to shoot fifty pigeons for the cham-
pionship The sum of 10,030 guineas has been offered
for Isonomy, the famous English racer, by an Ameri-
can Jerry Leary, of Brooklyn, N.V., and James
Edmunds, of Birmingham, had a short but desperate
fight at Brooklyn, July 20. Their respective weights
were 156 and 144 lb. Edmunds won in 23min The
backers of Ryan and Sullivan have not yet met to
arrange the terms for the proposed fight for the cham-
pionship. It looks like a bluff on both sides. Bv the
way, while the former was returning from a sparring
exhibition at Brooklyn recently, he was stabbed in the
stomach by one Dwyer. The wound was but slight
The Cornell four were to row a crew from the Vienna
Rowing Club, on “the Blue Danube,” Aug. 5; four
miles. They hope, ere quittirg England altogether, to
pull off some good prizes, and say they have so far had
very bad luck Myers, the Yankee ped., is such a
wonder that the nglish sporting papers are trying to
raise the cry that he is a professional P* fer D.
Rouse, a miner of Colorado, has challenged Kv n cr
Sullivan to fight him H. Hatchings, ihe p-ofes-
sional champion short distance runner of En • and,
offers to run any man in the world 75 to 100 yards f> r
£lOO to £5OO aside. L. E. Myers takes his practice
spins with Hutchings, whom he pronounces the fastest
man living Wallace Ross has had a forfeit of £5O,
put up for a race with Hanlan, attached for debt
A team will be sent from Queensland to the Sydney
Intercolonial Rifle match On Friday some successful
boat races came off on the Torreus Lake (S A )
Hart Brothers’ (S.A.) kenuel of greyhounds was soi l
on Thursday, the Ist instant, and realised fair prices;
the highest paid being that for Housewife, by Domestic,
out of Needle—26 guineas. Chatelaine brought 10
guineas Brandy, a once well-kuown N.Z. '-acehorse,
is dead. He was the first winner of a race in Canter-
bury, having won the Hagley Park Stakes about thirty
years ago, and was therefore probably nearly forty
years old. Twelve months ago his stable companion
and associate died, and since then he has gradually
failed in condition, as if mourning the death of an old
friend In a cricket match on July 13, on the Cam-
bridge University ground, between Cains College
and Emmanuel College, Mr. W. N. Roe made 415, not
out, the largest score on record—comprising one six,
six fives, sixteen fours, forty-eight throes, fifty-two
twos, and sixty-seven singles. He was at the wickets
five hours, and gave several chances after scoriug 200.
The score for his side (Emmanuel College) stood, 4
wickets for 708 A match for the All-England lawn
tennis championship took place at Wimbledon on July
13. Mr. J. T. Hartley had been victorious in 1879 and
1880, and as a third successive victorv would entitle him.
to the possession of the handsome challenge cup with
which the championship is associated, the contest was
anticipated with much interest. His opponent was Mr.
W. Reushaw, of the Cheltenham Lawn Tenuis Club,
who won by three setts to love. Mr. Hartley was
terribly out of form, but the home papers say he would
have stood no chance even in the best of health— A
polo match was played on the 11th July, by the electric
light, at the Ranelagh Club Mr. Keene, the owner of
Foxhall, presented a sum of £2OO to the poor of Paris.
Two colliers’ wives had a stand-up fight iu July, at
Newbridge, England. A ring was formed, and the
“ mill ” lasted twenty minutes. Feminine pugilism
appears to be a novelty in England—not so in Australia.
Mr. G. J. Gould, sou of the famous financier.
Jay Gould, purposes purchasing a racing stable. He
will endouhtedly be a valuable acquisition to the Ameri-
can turf Yorkshire v. Lancashire, on July 4, resulted
in a win for Lancashire by 51 runs The M.C.C. and
Ground v. All-England match resulted! iu a victory for
the M.C.C. by 52 runs. Midwinter scored for the victors
65 and 29 The match between Dr. Carver and Mr.
Stuart Wortley fell through. The latter was prepared
to shoot the American for £lOOO aside Some extra-
ordinary scoring was done at Huntingdon in J uly, in a
match between Huntingdonshire and Mr. A. E. Fel-
lowes’ Eleven. The former obtained 171 runs, and the
latter 667, 404 rims being made before the first wicket
fell. W. F. Forbes made 331, Viscount Throwley 123,
and nearly all the others thirties and forties Wallace
Ross’s new boat, “W. J. limes,” weighs 191 b Two
English bookmakers were arrested at the Agricultural
Show, Stourbridge, for attempting to pick pockets.
They were only getting round Robert the Devil
was scratched for the Goodwood Cup. He had au attack
of coughing A new rule of racing has been adopted in
England, os followslf a horse carry more than 21b.
over-weight, which has not been duly declared, he ia
disqualified, unless the stewards be satisfied that such
excess of weight has been caused by wet weather.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
The proceedings of the Hobart Bible Society were
reported in the Mkrcokt. They occupied seven
columns of the paper, but then it was a Tuesday's issue.
The directors of the Bank of Van Dieman’s
Land have bought the premises known as the Ship
Hotel, Hobart, and intend erecting bank premises there-
on with all speed.
Hubbub impending in the S.T.V.A. Although
a court of enquiry, as near as possible to a court m ir-
tial, was held respecting the conduct of an officer, the
Governor or Executive afterwards directed a Parlia-
mentary commission of enquiry, the proceedings of
which have leaked out piecemeal. The Ministry, never-
theless, refuse to publicly make known all the pros and
cons. Great dissatisfaction on the part of Smith,
Brown, Jones, and Robinson. Whan officers cannot
agree, but are the first in the field with acts of insubor-
dination and proceedings totally at variance with tbe
Queen’s regulations, they cannot expect rank and file
to remain untouched by their example. It is even said
that a number of the officers met at the house of a
brother officer high up in the force, such as it is, and
resolved that unless the offending captain were “ anni-
hilated" they would resign. Had such a thing happened
in England, the whole lot would have been disbanded.
The commission alluded to consisted of two antiquated
Indian officers, who know as much about the modern
volunteer and his management as—well, as the Com-
mandant does.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A young man gave himself up to the Melbourna
police saying that ho had murdered his sweetheart in
Adelaide. The police think him mad.
It is stated that a sister of the American mil-
lionaire, the fabulously lioh Bonanza Mackay, is


Tailors, Drapei
T
HOMPSON AD
DENISON HOI
358, 360, 362, Georg*
OPENING NEW C
for
WINTER SEAS
EVERY DAY DURING T
FIRST GENERAL
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESS
FOR THE WINTER
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAM!
DOVER HOMESPUN INDK
ELASTIC BIEGE ANG(
KASGHEE CASHMERE JERS
STOCKIN QETTE VALI
AND A LARGE ASSORTME
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, someth
handsome, dii
houses in Lorn
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAI
SILK, Rich \
to 24 inch wide
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES.
SILKS, in a va
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, '
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and sti
for wear, and
BLACK VELV]
N AUC UNIU M, i
every yard sta
BLACK SATIN
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and e
under usual
SILK VBLVI
every shade o
and Brocaded
Floral Design*
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAE
OPENED a
MENT of a
LACES in ev
imitation, Eml
Ruffling, Mod
Cuffs, Collar*
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS v
FROM DEES
be no decepl
washed. Lac
Sheetings goo
makes. Price*
to Is lid; 80-i
inch, Is 6d to !
to 3s. Americ
& Horrocks’ C
QUILTS, fror
. prices. Colo
BUILTS, 2\ 1*
OVERS at al
the yard, 27 ai
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEb
been our stud,
this class of
character. Bj
year after yea
of FIEST-CLA
are now show:
ment of of DU
NAPKINS, bo
Damask. The
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We
MASK CLOT
425; 5-8 NAPi
3-4 NAPKIN
29s 6d; DA
round or squai
DAMASK, 5-S
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW Lib
wide ; W H
TOWELS, fro
cording to siz
ISH TOWELS
TEA CLOTHS
TURKISH E
Tailors, Draper)
gPRING EE Q D
JOHN B. YOUD.
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S G
TO ORDER.
We can please you iu DRE sS
We can also please you in D 1
CHECKED and PLAIN SA EE
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBRP
NEW SPRING MILLINERY
CASHMERE DOLMANS MAI
Prices 355. 455, 555,
A GRAND LOT OF SILK NE
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
J.
TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482. late 484, QEOEGE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS,
F ASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUA^HTEED.
MEEICAN CUT PAPI
MADAME DEMO
Perfect Pitting
Newest styles every mail from I
Full directions and illustrations wi
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publi«
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to
Magazine, Is. 6d. j Catalogues, grat
MISS LOUISA H
87 King Street, Sydney (two doo
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-str
rj. 80. li. LIS
HIGH-CLASS CASH T
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATE
GUTTER TO E. MIL
Begs to inform his friends and the
opened the above premises f<
gentlemen who wish to have tl
manship, &e., at a low price for
Gentlemen requiring this with Wes
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly a
N.8.-TWO DOOES FEOM GE<
W M. JjJzOI
FIRST PRIZE
PIANOS. PIANOS,
by the very best Manufactures of E
TIME-PATMENT SYf
if required,
AT MODERATE PRICE
OXFORD STREET PIANOS
HOUSE,
44 k 46 OXFOBD-STEEE'I
residing at Adelong, an I is in very straitened cir-
cumstances.
A millionaire’s daughter is a millionheiress.
In Paris, the figures of ladies become (apparently)
more and more slender, the bodice is sloped in an ex-
treme degree, throwing out the delicate form in clearly
cut curves; the hips and back of the skirt are rounded
out to an exaggerated degree, by reason of the Louis
XV. paniers, which are all the rage.
The other day, in N.Z., a child was born with-
out showing signs of life. The doctor in attendance
poured over it a jug of boiling water, when the infant
instantly began lo cry. The doctor certified that it’s
death was caused by “convulsions." He was arrested
for manslaughter, but the charge was abandoned.
Horrors accumulate. Young ladies have now
taken to driving gigs, with the groom seated by their
side. What, asks a London writer, would the ladies
say if Young England drove in their gigs with a good-
looking lady’s-maid seated in close proximity ? It
would have an odd look, yet where is the difference ?
One of the sensational pictures in the Salon was
Heil’s “ Un Suicide par Amour," in which a Parisian
girl in pink silk, a profusion of lace, flesh-coloured
stockings, and satin slippers, has placed herself across
the track of an approaching locomotive. Her head
is on the rail. A red umbrella and pair of gloves are
thrown aside.
“Asa set-off against Queanbeyan, with its 86
marriageable girls and 12 eligible bachelors, Young can
show 63 bachelors, two-thirds of whom are over 30 years
of age and 18 are turned 40. The majority of them are
snug and well-to-do, —whilst, with a good sprinkling of
girls, there are only 11 who appear to be possessed of
any sense." A man wrote this.
The latest innovation in fashion is for a lady who
has been vaccinated to wear a, kind of cage on the arm,
to prevent injury to the part affected. Several fair
equestriennes have been seen in public with the novel
invention. When vaccination takes place in the lower
limbs, a different pattern of safety-guard is used, and it
is desirable for the patients to avoid dancing, lawn-
tennis, &o.
Ex-Queen Isabella goes into the whirl of Parisian
gaieties with a vengeance. At the Grand Prix, she sat
by the side of President and his daughter. One
night she will be at the house of the most conservative
aristocrat in Paris, and the next will be at a party in
the American quarter. She sometimes goes down to
the office of Lb Figaro, and spends an afternoon in
watching the paper made up.
A pale blue satin petticoat, with a thick garland
of pansies of every colour heading the flounce, over this
a bodice and long-trained skirt of dark pansy-coloured
velvet, the whole garnished with exquisite lace fastened
with thick clusters of pansies at the shoulder, the
waist, and on tbe train, completed the perfect toilette
worn by Madame Modjeska in the first act of 11 Heart's
Ease," lately revived at the Court Theatre.
The English language has never been equal to
finding a word to express chic. The Americans have
now kindly supplied the deficiency by giving us the word
“ snappy." A dead-and-alive young man is said to have
no “ snap,” whereas a bandbox-turned-ont young girl,
with white teeth, coral lips, pink, dimpled cheeks,
sunny hair, and white, soft hands, is described as “ a
decidedly snappy maiden." Eureka! “Snappy."
An English sailor and an Italian, who, the other
day, quarrelled over a girl, at Daylesford, Vic., agreed
to fight it out, and met accordingly. The sailor wanted
to use fists, but the Italian had hr mght two knives,
and threw one down for his antagonist to take np. The
latter declined, until the Italian attacked him, stab-
bing him in two places, when the sailor sprang on the
Italian, and in a short time cut a deep gash around the
fellow’s shoulder-blade, and caused him to roar for
mercy.
The memoirs of Madame Rachel (“ Beautiful for
Ever") are about to be published by her heirs, who
intend to profit by the papers in one way or the other.
They are said to fairly teem with scandal and sensation.
Raobel, as is well-known, had been, until her death,
which took place a little while since, the principal
beautifler of feminine complexions. She was perfectly
trustworthy by reputation, and obtained universal
custom, and it is well-known that many titled London
dames were among her clients.
Young Smith : “ Mr. Jones, I have noticed that
you invariably leave everything connected with your
household affairs, even to the ordering of the gardener
and coachman and workmen about the place, to your
wife. As lam about to get married, shortly may I ask
the reason why P” Old Jones: “ Yon may, dear boy.
When I first married I used to look after all those
things myself, and my wife used to do the fault finding;
she does the business of the household, and I do
the growling. I find it works admirably."
The Edinburgh Typographical Society has been
discussing the intrusion of female compositors into the
the trade. The secretary stated that it was “ through
weakness in the Union that they had been unable to
keep the petticoats out of their ranks." This state-
ment prompted one of the printers present to suggest
what seems at first glance a very effective method of
overcoming the difficulty. He reversed Punch’s famous
advice, and observed laconically, “ Marry them!"
There is, however, this drawback about the proposal.
If the adoption of the compositor’s craft comes once to
be regarded as a short and likely way to the altar, there
may be such an influx of the fair wielders of the com-
posing-stick as to outnumber the lovelorn bachelor
printers I
At a recent league meeting in Ireland Miss
Parnell urged all Irish ladies to join her flock as she
thought nothing would strike more terror into Secre-
tary Forster’s heart than to be confronted by two
millions of women. We are sure of it. Fancy two
millions of excited bare-headed ladies all talking at
once, and rending the air with their frantic shrieks of
“ Oh, you awful man I” “ Ain’t you ashamed of your-
self ?’’ “ Look at the old brute’s red head I" “ It’s the
likes of me knows the likes of you !’’ " Didn’t you
starve your wife to death, and didn’t you dance a jig
on the grave of your mother-in-law ?" •• 0000, you
wretch I” “ Come down and I scratch your eyes out I”
“ May the curse of the geese that ate the grass off
Jadas Iscariot’s grave fall down on yourself and all be-
longing to you I" “Set him on fire!" “Eoast the
beast 1" etc., etc.
Speaking of the prevailing fashions, Edmond de
Goncourt, in La Vie Moderns, says that he notices the
disappearance of sloping shoulders, and with them some,
thing of the physical aristocracy of woman; and further
on states that at a soiree the other day he saw the most
charmingly wicked costume imaginable. Its wearer, a
young woman, seemed dressed in a corslet and a skirt,
beneath which no other garment cast about her its
protecting segis. Continuing, he says : “ I was talking
about this toilet, when an elderly dowager began to say
that hydropathy had killed modesty in the younger
generation of women ; that splashing about in water
like a duck, and their perfect sang froid in displaying
beauty unadorned before tbeir maids while making
their toilets, was every day diminishing the horror that
women used to have of showing too much of their forms.
There is some truth in what the old lady said.”
From Paris Figaro A news melancholy from
the Tunis. One knows that in this country droll one
has the habitude to admire the women much stout.
There was there one young woman of which the hand
was sought by a lover impetuous. She saw him—she
loved him. Everything was of accord; the parents were
amiables, the fortunes were equals. But one day it
found itself that the husband future discovered a thing
affrightful. The bride did not weigh but three hundred
pounds 1 With a calmness terrible he said to her:
“We shall re-see each other no more. The bride of my
brother weighs four hundred pounds. Is it that I could
bring shame upon my family in espousing a skeleton? "
He left her, bathed in tears hots. As-soon-as, she took
the determination. She resolved that she would en-
fatten herself. She ate continually for a fifteen of days.
Misery ! Despair ! She weighed but three hundred and
fifty. Therefore, taking her courage in the two hands,
she bought a tube of rubber, like those at the means of
which one fattens the geese of Strasbourg, At the end
of a twenty of days she attained the weight needful.
She sent to her lover. He was run himself to the house
paternal. As he entered there was a sound deaf (un
bruit sourd), like the noise of a gun. What horror 1 His
bride was the victim of her love too true. She had ex-
ploded.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A feast of freezin’—Ice cream.
A waterspout—A temperance lecture.
Drawing from nature —Pulling a tooth.
Sanctified Gambling—Raffling at bazaars.
Breaking the Pledge—Burglarising a pawn-
broker’s.
Woman tempted man to eat, but he' took to
drink himself.
Too much poker frequently stirs up a fire on the
domestic hearth.
Some papers which haven’t fighting editors have
tea-flghtiug ones.
If you poison your publican—hard labour for
life. It he poison you —he gets rich.
A doctor says the police needn’t have been
vaccinated, as they never catch anything.
“ You are not fond of money for itself ?” “ Oh,
no,” said Aaron Qouldburg : “ I am fond of it for my-
self.”
The girl who wants to know how to avoid having
a moustache come on her upper lip is advised to eat
onions.
The Maine liquor law sends a man to gaol for
getting drunk. We manage things differently here. We
make him a J.P.
Ice-cream soda is the latest novelty in the mar-
ket. Drinking it is like drawing an ostrich feather
along your spine.
An “ upper crust ” female of Adelong says she
plays the planner by her music, but she ’as a sister as
plays hit by the hear.
Poets admit that “Love lies dreaming.” But
that is not the worst of it. Love lies with the utmost
facility when wide awake.
The Old Testament will not be revised for three
years yet. People will have to break the Ten Command-
ments as they are for the present.
An Irishman, found guilty of stealing coffee,
was asked by the magistrate what he did with it.
“ Made tay with it,” was the reply.
The young man who sings “ Come to my bosom,
love," outside the residence of his latest girl, gets mad
whan he sees 11 To Let ” in the window.
“ Marie, what’s that strange noise at the gate?”
“Cats, sir.” “Cats! Well, when I was young, oats
didn’t wear belltoppers and smoke cigars.”
The better-half of a newly-made J.P., hearing of
the honour conferred on him, asked: “ Now we are
J.P.’s, what relation are we to the Queen ? ”
Beau Brummell used to say : “I pay off a debt
of gratitude when I can’t help myself ; but I pay off a
grudge when the other fellow can’t help himself."
A flea, it is claimed, will eat ten times its own
weight every day. Pat persons desiring to reduce flesh
should get a few fleas. No necessity for buying them.
Rev. gentleman (to drunken man leaning against
a fence): “ Where do you think you will go when you
die?” D.M.: “If I don’t get’long better’n I’m doing
new—(hie) —shan’t go nowhere."
“We find,” said a coroner’s jury out West,
** that Bill Thompson came to his death by holding five
aces when Jack Smith held four. And we find that nine
aces is too many in a pack of cards.”
When Yerjuice saw a monkey in clothes on top
of a barrel-organ, the other day, he remarked that, with
the exception of ability to use bad language, the simian
possessed all the qualities of a first-class legislator.
“How many of you are there?” asked a voice
from an upper window, of a serenading party. “Pour,”
was the reply. “ Divide that among you," said the
voice, as a bucket of slops fell, “ like the gentle dew of
heaven," on those beneath.
“Eloise” asks if we will publish her poem on
“The Wavelet on the Rivulet." With a smilelet on our
facelet, we reply, Yea; write only on one sidelet of the
sheetlet, Eloise, and put on enough stamplets. Tour
poemlet shall hv.ve spacelet.
There was a young man from the Mission,
Who spent all his Sundays a-flshin’;
He said Hades for Hell,
When they didn’t bite well,
For he read the Revised Edition.
A clever man stoutly maintains that if the first
Napcleon had been a truly great man, he would have
had Moscow fully insured in his own name, collected
the insurance money, bought up England with the cash,
and lived victoriously and happily ever after.
A woman saw some angels fly.
Toward vague, distant spheres,
She cried (ah, me 1 1 know not why).
But still I saw her tears.
Her eyes, her streaming eyes, she hid.
And wiped them with her ears.
A sleeper is one who sleeps ; a sleeper is also a
place where a sleeper can sleep; and a sleeper, too, is a
thing over which runs the sleeper in which the sleeper
sleeps; so the sleeper in the sleeper sleeps while the
sleeper runs on, as well as sometimes off, the rails.
“ Who is that pretty girl with blonde hair and
deep blue eyes there in the jaunty hat?” asked Alfred.
“ Who ?” replied Annie, “ that taffy-haired girl with
the tallow eyes, and that nightmare of blue rags on her
head ?” That, brethren, is the way different people look
at a pretty girl in a pretty hat.
A little pair of gloves that yet
Retain the smell of clover.
And just a tinge of mignonette ;
I turn them vaguely over —
And marvel how the girl I kissed.
That night she promised to be true.
Could jam a number seven fist
Into a paltry number two.
Head of Government: “Now, Mr. M'Tavish,
we should like to recognize in some suitable manner
the able assistance you gave us during the late elec-
tions. Come, what do you say to being made a J.P. ?”
M’Tavish : “ Aweel, I should be awfn’pleased at that,
but I’m no sure o’ myself in passing sentences; but,
man, I could gie a grand caution."
Do you play the guitar;
No, I don’t play the guitar ;
I have a catarrh
In my head ; but my sistah,
With the red-auburn hair,
She plays the guitar
Quite la-de-dah.
Have a cigar ?
Ha, ha I
“ Do you think, mamma,” said a little one,
“ that Uncle Jim Mooney is a good man ?” " Why, my
child, he is the best of all my brothers, and an excellent
man.” “ And will he go to Heaven ?” “ I think so, my
child. Why do yon ask ?” "Oh, nothing much,"'re-
plied the child, waking from a sort of reverie; "I was
thinking what a homely angel he’d make—that’s all.”
DE GUSTIBUS.
“ Yes, your Augustus is a fraud !”
Said Sue to Arabella.
“ A fraud !” said Belle, “ I can’t afford
To hear that of my feller I
He’s true and tried, and good beside.
And delicate and dainty ’’
“ Ah, yes, but then,” Miss Sue replied,
“ He’s a sort of bean Gus, ain’t he ?’’
“ Twinkle, twinkle, little star,” the nursery
rhyme so familiar to everybody, has been revised by a
committee of eminent scholars, with the following re-
sult :—
“Shine with irregular intermitted light, sparkle at
intervals, diminutive, luminous heavenly body.
How I conjecture, with surprise, not unmixed with un-
certainty, what you are,
Located, apparently, at such a remote distance fre-m
and at a height so vastly superior to this earth,
the planet we inhabit,
Similar in general appearance and refractory powers to
the precious primitive octahedron crystal of pure
carbon, set in the aerial region surrounding the
earth.”


Hotels, &o.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STEEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of spac© to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises. . M .. ,„, ~
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Alcock table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Caf6, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and EESTAUEANT for Gentlemen.
EEPEESHMENT BOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthdav Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONEEY of the purest description.
GUAEANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
OHAS. r. Qmith,
MANAGES.
F
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BEIDGE STEEET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
E. W. FOLEY, PEOPEIETOE.
BOAED AND EEBIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIAEDS.
Hotels, &o.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAE
AND CASE.
HIGHLA
?
A
AGENT—(J EOKGI
BRIDGE STREET CH/
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs tc
that owing to the increasing demai
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retail
WINES IN LARGE BULK and
TRADE.
«ar Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, he feels confident that, wi
the above-named two experienc
favours will be attended to with tl
tnde.
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is oomi
UNCOLOURED Tl
and is made up into lib and half lb
in the China, Tea Gardens, and car
following places :
Wm, Hughes, William-streat, 1
F. M'Donald, William-street, V
J. Lender, William-street, Woe
Chapman Bros., William-street
A. M'Donald, Upper William-si
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Franc
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
j. Kavanagh, 111 Eiley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C„ Oxford and B
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-n
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-
W. Eedgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., comer of Crc
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, comer of Ultimo am
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Altred-street, No
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St.
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balrm
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Bal
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Water!
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Bo tar
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-s 1
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road Wt
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Gninery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, (
Hotels, Sec.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, Sto.
O”
EXHIBITION
PRINCE ALFRED PAR S
(Opposite Gate.)
0 T E
L,
SPLENDID accommodation for boarders.
OJr Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
smwn from the wood. .
draw “ THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor,
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
atl the best Brands of ale and porter,
Is PER BOTTLE.
mTSH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
jjß.—Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
The WORD'S
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPI
MERCHANTS,
VIRGOE, SOnTaND (
AGENTS,
HONESTY IS THE BI
ORN.E
ftOB
IM
HLK®
K!i. ..
ghland
WfkSm/iUtM
tu /
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beven
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L<
WHISKY.
VIRGOE* SON,IIND
AGENTS.
MARTIN I
'AUSTRALIAN WINE Ml
AND BEER BOTI
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s p
ALBUEY WINE
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbec
HUNTER RIVER W
Claret
Lambrusoat
PORT MACQUARIE 1
Burgundy.
JjIALLON’S PRIZE AL
T m -Cl A TTYVKPCI v-n oclnrur rtriK
The Name of M.
00.
la on every Genuine Bottle
IT is not the clearness or oonditi
Ale that preserves this bran*
oyttion. Common bitter crude beei
but no other brand has the same n:
ter, the fulness on the palate, ar
qualities of the Bull Bog Ale. C
fore cautioned against traders wh
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog.
CO., Sole Agents.
AOS
MAR
B
OAE’S H E A I
This favourite brai
S T O
Mb selected with great care from tl
s >lngs of the celebrated firm of AE
and CO., Dublin, and therefore can
Hookings & co.’s ow
Australian Wine strengthens the
system against infections diseases.
Opposite City Bank, PITT STREET.
1
Money.
■JJNION LOAN AND DISCOUJ
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STREi
3 doors from A. Hordern an
Hours—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERS
security, payable by instalments, as fc
£lO by weekly instalments of .
15
20
25
30
50
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE,
To borrowers not able to transact bi
day, the offices will be open Monday a
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, fin
3 doors from A. Hordern ai
T
O SMALL FREEHOLD ANI
PROPRIETORS.
MONET LENT on mortgage of pi
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the week)
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, witl
of a mortgage for short term *.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOA
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 Qi
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE, j
DISCOUNT BANK
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN £
SPECIAL NOTICE
The Directors place before those des:
advantages upon easy terms—UNE3
advantages. Their method of transai
highly commended, CONCESSIONS
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE U 1
BILLS OP SALE on furniture, wi
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, M
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded C
ties, Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLI
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Accepts
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, ]
QUARTERLY instalments; or as w
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews
confidential. ___
ir,rv«.. n /~f-n A mro A .LUccn TTTR


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Oliver-Seagrave company have been playing
at Charters Towers to fair houses, and have produced,
among other pieces, “The Ticket-of-Leave Man.” One
of the features of the entertainment, according to the
Minar, was the badness of the piano. The Company
had rather bad houses at Townsville The “ Austra-
lian Comedy and Opera Bouflfe Coaipanv," including
Miss Alice Johns and Miss Fanny Wiseman, and
Messrs Sam Howard, W, South, Jas Simmons,
Hasher, Beverley, Ac., had fair houses at Wollongong,
and other south-coast towns Mr. Leon (Kelly and
Leon) bus been engaged by Haverly. for his American
Mastodons, at a salary of £5O The Stray Leaves
company, after giving two successful entertainments at
Dubbo, started en route for Bourke, and intend playing
at Warren, and at the various towns and large wool-
ebeds on the real “Loyal to Death," recently pro
duced at the Baldwin, 'Frisco, has been purchased by
Mr. Fred. Lyster from the author. Mrs. Romualdo
Pacheco. Fred has secured the right of production in
America, England, and the colonies “ The Imperial
Agioscopa," with J. A. Patterson as descriptive
lecturer, and Miss Fanny Rogers as vocalist, is now at
Rockhampton At Rockhampton, the Austrian Band
ga. e a perform ince in aid of the hospital It was not
well patronised. The hand has now lost more of its
members The Mastodon Minstrels had big houses at
Carcoar The Guudagai A.D. Club at their first per-
formance, on 12th instant, give “John Dobbs" and
“The Wandering Minstrel.” In the action for £249
damages, brought by Mrs. Allen, better known as Miss
Lilian Reid, of the “ Stray Leaves ” Company, against
the arresting constable M'Gann, in the child-murder
case at Coleraine (Vic.), the jury found a verdict for
the defendant. The plaintiff’s solicitor applied for
leave for anew trial The English Circus has been
playing at Gnndagai, Coolac, and other towns in that
district The Newcastle Musical Society is rehearsing
“The Sorcerer” for early production Mr. Cava-
no igh, the phrenologist, has been lecturing at Parra-
matta lima de Murska (Mrs. John Hill) was in
London when last mail left, under engagement to Mr.
John M ipleson, and was by his permission appearing at
first-class concerts Professor Haselmayer says that
the only public hall in the colonies to compare with
that in Bathurst for convenience and commodiousness
is the Town Hall in Melbourne Mr. Dewhurst’s ward-
robe is perhaps the finest ever brought to the colonies by
a star Professor Haselmayer’s Dubbo season was a
greit success Dr. Lynn had poor houses at
Townsville The step-dancing contest at Penrith
between Jefferies and M'Anulty ended in a draw;
the judges were unable to agree. The attendance
was small, and the general dance subsequently
held was a farce, ninety-six of the sterner and
only four of the softer sex being present Last week
the Goulburn Athenaeum A.D. Club, at an invitation
Tjerformance, produced “Borabastes Furioso ” and
“ The Lady of Lyons ” (burlesque). One of a new firm
of local auctioneers specially distinguished himself in
the leading parts of both pieces, and two local belles
displayed histrionic abilities such as gained for them
great applause at the hands of the very select assemblage.
...W, A. Thompson, cornetist, has arrived. Hurroo 1...
Maggie Moore had a big benefit in Adelaide on Friday
week Wilhelmj a success in Adelaide Amer-
ican circus (what is it?) is at Lithgow
Georgina—nice name, Georgina—Smithson has been at
Walcha. The Empson’s are to open there shortly
•South's “ Pirate of Penzance” company started for
Goulburn on Monday, where they play a week, and
rhence on by degrees to Albnry '.When the mail left,
Cary’s “Pirates” had completed their third week in
Dunedin. The attendance was keeping np wonderfully.
Tom Margetts (comique) and John Howe, brother
of B. L Farjeon, were playing at Hamilton, in the
“ Waikato," on August 6th and Bth The|latest about
Pollard’s Juveniles is that thev were to leave Auckland
for Gisborne, N.Z Mr. J. A. Hooper, a well-known
actor, aged 34, has hanged himself at Dunedin. He
leaves a widow and child. He left a note, addressed to
his wife and running as follows:—“Good-bye, My
death at your door. Let my sisters know. lam in the
coal-shed. Sad end. Yon have played well, and gained
your point.—J. A. Hooper.” He had been out of an
engagement some months, and had little money.
A letter from his wife, which was read at the inquest
and disclosed a most unfortunate state of marital
relations, was probably the immediate incentive to
the rash act Ben Allah, magician and ventriloquist,
was at Teuterfleld on 3rd A N.Z. paper asks why
Jenny Watt-Tanner always wears white stockings,
no matter what the colour of her dress may be.
• * «
Arthur Sullivan returns to the States in October,
to bring out three of his works, already produced else-
where, He is engaged on a comic opera, which will see
the light first in America There is some talk of
Emmeline Zavistowski (Mrs. Schultz) returning to the
American stage next season Willis's new play, which
Modjeska has produced in London, is described as a
gloomy and harrowing tragedy—as sombre as a tomb,
and ns lugubrious as a death’s head It cost manager
J. H. Haverly 36 dol. each to transport his 70 coloured
minstrels by steamer to England. He also provided
them with plain black oassimere ping hats Miss
Louisa Balfe, daughter of the composer, was to play
the leading part in George Fawcett Rowe’s new comedy,
to be produced at Fifth Avenue Theatre last month
At the Palais Royal, Paris, Sardou’s great comedy,
“ Divorcons," meets with undiminished success
Because Clara Morris telegraphed her condolence to
President Garfield and family, a wretch writes,
charging Miss Morris with sending an incom-
p'ete dispatch, because it did not inform Mrs. Garfield
that Miss Morris proposes to act a gipsy character next
season A new operatic kiss has been invented. It
consists of a double staccato smack and an ad libitum
legato slobber, con expressione After the death of
Heller, the magician, Miss Haidee Heller became
associated in second sight mysteries with E. H.
Warren Wright, of London, who also attempted magic
displays. Both went to England, but the enterprise
failed. Subsequently, E. H. Warren Wright became
private secretary (agent) of the Yokes Family, and it is
now reported that Miss Jessie Yokes will shortly
I scorn e Mrs. Wright Miss Amy Louise Knowlton,
formerly known as Imogene the actress, and wife of
John A. Woodward, the defaulting Treasury-clerk, of
Boston, Mass., figured in a civil suit in Cambridge,
Maas., July 1, when a physician who attended her
adopted mother during a sickness sued for the bill.
The ex-actress promised to liquidate, but the court
r ded that Amy was not liable A history of the
American stage, from 1860 to date, with portraits of
prominent actors and actresses, and fac similes of their
writing, is in process of compilation by Mr. Stephen
Fiske There has been trouble in London between
Mr. and Mrs Bancroft, on the subject of Miss Marion
Terry, younger sister of Ellen Terry. The “ woman at
the bottom of it," has left the Haymarket H. G.
Pairweather, an English actor, has been sent to gaol
for playing too well an old man’s part. He disguised
himself effectually as an old singer, giving some choice
old ballads and operatic airs with a quivering voice.
The excellence of the music excited tne suspicion of
the police, and he was found out The only theatrical
manager who has ever taken an entertainment literally
around the world, is John R. Rogers, and he has done it
twice. J. K. Emmet was the principal performer on
ot these tours, and Baker and Farron made the second
o'rcuit. Mr. Rogers is getting ready to start again,
this time with Miss Minnie Palmer, an actress of
the Lotta type, and Mr. Robert E. B. Graham,
a comedian, and clever imitator of Emmet
Mrs. Sotheru is lying dangerously ill in London. Can-
cer was most unexpectedly discovered, and a trying
operation, which has been performed, can give but tem-
pirary relief. She is the daughter of a diguitary of the
Established Church in Wexford, Ireland, and is very
Irish in her style of beauty. She eloped with Sotheru
while staying with her family in Jersey, shortly after
the death of his first wife, and though uneducated for
the stage, endeavoured to swell his then small income
by appearing in minor ports, to which her grace and
hjauty gave a natural cnarm. Of late years Sotheru
forgot tend neglected her In Paris recently, during
the representation of the “Tribute of Zamora" at the
Grand Opera House, a young man stood up and fired
three barrels of a pistol into his throat. A scene of
intense commotion followed The cams belli in the
libel suit, Clement Scott, (London Dairy Telegraph)
v. the Reeerke is that the latter paper stated, that the
dramatic critic of “ one of the great and influential ”
London papers had levied blackmail to the tune of £5OO
on the executors ot the late Adelaide Neilson by nsing
the threat of making unpleasant disclosures if he was
not bought off. The comment of the writer of the
par. is that Mr. Scott is the only man of between
twelve and twenty men who feels injured by the soft
impeachment Billy Emerson is about to visit
’Frisco again Emilie Melville was to open at
’Frisco with “ Patience ’’ on August 1 Jennie
Lee, who has won a world-wide reputation for her
marvellously clever impersonation of the vagrant
Jo. in Dickens’ “Bleak House,” is about to visit
the colonies Louise Montague, Forepaugh’s 10,000
dol. beauty, has been superseded by Josie Suther-
land, a Chicago girl. Louise now proposes to sue Mr.
Forepaugh for 10,000 dol., which she claims was to re-
ward her for assuming the role of the most beautiful
woman in America Henry Irving was lately reciting
a poem, “My Uncle,” at St. James Hall, London, and
when he came to the line “ My uncle took me on his
knee and said”—a stentorian voice from the court at
the back of the Hall called out: " Strawberries, flue
strawberries.” A loud smile was seen on every face,
including that of the popular actor Alice Dunning
Liugard, according to a ’Frisco paper, begins a starring
tour in January, under the management of Brooks and
Dickson. She will be supported by a strong company,
and will play Juliet, Rosalind, Julia, etc. William
Horace does not support her Catherine Lewis has
put the profits of her present season (1200 dol.) into
costumes for “Madame Favart.” Blanche Corelli,
hearing of this, organized an opposition “Madame
Favart ” company, putting her money into printing in-
stead of clothes May Fisk, the blonde burlesquer,
recently fell and broke both her arms An American
critic thus reviews a recent performance of “Hamlet;”
‘ ‘ Hamlet must have been a remarkable man not to have
gone mad in the midst of such characters as his aimless
mother, the insipid and discordant Ophelia, and the
noisily empty Laertes, as they were presented on the
stage. We confess to our secret satisfaction at the
poisoning of the Queen, who, in rouging her cheeks, got
a double dose on the end of her nose, and we ex-
perienced a malicious joy in the unskilful stabbing of
Laertes, who deserved death if for no other reason than
for his unaccented lamentations over the demise of a
horse-fiddle sister,_ whose departure should have been to
him a source of joy. The grave-digger did well, not
only in his professional work, but in effectually bury-
ing the ill-dressed Ophelia, We never attended a
funeral with more pleasure." The Soldene Company
disbanded at Lincoln, Neb., very recently, and it
is alleged that the artists celebrated the event by a jolly
little scrimmage, in which the graceful Soldene was
said to have nearly had one of her dainty ears bitten
off, and her eyes were made to combine the azure
of Heaven with the hazel of earth in an exceedingly
picturesque manner. Of the lovely features of the
comic prima donna, the Kansas City Times indulges in
the following rhapsody: “ Hers is a long, square-cut
mouth, but not only is it phenomenal in size, but also
phenomenal in its workings. It is capable of more
posing and posturing, and contortion, than any other
similar orifice in the world. It does not simply open
and shut; it chases the other features all round over
the face, now pursuing the tiptilted nose up to the very
centre of the forehead, now playing at hide and seek
with the tiny ears; at this moment almost losing it-
self in the decolletde part of the prima donna’s stage
attire, and the next moment lurking like a demon of
unrest under the prima donna’s chignon." De Belle-
ville, at latest, was playing Jaques in “The Two
Orphans,” at the Park Theatre, Boston.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Mr. Fred Maocabe has arrived, has shown, and
has “ got 'em.” He drew, on Saturday night, a house
at the School of Arts, that crammed the place to the
extent that there was not even —literally speaking—
standing room. The audience were jammed together
like Syrian dates, and at a quarter to eight no man
without an American axe could have crossed from the
door to the orchestra. The performance was simply
inimitable. Every item was intensely clever, and
furiously funny. The monologue, indeed, all through,
is written with great smartness; and if one or two of
I the jokes are rather old friends, we suppose that is
! owing to their having been pilfered from " Begone,
Dull Care,” by unprincipled ” corner men.” We have
had some experience of “ first nights ” of shows in
Sydney, but, certainly, we have never seen an audience
so demonstrative in its enthusiasm as that which wel-
comed Mr. Maccabe on Saturday. Women laughed
until they grew hysterical, men roared until they
choked, and all the children crowed at the entertainer
on his every appearance in a manner which was exhila-
rating to witness.
* # •
The secret of Mr. Maccabe’s extraordinary suc-
cess is that everything he does he does, not only well
but extraordinarily well. His ventriloquism, which he
does with a clean-shaven upper lip (let’s see—where’s
Teddy ? Oh. all right; in New York), is a most re-
markable exhibition of the art. He throws his voice
about without any effort, and his face the while is im-
moveable. In the Ancient and Modem Troubadour
business, the way in which he manages the changes of
dress, voice, —in fact, identity,—considering it is all
accomplished in a few seconds—is marvellous. Mr.
Maccabe, in short, is a very great Protean celebrity,
and there is not the slightest doubt in the world that
he will carry away from the colonies, not only the good
wishes of everybody, but a very large amount of money.
We have said quite enough to enable those who follow
us to judge what kind of entertainment ‘‘Begone Dull
Care ” is. It only now remains for them to pay their
money at the doors, and “ laugh consumedly."
** * *
The Montague-Turner Company left for Bath-
urst on Monday, where they play all this week, appear-
ing in a fresh opera every night; then on to Orange for
two nights; Dubbo for the same period, appearing at
Newcastle on their return. That Miss Montague and
Mr. Turner will create a furore up country va sans dire.
The artistic success is assured. We trust the pecuniary
one will eventuate also. And we think it will. Mr. Le
Couteur goes ahead, and Mr. Trevanion looks after the
front of the house, and carries Miss Montague’s
bouquets (no light task) to her carriage after the per-
formance. We should rather like this billet ourselves,
but we are so busy looking after the moral welfare of
the community that we have no time even to apply for
it. When things become a little more godly in Sydney,
we’ll buy a wheelbarrow, and call round.
** * *
“ Girofle,” produced at the Opera House on
Saturday night, is a great improvement, in many
respects, upon “ Les Cloch< s.” It gives Miss Wangen-
heim occasion to show what she can do —and we are
happy to be able to testify that she can do a great deal.
The moment we heard her sing “ See how it sparkles,"
we fell in love with her for the 654th time.
Mr. Kelly’s Mourzouk was humorous, but he dressed
the part like Timor the Tartar, only (not content with
a crescent) he wore upon his breast a very full moon.
Miss Lucy Fraser, as Aurore, was only moderately suc-
cessful ; but Miss Hetty Cruncher looked and acted
charmingly, as Paquita. Mr. Lester’s Don Bolero was
really capital, and the same may be said of Mr. Bolton's
Marasqnin. That gentleman, however, has much to
learn in the dressing line. It is not too much to say
that ordinary modern Qeorge-street black shoes don’t
suit medieval white stockings; but if he considers that
the correct thing, he might, at least, go to the trouble
(the expense is trifling) of having those shoes polished.
We take so much interest in Mr. Stuart Bolton that, if
he will kindly make an appointment, we will call round
and polish them ourselves.
* « «
The scenery of Mr. Wilson was very pretty, and
the theatre now is quite a bower. The chorus was so-so,
but “ Barto " is hard at work, and expects to make a
grand splash with his subordinates in the Conspirators’
Chorus, in “Madame Angot"—the opera now in re-
hearsal. The orchestra might he improved, and Mr.
Frank Eugarde could conduct far more efficiently with
a baton than with a piano.
** * *
At the Queen’s Theatre, Shakesperian drama
has been presented during the week. We are great
admirers of Shakespeare’s plays ourselves, and so—
haven’t been much at the Queen’s. We looked in,
however, on Friday, to see “ Othello,” with Mr. Steele
in the title-rdle, and Mr. Dewhurst as honest, honest,
lago. Mr. Steele defers to modern prejudice against
gentlemen of colour, and carries the whim, common of
late years to many distinguished tragedians, of repre-
senting the Moor as only lightly touched by the sun,
to so great a degree as to induce in the minds of obser-
vers as strong suspicions of the honour of Othello’s
mother as the unhappy husband of Desdemona
nourished respecting the honour of his wife.
# « *
Mr. Dewhurst’s pourtrayal of honest I ago is a
respectable one. He, also, adopts the modem concep-
tion, and discards the diabolical for the insinuating
ideal. His lago is a bland and dexterous individual,
as, beyond doubt, he should be represented to preserve
the unities of the drama, and to relieve Othello from
the imputation of being a fool altogether.
* * «
To carry out this conception demands, however,
infinitely more of art than to growl and scowl through
the part in the fashion of former days. The by-play,
and, above all, the subtlety of facial expression, re-
quired to convey to an audience a sense of lago’s
duplicity, while yet preserving his fair outer seaming,
are very exacting, and demand peculiar qualifications
alike of mobility of feature and inner inspiration We
venture to suggest that in these essentials Mr. Dew-
hurst is somewhat deficient. His logo is too stolid. His
face is devoid of expressiveness. Only the eyebrows had
motion, and not the most gifted actor could convey a
thousand contending passions with voice and eyebrows
alone. Mr. Dewhurst suffered from a severe cold,
which affected his voice even in speaking. We never
yet heard a tragedian of eminence who could sing any
better than an opera-bouffe comedian at the Eoyal.
The more eminent the actor, as a rule, the worse he
sang. In this respect, Mr. Dewhurst—thanks in some
degree to his cold —towered to an unrivalled eminence,
lago’s chants about letting the canakin clink, and con-
cerning King Stephen’s breeches, were nearly as blood,
curdling as even Mr. Harwood’s chansonnettes in
“Olivette.” Poor G. V. Brooke himself never croaked
more horribly.
• « •
It has been remarked that Sir Walter Scott
was, in his day, the only author who had ventured (in
the “ Bride of Lammermoor ”) to mingle broad comedy
with deep tragedy. The management of the Queen’s
may challenge Sir Walter for a place. In the opening
scene Brabantio’s first appearance was of the most
humorous kind. The reverend parent popped his
bead over the sill of a window which was just about
a foot above the top of the door underneath.
There was obviously no room for the senator’s body,
unless he were lying on his stomach on the floor, in an
attitude calculated to give him a stiff neck for the rest
of his existence. At first onr impression was that the
management had secured —at an enormous expense—
the services of our friend Mr. Dominic Sonsee, es-
pecially for this part, but as Brabantio shortly after-
wards emerged at full length through the door which
had so complicated impressions, we were compelled to
relinquish that agreeable speculation, and to fall back
upon the conviction that the unities had been sacri-
ficed on the shrine of economy.
• * *
Miss Marion Willis assumed the character of
Emilia, than which there could scarcely be one better
suited to display the talent of this extremely clever
actress. Miss Willis dressed the character, looked the
character, and supported the character with equally
pronounced success. Miss Marion Medway did Mr.
Shakespeare the distinction of playing Desdemona, a
condescension which brought Othello into some con-
tempt in consequence of a difficulty arising in knowing
what he made so much fuss about.
** * *
Mr. Alfred Dampier opens at the Gaiety Theatre
in a few weeks in “ Mother-in-Law,” a new farcicial
comedy by George E. Sims (the “Dagonet” of the
London Beferee). The piece has been shown
to ns by Mr. Dampier, and we are in a position
to state that it is one shriek right through.
Pretty little Lily (we made a mistake in the name last
week) is quite convalescent, and Alfred himself is more
than blooming. We look forward with great interest to
Mr. Dampier’s season at the Gaiety, since he has in his
possession plays which, though new to Australia, have
a world-wide reputation. Mr. Dampier has brought
with him an actress whose stage name is Miss Adire,
and who has a very fine appearance, indeed. Alfred
says great things of her, and we hope to be able to say
great things, too, when our turn comes.
** * *
As we predicted, Wybert Reeve’s company have
£ roved a tremendous success in Brisbane. Miss Annie
layer’s talent has eclipsed the reporters, and she has
gone through the papers like a circus-rider through a
hoop. Prank Forbes has also “ quite cleaned out the
town,” while Cates is overburdened with correspond-
ence containing invitations to the houses of Queensland
dnchesses. Wybert, also, is all there, and his George
Oeith is generally considered to be quite more than
serenely intense.
** * *
For the first time in their history, Newcastle,
Maitland, and Tamworth, and perhaps Singleton,
Murrurundi, and Muswellbrook, are to have genuine
opera. The Montague-Turner troupe start on a tour
northward on Saturday, 17th September. They open
at Newcastle on the 19th, and at West Maitland on
the 26th.
** * *
Things in Melbourne are rather quiet. “The
World ,r still rims at the Eoyal, and in speaking of it,
"Adagio,” in the Weekly Times, observes Very
little attention, in fact, is given to the dialogue, and the
good points made by Miss Gordon and Mr. Titheradge
pass unheeded in the turmoil caused by the presenta-
tion of one exciting episode, and the preparations behind
the scenes for another. . . . . The literary merits
of the work are of the lowest possible order.” Bland,
however, is immense as a " stage Jew,” and the scenery
and effects are described as being something grand.
“The World” will be succeeded by Mr. Harkins, the
“ Celebrated English Tragedian." We wonder whether
Mr. Harkins is any relation to the " celebrated English
character-actor ? ” The Opera House is closed, but the
Cardens are at the Bijou, where they have been playing
in the “ Fool’s Eevenge " and “Withered Leaves," with
moderate success. The Evening Herald describes
Miss Marston Leigh as “pleasing," which is a bad sign.
** * *
A correspondent, signing himself “ Anguish,”
writes us as follows :—“ I have been about 20 times to
see ‘ Tambour-Major,' and also six times to see ‘ Oliv-
ette,’ and I have to express that I am deeply in love
with Miss Nellie Stewart. Can you inform me in what
way I can get behind the scenes ? ” Certainly we can.
We suppose (this is no insinuation) that you know the
pit entrance. All right. Go down the lane; but,
instead of entering the old familiar door (we are only
joking), go straight on, and you will come to an old man
inside a little gate, who will fix you. This is all we can
do for you, dear “Anguish,” we think—except, perhaps,
to advise you to choose for your visit the hour that
old Dick Stewart happens to have his boots off.
** * *
“ John Peerybingle,” in the Melbourne Weekly
Times, is nothing if not moral, and very little when he
is. Talking of “Olivette," he says "If all I hear be
true, I hope that they won’t import 'Olivette* from
Sydney. It would be as bad as the small-pox. Legs
and license appear to be its leading characteristics.”
Well, “Olivette's " career is drawing to a close, and so
we may as well say a parting word about it. So far as
its plot is concerned it is neither worse nor better than
that of “ Qirofld," “ La Pille du Madame An got," “La
Grande Duchesse,” and is infinitely more proper than
those of “La Belle Helene, “ Fleur de and “La
Timballe D’Argent." The costumes are, with a few
exceptions, no more outres than those in “Tambour-
Major," which so delighted the Melbourne! tea. When
“ Olivette ” does go to Melbourne, we anticipate for it
a tremendous success—just because over there they are
all so very moral. “ Madame Favart" is in rehearsal
at the Eoyal, but we understand the exact date of its
production has not yet been definitely settled. Of
“ Madame Favart" we shall have something to say
next week.
** * *
Our old friend D’Arcy Read, who has, we are
glad to hear, lately inherited a few millions, has taken
the Victoria Hall, which he has beautifully decorated,
and opens with his " Ghost” on Monday night. For
the benefit of the uninitiated we may state that the
Victoria Hall is a new place of entertainment opposite
St. James’s Church, in Castlereagh-street, and having
inspected it carefully we are in a position to state that
a prettier little temple of amusement does not exist in
Sydney, The opening piece will consist of Garnet
Walch’s pantomime, “ Beauty and the Beast," in which
will be embodied all those spectral illusions at which
Mr. Bead is such an adept. As this is a big speculation.
we hope it will bring in big returns. 'Tis not in mortals
to command success, but, anyhow, Sempronins—we
mean D’Arcy Read—at least deserves it.
• « #
We may as well mention that “ Little Annie”
will take a prominent part in the performance, and
also that (having in view the present elevated tone of
the drama) Mr. Bead his engaged a number of re-
markably pretty young ladies to do the trip Terpsohico-
rean. Miss Elise Sydney, whose performance of Ann
Catherick was lately favourably noticed, will also
appear, and the great D'Arcy will likewise coruscate
upon the scene. What more could a most exigeant
public ask—except, perhaps, Salviui ?
** * *
The management of the Queen’s have succeeded
in arranging with Mr. Walter Reynolds for a four weeks'
season at their house. Walter will appear in a series of
dramas from his own quill.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
A movement is on foot to erect a memorial to
Bishop O’Quinn, of Brisbane.
The Eev. Henry Cheetham, Waterloo veteran,
and Congregational minister at Melang, dead, aged 80.
The Church of England Record has heard of
the faith of a young Christian being unsettled by a
sermon in the Sydney Cathedral on 14th Aug.
A happy transposition—
Pray tell mo where is Christianity ?
Transpose the letters : It’s in Charity.
The manager of a large business firm in Mel
bourne has embezzled and bolted. He was a lay
preacher, and lately exhorted his congregation to strict
honesty. Speaking from the heart.
The Archbishop of Tunis, who has held office
for thirty-eight years, has been requested to resign,
because he is an Italian, and a Frenchman has been
appointed in his place. This has made the feeling
between France and Italy more bitter.
At a meeting of those interested in the Church
of England in Hay, recently held in that town. Rev. J.
C. Dodwell said that a rumour which had been circu-
lated that he was likely to join the E C. Church was
untrue j he did not contemplate anything of the kind.
The Rev. Mr. Hebditch, of the Collins-stree
(Melbourne) Congregational Church, leaves for Eng-
land in the Garonne (s). The Eev. E. Griffith, of
Brisbane, father of the Hon. Sam Griffith, Q C., leader
of the Queensland Opposition, will act as locum, tenens
for a few weeks.
The Rev. Thomas Kemmis, of St. Mark’s, Dar-
ling Point, will, on Tuesday evening next, give a selection
of reading, “Grave and Gay," in St. Peter’s School,
Woolloomooloo. A charge of la. will be made for ad-
mission, proceeds to be devoted towards liquidation of
the parish debt.
The Bishop’s decision in the feud between the
Eev T. Abraham, of Toowoomba (Q.), and his congre-
gation, is that the rev. minister surrender the key of the
rectory before September 30th. The parish, however,
is to pay Mr. Abraham over £3OO. Tommy will have
that £3OO before he gives up that key.
They have been whitewashing St James’s
Church. The work appears to have been done by the
Disinfecting Corps, and isn’t much improvement. It
is about time that a “ Salvation Army ” of plucky in-
dividuals were found to put the old church into some-
thing like decent repair to meet the requirements of the
time—especially now that the statue of Her Majesty is
to be erected opposite, and the place is to be named
“ Queen's Square.”
An American journal mentions that “ a century
ago the General Assembly of the Scotch Church
adjourned its evening sessions for a week, that its
members might see Mrs. Siddons at the theatre." To
this another transatlantic newspaper replies : “ Such a
statement shows the change that has come over the
Church and the Theatre within a hundred years. In
old times in New England an Ordination Ball was the
event on the settlement of a pastor, and the minister's
wife, if he had one, opened the dance. Things are not
so now.” More’s the pity.
A writer in the Aegus proposes a remedy for
the Strong case, by which he thinks the Presbyterian
Church of Victoria will be saved from going to pieces.
Ho advises that there be a union of the Presbyterian
and Episcopal Churches in Victoria. He thinks that
the Bishops of Melbourne and Ballarat on the one side,
and Eev. Messrs. Strong and Henderson on the other,
could easily arrange for a new Confession of Faith, and
a new set of articles, by casting the old into their
crucible, and bringing them out purged of all dross and
cobwebs.
890 visitors at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon.
Great rejoicing at Lithgow. Tweed factory
hands and ironworkers will only work five days a week
in future. Monday has left Lithgow.
Anon. : The man who ia curious to see how the
world would get along without him, can find out by
sticking a cambric needle in a mill-pond, and then with-
drawing it, and looking at the hole.
Scene — Cattle station up North. The boss
(leaves a blackboy with a mob of cattle quiety rounded
up. Ou his return finds a fresh mob with blackboy, and
first mob gone—enquires): "Where cattle?” Black-
boy : “ Oh, baal that fellow sit down budgery, me been
throw 'im away and man 'im nother fellow mob; more
quiet fellow." (Blackboy will not sit down budgery for
some time). —Queensland Punch.
A pouring wet day. Station hand, engaged in
grubbing trees, has knocked off, and is making for
Shelter. Manager (who the proceeding Sunday preached
an unctuous and forcible sermon from the text "Do
untoothers,” Ac, and who is completely enveleped in
water-proof): “ Hi, hi I my man ; where are you off
to?" S. H. “ Out of the rain, sir." Man.; “Tut! tut I
that’ll never do. Ton can only get wet through once,
you know. Go and get to work again." 8. H. demurs,
and is immediately invested with the ancient and
honourable order of the sack.
An invalid wife heard her husband make
proposals of marriage to the nurse. The dying woman
arose in bed, fixed her large black eyes for a moment
upon the face of her heartless spouse with a reproach-
ful intensity that must haunt him through life, and
then fell back a corpse. The remorse of that widower,
as he led the blushing nurse to the altar the next week,
can be more easily imagined than described. Such
reparation as was in his power he made. He buried the
first wife decently and very deep down, laying a hand-
some and exceedingly heavy stone upon the sepulchre.
He chiselled upon the stone the following simple and
touching lines, “ She can’t get back."
Mr. Panton, P.M. of Melbourne, remarked, the
other day, that it was a delusion among tradespeople
that the mere fact of a man being unable to pay bis
debts constituted a fraud. Mr. Panton, with that
directness which even his victims acknowledge to be
one of his chief virtues, said emphatically that there
was no fraud in owing money. Hitherto, it has been
the custom of traders to haul up defaulting debtors
(against whom judgments have been obtained) on
“fraud summons," and get a bench of the “great nn-
paid " to order discharge of the debt by instalments—
in default imprisonment. It is now declared to be dis-
tinctly illegal to imprison a man for debt when fraud is
not proved by the creditor.
The following was found pinned on to a suicide’s
clothes, on the bank of the river in which he had
drowned himself: “I married a widow, who had a
grown-up daughter. My father visited at our house,
and fell in love with my step-daughter and married her.
Consequently, my father became my son-in-law, and my
step-daughter became my mother, because she was my
father’s wife. In the course of time my wife had a son
—it was my father’s step-brother and my uncle, at the
same time; for it was the brother of my step-mother.
My father's wife, is., my step-mother, also had a son;
this child was naturally my brother, and also my grand-
son at the same time, for it was, in the first place, my
father’s son, and, secondly, it was my daughter’s son.
My wife ia my grandmother, for she is the mother of
my father’s wife. lam the hnaband and grandson of
my wife, and as the hnaband of one’s grandmother is
one’s grandfather, I am, therefore, my own grandfather.
This has dene for me."


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prises Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Aw.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Paper coffins are made now. We always thought
that a use would ultimately be discovered for Satur-
day’s issue of the Herald, which will now “ go down
well ” say seven feet.
And, by-the-way, the idea is capable of further de-
velopment. Calvinistic cofflnslcan be compressed out of
the Presbyterian, Roman Catholic ones out of the
’Express, while those who swear by Pastor Daniel Allen
can take their choice (before death, of course) between
copies of “ the old version ” and the W itness. One can
thus have one's obituary notice included in the under-
taker’s bill; and, by getting buried in a religious paper,
avoid the expense of a parson.
Under these circumstances, couldn’t the funeral
dirges played over the victims of small-pax be appro-
priately ground out by the Government organ ?
Once more. Suppose any of the Sydney papers die—
and there’s one of them moribund even now—death-
knell, corpse, coffin, and obituary notice can be
“trotted into one.”
* * *
It is said that, not long ago, the carcase of a
sheep was generously sent to the North Head to fatten
the convalescent small-pox patients. However, one of the
quarantine officials (a short-sighted man) stuck a candle
in the sheep’s interior, and has since used the same as
a lantern.
« • •
At Cudgegong, a while ago, one German sum-
moned another for shooting his dog. The presiding
J.P. ftpked plaintiff what value he set upon the animal.
“As tor dat, i our vorship," was the reply, “ der tog
vas vorth noding—but I vill make him pay der full
value.” After charging the defendant, the magistrate
enquired how he pie Mded. “ How do I blead P Yell, as
for dat, I shot der tog all right, your vorship, but I vill
make him brove it," answered the bloodthirsty Teuton.
• • •
The mistress of school (who has not gained
her position by her tutorial ability alone) thus
addressed her class : “ Girls, I hev peen a great success
to-day, and you shall each together clap your hans.”
(Loud stamping, and boisterous ejaculations.) “ You
stoopit podies—ta clap is goot, but no more yon shall
wag ta tongues and pellow like ta mat pulls. Ta lesson
will pegin. How shall we call ta pest policy ta mak us
reech, like ta pig squatters? Next—nest —next."
Fourth girl (squatter’s daughter): “ Get appointed
land appraiser out West for three years.”
« * *
The most verdant of new-chuma is one who
arrived by the Peterborough, to the order of his
brother-in-law. The latter, anxious that the foreigner
should learn to make himself useful, set him to work
rubbing down a big frisky chestnut horse. Asked the
new-comer of the groom : “ How do you go up to clean
his head and shoulders ?" “ Get the steps,” was the
reply. Mr. Verdant Green got the ladder accordingly,
put it “agin the horse,” and proceeded to mount. It
wasn’t a long ladder, but he nearly got to Heaven.
* « •
Quarantine Station, Sept 1. Usual morning
bulletin“ All doing well. P.S. —Clement Lindsay died
yesterday; Ellen Lindsay and Abbey Trevoe are both
delirious.” Our readers will bo delighted to hear that
we are trying to secure the services of the writer of the
quarantine “ bulletin ’’ for a special comic column in
our own.
• * •
If Mr. Corbin Lamb has a fault at all, it con-
sists in his being too modest, as a few samples of his
printed style will soon show. “ This," says Corbin “is
my claim upon public attention: I alone, of all the
many millions of human beings who have lived on this
earth, come forward to give you good news, and pro-
claim the true character of our God in an entirely new
light from all the legions of religions that have held
the sway upon the earth." And, just to show there is
no deception, this New Jersey Messiah proceeds:—
“Many things go to show I am the genuine man, and
that this year would be a momentous one to the world
for good or evil. My family own the Lamb and Flag
Crest. I have a Seal some hundreds of years old in my pos-
session.” Now the hot weather is on, we are glad to
hear it is a seal and not a Limberger cheese that Mr.
Lamb owns. Judging from the following ad. in the D.
T., Corbin’s monologue show at the Opera House, last
week, was a sort of “ oyster" entertainment —that is to
say, it opened and shut the same night. Jeremiah’s
Lamentations were opera-bouffe librettos compared to
the following sorrowful 18d. worth : —“ lam going into
the country to try and bring more rain, and lecture as I
go. I hope the people will help me with a little money.
—Corbin Lamb.” Mr. Lamb had better stay in town.
The Gospel is better pa' ronised here than in the sinful
places where bushmcn are lambed down by publicans.
* * •
Says the Presbyterian : —“ A Mr. Galley,
living in the Yass district, who was transported in
1835, has had his name and character restored. Ho has
received £lOOO as compensation. Human judges and
juries do occasionally err, though very rarely.” Wait
till the Presbyterian writes something that’s true,
and gets in for a libel action.
* * #
The Rev. Sam. Hebditch, of the Congregational
Church, Melbourne, has just been presented with a
“ very handsome testimonial.” This is the first incident
of the kind that has happened—since we have had our
breakfast, and yet it is now 9 a.m. £lOOO reward will
be paid for the apprehension of any clergyman who has
not received “ a very handsome testimonial."
* « •
From Friday’s Constantinople cablegram we
learn certain Government officials over there have been
charged with bribery ; that one Mr. Bayazid, an officer of
high standing, has been dismissed, and that it is proved
that this nice little game has been carried on for some
considerable time. How different things are with us ;
and therefore how thankful we should be. “ Interview-
ing Government officials and M’s.P.” evidently “ costs
something" over amongst the “ Turkeys.”
Apropos of nothing how sweetly run the lines
of Valerius Martial:—
“ 'Twas not to be honest I Lesbia taught.
But whatever she did, to never le cauqht.“
Poor Bayazid I he didn’t know Valerius.
* * *
It is the custom in some Catholic churches—
say over Spitzbergen side—to charge extra (and
stiffly too) whenever anything unusual in the way of
music is to be perpetrated, or whenever a star preacher
is billed to hold forth on matters theological. Some
festivity of the kind was under weigh not long ago,
when a young lady, a constant frequenter of the
church, marched in and was making tracks for her pew.
A polite verger stepped forth, and blandly observed,
“Excuse me. Miss, it’s two shillings to-day." “In-
deed,” replied the lady with withering scorn, “ pit or
gallery ? ” The choir immediately opened upon Mozart,
and gleefully sang—
“ Oh daughter of sin
Hand over the tin
Or you can’t prance in,
A—min."
Our next innovation will probably be the gentle youth
who waltzes round with his apples, oranges, lemonade,
and a programme.
• • •
Just to balance the above, we add that a “ dead-
beat ’’ once happened to stray into a Protestant church
—in a sister colony, of course, for occurrences of the
undermentioned kind don’t happen in Sydney. The
usher on duty passed the seedy one by as if he were an
unfumigated man from Sussex-street, but the style in
which well-dressed persons were handed into the best
seats would have reminded one of Chesterfleldor Palmer,
ston in their politest humour. Seeing this, the man of
rags walked up to the scented usher, and meekly asked.
Can you tell me whose church this is, sir ? " “ This,”
replied the official, as he carefully held his nose; “this
is the—aw—Church of Christ." “Ah," said the
josser,” “ and is he in at present P " He got a seat—
far back.
• • •
The small young man who has to stand on a brick
to sip the nectar from his flft. beloved’s lips, and to roost
«n a fence to gaze into her starry eyes, can scent joy in
the breeze at last. Milner Stephen has just blown the
leg of one George Simmonds 8} inches longer than its
usual average length. This is rough on the “revised,”
which doubts if a man can add to bis height one cubit.
• « •
Latest bulletins from the Quarantine shambles :
Monday—“ Smith died last night; Brown, Jones, and
Robinson are doing well."
Tuesday—“ Brown died last night; Jones and Robinson
are doing well."
Wednesday—“ Jones died last night; Robinson is doing
well.”
Thursday—“ Robinson died last night.”
Friday—“ Robinson, who died on Wednesday evening,
was buried last night.”
Saturday—“ Quarantine station now perfectly free from
disease."
* * *
Government always does business in a business-
like manner. The other day, an ass —we mean, a horse
—employed in the Postal service injured its leg, and was
handed over to an auctioneer for sale. The horse realised
half-a-crown, and so did the auctioneer —for commission.
Result —a clean balance-sheet.
« « *
Judging by the number of the “ chosen race ”
on hand, one would imagine our Government offices
were Synagogues, and the first of each month a sort of
Pass Over festival. This reminds us that our deeply
lamented friend, Mr. Cato, senior, once observed that
it was fixed by the laws of Rome that a thief should be
condemned to restore double and a usurer quadruple of
their ill-gotten gains. And, as the old man afterwards
pointedly remarked, “ we thus see how much worse it is
for a citizen to be a money-lender than a thief.” This
is good for Cato—but bad for thieves.
• • •
He returned, bearded and bronzed, to visit bis
Alma Mater, Again to tread the old familiar corridors.
Again to gaze at the mild, pleasant face of the old Pro-
fessor. His old room was occupied by a Divinity
student, they told him ; but he should see it again.
Oh, yes. He was soon ushered into the presence of the
D.S., who was studying the Revised Edition. “Ah,”
he said, “ there is no change here I The same old books
—the same old walls—the same curtains over the old
recess," he murmured, moving over and drawing it
aside, to behold a blushing face and fairy form—“ Yes,"
he softly said, “ and the same old game I ” " Oh," said
the D.S., “ I quite forgot: that’s my sister I ” This, of
course, did not happen in Sydney.
* * *
Recent “ Amurrikun ” papers “blow” high
about what they call a marvellous feat of telegraphy.
This feat simply consisted in telegraphing 83,000 words
of the “revised edition” over 21 lines in 7 hours.
What on earth is there to howl about over this ? We
can find a dozen girls here who can do that marvellous
feat, and flirt with four counter customers, and work
carpet slippers, and friz up their back hair at the same
time. Forty-flve words a minute is the pace of the he-
male clickers in Sydney.
# * #
A Sussex-street man, living in an infected house,
was lately asked if he would rather have his furniture
fumigated by the sanitary corps or merely burnt. He
chose fumigation ; but is sorry now that he didn’t have
the property fired, as he could at least have made a
shilling or two by the sale of the charcoal.
* * ♦
Here’s a clip from a recent London journal,
which clearly proves that we Australians don't monopo-
lize exactly all the official frauds this world contains: —
Scene —Public hospital. Patient: Please, sir ”
Doctor: Don’t talk, my good woman, here’s a ticket—
go and get your medicine." Patient: (Who wants to
explain vohat ails her) “ But, sir, I suffer " Doctor :
Of course, you do—don’t we all suffer P Here’s your
ticket ( throwing it to her). Now, next patient—up you
come—don’t be all day over it." This woman had
heart-disease in its worst form, and yet her medicine
was ladled out of the same jug from which a boy had
just been dosed for chilblains. No wonder English
people want to come to Sydney. And when they do get
here, isn’t it strange how soon they want to clear for
home again P Such things never happen here.
* # *
“ Enquirer” writes to say he has a “ fiver” to
spare, and he would be glad to know which is the
houestest sport to put it on. We don’t know. Now-a-
days, there is a tinge of roguery running through all
professions—excepting, of course, the legal. Choosing
the least of all evils, however, we advise “ Enquirer"
to lay out his cash on a cock-fight. Of course, the
owner may be bought, but the cock himself seldom sells
a match, and never gets six lengths behind or fights
foul. This is a “ goak.”
• * *
Dr. Physiologist Simms says there is no sphere
now occupied by man which cannot just as ably be
filled by woman. Now, hold on, Dr. Simms. Bight
here we “ call yon up." What about the Sunday pants
of the Hon. John P Did you ever meet a maiden
fair that could—but (d la Holloway)—let us dissemble.
Doctor, it’s too thin—the woman, we mean—not the
pants.
* * #
We understand that a motion is on foot to present
Inspector Seymour with a horse and buggy, as a mark of
appreciation, by the commercial community, of the In-
spector’s efforts in arresting the spread of small-pox. We
also glear that certain persons contemplate, at an early
date, making Dr. O'Connor, of Darlinghurst, also a
present. We do not know for certain, jnst now, the
exact form the testimonial will take, but we are in a
position to state that it will most certainly not consist
of a horse and buggy.
« « •
A certain bush missionary, who, we believe, was
christened either Aminadab or something else, and
who does his evangelistic business on horseback, rode
up to the homestead of a Queensland station on Sun-
day ; and having squared it with the squatter for those
adjuncts to godliness, three square meals and the best
spare bedroom, made his way down to the men’s shed.
But before he had time to ejaculate the usual "Peace
be with you,” a tall stockman gets un from a table upon
which he had been lying, and seizing the reverend
gentleman by the hand, cries, “Hooray! first hawker
we’ve seen these three months. Gimme two pair o'
three-crown moleskins, andabottleof gin." “Brother,”
replied the peripatetic divine, “I belong. Heaven be
praised, to the service ." “ Wha-at!” yelled a
bnllock-driver, who had gone to sleep in the bunk after
drinking a bottle of rum—“ what ? BTong to—(hie I)
circus, do yer ?" Then leaping out. “ Thought so—
(hie I)"—taking both the missionary’s hands—“ Course I
Why—you’re the bloomin’ clown I"
George Arthur Walstab says there will be some
really good fun in the Melbourne Lands when they get
the telephone to work. He remembers the speaking-
tubes at the old office, and how when a late Head of the
Department was standing near him a sepulchral voice
suddenly exclaimed through the tube “It’s no good
asking any more questions. Old Stick-in-the-mud (a
term of endearment for the said Head) has had the case
in hand for a week and is just as wise as when he began."
Q. A. said he couldn’t recognise the voice under any
circumstances.
* * *
A Rockhampton lawyer was recently chased 500
yards by a hungry shark. That courtesy which one
member of a profession expects from another is evi-
dently rather thin up Queensland way.
* * * >
The other day, during the hearing of a case at
Rockhampton District Court, one Charley Ah Sue
slowly walked into the witness-box for some purpose
that will, in all probability, for ever remain a mystery
to the public. Whilst the lawyers were discussing the
mode in which he should be sworn he smiled as in-
scrutably as the Sphinx. Mr. Melbourne vainly
tempted him with many popular styles of emphasising
his testimony, such as the blowing out of a wax-match,
the decapitation of a cook, and the smashing of a
saucer; but he kept on smiling all the harder until the
solicitor lost referred to cried out at the top of his
voice, “What are you P to what church do you belong ?”
Charley instantly answered, with some indignation,
** Me oookee at Lanson's hotel, Westwood."
« * *
The Auckland Presbytery held a meeting, the
other day, to consider a delicate trouble—at one end of
which was a divinity stndent and at the other a woman.
A strapping ten-pound baby was the disturbing element
in the imbroglio. While the case was on, the D.S. was
heard frequently to exclaim, in the language of Bouci-
cault, “0, Father Adam, why didn’t yon die with all
your ribs in your body ? " However, the Presbytery
convicted him of innocence, and decided that it was
some other fellow.
# * m
Private code telegram from a quarantine station,
far away from civilization
" But that I am forbid
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word
Would harrow up thy soul; freeze thy yosng blood ;
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres ;
Thy knotted and conjoined locks to part, and each
particular hair to stand on end.
Like quills upon the fretful porcupine.”
* * *
In {esthetic circles, Pinchgut is now known by
the more euphonious name of “ The Compressed In-
testine.” Pass up the asphodel.
# # *
We cut this out of the Christian Shiver.
Bishop Pearson, of Newcastle, was on a visit to the
house of one of his clergymen, and was at dinner.
** Will you say grace, Mr. ?” said the Bishop.
“ I pray your lordship would say it,” and he said it,
ditto grace after meat. Übiquitous small boy, son of
the curate, who has just entered the room: “ That’s
not the grace pa says.” “No, my little man,” said his
lordship, interestedly; “ then what does he say ?”
He generally says, “Good God, what a dinner!”
* * *
The other day we read in the News that a
person in quarantine telegraphed to the secretary of an
office in which her life was assured that she was not
allowed to write or to send money with which to pay
her premium, and that the obliging secretary imme-
diately wired to her : “We will consider your premium
as paid nntil you return." The secretary, however,
didn’t know then that the odds were exactly fifteen to
one that, if the life premiums of assured people in
quarantine were “ considered paid until their return,"
there wouldn’t be the slightest chance of a dividend
for the shareholders till the blasting of the seven
trumpets.
* # #
He is now a magnate. No matter his rank or
name. Enough to state that he is well, yes
alive. At one time he was a student at the University,
and as a toffee-eater, he acquired much distinction. One
day, while in the pursuit of toffee (or knowledge) ho
perceived in the vicinity of his Alma Mater, “ a face
at the window "
“ Only a face—nothing more."
He looked up at the vision, and after some hesitation
entered the house. It was a poor place, but neat, and
the lady who kept it was poor. “ Where is she ? " he
enquired, hoarsely, diving into his trousers pocket for
a handkerchief and bringing out an apple. The old
lady went upstairs (after having ascertained that his
intentions were honourable) and brought down a young
lady. " Oh, that’s not my one,” said the nndergrad.
Then the old lady sidled out and brought down another
of her daughters. “No joking, old lady, that ain’t her
neither," whined the classical scholar. At last she
did come down, shared the apple with the stricken one,
and took the v hole of his heart Two or three days
later she was sent by him to school, and two or three
years afterwards they were married. That’s all the
history; and it isn’t much, is it? No, it isn’t much,
until—well—until, yon know— wlio they are. The old
original Bosa Bud and Edwin Urood were but a circum-
stance beside Our Edwin and Bosa.
« # #
“ Ivy Fane is the name of the fair one who is
bringing Jim Mace into Court for breach of promise.
She is a ballet-girl, and says the great pugilist promised
to marry her. Jim denies the soft impeachment, and
avers that the utmost extent of their familiarity con-
sisted in his having paid her cab-fare home on one
occasion.”
Jem, who is in town, is politely requested not to call
round at this office. We are out —very much out, just
now.
• « •
A landing waiter was once reported to and
brought before the late Collector of Customs for hav-
ing in his box on the wharf a bottle of gin taken out
of a cask he had been ganging. When asked by the
Collector whether the charge were true, he said, " Yes,
and I think, sir, I was quite justified in taking the liquor.
I have scriptural authority fordoing so, for it is written,
* Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the
corn.”’ The "old man," after remarking that as the
animal concerned was not an ox but an ass, told him to
II go and gin no more.”
* * *
We hope that before our friend John Ferguson,
of the Cumberland Evening Times, gets tried for
criminal libel, he'll look in on us for a little advice,
when we shall be happy to say to him a great many
things that we do not care abont printing. Meanwhile,
we may venture strongly to recommend that, on the
day before the trouble, he go into the Erysipelas Hos-
pital near his office, and select one bed-ridden cripple,
a patient warranted to have three epileptic fits daily,
and a gentleman with a kink in his spine. Then let
him take them pH into Court, and label the first, “ My
Father;” the second, “My Poor Old Uncleand the
third, “My Foster Brother.” This will be a sure card.
If they allow you to challenge, John, do so, until you get
a man to whom you owe a few thousands, and—well,
leave the rest to Providence We don’t say why wo
recommend these things. Everyone in Sydney knows.
• • #
The latest bush horror. Two Inverell men,
named Skinner and Booth, were fishing in the Big
Biver, Keira Bun, on Sunday week, when they were
suddenly pelted with stones of a pound weight or so.
All at once Skinner stepped back a few yards, exclaim-
ing in great terror that he had seen a gorilla, and at
once ran away, till he was recalled by Booth, who then
climbed up on the rocks, and saw what he also alleges
to be a gorilla disappear among the tea-trees and rooks
in the bed of the river. Skinner states that the object
that he saw stood on two feet; its body was covered
with hair; the head and ears were like those of a
monkey ; it had very long arms, and large teeth; the
eyes were very large, about the size of a two-shilling
piece each. Booth avers that its back was covered with
long brown hair, fully five inches in length, and that
its ears were very large. Both of the young men
authenticated a statement to the police, and a search
party went out gorilla-hunting. One of the crowd, who
has returned, says that so far nothing has been dis-
covered except some tracks about the size of a man’s
feet, but different in shape. It’s to be hoped that the
gorilla men haven’t been doubling on their own trail.
We want to hear more of the gorilla. He’s a great im-
provement on the bunyip. Strange to say, no country
editor is reported as missing.
* • •
This is how they do it. When a certain medical
gentleman makes his report to a very distinguished
Government official, the latter stands at the head of
the stairs with a handkerchief to Lis nose, and the
doctor stands at the foot. If, in the excitement of his
Quarantine report, the disciple of Aesculapius mounts
a couple of stairs, the distinguished official calls fran.
tioally out—“ For God’s sake, don’t come nearer 1 Stop
where you are ! Never mind about making it too long.
Very satisfactory I Oh, dead, you say? Dear, oh,
dear I Good bye, good bye”—aud ho is gone like a
dissolving view.
• • •
At Narandera, the other day, a constable went
to arrest a pretty girl for sly-grog selling. When he
got to the house he found her in bed, and she said she
was sick. So he returned with a doctor, who said she
wasn’t ill at all. She refused to go, anyhow, and rolled
herself up in the blankets. After wasting his elo
quence on the blanket bundle and the desert air for a
square four hours, the policeman proceeded, with the
help of the medico, to try and get her things on.
They began the cask at 2 p m., and it was only partially
completed when, at 8, both sat down in the middle of
the room, and bivouacked in an exhausted condition.
The midnight chimes were ringing out before the lady
—who must have heard of Lola Montez and the bailiff—
was completely attired, and, even then, her dress was
on wrong side before, the order of her shoes was re-
versed, and her stays were laced with enough clothes-
line to hang the Kelly gang with The
constable is now looking out for " some light employ-
ment in an office.”
• * *
Sydney is getting civilized. She has a good big
gaol, a penny morning newspaper, a quarantine station,
and now she can boast a Matrimonial News. A copy
of this paper is before us, and wo have studied its con-
tents with much interest. It is styled a “ family
journal,” and boasts of four or five columns of reading
matter, embodying a tale, called " The Disguised
Lover ” (who, by-the-way, is so disguised that you take
him all along for a policemanl, an article on “ Broken
Hearts,” and somer" wit and humour "—consisting of
" Circus wheezes.” Besides this, there are some two
or three answers to correspondents, some of which are
more than deliciously too. Bead this: —“ Beauty.—
There is no way of getting rid of a tawny complexion;
but if you wash yourself regularlr, and spend a good
deal of time in the open air, yet not in the full blaze of
the sun, you will have done all that can be done to clear
the complexion." A paper can’t expect to get on which
treats its correspondents like this. The inference, of
course, is that if Beauty had washed herself regularly,
she wouldn’t have troubled the editor. We don’t like
ladies who don’t wash. Then again :— ** E.B. —Very
true. If every man’s breast could be looked into, there
would be fonnd the image of some woman.” We don't
wish to enquire who ‘‘E.B." is, though we have our
suspicions. Anyhow, we like this answer, because there
is something poetic about it. If you looked into some
men’s ber-reasts. and found “ the image of a woman,"
what curious associations of long beers, and steak and
onions, she would be associated with 1 Once more:—
“ Buffs —Treat the young ladies, whose persevering
admiration is obnoxious to your feelings of propriety,
as Joseph did Potiphar’s wife—flee from them." Very
good advice, old man, but some of us are not so rich os
you, and haven’t got an nlster to throw away. Wo
wonder who the editor of this weekly classic is, and
how he occupies his spare time ! There seems a pro-
bability that, when he isn’t editing the paper, he edits a
sausage-machine.
• • •
The Camden Times is going ahead. It has
come out with a “ loader ” on servants that is really a
most remarkable literary production. The writer, dis-
missing policemen from his thoughts, commences with
this epigrammatic burst: —“ Whatever is coming over
the servants?" Alluding to giddy handmaids, he indig-
nantly remarks : " Those class of servants are generally
‘fast,’ and extravagantly lay out their money on all
sorts of finery instead of putting by for a rainy day.”
He concludes that they are, as a rule, more “ grandly
robed "than the lady of the house, “ but," he eloquently
observes, " thank goodness, we can *5ll the mistress by
her superior education," Now, mark this mingled dig-
nit? and common sense: “ Having so m noh fine apparels
(sic), the servants seek every opportunity of getting a
holiday in order to display their finery." So they do,
great author I But what do you mean when you say
that they "learn the piano, besides taking the same
liberties as their employers’ sons and daughters ’’ ?
It appears to us that—but we feel we are are on delicate
ground. We have read this article three or four times,
and are much exercised as to the identity of the gifted
author. We can’t settle in our minds whether it is by a
Swede or a Chinaman
• » •
For some time past, it has taken two inspectors
and the secretary of the Victorian Lands Department
all they could do to see that the junior officers didn’t
take more than half an hour for their lunch; but none of
them could discover that the accountant was a trifle
out in his finance—a mere matter of £2OOO or so. That
sort of surveillance was beneath their dignity.
• # •
There is a beautiful church in the North to
which belong a fine organ and a peal of bells. At
evening service lately the organ became unruly, and got
all the best of the man in charge. It played in several
keys at once, attempted unheard-of variations, would
not stop when required, and tried its full power to
drown the vocal part of the service. When the plate
was passed and being deluged with pence and three-
penny pieces, the instrument broke out (in spite of the
man in charge) into the beautiful in-voluntary, entitled
“ Hand out your dimes ’’! and could not be stopped
until ten minutes after that important ceremony had
been concluded. Supposed cause—an overdose of
ohlorodyne.
The best portraits of the Princes yet published
are those which accompany this month’s issue of our
lively contemporary, Queensland Punch. They are
exact reproductions of photos, by Boyd.
“ Eli,” to be given by Sydney Musical Union,
on the 17th inst., should be the greatest musical treat
ever afforded to the Sydney public. The orchestra
and chorus are enlarged, and the principals are perfect.
The soprano part is to be sustained by Miss Annis
Montague, whose excellence is well understood; the
contralto part by Miss Marie St. Clair, who created so
much enthusiasm by her rendering of the same roll
great some time ago in Sy dn ey. Mr. Turner should make a
hit with the famous tenor solo. “ Philistines, mark I"
and the bass is entrusted to Mr. John Bushelle, whose
artistic rendering of the part in Melbourne completely
won the admiration of the local critic*. The small but
grateful part of the " Man of God" is to bo sustained
by Mr. E. J. Hollingdale.
Writes a back-blocks correspondent:—That ,£lO
clause for wayside pubs, in the proposed new Licensing
Act will be very mischievous. Already here, a fellow
not satisfied with having one public-house on his selec-
tion has started building a second, scarcely thirty yards
distant from the first, I think a clause should be in-
serted to provide that no roadside public-honse in the
bush should be nearer than ten miles to another. Pubs,
in the back country are not kept for the accommoda-
tion of travellers, but merely for the purpose of swind-
ling unwary bushmen and shearers out of their hard-
earned cheques. What with drunken whites and
blacks, and fighting, gambling, foul language, and other
such proceedings, these places ore to be compared to
nothing but so many lesser hells upon earth, and it
would be a good thing for the country at large were
they done away with altogether. These matters are
managed better in South Australia and Queensland; at
least lambing-down shanties are not in those colonies
allowed to exist everywhere.
A while ago she was his love,
Bat now she is his bane;
Her little name was Ivy, and
He worshipped at her Fane,
He —of all modern heroes, sirs.
There's ne’er been one like hint !
Book in the " County Gentry,” and
You’ll find his name is—" Jem.’’
Jem what ?—Well, all his cognomen
We will not now define;
We’ll merely say his (fender was
Exceeding Hace-culine.
She danced— he glanced; yes, o’er her form
Jem’s “ peeper” long did roam
He sought her out, and, fatal act!
He—paid her cab-fare home.
“ How sweet of you, dear James,” she cried,
•' To do this tender thing;
It’s proper, too: no man knows more
Than you about the ring/’
And then her soft and loving look
Pierced his heart, with a lunge.
It was a knock-down blow, and so
Poor Jem threw up the sponge.
Long months passed by, and then James thought
She wasn’t so sublime j
And when he made appointments, he
Did not" come up to time.”
“ Oh, fickle one,” cried Ivy Fane
(And then she called him names);
“ You’ll be all mine ; for I’ll not be
Content with “ half a James.”
The fight began—but, oh, alas.
For little Ivy Fane 1
At the commencement Jem “drew oft”
And—ne’er came back again.
The sequel we, of course, can’t tell.
Although we have the will;
But p'rhaps the girl who once was dear
Will turn out dearer still.


Public Companies
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUE
ance company.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND
Agents,
348 QEOKGE-STKEET,
SIDNEY.
CO.,
The mutual assurance society of
YICTOBIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870,
NEW SOUTH WALES BEANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PEOFITS of the--
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance,
WM. MASSON
Eesident Secretary.
tncomes ASSURED.
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING AND COMMER-
CIAL. PEOVIDENT SOCIETY, Limited.
This Society provides a certain fixed allowance for its
members when thrown out of employment.
Medical attendance during sickness ; assistance in old'
age, and when incapacitated from following any employ-
ment through disease or accident j and in special cases of
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence to procure them
suitable re-engagements.
For further particulars, apply to
G. HOETON MORRIS,
Secretary,
W entworth-court,
Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Applications for Agencies invited.
Photographers
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) PHOTOQEAPHEE
805 GEOEGE STEEET,
Opposite the Kailway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s fid per dozen.
BOABTY’S STUDI.O,
m
gs -1 i
-■
lIKm
m
m
m
604 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T.
H A R Y E
WHEELWEIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDEE, &o.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DEATS, SEEING CAETS,
BUSINESS CAETS, LOEEIES, Ac.
Eailway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Eailway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. F, MUKPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
S
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
B
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
RITISH [PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent'House, 869,George-street South.
J 3 APE R HANGING SI WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street[South.
WHITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
&c., Ac.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 889 George-street South.
iLATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Public Companies
The meecantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Seßerve Fund £116,894
DIEECTOES:
The Hon, Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S, Caird, Esq.
Hob. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlev King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Soroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGEE:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECEETAETs
Hector Allen.
BEANCHES:
687 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hill, and Eedfem.
LONDON BANKEES:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
S
COTTISH
IMPERIAL
COMPANY.
INSURANCE
CAPITAL
£1,000,000.
PIEE EISKS AT LOWEST BATES,
INGLIS. NIXON, & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BEIDGE STEEET CHAMBEES.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
O T I C E,
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES &o.
R.
R K
N.
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STEEET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarkot.
Forty years’ testimony for cure
OF INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS.
“ This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
omplaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
a iffering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Carroll,
“ 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney.
" Nov. 24,1879.’*
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes, Is. 6d., 35., and 4s. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS & P ARKES, Herbalists,
240 Qeorge-street.
M
ELBOURNE CU*>. 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT Jgl EACH.
Bankers —National Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
ABOUT 250 FRIZES.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horte
Other Starters (divided)
Non-Starters (divided)
Ten Prizes at £lOO each ... ...
Twenty Prizes at £5O each
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each
£l5OO
£7OO
£4OO
£l5OO
£2700
£lOOO
£lOOO
£l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques; bat P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes ©n all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
HA. ABBOTT.
• bookseller and stationer,
106 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
(five doors FROM PITT street).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
1
jpHHHBH
vsy I vy 0
\M
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultura
Show, 1877,1881. Do., Bathurst, Qoulburn, Mudgee*
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
COLLa
MANUFACTOET:
N-ACCOBD
WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches! Stores, &o.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much c'eaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace j
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
The “ CHRISTIANIA.’
Mediaeval Pattern (reg.J
Various othee Patterns.
HEAVY GAS BILES.
WILLIAM SUGGS'
CELEBRATED PATENT GAS BURNERS
GIVE A
BRILLIANT WHITE SILENT LIGHT.
FLAT-FLAME, SELF-REGULATING BURNERS, for preventing waste of
Gas and Flaring.
With 5 cubic feet of Gas, the ordinary Fish-tail and Bats-wing Burners give a
light only equal to from 6 to 8 spermaceti candles, while the PATENT CHRIS-
TIANA FLAT FLAME BURNER, with self-acting governor for maintaining
uniformity of nressure, consuming 5 cubic feet of Gas per hour, GIVES A
LIGHT EQUAL TO 16 SPERMACETI CANDLES, or, at least, 100 per cent,
more light for the same quantity of Gas consumed.
All Burners ana Globes bear the Trade Marks.
Gold Medal, Paris, 1878; the only Medal for Gas Burners, at York, 1879; Bronze
Medal, London, 1862, &0., &c.
SOLE AGENT —W. MONTAGU COWARD,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
fxi HOS. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFOUNDERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIHE INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY’S
Fine Blended Indian TEAS
Are without doubt the PUREST and CHEAPEST ever
offered to the Public.
EVERYONE OUGHT TO TRY THEM.
To be obtained at
7C5 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTE AIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO,


Prospectus
PR O S P E
of the
ORANGE SLAUGHI
and
NEW SOUTH WALES FROZE!
COMPANY, LIMP
Capital j £50,000, in 10,000 shares of
to increase to £lOO,
■£l per share upon application, £1 ]
ment, Ist Call of £1 three mon
and calls not to exceed £1 per t
of not less than three months,
Provisional Direct
A. T. Kerr, Esq., M.L.A., Wei]
James Dalton, Esq, J.P. (Ds
and Sidney.)
Edward Heaton, Esq. (Wrigh
Limited.)
Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., Gai
John A. Gardiner, Esq., J.P., G
T. L, .Richardson, Esq,, J.P,, I
James Richmond, Esq., J P., I
H. C. White, Esq , J.P , Glenal
J. B. Bundle, Esq., J.P,, Pome
James Rutherford, Esq., J.P.,
George Lee, Esq., J.P , Leehol
F. A. Wright, Esq. (Wright,
Limited.)
F. H. Moore, Esq. (Dalgety, B 1
Walter R. Hall, Esq , J.P. (Col
Tho i as Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Da
T, F. Waller, Esq. (represen
trough and Co )
William Allison, Esq., jun., J.l
Banters :
AUSTRALIAN JOINT ST(
Brokers:
CLEMENTS and M'CARTHY, Ba
BURKE, COULSON, and L
Orange and Sydney
C. J. BUCKLAND, Exchange, Syd
This Company is being re-form(
acquiring additional capital, to ana
extend operations rendered iaipera
ing demands made upon them foi
with prime meat, and to freeze s
graziers’ account, for the English i
For full particulars of freehold 1
previous issues of this paper, and
the Sydney Mail, Town and
Queenslander, and Australasian
Investors may confidently expc
rate of 15 per centum per annum.
Deposits on shares will be receivi
Joint Stock Bank, head office, bra
throughout the colonies, and by th
furnish prospectuses on applicatii
information about the Company.
Tobacconist
J.EVE . TOBACCOI
JAMES E 1
No. 149 KING S
(Opposite Theatre Royal St£
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars oi
Pipes mounted and amb
149 KING STRE:
SMOKE
EUREKA ClGii
MILD, FRAGRANT,
Chemists and Dn
\ POTHECABH
14 OXFORD STR:
Near Hyde Park (
(N.B. —The Tram-car stoj
W.*D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEI
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne*
W. D. E. thanks the public an<
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Irrespective of Club prescript!©:
has dispensed 34,600 original pres<
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THI
Every prescription is CAREPU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbei
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the foil*
EAMES’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite ai
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGE ST]
For severe cases where the gastr
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTI
Which relievo the bowels gently, a
naturally healthy functions
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6
PREPARED ONLI
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Department of 1
Sydney, 301
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take deliverj
tioned Gold Mining Lease withi
this date, it will be declared voi
Tumut and Adelong Mini
No. 95; John Real and another
county of Wynyard, parish of H
Application No., Adelong 49.
Chemists and Dm
CAUTION. —In our style o
sudden changes of tempei
and sunshine often intermingle(
it is no wonder that our ohil
relatives are so frequently tak
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Be
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a
and perhaps death, by the us
doses For curing Consumpti
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cn
of the Throat or Lungs, its sue*
derful, as your druggist wil
Syrup is now sold in every t
this continent. Sample bottl
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into ]
two years ago, where thousands
—and one year in Sydney; and son
of Rheumatism have been cured
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long sta
Acnte Head, Tooth, and Bar A
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured h
HEAD OPPICI
89 WATERLOO-BOAD,
and
107 CABTLEREAGH SXRE]
S. W. GAMBLE, Prc
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESAL]
STREET, SYDNI
MANZ ANITA FRI
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented I
Thousands of people in Sydney h
have been cured of Biliousness, I;
ness, Sick Headaches, and all com
deranged sngestive organs.
Head Office : 89 W ATERLOO I
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STB
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLE
PITT STREET, SY:
Hall of pi
(Late Felmingha
78 KING ST.
Dispensing Establish
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, 5
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Med
English marked price. All articlei
D. HALE, K
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOR
indigest:
AND
STOMACH COMPL.
**• They are also much recommi
tive for Females, being safe, genl
their operation, leaving no dispos
and being free from any tendenc
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLO
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEIi
OXFORD STREET
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GREAT LIVER I
And successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all Noj
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disor
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
Easiness Announ
S
LJuEGAL.J
SORTER, FITZGERALI
SOLICITOI
69 CASTLEREAGH STEE]
and
MACQUARIE STREET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOR, has oo
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
EA N D F. W.
• DEAUQHTSM
AND
Engravers on
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GI
All matters carried out promptly
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH BTRI
H. A E
V T • PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 345 Rent-street, NEi
SOLE AGENT for the underm enti
E. Whittingham & Co.'s Lond(
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria <
Swallow A ArielTs Victorian B
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi]
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Coi
A. M. Hunt A Co.’s Goulbum 1
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET. net
AVI D M
14, Hunter-street, Sj
SADDLER AND HAENE
By special appeintn
To his Royal Highness the Dukt
Excellency the Eight Hon. tl
His Excellency Sir Hercules E
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.O.
Best Coursing Material of Newes
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Qentlen
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
QHEAPEST AND EES’:
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA!
HAY STREET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally ches
Go d packed and delivered free i
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS Lll
WITH.
AG. C H U R C
• 147 YORK ST E
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUPi
Coffee, Peppers, Spit
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE II
for Liverpool and Black Hors
Choicest Sage and Majoram on h
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAT TICKETS. |
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHUEST.


rjiHE
INDIAN TEA
ROOMS.
PURE FRAGRANT INDIAN TEA,
Fresh from the Gardens, grown under European gnpor.
vision, and sold in Original Packages, 101 b and upwards.
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses, and Price Lists on
Applio ition.
Special Bates for Large Orders.
A delicious Tea in the cup. No Chinese admixtures.
Goes twice as far as the best Chinese teas.
We challenge comparison with our INDIAN TEAS
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and Analyses, against all
or any of the China teas imported this season.
INGIIS, NIXON, & CO.,
INDIAN PRODUCE MERCHAN TS.
INSURANCE AND GENERAL AGENTS,
7 Bridge-street Chambers.
gYDNEY LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Having secured the services of Mr. JEFF. BUCK-
LAND, well-known in Victoria and Rivcrina as a Live
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assure my friends and
all interested in the SALE of FAT or STORE STOCK,
and STATION PROPERTIES, that every attention
shall be directed to this branch of the business; and I
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite sure that the prae-
tical knowledge, attention, and straightforwardness
which have made my Wool and Produce Business such
a success, will entitle me to the confidence of all who
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and in the City twice
a week; allowances made on all Stock or Stations in-
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales handed over twice
a week, or when required on days of sale.
Further information if applied for.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MASON BROTHERS,
14. & 16 Spring Street r
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'"
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. GATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
(
\
i/?n
&A/£-yr
IE WELLE W/\TC'q P/U \T
->—iy|ADE -fO* **
fICURE£, SfoCl\,Wev/ DEpICIJjS.
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Lew prices.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
a.
■
So ■
r;
/mm
liSu
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLHYEL,
COLLARD and COLLABD,
SOUFLETO,
BERDEN and CO.,
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and CO„
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN 00.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PETE ot FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET
SYDNEY..
Take no more pills
but try
EANDEBSON'S
FODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES.
Bo you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES I
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend “I’BSON'S^E^OI
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Banderson’s
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Arc any'of your children ,5t iat any time P Tou
can safely give then, one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Bemembei this, and always keep a box of hi*
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD BOW and COMPANT
45 and 47 Qeorge-street.
B
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to bo
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Mutter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN TEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding Its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such install*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it and
JOBEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chopped
bands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, add all
oaaualities attending the hnman frame saconmb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDEE OF THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cored by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
■on’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have Immediate relief by applying Josephson’e
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josepbsou's Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures It has
affected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the largo and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pu e green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants fro « which it is made,
and totally free from any and all c sterions and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—«
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW A COMPANT.
Hoi
iiiiH
-
hi"
i.ig.:
. g::
R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
* ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
rams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRT
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET
B
URKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBEOKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
1H PITT STREET, STDNET
And ORANGE.
m
m
3£
QBE
cEKItWAb
vn
RES
GU
i t*
ALL
ggTTHERS.:
*1
Rn
«1, cp V
uu
‘-iL-vrvifc
iii
iisiiiiiM
- UjfUlW/JH
,!. 11l lll'i
1
r *-
. i: i 111
■■■i'
fe)l .jwmn«uii-l*
■MS
whj sr£aw>tiwmsi: :;„i
tSffißwmim
ii-S 'I W.W »Mv» . w . *SXZ‘ t
, 1, Nil. mmT.;
MDAW
. ; K I
n&wmm
irrssB®
■
J'-Afc
AClll
SI •
JL
X-»IB\ ,i
- <v’^-
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOB ONE MONTH ONLY.
SOWING BROTHERS’
332 ft 800
GEORGE STREET.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foxe’a Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five oases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
SOWING BROTHERS’ READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
GEORGE STREET. shrunk and well out. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30a.
ATT. GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD JOE NETT CASH ONLY.
GOW I N G BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
M
AKE TOUR PUECHASBS
AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving fall information respecting economi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £26
Houses furnished for £35
Hanses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £290
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 k 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clook for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
{jmE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
Jgj ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HATMARKET.
H Y.
HNM U R P
(Late J. Mcrphi A Sou)
IMPORTER OP
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
GLASS (all sizes out
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paporhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tax
Cement, Ac., Ac.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
James Stanley, inventor of the bicycle, is dead.
“ Rolf Boldrewood” is, it is said, engaged on a
new novel.
The shooting of President Garfield greatly
shocked Mrs. Abraham Lincoln.
The will of the late Marcus Clarke has been
proved in Melbourne,—the amount, £99 !
On 25th October next, Queen Victoria will have
reigned exactly as long as did Queen Elizabeth.
Te Whiti has turned Greyite, and is prophesy-
ing the fall of the N.Z. Government in five months.
The Ministry continue to be anxious about the
health of Sir Henry Parkes. And well they may be
They live on him.
Before the Victorian Police Commission, Captain
Standish failed to substantiate some of his charges
against Mr. Nicholson.
Mr. Andrew Thredgold, an old Far Northern
identity, who was at one time Mayor of Cooktown, died
last week at South Brisbane.
Mr. Joseph Clayton, for nearly 40 years Sydney
City Treasurer, has resigned owing to ill health. Mr.
Lines will probably succeed to the appointment.
Mr. W. Ashmead-Burdett-Coutts-Bartlett is a
good speaker, and has been complimented by George
Augustus Sala for his “ polished and graceful oratory."
The Melbourne Herald goes baldheaded for
the O’Loghlen Ministry. Perhaps Mr. S. Y. Winter,
who is an Irishman, hopes to get the Government
Printership.
Mr. E. G. Cronin, late Superintendent ef Roads
at Bowenfels, has been presented with a gold watch,
purse of sovereigns, and illuminated address, prior to
transference to Hay.
The statement concerning the death of the wife
of Mr. George Thorn, junr.,of Queensland, which lately
appeared in the press, is altogether unfounded. Mrs.
Thorn is alive and well.
Victoria is getting along very well without
Berry, but Berry doesn’t get along half as well without
Victoria. He prances no more, and is said to write
daily let'ers to Boss Syme.
Mias Gladstone, daughter of the Premier, is
shortly to be married to Dean Lake. The lady’s brother
is to marry a daughter of tbe late Lord Huntingtower,
sister of the present Earl of Dysart.
Mr. Joseph Flude, lecturer at and superinten-
dent of the Ballarat School of Mines, is now on a visit
to Charters Towers, collecting specimens representative
of that splendidly auriferous district.
A movement is on foot in England to raise a
fund to compensate Herr Most, who rejoiced in his
journal over the assassination of the Czar. It is to be
presented to him on the day of his liberation.
A French paper asserts that Baron Magnus,
late German Minister at Copenhagen, who was recalled
in consequence of his attendance at a banquet given to
Sarah Bernhardt, has died in a lunatic asylum.
Edmund Galley, to whom the Imperial Parlia-
ment has voted £lOOO as compensation in regard to his
wrongful conviction and transportation (or murder
forty years ago, is employed as a shepherd near Yass.
Osmond, of Stawell, Victoria, had scarcely a
shirt to his back 20 years ago, and is now worth half a
million. He has just returned from a visit to Scot-
land, steaming out in his own yacht, the “ Cushie
Doo.”
Professor Andrew is likely to be appointed to
the new chair of Natural Philosophy, if that be created,
at Melbourne University. The Professor is married to
a daughter of Mrs. Fisher, the well-known musical
critic of this city.
James Tyson’s clip in the Balranald district
alone is this year valued at £lOO,OOO. His properties
there are worth a million sterling, yet all these stations
rolled into one would not make a selection on his Queens-
land principalities.
Mr. C. L. Lockton, the amateur sprinter who
has made his name famous in England as an athlete, is
n native of Launceston, Tasmania, where he was born
in July, 1856, and is now a clerk in the Vote-office of
the House of Commons.
Agg, ex-accountant in the Lands Department,
Vic., has pleaded guilty of forgery and embezzlement,
and been sentenced to two years’ hard labour. He had
been 30 years in the service; loses his compensation
(£1500) and ruins his family by his act.
In the recent Melbourne railway accident, Mr.
Jerry Dwyer, the barrister and aspiring M.L.A., sat be-
tween Messrs. Bailliere and Garrett. They were both
killed, yet he was uninjured. The Fates are evidently
disposed to make Jerry Premier of Victoria one day.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen is an artful bird. Fancy
his securing- Macbain as his dry nurse in the Treasury,
just to show him how to work it. The worthy Mac. is
as good a fellow as ever breathed, and an honest, but if
ever there was a “ money-changer in the house of the
Lord,” it’s the Hon. James.
Mr. Coote, in cross-examination by Mr. Griffith,
Q.C., in the Evangelical Standard case, at Brisbane,
said that “ By a writer for the Press he meant a man
who wrote on any side he was paid for ; by a journalist
he meant one who wrote according to his convictions."
There is no such distinction recognised by the Press.
The Akaroa paper records the death at the age
of 77 of M. Brietmayer, one of the pioneers of the
French expedition to Akaroa, when it was fondly hoped
New Zealand would be made a French colony. The de-
ceased landed at Akaroa in 1840, in the Comte de Paris,
three days after the English Jag had been planted
there.
Bishop O’Quinn, of Brisbane, leaves his per-
sonal property and effects and library at his residence
to his successor, stipulating that they shall be handed
down to each bishop in succession, and used for charit-
able and educational objects, excepting in the building
of churches and support of clergymen. The Bishops
of Bathurst and Maitland are the executors of the will.
When King Kalakaua, of the Sandwich Islands,
was in New York, the bill for drinks presented by tbe
alderman who had him in charge filled topers with
wonder and admiration. But his bibulous feats in
London, where he at present carries on “ potations
pottle deep,” are said to distance his New York
achievement, and throw Fritz Emmett entirely into the
shade
Mr. G. H. Batten, an old Victorian colonist,
very well known in the literary world as a constant
contributor to scientific magazines, is dead Mr.
Batten was one of the leading members of the Victorian
Convention under the presidency of the late Wilson
Gray. He was exceedingly well-read, and was on terms
of intimate correspondence with some of the most
eminent men of the day.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke —an exceedingly good-
hearted fellow, by the way—has suggested to his many
friends that, in future, he would like to “ do his ban.
quets ”by proxy. He’s not exactly in want of a dinner
himself, and he is sure there are plenty of fellows who
are. If they don’t carry out this idea, he’ll have to
advertise for a new stomach, as his own can’t stand it
much longer. Bent is of the same opinion.
®Mr. James Condon ; of Stony Creek, Jamberoo,
a very old colonist, died last week, aged 79. Mr. Con-
don was a native of Limerick, Ireland, which he left
for this colonv when but 17, and had for the greater
part of his 62 years’ colonial career resided in the
Illawarra district, where he was numbered among the
many worthy patriarchs and pioneers of civilization
still left amongst us. He leaves eleven children and
over sixty grand-children.
Mr. John Ferguson, proprietor of the Cumber-
land Evening Times, has been committed for trial on
a charge of having criminally libelled Mr. Henry
Byrnes, J.P., by publishing a letter reflecting on prose-
cutor’s conduct as chairman of a bench which recently
adjudicated on a certain “ consultation ” case under
the Gaming Act. It does not appear to have been
denied that the signature attached to the letter was
that of the real writer, yet prosecutor filed an informa-
tion against the printer instead of against the origina-
tor of the alleged libel.
A well-known and popular soft-goods man and
an eminent “ bookmaker’" are, going to law. The
metallioian asserted in a leading hotel, the other night,
in the presence of a numerous company, that the rag-
man owed him a tenner. The latter denied the obli-
gation in toto, whereupon the knight of the pencil
made some very derogatory remarks, which he would
now no doubt be gl id to recall. The merchant, who is
burly, and could have mashed up his’ friend, who is
slight, kept his temper admirably—but has since issued,
or is about to issue, a writ for slander.
Lefroy, for the alleged murder of Mr. Gold, will
be tried at Lewes during the November assizes. The
Newcastle Chronicle published a letter from the
accused, written in April, asserting that he was a eon-
tributor to several American j ournols. Lefroy’s relatives
are highlf respectable, but have disowned him for some
time, and the Crown will have to provide a counsel for
the defence, which will probably be insanity.
The prisoner's grandfather died in a madhouse at Malta.
His relatives, and his associates on the Era (for which
he was a penny-a-liner), look upon Lefroy as more of a
rogue than a fool.
The life of the Pakeha-Maori, John Marmon,
who died a little time since, is shortly to be published
in N.Z. Marmon, who was the son of a convict, and
was born in Sydney in 1798, had a wonderfully adven-
turous career. He joined a bushranging gang in Tas-
mania, escaped from thence, and made bis way, for the
third time, to New Zealand, in 1819. Since then, he
has lived amongst the Maories as one of themselves,
joining in their war expeditions, and acquiring a power-
ful influence over the native mind; indeed, he became a
savage among savages—a white cannibal. He took an
active and obstructive part in the Treaty of Waitangi.
Mr. William Pinucane, late clerk in the Lands’
office, Brisbane, succeeds Mr Barron as chief clerk and
accountant in the Queensland Police Department. Mr.
Pinucane is son of the late Colonel Pinucane, and is an
accomplished gentleman. Many years of his childhood
and youth were passed with his father in Italy, and he
speaks the lingua Toscana like a native. Mr. Finuoane
is an old member of the Q. Civil Service. For a couple
of years he was Lands Agent at Normanton, in the Gulf
country, where his health suffered from ague. For
many years past, however, he has been in the Lands
office at Brisbane, where his genial disposition has made
him greatly liked.
Mr. John Whitty, who was foreman of the jury
which in 1848 tried Sir Charles Gavan (then Mr.) Duffy,
editor of the Nation, under the Treason Felony Act,
died last week in Melbourne. Mr. Whitty at the
time carried on the business of a tailor, in College
Green. The jury, by eleven to one, were in favour of a
conviction, but the solitary juryman who was for an
aquittal, Mr. Martin Bourke, proprietor of the Shel-
bourne Hotel, in Stephen’s Green, where Dr. Beaney, of
Melbourne, put up during his stay in the Irish capital—
vehemently declared that he would “ eat his boots"
rather than find the traverser guilty. The jury having
disagreed, the Government never followed up the pro-
secution. Mr. Whitty has been engaged in the business
of hotel-broking, and in other pursuits in Melbourne.
Mr. James Munro, secretary to the Victorian
Permanent Building Society, the biggest of its kind in
these colonies, gets £lOOO a-year, and the committee
think that under the circumstances he should not dis-
port himself in the flowery field of politics, but devote
his entire time to the society’s business. James, how-
ever, utterly repudiates such an obligation, and rays
that he has a right to do what he likes with his leisure
time. It was agreed at a recent meecing that Mr.
Munro’s position as a member of Parliament neces-
sarily compelled him to “devote some time during the
day to thinking over the matters to be dealt with by
Parliament at night; ” but it is now cynically pointed
out that the secretary belongs to the radical party,
which never thinks lest it should be ashamed of itself.
When the remains of Cavalier Luigi Marinucci,
late Italian Consul in Victoria, were interred at St.
Kilda cemetery last week, an Italian gentleman pro-
nounced at the grave a eulogy of the deceased, in his
native tongue. There was a multitude present, in-
cluding many ladies, and the liquid tones of the
speaker, and the music of the language itself, strangely
affected even the mass of hearers, who knew not what
was being said. The patriotism of Marinucci and his
eminent father, and the friendship of England and
Italy, were the chief points dwelt upon. Signor Sar-
fatti, the Italian Commissioner, also spoke, as did
others, including Mr. E. Q. Fitzgibbon. The tablet to
Signor Marinucci is inlaid at the foot of the beautiful
memorial which he erected over his wife, who died at
the early age of 28. The Signor, who did not survive
her long, was about 45 at the time of his decease.
The World, the most “ rekerky ” amongst
London society papers, has an article headed “ Our
Mr. Wales," in which it speaks of the heir-apparent as
a sort of royal bagman—“ the travelling agent of the
great house of Hanover and Guelph,” whose function
it is to popularise royalty by laying foundation stones,
presiding at charity banquets, and distributing the
prizes at industrial schools,—a function which, The
World suggests, could be equally well discharged by a
suitably decorated flunkey. “ Our Mr. Wales,” con-
tinues the writer—pai odying Gilbert and Sullivan’s
new operetta—may be described as—
A car and saloon young man,
A cabin and deck young man,
A Calais and Dover-y
All the world over-y,
Steamboat and train young man !
A pretty picture, forsooth, of the future figure-head of
the great State ship 1 The British form of Govern-
ment is sometimes described as a Republic veiled under
the forms of a Monarchy. The tone of the article in
the World would lea l one to believe that the veil is
wearing very thin.
Mr. William Henty, formerly Colonial Secretary
of Tasmania, whose death we recently recorded, was the
fifth son of Mr. Thomas Henty, of West Taring, Sussex,
a landed proprietor, and member of the banking firm of
Henty and Co. Mr. Henty, who died in Launceston in
1839, had nine sons, the only one at present surviving
being James, born in 1800, who is now a merchant in
Melbourne. The Heutys first went to West Australia,
but in 1831 came to Launceston. Five of the sons
crossed the Straits, and were the first to colonise Port-
land Bay. The deceased adopted the law as a
profession, and was admitted to the bar of
Tasmania in March, 1837. He subsequently entered
into partnership with Mr. J. W. Qleadow, and the firm
carried on business as solicitors in Launceston for many
years. His political career dates from 1856, when he
and the late Mr. W. S. Button were returned as the
first members for the Tamar under the new Constitu-
tion. Mr. Henty took office in the Weston Ministry in
1857, and held that position, though the personnel of the
Ministry underwent several changes, until 1862, when
he resigned, and returned to England, where he died,
as already stated, on 12th July. Mr. Henty was con-
nected by marriage with the Windeyer family of Sydney.
Mickey Angelo, the well-known aboriginal
cricketer, died the week before last, at Blackheith.
Rum and frost killed him. After drinking at Mount
Victoria for some days with that thoroughness which
distinguished him, he starteliby train for Picton ; and,
having made himself troublesome, was bundled out at
Blackbeath. The night was as cold as the charity of the
railway official, the most intense frost that has been
known for many years binding the mountains in its
iron folds. Poor Mickey staggered into a drain, and
lay there until he was found by a groom of Mr.
Hayles, the hotelkeeper. “ Hallo, what are you
doing there, Jack ? ” was his rough but hearty greeting.
“I ain't Jack,” responded the poor fellow, “I’m
Mickey; take me ’way, for God’s sake, I’m dying?”
che Samaritan helped Mickey up, took him to the
hotel, and when Mr. Hayles was aroused Mickey was
put into hot blankets, and given “a hair of the dog
that bit him.” Nothing availed, however, Mickey was
mortally stricken, and in two hours he died. Mickey
was a native of Queensland, and apparently about 25
years of age. He was tall and handsomely built, worthy
to be the model of the name he bore, a thorough
athlete and cricketer, and could swear like a pirate or a
public-house cockatoo. An inquest was held on his
remains, and the usual inconsequential verdict returned.
Mickey was buried in the old Blachheath cemetery,
among the half-forgotten tombs of the soldiers who
held the fort half-a-century ago. A working man, with
a sympathetic soul and the instincts of an artist, drew
on Mickey’s coffin the kangaroo and emu, with Mickey
in warlike guise holding a spear, and the legend “Poor
Mickey,” beneath. No epitaph more fitting.
James Gordon Bennett 11. is about to be mar-
ried. This reminds one that just 31 years ago. on the
Ist June, 1810, James Gordon Bennett 1., who was very
fond of speaking of himself in his journal, and regarded
his forthcoming marriage as a suitable opportunity to
indulge his vanity, brought out the N.T. Herald with
flaming headings en the leader page to the following
effect" To the realers of the Herald. Declaration
of love—Caught at last—Going to be married—New
movement in civilization.” The article that followed
is too long for us to reproduce. We must content our-
selves with culling one or two flowerets. The opening
sentences run as follows :—“ lam going to be married
in a few days. The weather is so beautiful; times are
? etting so good ; the prospects of political and moral re-
orm so auspicious, that I cannot resist the divine instinct
of honest Nature any longer; so that lam going to be
married to one of the most splendid women in intellect,
in heart, in soul, in property, in person, in manner,
that I have yet seen in the course of my interesting
pilgrimage through human life I cannot
atop my career. I must fulfil that awful (! 1) destiny
which the Almighty Father has written against my
name, in the broad letters of life against the wall of
heaven." He then dilated on the various charms of
his bride, assessing them severally at “ half millions ”
and “millions on millions." Further on ho stated that
“ In the new and holy condition into which I am about
to enter, and to enter with the same reverential feelings
as I would Heaven itself, I anticipate some signal
changes in my feelings, in my views, in my purposes, in
my pursuits.” After a deal more of grandiloquent and
stilted language of a similar nature comes a postscript
giving notice that the writer will have no time to waste
upon editors who might attack him “ until after mar-
riage and the honeymoon."
SOCIAL.
The happiest father in the world lives at New-
castle, and has not yet attained his majority. He owns
a six months’ old baby, and a very fine retriever dog.
The former he lays on the grass, and the latter, a very
fine animal, has been trained to pick up the baby, and
carry it.
# * #
Brisbane young 1 ladies are, it appears, just as
susceptible to the attractions of brass buttons and
epaulettes as are those of Sydney. At a ball given in the
Queensland metropolis in honour of the visit of the
Princes and the Detached Squadron, the officers and
their partners, strange to say, found great pleasure in
strolling about the secluded grounds,between the dances.
One couple having found a bower more retired than the
rest—but not so retired as to be out of earshot of others
not so pleasantly engaged—the gentleman in uniform, in
his most insinuating manner, solicited the privilege of a
kiss. The lady, as in duty bound, refused this bold request,
but the “ No, I won’t,” was uttered in tones not at all
calculated to convey a negative. Such a practised hand
as a naval officer is supposed to be at this kind of thing,
was, of course, not at all taken back, but pressed his
request with renewed eloquence. The lady, urged to
give a reason for declining, gave what some might con-
sider a sufficient one —viz., that she was engaged; and
on the other expressing his disbelief of this assertion,
she promised to point out the favoured individual on
their return to the ball-rwom. The lady being pressed
further, gave as another reason, that her partner had
probably solicited and received similar favours from
many other young ladies at similar balls. “I never
did,” said he. “ I’m sure you have,” replied the lady.
“ I’ll give you my word and honour as a gentleman that
I never kissed a girl at a ball before.” “You will?”
“Yes.” Result—three distinct osculatory smacks.
How nice it must be to be a naval officer !
** ■ *
After supper at a ball in Brisbane, in honour of
the Detached Squadron, the toast of " The Earl of
Clanwilliam” was drunk with three hearty cheers for
the Vice-Admiral. As the last echo of the final “ hip-
hip-hip-hoorray 1" died away some one from the centre
of the supper room called out, in stentorian tones,
“ Another one for Mrs. Clanwilliam!"
» * •
A very smart wedding, and one which caused
much excitement in Jewish circles in Melbourne, was
that of Miss Evelyn Phillis Bloomington with Mr.
Albert Beaver. The marriage was solemnised at
Rondelsbosch, Chapel-st., East St. Hilda, and was very
numerously attended. The bride was attired in an ele-
gant dress of pure white, the bodice and train of rich
brocade, petticoat of satin, richly trimmed with
exquisite Brussels’ point and bridal flowers, with
wreath and garland for the neck en suite. Her orna-
ments consisted of earrings and pendant of diamonds,
the gift of the bridegroom. A beautiful veil of em-
broidered tulle completed this most recherche costume.
There were eight bridesmaids, daintily dressed indemi-
train costumes of cream silk, and blue broche pockets,
and wreaths of cream chrysanthemums and forget-me-
nots ; tulle veils. The presents were numerous and
costly.
# * #
A wealthy lady, resident at Woollahra, is giving
at her hospitable mansion a series of private theatri-
cals, each of which entertainments is followed by a
dance. So far, two have been chalked up by her guests
as red-letter days.
• • #
There will be a grand wedding at North Shore
this month. The bride’s father is a well-known old
resident, and the double M will make a nice monogram
for the happy couple’s spoons—spoons and forks, we
mean.
* * *
The Princes sent their photos to the Schools of
Arts, at Cooma and Bombala, before they left. They
were accompanied by the inevitable letter from the
Rev. Mr. Dalton, who " trusts the pictures will be ap-
preciated." It there was any doubt on this point he
should not have sent them. But they are on exhibi-
tion now, and if the rev, gentleman only knew that
they are drawing more visitors than a cattle show, he
would understand that they are appreciated.
• * •
A children’s calico and fancy dress ball is one of
the latest sensations at Mackay, Q.
„ • •
In June, a gentleman connected with scholastic
pursuits issued invitations for a party. Next day be
gluographed circulars countermanding the invitations,
explaining that the party was to give way to a more
pretentions fancy masked ball, in July. Tcmpws fugit,
and the invites are still waiting.
* * *
His Excellency, in reply to an invitation from
the committee of the Marcus Clarke Memorial Fund,
regrets that he cannot give his patronage to the
matinde next week, on account of oiher engagements
The fact is, one of his very best Golden Hamburghs
has been sitting for more than a week, and an excep-
tionally fine brood is expected to hatch about Wednes
day next.
* • •
A quadrille club has been formed among the
business portion of the citizens of Newcastle.
# • #
A lawn-tennis club is being organised at Dubbo.
* * •
At amateur concerts, people who fling bouquets
should really not let the whole house, amateurs and
all, know beforehand that the “ floral ten bobbers” are
about to take their flight.
* * •
At a recent State ball, given by the Queen, the
following remarkable dresses were seen, and must have
looked exquisitely pretty:—A velvet bodice of dark
myrtle green was embroidered with emeralds in the
form of shamrocks. The skirt was of pale green tulle,
trimmed with white and yellow waterlilies, and a water-
lily bud with a few leaves nestled in the hair. Another
was a gold brocade, with stomacher of yellow topaz,
upper part of bodice also thickly encrusted with
similar gems, front of skirt covered with yellow Mar-
guerites, and a wreath of same in the hair. Dark brown
tulle dress, caught back with sunflowers. Dark brown
tulle, front almost covered with forget-me-nots, a long
trail of which crossed the bodice diagonally. Rich
white satin dress, trimmed with old lace, had the front
embroidered in mother-of-pearl and seed pearls, the
effect being, in colour, like the back of a mackerel in
the sun. Very pale blue satin, scattered over wit
A Far-away Diagnosis.
MEDICAL MAN : “Yes my man, the spots are coming out nicely. Now observe what I
say: On no account expose yourself to a chill at this stage of your complaint.”
Mr. M’QUILL. of the Cream-laid Office (not liking his company ): “You —ar —; that
is- ” (is struck with a happy thought.) “Perhaps you would like to get into
another compartment. I fear I have premonitory symptoms of small-pox.”
OBJECTIONABLE STRANGER: “Bless yer’art, I don’t mind. I’m just up from Quaran-
tine myself.”


' NC E MORE!
Thebe is a pretty local superstition that if yon drink the waters of the fountain of Trevi before
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eterns City, drawn thither by the potent spell which you have
thus invoked. The
PALACE EMPORIUM,
being an institution founded in more recent ('.although, it is trne, its founders can point to a
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition handed down from the remote ages of the
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless. For those who are once induced to step
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. A gain and again they go, as if by some
irresistible impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to that historic shrine beneath the shadow
of St. Peter’s ere th enchantress will pu forth her mapio wand; but at tht
jgapSS PALACE EMPORIUMS
oome.i' when you will—by moonlight or sunshine, cloud or fair—the spell is ever'active. However, co
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then is dazzling—the long tier of exhibition
cases extending down the centre of the main building for a distance of 200 feet —the contents of the
cases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us from the hands of the manufacturers:
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the present time, more than ordinary skill has
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various festivities of the present season; and
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
may be seen in all its plory—a sight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATIN'S of every conceivable hue, and includes
BLACK AND COLOURED GROS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE, AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBRE KAYE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON, Black and Coloured
RADZ DE MORT
FANCY OMBRE
MERVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHER CASE is fitted with EVENING FLOWERS, and the effect is unique to a degree.
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying display of FANCT GOODS, such as
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES’ TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
WINTER GLOVES OP ALL KINDS
WIDE PLUSH RIBBONS, from 5d per yard
SCARP LACES, SHADED LACES, &c. Ac.
The USEFUL, as well as the ORNAMENTAL, is equally well represented. There are
DRESS MATERIALS, ad infinitum !
MANCHESTER MANUFACTURES, sneh as FLANNELS, SHEETINGS, Ac.
BLANKETS of a 1! sizes and prices, of which the favourite is the GUINEA
BLANKET, unequalled in this city at 27s 6d.
In a word, the wants of all may be supplied at prices that cannot be approached elsewhere in the
colony. In conclusion, we would respectfully point out that the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
AT THE
HAYMARKET,
is our ONLY ESTABLISHMENT, and we trust none will be misled by a similarity of name-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
SINGER'S SEWING
• - THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTUB
Have opened a De;
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DA
HABBOUB STB
SINGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List se:
SINGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOL:
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for address of n«
SINGER’S, THE BEST
Have received 160 First 1
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
s
SINGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGEE’S MEDIUM MACI
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
Singer s the best
See the New No. 4 IV
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOI
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
GER’S SEWING
HAND OE TEEA
gIN
SINGER’S. The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6
s
INGER’S, THE BEST
LEAEN. New Improvemeni
s
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
SINGER’S THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and hi
INGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
s
SINGER’S THE BEST and S
Will last a lifetime in oc
SINGER’S SEWING
ADDEESS ; T 1
SINGER MANUFACTURI
No. IDAELING STOEES, Ha:
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Hay mar
have been appointed agents fo
machines.
8
8
Call and see them—Month’
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cat
SINGEE’S SEWING Mj
INGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
EECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBEATED SINGEE MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week — 2j. 6d. per week
And NO interest ch
10 per cent, off for c
BEWAEE OF IMIT.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TUENEE & (
THE ONLY “ SING]
TUENEE & i
Opposite <
mHBA U S T
c
ASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of one sort, otherwise
6d. per pozen extra will be charged.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town or to the Wharves or Redfern Railway Station.
Terms —Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
VIVIAN RAUCH,
WINE SPIRIT MERCHANT,
< Pitt-street, Sydney.
s
MALL POX.
SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE.
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL POX. Price. Is ; from all
Chemists.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
Affiliated to Trin. Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Principal :
Dr. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S L. (Lon.)
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
RODWAY, and the number of students in each class is
strictly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention whiah will alone
secure success. Dr. Rodway's system is easy and effi-
cient, and he guarantees to pass evury candidate he
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
FEES : Per term, in advance, for each class ... £4 4s.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be
awarded upon the conclusion of each term.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, 191 William-street. Sydney.
DR. RODWAY PRINCIPAL.
BURT’S PURE INDIAN CONDIMENT
WAREHOUSE removed to 67a, Pitt-street.
rjIHEATEE ROYAL.
lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
treasurer Mr. G. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS LAST NIGHTS
of
THE LATEST and BEST COMIC OPERA of the DAT,
OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 3s, Is. '
Doors open at 7.30, Overture at ten minntes to 8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may be pm-
chased during the day at H. Soltan’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street.
Q P E R A HOUSE.
Sole Lessee Mr. W. J. WILSON.
Manager LIDDT.
Musical Director Mr. P. EUGAEDE.
The Ever Popular
KELLY AND LEON
COMIC OPEEA COMPANY.
THIED WEEK. THIRD WEEK,
And Complete Change of Programme every Saturday
Evening.
SATURDAY, September 10th,
For the First Time in Sydney by this Company,
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT.
New Scenery by Mr. W. J. WILSON.
In Rehearsal and for which Great Preparations are being
made. Von Snppe’s Spectacular Opera,
FATINITZA.
Admission; 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, George-street.
Tickets at Johnston’s, next Opera House.
M. J. ABRAHAMS, Agent.
VICTORIA HALL.
11l CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Opposite St. James’s School).
Lessee and Manager D’AECT READ.
The above HALL, which has bee n entirely rebuilt
and beautifully Decorated, regardless of expense,
will be opened on
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10,
when will be produced,
in a style hitherto unattempted,
D’ARCY READ’S GHOST!
As played by him for TWENTY-ONE CONSECUTIVE
WEEKS at the (then) GUILD HALT, three
years and a half since.
MACCAB E.—A GENUINE SUCCESS.
SCHOOL OP ARTS. EVERY EVENING.
TRIUMPHANT RECEPTION
of
FREDERICK MACCABE,
in his Entertainment
BEGONE, DULL CARE,
an Olio of Hamonr, Music, and Ventriloquism.
MACCABE. —A MERRIER MAN within the
limit of becoming mirth I sever spent an hour’s
talk withal.
MACCABE, the unapproachable VENTRILO-
QUIST, CONVERSATIONALIST, MIMIC,
and MUSICIAN.
A C C A B E.—SPECIAL NOTICE.—
In CONSEQUENCE or the SUCCESS of Mr.
MACCABE’S ENTERTAINMENT, Seats should be
secured some days in advance at Mr. W. H. Paling's
mnsic store, George-ttreet.
Admission—Panteuils (numbered and reserved) 55.;
first seats, 3a.; second seats, 25.; third seats. Is.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
Business Manager, Mr. P. E. Hiscooks. Secretary,
Mr. John F. Sutton.
bunches and trails of roses, white and pale pink.
Flower fringes were much favoured.
• * *
On 4th instant, the second of the series of
winter parties took place at Goulbnrn. Bachelors'
balls do not obtain in the Southern cathedral town
where the benedicts “ stand in ” with their more (or less)
fortunate single brethren, as regards hops. About 150
persons, including, in the language of the turf, mostof
the “blood, bone, and beauty of the district,” at-
tended, and dancing continued merrily up tc 3.30 a.m.
The belle was voted to be a yo’mif lady from Sydney,
whose dress (black, trimmed with three shades of red)
was universally accounted the perfection of taste.
# # #
_ The lawn at Randwick has not yet begun to
rival that at Flemington as a “ convincing ground ”
for ladies. By no stretch of imagination can it be
likened to a parterre of many-coloured flowers. Ladies
have not adopted a habit of promenading in numbers,
the majority appearing content to keep the graces of
their figures and the elegance of their costumes pru-
dishly or shyly in the ambush of the Grand-stand.
There were, however, on Saturday and on Tuesday
some dames and damsels less cruel than others, and
these promenaded in attire which, separately regarded,
was not altogether unworthy of the place and the scene.
Of magnificence, however, there could scarcely be
said to be any indications. There were costumes
rich, tasteful, elegant, but scarcely one which could
be regarded as splendid. A tali lady (wife of a
well-known Lands official) wore a richly-figured black
silk, studded with beads. Miss Tooth graced a stylish
costume, rich dark brown polonaise, striped underskirt
of old gold and black silk Mrs. Griffiths’ dress was
ecru silk, trimmed with satin, with sunshade and
bonnet to match. Mrs. Gorrick, handsome cream-
coloured satin. A beautiful pale pink silk was worn by
a blonde lady. Among the most charming of the
dresses was that of a lady who donned a costume of
white satin embossed with wheatears in gold, an effect
entirely enchanting. The bonnet was to match.
Several other ladies adopted these significant em-
hlems, and their taste must have been exceed,
ingly gratified when Captain Osborne’s Wheatear
finished first in the Derby. A young lady wore a dress
of pink with trimmings of lace, and carried a parasol en
suite; the toute ensemble very fresh and agreeable. Among
the richest of the dresses worn was a cinnamon
coloured silk, trimmed with satin of the same hue, the
contrast of materials constituting a very handsome
costume. A navy blue silk skirt with velvet overskirt,
trimmed with old gold, was another exceedingly taste-
ful combination, and attracted many eyes to a figure
which was admirably formed to sustain the scrutiny.
A pale mauve underskirt, with a straw coloured
polonaise constituted a very harmonious picture,
and a black silk slashed with a silvery
material, produced, in the sun, a moat striking
and, at the same time, chaste effect. A well-known
leader of fashion captivated all observers, as much by
the grace of her carriage as by a costume of most
felicitous conception—a mauve satin, trimmed with
heliotrope pompadour. The fair wearer carried a
parasol of a shape somewhat flat, approximating to the
Japanese model, and, apparently, of the same material
and pattern as the trimmings of the dross. The svelte
form of Miss Agnes Consuelo, observable as the tallest
among the fair promenaders, was draped in quiet but
rich materials most harmoniously blended. Her black
satin dress, very handsomely beaded with bugle trim-
mings, was relieved by a bonnet of cream, or very pale
straw-coloured material, with ostrich feather of the
same hue. Another costume of striking elegance was a
peacock satin, trimmed in great taste with gold-
coloured fringe. A prune-coloured satin, with fringe
and bonnet to match, produced an effect rich and
agreeable. A dress of quiet but pleasant design was an
olive-green, of a soft material, with plush trimmings of
a somewhat lighter [shade. The prevailing style was
short skirts, made very full at the back. In one er
two costumes there were indications that the new
crinolette, if not actually worn, were being contem-
plated. Several very pretty costumes, composed of
light sateens, were noticeable, and their prevalence
seenm to indicate the modes for the Spring. The
materials chiefly employed were, however, satins and
cashmeres. The new shaded silks entered into some of
the costumes, as accessory to the principal material,
and parasols of the same were adopted by many ladies.
* * •
The farewell public banquet given by Melbourne
citizens to the Hon. W. J. Clarke was a magnificent
success. All the leading men of Melbourne were
present, and the chair was occupied by Mr. D. C.
M’Arthur.
» * *
Yesterday (Wednesday) afternoon, Miss Robert-
son, daughter of Mr. Thomas Robertson, solicitor, was
married at St Luke’s Church, Bnrwood, to Mr. Charles
E. Hotham, nephew of the late Victorian Governor of
that name. The ceremony was (appropriately enough)
performed by the Rev. Dr. Marryatt, assisted by the
Rev. Messrs. Saliniere and Barker, The church, which
was crowded, had been beautifully decorated by friends
—three tasteful arches for the bride, and equally elegant
floral ornamentation for the pews of the invites being
comprised among the embellishments of the occa-
sion. Appropriate music was provided by the choir.
The bride’s costume was of ivory satin, made Princess
shape, forming a pointed vest bodice, to the back of
which is attached a long court train, falling separately
over a skirt of ivory satin, almost entirely covered with
flounces of Maltese lace; an elegantly-embroidered
tulle veil, with a wreath of orange blossom and lilies of
the valley. The only jewellery worn consisted of a
handsome gold locket and chain. As to the rest of the
trousseau ; a dinner dress, of pale blue silk and shaded
satin, made with long train and square-cut bodice,
filled in with Bretonne lace; a ball dress, of salmon-
coloured satin, trimmings of cream lace, embroidered
with gold, made with attached Court train, square-cat
bodice, and gold net sleeves; visiting costume, of
primrose-coloured cashmere and shaded moss cloth,
handsomely trimmed with embossed embroidery;
morning dress, of white China silk, trimmed
with torchon lace and shaded heliotrope ribbons
Another pretty morning dress of white cashmere and
satin, made in Grecian style; travelling costume of seal-
brown cashmere, over satin petticoat shaded from gold
to brown—hat, gloves, and sunshade to match. There
were nine bridesmaids, as follows: —Miss Emma
Robertson, Miss Jenkins, Miss Annie Mayne, Mias
Reta and Miss Florrie Mayne, and the four younger
sisters of the bride. The five first-mentioned young
ladies wore costumes of beautiful surah silk, tops
looped up with roses over gatbered-trained petticoats
of cardinal and pale blue satin (three cardinal and two
blue) with wreaths of mignonette, forget-me-not, and
fem-leaves. The four younger sisters of the bride were
attired m costumes of the “Kate Greenaway"
style; turned-up bonnets to match dresses. In-
stead of the usual bouquet, each of the brides-
maids carried a pretty basket laden with choice
flowers. The bride's mother appeared in a very
elegant costume of fawn satin and cashmere, with
bonnet of fawn plush and satin feathers to correspond.
Mrs. Bouverie, a married sister of the bride, wore one
of the most effective costumes amongst the guests. It
consisted of primrose- coloured cashmere and shaded
satin cashmere, trimmings of embroidery embossed
with shaded leaves ; hat of shaded satin with plume of
feathers to match. Another very handsome costume
was that of Mrs. Moriarty, of mauve silk, richly
trimmed with heliotrope. Sir John and Lady Hay
were also among the guests. Mr, Riddell supported
the bridegroom, as “best man.” The bride’s trousseau
was from the magasin of Peapes and Shaw.
* * •
The bachelor members of the Union Club enter-
tain 500 guests at a ball in the old Exhibition Building,
Prince Alfred Park, on Friday, the 9thinstant.
* * *
The Benedicts’ Ball comes off at the Town Hall
on the 14th instant. 200 invitations have been issued #
* * *
An illustration of what “ society ” consists of
in Sydney was furnished at the Randwick course during
the Metropolitan Meeting. When the Most Noble the
Marquis of Normanby and the Right Hon. Lord
Augustus Loftus were about to drive off from the
ground, after the races, two distinguished gentlemen
alone were present to exchange compliments and shake
hands. Of these, one is a butcher, and the other was a
butcher.
* * *
At Redleaf, Rose Bay, on the 6th instant, 150
guests were entertained at a ball.
# # #
Mr. and Mrs. Knox have issued upwards of a
hundred invitations for a dance, at Fiona, Darling
Point.


SATURDAY, SEPTEI
CHESTERFIELD
UNRESERVED OLBARi
THE MODEL SUB
51 GRAND VILLA
commanding
EXTENSIVE OCEAN AND
WIDE STREETS,
GOOD BACK ENTR
EA
ELEVATED POSIT
GRAND DEPTHS,
EASY TERMS
THE MOST LIBERAL SUB
SUBMITTED TO AT
in
WAV E R I
LITHOGRAPHS AT I
Tree Tramways on Da
TERMS;
ONE-FOURTH CASH, BAL
QUARTERLY PAYI
SATURDAY, SEPT
AT 11 O’CLOCK
ON THE GROUND. ON
WITHOUT RESB
RIVERSTONE. RI
SECOND SUBDIVI
GREAT UNRESERVED
TOWN LOTS, RAILWAY ;
and
SUBURBAN BLOCKS A;
591 LOTS TO FI(
varying in size fro
i ACRE TO OVER 30 A
50-ACRE BLOCK
7 FARM LOTS, in area from 1
and
534 ALLOTMEN
«■ RIVERSTONE is very fast im
DIRECT ADVANTAGE of
M UNICATION; is already tin
LARGE WORKS, and is,
CENTRE of the most favoured
of N.S.W.
BAIT, ROOD, AND
IT AVE received instructions
MOST VALUABLE E
on
SATURDAY, 17th SEI
ON THE GROUI
WITHOUT THE SLIGHTES
tST RIVERSTONE, although re
SUBURB, has been, until lately, <
as the LAND in and about the 8
round has been in the hands of RIC
The large area known as the RIVE
is now in the Market FOR SALE, of
to all to purchase some of the r
COUNTY of CUMBERLAND, on t
EASIEST TERB
SECTION A
Contains 23 BLOCKS, each in ar
18 ALLOTMENTS adjoining tl
about 50 by 200, and the SA
with TWO POWERFUL S
breaking-down saws, circuit
necessary GEAR.
SECTION 8.—17 BLOCKS, eat
ACRE
SECTION 1 contains 18 ALLO
WAY FRONTAGE)
SECTION 2.—12 ALLOTME]
FRONTAGE)
SECTIONS 3 and 4 —26 ALLOTW
FRONTAGE)
SECTION 5.-32 ALLOTME]
FRONTAGE)
SECTION 6.-27 ALLOTMEI
FRONTAGE)
STBOTTON 7 —26 ALLOTME!
JOHNSTOh
SEWING MAOHIN
HAYMAEKEI
gINQEE’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S I
HAYMARKI
gINGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent. for cash, or 2s
JOHNSTO
fJIHE LIGHT EUNNING
28 6d per week, a
JOHNSTON'S, HATM
gINGEE’S SEWING
2s fid per week, a
JOHNSTON'S 0
HAYMAEKET
ICE
ICE
E
npHE CITY ICE COMPANY,
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TC
ore prepared to Supply the LUXI
PRO ACHING SUMMER, at a loi
For prices, &c.,
Apply to
3 WYNYARD STR
OB TO TABU
THIS DAY, SATUEDAY, lOt
ON THE GROUI
NORTH SH
GRAND SALE OF 86 ALLOTM
THE WELL-KNOWN S
PANT’S ESTA
FRONTING BERRI
ANP
CLOSE TO THE TOWN OP
as under:
21 Fronting Crow’s ]
24 Fronting Tunks
11 Fronting King Si
The reason who so many are unable to taka
cocoa is that the varieties commonly sold are mixed
with starch, under the plea of rendering them soluble;
while really making them thick, heavy, and indigestible.
This may be easily detected; for if cocoa thickens in the
cup it proves the addition of starch. C apburt s Cocoa
Essence is genuine; it is therefore three times the
strength of these cocoas, and a refreshing beverage like
tea or coffee. — Adv.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Assembly decided, by 60 to 4, not to strike
o nt the exemption of members of Parliament from
being summoned as witnesses.
A teetotal member has refused, on principle, to
pay tbe refreshment room fees, and has been denied the
privileges of tbe refreshment room.
Mr. Forster, speaking of Sir Henry the other
night, said that he assumed an authority in regard to
Constitutional history and literature to which his edn-
cation, antecedents, and position did not entitle him.
Mr. Myers, in disclaiming, on behalf of the
selectors, any sympathy with the utterances of Mr.
M’Elhone as to the shooting down of squatters, said
that if the remarks were made before an audience of
selectors, they would give the speaker “ striking mani-
festations ” of their disapproval.
The S.A. Council has agreed to a Constitutional
Amendment Bill, to the effect that when a measure
shall have twice passed the Assembly—the second time
after a dissolution —and has failed to become law
through rejection or amendment by the Council, the
Government may dissolve both Chambers of Parlia-
ment.
Mr. Copeland and Mr. Pigott are sworn enemies,
and they “dress down” each other whenever an oppor-
tunity presents itself. Their squabbles are decidedly
uninteresting, for their sarcasm, os sarcasm, is about
equal to Mr. Beyers’ oratory. Mr. Copeland can be
offensive, and at times is extremely so ; but as for Mr.
Pigott, he is neither offensive nor sarcastic. Americans
would describe his slangwhanging as “ non-animated
drivelling.”
It is a rule of Parliament that a member’s word
must be accepted as true, hut what are outsiders to do
when one member says something diametrically opposite
to that said by another ? A casein point: Mr. Copeland
excused his non-appearance in the division on Mr.
Forster’s recent motion of censure on the ground that
he had to leave so as to catch the lost train; a member,
whose word we are not inclined to doubt, tells ns that
whilst the division was being taken, Mr. Copeland was
standing outside the bar of the House talking to some
«f the officials.
It is said that an understanding has been come
to by several members of Parliament that if the Govern-
ment do not take action with a view to prevent the use
of such language as sometimes falls from the lips of
Mr M’Elhone, the necessary steps will be initiated by
a private member. The most effective means of putting
a stop to all this sort of thing would be to remove the
privilege which cloaks the statements of members.
Had the Press in N.B.W. the same amount of liberty os
it enjoys, say in Victoria or N.Z., it might be desirable
to remove the privilege in question. It will not do to
gag the Press and Parliament too.
Mr. Fitzpatrick says that the leadership of the
Opposition is still in the market. If, is a pity that it
was not long since purchased by some man possessed
of ordinary shrewdness. The straggling Opposition
which now exists does more good to the Government
than it does harm. Mr. O’Connor and Mr. Copeland,
by their unreasonableness and want of discretion, cer-
tainly strengthen the power of the Government; and
any careful observer must see that the Government ore
continually displaying the red rag, so as to arouse the
ferocious natures of these prominent Oppositionists,
who then alienate men who might otherwise sympathise
with them. Clever as Messrs Fitzpatrick and Forster
are as debaters, it is certain that tfieir temperaments
do not suit such a position, and both gentlemen are
candid enough to acknowledge this.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ J.E.”; Thanks All right......
“J.C.W.": The joke you send, about |the “ljuckeroo”
and the ram, originally appeared in London Punch, and
had tben reference to a swell and a bu11......** J.C :
Never knew that the Commissioner was a good judge of
such things “Friend”: Surely the second letter of
▼our nom-de-plnme should be omitted “J King
<lB5, Queen-street): You Emitted to give the name of
the t iwn. Meanwhile, we send your parcel to Brisbane.
Please write and give full address “ Sine Monet®’ :
We have used the lesser; the bigger was too heavy for
u 8 “15": We hope you don’t live there W.O. :
Send us something more savoury “T.C.N.”: Yes, we
shall be glad to receive bush items “ Free-thinker :
Write again “Country Spy": Much obliged. ....
O’Rourke”: If you can’t send anything more exciting
than a parapraph about a Privy Councillor tum-
bling into a water-bole, don’t trouble. J.DL.
You talk about something that ap-
peared in last week’s paper. If you wish us to take
any notice of your communication, kindly cut out trie
par. you sav is wrong, and forward it. We have one or
two things besides vour letter to attend to during the
wee t “ Waloha”: Write your memos, in prose. We
might then be able to understand them “ B.M D.”:
Many thanks for paper. We have, however, already
noticed thesuoject “Correspondent”: Write again.
“J.C.”: Received. Send us copy of newspaper report
of thecasa “Toxopfiolite’’: Received......‘ CH. B
Thanks “ Veotis”: Just what is wanted DB. :
You’re not a success as a poet. Get a few original
ideas first, and then learn to express them properly.
There’s neither rhyme, rhythm, poetry, originality,
nor humour in the following, which is rendered funny
simply because it lacks all the attributes named :
■“ Few were the years he studied the charms of Nature’s
laws,
And strived to wiser rise ;
Brief were the fruitful seasons he worked till Death s
fierce claws
Clenched him by dire surprise.”
Poor Marcus will rise out of his grave and “ go for you,
svre,” one of these nights, unless you stop writing
things like that about him “ A.E.J.” : Mu-t have
name in such cases “I.CU ": Right yon are
“MS M.” : It would have bee,, ip-erted had you sent
name “ M G.”: Thanks. Next issiie ....“ W.H.B. :
Good. Will keep for a week ...•'W.C Excellent;
but too late for this issue “M.M”: Much obliged.
<« Granville” : Held over “ Waiting for the
train”: Received “Diagnosis” and “Matter v.
Mind”: Next week C.W.” :To publish your verse
would mean trouble.
Farm Produce.
The Bulletin Office, September 7,1881.
On the wharves, prime green lucerne is selling at £2
15s to £3 ; do. old hay, £2 5s to £2 10s; medium samples,
£2 to £2 5s per ton. A good supply of hay on hand,
and business dull. At auction, this morning, several
lines of lucerne were quitted at from £ll6s 6d to £3 per
ton. Maize firm at 3s per bushel; oats, seed and feed,
3s. Circular Head potatoes, £3 10s to £3 15s per ton,
New Zealand do., £llss to £2 ss. Victorian onions, £l5
per ton ; do. chatf, £5, bags included. Batter, in keg.
Is to Is 3d per lb. Eggs, 9d to lOd per doz Bacon, 3d
to 6dper lb. Cheese, 5d to 9d do. Ham, 6d to 8d do.
Fowls, 3s 6d to 4s per pair. Geese, 7s do. Turkeys, 7s
to 14s do. _ _ T ,
Fresh Meat Market.—At the Darling Harbour rail-
way terminus, the usual sales of fresh meat continue
brisk and well attended. At the Riverstone Company s
depot, fresh beef is selling at from lid to 2,d all round,
and fresh mutton from Id to lid all round.
Fat Cattle Market.—At Homebush sales, yesterday,
the fat cattle market was firmer, best beef realising 18s
to 20s per 1001 b, and fat sheep about the same; 541 b
wethers, 11s 6d to 12s 6d each.
Flour Market.—Fair samples of flour are moving at
our quotations, and prices are For Sydney superfine
flour, £l3 10s to £l4 per ton; household, £l2 10s_do;
seconds, £ll 10s do; N.S'.W. country brands, £l2 15s to
£l3 10s do; Victorian, £l3 do; Adelaide, £l3 5s to £l4
do. Bran and pollard, Is 2d to Is 3d per bushel.
Wheat Market.—The market is bare, and good wheat
in demand. The millers have fair stocks on hand.
Adelaide wheat, 6s per bushel; N.s.W., 5s 6i to 6s do;
Victorian, 5s 6d to 5s 9d do; Launceston, 5s 6d do ; New
Zealand, 5s 3d to 5s 4d do.


Misoellanei
'I^'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E
416 GEORGE SI
ii
Dispense Prescriptions ch<
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English ]
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spo
ALL KINDS OF DBUffIOISTS
Send for a Price List. Count
ally attended to. Don’t forg(
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern's New
A
W. KEF
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOC
664 GEOEGE STREE
Opposite St. Andrew*i
every description, Ms
sentation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND SEI
A new and Choice Assortmen
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, fr<
118
KING STREET i
TAILOR
J|<S
ftfW
IHto
Miscellaneous
OLIPFOED, LOVI
TEA IMPORTER!
EASTERN AND COMM
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments,
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize
PRESERVES —Indian Priz
COFFEE —Plantation No.
Do. ~ Peabe
Do. ~ Nos. !
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Peai
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Blac
OFFICES 79 YORK S
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BE
JOHN D A
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrrc
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Be
Butchers’ Brine Pun
Iron, Brass, Copper, T
and Lead Pipe, ko.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, 6
235
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL.
OR
ALLWOOL
w
>5
D
We have the Largest Stock
WE HAVE THE BE X GOODS
We are the CHEAPEST HOUSE
For Agricultural
MACHINERY
ft
h.1
TOOLS
&c.
30UATTERS
FARMERS, AND
FREE SELECTORS,
Send us a trial order,
We will serve you well.
Prices, illustrated catalogues, and the fullest information
promptly posted.
389 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A Few Reasons Why Farmers Should Buy
—| THE WOODS
String Binder:
It Won tne Highest Honours at
Sydney, Melbourne, & Adelaide Exhibitions.
It Won every important Field Trial
in the Colonies during 1880.
ALL OUR MACHINES ARE BUILT TO OUR OWN
SPECIFICATIONS AND WE CAN JUSTLY CLAIM THEM
The Simplest THE BEST The Strongest
OUR WOODS STRING BINDERS )
Are entirely Self-acting ;
Deliver tiie sheaves all one size ;
Only require a boy to drive.
THEY ARE (
BUILT J
WITH (
Wrought Iron Road Wheels,
Wrought Iron Finger Bar,
Steel Plated Fingers.
Sale Agents, MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY.
[PLACKET AND D A V Y,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangtb Bros., Birmingham.
4
CANDYS COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY'S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL.
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VAEIETT IN STOCK,
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
V":/.
Ei
- (3
a'
. 4c r(jRi NC joa/eu^
r-Jlfe"' .> 5 )
~ %
WATCHES
FROM J*.4.10.
9. Bc. lI.HUNTER STREET.
‘CRES ovnupw ‘ GOLD WATCHES
SYDNEY
SPND FOR *tR’OM X. 3.10.
CATALOGUE. •
6^3
rpHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIG ZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TEY ONE. FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, — * BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING,
Sydney ’ STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work,
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE “ I VAN H 0 E ” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
IVIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
" G. H. STEPHEN & CO., '
* Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PEE GALLON.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
i. i. KINGSBURY,
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
