

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 5 7.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1881.
Price—3d.
§ttlMlL
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1881.
Mr. Garrett’s Press Bill.
Thebe is not the faintest prospect of Mr.
Gabeett’s well-meant, and, on the whole, well-
framed Press Bill passing in its present form.
The chances that it will pass at all are but
slender. The glorious army of nincompoops is up
in arms. Small men in big positions are in
desperate terror. The whole energies of specu-
lative attorneys are concentrated to strangle a
measure which would simplify the law and purge
civil processes of devices dating back from the
time when the written thoughts of free men were
detestable to arbitrary rulers. The Premier—that
Sir Henet Pabkes who attempted to invest the
Assembly of which he is a member with privileges
which would have placed the entire Press under
the heel of authority, and made the public the
humble serf of every blackguard in Parliament
who chose to vent his malignity within the
precincts against persons obnoxious to him —has,
with a consistency not usual to him, denounced
the Bill. It is interesting and exceedingly
instructive to notice from whom has proceeded
the most inveterate opposition.
David Buchanan, the delicate
of language, the heedful of repu-
tations, has been foremost in con-
demning the attempt to relieve
the Press from fetters forged in
days when freedom was but a
name. It was Mr. Buchanan
who ventured —while the ears of
his hearers were yet tingling with
the grossness of the privileged
slander he had vented but a couple
of nights before —to denounce
the Bill because it favored the
slanderer, the calumniator, and
the villain. We had not thought
that Mr. Buchanan was capable
of such Roman virtue. It was
Mr. Buchanan who complained
that under the Bill anytuing that
was said at a public meeting,
however scandalous and libellous,
could be reported, and there would
be no redress. It was Mr.
Abigail, that tower of intellect,
that colossus among public men,
who whined about having been
held up to ridicule. Doubtless all
the Buchanans and Abigails in
the Parliament and in the country
hate and fear a free Press, and
hate and fear it in proportion to
its freedom. But will the public
have the Press to dance for ever
in fetters because a Buchanan
would like to rave henceforth
relieved from censure, or an
Abigail to wear the lion’s skin
secure that no one would dare to
lift the skirts of that disguise ?
Mr. Buchanan forgot that the
only “public meeting” at which
slanderous things could be uttered
and, under the proposed Bill,
reported by the Press without the
slandering person having a remedy
would be the meeting of such as he
in Parliament. Outside these
walls the injured party would
have his remedy against the actual
slanderer. Mr. Abigail forgot
that the slender shafts of ridicule
never vitally penetrate a living lion,
though they go through and
through the dried hide when
adopted as covering by an ignoble
animal Gladstone and Abigail
have both sustained ridicule.
Gladstone survives: what has
Abigail to fear ? Ridicule is the
touchstone which tests the quali-
ties of men. 'I he truly great are
only stimulated by it. Pretenders
shrivel at the contact. There
are provisions in the Bill which
will not bear examination. Among
these is the clause which would re-
lieve the proprietors and publishers
of a journal from responsibility
on their surrendering the actual
writer. It would be posible under
such conditions for any slander,
however gross and intentional, to
be perpetrated without remedy, by
the simple resource of getting some worthless
tool to hold the pen. But it would not he a bad
thing could publishers offer to injured individuals
an alternative. Every conductor of a newspaper
knows that it is the public who are the greatest
writers of libel. A moment’s relaxation of watch-
fulness, inadequate information as to a hidden
meaning lurking in an apparently harmless
paragraph or letter, exposes newspaper pro-
prietors to punishment for offences they never
contemplated—offences with which they have no
sympathy, nay, which they hold in detestation.
Could the injured party be required to proceed
equally against both the publisher and the actual
writer, when the latter was disclosed for that end,
juries would know how to allot the punishment so
that mishap or a momentary inattention should
not bring down upon a man’s head the penalty
properly due to malice. That cannot be justice
which scourges the wrong back, while the real
criminal looks on, chuckling at his own immunity.
The Bill will bear amendment, but it is a good
Bill, instinct with the modern ideas of freedom of
thought and criticism ; and the public is entitled
to hope that when the manlier and less inflated
sort of Members address themselves in Parliament
to its consideration, it will be proved to do good
service.
The Honorable William Bede Salley, Q.C.
That Spartan mother, of the olden times, who,
after giving the finishing touch to her only son’s
military toilet on the eve of battle, firmly tapped
his shield —her eyes full of resignation and resolu-
tion —while whispering in his ear—Either with it,
or upon it, was probably not in the least degree
devoid of maternal sensibility ; but whatever her
feelings or emotions may have been, they were
subordinated to an overmastering love of her
native land. She comes down to us through
cycles of marvellous human experiences, as the
perpetual type of Patriotism, and the words she
used, translated into all civilised tongues, and
transfusing the purest human emotions amongst
mankind, are still quoted by free men all over the
world, with the reverence due to magnanimity and
heroic self-sacrifice. It is also probable that the
Lacedeemonian dame, who experienced consolation,
when she heard of the death of her son on the
battle-field, in the thought that “ Sparta had many
a braver son than he,” felt her loss as keenly as do
women of the world their bereavements generally ;
but she had an ideal to which she subjugated all her
feelings. These remarks —springing out of a
theme which engrosses our mind —are not put for-
wadr as foreshadowing the elements of profound
philosophy, but simply to awake in the mind of
the reader an echo of the sacrifices that love of
country has, in all ages and countries, inspired or
exacted, and to give the key-note to a political
harmony that will one day—not, we trust, far
distant—exist in this fair land of ours. The
Genius of Australia is a sweet-faced but resolute
Amazon ; she demands the fealty of the best of her
sons ; she requires the sacrifice of health and
strength for her high purposes ; she insists on
truthfulness and loyalty on all occasions, and
having had so many faithful children, she will
spurn the lukewarm and time-serving. Here is
William Bede Dailey, whose portrait we give to-
day, a “modern instance” —may it flourish for
years like the banyan-tree—of the truth and the
force of these reflections. Has he not been true
to New South Wales under all aspects—at every
crisis in her history P Who doubts his loyalty to
her ? Only those who could doubt his ability to
serve her ; and the man who would doubt either
deserves the servile and worthless task of those
who, according to Yirgilius Mars, admired either
Bavius or Maevius, the poetical Buchanan and
M'Elhone of the Augustan era. The one thing
that Mr. Dailey is soundest in to the core of
his being is his unqualified love of his
native land. If he were the idle individual
some consider him to be, why does he not play
Sybarite—he has the means—in some romantic
retreat, instead of working hard to burnish our
literature with essays of that rich golden hue
which indicate fulness of soul ? If he want
society, why not seek that wide Republic of Art
and Letters in Europe and America, where he is
already favorably known, instead of instructing us
in the glories of Spanish church architecture, or
the consolations of an aesthetical creed wherever
we dwell —whatever befalls us ? Simply because
he is true to the land of his birth, loyal
to his countrymen, never (notwithstanding
his idiosyncracies and prepossessions) guilty of
one overt act that will shadow his fair fame. It
seems to be a work of supererogation to tell the
story of his life even in outline. Most of our
readers —in fact, all Australians—know it. Still,
as a probable medium of easy reference, we give it
(with one exception) from memory, without the
least reference to any “ authority.” William
Bede Dailey was born in George-street korth,
Sydney, in 1830. His father was an Englishman,
though claiming descent from the Daileys of
Dailey’s Grove, on the borders of Meath and
Kildare (see Ibish Gazette, vol. ii , p. 817), and
his mother was Irish, the daughter of a soldier,
and a woman of great force of character. He
seems to have inherited the best qualities of both
his parents: for while practical and methodical,
he has never lost the brighter side of his nature—
his poetic temperament. He was educated at
St. Mary’s Seminary and College,—and here we
may as well disabuse a portion of the public of a
certain error they seem to labour under in refer-
ence to that educational establishment in former
times. The highest culture could be obtained
there, thirty years ago —a culture
far superior to anything, for
variety and formation of character,
obtainable in Australia at the pre-
sent day. There were the venerable
Archbishop Folding and Ihacßev.
Dr. Gregory—“ homo fdcUis ad
unguem there were French,
Italian, German, and occasionally
Spanish ecclesiastics temporarily
resident in the cloisters of old St.
Mary’s, who not only taught the
students but with whom they held
refined intercourse in the hours
of recreation. If Mr. Dailey chose
to give a monograph of his mas-
ters, he would tell of old Mons.
Jonson, of the massive Dr. Baek-
haus, of Mon. L’Abb6 Gourbeillon,
and many others. One fact is
worth a thousand surmises and
suppositions, and that fact is this
—before he was out of his teens he
was a fair classical scholar, knew
French and Italian well, with a
superficial knowledge of German,
and was a good elocutionist. He
was, even in his schoolboy days
gentle and kind, though ever
ready for an adventure on sea or
land, if we may so magnify the
bush about Sydney and the waters
of Port Jackson. So cultivated
was Mr. Dailey’s mind at the com-
pletion of his studies, that his pre-
paration for admission to the bar
was only an intellectual recreation
to him ; and when admitted a bar-
rister, he must remember with
what cordiality the Bench and pro-
fession greeted him on the occa-
sion. As even a substantial re-
sume of his public career would be
impossible within the space at our
disposal, and as we have to close
with a few particular items of his
career not generally known, we
fall back on Mr. Heaton’s “ Aus-
tralian Dictionary of Dates and
Men of the Times ” for a bare out-
line : “He (Mr. Dailey) was
shortly afterwards elected one of
the Legislative Assembly, (having
defeated the late Mr. John Fair-
fax) for Sydney, and was appointed
by Mr. Cowper, Solicitor-General.
As a member of the Legislative
Assembly, Mr. Dailey made some
of the most eloquent speeches ever
heard in that chamber ; and being
a native of the colony, he was
hailed by older patriots, as a young
orator of great promise. After a
brilliant commencement, however,
he retired for some years from
Parliament, and resisted all the in-
ducements offered him to return to
the arena of political ambition.
While zealously pursuing the
duties of his profession, he has
been frequently before the public
as a writer in the press on his-
torical and biographical subjects.
He was Solicitor-General in the
Cowper Ministry 1858-59 ; Attorney-General of the
Robertson Ministry from February 1875 to March
1877; again for several months in the Robertson
Ministry, from August to December 1877. On
9th Februaiy, he accepted a seat in the Legislative
Council (which he resigned last year).” To return
to the educational influences which have to some
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM BEDE DALLEY, Q.C.


extent informed and coloured Mr. Dailey’s mind,
it may be mentioned that he visited Europe in
1859-60, when he travelled through England, Ire-
land, and parts of Scotland, France, Belgium,
Germany, Switzerland and Italy. Soon after his
return to Sydney, he was appointed immigration
lecturer with Mr. (now Sir Henry Parkes) to the
United Kingdom. Although their mission was
not signally successful, wherever Mr. Dailey
spoke in public he favourably impressed large
audiences with the advantages which New South
Wales offered as a field for immigration. On the
demise of Mr. Justice Cheeke, he was offered the
vacant seat on the benoh of the Supreme Court
by the Eobertson Government, which he de-
clined, but recommended the appointment of
Sir William Manning; and his recommen-
dation was acted on. When Mr. Dailey’s
health began to fail a few years ago, the
public anxiety was widespread and deep. Men
could not realise the probability that one so brave
and brilliant—so generous and true —in the very
perfection of his mental powers—with the dawn of
a new life of domestic bliss hallowing his hearth —
should be snatched from them. As if in response
to the national yearning, he was mercifully
spared; and although he has recently passed
through the ordeal of a bitter affliction —it pains
us to allude to it—we trust that he will emerge
from the gloom of his sorrow, to do good service
again for the country, which was the first passion
of his soul, and will probably be the last. It
would be gilding “ refined gold,” painting “the
lily,” to venture on a eulogium of his triumphs as
a Parliamentary and forensic orator, as a true
friend and genial man of the world, or to his more
moderate success as a litterateur. His last essay
—the review of Lord Beaconsfield’s “ Endymion”
in the Herald — would alone entitle him to rank
amongst the most subtle and refined critics of the
age. But the best side of his character is not his
intellect or his oratory : it lies in the tenderness
of his nature— his frankness and generosity. In
the cultivation of those “ fair humanities ” of
everyday life —benevolence, toleration, and pa-
triotism —he stands foremost amongst his country-
men, not one of whom fails to yield him more than
mere respect —to wit, affection and gratitude.
His return to public life would be hailed as a
national boon. May that return be soon an
“ accomplished fact!”
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Miss L yto Mr. M weather.
That Braid wood heiress is engaged.
That fashionable girl’s mother was not at the
wedding.
We shall shortly hear of a Campbell-Deas-
Thomson union.
Moonlight picnics are quite popular at the
Glebe —among mamas.
The Mayor’s ball atßourke was a great success.
Opinions differ as to who was belle.
The Glebe Point belle has returned from New-
castle after a rather lengthy stay; report says engaged.
Lady Augustus Loftus has issued invitations
for an “At Home” at Government House on Saturday
next.
A Wagga belle, recently led to the hymenial
altar, brings to the new household great skill in
medicine.
A party at “ S Stanmore, last Thursday.
Numerous flirtations in the garden. Altogether, very
enjoyable.
The second daughter of a well-known pastoral
man is shortly to become the bride of a Dnbbo solicitor.
Some preparations.
That Darling Point beauty is a flirt after all.
Poor bank clerks, post office officials, and medical
students are among the victims.
Those three accomplished daughters of one of
our bank managers return from the Melbourne Exhi-
bition next week. (Not in the market.)
The daughter of a wealthy Barrack-street land-
owner and merchant is engaged to the'jscion of a Potts’
Point house. Wedding day not yet fixed.
Mrs. E. B. W , of Mount Gilead, is the
leader of fashion at Campbelltown, and is much
admired for herreflnement and good taste.
A marriage is on the tapis between one of our
late distinguished foreigners and a smart young lady in
Upper William-street. Great preparations.
A gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, residing
at Forest Lodge, is reported to be engaged to the ac-
companyist of a suburban musical sosiety.
A Treasury gentleman, well known to football
fame, has at last bestowed his affections upon a fair
young lady hailing from the northern district.
At a private Jewish wedding last fortnight there
was an old point lace handkerchief carried by the bride
a hundred years old (the handkerchief, not the bride).
Dubbo boasts a charming girl and a most ac-
complished flirt in the person of a local belle. Charm-
ing dimples, laughing eyes, dark hair, a classic figure,
&c.
A marriage is on the tapis, and will shortly take
place, between a dark-eyed Richmond heiress and the
third sou of a well-known and wealthy resident of
Windsor.
A limb of the law, hailing from Lavender Bay,
is about to fulfil a matrimonial contract with the
daughter of a wealthy tradesman residing near the
Town Hall.
Very successful that Campbelltown ball. A tall
young lady from Meuangle was considered the belle.
The Campbelltown band played on the occasion and
many cried.
One of the Newcastle bank managers has lately
left—but will be returning shortly to deprive the same
city of the fair daughter of the Consul, residing in
Hunter-steeet.
The daughter of a fashionable medico residing in
Darlinghurst is shortly to be united to the son of a
wealthy and retired Pitt-street business man. The bells
are to ring shortly.
A Clarence Eiver gentleman has gone back
jilted by a foreign lady now in Sydney, and disgusted
with the whole human race, especially the wicked, we
mean the weaker, portion.
Mr. Lance Lloyd, son of Mr. G. A. Lloyd,
M.L.A., was married on Wednesday to Miss Williams,
daughter of Mr. John Williams, Crown Solicitor.
Honeymoon in Melbourne.
The eldest son of a retired M.L.A., residing at
Darling Point, is reported to be engaged to a young
lady living on the Paterson. All Darling Point con-
gratulate the young lassie.
The engagement is announced of the young and
charming daughter of a well-known Newcastle
auctioneer, to the fourth son of a Presbyterian clergy-
man of Maitland. Marriage shortly.
The Wagga wedding on Wednesday, the 15th,
came off in grand style. One of the most notable
oharacters.was the “ best man,” who was more than
once taken’for the happy individual.
The gay young gentleman lately from Newcastle,
but now holding a position in the Treasury, who is a
frequenter of the “Block,” is affianced to a fascinating
young lady residing at Darling Peint,
A N.S. Wales young lady was recently presented
to the Governor of Noumea. Herchaperone was thanked
for introducing such a charming vivacious demoiselle.
After all, French people have very good taste.
A Church of England minister in a Western
pastoral township, not three hundred miles from
Sydney, is about to take to himself a wife. Great
jealously exists amongst others of the fair sex.
The attractive daughter of one of the oldest
residents of Glebe Point (and an office-bearer to the
Lawn Tennis Club) is shortly to be married to a gentle-
man of pastoral pursuits hailing from “ Banana Land.”
A young lady in Upper William-street told her
mama that all the cadets wore white pants. Then her
little brother added: “ And so do their sisters, and
their cousins and their aunts.” All through that
“ Pinafore.”
A Wagga belle lately engaged to a handsome
and wealthy squatter, found when the time appointed
came that she did not sufficiently care for him, con-
sequently that engag ament is broken off. Alas! another .
poor victim.
A marriage is to take place on the 28th between
a well-known clerk of the A.S.N. Company and a
daughter of a Queen-street (Woollahra) resident. It is
said that the happy couple will spend their honeymoon
in Melbourne.
It was the daughter of a local bank manager
who, with a rich but plain white silk costume, ele-
gantly trimmed with pompadour and short pompadour
sleeves, was one of the great attractions of the Dubbo
ball. Miss G really looked charming.
It may not bo known that those two sisters so
remorkab’e for their extremes in fashion are the best
taught girls in Sydney with respect to household
duties. They are quite as accomplished in cookery as
in killing, and, though perhaps a little too prominent
outside, are the charm of a most happy home.
One of the prettiest costumes seen at the Aus-
trian Band last Thursday night was worn by a young
lady hailing from our principal suburban watering place.
It was composed of cream-coloured satteen, trimmed
with lace, and cardinal sashest ; toque to match.
The people of Parramatta, on hearing the good
news that his Excellency was going to honor their town
with a short sojourn yearly in their midst, are reviving
an old practice of entertaining their friends. The first
one of a series of parties was given in the form of an
“at home,” at the.house of a leading resident, on Tues-
day, the 15th.
The day for the wedding has been fixed by the
charming little Jewish maiden who looks so pretty,
particularly in convent attire, for Wednesday, March
16. Invitations in the highest style of art have been
issued by the hospitable parents. The ceremony is to
be at the great Synagogue, and the breakfast at
Wynyard Square. The festivities will end on March 22
by a ball on the evening of that day.
How better to show off a new and handsome
bonnet than by patting in it a pretty pleasing face.
The ladies will soon know who the belle is, and doubt-
less from Messrs. David Jones and Co. they will learn
all about the bonnet. We claim some success in de-
picting this new fashion in bonnets. This French bebe
bonnet is a charming novelty, and it is composed of
blanc mat satin surah, the front formed by drawings,
presenting a fluted edge. The crown is of satin hidden
by a transparency of net, beautifully embroidered with
dark garnet cut beads and gold thread. A scarf band
entwines the head, ornated with a French curled
ostrich feather to match the satin. A cap front of
black lace, edged with gold thread, completes the
whole.
There was a grand ball at Glenrook, Darling
Point, on Friday. About 100 were present, nearly all
young people—the ladies being without chaperones, it
is said. The belle of the room was Miss M., who
looked radiant. The daughter of another member of
the Legislative Council, Miss F. (dressed in white, with
green wreaths), perhaps took second honors, if she did
not share the first with Miss M. In the words of an
admirer, “ she looked awfully nice.” Miss S., from
Potts’ Point, in a pink dress bound with cardinal bows,
was superb. A rising young barrister engrossed most
of her attention during the evening, and judging by her
Srogramme, unfairly monopolised her dances. Miss
1. W., in a black jersey—very light, a lot of silver
bangles on her left arm, a large silver bracelet on her
right, and a wide belt with Walleroo colours fastened
by a silver hatchet, from which was suspended a watch,
looked very pretty. [We are not quite certain whether
this was the costume she wore at the ball or on the
block; all we know is that she looked killing, and
there was much slaughter.] Mrs. K., a bride, formerly
Hiss T., looked exceedingly pretty. Another young
lady residing at Potts Point looked splendid in her
robe of white satin, with wreath of pink roses on her
hair. The banks of the city sent a large contingent of
fine young fellows—bank managers in embryo. New
South sent six, Australasia two, and the Commercial
one. The affair proved very enjoyable, and was one
of the most successful of the season.
THE FASHIONS.
(BY THE MAN MILLINER.)
Owl’s faces are worn on hats.
Sapphire is the new shade of blue.
The hair is worn cut short and curled.
Pomegranate is now a fashionable color.
Vermicelli lace in cream is the latest thing
“Our Granny” bonnet is the latest for little
girls.
Shaded feathers are the latest thing for trim-
ming.
Tiger claws are much worn in trimming
millinery.
Flowers, mixed with lace, are worn in the hair
for evenings.
Seal-brown and nasturitium-yellow are a nice
combination.
The “ Marie ” hat, in velvet and plush, is pretty
for little girls.
Insects of all kinds and in many colours are
worn on millinery.
Hats trimmed with plush and large birds are 1
new and becoming. !
Every shade of red is to be the colour for j
autumn and winter. \
Plush mounted on colored enamelled wood is the
latest novelty in fans.
A large gilt hook and eye is the latest novelty in
the way of bonnet ornaments.
Jerseys, in colored silk and beaded to match, are
the last thing for evening wear.
Hats are worn off the face, and those with
strings are worn on the forehead.
The Dauphin collar, of white surat, trimmed
with lace, is new and most becoming.
Tartan plaids are much worn at home, and are
stylish and becoming to a tall figure.
Bows of colored ribbons, to match the dress, are (
worn on top of the head and look well.
A lady, to be dressed with perfect taste, must
have her bonnet, collarette, mulf, and satchell en suite.
Plush gloves and boots, trimmed with same
material, are the correct thing; the latter are most
becoming.
Raspberry red and bordeaux are a very beau-
tiful combination, and are the leading colours at home
at present.
Plush —plain, Indented, ribbed, shaded, matted,
and woven with threads of gold and silver—is to be the
rage for the coming season.
The “ Tam o’ Shanter” hat is to be the shape
for the winter. It is becoming to some, and looks well
in plush and velvet, with feathers. It has been much
worn on recent public gatherings.
New tints for autumn and winter: “ Humberta,”
a deep shade of peach; “ Watermixer,” a green, pos-
sessing the transparent hue of the waves before they
are imbued with the detracting dulness of the waters
near the shores ; raspberry red, grenat, solmsn, prawn,
squirrel colour, dark brown, seal brown, myrtle green ;
“ Fabuleaux,” an intense shade of red; “Austrian
Crackle,” a light orange yellow ; “ Clary,” a delicate
straw colour; “ Coucher-de-soleil,” an orange red;
j “Amourette,” a blush pink; “Eastern Yellow,” a
I marigold hue.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Verdi makes a gallant captain.
Punch’s Hotel .£24,000 cash. Purchaser, Frank
Punch.
Hunter River Steam Company—lo per cent, per
annum.
Grand Volunteer inspection, Moore Park, to-day
(Saturday).
Leseberg’s jewellery shop, Yass, “cracked” and
robbed of £3OO worth.
Several Victorian cricketers gone home. Allan,
Horan, and Healy left on Monday night.
Miss Maggie Moore’s health is restored, and
she is able to fill her place in “ Pinafore ” at the
Koyal.
The certificates of Heslop, master, and of Peake,
mate, of the wrecked steamer Bidge Park, suspended
for three months.
During 1879-80, the deposits in the Victorian
banks inereased from £16,426,163 to £17,972,701, of
which latter sum £5.735,027 was not at [interest and
£12,237,674 at interest.
For the safety of North Shore equestrians, would
Pred. Marshall kindly let them know the day he is
likely to be riding through that marine suburb, or else
keep his toes (say) within a yard of the horse.
A correspondent says : —lt is possible that if the
N.S.W. selection committee had not overlooked several
prominent members of the St. Leonards Club, the match
might have been pulled out of the fire on Monday last.
As a rule, the St. Leonards Club win at least ten per
cent, of their matches.
A trotting match came off last Saturday, at
Eandwick, between Dr. West’s “Colonel” and Mr.
Baker’s “ Dolly,” for £6O a side. Colonel won by three
quarters of a mile, getting a quarter of a mile start.
This shows that “ Colonel ” was either sick or out of
condition when he was beaten on a former occasion.
In case Miss Maggie Moore should have been
prevented by hoarseness from appearing as Josephine,
on Tuesday evening last, Miss Josephine Deakin had
rehearsed the part in the morning, and the young
debutante created a favourable impression. Her first
appearance on the operatic stage will be an event of
considerable interest.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Greek reserves called out.
The Orange Free State, friendly to England.
Laycock left London by the Luisitania February
19.
The King of Ashantee declared war against
England.
Parnell connsels the Land Leaguers to maintain
their programme, and act in corcert.
Pope Leo written strongly to the E.C. ecclesi-
astics of Ireland against Parnell’s visit to the French
communists.
Parnell resumed his seat in the House of Lords.
His visit to Rochefort and other prominent Communists
has given great offence to his party.
Sir Evelyn Wood made a brilliant reconnoisance
of the Boers position in the Transvaal, and the
strength and position of the enemy were well tested.
The published correspondence on Russian
intrigues with the Ameer of Cabul during England’s
1 war with Afghinstan shows a distinct effort on the part
of the Russian agent to aggravate the difficulty. This.
conduct is excused on the ground that the agent was
not aware at the time of the fact that that the relations
between Russia and England had resumed their former
peaceful characters.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Edwin Browne is in Melbourne.
Harwood dresses and looks boot-iful.
Quilp reproduced at the Gaiety to crowded
houses.
What has Hayman been doing to the Sydney
Eleven ?
Marshall’s benefit next week at the Gaiety.
Special efforts.
Kelly and Leon’s Minstrels leave for New
Zealand March 8.
Williamson bested Lingard at the last moment.
Served Lingard right.
Cole’s circus is crowded nightly. It appears
in Sydney during April.
Aaron’s Novelty Theatre is still closed. Mac is
tired trying to get a tenant.
Louise Pomeroy is drawing crowded houses at
the Theatre Eoyal, Adelaide.
M‘Donald’s dramatic agency is the headquarters
of all the Melbourne managers.
Musgrove’s opera company opens in Adelaide
9th May, and then proceeds to Sydney.
The Western Suburbs Musical Society’s concert
is fixed for the Ist March. Programme, miscellaneous.
Marshall’s theatrical printing office is working
day and night for Cole’s and Pomeroy’s Atstralian
tour.
Pomeroy receives =£looo for an eight weeks’
season in New Zealand opening in Dunedin about
June.
The Eoyal Pantomime closes March 4. “ Leaves’ ’
follows. It has been the most successful pantomime
in Australia.
Mr. E. E. Watson, who was playing Harlequin
in “Amphibia” in the Rhine Queen, at Adelaide, won
fame, and what is more—a very handsome testimonial
when he was leaving for Sydney.
Louise Pomeroy commences her second engage-
ment in Melbourne Easter Monday, opening in
"Twelfth blight,” Winter’s Tale” to follow, which
will be produced on a magnificent scale.
Mr. L. E. Cooke, Press and advertising agent
for Cole’s great circus, is here. Mr. Cooke is making
preliminary arrangements for the appearance of the
show in this city, commencing on the sth April. Par-
ticulars next week.
The success of the Austrian Band at the Ex-
hibition Building, Prince Alfred Park, points to the
fact that promenade concerts would be a great success
here. The tram cars carry the people to within a few
hundred yards of the building, and almost every even-
ing they have been crowded with fashionable people
proceeding to the band performances.
Mr. Luscombe Searell, the brilliant Australian
musician and author, is back again from New Zealand.
Mr. Searell’s card is “The Wreck of the Pinafore,”
which was a very great success in New Zealand. Wil-
liamson might take this up, now that he occupies the
position of the leading supporter of Australian talent.
The dialogue of the piece is awfully smart, the account
very amusing, and the music rich and attractive.
“Quilp” at the Gaiety once more. Welcome
once again, little stranger. It is a curious fact, how-
ever, that the Sydney people do not, as a rule, care
for very light comedy as evidenced by the comparative
indifference with which they received “ The Wedding
March,” which was an excellent performance, and a
bustle right through. Mr. Marshall's last nights are
announced, and he takes his final departure on Satur-
day, March 5, benefiting on 3rd and 4th. Mr. Bay less has,
we understand, plenty of novelties forthcoming, and,
therefore, that bright little hall, the Gaiety, will be
kept on pleasantly rolling. Messrs. Bayless and Solo-
mon have done much for the public in the way of
dramatic catering, and we are assured that they will
continue to earn the gratitude of theatre goers by
continued competition for the best available talent.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Magdala mine, Stawell, down 2400 feet.
All the Victorian goldfields yielding well.
The cost of the Victorian Exhibition is ,£329,000.
Clarence River mercantile trade extending
greatly.
Census of New South Wales to be taken on the
3rd April.
The Mount Gilead new dog-proof sheepyard is
ten feet high.
Sydney boasts its female barber. Elizabeth-
street, south.
Our political bank managers will soon star it in
the Assembly.
The rush to Mount Poole, Wilcannia, Darling
Elver, continues.
Anglican church at Junee opened by the Rev.
Thomas Watson.
Crushings at Gympie gave over 20 oz. to the
ton for a large lot of stone.
Total attendance at the Melbourne Exhibition
up to 19th February, 862,555.
Jacob Garrard, they say, is going to take the
office of Inspector of Boilers.
Twenty-two Chinamen have been convicted for
playing fan-tan at Clermont (Q.)
Mr. Purcivill, a resident of Appin, died very
suddenly at Campbelltown last Saturday night.
Two children named Sharpe, aged 21 and 19
months, fell into a tank at Deniliquin, and were
drowned.
The Temora miners are forcing the Government
to promptly provide a water supply. Monster meeting
on the 26th.
Mr. Campbell, manager or Cotherstone station
(Q.), was dangerously injured by his horse being upset
by a wild bullock.
The Minister of Instruction in Queensland has
officially replied to Bishop O’Quinn’s letter on the
Education question.
Tenterfield agricultural ah ow a success. Reaper
and binder prizes—Osborne, Ist; Deering (strong binder)
2nd; M'Cormack, 3rd.
The over-bridge at Burwood Railway Station is
open for traffic, and is a very handsome structure. But
will the people use it ?
Robert Williams, a man supposed to be insane,
brutally murdered a farmer named William Freeman,
at Penrith, last Tuesday.
Some parts of the north-west district of Queens-
land have been visited by a plague of rats. They
attacked and killed lambs.
Victorian Sugar Refining Company contemplate
erecting large mills on either the northern rivers of
this colony or in Queensland.
The prospectus of the Coffee Palace Company in
Brisbane has been issued. The proposed capital is
£lO,OOO, in shares of £1 each.
The buyers of the ship Hereford, which has
been floated and is now safe in Hobson’s Bay, net about
£lO,OOO each by the transaction.
Temora increases in extent and richness daily.
In some cases, sufficient gold in nuggets is picked out of
the washdirt to pay all expenses.
In the Insolvency Court, last Friday, Mr. T. A.
Dibbs proved himself and the Commercial Bank large
creditors in the estate of Mr. G. E. Dibbs.
The Orient liner, Aconcagua, beat the last Suez
mail by three days, delivering her mails via Naples in
35 days, while the Brindisi route took 38.
Four of the New Caledonian escapees are
convicts—two for military offences, one for an attempt
to murder, and one for theft ; the other is a deserter.
Ninety-eight vessels and 702 men engaged in the
Torres Stiaits pearl fisheries. One station alone cleared
last year £4OOO. The Maori divers are the most expert.
Terrific heat-at Temora. In the school-room,
where 150 children were present, the glass stood at 111
degrees. Splendid reefing results, however, on the
field.
The manager of the Canadian Company, King-
street, Mr. E. J. Smith, was married last Thursday,
to Miss Heinz, the daughter of a wealthy resident of
Bondi.
Andy Lynch has scored another great political
victory. “ Through his active exertions,” says the
local paper, “ Carcoar is going to be supplied with a
rain gauge.”
The Children’s Hospital, under careful manage-
ment, has been doing fair work during the past year.
Credit balance, £935 15s. 6d. Attendance to out-door
patients proposed.
Wilmore, the lately-imported All Saints’ (Bris
bane) organist, has just returned from a visit to
Melbourne, and says there is not a sterling organist in
the whole of that city.
The Electric Spark! Last Thursday a telegram
was lodged at the Hay market office at 1.20 p.m. It was
directed to a resident of Balmain, and it reached him
at 6 a.m. on the following day (Friday).
A novelty will be seen at our forthcoming
Agricultural Show in the shape of a model pet lam t>
shod in silver, belonging to the wife of a renowned
cattle breeder residing near Campbelltown.
News was received by the last mail of the
drowning of Miss Fanny Eussell, a niece of the
Marchioness of Normanby, in the Eiver Wye. The
Marchioness is now in very indifferent health.
Mr. Gerard Krefft, formerly Curator of the
Sydney Museum, is dead. So is Dr. Beer. The history
of the closing days of the lives of these two men is best
unwritten. It is not very creditable to us as a people.
A deep-water port for Rockhampton to be estab-
lished at Enpatoria Point, Keppel Bay, twenty-seven
miles from Eockliampton. Straight run of 5 fathoms
from the ocean, and several miles of deep-water frontage
for large vessels.
The Dame, 12 guns, left for England via
Hobart and the Suez Canal, on Monday afternoon. She
had on board the old crews of the Conflict and Alacrity,
gunboats, a number of invalids, time-expired men, and
some naval prisoners.
The extent of the break-up of the American
shipping interest may be judged from the fachthat
during the past six years the United States paid in
freight to foreign ships for imports and exports the
enormous sum of £20,000,000.
A man named Lucas, who had, buried his
daughter on the previous day, lay down so close to
the track on the|Western Eailway, near Blayney, that
the scraper of the night mail train smashed his ribs
and otherwise did him great injury.
The Coffee Palace waitresses are not allowed to
sleep on the premises, as heretofore. We suppose this
means economy—hut what about the poor girls who
have to walk home, after the Palace closes, between U
and 12 at night ? We hope they’re not as safe one way
as the other.
Horse-feed is cheap in Brisbane, but owners ot
cows and horses prefer letting their stock luxuriate in
the principal streets, where the grass is in great abun-
dance since the recent showers. The police and muni-
cipal people rather like it, for it does away the harbour
for snakes, &c.
The North Queensland people complain that
their Parliamentary representatives leave Queensland
and go into business in other colonies without resigi -
ing. Mr. Walsh, M.L.A. for Cook, is at Wagga Wagga,
and Mr. Stubley, one of the members for the Kennedy,
is now residing and carrrying on business in Melbourne.
Terrible fate, poor Langford’s. The work he
was engaged in is the most difficult a boat budder mw>
to perform with a circular saw. Langford hadlong
since made a name for himself as a most skilful buiiae -
His Torres Straits beats have now for years done goo
service. His yachts are well-known—the Nereid, lone,
Orphens, Magic, Pleiades, Meteor, Mabel, Guinevere,
I and Oithona. At the time of his death ho bad a yacht.


in tlie stocks which, he hoped would eclipse all the
others he had built. Langford was interred on the
20th. His widow and children are to be looked after.
The “old soldier” we referred to in a former
issue, as one of the few remaining Waterloo veterans,
states that he is over 90 years of age, was in the 33rd
(Duke’s Own), and has been in receipt of the Queen’s
shilling since 1835. Over £BOO in shillings ! He said if
he had it all now in one lump he’d clean no more boots
and knives. He lives at Bourke.
The correspondent of the Townsville Stan-
dard, writing from the Herbert Eiver, states that two
white men and a Kanaka black boy went to punish the
blacks for trespassing on a potato garden; not finding
the blacks, and meeting with three station gins, they
shot them, and burned their bodies, making the
husband of one assist. The date or locality is not
given.
A shooting affray occurred in Spring-street,
Melbourne, about two o’clock on Tuesday morning, in
which Charles Baum, who described himself as a mer-
chant, was wounded. Three chambers of a revolver
were found discharged. Baum was taken to the Hos-
pital. The case is very mysterious. It seems that
H. Laurence, a clerk, who was arrested, is not the right
man, and will probably be discharged.
A grand concert was given at Lithgow on
Monday evening last, in aid of the E. C. Church of that
town, by the following ladies and gentlemen:—Mrs. M.
Newcombe, Mrs. Stafford, Messrs. H. Flynn, D. Kelly,
F. Leston, F. Martell, and T. O’Sullivan. The latter
gentleman sang several descriptive songs in a most
artistic manner. A large sum was realised, the hall
being filled by a numerous and fashionable audience.
It was the finest concert given there.
William Brown, who was sentenced to death at
Darlinghurst, on Monday, for an assault committed in
the Manning district on his daughter, aged fourteen,
made a strange request of the judge. He said he
wanted one thing granted him : he prayed that the
child and the other female witnesses (all young people)
might be allowed to stand in a row at the gallows while
he was being executed, and that the affair might be
illustrated in the public prints. Sir William Manning
said he could not grant the request.
A verdict was given in the Supreme Court to
the Mercantile Marine Insurance Company in the
action brought by Eobey and others to recover the
insurance on the Susanne Godeffroy. This was the
vessel which, while in a water-logged condition, was
wrecked at Newcastle some time back, several of her
crew being drowned at the time. The defendant’s plea
was that the ship was unseaworthy and that they had
been induced to subscribe to the policy by fraud.
St. Patrick’s C. D. Confraternity invariably
carry off the palm for the excellence of their picnics,
and certainly the one which took place under the
auspices of the society at Chowder Bay, on Tuesday
last, was in every respect most successful. The day was
a lovely one, and the gathering at Chowder was the
largest, and the gayest, that has been seen down the
harbour for a long time. The youngsters looked
supremely happy, and the lady teachers looked quite
attractive, and all present enjoyed themselves
thoroughly. The secretary worked like a lion.
The will of the late Mr. Barnet Lazarus, the
Sandhurst mining speculator, has been proved under
£105,337. Deceased’s will provides that his estate is to
be distributed amongst his children when of age. He
leaves the use of his house and £6OO annually, to be
paid from the interest of the trust to his wife for her
and the children’s maintenance and education. In case
of his wife marrying, she is to be deprived of the use of
the house, and is only to receive £250 annually. He
leaves the interest of £3OOO to his daughter Selina for
life, and a sum of £l5O to his sister, Belina Abrahams.
He also makes several small charitable bequests.
The proposal at the Infirmary meeting in favour
of having a separate ward of twenty beds, for the treat-
ment of homoeopathic patients, was withdrawn. The
allopaths and homoeopaths came into close conflict.
One lay gentleman, well known for his eccentricities, as-
serted that a homoeopath had cured him when every
allopath had failed. It was proved, however, that the
gentleman had not been cured by homoeopathic treat-
ment, as the medicine administered to him was the
same as the last allopath he had patronised had given
him—the only difference being that with the homoeo-
path he desisted from trying every patent medicine
procurable in town. The discussion caused some
amusement. It was certainly, however, indicative of
one thing—a growing inclination in some quarters to
allow the practice of homoeopathy at the Infirmary.
Professor Cavill’s effort at Lavender Bay to
induce ladies to patronise the natatory art has been
attended with much success. On certain days the
baths are devoted to the exclusive use of ladies, and
large numbers attend—young and grown people alike.
The Professor says that he never in any part of the
world saw such progress as the North Shore nymphs
make in the art of swimming. The baths of course are
conducted on the strictest principles, and are really
proving a boon. There’s no doubt that many of the
infirmities which afflict the weaker sex are due to the
fact that custom has denied them those exercises so
essentially necessary to a sound mind and body; and
perhaps the exercise of bathing, which very few of the
fair sex indulge in, is the most essential of all to good
health in this climate. The Lavender Bay baths, as
now managed, remove this obstacle; and it is satis-
factory that people are sensible enough to see the
advantages. Perhaps, next week, we may have a little
sketch from our special artist.
Mr. Stuart’s lamentation during the late finan-
cial debate, anent the absence from the present House
of a late esteemed Treasurer, was, we think, out of
place. True it is that the latter is a gentleman, and a
clever financier—but what about the abilities of the re-
cently elected ? We assort with confidence that if he
will only accept one-third of the present members of
the Assembly at their own estimate of themselves,
there is that number who are sure they can “ lick
creation” at figures and looking after the coin—particu-
larly the coin. Would Mr. Stuart utterly ignore the
Rev. Mr. Melville, capable of undertaking any office?
Why did he attempt to speak before that mem-
ber, who, a few weeks ago, told his supporters he was
“going in for” Treasurer, and “ Aggers was his fort ?”
Why did Mr. S. not show some consideration for one
who has counted up drinks with the accuracy of a cal-
culating machine, added up threepences with marvel-
lous ability, and who is not ignorant of a little game in
which counting is everything, accompanied by the
magic words, “seven’s the main.” West Maitland
pauses for a reply.
Sir Henry Parka thus, on Mr. Buchan’s con-
version to protectionist views:—“ It was the rule
that young converts never allowed their zeal to carry
away their discretion; and the hon. member who,
having lived fifty or sixty or seventy years a freetrader
—(laughter)—the other day—some time in the spring
of last year—became a mad proctectionist—(laughter);
and, in order to carry out his new religion, he had to
eat up all the principles of his past life, and all the
men he had admired throughout his past life. (Laugh-
ter.) They had had the hon. member extolling the
authors of free trade ever since they had heard his
melodious voice there or elsewhere —(hear, hear, and
laughter)—and they had heard him enunciating free-
trade principles during the whole time. But he had
suddenly turned round, and told them that nothing in
the world would save this country except his new
doctrine; and in order to impress that fact upon them
he was continually drawing pictures of the misery of
the people of New South Wales which nobody else in
the country had been able to see.”
They called Martin Guest a stumporation,
knowing at the time his teeth weren’t all there.
The attraction of George-street is Peapes and
Shaw's window, where all the latest novelties are dis-
played.
In a recent sheep-slaughtering match at New
Jersey, the winning man dressed his 25 head in 86
minutes.
You should see those new cheap and practical
telephones at the American Novelty Company’s estab-
lishment, Pitt-street.
The sale at the Bon Marche, King-street, has
attracted a large number of ladies. The newest fashions,
®c., have been the enticement.
, Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist’s land sale on Saturday
SiVes working men an opportunity of securing some
cheap homes. See advertisement.
LATE SPORTING.
Sweetmeat is first favorite for the Australian
Cup at 5 to 2.
When will those medals, won at the Rowing
Association Regatta, six months ago, be presented ?
The Rockhampton Jockey Club meeting is fixed
for July 6th and 7th. The added money will be £BOO,
A new grand-stand is to be built.
The Melbourne crew are to be “disgraced,”
whatever that may mean, it they fail to win the coming
eight-oar event on the Parramatta River.
The Macleay regatta is to be held at Kempsey
on Easter Monday. The principal event is an all-
comers’ race in best and best boats ; prize, £5O.
The results of the Tam worth races, first day, are
as follow :—Tamworth Cup, Express; Shorts, Valen-
tine; Maiden Plate, Whirlwind; Prince of Wales
Stakes, Roger ; Stewards’ Handicap, Whirlwind.
The result of the first day’s racing of the Yass
Racing Club’s annual meeting are as follow:—Maiden
Plate, Verity; The Shorts, Bachelor; Members’ Plate,
Coquette; Yass Plains Handicap, iKembla; Hack Race,
Jasper.
The Croydon Cricket Club is coming off splen-
didly this season, and it now includes some of our most
promising players. There are few smarter men behind
the sticks than the Club’s wicket-keeper, McCarthy,
while the batting of O’Hara, and the bowling of
Dermis, would not disgrace any of our intercolonial
teams.
A crowded audience assembled at the School of
Arts on Tuesday night, one of the items of attractions
being the presentation to Mr. Massie of the silver cup
for highest aggregate score in the late match. Mr. D.
O’Connor, M.P., made the presentation, and in a neat
and humorous speech, congratulated the recipient upon
the gallant stand he made. Mr. Massie briefly returned
his thanks.
High jinks were held at the Oxford Hotel on
Tuesday night. The delegates of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association assembled to do honors to the Victorian
team. Various toasts were enthusiastically drunk, and
the victors were congratulated by the vanquished.
The Victorians will return deeply gratified with the
treatment they have received at the hands of the
Association. Ei paxsant, it might be remembered that
our team, when in Melbourne, did not meet with the
usual cordiality and bonhomie ; they had, we believe,
to walk to the Melbourne ground like a lot of
stragglers on the match days; our visitors, at all times,
had a drag and splendid turn-out at their command.
We have shown them how gracefully we can take a
beating.
A pigeon flying match for young birds three '
months old, from Blacktown, 23 miles from Sydney,
took place last Saturday under the auspices of the
Sydney Homing Pigeon Society. The entries for this
match were large, but only seven sent their birds to
the post. The starters were Messrs. Allan, Freeman,
Cleave, Wright, Tancred, King, and Williamson. Mr.
Haigh undertook the task of liberating the birds at
quarter-of-an-hour intervals, and performed this duty
to the entire satisfaction of all concerned. The winner
is a very handsome keen-looking blue-pie hen, the
property of Mr. F. C. Freeman, of Newtown. This
bird was liberated at Blacktown at IPSO, and arrived
at Newtown 9 minutes past 12, doing the distance in
39 minutes —a splendid performance, taking into con-
sideration the bird is only three months old. The
second bird, the property of Mr. Cleave, Pyrmont, did
the distance in 48 minutes. The third bird, 59 minutes,
is the property of Mr. Tancred, of Botany.
The New South Wales definition of amateur
precludes the entry of the South Australian crew. The
definition is as follows: —“ Amateur, to mean any
person who has never entered into an open competition,
either for a stake, public money, admission money, or
entrance fees, at or since the Anniversary Regatta of
1876, or competed with or against any professionals in
any way, or who has never taught, pursued, or assisted
in the pursuit of athletic exercises as a means of
livelihood, or who has not been employed in or about
boats, or in manual labour.” The ‘‘manual labour”
clause, though it seems an arbitrary means of ex-
cluding a tradesman from competing in amateur races,
is absolutely necessary, as it would certainly be unfair
for men whose occupations are clerical or sedentary to
meet with opponents whose muscular powers are
continually being exercised.
The Intercolonial Cricket Match.
VICTORIA v. NEW SOUTH WALES.
This great event, so long looked forward to, and
much discussed, has come off, and once again our
hopes are scattered and our expectations stumped.
We have valiantly batted, and we have been
gloriously bold; and now nothing remains but
for Mr. Stratton’s staff to clear away the wreck,
and for the journalists to tell the storv. Brief
then, they were three glorious days; three days
during which the mind of man was exercised by
enthusiasm at the prowess of the athletes, and by
unliquidated admiration at the melting sylphs who
so lightly footed it o’er the verdant sward. The
aspect of the ground on each and every day was
invigorating to contemplate. The number and
variety of the umbrellas alone constituted in
themselves a dazzling picture. Men deeply
learned in the science of the noble game reclined
on the grass shaded and happy—now toying with
the water-melon, now trifling with the susage-roll.
Small boys wrestled with huge buns —and “ sweet
seventeen” struggled with lumps of hardbake.
All were laughing, eating, applauding, and happy.
In the pavilion, sacred only to coats and trousers,
the buzz of intense interest was always to be
heard. The company was numerous, but select.
There were celebrities by the score—journalistic,
legislative, forensic, and theatrical —and, of
course, athletic. And the comfort of the
guests of the Association was in good hands —
those of Messrs. Beal and Gibson. These gentle-
men exerted themselves in a very praiseworthy
manner for the general comfort, and the banquet
provided by Mr. Stratton was “ immense.” That
it was done justice to, may well be imagined.
Indeed, we noticed one or two budding geniuses
who appeared much struck with the radishes, and
a legal gentleman who snapped up large blocks of
tongue in an exceedingly raven-ous manner. The
lawn and grand stand, which each day were well
patronised, shone bright with handsome faces and
pretty dresses. On Saturday, not even the attrac-
tion of the Austrian band could keep the ladies
away from contemplating our flannel - encased
heroes. They mustered in their hundreds —all in
gala attire, too —with their attendant cavaliers, in
their newest pants and brightest patents. Vice-
Royalty was not present in any form, and there-
fore the effect of the picture was unfortunately
not brightened by the sheen of snowy gaiters. An
ex-Mayor in a blue coat and (the historical) brown
pants, gleamed resplendent in the front row of the
grand stand, and the senior Member for East
Sydney coruscated upon the sward. Daniel was
there, of course ; when is that
“ Noticeable man, with, large grey eyes,”
absent from any festive scene ? The “ Vagabond”
alsohonouredthegathering with his lordly presence
—and patronised Charlie Bannermann in a manner
that was delightful to see. Charlie himself was
looking pretty fit on the whole, and batted (in one
innings, at any rate) quite in his own old style.
Of the cricketers, perhaps McShane caused the
most astonishment —not so much on account of
any superiority he may possess as by reason of
his being a new man, and such a decided “ terror”
with the bat. Both he and Massie exhibited
superb form, and every one is glad to find one of
our own men the top scorer. The ladies’ dresses,
collectively, were in no way remarkable; but,
indeed, had the costumes been far more brilliant
than they were, their effect would undoubtedly
have been marred by the architectural disabilities
of the stand in which they were enshrouded. It
looks as if it had been built of old packing-cases,
and designed by the ex-City Architect. Appended
will be found particulars of the play ;
Victoria.—lst Innings.
Midwinter, b Evans ; 0
Mackay, b Garrett o
P. Allan, c A. Bannerman, b Evans 26
T. Horan, b Garrett 26
Turner, c and b Garrett 3
Coulthard, b Garrett ... 5
Kelly, b Evans .'.12
M'Shane, c Jones, b Evans ". 61
Edwards, not out '' 31
Healy, c Roberta, b Evans ’ 12
Cooper, b Gregory , 1
Byes 10
Leg-byes ... q
Total 193
Victoria.—2nd Innings.
Mackay, b Evans 1
Edwards, c Massie, b Garrett 2
Horan, cD. Gregory, b Evans ... 28
M'Shane, b D. Gregory 12
Healy, c and b Evans 4
Allan, b Jones 2
Midwinter, notout " ...42
Kelly, st Roberts, bD. Gregory ... ... ''’so
Turner, c and b D. Gregory 10
Coulthard, c Massie, b D. Gregory 6
Cooper, b Evans ... 1
Byes ”, ." 4
Leg-byes ... 6
Total leg
' Grand total—36l.
New South Wales—lst Innings.
Massie, run out 70
A. Bannerman, c Edwards, b. Allan 0
C. Bannerman, o. Kelly, b. Midwinter 24
Roberts, c Kelly, b Cooper 0
D. Gregory, c Turner b Midwinter ... 16
Evans, c Kelly, b Allan 8
Jones, b Midwinter 6
Garrett, notout ”, ’’ 35
Geary, c and b Midwinter 5
Powell, c Allan, b Midwinter 18
Nunn, b Edwards , ’ " h
Leg-byes ... ’’’ ..’ 7
Total 200
New South Wales—2nd Innings.
Massie, c Edwards, b Allan 8
A. Bannerman, b. Allan ... ”52
C. Bannerman, b Allan . " 0
Roberts, c Healy, b Cooper ... 10
D. Gregory, 0 Turner, b Oooper 9
Evans, b Allan is
Jones, b Allan ’ 7
Garrett, b Edwards ... 13
Powell, b Allan '. ” 4
Geary, b Edwards ’’ 0
Nunn, not out 3
Byes 7
Total 131
Grand total—33l.
Bowling Analysis : —Victoria—lst Innings.
Balls. Runs. Maidens. Wkts.
Evans ... 324 ... 62 ... 45 ... 5
Garrett ... 164 ... 50 ... 20 ... 4
Jones ... 72 ... 20 ... 10 ... 0
Geary ... 44 ... 16 ... 4 ... 0
Nunn ... 16 ... 17 ... 1 ... 0
Powell ... 8 ... 8 ... 0 ... 0
D. Gregory... 19 ... 4 ... 2 ... 1
Nbw South Wales—lst Innings.
Balls. Runs. Maidens. Wkts.
Allan ... 164 ... 62 ... 18 ... 2
Midwinter ... 103 ... 27 ... 15 ... 5
Cooper ... 68 ... 40 ... 4 ... 1
M'Shane ... 64 ... 36 ... 5 ... 0
Edwards ... 30 ... 15 ... 2 ... 1
Colthard ... 12 ... 4 ... 0 ... 0
Victoria—2nd Innings.
Evans ... 264 ... 39 ... 37 ... 4
Garrett ... 92 ... 33 ... 8 ... 1
Gregory ... 100 ... 53 ... 3 ... 4
Jones ... 48 ... 17 ... 6 ... 1
Geary ... 12 ... 6 ... 1 ... 0
New South Walks —2nd Innings.
Cooper ... 60 ... 41 ... 3 ... 2
Allan ... 176 ... 37 ... 29 ... 6
M'Shane ... 84 ... 31 ... 13 ... 0
Coulthard ... 12 ... 9 ... 1 ... 0
Edwards ... 23 ... 6 ... 3 ... 2
Trickett’s Benefit.
Among those present on the stage at Trickett’s benefit
I at the South London Palace, were T. Blackman, John
McDonald, E. Laycock, J. Thompson, T. G. Tagg, F.
Symms, George Tarryer, John Higgins, Harry Kelley,
George Drewitt, Fred. Kelley, Charles Bullman, F.
Beckwith, Simmonds, “ Blower ” Brown, Wallace
Ross, Edward Hanlan, J. H. Clasper, Horry Clasper,
J. W. Tagg, W. Mitchell. W. Beckwith, Tom Green,
Jack Anderson, Harry Thomas, Williamson, Charles
Bush, W. J. Innes, Joe Wise, Jack Hicks, W. Spencer,
Doggett, Cable, Cordery, C. Tarryer, Goodman, T.
Taylor, C. Godwin, F. Phelps, Audsley, Frank Sett, C.
Lonsdale, Beeby, and Graham. Trickett himself was
present. Charles Bush, acting as M.C., made a capital
short speech, and first introduced Hanlan, who received
great applause as he came to the front of the stage.
Thanking the company for his reception, the champion
said that he had received great kindness in England.
He had, he said, a good man to beat in Laycock, but he
hoped to be a better. He should do his best to win,
and honed that his opponent would have as good a
chance in training and health as he wished himself.
Laycock, who, with Hanlan, made abeutas good-looking
gentlemanly pair of watermen, or any other sort of men,
as were ever thrown together, was a great favorite,
and was repeatedly cheered. He thanked the company
for helping his friend and countryman, and said he was
glad to find that Englishmen stuck so well to a beaten
man, and, said Laycock, “it was worth while getting
beaten if there was sure to follow such a handsome
benefit.” Laycock assured his audience that it would
only be Hanlan’s fault if Australia did not win the
championship match, and that he meant to have a
hard try to take home with him the championship. Mr.
John Thompson was the next to show, and followed
Laycock in testifying his gratification at seeing Trickett
so well helped. Wallace Ross was very brief. Mr.
Bush next introduced six winners of Dogget’s Coat and
Badge, and then Harry Kelly, who was cheered greatly.
Four more Coat and Badge men (three of the Putney
Coat) and Jonn Tagg (Thames National Coat and
Badge) and next Tom Blackman, John Higgins,
George Tarryer, and J. H. Sadler, W. Spencer aud five
of the Temple Coat and Badge men, Jack Anderson and
Tom Green, T. G. Tagg, Joe Wise (Leander Coat and
Badge), Sam Peters, T. Taylor, etc., then George
Drewitt. Trickett, who came next, was formally pre-
sented by Mr. Bush with £368 7s. (£159 10s. collected
by W. J. Innes, and £177 7s. by Mr. C. A. Lett) and re-
turned thanks. Ross gave his illustrations, interest-
ing and comic, of men and style in his model sculling
boat, and that ended the aquatic part of the presenta-
tion.
Anthony Hordern and Son’s Palace Store, Hay-
market, is fast nearing completion.
Dean Swift, in the presence of some ladies, once
made an assertion that no female ever wrote a letter
without adding a postscript. This was indignantly
denied by one present; but imagine the Dean’s surprise
upon receiving, the next day, a letter from his fair
disputant relative to his remark, and winding up with—
“ P.S. Who is right now, Mr. Swift —you or I?”
After all, and as might be expected of British
tars, the Emerald fellows are awfully disgusted with the
results of their last cruise. The fact is, the control of
the navy in the South Seas is in the hands, or under the
influence of Exeter Hall people ; and it is said that be-
tween the High Commissioner and Missionary mag-
nates, the naval captains hardly know what to do. The
instructions we hear are most absurd. We shall not be
surprised to hear of more massacres and smart retalia-
tion from traders, who are now made aware of the absur-
dity of expecting any protection from the authorities.
Thomas Carlyle.
T une your harps, ye angel seraphs !
H ail earth’s late departed son !
O pen wide the golden portals,
M ourn no more ; his work was done.
A sk the many noble mourners
S ilent weeping o’er his grave,
C arlyle—lives he in your mem’ry ?
A ustral’s “ yes ’’ floats o’er the wave,
E ise, then, ev’ry son of learning,
L et your heart’s last tribute be —
Y et will Carlyle live amongst us !”
L ive ! will echo o’er the sea,
E ’en though Death triumphant be.
E.L.S.
Pyrmont.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
An alligator s neat containing 70 eggs found on
an island in the Pitzroy River (Q.) A ton weight of
magnificent specimens found in No. 1 North Phcenix,
Gympie. It is thought that the claim is booked for a
2000 oz. crushing. We notice that the imprint of
Melbourne Punch now sets forth that Messrs.
M'Kinlay and Carrington are its proprietors. There
is only one butcher in Walgett, and meat 2d. per lb.
In Bourke, three butchers, and beef 3d. and 4d. A
Bourke hospital-box was stolen last week, but there
were only three 3d. bits in it. The thieves who stole it
also robbed the doctor of his cash-box, which, however,
turns out not to be the one he kept the money in. All
they got for their trouble was some drugs. The suc-
cess of the electric light at Cole’s circus, has again
raised the question of its employment in Parliament
House, Melbourne. A complete plant for lighting the
buildings would only cost £2OOO, after which the ex-
pense would be confined to the wages of one skilled
nmn, the fuel for a steam engine while the light is re-
quired, and about 3s a night for carbons. A disease
which puzzles the local vets, has broken out in the
Qundagai district. Enormous increase in our goods
traffic, especially on the Western line. A bale of
wool, from Wagga to Sydney, 300 miles, is charged 95.,
and from Dubbo to Sydney, 277 miles, 11s. 3d.
Articled clerks have to pay £5 for an examination
lasting one day, and consisting of one subject. Rather
Sharpe on them. Camden is now freed from the
horrible stenches that used to permeate the atmosphere,
and make life a most terribly earnest thing. The
slaughtering Act is now extended thereto, and the
batchers are obliged to wash.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Tamworth ; (1) A letter addressed to care of
the Era, London, would no doubt find Mr. Collard. (2)
Silver flutes are, taken altogether, not considered superior
to wooden or ebonite ones. “ My Eye”: Can’t see the
joke. “ S.T.” (MoretonPark); Unsuitable. *• Pen-
rith”: Don’t understand what the nigger meant to con-
vey. “H.B.’’(lronbarks): Verses received, but hardly
up to mark. “ Thespis”: Hoskins and Rogers ap-
peared in “An Unequal Match” on Ballarat many years
ago. Triokett and Hanlan also appeared in it on the
Thames. '• R.S.” (Newtown): If you’re jealous of the
man, “ go for him ” yourself—don’t ask us ts do it.
“A Subscriber”: Hardly in our style. “Stella”:
Please call. W. R. Hawken (Darlington) : We can.
not publish ex-parte statements of the kind. If you
send|a!short statement of the grievance, the matter will
receive attention. ——“ A resident of Brisbane ”: The
mere fact that your communication is an anonymous
one makes us doubt its accuracy. Why not sign your
name? “T.L.”: Spiteful, rather, isn’t it? “W.
B. D.”: Letter received; glad to have heard from you.
“Observer” (Wollongong): The style of your
present communication is somewhat hackneyed. How-
ever, we shall be glad to hear from you again. “C.
C. C.”: (1) It is not good form to say “ rough ” or ill-
naturedjthings about (private entertainments. (2) Too
“ hot,” even if said politically. However, your letter is
a lively one. Write again. “S. P. R.”: Very pleased
to hear from your district; but kindly send us some-
thing hardly so personal. “B. Bowlin”: Will look
into the matter. “H. H.”: Your communication
acceptable. “S. W. P.”: Thanks. “L. S. T.”:
Glad to hear from you again. “J. M‘G.” (Moran-
gonu): You do not give us the post town. “ Delta ”:
Your complaint is a just one, but should be made to
the manager of the theatre. “C.A.” (Crow’s ):
Letter posted. Please continue. “T.L.”: Bernardo,
the popular comique and clown, is travelling with
Barlow and Walhalla’s circus, now in the Western
districts of Victoria.
BRIEF MENTION.
Stolietoff —Stall-it-off.
Maiden efforts at lecturing are not likely to be
popular.
Wire-pulling at the Children’s Hospital. That
election of the medicos was awfully quiet.
Chorus of Aldermen: “Did you, Evers P ”
Contractor: “ No, I never; or, at least, bar ”
Exeunt Council.
What is greatness ? One of the messengers in
the Colonial Secretary’s Office signed a receipt, the
other day, for “ Sir Henery Parks.”
David Moßeath would associate with McGuven.
And what has he come to ? Even our own pet C.M.G.
was respected till he made a friend of the Palmer-street
pope.
Scene in dining-room, 6 p.m.—Sister: “ Ma,
Mrs. B has chocalate for tea.” Brother (14):
“Well, I have heard of a pianoforte, but never of a
chocolate-forte. Still, it is nothing' to choklc at.”
[Will the author please call, fetching his own coffin.—
Ed. B.]
What can be wrong with that Mudgee Inde-
pendent again ? This is its last advertisement:—“ A
full attendance of the choir is particularly requested on
Sunday (to-morrow), the 20th inst. Pigs ! pigs! pigs!
—Fat store weaners and suckers for sale cheap.—
Mudgee Brewery.” And yet the Giraffe is still allowed
to brouse on the Mudgee common!
A German resident of Sydney some time ago
advertised for a person do give his daughter lessons on
the Zither. Among the replies was one from an indivi-
dual who, after enumerating different families in which
he had been tutor, wished to know whether the Zither
was a merchantman or a man-of-war! The pedagogue
was evidently under the impression that the advertiser
was the captain of the “ Zither,” and that his daughter
travelled with him.
Our esteemed correspondent, “Nitmar,” writ ag
from Samby, Choiseul, Solomon Group, on 24th Dec. last,
sends us an account of the burning of the schooner
Zephyr, and the massacre of Capt. Marshall and crew
at Choiseul, on 25th November, 1880. The cause of the
trouble, says “Nitnmr," was “slavery." “Even as I
write,” he says, “ an old man is on board this vessel
asking in vain for his boy, who was taken away by the
captain last voyage. He is now running errands in one
of the suburbs of Sydney for a merely nominal wage, or
no wage at all, I presume. The intelligent public need
not wonder at the frequency of massacres in the South
Seas, while men are permitted to buy or kidnap slaves
and sell them right under the Commodore’s guns in
Sydney harbour.”
The members of the Burwood Dramatic Society
are noted for their energy. Well, some time ago they
had a difficulty in getting their bills properly posted—
but they were not to be stuck up by such a trifle ; so
one night at 11 o’clock they started with bucket, brush,
and bills, to do the work themselves. On their journey
they spotted a horse quietly grazing in one of the
streets, and they posted several bills on him. Never,
since the days of John Gilpin, did a horse create such a
sensation as did that nag next morning, with his coat
of many colours. It was the best advertisement the
Society ever had. There was only one man in Burwood
who did not see the joke, and that was the owner of the
horse. When he heard of it, he fastened a fresh piece
of greenhida on his whip, and, breathing out threaten,
mgs aud slaughter, went for the bill-stickers. But he
has not succeeded in finding them yet.
The following highly interesting advertisement
has been appearing in the Hekald for the past week :
“To Let, the pick of Manly, 1000 feet frontage, 80


yards from steamer; first-class houses, £2 per week ;
full water supply, every inconvenience; view unequalled.
W. Bedman, Manly,” To say the least, Mr. Redman
has an attractive advertisement!
There is a ring in the Oobar share market.
That German ship has arrived. Just six months
out!
Is the Bathurst-street column the scenter of the
city ?
The Alert and the Danse people patronise the
steam laundresses.
They say M‘Elhone is like a woman’s tongue—
an unruly member.
“ Where’s Skuthorpe ? ” we ask again. This is
said Humerously.
Is the High Commissioner of Polynesia King of
the Cannibal Islands P
Another addition to the Herald staff. This
time a son. Hobson’s choice !
The pig always paid the rint for Pat. So now
why shouldn’t he go and help the Boers ?
Newspaper literature is well represented at
Dubbo. The biggest man is a popular editor.
S. E. Lees favors homoeopathy at the Sydney
Infirmary, and ha is supported by Pastor Allen.
“I’m going a little out of my usual line’’ —as
the Northern train remarked upon leaving the rails.
Bathurst bvrr is increasing and multiplying in
the Northern Queensland, hut not the Byerstown burr.
This is how the Herald puts it: —“ This un-
looked - for accident came upon the community
unawares.”
The Bowral auctioneers on Saturday last seemed
to think speculators Hardy without Gorman-dizing.
Lunch at 3.
The patients of that medico very near Camden
will take no more antibilious pills. “ Sacred to the
memory," &c.
A libel ease will shortly come off between two
medicos residing on the line. The case is a goods one
for the lawyers.
More toadyism at the Yaramatawuntigongiwon-
dilly railway station to the man in power, ana more
snobism to the unwashed.
The Queenslander is going in lemons for
retrenchment! “ Specialities ” and “ Current Rates ”
got the sack from Busy-coat.
Lamentation and woe with a certain manufac-
turing silver-smith in Hunter-street, at not carrying off
a prize at tbe Melbourne Exhibition.
Campbelltown undertakers drive grey horses in
their hearses. So do some people in Sydney, but then
the paint brush has first done its work.
Parramatta mourns more larrikinism and less
Shapes this season than have been known for years past,
ne vigneron is sad over the loss of two tons.
They have the shatter ready at Croydon Station,
to carry home the pieoas of th it young man who has
never yet been known to get into the train until it is in
motion.
A Hebrew citizen of Brisbane has been “ had ”
to rights over some gold mining shares. He got half
their current value for them, and not through any
Christian friend either.
A Hill End young lady wrote in her invitations
that “ M i was giving this bill in honour of the taking
up of the winrer, and laying of the summer carpets.”
The former had not been remove I for seven years.
An eccentric old lady of North Brisbane, much
to the horror of her daughters, insists on their wearing
crinolines and wide dresses, simply because her ser-
vants wear tight dresses, and follow the fashion.
When yon hear John Alexander Dowie’s church
choir singing, “ There will he no more sorrow there,”
you conclude at once that either the aforesaid choir
will not be there, or they will not be permitted to sing.
This is the last effort of the Wollongong
Argus :—‘‘Thomas Carlyle —The latest reports re-
specting Tho uai Carlyle state show that no hopes ore
entertained of his rec >very. His death is hourly ex-
pected. He died on Saturday last.— Petegraph." And
yet that Wollongong editor abuses his subscribers for
not paying up!
Of course the aldermen frown on M'Beath —
another way of shifting the responsibility on to the
wrong shoulders. What the public wants to know is
this—who pitchforked M'Beath into the position of City
Architect ? If is here, aud here only, the responsibility
comes in. What a grand card these foundation
blunders will be for the new aspirants to aldermanic
honors next year.
During his speech on the Remission of Interest
question, Mr. Badgery said “he would rather be in
gaol than be one of the very few who would vote for
the remission of selectors’ interest,” wherupon the
Cooma Express observes : “ We are much mistaken if
that gentleman would not prefer going to gaol than
sanctioning any concession to the free selector."
The skeleton of a woman has been found at
Newcastle, and according to S. M Herald, it belongs
to a European. We wonder what the European would
take for it. This, however, cannot, be ascertained, we
suppose, till the European comes and claims it. By
that time, we’re afraid, all the bright literary stars of
the big paper will have gone out—gone down, Ac.
Public school teachers in Sydney are not happy
families. There is now pending more than one dispute
between head masters and head mistresses. So far as
can be gathered it would be well if the former, were to
show a little more manliness, and not hold over the
mistress a rod in the shape of “ ‘ complaints’ on fools-
cap, only to he sent to head-quarters if farther quarrels
occur."
What wedding-rings are made of. A friend of
ours was watching a jeweller melting gold to cast u ring.
Among the material was a gold-plate for the roof of a
man’s mouth. “ What's that ?” said our friend. “Oh,
undertaker’s perqs.,” replied tbe jeweller; “we get
lots of that. Those coves never think of ‘ planting ’ a
fellow now without feeling in bis mouth to find out if
his teeth are false.” Such is life 1
The best almanac that has yet been issued from
the Austialian Press is that Newcastle almanac, which
states that Good Friday falls upon a Saturday (26th
March), and that Easter Sunday this year will be on
Monday (28th March) We’re not certain that Good
Friday won’t fall on Saturday, and Easter Sunday on
Monday, but we’re under the impression that about
April will be the time. Not the Ist of April, of course.
A correspondent to the Queenslander says
that Inspector Fitzgerald, of Coot town, "corroboreed”
and rubbed noses with the coast blocks, with a view to
civilise them. He is now called the “ nigger-tamer,”
and the inland sub-inspectors are titled “ Fitz.’s
drovers.” Another writer says that Mr. Inspector
Townsend lives on carpet snakes when droving those
•‘myalls” to the coast, also that Douglas’ “boys"
frequently play “Mazeppa” with him, when he is
feverish, and unable to ride. It is hard times, indeed.
Another scandal from Yarramatamuntigong-
etcetera. A leading Government official there,
weighing at least nineteen stone, is notorious for his
predeliotion for wine and women. Returning from the
lunatic asylum the other afternoon full up of 3-star,
he “ spotted” a fair maid who met his advances freely,
and—appointment for that evening, 8 p.m., race course
gates. He kept it; the night was dark; in response to
—“ls thit you Annie?” there was a bashful “ Yes 1"
Aud he thereupon embraced —his wife 1 * * • He
now tells his friends that the scratches on his face and
a black eye ware caused bv a fall over the debris which
those confounded contractors left lying about. But he
doesn’t say how it was that, at 8 30 p.m. his wife was
seen entering her own dwelling affectionately grasping
the kitchen poker.
“ No admittance except on business,” was the
notice at a mountain railway station, till the station
master’s attention was called to it. Then an alteration
was made, and it now reads : “No admittance accept
on business.”
The great dog-poisoning case at Campbelltown
has not yet reached its climax It will probably even-
tuate in murder. The latest development of the affair
is a three-and-a-half column advertisement from one of
the local medicos.
The Chinese are fast leaving the Palmer,
because “they say ” the troopers told them the native
police are all to be “ sacked ” owing to retrenchment,
and that the wild blacks will then hang all the Chinkies
with the telegraph wire!
A Brisbane civil servant, crossing Queen-street,
addressed a passer-bye : “ I say, M.. that coat you sent
home vesterday I beg your pardon—l took you for
my tailor.” Stranger: “I’d rather be taken for your
tailor than your friend.”
A certain youth went to Cootamundra for the
purpose of playing in a cricket match. In the morning
he was met by the servant, who politely told him that
she had been unable to find his boots, but had cleaned
his shells. What a fete I
A well-known Parramattan, a widower—who
recently made over a flourishing business to his sons—
is on the look-out for a wife. He will visit Victoria,
South Australia, and Tasmania before making the final
jump. Why not Tarban ?
Of course all public school officers cannot be
gentlemen, and therefore it is absurd of a correspon-
dent complaining of “ one,” high in the service, who
calls his pupils “ dirty hidiots,” “ common louts,” and
roars out, “ I will have none of that d d nonsense,”
Ac. Ac.
Scene, nursery. Maude (7 years of age), to
Mamma, who is washing baby : “ Isn’t baby a trouble ?
[Then a moment’s pause ] I say, Mamma, who nursed
Adam and Eve ? ” A “ fact:” occurred on Sunday in a
Parramatta family. Child now on view !!! 2s. 6d.
admission !! !!
Parramatta Council has granted a month’s leave
of absence to the assistant clerk (Mr. Mood) on full pay,
and engaged a boy, fifteen years old, to do his work at
a salary of 30s. per week. Many a married man with a
family at Croagingalong would have been glad of this
chance.
There are only two or three licensed pawn-
brokers in Brisbane, but there are lots of places where
any article of vertu can be “ left ” on the usual terms.
Auctioneering and usuring run well together. When
the knocking-down business becomes monotonous,
obliging people at sixty to a hundred per cent, affords
pleasure to some of the Brisbane knights of the ham-
mer.
The medico who makes it a practice to go out
during the service at St. James’s, on the plea of being
sent for, is politely informed that that little game is
played out. We’ve read of such things in Thackeray’s
works.
The Agricultural Society’s difficulties for the
past six or seven years may be traced to internal dis-
sensions. Now, when it is pulling together again and
the public seem inclined to vivo liberal support, there
are more dissensions. And all through that little
gnat!
Spooning in a suburban Anglican Church during
prayer time appears to be more congenial to the tastes
of a certain young sailor and his affianced, the daughter
of an M.L.A., than following the tedious morning
prayers.
When Dave on Jack made his attack.
It pleased all righteous men.
Then Jack replied, and had Dave lied.
Jack would have proved it then.
He did not try, and David, why,
He took his gruel, too; —
And people say, as is their way.
“ Both charges can’t be true !”
A fund, to be called tho “ Glebe Rowing Club
Clothing Fund,” is being started in that suburb. The
idea is to purchase suitable aquatic costume for the
rowing men and youths who at present think a pair of
unmentionables, cap, worn-out boots, and half a guernsey
quite sufficient clothing to be out in every afternoon —
especially Saturday afternoons. The sharks are ashamed
of them, and out of pure modesty keep away from their
shed.
This is how the amiable Lady of Hunter-street
quietly refers to Sir Alexander Cock burn Certain
failings which a lax morality passes over as ‘ amiable
weaknesses ’ clung to his sanguine temperament be-
yond the years at which the “ hey-day of the blood ” is
usually still, and somewhat lowered his dignity in the
public eye. But in society he was always brilliant and
charming. He possessed a fine taste in matters of
art.” —“ Old Hundred.”
At a fashionable ball in the city the other even-
ing, a budding Supreme Court solicitor (not yet
admitted) was got up regardless of expense. He brought
a second supply of entfs and collars. When the change
was made he waltzed about the mirror, and asked the
waiter’s opinion. “ How do I look ?” —Another change
of bis necktie —“ Will that do?” “Yes.” Then to his
companion : ‘ All right, Jim ; you can introduce mo
now.” He was introduced, and-slighted.
“ John ” is the sobriquet of the soft gentleman
at Wagga so gone on the fair sex in general that he
almost cleared the town of pretty valentines. "John”
is also the name of an individual who has been in
large receipt of ugly ones.
Query ; What is the meaning of the word
atheuamm ? The Melbourne Athenaeum consists of a
valuable property, centrally situated, which provides
four very nice billets, and very little more. Fact. Is
it private or public property ?
At a party, the other evening, at Glebe Point,
a number of young people were to be found playing
" Kiss in the Ring ” in the paddock adjoining the Glebe
Rowing Club, between the hours of la.m. and 2a.m.
How sweet kisses must be at that time!
Several ladies, with the driving of whom about
town, Kanak as has been entrusted, have now found out
the reason why their lords preferred the black man to
the white. There’s usually no reason to be jealous of
colored gentlemen from the South Seas.
The Primitive Methodists in Queensland are
getting up an immigration scheme of their own, and
are going in for the importation in large numbers of
the members of their faith. Young Queenslanders are
elated at this. Grand tea-fights are looked forward to.
A faithful and long-trusted domestic has been
dismissed from the service of a would-be alderman.
Cause: “In the gleaming” she mistook her mannikin
of a master for one of his children, and did not
discover her error until she had severely trounced him.
So the Lybe yields to the lash. It is now the
“thermometer," and not the “glass,” at the Multum
in Parvo. But why this disguise ? Is it not always
the glassF Sometimes, however, it’s the bottle; in
which case, of course, it would be, “The bottle and
glass stood—empty.”
Messrs. J. and G. Hyde’s blue and gold cards at
the match were quite far too good for this world. They
were so pretty that ladies collected them from their
husbands and took them away with them ; and now all
the Darling Point la lies are using them for needle-books.
What a good Hydea!
The Campbblltown Herald gravely ob-
serves : “ Our paper has been a big success, and in
twelve months we have achieved a position, in a pecu-
niary sense, that few proprietors of provincial papers
have been fortunate enough to secure.” A-hem!
Candy—self-administered.
A Darlington beauty gets anonymous letter
asking interview. Consults lady friend, who advises
help of beauty’s brother. Appointment kept. Brother
perdu. A married gentleman in the Telegraph Depart-
ment salutes the syren. Brother interferes, and ener-
getically escorts the Benedict to his sick wife by the
ear. Beauty says it was “ a sheep led by a Scotch
collie.”
A Brisbane young lady writes to a cousin that
the last Government ball was a real success, that
nobody grumbled—in fact, could not—as there was
plenty of good “ tucker,” Eurojieau waiters, and no
Chiukie tea!
A certain ex-Minister, a regular attendant at
All Saints’ Church, Petersham, does not feel very
charitably disposed towards those unfortunate and
misguided strangers who happen by chance to stray
into the some free seat as himself. His withering
Christian glance tells them plainly not to do it again.
The man William Brown, under sentence of
death, has evidently a taste for pictorial literature.
He wants a drawing of himself and family in the Sydney
Mail just as he has the rope round his neck. Sir
William Manning, however, said he had no power to
order anything of the sort. His Honor didn’t even
express sympathy with the request. And yet how
ingeniously simple it was. No matter, William, if, as
we believe, the proper thing will be done by you,
yon will shortly have no ground whatever for “any
complaint.
Wo have been favoured with a few lines from a
Windsor poet. We insert, the “ po’try ” more to bring
his name prominently before the public than for any-
thing else: —
“ Near Windsor there lives a fair virgin.
Who to wed does not care in the least;
Tho’ some say she wouldn’t want urging.
If asked by a handsome dark priest.
“ At puddings and pies she’s a ' stunner,’
At roasting and boiling, no chick;
In fact, she’s a really ‘ Al’-er—
A regular housekeeping brick.”
A.S.S.
There is a certain youthful member of the
squattocracy, whose flocks and herds pasture on the
western slopes of New England. Now, this youth,
among other advantages, has been blessed by beneficent
Nature with a face in hue and brightness like unto the
setting summer sun, surmounted and ornamented with
hair like burnished gold—giving to the whole a halo of
surpassing radiance Though young in years, he is an
important personage withal, and must know all whys
and wherefores. Once he was journeying to Sydney by
rail when a stoppage occurred; he immediately thrust
the aforesaid head out of the carriage, and in an
authoritative tone demanded—" Guard! why is the
train stopped P” The guard gazed for a moment on
his wonderful headpiece, and replied—" No train can
proceed while you hold out that danger-signal.” The
signal was withdrawn.
Visitors to the Dawes Point baths are occa-
sionally arrested when under the large oak tree at the
Barracks by hearing an artilleryman possessed of a
strong Hibernian accent calling out in a commanding
voice, "Comedown out of that tree, yedivil! Come
down, I tdl ye ; you’ve been up there long enough ! ”
&c. The unw iry stranger naturally steps across the
road, and gazes up attentively at the tree to discover
the occupant; and when after a fruitless search he
continues his way, a laugh from the inmates of the
barracks convinces him that he has been the victim of
a military hoax.
The J.P.’a of a certain town just over the
Queensland border are fond of euchre —-so fond, indeed,
that some of them occasionally used to play a quiet
game under the bench, if the case which was to be
brought before their worships did not seem to them of
great importance. “ The evidence you shall give,” Ac.,
was occasionally interrupted by whispers of “ Pass
me,” “ Take it up.” and so on One morning, at about
11.30, the clerk of the court suggested to their worships
the propriety of hearing a rather important case, as it
had been standing over for some little time. After de-
positing their hands, the obliging bench “ gave orders
to open the court and call on the case,” and the evi-
dence having been taken and weighed carefully by the
illustrious bench, the presiding magistrate said, “ The
sentence of the Court is that you— Put down that
bower, George—it’s mine 1” Struggle ensued.
It has been generally understood, in connection
with the fish market, that Mr. Seymour, the Inspector
of Nuisances, receives a per centage on the fish he
sells by auction, This, however, is a popular delusion;
since the only benefit Mr. Seymour receives in con-
nection with his fish market duties is the benefit to his
health derived from having to rise at 3 am. in all
weathers. Mr S.’s first duty is to muster a hundred
or so of scavengers, and then he pelts down to the fish
market, where he has to sell in a building brimming
over with schnappers up of unconsidered trifles. In
The Bulletin we like to do every public man justice,
and therefore it is with a smile and a bow that we
emphatically state there is nothing fishy about Mr.
Seymour but his oilskin coat when his auctioneering
duties are concluded Everything is evenly weighed in
the scales of justice, and as the fishermen say, if they
know anything about French, —“ whiting regie."
And so the Rev. R. T, Hills’ letters have
“ aroused ” some of the “ unco guid " amongst his con-
gregation, and they are adopting retaliative measures
“a man of sin” would scorn to use! Fancy a promi-
nent member of a Congregational Church, in a pros-
perous town like West Mai'land, stating that his
departing pastor (after raisiug a large family as a
Christian’s family should be raised, and dispensing
charity with a lavish hand, upon a salary sometimes as
low as £l3O per annum) “ has feathered his nest,” and
"leaves the church in the lurch,” Ac! Verily, the
dividing line between the sinning and the professedly
sinless is sometimes indistinguishable. We will gua-
rantee that many of the former, who assume no sancti-
monious airs, have contributed more to the funds of
that church than the goodv-goody “ friends,” who
profess so much, but do so little when their pockets
are appealed to. " Alas! for the rarity of Christian
charity.”
Inverell possesses as many beaux as street
corners, but the beau par excellence, the real divine
masher, adored of women, and envied of men, is hand-
some "Jeems”; and on Sunday afternoons he shines
resplendent. The Sabbath sun has not risen upon the
fair daughters of this town till Jeems makes his
appearance, and while they sit at the windows pensively
watching, he suddenly dawns upon their admiring gaze.
He is attired in a black frock coat with flowing skirts,
and a small Covent Garden in the button-hole, a vest of
dazzling whiteness, continuations of such a hue and
shape as to make one wish they could be all legs and
ever wear such, a white hat of the stovepipe variety, a
collar reaching his ears, and a cravat that would excite
the envy of a Fijian chief. A new sun shines from each
patent leather boot, and while one hand supports a silk
umbrella with consummate grace, the other is occupied
in caressing a perfect masterpiece in moustaches.
Thus, with head erect, he promenades the streets,
regardless of eyes that weep and hearts that ache for
one little smile and presently as suddenly disappears.
The dear girls heave sighs of despondency, leave the
windows, and in piano-whanging Moody and Sankey,
strive to forget, him. while Jeems changes his duds,
cleans the knives and forks, and proceeds to set the tea.
“ Sic transit gloria Sundi.”
POT AND KETTLE.
Introduction.
Davie was a kettle,
Johnny was a pot;
Dave did “ crack ’’ that John was black,
John swore he was not.
John said—“ On mv honesty
There ain’t a single spot! ”
" Nor on my morals,” quoth brave Dave,
“ Does there exist a blot! ”
What the Kettle Said.
“ No honesty, political,"
Quoth Davie, “ have you got:
For Breeza, yon would squeeze a
Free pass, Johnny, would you not F
You slang poor Goodchap, if he gives
Us passes sans the pelf.
And yet for your small son and heir
You loaf for one yourself.
‘‘Are you the man whom foals have thought
A Cato, for so lon ;
Whose * honesty ’ in pot-house bars
Dull swipers made a song ?
Are you the man who brags about
Your pigs and corn and kine—
And yet who'd make your little son
A dead-head on the line ?
Are you the man, relying on
Your bluffing and your bounce.
And pei oh. d upon your pr vilege—
Poor help!es clerks denounce ?
Are you the scavenger who for
Your country all would dare—
And yet. O hero ! would you beg
A small boy's railway fare !
Out, John! the vaunted idol’s down,
’Tis but of painted wood—
Now bawl away till Doomsday ;
But } our pitch will do no good!
Where is that independence
In which you erst did shine —
You’ve lost it; ?mt you’ve gained your boy
A free pass up the line.
What the Pot Said.
The honourable Member, he
Has got in such a scot;
And ’cause he is a Kettle, why
He thinks that I’m a Pot.
But let me tell him this, that I
So low went never down.
As to get in a circus ring.
And play larks with the clown !
That I’ve been a Lothario
No man can ever hint.
Nor have i done things which would look
Confounded bad in print!
My moral character is good—
As such’t has e’er been known
I am—well, in one word, I am
Great Johnny M'Elhone!
What We Say.
When a m in’s a Member
Then he does a “ spent
Fans the glowing ember —
Never tights it out!
Once two men are “ honourable.
Why then it is said ;
One won't fig it. on principle—
T’other is afraid.
A SYDNEY BELLE. —(See Society and Fashion.)


The Refree.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
The best team won the cricket match.
Laycock is on his way home, in the Lusitania.
The Dubbo races are likely to be a big success.
Match between Laycock and Rush on the tapis.
Bonnor, the cricketer, is again bad with his
leg.
Mackay was a “ passenger ” in the Victorian
team.
A Banks’ rowing club is being formed at Ade-
laide.
Edmund Hinkley, a once famous English bowler,
is dead.
In the second innings Geary got none, and Nunn
got mad.
Cole’s circus will open in Sydney on or about
the Ist April.
The practices of the eight-oared crew are being
held in Neutral Bay.
The Australian Eleven beat the Napier team in
one innings by one run.
A movement has been initiated to inaugurate a
rowing club at Grafton.
The Sydney Gymnasium has been opened by
Professors Miller and d’Harcourt.
Twenty-three nominations for the Merindie
Handicap, and twenty for the Cup.
St. Patrick’s Day will be celebrated in Bathurst
by a sports' meeting on the cricket ground."
There are ten acceptances for the Yass Handi-
cap, li mile, and eleven for the Town Plate.
This is the twenty-sixth intercolonial cricket
match between Victoria and New South Wales.
The intercolonial eight-oar race takes place the
same day as the Hawkesbury races. That’s bad.
Progress is now first favourite for the Australian
Cup, and Grand Flaneur has receded in the betting,.
It appears that one bail was on the wicket when
Geary stumped Horan, but that Terry did not know of
it.
The Scone and Wybong teams met on Saturday.
The match resulted in a victory for Scone by 27
runs.
At a sale of racehorses on Monday at Melbourne
Soothsayer brought 210 guineas, Qeide Olgothoch 140
guineas.
Only eleven entrances for the Australian Cup,
bat the list for the Newmarket Handicap amounts to
thirty-seven.
The Albert C.C., Brisbane, the premier club in
that city, was beaten on Saturday week by the Stanley
O.G. by a wicket.
An analysis of G.’s" internal economy before
going to the wickets on Monday would have been
highly interesting.
There is some talk of a match being made
between Bob Edwards, of Melbourne, and McDonald, of
the Clarence River.
Savanaka has been purchased by Mr. Crozier,
of South Australia, for a very large sum. The game
little horse goes to the stud.
A junior cricket club has been formed in the
head office of the Electric Telegraph Department.
Mr. W. Arthur is secretary.
Scott, the champion shot of England, was to
shoot a match for £2OO aside with Dr. Carver, 100
pigeons each, on Ist February.
The race between Sullivan and Professor West,
in watermen’s skiffs, for £l5 aside, at Newcastle, on
Saturday, was won by Sullivan.
Mr. Mclndoe claims the swimming championship
of New South Wales if his challenge be not taken up in
a week. Now then, Mr. Corbett.
Lord William Pitt Lennox (fourth son of the
fourth Ddke of Richmond, and well known for his
writings on sporting subjects) is dead.
Messrs. John Cameron and James Gibbon are
uot going to pay off the Queensland Turf Clnb’s lia-
bilities and run the business themselves.
It is rather anomalous that though Victoria
won the match, nearly all the trophies were secured by
members of the New South Wales team.
The Balranald annual races are fixed for the sth
and 6th April, and the programme includes a handicap
of 75 sots., and a steeplechase of 40 sovs.
One or two of the American scullers have taken
home with them from England boats constructed on
the Australian plan—fitted with water-box.
Mr. E. Weeks, the well-known Indian buyer,
has purchased the New Zealand horse Mata from Mr.
H. Haines, and intends taking him to India.
Enderson, the jockey, has been suspended from
riding for three months, for not turning up to ride the
horse Gitana at the last Kensington Park races.
The Melbourne regatta will be held on the 26th
instant, the same day as the V.R.C. Australian Cup
meeting. A dead loss for the Rowing Association.
The yachting season at Adelaide will close with
a match between the crack yachts Edith, Enchantress,
and Zephyr, for a cup presented by Sir Thomas Elder.
The results of the Taralga races were as fol-
lows:—Maiden Plate and Parmer’s Purse, Verity 1;
District Purse and Jockey Club Handicap, Heirloom 1.
“Joe” pleaded being a Jew to the charge of
playing cards on a Sundav. It is to be inferred there-
fore that he never plays on Saturday— well, hardly ever.
Laycock, says an English sporting paper, can
ride as well as row. When at Newcastle, he went out
with the Tynedale hounds, and at one time led the
field.
Miss C. Sprigg, daughter of the secretary of the
Omnibus Company, won the 300 yards’ swimming match
open to all, at St. Kilda, Victoria, on Saturday, 12th
instant.
It is reported that Grand Flaneur goes very
short and sore in his work, and the support awarded
Progress in the Australian Cup gives colour to the
rumour.
Midwinter was unable to bowl during the second
innings of the N.S. W. team in the intercolonial match,
owing to a sore hand, bat, as events turned out, he was
not wanted.
Frank Ward, a jockey, attempted suicide on
Friday last, by firing at his head with a double-barrelled
gun. The bullet glided off his forehead, and he is now
in the hospital.
Tommy Horan made a grand attempt for a
catch off a leg bit by Aliok Bannerman. It was rather
too high for him, and he just touched it, saving the
otherwise inevitable four.
Several handsome trophies have been promised
for the Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta, which is fixed for
12th March. Mr. C J. Roberts and Dr. Milford have
accepted office as vice-presidents.
Murdoch’s average, up to and inclusive of the
Sunderland match, was 20.6 for 42 innings—4 not onts.
Total runs, 766. Bonnor's average was 18.9 for 33 in-
nings—2 not outs. Total runs, 567.
When Joe Thompson was arrested at Jerusalem,
Tasmania, for playing cards in a train, he remarked
that it was “hard lines” that a Jew couldn’t play a
friendly game of cards in Jerusalem.
A cricket match for the Cox Challenge Cup was
played at Wagga Wagga, on Saturday, between the
Cootamundra and Wagga clubs, resulting in a victory
for the former in one innings by 4B runs.
We are bad losers. Some of ns abused Ned
Trickett like a pickpocket for allowing Hanlan to beat
him, and now our cricketing representatives are getting
their share of roasting. Poor Alf. Geary.
The French men-of-war crews defeated all
comers at the Hobart Regatta by means of their plucky
pulling and their lightly-built boats. The crew of the
Danae cutter intends to challenge the victors shortly.
In the six days’ and nights’ go-as-yon-please
tournament at the Hippodrome in Melbourne there
are 21 competitors from all the colonies, including W.
Baker, F. King, and J. Lever, from New South Wales.
An Australian Trotting Club has been formed
in Victoria, and a site for a course has already been
purchased, and the work of laying out the course,
stand, fencing, &0., is immediately to be proceeded
with.
The great English coursing event, the Waterloo
Cup, was run for at Altcar, Liverpool, on the 16th and
following days. 64 dogs competed, and Mr. Miller's
Princess Dagmar, by Ptarmigan—Gallant Foe, was the
winner.
Edwards, of the Victorian team should have
received a trophy for fielding: his catch off Massie in the
second innings was a splendid bit of fielding, and
without doubt was the turning point of victory in
favour of Victoria.
For the autumn meeting of the Victorian Racing
Club there are eleven entries for the hurdles, four f®r
the Port Phillip Stakes, seven for the Steeplechase,
twenty-seven from the Brunswick Stakes, and fifteen
for the Corinthian Cup.
A grand contest may be expected in the coming
hand-ball tournament between New South Wales and
Victoria. Mr, Dillon has put his alley in,complete
order, and our players are in splendid form. Dillon
himself will take a lot of beating.
The Victorians won the intercolonial cricket
match by their splendid fielding in the second innings
and by Allan’s grand bowling. The batting of the
New South Wales team was excellent, but the fine play
of their opponents scored a win for Victoria.
The paralyzed sculler of Union Springs is begin-
ning to show signs of life again D. L. Lawrence, said
to be Courtney’s agent, now in England, offers to match
Courtney against any man in the world, barring Hanlan,
in a race for five miles, for £5OO aside, and give fifteen
seconds.
The Albury Racing Club have started on a
totally new basis, and issue a very njce two days’ pro-
gramme, handicaps of 80 and 50 sovs. being the chief
events, whilst the distances—a mile and a half and a
distance, and a mile and a quarter and a distance—are
very attractive.
Healy, of the Victorian team, has a peculiar
style of hatting. Just before he strikes he makes a
brilliant flourish with the bat as if he intended to hit
the ball out of the ground, and then makes a gentle
block. He is a careful batsman; but he lets off too
many of the loose ones.
An exciting twelve hours’ walking contest took
place on Saturday at the Public Hall, Pyrmont, between
McLaren and Wrighton. It was won by McLaren, who
covered the distance of 53 miles 17 laps, while his
opponent did 51 miles 18 laps. McLaren is open to
walk any youth in the colony under 29.
The Canadians are very properly proud of their
champion oarsman, and are making great preparations
for his reception at Toronto when he returns. We
should not grudge them the honors they have fairly
won; we should show them how we can take a beating
by the reception we shall give to our vanquished heroes.
Gramanda C. C. v. Richmond C. C. — A match
was played at Petersham, between these clnbs, on
Saturday, 19th instant, resulting in a victory for the
Gramandas by 11 runs. The bowling of F. Stanford and
F. Cox proved very effective, the former obtaining 5
wickets for 10 runs, and the latter 4 wickets for 9 runs.
Zulu Thompson, who knows how to advertise,
had some handbills thrown on the northern end of the
cricket ground just before the N.S. Wales team com-
menced their innings. The wind commenced to scatter
them, bat the ground trustees made a charge (as they
always do) and succeeded in collecting the scattering
papers.
Penola Races. — All-aged Stakes : Loohaber 1,
Mesalliance 2; time, 2m. 14s. Amateur Steeplechase :
Fire-King (M‘Leod) 1, Hector 2, Highlander 3 ; eight
started. Racing Club Handicap; Dispute (Allan) 1,
Lady Melissa 2, Young Alfred 3; won by a length; time,
2m. 44«. Selling Race: Little Nell 1. Consolation
Handicap: Magic 1.
A cricket match was played in Denison Park
between the Rover C C. and Redfem Albion, which re-
sulted in a victory for the Rover. The batting of I
Johnston (13) and E. Collins (8) was very good. The
bowling of Hillier aad H. Collins was very effective.
The match was witnessed by a large number. Scores:—
Rover, 42; Albion, 37.
Massie must now be regarded as the finest bats-
man in Australia. Ha is a powerful hitter, and seems
to trifle with his bowlers. A ball which would stick up
another batsman, is either driven by him hard to the
off or hooked round to square leg for four. While he is
at the wickets, the bowlers and field are in full enjoy-
ment of their “ picnic.”
Following are the results of the Hobart Anni-
versary RegattaLadies’ Purse: Tamar, 1. Skiffs for
two youths ; Huon Belle, 1. Four-oared, for amateurs;
Fraud, 1. Four-oared, for all comers: Our Boys, 1.
Handicap Yacht Race: Haidee, 1. Sailing vessels:
Caroline,!. Sailing vessels exceeding 20 tons: Kornuab,
I. Sailing boats: Mischief, 1.
The annual meeting of the Mudgee Turt Club
was held on Monday afteenoon, Mr. V. G. Dowling,
J. the chair. The following officials were elected
for next year :—President, Hon. G. H. Cox; vice-
president, Mr. George Rouse, J.P. ; treasurer, Mr. E.
Daly ; hon. sec., Mr. J. M. Cox. An influential com-
mittee of management was also elected.
Massie takes the trophies for highest aggregate
score and highest individual score in a single innings
in the intercolonial cricket match. The fielding trophy
was awarded to Evans, and Midwinter and Evans got
the trophies for bowling. The Association have
awarded a special trophy, value £5 ss, to Alick
Bannerman for his display of batting and fielding.
Captain Webb, the celebrated swimmer, is in
London, and announces that he will soon retire from
further aquatic contests. Before quitting the business,
however, it is his intention to surpass all past efforts
in the ait of natation bv swimming across the Irish
Sea from Holyhead in Wales, to Kingston on the Bay
of Dublin. The certified distance between these points
is 65 miles.
At a recent meeting of the London Athletic
Club, at Stamford Bridge, C. L. Locton, a member of
the London Athletic Club ran .300 yards in 32 2-ssec,
This is the best on record in England, the previous
record being 33sec., by J. Cockerell, June 3rd, 1870.
The best record in America is 32 5-3 sec., by R. S. Haley,
of the Olympic Athletic Club, San Francisco, on 20th
November, 1880.
The manager of the Australian Eleven has cabled
from New Zealand for six of the Victorian Eleven to
remain in Sydney to play in the Combined team against
the Eleven in the forthcoming match. The combined
team will probably he composed of the following
players :—Midwinter, -Horan, Edwards, McShane,
Cooper, Turner, Massie, A. and C. Bannerman, Evans,
Garrett, and D. Gregory.
The boat race on Saturday, at Newcastle, for
the Mayor’s Cup, value 10 guineas, presented by Mr
Alderman Chapman, ex-Mayor, between the following
crews belonging to the Newcastle Rowing Club-
Enterprise : Messrs. Graham (stroke), Williams,
Christoe, and Macdermott; and Alerte: Messrs. King
(stroke), Burke, Evans, and Finch—was won by the
crew of the Enterprise.
The results of the Hobart Jockey Club races
are as follow:—Maiden Plate, Townley 1; Sires Pro-
duce Stakes, Shylock 1; Hobart Cup, Monarque 1;
Hurdle Race, Sir John Moore 1; Plying Handicap,
Quicksilver 5; Tasmanian Handicap, Pyrrhus 1; Der-
went Plate, Marchioness 1; Elswick Hurdle Race, Cup
Day 1; Selling Stakes, Townley 1; The Field Stakes,
Cynic 1; Steeplechase, Victor 1.
Recent British Performances. —Sports of Jesus
College, Cambridge University, England. A strong wind
behind the sprinters 200-yard handicap run, final heat,
E. _L. Lucas, scratch, first, in 20 l-ssec. Sports of
Trinity College, Cambridge University. Path in fine
condition; a gale of wind behind the runners. 100-yard
race, final heat, F. Q. L. Lucas (a brother of E. L. Lucas)
first, in lOaec. The Lucas family seem to have decided
athletic proclivities.
The fielding of the New South Wales team was
anything but first-ela-s during the first innings of Vic-
toria. Roberts was not successful behind the wickets,
and in the second innings he was placed some distance
back, there virtually being no wicket-keeper during
the Victorian second Gregory, who made
mistakes in the first innings, retrieved his reputation
by fielding well during the second.
The Newcastle City Club had four players
engaged in the match North v. West, and requested
the Singleton Club, three weeks before the match, to
postpone the Waddy Challenge Cup match for one week.
The Singleton Club declined, whereupon Newcastle
withdrew from the contest. This is considered as a
forfeit to Singleton, who were not even the holders of
the Cup, but become so by this eccentric manner of
winning.
A match was played at Eveleigh on the 12th
February between the Rover and Waterloo cricket
clubs, which resulted in a victory for the Rovers by 22.
runs. The batting of Hillier was splendid, making
eight twos in succession, and the bowling of Hillier and
C. Costello was very effective, the former taking 6
wickets for ten runs and the latter 4 for 7. The fielding
of the Rovers was spoken of highly. Scoresßovers,
40; Heros, 18.
Young Oxford v. Young Australian C.C. —A
match was played last Saturday afternoon at Moore
Park between the above. The result was an easy vic-
tory for the Y.O.C.C. by 8 wickets and 3 runs. For the
winning team, Breakwell (12) and H. Gibb (10) piayed
very well, and for the latter, Turrey (13) batted capitally.
The bowling of Breakwell and F. Gibb for the Young
Oxford was also very good, as was also the fielding of
Gee for the same.
Although the tram-cars stopped at the road
leading to the Association Ground during the progress
of the intercolonial cricket match, the majority of the
passengers alighted at Moore Park, preferring to walk
rather than pay an extra fare for the short ride. In
many cases the pedestrians arrived at the ground
before those who went on with the tram, through a
delay necessary for the crossing of the Randwick tram-
cars. There was much chuckling thereat.
The Camden peds., Hughey Moriarty and
Jimmy Stuckey, had a match on Saturday, 19th—100
yards. Stuckey laid £25 to Moriarty’s £2O. The
betting, up to Friday, was in favour of Stuckey, who
was very confident; but he receded in favour, and at
the start it was almost level money. However, after an
excellent start, Hughey forged ahead, and won rather
easily by about 2yds. Hughey is a brother of the Jack
Moriarty who was lately defeated by Royal at Burwood.
Walter J. MTndoe, of Melbourne, who has never
been beaten, and who claims to be the champion swimmer
of Australia, will probably proceed to England shortly
for the purpose of pitting himself against the cracks of
the old country. His time records are magnificent.
He is a short man, of immense power. An advertise-
ment from him. claiming the title of champion swimmer
of N.S.W., and challenging Mr. Corbett, or any other
swimmer, to a match, appeared in our issue of last
week.
The captains of the respective teams had to
decide who was to receive the trophy for best bowling,
but could not agree. The figures were—Midwinter, 103
balls, 27 runs. 15 maidens, 5 wickets ; Evans. 588 balls,
111 runs, 82 maidens, 9 wickets. Though Midwinter
secured the less number of runs per wicket, it is obvious
that as a bowling performance Evans’ was superior, as
he bowled nearly six times the number of balls for an
average of a little more than twice the number of runs
per wicket.
Just before the end of the play on Saturday the
patrons of the pavilion were astonished by the entranee
in single file of about a dozen men with blue badges on
their arms, and headed by one of the gate-keepers.
They were received with a round of applause, which
was increased when four policemen joined them. The
consternation subsided when this formidable band
posted themselves at intervals round the ground to
prevent the crowd rushing the wickets at the conclusion
of the play.
On Saturday afternoon, the Commodore of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron (Mr W. O. Gilchrist)
was entertained at luncheon at Double Bay, previous
to his departure on a European tour. Dr. Mackellar
occupied the chair; and, luncheon being over, various
complimentary toasts were proposed, that of the guest
of the day being most heartily and cordially received.-
Mr. Dangar, in responding to the toast proposed for his
health, gave a brief and hufnorous history of yachting
in New South Wales.
The Victorian handball players arrived by the
Leura on Friday, and were conveyed to the Rising Sun
Hotel in a drag. U pon arrival at the hotel, champagne
was opened, and toasts wore proposed. The games to
be played are:—Single, Dillon (N.S.W.) v. M’Namara
(Vic.); double, Dillon and Kenan v. M’Namara and
Hannon. In the three-handed game, Messrs. Dillon,
Kenan, and A. Dwyer will represent New South Wales.
Mr. Dillon, the proprietor of the ball court, has effected
great improvements in the alley, ensuring better play
and more room for the spectators.
The hand-ball court at the Rising Sun Hotel
was well attended on Saturday last, the practice of the
Victorian players being the principal attraction. A
single-handed match for £lO took place between Messrs.
Hinchey and Breslin, the former winning the two first
games. Langham (formerly champion of Victoria) and
Maloney had a bout with M’Namara and Cantlebury,
both Victorian players, and, after two severe rubbers,
the former won, showing some first-class play. Dwyer
and Farrell beat Kenan and W. Thompson after a hard
match. Con aiderable interest is felt in the approaching
Intercolonial matches.
The Treasury officers, who have been compli-
mented by the Press on several occasions as being the
most efficient of the Civil Service, were not allowed the
usual indulgence of a half-holiday during the Interco-
lonial Cricket Match, although the other officers of the
Civil Service received it. and in some cases closed at 12
o’clock each day. Bearing in mind the fact that when
a man’s mind is concentrated upon the interesting con-
test which is going on elsewhere, he can do very little
work, we cannot see what is gained by this arbitrary 1
refusal of favours. It is evident that the Treasurer,
having failed to distinguish himself as a financier, is
now plunging into greater errors to shine as a martinet.
There are many theories afloat as to the secret
of Hanlan’s success. Some of the Yankee papers do
some tall talk about gas in the boat, and an effective
contrivance of fans ti> keep the boat going; others rave
about a slanting slide keeping the boat high out of
water, and doing away thereby with a great amount of
resistance. None of the papers, either American or
English, give Hanlau the genuine credit of being an
artist as a sculler We thought Trickett knew more
about sculling than any other man in the world, but he
himself admits that he has something yet to learn from
Hanlan. It was our genuine belief in the man and not
in his boat that caused us to lose so much upon
Trickett’s defeat.
Mr. King, manager of the Commercial Bank at
Camden, having promised two gold trophies—one for
highest average scorer, and one for best average bowler,
for bona fide members of the local club—the first match
was commenced on Friday afternoon, Ilth Feb., and
finished on Friday, 18th. It was supposed to be Married
v. Single, but the Married were minus several of their
best men. The result was: —Married, first innings, 32;
second innings, 66. Single, first innings, 137. Thus
the Married received a one innings’ defeat. Walker,
for the Married, made 17, not out, first innings, and 6
in second. For the Single, King made 43, and Bourke
38. The best bowling averages were obtained by Thorpe
and Wilson. These matches are to be continued every
Friday afternoon.
The ordeal that a player in Intercolonial
matches has to pass through, is somewhat trying. In
addition to the anxiety which he must naturally feel as
to his “coming off’’ in the big match, he has to submit'
to the reproaches and advice of numbers of the occu-
pants of the pavilion, who see a cricket match once in a
twelve-month, and know as much about the game as the
game knows of them. These parties are hard nuts to
the player who makes a mistake ; it is quite bad enough
for a good batsman to get out for 0, without having to
submit to the jeers or advice which he gets in the
pavilion. As for the fieldsman who is unlucky enough
to miss a catch, he hae to hide himself from these
worthies, who are evidently non-believers in the glorious
uncertainty of the game.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club’s tournament
on Saturday, was not well patronised, owing, no doubt,
to the counter attraction of the Intercolonial Cricket
Match "on that day. The results «re as follow:
Youths under Id, 200 yards, Ernie Cavill 1. Diving for
objects, John Dynham 1. Second heat for the Sydney
Gold Cup, W. P. Corbett 1. Summer Ea.ce, 400 yards,
G. Child 1. Swimming with clothes on, G. H. Kohler
I. Ladies’ Eace, Miss Emilie Von Hammer 1. Fancy
Swimming, W. F. Corbett 1. Evolutions and diving by
ladies, Miss Emilie Von Hammer 1. Hopple Eace, A.
J. Bloomfield 1. The sports concluded with an aquatic
polo match, which caused great amusement. Mr. W.
F. Corbett acted as starter, Mr. W. "Wynne as judge,
and Mr. A. E. Parry as clerk of the course.
New South Wales can never hope to cope with
Victoria on the cricket field while we have only one
ground to practice. There are uo facili ios for new
players to come out; while wo had but ou" new man
in our Intercolonial Eleven, Victoria had such new
aspirants for cricket fame as as M'Shane, Edwards,
Turner, and Mackey. The Victorians made a great
stand in the second innings after the sixth wicket had
fallen ; when our second innings arrived at that stage
the scoring was done. Admitting the weakness of our
“tail,” it must also be confessed that N.S. Wales did
not send her best eleven into the field. In the first
place, we played without a first-class wicket-keeper;
Eoberts is a first-class batsman, and deserves his place
in the team for that alone, but as a wicket-keeper he
was a failure. Hiddleston and Tindall should have
been kept in the eleven, and it is a standing censure
against the new Selection Committee that such a grand
batsman as Diyis, who is top average for the Carlton
Club," should never have been mentioned in connection
with the practice for the late match.
The great glove-match, for JJIOO a side, under
the Queensberry rules, between Denny Harrington, of
London, and William Sherriff, alias “Prussian.” was
decided a few miles from Birmingham, Eng., Dec. 17.
Much excitement was caused by the rumour that the
contest would take place with "raw ’uns : ” but such
was not the case, as the articles specified that the men
were to box with ordinary-sized gloves, neither man to
scale more than 1541 b Harrington scaled 1491 b., and
Sheriff 1521 b. Harrington’s friends were unwilling to
give the 6 to 4 asked by the other man’s supporters,
and what betting there was was level. After a 44
min. contest, in which Sherriff, after the first few
rounds, had decidedly the best of the enco(lnter, the
police interfered and broke in upon the ring. The
party moved and erected another ring, which was also
seized. When the representatives of the men met the
referee, Harrington’s friends offered Sherriff £25 to
agree to a draw, but the Leicester lad refused, saying
he didn’t care about the money, but only wanted to be
declared the winner. The referee awarded the victory
to Sherriff, on the ground that Harrington had refused
to eater the ring a third time.
Two interesting races were sailed under the
auspices of the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club on Satur-
day afternoon. The first was for 24 feet boats for a
trophy presented by Commodore Hyam, The starters
were:—Dreamland (Dr. Belisario), scratch; Snowdrop
(N. Johnson), 4 min.; Lizzie (W. Johnson), 7 min.
The course was from moorings in Farm Cove round
buoys at Manly, back round flagboat off Fort Macquarie,
round Fort Denison and back to flagboat. Snowdrop
came in first, about a quarter minute ahead of Dream-
land and 1| minutes ahead of Lizzie. Lizzie, therefore,
won the race by 1J minutes of her lime allowance from
Snowdrop and about 5| minutes from Dreamland. The
second event was for boats of 20 feet and upwards, with
limited crews. Course: From moorings in Farm Cove
round lightship at. Sow and Pigs, round flagboat, round
Shark Island, and hack to flagboat. The starters were:
—Florrie (Mr. Cas’les), 4min.; Buttercup (Mr. Car-
penter), 3 min.; Shiela (Mr. Crofts), 4 min.; Wai Tni
(Mr. Gray), 4min.; Zuleika (Mr. Eaymond), 4min.;
Gemini (Mr. Cope), 4min. Shortly after the boats got
away, Gemini went to the front, and eventually won by
a long distance, Shiela being second, and Wai Tni
third.
The match on Saturday week between the com-
bined Eighteen of the Northern and Western districts
and the Intercolonial Eleven was won by the Eleven by 1
mn with 1 wicket to fall. The Eighteen scored 118, of
which the principal scorers were Downs 22, Bryant 12,
Webb 19, and Turner 11. The batting was very fair,
though none of the batsmen appeared to know much
about Evans’ bowling. The fielding of the Eleven was
weak, and not at all up to the standard of first-class
fielding. Alick Baanerman dropped a rather easy
oatch from Laurence, and 411 an most unpardonably
mulled an easy chance from Sweetman. This, with an
unfortunate run out, lessens the chance of this pro-
mising cricketer’s selection in the team. The Eleven
made 119 with the loss of 9 wickets. Massie and C.
Bannerman were the first to go to the wickets, and
succeeded in putting up nearly 50 before they were
parted. Massie was beautifully caught by M'Donald,
for 26, and BannermahVas bowledfor22. Undoubtedly
the innings of the day was Eoberts’, 29; he showed a
strong defence and good hitting powers. He was
splendidly oanght by Elliott at square leg. Wearae
was run out foolishly, and Hiddleston a made a clever
exposition of the “ blackfellows’ game ” by going off
his ground once too often. D. Gregory and Evans
were bowled for a few runs ep,ch.
William Perry, the renowned “ Tipton Slasher,”
is dead. His decease about winds up the list of Eng.
land’s old-time champions, the most prominent member
of the old school now living being James Ward, who is
over four-score years of age. He was a curious-looking
man, with shaggy hair and eyebrows, and an under-shot
mouth, tremendously long arms, and so knock-kneed as
to be almost deformed. The crookedness of his legs,
however, served as an excellent brace in the ring, and
rendered him a very hard man to knock down. He was
very gruff and uncouth, which was probably the reason
he never settled in the British metropolis, but con-
tinued to reside in the comparatively small town of
Wolverhampton, where he subsisted for many years on
charity, ending his days almost penniless. The Slasher
was rather a cross-grained individual, and particularly
so when solicited for a portrait of himself. So difficult
was this to obtain that he refused to sit for a photo-
graph for the great Heenan apd Sayers picture, after
being offered a five-pound note and all expenses by the
publisher. After his fight with Tom Sayers, who won
the championship from him in 1857, Perry went into
business in the canaling line, owning several boats, but
he has ever since been most unfortunate. Amongst
those defeated by him during his long career were B.
Dogherty, Ben Spilsbury, Scunner, Tass Parker, and
Tom Paddock. He was beaten by Harry Broome in 15
rounds, in a fight for £5OO and the championship, on
29th Sept., 1851, but, afterwards received forfeit from
Broome. He was beaten by Tom Sayers, £5OO and
champion belt, 10 rounds, lb. 42min., Isle of Grain, 16th
June, 1857. This was Slasher’s last fight. He was bom
at Tipton, England, in 1819, stood 6 feet 1 inch in
height, and weighed 1821 b.
Defeated, not Disgraced.
Our boys have both been licked—Alas !
Which seemingly doth show
There’s something in Canadian “ gas “
Lacked by Australian “ blow."
They say in Hanlan’s boat gas is a lever—
His “ lever ” left our boys out of the hunt;
They say the “cus” has had the gastric fever—
He played his gas tricks when he got to the front.
But yet, although we met defeats.
We have some consolation, —
We’re skilled enough on sliding seats
To beat the Mother nation.
Our “ Bushman ” won the “ Bitters,” to the crew
Of Boss and Co. a bitter recollection:
Their morning “ bitters ” now must taste of “ rue,"
Each morning “beer” replunge them in dejection.
Big Blackman’s blush belies his appellation.
And ma Eiley, shure, he must be riled ;
As for the Boston boy, the Yankee nation
Must think their “streak of lightning ” isn’t ’iled.
Poor Triekett didn’t score a single victory—
It’s usual now to kick a man that’s down :
I hope we’ll prove the rule by our exception.
And greet him with a smile, and not a frown.
Then let us give them both a hearty greeting —
We share their sorrows and we share their joys—
And show them, though prosperity is fleeting.
Yet Sydney cannot quite forget her boys.
B.
Waggu Wagga, 15th Feb.


Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOUI
358, 360, 362, GEORGE
SPRING NOVE
In consequence of the great inci
their importations this season exce
FIFTY THOUSAND 1
THEY are now making their first di
early shipments in all de]
THOMPSON AND C
having purchased these goods in
the world, are marking them at pri
CHALLENGE COMPE
The same quality of material cam
rates.
.
onened their i
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
of Millinery, i
exhibiting in i
all choice goc
snred that th
with an inspei
gratified at tin
now displaying
comprise an e:
of British and
made especiall
Giles by the
London and
trimmed Bom
18s 9d. Ladi
Feathers, H
ments, &c
THOMPSON t
TLES, FICH1
—We wish to
attention of t
Department, (
the finest lot
Capeletts, anc
ever been ex
Our Stock coi
designs in shag
variety of Bra
lid to 30s; M
trimmed, from
Cashmere Man
Large lot of F
chased very nr
prices; some ve
at very low prii
Jerseys, to h
every colour :
dren’s Jerseys
. every size.
THOMPSON i
TUME DEPA
first houses in
in every style,
can select in ai
vidual taste,
from 42s to 6 g
signs and trimr
variety of Wa
cambrics and
printed satee;
Galatea stripes
from 15s to 30s
well made,
tnmes, in a vao
. other fabrics, <1
'THOMPSON a
ING FABRIC
plain and prir
Materials is n
bracing all st;
both French i
and Linen Tei
and colourings
best efforts, a
affirm that a
ment of choice
has never bee
colonies. Brit
to 8f-d; Frencl
to 14d; Fren<
to 18d ; Plain ]
lOd to Is 6d;
Galatea Cloth
talea Cloth, in
to 14d; Frenc
. and plain; Bri
THOMPSON a
SOLS and I
have received
designs in Fan<
will find nove
description co
ness. Our pi
lid, 4s lid, 5s
20s. We have
of 5000 Parasc
New styles an
Satin, Sateens,
embroidered, a
handsome Bi
shapes at modi
Um brellas; a
Business Announci
[Lkgal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITORS
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE'
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
- SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at.
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
w.
MAC
POETEAIT PAIN
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOl
ICTOEIA VAENISE
ALEX. BOETHW:
OIL AND COLOR MER
Importer of Paperha
Oils, Colors, Yam
White Lead, Glass, B:
Marble and Enamelled Slate
Fenders, Tiles, and G
Room and Picture-Frame !
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-8TRF
T H A E
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER, &c.
Hay and Engine Sti
Established 1851
Builder of WAGGONS, DRATS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LOR
Railway Contractors would find it t
inspect the large stock of season
able for Dobbins and other b
J. HARVEY
Hay and Engine St
gANDEE LAZAEU
General Importers
AMEEICAN HARD’
CHINA, GLASS, EAETI
E. P. WARE. CUTI
STATIONEET, CLOCKS,
BERLIN WOOI
AND FANCY GC
INDENTS EXECUTED LOT
A.
YORKS TREE r
G. C H U E C
IMPORTER AND MANU1
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, £
AND
SAUSAGE SKIS
147 YORK STJ
T
0 PEOPEETY OWNERS I
BUYERS.
Our PRINTED PROPERTY RE'
is NOW ready for circulation.
COPIES may be obtained at the .
CATION, or will be FORWARDEI
part of the colony, free of charge.
This issue gives full report of sa
year ended December, 1880, in ad
full information,
tt a ■dtytu' A\rn nnp
Tailors, Drapers
JJAYID JONES AND
ORIENT CLOTHE
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summ
reliable fabrics, fashionably ct
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their ir
made clothing for the Spring and
being unequalled in style, qua
whola of their stock having be
pressly to meet the requiremer
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business si
Gentlemen’s Promenade
Gentlemen’s Travelling s
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits
(Comprising Cos
and Trousers,;
favourite coloi
cut and finish
best manner.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Bac Suits,
The latest shap
ful and dura
for business £
nary wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
(In light Homes]
thin Cheviots £
nockburns. for
and Summer we
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice
Tweeds, exce
general wear,
checks and mi
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Ligl
Durable, the i
having beei
shrunk befor
made up.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Walking Suits,
n Superior
Tweeds, cut
latest style
finished the
ordere I clothl
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Serg Suits.
/'Beautifully 11]
3 Texture, perm
j colour and vt
V, able in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
('Special attentio
vited to our
Clothing, as
the best va
most perfect
and finsh pr
in the colony.
/"In Superior Ta
3 Flannel, thi
i shrunk.
fOhina Silk Coats
I Military Duck Oc
| Fine black Alpac
■i All Wool Merino
I Superior Serge 0
Black and Blue S
Gentlemen’s ( In fine Black Al]
Single Breasted 3 In Super Black \
Walking j In Blue Sergeretl
Coats. C,In Black Sergerc
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
WflAhlriff and
("In fine Black All
In Black Merino
(.In Super Sergert
j'Super White Dm
Tailors, Draper
T> V A TT
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OP LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OR POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 6s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OP BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
D E ESS M AKING.
MILLINERY.
Ladies will be muci
WITH THE BARGAINS ai
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDW,
(the “ Hordern ” of the city). LAI
have ALL THE APPEARANCE A
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN A
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT f J
2s 6d. Come and see them.
6(58 BRICKFIELD HIT.
T
HE
BEST AND LA:
of
W O O L L E
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND 1
GARMENTS TO O
at
J. TURNER ROBINS
MARKET CLOTH 1
4*82 (late 484) qeobc
Opposite the Fruit M
Established 18t
REDUCED PR
TROUSERS TO ORDER,
TROUSERS & YES
SUITS TO MEASURI
*ST All goods well made, well
perfect fit gnarant*
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXS
AT HORDERN
PITT STREE
You can buy CARPETS @
FLOORCLOTl
Every description of FUR
not Furniture.
«3" Remember:
J. L. HORDERN
In PITT
■gJXCELLENCE WITH
171 PITT STREI
EDMUND W:
NAVAL AND MILITARY
14s 6d„ 16s. 6d., 21s
TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well si
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUIT
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED befor
A B O U R B
FURNITURE SHOW
Anw MA nil AiO (Hr 04*7 D1


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen's RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de ouisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne. _ _
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 50, 1886.
c
OMPAGNONI PALAoE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER S’l EWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
w
EHLOW’S WOOLPACK
PARRAMATTA.
HOTEL,
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES.
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the very best brands, at
moderate charges. First-class Bowling Green for the
use of those who are fond of recreation.
Ijp O ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
EB
MU
£
I'll; m:
itii
p
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
jp LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PBOBUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorge-street West (l a te Parramatta-stroet),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Bariev, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a. well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
GLASSO N ’ 8
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Harris-strket, off George-street,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. Q. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lomes,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
‘ STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
o
Hotels, &c.
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER. Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
£1 W. R O B E E
MARKET STREET,
FOR -FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS.
T S,
AND
C. WALKER
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
SEATED WATERS, GINGER BEER.
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER.
s*
.f.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
f
Sols
TYaprictore,
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
hottle should he carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
Direct special attention to their PRICE LIST of
CHOICE TEAS—
A good useful tea ...
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
1/3
1/6
2/-
A fine blend of Indian and China2/6
Finest blended tea, unsurpassed, 3/-
Pinest Indian pekoe 4/-
Superior coffee 1/6
L
CABLES AND ANDEKSON.
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
F
ESTABLISHED 1837,
0 W L E R’ S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS.
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
E.
TY> H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEB’S
NEW BOOT SHO
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
P.
ALL NEW GOODS. JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS -.
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
Hotels, &c.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolalta, Branxton, New South Woles.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
ICE.
ICE.
I
ICE
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office —24 O’CONNELL STREET.
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
<c=^r
4-
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULIC HS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice.—The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jiilichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
CHE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“ I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuncoloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
E. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS, E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington
R
OBEET BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention,
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
WORV^.
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Q-enuine Bottle,
JUNIPEE TEEE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may mow he obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeep irs. One
trial will prove it superior to the common we ik unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
$55-7
CS
&
70
%
w
Si
i
SUPEEIOE to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAY OUR.
Wholesale Agent —(J HAS. BAT H,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
L Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. B. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
RAO£
**ARJC^
H E
OAR
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dnblin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J B CATTEDL and CO.,
Sole Agents,


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
That charming little “ Hebe.”
The Marshalls live at Lane Cove.
Leake’s Hamlet successful at Hobart.
Madame Janauschek is doing well in the States.
Pinafore revival! Only standing room at the
Royal.
Sara Bernhardt is executing a bust of Long-
fellow. .
The Williamsons again here to overflowing
houses.
Harry Rickard’s latest song is “Oh, Rachel
Moses.”
Miss Pomeroy appears at the Royal, Melbourne,
at Easter.
The Kelly and Leon Minstrels have returned to
Melbourne.
Rainford goes with Garner’s Comedy Company
to Adelaide.
Frank Weston has been “ digging down” in
West Australia.
Verdi teaches Miss Annie Taylor opera, and the
lady is an apt pupil.
At Woodward’s Gardens, “ Pinafore ” is played
on a ship 100 ft. long.
The new Cousin Hebe has made a deep impres-
sion in several quarters.
The Carandinia played at Newcastle last week
en route to India and China.
Grattan Riggs has been doing well in the
principal New Zealand towns.
Leake was to appear at the Royal, Melbourne,
on the26th, in “My Partner.”
Musgrove’s Opera Company play in Sydney,
and afterwards again at Melbourne.
The London Comedy Company leave immediately
for Adelaide to play a short season there.
Morton Tavares has sold his Brisbane carrying
business to Drake, furniture van proprietor.
The American playwright, Augustin Daly, is
about dramatising Beaconsfleld’s Endytnion.
The name of Vernon Reed appears in the list of
Moore and Burgess’s Minstrels, now in the States.
The London Comedy Company sailed from
Melbourne en route for Adelaide on the 19th instant.
Harry Le Clair (who appeared with Victoria
Loftus’s troupe) is playing at the Bella Union Theatre,
California.
J. C. Rainer’s Pano-amaof the American and
Eusso-Turkisb War has been doing a big business at
the Cape again.
250 Sovereigns was the amount Lingard had to
disgorge in satisfaction of Williamson’s claim for per-
formances of “ Pinafore.”
When Dampier was in New York recently he
was offered the position of leading man at a salary of
£7O per week, which he declined.
Miss Christian returned overland to Melbourne
on the 19ch instant, to resume her duties as professor
of singing at the Ladies’ College.
W. J. Seagrave, with a company, is expected
to play in Towusville. At latest dates, they were
playing to poor houses in Rockhampton.
Archibald Forbes, the famous war correspon-
dent, is reaping a golden harvest by his lectures in New
York and other large cities in the States.
Williamson, who believes in having everything
solid,” personally superintended the revival of
“ Pinafore” down to the minutest detail.
Miss Clara Stephenson returned to Sydney last
week from New Zealand, after playing a very successful
ki season the south islands &t that colony.
The remainder of apparatus belonging to the
late Robert Heller, which in his will he directed to be
destroyed, is being offered for sale in London.
Recent arrivals from New Zealand state that
things dramatic in that colony are at a very low ebb,
and an exodus of actors may shortly be expected.
“ That box” so much inquired about, which was
thrown to Miss Blanche Stammers on the night of her
benefit, contained a beautiful and costly valentine.
Maggie Moore’s Josephine is quite a different
rendering of the part from the one she gave when the
opera was first produced; she has improved wonder-
fully.
On the liith and 17th, a portion of the English
Opera Company, consisting of Mrs. Fox, Miss Lambert,
Mr. Templeton, and others, appeared in Hamilton
Vic.)
Harry Sullivan on bis tour has played to
crowded and enthusiastic audiences in Dublin, Belfast,
Cork, Derry, Limerick, Waterford, Glasgow and
Greenock.
That is a flue new baritone Williamson has in his
chorus, and the idea of the song at the opening of the
second act is good —especially as the song is given in
capital style.
“ The Danites,” now playing with success at
the Queen’s, will probably be taken to New Zealand
before long. The piece is drawing to a close here,
after a grand run.
The Empson family are now playing in the
Marauoa district (Q.), to good houses. During the
last eighteen months, they have travelled 8000 miles in
their own conveyances.
The cast of “ Operatic Pinafore” at the Royal
is declared by new arrivals from the old country to be
incomparably superior to the best London oast —better
as regards principal and chorus.
Mr. Henry Irving is a master of the art of
fencing. So skilful and so graceful is he that men who
care nothing for Shakespeare go into the theatre to see
him as Hamlet fencing with Laertes.
Mr. Grattan Riggs, with the Burford Clinton
Company, has nearly finished his New Zealand tour.
Latterly, he has done very well financially, and on the
whole is well pleased with New Zealand.
When people who had been to Armes Beaumont’s
farewell to the stage, heard that he was coming to sing
in “Pinafore,” they were a little disgusted; but when
they heard him, the very same people were very much
delighted.
E. M‘Lean’B Troubadours have returned from
Brisbane. They proceed to Melbourne next week,
where they will play “Struck Oil,” having received
permission to do so from Mr. Williamson. The word
“Juvenile” has been wisely dropped in connection
with this clever troupe.
Playgoers will have an early opportunity of see-
ing a verv old Sydney favourite in the person of Mrs.
Walter Hill who has not appeared in this city for many
years. In all probability, she will be accompanied by
her two charming daughters, Lily and Arethnsa.
The Kellv and Leon Troupe returned to Towns-
ville on the loth Feb. last, and played on the evenings
of the Hth and 12th to crowded houses. The nieces
produced were “Chilperic,” “Los Cloches de Come*
ville,” aud “La Fille de Madame Angot.” The
company ware most successful at Charters Towers,
where every uight witnessed a crowded house. The
company come south by the K.itoomba.
Ketten has a dawg, also a kennel for the animal.
The keimel is now on exhibition in the yard of the
Exchange Hotel. It is the size of an ordinary artisan’s
house. Wherever Ketten goes the dog and kennel
follows. The dawg is now lost.
The claim for compensation asked by the
members of Ella Carrington’s Stray Leaves Company,
who were arrested for infanticide at Hamilton (Vic.),
has been refused by Mr. Berry, on the grounds that the
police had reasonable grounds and cause for suspicion.
A very hard case, though.
When last heard of, Charley Weightman (the
man fish) was in Wellington, N.Z., partly managing for
the Burford Clinton Company and partly looking after
the interests of Lottie Wilmot. This lady was an-
nounced to give some very “ warm” lectures in
Wellington. Oh, naughty Lottie !
The dramatic obituary record of 1880 includes
the names of Mrs. Charles Kean (Ellen Tree), Lilian
Adelaide Neilson, John Brougham, George Honey, Kate
Santiey, Hairy Beckett, Charles Harcourt, W. E.
Floyd (of Wallack's), Mrs. Coleman Pope (whose name
recalls the Maereody), and “ Texas Jack” Omohundro.
It is said that Mr. Hoskins yearns for New
Zealand again. How does this tally with the statement
to the Melbourne people that he intended to settle in
their city. There is hardly a town in New Zealand in
which Mr. Hoskins has not stated his intention of
“laying his bones.” But there is plenty of life in the
veteran yet.
There has been a serious hitch in that company
J. L. Hall took over to Adelaide Nat. Douglas and
his friends are the victims. Allison repudiates all
responsibility, and the Sydney pros, have no man of
substance to go back upon. The engagement was for
three mouths, but it came to an abrupt termination the
seventh week
Ida Aubrey, the fourteen-year-old San Francisco
Juliet, did not make a failure on her first appearance, as
she had been expected to do, but gave a personation
which, besides showing that she had been thoroughly
drilled, indicated an intelligent conception of the part.
She first appeared on the stage last year as the child in
“ Miss Multon ” with Clara Morris.
Mr. J. B. Steele may be expected in Sydney
shortly from New Zealand. He took his passage
ticket from Wellington to this city nearly two years
ago, but never got further than Auckland, since which
time he has travelled backwards and forwards from one
end of the colony to the other. J. B. is looking
very well, and is said to be acting better than ever.
It is said that Mr. Utting’s play of “ The Great
World of Loudon ” contains a considerable amount of
comedy, and that, although the scene is laid in London,
the author his ingeniously worked in a considerable
amount of Sydney local matter, and that the late gen-
tlemanly passage at arms, between those polished poli-
ticians, Messrs. McElhone and Buchanan, has not been
overlooked.
After an absence of nine years from Sydney
(with the exception of a short season of one week at
the Qu een’s) Miss Clara Stephenson will re-appear in
this city on Saturday night—she having been engaged
to play in a round of Mr, J. J. Utting’s pieces, one of
which (“ The Great World of London ”) will be pro-
duced at the Opera House on Saturday night for the
first time in Australia,
Signor Ortori, assisted by Brisbane amateurs,
gave a concert the other evening, in aid of the improve-
ment fund of the E. C. Cathedral. He played also for
Bowen Hills Musical Society, at a very successful con-
cert ; but in Brisbane proper he failed to draw, and on
the occasion of his second night at Toowoomba only
seven people paid for admission. High Art doesn’t go
down with Queenslanders.
The Oxley Amateurs, assisted by the Southern
Queensland Club, gave a very good performance at the
Beenleigh Theatre on Saturday, 12th February. The
Oxleyites opened the ball with “ Family Jars," which
went very smoothly. Then followed the Southern
Queenslanders with a new and very pretty little drama,
by Phil. Agnew, called “ True to the Last," which was
very well performed, and brought down the house
properly.
By recent advices from Wellington we learn that
Mr. Cary, the “indefatigable," is about to get up
“ The Pirates of Penzance ” under the able conductor-
ship of Professor Wolf, B.AM. The operetta will be
played by amateurs, and as Mr. Cary netted a goodly
sum over his production of “Pinafore,” no doubt he
will be equally successful in his present attempt—at
least he thinks so. It is to be presumed he has arranged
with Williamson.
A popular comedian who lives in Macquarie-
street was seated in his balcony one hot evening after
his performance at the theatre, talking and smoking
with some friends. A policeman was observed to pass
to and fro before the house, and stop and look up at
the occupants of the balcony. "Whatever is the
matter with the Eobert?” asked the comedian. “ I
don’t know,” a friend answered, at the same time
consulting his watch, and quoting Marcellns’ lines,
said, “ Thus twice before, and just at this dead hour.
With Marshall's talk hath he gone— by our watch.”
Maude Granger, the actress, has given a stage
secret to a reporter. "Although dressing for the
society drama is expensive," she said, “ the cost has
been greatly exaggerated. If an actress has good taste,
she can, by making new combinations of colors and
style, make a few good dresses go a 1 long way. Last
season I wore in * The Galley Slave * a dress much
admired, which was mainly composed of a garment
which I wore in a long-forgotten play written by Mrs.
Sheridan Shook for my debut in New York some years
ago. No one would imagine the vamping and re-
vamping on that dress. It might tell an interesting
story of ups and downs in the theatrical world.”
On Saturday evening next, the Sydney Opera
House is to present a novelty to the playgoing public.
The management have arranged with Mr. J. J. Utting,
a New Zealand author of some repute, and will produce
a series of his dramas. They have also entered into an
engagement with Miss Clara Stephenson, a very popular
Sydney favourite, and in order to more effectually to
produce what are said to be very powerful dramas, the
company has been materially strengthened by Messrs.
West, Saville, Welsh, Sweeny, Miss Jennie Desmond,
and others. The first piece to be produced, is the four-
act sensational drama, entitled “ The Great World of
London," which has enjoyed a popular run in New
Zealand. The pieces to follow will be “Check and
Counter Check," “ The Colliery Girl,” “ The two Vaga-
bonds,” “ The Golden Cross," “ Lilian’s Victory," and
others. If what be have heard about these pieces be
correct, the Opera House is likely to score a win this
time.
Despite the numerous counter-attractions large
audiences have attended the Exhibition Building in the
Park where the concerts of the Austrian Band are
being held. The famous pianist, Henry Ketten, has
been engaged for a few nights and he plays selections on
the pianoforte, and on last Saturday evening he made
his bow before a Sydney audience as a conductor. The
introduction on the programme of such pieces as
Litolif’s adagio and schergo, from his 4th concerto
symphonique, Beethoven’s symphonic in C major, and
Mendelssohn’s capriecio, is an epoch in the musical
history of this colony. The capncco and portions of
of the symphonic have already been made familiar to
the musical public by Mr. S. Moss at the Sydney
Musical Union concerts, but the four numbers of the
symphonic have never been played in their entirety at
one concert. The allegro molto vivace movement of
the symphonic was enthusiastically encored on Saturn
day evening, which is an instance of the development
of the musical taste of the public. Litolff’s concerto,
which is played here for the first time, bids fair to be-
come as popular as Weber’s concert stuck. The scherzo
is a brilliant and piquant theme, and was excellently
rendered. The adagio is majestic and tuneful. The
orchestra have given some delightful selections, includ-
ing the overtures to “ Flauto Magico,” and “ Die
Felsenmuhle," and the “Tannhauser March.” Gou-
nod’s “ Hymn to St. Cecilia,” was sweetly rendered as
a solo for ten violins, with harp and organ accompani-
ment. Ketten conducted the latter, and brought out
some marvellous musical effects in the concluding
cadence. Mr. Ketten also delighted the audiences with
such pieces as Weber’s “ Invitation a la Valse," his
own paraphrase on “Aida,” Eubinstein's "Valse
Caprice,” and his paraphrase on “ Faust." He received
numerous encores, and in response to the universal
acclamation he played a transcription of the “Last
Bose of Summer ” for the left hand, Gottschalk’s “ Le
Banjo,” and “ Pasquinade " and Liszt’s “ Ehapsodie
Hongroise.” It may be long before the public is
afforded such a musical treat as the present opportu-
nity otters. It is with pleasure we note, that in the in-
terests of good music, Mr. Sydney Moss and the com-
mittee of the Sydney Musical Union have lent the band
the orchestral parts of the works alluded to. To them
we are indebted for this most perfect rendition of high
classical music.
PEPPER AND SALT:
There is a paper published in a Northern town,
the size of which is about equal to that of one’s pocket-
handkerchief, and for which the modest sum of 3d. is
asked and sometimes paid. Yet the proprietor is not
happy—nay, we would wager is willing to resign his
post. If you ask him his reasons, he would probably
repeat thusly : “ A few months ago my little ‘ saveloy ’
wrapper languished. Excited by the success of others,
I determined to introduce the comic and personal'ele-
ments. I have succeeded in doing the latter, but still
the public are not happy; on the contrary, I have had to
apologise to 500 enraged fathers, the same number of
indignant mothers, a small army of pugnacious bache-
lors, and several detachments of hysterical spinsters.
Lawyers’ letters are now more familiar to me than long
beers (and that means a good deal), whilst my ciroula-
tion is only—excuse me, but there’s a crowd of people
demanding * satisfaction’ blocking up the footpath—
back directly—if I survive." And yet some people
talk abont “ the dignity of the press."
“ Veil, I’ll tole you how it vas,” said our genial
Gus. to a select party of friends, who were busy dis-
cussing a bottle of lager in his bar-parlour: “ Ven I bad
de Cafe de Paris in King-street. Von night tree or four
dgentleman of my acvaiutance valked in un said to me,
‘ Gus, ve have a little business in de next room; allow
us to introduce to you Mr. Valker, de celebrated shtore-
keeper from Gundagai; vill you blay him a game of
billiards till ve come back.’ Now, at dat time I tought
I could blay a vine game of billiards, so I looked de
country shtorekeeper up and down, nud I say to him,
olf-hand like, ‘ Oh, yaas, I blay you,’ and I say to my-
self ‘I vill dake it out of you, mein country friend; I
vill show de Gundagai shtorekeeper vat billiards is.’
So ve vent to the billiard-room, und he says to me,
‘I haven’t blayed billiards for two year;’ so I say,
‘Oh, never mind, —I vill give you vifteen boints,’ und I
shmiled ven I tought vat a lickin’ I vould give him.
So ve both stribbed, and I say • I vill give you a shance’
—so I break de balls up de table, und I vinked in my
sleeve to tink how I vould vollop dat country shtore-
keeper from Gundagai, und I said, ‘Ye vill blay vor
prandy and soda und ten Havanna cigars.’ He say,
• All right.’ Und I turned around and shmiled blatoni-
cally at de bhoys dat vas shtandin’ by to see me knock
de stuffin’ out of de country bumbkin. Yell, as I said,
I broke de balls ub de table, und vaited to see de vun.
Yell, I saw it. Dat country shtorekeeper from Gun-
drgai took ub de cue, und started in. He scored off de
red und den off de vite, und den he caromed, und den
ho pocketed de balls, und you never see all de damned
flukes he make. Yell, he kept on blaying und scoring
vhile I shtood by chalkin’ my cue, und de bhoys behind
me shmilingoud loud at me und makin’ jeerin’ remarks,
vor wieh I velt inclined to break dere damned heads.
He kept on scoring and blaying till de game shtood
vorty-five—love, und I never had von shot butde break.
Yell, I say notings, but dat country shtorekeeper from
Gundagai turned around und say ‘ I tink ve vill have in
de prandy und soda und de Havanna cigars.’ We got
’em in, und after he hod drunk two, he started in again.
He blayed de shpot-stroke, und de all-round caromed,
und de losing hazards; und, so help me bob, he vent
right out, und I never had a shtroke I I feel right mad,
und I say to him, ‘ De pest ting you can do is to give up
keepin* de shtore at Gundagai, und blay billiards all de
times, vor you are de biggest billiard-sharp I ever did
meet.’ Und de bhoys around drunk dere prandy und
soda, und shmoked dere sixbenny cigars, vich I had to
pay vor, und shmiled so dat I could hear dem; und ven
de country shtorekeeper see I vas gettin’ mad, he
durued around quietly to me, and he say, ‘Don’t be
ovfended, old man ; allow me to introduce myself.
I am Roberts, de chambion of de vord.’ Und I look at
him vor a moment, und I say— ‘ Gott in Himmel! ’ ”
Who in thunder is Boyd ? The first time I met
Boyd I did not meet him, so to speak, but I met his
photo., and this photo, represented a stem, venerable-
looking old gent with about two inches of hair to the
square yard of his bumpy head. Now I knew at once
by his appearance that Boyd was an eminent old politi-
cian—a man versed to his ears in previous motions,
and amendments, and parliamentary privileges, and
refreshment rooms ; just the kind of party, in fact, to
explain the whole or this confounded Dulcigno busi-
ness, and undo the kinks out of our Eastern affairs in
general. And so I polka’d off at once in search of
Boyd. After an hours’ tramp I suddenly met Boyd
again, but this time he was a smart, horsey-looking
individual with a tendency to develope shirt-fronts and
2ft. lOin. moustache; the very man who could give me
the straight tip as to whether it would be most desir-
able to back Grand Flaneur or stand as I was on Pro-
gress. I began to feel anxious about this Boyd, and so
I darted off with increased vigour. Half-an-hour’s
search brought me to Boyd in his third position ; and
this time Boyd assumed the shape of a tall, handsome
lady, dressed in a sort of zebra skirt, a oome-round-io-
the-shady-side hat, and a look in her dark, flashing
eyes that would warm the heart of an Egyptian mummy,
and cause it to skip politely up and observe, “Aw!
might I carry your bundle. Miss ? ’’ I got more
interested in Boyd than ever after this view, and,
accordingly, started off at a great pace. In George-
street I tumbled over Boyd once more, and this time I
wanted Boyd worse than M’Elhone wants sous-
ing. The force of Boyd could go no further, as
the photo now before my eyes showed we Boyd as one
of the most perfect women that ever picked a chicken.
Boyd was now a tall, beautifully-formed brunette, and
to show' there was no deception, she was dressed, or
rather undressed in a fancy ball costume, which simply
consisted of a French wig, and the thin cover of a pin-
cushion. She was sitting on a bank of violets; one of
her shapely “ oh-no-we-never-mention-its ” was crossed
over the other, and there was a smile on her fafcc
that would kill at 150 yards. I never wanted
to see Boyd so badly in all my life before.
With a bursting heart I started off again, and
presently found Boyd to be one of our chief detectives.
I don’t want this Boyd a bit now, but as Boyd is written
under each charming photo, and I’d like mneh to know
whether Boyd is masculine, feminine, or neutral. If
Boyd’s the lady in the pmcushion, she can hear of a
good home with six rooms and bath, and the washing
given out.
During the very early part of my chequered
career, I used to attend a suburban church, and in the
pew directly in front of mine sat three pious old gentle-
men whose heads were as fearfully smooth, shiny, and
bald as the art of man, assisted by a circular lathe and
'sand-paper, could ever hope to make them. It was
summer-time, and during the whole of the service I
couldn’t help watching the way the flies went for the
barren wastes of these three old martyrs. These flies
were evidently straight up and down professors of their
choice vocation. First, three (which were scouts pro-
bably) would alight on the three ancient nuts—gallop
thrice round, as if they were looking over the ground
to see all was clear—then off they’d gallop, and sound
the call to arms. Instantly three rival clans, about 4000
strong, would settle down on each head, and commence
pegging away and turning up the soil as if they were
employed to search for the lost remains of Leichhardt.
When this had gone on for about half an hour, one of
the younger flies evidently called an elder one a liar;
the friends of each would then sail in, and in two
minutes time every buzzer had clutched a foe, and the
lot used to scratch and kick, and swear and tumble
over each other in a style that would do credit to even
a free fight at a West Sydney election. All this time
the old gentlemen would be praying away with one
hand, and smacking away at the flies with the other,
but somehow they always dabbed their palms down
just as the fly had left that afflicted spot. After an
hour of this fun order would be restored, the quarrel
settled, and then a fly in a blue claw-hammer coat, and
green tie used to organise a sort of Cooper and Bailey’s
circus. This was always the greatest treat of the lot.
Scenes in the arena, daring acts of barebacked fly-ship,
grdund and lofty tumbling, four clowns, and every
other imaginable feat was performed with the greatest
success until the service closed ; then each fly made a.
graceful bow, scratched his name on some convenient
spot, and departed. I felt I was risking my redemption
in this church, and I told the verger all my trouble.
He was an ingenious sort of old stack this verger, and
he at once told me he had a plan for removing the
nuisance that never failed. So he had. When I next
saw those those three old billiard-ball heads, each had
an enormous spider painted thereon, and there wasn’t
a fly ever went nearer to those heads than the organ
gallery. A few patiently remained to see when the
spiders would require a week's leave of absence, hut
the verger used Indian ink, and the flies sloped quietly
off to slow music.
What is home,” sorrowfully asks a Glebe
Point regatta man, “ without a gold medal, a silver
cup, and a nice creamy flannel suit ?” This reminds ns
that Fred Bull, one of theTricketts of the G.P.rowists,
has seceded from the abbatoirs.’ crystal stream, and
joined the Mercantiles. He will And himself in good
company, and we hear Hanlan already quakes, and says
he wants to go home to his ma’ by telegraph.
Poor Sam Evelyn ! Anyone would suppose the
fact of a person’s dropping in for £60,000 or so would
make him slightly joyful, but this is not the case with
Sam. For the past fortnight he has been haunted by
at least 250,000 young ladies of every age, shape, make,
and material. All are extremely anxious to dam his
future socks—and all are equally “darned” by Sam at
present. First they came up in scores; then whole
battalions poured in, and now Bam has to live in the
bottom of a 90ft. well, and have his meals lowered
down at midnight, to prevent being tom asunder, or at
least loved to death by the whole 250,000. The wise
man has said it is far easier to manage a bushel of mos-
quitos than one woman; but when we conle to 250,000
bushels of mosquitos, the human intellect sinks be-
neath the fearful problem. Sam has written to the
Russian Czar by the last mail to swop places, as he says
he prefers a troop of Nihilists to his proud position at
the Registrar-General’s.
More Christmas festivities. One of last week’s
Twilight Refreshers draws earnest attention to the
fftct that, the traffic over the southern portion of
Bjtany-street, Surry Hills, is “almost completely
blocked by the big stores which promiscuously strew
the roadway.” Where are the Toung Men’s Associa-
tion chieftains, or the gallant band of preachers from
the City Mission f Have they no time to assist at least
one erring brother ? They’d be all there in five minutes
if it was an erring sister.
The mystery of the iron mask is simply a fool
to that of the “something” Hanlan scoots his boat
along with. Many explanations have been made on
this all-important subject, and some of these explana-
tions betray a fertility of imagination worthy of any
maniac in the whole of the United Kingdoms. First
it is suggested that Hanlan pulls on a sort of wire tow
path ; that is, a long wire is attached to his boat, and
the other end of this wire comes out about 70 miles up
the river, where a team of Yankee mules tow him
along, under the care of an experienced Nevada driver.
Now, some of these days that wire will snap, or one of
the mules will hoist the experienced Nevada driver
over into the next county, and then the Canadian
sculler will be " set in the wet ”to a certainty. Sugges-
tion 2 is the same as the above, only the suggestor sub-
stitutes a donkey engine for the mules. The word donkey
however, suggests an evident desire on the suggestor 1 s
part to drag himself into public notice, and it accord-
ingly finds but little favour. Explanation No. 3is that
Hanlan conceals a couple of steamer’s screws in his
rowing pants imtil he gets into his boat, when he slips
them through a hole and sets them off by means or a
small boiler which he carries up his back. This cer-
tainly looks the most feasible plan of the lot, and
Hanlan should in future be carefully searched all over
first, and then compelled to row in ball costume —a la
Trickett. Suggestion No. 4is that the end of Hanlan’s
boat is made out of an enormous magnet, and that some
one in the conspiracy swims along in front, (out of
sight, of course,) with a long steel bar attached to him,
and the suggestor of this highly probable idea is further
endorsed by the suggestor’s statement that he once
knew a fellow who swam 4 miles at sea with a patent
Russell’s stove in his mouth, and yet this man, even i.i
prime, was only a moderate swimmer. But he was a
good liar and that pulled him through. In spite of the
above, however, some think Hanlan is a better man
than the Australian but these of course are ignorant,
prejudiced traitors.
The Sporting paper says there is no paper in
Australia like it. Actually pays for a 2s. advt. to let
everyone know this too. Well, c’est vrai. And further-
more, there’s no other paper except the Christian
Record or Hawks’s tea paper that wants to be. How-
ever, do ) nortuis, Ac.
A fair correspondent who signs “ Maude,” sends
us the following trouble : •
“ Oh, how shall I from this sorrow part,
Or how shall I ease this bursting heart ?”
Now, there are half-a-dozen ways of doing it, Maude.
You see, you might hold it over a slow fire till it bursts
or you might apply nettles till it comes to a head. But
if you wish to do it in a regular medical manner take
the following to any respectable chemist, and ask him
to build it no for you:—Arsenic, Jib.; coal tar, 10oz.:
kerosene oil, 3 quarts; glncose, ad lib.; pain killer, 20z.;
sewerage water, quant, suff. Strain the whole through
a cane-bottom chair, and take a pint every five minutes
until you feel your complaint burst. If the above,
however, doesn’t seem to affect you, try to get On the
tram when it’s moving; or call on Milner Stephen.
V
A Tribute to his Memory.
We will call him Deacon Bullby, bnt we may as well
say (if haply sundry individuals should think that their
characters had been here delineated, and wish to pay ns
a visit with a tender piece of cowhide), that we keep
dogs which will devour anything—from the shank of a
fowl to an elder’s calf. Our dogs are very impartial.
Well, it was a treat to see him; he used to edge about
of Sundays in a suit of pious black, and sneak up to his
pew, where he would hear (or go to sleep, during) the
whole service, without as much raising his meek, fishv
little eyes to look out of the small spectacles which
perenially garnished his saintly visage. And then
sometimes he would hold the plate at the door, and
charm the people with his amiable manner and genial
salute. “Ow bar you ? ” would issue from his lips
with as much warmth and animation, as might be
extracted from the embalmed remains of King Cheops.
Oh, he was a model man —the Deacon, and he used
to put such a liberal donation on the plate himself—his
class always do. At church meetings he might always
. be found, and was generally possessed of a laudable desire
to air and redress all the grievances that he had been
able to scrape up, “ in his own humble way,” as he used
to remark. That his orations were less remarkable for
general point and humility, than for verbose and pain-'
ful dwelling, and cruel dislocation of the eighth alpha-
betical character, his enemies often used to say: but
how prejudiced some men are. “I’m a miserable
sinner,” sometimes was his ejaculation when he had
extra steam on at a prayer meeting; but if so, the know-
ledge would not seem to have edified him much, for he’s
still the same generous, broad-viewed, humble individual
that ever he was. Often times did the good man roll up
his eyes, and mourn over the depravity and wickedness
of this world; and finally he was compelled to leave
his church, because there were those there who had
sunk so low in the abyss of ungodliness as not to lie
quite certain that the lately deceased freethonght
lecturer was now gnashing his teeth in the benevolent
grip of the most ferocious demons available, in that
retreat whose coolness is looked upon as one of the
luxuries of life, —at least, so the deacon says. Oh, it
wa« a great loss to that benighted community, for one
of his specialities was a religiously blitant—if nothing
else—devotion for truth. “Don’t mishunderstandnie,
friends; Hi honly want the truth,” were the noble
words which frequently oozed from those fearless lips.
But, alas for human nature; alas for frail man, ever
behindh;ina iu acknowledging and commending honest
virtue, and prone to extenuate vice, there are those
obdurate enough to say that “ they would stake all
they had on Bullby, if the tallest liar in New South
Wales were handicapped with him.” But is this all f
No. It has been said —yes, such a sentiment has
emanated from a human being—that “if the deceased
lecturer fell a thousand feet below the surface of the
bottomless pit, as sure as eggs were eggs, the Deacon
wonld go a million, nay, they were blest if he wouldn’t
touch bottom, to give him an extra vigorous kick.”
“Well, we thought one day not so long ago, when we
heard the Deacon, who was a rich man, consigning to
perdition all those who differed from him, that we’d
like to write his obituary notice. We have done it.
The Deacon died the other day. De mortuis, Arc.


MELBOURNE JINKS.
(BY SHANGHAI.)
If onr Exhibition has been a failure pecuniarily
speaking, it at all events promises to advance us com-
mercially and artistically : commercially, in that
several large European houses are estabfi shing them-
selves here and ia your city .while a French bank has been
opened in both places; and artistically, in that several
works of Art, articles of vert u, &c., are remaining here,
having been bought by the few amongst us who
possess taste, together with cash—also, in that there is
to take up his residence in these parts, one who is an
authority, not only in the musical world, but in the
literary and artistic also—M. Kowalski. He will, after
being freed from the thankless task of acting as an
Exhibition juror in Fine Arts, and performer in Exhibi-
tion recitals, establish himself in Australia, in the
interests of the art musical, as well as those of a large
French firm of musical publishers. But this is not all.
The captivating little son of France will keep us con-
tinually before the eyes of the queen of cities—la lelle
Paris—in the columns of her most fashionable and most
influential journal, Figaro. What a chance for our
sisters and cousins to say nothing of wives and
mothers! Fancy the palpitation winch would seize
one of our Beauties when she saw her name in the
pages of the darling of the female heart of France. The
contemplation is too overpowering!!!
From fashions to diamonds is an easy step : the
existence of the one mainly depends on that of the
other. But it appears that the days of the gem are
nearly numbered. So, at least, told us last week Mr.
Emerson Macivor, Fellow of some dozen learned soci-
eties, and the bosom friend of Mr. Hannay, who has
discovered how to manufacture artificially a Kohinoor.
It must be a nice feeling to know that in the course of
a few years you can threaten the crown jewels. It is,
however, only another instance of the levelling that is
going on now-a-days from politics upwards. If chemis-
try continues finding the secret springs of things we
shall soon be in that happy position that what we value
to-day as priceless may be to-morrow as dross. It is
not a comforting reflection this, albeit it fulfils the
words of the wise preacher—" Vanity of vanities, all is
vanity”—and there is no doubt there is a deal of it
abroad. We have only to meet and mix with mankind
to be more painfully aware of this disgusting and dis-
agreeable fact. But the individual has the one solitary
consolation that he is not the only ass.
That the b-lood of the Irishman out here is
becoming excited admits of no doubt. That the over-
heated state of the fluid of life might have resulted
disastrously in our midst was proved by A.M. Topp, the
writer of the anti-Irish article which I hav e told you
about before. This most mild man, though blood-
stirring writer, was making the even tenor of his way
home the other night when he met, was recognised, and
pursued by four lusty and vociferous sons of Erin into
■the shades of a pub., which, fortunately, and extra-
ordinary to say, was not kept by a Mick or a Pat. To
talk about a harmless dove being chased by a ravenous
hawk is as nothing compared to the flight of the Mel-
bourne reviewer before his enemies, who made mouths
at him and ceased not. But some folks like being
martyrs in a bad cause. It is only a question of taste.
Yet another literary tournament amongst us!
•St. John Topp, our rising equity barrister, has tilted
against one Colonna Close, a schoolmaster, and a
regular (and perhaps cheap) contributor to the
V ictorian Re vie w. The man of birch wrote an article
on Duffy’s “ Young Ireland.” In the article, the man
of law discovered lines of verbatim plagiarism from
Macaulay’s Essay on Moore’s “ Life of Byron,” and
forthwith showed him up. The result has been a stupid
and bad-tempered reply from the collegian, who has
been simply “ squelched ” by his relentless and
aggravating opponent. What a happy family we literary
beings are ? We do not, I fear, follow the injunction,
“ If a man smite thee on the one cheek, turn to him the
other cheek likewise !” This is too practical an age for
such disinterested manifestations of charity. Perhaps
a man of the M’Elhone or Buchanan stamp might go so
■far!
And talking of these bright lights of your
political firmament reminds me of something good
about one of our political wags of the serious school.
It only occurred recently, and is worth repeating, as it
may save some of your political Illiterati from exposing
their otherwise concealed ignorance. Mr. W. J. Clarke
sent out invitations, with the usual letters R.S.P.V. on
them, for a party, or some such folly, and among those
invited was one of the M.L. A.’s representing Sandhurst.
Joyously accepting the invitation, our legislator re-
plied thusly: “ Hon. W. J. Clarke, R S.P.V., &c.” In
such manner is it that some men have greatness thrust
upon them, and others display the mental proportions
given them by Nature. Cut this paragraph out, and
sent it to those M.P.’s whom you think stand in need
of the warning, for it is discreditable to a country to
have its rulers’ knowledge doubted.
It is said—but with what truth I cannot say, as
I am innocent of such pastimes—that on no occasion is
a man’s ingenuity so well developed as when he is in
pursuit of someone of the opposite sex, with whom he
fancies himself dotingly in love. Admitting the truth
of this, I must certainly congratulate a gentleman from
your city, who is here known as Lozenge. The soubri-
quet he has honestly won hv adopting a system of love-
making in which conversational lozenges played the
important part of interpreter, in this manner. Your
citizen having become enamoured—at first sight, doubt-
less — of a fair young Melboumite belonging to our
aristocratic circles, wished naturally to fulfil Cicero’s
words, when he uttered “ Vcni, vidi, vici.” But to ac-
complish this, several obstacles had to be overcome—to
wit, a proud and stand-offish mother, a purse-proud
father, and a silly but wealthy hanger-on. But the
burning love of the handsome but penniless youth was
not to be denied. He made it his business to find out
where the darling of his heart lived. That spot he
haunted till a pair of soft eyes told him he had been
seen, noticed, and not altogether nnadmired. Inter-
views, however, could not be arranged, for there were
suspicious and watchful eyes about, and even the Exhi-
bition could not afford an opportunity. Put the pangs
of love hit upon—conversational lollies. These were
left accidentally, as it were, in one place and another,
and while the young lady, her lover and mother were
strolling about the Exhibition, so was “ Lozengeand
though the lips dare not utter what the heart felt, a
delicious—(that’s the word, Mr. Editor) —conversation
was kept up by the “ so near and yet so far ” couple,
lu consequence of this mode of love-making, talking
sweets have gone up in value; and before publishing
this par. you should make a contract with your vendors
of the conversational lolly, securing to yourself a share
of the profits likely to accrue from publishing this hint.
Perhaps you are not aware that the most
complete spy system in this world is that of Germany.
But so it is. I have it on good authority that,the
leading Frenchmen, even out in these colonies, are
surrounded unawares by Germanic spies. Thus-it is
that the man of mark —I mean Bismarck—knows the
ius and outs of the policy of the enemy he dreads, and
knows is waiting its opportunity to wipe out the defeat
of 1870.
A good action deserves mention, and the fact
that J. C. Williamson engaged the whole chorus which
poor Lyster used to employ in the representation of
opera, and which has been without engagement since
his death, should be made known. And I hope, by
making it known, that your public will appreciate the
act, and support the actor in his enterprise.
There are several kinds of ambition —the noble,
and the paltry among others. The following incident
well illustrates the latter. There is a knight who
earned his title by spending several thousands on a
public institution. He is a man ever on the lookout to
push himself forward hy any means which offer them-
selves. Amongst other flights, he affects speech-
making, in which department he fancies himself—more
especially when the speech is revised by a newspaper
man, who waits on him because of his good dinners and
wine. Well, this ambitious knight was anxious to
make the presidential harangue at the opening of the
Exhibition. To do this he had to call the President-
retiring W. J Clarke —to “pass." This he would have
succeeded in doing hut for a friend of the millionaire,
who kept the man of money in his position. The
result was deplorable for the man of title and his news-
paper sycophant, both of Whom were deprived of
having anything to do with playing first fiddle. This is
a specimen of paltry ambition, you will admit.
At the distribution of the Exhibition awards a
great musical festival is, I hear, to take place. A new
Opera di Camera, never before performed, entitled
“ Vireiugatoria,” and written by Kowalski, is to ba
given. It is said to be a great composition in three
acts with solo chorus and orchestra. It is something
to know that the work of a first-class French composer
will be introduced by the world in this far off land of
ours. It does credit to our Commissioners that they
are enterprising enough to produce such a work, and
M. Kowalski, in coming before the public with it for
the first time in a foreign and distant land, pays the
colonies a compliment which should be appreciated.
While talking of Kowalski, the lovers of music in your
flourishing city will be glad to learn that he intends
giving some recitals there in the course of the next few
weeks, following upon Ketten. They will enable your
critics to form an opinion about the relative merits of
the two great pianists.
There' is a wild flutter in the dovecotes of our
artisocracy, owing to the rumour that there is, some-
where about this neighbourhood, one who at one time
was an eloquent preacher in a fashionable London
Church, and who captivated the heart of the Princess
Louise when she was a susceptible girl. Sad reverses
have come upon this handsome, clever, but erring son
of the cloth. His history points a moral and adorns a
tale. The pet of the University, he became the pet of
the Church. The beauties of his congregation uum-
bered hundreds, and even her Majesty bestowed
her august patronage on him till she discovered that
her daughter’s heart had been caught in the web.
Then a change came over the scene, and he who
was made a canon at a very early age was
denied the society of royalty. Taking this muchly
to heart, the foolish and spoiled wearers of the cloth
clerical made such desperate havoc among the fair ones,
to whom it was his paid duty to administer spiritual
consolation, that he got into bad odour, fell from his
exalted and very pleasant position, and had to relin-
quish the gown and bands to seek his fortune in new
climes —hence his appearance here. But whatever may
have been his lapses he still has admission, if one can
believe reports. ’Tis only the old story of Adam and
Eve over again—the oft told tale of beauty and talent
getting so horribly mixed as to lose their way amid the
fields of temptation, overgrown with flowers that blind
while they -dazzle. This is poetry for you if you know
what* that means. I deserve some extra remuneration
for such a flight. See your manager about it.
Next to a beautiful woman,there is nothing inore
eompaniable and pleasant than a humorous man, be he
priest, soldier, or tinker. And that is the reason why I
have such a regard for your worthy and brilliant Arch-
bishop Vaughan. He is zealous in his cause, but is not
bigoted, eloquent in it but not tyrannical, serious in it
butnot-above a slybitof humour, albeit against himself.
This is an introduction to the following piece of humour
in which I once heard him indulge at his own expense,
and that before a theologically mixed audience. Said
the Prelate, “ I was once travelling on horseback in
this (New South Wales) colony, and losing my way,
had to ask a burly farmer —a thorough specimen of
the good old type of John Bull—where Father
lived. He gazed upon me for a few minutes and then
said, in pure Yorkshire voice, “You are an English-
man.” I replied I was. “And you look like a priest,”
continued the interrogator. “ I am one,” I said.
“Then how he’s that?” Without answering the
question, I asked him if his forefathers were not
Catholics. “I believes they was,” came the reply.
Then said I, “You abandoned the religion of your
forefathers, while I still believe in that of mine.”
“Wall,” said he, “that’s true, but then we would ua
have left if it weren't that there had been something
* crooked ’in it.” The retort was good, and it pleased
the churchman, who was not, and probably is not,
above enjoying a homely thrust, even when against
himself. It is a pity there are not a few more such
men!
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
Queen’s weather in Melbourne.
The Bijou is going to open with Society plays.
G.B.W. and his babies have gone to Adelaide.
The Spring-street talking shop has re-commenced
biz.
Several German and Austrian Grafs in Mel-
bourne, incog.
Sub domo Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881. Please move on.
Will life in Melbourne be worth living for when
the Exhibition is o’er ?
Berry has taken to a pith hat. His ideas on
Reform are not so pithy.
Pretty girls at the International on Thursday
and Saturday afternoons.
The agony column of the Argus is becoming
more agonising than ever. .
Carrots, turnips, tomatoes, wool, asd country
folk make up the Exhibition of the present.
25,000 valentines passed through the post on
St. Valentine’s Day. “ And so the world wags on.”
The pantomime is still running at the Royal.
All Victoria goes to see it. The country is in town.
The two Yankee girls, American Court, Avenue
des Nations, Melbourne Exhibition, are worth seeing.
Emerald Hill flat is once more Canvas Town,
for Cole has pitched there with his zoological wonders.
The three R’s of the Exhibition are Rubens,
Rossini, and Reuleaux, i.e.. Painting, Music, and Ex-
hibits.
Garnet Welch, beaming and shirt-fronty, was
most conspicuous in the dress-circle at the Deorwyns’
benefit.
Lardy-dah exceedingly prevalent at the Inter-
national. It means crownless hats, fustian coats, and
inanity.
The Hill has lost its charm, and the stage its
brightest amateur. The Sydney brunette has gone
“ home”—“ alone.”
The Irish Land League agitation in Melbourne
was a dead failure, notwithstanding that Longmore
smole the brightest of smiles at it.
Ballarat and other country towns have come
down to “ Melbin,” and Melbourne has gone to the
well, the country and the sea-side.
The Marche Hongroise and Kowalski have left
the Philippe Herz estrade for a trip round the colonies.
The Exhibition is robbed of half its charms.
Marcus Clarke’s letter in last week’s Leader
is one of the most gentlemanly and most pointed that
has ever been written by a colonial pressman.
It is worth a shilling to watch the manoeuvres of
the man at the window of Cole’s circus. He is about
the smartest Yankee we have ever met with.
The Tan Yean has become affected by Berryism.
It wants filtering, badly. They are going to let the
Watts River into it. People ate already asking Watts
in it ?
Why do men of talent, musical and dramatic
stars, only sojourn in Melbourne, and when their pockets
are full, clear out ? A good stock company of geniuses
would pay in Melbourne.
What’s the matter with George Codlins Levy ?
He is scarcely ever seen now in his usual haunts.
Perhaps the Age is too much for him. George is not
for an Age but for all Times.
The “Drum Major” still holds out at the
Opera Housq. It’s the rage that’s why it takes.
once remarked, “ Zee good people of Melbourne
’crowd to zee me, because it iz zee fashion, but zey have
no soul for zee mnzeek.” Kette i is right.
At tho Deorwyns’ benefit. Almost suffocated.
A fat Christian lady on one side, and an equally corpu-
lent Jewess on the other. The stalls the only place
available. From a peep between the orchestra bars we
learnt that Thom was inimitable as Middlewiek, Joyce,
Ireland, and St. Lawrence only so-so, and the dear ones
—(we beg pardon) the Deorwyns—fresh, flustered, fas-
cinating, flirty, free, and fair.
John Jones, when be goes “ abroad,” never
forgets to let his friends know, on his return, that be
has seen the “ Loover," been to see the fizzing at
“ Mount Vesoovius,” and lunched on the top of the
Pyramids. Casey is Melbourne’s John Jones. Every-
body knows he has travelled. He carries with him on
his trips through Victoria the same bag that he 11 did ”
Europe with at the country’s expense* and with its
labels intact. If you see the bag you see Casey: they
are both John JoneS.
INTAGLIOS.
Longfellow’s New Poem.
Sea Music. •
The tide rises, the tide falls ;
The twilight darkens, the curlew calls;
Along the sea sands damp and brown
The traveller hastens toward the town.
And the tide rises, the tide falls.
Darkness settles on roofs and walls.
But the sea in the darkness calls and calls;
The little waves, with their soft white bands.
Efface the footprints on the sands.
And the tide rises, the tide falls.
The morning breaks, the steeds in their stalls
Stamp and neigh as the hostler calls;
The day returns, but never more
Returns the traveller to the shore.
And the tide rises, the tide falls.
ALL SORTS OF THINGS.
He has not lost all to whom the future still re-
mains.
The place of charity, like that of God is every-
where.
Affliction, like the iron-smith, shapes as it
smites.
Paris imports three hundred million apples
annually.
Consult the lips for opinions, the conduct for
convictions.
Live virtuously and you cannot die too soon, or
live too long.
The American wheat export was 186 million
bushels last year.
Rightly used, time is the most valuable posses-
sion of the young.
An increase of humidity renders a warm atmos-
phere more oppressive.
Wellington attributed his success to the fact
that he knew the value of minutes.
To be able to hear provocation is an argument
of great wisdom; and to forgive hi, of great mind.
A press dispatch of eleven words was recently
sent from London to New York in twenty-five seconds.
How noiselessly the snow comes down. You
may see it, feel it, but never hear it. Such is true
charity.
The Lucy furnace, of Pittsburg, turned out in
one month 9,538 tons of finished steel rails, or about
1,000 miles.
Education is a better safeguard of liberty than a
standing army, if we retrench the wages of the recruit-
ing sergeant.
Germany added 1,\02 miles of road to its rail-
way system last year, and of this number government
built 793 miles.
If a man does not in this age erect his own tomb
before he dies, he shall live no longer in memory
than the bell rings and the widow weeps.
Charcoal, laid flat while cold on a burn, causes
the pain to abate immediately; by leaving it on for an
hour the bum seems almost healed—when it is super-
ficial.
As they who for very slight sickness take physic
to repair their health do rather impair it, so they wh®
for every trifle are eager to vindicate their character do
rather weaken it.
It is computed that the population of the Ger-
man Empire, which stood at 42,736,360, when the census
was taken .four years ago, will be found this year, when
the next census will be taken, to be about 45,000,000.
The shortest and surest way to live with honor
in the world is to be in reality what we would appear to
be; and if we observe, we shall find that all human vir-
tues increase ' and strengthen themselves by the prac-
tice and experience of them.
Remains of pottery have been found tvyenty-
eight feet below the surface in Somersetshire, in con-
junction with the bones of the mammoth and extinct
rhinoceros. Under the second of the embedded cypress
forests in the delta of the Mississippi, pottery has been
discovered, and under the fourth of these forests, a
human skeleton, which is of tho computed age of
57,600 years.
Our prison statistics. Forty-seven prisons,
with accomodation of 1015 prisoners in separation, and
2509 in association. Total number of prisoners confined
December 31, was 1959, as against 1801 at the end of
1868, during which period the population had increased
from 693,743 to 734,282. The labour returns were valued
at £31,449, of which £10,438, work performed in the
prisons, is included.
In 1867 portions of a human 'skull were dis-
covered at Altaville, near Angelos, Calaveras County,
California, imbedded in a stratum of undisturbed
tertiary, in a mining shaft, at a depth of 130 feet below
the surface. Above this there lay four beds of volcanic
tuff, alternating with deposits of gravel, whereof one
was 25 feet thick. The base of the skull was incor-
porated with a mass of bone breccia, and other parts
were covered with an incrustation of carbonate of lime.
The steamer Garonne, one of the huge Austra-
lian packets belonging to the Orient line, was docked at
London recently my means of the electric light. The
feat proved at once the wisdom and prudence of the
dock management in availing themselves of the new
invention. Not only was the steamer berthed, but the
passengers were enabled to land thoir baggage, being
examined, notwithstanding the advanced hour of the
night, by the aid of a number of lights placed under
the sheds.
Some of the Loudon reporters have been inter-
viewing Marwood, the English executioner. The official
told them that “he never sheds blood and never
breaks the skin of his * patients.’ ” A long drop
makes hanging pleasant, he says—dislocates the neck,
severs the spinal cord, creates no pain; and death
comes like a flash of lightning. He has from twenty to
thirty stances every year. Marwood told the reporters
further that Spurgeon was his favourite preacher, but
he assured them, “on his honour,” he was not a
Wesleyan.
NEVER TOO LATE TO LEARN.
Socrates, at an extreme old age, learned to play on
musical instruments.
Cato, at eighty years of age, learned the Greek
language.
Plutarch, when between seventy and eighty, began
the study of Latin.
Boccacio was thirty-five years of age when he com-
menced his studies in light literature; yet he became
one of the greatest masters of the Tuscan dialect;
Dante and Plutarch being the other two.
Sir Henry Spellman neglected the sciences in his
youth, but commenced the study of them when he was
between fifty and sixty years of age. After this time he
became a learned antiquarian and lawyer.
Doctor Johnson applied himself to the Dutch
language but a few years before his death.
Ludovico Monaldesto, at the great age of one
hundred and fifteen, wrote the memoirs of his own
times.
At the height of a hot discussion between two
Jews, one cried: “Goodness! don’t eat me!” The
other: “ Get out, now! You know our religion
forbids it.”
Professor Hume’s life-saving apparatus was
successfully tested the other day at the Collaroy
wreck. The weather was very boisterous and the sea
high at the time. •”
A Brisbane lady, instructing young four-year-
old in the merciful ways of Providence : “ And does
God Almighty send the loaves ?” “ Yes, my child.”
“ And does he send the bills, too ?”
A Palmer-street man is practising the cornet
with a view, it’s said, of entering the musical pro-
fession. The Palmer-street people all hope that he’ll
succeed in getting an engagement—in the provinces.
“ Emma E ” asks us : “Do you think it
right for a girl to sit on a young man’s lap, even if she
is engaged to him ?’’ And we say : “If it was our girl
on our lap, yes; if it was another girl and our lap, yes ;
but if it was our girl and another fellow’s lap, never!”
Australiensis took an open boat outside Heads.
Stormus erat, ventum arose.
Thunder qui revolvit,
Boatum upsetum drownderunt omnes.
Qui swim away, non potuerunt.
—Eneid, liber [?].
On St. Valentine's Day, at Watson’s Bay, Mrs
Dunn, the popular hostess of the Gay Hotel, was pre-
sented by the members of No. 1 Battery of the N. S. W.
Artillery with a handsome gold locket, appropriately
engraved, accompanied by a richly- illuminated testi-
monial, in recognition of the uniform kindness and
affability displayed to the Artillery by the fair hostess
during the last two and a half years. A suitable speech
was made on presentation, after which cheers were
given for Mrs. Dunn, whose health was heartily drank
by the stalwart sons of Mars.
The Ideal.
think the song that’s sweetest
Is the song that’s never sung;
That lies in the heart of the singer
Too grand for mortal tongue.
And sometimes in the silence
Between the day and night.
He fancies that its measures
Bid farewell to the light.
ry hand from dreamland
Beckons us here and there.
And when we strive to clasp it
It vanishes into air.
And thus our fair ideal
Floats away just before.
And we with longing spirits
Reach for it evermore.
The Bine Danube.
Six thousand years are past and gone.
Yet still thy mighty stream rolls on ;
Helmet and banner, crown and mail.
Are buried in thy waters pale;
Beside thee empires were undone—
What is it to thee ? Thy flood rolls on.
Earth’s noblest hosts have filled thy strand :
Now silent all —all surge and sand.
Byzantium! Rome! —your tale is told —
There sleep your brilliant and your bold.
Thou from the Goth his sword hast won ;
What is it to thee—thy flood rolls on.
Still war shall sweep, and Death shall tame.
And still thon’rt mighty, and the same.
The Russ shall thunder on thine shore.
The Turk shall swell thee with his gore.
Again thou shalt be left alone
What is it to thee —thy flood rolls on.
And what is Earth but like thy tide ?
Where slumber beauty, love, and pride—
All light above, all death below,
Joy to the eye, the bosom woe.
Then soon shall sleep a weary one !
What is it to thee —thy flood rolls on.
It is So
“ Love thou thy neighbour,” we are told,
“ Even as thyself.” That creed I hold;
But love her more, a thousand-fold.
My lovely neighbour—oft we meet.
In lonely lane or crowded street —
I know the music of her feet.
. She little thinks how on a day
She must have missed her usual way.
And walked into my heart for aye.
Or how the rustle of fter dress
Thrills thro’ me like a soft caress.
With trembles of deliciousness.
Wee woman, with her smiling mien,
And soul celestially serene.
She passes me —unconscious queen.
Her face most innocently good.
Where shyly peeps the sweet red blood—
Her form a nest of womanhood.
Like Raleigh—for her dainty tread.
When ways are miry—l could spread
My cloak —but there’s my heart instead.
Ah, neighbour, you will never know
Why ’tis my step is quickened so.
Nor what the prayer I murmured low.
I see you ’mid your flowers at mom,
Fresh as the rosebud newly born ;
I marvel, can you have a thorn ?
If so, ’twere sweet to lean one’s breast
Against it, and the more it prest.
Sing like the bird that grief hath blest.
I hear you sing, and thro’ me Spring
Doth musically ripple and ring—
Little you think I’m listening.
So near, too—you could hear me sigh.
Or see my case with half an eye.
But must not. There are reasons why.
The Modern Farmer.
The pipe of the quail in the stubble-field ;
The scent of the new-mown hay;
And all day long the shout and the song
Of the reapers so far away.
The restless racket amid the grain.
The noise of the reaping machine,
And ever again the howl of, pain
Comes over the meadows green.
Oh, sweet is the field where the meadow-lark flits
And sings, as it soars and dives ;
Where the granger sits, and yells as he gits
His fingers among the knives.
No longer we hear on the hillsides sere
The scythe-stone’s clinkei.y-clink;
But the reaping machine cuts his leg off, I ween,
Before ever the man can think.
With foreboding and tears, the good wife hears
The man of the house say good-bye ; .
To return, in sooth, with a horse-rake tooth
Sticking four inches out of his eye.
When the threshers came in with halloo and din.
How burdened with sorrow the hour.
When they pause to scan what is left of the man
Chawed up in the eight-horse power!
Oh, iitlxe and listen! From the hills,
Wh it voice for the doctor begs ?
'Tis the stoker who fell, and awful to tell,
The steam harrow ran over his legs.
Thus all day long with mirth and song,
They laugh at the dread alarms;
Though the waving field shall its harvest yield
Of fingers and legs and arms.
Then pity the sorrows of a poor old granger.
Whose mangled limbs have borne him to the fence;
Who braved, with reckless courage, untold danger.
And ran bis farm with modern implements.


Public Companies
IHE MERCANTILE BANK OE SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £360,000
Reserve Fuad £115,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
.LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
A BRANCH of this BANK, under the management
of ME. JOHN SOUTTAR, will be opened at 99 Pitt-
street, in the first week of March.
E. R. DRURY,
General Manager.
General Manager’s Office,
Brisbane, 11th February, 1881.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
'’every THREE YEARS. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS. SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand, Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
KT H. ARIEL L,
▼ • PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-street, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery .
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
QOALCLIPF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOB THE TON—224olb.
net, not onlv in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal oi
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, BOASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town: —
18s. Best double screened . ~)
17s. Ditto single ditto > CoalcliS.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines J
235. Ditto double-screened >
225. Ditto single ditto )
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street,
Public Companies
C
OMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.G.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New Sour# Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Ar mi dale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Gooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germauton, Glen
Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbnrumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wileannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodkum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of faouth Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester = The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland ; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco: The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso: Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collect s dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman,
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
wanting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STRBET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors:
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses ; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable-propertv.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY.
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
E
XCELSIOR LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes wplk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£3OO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do. .
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
street.
ATT, AS FOUNDRY AND ENGINEERING
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all ether descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and beet
price given for old metal.
WEDDING PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS, BRIDAL TROUSEAUX—
, The most Fashionable and Stylish class of Goods in the City of Sydney.
Peapes and Shaw are now making a Grand Display of
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the SEASON, as follows
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
IN
REAL AND IMITATION
LACE GOODS.
PAT A VISIT
OP
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
REAL SEALSKIN
AND
PLUSH BAGS AND
PURSES.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESKS
ASSORTED SCENT CASKETS
ROYAL CABINETS OF GAMES
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CASKET
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARRINGS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING CASES
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRACKETS
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET GLASSES
LADIES’ FANS FOR DRESS OR PROMENADE
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS HOLDERS
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF BOXES
CRIBBAGE BOARDS AND ROULETTES
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING BAGS
BOUDOIR TIDIES—A “ NOVELTY”
COMBINATION JEWEL CASES
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAYS
CARVED WOOD BRACKETS
COMPENDIUM OF GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO. ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
Ac. Ac.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CELEBRATED •
“ FLORA” KID GLOVES
Six Pairs for 18/6,
in elegantly scented sachet.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S'
COSTUMES
Are celebrated throughout
the colonies.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CHARMING
MILLINERY
CANNOT be EXCELLED
ANYWHERE.
Do you want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentleman P
If you do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
U
SOLE MANUFACTUEEES :
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCOED WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE, STBNET.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores/ Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can he made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M, A Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can he used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80.
~i
&
<2
N
A
5
m
a
UNADULTERATED
BAH/NC POWDER
m
IACKH OWLSDSfit TO BB TUB BEST IN THE WORLD
MAMUFACTUKJHO BT W.DAVIiSS C? GoaißumN.SJ/1 1
IHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing X gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us: —“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge,
M
UEPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brnshware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Tarnishes
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED. -
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, 6ity or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
Gr.
A. SMITH,
88 KING STREET
(From Rotherham’s, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.


Chemists and Druggists
U B L I C NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilions Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
jan be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
APOTHECARIES’
14 OXFORD STREET,
HALL,
Near Htde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by),
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE: LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
ALL-
OT
W, D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sims and Parkes,
Sirs, —If it is any benefit to you, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time, you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlarge-
men of the Liver and Spleen, with all the accompanying
pains and aches. For FOUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer, and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, but my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, as a Last
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE,
Grose-Street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
October 27,1879.
SIMS AND PARKES,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies, on receipt of Cash and Post
Office Order. Address—
-240 GEORGE STREET, opposite Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Bo you SUPPER from HEADACHE?
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES I
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Sanderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any “of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give „hem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
«0* Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT. .
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE. *
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and tetally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
PELMINGHAM, Chemist.
Try BUSHELL
FOR
S I G_N S.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia:—
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
„r a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE TEARS.
Reduce!) Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6
No. 3.-*-Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
H. PALING,
* PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMEEICAN OEGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HAEMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A PEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor’s,
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, • Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blac
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited#
REDGATE’S
PATENT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet foi
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
••Id to *U Grocers and Storekeepers
E.
AND F. W. MASON,
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
RON AND BRASS BED S.T EADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillow b.
Sheets, Blaukets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
606 George-street.
Tobacconists
E
S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
*
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
/?
a.
m
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
T
H O S. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSPINISHERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES'AND QUALITIE
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
•pfl CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAY TICKETS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
{Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHURST.
AN ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
VISIT
o
r
FOE GOOD. CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENTS.
PIANOS, ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENEEBEIN, Jun.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).


JgLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS. LIMES, aud ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness,,
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the abuse of alcoholic
beverages; Gout, Rheumatism, &e.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Small Fox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy , of God’s master-
piece—Man. Eemetnber this is Nature’s specific,
supplied fey the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
t J PROVED B¥ THE GOVERNOR.
A
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and th"
reason of my not writing to you before was on accoun-
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ should have a trial. 1
am now directed to inform yon that his Exccllenc\
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a ver .■
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
, “ Yours faithfully,
“Reginald BLOSSOM®, P.S.
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
■ The A c ; s Tii \l.lan Churchman says ;
“ It is a
MOST REFEESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. fid.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale —Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney ; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
i.esenor.
%
I
m
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND’GESEVA WA'fIOHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
E
N
O
E.
But f - w, in tact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest t > enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most hitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepaiaand Liver Coe '-'aiut, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARA LYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUL TION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Pateru Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would a«k you
in good faith that you try only ene bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, Cd; Large bottle, -jS fid.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
EY H. HOOKINGS & CO.’ S
PURE
T
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
rjlO SQUATTERS, HOESE BREEDERS, AND
OTHERS,
THE SYDNEY TRAMWAY AND OMNIBUS CO.,
Limited, are purchasers of
GOOD UPSTANDING HORSES,
4 to six years old, fit for coaching.
Apply—Head Office, 66 Kiug-street, Sydney.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE i; -RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments ha the colony.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CO
LU
CO
CO
ITJ
Q_
O
CO
CO
—I
CO
DC
CO
LJ
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BEJTEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
JWe But for Cash—We Sell for Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit tho right Shop.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, ns
it would only bo a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
SHIRTS ! SHIRTS! AT MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES,
GOWING BROTHERS,
Having bought (at a very large discount for cash) a consignment of Gentlemen’s White Shirts,
are now selling tho same at manufacturers’ prices.
J. E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET, Half way between Post Office and Hunter Street ;
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George-street, Opposite Central Police Court.
GENTLEMEN’S FRENCH SHIRTS,
FINE CAMBRIC BODIES,
PURE LINEN PRONTS AND CUFFS,
MILITARY FRONT, BUTTON BACK;
4s. 6d. EACH
OR
SIX FOR 255.
Gentlemen are respectfully invited to inspect the above, as we are convinced they are tho very best
value that baa ever been offered in the Sydney market. The same goods
are usually sold at 84s, the dozen.
V* See Shirts in Window, 332 George Street. J. E. GOWING, Men’s Mercer, Outfitter, Ac.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s, lid. military front, open back, White Shirts, are unrivalled.
STREET,
GOWING
J. E,
BROTHERS, 500 GEORGE
Opposite Cential Police Court; and
GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET
HALF WAT BETWEEN THE POST OFFICE AND HUNTER STREET-
NGE USED ALWAYS USED.
IKIS
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, -Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS PEEELT, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, 4c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
JJOYAL I
HOUSES FUR-
NISHED
throughout in
tlie nicest and
most economical
manner. Full
particulars frost
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EVERY WED-
NESDAY, we
keep open until
nine o’clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend during
the day. The
SHOW - ROOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
RNISHIN
LARGE
AMOUNTS OP
money have been
saved by pur-
chasing at the
Royal Furnishing
Arcade, which
has from time to
time been ac-
knowledged a
great boon to the
public.
EFFORTS TO
make the Arcade
a centre attrac-
tion have to the
present time been
most successful.
Visitors feel such
a pleasure in
walking through
the Show-Rooms
—they can do so
without being
worried or even
expected to make
a purchase.
SAVE MONEY
by purchasing at
the ROYAL
PUNISHING
ARCADE,
426, & 428,
George - Street,
Next the
Royal Hotel.
> AEGADE.
THERE CAN
be no better proof
of the increasing
popularity of the
Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade than
the last month’s
record of itsbusi-
ness transactions
If you are about
to furnish pro-
cure a copy of our
Economical
House Furnish-
ing Guide. Yon
will find it very
suggestive, and
consequently a
great help. All
classes of goods
are kept. It is
our constant
study to buy in
the cheapest mar-
aud give onr cus-
tomers every
satisfaction.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
M A N L T ■ A beach.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGRAYE AND RAGLAN STREETS.
MANLY.
Best oonntrv killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
| kinds of Poultry. Small Goods always on hand.
1 Families waited cn daily.
FUN AND FANCY.
While there’s life there’s slope, said the eloping
pair.
It is a poor lawyer that hasn’t a code in his
head.
If poverty is a disgrace, mended stockings are a
darned shame.
Bees carry pollen dust on their legs. That is
how dust the busy bee.
A stout woman can never even look “ a little
pale.” More like a tub.
It is said the ordinary life of a bee is only ninety
days. The end of a bee, however, is very lively.
The only time a fellow’s in any great feather is
when, arriving homo late, his wife makes him quail.
“ Let us have more light,” as the grocer said,
when he plugged the load into the wrong end of the
scales.
A great many men are cottage-built; that is to
say, they have but one story. And they are for ever
telling it.
“Your wife is the weaker vessel,” said the magis-
trate to a sailor. “ Well, she oughtn’t carry so much
sail," was the reply.
An undertaker gave up his newspaper the other
day because it happened to say M'Elhone’s friendship
was fatal to any man.
“ I want <£3o for a charity,” wrote a son to his
father. “ I’m afraid charity covereth a multitude of
sins," was the parent’s reply. ’
A sailing-boat upset in the harbour a few days
ago, and the first person saved was a dressmaker. Sur-
vival ®f the fitist, as usual.
“Are yon active?” said the lady to her new
housemaid. “ Well, slightly. I’ve played first part in
two runaway matches already.”
“Do the New Guinea natives keep Sunday ? ”
“Keep Sunday!” he replied; “yes, and every other
t hing they can lay their hands on.”
An exchange says: “ Good wives are wanted in
the North-west.” Surely this is not strange. Is there
any place where they are not wanted.
“ Soldiers must be fearfully dishonest,” said
Mrs. Partington ; “it seems to he an occurrence every
night for a sentry to bo relieved of his watch.”
The first almanac was printed in 1460, and the
issue for 1881 contains several of the same fresh and
sparkling jokes that appeared in the first number.
. A celebrated German chemist, to whom was
addressed the question, “ What is man ? ” promptly
replied, “ A pinch of phosphorus and a bucketful of
water.”
“ You must give up your danoing-master,” said
a Manly Beach resident to his daughter. She blandly
replied, “ Well, pa, I can’t do more than take steps to
improve my chances.”
When the ice-man finds the lump too heavy, he
chips oil the odd weight and let the pieces melt in the
street. It has never been discovered how he manages
when the lump is too light.
A little girl read a composition before the minis-
ter. The subject was “ a cow.” She wove in this com-
plimentary .sentence : “ A cowisthemost useful animal
in the world except religion.”
“ Where does the grain go ?” asked the aohool-
:aaster. “To the hopper,” said one boy. “Which
hopper?” inquired the master again. “ Grasshopper ”
said another boy, and the school shrieked.
There’s a terrible famine raging in Armenia,”
said the newspaper proprietor to a reporter, "and I
> elieve it will he followed by a plague. Ton must start
to-night, and write it np—a lively account.”
Two Germans passed by a field in Alsace where
a peasant was sowing seeds. “ Sow away,” said one of
the Germans; “when it is ripe it will be for us.”
“ Very likely,” said the Frenchman; “it’s hemp I’m
'l'Wing."
They are making a new translation of the Bible
in London. This will so mix up the heathens to whom
•■he old editions wore sent that they won’t know on
which day of the week it is wrong to kill and cook a
• missionary.
“ Don’t sit so far away from me, Harry, dear,”
-he said to her lover, while they were steaming np the
river with the excursion—“don’t sit so far away and
im your back to mein that way; people will think
we are married."
“ Prisoner, how old are you ? ” “ Twenty-two
■•or Honor." “Twenty-two? Your papers make out
■hat you were bom twenty-three years ago.” “So I
was; but I spent one year in prison, and I don’t count
■hat—it was lost time.”
“I wan,t to keep my mother’s will safe; how
an I do it?” “Easily enough. Write a play, six
chapters, and placing the will inside, send your
nanuscript to the theatre proprietory. Yon can be
sure no human eye will ever rest on it.”
“ How do you pronounce s-t-i-n-g-y ? ” Pro-
fessor Stems asked the young gentleman near the foot
of the class. And the smart boy stood up and said it
depended a great deal whether the word applied to a
nan or a bee. “Go to the head, young fellow.”
“Come here, Johnny?” “No, I won’t.”
“ Come in here, sir." “ No, yon’ll bate me.” “Come
in here, this moment.” “No,” (sobbing) “remember
what Father Foran told you never to bate your offspring
in a state of passion.” Whipping averted. A solemn
fact.
Hr. B—entorsoneof thebathing-honses hastily
and finds himself face to face with the beautiful Mrs.
D , who is in tho very act of taking off her bathing-
suit. She utters a piercing shriek, but the old gent,
unmoved, merely says: “Don’t mind it, madam, I’m
very near-sighted.”
They fined a Dublin juryman at the Land
f.eagne trials. “He can’t pay, yer Honor,” said the
rior. “Well, we must have his body, then,” said the
judge. “ B’dad, thin, yer Honor, the undertakers had
it—five years back. Will I call him wanse more, yer
Honor;?” (Silence !)
In London, whore the walking mania is
<o bad, if a young man takes his girl to the opera and
it begins to rain directly it lets out, in order to save his
hack hire, he offers to walk her home, go-as-you-please,
for the champion belt, and what they can take at the
gate—and she always accepts.
A soup-kitchen inmate woke tip suddenly with
■ Id sweat standing in great beads on his forehead.
“Oh, my God! my God!” “What’s the matter?”
asks his companion. “ A frightful dream; I dreamt I
was at work.” “ I told yon that last mince-pie would
give yon a horrid nightmare.”
In Memoriam.
A little peach in the orchard grew—
A little peach of emerald hue ;
Warmed by the snn and wet by the d'ew
It grew.
One day passing that orchard through,
That little peach dawned on the ■view
Of Johnny Jones and his sister Sue —
Them two.
Up at that peach a club they threw —
Oown from the stem on which it grew
Fell the little peach of emerald hue —
Mon Dieu!
She took a bite and John a chew.
And then the trouble began to brew —
Trouble the doctor couldn't subdue —
Too trne!
Under the turf where the daisies grew
They planted John and his sister Sue.-
And their little souls to the angels flew —
800 hoo I
What of the peach of the emerald hue.
Warmed by the son and wet by the due ?
Ah, well its mission on earth is through—
Adieu!


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. John Tait, who returned to Australia by
the Peshawur, is in capital health and spirits.
Sir James Martin’s health is much improved,
and it is said he is getting back much of his old
vigour.
Mr. De Boos, the Warden for Temora, has been
well received at the new field. He has plenty of work
cat out for him.
Mr. Thomas Colls fills the Mayoral Chair at
Yass Probably there’ll be more calls than howls at the
Council Chambers now.
Mr. J. C. Williamson, the well-known theatrical
entrepreneur spends £lOOO in the production of the
“Pirates of Penzance.”
The fastest time on record from Bourke to Syd-
ney by 24 hours was accomplished last week by Messrs.
Becker and Tompson—9lJ hours !
Sic Henry Parkes’s speech on the proposed
alteration of the Press law reads like the speech of a
man who never had anything to do with the Empire.
Sir Morton Peto (Peto and Betts) has been
seriously ill for some time. He has been living very
quietly for many years, having devoted the greater
part of his wife’s large fortune to the payment of his
creditors —a sacrifice which is the more honourable
inasmuch as it has been purely voluntary.
A respected and popular member of the Civil
Service, favourably known in sporting circles, enter-
tained a number of residents of Manly at the oteyne
Hotel on last Thursday evening. The acknowledged
belle of Manly was present. A very pleasant evening
was spent, and Mr. Cohen provided an A 1 spread.
We have still to send our medical students
home to study medicine. The other day young Mr.
Neill left, and now Mr. Jones (nephew of Dr. byduey
Jones), another student of the Infirmary, is leaving
for England This shows the urgency for Dr. Renwick s
promised measure for the establishment of a medical
school.
Judge Gwynne retires from the
South Australian Bench.
The Colonial Treasurer of South
Australia has been seriously ill.
Mr. Parker, Mayor of Perth,
W. A., has resigned, and goes to Eng-
land.
Sir Henry Ayres favours an al-
teration of the constitutional powers of
the South Australian Council.
Sir Alfred Stephen is 79 years of
age. He was a judge of the Supreme
Court of this colony thirty-four years.
The Hon. Mr. King, Minister for
Education, retires from the S. A.
Ministry, ai d leaves on a visit to Eng-
land, in April.
Sir Henry Parkes refused the
extension of a license to the Exhibition
Building, Prince Alfred Park, during
the performances of the Austrian Band.
Dr A. A. West and Dr. Pickburn
are the new honorary physicians for the
Childrens’ Hospital, and Dr Goode and
Dr. W. G. Beuford, honorary surgeons.
Mr. Titherleigh, formerly member
for Normauby in the Victorian Assem-
bly, has been taken on as a compositor
at the Melbourne Government Printing
Office.
The Mayor of Sydney, Mr. Harris,
has given anxious attention to tbe
city water supply ever since ha entered
. office, and his efferts have been atten-
ded by very satisfactory results.
Skuthorpe is reported to have
left Blackall suddenly, taking the
supposed relics ot Eeichhardt with him.
No trace of him has since been found,
and he does not appear to have taken
any road to Eockhampton.
All denominations at West Mait-
land are liberally subscribing to the tes-
timonial to be presented to the Rev. K.
T. Hills, Congregational Minister, who
tor many vears, as it appears from his
letters, discharged his duties while
shamefully underpaid.
The Duke of Manchester has been
a gi’est at Westbrook Station, near
Toowoomba, Darling Downs. On the
34th his Grace was to leave for War-
wick, and journey across the border into
the New England district, and. via
Tamworth and Newcastle, to Sydney.
The Rev. George Brown, of New
Britain missionary fame, leaves the
Islands shortly for good. Recently the
residents of the various stations heard
of his intended departure, and they took
prompt steps to present him with an
addre-s, in which testimony was borne
to his unvarying kindness and activity
in the interests of every good cause.
Commodore Wilson’s promise,
given in a despatch last January to fciir
Arthur Kennedy, Governor of Queens-
land, that satisfaction would be exacted
from the natives of New Guinea, for the
massacre of the crew of the schooner
Prosperity, has not, up to the present,
been fulfilled. The fact is the pewers
ot the naval Commanders have been
seriously interfered with.
Very few men can make a more taking speech
than Mr. H. C Hangar as the occasion demands. He
has made the Rifle Association and cricket ins banquets
famous for very interesting and appropriate harangues,
and at the Yacht Squadron banquet, last Saturday, to
Mr. W. O. Gilchrist, he quite sustained his reputation.
In point of fact, now that Sir Hercules Robiuson is
away, Mr Hangar has an undisputed field in this
respect. Mr. Hangar is one of the fathers of the
Sydney Yacht Squadron, and in the happiest style
imaginable he sketched, last Saturday, the history of
its rise to the premier position of all the clubs out of
British waters. En passant, Mr. Hangar made a
touching reference to Langford, the late yacht builder.
Mr. W. O. Gilchrist, Commodore of the Sydney
Yacht Squadron, was entertained at luncheon on the
19th at Bauble Bay, prior to his departure on a tour in
Europe. Twelve of the best yachts, fully manned,
assembled in Farm Cove. They were the Magic,
Oitboua, Waitangi Peri, Pert, Violet. Haphne, Harpy,.
■Guinevere, Erin, Pleiades, Mabel, lone, and Boris.
The yachts form din line after the commodore; then
formed abreast, and beat down to the rendezvous. The
sight was very grand. The luncheon was i-erved in a
handsome and spacious marquee on the grounds of the
Hon. James White. Hr. Mackellar presided, and
about eighty gentlemen sat down. Some very neat and
happy speeches were made, and Mr. Gilchrist was
heartily complimented and thanked for the progress
the yacht squadron had made during the period he was
commodore.
Very lamentable affair, the death of Mrs. Lewis,
wife of Mr. Lewis, of Glen lanes, at the residence of
Mr. Spencer, dentist, in Margaret-street. It appears
that Mrs. Lewis, who had previously taken chloroform
for other operations, wished to be placed under its in
finance for the extraction of her teeth. She requested
Dr. Cox to accompany her to Mr. Spencer’s last Mon-
day afternoon, and, after undergoing an examination,
was placed under its influence very easily, and the
teeth ware extracted. Immediately after the operation
she became very faint, and every effort was resorted to
to restore animation, but without avail, and she suc-
cumbed to the effects ©f the chloroform. The cause of
death was syncope, while under chloroform, caused by
debility; and the jury were quite satisfied that due
precautions had been taken before and during the admi-
nistration of the anaesthetic and that every effort to
TCtore animation had been resorted to.
A meeting of the friends of the Hon. William
Forster, who desire (independently of political con-
siderations) to welcome him back to the colony, will
be held at the Koyal Hotel. Sydney, on Monday
afternoon at S o’clock Fifty Members of Parliament
have already given their names to the Breakfast Com-
mittee.
Mr Charles De Boos, late Warden and P.M. of
Copeland, was banqueted prior to his departure from
that field to Temora. The gathering was a most enjoy-
able one. Mr. De Boos, who gains golden opinions
wherever he goes, will be well remembered by many in
Sydney as having been a prominent member of the staff
of the Herald in bygone days.
On a recent morning, near Colac (Vic.), a pow
swagman named Duval begged sufficient flour to make
a “damper” for his morning’s meal. When he reached
the township, he was informed by a letter which
awaited him at the post-office that by the death of his
father in Cape Colony, in South Africa, he was heir to
a large estate and considerable property in that colony.
Enclosed in the letter was a bank draft to fit him out
for the voyage home.
Poor Lady Lisgar has been “ Boycotted ” —it is
believed for not making the precise reduction of rent
which her tenantry w< re instructed to demand. Those
who remember her as Lidy Younsr, Government
House, Sydney, will readily conceive that there was no
lack of active benevolence, or of warmheart ed sympathy
in her dealings with her humbler neighbours ; but she
has left her residence under League proscription, and
could not even obtain horses for her journey, the
friends whom she was about to visit being obliged to
send forty miles to fetch her.
Mr M. C. Machardy, manager of the London
Chartered Bank of Australia, leaves by the Peshawnr
to-day (Thursday), on a tour to Europe. He has been
twenty years managing in the colonies, and well de-
serves a rest. Last Wednesday a number of the lead-
ing gentlemen in Sydney assembled at the Bank, and
presented Mr. Machardy with a richly-illuminated
address, bearing the signatures of the principal capital-
ists and business men of the metropolis. The presenta-
tiou, which, was made by Sir Patrick A. Jennings, was
accompanied by a purse of sovereigns.
The death at sea of Mr. Francis Tyssen
Amhurst makes the third seat which “ the grim tyrant
has declared vacant in the Queensland Parliament
since the session closed. Mi. Amhnrst represented
Mackay in the Assembly, and was the owner of the
Foulden sugar plantation. He was an Oxford man, and
a member of the English bar, but was prevented by a
nervous and excitable te uperament from neing a
successful speaker. He was, however, a cultivated
gentleman, who, by his cordiality and good nature, won
the regard of all with whom he came into social
contact. His decease is sincerely deplored.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Mrs. Langtry, the Jersey lily, is studying
theatricals under Mr. Coglan.
A woman who goes to church to show her seal-
skin sacque is saeque-religious.
One young lady has refused to join the swimming
club. She would not kick out like a man.
A little girl, who was much petted, said, 'I
like sitting on gentlemen’s knees better than I do on
ladies’, don’t you, ma ?”
She asked him if her new dress wasn’t as sweet
as a fresh-plucked rose, and the brute said it was,
even to the minor attraction of having a little due upon
it.
Mrs. Goodie was telling Jane that the potatoes
had an oniony smell, when Goodie suggested that
perhaps they had been cooked in a saucepan with a leak
in it.
Deaf lady: “ What’s his name? ” Young lady :
“Augustus Tyler.” Deaf lady: “Bless me! What a
name ! Bustis Biler! Eliza, you must be making fun
of me! ”
What city in France is a man about to visit
when he goes to get married. He is going to Havre
(have her). An old bachelor being asked the question
promptly replied, “To Bouen” (ruin).
“ And then, dear aunt, he asked me to be his
wife ” “ And what was your reply ? ” “I told him to
ask papa.” “Bat, my dear, do you love him? ” “Not
in the least.” “Then why offer him any encourage-
ment ? ” 11 But T have not. I told him to go to papa,
and he is nobody, you know. say, * Ask
mamma,’ it will be a very different thing.
It is said that a woman’s voice can be heard at a
distance of two miles by a man in a balloon. But if a
spider was to get on ber neck her voice could easily
be heard a distance of ten miles on a level.
“ Never leave what you undertake until you can
reach your arms round it, and clinch your hands on the
other side.” says a recently published book for young
men. Very good advice; but what if she screams t
“ How do you like me? ” asked a belie of her
spouse, as she sailed into the room with her long tram
sweeping behind her. “Well,” said he, to tell you
the truth, it is impossible for me to like you any
longer.”
A lady, a regular shopper, who had made an
unfortunate clerk tumble over all the stockings in the
store, obiecte 1 tint none were long enough. ‘ 1 want,
said she, “ the longest hose that are made. I hen.
midame,” was the reply, “you had better apply at the
n, xt engine-house.”
“ Ah, my darling wife,” said George, the week
after his marriage, “if vour husband were to die, what
would you doi"- “I don’t know, I’m sure, George,
said the wife reflectively ; “ I never thought of that.
I must look into my ‘ Book of Etiquette and read the
rules for young widows.”
There are two brothers in affliction at Welling-
ton Their wives have given them the slip. One
brother adveitnes that he “won’t be respomible for
any debts,” &o ; 'he other offers, in last issue of the
Gazette a reward of ten shillings for information
within three weeks, as to “ her” whereabouts !
“I declare a man never ought to have a baby
unless he knows how to hold it,” said Mrs. Gubbins,
watching her spouse’s clumsy manipulation or their
youngest h.pe. “The same applies to a womans
tongue,” retorted Nathaniel, proceeding to chalk the
infant’s fist preparatory to using it as a stopper for ms
pipe.
Mme de R ’a amours are well-known to
everybody except her husband, who is totally unsuspec-
ting. They are the talk of her own kitchen as well of
every saloon in Paris. “ Queer that De B is so
blind,” said someoody, the other day. “Oh, said
another, “ he’s too busy watching his mistress to see
anything wrong in his wife.”
She, the mature beauty with the bright brown
hair, made a sensation tbe other evening. The steam
of the tea warmed her artificial substitutes for eye-
brows; they fell into her cup, and—she swallowed j
them.
Mm is a gudgeon.
Woman is the line
That dangles o’er his head—
And hooks him every time!
She baits the hook and holds the pole.
But the minister is the man
That flops him from eternal peace
Into the frying pan!
Girls, when your mothers attempt to give you
taffy, by coaxing you to learn to cook, think of that
young lady who took lessons, and the night
before she was to be married fried oysters for
her Adolphus. The hot fat spattered in her face, and
she had ti be painted before she could be married. It’s
the fat we warn you against, for it would be useless
to say anything against the painting.
An actress has just finished dressing herself for
her part, and is going on the stage, when her mother
bursts upon her in tears with an open letter in her
hand. “My dear child, do you know what has hap-
pened ? Tour sister is dead.” “ Oh, my, how can you
say it—how can you say it just when I have made up
my face, and can’t cry? Why couldn't you have
waited until after the third act ? ”
The story goes in London, on what claims to be
authority, that Mrs. Langtry, one of the professional
beauties about whom so much has been said and written
within a year or a two, derives much, if not most, of
her personal expenses from a large commission on the
sale of her photographs. Some of her admirers and
friends justify this because her husband, being really
poor, cannot purchase the finery necessary to her con-
tinual appearance in fashionable society.
The other day a Chinaman was arraigned at
Cooma, for having sought a kiss ifrom a fair resident.
He was prowling about the residence of the young lady,
and, improving the occasion when she was alone,
advanced to the window and asked for a “chopper”
(Chinese for a kiss). Not only was the luxury denied
him, but he was given in charge for being illegally on
the premises. He was locked up all night, and next
morning was warned by the beech that a repetition of
the offence would mean six months. The course of true
love, &c.
A ballet girl, writing to London Truth, says
that she is aware that actresses never get beyond the
outskirts of fashionable society, and that if they are
invited to parties and balls it is only that they m&J
be stared at and make a reputation for eccentricity for
their hostesses. But she adds that actresses can from
the stage see into theatre boxes when the audience can
not, and that the ladies and their “ spoons frequently
conduct themselves in a very remarkable manner.
Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon, the first woman-
lawyer whoever addressed a jury in California, defended,
a few days ago, M. A. Saldery, who was charged with
shooting and killing P. G. Herrea in a fight about a
woman. Mrs. Gordon appeared in a black silk gown
(or, rather dress), and her only ornament was a rose at
her throat. Her appearance caused a sensation which
she endeavored to ignore, and she was several times
applauded, to the disgust of the Court. Mrs. Gordon
did not fail to make use of the favorite legal phrase ot
young lawyers : “ There is not a scintilla ot evidence
against my client.” Her client was acquitted on a
technical point.
A happy-looking married couple were pointed
out and it was said that the ladv had been married once
before. When her husband died he left a will giving
his widow thirty thousand a year as long as she
remained a widow and all of his fortune if she married
again, for he maliciously added: ” I want another man
to know how wretched she made me. and he may find
some consolation in my money.” The widow wa,s not
long in finding another husband, and out of spi e to her
former spouse makes the present husband supremely
happy, and the wealth of the deceased is an immense
factor to that end. Woman are contrary creatures and
men don’t understand them.
A female patient, recently experimented on,
well illustrates the power of the imagination She is a
weak woman, 45 years of age, with chronic gastritis and
several other chronic affections, and has been in the
habit of taking morphine in the form of “ sleeping
drops.” For the first few times she was given morphia,
but after this they had a bottle carefully Labeled
“ sleeping drops of tbis she took a dram at bed time.
At first she complained that the medicine was too
strong and made her head feel bad the next day, so
the dose was reduced. This she did for nearly a
month, sleeping well when she did take it, and no
sleeping at all when it was witheld.
Some women were evidently born
to blush unseen —at least, they are
never seen to blush.
It has become a very prevalen
crime in America now—the depriving of
girls of their rich natural tresses.
One hair in the hash will cause
more hard hard feelings than seven
mottoes on the wall can overcome.
Sally Jones says when she was in
love she felt as if she were in a railway-
tunnel, with a train of cars coming
both ways.
Some time back a Petersham girl
was struck by lightning while making
bricks. The father, who was reading a
novel near by, was untouched.
A note from her father’s counsel,
offering to conduct her divorce suit free
of charge, was among the presents re-
ceived by a Parramatta bride.
A certain lady has eloped with
two gentlemen, whose wives disconso-
lately mingle their tears and agree that
she has a majority of the convention.
While a lawyer was cross-ex-
amining a woman who was on the wit-
ness-stand, she exclaimed, “I’m a lady,
and, by thunder, don’t you forget it 1 ”
A certain Sydney literary man is
in the habit of tossing-up every Sun-
day afternoon to decide whether he’ll
go and see the monkeys at the Botani-
cal or visit his mother-in-law. He’s
always glad when “ tails’’ —that’s to
say the monkeys—win.
When a man wants to make his
enemy unhappy, he poisons his enemy’s
”'og; hut a woman chooses a very dif-
ferent way to make her enemy unhappy.
She buys some new clothes that her
enemy can’t afford and sits in front of
her enemy at church.
“Aunt Julia,’ said a blooming
girl of seventeen, “ what is necessary in
order to write a good love-letter?”
“ Well,” replied the aunt, “ you must
begin without kn wing what yon mean
to say, and finish without knowing
what you have written.”
A young lady remarked that she
should like to have a bicycle so arranged
that she and her beau could both ride.
Being ask 'd where her fel'ow should
sit, she em haticily r>market, “On
the little wheel behind, of course."
And still young men go on marry-
ing.
Barnum is now looking for a
woman who can put up her back hair,
rock the cradle with one foot, look in
tbe mirror, and lecture her husband
with her mouth full of hairpins, all at
the same time. He says he has heard
of such critters, and wants one for the
coming season.
A gentleman in England commit-
ted suicide the other bay, and left a
paper stating that he did so because
his wife was a great, deal too good for
him. That’s why the jury returned a
verdict according to their opinion that
the deceased “ was of an unsound state
of mind."
Scene 1. Gentleman in bath-room, with bath
towel dress in hand. “ What the dickens is the matter
with this towel—the children have sewn it 1” Scene 2.
Lady looking about her room: “I wonder^ what has
become of my bath towel costume ?” Scene 3. !
A little mole is growing, John,
Just underneath my chin ;
It gives me so much grief, dear John,
I’m growing pale and thin.
Another one is coming, John,
Just here beneath my ear ;
And I will he disfigured, John.
For life, I sadly fear.
And so I want to ask yon, John,
Will e’er your love grow cold ?
Oh, answer me at once, dear John,
Will you love me when I’m moled ?
The officers of steamers can, from their post of
observation on the “ bridge,” tell more of what is going
on among the passengers—flirtations and elopements—
and bet ter judge of their characters and characteristics
—whether they are fugitives from justice, commercial
travellers, clergymen, or grass-widows—than the
passengers learn below. One of these observing cap-
tains declares that he knows whether a young woman
has left her lover at one port or expects to meet him at
the other. If her lover is behind her, she cares
nothing for wind, rain, or fog, hut gets tanned, freckled
and roughened in a highly healthful and independent
fashion. But if her lover is waiting for her, she takes
infinite trouble with veils and other complexion pre-
servatives.
The fashions for girls who elope just now are
very plain. Some white drapery, a convenient window,
a long ladder, a dark night, a coach, a minister, and the
house of a friend, and the elopement is over. If the
irate father, armed with a double-barrelled coal shovel
and a constable, does not pursue, the affair is, although
a successful, not exactly a picturesque elopement. If
the rather of tht bride relents within two days, the
foolish couple are not happy. It it leaks out that the
mother of the bride is in the secret, much of the plea-
sure of the trip is spoiled. If both the father and the
mother of the bride are in the secret of her going away,
and have actually left the ladder near the window, and
that fact is found out, the elopement is a failure. In
the olden time, the eloping bride packed all her port-
able goods on herself, and went away heavily laden.
Now, she is about to return in a day or two in her
friend’s dress, she goes away quite light.
THEY HAVE THE TAR: WHERE ARE THE FEATHERS?
the btjleetin.
February 26, 1881.


SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
8
INGER
MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Have opened a Depot in
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,
1 HARBOUR STREET.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLESALE BUYEES.
s
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for address of nearest Agent.
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOR FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
s
SINGER’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS.
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
INGER’S THE BEST FOB TAILORS.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
s
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-Presser Machine.
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
HAND OE TREADLE.
8
8
INGER’S. The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Carry.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
SINGEE’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
8
INGER’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
ADDRESS: THE
8
INGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES —TURNER
and CO. only recommend the Singer.
8
EMEMBER, THERE IS ONLY ONE SIN'
GER MACHINE.m See the name and Trade
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER &
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGEE’S MACHINES.—Beware of German
Cast iron imitations. Only Genuine Singer’s
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, by arrange-
ments with the Singer Company.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
1 cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments in
YDNEY.—From TURNER and CO., 353
1 GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
JINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONE
) but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
□ INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON A CO.,
746 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
lave been appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s trial given.
Ba«y Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
SATURDAY, 26th FEBRUARY,
PARRAMATTA.
3 Allotments, Crimea-street, Old Racecourse,
fine portions, just ofi Marsden-strcet, lots 7,8, and 9,
of section 10, each 50 x 150 feet.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have been
instructed to sell by auction on the ground
at half-past 3 o’clock,
after the sale of Mr. Watkin’s lots,
3 FINE BUILDING LOTS, being Nos. 7,8, and 9 of
section 10 Old Racecourse, having 150 feet frontage
to Crimea-street, by 150 feet deep.
Buyers
lots.
will have the option of taking one or all the
Terms at sale.
SATURDAY, 26th INSTANT.
GREAT SALE OF WORKING MEN’S LOTS,
HOME BUSH,
NEAR the RAILWAY STATION,
THE HORSE AND JOCKEY HOTEL,
THE PARRAMATTA ROAD, and
THE OLD SALE YARDS.
The finest Block of the recent Government Sales.
Terms : £5 deposit on each lot. balance 20s per month.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have received
instructions to sell by auction on the Ground,
on SATURDAY, 26th instant, at half-past 3 o’clock.
A CHOICE SUBDIVISION AT HOMEBUSH, care-
fully prepared and most accurate lithographic plans
which that eminent surveyor, Mr George Bishop.
HAS PREPARED, AND ARE NOW READY
POE DISTRIBUTION.
These allotments are beautifully situated, and are
sure to rise in value when the great works now being
carried out in the neighbourhood are completed.
Free conveyance to the ground.
“ Endymion ” is being sold all over America in
pamphlet form at sevenpence the entire novel. Pub-
lishers’ price in England, 31s. 6d. Sydney price Bs. sci.
At Memphis, Tenn., recently, two tramps named
Miller, who had been permitted to stay for the night at
the house of a Mr. Keding, returned the hospitality by
setting fire to the house with coal-oil, and burning the
family, whose charred remains were afterwards found
in the debris. Search was made for the two men, and
one of them was found by the search party, which con-
sisted of twenty-five resolute men. The culprit, in
whose possession was found property belonging to the
victims, confessed. Then the crowd pinioned him t
arranged pine splinters around him, and set them afire
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it ns being a wholesome nnd refreshing
article of diet —Karl Theodoue Staiger, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Archbishop Vaughan, having discovered that
the art-union in aid of the building fund of St. Mary’s
Cathedral, could not be carried out without infringe-
ment of the law, has ordered that all money paid for
tickets be returned.
Among the many religions movements of the day
betokening that upheaval of the human mind which is
taking place all round us, not the least noticeable is
that which is known as American Reformed Judaism,
of which Rabbi Wise is at the head. The reforms pro-
jected are so radical in character as to be almost revo-
lutionary. They comprise the following changes:—l.
The permission of mixed marriages. 2. The abolition
of the Feast of the Tabernacle. 3. The substitution of
the first for the seventh day of the week as one of rest
and worship. 4. The adoption of an English in lieu of
a Hebrew ritual. 5. Sundry modifications of the
ritual. 6. The removal of the hat from the head in the
Synagogue. 7. The discrimination of the Decalogue
from the body ®f the Law contained in the Pentateuch,
the former to be reverenced as Torah, and the latter as
Torah Mosheh.
The Rev. R. T. Hills (Congregationalist), after
a ministry extending over 20 years, is about to leave
West Maitland. To say that the reverend gentleman
is generally esteemed falls short of the truth. He is
loved, and there is a vast number of persons outside
his own denomination who deeply regret his intention
to seek a fresh sphere of action. That success will
attend it must be the earnest wish of all right-minded
persons, and we are pleased to learn a movement has
been initiated by a leading member of another de-
nomination, John Lee, Esq., J.P., to present this
deserving pastor with a testimonial. It has met with
the hearty support of nineteen-twentieths of the
reverend gentleman’s congregation, and the co-opera-
tion of all creeds in the town; and much as we are
opposed to testimonial giving, we cannot do otherwise
than give this one our warmest approval.
Professor William Miller, Champion
Wrestler of the World.
This prince of athletes was bom near Liverpool,
England, in 1847, and at early age showed indica-
tions of a powerful physique and a healthful
organization. He immigrated with his parents to
Australia when about five years of age; and while
at school made such progress, without neglecting
his physical development—which seems to have
been one of his dominant instincts —that in 1863
he obtained a situation in the service of the Mel-
bourne and Hobson’s Bay Railway, in which
capacity (always energetic, vigilant, and upright)
he satisfied his employers. In 1873, he abandoned
ledgers, telegraph instruments, and the responsi-
bilities of station-master, and became clerk to his
father, a wine and spirit merchant, Western
Market. During this period he particularly cul-
tivated his great natural powers, and came from
the local gymnasia an all-round accomplished
athlete. After winning various victories as runner,
wrestler, swordsman, amateur pugilist, and
gladiator broadsword and rapier —he visited
California, where, and in other parts of the United
States, he carried off nearly every prize for which
he contested. The roll of his victories would fill a
column. He returned to Australia, almost his
native land, and (we rejoice) determined to take
up his abode in Sydney, where he, in conjunction
with Mr. D’Harcourt, has established a gym-
nasium, adjoining the Unitarian Church, Liver-
pool-street. Here he will superintend a School of
Arms that cannot fail to have ennobling effects on
the young men of the city. The fittings of the
establishment are in every respect calculated to
promote thorough physical education, while tui-
tion under such a master can hardly fail to
produce the most satisfactory developments. Such
an institution has been long looked for; and it is
now open to the public.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK 2.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER XIII.
SUNRISE.
Mary Heywood, all the weary afternoon of that weary
day, sat beside Edmund’s bed and nursed him, with fear
at her heart that the nursing would be of no long
duration. The fever which had consumed him was
over, but the weakness which remained was terrible—
it was a weekness from which, as Mary dimly felt, there
would never be any rallying. She had brought sewing
and knitting upstairs into the little bedroom, and she
drew down the blind “ to keep the sun out,” as they
both said. Edmund lay perfectly still. She asked him
if she should read to him, but he smiled a little, and
shook his head. Neither of them knew how very near
the end was. Edmund, it he could have known, would
have been very glad, and Mary would have been so
miserable, that it was well she did not know.
“ I could like to see Myles a bit,” said Edmund at
last; “ I ne’er see him now, hardly. He’s quite
different from what he was.”
“He's not happy,” said Mary. “I don’t rightly
know what ails him, but it’s summat very bad, I’m
sure.”
“ Oh, he doesn’t like bein’ out o* work. No more
should I, if I was him. He’s ne’er been used to such
pinchin’ work as this. They keep him a long time at
yon shop.”
“ Ay, they do. Harry Ashworth said he’d come and
sit wi’ thee to-neet, Ned. Would thou like it ? ”
Edmund assented, with a look of pleasure, and there
was silence, while the afternoon wore on, and at last
Mary’s head began to droop. She was weary with
sorrow, with working, and with watching. The atmos-
phere of the room was close and heavy, although Mary
had sconscientionsly tried to follow out the doctor’s
directions about keeping it ventilated. She could not
keep her eyes open, but slept in her chair until
Edmund’s feeble touch on her arm awoke her, and she
started up.
“ Eh, what is it, lad ? ”
“I could so like summat to drink, Molly,” said he
gaspingly. “ And I think there’s summat not reet wi’
Myles. I heard him come in, and sit quite still for a
bit, and now he’s gone out again, without coming up
here, or waitin’ for his tea, or anything.”
Thoroughly awake, Mary hurried downstairs, and
found emptiness and solitude. She could see that
Myles had been in. She could see the chair that he
had drawn up to the table and pushed away again, and
she wondered and was uneasy at his going out thus,
without word or message.
The kitchen, too, felt close. She drew up the window,
and set the back door open to let some air in. Then
she roused the fire, and set the gently singing kettle
upon it, and brought out the tea-things. She prepared
some tea for Edmund, and took it upstairs to him. He
had said he was very thirsty, and he took the cup
eagerly, and put his lips to it, then put it down again.
“ I feel very faint, Mary; I can’t take that. I mun
have a little—bran ”
He had fainted, and it was some time before she
succeeded in restoring him to consciousness.
“Eh, I wish Myles was here; I wish Harry would
come," she kept murmuring to herself, looking with
anguish upon the poor worn face, which had now the
stamp of the approaching end set upon it in unmis-
takeable characters.
At last a knock at the outer door informed her that
Harry Ashworth had come. She ran downstairs and let
him in, drawing him into the kitchen; and when they
were there, sat down upon her rocking-chair, and began
to cry heartily. .
“Why, Mary, what ails thee, lass?” said Harry,
taking her hand.
“Myles is gone out—l don’t know where, and yon
poor lad upstairs hasn’t so much longer to be here,”
said Mary, looking at him with her tearful eyes. “ Thou
munnot leave me yet awhile, Harry.”
Whether the presence of a great mutual sorrow broke
the barrier which had hitherto existed!between these
two, I know not. As Mary begged him not to leave
her, their eyes met, and something in those eyes gave
Harry the courage he had never before been able to
summon to his aid. It was as if by a mutual impulse
that they bent towards each other, and their lips met
for consolation and reassurance; {and Harry, with a
wonderful sense of strength and courage, put his arm
round Mary’s waist, saying:
“ There’s nought I’d like so well as never to leave
thee at all, Mary, if you could look at siioh a poor, deaf,
marred chap as me. Sometimes I think thou could,
and sometimes I’m sure thou couldn’t. Dost think
thou could make up thy mind to take me ? ”
“ I made up my mind long ago what I’d do if ever thou
ever asked me,” said Mary, naively.
“ And what was that P ”
“ Why, to take thee, for sure,” she answered.
Harry, smiling, looking on her with amaze and
admiration, ventured on another kiss, and said :
“Eh, but I have been a fool not to speak to thee
before.”
She smiled a little, and then the remembrance of the
troubled present returning to her, said:
“ I’m very happy, but we mun think o’ poor Ned just
now. Thee go upstairs, and tell him what thou’s done.
He always were suspicious about thee. It’ll cheer him
up like, and I’ll come after thee in a minute or two.”
Just for a few moments the news had the desired
effect upon Edmund. He shooK hands with Harry,
smiled, and looked what he had not voice enough to say.
But the same chill look of coming death was upon Ms
face; and Mary, as Myles still did not come, could not
rest until she had been out and brought the doctor back
with her. The doctor was a busy man. He made a
very brief visit —said nothing much in the sick-room,
but ordered some restorative, and, when Mary followed
him downstairs and tremulously asked his opinion, said
brusquely, but not at all unkindly.
“ My good girl, you must make up your mind to lose
him. I cannot even assure you that he will live till
morning.”
Restraining her tears, Mary went upstairs again, and,
with Harry, resumed her watch by the sick lad. They
were slow and solemn hours. They saw the end
approacMng under their very eyes; they saw Death’s
grey seal stamping its impress more and more visibly
upon the features, and one on either side the narrow
little bed they sat, wMle it grew deep night, and still
Myles did not come home..
“ What can be keeping him ? ” the girl uneasily
wondered again and again; but she dared not speak her
wonder, for every time that Edmund roused from the
lethargy which was settling more and more heavily
upon him, he looked round with an anxious gaze, and a
vague astonishment at the absence of that brother who
had been his stay and protection all his weak and
painful life.
Midnight passed, and still the sorrowful watch lasted.
One o’clock struck, and still he came not; and still the
face on the pillow grew greyer and more deathlike.
Two o’clock passed, and yet all was as it had been.
Towards half-past two, Mary, going softly to the
window, raised a corner of the blind, and beheld the
first flush of dawn in the east, as it may be seen at that
hour on a June morning. Her heavy eyes looked across
the Uouses, across the town, to where the pure sky,
with a cool, bright light, showed the ridges of the
moors. She looked back into the room. Harry’s eyes
had followed her, and hung upon her face; and
Edmund’s eyes too were opened, wide, bright and clear.
His voice had regained a last flicker of strength, as he
said distinctly,
“ Wind up the blind, Molly, and open' the window a
bit. Let me see the suu rise.”
Speechless, Mary complied. A waft of pure, fresh
morning air was borne into the room through the open
window. Then there was a pause. From where he lay,
Edmund could see the broadening rose-flush in the east,
and then suddenly the chimes from the spire rang out;
three was solemnly tolled, and in a moment there rang
out upon the sleeping town, resting from its troubles,
the sweet old tune, “ Life let us cherish! ” Mary heard
the tune, “ Myles’s tune,” as she called it, and wondered
longingly where he was. She returned to the bedside,
and Harry went to the window. Edmund had closed
his eyes again, and another quarter had chimed, when
Harry exclaimed :
“ He’s there! He’s coming ! ”
In a few moments more, Myles stood in the room.
There were very few words more. They all stood
round the bed, and Edmund held his brothers hand. In
watching him, the others had no time to notice the
haggard look on Myle’s face. Day grew broader, and
life waned. Pour was chiming melodiusly; the first
stir of life was audible, as Edmund quitely breathed his
last.
(to be continued)
“Pinafore ” Festerings Pindarically
Penned
BY LANCE LENTON.
My peace of mind was much disturbed,
For me there was no rest.
The cause of which I will disclose.
And why I was opprest;
Where'er I’d go, where’er I’d he,
I’d hear till my ears were sore
Men, women, children sing or play
Airs from the “ Pinafore.”
That oftplayed “ Pinafore,”
At it how I’ve raved and “ swore ”
As I’ve roamed from door to door.
On pianos I’d hear “ Pinafore
Ne’er was such a din afore
From Bedlam right to Labrador.
“ Hold —enough!” let’s have no more
Of that great “Pinafore.”
In simple conversation, too.
If one remarked, “What, never P”
Was sure to be responded to
By the answer, “ Hardly ever.”
(I should not be surprised to hear.
So strange are public whims.
That they have introduced, in church,
It’s favorite airs for hymns.)
To ’scape this dreaded nuisance, I
Determined in my mind
To flee the country from this pest.
And leave it far behind.
Straightway I fled to Scotland;
To the Highlands there did go.
But, doomed to disappointment, I
Heard blessed bag-pipes blow
The horrid airs I did detest.
And which annoyed me so.
• In a frenzy, then, a skirted Scot
I ’neath his kilt-tails booted;
For “ Pin’fere ”he peine forte received.
And quickly off he scooted.
Scotland offering no release, sailed I then at once for
Fondly hoping on that shore I should not hear “ Pin-
fore.” . ...
Shades of Homer! modem Greeks —of pollof, with squall-
ing squeaks—
Squalled the airs of my hitenoir ; there “ Pinafore had
been afore.
China, next I thought I’d try,
’Mongst the folks of almond-eye
Even there, Mongolians
Piped “ He is an Inglismans.”
To Paris, next, I packed up my traps and went —
But adverse Fate to follow me was bent:
There, frantic Frenchmen sang, and loudly cried “ Mn-
core.
To “Je suis le Capitaine du Pinafore,”
This I thought un peu de trap, —
Where on earth, then, should I go.
To escape this dreadful bane.
Driving me o’er land and main.
Like the famous “ Wandering Jew ”
Written of by Eugene Sue ?
Whither next, then, should I flee ?
Fate decided, Italy.
’Twas just the same —no matter where I’d roam—
(The anathemas I used would fill a tome)—
For even the Pope, in a minor key.
Intoned “ I am the monarch of the See.”
That settled me—my hair had grown quite hoary—
In Latin, I cried “ Non est bene fore /”
Straight home I’ll go, and dislocate the jaw
Of ev’ry person piping “ Pinafore.”
I’ll have revenge—it will be sweet to me;
And I’ll bum the authors in effigy.
PROFESSOR WILLIAM MILLER, CHAMPION WRESTLER OF THE WORLD.


THE MOST POPULAR WEEKLY NEWSPAPER
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
GUARANTEED CIRCULATION—I6,6OO COPIES;
With an INCREASE at present op
150 Copies Weekly.
THE BULLETIN is a paper established with-
nt a model.
It has been imitated everywhere.
It has proved itself to be the new departure in
Journalism.
It contains more news than papers four times
dts size.
It has become a power in the land, because of
dts straight-out independent style.
It has no party. It gives every person a turn.
It has been satirical without being spiteful.
It has been humourous without being offensive.
It has been solid without being heavy.
It has been useful without being uninteresting.
It is the only paper that most people read.
It has won its way by its excellence and —by its
ifriends.
It has been run by men who know their
businesss.
It has been approved in London, New York,
Paris, and San Francisco.
It holds the city the day it’s published.
It makes life here GO degs. in the shade.
It wins recommendation in every home.
It has distanced every previous effort in these
iparts.
It is never destroyed, but filed everywhere.
It is the Live Paper—can never die.
Subscription only 12s. per year. Just send
along.
HAYNES & ABCHIBALD.
13, Bridge-street, Sydney.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
*' Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
Professional Addresses
ME. S. L A Z A R.
ADDRESS ;
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private—“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
Mr. j. r. grevi l l e.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
R. L. mT B A Y L E S S.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
n. ERE D. FITS HALL.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Roval, Adelaide.
MR. & MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
A DDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street. till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
M
R.
M.
S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MISSES ALICE AND CONSTANCE
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS;
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
M
R. AND MBS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ADDRESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
P
M
HILIP STUAE
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney
R. J. C. WILLI A M S 0
ADDRESS:
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
T,
N.
rjp HEA T R E ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. Sami. Lazar
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman
OPERATIC PINAFORE !
OPERATIC PINAFORE!
Engagement of the most Popular and Succeseful Ar-
tistes that ever visited Australia,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE
and
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON
received with
IMMENSE ENTHUSIASM
in their great characters of Josephine and the Admiral.
Special Engagement of Mr,
ARMES BEAUMONT
ARMES BEAUMONT
as Ralph Kackstraw,
SIGNOR VERDI
SIGNOR VERDI
as Captain Corcoran.
EXTRAORDINARY ATTRACTION 1
GRAND REVIVAL !
For a limited number of Nights,
and with surroundings of unusual splendour
©f the world-famous Opera,
H. M. S. PINAFORE!
POPULAR PRICES.
DRESS CIRCLE, ss; STALLS, 3s; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s; PIT, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, 321, George-st., where
plan of dress circle can be seen and seats secured.
ARTHUR GA ' ”, Manager.
Ml'-
CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEM OREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 King-street, Sydney,
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Melbourne.
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation.
This is not vain expatiation ;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication;
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration —
Just use your powers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination,
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation.
Then —friends of suffering creation —
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortatiou.
Beware of spurious imitation,
Called “ Farmer’s Friend,” —ugh, botheration !
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station,
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
Q. AIE T Y THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, 3rd and 4th MARCH.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES and BENEFIT
of
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL.
On THURSDAY Evening, March 3
MILKY WHITE,
and
SERIOUS FAMILY.
On FRIDAY Evening, March 4,
last appearance but one,
BLOW FOR BLOW.
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s, George-st.,
where ticket s and seats may be secured.
M. L. Salamon, business manager for Mr. F. Marshal],
SCHOOL OP ARTS.
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson.
THIRD WEEK. THIRD WEEK.
Third Week and Uninterrupted Success
of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
WAR IN ZULULAND,
Patronised by crowded
and
DELIGHTED AUDIENCES.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MARVELLOUS PAINTINGS
and
MECHANICAL WONDERS,
the theme of universal admiration.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT,
the leading present will consist of a
complete
SUITE of DRAWING ROOM FURNITURE
together with
ONE HUNDRED OTHER VALUABLE PRESENTS.
Recipient of Piano, Saturday evening—Mrs. Shortus,
of Marrickville.
Recipient of Suite of Furniture on Monday night—
Mr. Martin O’Dowd. Woollahra.
Recipient of Piano, Tuesday night—Mr. Daw, Redfern.
Prices of admission—3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at half-past 7; overture at 8 sharp.
SATURDAY February 26,
GRAND MATINEE,
commencing at 3 p.m.,
on which occasion everv child attending will receive a
HANDSOME PRESENT.
Admission—Children, front seats. Is.; second ditto, 6d.
Sole Proprietor & Lecturer... Mr. W. H. THOMPSON.
Agent PHILIP STUART.
*«* NOTE —Holders of tickets who were unable to
gain admission at the matinee on Saturday last, owing
to the
CROWDED STATE OF THE HALL,
will be
ADMIT TED
on
SATURDAY, 26th FEBRUARY.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
Musical Director Mr. Chas, Austin.
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
of
THE DANITES;
or THE DESTROYING ANGELS.
Magnificent Scenery, Authentic Sketches, by Mr.
Kinchela.
Pit, Is; Stalls, 2s; Boxes, 3s; Reserved seats, 4s;
Private boxes, 30. Box office at Paling’s.
T
HE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot he too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO..
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
S. MANDEES AND CO.,
(Late Grant, Handers and Grant),
PEESS, TELEGEAPHIC, ADVEETISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE,
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can supply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers with Articles, Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram ;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind of business transacted in Melbourne by applica-
j tiontous.
The above Firm have Agents in all the colonies, from
whom they getall the earliest Sporting News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels, Clubs, Ac ,
| with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Hourly Telegrams of Principal Cricket Matches,
&c., SUPPLIED.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any part of the Australian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the termi-
nation of the day’s sport.
Special arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania.
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TYPOGRAPH. Send for Circulars. Will print 5000
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Music, &c., on permanent
paper, and on any paper. No washing-out required.
P. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ITS BEANCHES.
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
c
HEIST MAS PEESENTS.
& *-
/
rv
M
V
I
A. J. HUFTON,
636 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH.
Cheapest House in Town.
Garmore’s Artificial Ear Drums
RESTORE THE HEARING mid perform the work
of the Natural Drum. Remain in position without aid,
feud are not observable. All Conversation and even
whispers heard distinctly. We refer to those using them.
Send tor descriptive circular.
Address FRESHMAN, JONES, & CO.,
33S George Street. Sydney, X.S.W.
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 50s.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILOEING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STREET,
Where you can be litted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern, to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order. 50s
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Bannockum Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order 50s
Trousers to Order Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16s 6d 16s 6d 16s 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Cauadian Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16« 6s
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
o N r ß -—GsyGemen should inspect this stock of choice
Scotch Suitings, as the above prices for Suits to Order at
50s are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address —
127 KING STREET.
B EIGHT BEOTHEES & CO.
have removed to
NEW OFFICES
93 Pitt-street,
Opposite Oriental Bank.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines, no moving of work, alteration of
tension, or breaking of needle in crossing thick seams-
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines will sew two folds of gossamer or
muslin, or six folds of leather or moleskin with the
same stitch and tension, a thing we defy any other
machine agents to show.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an appliance for hemming any
width, straight or bais, without folding by hand.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
MACHINES have an appliance for making frill-
ing, will gather with or without a band and between
two bands, and sew on at the same time.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an appliance for sewing on rib-
bons and trimmings without tacking.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an appliance for making double
felts without folding.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have a beautiful appliance for laying
in cord in stays, sun bonnets, and similar works.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have a perfect appliance for sewing
on binding on dresses, carpets, coats, and other articles,
without tacking.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines will make an exceedingly pretty lace
stitch, to be used as an open work insertion.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines will braid the most delicate material
without dragging, which we challenge any other agents
to show.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an automatic bobbin winder,
by which the bobbin can be filled, and sewing continued
at the same time. A superior griding stone is also pro-
vided, by the aid of which, scissors, knives, needles,
&c., may be sharpened.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines may be had on trial at your own
houses free of charge, with thorough instructions.
The wonderful wertheim sewing,
MACHINES have also other appliances too
numerous to mention, that are not supplied with any
other machine in the market.
SOLE AGENTS POE NEW SOUTH WALES.
BEALE and COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET, near MARKET STREET, and 612
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
HUN PER STREET, NEWCASTLE, near BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA.
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST, near SCHOOL OF
ARTS.
WE GUARANTEE TO KEEP THE WON
DERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINI
in THOROUGH WORKING ORDER for 2 YEAR!
from date of purchase, a thing that no Agent of Yanke
or Glasgow made Rubbish would dare to do.
w
E can also SHOW SPECIAL MACHINE!
for
FAMILY USE
DRESSMAKERS
TAILORS
SHOEMAKERS
SADDLERS.
G
ERMAN V. YANKEE SEWING-
MACHINES.
FOR STARTLING INACCURACIES
and
COOL IMPUDENCE
the “WONDERFUL” flourish of trumpets that hs
lately sounded the praises of a “ Wonderful ” IMITI
TION Sewing-machine is entitled to a premier positio
(exactly the reverse, by the way, of the nositio
assigned to this very wonderful machine by the judge
of the Sydney International Exhibition).
It is announced on behalf of this “ Wonderfully an
fearfully constructed ” machine, with all its complicate
paraphernalia of cogs, springs, screws, feed-teetl
wheels, ratchets, &c., &c.; that it is just about givin
the last “notice to quit” to ALL OTHER Sewim
machines and in only merciful charity abstains froi
defining the nenalties to which the agents of such otht
Sewing-machines will become liable if the field is not a
once cleared for the IMITATOR.
The Wonderful claims to have the most perfec
attachments that the art of man can devise * that it
variety of work is unapproached by any other sewin
machine; that it will stitch this, braid that, bind th
other, and generally produce a character and class (
sewing, stitching and frilling to attempt which woul
drive any other machine bald-headed in about I
minutes, but which to the “ Wonderful ” comes as eas
as telling the truth.
THE NEW DAVIS SEWING-MACHINE
was awarded the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZ
FOR SEWING-MACHINES at the recent SYDNE :
INTERNATIONAL, and has since so increased it
hold on the people by its marked SIMPLICITY
EFFICIENCY and DURABILITY: the ease wit
which it can be LEARNED, WORKED, an
ADJUSTED; the apparent rapidity in performing th
most beautiful variety of work, the entire absence <
cog-wheels, springs, teeth, or other complications, an
the general excellence of the machine in its entire+i
that the agents are disposed to feel a little sceptical'a
to the vaunted powers of the •’Wonderful” an
publicly challenge it to a trial of skill under condition
to be adjusted, such conditions to be published in th
5 oud th© one one wlio sbo.ll be 3.djud?Gd voi
quished in the contest shall forfeit to the charities c
Sydney the sum o? fifty (50) pounds.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agent, for Davis’ Sewing machines,
674 George-street, Sydney: and 24 Pitt-street.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 18th February 1881
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
■^TOTICEis hereby given, that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty clays from
this date, they, will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
Mi ster and Macleat Mining district.
No.. 444; Thomas Page and another; Portion No.,
14; Little River, parish of Wanget; 3 acres. Apuli-
cation No., Dungog, 1.
Tumut and Adelong Mining District,
No., 84; John K. Hume and others; Portion No., 12
gl; County of King, Parish of Bun ton; 17 acres.
Application No., Gunning, 80-1.
Lachlan Mining District.
No., 89; Joseph Rodrick and others: Portion No
6gl ; Barmedman, parish of Mandamah • 3 acre«’
Application No., Greufell, 79-7.
No., 90; Herbert Elliott; Portion No., 792 • Countv of
No lb Forbe“i^ ariBh ° f F ° rbeS; 4 acres - Application
Southern Mining District.
Nos, 60; James Waddington, jun., and others;
Portion No., 50; County of St. Vincent, parish of
Dangera ; 5 acres ; Application No., Nowra, 78-25,
Bathurst Mining District.
No., 116; Robert Richardson; Portion No.. HI •
Cook s Gully, Bombah, parish of Tuena; 4 acres; Api
plication No , Tnena, 131. "


Miscellaneous
D
ETSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
IRONMONGERS, lEONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the larger in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the lates p reductions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Eims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-hodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, JE4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUENS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEOEGE STREET.
MERIC AN MACHINERY DEPOT.
M
T.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STEEET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
A C H I N E R
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
KING
STREET
mv
P
fof'OV
m
m
v/*V.
SYDNE
TAILOR
Oq
10R Y/f $
filMcC
Am POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER.
FIT GUARANTEED’
fill HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
quinetum wine.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. TAYLER % CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
T OANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
I A moderate rates, on all kinds of secunty. Repay-
meats to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
Kfaig-street. Established 1859.
Miscellaneous
QL I F FORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2»
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and! Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
Nipt
The l
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL . htiK frtT
AL L WOOL WEED
TWEED mm SUITS
TO ° U5 Ei
K
MEASURE
CUT LENGTHS
.AT WHOLESALE PRICES/
iOOOFATTERNS'°CHOOSE FROIP
H L.SUMMERFIEIO
PITTSISYDNET.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OP
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
GREER AND
PRIZE
ALBUBY WINES.
Red Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
C O.’S
White Wines:
Reisling
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
DNEY : Printed and published by the PropnetoW.
fOHN Haynes and J. P. Archibald, at the Offices oi
Fohn Woods A Co., Bridge-street.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNE1,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
[?]
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
8HEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranks, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
E Y E S
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT)
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Bev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., AshHeld : —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney : —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee : —Jeyes’ Perfect
agent, a
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.^—
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ;—My child had sore eyes for years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Lawrence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaqu.es, solicitors), Sydney ; —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
S
INGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER TEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES— £6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —5s. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J.
WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. l‘, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HR UNIVERSAL LOCEST1CH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
CD
o»
PRIZE
Coco A
M
CO
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
pegs
W
m
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CD
C*
cc
BUY
iBELnASri'EM
PP.TTIP
MustarD
CO
R. GORDON,
HOMCEPATHIST,
No. 2 Hyde Park Terrace,
171 Liverpool-street,
Eradicates hereditary diseases
in the young, and chronic com-
plaints in the adult, and holds
references for the cure of
Typhoid, Bilious, Intermittent,
Scarlet, and Rheumatic Fevers;
Bronchitis, Asthma, Consump-
tion. Pleurisy, Scarlatina, Croop,
Whooping Cough, and Dipthe-
ria; Heart, Liver, Stomach, and
Kidney complaints; Cancers,
Ulcers, Erysipelas, Scrofulous,
Dropsy, Opthalmia, and Urinary
complaints. Terms for chronic
complaints, £1 per month, pay-
able in advance; consultations
5s. No letters answered unless
the monthly fees are paid in
advance; and patients at a dis-
tance are requested to be very-
minute and particular in men-
tioning the symptoms of their
complaint.
Improved Dam-Making Scoops
Kitted with
NEW PATTERN ROCKERS
And
IMPROVED
Is
t 5 «
* <
o «
5 h
BRIDLE.
MARTIN & PAIN’S Dam-Making Scoops,
Fitted with STEEL MOUTH PLATES AND WHEELS.
se Scoops
are now being used in preference to all others. Prices, lllnstrallons, and every information by pH
C eiuu|)» muw ur.aug • -
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street, Sydney.
