

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 62.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1881.
Price— 3d.
SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1881.
Luckless Native Teachers.
It is now several months since a correspondent,
writing from the Malayan Archipelago to the
Queenslander, in powerful and convincing terms
arraigned the Missionary organization of reckless
disregard for the lives of the unfortunate native
teachers in their employment. The writer, who
dealt with the subject from personal observation,
formulated several distinct charges, and pointed
out in a graphic fashion the difference between
the labours and risks undergone by the white
missionaries and those to which their native
auxiliaries were subjected. Some exceptions were
first stated. We are not confident that the names
mentioned are exactly retained in our memory,
but if we by chance include among those particu-
larised as sharing in all respects the hardships and
perils of the native teachers, one or more who may
not be entitled to such distinction, the error will
not be a serious one. The feeva. Messrs. Lawes
and Chalmers, we think, were mentioned as
gentlemen who gave no heed to sparing them-
selves. We do not remember others having been
mentioned in that sense. But the broad allegation
was this: that while the white missionaries in
general passed a comparatively enjoyable and easy
life, cruising from place to place in well-appointed
and comfortably-provisioned mission-ships, or
established themselves at stations of ascertained
excellence, and secure from danger of hostile
or treacherous savages, the wretched native
teachers were dropped at isolated stations—some-
times pestilential —among tribes of doubtful
temper, and there left, poorly provisioned, to take
their chance, and bear the full brunt of the
pioneering work of the missions. So inadequately
were they furnished in some instances, it was
alleged, that they, with their wives and children,
became before they were again visited a burden
upon the uncertain savages by whom they were
surrounded, and that thus an inducement, not to
be lightly disregarded in view of the known un-
reliability and ferocious customs of the barbarians,
was created for their destruction. It was further
stated that the regularity of the visitation and
provisioning which was essential for the comfort,
and even for the security of these poor native
Christians was in some cases subordinated to the
convenience, and even to the mere inclination of
those who ought to have been their anxious
guardians. That even a voyage to Sydney had
been permitted to interfere with the regular and
vitally necessary routine of the visits of relief.
That deaths attributable to pestilential stations
had not been unfrequent among those unhappy
victims, while among the white missionaries no
mortality from such causes had occurred for years,
although theoretically the European is more
susceptible to the influence of tropical maladies
than the natives of these latitudes. The writer,
whose allegations we have been reproducing from
memory, was not a mere purposeless grumbler.
He distinctly warned those responsible that the
course which was being pursued must inevitably
result, sooner or later, in some of the unfortunate
native ‘teachers losing their lives at the
hands of the savages who were being, by these
ill-considered measures, tempted to murder. The
communication to which we refer was, we believe,
much more forcibly framed than it appears as
paraphrased by us. Wo have sedulously en-
deavoured to keep within the mark. At the time
of reading, it made a strong impression, as being
the outcome of competent knowledge and tem-
perate deduction. We are not aware that any
attempt to contradict the allegations it contained,
has ever been made. No journal in N.S. Wales
reproduced it at the time, and probably the
missionary societies at home are in placid igno-
rance that any such statements have over
appeared, and that so signal a warning of what
might be expected has ever been uttered. The
fulfilment of what was then predicted should open
People’s eyes to what has been going on. In the
present instance it would appear that a white
missionary, the Rev. Mr. Beswick, shared in some
degree the perils of the unfortunate victims. It
will be interesting to learn how he happened to be
in that galley,” and still more interesting to
learn how it chanced that while the four native
teachers, their wives, and their babes, all perished,
the rev. white man saved his hide. The story of
the Dutchman who was nearly drowned comes
unbidden into our mind. Seven of his companions
Perished by the upsetting of a boat. When the
fortunate self-styled swimmer was asked how he
managed to escape he explained, “ I did not go in
the boat.” Perhaps Mr. Beswick’s narrow
escape was attributable to a similar circumstance,
ft is a very poor chance that anything
whatever will open the eyes of the Jellaby
tribes to the true character of the mission
m the Malayan archipelago. But still some good
®uy result from the catastrophe just announced.
Just as the Naval authorities remained coolly un-
concerned while trader after trader was being
murdered by the savages of the Solomon Islands,
and were roused to some sort of consciousness
only when a man-of-war’s boat’s crew suffered a
like fate, so it may happen that the Exeter Hall
people, who have discussed their usual muffins
with smug indifference while trader and man-of-
war’a-man have been immolated in turn, may per-
ceive that something must be done now that their
own poor servants have been made the victims.
But, until one or two of their most distinguished
reverend yachtsmen and moral essayists abate
their usual care for their own persons and share the
fate of their unlucky native scapegoats, it would
not be wise to expect too much.
The Rev. Robert Steel, D.D.
It is a singular fact, and as significant as it is
singular, that the Australian colonies should have
attracted so large a number of men of intellectual
attainments. To keep within the temporal
limits of a quarter of a century, how many
distinguished names are emblazoned on the
historic scroll now, which were not heard of in
1855 ! Even then we had some ‘ ‘ bright particular
stars” amongstus—Dr John Woolley,for instance,
with all the charms that could be given by a cultiva-
ted mind, a refined personal appearance and a tem-
per as mellow as the honey of Mount Hybla—the
genial and learned Nicol Drysdale Stenhouse, a
Nestor in philosophy and a Macamas in the en-
couragement of literature —the remarkable word-
painter, Richard Rowe, better known as “ Peter
’Possum,” and the versatile Frank Fowler. It is
not, however, very surprising that the walks of
journalism should have attracted clever men, or
that the Bar and the ranks of professional scien-
tists should be largely recruited from the mother
country; but it is, as above intimated, somewhat
singular and significant that, among the
religious hierarchies of the colonies, persons
of old - world reputations for purity of
life and excellence of culture should have
been induced to make these colonies their
homes —the land of their adoption. Of all the
bright surprises we have had in this respect, we
should think the appointment of Dr. Vaughan to
the Roman Catholic Archbishopric of Sydney, and
the elevation of the Rev. Dr. Steel to the highest
honours that the Presbyterian Church could confer
are the most remarkable. Taking New South
Wales into social consideration, we do not think
that, as a colony, there is any very deep regard
for ecclesiastical personages. The contrary has
been often asserted, and seldom strongly con-
tradicted ; but the truth is, young countries are
always tranquilly favorable to the expansion of
high, intellectual, and moral qualities amongst
them, many of which are amply and justly
recognised in the reverend gentleman whose
portrait we give in this day’s issue. His life has
been that of a student and an evangelical laborer.
If he wrestled with “ the angel of the schools ” in
his youth, he has since directed his best energies
and efforts against the spirit of the world as mani-
fested in its coarse dissipations ; its Bacchic
orgies; its arrant dishonesties ; its vile hypocrisies
and, to cap the climax of its ignominies, its torpor
of conscience and the hebetude of its moral instincts.
Robert Steel was born of Scotch parents, at
Pontypool, Monmouthshire, England, in 1827, and
received the rudiments of an English education at
a parish school. He began his classical and
mathematical studies at the Royal Burgh Aca-
demy in Ayr, Scotland, entered the University of
Aberdeen in 1843, where he remained three years,
then grappled with Theology, in Edinburgh, in
1846. In January, 1851, he was licensed to preach
by the Free Presbytery of Irvine. Animated,
eloquent, with an imagination warmed by the
spirit of Christian poesy beyond most young men
of his time and religious denomination, he soon at-
tracted attention, and received a call to the Island
of.Cambrae, in <he beautiful and romantic Firth
of Clyde. The “ tongue of good report ” soon
syllabled his praise beyond the Scotch Border,
and he was invited in succession to Preston,
Salford, and Cheltenham, at all of which
he made his ministry felt, and his per-
sonal character appreciated. During these transi-
tions, he maintained a close connexion with
the religious Press, and was the originator and one
of the editors of the ethical, scientific, and social
quarterly review entitled Melioea. In 1862 he
received a special appointment to Sydney. Here
the great work of his life began and has “ prosper-
ously proceeded.” Under the southern cross has
ho prosecuted his ministerial labours—preaching,
organising societies, lecturing, writing instructive
books —so that it is no compliment to assert that
his fame “ fills all the churches,” because it is
not amongst his own denomination alone that he
is held in high repute, but amongst Christians of
all classes, Hebrews, and Chinese. Acting for
years as agent to the New Hebrides Mission, he
paid a visit to the stations there in 1874, one result
of which was (on his return to Sydney) the publi-
cation of some interesting notes on his observations
while sojourning amongst the islands. Last year,
having obtained nine months’ leave of absence,
and his friends having liberally subscribed six
hundred guineas to enable him to take a more
extended tour, he went by America, travelling
through several states, visited Canada, was pre-
sent at several general assemblies of the Presby-
terian Church, and stored his mind with fond
memories of the great development of life and
energy he found both in America and in Europe.
He attended the Universal Convention of Sunday
Schools held in London, in the beginning of July
1880, and subsequently visited England, Wales,
Scotland, and Ireland. Ho afterwards journeyed
to Switzerland, passing some time in its historic
, cities, and then crossed the Alps, in the old style,
by the Simplon Pass, and the celebrated Gorge of
Gondo. He soon entered the land of poetry and
art—ltaly—the mother of two civilizations, and
saw the glories of the Yalley of the Arno, the
grandeur of Milan, the pathetic beauty of Venice,
the Rome of the Caesars and the Popes, luxurious
Naples, and excavated Pompeii. What noble
scenes for a cultivated scholar and lover of art
to travel and survey! The soul of the divine
sighed for the sacred land moat congenial to his
calling—Palestine, the Holy Land. A visit up
the Nile to ancient “ Thebes of the hundred
gates,” brought his tour proper to a close.
He joined the P. andO. Company’s boat at Suez, and
reached Sydney on the last day of 1880, exactly
nine months from the day of departure. We
must now give a few details of “ the large
honours ” and distinctions he has won. He was
elected Moderator of the third general Assembly
of.N. S. W., in 1867. He zealously helped to
bring St. Andrew’s College University into exist-
ence, and has for years been one of its clerical
councillors, as well as its principal Professor of
Theology. He received, as far back as 1861, the
degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the Univer-
sity of Gottingen; and of D.D. from Lafayette
College, Pennsylvania. His devotion to exegetical
and other kinds of literature has been unbounded,
and his works —particularly the biographic series
—are extremely interesting, his style being
picturesque, vivid, and perspicuous. In this
rapid survey we have indicated the career of an
energetic and self-possessed man. Are we wrong
in thinking—to recall an echo from our previous
remarks —that he is potential for greater good
now than he has been heretofore, bright though
his career has been ? Or can we suppose for a
moment that he will—while strength abides —fail
to be foremost in promoting the moral and social
amelioration of the community ?
David Buchanan, M.P.
HIS BOOK.
It has been frequently our province to notice the
gentleman whose name forms the heading of this
article. Occasionally we have deemed it our duty to
write of him unfavourably, when his political conduct
has been more than ordinarily paradoxical. At other
times, he has received from us the acknowledgment
which is only the jnst need of his undoubted talents.
In the present instance, however, we do not notice Mr.
Buchanan as a politician, but as an author. Some few
weeks since, we received from him a neatly-
bound volume, entitled specimens of "Australian
Oratory," That the name the author has given to his
beok is slightly egotistical will be generally admitted.
This, however, will surprise no one, since it has long
been known that the person Mr. David Buchanan most
admires on this earth is the junior member for Mudgee.
Putting this little eccentricity of genius aside, and
critically reading the book before us, we are, in common
fairness, bound to admit that some of the extracts are
not only eloquent beyond doubt, but exceedingly clever
withal. Yet even in th’s small brochure the peculiar
characteristics of David Buchanan are painfully promi-
nent. In it we have David at his best; a few pages
further, David at his worst. When at his best, Mr.
Buchanan is dilating upon matters outside the narrow
political groove in which he moves: when at his
worst the author is mouthing in purely local matters.
In order to end this notice the more i leasantly, we wiU
give, what we consider (irrespective of any sectarian
view of the subject), his worst form. Here, then, is
an extract of his speech, in re Archbishop Vaughan,
upon the Education Question: —“ Archbishop Vaughan
had the audacity to assert that the Public Schools were
* seedplots of infidelity, immorality, and lawlessness.*
I feel so shocked at the cruelty of this atrocious libel
and insult to the community, that I wish that someone
would lay a criminal information against him for libel.
I would like to see him get six months hard labour on
the roads, and I am sure there is not a man, so
punished, that deserves it more. Can you conceive the
THE REV. ROBEET STEEL, D.D.


The American Novelty Company. —ln conse-
quence of th-> immense success attending the opening
of their Pitt-street establishment, the American
Novelty Company have found themselves compelled to
further extend their premises, and adjoining the
principal arcade, a toy bazaar has now been opened—a
novelty in its way in this city, and certainly without
equal in these colonies. The toys exhibited are mostly
miniature working mechanical appliances, such as loco-
motives on tracks, steam pumps, steamboats, (fee , which
are of eqnal value to a school as to a household. The
whole establishment is thrown open to visitors every
day in the week, and on Saturday afternoons and even-
ings. A band is in attendance, and every facility offered
the visitors to inspect the exhibits.— [Advt.]
feelings of those mothers and fathers who have their
children at our most excellent Public Schools, on being
told bv this inflated and shallow Archbishop, that they
send th°ir children where they are taught ‘ infidelity,
immorality, and lawlessness.’ A grosser or more
infamous insult was never before offered to any com-
munity, and justice demands that this Archbishop
should be punished for it.” Perhaps the best of all
Mr. Buchanan’s efforts in oratory—and some of them
are very good, is the address on Burns, which he
delivered at the Protestant Hall, at the meeting
of the Highland Society, on the anniversary of the birth-
day of that wondrous poet. The following is an
extract from the speech in question—an address, be
it said, which as a whole, is remarkable for deli-
cacy of sentiment and skilful touches of pathos
His works, such as they are, are before the world, and
have been so for nearly a century, and curious enough
no poet, with the single exception of Shakespeare, has
given rise to so much earnest disquisition, has attracted
the attention of so many men of genius, and afforded a
theme for some of their finest writings. What then is
there in Burns’ poetry that gives rise to all this ? I
say its truthfulness, its naturalness, its masculine force
and vigour, its high poetic beauty as coming from the
soul of a man who saw, with a clear, penetrating eye,
every object he attempted to describe. There is nothing
effeminate about Bums, although no woman was ever
gifted with a keener sensibility. He has a heart over-
flowing with love and tenderness to all animate and
inanimate things His genius the world is
still possessed of, and as each year rolls on it adds
fresh treasures to his fame. It is now over one
hundred years since his birth, and his genius shines,
though his works, with as pure and brilliant a lustre as
ever, and like Milton’s day star—
“ Tricks its beams and with new spangled ore
Flames in the forehead of the morning sky.”
In conclusion we need only state that the book is neatly
got up, and will well repay perusal. It is published by
Mr. J. W. E. Clarke, Market Buildings.
An Aspirant for Histrionic Glory.
We write this with the hope that it will do good. Wo
don’t believe it will, for when young ladies take any.
thing into their heads to the exclusion of their natural
brains, it is extremely difficult to persuade them that
the ideas that they have fathered or mothered are of an
erroneous description. Some girls who are adepts with
the broom, long for the painter’s brush, others whose
pancakes are beyond criticism, yearn to write —and
sometimes do write—stories in the Weekly Conglom-
eration. Young ladies who perform wonders at the
wash-tub “have an impression in their own hearts”
that they are female (but undeveloped) Kettens; and
little girls who should be learning their lessons at home
are continually being stricken with a desire to “ flaunt
their little hour upon the stage.” A few days ago the
manager of a popular Sydney theatre received the follow-
ing letter, which we print verbatim :
“ To Manager of the .... theatre, —
“ . . . . House, March 3rd, 1881.
“ Dear sir,—l am desirous of obtaining a situation as
actress with your troupe. lam fifteen years old. By
berth a lady. The reason I want to become an actress
is that I am leading a wretched life with my relations
who crush me at every turn. I possess a tol 10l voice
but an acquaintance of mine who had been on the stage
told me I had really excellsnt acting powers. I can
control my risible muscles under the most trying cir-
cumstances. Possessed with a good memory from my
childhood I feel sure to be able to learn the most stub-
born lesson that the parts may give. Trnsting to re-
ceive an answer, I remain, yours truly.” “ I need a
home, all I want is food aud clothing in return for my
services to you. Would you kindly grant mean inter,
view p You name any place, will call; address.
Essie. N.B.—Je suis malheureuse avec mes scours."
This is indeed a sad case, Essie, dear. Our hearts
bleed for you. Of what adamantine substance can these
relations of yours be made who “ crush you at every
turn?” And your sisters, pauvre petite malheureu.se! —
with whom you are so “ miserable," —what flint-souled,
what unsympathetic girls they must be! Never mind ;
cheer up, Essie! You are the girl that theatrical mana-
gers have been looking out for at the corner of every
street from time immemorial. Look whata “ catch ” you
will be. Why, an ardent young thing like you without
any natural qualifications would be a draw, but when
there is a lady who not only has “ possessed a good
memory from childhood," but who can “ control her
risible muscles under the most trying circumstances,"
why she has only to consider at which manager she will
throw her handkerchief. The point is, dear, what
would yon like to open in ? Something simple for a start
—something in which vour “tol-10l voice” could be heard
to its best advantage. Whatdoyousavto Desdemonanow
—or better still, Isabel Carlyle and Madame Vine, with
the warble “When other Lips” in the second act?
The very ticket! Now that this is satisfactorily settled,
let us see about the terms. All you want, you say, is
food and clothing. Well, the question is how mnch
food and how much clothing ? Don’t be hard on the
poor managers now, Essie, because they mast have
yon. Say two square meals a day, and a “15-bob”
pompadour, renewable once a quarter. Are yon content ?
If so, we can close the bargain. Let us know as soon
as yon possibly can, and the moment you decide send
along the shoe trunk to our care, and we will fix you
Nevermind les soeurs qui vous ennuyent When they see
yon the pride of the Sydney stage, and hear that
tol-10l voice of yours singing “My ohe-ild, my child,”
they will “ get the needle ” badly. This is what you
had better do. Before retiring to rest borrow the
clothes-line from the back garden, having previously
arranged to have a cavalier below with a wheelbarrow.
Then, when the whole family is asleep, lower down first
your property and then yourself. Then flee to the halls
of dazzling light and be happy. And now good-bye for
the present. When you become opulent don’t forget
how we tried to send you along when you commenced
life, and give us at any rate the glory of posting your
bills for nothing. And now, adieu, Essie.
May’st thou prosper aud grow up.
Into a second Clarion.
Be virtuous and happy too.
And always “ keep your hair on.”
A Terrible Reality.
What tales, what tales are told, in this world ! Here is
one of thorn—but it must be recounted with bated breath,
and in the gloaming, when the rumble of the city has
ceased, aud there are no sounds more prosaic than the
light sighing of the evening breezes and the lapping of
the moonlit waters upon the rocks in the harbour.
There was a rich man, and he had a daughter—one who,
like the beloved child of Polonins, was “ passing fair.”
He was a rich man, and had a lovely house overhanging
the noble bay—a house surrounded with velvet lawns
and “ landscape” flower gardens. And he was a widower.
Fronting the house there was an apple-tree—a sickly
tree enough at one time—but even then it was endeared
to the family, from the fact of having grown from a pip
planted by a baby that had died before attaining its
fifth year The daughter of the rich man
was beautiful, was haughty, was reserved. Her father
loved her, and she had everything her heart could
desire. She drove a beautiful pair of ponies in a
phaeton, with a young aud handsome groom seated
behind. He was a flue, fair, curly-headed new chum,
and had seen “better days.” .... She became
engaged to be married—was married, and lived with
her husband in her father’s house. And the apple-tree
grew and grew and flourished and flourished until its
branches were positively bent down to the ground with
the weight of the fruit upon them. Yes, that once sickly
tree flourished wonderfully, to the astonishment of—
nearly all the household Some years later
the father resolved to erect a fountain on the lawn in
the place of the apple-tree. So it was dug up to be
transplanted. And near the trunk of the tree was
found —a little parcel, wrapped in flue linen, and con-
taining a quantity of human bones So
trees flourish aud mortals flourish, —and thus the world
goes on. The police have the bones now.
SOCIAL.
Big clerical scandal a couple of miles up the line.
Very big scandal, in fact. One rev. gentleman already
thrashed. Writ issued.
The first assembly ball of the season at Adelong
was given the other evening at Hodgson’s hall, and was
well attended.
The son of one of the directors of a well-known
insurance company marries shortly a wealthy young
lady of Burwood.
A highly-accomplished lady, who has travelled
far and wide, has at last set her affections on'a Sydney
gentleman. Marriage shortly,
“Sawdust” ought to be made a ground for
divorce. If you don’t believe this, you’ll find witnesses
for the prosecution in George-street.
A matronly Melbourne lady has come over to
Sydney for the purpose of marrying a popular and
benevolent gentlemen, who is reputedly a millionaire.
Millionaire has not yet consented.
It is said that the handsomest of Sydney’s sons
and the fairest of her daughters have agreed to “ make
a pair of it." “ A straight line is that which lies
between two (fashionable) Points."
A gentleman connected with the Roads Depart-
ment, who is well known in Inverell, and who was lately
promoted to a district in the “ far west,” is about to
lead a much-admired Sydney belle to the Hymeneal
altar.
The comely wife of a very distinguished Mel-
bourne resident, who some time since eloped from her
husband, under semewhat curious circumstances, is
now honoring Sydney with her presence. So is a
certain quack doctor,
A gentleman, who is the son of a well-known
Nonconformist clergyman, has joined the flock of
Archbishop Vaughan, in order that he may secure the
hand of tho sister of a partner in a well-known carrying
firm. The wedding comes off during the first week in
July.
A rather sensational elopement took place from
a town in the southern district lately. The combined
age of the romantic pair is 110 years—he 57, she 53.
Each has forsaken a lawful partner and large family.
“ She was the bosom friend of the now lamenting wife.”
When last heard of, they were at a border town, «n
mute for Melbourne.
We hear that several of the leading ladies of
Sydney, headed by Lady Manning, are about to estab-
lish a first-class Governesses’ Institute. In view of the
urgent necessity which exists for such an institution,
there should be little difficulty in raising the requisite
fnnds. The institute will, of course, be only for the
benefit of ladies by birth and education.
The big gambling event to which we alluded
a fortnight ago took place at a certain Melbourne clnb.
The games played were Loo and Napoleon; the players
wealthy squatters from N.S W.; aud the result was
that one of the most prominent Victorian landowners
rose from the table at daylight, having lost something
like £40,000 between then and midnight.
An interesting wedding took place on Monday,
at the Registrar-General’s office, notwithstanding the
usnal absence of bridesmaids and groomsmen and wed-
ding-breakfasts. which characterises the ceremonies
performed by Mr. E. Grant Ward. The bride was a
deaf and dumb young lady, who conld, however, use her
expressive eyes with marvellous effect, and the bride-
groom was a respectable young fellow—evidently a slave
to the damsel.
When Mr. Royle, Prince Leopold’s special
medical attendant, was married the other day, in
London, the bride started quite a new fashion by ap-
pearing in a dark green velvet costume. I do not like
such daring alterations (says a writer in the Whitehall
Review), though our great grandmothers have often
told how they were married in “ habits ’’ —not quite on :
the lines of one of Creed or Wolmerhansen’s equestrian
garments of to-day, but the heavy cloth riding dress of
the earliest days of this century.
Same of the local belles tried, and not in yain,
to make the late Tumut race meeting a Melbourne Cup
in miniature. For example, a brunette appeared on
what in Tumnt represents the lawn attired in navy-blue
with gold spots, old-gold quilted petticoat with chenille
cord and hood, small bonnet to match, cream gloves.
A blonde wore light blue silk trimmed with torchon
lace, pale pink bows in front, compact bonnet trimmed
with light blue, and lace matching that on dress;
parasol to match. Another fair lady was attired in
Madras muslin, with pink underskirt, toque to
match, and pink silk shoes.
An expose will shortly enlighten the public about
the doings of certain well-known members of a well-
known but not highly respected clnb. in one of the
the colonies. The names mentioned in connection with
the matter point clearly to the fact that more than one
nationality will “ figure up.” The polite Frenchman
will stand side with the ’cute Yankee and the stolid
but knowing Englishman. The victim of these three is
an unfortunate widow, who, believing in the honesty
and virtue of members of a distinguished club, put
faith in their representations, which have turned out
false —hence the suffering and loss. Bat more anon.
On the occasion of the Intercolonial eight-oar
race, which takes place on the Parramatta River on sth
April, the N. S. W. Rowing Association inaugurates a
most desirable reform. Accomodation for ladies will be
provided on the steamer Telephone, and all arrange-
ments to prevent over-crowding and ensure the comfort
of the fair sex will be made. Each member of the As-
sociation ha- the privilege of bringing one lady. A
limited number of additional tickets wi;l be issued at a
charge of 7s fid for gentlemen; 5s for ladies. The Tele-
phone will follow the race, which it is anticipated will
be a most exciting one, from start to finish. Under
the circumstances the list of the Telephone’s pas-
sengers should be long and fashionable.
An attractive lady, resident not far ont of
Sydney, managed the other day to captivate the heart
of a yonng man who was supposed to be a new arrival
from the old country, and to have an income of £6OOO
per annum. It was arranged that the suitor was to call
at the office of the intended father-in-law, to “ fix things
up,” but at the appointed time he came not. Mamma
was “ aweary,” and the new-chum was searched for far
and wide, without success. It wasn’t the young lady’s
friends who were looking for him, bat the police, who
wished to bring him to account concerning some
cheques, which didn’t bear his own signature. The
fascinating new chum, it appears, was only a short time
since released from Darlinghurst, where he served a
sentence of 18 months.
On Saturday last at St. James’s, King-street,
Miss Ellen Sophia Bayly, eldest daughter of that well-
known and highly respected colonist, the late Mr.
Nicholas Paget Baylv (“ the Squire of Havilah”), was
led to the matrimonial altar by Mr. George Newbatt,
son of the late Mr. Edward Newbatt, of Krupton,
Leicestershire, and the Old Place, Gleaford, Lincoln-
shire, England. Tbe bride was attended by three
bridesmaids—Miss Flora Bayly, first cousin, and Miss
Florrie Garner, second cousin, of the bride and Miss
Cobbsm; the groom-men were Mr. A. P. Wood and
Mr. R. B Barnes. The ceremony was performed by
the Rev. W. Hough, M.A. The bride were a very rich
white satin made in Princess style, the train tastefully
draped with brochS and Point de Gennes lace, front of
robe to match, and heavily embroidered with orange
blossoms. Over all was a handsome veil, the ample
folds of which reached almost, to the end of the train.
White satin costume shoes embroidered with gold were
worn. The bridesmaids wore handsome short dresses
composed of cream-colored broche and surrah, with a lit-
tle cardinal satin introduced, and toques to match. The
bride’s travelling co-tume was particularly handsome,
and was composed of rnby satin slightly mingled with
cardinal aud slashed with cord and tassels; dimask
bonnet with rnby feather. In addition to the bridal
party there were present numerous gnests and friends of
the hanpv couple- The wedding breakfast was served
at Strathspey-house, Macqnarie-street, in the Com-
pagnoni O'tnnanv’s best stylo. The bride and bride-
groom took their departure ami 1 the usnal congratula-
tions and the custom try shower of missiles.
A regi«trv office keeper not far from Sydney some
time ago wished todispo«e < f her “ business.” Alady en-
tered into negotiations wi*hh >r to purchase,but she wan-
ted £lOOO for the good will This description of the lu-
crativecharacterof her establishment is furnished by the
proprietress ;—“ Well, mv d -ar. I make my £2O a week
without anv tronb'e. I charg • mistresses and servants
5». for each engagement, and for married couples I
charge 15s. Well, some of my girls are worth £4 and
£5 a year to me, because they change so often, and I
always look after them, and they knowthey can depend
on me to get them good places. But, law! some of my
girls are the very devil, and the mistresses will not put
up with them. After paying the ss. the girls often
change their minds and wont go; others go and leave
the first day, and then the mistresses want their money
back, but of course I’m not so green, so I tell them I
will get them another. Most of them will not wait but
go away huffed. After a few weeks they come back to
mo again nigh broken hearted. But the married
couples pay me best. After the first week or ten days
the man will be found to have given satisfaction and the
woman will not; or it will be the other way about.
Well, of course, both will have to leave if one or the
other does not suit, and I get another 15s. Before
breakfast I have often made 30s. and £2 this way, and
then gentlemen and ladies in the country will send me
by post a pound or 30s. to get them a married couple,
or a home and parlour maid. There is money in the
business if yon only keep the girls on your side, and
encourage them quietly not to stay too long in their
places. I have, as I said before, 250 good changing girls
on my books, besides the others, and I could not think
of selling my interest for less than £lOOO, half down.
Good day ma’am.
WEDDING (RE) VERSES.
For the Encouragement of Matrimony.
“ Hmnphery—King.—March 12, at St. John’s
Ashfield, by the Rev. George King, M.A. (uncle of the
bride), assisted by the Rev. Dr. Corlette, Frederick
Thomas Humphery, of Sydney, to Lucy Alice Matilda,
only daughter of J. W. King, Esq., of Kynnumboon.
Tweed River."
“ Mundy —Cole.—On the 23rd February, at St.
Michael’s Church, Mitcham, by license, by the Rev. J.
Francis Hooter, David Henry, only son of Henry
Mundy, of Brownhill Creek, to Rebecca, third daughter
of Mr. James Cole, of Mitcham.”
It is said that old Cole was a merry old soul.
And oft called for his pipe and his porter;
So we really are without the very faintest doubt
That quite fascinating’s old Cole’s daughter !
It’s reported that on one day she wedded Mr. Mnnday;
That man should be grateful in his soul;
For it will never come to pass, while he’s true to that
good lass.
That his household will be very short of Cole.
* * * *
“ Coffey—O’Loughlin.— On the 20th February,
at St. Patrick’s Church, West-terrace, by the Rev. P.
A. Enright, John, eldest son of James Coffey, to Kate,
youngest daughter of John O’Longhlin, both of Ade-
laide.
Be gentle, Kate, and don’t you, zounds!
For anger give your Coffey grounds;
But let this living man of Mocha
Enjoy himself—play euchre, poker—
For, mark us ! if you ever scoff, he
May turn out awfully “ hot Coffey,”
And then, you know, dear, you’ll be pained.
And, with you, Coffey will be strained.
On troubled waters cast the oil—
And don’t put Coffey on the boil!
* * * *
“ Langtree—Bowler.—March 12, at Warrendine,
by the Eev. Canon Dunstan, M. Campbell Langtree,
son of the late John Langtree, of Victoria, to Adelaide
Minna, second daughter of A. C. E. Bowler, of Forbes.”
“ Wright—Wilson.—On the 4th March, by license, by
the Rev. C. Tresise, Mr. W. H. Wright, of Balaklava,
to Mary Anne, eldest daughter of Mr. J. W. Wilson,
Melbourne-street, North Adelaide,”
Dear Mary Anne, to yonr own hub
Make an obedient wife!
You should give in to one, you know.
Who’s been Wright all his life !
If e’er he shouts a “ big big D.,”
Why, then, of course, you can
Give him a Mary-Anne-swer,
That will fetch him, Mary Anne.
• * *
“ Tapner—Easy.—March 23, at St. James’s Church,
Sydney, by the Rev. W. Hough, Sidney Edward Tapner,
of Shoreham, England, to Elizabeth Easy, of London.
English papers please copy.”
Some people (including ourselves) who are bachelors
consider matrimony a joke. We trust that, although
matrimonialized, Mr. Tapner will view it in this light
also. It is proverbially hard for anybody but a mother,
in-law to ruffle the temper of a bridegroom ; so consider-
ing the pleasant circumstances under which Mr. Tapner
is now luxuriating, we don’t anticipate the pleasure of
his calling with a crowbar. May he live long and
prosper.
• » ♦
“Lees —Walton.—March 10, at Christ Church,
North Shore, by the Rev. N. Harrison, Cornelius,
second son of Mr. James Lees, of Woodstock, Glen-
more-road, Paddington, to Mary Ellen, eldest daughter
of Captain William Walton, of Lancaster, England.”
Of bliss the cup you will sup up;
We know the taste will please.
Although of nectar in that cup.
You’ll only get the Lees !
* » » •
“ Fullwood—Goad.—On the 2nd March, at the
Wesleyan Chapel. Johnsburgh, by license, by the Rev.
W. T. Carter, George, fourth son of Mr. Thomas Pull-
wood, of Snowtown, to Sarah Jane, third daughter of
M i. N. Coad, Oladdie.”
Signals to the sailor, George,
Of talking is the mode;
You’ll be a kind of salt yourself.
For you will have yonr Coad.
“ Bailey—Mutton.—On the 10th March, at the
residence of the bride’s father, by the Rev. T. Piper
John Charles, second son of the late Mr. George
Bailey, of Echunga, to Elizabeth Ann, only daughter
of Mr. William Mutton, of Kangarilla.”
Thrice happy John! e’en if the times are out of joint,
Aud sheep are perishing throughout the land—
You can e’er to your little wifey point,
And say, “ I have my precious Mutton e’er at hand r*
And when a little Mutton does arrive one day.
And o’er the floor the tootsey-wootsey totters.
With pride. Jack, you can raise your voice and cry,
“ Kind heaven, thanks for this sweet pair of trotters I”
» * * ♦
“ Frost—Bnssenschutt.—On the 17th February
at St. John’s. Salisbury, by licence, by the Rev. James
C. Haynes, George, second son of Mr Charles Frost,
Salisbury, to Adelaide, second daugeter of Mr. Albert
Bnssenschutt, of Salisbury."
Frost has wedded Bnssenschutt—
Phoebus! what a name it is ;
Yet if Frost likes Bnssenschutt,
Very small the blame it is !
The cognomen don’t mind at all,
As long as she is kind at all;
And surely kind must be the maid
With a sweet name like Adelaide.
* * * •
“Owen— Barber. — March 1, at St. Patrick’s
Church, Parramatta, by the Very Rev. Dean Rigney,
Charles Alfred, third son of Samuel Owen, Esq., of
Burwood, to Mary, only daughter of George William
Barber, Esq., Guildford (late Boambolo).”
We knew a man who much regard
For his fat cook did harbour.
But never did we meet a card
Who married with his barber !
The line is good, O festive Sam,
For look what you’ll be saving—
Oh, life must really be “ all jam ’*
With cheap and easy shaving I
Be happy both, and treat her well;
In costly splendour garb her.
For yon will always, Sam-u-el,
Be Owen to your Barber.
* * *
“ Simpson—Cork.—March 17, at St. Paul’s
Church, Maryborough, Queensland, by the Rev. E. E.
Eva, Frederick G. Simpson, Esq., of Maryborough, to
Marianne A. Cork, eldest daughter of Wm. Cork, Esq.,
Glebe Point, Sydney.”
Strange paradoxes do occur
And here’s quite a droll piece of work:
Though Fred, resides in Maryborough,
Still he has flown to his own Cork.
» * •
“ Warrior —Forward. —March 4, by special
license, at St. Phillip’s Church, Sydney, by the Rev.
Thomas O’Reilly, Alfred Sharpe Warrior, engineer, of
England, to Fanny, eldest daughter of John Forward,
blacksmith. Glebe. Sydney.”
Fanny Forward is a native.
With a name alliterative.
Fannie Forward is at rest
On her noble Warrior’s breast.
He, the gallant engineer, shall
Always mind the kids, and saw wood,
E’er go for the supper beer shall
This brave Warrior of Forward.
Hr if, tho’ he’s a mighty man,
Fan. will boss the " caravan.”
We, of course, take this position
Merely upon supposition.
* * *
“ May—Curtis.—March 16, at the residence of,
and by, the Rev. N. Kinsman, Free Church of England,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, David Edgar May, of this city, to
Louisa Victoria Curtis, of Melbourne."
With our habitual
Curtis-y, we say.
Loo has been and married
David Edgar May.
And as of rhythmic joking
We’re really very sore.
Off we’ll go to bed, instead
Of saying any more.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mirams resigned secretaryship Victorian Re-
form and Protection League.
The Victorian Legislative Council resolved to
consider the Reform Bui on its merits.
Berry vigorously pushing on the Law Tax Bill,
which he declares was a tax against land monopoly.
Melville’s motion for the Sunday closing of
library and museum rejected by 44 to 22 after a vigorous
debate.
The passing into law of Mr. Terry’s No Liability
Mining Company’s Bill, now an accomplished fact, will
be followed, it is anticipated, by large investments of
Sydney capital in genuine mining ventures.
Mr. Faucett, the Member for the Richmond,
says the Geapton Abgus, is devoting his time to crack-
ing jokes in the Assembly, and making quite a name
for himself. That’s all very well, of course; but, a—
what kind of name ?
William Gaunson is a candidate for the vacant
seat at North Melbourne. William, who is David’s
brother, has unsuccessfully contested fifty elections,
more or less, and has never yet managed to get into the
Victorian assembly. He is the champion “ candidate”
of Australasia.
Canterbury to the point! Mr. Henson bases his
objection to the Public Library and Museum being
open on the Sunday on the fact that the Museum is free
and he supports the musing of the railways and tram-
ways on Sunday because people have to pay. This is
Sabbatarianism straight out, in a nutshell.
That was neat of Sir ’Enry! He managed to
get away from the House on Tuesday so as to be re-
lieved of saying something in support of the Melvillian
notion for closing the Public Library and Museum. Sir
’Enry was perhaps called away to Paulconbridge. Oh,
no ! He was snugly ensconced at the house of an in-
fluential gentleman at Ashfield.
Mr. W. Clarke, M.L.A., during the debate on
Mr. Melville’s motion, said that, from his convictions
from early youth, be was bound to support the resolu-
tion, though he did not think any violent wrong was
done by opening these institutions on Sunday.” Isnit
this a roundabout way of saying that Mr. Clarke sticks
to prejudice and prostitutes his intellect ?
During the debate on Ninian’s motion for the
closing of the museums, Ac., that pious politician Mr.
Henson said he considered that opening these institu-
tions on Sundays was an innovation on the saoredness
of the day. The Sabbath was given them for adsy oi
rest. Upon this Mr. Buchanan cynically but pertinently
remarked that Mr. Henson would " soon have an
eternity to rest in.” We hope so.
The Nihilistic programme : No more monarchy;
no more State religions ; no more landed proprietors,
but the soil to be as free as the air, since everyone has
a right to sustenance; no more armies and administra-
tion ; kings, soldiers, priests, judges, the rich, the privi-
leged, are all enemies of the commonwealth, and, as
such, are to be resisted and exterminated; every pnbu
functionary hostile to these designs is doomed to die.^
Last Wednesday night, Mr. Brnnker, M.P., ®
addressing the House when it was in Committee, com-
menced with the word “ Gentlemen,” ignoring *
august presence of Mr. Cameron, the Chairman. Ang »
however, lost no time in calling him to order, ten ■»
the West Maitland Bayard that he must address
Chair. On this Mr. Brnnker replied that he t ,
really been so used to addressing gentlemen, tnai
But here he stopped. The hon. Members unauimou y
sympathised with him in his social downfall.
Said Mr. Buchanan during the debate on
Ninian Melville’s motion for the retrogression ,
colony:—“ He had seen no finer churches, or -
better music or sermons, than in San Francisco ,
With bliss ecstatic are you dumb, very ?
Can life to you be a brighter scene ?
For have yon not, hilarious Humphery,
Just changed your King into your Queen ?
* » • *
Now have a care of your batting, Campbell,
Or down your wicket may be bumped;
The better that your Bowler is, man.
More likely are you to be " stumped!’’
" Easy does it,” is-a saying
Which, perhaps, is trite;
But are you sure, in taking Easy,
Sid., you’re doing right?
If her name she does take after,
Mind what you’re about:
That means a course of Ouida, and
The washing “ given out.”
The leg of mutton, black onside,
But very red within;
And sardines on the table.
With no “ thing ” to ope the tin.
The baby in the gutter, and
Big cinders in the stew;
The hired girl sent out for " pints,”
Which she says are for you.
The street-door yawning open on
The very coldest day;
Yonr Sunday pants for crockery
Unblushing “ swapped ” away.
The cruet with a greenish tinge,
The mustard capped with fur,
The “besom" brooms übiquitous,
The kitchen in a whirr.
And little Bobby gone to school
In an odd pair of socks,
An awful yawning chasm in
His little knickerbocks.
The butcher (whom you think is paid)
Waylaying you with Will
Yon kindly have the goodness, sir.
To square my little Bill ? ’’
The baker, too, is bellicose
(Of rum he’s had a sup).
And yells out in your office, “ Are
You going to ante-up ?”
We do not say, good Tapner, that
This is just how you’ll fare;
But, by thunder, we are sure of this—
We’ve given yon a scare!


The Prince of Wales had a knife with 191 blades
sent to him on his birthday recently. Fact.
The employes of Mr. E. C. Hagon, out-
fitter, of King-street, had a very enjoyable picnic, with
a number of friends, at Cremome recently.
The appearance of two immense comets, visible
April 1 to June 12, is predicted by a writer in the
London Times. The comets will, it is said, stretch
across one-fourth of the heavens, and will eclipse in
brilliancy the midday sun. They will occupy 2025 J years
in their revolution.
How is it that in this colony we can’t get any-
thing bottled like Foster’s pale ale, that famous brew
that makes life worth living for in these parts ?— Adv.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taoping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. — Karl Theodore Staigee, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
The well-known wines of the Ivanhoe Vineyard
will be advertised in a novel and attractive manner in next
issue by the proprietors, Messrs. G. H. Stephen and Co.,
of Bridge-street. This is looking at the unfermented
wine question from another point of view—supported by
similar Biblical authority to that already quoted in our
morning contemporary.— Advt.
Notice.
It is with great regret that we have to announce that
the ever-growing calls upon our space prevent our
noticing in this issue the communications of many of
our correspondents, the majority of which are to the
last degree interesting. But more than all are we
sorry to he, on purely mechanical grounds, compelled to
crowd out our lengthened criticism upon that talented
vocalist, Madame Boema, and her inimitable company.
Full justice, however, will be done to Madame
Gabnella in the next issue of this journal. We shall
also then appropriate a portion of our space to Professor
Anderson,
he remembered stepping out of one of these churches
at 9 o’clock at night, and going into the theatre to see
the last three acts of ‘ Hamlet.’ And he thought he
would have been a bold man who dared to come across
his path with a censure for such an act as that. Take
Edinburgh, and they would find 500 churches open, and
all the public houses going like a spring well from early
dawn to late at night. They would find all the outward
aspect of religion; but lift the roofs off the houses,
and they would see the wildest excesses and revelry.
[Mr. Kidd : It is not true.] It was true ; he had seen
it himself, and had taken part in it. (Great laughter.)
He had known it, and it was the regular legitimate
result «f that dark, wretched Calvinism that almost
made the blood curdle to think of.
The British Attorney-General’s new elections
bill provides that the expenses of a candidate in any
constituency of less than 2000 electors, must not exceed
£350, which amount is to be thus apportioned; £lOO
for printing, advertising, stationery and postage, and
£250 for all expenses. In constituencies where the
electors number more than 2000 the maximum expen-
diture is fixed at £3BO ; and a further sum of £3O is al-
lowed for every additional thousand ever the first two
thousand voters. The St. James’ Budget says that the
city of of London at last general election spent together
£15,505, or £2.584 each; the sum spent recently bv the
six condidates for the County of Durham was £45,000,
or an average of about £7760 each; the election ex-
penses of Bir George Elliot, an unsuccessful candidate,
were officially returned at £12,727; whilst the Mid-
Lothian election cost Mr. Gladstone, the successful
candipate. no less than £2304, the expenses of his op-
ponent, Lord Dalkeith, being much heavier, £4078.
Mr. Herbert Gladstone, had to spend £6377 to get
elected for Middlesex, his two opponents, Lord George
Hamilton and Mr. Coope “ knocking down,” to use a
colonialism, a cheque for £11,506 between them.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Earl Beaconafield severely ill.
Turkey refuses to cede Crete to Greece.
Diphtheria prevalent and fatal at Wilcannia.
Basutos resumed active hostilities against the
British.
Many cases of dip 'fcheria at Bathurst. So far,
no fatal result.
Homebuah to Waratah, ,£30,000 per mile; Syd-
ney to Illawarra, £20,000 per mile.
5000 cows daily milked in the Illawarra district;
milk, 2£d. per gallon—in Sydney, 2s.
The Mormons talk of chartering a vessel to
take the New Zealand converts to “ Zion.”
The “ City of Rome,” the new Inman boat, is
more than a hundred feet longer than the “ Orient.”
Quantities of frozen English fish, brought out
by the Orient, were distributed to several of the Sydney
Clubs on the 24th nit.
The conditions on which peace was made with
the Boers were unpopular with the British colonists in
South Africa, being regarded as too favourable to the
enemy.
The Dunedin Echo says 300 copies of Paine’s
“ Age of Reason” have been sold in that city in less
than a month, and that a colonial edition is to be
brought out by Mr. Braithwaite.
Labouchere, proprietor of London Truth, vir-
tually won in the libel case brought against his paper
by Mr. Levy Lawson, proprietor of the London Daily
Telegraph. Jury disagreed, and were discharged.
Still another imitator of The Bulletin. We
have received a copy of the prospectus of The Wel-
lingtos (N.Z.) Bulletin, a weekly paper to bo pub-
lished for the first time —auspicious omen!—on Ist
April.
The “ Orient’s” freezing compartment now holds
58 tons, and is to be further enlarged. No live stock
were brought out on the last trip for consumption on
board, the freezing chamber providing fresh food during
the voyage.
Mr. Anthony Hordsm leaves for England on the
7th. The object of his visit is to arrange for extensive
shipments for Anthony Hordern and Sons, Haymarket
Palace Stores, and the new palatial warehouses pro-
iected by the firm for Melbourne.
An examination in the matter of the insolvency
of Mr. W. L. Murdoch, the well-known cricketer, took
placeon Monday. The evidence showed that the moneys
received by the famous batsman as his share cf the
profits of the trip to England went to his brother, Mr.
L Murdoch, solicitor. The meeting terminated. <
Master Albert Dwyer and Master Edward
Connolly, both sixteen years of age, and pupils of the
Crown.street Public School, are the winners of the junior
clerkships positions offered for competition by the
Australian Mutual Provident Society. The papers
were very difficult. The teacher of the school is Mr.
J. P. Rooney.
While negotiations were proceeding for the
settlement of the Boer difficulty, the enemy, without
the knowledge of the British, were continuing a
vigorous assault on the English garrison at Potchef-
stroom, and defeated them on the evening before the day
on which the peace was signed. Eighteen officers and
men killed; ninety wounded.
A lunatic at Sunnyside Asylum, Christchurch,
barricaded the door of his cell, broke the flooring, and
armed himself with a billet of wood to brain all
intruders. The head attendant Clark and two others
broke open the cell, and after being severely bitten
disarmed the maniac. The Government have given
them gratuities for their “ courage and forbearance.”
The Abergeldie on her outward trip sighted the
Ca Hogue, 54 days out, about 1000 miles round the
p.® rn - Mr. N. J. Neill, son of the manager of the
uty Bank, who, as medical officer of the La Hogue, is
homeward bound to prosecute his studies, had time to
drop a few lines co Sydney. Everything had gone
veil on the passage, but much rough weather had been
experienced.
it !' h ' eat excitement prevailed at Wollongong when
it became known that the construction of the Illawarra
wo- a a had been agreed to by the Assembly. Flags
61 e hying in all directions ; at night two brass bands
paraaed the town, and next night was set apart for a
wn # torchlight procession, which duly came off, and
s followed by a bonfire, in the vicinity of which was
a cask of liquor.
nsu? le „ rea3o ? 1 w hv the Berry Government intends
the S Grampian (Victorian) freestone for the facade of
.Parliament Houses appears to be that the
c ,l°ug3 to “Loyal Liberals.” Stawell court-
liHm 18 jaced with Grampian stone, and though only a
attneti l l e ere cted, already looks as if it had been
_ acKecl by a regiment of tobacco-chewers, who had
expectorated upon it ad libitum.
iJrP’ a resident of Emerald, Queena-
tjn„’Mr. Crees, chemist, of Kingsborongh, Hodg-
snilwl’ Queensland, were both recently bitten by black
coverwi suffered terrible agony, but ultimately re-
half arTL T * former lost the use of his legs within
l.r;.nrL,„w 0f heiug bitten, and drank three bottles of
haring fn of B in within 48 hours without their
ln S th e slightest effect upon him.
haviw^ 5 ! the thermometer averaging 96’
matin out in full force the foulness of the Parra-
can’t s ;„J r “ ear Lennox Bridge. Even the prawns
dead alon» • for ? n Tuesday myriads of them lay
the river h-i nv er banks. From the bridge sewer and
upset t v, eU near arose the vilest stenches that ever
tempers a PP eti fe or spread death-dealing dis-
- through a thickly-popnlated town.
Mixer O’Kane, editor of the Northern
recently v °? ised lor certain libellous statements
declared tw him regarding Judge Hely, and has
“ wbollv nrf C t le statements made in the same were
in fact ” U h . e ’ and without the slightest foundation
above i? r " °’ Kane adds “ I make the
Court RrifC uu dcr threat of an action in the Supreme
allowed I w hich alternative, if my means
handed apology accept - This is indeed a very left-
iigious newtna^ ay 9 , a 7 s Brief) a well-known re-
differences Published an excellent summary of
uient and th<- the revised New Testa-
an immediate JiA°^ or , Version. The result was
monition from the Solicitor to the Uni-
versities. No doubt there was a technical infringe-
ment of copyright, but surely, in the case of a book
like the Bible, the law might well be waived; or must
we presume that the primary consideration in the issue
of the Scriptures is commercial, rather n simply
religious ?
Everybody has read the advertisement of the
Rodanow Watch Manufacturing Company. Well,
Alexander Rodanow, known also as Dr. Edward Nathau-
Ganz. has been arrested in America at the instance of a
New Zealand resident. He appears to be well read, and
speaks several languages fluently. However, he has
been discovered to have committed a gigantic swindle,
there being no such company or manufactory as
that advertised. Two days after his arrest, £3OO is said
to have been received at the p*st-offlce, accompanied by
orders for watches. He is confined in gaol awaiting his
trial.
The other night four railway survey parties left
Sydney by the City of Grafton (s.s.) for the purpose of
making a trial survey for a line from Grafton to Glen
Innes. All hands, we are told, laughed at the idea of
such a line ever being built, These parties are sent up
to allay the excitement caused in Grafton by its being
left out of the Government railway scheme. The line
above referred to would be about 120 miles long, and
would be an expensive one. A trial survey was made
years ago by Mr. Francis, C.E , so a good many people
who know think that this trial survey, which will cost a
few thousands, is merely a political dodge.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country on the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Faet and Fancy Focused,” to which column the
attention of our readers is specially directed.
Correspondents should in all cases send either their
full names or name deplume. Common cations in which
this rule is not observed cannot be noticed.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Another bumper house to see the “ Pirates of
Penzance ” last night.
Mr. Gerald Dillon leaves for New Zealand o n
Tuesday, under engagement to De Lias.
Jessie Gray has made a big hit as Griolet, the
little drummer, in “La Fille du Tambour Major," at
Melbourne Opera House.
Mr. Sam Howard states that he has it on the
best authority—that of Mr. Sandman himself—that
Mr. Bandmann is 1. e finest actor in the world.
Not a copy of the libretto of the “Pirates of
Penzance” is to be had in*Sydney; and the shops can-
not satisfy the demand for the “ Pirates ” music.
Miss Christian has consented to sing at Mdlle.
Charbonnefs farewell concert in Melbourne next week,
and at Miss Rosina Carandini's concert on Easter Mon-
day.
Archibald Forbes is in such request in America
that he will either not come on to Australia in Ma/, or
he will make a rapid tour through the colonies, and re-
turn to America next fall.
The London World positively announces that
Mrs. Langtry is about to go on the stage That paper
calls it “ Beauty’s last stake," and states that the
Prince of Wales’ will be the scene of her—triumphs.
Mrs. J. J. Ryan’s third annual concert takes
place on Monday, April 4. Mrs. Ryan will be assisted
on the occasion by Messrs. T. H. Eainford, F. Maxted,
W. O’Sullivan, D. Gunning, lady and gentlemen
amateurs, aud lady pupils.
The new Gilbert-Sullivan opera is announced to
be given in London on Easter Monday, upon the open-
ing of D’Oyley Carte’s new theatre in that city. It is
said that the libretto is directed at the aesthetic
“ society ” manners of the period.
Eleanor Carey is playing Diana in the “ Creole”
at Union-square Theatre. The character is one requir-
ing some physical stamina, as Eleanor has every night
to be followed by a somnambulistic Count with a drawn
sword, stabbed, and has to fall over a balcony into a
river.
By last mail there reached us from home a
circular containing extracts from the criticisms of the
London newspapers on Mr. Alfred Dampier’s per.
formances. The notices, which are taken from the
leading journals, are almost uniformly of a highly com-
plimentary nature.
A private letter from Adelaide informs us that
the London Comedy Company are doing a poor business,
the series of Robertsonian comedies not hitting the
public taste. Kohler, however, with a scratch lot at
the Academy of Music is doing a good stroke. Barry
O’Neil is at the latter house.
The following announcement has just been posted
in front of the Galatea Hall, Adelong “ Roll up. To
veriety trape. Mr. and Mrs. Sentmentel Songs.
Gomick Songs, Hankshier Dance. Duets. Bones, and
Hoops and tumbler. Balancen. Irisn Jig. Drawin
Eeom, Highland Fling, Acrobats. Chairs and Leaps.
Signor Giorza tells us, with reference to a para-
graph in last issue, that as the health of Signora
Giorza is now quite restored he does not at present
contemplate visiting Europe. The Signor adds that
he does not care about leaving a city in which he has so
many friends, and in which he thinks he can do at least
a little for the advancement of musical interests.
Mr. Luscombe Searell did a very graceful act at
Mr. L’Estrange’s benefit last week. He had consented
to play) a solo on the occasion, but when the concert
commenced it was found that the pianist who had pro-
mised to accompany the songs and play the dances, had
not put in an appearance. To prevent the fiasco which
seemed imminent, Mr. Searell quietly put his dignity
in his pocket and voluntarily played through the whole
entertainment. By this act he administered a well-
merited rebuke to many of the professional artists who
place themselves on a pedestal, any descent from which
they think infra dig,
Mr. Jaa. South, “ The model of a modern Major-
General,” in the “ Pirates,” has, we learn, purchased
from Mr. Williamson the right to produce “ Pinafore "
in N.S.W., and opens on Easter Monday in Bathurst,
with the eternal nautieal grind. His cast is a very
strong one, and is as follows Captain, Mr. J. South •
Balf, Mr. Yemen Reid; Sir Joseph, Mr. Tyrell; Dick’
Mr. J. Eainford; Josephine, Miss Edith Pender’
Buttercup, Miss Horan. The company travels round
the country, and is bent upon scooping up all the money
that Cola’s circus has left behind. A good name for the
company would be “ The Gleaners.” The thing is too
good not to “ gee.”
We have had a large experience in the inner
lives of all classes of professionals, that being part of
the close study we devote to human nature. We have,
in our capacity as journalists, however, merely had to
notice the histrionic, and sometimes the social charac-
teristics of the “ poor player”; but we have never
plunged deeper into the subject than this. At times,
certainly, we have "assisted” at banquets given, to
quote Mr. Lillivic by many “divine actresses ”’and
distinguished actors ; but we have on these occasions
merely bestowed a superficial attention on the gastro-
nomical powers of our theatrical hosts and hostesses.
Tet when we look back upon these reunions we find it
impossible to conceal from ourselves the fact that both
musical and dramatical professionals are great go urmets.
The divine Eistori was a most accomplished eater, and
moreover could wash down a meal, from the hors
d’ceuvres to the pineapple with flagons of Johannisberg
in a most exquisitelv professional manner.
Emilio Melville, too, the dear little woman!
could " eat some,” aud Ada Ward could
take her five courses comfortably, discussing
the while a pint of Chateau Yquem and the best part of
a full grown “ Krug.” A waiter, however, at St Louis,
has devoted much attention to the eating and drinking
powers of actors and actresses, and some of his remarks
are highly amusing—not to say instructive. Neilson—
poor Neilson! whose life was so short and brilliant—he
states was liberal in the extreme. To put it in his own
homely language“ I waited on her the last time she
was here, and when she was ready to go awar she sent
for me and tipped me §25. In the morning she took tea
and toast —nothing else. Her best meal was dinner, at
2am, when she drank a great deal of claret and cham-
pagne. At midnight she always took a light supper.
She was very fond of beef tea, and generally took a
couple of cupfuls before going to bed.” He goes on to
say jthat Charlotte Cushman also drank a great deal of
wine; but that Mme. Jananschek was temperate and
disposed to do the correct thing by servants—" but her
little husband, Pilot, went out of his wav to be mean,”
Then he goes on to say, in a moralising strain ‘Did
you ever know what a number of insignificant little men
these great actresses and singers have for husbands?
Tou have no idea of how much trouble these shawl-
carrying husbands are.” When Gerster stayed at the
Southern Hotel, her board cost $250 a-week. “ When
she came to the hotel she rang the bell and when a boy
came she said, • Bring me the head co k and
baker.' Everything was specially prepared for her."
One day she wanted the landlord to discharge
the cook, because he put too much salt in her soup,
and the next row was about the olive oil. When some
of the best procurable was brought her, Madame un-
stopped the bottle, sniffed it. then throwing it aside
cried, " Bah ! cela sent maumis ! Eet ees onlee fit for ze
dam American." Christine Nillsson was aso a particu-
lar woman, and very hard to p ease. She “preferred
the most delicate meals, and only partook moderately of
light wines." Pauline Lucca finds favour with this
Yankee Christopher. He considers she " was a nice
woman, but did not put on style like the others; ” and
goes on to say, “ I have seen her sit in her room in the
Southern with some lady friends eating brown bread
and sausages, and drinking Rhine wine ” Carlotta
Patti he lets down gently with the charitable remarks,
I don’t believe that story that comes from Leavens-
worth. I always found her a moderate eater and
drinker.” Mdlle. Albani he considers "knows more
about eating than any of them. She is never less than
two hours at a dinner, and she has tired me out by
prolonging the meal to three hours.” These little
reminiscences are vastly interesting, no doubt; but
they somehow haul away the romance which enshrouds
some of the popular divinities. However, we have got
used to seeing our idols knocked down lately, so we
contrive to bear up.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
t J.W. (Bmgera): Glad to hear from you
“ Sam Bough”: Thanks; you’ll see that we use a num-
ber of your very interesting items “A Melbourne
Belle”: Not gone through ‘‘the processes” yet
"H’R’A.": A howling libel “F.K.": Eeceived
“6.L.": The joke is a very old one “Yass”: Re-
ceived; thanks "Claude”: Possibly spiteful
Black Gin": Eeceived "8.G.C.”: We don’t quite
understand your note "Eambler”: Next issue
"Observer"; Evidently malicious "Ida" (“Poor
Player”): Don’t you think it would be rather spiteful.
' G.8.E.”; We are obliged to you for the copy; the
song is, however, not good enough to re-publish
" G.M.P." : No point in it “A Party," &c. : We
don’t exactly see the point of your joke—if joke) it’s
meant to be “Butterfly": We cannot very well
either publish your paragraph or answer the question
contained in it. However, we are curiously enough in a
position to reply privately it you’ll send your name and
address "C. W. B.”; Always glad to hear from
you "E.G.": Will be considered for next week
“L. E. X.”: Will read for next issue “ Dan Doolan”
(Campbelltown): Very Welcome “G. J.": Eeceived,
BRIEF MENTION.
Obituary.—Mr. William Brown.
Early Morning Noose—Howard’s.
Cowper’s “Task”—Well, not poetry, in these
degenerate days.
Victoria has her political Berry—N. S. Wales
her political Buryer.
Happiness should reign on earth. Mr. Brown
has forgiven everybody.
Don Quixote and Sancho Fanza Sir Henry
Parkes and Joseph Eckford.
It is stated that green Oliffes were the cause of
a barney at a certain banquet.
You can safely see the principles, but not the
principals, of a newspaper. Odd, isn’t it.
The D. T. speaks of the ,f Lambing Flat riots at
Ballarat.” We wonder what's the matter.
Parramatta magistrates want looking up, Sir
George. Some very queer decisions this past month.
It is stated that the ex-Mayor of Balmain leads
the Council by,the nose. But Albert always was a clever
boy.
The ex-President of the United States is now
having a Hayesey time of it. He smokes one half-the
day, and plays lawn tennis the other.
The attention of gentlemen is respectfully re-
qested to the fact that under the census regulations
they are bound to state where they sleep next Sunday
night. In default a fine of £lO.
A Parliamentary return of the holy men in
Sydney who let tumbledown tenements to abandoned
women at exorbitant rents would be an instructive—
nob to say entertaining—document. Now, Mac !
Advertisement clipped from Herald of 29th
March:—“ Wanted, accomplished nursery governess,
to act also as gen. servt.—Mrs. ” Encouraging
prospects for ladies about to avail themselves of State
High schools.
All the crew of the Japanese man-of-war are
officers, excepting the cook, who’s a mere major-general.
It would further appear, from the striking facial
resemblance they bear to each other, that they are a
“ baud of brothers.”
The Weekly Mickey and the Distress have
at last declared war, A writer in the former calls the
latter an “Anglo-ecclesiastical contemporary." There’ll
be skin and hair flying in Clarence-street before long.
The two Michaels will just about be up to His Grace’s
flghtingiweight.
A gentleman called on a screwish merchant the
other day, and asked for a subscription to the Laycoek
testimonial. “ I decline, sir,” said the merchant; “ I
would sooner give the money to the Infirmary.” “ Well,
you’can do that,” returned the other composedly, pro-
ducing a receipt-book—" I am the collector.”
The Herald reports the theft of an entirely
new article of jewelleryAt Goulbum, on Sunday
night, the house of Mr. Marshall, in Bradley -street,
was entered during the absence of the occupants at
church, and a gold albert watch and chain, and other
jewellery was stolen.”
All the talk’s of Layeock—
His alone’s the ticket;
But no one seems to give a thought
Of what’s become of Trickett!
But we have, Ned, though luck’s untrue,
A corner of our heart for you.
Recently we alluded in The Bulletin to an
inmate of the Parramatta Workhouse who was «nce
wealthy, but is now deserted by all his former
friends. Our verses have found an echo in the breast
of at least one philanthropise, and our impoverished
friend is now “ right as rain for spons.," and also what
is facetiously termed “coals for the winter.” Mr.
Alfred Davis is the benevolent succourer.
We are given to understand by a member of the
Balmain Municipal Council that a prosecution is about
to !be instituted at the instance of their inspector
against a publican for retailing liquor unfit for human
consumption. A man bought a pint of beer from him
the other day, and let it stand. When he went to drink
it, ho found coagulated lumps of glucose hanging all
round the tumbler and a lump of tin-tag tobacco bob-
bing up and down in the mixture. He immediately sent
the latter back to the boniface with a polite message
that he didn’t smoke.
“ Sharp curve” yarns are going the rounds of
the Press iu Victoria in relation to the railway systems
of Tasmania. One comes from New Zealand, however,
that tops them all :—“ On one line, a new hand went on
as driver, and in the darkness of the night he pulls up
suddenly, sounding his whistle like mad about a red
danger signal that he has discovered looming up right
iu his track. The guard, an old on the line,
gets out to examine, and this is what the passengers hear
him address to the engine-driver:—‘ Well, you are an
adjective fool. Why, don’t you see that’s the tail of
your own train.’ ”
There are some blockheads who can never see a
joke, and some of these lackbraius were amongst the
St. Patrick’s banquet committee. One of them—he
signs “ One of the Committee”—writes last week to
the Freeman —-a letter, the style of which is as bad as
the abuse in it is low. By the slavish way in which the
writer quotes Mr. Darley, it is evident that he is one of
the briefless geniuses who haunt the law courts and own
disordered dreams. Irishmen are proverbially good
at making jokes, and up to now we always thought
them good at taking jokes, too. It is not true, as
stated by “ One of the Committee,” that the gentleman
who represented The Bulletin at the dinner availed
himself of a complimentary ticket. His ticket was
paid for.
The Weekly Harchbrushup has moved into
new quarters in Clarence-street. The premises have
recently been in the occupation of a boarding-house-
keeper, but it is said—whether truly or not we don’t
know—that all the boarders died. Architecturally
speaking, the place is a cross between a workhouse and
a gaol, with a chunk of an erysipelas hospital thrown in.
The board-room is upstairs, but looks out at the back,
so that the directors can keep their heye on the hengine.
“The Rambler ” has a garret all to himself, and in the
winter weather will be allowed a candle a day to warm
himself at. A well-known ecclesiastic is to be installed
i i the two-pair front, where, seated at a LouisQuartoze
escritoire he can, in the consciousness of purity and
innocence, pen the letter from “our special London
correspondent.” Everything in the office (including
the expenditure) will be blessed by the Archbishop.
The broken heart of the collector is to be patched up
regularly once a quarter at the expense of the directory.
Altogether, the new Harchbrtjshuppian era will be
inaugurated with a degree of splendour hitherto unpre-
cedented in the history of holy journalism.
People are enquiring of one another in Forbes
whether Mr. Henry Harris Cooke, M.P., has lost his
tongue. The local blacksmith says that since his
GEMS FROM GORDON.
Ye Wearie Wayfarer.
IN UTRITMQUE PARATUS.
There’s a formula which the west-country clonns
Once used, ere their blows fell thick,
At the fairs on the Devon and Cornwall downs.
In their bouts with the single-stick.
Ton may read a moral, not far amiss
If you care to moralise ;
In the crossing guard, where the ash-plants kiss.
To the words, “ God spare our eyes.”
No game was ever yet worth a rap
For a rational man to play,
Into which no accident, no mishap.
Could possibly find its way.
»*** » _ • •
All hurry is worse than useless; think
On the adage, “ ’Tispace that kills; ”
Shun bad tobacco, avoid strong drink,
Abstain from Holloway’s pills.
Wear woollen socks, they’re the best you’ll find.
Beware how you leave off flannel;
And, whatever you do, don’t change your mind
When once you have picked your panel;
With a bank of cloud in the south south-east
Stand ready to shorten sail;
Fight shy of a corporation feast;
Don’t trust to a martingale;
Keep your powder dry, and shut one eye.
Not both, when yon touch your trigger;
Don’t stop with your head too frequently
(This advice ain’t meant for a nigger);
Look before you leap, if you like, but if
You mean leaping, don’t look long.
Or the weakest place will soon gro w stiff.
And the strongest doubly strong ;
As far as you can, to every man,
Let your aid be freely given.
And hit out straight, ’tis your shortest plan.
When against the ropes yonr driven.
*******
They were men, for the most part rough and rude.
Dull and illiterate.
But they nursed no quarrel, they cherished ne fend.
They were strangers to spite and hate;
In a kindly spirit they took their stand.
That brothers and sons might learn
How a man should uphold the sports of his land.
And strike his best with a strong right hand.
And take his strokes in return.
“ ’Twas a barbarous practice,” the qnaker cries,
“ ’Tis a thing of the past, thank heaven ”
Keep your thanks till the combative instinct dies
With the taint of the olden leaven;
Yes, the times are changed, for better or worse,
The prayer that no harm befall
Has given its place to a drunken curse,
And the manly game to a brawl.
A Dedication.
In the Spring, when the wattle gold trembles
'Twixt shadow and shine.
When each dew-laden air draught resembles
A long draught of wine ;
When the skyline’s blue burnish'd resistance
Makes deeper the dreamiest distance.
Some song in all hearts hath existence, —
Such songs have been mine.


election to the House, he has not lost his tongue, but
lost his “ cheek.”
“ A failing underpaid curate.” No doubt; but
then there is already in Sydney an asylum for decayed
ecclesiastics, corner of Pitt and Hunter-streets.
At Circular Quay. Scene: Departure of the
Cotopaxi. Brown: “ Going to see some friends off ?”
Jones: ‘‘Yes—off the ship.” Jones was a detective.
At Dunedin you can get three legs of mutton
and a quart of beer for Is. So says the local paper.
This is evidently a bait thrown out to attract the Bon.
Mr. .
It is stated that the profits of the Auckland
Morning Herald are £25,000 a-year : and yet +he A. M.
H. is a paper that has never impeached a High Commis-
sioner. Wormwood I
They saved ten tons of coal by bringing the
Orient round half-speed from Melbourne, and kept two
or three hundred people on board seven or eight hours
unnecessarily. Smart work.
A new religious sect is to be started by a
medico in one of the south coast towns, who, strange
to say, is still living with the local undertaker. So he
means to do for his patients in this world and in the
next also.’
.£33,000 expended in erecting additions to Parra-
matta Lunatic Asylum. And all these new buildings
cannot be occupied for want of £3OOO for fittings, which
cannot be obtained. In the meantime the institution
is crowded like a sheep-pen.
It is highly flattering to us to know that scores
of copies of The Bulletin are stolen while passing
through the post. Other journals have little ground
for complaint, in this regard. But then we may get too
much adulation of this sort.
After Brown’s execution on Tuesday, a Nooze
reporter visited the condemned cell, and there saw,
lying in the corner, the unhappy convict’s “ tile.”
“Dear me!” exclaimed the literary man, “he’s for-
gotten his hat!”
Scene —hotel, Maitland. Enter Jimmy, sen.
Loq; “I can’t nlay you billiards, Mr. . but my son
Jimmy can. WaD till I bring him a stool to stand on.
He’ll play you; smart bov, Jimmy—make a member
some day.” P.S.—And “ Jimmy ” did lamb down the
squatter.
Even in that aristocratic assemblage, the Eng-
lish House of Commons, some of the members run
tick, and ‘‘Pay you to-morrow!” “Stick it up till
next week ! ” are sounds by no means unknown in the
House of Commons dining room. We learn this from
a London society paper, and London society papers
never lie.
As the Grafton Argus appears to love us
“ considerably,” we’ll give it a turn. The article on
“ Indelicate Dress ” published iu its issue of 21st
March, and attributed to our Melbourne imitator, was
deliberately prigged by the latter journal from the San
Francisco Argonaut and published in Melbourne as
original.
Which is the greater crime ? —To visit the
Museum or Public Library on a Sunday, or to make
money on Saturday night by marrying drunken lads to
drunken womou of the town ? A solution of this will
he given by one of that select coterie of clergymen who
are so fond of interyiewiug the Colonial Secretary on
every possible occasion.
We are not vindictive, by any means, but we
do hope that the man who designed that nice smooth
sea-wall recently erected round the gardens, and ne-
glected to provide a single iron ring or chain tor any
poor wretch who might chance to fall overboard, to
cling to, may be the first to need a rope thrown to him.
Will the Public Works Department look into the
matter ?
There’s a town not a hundred miles from Sydney
where people say there’s no cause to be uneasy when
funds are short, and bills coming due. In this fix they
first forge a p.n ; when that’s due, and still no funds,
they forge a cheque to meet it. Then when the matter
becomes public, and the police are on the qui vive the
kind-hearted banker accepts the coin and burns the
spurious documents. Some people seem to think
there’s not much difference between the forger, and his
accomplice—the binker.
The Camden Times contains this week a very
unkind par. about a contemporary. We also wept when
we read it, and reprint it with a sigh. “ Town and
Country Journal —This paper last week had some
views of Camdeu in it. They are about as much like
Mr. Donnellan’s photographs as chalk is to cheese. In
the descriptive matter we learn that Camden is always
styled a village, while Cobbitty, Liverpool, and Camp-
belltown are towns." Some people are never satisfied.
We saw the views and were delighted with them—only
we understood them to represent the late Czar reviewing
his army prior to his assassination.
‘‘Another good man gone wrong! The very
latest from Caledonia stern and wild. The Eev. Alex-
ander Bisset, of Peterhead, has resigned ofiice as presi-
dent of the Temperance society of that town. Quite
right too. He has proved himself to be the most
intemperate man in the “granite village._ Cause of
resignation: Thirteen members of his choir appeared
with blackened faces in a negro entertainment at the
society’s annual festival. Our reverend friend “thought
the singers should have appeared in their natural state.”
Shocking ; and a clergyman too! Let us have a photo,
of him “ just as he is, with his autograph.”
In a certain case heard in Adelaide the
other day, it was elicited that the plaintiff’s house,
which the Licensing Bench considered too badly con-
ducted to have a license, and which was known to be
the resort of prostitutes and other objectionable char-
acters, was owned by the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel in Foreign Parts. Another fact did not
come out, but it is true, nevertheless, that this pious
association owns two other public-houses in Adelaide.
During the hearing of the same case, a detective stated
that he had counted one hundred and fifty women of ill
fame parading the street where the Society propagate
gin and the gospel, between King William street and
Leigh-street, on one evening. And yet Adelaide is a
holy city.
Jeanneret’s Parramatta project ia favored by
Providence. This is how it happened. Mayor Byrnes
always secured a majority of one against it in the local
council. He was stricken down with gout. Hence
Councillor Taylor’s opportunity. He moved that the
Council recommend the passing of the Tramway Bill
through Parliament. The pro-tramwayists carried this
motion by one vote. The following day Councillor
Taylor collapses with cholera, and Mayor Byrnes comes
up fresh and smiling from his gout. He swears
vengeance, but ’tis too late. The astute Parnell rushes
the Bill through its first reading : the opportunity for
the Council to retract is lost. What “ great events
from trivial causes spring ?” A gouty foot and a post-
poned cholera give Parramattonions a tramway, and per-
chance, Jeanneret a fortune.
There was a cruel deception the other day at
Croajingalongaj’aramatawintigongetcetera. Two bloated
journalists, a meatman, an all-round storekeeper, and a
Sunday-school teacher were bilious after the local
races, the champion sculling match, and a love-feast, at
the latter of which was some A 1 milk-punch. “ When
the devil was sick, the devil a saint would be.” They
determined to “take the pledge." The night was
fixed; the lodge was opened ; the five penitents were
waiting to be called in by the Grand Worthy Patriarch.
The journalists were first admitted, and forthwith im-
molated. The others decided to have a farewell “ nip”
ad interim, and they went for it Three hours
later they were lugged home helpless by the two dis-
gusted and virtuously sober pressmen, who swear they
have been sold, and are now eagerly watching for a
chance to report that the meatman has been fined ss. or
24 hours. Fact 1
The Cobar and Louth Herald and the Cen-
tral Australian (Bourke) are always at loggerheads.
They are continually “ letting up” on one another in
leaders in which the words “slime,,* “filth,” “ muti-
lated grammar,” “bosh,” “rot,” “puling rubbish,”
frequently occur, but yet up to this neither has blood
flowed nor hair been scattered. The latest is from the
Cobab Herald. It is a par. as follows: —“ The New
Kush. —‘ Plugins’ writes us that every able-bodied man
is leaving Bourke for the Wilcannia rush, and that the
editor of the Central would follow suit, but he fears
his hirsute appendage might interfere. The hair of the
haristocracy is himmense.” We are told that this kind
of thing creates great amusement in the district; if so,
we are inclined to think that the residents of Bourke
and Cobar are as easily amused as were the friends of
“ Peter Magnus,” when for their edificationihe signed
himself “ Afternoon.”
It is stated that to pass on the lee side of a
Croajingolong journalist is equal to a glassjof the strong-
est rum.
News from Temora on Wednesday:—No water
for wash-dirt. The fate of Temora is “ trembling in the
balance." News from Temora on Thursday:— Temora
HkraXd office burnt to the ground.
“If yez want to go across you’ll have to go
round," said a French policeman to some people who
desired to enter the nearest gate at Moore Park, on the
occasion of last Saturday’s review.
It is a curious coincidence that the census day
in a Riverina public school—the day which decides the
status of the school and the salary of the master —
should be the day chosen by that individual on which
to distribute lollies to the children.
When the news reached Grafton that the Clar-
ence railway was not included in the Estimates, a
number of the leading residents adjourned to a well-
known hotel and drank “Eternal damnation to Sir-
enree ” with covered heads. A fact.
The Cotopaxi brought out the new plates for the
injured Sorata, which made her tumble about b adly.
A wag wrote:
“Let the Sorata think on this
As homeward bound she bowls :
That we have furnished her with plates,
And she has found ns rolls."
When Mr. W. C. Buick, the ex-mayor of
Adelaide, was contesting the civic chair he appeared
before the rate-payers to address them. On this an
evident student of Dickens bawled out, “ Snc-cess to
the Mayor! May ha never desert the nail and sarspan
business as he got his money by.” This rather pointed
allusion to Mr. B's. retail emporium was received by
that gentleman with evident disgust.
Parramattonions want to know why the .£lOO
obtained at the instance of their late member to plant
trees in the public street has not been expended. Thus
the want of umbrage has created umbrage. The money
has long been in the hands of the local Council. Irate
townsman queries : “ Has it been invested in the Coun-
cil chamber?” The trees are much needed certainly,
for Parramatta streets on a hot day are a terrestrial
Hades.
At last Wagga sessions the late postmaster at
that place, who had embezzled £9OO, was sentenced to
twenty-one months’ imprisonment. A driver, for
passing a valueless cheque for £4, got two years ! And
a man who, while suffering from the effects of drink,
stole a horse valued at 30s, got eighteen months !! One
law for the educated and “respectable;” another for
the ignorant and needy. Moral: Go in for a “big
thing ” while you are about it. Dear Mr. Wisdom,
read the Gdndaoai Times and look into this matter.
The following par. has gone the rounds of the
press“ A junk with crew of twelve Chinamen was
wrecked on the 14th February. It was loaded with
pearl shell and heche de mer. Only one of the crew was
saved.” And yet we have seen no newspaper dirges or
“in memoriam” verses. Neither has the only survivor
been interviewed by “ our special reporter." This looks
as though either the interest in shipwrecks had ceased,
or else the national hatred of Chinamen must be very
deep-seated. We, however, are not prejudiced. If that
“ only survivor” will look round at our office, we will
hospitably entertain him—and give him an introduction
to Tom White.
A certain J.P. in a Northern town at least
shows method in his cups. When he indulges too freely
in the flowing bowl, he invariably returns from Court
in a “hansom,” which tells his neighbours as plain
as “ whisper in the ear" what’s the matter. One would
not be disposed to find fault with that gentlemanly
weakness were it not for the fact that he displays, over
and above his duty, a very conspicuous “down" on any
unfortunate “unsoaped” who is charged before him
with being drunk, &c. “ A fellow failing,” &o. — but,
alas! it doesn’t.
Another scrap of romance from the Croajingo-
longayaramantigong district. They were engaged—he
a Civil servant, she an “only daughtah!” He had
sworn his love would “ nevah, nevah ” change. She
said the fact of his being a Civil servant should be no
bar; she would have enough for both when the old man
died. (The old man was not asleep in the next room,
and his hearing was acute.) The elopement was planned
for that night week. He was to enter through the
parlor window, and help her with the luggage. . .
He was punctual, and the “ ©ld man ” threw over him
something—it doesn’t matter what —whilst the gallant
house dog conducted the rear assault. With a howl of
anguish he scaled the garden fence, and disappeared
with frantic cries into the midnight gloom. He
believes now that it was a put-up thing, ana discredits
that she was sent two days before to her uncle’s, the
squatter. A true story with a moral.
It occurred in this way. “ ,do you think
you could go to the theatre and write a good reliable
notice?" “Yes,‘farther.’" “Well go then.” And he
went. The following is the critique“ Hamlet, a
peace by Shakespeare, took place at the Vic, and took
well, likewise the gost, which was so reel that it
gave pleasure to all. The dress serkle was well filed
also Mr. Dampier—he spoke the part really Al. It is a
good piece something in the style of Macbeath, which
was wrote by the same man, only there’s nor. so much
fighting. Ophelia by Miss Pixley also gave pleasure,
the water being well done almost equal to real, the
grave-diggers also took well and the queen looked quite
the lady. People ought to go to see this tragedy.” When
the old gentleman read this critique he told that as
a writer he was too original. He must begin at the
beginning. So by way of commencement he put him on
to writing paper labels “in a big round hand." Yet
now —but we will sigh and say no more.
As stated in another column, Monsieur de
Sydney is a most excellent official, and one who attends
to the wants of his clients with a “ despatch ” rarely
equalled, and never excelled anywhere. But shouldn’t
that estimable and accomplished young gentleman, the
gaol-surgeon, instead of taking his place among the
ordinary spectators, ascend the scaffold, and see that
Mr. Howard so adjusts things that the unhappy patient
isn’t likely to be mangled ? It’s very easy to feel the
pulse of a man who, with a rope round his neck, five
minutes before, fell eight feet in one’s presence, shake
one's head, look knowing, and say, “ He’s dead.” The
conclusion is a most logical one, which the proximity
of a coffin helps to strengthen. But we hope that, on
future occasions, the executioner won’t be called upon
to discharge duties which in other places are, in the
cause of humanity, performed by the doctor. While
making these few remarks, we don’t wish it to be
implied that Monsieur Howard is incapable of
performing a surgeon’s duties.
G. R. Dibbs has a good “ double” not far away.
The only difference is that G. E. is about to come out
—the other has just gone in.
Of course, it’s departmentally necessary that
the outgoing trams should run along the rails farthest
from the King-street waiting room. So pleasant to
scramble on the other side, you know.
The special war correspondent of the Morning
Post in the Transvaal, was Lady Florence Dixie. As she
is now writing a book on the country we can suggest
an appropriate name for it —“Dixie’s Land.”
This is true. When M’Beath’s letter was'
received by the Council, had it not been for the
strenuous opposition exhibited by Messrs. Meeks and
J. D. Young, the ex-City Architect’s offer would have
been accepted. How’s that for —low ?
Sir Henry Parkes has struck off from the Esti-
mates all proposed increases to Civil Servants. Result:
fifty-nine of those aristocrats are mourning at Parra-
matta ; and the Lord only knows how many of their
sorrowing creditors are doing likewise.
The captain of a certain Orient boat is called
Sir Taciturn Saturnine. The other Sunday, by mistake,
he changed the hymn, and gave out —
“ Whene’er I walk the decks abroad
The passengers I see.
But as 1 never speaks to them.
They never speaks to me.”
The other day a complaint was made in Parlia-
ment to the effect that there was a narrow escape from
a serious railway disaster at Ashfield, through a mishap
to a locomotive. The hon, member who made the com-
plaint could not have been aware that the block system,
as well understood at Ashfield as anywhere else, re-
moves the possibility of such a catastrophe. The
Ashfield station master is still in his position.
When a certain Member of Parliament came
down from the country, he put up at a fashionable
boarding-house. “What’s the terms ?” asked he, with
that independent regard of grammar which forms such
a cheerful characteristic with many of our legislators.
“ Three guineas a-week, and the servant to look after
you.” The terms were accepted, but now the landlady
complains that the servant does not look after the
lodger, but the lodger after the servant.
The Sydney Museum authorities create a nui-
sance which must in time make the death rate high at
William-street public school. Fish entrails, offal, &c.,
from specimens sent to the Museum are laid, not
buried, in a pit at the rear of the institution, and
covered with about two inches of earth, slightly diluted
with carbolic acid. The odours thus created are not as
those from “ Araby the blest.” As the school is in
close proximity, the proper officer ought to be stimu-
lated into a condition of “ wanting to know, you know.”
The N. Z. Public Opinion says : — “ There is a
rumour afloat that it is the intention of the Hon.
Thomas Dick to bring an action against the proprietors
of the Sydney Mail for defamation of character. The
paper in question published in a recent issue, some
woodcuts which purported to be portraits of the Inter-
colonial Conference magnates. The most hideous of
these was supposed to represent the features of our
worthy Colonial Secretary, but a more libellous carica-
ture was never perpetrated. We hear that it is Mr.
Dick’s intention to claim £5OOO damages for this
slanderous attack on his personal appearance.” It is
evident from this that the portrait of Dick was—Dicky.
Speaking of Mr. Bradlaugh’s oratory, the
London Yauxhali, Review says:—“Poor letter H
suffered terribly on Monday night, while Mr. Brad-
laugh was speaking. Mr. ‘ ’Briery’ Labouchere really
ought to give his colleague lessons on the inflection and
deflection of the aspirate. Mr. Macdonald’s ‘right
honorable genTman the ’Ome Secretary’ is nothing
compared to Mr. Bradlaugh’s ‘ honorable ’Ouse.’ ”
Behold, then, two great men afflicted with the same
grammatical eccentricity—Sirenree and the Iconoclast.
However, as we put up with the Premier, the least the
English public can do Is to bear with the junior member
for Northampton. There are necessary political evils
in every country.
This is how a medical practitioner (in another
colony), who assumes many “frills,” qualified himself.
His name is Giggles. He was made Licentiate of the
Apothecaries’ Hall, Dublin, after an unusually short
period, having produced certificates of having “dis-
sected the whole human body” at Edinburgh, and of
having passed a preliminary examination. Title,
“L.A.H.1.” He passed as Licentiate of Midwifery at
the Coombe Hospital, and received a diploma. Title,
“ L.M.” He filled up examination papers in London in
the presence of “ Dr. Sturford," and afterwards
received adiploma from Philadelphia, signed by “John
Buchanan." Title, “M.D.” He had “received an
intimation” that he had been elected a “ corresponding
member” of the “Society of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, London,” and thereupon he stuck “F.S.Sc.”
to his name. After threatening an action against the
Medical Board, he got duly registered only on the
“L.A.H.1.” paper, and perhaps the “L.M.” But his
full-blown name was “ Adolphus Giggles, M.D., L.A.H.I.
L.M.,and P.S Sc.!” And yet this is the kind of man
one pays to murder one’s relatives.
Here is a story told at the expense of a very
gay and rich Sydney Lothario who recently visited
Melbourne. He was walking down Bourke-street one
night just as people were leaving the theatres, and met
a girl whom he had formerly known as a barmaid in a
respectable hotel. He sainted her; she told him she
was going home. He insisted on “ seeing her home,"
and hailed a hansom, but as she expressed a desire to
travel in a waggonette which was standing hard by it.
was taken accordingly. Well, when the vehicle stopped
at her house —it was a little cottage at Albert Park
the driver said he could not return to town that night.
“ Very well my good fellow," said Mr. Lothario, hand-
ing him three half-crowns, “ it doesn’t matter —it makes
no difference.” And then Mr. Lothario very politely
handed his inamorata out of the trap. “ Good-night,"
said she sweetly, “ the driver’s my husband and you’ve
paid him for taking me home. I’m so much obliged.”
We tell this story because it’s a moral one, in which the
villain does not triumph. Lothario has returned to
Qeorge-street. and says he intends to study closely
Victorien Sardou’s comedy of “Le monsieur gui suit la
femme."
The usual serene and placid monotony of one of
the suburban borough councils was interrupted recently
by a serio-comic incident. The newly-elected Mayor,
bristling with all the stupendous pomposity of a parish
beadle, read to the council a letter which he had re-
ceived the week previously from one of the aldermen
who took exception to the Mayor’s action in not
calling a certain committee meeting; the alderman
stating bis intention to “take steps” in the matter.
This letter —a week old —the heroic Mayor described
as “intimidation.” and he implored the protection of
the council. A majority of six or seven gentlemen
present appeared utterly overwhelmed by the horror of
the situation. The venerable individual seized his
blotting pad, and overcome with emotion, rushed from
the council table, and out of the chamber; but return-
ing immediately for an ink-pot or something, was in-
duced, by the remonstrances of one of the only gentle-
men who remained unnerved amid the thrilling excite-
ment, to resume his chair, from whence he vented his
pent-up feelings in rather wild M'Elhoneish phrases.
The writer of the letter having expressed regret that
the Mayor had been so alarmed by his epistle, the little
unpleasantness terminated.
We read in last week’s Express the following,
with reference to the St. Patrick’s Lay pic-nic:—“ Mr.
John Lesmond Fitzgerald, solicitor, then proposed a
vote of thanks to Mr. D. O'Connor, which was seconded
by Father Garvey. Before it was put there were loud and
enthusiastic calls for Father Mahony, who eventually was
forced to the front, and addressed the assemblage for nearly
an hour in the most sympathetic terms. He —though taken
unawares—delivered one of the best impromptu speeches we
have ever heard. He reviewed the history of Ireland
from the days of the pagan triennial parliaments held
at Tara —now Temora —to the present time. He liter-
ally riddled with * buck-shot ’ the historical fallacies of
Gerald Barry (Giraldus Cambriensis) who—professed
liar that he was—has been taken as an authority on
Irish subjects by hostile writers to the present day;
and concluded amid rapturous applause by giving some
homely practical advice.” Now this is really a most
flattering notice of the Eev. Mr. Mahony’s oration, and
we are very much impressed by it. We should, how.
ever, be more impressed still were we not perfectly alive
to the fact that the rev. gentleman may possibly have
written every line of it himself. Anyhow he’s one of
The Express ink-slingers and a proprietor. Gall!
We have received from the Australian office
a pamphlet written by “ The Vagabond,” and entitled
South Sea Massacres. The brochure is substantially a
violent attack on Sir Arthur Gordon and Judge Gorrie,
the High Commissioner and Chief Justice of Polynesia
respectively. We have no doubt that when these
gentlemen peruse Mr. Thomas’s book they will hasten
to “ pass in their checks,” and the author will be
allowed to nominate their successors. In his preface
“The Vagabond" states:—“ln this little work I re-
print several articles contributed by me to the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, and other journals, on the subject
of ‘ South Sea Massacres,’ with considerable additions
and revisions." If this be the case, it is rather a pity
Mr. Thomas did not revise a little more carefully. Here,
for instance, is a period clipped haphazard:—“ATon-
gan or Fijian policeman, who dare (sic) not lay his
hands upon a chief, can. and will ‘ run in’ you or I (sic)
if the fit seizes him. What wonder then that the whole
white race is falling into contempt with the natives.”
If the pamphlet answer the purpose for which it is
written, we suppose the author will be quite satisfied.
The niggers will no doubt greatly appreciate it. But
the niggers are not sticklers for grammar.
In the Auckland Star, one evening, the
following advertisement appeared : “ Gentleman
would be glad to exchange photo, with lady seen by him
this morning coming out of Star office; wore claret
velvet hat and waterproof cloak. Address ‘ Melbourne,’
Post-office, Dunedin.” All that day and all the next,
“ Melbourne ” was on pins and needles for the reply.
Being a professional lady-killer, he had little doubts as
to the result. The only thing he was undecided upon
was whether she would send a “ panel,” a “ cabinet,”
or a simple carte. 'When the paper came out next
evening, he took it up languidly. He was not interested
in the Evening Star, hut in the evening post. Soon,
however, his attention became fixed. One minute
later, he cast the paper down with a painfully familiar
quotation. For he had read the reply to his advertise-
ment, which was as follows: “If the puppy answering
to the name of ‘ Melbourne,’ who advertised in last
night’s Stab for lady with claret velvet hat and water-
proof cloak, will meet her at the telegraph office at
eight o’clock this evening, he will receive the whipping
his habitual impertinence merits.” That night, at the
appointed hour, he drove quickly past the trysting
place in a cab. He didn’t stop, partly because he was
in a hurry to catch the boat, and partly because he saw
two tall gentlemen in earnest conversation with his
inamorata; but one was armed with bad intentions—
and a stick. It may he explained that the lady was
related to the office—possibly to the editor.
A few days ago the Evening Staggerer came
out with a sensational telegram which stated that two
half-caste splitters had been carried away into the hush
near Grafton and “ barbarously assassinated.” The
News then dwelt upon the sorrow which was felt in the
district —a grief which had “ cast a gloom over the
entire neighbourhood.” It must, however, have been
somewhat disconcerting to the murder purveyors, to
read in the lastest number of the Advocate the follow-
ing paragraph :—Not guilty.—With reference to a news-
paper report of the “dreadful murder of Jemmy Davis
and Billy Houlton,’ half-castes, by the Manning blacks,
we are requested by “Jimmy Davis” (who has just
called) to say that he is alive and very well. His friend
Heulton is also in the enjoyment of perfect health.
Jimmy is naturally rather indignant at the paper news
that seeks to remove him before his time.” These are
not the only men the same journal has killed before their
time, and these bogus murders are generally effected
throu? h their country correspondents. The only reason
we can adduce for this is that the spirit of the paper is
catching, and that in outlying districts the unfortunate
bucolics having but little food for the mind, take the
disease in its most virulent form. This is the only way
to account for the reports that continually reach Syd-
ney of murders that are not murders, rushes that are
not rushes, and other Actions sacrificed on the altar of
sensationalism too numerous to mention. All this is
very, very sad. We wonder if an action will lie since
the paper has done so.
Some of the characters at the Austrian Band
Ball will be both interesting and novel. The following
are a few we have heard of:—Sir Henry Parkes and
Mr. William Forster will be inseparable as Damon and
Pythias. Commodore Wilson as “Big Fellow King
Hailey ”of the Solomon Islands; bis costume has been
carefully studied, and will be in exact imitation of that
worn by the celebrated chieftain ; it consists of a coat
of black paint and a tomahawk. Messrs. Hudson Bros.,
Babes in the Wood, in a plane suit of colonial pine.
A well-known C.M.G., 1.0.G.T., will appear as Proteus,
a character involving fifty changes of costume. A Vic-
torian M.P., who invented a railway brake, will be
neatly attired in his favourite coat of tar. Professor
Miller will fetch a dumb belle on each arm. The Seven
Sleepers will be dressed in red and blue —gum. A
member of the Glebe Rowing Club will appear in prac-
tice costume, which consists of—nothing. Mr. John-
son, of the Markets, and Mr. Lucas, M.L.C., will be
recognised as “ The Mitherless Bairns." A group of
Demons is to be formed by the Revs. P , “ Scottish
Oils,” and Dean and Garden Honey. Messrs.
Murdoch, Spofforth, Bannerman, Ac., will constitute a
Biblical group, “The Twelve Disciples.” The Prisoner
of Chillon,” Mr. G. E. Dibbs. The Gentle Shepherd,
a friend of Mr. Dibbs’s. The gentleman disguised in a
small sauare of red flannel will be Mr. Milner Stephen.
Several members of the T.M.G.A. intend to go in clean
faces, very stiff collars, and coats made of Monthly
Notes. “An Art Critic”—White tie, pair of spectacles,
and a lisp. Mr. D. M'Beath will he there as Stonewall
Jackson. Mrs. Gamp, Tabitha. John Gilpin, Ketten.
A well-known ecclesiastic has succeeded in borrowing a
tail from a friend, and will appear in his favourite
character of “ The Devil." Henri L’Estrange, Elijan.
Major Cracknell, an Electric Spark. Stuart and M’El-
hone paired off as Beauty and the Beast, —but there 8 a
little hitch, as both want to go as Beauty.
There’s grief among the editors.
There’s weeping wails and woe.
All through a bogus doctor.
Whom they know as Eodonow,
As Eodonow, the Yankee Co.,
Of ten bob watches’ fame :
How passing well that roguish swell
Has played his little game!
A splendid watch for four half-crowns.
And all that kind of stuff;
A litho’d circular, and then
All ads. got “ on the bluff.”
The country papers “ bumped it out ” —
’Twas really far too bad;
Not one had e’en the slightest doubt—
But yet they all were had!
Yes, all; the Sydney weeklies, too.
Were ev’ry one let in:—
Yes, ev’ry one; the fact’s quite true—
Except The Bulletin.
Melbourne’s Railway System.
Sydney’s Railway System.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Hares are becoming plentiful at Adelong.
Lord Burghley is the best goods for the Hawkes*
bury.
Tass amateur athletic sports on the 24th May.
Good prizes.
M'Shaneis flubbed “theLaycock of the cricket
field” by the Victorians.
Moore Park bowlers do not always come off
when they get on a good ground.
Lawn-tennis is not good for the eye-sight—or
why do all the players wear glasses ?
The Intercolonial eight-oar race takes place on
the last day of the HawJtesbury meeting.
The annual Wanganui (N.Z.) regatta was a
success. Good finishes and plenty of sport.
Thirteen dozen flathead were caught in Cook’s
River on Thursday last by a party of three.
At their final square-up in Melbourne the other
day the Australian Eleven drew £250 apiece.
Messrs. Miller, Jones, and O’Brien advertise a
£25,000 book on the Melbourne Derby and Cup.
A “ book,” well known to Sydney sportsmen,
will soon be here from Auckland—Jimmy Poole.
The Sydney Grammar School Eleven defeated
the King’s School Eleven, at Parramatta on Saturday.
A six days’ go-as-you-please tournament is being
organised at Adelaide. Numerous entries have been
received.
A sub-committee has been appointed in Mel-
bourne to carry out the arrangements for Laycock’s
reception.
Great preparations are being made at Carooar
lor the forthcoming races, which promise to be very
successful.
It is said that a position in the Union Bank at
Christchurch, H Z., has been offered to Spofforth, the
“ demon bowler.”
A boat race, for £lO a side, took place on
Saturday, in the Newcastle Harbour, between T.
Warland and R Lawrence, and was won by Warland,
after a good race.
Young Saqui and Mace are going home together
by the first boat. They have £9OO to £5OO about witness,
ing the English Derby.
The Australian-bred colt Hilarious won the
Oamam (N Z.) Jockey Club Handicap, the principal
event of the meeting.
A gold challenge cup, valued at .£25, has been
presented to the senior Victorian cricket clubs to be
competed for next season.
The Victorian Eleven, who visit Adelaide to play
an Intercolonial match, are to be publicly welcomed by
the Mayor at the Town Hall.
On Saturday, the 19th inst., a series of pigeon
matches were improvised at Wallabadah. The principal
events were won by Mr. Hogan.
The Dunedin Jockey Club have called upon the
Hon. Mr. Robinson for an explanation re the scratching
of Natator for the Horbury Handicap.
A handsomely -illustrated book, entitled “ The
Life of Edward Hanlan,” has just been issued by
Richard R. Pox, publisher, New York.
Albert White, the New Zealand sculler, is
having a new boat built for the coming race with
Dunedin for the championship of the colony.
A Sydney-bred colt, Kenilworth, won the
principal event at the Henderson Mill Races, Auckland,
N.Z., and the big grey. Lone Hand, the hurdles.
The yacht Haidee has done some good work
since her reappearance. She has won another race at
Port Esperanoe, beating the crack yacht, Madge.
A grand rowing regatta is to be organized at
one of the popular watering places near New York next
season. Prizes to the value of £lOOO will be offered.
Mr. Brett, at the unanimous wish of his brother
oarsmen, has been induced to reconsider his resigna-
tion, and has agreed to take his usual place in the boat
It is said that George Palmer, the bowler par
excellence of Victoria, will shortly take up his abode in
Adelaide, where a snug berth has been provided for
him.
A race for £lO a-side, between Nobb’s Gertrude
and Knock’s Isabella, took place on Saturday, at Home-
bush, a quarter of a mile —resulting in a victory for
Gertrude.
Mr. Dietrich has offered a prize for junior
scullers, in best and best boats, at the next annual re-
gatta in connection with the N. S. Wales Rowing
Association.
Parramatta May race meeting promises to be a
grand affair. The prizes exceed £7OO, and £2OO more
will he spent in improving the course. The Governor
will attend.
A swimming match took place on Saturday
afternoon in the Bullock Island Boat Harbour, for £lO
a side, between Erost and Hawkins. The former won
comfortably.
The New Zealand yacht, Taniwha, has been pur-
chased by Mr. Philip Turnbull, of Melbourne. Her
first contest under the colours of the Victorian Yaoht
Club will he on the 2nd April, in the first-class race in
Hobson’s Bay.
At Warialda, on Saturday the 19th, an eleven
of Bingera met a Warialda eleven, and defeated them
very easily. The return match takes place at Bingera
on Easter Monday.
The Victorian orew finish their training in a
new eight-oar outrigger, built by Puller, of Melbourne,
It arrived by the Wotonga, and was taken up the river
to Ryde on Saturday last.
The Volunteer Parade on Moore Park on Satur-
day afternoon put the cricketers to flight. They had to
crowd together on the tramway side. The quoit players
were greatly inconvenienced.
Ned Gregory played a good innings for 41 on
Saturday, against the University bowling, including
Garrett, Jones, and Coates. He should not he left out
of any of our first-class teams.
The New South Wales members of the Austra-
lian Football Club are commencing practice in Moore
Park. They purpose leaving for Melbourne with the
New Zealand men next month.
A twenty-four hour race, for women, took place
recently at San Francisco, with the following result:—
Madame La Chappel, 75 miles; LillieJ Denham, 70
miles; Kittie Mason, 65 miles.
The dispute between the Glebe Point and Mer-
cantile Rowing Clubs, so long pending, has at last been
referred for settlement to the Committee of the New
South Wales Bowing Association.
The Victorian team in Adelaide comprises the
following players:—Messrs. Alexander, Boyle. Bury,
Coulthard, Elliot, Gordon, Healy, McShane, Manion,
Turner, Trapp, Terry, and Walters.
Mr. Theeman Jackson, secretary of the Wan-
ganui (N.Z.) Jockey Club, was presented with a
handsome silver 6pergne, side dish and salts, worth
£2OO, on the settling night of the races.
The following is the result of the Liverpool
Grand National Steeplechase, 4! miles, which took
place on Friday, March 25, at Liverpool:— Woodbrook,
aged, 1; Regal, aged, 2; Thornfleld, 5 years, 3.
A pleasant race meeting took place at Wyndham
(Jic.) on Saturday, with the following results:—
Manibourin Handicap : Morning Star 1; Galloway
Stokes: Flying Bee 1; The Hurdles: Tommy Dodd 1.
Annually, and about the same time as the eight
® ar race, a contest for the Intercolonial Amateur
Sculling Championship should take place. Mr. Trioket t
m said to be the best amateur aCuller in Victoria; is it
too late to arrange a match for a trophy between him
*“* Mr. Brett or Mr. Lord ?
The authorities are doing their utmost to get a
case against the promoters of the various " consulta-
tions," so far, unsuccessfully; but the tickets are still
being steadily disposed of, though with extra precaution.
Baker won his match against time at the Hippo-
drome,Melbourne,on Saturday week. Hedidthe last mile
well under nine minutes, and so little fatigued was he
that after he changed his clothes he danced a jig in the
dressing-room.
The V.R.C. programme for the Winter Steeple-
chase meeting contains six races, with added money
amounting to £1250, including a Grand National Huifllle
Race of 300 sovereigns, and a Grand National Steeple-
chase of 400 sovereigns.
’On Thursday last a party of sporting men
accompanied the Zealandia to the Heads, to hid
farewell to Mr. J. J. Miller, who intends visiting
America, with a view of purchasing a few trotting
stallions for the colonies.
It is probable that the challenge issued by
Albert White, of Mercury Bay, New Zealand, to row
any man for the championship of the colony, and for a
stake of £lOO or £2OO, will be taken up on behalf of
Hearn, the Wellington sculler.
The Williamstown Rowing Club held the fourth
competition for the Clarke trophy on March 12. Six
crews competed with the following results: —J. Silkes’
crew beat C. Down’s ; P. Jackson’s crew beat C. Scott's,
A. White’s crew beat C. Senior’s.
The Auckland Racing Club’s autumn meeting
will be held on Easter Monday and Tuesday. Satis-
factory nominations have been received for the
principal events. The Canterbury Jockey Club holds its
annual meeting on the same dates.
The final deposit in the £lOO aside sparring-
match between Young Dutchey and Professor West
was made on Saturday night. Both men are actively
training, and the contest is to come off at the Victoria
Theatre, Newcastle, on Friday night.
The Parramatta Football Club held their general
meeting on Thursday evening last. Thirteen new
members were elected—making the total number of the
club 68. It was arrange! to play the opening match of
the season with the Bathurst Club, at Parramatta.
The results of the Northern races at Adelaide
were as follow:—Two-year-old Handicap: The Moor I,
Dutchman 2. Amateur Hurdles: Tancred 1, Miss Ban-
ter 2, Abbot 3. Areas Handicap: Mountaineer 1, Bar-
maid 2, Shamrocks. Forced Handicap : Mountaineer 1,
Gunn 2.
Sir George, the winner of the Wanganui Cup of
1881 is a three-year-old colt, by Daniel O’Rourke, out
of Harebell, and is owned by Mr. C. H. Owens. As a
two-year-old he started four times. He won only one
race, however, namely, the Sapling Stakes, six furlongs,
at Marlborough.
A 21-mile race took place at the Hippodrome,
Melbourne, on the 23rd inst., between Cann and Bay-
ner, the latter receiving a mile start. It resulted in
favour of Cana, who walked from start to finish at high
soeed. the distance being done in the very fast time of
3 hours 10 minutes.
Over 2000 persons were present at the Adelaide
Oval on Saturday last to witness a match between the
Hindmarsh and Norwood Cricket Clubs. Hindmarsh
scored 118; Norwood made 24 with the loss of one
wicket. Jarvis, who was enthusiastically received, took
part in the match, and scored nine runs.
The New South Wales Eight went, at a splendid
pace, over the course on Saturday afternoon. Several of
the men were a little distressed at the end; hut, on the
whole, the rowing waa much more satisfactory than on
anv previous occasion. The time occupied in complet-
ing the whole course was 21 minutes 15 seconds.
The races on St. Patrick’s Day at Albnry were
not very successful. The Maiden Plate was a dead gift
to the winner, and the St. Patrick’s Day Handicap, the
principal event of the meeting, brought only two horses
to the post. The Selling Race was the only well-
contested race of the day. Dairymaid and Miss May
making a splendid finish.
Lord Burghley, Milbrodale, and Gipsy Cooper
are moat fancied for the Hawkesburv. Richmond is
greatly fancied for the Sydney Cup, as also are Canary,
Pontiff. Lisgar, and Burghley. It is hinted that Fla-
neur will not start for the Cup. Lisgar is going for the
Leger, so that there will at least be the semblance of a
race for this important event.
The Australian Eleven were in debt when they
landed in England, and were very unsuccessful in a
pecuniary sense in their first dozen matches. Thus,
whilst the English press were censuring them severely
for hankering after gate-money, they had to lose their
funds till they steadily played themselves into the
good-will of the English pubiic.
Six of the present Victorian crew rowed in the
last Intercolonial Race, bow and No. 5 being new men
in the place of Messrs. Stackpoole and Nichols, who
filled the places of bow and No. 2 in the race of 1889.
The new men are Hodges, who rowed bow in the Corio
Eight at the late regattas in Victoria, and Hoskins, a
member of the University Rowing Club.
The rifle contest between fifteen South Aus-
tralian Volunteers and a like number from the Perth
Metropolitan Rifles took place at Adelaide on Saturday.
The South Australian team obtained 1785 points, and
the Western Australians 1777. The result is highly
satisfactory to the South Australian-Volunteers, as the
Perth men had twice defeated the National Rifle
Association.
The cricket match between Mudgee and Hill
End was played at Hill End on Saturday, the 19th inst.,
and resulted in a victory for the former by 31 runs, the
respective scores being Mudgee 63 and 99, Hill End 52
and 79. On the side of the visitors, N. Greenwood
scored 49. C. D Meares 31, J. M‘Kenea2l and A. Meares
13. On the lo ing side, T. Naughton scored 45, Fairfax
23, and Ros %> 0.
The Hon. George Thornton will be the umpire,
and Messrs. R. A. Cark and T. F. Strange are
to be asked to act as judge and starter respectively,
for the Intercolonial Eight-Oar Race. The positions of
the two crews down the course will be telegraphed by
means of flags, as was done at the last race. A compli-
mentary dinner will be given to the combined crews on
the evening after the race.
With all the splendid grounds, the larger num-
ber of cricketers, and the facilities for practice in Mel-
bourne, it is a marvel that Victoria should, ever allow
an Intercolonial match to fall to the credit of New
South Wales It is very likely however, that Victoria
will be victorious for some years to come until another
Evans dr Spofforth can be produced to find the weak
points of the Victorian batsmen.
A Wairarapa(N.Z ) resident drew the winner in
a “ £5OOO sweep ” on the Dunedin Cup, and for a time
revelled in imaginary riches, and built all sorts of
ca-ties in the air with his unexpected wealth. All his
aniicipations. however, received a cruel check when he
found that only 118 tickets were filled out of the 5000,
and that consequently the prize was very paltry indeed
oomparel with what he had been expecting.
The Newcastle Ironclads beat Morpeth on Satur-
day easily for the Waddy Challenge Cup, and finally
won the trophy. They had only eight runs to make in
the second innings, and the Morpeth team gave up the
game. Mr Richard Waddy, the donor of the trophy,
formally congratulated Mr. R. B. Hogue, the president
of the Ironclads, upon the excellent play shown by his
team daring the past twelve months, by which they had
finally carried off the prize.
Tall scoring has been the order of the day in
Melbourne. In the match Melbourne v. East Mel-
bourne the former mode 522 runs for nine wickets.
Alexander made 128; Vint, not out, 110. Mr. I. D.
Walker, the famous English cricketer, played in this
match and made 31. In South Melbourne v. Williams-
town, the former made 411 for six wickets. J.
Slight, who was singularly unfortunate during his
career with the Australian Eleven, made the splendid
score of 205, not out.
The Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.)Races, held or the 17th
and 18th March, afforded good sport, and were well at-
tended. Nine started for the principal race the Napier
Handicap, which was won in fast time by the Sydney
bred horse Randwick, Dan second, and On Dit third.
The Maiden Plate went to the highly-bred mare Grand
Dushess, the Hurdles to Matau, and Firefly won the
Provincial Produce. Mavis secured the Tradesman’s
Handicap, beating Libeller, who again could get no
nearer than second, Natator, and three others. The
Hawke’s Bay Plate was won by Natator, Foul Play
second, and the Consolation by My Dream.
By a strange coincidence, the great aquatic
event amongst amateur colonial scullers viz., the
Intercolonial Eight-Oar Race —will take place on the
same day as the the great University Boat-race on the
Thames. The latter will be rowed at 9.30 a.m. (Green-
wich time) and the former at 3 p.m. (Sydney time), so
that, allowing for the difference of time between the
two hemispheres, the races will be contested at almost
the same moment.. In both races, the light and dark
blue are the distinguishing shades of colour, the Vic-
torians having adopted the dark or Oxford blue, and
the New South Welshmen the light or Cambridge blue.
A great match at 200 pigeons for £2OO aside
came off early in February in England, between Mr. W.
Scott and the celebrated American rifle shot. Dr.
Carver. Mr. Scott was the|favourite, odds of 12 to 10
being laid on him at the start. After a very exciting
match. Dr. Carver won by four birds, the scores being:
Dr. Carver 66, Mr. Scott 62. The shooting was not up
to champion form, hut the weather must be held to a
great extent responsible ; it was blowing a gale of wind
accompanied at intervals by almost blinding snow-
storms. Both men meet again in March, as they are
entered for the Champion Cup given by the Sportsman.
At a meeting of the committee of the New South
Wales Coursing Club last week Messrs. H. H. Osborne,
T. Rutledge, H, S. Badgery and C. Griffiths were nom-
inated as members of the club. Mr. A. Lamb, the
chairman, invited the committee to lunch with him on
the Bth April, also any members of the dab requiring
trials. He stated that the gronnd at Woodstock was
now unusually hard, and ia consequence one of his dogs
was lately so seriously injured in the foot that at least
two months must elapse before it can run another
course. Although he gave this warning, he had no
objection whatever to trials if the owners of dogs were
prepared to run the risk.
A meeting of the subscribers to the Trickett
fund, which was started for the purpose of defraying
Edward Trickett’s expenses to England to com-
pete against Hanlan, was held on Thursday evening.
Several subscription lists were handed in, and Mr.
Frank Hill, the treasurer, reported that the total
amount received was £958, and after paying Trickett’s
expenses there remained a balance in hand of £l7O. A
few other lists have yet to come in, which it is expected
will increase the total receipts to about £lOOO. We
hope to see the balance sent on to Ned. who may possi-
bly want a lift, though he is said to be in the hands of
people who have plenty of dollars.
At a meeting of the St. Leonards Swimming
Club, held at the School of Arts, North Shore, last
Thursday evening, it was resolved that the contest for
the captaincy, a swim of 1000 yards should take place at
Cavill’s baths. Lavender Bay, on Thursday, 7th April,
at 5 p.m. Other events, including a scratch pole
match, boys’ race, and a duck hunt, will fill the
programme for a pleasant afternoon’s entertainment.
It was intended to hold the first autumnal races on the
23rd April, but the Committee, observing the announce-
ment of the Port Jackson Club’s intention of exhibiting
on that day, have decided to postpone the event until a
future day.. The sports will commence at 4 p.m.
Messrs. Boyle and Scott are advised that another
professional team will come to Australia next season
under the captaincy of Alfred Shaw. The following are
likely to be selected: —Shaw, Shrewsbury, Barnes,
Selby, Morley, from Nottingham; Bates, Peate,
Emmett, Lookyer, from Yorkshire; Barlow, Lan-
cashire; My croft. Poster, Derbyshire; Jupp and
Pooley, Surrey. This is a first-class team; they pur-
pose leaving England in September, landing at Adelaide
in November. The arrangements for the above will
clash with those of Mr. J. Lilly white, who has advised
Mr. John Conway of his intention to bring a team via
San Francisco to open in Melbourne at Christmas.
A bicycle match took place on the Ware-
housemen’s Cricket Ground, St. Kilda, on Saturday
week, between Rolf, a well-known English rider, and
Thomas, one of the best local riders. In the first ejpnt
of one mile, Rolf giving Thomas 10 yards start, Tliifias
went away with the lead, but was headed byhis
opponent in the last lap. Time, 3m. Bs. In the next
event, Rolf gave Thomas 50 yards start, hut failed to
get in front, Thomas winning easily in 16m. 335. Thu
final and deciding event of two miles was the best race
of the day. Thomas had a start of 20 yards, but after
a mile and a half had been gone, Rolf came up with a
tremendous spurt, and won a grand race, amidst great
excitement Time, 6m. 28s The winner rode a 54 inch
bicycle, by Singer and Co., the celebrated English
makers.
By the last mail, Mr. John Conway, well known
as the manager of the first Australian Eleven, and
one of the most popular men in Australian sporting
circles, received a letter from Mr. James Lilly white,
dated 10th February, intimating that in connection
with Messrs. Shaw and Shrewsbury, he proposed visit-
ing Australia with a team of professional cricketers at
Christmas, provided that suitable terms could be
arranged. The team %ill probably include the three
players above mentioned and Barnes, Morley, Bates,
Ulyett,.Pooley, and Barlow; and according to arrange-
ments at present suggested, they will come via America,
and after playing in a series of matches in New Zealand
from 24th November to 15th December, come on to the
other colonies. They expect to open at Melbourne on
Boxing Day and finish the tour at Adelaide on the 15th
March.
There are still many in the colonial sporting
community who hold that Trickett was not defeated on
his merits by Hanlan, and that, both fit and well, Trickett
can beat the Canadian. The result of the contest be-
tween Hanlan and Laycock impaired their confidence
considerably, and everybody was about to bow to the
inevitable fact of Hanlan’s superiority. It was supposed
that Laycock was in splendid condition in his race with
Hanlan. Such was not the case. We have been favoured
with the perusal of a letter from Laycock, written a few
days before the match, wherein he stated that he was
far from well, and, what with the intense cold and his
bad health, he had already given up all hope of winning
the race. We cannot, therefore, yet credit Hanlan with
a genuine victory; and we shall again have to wait the
issue of the contest between Trickett and Hanlan in the
summer before we can finally admit the superiority of
the Canadian.
A well-attended meeting of the Laycock Testi-
monial Committee was held on Friday evening last at
Hunt’s International Hotel, Mr Charles Cowpur in
the ch iir. Communications were read by the secretary,
Mr. Benson, from gentlemen in the country, expressing
their wish to co-operate with the Committee in col-
lecting subscriptions: also from the Mercantile and
Glebe Rowing Clubs, agreeing to take part in the public
reception to be given to Laycock His Worship the
Mayor has consented to present a written address to
Laycock on his arrival. The reception committee,
which now number 200, are making preparations to give
him an enthusiastic reception. About3oo subscription-
lists have been issued, and the amount likely to be
collected will, in all probability, exceed the expectations
of the committee. Laycock comes by the Lusitania,
which is expected to arrive here on the 7th or Bth
April. The meeting adjourned till Friday next.
There waa a large attendance at the Tumut
Races ; the results are as follow: —First day. Presump-
tion, 1; Mazurka, 2; Eileen, 3. Prince of Wales
Stakes, Peathertop, 1; Tallboy, 2. Turf Club Handi-
cap, t wo miles, Josephine, 6st 3U>s, 1; Taurus, 7st 71hs,
2; Evidence, 6st 12ib, 3. Time, 3min. 41sec. Hack
Kace, Tallboy, 1; Larrikin, 2; Lady Don, 3. Ladies’
Purse, Printer, 1; Wild Harry, 2; First Love, 3.
Trial Stakes, Birthday, I; Cnlla Malla, 2; Miss Wye,
3. Second day, Nursery Handicap. |- mile/ Birthday,
Bst 4lbs, 1; Miss Wye, 7st 81bs, 2; Alexander, 7st 61bs,
3. Derby Stakes, H mile. First Love, 1; Josephine,
2. Town Plate, 14 mile, Josephine, 7st 21bs, I; Pardon.
Sat 71bs, 2 ; Taurus, Bst, 3. Time, 2 min. 44 sec. All-
aged Stakes, Birthday, 1; First Love, 2. Grand Stand
Stakes, 1J mile, Pardon, sst 71bs, 1; Wild Harry, 6st
XOlbs, 2; Glad 'Tidings, 7st 21bs, 3. Forced Handicap.
Printer. 7st 21bs, 1; Feathertop, 6st 121bs, 2; Evidence,
7st sibs, 3.
A match waa played on the afternoons of the
22nd, 23rd, and 24th March, between the officers of the
Survey Department branches east against those west of
Pitt-street. The match eventuated in a draw, greatly
in favour of the western men, who had four runs to get
to win and five wickets to fall, when time was called.
The scores were: —Eastern, 54 and 61; Western, 62 and
50 for five wickets. For the former, Gall scored 18.
Hall 16, Callachor 16, and T. H. Lewis 14; and for the
latter. Wearne 10 and 17, Packer 11, and Cobham 10.
Mr. T. H. Lewis —who was well-known in cricketing
circles some years ago, when the underhand grubbers
of himself and his brother puzzled the English stoae-
wallers, Hayward and Carpenter—gave a valuable bat.
for the highest score, which was made by Weame.
This plan of playing cricket matches after four o’clock
should be of great advantage to various offices, and the
credit of originating it must be given to the members of
the Treasury C.C. It is stated that the present suc-
cessful amateur rowing clubs owed their existence to
the impetus given to aquatic sports by gentlemen in
the same office some years ago who organized a series of
handicap races in Woolloomooloo Bay.
The long talked of match between Twenty-two
of the Parramatta Muffs and Eleven of the Alfred C.C.
came off on Wednesday week on the Alfred ground.
The Muffs were allowed two innings to their opponents’
one, but, notwithstanding this heavy handicap, the
Alfreds won by seven wickets, the scores being—Muffs
32 and 50, and the Alfreds 3 for 84. The gentleman who
was stumped in a previous match while he walked off
his ground to get his hat, was put out in two other
more legitimate ways. Mr. Tanks played a fine innings
for 10 runs, and only that an unplayable hopper from
Maybury took his wicket, he would probably have
carried his bat out. Mr. Nobbs disdained to trouble
the scorers, and Mr. Coates, shortly after he took his
block, suddenly recollected that he had an important
appointment in the pavilion, and so allowed Neale to
stump him. Mr. Wickham got 5 in the first innings,
but, unfortunately, in the second inniags, Brodie
managed to bowl him a straight ball before he had a
chance of scoring. Mr. Richardson, whose cricket has
been the theme of admiration hitherto, reserved any
display for a future occasion, satisfying himself in the
present match with the unenviable pair of spectacles.
Mr. Gollodge was most destructive as a bowler; he
secured the brilliant average of two wickets for 60. runs.
Mr. James Toohey, the Evans-Spofforth-Jfurdoch of
the Alfred Club, was disposed of for a duck-egg. Alto-
gether the day was pleasantly < spent, and the Muffs
though vanquished, anticipate’such another cheerful
re-union.
The London correspondent of the Liverpool
Echo, writing under date January 24th, says :—“ There
are more things take place in London than even Lon-
doners dream of. When on Wednesday last the great
city was wrapped in Scandinavian fog and its denizens
struggling hard to keep their blood coursing in the face
of adamantine frost, there could have been little thought
concerning a convivial party in a fashionable salon in
their midst calmly engaged in witnessing a battle royal
between representative boxers of England and Australia
And yet such a scene did actually occur. It is all very
well to make light of the business, to say it was merely
an exhibition ot glove-fighting, and so forth, but we
happen to know that both combatants suffered a con-
siderable amount of injury, and bore the effects of bat-
tering each other the day following. The names of the
worthies who figured principally in the fight were Ned
Donnelly and Jack Thompson, the latter of whom ac-
companied the scullers Laycock and Trickett from
Australia. We might go a shade further and mention
some of the ‘ gentlemen ’ for whose delectation the
* box ’ was arranged, but we considerately refrain,
merely indicating that they were persons of by no means
‘ low degree ’ —considerably the reverse, in fact, for
amongst them was at least ore patrician, if no
higher. Well, what was the result of the affair ?—why
that Donnelly after pasting his man from the mind to
the mark, had all the worst of the rough fighting, and
when matters were declared drawn, ‘ Jack ’ had proved
himself quite as good as his master.
Tom Sayers.
(BY “P[?]NDRAGON”.)
Tom Sayers was not by any means what one would call
a wonder of science, nor was he at all a model for the
sculptor. But he could make mincemeat of the most
skilful sparrers when once he got to work with them in
a 24ft ring, with the gloves off; and he showed re-
peatedly the nonsense of those who insist too much
upon shape and make by exhibiting a muscular power and
a vital force such as has never been equalled within my
experience. Add to this that he was perhaps the most
courageous man of his period, and we begin to under-
stand the foundation of his undying popularity. It
was out of his tremendous courage that his next claim
—his undeniable originality—grew. Sayers was the
first middle-weight that ever dreamt of offering himself
as a candidate for the championship. He was by no
means a big man as a middle-weight. Only a very few
years before he challenged the Slasher, and when he
was four or five and twenty, we find him fighting at 10st,
and being well within the weight. Later on he filled
out and was more set; but up to the last he was never
so well as when within 10st 91b. Thus it will be seem
that he was in his best day more than half a stone
lighter than is now allowed as a middle-weight limit
among amateur boxers. I can well remember the ex-
citement that was caused when Sayers, fired by ambi-
tion, and finding no one anywhere about his own weight
to tackle him, challenged the tremendous Tipton
Slasher. After his experiences with Poulson and Jones
he felt that big men are not nearly so dangerous as they
look, if you only exercise a little generalship, and
■ keep out till they become tired. That they will tire
before a light man is well known; and when dis-
tressed their weight is all against them. Notwith-
standing this novel doctrine, which began to he put
about after the surprise of Sayers’ challenge for the
championship had subsided, the big ’uns ridiculed the
idea of a comparatively Small middle-weight, no matter
how good, winning the championship. Though the
Slasher was somewhat old and stale, odds were laid on
him. He himself looked upon the engagement in the
light of a huge joke, and said he had only to fall upon
Sayers and smash him at once ‘out of existence.
Perry was a man of enormous bulk. He
stood over 6ft in height and weighed in condition
nearer fifteen than fourteen stone. In common with
several other heavy-weight purilists who did not have
to scale before fighting, he always said he was shorter
and lighter than he really was. This was one of the
weaknesses of the monster division, and accounts for
the difficulty always experienced when any attempt is
made to discover what are an old-style champion’s exact
proportions. Perry was a marvel of size and strength
from the waist upwards, but his lower limbs, though by
no means weak, looked slack by comparison- Ha was
badly in-kneed, and hut for this and a slight stoop
would have stood over 6ft 6in. As it was, he had
proved himself a terrible hitter, and a stayer of no mean
pretensions ; and it was generally supposed that if he
got but one good hit home it would be all over with the
ambitious middle-weight. Into the particulars of the
battle it is not my province here to eater, but I may re-
mark that whatever chance Perry may have possessed
on his bare merits, he threw it away by forcing the
fighting, and thereby playing into the hands of a man
renowned for his activitr in getting about. The Slasher
chased Sayers round and round »he ring and tired him-
self to nothing. Hejkept on slinging out heavy round
arm hits, which were sometimes a long way off and
sometimes near enough to be dangerous, but which, as
it happened, never reached their intended destination.
Several times Tom turned and ran, treating the busi-
ness as a sort of wild burlesque. Once when he was
doing this he received a reminder on the back from the
angry giant, which he did not forget for many a day
after. Having played all sorts of fantastic tricks, hav-
ing ducked, slipped, ruu away, got away, kept away,
and done everything but get in the way, until the
Slasher was fagged out and slower than'ever, Sayers
went in and proved the truth of the adage, the bigger the
man the better the mark—that is, he proved it in this
oase. What would have been the result if Perry had
stood his ground and fought the little man upon the de-
fensive has been too often discussed for me to care
about reopening the question. It will be sufficient here
to note the fact that the fight took place very little
more than twenty-three years ago. Then, in the full
blaze of its revival, the prize ring appeared the most
Eermanent of our institutions. So it did several years
iter. It was stated repeatedly between 1857 and 1867
became in fact a sort of pugilistic creed—that nothing
would ever cause an Englishman to give up prize-fighting,
because, however blackguard its surroundings, it taught
a loftv moral lesson. Sinoe the day when Sayers fought
the Slasher, we have had men as good as ever stepped
in a ring, men who many excellent judges think would
have beaten any pugilist that preceded them—Sayers
included. The last few years of the prize ring saw a
dazzling display of ability ; but it is nonsense to talk
about chances which fighters of different periods would
have had with one another. In this way pugs used to
be like horses arenow—i.e., the champion was, while his
time lasted, always better than any previous champion.
The prize-ring is defunct and the race-course flourishes.
When the Tipton Slasher was in his heyday the prize-ring
was far greater that the turf among Englishmen. Where
is it now P And where, unless something happens to
drag os out of the slough into which we are so far de-
scending, may the turf be at the end of the present cen-
tury ?


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
368, 360, 362, George-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAT DURING THIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOR THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEGE
KASGHER CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDRIS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMERE
JERSEY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—We have opened 3
cases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
houses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2s lid, 3s 6d. 3s lid,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. Extraor-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK, BLACK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLACK SATIN DE LYON, 23 to 34
inches wide, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6s 1 Id, 7s 6d. These are now much
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value,
BLACK VELVETEENS
NAUCUNIUM, guaranteed fast black,
every yard stamped on back.
BLACK SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS, PLUSHES in
eveiy shade of .colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, &c.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all descriptions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation, Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling, Modeira Work, Ladies’
Cuffs, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
PROM DRESS, so that there will
. be no deception after they are
washed. Ladies will ad our
Sheetings good value and standard
makes. Prices : 72-inch, f rom lOd
to Is lid; 80-inch. Is to 2s 2d; 90-
inch, Is 6d to 2s 6d ; 100-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American, Denison House,
& Horrocks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 3J long, at all
prices. Coloured ALHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2| long. 3s 6d. TOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT—It has always
been our study to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
every size', and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
425; 5-8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS, from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMASK DOYLEYS,
round or square, all prices! SLIP
DAMASK. 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
BLEACHED TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 6i; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS, all widths; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN, 40, 45. 5* inches
wide ; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d to 365, ac-
cording to size; BROWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS, GLASS CLOTHS,
TEA CLOTHS, KNIFE CLOTHS.
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH. PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG-
LING CLOTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33, 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
B
L A N K E T S.
BLANKETS.
"FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON'
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, PULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
" Competition defied.”
iy|~ ANNIX BROTHER S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOB
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Countet Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may bo
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the addre«B:
MANNIX BROS.
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
COUNTRY ORDERS promptly despatched and
carefully executed. Send P.O. Order. Now open,
a choice selection of Fancy and General Drapery, in all
the Departments—New Dress Materials such as Pap-
mines, Serges, Cashmeres, Satin Cloths.
FIRST CLASS DRESSMAKING.
AUTUMN AND WINTER MILLINERY
Our own Manufactured Glove Registered,
2 Buttons 4 Buttons 6 Buttons
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
Pasted 3s. 4s 5s
Cut paper patterns, all garments, 9d to 2s.
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 King Street, Sjdket (two doors from George-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The- misses gibb,
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Go.),
52, MARGARET STREET,
WYNYARD SQU ARE,
Three Doors from Mr. J.“ Spencer, Dentist,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ELISE.”
No. 12 PARK S iREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
** XT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
JL for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield Hill has “ No Rival," either
tor Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NE W and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXYXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XI
XX
STRANGE BUT TRUE.
HORDERN’S
Are Selling CARPETS at Is lid.
First-class good CARPETS (and pretty)
Made up and Sewn in Good Style
At a trifling charge.
CALL AND SEE THEM.
PITT-STREET, PITT-STREET.
All the Novelties of Pitt-st.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
N
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 60s.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
27 KING STREET,
Where you can be fitted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern, to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Canadian Tweed Suite, to Order, 50s
Bannoekurn Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order 60s
Trousers to Order Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16s 6d 16s 6d 16s 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s fid
Canadian Tweed Trousers, to Order, Ifis 6s
Bliss's Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s fid
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s fid.
N.B. —Gentlemen should inspect this stock of choice
Scotch Suitings, as the above prices for Suits to Order at
90s are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address —
127 XING STREET.
Tailors, Drapers, See.
JQAVTD JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer -wear, In new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suita
Comprising Coat, Vest.'
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours. Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; a use- )
fnl and durable suit I 36s per
for business and ordi- j suit,
nary wear. )
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In light Homespuns and
thin Cheviots and Ban-
nockbums. for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
" Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental
Tweeds, excellent for
general wear, in neat
checks and mixtures.
48s 6d
per suit
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Light and-)
Durable, the materials „„
having been well ).
shrunk before being | 8
made up.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
fin Superior Oriental')
I Tweeds, cut in the , a „
] latest style, and “
I finished the same as I ei
L ordered clothing. j
D
AVID JONES AND OOA PANY’S
Orient
Serg Suits.
('Beautifully light in j
Texture permanent in ’ 38s 6d
colour and very dur- f per suit.
V. able in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
*, attention is in-'|
I vited to our Orient 1
I Clothing, as being | Qenlemens
the best value, and )• Orient
I most perfect in style I Clothing.
I and finsh procurable I
in the colony. J
Gentlemen’s fin Superior Tasmanian')
Cricketing and j Flannel, thoroughly I
Boating j shrunk. f
Trousers. V. )
18s fid
Gentlemen’s rChina Silk Coats 15s fid each.
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well , ~ -
cut, and nicely j Black a)
finished. (.
Military Duck Coats, 14s fid each.
I Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s fid each.
■I All Wool Merino Coats, 14s fid each.
[ Superiorjiorge Coats, 21s each.
Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
'ln fine Black Alpaca, 22s fid each
I In Super Black Merino, 255.
I In Blue Sergerette, 455.
v ln Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s
8.8. Frock
Goats.
'ln fine Black Alpaca, 27s fid.
[ In Black Merino, 30s.
Lin Super Sergerette, 665.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s fid.
~ „ in Self Colours, Bs.fid.
f , „ in Fancy Colours, 8s fid.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s fid.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s fid.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
'ln Superior, all Wool')
Tambary Tweed, weU 5- 30s each
L finished. )
The
Orient,
fA Special Dress Over-')
B,j
coat, silk trimmings, .
and facings, beauti- J-
fully tight, and agree- I
66s
able to wear.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVTB JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
' ") 7s fid, 8s
In neat fashionable Bd, 12s fid,
Tweeds, neatly cut I 13s fid, 16s
and well made, and j fid, I7s fid,
finished. 119 s fid per
„ J suit.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
'ln new shapes, very") 12s fid to
| prettily trimmed, and [■ 19s fid per
thoroughly well-made. J suit.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
'ln fancy and plain
I Drills, trimmed
) new and effective
v, styles.
lid, 7s
fid, 9s 6d
e j per suit.
Boys'
Sergerette
Suits
fPor drees wear, extrah 9/1a
1 finished, superior 10
material, and excel- f per
lent shape.
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
In superior Navy Serges) M .
complete with lan-IS
yard, whistle, badge, r .. per
collar and undershirt.
suit.
Youths*
Tweed
Suits.
ft light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- | 21s fid* to
able styles, well j-to 23s fid
trimmed and strongly | per suit,
made. J
Tenth*’
Blue Serge
Suits.
lln fine durable Esto-)
mene Serge, admirably [22s to 27s
adapted for school and [ fid,
general wear. )
Tenths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
(For
1 r
For dress we
trimmed and made
superior manner.
“}
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
* Business Announcements
LLegal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITOES,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYD-NEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.-Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
*■* SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 285)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
yy MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
_ 225 BOURSE STREET. WOOLLOOMOOLOQ.
■y'TCTORI A VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Penders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOBGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
gANDER LAZARUS AND CO.
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE.
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET.
\ G.J | CHURCHWOOD
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS.
147 YORK STREET.
G-.
AND S. PREDDBY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
QHEAPEST AND
BEST GROCERIES
MARK ISAACS* CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Gocd packed and delivered free of charge round th<
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
PER ME WAN, WRIGHT and CO.
(LIMITED).
Capital—£loo,ooo, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1858.)
RAILWAY and GENERAL CARRIERS, CUSTOMfI
and
SHIPPING AGENTS.
Directors :
Hon. HENRY CUTHBERT, M.L.C.
C. W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson)
JOHN PERMEWAN, Esq. J.P. 1 „ Directors
JOHN E. WEIGH. Esq j Managmg Directors.
Registered Office—l2o Coßins-street West, Melbourne.
Sydney Office—King.street, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Branch Offices at
Vith Agencies at Adelaide, Brisbane, •
nrke, Balranald, Booligal, Forbes,Parkes, Wilcannia.
listen, and Molong.
lydney, Ist February, 1881. .—-
IHOMAS
ENGINEER & IRONFOUNDEB.
girders
FIRE
STOVES
AND
COLONIAT
BURGLAR
OVENS
PROOF
DEED
SAFES
boxes
AND
&o. f
DOORS
Works; SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE Fo^f )E '
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET


Hotels, &c.
O ld
EXHIBITIO
PRINCE ALFRED
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILI
o
CCIDENTAL
WTNYARD SOIL
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTi
WM. TANNER, Pro;
(Late Club House Hot
Hotels, j
Hotels, &(
OOLALTA WIN!
A.S.N. CO.'S WJ
Sydney, March 1,
I have much pleasure to inform i
and the GENERAL PUBLIC tha
the large INCREASE ip my BTJ
ranged with my brother, Mr. WM
manager of the KIRK TON YIN.
conjunction with Mr. MURRAY,
I am now in a position to la
VINEYARD, and devote the n«
growth and maturing of my WIN"
ADDITIONAL CE1
have been engaged in a centra
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
I am pleased to again have an o
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS
for their very LIBERAL SUFPO
NESS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN
I
ICE. I C I
E
FROM FILTERS]
SnpptifeD in ant Qn
AND AT REDUCEI
Direct from tl
CITY ICE COMPAN
WATEELCK
IJ1HE
Office— 3 WYNYAR]
GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by tl
Manufactured
JOHANN MARIA
JULIGHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (C
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Ro
By appointment to His Roy
Prince of Wad
Prize MedalsLondon, 1851; Ne
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (i
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili)
1876; and Capetown, 1857. (■]
not represented.) Sydney, 1879
Notice. —The Public are cautio:
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudul
Colognes; and notice is hereby t
Marks being duly registered, all:
ceeded against to the full extent <
JOHANN MAE
WHOLESALE AG
MESSRS. RABONE, F
3 WYNYAED SQ
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING HI
Hotels, &c
T
HE COMPAGNO
CAFE AND CATEEING C
The ladies’ and gentlemen's EES1
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured t)
Marriette, late ch6f de cuisine
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne
Three hours notice required for pi
The spacious rooms of Messr
been greatly enlarged, re-decoi
Every attention will be paid t<
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30, 1830.
PALACE
serve up in their be
OYSTEE STEWS
OTSTEES SCOLL
OYSTEES FEIEI
and
OYSTE -S NATUI
Patrons of our Theatres and Cc
PEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposi
EHLOW’S WOOL!
PAEEAMATT
SUPEEIOE ACCOMMO DATIOl
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the
moderate charges. First-class JEk
use of those who are fond of recre
rjlO ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighl
and the Public gen
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW !
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT VICTOl
Is in the midst of all that is worth
Mountains. First-class accom
and gentlemen. Comfort, cle
combined with moderate charg
J. G. COUSI
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE EE
78 & 80 CASTLEEEA
Opposite Theatre
de
OTE
EB
MU
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-EOOl
kl
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
£he worv.^
The BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEP
MERCHANTS
YIRGOE, SOnTaND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
kOKiGj
ORNjj
«£D
yiltsnlei)
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should be carefully co mpai
are being imported into New S
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISK'
other brands, when they will fix
least 10 per cent, in favour of ]
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON,“AND
AGENTS.
C. W A
(Late COLLINS b ]
DEBATED WATERS, G1
and
CORDIAL MANUF4
438 HAERIS STEEi
E
ASTEBN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND A
strongly recommend thei
2s. TEA,
which wi’l bo found equal to ax
much higher pi
724 GEORGE i
HAYMARKE
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Settle.
UNI PE E T E
This celebrated Batch Gin am;
all storekeepers and respectable'
trial will prove it superior to the c
ttired Gin now so largely consume*
«
O
>
<1
-1
§
«
A*
-S
ss
c*3
&
3
i
Wholesale Agent—(J HA
2 BRIDGE STREET,
iS>E=sj
IT isnot the clearness or conditi
Ale that preserves this bran
station. Common bitter crude bee
but jjo other brand has the same r
ter, the fulness on the palate, a
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence if invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Eignold a big success at Glasgow.
Professor Pepper has assigned his estate.
One of Sothern’s brothers is a clergyman at
Leeds.
Johnny Hall is now the proprietor of an hotel in
Adelaide.
The Lynch Family of Bellringers have been
showing at Hay.
Tregaski, the illusionist, is playing at Adelaide
Academy of Music.
G. D. Chaplin has joined Mrs. Scott-Siddons in
her American tour.
De Lias, of Auckland, has engaged “ The
Danites" company.
Signor Morley, the well-known tenor, is now in
Christchurch, N.Z., teaching.
A physiognomist named Simmons was lecturing
in Auckland when last mail left.
Phil. Kirby is agent for M'Ward’s Dramatic
Company. Reported in Oregon.
Adelina Patti’s success at Madrid was un-
paralleled. Nicolini’s in clover I
Professor and Madame Haselmayer at latest
dates were playing in Nelson, N.Z.
Miss Marian 'Willis and Mr. I. F. Keogh open at
the Queen’s, Sydney, on 16th April.
A new song, by the author of “ Nancy Lee,” is
out. It is entitled “ Little Ben Lee.”
Tom Taylor’s valuable Art affects and library
have been sold at Christie and Munson's.
Mrs. Walter Hill, with her two daughters, Lily
and Aretbusa May, is about to re-visit Sydney.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (Kate Kussell) are still
travelling in the New Zealand country districts.
Ketten got .£lOO per night for his performances
in Sydney in connection with the Austrian Band.
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Holloway open in Melbourne
with their daughter (Miss Essie Jenyns) at the end of
May.
Sansty, agent for Hudson’s Surprise Party, has
been “ sick unto Death ”in Burmah. He is now “ all
right, old boy.”
Helen Faucet is discoursing on Shakespeare’s
heroines in Blackwood's Magazine. Her first article
was on Ophelia.
Fred Clay is writing a comic opera for Alex-
ander Henderson. The libretto is by Bnmand, of
London Punch.
“ Lola,” the new eomic opera at the London
Olympic, is dull. Libretto by Frank Marshall; music
by Antonio Orsini.
Miss Jennie Nye’s Comedy and Burlesque
Company lately occupied the boards of the Princess
Theatre, Dunedin.
Thatcher is back in Sydney. He has not fixed
yet for Jem Carden and Miss Marston Leigh, but has
several good offers.
Mr. and Mrs. Carden’s (Miss Marston Leigh)
present Australian trip is to extend over two years.
They open in Dunedin.
The San Francisco Newsletter thinks
there is too much “ talkee-talkee ” in George Darrell’s
play, “ Back from the Grave."
Frank and Eosa Towers are at ‘the Cape They
come on in August. Rosa has grown to be a handsome
young woman and a capital actress.
There is a report that Arthur Sullivan and W.
S. Gilbert have quarrelled and separated. Their
promised new opera has not yet been begun.
The Kelly and Leon Minstrels opened in Orange
to nine people. Hayman asked the audience round to
have a drink, and returned them their money.
Herr Soherek, the pianist, has written to the
Dunedin papers that he has not joined Signor De Vivo’s
new Concert Company, formed in Melbourne.
Anton Eubinstein, the celebrated pianist, gives
a series of recitals in London this season. His opera,
“ The Demon," will be produced at Covent Garden.
The Bathurst Free Press castigates the Go-
vernment for Sabbath breaking, in that they allowed
Cole’s Circus to travel on Sunday. Now, Sir ’Enry.
A British Blonde Combination, in America,
advertises : “ The bald-heads can’t keep away, and the
young men with small foreheads scream with delight.”
A Wellington critic thinks Miss Frances Simon-
son is “ very rough” (to use his own expression), and
should not have been brought out for several years to
come.
Mrs. S. F. Bateman, lessee of Sadler’s Wells,
has died of inflammation of the lungs. Her late hus-
band, “ Barnum " Bateman, brought out Henry Irving,
in London.
Paladini, the tenor of Simonsen’s Opera Troupe,
who had to remain behind in Wellington, N.Z., having
a severe attack of rheumatic fever, has recovered
sufficiently to join the troupe.
Louise Pomeroy did “ astounding ” business in
Adelaide. She took away a whole pile, and only left
behind broken hearts. Of course we don’t include that
of a certain theatrical manager.
An advertisement appears in New Zealand
journals warning all persons against playing or per-
forming “ Pinafore ”in that colony. It is signed by
Smith, Anderson, and Co., solicitors, Dunedin.
The annual pantomime of the Woolwich Garri-
son Dramatic Club ran for three weeks at Christmas.
The characters were played by non-commissioned
officers, assisted by one or two lady professionals.
“ Michael Strogoff,” the latest Parisian success,
has been adapted by Henry Byron for the London
Adelphi. Byron plays the part of the English special
correspondent, and Charles Warner appears as the hero.
Simonsen’s Opera Company did very good busi-
ness at Wellington, N.Z. Madame had a large house at
her benefit. A.t latest, the company were at Napier.
They next visit Auckland, opening the first week in
April.
The Theatre Eoyal, Grafton, has been at last
renovated—supplied with new scenery—by Mr. F.
Belfleld, who, the other evening, re-opened the house
with a performance by local amateurs of “ The Rebel
Chief."
The receipts of Cole’s circus! at Bathurst were
over £2ooo—which, wailingly observes the Free Press,
“ the town and district will never see again.” No,
John Charles, in this world we can’t have our cake and
eat it, too.
Archibald Forbes visits us in May. Archibald’s
“ pitches,” it is said, are a great draw, and invariably
play the deuce with the shows. Nothing but a circus
can empty his hall, and he has even been known to
empty a circus.
St. Leon’s and Woodyear’s circuses have been
performing at Hay. The local paper says that the
business done by the latter was small, and that it was
an error of judgment for two circus companies to visit
Hay simultaneously.
There was a column telegram about the “ Pirates
Penzance ” in Monday's Melbourne Argus. Smart
fellow, Williamson. By mistake, the sub-editor was
nearly put l ing it in on Saturday morning. “ Crammed
house, big success, and all—
Dalziel, who married Dickie Lingard, pirated
Herne's “ Hearts of Oak," and played it in St. Louis
under the title of “ Oaken Hearts." The author brought
a suit against the Lingardian and a perpetual injunction
has been granted against Dalziel.
The following par. appears in the American
papers :—“ Shortly Mr. and Mrs. William Horace Lin-
gard will return to the American stage, and will perform
in * Stolen Kisses.’ They are now on their way here
irem Australia." This intelligence will be received
with lively interest at Christchurch, N JL.
The Hyperion Opera Company, lately perform-
ing at the Academy of Music, Adelaide, comprising
Miss A. Leaf, Mr. Charles Harding, Mr. Barry O’Neil,
Mr. R. W. Kohler, and Mr. Compton (pianist) have left
for Western Australia lor an operatic season in that
colony.
At Bilae’a, in Berlin—where the great sym-
phony concerts are held—you can hear such delightful
music as Raff’s “ Im Walde ’’ Sinfonie, and Brahms’s
“ Hungarian Dances,” splendidly played by an orchestra
of seventy strong, for the sum of 75 pfennigs—about Bd.
of our money!
Sir Julius Benedict’s new cantata, which he is
composing for the Norwich Festival, next autumn, is
founded on Lamartine's “ Graziella.” Last month his
son Ernest produced in London a three-act play, called
«Entanglements.” The charming Mrs. Ernest Benedict
was the heroine.
Louise Pomeroy will visit New Zealand after her
Melbourne engagement.’ She opens in Ballarat with
the Holloway Company, the piece de resistance being
“Camille.” “Retribution," “ Led Astray,” “ Cymbe-
Ime,” and “ Winter’s Tale,” will also be produced.
Fair dough follows.
Daniel Bandmann and Walter Eeynolds have
not been “pulling together" very well in N.Z. Daniel
has had constant to the lawyers. First ha
issued a playbill with Walter’s name printed in very
small characters; and then Walter retorted by paying
him in his own coin.
Barry Sullivan has been offered an engagement
in America to play forty weeks at the enormous salary
of 2500 dollars (£500) a week. The offer is from Mr.
Maguire, proprietor of the Grand Theatre and Hotel,
San Francisco. This means £20,000 for considerably
less than a year’s work.
During a particular pathetic scene at Simonson’s
Opera in Wellington, the "sublime was suddenly
metamorphosed into the ridiculous by the appearance,
just above the proscenium, of an enormous rat labo-
riously traversing the arch, while it carried a j nvenile
rat in its mouth after the manner of affectionate cat-
mothers with their kittens.
“ Formosa” has had a good run at the Princess
Theatre, Melbourne. The papers on its first appear-
ance, criticised it as “ immoral,” and as a consequence,
the place has been crowded. Strange, but true!
Nothing pushes the sale of a book more, or makes a
dramatic author’s fortune more quicker, than for the
papers to raise the cry of “ naughty."
“ The Cup,” Tennyson’s Lyceum tragedy, al-
ready known in Fleet-street circles as “ The Pewter,”
has not been favourably received by the more ex-
perienced metropolitan critics. Dutton Cook describes
its story as “ painful and even rather revolting.” Bur-
nand says that while “ The Cup ” certainly does not
cheer, it lacks that one touch of Nature which has
given life to worse plays, and without which the most
poetic drama ever written must be doomed to oblivion.
“ He stood there
Staring upon the hunter. A score of dogs
Gnawed at his ankles. At last he felt
The trouble of his feet, put forth one paw.
Slew four, aud knew it not.”
This is a passage from “The Cup." Now, the lion of
a how this is written must either have been very absent
or very tough. Personally, we incline to the suppo-
sition that he was —absent.
While Cole’s Circus was travelling in the States
one of the lions got loose for a time and was lost. It
made off into the country, and was tracked into a
cowhouse on a Dutchman’s farm, about two miles from
the railway line, where, it appears, it killed a young
heifer, and sucked its blood. A cage was placed at the
door of the house, and Mr. Conklin, the keeper, going
in, drove the surfeited beast-into tbe cage again before
it had time to do any further harm. The agent for the
show then waited on the Dutchman, and asking him
what he would take for the heifer, settled with him for
the damage before he learned that he had entertained a
lion unawares.
Dramatic criticism in Sydney has long been
funny enough. Heaven knows, with its praises of actors
who didn’t act, and its encores of songs that were never
sung; but, certainly, in .some small American “cities”
they even out-Telegraph the Telegraph. For instance,
a Western critic, speaking of Mr. Keene's performance
in the rdle of Hamlet, explains that the want of enthu-
siasm which the audience manifested was in no wise
attributable to any fault of the actor, but “ was due to
the inherent deficiency of the play itself,” and further
remarks that “it was a grand thing to see how much
this great man (Keene) could make out of this little
which we call Shakspeare.”
It is probable, says a contemporary, that
“ Farsifal,” the new opera by Herr Dagner, will be
produced during the coming autumn. Having suf-
fered such heavy losses in 1876, the composer re-
solved not to do so until sufficient funds had been
raised to pay all the expenses consequent upon its pro-
duction at Bayreuth. So many difficulties, however,
arose that it was decided that it should not appear dur.
ing the next twelve months. At this juncture the King
of Bavaria, it is said, interposed, and guaranteed the
amount of £15,000. It is not yet stated whether the
conductor will be Herr Hans Richter. This is encourag-
ing music with a vengeance. All that is done out here
in that direction is for Sirenery to give the Garden
Palace to the Austrian Band for nothing on condition
that 10 per cent is given to the charities. This act of
philanthropy on the part of our Dictator is all very well
so far as the charities and the Austrian Band are con-
cerned, but, as a theatrical manager remarked to ns the
other day. the arrangement “plays with the
theatres.” If the Garden Palace is let at all for perfor-
mances, it should be submitted to public competition.
Then, possibly, the charities would get 25 instead of 10
per cent, on each performance. Try it, Sirenery. It
will be nothing out of your pocket, anyway.
In another column we have given an extended
notice of a play called “ Ship Ahoy ! ” which was on
Saturday night produced at the Queen’s Theatre. One
of the characters, it will be seen, was impersonated by
Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, and what we append is a
portion of the notice afforded that lady by the Herald
critic. We may remark that in noticing this effusion
we are, we consider, merely doing our duty in holding
up such galimatias to ridicule, as it is precisely the kind
of thing that spoils our rising young actresses. Here
is the extract“ Miss Watt-Tanner, like a true artist,
lost herself in the character she represented, redeemed
it from insignificance, and brought out so well its noble
traits that the others [Query: What others?! were
well-nigh lost beside it. The deep rich voice, expressive
in every inflection, was never raised in the exaggeration
of passion, yet not a word uttered was ineffective; the
mobile face and stately figure were so treated by stage
art that advanced years were fully indicated ; the dress
was rich, yet subdued, and the ever-present grace of
gesture which a superb physique bestows added the last
charm to the impersonation. Miss Watt-Tanner had
evidently studied the part carefully, and if her intelli-
gence is always so well directed there is no saying what
she may not achieve." This critique, we should think,
was most probably written by a man, but that, of
course, matters little. Whoever penned it is responsible
for the dose of treacle, and for the very question-
able “form” which is embodied in the paragraph.
However, Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner is a very attractive
young lady, and, we suppose, the “mobile face and
stately figure,” the “ ever present grace of gesture
which a superb physique bestows," and the rest of it
cover a multitude of sins. It is a great pity that a
paper so rich (in money) as our morning contemporary
cannot afford to be honest in its criticisms. That
journal, while it damned Kowalski, who is a true artiste,
butters in the manner we have shown, a lady, who as a
stem matter of fact, was far from successful in her
impersonation. However, poor M. Kowalski, despite
his wondrous talent, is not a handsome baritone, nor
a lack adaisical virtuoso ; neither is he a pretty young
actress with a “ deep rich voice " and a “ mobile face."
Perhaps this accounts for the “milk in the cocoa-nut."
Qwt sa»t ?
The great sensational play, recently brought out
at the Paris Chatelet with enormous success, called
“ Michael Strogoff,” adapted from Jules Verne’s novel
of that time, is about to be produced by the Messrs.
Gatti, at the London Adelphi. The critios are much
exercised in their minds as to how the management will
make the piece pay, considering that the cost of pro-
ducing it is unprecedentedly large. In Paris, the
salaries alone cost £B6 a night, and before the curtain
rose on the first performance, the expenses of getting
up the piece amounted already to 340,000 fr., divided as
follows: three months of rehearsals at about 7000 francs
per month, 21,00dfr ; 21 no-performance evenings,
60,000 fr.; scenery and decorations, 10,000 fr.; costumes,
160,000 fr. To redeem this outlay of 310,000 fr,, a sum of
3400 fr. must be deducted from the gross receipts of the
first hundred performances. The average receipt of
12,000 francs is reduced in Paris by rent of the house,
authors’ rights, rights of the poor, &0., to 7200 francs.
Deducting 3400 fr. for the redeeming fund, and 2560 fr.
for working expenses, the net profit of each per-
formance is brought down to 1210 fr. The holding
capacity of the Adelphi is far inferior to that of the
Paris house, therefore, either the management will
have to curtail the expenses of production, or augment
the prices of admission.
Under date March 22 our correspondent at
Auckland writes:—“The Confederate Diorama was
folded up last night, after playing for three weeks to
good houses. The entertainment of itself is the most
miserable one of its kind that has visited this town, and
out of charity I will say nothing about Lieut. Herman’s
ventriloquism. The sole attraction of the show is the
distribution of “ gifts.” The proprietor Herman was
brought before our local magistrate for a breach of the
Lottery Act in selling tickets enclosed in an envelope,
and fined £5 and costs, the lowest penalty, the judge
remarking that the law provided that the penalty should
be £5O. The Theatre Royal will be occupied to-night
by Grattan Riggs, who re-appears for a short season,
opening in “ The Shaughraun.” He will be supported
by Maggie Knight and a “ scrape-up" company. Mr.
J. S . Smith, business manager for Simonsen’s Opera
Company, arrived yesterday to make the necessary
arrangements for the company’s opening in a fortnight’s
time. Lotti Wilmot also arrived yesterday, and
lectures next week."
The drama “Across the Continent” is well-
known in the colonies, and popular with a considerable
section of the community. An American actor named
Keene first introduced it into England, but had great
difficulty in getting a theatre in which to have it per-
formed. He called on several managers, but they were
not in want of a dramatic earthquake, so he did no good
until he met with the late Mr. Charles Harcourt.
Mr. H. asked to be allowed to read the play, whereupon
Mr. Keene said, “ Mr. Harcourt, if you read this play
you will not produce it." Then, naturally, enquired
Mr. Harcourt, “ On what grounds do you desire its
production ?" Keene unfolded his woodcuts, and said,
“ This is the merit of the play." Harcourt saw the
point, and immediately said, “You can play.” “Across
the Continent" was successful throughout England,
and received most complimentary notices from John
Oxenford of the London Times, from Tom Taylor, and
from Russell of the Liverpool Mercury, and so on.
Since then it bag been recognised as a safe Saturday
night draw.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It has long been evidence as to the weakness of
human nature that the mind of man hardly ever fails
to be attracted by coloured lithos. Circus-posters, it is
proverbial, draw like porous plasters, and mare unpaid
butchers’ hills are due to American three-sheeters than
a prosaic world ever dreams of. For many days a pic-
torial startler, depicting two men on a raft leering at’
the distant sunset has bedecked the walls of the city.
This work of art, which was printed in many more
colours than even a Norwegian rainbow can boast, was
embellished with the following legend :—“ Ship Ahoy !
Queen’s Theatre, Saturday, 27th March.” There was
also an intimation that there would be new scenery and
original effects, and that the cast would comprise “an
array of talent." Under these alluring circumstances,
we naturally went to see “Ship Ahoy!” and after
attentively witnessing that drama, we are inclined to
think the management should have transposed a portion
of the wording of their poster, since (while the scenery
was “original”) the effects were so “new" as to be
positively startling.
* • ♦
The audience which assembled to greet the first
representation of “ Ship Ahoy !’* was a Saturday night’s
gathering of a more than usually demonstrative nature.
The heat of the theatre being painfully oppressive,
nearly all the gentlemen in the stalls divested them-
selves of their coats, while the display made by the
ladies of small baskets and flat bottles was very re-
freshing to contemplate. The occupants of the pit
were in great spirits, and the manner in whj c h they
chewed peanuts and tobacco betrayed a contempt for
the convenances that was extremely delightful to
witness. Determined “from the jump” to have as
much as they could for their money, the representatives
of the larrikin class indulged now and anon in eccen-
tricities which, though doubtless entertaining to
themselves, must have been slightly disconcerting to
the performers. For instance, when the villain de-
nounced the virtuous captain, they groaned audibly,
and when the heroine was affected to tears, they sobbed
convulsively. If an actor asked himself a question in
soliloquy, it was immediately answered, and every
hitch in the shifting of the scenery was enthusiastically
applauded.
The scenery itself was a great feature. Some of
the sets, indeed, were appalling in their originality.
The curtain rose upon an impossible garden, fenced in
by modern palings and a mediaeval archway. To the
right was a feeble representation of a Moorish piazza;
to the left, the commencement of a primeval forest.
In the flats used to close in with we recognised an old
and respected friend—the closet-scene in “ Hamlet,"
with the portraits painted out. The coffin-ship,
Victrix, which was as much like a ship
as a wheel-barrow is like a comet, attracted
by reason of its eccentricities much attention.
It was really surprising how fast the water gained on
that ill-fated vessel. At one moment all is fair and
square, and lo! the next instant four, and a moment
later six feet of water are reported in the hold. The way
the wind was whistled from the wings was really beyond
all praise, though we are unable to nauticallv account
for the vessel’s foresail lying flat to the mast during the
progress of the howling tempest. The flow of the briny
element upon the deck of the ill-fated Victrix was a
capital idea; the realism of the effect was, however,
somewhat marred by the liberal display of blucher
boots and moleskin pants of the stage hands who were
engaged in shaking up the angry billews. In the last
scene, which represents to the audience an exceedingly
humorous idea of the London docks, much enthusiasm
was evoked by the arrival of the Merry May, which,had
given her owners some slight uneasiness on account of
being six months missing! It did not transpire in the
course of the drama whether any accident had happened
to her or not; but we suppose the vessel had dropped in for
a bit of bad luck,as she glided into the basin without any
stranding gear adhering to her jibboom. The movements
of the gallant bark were occasionally somewhat discon-
certing, her progress being marked by jerks strongly
suggestive of “ shoves” behind by the stage carpenters.
* * •
In the matter of costumes, the management had
allowed itself considerable license, since all the mer-
chant seamen were dressed in men-of-war “ togs," and
Mr. Tudge, the funny clerk, attended to his duties
attired in white duck pants, a blue coat with brass
buttons, and the hat usually worn by the comic coun.
tryman when catching the blue-bottle.
* * *
Of the play itself , suffice it to say that it is one
of those dramas which are written in a week and re-
gretted during a life-time. The plot is taken from a Christ-
mas story, written for Once a Week by George Manville
Fenn, a novelist of the Dickens school, though very low
down in the class. The name of the adapter is unknown
to us, and we are pleased that it is so; since we wish to
be lowered into our peaceful grave without having been
guilty of shedding the gore of a fellow creature. The
dialogue throughout is as flat as a glass of Sussex-street
porter, the attempts at humour being singularly
mournful. The characters make their entrances and
their exits with bewildering suddenness, and in no part
of the piece is the spectator perfectly an fait as to how
“ the battle wages.”
• • •
The acting was very uneven, yet some of the
performers played with care and finish. The star
part was that of Joe Basalt, a comic sailor, but the
chief burden of the piece fell upon Mr. H.
Leeton, who enacted the comic clerk. Mr.
M. Greville’s talents as a low comedian are well known,
and we cheerfully admit him to be a clover actor. Tet
he labours under the disadvantage of having been a
little spoiled by success. Being so accustomed to hear
the laugh follow his speeches, Mr. Greville has an
awkward manner of pausing for the familiar ooefainno-
tory yell when he has delivered himself of a “ point."
If it dees not oome he gags for it with a pantomime
wheeie, which, while it elicits a roar, loses the cue to
his fellow performers. Independently of this little
failing, Mr. Greville is entitled to take front rank as a
comedian, being, if not a second Robson, invariably
entertaining.
* • *
Mr. Leston as Tudge was a great success, and
it is only due to the exertions of that clever actor and
Mr. Greville that “ Ship Ahoy! ” was dragged from out
the slough of despond. The noble captain was enacted
by Mr. Martin Forde, and very well fie did it consider-
ing his multifarious duties. He has to knock a man
down in the first act, make love in the second, and tire
off revolvers all through the piece. The parts of the
heavy villains, the owners of the coffin-ships, were
entrusted to Messrs. Sefton and Dillon. The former
gentleman was tolerably effective, but the latter was
very painfully overweighted. His part, which was a
long one, abounded in melo-dramatic tirades, all of
which were received by the pit with shrieks of laughter
mingled with derisive boohoos. The effect of this on
the respectable portion of the audience was painful in
the extreme; indeed, whenever Mr. Dillon made his
appearance on the stage we experienced the peculiar
sensation one feels prior to the extraction of a molar.
Mr. Lance Lenton’s Yellow Jack was good, although for
all that saffron-hued villain had to do with the plot, fie
might have been eliminated from the dramatis persona
and allowed to luxuriate in the sailors’ home. The
efforts of the other performers call for no special
mention, although a word of praise must be awarded
to the sailor supers, whose unanimity in drinking deep
draughts of thin air was positively wonderful.
i * * *
Of the ladies we regret being unable to speak
in terms ef praise. Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, who
took the part of a widow, was considerably stagey.
Being the mother of the noble Captain, it was natural
that the “ snow of fleeting time " should have settled
on her locks, since her son appeared to be close on two
score; yet the effect of the grey hairs was spoiled by
tfie lady neglecting to make up her face for the char-
acter. A young and pretty physiognomy is of course a
very enviable thing, yet it seems somewfiat out of place
accompanied by widow’s weeds and a grey wig. Respect
the unities a little more. Miss Jenny, for the more you
respect them the more will you be respected by the
conscientious critic. Miss Watt-Tanner’s elocution, as
all who have seen her as Chorus in Henry V., is unde-
niable; still, the “ deliberate ""style of enunciation,
though suitable to blank verse, is as much out of place
in a piece of the “ Ship Ahoy!" school as an alligator
would be at a garden party.
• * •
Miss Lilian Forde made nothing of the part of
the heroine; but as Mrs. Qnmett, the inn-keeper, Mrs.
Edwin Palmer was tolerably effective. The minor roles
were sustained by certain Miss Browns and Martins, at
present unknown to fame —the lady who personated a
servant holding the mirror, with commendable close-
ness, up to nature, by appearing on the stage better
dressed than the mistress.
* ♦ •
We have, it will be seen, devoted a considerable
portion of our space to this notice, and we have done so
advisedly. Dramas of the “ Ship Afioy!" description,
however popular they may be with the masses, certainly
do not tend to elevate the Drama. We should not,
however, be surprised to find that “ Ship Ahoy!” “ took
well ” in Sydney; indeed we recommend our readers to
drop in and see it, as the play is interesting from tfie
fact of its being like the unarticulated leg of Mr. Silas
Wegg—“ a monstrosity."
* • *
“ The Pirates of Penzance ” still forms the bill
at the Theatre Royal. Concerning the piece there is
little more to add. If good dresses and lively music are
deemed sufficient backbone for a comic opera by tfie
Sydney public, “ The Pirates ” is destined for a long
run. We believe that all the artistes engaged in the
representation of the piece sing and act conscien-
tiously ; but we are equally certain that their interpre-
tation of the score and libretto is very far from being
that of Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan. All concerned in
the operetta have learned the words, but very few pay
any attention to the action. In a like manner little
points of detail are overlooked, and humorous by-play
(so important an adjunct to comic opera) is, excepting
in the case of Messrs. Williamson and South, entirely
neglected.
* * *
In putting Miss Nellie Playfair up in the part of
Kate, the management have shown much mistaken
kindness. Miss Playfair, though a well-meaning young
lady, like the seconder of Mr. Fiskin, at the EatanswiU
election, seems to have invariably “ left her voice under
her pillow.” But, independently of this, Miss Playfair
betrays no signs of animation. She walks through the
piece, like Royalty through a quadrille, and her spirits
never seem to rise above zero.
• * •
Of the lady figurantes and chorus, there is food
for a very large amount of critisism. We suppose Mr.
Williamson has done his utmost to secure the best
voices, irrespective of the age, size, and weight of the
owners. It is to be regretted, however, that some are
so very thin, and others so abnormally stout, that it is
only with great difficulty a “ happy medium ” can be
selected from the tuneful bevy. Perhaps, though, the
lean ladies will fill out, and the fat ones thin down, as
the representations of the piece continue. The less of
the latter, anyway, would be a gain to the the piece.
• • *
The fanev dress ball given by the Austrian Band
takes place next Tuesday. We understand that the
number of tickets already sold places the success
of the undertaking beyond all possibility of doubt.
This ball being “quite an event” in the lovely sleepy
hollow where we luxuriate, and one that has caused no
inconsiderable flutter amongst the ladies, we shall of
course devote special attention to our report of it.
Indeed, we have but to echo the memorable words of
Mr. Shirk—“ We shall be there! ’’ N.B. —It will be the
correct thing—for gentlemen—to attend.
* * *
Sweatnam and his merry minstrels have been
pursuing the even tenor, baritone, and alto of their
several ways all the week, and have been drawing well.
Very little too good could be said of these clever per-
formers, who, even in the absence of Mr. Horace Bent
(who, we regret to hear, is seriously indisposed), keep
the ball merrily rolling. They have got some mad farce
now, which they called the “ Straw Band,” and which
is very funny. It is really a matter of regret that these
clever fellows have to leave so soon, in order to make
way for the Opera Company.
• « *
The prospectus of the Montague-Tumer com-
pany promises well. It is pleasing to observe that all
of the performers are known to be able to sing, and a
great many are credited with being able to act. The
company is to consist of, besides the bright particular
stars, a number of old favourites—Farley and Temple-
ton amongst the number. The success, pecuniarily
speaking, of such a splendid combination is practically
assured. Let us hope that an artistic triumph is in
store for them also. M. Leon Caron is to conduct.
» »
Various rumours have already reached us
respecting costume? to be worn by certain prominent
citizens at the Austrian Band ball. Mr. M‘Elhone is
to go as an Angel; Dan O’Connor as Demosthenes;
Ninian as Dick Deadeye; Hon. J. Lucas as Daniel
Lambert; Tom Garrett as Washington (“he couldn’t
lie"); David Buchanan as a Snuff Shop Sign; Charles
Cowper as a Fascinating Widow. The rumour, how-
ever, that M'Beath will go as Mr. Pecksniff, is not con-
firmed.’ The character that good man will assume,
depends a good deal upon the City Council.
* * •
The Opera House clbsed up on Saturday night.
No one was much surprised at t-fiis, and not many thou-
sands were disappointed. The proprietors, Messrs.
Gannon and M'Laughlin, are, we understand, about to
make some improvement in the dress-circle stair-case,
so as to avoid, for visitors, the necessity of an alpen-
stock. Miss Clara Stephenson has, for some little time
previous to the cloture been playing sensational drama
to limited audiences. Miss Clara, of course, played
juvenile lead herself, which considering all things was
a little rash. In her efforts to please, and they were
many) she was supported by Mr. J. W. Sweeney, a
young actor who has recently manifested decided
talent.
• « «
This gentleman having been singularly unfor-
tunate lately, it is, we hear, on the tapis to tender him
a complimentary benefit, in which case Mr. Sweeney may
count on scooping up a very comfortable little pile.
And talking of benefits. Miss Marion Melrose, the
Little Nell of our dreams, is to take her benefit at the
Queen’s next Monday. All we can say is, if the audience


. only numerically equal to the merits of the charming
f _„g c iare, there will be camp-stools and sandwich-
boxes ia the stalls at 3 p.m., aud a double row of “ gods ’*
_iU be hanging from the gallery rail.
♦ ♦ *
We are informed that on Wednesday next the
Romany amateurs will give a benefit for the Good-
pnonzh Home. Prom the pieces chosen—“ Meg’s
nivertion ” and “ Sweethearts,”—it will be seen that
“ swells ” who comprise the club by no means
think rin ordinaire of themselves. The ladies’ parts
will be also filled by amateurs, therefore a great deal of
musement may safely be anticipated. No names have
»et been mentioned, so far as the ladies are concerned,
i, u t the male element comprises the patronymics of
Messrs. Riddell, Hotham, Stupart, Bloxsome, andMac-
oherson. Of course we wish the affair success, and
we sincerely trnst that none of the performers will be
is stiff as the prices of admission.
• •
Cole’s Circus opens on Tuesday, the sth. People
jay it can boast the best menagerie ever seen since Noah
gave up the business. We shall, of course, be “down
among the Coles” on the opening night: Till then,
there is nothing for it but to ejaculate —An reservoir.
UN SANSCULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The testimonial mania has, at last, become an
epidemic. Every bank clerk who is promoted drops in
for a papier-macin'- tea-tray, and a parson can’t leave
his district without having thrust upon him some
“tin ” and a tea service. We receive, in the course of
the week, innumerable letters from the recipients of
such valuable gifts, requesting ns to blazon their
virtues in these columns gratis—but we always forget
to do it. At last, however, we have been sent an
account of a presentation which we feel is entitled, by
reason of the appropriateness of the address, to a place
in our columns. We may.remark that the furnisher of
the lay originally sent it to the Holt Howl, but the
editor of that journal refused it insertion on the ground
that Mr. Howard never put more than 3d. in the plate
at Ms church. That, of course, *• cooked ” Mr. H. at the
very start. The address, then, which is signed by
several representatives of expiring papers, and accom-
panied by a purse of 150 sovereigns, is as follows:
Longfellow, Swinburne, and Tennyson may be
all very well in their way, but they aren’t natives of
this country. We believe in giving local poets the
preference—especially when, by spending a paltry penny
upon the Goulburn Evening Post, one can wallow
(that’s the only word which expresses it) in such
delicious strains as ths following. If the Goulbnm
bard will only join in partnership with Alfred's laureate
there’s a handsome future awaiting both in the estab-
lishment of a wholesale warehouse for obituary notices.
“Country orders executed with promptitude and
despatch.” But let ns proceed:
t May the Lord have mercy on him!” t
Tes, we hope so ; but we can’t help thinking that the
“poethry ” is a little rough on the old man. Elizabeth
and “brothers four” have gone “ker-slap” to the
promised laud, and are now floating around with the
angels, blowing little silver trumpets with silk tassels
on them, and riding orange-colored halos. But the
father, who has “ followed after,” is evidently a tough
customer, and even with “fervent prayer” his
sorrowing friends can only “ hope ” to bring him along.
But-iin’t it beautifully put ? Of course, that’s why
they are a “ heart-broken band.” The more you ponder
over this style of thing, the more infatuated you get
with it.
* * •
The New South Wales Government Gazette
is a semi-political, non-sectarian, serio-comical, illus-
trated family journal issued weekly once a month, and
having ter its immediate objects the encouragement of
the arts and sciences, the advancement of social re-
forms, the diffusion of ntterly useless knowledge, and
the employment of some two or three hundred anti-fat,
teetotal printers. The editorials, from the pen of Mr.
Thomas Richards, are marvels of intellectual ability;
the country correspondence is furnished by some of the
most able penmen and gentlemanly poundkeepers in the
colony ; and the illustrations, which are drawn with a
piece of burnt stick by a blind man, are second only to
the wonderful chef d’auvres of the celebrated Gustave
Don?, and the equally illustrious Mr. Gustavus Wan-
genheim. And yet, with the exception of the London
Times and the Sydney Herald, there is no journal less
read, or more frequently found in fish shops. The fact
is the Gazette is before the age, and its style and diction
are far too refined and grandiloquent for the majority
of its subscribers. To remedy this it must be materi-
ally altered. Short and interesting love tales, poetry,
puzzles, connundrums, frightful murders, &c., should
P® introduced, and then the success of Mr. Rickards’
journal will be undoubted.
* » *
. As a sample of what we mean, and by way of
prying the concern a start, here are a couple of items
«> which our contemporary is extremely welcome: —
VtJttU XXUI3C X XOill) UC(U UittUWU.
•Now there is something in the above job lot to interest
readers of every age and sex, and even apart from the
sweet rippling, Byronic flow of the metre, the tender.
Poetic nature of the sentiments expressed will cans6
“ws tuneful little trifle to live in the hearts of all as
*0“£ as the recollection of a Corporation “ do,” or the
sheets of a first-class sea-sickness on a delicate steerage
Passenger. .In the hands of true poets like the linen-
•raper, Meadeu, or the gifted Phil McCarroll, a subject
ife the above would be treated in a style that would
0 ?d Hesiod or Homer turn round; in his grave,
nd squirm his papyrus shirt off.
A *
as a specimen of how the prose portion of the
fodowin ma d e to “hum," we write the
ALL FOR HIM;
Or
LADY LITTLETON’S LOVE.
By
The Mau with the White Hat.
CHAP. I.
' kv F .L° ma ? tic kttle village of Cooreenyrangaeumboobila
Juno ln a batb °* shrer loveliness one night in
allf,.' an air of tranquil repose hovered over the
ent G., consisting of 4 acres, 2 roods, and 27
perches—bounded on the N. by the cockatoo fence of
the 11. Due de Mulcohy, on the south by the “ Bush-
rangers’ Arms ” Hotel, on the E. by the sylvan woods
of Dirty Swamp, and on the W. by a dead horse; the
same allotment being now for sale at the npset price of
£1 per acre. 'Twas midnight (as it frequently is in the
country districts), and silence reigned around. Pre-
sently, however, this silence was broken by the fairy
tread of Lady Littleton, who, with beating heart and
stealthy step, advanced to the stockyard fence, and,
hitching up her pale blue satin skirt, which was demi-
long, and trimmed with a demi-pelisse, having in front a
large demi-pleat of colours frappe, and oilskin, she
scrambled over the top rail, and opened her crimson
parachute, ornamented with old gold, cardinal bows,
and geebungs. What could have induced the daintily-
reared, haughty mistress of Cooreenyrangaeumboobila
Hall to tempt the elements at this unseasonable hour,
and risk exposing her beautiful form to the attacks of
savage beasts, and the face-ache P Had even her proud
soul been enslaved by the tyrant Love—or had she
simply taken an overdose of lobster salad and green
cucumber? We shall see.
CHAP. 11.
Lady Luoretia Littleton had scarcely waited four
hours before the tall, active form of a man was seen to
crawl out of a hollow log, with a late in one hand and a
junk of fried “gohanna” in the other; and taking a
hasty glance around, he rushed forth, and clasping
Lady Lucretia round the waist, bestowed a thousand
kisses on her ripe, voluptuous lips, and broke about
30s. worth of wire fixings and The front of a new
“ Mother Hubbard ” hat beyond all redemption. “ Lu-
crece,” he exclaimed, as he gazed into her lovely orbs,
and then her rosy cheek fell on his moleskin shirt as
she swooned, and sighed, “ Jerry, my own, my adored
Jerry.” “ Bear up, Lucrece. I must away.” “Away !
Oh, say not so.” “ Fate hath thus decreed. Read this;
and Heaven grant us courage!” Saying this, Jerry
drew from his boot a copy of the Evenin’ Nooze, and
Lucrece had barely time to read, “ Tenders are invited
for the construction of a sewer at Blackwattle Swamp,
and also for the erection of a new lock-up at Doughboy
Hollow. All tenders to be in by June 6. John
Lackey Pub. Works. God save the Queen!”
when she fainted away at the foot of a stringybark
eucalyptus. To rush to the creek, fill his pockets and
hat with water, and throw the lot over her was the
work of 4 seconds 5-10, and Lucrece had scarcely
heaved one long-drawn sigh, when the tramp of horses
was heard in the distance, and Jerry, seizing the para-
chute, stood prepared to sell his life at its full market
value.
chap. m.
Suddenly the cause of alarm appeared on the
plain beyond, and with a burst of joy Jerry exclaimed,
“Look up, my love, we're saved! there are old
Spoqpendyke’s cattle going to the Cooreenyrangaoum-
boohila pound, where they will be sold to-morrow
without reserve. Mark yon—red bally cow, ,HN over
Q near rump, and a slit in her hind ear, and the brindled
bullock, cock horns, 1.0.G.T. off ribs. The red and
white bull also; how nobly be bounds along, while the
tender, innocent little bnll-calf branded K.G.M.G. on
the near shoulder frisks along by the side of its
strawberry ma, with the bob-tail and the illegible brand
on her off hind-quarter. There are 7s. damages to pay
on each, and they will be sold ere the morrow’s sun
has set.” He had scarcely ceased speaking when an
armed band of men, headed by the Lord of Cooreeny-
rangacumboobila Hall, burst upon the guilty pair. In
another instant Jerry was disarmed; thrown to the
ground; the foot of the injured husband was planted on
his breast, a gleaming falchion flashed for a moment
on high, and then rushed down charged with instant
death, when suddenly
(To be continued in our next).
* * *
Bishop Barker having done his level best for
our poor souls has skipped off to the “ Continong” to
do the same for his own poor body. He receives full
pay (£l5OO a year) during his absence, for doing nothing,
and he takes home a brother divine to give him a hand
to do it. If he were an unfortunate railway stoker, and
required half a day’s leave to bury his wife he would
have to pay about 15s. to take his place or tramp round
for another billet. We thus see how much better it is
be a Lord Bishop than a railway stoker, and we will
now warble the 49th hymn—“ Come work in my vine-
yard for five notes a day.” (Improved reading—long
metre).
» ♦ « »
In alluding to Mr. Dan. O’Connor’s eloquence
at the St. Patrick’s banquet, the “ Town Talk ” man in
the Evening Earthquake remarks: “We are sure the
hon. gentleman no more knew what he was talking
about than when he uttered that other piece of nonsense
about the ‘ noble action that John Hampden took
towards King Charles the Second ?’ A little English
history before as well as after dinner would not be a
bod thing for Irish orators, unless the ‘ peor printer ’ is
to be blamed, as usual, for this curious mixing np of the
Charles Stuarts.”
•
.
The arrival of an envelope 16 x 12, aud decorated
with the ominous looking “ kangaroo and wallaby
seal" of Government, somewhat rumpled us up a little
on Tuesday last, but we were agreeably surprised on
opening to find it merely contained a “ goak ” from
an esteemed friend in the Lands Department. It ran
as follows “To the Bulletins Editor. Sir,—Me and
Percy Reginald Alcibiades Cheeks med a dem good
reddil up just now, and you can put it in your rag where
it will doubtless draw some custom. This is it: —
* What’s the difference between a billet in the Mutual
Provident Society, and one in the Lands Department ?’
Give it up? ‘Well, it’s because the first is actuary
work, and the second is actual work.’ Good, is’nt it ?
Put it near the leeding article, pld man—it’ll go high, I
tell yon.—Yours truly, Agnstus Adolphus Softhead."
We will be pleased to hear from Augustus again—when
we get a new basket.
• * »
The following affecting lines were written on
hearing that Gus Waugeuheim had quitted his well-
known “institution”—the “little house round the
corner—
We were aware from the ‘‘jump ” that The
Bulletin would shape the future career of the
Australian Press, but we candidly confess that until we
received the following story, per favor of a highly-
respected clergyman’s daughter here, we had no idea
that we shaped our numerous readers’ matrimonial
career as well. There was a time when “ Love ruled
the camp, the court, the grove (especially the grove) ; ”
but The Bulletin now rules love, as the following tale
will show. He was a young Shepherd-King from the
back Barcpo, and his name was Titus Aminadab
Towzer; the starry orbs of Miss Bellinda Bottell had
pierced his very soul, and his heart was as firmly , held
by her bewitching smile as the tail of a rat in one of
Eastway's patent traps. And Belinda on her part, loved
with all the tender fervor of her maiden love. They
met; by chance at a social “ shivoo,” given by a well-
known banker, and as the Shepherd-King had to leave
town the following day, he persuaded his charmer to
walk out on the balcony, and as he sat in one comer
thereof, hidden by the friendly night, aud Belinda’s
peacock blue satin skirt trimmed with draper bonillones,
and garnished with two pelissed flounces looped up in a
routt at the back, he poured forth the simple story of
his ardent passion. He was at once accepted; two
hearts immediately went stroke for stroke, and their
bliss was about to be sealed by a kiss when suddenly
Belinda started to her feet, and exclaimed—” Heavens !
I forgot—it must not be —I could never see our names
coupled in that odious Bulletin’s verse, and survive.
Gh Towzer, Towzer, wherefore art thou Towzer I On
his bended knees Titus implored his love to recall her
words, and he even volunteered to bum the Bulletin
down that night, jind scalp every man on the staff,
from the pastepot boy up to the editor, but Belinda was
deaf to all appeals. “ Towzer,” she cried as the scald-
ing tears trickled down her pallid cheeks and nose :
“ you know not the danger ; that rhyming fiend would
gloat over the “ throw-in ” as they call it of such an
easy task, and our wedding bells would have scarcely
ceased to chime before the whole world would have
Towzer Bottell.
“ Make way for the bridegroom, gallant Titus A. Towzer
As he leads forth his bride who’s a regular reuser.
Let Titus A. Towzer now All every throttle
While the glad pair waltz off and get tight as a Bottell.
Early next morning the body of a man was found float-
ing about in a careless, purposeless sort of way off
Garden Island. It was exceedingly damp, and exceed-
ingly dead, and this induced the coroner to observe that
it was time to bury it. We sent our carriage to the
funeral, and bought a new poet.
* • *
The special monstrosity artist of the Distress
recently stated that a snake was captured up Goulburn
way with thirteen chickens inside of him. He omitted to
tell us, however, whether these chickens were Cochin
Chinas, long-woolled merinos, or short-horned Dur-
hama ; whether the snake followed them of his own free
will, or whether they simply crept down his throat to
get away from a hailstorm; whether they made any
observation respecting the accommodation provided,
and whether the servants as a rule were civil and atten-
tive, and in fact this is about the most unsatisfactory
and annoying par. we have read since the days of Julius
Caesar. Besides, even if this snake did swallow ’ 13
chickens what’s that compared to the yarn about the
chicken that swallowed 13 snakes ? Nothing; abso-
lutely nothing!—[N.B.—lf anyone knows of such a
yarn he will oblige by sending it right along. We don’t
mind a comic paper like the Sydney Morning Snorer
“ besting ” us now and then, hut to be written down by
a paper edited by the twelve apostles, Nevah ! Nevah !
Nevah!
* » *
He was the country correspondent of a religions
newspaper—that is to say, he was allowed “ three notes”
a-week, and a horse, saddle, and bridle, with unlimited
leave to harass the unfortunate squatters. As a rule,
he was not well received, the journal ho represented
being unpopular/—and not unfrequently, on riding up
to the homestead at sundown, with the next hnman
habitation 40 miles distant, he was either referred to
the men’s hut, or else curtly told to devastate the
larder in another part of the country. Sometimes he
camped out in despair, in which exigencies he would
draw a blackened quart-pot from the recesses of his
travelling despatch-box, and, backing at a loaf he had
cadged from a teamster, make a hearty though a melan-
choly meal. After this, he would hang a muffin-bell on
the neck of his charger, hobble that steed with a clothes-
line, and give himself up to dreams of soup and a joint
with something hot after it. Then, when the morning
son arose, and the sky was aglow with bars of crimson
and of gold, he would commence to write on a little
pile of greasy slips, with the stump of a lead pencil a
letter to his paper, stating that it was becoming extra-
ordinarily popular throughout the district, and enclos-
ing 45., that being the bullion of one subscriber for a
quarter After many long mouths of
travelling, during which period his horse had become
like a hat-rack, he received an invitation to stay a few
days at the station of a squatter near the border. This
grazier was a very rich man, but he was exceedingly
eccentric. His family consisted of five daughters, who,
though they were considerably older, and not quite so
beautiful as the Five Sisters of York, were good, girls iu
the main, and were always neat about their shoe-strings,
and conscientious in the matter of clean cuffs and
stockings. Melancholy, however, reigned amongst the
maidens, as one of their father’s eccentricities consisted
of scarcely ever allowing them to see a man, or to
stray outside the fence which encircled the home-
stead. Well, the newspaper man, after staying two
days in the house, took compassion on the imprisoned
ladies, and commenced a flirtation with one, and to
carry let tors to a surveyor in the adjoining township
for another. The surveyor replied as follows: —
" Beloved Ethelinda, I send this by Mr. So-and-so, of
the Flytrap. Be at the slip-rail at midnight,
and we will fly together.—Thine, Rinaldo.” The lady-
read this letter a thousand times, and eventually
dropped it. The old gentleman picked it np, and was
much interested in its contents
Next morning, the travelling reporter came down to
breakfast. Just as he was about to shriek for ham and
eggs, the aged squatter asked him to step outside for a
minute. He did so, and the old gentleman, producing
a six-shooter, said, 'j If you’re not off my station in five
minutes. I’ll blow your brains out.”
The proprietors of a certain paper are now requested by
the squatter to claim and take away a bay mare, aged
15 years, together with an American cloth satchel con-
taining a box of paper collars and a small tooth-comb.
* * *
We would respectfully draw the attention of
members of Parliament, and other cripples whose polite
education has been deferred to the recent advertisement
of Mr. Allen P. West, pupil of the celebrated Mr.
Turveydrop, and, like him. Professor of Deportment,
walking, etiquette, and refined dancing. Professor
West could not possibly have struck on a richer patch.
Here we have a very virgin forest, as it were, of barbaric
rudeness, and onr notions of etiquette are pretty much
the same as those of our respected and deeply lamented
ancestors, who used to chop wood with a brick, and
“ chaw ” raw bear and ’possums in the damp, but com-
modious caves of the antediluvian period. Professor
West has also brought along some choice specialities in
the “light fantastic toe” department, such as the
“fashionable slow," and the Boston waltz, If any one
wants to know what the “ fashionable slow” is like, they
have only to step round to a Compagnoni’a kitchen, and
watch two trussed chickens turning lazily round before
a slow fire; and it they further desire to make the
acquaintance of the “ Boston Bang," the simplest plan
is to tie a healthy footman and an active housemaid
together, and then put a choice assortment of oyster
shells aud industrious snakes into the footman’s boots,
and a handful of cockroaches or black spiders down the
housemaid’s back. Their subsequent proceedings will
be found extremely interesting—providing there is
nothing breakable within half a mile of them, and they
will also give a tolerably fair idea of our ball-rooms’
latest addition—the “ Boston Bang.”
* * *
The name of the enterprising gentleman who
recently assassinated the Czar of Russia turns out to
be Mr. Schoavallemeoffthefaceovthearthski, and we
believe he was at one time connected with the
Campbeixtown Herald and Shoalhaten Argus. Ok
being asked to state his defence, at the preliminary trial
last week, he handed in the following plea:—1. That
when he threw that bomb he didn’t know it was loaded.
2. That he never; the said bomb having sprung oat of
his hands itself whilst he was endeavoring to trade it
off to a Cronstadt fellow as a new style of patent washing
machine. 3. That it was only done for a “ lark,” to see
how jthe crowd would scatter. 4. That he never saw
the concern in his life before, and the damage must
have been done by a twin-brother, whom he very much
resembled He also said he would never do it again—a
remark which clearly proves he admires the truth, and
one in which the whole Court cordially agreed with
him. All other assassinations are .unavoidably post-
poned, on account of the inclemency of the weather.
♦ * *
The genial Mr. James Cox was “on dooty” at
the Gaiety one night last week, and was musing on the
“ infinitude of eternity” as usual when a pompons
looking apparition approached and said, “Aw—I am
desiah’d to give a critique on your show —I am Mr. D.
B., of the Sydney Slosher.” “ Indeed 1” replied the
festive Jim. “ Well, I am glad to hear it, because the
last time you were here, Mr. D. B., I noticed you were
devilish C. D. (seedy)—however, you can waltz in only
—you—must—not—put your dirty boots on the clean
seats in front, or chew saveloys during the sentimental
part of the performance. Here, take a scented pro-
gramme—it’ll do you for a pocket-handkerchief when
you go to tfce next garden party at Lofty’s.” Gentle
James!—kind to a fault, and considerate even at 230
degrees Fahrenheit.
* * *
It is said that a Parisian friend of Mr. Combes,
M.L.A., C.M Q., recently sent that gentleman—know-
ing his classical tendencies —a collection of Homer’s
works on parchment dating back to the 14th century.
On receiving this present, the gallant gentleman said —
“ Mong Jew ! Ce tuounseer ri de moa;” and doing the
poems up in a parcel, sent them on to Colonel Richard-
son, with a note saying—“Ce parchment fera de bong
kettle tambour. Mettez mong nom sur shacknE.
Adoo!”
Little Tommy Spurgeon hasn’t struck oil in
Dunedin. When he was hero, we had occasion to
briefly allnde to his sayings and writings, and we have
some idea that Me Spurgeon did not consider onr
critique on his performances a favorable one. The New
Zealand Public Opinion is evidently of our way of
thinking in regard to this young gentleman. The fact
is that Thomas having got all the old man’s gags and
wheezes by heart, and having acquired the whole of his
“ business” without possessing one iota of his ability,
thought to make a splash amongst simple
Instead of this, however, Tom has turned out a “frost”
and will return to E a gland with a good deal more ex-
perience and (uuless the Baptists stand to him for a
monster “ ben." I rather less bullion than he
brought out with him. In referring to the
debut of this aspiring preacher, in Dunedin, the
Public Opinion writes as follows “ In so young a
preacher we strongly deprecate two characteristics.
One, a tone of familiarity in prayer almost bordering on
irreverence, and the other a fondness for making
‘funny’ allusions. One high authority has written
of these funny sayings thus: ‘His anecdotes and
sallies of wit enlivened the discourse.” For our-
selves, we confess, that we slightly shuddered at
what in an older preacher we would have condemned
as proofs *f a very feeble intellect—for in every truth
the ‘ sallies of wit ’ were dull and flat, and unprofitable.
Judging from what we heard from him on Sunday even-
ing, he has no pretensions whatever to be regarded as a
rara avis in his vocation.” Now this is newspaper gruel
of a very wholesome kind, and we have no doubt it will
do onr little friend al! the good in the world. We hope
it will, bec tuse the evils of clerical mountebanking have
grown so, of late years, that on going to hear a so-called
revivalist preacher, one is always in doubt whether to
expect the acrobatic feats of a Somerville or the vocal
eccentricities of a M >ody. Either of these, however,
are preferable to the feeble piping of the little apostle
who is now casting a halo of holy glory over Dunedin.
* » ♦
To all whom it may concern.—“ On and after
the 1st April two immense comets wiU he visible,
eclipsing even the brilliancy of the midday sun.” The
above cheerful intelligence is taken from the London
Times, and younz perrons of every sex whose courting-
affairs are in arrear would do well to-note it, and make
their future arrangements to correspond. This may be
done either by working overtime or putting on a double
shift of artisans, and in order to help the good cause
along we unreservedly place the whole of our staff a l
the disposal of any gentlemen who require assistance.
There will be no dark corners to let when the 80 candle-
burner comets are “ full on," and even the friendly
shelter of “ behind the door” will cease to afford that
seclusion wh ch it now grants. Persons who
are compelled either from motives of necessity
or pleasure to pay occasional nightly visits to
their neighbours' hen-roosts might cut the Times’
notice out and paste it in their hat also. It may save
their lives. V.
TO RO[?]ERT HOWARD, ESQ., C.M.G., PUBLIC
EXECUTIONER, &c., &c.
Illustrious handler of the rope—
That rope whose noose is greased with soap—
All those by whom this paper’s signed
Do dub thee noblest of mankind!
Harmonious! Howard, all incline
To see thee deftly touch thy line;
No harpist, man, of either sect.
E’er touched the line with such effect!
But one key pulled with thy hand free—
’Tis music of eternity!
For thee will be our cymbals clanging;
To thee all benefits are hanging;
Then art the man all mortals choose —
For thou canst give the latest noose !
Hail Howard!—long on this earth stop.
And never, great man, take a drop!
“TO THE MEMORY OF ELIZABETH O’BRIEN,
Whose gone to meet her brothers four
That’s gone to Heaven not long before.
On her death-bed loved her Saviour well.
Now gone with angels to dwell.
Now her father’s followed after.
Leaving a heart-broken band.
We hope, by fervent prayer.
To bring him to a better land.
IMPOUNDED.
Cave a [?]atis Plautus.
At Grafton impounded, on May’s 14th day
One red poley cow, and an old gelding bay;
The brand of the cow is M.A.C.K. Mack ;
The gelding’s, a spur mark, and frightful sore back. •
One roan and white heifer whose tail’s but a stump.
And one strawberry calf, C.M.G. on its rump.
The whole to be sold without thought of profit;
Bree lunch on the grounds for all who can “ scoff ” it.
I. PINCHE R, Poundkeeper.
Dead Horse Flat, near Grafton.
The feast was spread, aud overhead
The flag of Erin might you see.
And all was bright with life and light;
In sooth a splendid sight you see 1
In raiment fair, gleams in the chair
Brave Dan. Can’t you perceive him there ?
You can. ’Tis well; we’ve much to tell;
So for a bit we’ll leave him there.
There’s old Sir John—Light Time sits on
That brow, and is no furrower;
But nowhere can the eye of man
Espy the “ pride of Burrowa.”
Quite near the “ Vice a sacrifice
To every grace—sits solemn, by
An 6pergne, “ Joe,” who’s crowned, you know,
The hero of the Wollombi.
The Fates, it willed, John Lucas filled
Two chairs with that sweet grace of his,
And Smith R. 8., that sweet M.P.,
A smile had on that face of his !
The guests among shone J. D. Young,
Who’s been some droll games hinderin’.
And Rubie, whose habitual “ booze ”
Is “ water with a cinder in.”
The features loom, in that great room,
Of Austral’s fair Fitzgerald, too ;
While facing him, of aspect prim.
Is the angel from the See ald, too.
And on the scene there was, we ween.
Of doctors, quite a cloud of ’em,
And patriot bhoys, with lots of noise—
“ Och! thin,” there was a crowd of ’em.
Soon Dan. the Great, his face elate —
Those features not one wrinkle in—
Begins his pitch, the drift of which
Those “ bhoys ” have got an inkling.
On, on, he goes, amidst the throes
Of phrenzy patriotical.
With fire and gall, denouncing all
He’s dreamed of as despotical.
“He’s dreamed of”—yes!—on this lay stress
Dan’s slightly het'roclitical;
In fact we’d term him quite the germ
Of man oneirocritical.
Parnell, he sang, in terms that rang
With “ jam” encomiastical;
The pitch “ went down,” though we must own
’Twas sadly periphrastical.
Of that Parnell, onr Dan. did tell
The virtues cabalistical.
In terms so “ quare” they made one stare—
They were so catachrestieal.
At last—sad lot!—the speaker got
So madly metaphorical,
He in a trice did sacrifice
Pacts to the oratorical!
At Gladstone, lor!—how loud he swore
And Forster, (o) phew! he slated him ;
And Charles, (b) who fled this life in bed.
Why Dam. decapitated him.
Loud were the roars of wild applause,
The’ some yelled acrimioniously:—
And through the air some tufts of hair —
“ But all passed off harmoniously.”
(a) Secretary of State for Ireland.
(b) King Charles 11.
IN MEMORIAM
GUS WAN[?]ENH[?]M.
Our Gus is gone.
And we’re forlorn;
For him we’ll be a mourner;
No more we’ll laugh
And “ lager ” quaff.
At that house “ round the corner.”
No more we’ll see
Him, cleverly.
On those walls do his sketches.
With lightning pen.
That best of men.
So dexterously etches!
Alas! poor Gns,
Thou’rt one of us—
A thorough, true Bohemian ;
For all that, thou.
We must allow,
Believ*st in things Hymenean.
When will thy voice
Our souls rejoice
In thy own jolly pub. again ?
When wilt thou brew.
As than, can’st do.
Our morning sillabub again ?
•
When wilt thou twist.
With thy strong wrist.
The foil from out our hand again ?
When wilt thou own
With dulcet tone: ■
“ I’fe got dot Hamburg brand again ?”
When will we sup
In that room up-
stairs—“ wolf ” the midnight snack again ?
Oh, don’t, we pray.
Be long away
Be quick, Gus, and come back|again I
Alas, poor Homer I it to this should come !
And thy grand epics make a kettle-drum I
When things were bad, it has been written that
Thou hast, at times, sent round thy seedy hat;
But what of that, bard of immortal fame.
When haughty cricketers all do the same ?
Thy poems may drumheads be, thy genius yet
The people of ten worlds could ne’er forget.
Keep up thy pecker—though we’ve bards down her*.
There are but two that thou shouldst justly fear.
*Tis true, that one in white tie and in glasses,
Has genius in him that thine own surpasses;
But yet, w« pray thee not, in thy grave pout—
His muse Wants such a lot of digging out.
Lo! Phil. M’Carroll for his muse doth work.
And sings in couplets his own price for pork;
His language chaste, he stands alone, the bard
Of pigs' bead, mutton, saveloys, and lard.
Behold our poets. Is that word now a misnomer ?
No matter. Just you try and keep yer ’air on, Homer.
» * *


Public Compar
The mercantile ban;
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hoa. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Ge
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 30, Great 5
Director —Edward Chap:
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bs
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ms
other produce shipped to England 1
CORNWALL FIRE AND I
ANCE COMP AS
CAPITAL, £100,(
RESERVE FUND
Ptre and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D A:
Agents,
348 george-str;
SIDNEY.
The national m
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTE,
Established 186
The only Life Office in the Austr
has been conducted on PUEEL'
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pi
Dtrectoes :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown am
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, B
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made
belongs to the policyholders, and is
every THREE YEARS. The boi
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and i
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, I
c
458 GEORGE
Opposite the Mae
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ]
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERM
li
OMER’S
P
ARLOUI
The Really Popular (and cheap)
805 GEORGE ST
Oonosite the Railway 1
Public Compai
C
OMMEECIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established IBS
Incorporated by Act of Cc
Capital, £575.000. Eeserve E
Directors :
Bichord Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A. Dibbe, Esq., M
Auditors :
C. T. Qedye, Esq.; J. B. £
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson
Messrs. Cape and West;
Head Office—Qeorge-str
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; E. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Insp
With Branches at Haymarket, Geor
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombai
Directors: J. A. Toul, Esq., C.E
Esq.; F. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Cc
Branches in New South Wale:
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Beg
Slaynoy, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, ]
Campbell town, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Gobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonan
Oudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes,
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundag
aing, Inverell, Kempsay, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molon;
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narand
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qui
Eichmond, Shoaihaven, Singleton,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, We
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisl
Maryborough, and Eockham
Agencies in the Coi
Victoria ; The Bank of Victoria
Australasia, Colonial Bank o
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia: The Bank of i
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank c
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the (
London s The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool ; The Liverpool Union
Manchester ■ The Manchester and
Ireland : The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank <
San Francisco : The Bank of Bi
Messrs. Macoudray and Co.
Valparaiso: Banco Nacionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore : Th
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lorn
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercant;
London, and China. •
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of 1
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
• Egypt ; Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts hills, grants
advances on approved security, a
9xed deposits, negotiates produce ’
issues drafts or letters of credit, ai
lects hills payable at any of the al
elsewhere, at current rates; collect:
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the color
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEANX
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. li
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es<
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STEICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution there:
LOANS granted on Mortgage or <
combined with Life Assurance.
/
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
AOENOWUfilftl TO OB TUB BIOT IN THE WO* ID
\MBFA OTUEMB BY W.DMIIS iCf 800 LB UFM.HSJH
IHE BEST PAINT IN
THE PACIFIC EUBBE
is mixed ready for i
supplied in cans containing 1 gal.
These cans form a convenient Pa
complete.
Similar testimony to the followin
us;—“Woollahra, August 20th, 188(
RUBBER PAINT to be all that ii
and Bright, and owing to its large
I « Tu inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it i
and appears as fresh, clean and glos
hist week —the same with the fence
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC 1
will cover 35 Square Yards —one c
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thr
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMS
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, nea:
IMPORTER AND MANUEL
Cofiee, Peppers, Spii
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE II
for Liverpool and Black Hor
Choicest Sage and Major am on 1
630,000 AMERICAN SK
Just arrived, all s:
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sai
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per It
Canterbury.
GLASS
STEAM GOACH AND WI
WORKS,
TT arris-street, off Geo
Adjoining the Darling Hai
S. G. would beg to draw the pai
Export Merchants to the large <5
Spokes always on hand, which v
saving in freight to purchasers j
timber in the rough.
S G. has also always in stock
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
A.'
OHU E C
147 YORK STR
Opposite the Mark
and
IV EW DEFLECTING LAMP
KEROSENE.*
Sr
v l/\\
F OK LIGHTING SHOP W]
BAEWELL AND FISHE]
GAB BURNERS JUST j
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWIfISFOED, 65 MAE
LBEBT S. MANDEJ
(Late Grant, Mandbrs a
PEESS, TELEGEAPHIC, AD"\
commission ag;
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAS
Victorian, Intercolonial, and J
supplied, and Advertisements rece:
We can supply Australian and
papers with Articles, Reports of M
dence, and General News, either by
and Newsagents and other business
kind of business transacted in Me
tion to us.
The above Firm have Agents in a
whom they get all the earliest Spor
supply, at moderate cost, the leadin
with telegrams of results, after eao
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Hourly Telegrams op Principai
&c., SUPPLIED.
We are prepared to forward the i
race to any part of the Austral
diately after the horses pass the ]
nation of the day’s sport.
Special arrangements made for
Tasmania,
Sole Agents in Australia and 1
TYPOGRAPH. Send for Circular
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Musi
paper, and on any paper. No wash
P. 0.0. made payable to the abov
Rent and Accounts collected. E'
PRINTING execu
EpON AND BEASS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bols
Sheets, Blankets, Conn
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtai
j. lawle:
MANUFACTURER AND
008 George-stree
IJIHOMAS WEBB
GLASS AND CHINA MI
aown fiTRI!


Chemists and Druggists
AKE NO MORE PILLS
hut try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Do yon BUFPEE from HEADACHE ?
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and he cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES 1
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Sanderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any’of your children sick at any time P Ton
can’safely give diem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
•3* Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by ail chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Ib.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors— ,
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
\* They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietot and Manufacturer —
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
Try BUSH ELL
FOR
S I G_N S.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T HARVEY.
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hay and Engine Streets.
’ Established 1851-
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets,
Business Announcements
W.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
G.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which pained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Aucher’s,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman's, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
S/dney.
WIND GROWER AND MERCHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 125.-to 255. per doz.
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for Levies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
--r. v Ch: oricnE h -’Watch Makers
- A^OfT|C|RMS-'
r -.. HUNTER STRffy ' .
Storey
REDGATE’S
PJITSHT meal
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet foi
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
HM kr all Crocer* ud Storekeepers
Band p. w. mason,
• DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS.
All matters carried out promptly. Flans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Jjl 0 W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Tobacconists
E • S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159
PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
s
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
AN
Sr
f
'M
&
*
Manufactured by
T. S A TW E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
JHO S. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSEINISHERS,
Importers of
lAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE,
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
~|fl CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged te keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
N ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
- VISIT
o
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENTS.
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Juh.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
Chemists and Druggists
m
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT."
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,600 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney— e
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies :
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe eases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, i/6, 2/6, & 4/6,
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. .EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetite with the Aua-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
£IOALCLIPF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed POE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price ol
Newcastle Coal, but also of. a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BUENING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
weU know, boilers, lubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net —delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto >• Coalelift.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened 1
225. Ditto single ditto f
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.


JJLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the rine-
jnices of LEMONS, LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im.
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the abuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, &c.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Bloodi
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master,
piece—Man. Remember • this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a'BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
PPROYED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I have to inform yon
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Tours faithfully,
“Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
The Australian Churchman says:
“ It is a
. MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANT FRUIT SALT
in the market."
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale —Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
>sva.
AJiY
NjADE JO ■**
pL/\IN
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND.GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
JgINJOY LIFE.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest to enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most hitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO'
PLEXY', HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN'S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give yon astonishing relief, don't use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY. ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
fjl R Y H. HOOKINGS & CO.’
PURE •
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
f < '■****''* . • v* ' '‘-'S • ■■■ ,V .
• .PUBLIC NOTICE.
CUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
lavettoodthe G! ; /"'PUBLIC OPINION
Qy/ur titigre thfrt, \ ’
A QUARTER OF a' CENTURA.
nd-a/K 'till:achuoueUdyedfo be uuesuaf e<l -
— i —jr —t~; —■,~gr- ». . . v
All .fZh. wear shirts and' value' e£rnfpttd re
respectfully solicited:’taf 'cCir.'ofi'zc
At fi SMITH & MANNELL,
l/iAW -RHTRT TV! AK WRS & HOSIE.Hb,
fM? SHIRT MAKERS * hosiers.
W SOS Georg-e. street,
ESTABLISHED 1844; :.SVDNEy
D ,
[A. G O O
• PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
Settled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits,
t brands, at the lowest possible t u em --
ties therefore would do well not to burden
res by bringing the same.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen's, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week's Sale; —
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OP
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES. „
Wb Buy fob Cash—We Sell for Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents’ English
Galf Boots, sewn,
10/6 —best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15/6,
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1 19.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Golf Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’ best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
Our Stock is always
New.
Pot every week’s
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10/6.
Oar immense pur-
chases enable us to
undersell all other
establishments.
All GOODS Mai led in PLAIN FIGURES.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Qents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
6/6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Onr stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
All GOODS Maekkd in PLAIN PIGUEES.
Oar Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 500
GEORGE STREET.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foxe’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’ READY ivlADE CLOTHING tire Gi^Ucil
» in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
GEORGE STREET, shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ATT. GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD FOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED
HUDSON'S EXTRACTofSOAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly'* on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
°*o
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BK USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &o.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib {jackets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE.
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & GO..
37 ELIZABETH STREET.
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEIL SON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
T3OYAL FURNISHING ARGADE.
HOUSES FUR-
NISHED
throughout in
the nicest and
most economical
manner. Pull
particulars post
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EVERY WED-
NESDAY, we
keep open until
nine o'clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend during
the day. The
SHOW-ROOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
BRO THERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
LARGE
AMOUNTS OF
money have been
saved by pur-
chasing at the
Royal Furnishing
Arcade, which
has from time to
time been ac-
knowledged a
great boon to the
public.
EFFORTS TO
make the Arcade
a centre attrac-
tion have to the
present time been
most successful.
Visitors feel such
a pleasure in
walking through
the Show-Rooms
—they can do so
without being'
worried or even
expected to make
a purchase.
SAVE MONEY
by purchasing at
the ROYAL
PUNISHING
ARCADE,
426, & 428,
George - Street,
Next the
Royal Hotel.
THERE CAN
be no better proof
of the increasing
popularity of the
Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade than
the last month’s
record of its busi-
ness transactions
If you are about
to furnish pro-
cure a copy of our
Economical
House Furnish-
ing Guide. You
will find it very
suggestive, and
consequently a
great help. All
classes of goods
are kept. It is
our constant
study to buy in
the cheapest mar-
and give our cus-
tomers every
satisfaction.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell).
ROYAL FURN ISHING ARC ADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
M A N L Y 4k
BEACH.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS.
M A N L Y.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry. Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY ONE OF Us.)
Judge Harding uses a Mackinnon pen in taking
depositions.
Captain Brown’s malediction —“ I wish yon were
in Ireland for a week.”
Dr. Lyons calls it “an effusion of blood round
the eye, with a slight encoriation of the skin.”
Ithaca Divisional Board meeting.—Present:
Bale and Ballinger. Business : “ You’re another 1”
The members of the Johnsonian Club call it
“ getting forrarder,” It usually occurs about midnight.
They are a heartless lot in the Courier office.
Dr. Concannon caught a cold, aud O’Carroll started on
an obituary notice straight otf.
Who says the Brisbane Evening News is not
a grand success '< The editor now sports a watch.
Perhaps yon won’t believe this.
The Jehu’s little joke with the driver of the
steam roller: “ Don't stand in the middle of the road
like that, or I’ll run your wheel off.”
Markwell said a good thing at the Police Court
the other day when that larceny case was on. “ This,”
said George, “ is a delicate subject to brooch in my
’earing.’' ,
That Supreme Court wall came to a sudden stop.
Ho, slave ! another gate. One of the learned judges
positively refused to go in through the same gate as the
prisoners. The indignity of the thing!
A man at Bowen Park, last week, challenged
several policemen to handcuff him, and they couldn’t
do it. He was a one-armed man. He ought to be hand-
cuffed to the man who started this story.
You ought to have heard Martin rolling off the
“ thousands ” at the Government land sale the other
day. “ And, gentlemen, three thousand two hundred
and forty-eight pounds is all - I’m offered for this lot.”
A pressman walked up Queen-street the other
day with four wild ducks over his shoulder, and although
this happens to be the close season for that species of
water fowl, he was not arrested. One of the privileges
•fthe Press.
The Foresters’ Hall, Fortitude Valley, on St.
Patrick’s Night.—Part 1 (the semi-circle) ; Thynne,
“Bones;” Bocks, tambourine. Part 2: Miss Norton,
of Hudson’s Sumrise Party, in “ While Thine Eyes
Look into Mine.” Scott tried to sing “ Sweet Chiming
Bells ” with about four colds in his throat. Part 3:
Hesford, as “ O’CaUaghan.” Capitally acted.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A buy word.—“ Cash.”
A joint affair. —Rheumatism.
A hard case—the shell of a tortoise.
Seeking cover.—Stealing an umbrella.
Slaves to Morbid desire.—Auctioneers.
An electric belle. —A telegraph operatrix.
A standing nuisance.—A kerbstone loafer.
A dangerous man.—One who takes life cheer-
fully.
The Czar’s last words (by private telegram),
“ Well, I’m blowed I"
1881 does not resemble a pair of lovers on a
sofa, because there is one at each end.
The man who goes into business with the devil
s*on finds his partner is soul proprietor.
Married gentlemen still wear the hair parted in
the middle. The parting is six inches wide in aggra-
vated cases.
The Isle of Dogs is somewhere near London,
but the aisle of dogs is in the Church of England,
Wellington, at the evening service.
A certain smart girl says that a young man she
knows is just like a telescope: you can draw him out,
see through him, and shut him up again.
A wicked American has invented a new tele-
graph. He proposed to place a line of women 50 steps
apart, and commit the news to the first as a very pro-
found secret.
When you see two men who can separate their
fighting dogs without parting as enemies themselves,
yon see two men who can be reckoned as among the
sheep to be saved.
Princess Louise, so all the daily papers of this
city have announced, has written a pianoforte solo,
“The Doctor’s Gallop.” H’m, let’s see. There never
has been a doctor’s gallop in that family, we believe.
An exhilarating new thing in toys is a miniature
hearse drawn by four prancing horses, and a little coffin
with a doll inside, surrounded by a group of mourning
dolls. Next we shall have a gallows and a guillotine.
Exceedingly wealthy colonist ‘(has been bumped
against by a stranger; and angry words have passed).—
“Do you know who I am, sir ?” Ordinary citizen.—
" No, I don't, but you look mean enough to be worth
£50,000 a year.”
“ Oh, ma,” exclaimed Miss South Yarra. “ The
dear delightful captain waltzes like an angel ” “ Cri-
key!” cried her young hopeful brother. “That’s a
good one. I’m younger than you, and I don’t remem-
ber the angels waltzing.”
The N.Z. Public Opinion has a Gaelic column
at the head of which stands this notice:—“ Communi-
cations in Gaelic if not plainly written cannot be re-
ceived. All correspondence must be addressed ‘ Gaelic
Editor, Public Opinion.' ”
The Irish landlord’s song:—
Whene’er I take my walks abroad
My tenantry I see,
And each has got a blunderbuss,
A looking out for me.
The word love in one of the Indian dialects is
chemlendamoughkanaogogager. This accounts for the
fact that Indians never have but one sweetheart at a
time. Yon oould’nt expect a man to attend to two
ehemleudamonghkanaogogager affairs at once.
Very fortunate. Missey.—“ And do yon know
Beggie, onr doctor brought a new baby to our house
yesterday morning, and papa was awdy up-oonntry, and
it was just lucky that mamma was at home at the time,
or I don’t know whatever we shonld have done.”
At a shire election in Victoria two candidates
were nominated, and before the day of election one
died. Under counsel’s advice (Councillor Cornelius
O’Flanagan ?), the poll was proceeded with, and, singu-
lar to relate, the dead man was elected. This was a poor
compliment to the second on the poll.
The head master of one of our city Public
schools found the following stanzas on his desk
“ Working on mid din and bustle.
While my heart is far away—
Longing to be with the larrikins.
As on verdant meads they play.”
Thus so far, a schoolboy writing,
Tried to ease his weary heart;
When just then, the stern school-master
Coming, wrote the latter part.
Wrote it sternly, yea, severely
On his thin-breeched, plump-set form;
And that boy’s now done with verses.
Though he were for poet bom.
In a recent sheep-killing match at Newark
(N.J.), a man named O’Brien dressed 25 sheep in 86
minutes. The conditions were substantially: Each
man to dress twenty-five sheep in good workmanlike
manner; each to have three helpers to assist, but no
helper after the sheep were put on the floor. The
helpers took the sheep from -the waggons, out their
throats in the trough, placed the sheep on the platform,
and handed skewers, cloths, and knives to the con-
testants.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Ashcroft edits the Otago Daily Times.
Dick Thatcher was once a matelot, and holds a
certificate as mate from the Board of Trade.
Dr. Eenwick, the International Exhibition
Commissioner, returned to Sydney last week.
Uolonel Nation lately died at Auckland, N.Z.
He was an officer in the Indian army during the mutiny
in 1857.
One of the proprietors of the Gonlbnrn Brewery,
who died recently, is said to have left a fortune of
£50,000.
The Hon. Henry Marsham, Lady Mary Mar-
kham, and Lady Annie Marsham, arrived in Sydney by
the Orient on the 23rd.
Miss Bnller, daughter of the Eev. James Buller,
author oS“ Forty Years in New Zealand,” is in Auck-
land just now, visiting her friends.
Captain Fowler is no longer in command of the
Lusitania, Mr. Euthven, late chief officer of the Orient,
having been appointed to the command.
E. A. Proctor’s new book, “ The Poetry of
Astronomy,” is splendidly reviewed by the literary
weeklies. It is said to be very interesting.
Mr. James Birchall, the oldest printer in New
Zealand, died at Wanganui the other day. Deceased
assisted in bringing out the first newspaper published
in the colony.
The death of General Von Goeben is looked
upon as an irreparable loss to Germany, he being
regarded as the successor to Count Yon Moltke, the
Field Marshal.
Mr. W. W. Capper, a member of one of the best
known families in the Hunter District, and a solicitor
enjoying a very large practice, died somewhat suddenly
at Newcastle on the 23rd.
Mr. James M. Seward, the present chief clerk
in the Equity branch of the Supreme Court, Melbourne,
is the oldest civil servant in Victoria. He entered the
public service as clerk of the Insolvent Court in
November, 1845.
Mr. Charles James Poole, who died suddenly the
other day at the London office of the Melbourne
Argus, was formerly connected with the Goulburn
Press, and was for some time secretary of the local
Mechanics’ Institute.
George Eliot has left some unpublished works
behind her. One of these is a “History of Ideas of
Immortality,” written several years ago. The other is
a complete translation of Spinoza’s “ Ethics,” executed
during the Strauss period,
Ouida never dots her i’s or crosses her t’s.
Thomas Carlyle wrote an irregular and difficult hand.
Matthew Arnold makes very angular, uniform letters.
Dion Boucicanlt writes a clerky hand. Edmond About
writes spitefully. Disraeli’s characters show great care
and self-esteem.
Mr. James Hoskins treats the officers of the
Lands Department very strictly, but still very fairly.
Merit always secures promotion. Escently a clerk who
had been reduced in position and salary, for some
official impropriety, was again promoted, even to a
higher position than he formerly occupied, on his exhi-
biting more attention to business.
Mr. Tennyson’s last songs and ballads have
attracted much and varied criticism. On one ballad,
however, opinions are unanimons. The wail of the
half-maddened mother in “ Bizpah ” exceeds in pathos
and intensity anything, not only of Tennyson’s own,
but almost anything in the English language, and in
language may compare with, the Bible itself.
M. Belcour, the Consul-General for Prance, and
the commander of the French man-of-war, Finisterre,
are “ at loggerheads ’’—the cause being some statement
made in Le Voltaire, a Paris daily, by the Melbourne
correspondent of that journal. The commander has
suspended all relations with the Consulate, and the
whole matter will be brought officially before the notice
of the French Cabinet.
Parramatta was in a healthy state the other day.
The late Mr. Ferris in an apoplectic fit; the late Mr,
Murphy rapidly entering the valley of the shadow; the
Mayor and M.P. (Mr. C. J. Byrnes) in bed a fortnight,
seriously ill; Mr. Hugh Taylor dangerously ill with
cholera; the Hon. James Byrnes seriously ill; eighty-
one cases of whooping-cough. All these at once. And
yet they talk about the salubrity of the climate, and
still they want to cajole the Governor up there I
Mortimer Franklyn will shortly bring out in
Melbourne, a paper called the Federal Standard,
which, according to the prospectus he has issued, will
be a very all-round affair, and will deal alike with
fashion and the meat-export question, agriculture and
music. Says Melbourne Punch: ‘ Federal Pig’s
Hash. A trumpet-blowing American intends bringing
out a journal in Melbourne in the interests of pork and
parties. The principles of the paper are summed up in
the words, “ dressed meat.” On one pace will be found
how ladies are dressed at evening parties, and, on the
next, how pigs should be dressed for the market.
Nothing like being comprehensive, hut hojv will the
ladies like being classed with “ dressed meat ?”
In the Court of Chancery on Dec. 22, Mr.
J. Pearson, Q.C., renewed his motion, pursuant to the
leave of the court, for the release of Mr. Frederick
Arthur Law, a young gentleman aged nineteen years,
from custody, he having been committed to Holloway
Prison for contempt of court in marrying a Miss
Harriet Metzer, a young lady of similar age, residing
near Sleaford, in Lincolnshire, a ward of court, not-
withstanding a prohibition issued by the Lord Chan-
cellor. Mr. Law was kept in gaol eleven days, and at
the expiration of that period had arrived at a condition
of penitence which even melted the mighty Judge. He
was discharged on settling the bride’s £7OOO on herself,
and on his father promising to take him into partner-
ship. Arthur, however, will all his life have a lively
recollection of this incident, since when the little ones
come they will all be little Laws, and their little
alphabet will be the letters of the law, though whether
they obey the law or not will depend a good deal upon
the ex-Ward of Chancery. And let us hope, for
Arthur’s sake, that Mrs. L.’s nature will not be typical
of the glorious uncertainty of the law—though he can
depend upon it, that having £7OOO in her own right, she
will show some of its “ spirit.”
The fiat of the physicians has gone forth, and
Gambetta, the great French tribune, cannot live long,
He has “ fatty degeneration of the heart ” and his days
are numbered. Yet, as President of the Assembly, he
lives gaily, striving, it would seem, to forget the black
shadow that hangs over him, by a profusion of pleasures
which are quite oriental in their character. “ Daily in
the Bois de Boulonge,” says a writer in the Whitehall
Eeview, “ Gambetta, who is always apeing regal opu-
lence, rides in a traineau with his private secretary,
Arnaud de I’Ariege, a gay spark, who is better described
as master of the revels than as secretary. Of course
the appointment is a friendly one, and is naturally
founded on the platonic attachment which exists be-
tween the obese tribune and the still attractive mis-
tress of the Chateau des Cretes. Gambetta would
never trust a resident and permanent secretary.” A
curious fact in connection with this extraordinary
nian is the number of mysterious individuals who claim
nnd are allowed friendly interviews with him. The
same writer in referring to these queer acquaintances
Sfy®:—“ They seem to be all Germans, in name at least.
Perhaps they are refugees from Alsace. If they receive
Money, it cannot be in the form of almsgiving, for the
oldest friends of Gambetta say that they never knew hire
to give a subscription for a charitable object in his life.
He has his spies everywhere; and many of them are
too well posted up in his mysterious antecedents to be
thrown over summarily. Iremember when he returned
trom Cherbourg a friend from New Caledonia insisted on
shaking hands with “Monsieur le President” as he
getting into his carriage. The sergents-de-ville tried
to push him back, but M. Gambetta looked round and
ecognised him effusively. At the end of the brief con-
ersatmn the President told him to be sure to come to
Palais Bourbon next day.” It is said that a friend
aia to him after breakfast, “Your entourage puts me
Hph-* 1 * Ali Baba.” “It is far worse,” replied Gam-
tha ’ * ? or then there were only forty of them —here
tney are innumerable. Besides,” he naively continued,
f lij n °t convenient servants handy to immerse my
a nd supporters in boiling pots of oil.” Then
with a sigh—“ I wish I had!”
n A m ®rican Waltham Watches, awarded two first
Hivh 3 bourne Interm 4 ional Exhibition, 1880.
Ijgner awards than any cx .ioitors of watches received.
THE FASHIONS.
[BY THE "MAN-MILLINEE,"]
African magpies are worn on hats.
In hats, the “ Cinq Mars” is the latest.
Evening dresses are profusely trimmed with
Spanish lace.
Eichly-embroidered plush shoes are new and be-
coming to the foot.
Amber and shell dagger-shaped ornaments are
worn diagonally in the hair.
The new shade of red is called “ Faust.” It is
a light shade of cardinal.
Long black satin boots richly beaded in jet are
much worn and admired.
Glossy black and coloured beaver bonnets will
be the favourites for the coming season.
The tiny muff with a bouquet of flowers on it
is worn with almost every evening dress.
Stockings must match the dress—not only the
plain colour of it, but must be worked with the same
flowers.
Bonnets and toques are made of all feathers.
The breast of the pheasant or peacock seem to be the
favorite.
Evening shoes are worn very pointed at the toes
and cut very low down so that a great deal of stocking
is shown.
Feather bonnets are trimmed with groups of
chaffinches in the front and plush strings. No other
trimming.
Plush is becoming more popular every day. It
is thought that we won’t see the end of it for a very
long while.
Among the prettiest conceits of the day are
floral trimmings, real or artificial; if the latter, they
must be perfumed.
The favourite style of hairdressing just now is
a la Victims, the tresses being arranged at the back in
two long wavy curls.
Silver, shell, gold, and ivory combs are much
seen in the hair for evening, and sometimes small side
combs to match are worn.
Plush caps are much in vogue for evening at
present both in London and Paris. Young ladies have
taken again to wearing them.
Narrow striped velvets are much used by
fashionable modistes for the new round coat-basqnes,
and are becoming to all figures.
Some lovely evening wraps are seen in chenille,
in which are woven threads of gold. These are arranged
so as to form a hood and cape in one.
Tournures are much in vogue, and are made off
stiff muslin and lace, flounce over flounce. It is to be
hoped we may stop at this, for though the dresses have
been almost too tight and narrow during the last few
years,’ they are yet much more graceful and natural
than the inflated balloons.
English homespun cloth makes very comfortable
and dressy wraps and waterproofs; some are seen with
plush caps and caffs, which look well.
Short dancing dresses, now so popular, are
generally made of white satin, with flounces of lace at
the bottom, with which are introduced flowers.
Beads in every colour mostly and every size and
shape imaginable are seen on the most handsome toilets
for evening, but black jet takes the lead for the street.
Black dresses are often seen this season relieved
with a bouquet of tulips, holly, or else poppies richly
arranged in the corsage. They make pretty costumes.
Fashionable fans are not too large, and are
much seen made of feathers taken from birds of rare
plumage, fastened quite flat on a satin or silk
foundation.
Turned-down linen collars, Byron shape, and
turned-up cuffs, are again being worn at home. They
are neat, and look well when finished off with a how of
plush ribbon at the neck.
Large collars and turned-back cuffs of bright
coloured plush tied with bows of wide ribbon of the
same shade are becoming and look charming with black
satin or cashmere dresses.
A new material for evening dresses is a very soft
satin, shot crimson and black, with crimson flowers
upon the shot ground. It is also to be had in colours,
but looks best in red and black.
Black quilted satin underskirts, having each
seam slit up nearly fourteen inches, and showing a
bright satin puffing and laced with gilt tape, and laces,
same color, are new and stylish.
Brides’ dresses are now worn in ivory satin,
almost covered in pearl embroidery and lace. The
bridal veil most worn is thickly studded in pearls, and
is now made open and short in front.
Plush is the material which holds the foremost
place this season. Eight bonnets out of every ten are
made of plush, or plush and velvet. The same may be
said of stylish costumes, petticoats, capes, &c.
Brocaded velvet, with a butterfly pattern,
makes a very elegant pelisse. Such articles are made
with whole squirrel linings and chinchilla accessories.
The Mandarin and paletot are the prevailing shapes.
A. new and elegant costume, lately iuported from
Paris, was made of mouse-grey cashmere, with a jacket
of the same colour in plush, worn over a ruby petticoat,
and trimmed with ruby silk cords and large painted
buttons.
Wide scarfs of either black or coloured net are
worn, fastened over the hair with jewelled ferns, and
carried round the neck with the ends falling behind.
Nothing looks more elegant than this head-dress for
the theatre or concert.
Seal and fur hats are seen in a variety of shapes,
and have taken well at home this winter. The Tam o’
Shanter hats with leopards’ claws are becoming to
some, but the old round toque or pointed turban in seal
and in plush is still favored.
The fans now most in favour with Transatlantic
belles are made of gold filagree, and set thickly with
diamonds, the gems being graduated in size from the
narrow to the wide part of each leaf, while a ribbon of
rubies holds the leaves together.
Very elegant and Oriental-looking embroideries
are now sold in strips. These are worked in silks or
beads upon satin. They are very fashionable for trim-
ming both petticoats and dresses, and can be used with
good effect upon a dark woollen costume.
What will be the next device in fashionable
jewelery no one can predict. The little gold elephant is
now treading upon the heels of the jewel-eyed pig;
and the spider, with its body of pearls and legs of
silver, is crawling in among the latest novelties.
Gold enters largely into the materials of mil-
linery this winter. It is seen in the fancy velvets as
the background for black, red, or olive raised figures ;
in cloth of gold for crowns in ribbons ; and there are
gold beads of every size seen on the newest bonnets.
Black net veils with polka dots of chenille are
much worn in the street; the gauze veils for warmth
are made with an inch hem, and should be two and
a-half yards long. They are worn crossed at the back
of the head and tied under the chin, and are most used
in black, grey, and dark green shades.
Strings are on all bonnets and are often seen on
hats. For this purpose figured ribbons are much in
vogue, in stylish widths of from three to four inches;
plush or chenille ribbons look elegant. The strings
should be tied in a mammoth bow directly under the
chin —not behind or on one side as they were last year.
Fashionable hair-dressers condemn round coils.
The latest style is after that of the German peasant
girl, viz.: braids crossed back, and brought low behind the
ears. Boman braids are liked for very young ladies.
These are two hanging braids plaited two-thirds their
length, and caught together by a large bow of ribbon or
a flat gold brooch.
Eed and yellow still reign supreme for millinery,
and seem destined to maintain the same important
place during the next season. The favourite shades of
red are claret, corinth, ruby, garnet, amaranth, poppy,
flame colour, and nasturtium. All the tints of yellow
and old gold uphold their supremacy, and are now
shading into golden fawn and olive green.
For ball dress, gloves are mostly trimmed with
lace, row over row of insertion being let in, ending with
a frill either just above or below the elbow. These are
sometimes seen with gussets of a contrasting colour let
in from the upper edge, and some are seen with a wreath
of small flowers round the tpp, while black gloves for
black dresses are beaded high up the arm.
For evening wear, it is the correct thing to have
your fan and muff to match. The latest thing in those
dainty affairs called muffs is one in black satin, painted
with humming birds and flies, edged with gold lace; a
fan to match mounted in filagree gold. Another, coral-
red velvet, embroidered in seed pearls, with fan to
match mounted in pearl. A third, of white satin,
honeycombed very finely, edged with point d’alengon,
trimmed with a bouquet of natural flowers, fastened
with a satin bow to match the costume with which it is
to be carried; and a laqe and satin fan, mounted in
mother-of-pearl to match.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Among the items of the Perugia Eothschild
wedding, the absence of the beauty women was
conspicuous.
At Adelaide, the other day, a young lady publicly
castigated an individual who had been meddling with
her reputation.
A gushing damsel of eight-and-fifty summers
was married this week at Parramatta to a “ frisky
young buffer" of sixty-five.
Miss Helen Connor has been admitted by the
New Zealand University to the degree of M.A., with
first-class honors in English language and literature.
Lady Dudley is one of the most beautiful women
in Great Britain. She is 30years old—the age preferred
by Balzac. Her eyes are blue, her features adorably
delicate, and her figure as ethereal as that of a sylph.
She takes gloves at si, and 3’s in boots.
La Belle France and not the United States is to
take the lead in the facilities offered for divorce.
Under the new law, which is passing the French legis-
lature, divorce may be obtained by mutual consent, but
not if the marriage has existed for 20 years, or if the
wife is 45 years old. In addition to the usual grounds
for divorce, where it is not a matter of mutual consent,
conviction for theft or embezzlement, or the suffering
of any degrading penalties, is held to be ground for a
dissolution. To be absent for five years, without news
of whereabouts or existence being received, is also a
ground for divorce. A proposal was made and actively
debated to the effect that marriages between a divorced
person and a co-respondent should not be allowed.
There is a gentleman in the suburbs who was
very fond of cooking. Directly he used to come home
from the office he would take his coat off and descend
to the lower regions, and, assisted by the buxom
cuisiniere, prepare choice dishes. It was some months
before the lady of the gentleman of the house objected
to this freak of her husband’s. One day, however, she
summarily discharged her own cook, and engaged an
uncommonly portly female from the labour bazaar. He
didn’t stay long down in the kitchen that afternoon,
and when she asked him why he merely groaned.
Presumingly on this she enquired ironically, “how he
liked the new cook?” Then the worm turned. “I
hope you pay her a handsome salary,” said he. “ Why ?’’
she inquired. “ Good gracious! look what she will
save us in butter," he rejoined. And the next day, it
came to pass, that that cook left.
He wanted her to go to a picnic, and called one
evening this week to get her mother’s consent. The
graceful girl took him into the front parlor, and in a few
minutes the conversation became poetic and tender.
He urged her to go with that persuasive eloquence so
effective in the youth of 22 summersl and had scarcely
repeated the words “Do you think your mamma will
object, darling Louie?” when the door was thrown open,
and the designing mother entered and seized his hand,
at the same time gushing forth, “ Object, Georgie, my
dearson! Why should I object ? Louie is old enough
now, and you have very fair prospects. Take her, and
he good to her, for she will make you a good wife.
Object ! not at all. Although it will be hard to part
with her, I feel that she will find a dear good husband
in you!” Tears here choked her utterance, and that
young man couldn’t concentrate enough meanness in
himself to tell the old woman that she misunderstood
him ; and she didn’t give him any time either, for she
left the room before he had time to speak. The young
fellow now wants to know if it would be better for him
to marry the girl, or realise on his bag of tools and
clear out.
Do you happen to know Cox ? He’s a man of a
thousand, or a nobleman in disguise. At all events,
he’ll be a lonely orphan boy for some time to come, as
he has just been “ run in ” at Beading, England, on a
charge of bigamy. It seems that, a few years ago, Cox
got spliced at Oxford. Finding, however, that Mrs. C.
(No. 1) was not to his taste, he migrated to Beading,
and there entered into holy bonds with another lady,
of a more congenial disposition. This nice little (or,
rather, bigamous) transaction got to the ears of the
local “ Eoberts,” who straightway hauled him before
the “beak.” Tarantara! Cox’s defence was singular,
if not touchingly ingenious. He pleaded that he did not
think the first marriage was legal, inasmuch as he had
been married with a brass instead of a gold ring.
Unfortunately for our “ brassy” Lothario, he had never
heard of the fat woman who was married with the
handle of the church door-key, because, “ keyuriously”
enough, her finger was a few sizes too large to admit of
any ordinary sized wedding-ring fitting it. Cox will
now have time to study the law, and it is believed he
will know a few “ ringkles” on marriage by the time he
comes out of “ quod.” Soup-la I Bing the merry mar-
riage-bells !
SENSE AND SENTIMENT.
Mrs. Browning : Love is deathless.
Dibdin: In one soft look what language lies !
Anon : Love comes unseen —we only see it go.
Dryden: The greatest argument for love is love.
La Fontaine: Rare is true love —friendship is
rarer.
Dryden: Poor women’s thoughts are all ex-
tempore.
Anon: None but death loves the lips by love
forsaken.
Lord Lyttleton : Women, like princes, find few
real friends.
Salome : False face must hide what the false
heart doth know.
Shakespeare : There’s beggary in the love that
can he reckoned.
Hall£ : Woman is the nervous part of humanity,
man the muscular.
Anon: A fan is indispensable to a woman who
can no longer blush.
Mirabeau: A short absence quickens love, a
long absence kills it.
Proverb: Trust your dog to the end ; a woman
till the first opportunity.
Diderot; Libertines are hideous spiders that
often catch pretty butterflies.
South : All love hath something of blindness in
it, but the love of money especially.
Legouve: Love may be found in the heart of an
anchorite; never in the heart of a libertine.
Lavater: A woman whose ruling passion is not
vanity is superior to any man of equal capacity.
Ouida: It is murder to take life ; but perhaps
to take away all the joy of life is a more cruel thing to
do.
Madame Swetchine: A man must be healthy
before he can be holy. W e bathe first, and then we
perfume.
A. Dupuy: A coquette is more occupied with
the homage we refuse her than with that we bestow
upon her.
Lowell: Sentiment is intellectualized emotion,
emotion precipitated, as it were, in pretty crystals by
the fancy.
Moli^re; When one has married a wicked woman
the best thing he can do is to throw himself into the
water head foremost.
T. B. Aldrich:
For those who love, the world is wide.
But not for those who hate.
Madame de Eieux : In ill-matched marriages,
the fault is less the woman’s than the man’s, as the
choice depended on her the least.
O. W. Holmes :
Alas for those that never sing.
But die with all their music in them!
Ph. de Verenne: The trade of honest woman,
though less complicated than that of the honest man,
is, nevertheless, a most difficult business.
Raleigh :
Passions are likened best to floods and streams.
The shallow murmur, but the deep are dumb.
George Eliot: Hard speech between those who
have loved is hideous in the memory, like the sight of
greatness and beauty sunk into vice and rags.
Poincelot: Marriage is a romance until the book
’is open. True, the preface is sometimes amusing, but
it never lasts long, and it is always deceptive.
Lowell: Among all animals, man is the only
one who tries to pass for more than he is, and so in-
volves himself in the conedemnation of seeming less.
George Sand: There is among men such intense
affectation that they often boast of defects which they
have not, more willingly than of qualities which they
have.
Maguerite de Yalois : There are women so hard
to please that it seems as if nothing less than an angel
will suit them. Hence it .comes that they often mate
with devils.
Puller : The affections, like the conscience, are
rather to be led than drawn; and ’tis to be feared that
they who marry where they do not love will love where
they do not marry.
Rochefoucauld: The pleasure of love is in
loving. We are happier in the passion we feel than in
that we inspire. We always like those who admire us;
we do not always like those whom we admire.
Anon: Friendship is impossible between men
of high social standing and men in the lower walks of
life; very difficult between a young man and a young
woman; between two beautiful women, it is but a
poetic fiction.
Auerbach; Just as the stars above are separate
and distinct from each other, so is every human soul
solitary and alone. Each travels in its own orbit, its
course determined by the attraction and repulsion of
the heavenly bodies that environ it.
G. W. Curtis : An old belle who endeavors to
retain by sharp wit and spicy scandal the place she held
only in virtue of youth and spirited beauty, is, in a new
circle of youth and beauty, like an enemy firing at you
from the windows of your own house.
Dickens: A silent look of affection and regard
when all other eyes are turned coldly away the
consciousness that we possess the sympathy and affec-
tion of one being when all others have deserted us —is a
hold, a stay, a comfort, in the deepest affliction, which
no wealth could purchase or power bestow.
Lola Montez ; “ Discord is an incendiary who
sets fire to the house of love over one’s very head; but
monotony is an underminer, who saps the foundation,
and when there is a fall, love is for ever buried in the
ruins.” And should you want an illustration of this
truth, read Mrs. Lynn Linton’s “ Under which Lord P”
Ouida: Solitude !—sweet to the youth who first
suffers ; to the lover who is half-enamoured and half-
proud of the fangs that devour him ; sweet to these.
But to the man of the world, to the man past his youth,
to the man whose last hope is dead, with his last joy
and last passion—solitude would be but the gate to the
mad-house.
Ruskin: You cannot think that the buckling
on of a knight’s armour by his lady’s hand was a mere
caprice of romantic fashion. It is the type of an
eternal truth—that the soul’s armour is never well set to
the heart unless woman’s hand has braced it; and it
is only when she has braced it loosely that the honor
of manhood falls.
Anon; It is so strange ! We see a million faces,
we hear a million voices, we meet a million women with
flowers in their breasts, and light in their fair eyes, and
they do not touch us. Then we see one, and she holds
for us life or death, and she plays with them idly so
often—as idly as a child with toys. She is not nobler,
better, or more beautiful than were all those we passed,
and the world is empty without her.
Dickens : And how hard to grow old and die,
and think we might have cheered and helped each
other! How hard in all our lives to love each other;
and to grieve apart, to see each other working, changing,
growing old and gray. Even if we get the better of it,
how hard to have a full heart, and live to have it slowly
drained out every drop, without the recollection of one
happy moment of a woman’s life to stay behind and
comfort us, and make us better.
Ouida: I get very much out of patience when I hear
of the tenderness of woman; they are only tender just
for themselves and their belongings—as tigresses and
bears are. They have no notion of any impersonal
sympathy. Men you can move by a thousand things—
their imaginations, their affections, their chivalries,
their follies, their intelligence, their perception, what
you will. But woman can only be moved by just one
thing alone —her own private interest.
Mr. J. Spencer, the well-known dentist, of
Wynyard Square, has resumed, in response to general
solicitations, the use of the laughing-gas for the painless
extraction of teeth.
A Rhymed Rhapsody.
[INSCRIBED TO THE CHEVALIER HENRY HALLORAN,
C.M.G.]
A poet’s love for all that’s fair and bright
In Nature, but especially in woman ;
A soldier’s dream to mingle in the fight
For freedom, for thy country, or for sum ’un:
A statesman’s subtle skill and keen delight
The heart-strings of the multitude to strum on ;
All these united to awake thy lyre.
Evoking tender tones, orbursts of vocal fire.
Why then, my gallant bard, shouldst thou forget,
Amid the gloaming of thy tranquil vesper.
The transports thou hast felt—that thrill thee yet ;
Or sigh because thy Lucifer’s not Hesper ?
lam not rash; but here’s a level bet —
Nay, rather let me breathe it in a whisper—
Thou wouldst not drink of Loethe’s waters now.
Although the silver crown adorns thy brow.
Forego sad thoughts. Mid all thy burning days
Of passion, hope and daring aspiration.
No light illumed thee with such potent rays
As haloes now thy toned imagination.
Thon didst fair service in a hundred ways.
As acolyte, to this our common nation.
If work in youth, and ruth, is work in vain.
Then life were living death, or needless pain.
WiK Australind thy memory ignore ?
Will all thy aims and ends be soon forgotten ?
Are human hearts, like rocks that guard our shore.
Calcined and grim, dark, escarped and rotten ?
Do Faith’s star-pointed arrows never more
Pierce minds with worldly cares besotten ?
Believe it not! Thou art to us as dear
As when thy strain first smote our grateful ear!
J.S.M.
Sydney, 23rd March.
Thompson and Giles have provided to order
several rich and novel costumes for the coming fancy
dress ball.
Special attention is directed to Messrs. Hardie
and Gorman’s advertisement in this issue, respecting
the sale, on the ground, on Saturday, 9th April, of the
Chesterfield Estate.
There should be a good attendance at the
concert at theEedfern Town Hall on the sth April—the
vocalists and performers being good, and the object a
charitable one that deserves supporting.


QUEEN’S THEATRE.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON,
and the management of
COPPIN, HENNINGS, and GKEVTLLE.
THIS EVENING, (Thursday) 31st MARCH,
No. X Volunteer Fire Company's Benefit.
To commence with Petita Comedy,
Professors Siegrist and West on Horizontal bar. Our
Boys in trio triple American Sand -lie- Larry Foley
and Meenan in Assault d’Armes. The Champion
Indian club performer, Ac., Ac.
To conclude with the New Sensation,
SHIP AHOY!
SATURDAY EVENING, 2nd April,
GREVILLE’S BENEFIT.
Monster attraction, and positively LAST NIGHT.
Comedv Drama, Interludes, A Burlesque.
GREVILLE ON HIS LAST LEGS.
SHIP AHOY! SHIP AHOY! SHIP AHOY!
Box Office at Palings.
(J AIE T Y THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
UNDIMINISHED SUCCESS OF
THIS EVENING.
ENTIRE CHANGE OP PROGRAMME.
PART I.
Overture—“ The Fire in the
Grate” “Theßoogey Man.”
Milly and I—“ The Huckle-
berry Picnic” W. P, SWEATNAM
" Pretty Blue Eyes ” THE TWO OFF UNN3
OLIO.
Averdupois SWEATNAM’S Straw
Band Descriptive Song
SWEATN AM' S TELE PHONE. To conclude with
WANTED a nurse.
RUTH ANNE MORGAN ... Mr. BILLY SWEATNAM
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson A Co.’s, 325 George-st.
Prices, ss. 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7 15; commence at 8. Carriages at 10.
F. H. POLLOCK, Agent.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
goHOOL OF ARTS.
Qr«at Success. Great Success. Great Success.
Enthusiactic reception of the Wonderful
PROFESSOR I ANDERSON I
PROFESSOR I ANDERSON |
assisted by
in their Amusing and Highly-entertaining
MONSTER GIFT PRESENTATION OF
SUITES OF DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE,
PIANOS, GOLi> WATCHES, &c„ &c.
TO-NIGH T TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT.
The leading Present will consist of a
HANDSOME SUITE OF FURNITURE,
together with
One Hundred Other Valuable Presents.
Recipient of Suite of Furniture on Saturday
evening—Mr. Gosney, Hinchgate-terraoe, Cleveland-
street.
Recipient of Furniture on Monday evening—Master
Frank Robertson. Cbarles-street, South Kingston.
Recipient of Furniture on Tuesday evening—Mr.
Sidney Coombe, O’Connell-street.
Reeeipient of furniture on Wednesday evening—Mr.
Thomas Stibbings, 51 Gloueester-street, Argyle Cut.
Admission —Ss, 2s, and One Shilling. Doors open at
7.30; Overture at 8 sharp.
Tickets for all parts of the house can be had at
KIRBY’S Musical Warehouse, Pitt-street.
SATURDAY next, April 2nd,
GRAND MATINEE,
commencing at 3 p.m.
on which occasion everv child attending will receive a
HANDSOME PRESENT.
Admission—Children, front seats. Is; second ditto, 6d,
AUSTRIAN BAND
FANCY DRESS BALL.
By Special Permission of
The Hon. the COLONIAL SECRETARY.
To be held at the
GARDEN PALACE,
on
TUESDAY, 6th APRIL NEXT.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the Governor,
Commodore Wilson, R.N.,
Commander H.M. Navy Squadron, Australian Station,
and the
Officers of the Staff,
Captain Maxweli and Officers of H.M.S. Emerald.
Commander, Hon Ed. S. Dawson, and Officers of
H.M.S. Miranda.
10 per cent, of the gross receipts to be devoted to the
Public Charities through the Committee,
The Hon. Sir ALFRED STEPHEN, C. 8., K.C.M.G.,
Lieutenant-Governor
The Hon. Sir JOHN HAY, K.C.M.G., President of
Legislative Council.
The Hon. Sir G. „W. ALLEN, K.C.M.G., Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly
The Hon. Sir PATRICK JENNINGS, K.C.M.G.,
Executive Commissioner of Sydney International
Exhibition.
Tickets can be obtained on application to—
Messrs. FARMER & CO., Pitt-street
Messrs. D. JOMES k CO., George-street
Messrs. THOMPSON & GILES, George-street
Mr. YEO, Pitt-street
Messrs. ELTY & CO., George-street
Mr. PALING, G >orge-slreet
Messrs. MOSS. Hunter-street
Mr. HUENBRBEIN, George-street
Mr. BURTON, Hunter-street
and at the Band office, Moore-street, rear of the City
Bank.
Prices of Tickets—Gentlemen, 215.; Ladies, 12s. 6d.;
Family Tickets.
As this is the last performance of the Austrian Band,
it is intended to make it
THE EVENT OP THE SEASON,
and no expenses have been spared in making prepara-
tions for the reception of a large and distinguished
assembly.
The decorations of the ball-room, which will be of an
elaborate description, are undertaken by Mr. Torning.
The gastittings and illumination, by Mr. Swan.
The fittings, by Mr. Hinton.
The refreshment department is in the bands of the
Compagnoni Catering Co., and will be provided in their
best style.
Herr HELLER, with an efficient staff, will act as
Master of Ceremonies.
NOTICE.
Families or friends wishing to form groups of serious
or comic characters will, if desired, be afforded infec-
tion and assistance at the Band's office, Moore-street.
OEDEE OF SALE
of
SUNDRY PROPERTIES TO BE SOLD
by
PUBLIC AUCTION, AT THE ROOMS,
88, PIT I’-STEEET,
B
THURSDAY, 7th APRIL, at 11 a m.,
by
ATT, RODD, and PURVES,
CITY PROPERTY,
George-street 8.,
Brickfield Hill.
THE SQUARE AND COM-
PASS HOTEL and GATE-
WAY, Nos. 716 and 718,
EO THERWELL’S
SADDLER’S SHOP. No. 720,
also adjoining, viz., 4 SHOPS,
Nos. 708, 710, 712, and 714,
OCCUPIED respectively by
Messrs. HARDMAN BROS. ;
PANTEE and PARRY,
ISRAEL ISRAEL, and
M‘EYOY ; plan at the Rooms;
producing an ANNUAL
RENTAL of £1124 10s.. FREE
OF ALL RATES and TAXES.
THE LAND has a total fron-
tage of 124 feet 5 inches by over
200 feet deep. TITLE FREE-
HOLD. TERMS, cash ; or 25
per cent, cash, the balance on
mortgage for three years at only
5 per cent. SOLICITORS to
the Estate, Messrs. NORTON
and SMITH.
CITY PROPERTY,
Cumberland-street,
CHESHUNT HOUSE, the
STABLES, COTTAGE, and
large VACANT PIECE of
LAND adjoining. THE
HOUSE is at present in the
occupation of Mr. SIMEON, at
a rental of £4 10s, per week;
and the COTTAGE and
STABLES, by Messrs. CON-
NOLY and LANGFORD, at
£3. LAND, 183 feet 5\ inches
to CUMBERLAND-STREET,
137 feet 7 inches to FORT-
STREET x 81 feet 10 inches on
one side and 45 feet on the
other. SALE PLAN now on
view at the ROOMS. SOLICI-
TORS to the Estate, Messrs.
NORTON and SMITH.
CITY PROPERTY,
George-street.
ALL THOSE VERY
VALUABLE TWO HOUSES,
known as Nos 5 and 7,
situate close to the A. S. N.
Co.’s NEW WHARF, to-
gether with the STORE ad-
joining. THE TWO HOUSES
ARE LET at a NOMINAL
RENTAL of £2 15s per week,
and the STORE at 12s. LAND,
88 feet to GEORGE-STREET,
83 feet to CUMBERLAND-
STREET, by a depth of 66 feet
on one side and 30 feet on the
Other SALE PLAN AT THE
ROOMS. Title, Freehold, un-
questionable, SOLICITORS
to the Estate, Messrs. NORTON
and SMITH.
WAVERLEY,
near the Tramway
Terminus.
Verv CHOICE ALLOT-
MENT of 5,-A.ND, having 30
feet frontage to GROSVENOR-
STREET, near GRAFTON-
STREET, by 150 deep. TITLE,
Leasehold, 74 years to run.
Ground rent, £8 per annum.
SOUTH COLAH,
“ The Endymion
Estate.”
On the SURVEYED LINE
GREAT NORTHERN RAIL-
WAY, 10 VALUABLE Blocks,
varying in size from 7 to 13
acres each. AH good RICH
AGRICULTURAL LAND, sur-
rounded by, and very SUIT-
ABLE FOR, ORANGERIES
and VINEy ARDS; HEAVILY
TIMBERED and well watered.
TITLE, FREEHOLD (Crown
grant). PLANS at the Rooms.
REDFERN,
Walker-street.
3 WELL-BUILT and finished
W. B. COTTAGES, each !
rooms, kitchen, and verandah—
ONE STABLE and COACH
HOUSE; LAND, 66 feet x 100
TITLE. LEASEHOLD; 7
years to run.
HOMEBUSH, WITHOUT RESERVE. VALU-
PARRAMATTA ROAD ABLE 30-ACRE BLOCK having
near Old Racecourse. 660 feet FRONTAGE x 2046 feet
deep, known as J. GOULD’S
GRANT; bounded on one side
by Mr. MARR’S 30-acre FARM,
and on other by Mr. DUN-
STAN’S 100 ACRES; together
with COTTAGE AND WELL-
FENCED GARDEN AND
SHEEPYARDS. PLAN at the
ROOMS.
REDFERN, «rWITHOUT RESERVE, 1
VICTORIA PARADE, NEW HOUSES, each 4 goo
Walker-street,
rooms, balcony, verandahs bac
and front; stables, and sma
flower garden; built of brick o
stone; TOTAL RENTAL, £Bl
45.; LAND, 300 x 100 to a 15-fe(
lane; Bof the houses having als
double stable and coachhous
together with SHOP an
HOUSE, of 6 rooms, &c., COI
NER PHILLIP and WALKE
STREETS. TITLE, leasehold
74 years to run. Plan at tl
Booms.
ENMORE,
1 minute of
Newtown Station.
TWO PRETTY DETACHED
COTTAGES, situate WIL-
FORD-STREET, near CHAP-
LIN-STREET, off ENMORE
ROAD, adjoining the residence
of W. POSTER, Esq., M.L.A.;
each containing 5 rooms, kit-
chen, hall, pantry, bathroom,
verandah; SMALL GARDEN,
BACK ENTRANCE 10 feet
wide ; CITY WATER and GAS
LAID ON. RENTAL, £65 per
annum. LAND, 86 feet x good
depth. TITLE, TORRENS’
ACT,
SURRY HILLS, 3 GOOD HOUSES, two to-
RILEY-STRET, one LET at 15s. each, and one at
door from
ALBION-STREET,
NEWINGTON
ESTATE,
Parramatta Road.
10s. per week. The LAND has
40 feet frontage to RILEY-
STREET, x a depth of 30 feet;
SIDE ENTRANCE 6feet wide;
TITLE, FREEHOLD (Bilet
Estate.) TERMS EASY.
SECTION 2a, 7 LOTS, viz.,
LOTS 16 to 22, each 66 x 349 feet
9 inches; UPSET PRICE, £6O
per Lot.
SECTION 3a, 6 LOTS, viz.,
LOTS 5 to 10, each 66 x 330 feet;
UPSET PRICE, £4O ner Lot.
SECTION 16. 2 LOTS, front-
ing the DUCK RIVER, each 66
x 616 feet on one side, and 462
feet on the other; UPSET
PRICE, £6O per Lot. PLAN at
the Rooms.
CARDS to view, PLANS, and further particulars,
from the Auctioneers,
BATT, RODD, & PURVES.
88, Pitt-street.
s
I M
K E
S AND PAR
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
TREAT ALL DISEASES WITH HERBS.
BOOKS FOR NOTHING—GET ONE!
You will get information that may save yon pounds,
and perhaps months, or even years of suffering.
Address; 240 GEORGE STREET NORTH,
Opposite Charlotte Place,
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTURING
Haye opened a Bepot in
COMPANY
8
YDNEY, AT No. 1
HARBOUR
DARLING STORES
STEEET.
8
IN GEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
8
INGERS SEWING MACHINES
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS. ‘
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES-
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOE FAMILIES
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
8
INGERS SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS
SIHGEE'S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
Singers the best for tailors.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
8
INGER S, THE BEST FOR BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-Presser Machine.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
HAND OE TEEADLE.
8
INGER’S. The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Garry.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LE ABN ■ New Improvements without extra cost.
8
NGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ADDRESS: THE
8
INGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
No. 1 DAB 1. In u STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney.
RINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George street, Haymarket, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these celebrated-
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s trial given.
Easy Terms. 2s fid weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
8
( INGEB S SEWING MACHINES.—TURNER
and CO. only recommend r.he Singer.
Remember, there is wnly one sin-
ger MACHINE. See the name and Trade
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER &
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—Beware of German
Cast ir m imi*ations. Only Genuine Singer’s
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES by arrange-
ments with the Singer Company.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments in
SYDNEY.—From TURNER and CO., 35
KZJ GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONI
1 but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
1
GJ. WELLS, late STANFORD & CO.
• The old authorised Agency for SINGER
MACHINES.
SINGER’S. The ONLY MACHINE of merit.
A real test of merit —2,600,000 now in use.
SINGER’S MACHINE with new triple action,
with latest IMPROVEMENTS and accessories.
QIN GEE'S, from ,£5 cash, at G. J.
IO 1 HUNTER STREET.
J. WELLS for LIBERAL TERMS of
VA • Payment. 2s 6d Weekly ; 5s deposit.
WHERE can you get the GENUINE SIN GEE
MACHINE ? WELLS, 1 Hunter street.
mHE OLD RELIABLE SINGER is the
JL CHEAPEST, the SIMPLEST, and most DUR-
ABLE ever constructed.
T
O AVOID DECEPTION buy only at the Old
Authorised Agency, WELLS, 1 Hunter-street.
8
INGEE’S NEW IMPROVED Triple Action
Balance Wheel. Latest Improved attachments.
8
INGER’S MACHINE. Immense discount to
cash purchasers. 10 per cent. 10s for cash.
SINGER’S MACHINES have stood the test
of all opponents and BASE IMITATIONS for the
past thirty years.
t’i J. WELLS. The old original and only
J" • Genuine System of payments offered to meet
the terms and demands of the public at 2s 6d per week,
and 5s deposit.
WELLS for Price lists and all imformation
free. No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney. The OLD
SHOP lor GENUINE ARTICLE.
WELL S Established Agency will be open
Every Saturday evening to give all instruc-
tions free, and receive weekly payments.
«■ Note the ADDRESS- __
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINE AGENCY,.
G. J. WELLS, (Late Stanford and Co.).
No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts. U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Any.
Messrs. F. Lasaetter and Co., the well-known
importers, are to the front again with some great at-
traction, the present one being some of the most novel
productions of the Coblenz potteries. A shipment of
those articles, received now for the first time in these
colonies, are on view, and as might be expected, attract
the attention of all the leading art connoiseurs of the
city, They comprise articles both useful and orna-
mental, quite unique in style and design. Here is to be
seen the potter’s art in perfection—stoneware illumi-
nated with historic and other sketches, brought out in
bold relief in the most effective style. The shipment is
qvite a new line of goods, and will be rare art prizes for
wealthy houses. A visit to Lassetter’s to see these
treasures of Rhineland will not be devoid of interest or
pleasure.
T
H E A T E E
E 0 T A L.
Lessee Mr. Sami. Lazar
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman
WILLIAMSON’S OPERA COMPANY.
THE “ PIRATES OF PENZANCE ” SEASON.
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
THIS EVENING!
Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan's
famous Melodramatic Opera.
PIRATES OP PENZANCE,
or
THE SLAVE OF DUTY!
POPULAR PRICES:
Dross Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3s;
Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box office at Elvy and Co.’s,
Qeorge-street, where plan of
Dress Circle can be seen, and
Seats secured.
ARTHUR GARNER,
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
PIRATES
Manager.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Messrs. D. and J. Broadliead, of Inverary Park,
Bungonia (Qoulbnrn district) are the “ boss ” farmers
of Argyle. Over 400 acres under crop this season ;
yield, 3000 bushels, chiefly oats, besides about 300 tons
of hay The Narandera to Hay railway line is being
fushed ahead, the earthwork being nearly completed,
'or some time past a locomotive has been running to
the Yanco, over forty miles, with the exception of the
rails, having been completed The Rockhampton
leper is at last dead. His body was at once placed in
quicklime and his hut etc. burnt down A carpet
snake measuring 14ft. “Jin. has been killed on the
Clarence A man has been fined £lOO, at Wingham,
for illicitly distilling rum A Bathurst larrikin had
the other day to pay £ll for some little eccentricities.
Since then “the talent” have been remarkably quiet.
......One or two people have recently suffered in Mel-
bourne from eating the flesh of poisoned rabbits
Money is still flowing at an unprecedented rate into the
Melbourne banks, which cannot find profitable employ-
ment for it The Newcastle branch of the Amalga-
mated Society of Engineers held their anniversary
dinner at the Ship Inn, Newcastle, on the evening of
Saturday, 16th inst. About forty members attended.
There are fully 70 untenanted houses in Grafton.
At South Grafton where rents are quite 50 per cent,
higher than those ruling on the other side of the river
there is not a single habitable house unoccupied The
ship Hereford has been successfully placed in Duke’s
Dock, Melbourne. All things considered, the cost of
repairing her will not be great Gold has been found
in the hack yard of Fry’s hotel, Gundagai, by some
men employed in sinking a post-hole. Many years
ago, while the local court-house foundations were
being excavated for, good gold was discovered
Mr. J. Bacheldor, storekeeper, of Oberon, died very
suddenly on Saturday week, of heart disease Owing
to an anonymous letter being sent to the Brighton
police (Viet.), Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Caroline Tuck
have been arrested for alleged murder of a child of
Hie last-named, which was dug up from a garden where
it had been buried 8 ft. underground At Temora, a
man named Philip Palmer, while suffering from drink,
ran out of a house and fell down a shaft 85 feet deep.
He was rescued without having been injured
The Orient steamers are to berth at Williamstown
(Melbourne) pier soon Man, named Wilson, choked
with a piece of meat at a Dubbo hotel Thos Menzies,
a boy of 14, has been arrested at Brighton, Mel., on a
charge of laying a post across the railway line Robt.
Balfour, a passenger from Adelaide to Sydney, has been
arrested by the Warrnambool police on a charge of
forgery The Mount Gambier Steamship Co. is “up a
tree.” A “pauper” patient of the Orange hospital
was found to have £l7O in his possession The Braid-
wood Dispatch says that a valuable milch cow, the
property of Mr. George Barker, of Mount Pleasant,
Mougarlowe River, was recently discovered with one of
her fore legs chopped off just below the knee A but-
cher boy in South Australia, aged 13, hanged himself
last week. S.A. is now more than level with Victoria,
which, the other day, had a 15-year-old milkboy suicide.
......A man was brought up at Inverell, the other day,
and admonished for being drunk. “ The poor fellow,”
says the Inverell Times, “ was suffering from a slight
bilious attack, having just finished a debauch during
which he drank £4O worth of rum.” A pack track from
Cairns to Herberton, several miles shorter than the old
one,has been discovered,says the Cairns Advertiser
The Cooktown Herald was bought in at £295, and has
been leased by the late editor, Mr. Fowler Mr. D.
Grove, J.P., of Trugha, who has just returned to N. S.
W. after a trip roundthe world, goes to India shortly,
with men and machinery to aid in developing the
mineral resources of that country Quong Tart, an
enterprising Mongolian of Braidwood, was feted at the
Commercial Hotel in that town, the other day, prior to
his departure for China A Yass lady who went out
on horseback the other day, got two spills in as many
many hours There are six miles of working tramway
in Christchurch. During the year the trams have run
44,274 miles, at a cost of 13d. per mile, the earnings being
Is. 7d. per mile. A dividend of 4 per cent, has been de-
clared......A gratis advertising sheet has been started in
Wellington. The opening announcement says :—" We
don’t aim at being journalists, but merely the medium
of advertising at a fair rate of charges.” Mr. J.
Anderson, the popular chief officer of the s.s. Wakatipn,
has been promoted to the command of the steamer
Wellington At the R. C. bazaar in Tumnt, water
melons were raffled for 10s and 15s, the winner being
allowed the privilege of having first slice A well-
known “ religious ” man in Adelong was caught in a
vineyard last Sunday morning by the proprietor (a
Chinaman) with a pillowslip full of grapes. John made
him disgorge, and preferred taking £3 hard cash to
taking Simon Pure to court Edward Bradshaw,
steward of the Lady Bowen, drowned at Bundaburg, Q.
Heavy destructive floods in Queensland Three
Italians and a Frenchman, said to be flshernen, blown
off the coast of New Caledonia, arrived at Keppel Bay.
Believed Italians employed to secure Frenchman’s
escape. Their ten-ton boat was well provisioned
Boyle’s Victorian cricket team well received at Ade-
laide The evidence given by Lieut. O’Connor, of the
Queensland Native Police, before the Victorian Police
Board Enquiry severely censures Capt. Standish
Tenders for the completion of the Mudgee railway have
been invited Fresh tenders have been called for
completing the Nepean tunnel of the waterworks, the
original contract being void through the decease of the
contractor, Edwards A petition has been sent to
the Colonial Secretary, praying for the release of a
Srisoner in Maitland gaol, William McGowan, whose
eath sentence was commuted to imprisonment for life
(he then being 16 years of age) for a capital offence iu
1871 The ’overseer of the Turkish estate, Camper-
dowu (Vic.) laid phosphorised oats for the destruction
of rabbits. Result: 60 sheep, 12 head cattle, and 12
rabbits poisoned. Who will say this treatment is not
effective? Sandhurst (Vic.) is monopolising specu-
lators’ capital to the detriment of Ballarat. The
“ Corner ’’ is almost deserted, and no business is being
done The aggregate calls in the Ballarat mines
have exceeded the dividends for some months.


gINGER’S
gEWING
jyj-ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
j^J-ACHINES
UNPARALLED DEMAND
MORE POPULAR
THAN EVER I
OVER 500,000 were SOLD in the
TEAR 1880, being at the rate of
1600 for every Working Day,
and three-fonrths of all the Sew-
ing Machines sold throughout
the World.
gINGER’S
gEWING
jyj-ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
jy/JACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
jy|" AC HINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
J^J-ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
J^/J'ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
J^ACHINES
THIS IMMENSE SALE is the
RESULT of the World-Wide
REPUTATION OBTAINED by
THESE MACHINES.
UNEQUALLED for Superiority of
Workmanship, strength and
beauty of stitch, and adapta-
bility TO EVERY CLASS OP
SEWING.
10 PER CENT.
DISCOUNT
For CASH.
EASY TERMS,
2s 6d Weekly,
WITHOUT ADDITION
TO THE PRICE.
CAUTION!
BEWARE of PERSONS who, hav-
ing no good trade repute, resort
to Impudent Puffery, and do
thereby deceive the UNWARY.
COUNTERFEIT MACHINES of
inferior Construction and Manu-
facture under various fanciful
names, are being, with HUGE
EFFRONTERY, offered to the
public as superior to the genuine.
gINGER’S
gEWING
J^J-ACHINES
To avoid DECEPTION, buy no
Machine that has not “ The
Singer Manufacturing Com-
pany,” printed upon the arm,
and impressed upon the brass
TRADE MARK,
D
EPOT IN SYDNEY.
NO. 1 DARLING STORES.
HARBOUR STREET.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS FREE I
The wonderful wertheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
very fine double seams or feHs; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias ;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally cU>
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order far TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price beta and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY. George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-streek,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony yon
live, w*» will supply you with a WERTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT, WITHOUT
INTEREST.
T
HE AUSTEALI
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
A N
#
c
$
ClAf
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
prac'ised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3 —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian 11 Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
«ST LOOK FOR THE NAME !!!
G
EORGE L. LINEKER,
TAILOR, Ac.,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FROM LONDON.
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises as a FIRST-CLASS
TAILORING EST ABLISHMENT. My principle
will be to supply the best goods, workmanship, and
a good fit, at moderate prices, for cash.
Country orders will receive prompt attention.
TWEED SUITS, from £5 ss.
N. 8.-2 DOORS FROM GEORGE ST.
Redfern town hall,
TUESDAY. sth APRIL,
SELECT CONCERT, in aid of
A WIDOW AND TWO ORPHANS.
Tickets 2s and Is. Special ’buses after Concert.
Commence at 8 o’clock.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
BRASS FOUNDERS AND PLUMBERS,
COPPERSMITHS, GASFITTERS, AND GENERAL BLACKSMITHS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
BRASS WINDOW-SASH BARS,
PUMPS, SINGLE AND DOUBLE ACTION, & HYDRAULIC LEATHER HOSE PIPES, be.
SHIPS WOEK DONE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF THE MARSHALL PATENT WINDOW FASTENER.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
BRASS WORK OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
IMPORTERS OP
DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, Ac.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parte of the colony.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
[HE NEW DAYIS SEWING MACHINE.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
over aix competitors.
pR O BONO PUBLICO.
THE MUTUAL TRADE PROTECTION ASSOCIA-
TION OF NEW SOUTH WAXES, AND
COMMERCIAL AGENCY COMPANY.
J. HURST, Secretary.
Offices : 32 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Opposite the Exchange).
Established upon Die most improved mutual principle
for the protection of Merchants and Traders, against
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, under the auspices of
the leading Mercantile community.
AGENTS & CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT
the WORLD. The following business is undertaken,
either direct, or through the intervention of the
Society's Solicitor ■■ —
The recovery of rents and debts by legal process or
otherwise, by written or personal application, through
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or assignment, drawn out
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, and Preferable Liens
executed or registered free of charge, when done, as
security to the interests of members.
Legal Processes served in town, suburbs, or country
districts, through authorised legal Agents.
Wills, Patents, and Registered Documents of all kinds
searched.
The Certificates of fradulent or unprincipled insolvents
opposed in the interests of creditors, and, when
necessary, absconding or fraudulent nsolvents prose-
cuted or traced.
Debts proved in insolvent estates, and Books audited
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and made to surrender.
Deeds, Leases, and Documents of all kinds copied or
chromographed upon moderate terms.
Searches and Private Inquiries made as to the commer-
cial standing of any person or firm in business through-
out either of these colonies.
A Credit Guide issued periodically, and “Warning
Notices ’* sent to members when required.
Assigned Estate supervised or liquidated.
Searches or Inquiries made and answered in regard to
all kinds of Mortgages, Bills of Sale, Preferable
Liens, Protection Orders, Ac.
Postages, Cash Outlay for Court Pees, &c., charged
accordingly.
Records Filed at the Offices of the Association con-
cerning all Registered Acts executed in Canada,
United States, England, Scotland Ireland, and the
Australian Colonies, New Zealand, &c.
N.B.—The facilities thus offered to the mercantile
public enable those who wish to be safe in credit
transactions to achieve both legal rights and protec-
tion by the powerful co-operation of unity, as based
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Branch, only 10s fid per
annum. Membership for General Branch, £1 Is per
annum.
RELIABLE COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 18th March, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
THE Leasees of the undermentioned Gold-
mining Leases are hereby called upon to show
cause, within fourteen days from this date, why
the lease should not be cancelled, for non-payment
of the rent due thereon.
B. A. BAKER.
Lachlan Mining District.
No. 81; M. T. Pratt, G. Sandy, W. J, Pennington,
W. Keeley, W. Barnett, M. Mangan, H. Davis, R. F.
Davis, A. Stewart, W. Pratt, and T. Buckley; Portion
No. 789; Bald Hills, (parish of Forbes; 5 acres. Appli-
cation No,, Forbes 121.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 18th March, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be declared
void.
E. A. BAKER.
Hunter and Macleay Mining District.
No. 440; E. H. Burbidge; Portion No. 522 ol; county
of Gloucester, parish of Binders; 2 acres; Portion
No., Copeland 312.
(J OW N HALL, GLEBE.
MRS. J. J. RYAN'S '
FOURTH ANNUAL CONCERT,
will take place in the above Hall on
MONDAY, APRIL 4fh.
Mrs. J. J. R. will be assisted on the occasion by the
following talented artists: —Miss Maxted, Messrs. T.
H. Rainford, F. Maxted, W. O’Sullivan, M'Carthy,
Lady and Gentlemen Amateurs, and Lady Pupils.
Reserved Seats, 3s; .Unreserved ditto, 2s.
DAY OF SALE, 9th APRIL.
WAYERLEY TRAMWAYS.
CHESTERFIELD.
CHESTERFIELD.
CHESTERFIELD.
THIS GRAND SUBURBAN ESTATE
Is situate within three minutes’ walk of the Tramway
Terminus.
COMMANDS GRAND VIEWS.
NOW SUBDIVIDED by Mr. Surveyor Thompson,
Into
59 ALLOTMENTS.
as follows: —
8 ALLOTMENTS AEDEN-STREET.
24 ALLOTMENTS NELSON ROAD.
5 ALLOTMENTS ST. THOMAS STREET.
22 ALLOTMENTS CHESTERFIELD PARADE,
ALL THE ALLOTMENTS HAVE FRONT-
AGES of about 40 feet, by from 120 to 150
feet DEPTHS to 20 feet LANES AT THE REAR.
OVERLOOKING HIGHLY-IMPROVED FAMILY
RESIDENCES.
FOR AUCTION SALE,
ON THE GROUND,
ON SATURDAY, 9th APRIL,
AT 3 O’CLOCK.
HARDIE AND GORMAN have been favoured
with instructions from the Proprietors of this
VALUABLE ESTATE,
to Sell by Public Auction,
THE WHOLE OP THE ALLOTMENTS,
ON SATURDAY, 9th APRIL.
W All the pegs are numbered, street posts erected,
and the streets trenched, thus affording intend-
ing purchasers every possible assistance to
find the allotments.
tar SPECIAL TERMS2S per cent, deposit, and
the balance by six quarterly payments.
mg SPECIAL FREE TRAMWAYS will run on
the day.
v INSPECTION PREVIOUS TO THE DAY
OP SALE INVITED,
V THIS is one of the most liberal
SUBDIVISIONS THAT HAS BEEN OF-
FERED TO THE PUBLIC FOR SOME
TIME.
t(g- CHESTERFIELD
*** DAY OF SALE,
SATURDAY, 9th APRIL.
V LITHOGRAPHS AT THE ROOMS.
Professional Addresses
R.
MR. S. L A Z
ADDRESS :
Professional —Theatre Royal.
Private —“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
Mr. j. r. grevi l l e.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Mr. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
MR. FRED. MARSHALL.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
R. M. SALAMOIL
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
M
MR. AND MBS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu Wab).
ON TOUR:
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, March 27th till end of
April.
Tasmania, New Zealand to follow.
LATE SPORTING.
No Doubt, the once-renowned steeplechaser, was
on Saturday put up by auction, and sold for £4 10s.
The tickets for Tattersall’s Monster Consulta-
tion on the Sydney Cup are being very liberally taken
up. The drawing, which is in proper hands, is fixed for
an early date.
A double-scull race, in which very considerable
interest was manifested by residents of Woollahra, took
place on Saturday, the 19th instant, for £lO a-side,
between the Messrs. Machoy and the Messrs McCabe.
The distance was about four miles. The pair first named
won by about four boat-lengths.
The long talked of swimming match, between
W. F. Corbett, of Sydney, and W. J. Mclndoe, cham-
pion of Victoria, has been arranged to take place in
Sydney, about the 30th April, for £2OO a-side aud the
championship of Australia. Mclndoe, on account of
his reputation, will no doubt be the favourite, hut we
believe, should Corbett come to the scratch in anything
like form, he will give the Victorian much trouble to
win.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Jockey Club Meeting was
the most successful held in New Zealand daring the
season, and gave great satisfaction to the racing public.
The first day's proceedings commenced with the Hurdle
Bace, which went to Lady Mary, King Don second, and
the favourite grey Momus third. Blue Gown, who is by
Opawa, won the Derby; Frivolity, also by Opawa,
second; Annuity getting third place. The Sapling
Stakes went to Mr. Redwood's Dauphin, by Traducer;
Mr. Walters’ Slander, filly, by Hippocampus, running
second. The principal event, the Wanganui Stakes,
two miles, was won by the Sydney-bred horse Eandwick
(7st. 21bs), who beat Libeller (7st. 51bs.) by a head;
Natator (Bst. 61bs.) third. Six started. Time, 3m. 45|s,
The Town Plate fell to Foul Play, Billingsgate second ;
and the Plying Handicap to Sir George, Dan second,
and Eandwick third. On the second day, the Hurdles
was secured by Chandler, beating Ada second, Lady
Mary third, and six others. Foul Play won the Railway
Plate, Frailty the Maiden Plate, and My Dream the
District Handicap. Ten saddled up for the big event of
the meeting—the Cup, of 600 sovs.. 2J miles—and it
turned out a big boil-over, Mr. C. Redwood’s Sir
George (fist. lOlbs.) winning amid immense excitement,
Mr. Walters’ Libeller (7st. 41bs.) again running second,
and the Hon. W. Robinson’s Natator (9st.) third,
Eandwick (7st. 11b.) fourth, Dan (Sst. lOlbs.) fifth, and
King Quail (fist. 121b5.) sixth. The rest pulled up.
Time, 4m. IOJs. Dan wound up the meeting by winning
the Consolation.
An important meeting of the Southern Rugby
Football Union was held at Aarons’s Exchange Hotel
on Monday evening—Mr. Tiley in the chair. There
were about forty delegates present. The business of
the evening was the consideration of intercolonial foot-
ball. A letter from New Zealand was read, offering to
send up a team, and asking what proportion of expenses
the N. S. Wales Union would give. Mr. G. C. Waldron
(University) moved that the net proceeds of the matches
be awarded towards the team’s legitimate expenses.
This was warmly opposed by the Redfern delegates,
who contended that N.S.W. should bear all the outlay,
as, in the event of the Union losing a few pounds, the
public spirit of the sporting community would make up
the deficit. After further discussion, the motion was
carried, Messrs. Allen and Mulcahy alone voting against
it. The next business was the offer of the Melbourne
Club to send a team up to play one game “ Rugby ’’ and
one “Victorian” football with each of three clubs.
Mr. E. Raper (University) brought the matter forward
to obtain the sense of the Union. Mr. J. J. Allen, after
pointing out that in the past the Union had afforded
fair patronage to the Victorian game, considered it was
time that they adopted some settled policy, and that
to accept the proposed conditions would be to stultify
themselves as a Rugby Union; he, therefore, moved
that permission should not be given to any subscribing
■clubs to play under Victorian rules. This was seconded
by Mr. George Coates, and carried unanimously. Mr.
W. M, Arnold moved that leave be granted to any club
to play a Victorian club, “ Rugby rules,” and this was
agreed to Other matters of lesser importance were
then discussed. The prevalent feeling seemed to be
that the Rugby game in this eolony, in New Zealand,
and in Queensland, is too firmly established ever to be
affected by the local game of Victoria.
A two-day a match was commenced on Saturday
on the Association Ground, between the University and
Warwick clubs. The University team were first at the
wickets and Wright, Jones, and Allen were soon dis-
posed of, but when Garrett and Coates got together the
runs came very quickly. The fielding of the Warwick
team was anything but creditable. Nettle, a wicket-
keeper from Victoria, played for the Warwicks, and
showed that with some practice he will he a valuable
acquisition to New South Wales cricket. Downs
bowled well, securing 4 wickets for 53 runs, with several
chances that might have been taken. Ogilvie also
bowled well but had no luck. Dennis bowled badly and
had some luck. Laland made a most unpardonable
miss at mid-on. Garrett played splendidly for his 24,
Coates rather luckily for the same number, and Sly
played a very vigorous innings for 20 ; he hit Dennis
over the fence to square-leg for s—a splendid hit which
secured quite an ovation. Pope obtained 10; he bats
with an easy, almost lazy, style. Teece and Iceton
obtained the respective scores of 13 and 13, not out. in
the styles of which they are the sole exponents. The
innings closed for 138 runs, and after the ground had
been rolled, Alick Bannerman and Nettle faced the
University bowling. Nettle was not long enough at
the wickets to afford a fair exhibition of his batting, a
trimmer from Jones sending him to the pavillion. Ned
Gregory followed, and with the stonewaller brought
the score up to bO. Ned played a splendid innings for
41, showing splendid defence, and his famous hitting
powers in no way diminished by his long retirement.
He scored 41 while Alick was getting 14. Towards six
o’clock a bad light came on, and Ned was well caught by
Sly off Garrett. When the stumps were drawn the
Warwicks had lost 3 wickets for 66 runs, Bannerman
being not out 14. The match will be continued next
Saturday.
CRICKET.
Hero of Waterloo v. East Redfern C, C., at
Eveleigh, Saturday last. Former won by 40 runs.
Scores, 61 and 21 National v. Carlton, on National
ground. Latter made 70, of which Duncan contributed
24. Adamson 16, and Dolson 11. The Carltons only
made 36, Zuquhart scoring 16 Second elevens of
Petersham v. do. of Belvidere, on Petersham ground
last Saturday. Easy victory for local team, with 96
runs to spare. For the former, S. Gelding (45), C. Seale
(37), and H. Taylor (10) were the principal scorers;
while S. Gelding and Phil. Davies did the trundling,
obtaining averages of 8 wickets for 14 runs and 2 wickets
for 13 runs respectively. None of the Belvideres
reached double figures. Scores : P.G.C., 123; Belvidere,
27 Parkhurst C.C. v. Britannia C.C., at Moore Park
on Saturday. Former won by two wickets and three
runs The lovers of cricketat Petersham were pleased
to see their old friend, C. Dawes, donning the flannels
again, and playing with the local club Clarendon C.
C. v. Rover C C., at Moore Park on Saturday. Easy win
for former. Scores : 44 and 17 respectively. H. Richards
(6 wickets for 6) and J. Ireland (4 wickets for 7) bowled
well for the win ers Clio C.C. v. Willoughby C.G.,
at Great Norther i ground, Saturday last. Clios won by
3 1 runs. Scores: 67 and 31 respectively The G ramanda
L. beat the Emslee C.C. on Saturday by 8 wickets
ryrmont Excelsior v. Windsor C C., on 12th inst., on
Jatter’s ground. Excelsiors won by 10 rnns. Scores :
{/ and 60 respectively. The batting and bowling of
both teams were very good, but the slow bowling of
M. for the Windsors was greatly punished
A cricket match was played at Randwick last Saturday
batween Our Bovs and the local club. The visitors won
by 8 runs. Stafford, for Our Boys, took 9wi kets for
runs. Scores: 41 and 33 Croydon v, Pyrmont
on Saturday. Excelsiors, 34; Croydon",
f bhe wieners, M'Carthy (30) and OKara (13);
rnf the losers, Pride (16), wen the print ipalscorers
ine Th rntons debated Orbn'al C.C. on the
aus QQ Or B’’’ 8 ’’’ nn( L' a t Sa* rJav, b. 11 runs. Scores :50
W* a Crmdon v W rwick (se ond elevens) on
vedne-da;, 2rJ Mich, at Win isor ground. Scores;
wojdon, bg ; W wick, 39 for 8 wickets
Kichmond C C v Collingwood C C., at Balmain, Satnr
an 6 R a , rQr)ori - Former won bv 2 i runs. Scores: 82
u 6J reipeytiselv . ...On -inniats match bi tween the
and T> wu Hall Clubs, at Double Bay on
atnrday afternoon. A exandrias won by 81 rnns.
Mof- 88 J 105 and 24 respectively. The bowling of
acintosh and Ellis, for the winners, was excellent.


Miscellaneous
c
LIFFORD, LOVE
TEA IMPORTEI
EASTERN AND CO*
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualitie
Do. Indian Prize Med
CHTJTNIES—Indian Friz
PRESERVES—Indian P]
COFPEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pei
Do. „ No
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and BL
OFFICES34B GEORG
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B]
JOHN D
IMPOST ER OP
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brasswi
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric 1
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
2.85
PITTStREEI
BEAUTIFUL,, d
ALL WOOL
7*33
mMMTIM & WM Ilf f 3B
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
single-fturrow PlOßgliS. We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information, v
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
WARD’S New Pattern Ploughs, Jus* brought
out, and shown lor the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
RAPiSOIV
and 3. Th
We invite t
infoi
■’J
HARROWS—ZH
We recommend HOWFA.sr
have other makes, some of wl
EEowarci’s
35 igsag
Hanowg.
Our Stock of Harrows includi
sizes. V
Nos.
Width 8
Weight 1
-389 GEORGE STREET,
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, STD
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents foe Messrs. Tangte Bros,
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING
Engines and Boilers of all sizi
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Foi
IN STOCK.
EYES
PERFECT
PUR I 3
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Ant
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in t
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials ;
From. Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for house!
by all classes of Society. From JRev. Geo. Woolnough, M
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Syd
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton,
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing a
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ; — My child had sore eyes for 2$
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, c
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Detail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-s
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Syd
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BATHS.
m
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, opp
V ft. A C.TTH A T, JJATR.CTJI
Miscellanea
■DEISCOE, DRYSD
"■"* 397 George St
76, 78, 145, 147 Yor
33 Pitt Stri
IRONMONGERS, IRONME
IMPORTER
Invite attention to their extern
which besides being the largest h
varied; and comprises all the lat<
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, I
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lam;
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chan
Brass Foundry, Locks, H
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, 0
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Rolled J
And
GENERAL IRONM<
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
A.
S. HEBBLEI/
416 GEORGE STI
MERICAN MACHII
H. P. GREGORY j
No. 11, PITT-STE
Importers of all Desci
M A C H I 5
Have for Sale
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—Sydney Exhibitio
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pur
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw
tucks packing round and sqnai
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Fo
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil
quality chjaeamteed, &c., Ac.
Send or Circulars an
KING STREET S
