

THE BULLETIN
Vol. S.-No. 101.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1881.
Price—3d-
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1881.
The Classification of Criminals.
A short time ago we were enabled to afford our
readers an insight into the interior workings of
our principal prisons, not always available. An
old and habitual prisoner, albeit a man of in-
telligence and education, wrote his impressions of
prison management, and wo dared to print them.
Amongst a good deal that was, although not
insignificant, yet of secondary importance, one
defect in our prison system was pointed out in
unansweralfe terms by that unhappy writer.
That was the imperfection of the arrangements
for classifying criminals. He showed that, de-
spite some endeavours to separate the lightly-
tainted from the deeply-dyed, and despite any
amount of good intentions, there is practically a
horrible jumble of casual criminals with old
offenders, oven in that best-conducted of our
gaols—Darlinghurst.
• • •
Now, this is a matter of really vital importance
to the community. Not a day passes without some
.young man committing himself —not always delibe-
rately , but owing to lack of moral courage, or to
jsheer folly—to an offence which ensures his in-
icarceration. Of those first offenders, many,
doubtless, have criminal instincts, or are so weak
that they would never be able to go through the
ordeal of rehabilitating themselves on being re-
leased. But a considerable proportion are only
worse than many other yonng men who turn out well,
in having been detected. All the elements necessary
for development into good citizenship are possessed
by them. One fault, or a transient fit of folly,
brings them within the meshes of the criminal law.
They are tried, disgraced, imprisoned. The iron
enters into their souls. Throughout all their
future lives they will feel the sear which is in-
delibly burnt into their characters. They enter
gaol utterly hopeless, despairing, desperate. As
impressionable as young, they feel as though a
respectable career were closed against them for
over. Their year or two of incarceration assumes
in. their sicklied imagination, the aspect of an
eternal ostracism. They regard themselves as
outlawed, and in that condition of mind are but
too susceptible of any advice which seems to
point to a means of living in defiance of society,
since existing%in brotherhood with it seems to
them henceforth impossible.
• » #
If, at this juncture, while remorse and self-
abasement are distracting the young criminal, and
his mind is tom by conflicting passions, the habitual
offender can get the chief audience with him, and
obtain his attention, there is infinite danger that
the unhappy youth is lost for ever. He is shown
how “ green ” he has been to bo so easily caught
for so little. He is instructed how he might have
defied detection almost indefinitely, and is in-
oculated with the idea that ho is in prison, not
because he is criminal, but because he has been
stupid. His energies—and every young man feels
the impulse towards advance, even though he be
in a gaol—are given a false direction. He catches,
with youthful impressionableness, the tone of the
society he is in. The world now appears as his
oyster, which with keen (criminal) wit, ho is hence-
forth to open.
# * #
Thus an offender may enter the portals of a gaol
bowed down with shame, accessible to all the
sentiments of honesty, even attached to them, and
emerge from it a wretfch with distorted moral
vision. He may when his sentence is pronounced
have the same standard of right and wrong as
the companions in bank or shop whom he has
quitted, yet emerge with his perceptions radically
and permanently disterted—a criminal in mind.
* * *
These possibilities are, doubtless, recognised, and
sundry regulations and systems have been framed
in view of them. But, in praotipe, it appears all
present arrangements are lamentably inadequate
to prevent the mischief of promiscuous intercourse
between first offenders and hardened criminals.
The gaol-buildings which are available in this
colony seem to afford inadequate accommodation
for effectual separation and classification. In
some, prisoners may be sorted out while they are
at work, but while at rest they are thrown to-
gether. In others, the contrary may obtain ; but
ki none, save Berrima, where the separate system
obtains, is there real and effectual classification.
And Berrima is reserved, singularly enough, for
prisoners who have been sentenced on more than
one occasion. Any suggestion, which would in-
volve heavyi outlay in providing new or in re-
building existing gaols, would doubtless prove
ineffectual on account of the expense which its
adoption would necessitate. But there is a re-
source available which would require little, if any,
cost additional to that ordinarily incurred, and
which would, nevertheless, he more efficacious
than any partial improvement in the system now
prevailing of attempting to carry on a process of
classification within this or that gaol tenanted by
all grades of offenders. We possess in different
towns district gaols, and it could bo readily
managed that each should be set apart for the
detention of a distinct grade of prisoners. Ber-
rima_ might be allotted to prisoners serving a first
conviction; Maitland to prisoners twice convicted ;
and Darlingburst to habitual criminals, who would
thus bo herded by themselves, without danger of
contaminating comparatively innocent and simple
offenders. The discipline in each might be of
increased severity, so that a fresh offence would
have all the deterrent terrors of new, additional,
and unfamiliar penalties and degradations.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Herald” and the Premier.
Even a worm will turn if trodden upon. Sir Henry
Parkes has managed by a somewhat pointed sneer to
disturb the ordinary repose of the S.M, Herald. Sir
Henry, speaking at the Parliamentary banquet given in
his honour, is reported to have said: —“ Whatever men
may say—and those who have no chance of entering the
arena of Parliament are generally the most sour critics of
the action of Parliament—l, for one, have noticed that if
tho door is by any accident open to these cavillers, they
are the most fulsome upholders of the grandeur of
Parliament. . . . They arc tho most eager to avail
themselves of its avenues to honour.” The Herald
men evidently regarded this as aimed at themselves, and
doubtless it is a clumsy thrust at journalists who
have taken the liberty of cavilling at some of Sir
Henry’s acts or political doctrines. Mr. James Green-
wood is, wo believe, tho only Herald man who has ever
“ by any accident” entered the Assembly, and assuredly
Sir Henry had no cause to complain of Mr. Green,
wood’s fulsome upholding of the grandeur of Parlia-
ment. If we remember rightly, Mr. Greenwood was a
stout opponent of Sir Henry’s monstrous Privileges of
Parliament Bill. Mr. Garrett was once a journalist,
so was Mr. Baker Whether these gentlemen have
shown themselves among the most eager to avail them-
selves of its avenues to honour depends upon what
people understand by honour. The Herald, however,
evidently takes all Sir Henry’s sarcasm to itself, and
actually speaks out for once, employing all the resources
of the journalist, including innendo. “We are at
a loss,” snorts our irate contemporary, to “ understand
what class of persons who take an interest in public
affairs —and they must do that to be conspicuous as
clitics —would bo unable, if they wished it, to enter the
arena of Parliament. What ore tho specialities that
miyht prevoni a man from getting a seat? Shall we
say want of'iatelligeuoe, want of education, want of
public or private reputation, want of money, want of
manners, want of social position? When we look at
tho persons who have without difficulty got into Par-
Lament, the critics would have to bo very low in the
scalo indeed if they were below those who have secured
Parliamentary position; and if they are really as low
as that, their criticism must be so utterly aninlluential
as not to bo deserving of tho notice of a Premier.” This
is very good, and lively too. We congratulate our con-
temporary on tho effectiveness and vivacity of this
style of writing, and regret only that it needed a per-
sonal affront to evoke it. If the Herald would write
with equal plainness and absonos of “ toning down”
when tho public interest is affected, it might do some
service to the community.
Irishmen and Nationalism.
Now that the text and the operative force [of the new
Irish Land Law have been sufficiently long before the
Australian public to ba fairly understood, most
unbiassed colonists will probably agree with us that,
in refusing to accept the instalment of justice embodied
in that Act, and in keeping up agitation, the people of
Ireland are making a serious mistake. They have, by
the desperation of their attitude, extorted from a
Parliament chiefly English, and propertied English at
that, a code more just to the tiller of the soil than
either English or Scotch tenants yet enjoy. The most
sagacious course would now have been to accept the
advantage gained, and seek in a period of repose
strength to renew the struggle for further concessions
later on. Meanwhile, the Irish might have gained
•allies. The tenant-farmers of England and Scotland
are just commencing an agitation identical with the
Irish agitation in its earlier stages. The Irish League
might, with immense advantage, address all its
energies to 00-operating with this movement in Britain,
and thus establishing n bond of brotherhood. Could
this fellowship be achieved, everything .would become
possible. The greatest hold landlordism has upon the ■
Irish people, has been the national dislike between the
British and the Irish. 'While that separation existed,
English peasants, clapped into a uniform and drilled, had
no special reluctance to shoot down Irish peasants for
resisting rack-rents, albeit English peasants love
rack-renters no more than do Irish peasants.
But were iibnee understood that there was'a common
cause, of industry versus idleness—of the soil-tiller
against the produce-grasper—one might before long
witness in Ireland the spectacle common at times in
France, of the troops fraternizing with the people they
were sent to kill. Irish members, coalescing with tho
Radicals and the advanced Liberals among British
members of Parliament, would'form an effective phalanx.
By the irreconcilable attitude of the Irish members
this grand opportunity is thrown away. Still, before
one utterly condemns the Irish and.their leaders, every
honest thinker will make necessary allowances. National
sentiment is one which has been praised by no class
more highly than by the Tories and propertied orders.
The British nation has always sympathized warmly with
people who have clnng to national sentiment and re-
fused to be crushed out of separate existence. Tho
Poles have never ceased to have the countenance and
sympathy of Britons. Tho Nationalist rising in Italy,
fostered by Mazzini and vivified by Garibaldi, had their
warmest approbation. It is only the other day that
Gladstone eulogized in prose, while Tennyson sang iu
verse, the glorious independence of the Montenegrins,
who, after centuries of nominal absorption into the
Turkish Empire, still maintained their old religion, and
kept alive their aspirations for distinctive national
liberty. Why, then, is that which is recognised as
ennobling in a Montenegrin to bo accounted degrading
in an Irishman ?
Work to be Done.
It has somewhere been said that the late Mr. M. Fitz-
patrick is the third member of the colonial legislature
to whom the rites of Christian sepulture hare been
denied. The mention of the other two names of the
fated trio— Daniel Eagan and Daniel Henry Deniehy
—recalls departed and forgotten worth in a very sad
fashion, indeed. With whatever cause of discord existed
between Deniehy and his Church we, as Australians,
have little concern, but with the shameful neglect with
which that bright name and memory have been treated
we have much—much that deeply aifccts our reputation
for patriotism and our appreciation of intellect and
genius. It is more than strange that in this land,
whore adulation of the living has reached such a point.
that the recipient turns in disgust *from the homage
that has become loathsome, the bones of an illustrious
son of the soil should be left to moulder, unnoticed and
unmarked, in an obscure and dishonoured corner of the
Roman Catholic cemetery at Bathurst. The columns
of the daily press literally teem with florid descriptions
of complimentary banquets, testimonials, etc., but in all
the long fifteen or sixteen years that have elapsed since
the polished orator and cultured scholar wont down to
a pauper’s grave, a few guineas could not be found
to rescue his memory from unmerited shame and
cruel oblivion. Some two years ago a spirited appeal
in Deniehy’s behalf was published in one of the Sydney
papers (the Freeman’s Journal, we believe); but that
appeal, though couched in language powerful and
pathetic, failed to evoke even the shadow of a response.
It is not yet too late to awake from an apathy alike
disgraceful and degrading to manhood and patriotism,
and by a small, though generous effort, wipe out a
MR. JOHN WOODS. (See page 2.)


HOP BIT
ARE
THE PUREST AI
MEDICINE EVER
They are Compound
Sops, Euchu, Mandrake
The Oldest, Best, most B
Valuable Medicines in th
in addition, contain all
most effective curative pr
other Bitters, being l the f
Regulator, Blood Purif:
and Health Restoring Agt
Ask your Druggist o:
Do not suffer yourself
friends suffer, but use, an<
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitte
drugged, drunken nostn
Purest and Best Medicii
and no person or family si
out it.
VALUABLE TX
If you are suffering fron
or languishing on abed of
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will C
If you are simply ailin
Weak and Dispirited, wi
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will B
If you are a Minister, a
taxed yourself with your pa
or a Mother, worn out v
work.
Hop Bitters Will Hi
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the
every-day duties, or a m
toiling over your midnigh
Hop Bitters Will Str«
If you are suffering froi
or drinking, any indiscreti
tion, or are young and gro
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will H«
If yen are in the worl
farm, at the desk, anywh
that your system needs Cl
ing, or Stimulating, with
ting,
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your l
impure, pulse feeble, yoi
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give T<
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an eleg
and refreshing flavouring J
drinks, impure water, &
them Jiarmless, and sw(
mouth, and cleansing the i
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND EN
with
HOP BUT
Mid yoa will have ne sickne:
MONTEPIOHE, STUJ
65 PITT STREET, SYDN
General Agents for Ai
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
BUN-CURED YIBGHNIi
MOST DELICIOUS P
FREE PROM ALL ADU]
national stain by recuing from ita long sleep of dis-
honour and neglect that nameless spot of earth beyond
the Blue Mountains.
Mr. John Woods.
The well-known citizen whose portrait appears in
our front page, was born near Castleblaney,
County of Monaghan, Ireland, on the 26th of
January, 1829. His father was a farmer, and John
Woods received a rudimentary education at a
village school, built on hia father’s farm, and con-
ducted by a pedagogue named M‘Leod. Mr.
Woods, senior, was an officer ia the local yeomanry,
under the command of the late Lord Blayney.
The earlier years of young Woods were passed
assisting hia father in the working and management
of the farm ; but a printed report, in a Belfast
newspaper, of a lecture on New South Wales, by
the late Eev. Dr. Lang, happening to come under
his notice, his active and enterprising disposition
caught fire, and it was not very long before he had
determined upon pushing his fortunes in the new
world, whose inducements had been so attractively
and forcibly pointed out by the lecturer. Accord-
ingly, in 1853, the young Irishman, who had by tkis
time found a helpmate in a Miss Ewing, took pass-
age in an emigrant ship from Dublin, and landed
at Sydney in September of that year, bringing
with him sufficient money to enable him to make a
start in the business which he has since mainly
adhered to, as a carrier and contractor.
His pecuniary means were, however, as
the sequel wjll show, the least import-
ant of his resources. A determined spirit
of energy, and a keen perception of what might
profitably be undertaken, combined with an
unusual gift of foresight—so valuable a quality
in a young and rising community—have been
chiefly instrumental in gaining for John Woods
the position ha occupies to-day. Many a man has
landed in these colonies with infinitely more money
than John Woods brought in his wallet, but
having bean provided with infinitely less brains
and adaptability for colonial life, has ended in a
worse condition than John Woods began. Mr.
Woods’ first contract —and a very profitable one
it turned out —was to deliver all the rails, Ac.,
for the Parramatta Railway, by land, from the
ship’s side, at the Sydney wharves, to the works
at Parramatta, and to take back-loading of
sleepers from Parramatta, for delivery along the
line of railway then in course of construction.
Mr. Woods, with his own hands, placed on one
of his drays the first rail which was landed in this
colony. Hia next important contract was the
delivery right out to Botany of all the thirty-inch
mains for the Sydney Waterworks —a terrific job,
involving as it did the conveyance of loads of
immense weight over the sand-hills, on which
at that time there were no formed roads.
This required the construction of a special model
of 'conveyance, but in this instance again Mr.
Woods’ calculations came out right, and he found
himself at the conclusion of the work considerably
better off than ho was when he began it. Encour-
aged by success, Mr. Woods next entered upon a
larger adventure. He purchased at Newcastle,
from the then Coal and Copper Company, all the
horses in the possession of that company, under-
taking at the same time a contract, under a
penalty of .£2OOO, to deliver into the ships
all the coal raised from the company’s mines.
Up to this time the process of loading vessels had
been a slow and laborious one, everything being
done by manual labour. Mr. Woods’ active
mind, however, quickly perceived that mechanical
appliances might, with advantage, be substituted,
and at his suggestion a “ whim,” an appliance
well known to miners, was suporadded to man-
power in lifting coals from the trucks into the
ships’ holds. This alone proved a source of
saving and profit quite unforeseen by the company
when they had let the contract, and when, shortly
afterwards, they amalgamated with the firm of
Brown and Co., the new combination saw their
way to offer Mr. Woods a bonus of .£2OOO, an
amount equal to the penalty he stood under —a
queer reversal of conditions—to forego his con-
tract and allow them to do the work for them-
selves. Reverses, however, have to be faced by
the moat acute of men. Mr. Woods was now to
learn that he must take the rough with the
smooth. In conjunction with another gentleman,
whose affairs collapsed the moment pressure
came, he became surety for a Mr. Robson, oon-
traotor for the construction of the Breakwater at
Newcastle. Robson proving unable to carry out
his contract, the onus of completing the work
ell upon Mr. Woods, who fulfilled the contract,
putting in honest and substantial work, albeit at
a loss to himself of several thousands of
pounds. In one night, a storm destroyed frames
and cranes which had been purchased but a month
or two before for <£6oo. Nothing dismayed, Mr.
Woods still extended hia operations. The con-
veyance of coppftr from the Peak Downs copper
mine in Western Queensland to the port of Rock-
hampton —a distance of almost 200 miles—had
attained vast proportions, and seemed a big
enough thing for Mr. Woods, who entered into a
partnership with other gentlemen to undertake
the whole carriage from the mines—an enterprise
which involved the employment of 120 horses,
and the chartering of the Yarra Yarra steamer
from Sydney for three voyages to carry horses and
waggons. -This did not prove altogether so profit-
able as had been anticipated. The vicissitudes of
the seasons militated against large profits. Floods
centred, which swept away horses, and on one
occasion two men lost their lives. Business now
thronged upon Mr. Woods —nothing came amiss
to him. He became, in conjunction with a few
other gentlemen, the purchaser of the Liverpool I
paper mills, simultaneously embarking in station
properties, and investing extensively in suburban
and city lands, foreseeing the enhancement in
values which duly came a little lator. Mr Woods
now began to interest himself in municipal affairs,
and in 1865, after having for a few years per-
formed the aldermanic duties in the Corporation
of the city of Sydney, he was elected Mayor.
Declining to stand for a second term, although
solicited to do so by Influential parties, he devoted
himself to his private business, and took a promi-
nent part in starting the Sydney Omnibus
Company. Hard work and constant brain ex-
ercise had now begun to have their inevitable
effect. Mr. Woods’ health began to suffer, and
medical advisers insisted on his seeking the in-
vigoration of fresh sea air. He accordingly removed
his household goods to Manly Beach, but
his natural activity, and itho speculative bias of
his mind would not leave him alone even there.
He had no sooner taken the measure of the place,
than he perceived its inevitable rise in importance
and value as the watering-place of Sydney, and
with his accustomed promptness, he made a round
of the land-brokers, and invested largely in house
property and vacant allotments, then purchasable
at very low rates. Communication with Sydney
was then infrequent, and by means of very in-
ferior boats. Mr. Woods’ next step was to initiate
proceedings to create a company to improve the
means of communication, both as regards fre*
quency of trips and the class of steamers em-
p'oyed. Thus made accessible, Manly rapidly
rose in importance, and property there leaped up
in value, while the steamer venture paid hand-
somely enough, independent of the indirect profit
accruing from its institution.
Mr. Woods, a couple of years ago, acquired the
mansion of Fairlight at Manly, where his hos-
pitable doors are constantly open to his numerous
friends. He became a magistrate of the colony
in 1865, and has frequently been requisitioned to
become a candidate for Parliament. These solici-
tations he has invariably declined, though he has
taken at different times an active part in political
affairs. Our engraving is from a photograph by
Boyd.
“The spreading canker of impurity,” says the
Bishop of Manchester, “ among all classes, of which
medical men sadly assure me, is one of the things that
alarm me for the fntnre of Eagland.”
Dr. Talmage closed a sermon on Newspapers
thus:—“The Christian newspapers will be the right
wing of the apocalyptic angel, and the printing press
will be the front wheel of the Lord's chariot."
Qosford is going it, Harry Levien and Dick
Thatcher have paid it a visit, and the disjecta membra of
the Paries’ Government go there next week. Land is
rising, and the Gosforders are clamouring for a bank, a
picnic steamer, and other blessings of advanced civili-
zation.
Mr. J. Walton, for a long time the proprietor
of the book and newspaper stall at the Sydney Hailway
Station, has opened business in the Royal Arcade.
This will be the central news agency of the city, and, as
no one knows better how to manage it than Walton, a
big business is on the cards for him.
During the week, the Ensaian and the English
war-vessels in harbour have been saluting each other in
the most accommodating way. The cook of the test
big Bussian vessel, Alexandrovitch Piddingcokoff, was
only two days ashore when he also was sainted—a larri-
kin striking him severely with an atom of blue metal.
In a few years the export of sugar from the
Johnstone Elver (N.Q.), will ha something enormous.
The cane will have to be cut every nine or ten months,
and there will be no such thing as stand-over or two
years cane. This will require more crushing power per
acre of cane chan is wanted for the Sen them planta-
tions.
The very handsome and costly west window in
All Saints’, Petersham, is the donation of a gentleman
who has demonstrated to the extent of upwards of £5OO
his attachment to his church. It may be worth while
mentioning that the donor is the holder of a free-sitting
—a worshipper who believes that every seat in a church
should be.open to rich and poor alike.
E. J. Austen and Arthur Fry, of Vesalius’
Opera, were bathing at Port Elizabeth, when a shark
appeared, and at once made for the latter gentlemen
The race to the shore was a handicap of 200 yards, the
shark starting from scratch, and Fry getting 10 yards
start. The finish was very exciting, the opera man
winning by a yard. Austen is prepared to back Mr. Fry
to swim any one in the colonies for an oyster supper
on condition there’s a shark provided.
We have received a communication from
“Garrick” on the subject of the formation of a stage
or dramatic association for New South Wales. The
writer urges some good reasons for the formation of the
proposed association.! He thinks the profession would
be elevated, and honest, struggling members assisted •
besides this, professional impositions, such as are now
practised on the people in the interior, would almost
wholly be prevented. The question is certainly an im-
portant one for the profession, and should certainly be
taken in hand.
There was an enormous amount of traffic on
the Southern and Western railways on Boxing Day, the
mountains, in particular, being most extensively patron-
ised. On Boxing morning, several trains left the Sydney
itation with double engines. Mr. Eeid and his assist-
ants had almost unceasing work from the previous
Friday evening, but the thousands who patronised the
trains were carried to and fro without the slightest
accident. If there is one department of the public
service of this colony which can boast of thorough
efficiency, it is the Railway Department.
Thanks to the enterprise of a few moneyed
reliable men, the mineral wealth of this colony is coming
prominently before the public with the result that some
of our best mines are in a good way of vigorous de-
velopment. Several good claims have recently been
taken up by Sydney companies, so that all the best
properties are not likely to fall into the hands of
Victorian and other capitalists. The latest on the
market is the company for the working of a mine at Ber-
magui, where, according to the Government reports
there are enormous deposits of gold. The best test of
the, mine’s value is that the promoters take no cash, but
shares, and the money subscribed is devoted exclusively
to the erection of dams. Particulars ore to be given in
advertisements.
The gentlemen to whom is entrusted the task
of searching out the ignorance of the candidates who
from time to time stick up in the vestibule of the
Supreme Court blue paper notices to all and sundry
that they intend to make application to be admitted as
attorneys, solicitors and proctors of the Honourable
Court, this year offered a prize to the one who should
pass the best examination. This, wa hear, has been
carried eff by Mr. F. D, Bent, a young gentleman who
has got his tega! experience by worrying the clients
of the old and eminently respectable firm of Want, John-
son, and Scarvell. This makes the fourth solicitor
turned out by that offiee within the last twelvemonths
and there seems to be a score or two of unfinished
ones in every stage of progress, without counting the
antedeluvian Philip, who knows more law than seventy-
five per cent, of those who are entitled to affix « Solr."
to their names, *
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Khlio ” : Thanks « T. 5.8.” ; Write
often ** Gooey " ; Very acceptable “ J. H.” :
Than Vs for the item, which, however, bad reached us
from several distinct sources, and was already in type.
“Obadiah”..... If you’redner, Obadiab, if you're drier,
wesh.il “ chuck” all your copy in the fire “G J.S.”:
Thinks, have used some; some unsuitable
“ J.W.K.” (Barraba): We re obliged, but the items are
very unimportant. Send us something bigger.
" A.P.” : Rather late for this week, theatrical matter
having gone to pres*. However, we hope to hear from
you again “ Wollongong ” : Capital story ; next
issue *• Boz." : Glad to hear from you. Held over
“C. M’N.” ; You must send jour name in this
case, as well, you know “A Spectator ” : Next
week “ Fiat Lux ” : You don’t tell us when “ yester-
day " was 11 A Subscriber ”•. The three forties
should of course throw off ** Holiday,” “ Homing
Pigeon ” : Must send name “ Transit Commis-
sioners’ Ass ’’: Received The correspondent who
says that ‘‘some notice ought to be taken in the
interests of the public regarding the eleventh race,
Pyrmont Regatta,” is informed that the public interest
business was played out twelve months since. For
further information, apply at the Supremo Court.
Some of the advantages resulting from the visit
of Mr. B. O. Holtermann to Europe, some time back,
are beginning to manifest themselves. That gentleman,
eager to do something for the country that had en-
riched him, had numerous costly photographic views
taken illustrative of Australian wealth and enterprise,
and with these in his possession he travelled to Europe
and the United States. Some of Mr. Holtenaann’s
negatives were the largest ever taken. It is worthy of
remark that while at Paris, Berlin, Philadelphia,
London, Ac., Mr. Holtermann, in competition with the
world, took first prizes; he was hardly accorded even
space to exhibit them at the Sydney International.
However, his exhibition attracted great public atten-
tion in all the big cities where exhibited, and people
would scarce believe they referred to Australia. The
pictures were distributed, and furthermore to ensure a
standing representation of the colony in the great cities
of the old world, Mr. Holtermann presented his nega-
tives to the leading art societies, and the pictures are
now being distributed all over the Continent. At
Hamburg, Mr. Holtermann met the partners of the
great trading house of Homan and Co., who could
hardly believe the colonies had made such rapid strides
The firm promised to look into the matter. It is this
very firm that now announces the starting of a new line
of German steamships to trade between Hamburg Ac
and the Australian colonies. New businesses of various
kinds have been started as branches of old-established
Continental houses, and, best of all, numerous thrifty
German emigrants have been attracted to our shores
Of the numerous rich patriotic colonists that we have
had. has there been one of such open-handed liberality
and practical usefulness as the successful hero of
; Hawkins' Hill P
The origin of the infernal machine scare which
I set the British Government in a fermentation lately has
been fully disclosed, and has turned out to have been no.
I thing me ra than ascampish scheme for extracting money
from the exchequer. This fact is established by the
investigations of the American police, aided by anxious
and able English detectives sent over expressly to
probe the affair to the bottom. The principals in the
swindle were the notorious O’Donovan Bossa, an in
ventor named Crowe, and an Irishman named Fove
Peter H. Foye is well known in Philadelphia and NeW
York through his connection with Fenian affairs
, Until a short time ago he was the proprietor of a grocer
;at No. 1818 Market-street. New York* He was idStffieJ
as an extremist in all that pertains to Ireland, and was
always in close sympathy with the Rossa faction
Through Foye a proposition was made last winter to
i Bossa’s followers looking to the construction of torne-
; does and the compounding of explosives After several
interviews with the inventor, who is a Philadelphian
Bossa ordered one apparatus for experimental nnr
poses. This was furnished, and the experiment, which
was made in the Catskill Mountains, near Fiah
kill, proved entirely satisfactory. Upon this result
twenty-one of the machines were ordered. The Phili
delphian proceeded with their manufacture Thev were
delivered to Foye in June. The machines, one of which
has been seen by a Press reporter, are peculiar, and
quite ingenious in construction. When O'Donovan
Bossa got possession of these machines, fullv
Foye proceeded to turn traitor It is not possible to
ascertain to whom Fqyq first made overtures, bnt in the
course of time he was negotiating with the RriHovi
Consul at New York The first information gK b 5
Foye was to the effect that a Fenian had left NewVV.v
on a White Star line steamer, havingin his
two of the infernal machines. This infonnatlmf
nut lodged until the vessel had arrived of whiVb I
Foye had been advised by cablegrZ i'oye had wfth
him one of the terrible machines, and hisTnfnr^o7- lth
so impressed the British officerthat theltte?at„
cailed for the arrest or the inspection of be
carried by the person described by his informant The
plotters, assisted by the consul's nromntnlco _ ®
highly successful. When the W°
riedly appeared on the dock of the stumer? they found
that the person described had disappeared the
the vessel had landed leaving his behind wt?h
orders that it should be stored foT?
searched, andl the two machines were found concealed
Of courfls, the baggage was never called for ThA
matter was 1 ept secret, as. according to the infonrmt£«
given by Foye. another great plot was afoot. haa
now succeeded in establishing himself in the graces of
the Baitish officers, and his services demanded at almoet
any p ice. After reporting daily for a week, he snd
denly discovered that a number of machines had W
shipped. Himself and his fellow-cqnspirators had
arranged to tell the story that the wicked had
arranged to ship mfen,al machines to a consignee who
¥ d no existence, and consequently the goods lA which
tne machines were concealed would bo stored
Government buildings. In a few days after theSaSivtl
the apparatus would cause an explosion
destruction would follow. The demansJ
t > wart this disaster was 10,000 dcdlara. ThaT<^fl- t 0
agreed to |upop the contingency that the information
t&sr st nS
“Words o’ Cheer.”
After BURNS
Lo I Calvin, Knox, and Luther cry,
I bae the truth—and I, and I:
Pair sinners, if ye gang ngley
jXhe Deil will hae ye;
And then the Lord will stand abeigh.
And will na save ye.
But, hoolic! hoolie! na sae fast
When Gabriel shall blan his blast.
And heaven and earth awa hae past,
These long syne saints
Shall find haith Deil and hell at last.
Mere pious feints.
The upright, honest-hearted man,
Wha strives to do the best he can,
Need never fear the Church’s bin, %
Or hell’s damnation;
For God will need nae special plan
For his salvation.
The Ane wha feels our deepest needs,'
Kecks little how man counts his beads.
For righteousness is not in creeds.
Or solemn faces ;
But rather lies in kindly deeds.
And Christian graces.
Then never fear wi’ purpose leal,
A head to think, a heart to feel.
For human woe or human weal j
Nae preaching loon
Your sacred birthiight e’er can steal
To heaven aboon,
Tak’ tent o’ truth, and heed this well:
The man who sins mak’s his ain hell,
There's nae worse Deil than himsel;
But God is strongest.
And when pair human hearts rebel.
Ho haulds out longest.


THE NEWSLETTER.
More small-pox in Sydney.
More city rookeries condemned by the Mayor.
The year’s export of gold and tin from Tasmania
amounts to £520,000.
Forty-six “drunks,” brought tip ai the Central
Police Court i n Boxing Dxy, were discharged.
At the junior University examinations, 392 can-
didates presented themselves, of whom 231 passed.
A fire at Forbes. Cause—bursting of
a kerosene lamp in the drapery department of a store.
Government contemplate forming a scholarship
in connection with the superior Public Schools of the
colony.
Dr. Maunsell, missionary and clergyman in
New Zealand since 1810, is ret .ring. He is a good Maori
scholar.
Hanging Bock goldfield is not near Wagga, but
two miles from Nundle, Peel Hirer, 37 miles from Tam-
worth, 231 N.W. from Sydney.
The Orient Co.’s new steamer Austral, to leave
EngloHd in February, is about the same size as, but of
much greater speed, than the Orient.
On Frazer’s Island, Wide Bay (Q.), there reside
14 men, originally white, who live with and on the
blacks, in all the degradation of niggerdqm.
Latent from the Coen (Q.) is that 42 Chinese are
making good wages. A parcel of fine reefy-looking gold
was brought into Cooktown by the last packer.
Dennis O’Shea, one of Gardiner’s gang of bush-
rangers, who has served fifteen years on the roads, has
been committed for trial again at Mudgee for horse-
stealing.
Judge Gorrie, of Fiji, officially protests against
any interference with his supreme right to hang Aus-
tralian colonists who may become involved in native
quarrels.
The Auckland (N.Z.) Acclimatisation Society
have engaged a practical tea grower, to make experi-
ments as to whether .Hie tea plant can be profitably
grown in that colony.
The railway from Townsville to Charters Towers
(Q ) carries passengers sixty miles, leaving thirty for
negotiation by Cobb’s coach. Convenience of transit
Las done much to direct the attention of southern men
to the immensely rich reefs of Charters Towers. A
wealthy syndicate has now commenced tunnelling thj
“ big hill,” and other large operations are on the tapis.
Says the Cooktown Herald :— “ We have
millions of acres of land better adapted for tropical
agriculture tham that at the Herbert, Mackay. or the
Johnstone, and yet the tide of settlement is sluggish.
At both Mackay and Cardwell thousands of acres have
been taken up by spinsters and widows, who do not
know whether these towns are in Terra-del-Pa ego or in
Finland.”
Mr. A. F. White, accountant of the National
Bank, Coleraine, Vic , who only the other day captained
the local cricketers in their match against Hamilton,
was drowned on 22nd inst., while out duck-shooting,
despite most desperate efforts on the part of his
companion, Mr. Smalpage, to save him. The death of
the unfortunate gentleman is owing to the fact that his
feet became entangled in the reeds.
We are sorry to have to record the death, by a
street accident, of Alfred Edward Meeks, aged 10, son
of Alderman John Meeks, of Forest Lodge. The
unfortunate little fellow was, on last Saturday night,
walking in the roadway in George-street, when a wag-
gonettb, said to have been driven rather fast, knocked
him down, both wheels passing over his back. He died
fifty minutes after admission to the Infirmary.
Charters Towers is the most unpretentious
mining town in Australia. It turns out more gold than
all the other goldfields in Queensland put together; and
although Qympie and the Palmer revel in companies,
scrip, and wild excitement, not a word is ever heard of
Charters Towers. Fortunes are being made there every
day, but only one company is in existence —the Day
Dawn. £12,000 called up—dividends, £6OOO per month I
No shares for sale.
St. John’s Denominational School, Parramatta,
at which the Wentworths, the late Hon. Q. B. NiohoU,
the Lawsons, the Bouses, and many others bearing the
most historic names in the colony, received their early
education, will cease to receive State-aid at the end of
1832. However, the school board have determined to
make such arrangements as will enable it to be carried
on, despite the withdrawal of Government aid.
The Spanish grapes a consignment of which
(packed in oork sawdust) recently reacted Sydney, wore
sold at the fruiterers' at an average of about 4s. per lb.
However, as (in view of the alarming spread of phyl-
loxera in Victoria) an act was passod here last year
absolutely forbidding the importation of grape vines,
grape cuttings, and grapes, under a penalty, it is un-
likely that the public will fer a long while again have
an opportunity of tasting grapes from European vine-
yards.
At Guitedu’s trial, during the examination of
the vertebra in the court room, the assassin became
much interested, and laid down his papers. Scoville,
his counsel, took the section of the vertebra, and
Ouiteau immediately reached oyer, took it himself, and
gave it a nrost searching examination. He than leaned
over and pointed out the places injured by the ball to
Scoville, and handing it back resumed his reading.
The sight was an impressive one. The man who had
murdered a President of the United States coolly tak-
ing the backbone of his victim into his hand, and noting
the effect of his deadly aim, was a sight probably never
witnessed before, and certainly one never to be for-
gotten. A whisper ran through the audience, accom-
panied by a few suppressed yet well defined hisses.
At Ballarat, the other Sunday, a preacher was
discoursing on certain prophecies. 3he text was Daniel,
Bth chapter, sth verse, “ And I was considering, be-
hold, an he-goat came from the west on the face of the
whole earth, aud touched not the ground: and the goat
had a notable horn between his eyes.” Just as the re-
ference was made, an imnenae “billy-goat" walkel
with stately steps right up the aisle of the church, and
announced its presence with a prolonged “baa.” The
congregation was convulsed, and the preacher some-
what astounded. However, a scandalised church mem-
ber could not brook the visit, and, endeavouring to
turn the animal ont, he received a thrust from “ two "
notable horns. At length they turned the billy out,
and the preacher continued—” Therefore the he goat
waxed very groat, and when he was strong the great
horn—” The appropriateness of this portion reminded
the congregation in so vivid a manner of the first church
member’s efforts to turn out the be-goat, that another
simmer of laughter was the result. The preacher, was
utterly “knocked" aud suspended the sermon.
The steamers Julia Percy and Nelson, owned
by the Western Steam Navigation Co., of Warrnambool,
collided ten miles east of Cape Otway, about five miles
from shore, on Christmas night. The night was calm
and clear. The Nelson came stem on to the Julia oppo-
site the engine-room, and cub down the side of the main
deck, smashing the boat on the davits. Immediately-
after the crash a voice, supposed to be the captain’s,
called all bauds to save themselves by going on board
the Nelson. A great number climbed on board the
flatter. One person named Cutler fell into‘the sea, and
was drowned; another, named Steere, was severely
.crushed on the chest between the two ships. The boats •
ware lowered after the steamers had drifted apart, and
tfifty or sixty were transhipped from the Jalia to the
Nelson. An examination showed that the Julia's plates
.were not fractured, but only bent, and that the ship
I was making no water. The captains, after consultation,
decided to return to Melbourne in company. After
..steaming for 20 miles, it was found that the Jnlia was
not badly injured, and making no water, while the Nel-
son had seven feet of water in her hold and a hole about
five feet on the starboard bow. There was a somewhat
similar collision on the same lino many years ago,
-between the steamers Lady Bird and Champion, on
-which occasion the latter unfortunate vessel, and nearly
-Oil her passengers and crew, were lost.
The first action against the Victorian Govern-
ment in connection with the Jolimont railway accident
is set down for hearing 38th Fob. It is an action by
Alfred Bliss, auctioneer, who claims £5OOO damages.
Sir Edward Sullivan writes in the Nineteenth
Century that there are fourteen millions of grown up
people in Great Britain trying to live upon ten sail-
hugs a week, that a large proportion of working men
are out of work, and that the rest have only three or
four days work per week!
The other day at the Quarter Sessions, a woman
was sent to gaol for oge year for robbing a dead man of
his watch and chain. Deceased had dropped dead in the
street, and prisoner pretended she was his wife.
The Premier, while pointing out that the long-
agitated-for Clarence-New England railway would com-
pete with the Great Northern line for traffic, and in this
respect occupy an unprecedented position in our rail-
way construction, states that in his opinion provision
should be made for constructing it next year.
Mr. Joseph Maclaod says that the Wild River
tin mines are the most valuable mineral deposits yet
discovered in Queensland. The place was discovered
eighteen months ago, and the first ten head of stampers
only erected in June, 1881. Yet from this mill over 600
tons of dressed tin have been forwarded to Sydney.
There are about 100 mines already opened, exposing lodes
of tin far surpassing those of the famous Cornwall. The
mines are 3500 feet above the sea level, 80 miles from
the coast. There is an excellent road, and one of the
finest climates in Australia, ice being of frequent
poourrenoe in the winter.
A fine little boy of five Leslie Devlin Pitz-
hardings, son of tho well-known solicitor and amateur
oarsman, Mr. M. A. Fitzhardinge, was accidentally
drowned at his father’s private wharf on Monday.
“An old Victorian,” writing from Mount
M'uonald diggings, saya that the works on the field
resemble rabbit-warrens rather than quartz-mines. He
does not believe that there is a working miner working
for wages th.re at present that would give £5 fora
foorth share, in any case, on the Mount.
The jury who sat on the body of Downing, the
chemist's assistant, who filled in his diploma for the
next world Monday week, showed that he graduated in
the prnssic acid section.
The Premier of Queensland, at a recent banquet,
said that Townsville would rival Brisbane in a few years.
The Western sheep pastures, cattle country. Havens-
wood and Charters Towers goldfields, the Star silver
mines, Herbert and Bnrdekin rivers, sugar land—all
centre ia Townsville: city frqntage, £6O per foot 1
Cornelius Mortimer, a Washington-street bird
fancier, the other day went to Gonlburn on business.
When he returned, he found that Elizabeth Mallen alias
Harper, a woman who had been living with him as his
wife, had eloped with one William Hall, and that the
pair had taken with them a lot of jewellery and clothing
and other effects. The pair were arrested at Maitland,
brought back to Sydney, and charged with the robbery.
Prosecutor admitted that at Wagga be had gone through
the form of marriage with the female prisoner, the
officiating minister being a clergyman of the Church of
Englandj he had, however, since ascertained that she
was then a married woman, and consequently a poly-
an Christ.
THE KOOKABURRA.
The man who had a fist thrust at hig noso, said
he was shaken to the scenter.
A correspondent writes to inquire if he can
secure a berth on board a courtship.
Cards announcing the birth of a child are now
the fashion. Bawl tickets, so to speik.
Never complain of a wasted opportunity whtn
you hare a chance to hug an amiable heiress.
By a mother-in-law : “ You can deceive yotir
guileless little wife, young man, but her father’s wife—
never I *•
A man who was asked why husbands quit court-
ing their wives, said it was because other me i did it so
much nicer.
Prom the Melbourne Argus ;— “Lamb. — On
the 15th instant, at Pant Road, Prahran, Mrs John
Lamb of a ton.”
In reply to the question: “ Will the oorain&
man be bald ?" a paper afiilrms that “ he generally is
when ha first comes.”
“ Do try and talk a little common sense,”
a girl to hor visitor, “ Ah, but wouldn't,that be taking
an unfair advantage of you f ”
A man who, after leaving church, was seen in a
bar drinking brandy and water, explained that ho al-
ways thirsted after righteousness.
A man whoso wife presented him with
twins, thoughtfully remarked s “ Well, well j I should
smile to utter : that is a little too two.”
Why is paper money more valuable than coin P
Because you double it when you put it in your pocket,
and when you take it out you find it in-creases.
The greatest living calculator is the gas meter
man. He can tell t© a fraction how much gss a family
ought to use, without once looking at the indicator.
The very newest of all agonies is for a young
lady to have her hand photographed and send it to her
best young man. This signifies, “ 'Twas mine, 'tia
yours,” etc.
Spoony draper’s assistant to smart girl trying on
a hat before the glass: “ Don’t I wish I was a looking-
glass!” Smart miss: "Yes, perhaps you’d goi more
girls to look at you then.” Clerk collapses.
Larrikin.—“Slowed if it’s fair; hero I’ve got
ten years for slicing a bobby’s leg, and you’ve only got
a fine of twenty-five bob for knocking out a woman’s
eye.” “Bough.—Ah! but she was my wife.”
A Chinese vegetable merchant recently married
Bridget Molioy, and three days afterwards Bridget's
husband appeared at a barber’s, and ordered his pigtaU
to bo cut off, saying in explanation : “ Too muohee Ilish-
woman 1”
There is a man up North who has a snake in his
stomach, and is obliged to drink a large quantity of
whisky to keep the reptile stupeflel, as it causes him
great pain when it is lively. He is the envy of all his
neighbours.
There is only one woman we know of who can
let other women pass by her without looking after them
to see whether their polonaises are shirred in the elbow
and out bias on tha watch pocket. The woman in ques-
tion is a tobacco sign.
A Melbourne grocer, who before Christmas
advertises the newest currants, raisins, and other
Christmas fruits, immediately after Christmas has
arrivals of the best cold-drawu castor oil for families—
especially recommended.
A lady who suffered from phthisis.
When asked by her lover for khthisis.
Said, “ I’ve such a cough
You had better go ongh.
And be courting some healthier mhthisis.”
The special reporter of a Parramatta paper at ,
the Liverpool bazaar, speaks of “lush” having
abounded thereat, “from the plebeian ainger-beer
upwards.” It is generally understood that the " up-
wards" refers to the “ three stars,” and the rum and
milky way.
It was Saturday night in Thornborough, N. Q.
Six rough miners were playing poker. But as the
clock struck the hour of twelve, proclaiming that the
Lord’s day some, with one accord they threw down the
cax’ds and left Billy Little’s bar. They went across the
street to see a fight.
A witty society woman was standing before
s greatly admired picture of Lot and his daughter©.
Oh, remarked a friend dolorously, ** what do you
suppose Lot thought, when he beheld his poor wife
turned to a pillar of salt ?” “ I suppose,” replied our
wit with admirable gravity, 11 he thought how he eculd
get himself a fresh one.”
The dream of a Northern traveller on board the
Leichhardt (s.s.):—
As in my stuffy bunk I lay,
With hind leg all askew,
I dreamt a wretched, wretched dream.
That turned me green and bine.
I dreamt old Skuthorpo had mo,
I dreamt I heard him rave
I was a faded flower, plucked
Prom off old Leichhardt’s grave.
He dragged me down the Brisbane streets.
And in accents not angelic
Proclaimed he’d shown, in skin and bone,
A genuine Leichhardt Relic.
When Mrs. M'Fadden heard Mr. Denis Bnl-
I gruaery in the next room beatiuig his wife unmercifully,
she was full of wrath, nob at the man, but at the woman
for crying out and disturbing her slumbers. She there,
fore rapped loudly on the partition which separated her
cast-e from his, and shouted in her most choice Italian •
How very delicate you are!”
Shun, shim the bar (the tavern bar).
That bar to rising hope.
If tou would keep from all that soils
Use only bar of soap.
Tis hut a step from bar first named
Unto the prisoner’s bar;
B h* the sand bar in life’s stream.
Where many wrecked are.
It is the bar where you’ll he shaved.
Clean as the bar-bar’s shave.
Oh, money, honour, health, and peace—
Uli, ball, be no bar slave.
X 209: “Is this to be a case of desprit resistance Sargint?”
S ERGEANT: “ Ov coorse, jist howld him a moment while I tear me coat.”
A COLONIAL PATRON OF ART.
The Golden Shoah.
A 1 m days lon S passed away,
. w ° ula m eet at Yankee Grab to play.
We wfdo* taX tho boneS and dowu tho sixes f ar and
Account all bones as sixes, when the boys wore beery-
And asWe tho b ° X fOF Six 63 ’ When the busbi «3 turned
I remember, I remember, this joker said to me,
1 m™ |IOU * dSar ° ld Pal ° f mine * to 0,083 the distant
BUt ti?nX£ [P Came baCi again and touched the
I found that dear old pal and I would meet to shake on
earth no more, —
i and w °uld shake tho bones on earth
Ah! .for ever and for ever those days hare passed away.
And now no more upon those chumps as jokers! shall
we play;
And yet I hope in future days, when life’s dark
journey’s o’er.
That Bill and I will shake the bones upon tho Golden
onoan;
This little coon and I will meet and fleece old Father
xioan.


SINGER'S SEWING I
ABE MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacturi
Head Offices:
Si UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eur<
39 FOSTER LANE, 3
160 FIRST PEI
EASY TEEMS—2s. Gd.
AGENTS IN EVERY
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR
No. 1 DARLING STORE!
HARBOUR ST
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER &C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED i
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANE
TIME PATMEN'
2s. 6d. per week—2s. od. per week
And ho imteeest cl
10 per cent, off for <
BEWARE OP IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY " SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHII
HAYMAEKE
Singers Sewing
Fublic Compau
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with po
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund
DiEEcrona:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Je
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wait:
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE STI
Cjty and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Bur wood
London Office ; 18 King Willia
BRANCHES IN NEW SOD
I Albury, Annidale, Ballina, B:
Bonrke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbi
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Maeleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton, South Grafton, Temora,_ Te
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wall send,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE]
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Bavenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
•Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
The mercantile bani
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
DIRECTORS i
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wra. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jag. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E, Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER s
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Georgo-stroet Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director—Edward Chapt
Agent— G. H, Alexand:
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on tho most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other nroduce shipped to England f
Scottish impeeiai
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ... » ... ... ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWES
NIXON & CO
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
Sub-A gouts wanted in Town
Eion fire insurani
Limited.
Chief Offices—s LOTHBURY,;
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital, £200,000. Rese:
Annual Income
FIRE INSURANCE on every des
in town and country, at LOWES
promptly adjusted and paid in Sydi
Business Announcements
LLeqax.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHES
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office,
LEGAL.— N. W. COOKE, Solicitor. OFFICE :
3 Ground Floor, 'Wentworth Court. PRIVATE
ADDRESS : 16 Sir John Young’s Crescnt, Opposite
Domain, VJpolloomooloo.
Belmont house and hotel,
LAKE MACQUARIE,
IS THE BEST, HEALTHIEST, AND PRETTIEST
PLACE in the Colony ter Ladies and Gentlemen requir
ing REST, or CHANGE of AIR. or good SALT-WATER
BATHING.
GOOD BOATS FOR HIRE.
N
OTCE OF REMOVAL.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
GLASS MANUFACTURERS,
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCRIPTIONS CHINA
and EARTHENWARE,
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVED
to
269 GEORGE .ST^ET,
Next but One to the Mercantile Bank.
A magnificent selection of New Goods now opening.
A
W
ILLCOX
and
QLbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 lOu
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shollers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T.
STEREOTYPE,
—AND- Sii
:i(£
17-P
Foundry I
AND
RINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
V'S 2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
\ at 70 LITTLE CpLLII'S GTHEST, mBOPMTE.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER A lEONFOUNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES.
COLONIAL
OVENS.
DEED
[BOXES,
Ac., Ac.
Works? SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT ST REE r.
J MASSEY AND SON, 10 PARK STREET.
IMPORTERS
. MM
of
■*
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
C CAUTION. —In onr stylo of climate, with its
J sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of EoscLee’s German
Syrap kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of . three or four
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d.;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
•** They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
Snd being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sola Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GEEAT LIVEE EEMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Eestorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to got Imitations,
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
J. S. ABRAHAM,
Invented and Prepared only by
S. A B R A H A
At the Laboratory,
434 ;GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
C
OU6H WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not bo able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-stroot next to
Pouch’s Hotel.
Tickle tour appetite with the Ana-
tralian Eelish, made by Washington H. Sonl,
17? Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
George lan
(Formerly of George-street,)
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that ho has EE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY AECADE,
whore every article in the above lino will bo sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
B
USINESSES FOE SALE.
FEOST AND CO„
Estate, General, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS,
Oiler for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO. Intending Purchasers, who favour us with a
call, can roly on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest. i
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79, Pitt-street.
A.G .THOMSON &C 9
: 3-V PROPRIETORS
This! icl t e old. S coicli'Blend
[i'S d Tstin gal size (I hy having a bouquet
s in f>ne old 'matured y/ines .
GILCHRIST, WATT, AND CO.
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES,
1 BENT STEEET, SYDNEY.


GRAND
CHRISTMAS PRES]
THE LONDON AB[
are offering the foil
MAGNIFICENT FUI
OF
LADY OR GENT!
t
GOLD JEWE
The small amount charged will bar
of advertisings registered carriage
The following is a list of the C
offered to LADIES. One article o
but, to obviate the likelihood of i
bag, it will be advisable to send for
Lady’s Elegant Gold Brooch,
different stones
Gold Necklet....
Lady’s Gold King
Earrings
Lady's Gold Albert
Gold Locket
Bracelet
Total
Any of these articles may bo sen'
as before stated, it will be to the r
secure the whole in one parcel.
THIS
GRAND CHRISTMAS PE
will only be made to each lady read
cuts out the following Coupsn and si
Art Society, 191 William-street, Syc
sary sum noted above, to defray all
LADY’S PKEMIUM
for
ONE FULL SUITE GOLD
On receipt of this Coupon, I,
will redeem it by sending Broo<
Earrings, Gold Albert, Locke
upon receipt of £ 113 s. 6d., requii
and other expenses.
All Coupons must be cut out
sent to LONDON AET SOCLE
street, Sydney, within five (5)
date.
(Signed)
J. H. WILSON
Manager for ]
Lone
NOTE THESE INSTET
No parcel or separate article will
the following conditions are stric
and the distribution will take place
applications are received:—
Ist. Every address must be distil
2nd. Any single article or the i
applied for.
3rd. No order will be entertain
tion of five (5) weeks after this dat
4th. Only Bank Drafts and Post
received.
The LONDON AET SOCIETY
arrangements to present each QI
with the following suite of jeweller
Gold Scarf-pin
Set of Gold Studs
Set Gold Solitaires
Gold Albert
Gold Locket
Gold IJing
Total
For these articles cut out the I
and forwafd as directed
m
.
r,
Mi
mm
• =
me
i— -ja
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERCI
COALCLIFF C<
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY suppli
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
ISs. PER TOM NET, delivered with
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bat it affords that domestic desk
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charco
Steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given ■
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHuLES.
DEPOT—WOOLLOO-MOOLOO W
m
EW DA
AWARDED the
for Sewing A
ONLY FIRST
M EDAL, at
1881.
FIRST and SP
Show, 1877,1
Singleton, W
ONLY First and
No other SET
I Special Prize at
*0 the contrary r
B. 0.
TO PERSONS IN DIFF]
the Mutual Trade Protectioi
cover your debts or obtain the best
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pi
WANTED, SUBSCRIBE
net Bulletin. W. Eo
Newg Agent, and .Stationer, Queens
JOHN S
WHOLESALE, BE'
and
MANUFACTUBING S
374 GEOBGE STBEET,
The designs selected by Mr. San
mas Card Competition, inaugurated
a'e now ready, and may be obtains
and Stationers in Australia.
These cards are essentially Anst
being designed by Australian Artis
by Mr. Sands’s own lithographers,
works as above. Persons wishing i
this new Colonial industry, are reqiu
each card bears on ir, Mr. Sands’s tj
Glass. This caution is necessary, as
being ottered to the public, which, a
in character, are cf European pro du
In addition to the cards of hia
Sands has imported the roost varied
in the colonies. Those desirous of
lected with artistic taste, cannot do
his stock, which includes the variov
the home competitions, together wi
tions from the principal Englisl
American Manufacturers.
Mr. Sands has also on view the p
premiums of One Hundred and Fift
lubition, lately held at the Art G:
CHEOMO-LITHOGEAPHI
November, 1881.
MASON BBOT
14 & 16 S
. Sy
Have always in
to the TEA!
SALE BUTE
lEONMONGEI
GENEE
GLAsI
EARTH
WINES. BEEI
and
BULK ME
Age
JOHN WAT,]
Old High]
J. SOEH
J. T.
Schnapps
A. MELYJ
Edinbur.
as
NEW BUILDINGS, New
Buildings, CENTEAL FUENI
29, 31, and 33, Park-street. Chri
Christmas. Make your purchase
Furnishing Arcade, whore yon cai
every article requisite for hcusel
greatly reduced prices, in conseqm
festivals. H. LEVT and CO.
CHRISTMAS PRESEN IS,
sents.—We respectfully invite i
to inspect our extensive stock of v
tea sets, dinner sets, electroplate
glassware suitable for Christmas Pr<
FUEJSISHING AECf
AECADE, 29. 31. ai
CENTRALFURNISHING A
and S 3, Park-street.—Take a
Extensive show-rooms, where you i
largest stocks of general furniture in
redneed prices H. LEVT and CO.
T THE CENTRAL FURNIS
you ean inspect a largo stock ol
makers—Erard, London; Hechter, A
supplied on time payments. 29, 31, £
HOUSES furnished on Time
15 up to £lOOO, at the C<
Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park street.
H - P A 1


ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
mHE GOOD TIME OF CHRISTMAS ia coming, and with it must be provided Christmas requisites.
In no part of Australia will they be found ia such profusion as at the
HA7HARKET.
We enumerate a few, but, for the want of space, cannot mention one-third of the assortment on
EXHIBITION.
A Beautiful Assortment of Antique Lace in Cream, Tuscan, White, and Black.
JOUBEBT AND Cie. BLACK GEOS GRAIN SILKS.
OF 16 YARDS PER DRESS, 325., Sis , 365., 40i.
COLOURED DITTO, SAME AS BLACK (these are
for presents)
KID GLOVES FOR CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
LADIES’ STRAW HATS FOR PICNICS
LADIES’ DRESSES FOE PICNICS
LADIES’ PARACHUTES FOE PICNICS
LADIES’ BOOTS AND SHOES FOR PICNICS
WORK BOXES FOE CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
DESKS FOE Do. Do,
PRETTY BAGS FOR Do. Do.
DOLLS DRESSED FOR Do. Do.
TOYS FOE Do. Do.
CROCKERY WARE FOR Do. Do.
THE J2STHE
GOLD AND SILVER BULLION
EVERT REQUISITE FOE THEATRICALS AL-
WAYS IN STOCK
GENTLEMEN’S PICNIC HATS
GENTLEMEN’S HOLIDAY CLOTHING
GENTLEMEN’S BOOTS
A SAVING OF 35 PER CENT.
CHRISTMAS CARDS IN ABUNDANCE
CEOSSLEY’S CARPETS, 2s. 3d. PEE YARD
MAKING AND LAYING, 2d. PEE YARD.
TIC FAN, 6s. .
COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO, AND TO PREVENT DELAY, PLEASE
ADDRESS IN FULL TO
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
A
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A
A A
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS St NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
A PRESENT should he ELEGANT; it should be DURABLE;
and also an ARTICLE of DAILY USE, to be a Continual
Reminder of the Giver.
fJTHE numerous handsome designs in SILVER-PLATED WARE
for Table Use on view at the Showrooms of the undersigned
fulfil all the above requirements.
NOTHING CAN BE BETTER' AS GIFTS.
Call and inspect our stock of—
BUTTER DISHES from 21s, each upwards
CRUETS from 12s. 6d. each, upwards
BISCUIT BOXES from 255. each upwards
SARDINE BOXES from 17s. 6d. each upwards
TOAST BACKS from 12s. 6d each upwards
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICES
IiIQUEUB AND SPIRIT FRAMES
CAKE BASKETS, ENTREE DISHES
DISH COVERS, ROUND AND OVAL WAITERS
EGG FRAMES, PICKLE FRAMES
1 dozen TEA SPOONS from 13s. upwards
1 „ DESSERT,, „ 225. ..
1 „ TABLE „ 31s. ”
1 ~ DESSERT FORKS from 225. upwards
1 „ TABLE ~ „ 3ls. ~
All of Reliable Manufacture.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LIMITED,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IJIHEATEE ROYAL.
Ldesee ,Ib. S. Lnsaf.
Treasurer Mr. G. L. taeootaialu
Stage Manager .....................Mr, Richard Stewart.
EVer’st EVENING,
cfeßVSlkks PANTOMIME,
sVNBaD, THE SAILOE.
Doors open at 715 p m,; commence at a quarter to 8_
AETHUE GARNER,
Acting-Manager.
■V/TTILSON’S GEEAT WOELD CIRCUS,
“ * MILLIONAIBE CONFEDERATION CIRCUS,
MENAGERIE, AND MASTODON MARVELS
of CREATION.
The Quadruple Alliance, Four Shows Combined la On®,
WILSON’S GEEAT WOELD CiRCtIS,
MATHEWS’ LONDON SHOW,
SCHUMANN’S MAMMOTH EUROPEAN CIRCUS.
DJEELtNOS GERMAN MENAGERIb.
Forming the Largest and most Legitimate Circus Or-
ganisation in the World.
THE LARGEST COMPANY OP ftffASfrgjrtft
Riders.
THE MOST PEARLEBS, DARING, AND ACCOM
PLISHED GYMNASTS.
And the most complete troupe of Star Artists
ever assembled together in one performance.
Every Act advertised faithfully carried out. No fie-
fcitious parades of Empty Waggons.
Positively the only combination of Standard Sterling
Merit that has ever travelled Australia,
ALL FOB ONE PRICE OP ADMISSION.
The Public may depend that No Extra Charge is made
with this establishment.
WILSON’S GEEAT WOELD CIECUS
Will open at
PARRAMATTA, MONDAY, JANUARY 9.
CAMPBELLTOWN, TUESDAY, JAUUABY 10.
GOULBURN, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11.
COOTAMUNDRA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 12.
WAGGA WAGQA, FRIDAY, JANUARY 13.
ALBURY, SATURDAY, JANPARY 14,
TWO GRAND PERFORMANCES DAILY.
AFTERNOON at 2.30 p.m.
EVENING at 8 p.m.
Q.AEDEN PALACE.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, MONDAY, 2nd JANUARY,
Under distinguished patronage. Orchestra of 40 per-
formers. Conductor, Mr. Julius Herz. Admission, 2s.
and Is."
Managers—Louis Saenger and Gustav Kuster.
R. HELLER. 1 , ,
M. I. ABRAHAMS, j Ageuts -
rjl HE AT E E EOYAL, GEAPTON
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas ; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATT WATER.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo-
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. Pot terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
ME. EDWIN PALMEE, LEADING an
CHARACTER OLD MAN, GAIETY THE!
TRB, NIGHTLY.
MRS. EDWIN PALMEE, HEAVY LEAD, as
LEADING OLD WOMAN, AT LIBERTY. Address
Tenby House, Wynyard Square.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIEEO;
of the
ZULU WAR,
Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, December 26, one montl
Christchurch to follow.
S
IGNOR BONACCOETI
MUSICAL DIRECTOR.
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of the Zulu War, Queen
Theatre, Dunedin.
CON BUCKINGHAN,
CORNET. ’
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of the Zulu War, Queen’s
Theatre, Dunedin.
JJ IGHLAND GATHERING.
ON NEW TEAR’S DAT, 1882,
PROGRAMME OP EVENTS.
HIGHLAND PIPING and HIGHLAND DANCIN
for Adults and Boys (under 15); prizes amounting to
£43. For particulars see future advertisement Sailor’s
Hornpipe; three prizes, £1 10s. £l, and 10s. Irish
Jig, £2, £l. Pole Vaulting, £4, £2, £l. Hop, .Step, and
Jump, £2, £1; and other events.
FLAT RACES—(To bo run in divisions if deemed
requisite). 100 yards Maiden Plate, for all those who
hare never won an advertised prize ; two prizes, £4 and
£2; entrance, 2s 6d. 160 yards Handicap; three prizes,
£l2, £3, and £l. 440 yards Handicap; three prizes, £7,
£2, and £L One Mile Handicap; three prizes, £lO, £3,
and £l. Entrances to Handicap Events, se. No en-
trance will be received unless the competitor states in
writing the races competed for since 31st December,
1879, and the position taken; and in the event of his
statement not bearing verification, he will be disquali-
fied. Any protest made to be in writing, and handed
iu to the hon. secretary before the sports are ever.
Colours to be stated at time of entrance.
Entrances will be received by the hon. secretary at
the undermentioned address, and will close on SATUR-
DAY EVENING, 17th December next. Letters con-
taining entrances will be received up to MONDAY
EVENING, 19th December.
WALKING MATCH, 1 mile and a half, handicap:
prizes, £6, £3, £1; entrance, 2s 6d.
The committee reserve the right of postponing the
sports in the event of unfavourable weather.
All communications to be left at F. Punch’s Hotel,
Pitt and King.streets.
J. CHISHOLM, Captain, Hctt Secretary,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31.
GOULBUKN.
EAST GROVE SUBDIVISION,
KNOWS A 3
BROOK'S PAD DOCK.
CONTANING 210 ACRES,
SUBDIVIDED INTO OVER
500 LOTS,
AND TO SUIT EVERY CLASS OP
- PUKCBASEE,
The Most Attractive aid Important Subdivision
ever offered in Qoulburn.
MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST,
IN conjunction with. Messrs. FINLAY and CO.,
(of Goulburn) have received instructions to sell by
auction, on Saturday, 31st December, at 3 p.m.
GSOUND,
THE ABOVE GRAND SUBDIVISION,
IN LOTS TO SUIT iEVEEY
CLASS OP
PUECHASEB.
SPECIAL TRAIN PEOM SYDNEY.
TICKETS TO BE HAD ON
APPLICATION.
LUNCHEON PROVIDED.
Ooulbnrn is one of the oldest and most thickly popu-
lated districts in the Colony, and the city itself has ex-
tended greatly, and it now possesses numerous
pro wierous manufactories, among which should be
mentioned those producing jams, the district being
most adaptable to the growth of fruit. The city of
Gonlburn is well laid out, with broad streets, and so
great is the demand for building property, that many
private estates are being subdivided into building
allotments, and we would recommend those desirous of
securing a suitable lot, to inspect this property.
Terms: 10 per cent Deposit.
Balance by 6 quarterly peyments bearing 6 per cent,
interest.
Lithographs can be obtained at the rooms of .the
Auctioneers, either at Sydney or Goulburn.
Eetnrn tickets 10s. each.,
D
E.
WALK
HOMCEOPATHIST,
E E,
King a resident practitioner in Maitland, may now be
consulted on all
DISEASES or the;human FEAME,
at
NO. 221 ELIZABETH STBEET, HYDE PAKK,
SYDNEY
(Five doors from ditto's Eoyal Hyde Park Hotel),
very day except Friday s, on which days he will attend
all day at his old residence,
ELGIN STEEET, WEST MAITLAND,
.or the benefit of those in the Hunter Kiver district
r ho may wish to continue consulting him.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
_y frioads and th* public that he has opened those
sntrally-situatcd Premises, next to the Gsorge-street
3 trance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
al specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
locks. Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
illy invites an early visit, which will prove that the
jods which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
lOderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises,
refutation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges strictly
TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, Geo^e-street.
LTODEEN HIGH SCHOOL, Moore Park.
J The education given is thoroughly practical. A
lorough ENGLISH COUESE forms the basis of
stmetion given, hut pupils axe prepared for various
rofession* and examinations. G spies of Examiner b
:ports and prospectuses on application.
p> ON D I BEACH, BONDI.
BONDI PACIHC PAVILION,
Open every SATURDAY AFTEENOON from 2 to 6
clock, for DANCING. .
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey's Excelsior Brass Band and efllolent M.C.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIEST-CLASS. BILLIAED TABLE.
Che finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies.
J. HEINZ, Proprietor.
N.B.—Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beantliea.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused hy
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. HARROW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A groat scientific discovery.”—
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESSjSg
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
flVt STSEET.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, Dec. 27,1881.
On the wharves, prime green lucerne is selling at £3
per ton; oaten hoy, £3 10s. to £4 10s. per ton.
Wheat, ss. to ss. 6d.; maize, 4s. 41. ta 4s. 6a. per
bushel. A fair t mount of business in all lines. Maize
in demand at 4s. 6d. Market steady.
Hunter River onions, £4 10a. to £5 ; potatoes (new)
£4 to £4los. per ton ; butter (in keg) 7d. to 83. per lb ;
bacon, 61. te Bd.; cheese, 6d to 81. ; beeswax. 9d. to lOd.
per lb.; eggs, Bd. to lOd. per dozen; millet brooms, Bs.
to 10*. per dozen. _ , . ,
Poultry and eggs coming in freely. People have been
holding back until Christmas, and this week every-
thing is in profusion and cheap. Fowls are selling at
from 2s. 61. to 3a ,; ducks, 3s. 6d. to 45.; geese, 7s. to
Bs.; turkeys, 10s. to 18j. per pair.
Fresh Meat.— The nmal sales of fresh country-
killed beef take place daily. A fair supply arriving.
Prices ora for prime bodies of beef, 21.; medium
quality, l|d.; inferior, lid. per lb. all round.
Fat Cattle. —A medium supply of fat shoep forward,
The market well stocked. 51-Ib. wethers, 9s. to 9s. 6d.
Flour prices arc—for Sydney mill flour, superfine,
£l3 per ton; household, £U ; seconds, £11; New South
Wales country brands. £l2 to £l3 per ton. Bran and
pollard, la. Id. per bushel.


The cocoas oonmonly sold are mixed with starch,
which readers then thick, heavy, and indigesi ible. Cad-
ucry’s Cocoa Essukce is genuine, and is therefore a
light and refreehih/; bovosage like tea and coffee*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The advent of Christmas has had its usual effect
upon the universe, bringing with it, as far as Sydney is
individually concerned, unlimited goose and several
holiday pieces. Tae week, indeed, has been singularly
eventful, for not only have the pantomines been -pro-
duced, bat Mr. Arthur Garner has taken a benefit, and
has delivered the remarkable oration which we fore-
shadowed in onr last issue. The speech differed
slightly, bat not materially, from tbe portion we gave
last week, Mr. Garner’s remarks being, it is but fair to
admit, singularly tree from the spirit either of egotism
or intolerance. Mr. Garner said—
" Ladies and (loud rattle of fans, and an ejaculation
in a female voice from the dress-circle of “ Oh, those
eyes I ") gentlemen
“ The enthusiastic applause with which I am greeted
was not unexpected, and is not, let m© hope, unde-
served. Born to command and succeed—silence in the
pit there—l am accustomed to respect and applause.
The importance ! of this event, my benefit, has been
very generally recognised. The ships down Dawes Point
way were all dressed with flags this morning, a solute
of gnns was fired from the battery, and it is even
rumoured that in |the public institutions the children
were all given a half holiday. There are, I know, (with
a fiery glance at the gallery,) certain small-minded and
envious grovellers who would seek to attribute these
evidences of festivity to tho fact of its being Christmas
Eve (indignation in the circle), bat what care I for the
scepticism of a few venal two-bobbers, when I enjoy the
confidence of the Upper Crust! (Applause).
* ♦ #
“Whot I have produced you know. What I am going
to produce I shall now tell yon. You may expect under
my management to hare * Billea Taylor,’ and * The
M&scotte,* * Youths,* • The Lights of London,* and
‘The World’; and it is also my intention to revive
many of the pieces in which I myself have triumph-
antly figured. Ton may confidently look forward,
therefore, to * The Colleen Bawn,’ with myself in the
part of Kyrle Daly, an impersonation, I may remark,
which has been acknowledged by my intimate friends
and the intelligent Press to be a performance of extra-
ordinary originality. ‘ Nothing,’ as The Bulletin
remarked at the time—intelligent paper The Bulletin
sometimes—' had ever been seen like it.'
• « «
“ I cannot take my leave of yon without calling
your attention to the splendid loyalty exhibited by my
new checktakers—the display by them of Berlin gloves
and clean linen being as gratifying os it is remarkable.
Mr. Goodman, whom I am proud to call my friend (an
hysterical sob of joy from the dress-circle entrance,
and G.L. led out deeply affected), and who, besides
being my treasurer is a treasure also, has proved him-
self invaluable during my rfgime, and through his in-
strumentality the country editors all see the necessity
of paying their shilling and going into the pit, entering
a protest thereto, 1 am grieved to add, by smoking
dirty clay pipes about the dress-cirole entrance in the
intervals.”
* * #
There was more of it, but we have no space in
which to chronicle the rest of this masterly address, in
tho delivery of which was embodied every oratorical
grace that man, in his most superior form, is heir to.
The honse was full, and “ Patience " went for the last
time at tho Royal with great spirit, all the principal
songs being encored.
• • •
The pantomime was produced on Monday night
t) an audienos the like of which has never before been
seen in the theatre. Long, long before the time for the
“ rag " to go up, every inch of the vast auditorium was
filled, and the reserved seats in the 'dress-circle were
rnshed, despite the frantic efforts of the ushers. The
aspect of the theatre was extraordinary. The pit
appeared to be a swaying mass of curses and cat-calls,
the occupants of the stalls were ooatless, while the
upper-circle was packed to the roof with standing men
and women—the latter nearly all imparting lacteal
sustenance to healthy Infants. In the dress-circle,
strange forms and visages were seen, and the air was
thick with the odour of goose, and reeked of sage and
onions. The gods were irrepressible, hut amusing
withal, and, in the main, good-natnred; a slight dis-
turbance only occurring at the commencement ot tho
performance, in consequence of the attentions of one
gentleman in the pit to the wife of another gentleman
in the pit becoming of too pressing a nature, where-
upon the offended Benedick “landed" the Lothario a
"crack under the ear-hole."
• * *
“ Sinbad the Sailor” is a burlesque opening by
John Strabon, of the Dramatic Author’s Society, and
it has been localised by Mr. E. Lewis Scott, a gentle-
man whose name has been associated with countless
dramatic triumphs, and who as n writer of opening
addresses has bad no equal since the days of Gubbins,
tbe inspired bard of Dnbbo. Asa sample of the daz-
zling brilliance of the locals, we will give this specimen.
Talking of the contents of the magio bottle, the mate
says— . ,
“Ah I I’ll go bail.
It’s some delicious sparkling Adelaide ale.
Or Yigorine, or Zoedons, the soul to cheer
Or Starkey’s intoxicating ginger beer 1"
If this splendid extract does not convince even the most
sceptical ns to the.merit of the local gags, why here is
a bit of dialogue which at once sets all doubts at rest
for ever as to the rippling humour of the adapter
" Duenna: You've had the London Comedy Company,
my bird,
Which Garner brought with cast complete;
Princess : And Tambour Major—wasn’t Griolet sweet ?
It’s music all I've drank
Duenna ; And I 01-ive-et.
Princess: And Madame Favart I shall ne’er forget.”
The principal members of the company, however, with
singular unanimity, disregarded these flashes of wit and
gleams of fancy, and spoke their own gags, a proceed-
ing which cannot be otherwise regarded than as a cruel
and heartless snub to genins.
* • •
From the lavish manner in which the pantomime
is mounted, however, it is to a great extent independent
even of the coruscating gems with which Mr. Soctt has
studded tho dialogue. The scenery is very grand, in-
deed, and so are the dresses—notably those of Maggie
Stewart, Laua Edwin, and Nellie Playfair. The ballet
girls and amazons, if they displayed in their costumes
nothing particularly new, wore at least clad with much
gorgeousness, and what a great many of the girls wanted
in beauty they made up in the size of their " twinkling
feet.” The transformation scene was a beautiful study,
and the harlequinade the most ingenious that Sydney
has ever seen—the skill of Mr. Bland Holt’s tricks
being really remarkable. Of story, ** Sindbad the
Sailor” has little or none; but that is of little conse-
quence. No one requires a story in a spectacular
extravaganza, or expects one. In “ Sindbad the Sailor ’*
there is the usual pantomime king, who has a daughter
“ passing fair,” with two lovers, one an ugly one she
doesn’t like, and one a pretty one she does. Then there
are other old familiar friends in the persons of the ogre,
tbe witch, the spirit ef the desert, and others. All
these come on at stated intervals, and talk and dance
and sing, and the people of course are all exceedingly
amused.
• • •
The cast is a very strong one as regards the men,
but tbe ladies, though collectively lovely, do not display
individually a remarkably amount of either histrionic
or terpsichorean power. Miss Maggie Oliver, for in-
stance, is as pretty as the picture «n a Christmas
almanac, and has a form the symmetry of which will,
probably form the theme of bards in future generations ;
but in “ Sinbad ” she has either got a weak part, or
else is rouble to interpret it; for she most certainly
failed, in this instance, to make her customary hit. Miss
Kellie Playfair, who played a Peri, also looked lovely,
bat the effect of her lines was considerably marred by
a most pronounced lisp. Miss Lena Edwin (who is
idiotically described in the book as being “ an Art-
critic and Punch Cartoonist” (sic), though picturesque
in appearance and letter-perfect, did not impress us
either as being particularly well suited with the rdle
assigned to her, and therefore the impression she
made, though on tbe whole favourable, was by no means
suoh as to entitle' the lady to consider her dihut a
triumph,
* e *
The best araongrat the ladies, perhaps, were Mis <
Maggie Stewart* and Miss Theresa Horan, though both
fcheeo you.ig people have a surprising amount te learn
and to unlearn. Mias Horan looked the Princess to the
life, and sang a little introduced tong very prettily, but
she gave us the impression of being rather too con-
scious of her blue boots, and she fingered her blue satin
waistcoat with a nervousues* that reminded one of an
unwilling bridegreom at the altsr. Though evidently a
tyro in the art of the “light fantastic" (which is a
pffy). Miss Horan tripped about prettily enough, and
wh'-m she made love to Sinbad, she held the gallery
spell-bound and the pit ia thralls. A ludicrous inci-
dent occurred in one of these love scenes. The
Princess was plighting her troth to Sinbad, when In a
moment of silence a man in the stalls shouted out
" Ah ! poor Tom’s out of it now," a remark which
though ill-conditioned and uncalled for, create! a roar
Miss Horan was successful in getting another yell (with
her this time), when she said—
“ I love him
More than the Sydney Bulletin loves Clcntarf.”
A speech which might have been reversed with equal
effect.
• • •
Mr. Bland Holt scored a grand success as tho
Mate, and introduced a song called. “ The Pot and the
Kettle," which ia one of th<* best local ditties ever
heard in Sydney. His make-up was splendid, and he
proved himself to be all through the piece a thorough
artist. Mr. John L. Hall was the Duenna in a costume
that ia a parody on Lady Jane’s, and no pea could
adequately describe the ludicrousneas of his appear-
ance. He infused into the part all the humour which
has made him famous as a low comedian, and was
successful in keeping the audience in a roar whenever
he was on the stage. Harry Leston was a disappoint-
ment as Whangdoodle, since he made it neither an
aboriginal nor an Ashantee, nor a “ buck " nigger, but
let the part partake of the characteristics of all three
Mr. Stewart is satisfactory as the Caliph, but a large
number of his lines are of a very mild description. It
speaks, however, to his fairness as a manager, in not
appropriating all “ the fat.”
• * •
Madame Paata-Moora danced with much grace,
and some of the choregraphio effects were skilfully
arranged by that lady, who, with Mr. M’Lean, has
had control of the ballet department. Barto’s cos-
tumes and Gordon’s scenery are (as we have said) of a
gorgeous description ; and taken altogether the panto-
mime is a highly creditable production. Of its success
there is no doubt whatever. It is the Christmas piece,
and will draw all Sydney.
* * * *
Mr. Wilson had a good ben. at the Opera House
lagt Friday, a crowd of the talent rolling np to do him
honour, and on Monday night “ Patience ” was trans
ferred (much to John’s relief, we should think) to the
boards of his theatre, which is now managed by the
Og, Gog, and Macog of Australian theatricals—Messrs.
Garner, Mu-grove,; ind Williamson. To ourmiud tho
piece is produced with even greater success at the Optra
House than at the Royal, the voices of the singers—
notably that of Madelle. Navaro—being heard to much
better advantage That lady, who has, probably by
this tims learnt that it is to tho advantage of aa artist
to take a hint occasionally, shows signs of much
improvement; and Mr. Howard Yemen, who has been
unwearying in his efforts at teaching her, is to be con-
gratulated upon the result of hi a lessons,
* * * *
At the Gaiety they have decided to run “The
Black Flag ” through the holidays, and it is drawing
full houses. The piece is capitally played, and the
manner in which it is put upon the stage reflects the
utmost credit upon the stage-manager, Mr. J. H. Rain-
fori. To those who understand these matters the
difficulties in tho way of staging such a heavy piece
without a scene dock will be sufficiently appreciated.
Mr. Bainford’s inge unity, however, is to be further taxed
in the production of “ Tho Green Lanes" and “ Michael
Strogoff,” for Mr. Dampier informs us that his engage-
ment lasts until Easter.
* * * *
We have it on good authority that it ia the
intention of Hr. Sam Lazar to shortly retire from
theatrical life, and his doing so at this juncture looks
remarkably as though he had been offered one of the
Stipendiaries’ billets. This is a position that Sam would
especially adorn, while he would shine also as a legis-
lator. If King-street could return a couple of members,
Sam Lazar and Johnny Moore would be triumphantly
elected. Could one but live to see it 1
* * * *
The “Messiah” ot the Sydney Musical Union
at the Garden Palace on Saturday was fairly performed.
Madame Boema sang the soprano part, but, while we
admit that she excels in operatic and lyric mnsio, we do
not consider she is so successful in oratorio. Miss
Christian’s vocalisation was simply delightful. “ O
thou that tellest,” and “ He was despised" were
triumphs. Mr. Beaumont sang artistically and in good
voice. He sings oratorio music best, |and we are sorry
that he should have marred the good effect of his sing-
ing with that ineffective alteration of “ Thou shalt
break them." Mr. Rainford took the place of Mr.
Hallewell, who was unwell, but so was Mr. Rainford,
for his voice failed many times. He sang his part
through, and it would have bean bettor for himself and
the public if he had not sung at all. Tho orchestra,
being professionals, was good. The choruses were some-
times fair, bat at all times weak. The Garden Palace
is no place for concerts.
* * * *
Miss Grace Follaude (the Darkie of our dreams)
has gone to Grafton with an “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin com-
pany," and has scored a big success (so we hear) as
Cissie, Mr. E. B, Boothman (the modern Roscius) is
the George Harris, and J. H. Martin is also in it. Soma
of the niggers have gone too—Charley Lewis amongst
them, and so the Fort will bo held till further notice.
* * * *
The Australasian gives poor Georgie a
“doing” for “The Female Detective." The doctor says
that ho is “full" (the exact word) of pieces of this
description. He likewise remarks that though Miss
Smithson’s protean changes make the gallery howl
with delight, “ it is only another illustration of making
* the unskilful laugh and the judicious grieve,’ ” which,
by the way, ia rather neatly put.
♦ * . •
Dean George Walatab, whose Dazzle was an-
nounced in the Melbourne Herald to be superior to
that of Charles Mathews, played that character for
Mrs. Lewis’s benefit, and has dropped in for a bit of bad
luckatjthe hands of a brother scribe (jealous, no doubt!),
Of Mr. Walstab’s performance, “ Tahite” remarks that
“whatever George may have done eleven or twelve
years ago in tbe part of Dazzle, it is certain that he is
a conspicuous failure in it now. Of all things in this
character, its representative requires to be at ease, and
Mr. Walstab, as Dazzle, is not at ease. He fidgets
about; he needlessly shifts his ground; he ungrace-
fully thrusts his thumbs into his waistcoat-pockets ; ha
gabbles his words, so that you can only guess at his
meaning; he seems, in short, incapable of repose."
Now, we can’t understand why George should have con-
tracted so had a habit as putting his thumbs into his
waistcoat-pockets. Graceful people take out their
threepences—by the way, drinks are sixpence in Mel-
bourne —with the forefinger and thumb. Apropos,
wouldn’t we like to see a few of our Kihg-street friends
on the stage, that’s all!
* * * * .
The places of Pattie Laverne and Fred. Mervin
in “ Olivette," have been taken by Miss Elsa May and
Mr. Kelly.
* * * *
Would it have been considered personal, wa
wonder, had the management of the Theatre Royal
adopted for tbe name of their pantomime—“ Harlequin
Jack in the Box ? ”
* * * *
Professor Pepper has been very successful at
Charters Towers.
* * * *
The Circus has been getting the people by tho
thousand in the Haymarket, and “ Little Bed Biding
Hood," the equestrian pantomime, makes the joueg.
store orow again. We have noticed the individual per-
formances of the other artists so frequently that' wa
can’t think of anything new to say. It’s hard enough
to write a picnic par., but a circus one, when you have
| nothing but praise to awsxd, would take a Thackeray
I to make sparkle, Aa this, wo believe, is the last wook
but one of the show, tho youngsters had better begin
to work upon the feelings of their parents. It will be
long before we have a circus as good as veteran John’s,;
** * *
Carry George (widow of the late R. W-
Lawrence) writes ns, s tying: “ Will you kindly correct
statement in Bulletin of the 17th inst., that I was
married to Mr. M'Fadyen ? " Of course we will. Carry,
dea-, and we only wish it were our happy lot to correct
it to the extent of marrying you ourselves. But since
feat is not to be, we wish you tbe compliments of the
season, and another hubby as good as poor Bob. Mrs
Lawrence is in Hobart, playing with our very own
Walter.
** * *
This is the local the Herald objects to in
“ Sinbad the Sailor " :
“ Girl in Wynyard Square
That ever got a bank clerk by the hair.
The chalked 21 she stood above.
Tells not one half the virtues of my love! ”
It is rather personal, and would doubtless be offensive,
did not the beauty of the verse redeem it I
** * *
A company, consisting of Miss E. A. Lambert,
Mr. Templeton, Mr. M. Hagan, Mr, Osborne, Mr.
Stuart Bolton, Miss Jennie Horan, Miss Amy Fraser,
Miss Lucy Dignara, and some lesser lights, opened at
the Victoria on Boxing Night, with a burlesque called
“Aladdin and Company Limited.” The piece has been
cut down c&refuliy to suit tho exigences of the company
and of the hall, thoroughly localised, and all the songs
are original, while an efficient orchestra has been en-
gaged to da full justice to the music, most of which
is by Hcrv6, composer of “ Chilpdrio." On the fir-1
night, however, tho peiformanoe was by no means satis-
factory, for the simple reason that with one or two ex-
ceptions the people knew rather less about their parts
-ban an elephant does about calisthenics. It appears
that tho time for study had not been long, and the re-
hearsals very few; but even if, ns is stated, four days
had only been allowed the company to study ia, 1 10
piece is 'bat a light one, and they should have made a
much better show than they did. They could not, in
any case, have made a much worse one. An opinion seems
to prevail amongst the profession that “anything will
do for Boxing Night.” and the Victoria Hall people
appear to have traded on this illusion very freely, the
result being rather a shadowy performance.
* * *
Since the first night, however, things have
improved, and now the piece goes merrily enough,
Miss E. A. Lambert makes a first-rate “ Aladdin,” and
gets, the people with her songs, “ The strict Q and T.,”
" Impecuniosity," while Miss Jennie Horan looks the
Princess to perfection, and sings and acts with great
Mr. Martyn Hagan gives a really clever repre-
sentation of " Kokliko the Fly,” hislsong in the first
act being very successful, and Miss Amy Fra sar is all
there as a water nymph. We shall notice the other
performers next week. They will probably be letter-
perfect by that time.
** * *
Ada Ward has been playing—only think of it,
this weather I—“ East Lynne," in Adelaide, to very shy
“biz.,” and is now doing a dramatisation of “That Lass
o’ Lowrie’s ” with bettor success. That piece is to run
through the holidays. Mr. J. B. Steele is a member of
the company, and appeared as Claude Melnotte on his
arrival Hudson’s Surprise Party is doing splendidly
at tbe Academy of Music Garner’s theatre is closed
—probably until the arrival of the stilts.
** * *
It is definitely announced that “ Tho Green
Lanes of Old England " will be produced at tho Gaiety
on New Year's night. We hear great things of the
manner in which it is to be got up; and we wish Mr.
Bayless a long and prosperous run for the piece. A full
notice of it will appear in next issue. Mr. Dampier is to
play tbe principal male part, and Miss Amie Ad ere (Oh,
memory I) will enact the heroine. Our own Marion will
play an ingenue, and onr own Mary Ann “ fust old wo-
man” as n> ual. Emmett will also show, and Mr. Edwin
Palmer, of whom we have had much good to say, will
likewise appear.
** * *
Poor little Mrs Scott-Siddons has got it nicely in
London over “Queen and Cardinal," the play being
unanimously decried as ineffable “ bosh.” Jimmy Mac-
mahon—a Sandhurst man, whom we remember a white-
haired boy—is manager for Mrs. S. Perhaps he is a
white-haired boy still. Qui sait ?
** * »
Mr. 0. B. Poster’s concert in the Masonic Hall,
on Friday week, was not apparently successful finan-
cially, and certainly not musically. Signor Traraaglia, a
violinist, made his bow to a Sydney public, and it is to
him, and to Mr. Foster as a pianist, that the audience
were indebted for anything approaching musical ex-
cellence. Tho duet from “William Tell” was
splendidly rendered, and brought forth as much
applause as a small audienoe could give. Signor
Tramaglia ia a thoroughly conscientious artist, and will
be a great acquisition to onr local musical talent. In
the place of a lady amateur who was indisposed, Mr.
Foster played his own transcription of 11 Way down the
Swanee River” and thereby sustained his reputation
as a skilful executant. As a vocalist, he was not suc-
cessful; he has a fair voice of extensive range; but
faulty phrasing and a bad production of tone prove
that even a good musician should go through the
usual training to become a successful vocalist. Mrs.
Foster sang sweetly and tastefully Sullivan’s Icgabri-
ous song “Will he Come.” Miss May Wilshire ably
assisted at the pianoforte. The other items are not
worth comment, being far below mediocrity.
** * *
It needs greater attractions than were held forth
at Signora Fabris and Herr Francik’s concert at the
Masonic Hall, on Thursday night (last week), to draw
people away from “Patience.” The Hall was barely a
third full, consequently the performers were dis-
heartened, and with a few exceptions everything fell
flat. The trio “ Ave Maria ” (Owen) was the best item of
+l,a concert, and was sung by Signora Fabris, Miss
Sherwin and Signor Fabris. It was a happy choice as
far as Signora Fabris was concerned, for it served to
display her low rich notes to perfection; and as she
had earlier in the evening sung Rossini’s “ Inflamatna"
proof was afforded that her voice is of more than
ordinary; compass. Herr Francik’e violin solo was
carefully played, bat Schubert’s “Ave Maria” re-
quires more fulness of tone than he was able to give it.
Mdlla. Charbonnot (ever welcome) played Liszt's
arrangement of Wagner’s “Wedding Chorus,” and
later in the evening, to compensate for the non-appear-
ance of one of the gentlemen soloists, she kindly played
Thalherg’s “Last Bo»e of Summer.” Miss Nellie
Banks, a pupil of Herr Pietzker, made her dihut as a
piarjst, Her selection was Mendelssohn’s “Andante
and Capricoioso,” and considering the many difficulties
in, the piece the young lady acquitted herself very
creditably indeed. Miss B. Harrison’s solo, “Angels
over bright and fair,” was well received, as likewise was
the duetto from *, Stabat Mater,” sung by Miss Sher-
win and Miss Mary Hamilton. Conld not a subscription
be got np to buy a piano stool for the Masonic Hall ?
It does not. look well to see a common chair raised to
the proper height by means of rolled-up Ulsters ; and
since the old stool was disabled at Signor Vittorini’s
concert, by one of its legs parting company while Herr
Alpen was performing, such has been the makeshift.
The neglect of these small details, and the absence Of
ushers, &o, gave the concert quite a “ don't care "
air.
** * *
Je-oseph Goodman, treasurer of the Opera
House, own brother to “G. L.” at the Royal, drew the
Russian Admiral, who, it appears, is an Imperial High-
ness to his show on Tuesday night. And after doing
the honour to royalty, has got so proud that it is only
with a goad deal of persuasion that he will even re-
cognize his ancle. We, since we have heard of this
pardonable haughtiness, have been waiting to have our
shoes half-soled before going near the theatre.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
Ada Ward appeared on Saturday night at Ade-
laide in “ The Lbls o’ Gjwrie.” She had good houses
during the week; s > hid Hudson’s Surprise Party
George Coppin says that Mr. William Creswiok, the
tragedian, was one of his father’s leading wen &fe the
mun-flaent salary of 15 J. a week. Big arrangements
have been made for Mr. and Mrs. Williamson at Dune-
din, where they were to open on Boxiog nizht. The
: hristch’jr h season commences 31<t January, D H.
Harkins following A J Dunning, of Dunedin, is
endeavouring to make arrangements with the Mus-
zrovo Opera Boutfe company for a tour of N-vv Zea-
land W. H. Leike was not successful at Welling-
ton, N.Z Wilheluj and company commence! their
season at Christchurch, N.Z., on D cemberls They
were to open at tbe At Irene uu Hall, VVeliugton, on
December 23 R. W Oary's Juvenile “ Pira'es"
eompiny made their dehtd at Wellington, NZ, on
Decern* er 19 The divine Lotti Wiltnot got £l5 12s.
damages and costs again-t the Pspanui Town Hall
company (Canterbury, N Z.) for letting the hall to her
and then shutting her out a few Sundays ago. She
c'aimed £ll5 more The Montague-Torner company
were to produce “ The Royal Middy” at Auckland eu
Boxing night The Lit.gard Surprise Minstrels, who
announced in their bills that they were making a tour
of the provinces, got as far as Wollongong, where they
gave two performances with such indifferent success
that they postponed their country trip and dissolved
partnership The Stray Leaves company opened
at Glen lanes on Saturday to only a fair house. They
were billed to open on Friday, but owing to Miss Car-
rington’s suffering from a severe coll, were com-
pelled to postpone A concert was given at Glen
Innes on the 13th instant, in aid of a widow left in des-
titute circumstances. The gross proceeds handed over
were £43 7s. 6d. The affair was a great success. Tho
orchestra, numbering five instruments, played in capital
style selections from ” Patience," by special permis-
sion of Mr. J. C. Williamson We are extreme ,y sorry
to hear that that good actor and most genial of men,
our friend Fred Mtrvia, after fighting against a relaxed
throatfor many months, finds that it will again be neces-
sary for him temporarily to retire from the stage The
DTi libels Ada Ward and Jimmy Allison. It reports
Mr. Garner as having said in his benefit speech that
they had been engaged to assist in the production of
the Theatre Royal pantomime! In Fred. Marshall’s
pantomime at Melbourne, trained sheep illu trate the
story of “Little 80-peep.” WJ. Holloway has re-
opened the Ballarat Academy of Music wi h a capital
company, consisting of Messrs. W. J. and Charles
Holloway, Hans Phillips, Noil O’Brien, J. Stark, L,
M’Gowan, Kennedy, and Marshall, and the Misses
Annie Mayor, Lily and Arefhusa May, Kite Arden.
and Mrs. Walter Hill J W. Dodge has opened the
Sandhurst Princess’. .The following form his company :
—Messrs. G. B- Ireland, J. G. Joyce, J. Byrne, D,
Barry, J. Clifford, C. Russell, and Foley, the Misses
Flora Anstead, Kate Douglas, Nelly Greealess, and
Bronton. In the opening piece, “ The Money Spinner,"
Mr. Wybert Reeve plays Croodle. J. W. intends mak-
ing a regular reason up to Easter. Grattan Biggs,
Bland Holt, and others succeed Reeve It is not
generally known than by act of Parliament an setor ia
stilla “ rogue and vagabond," a vagrant, and an 11 idle and
disorderly" person, liable at the whim of a police con-
stable or a J.P. to be convicted and sent to the common
gaol. The thimble-rigger and card-sharper of the race-
course are included in the same category There are
five theatres in Melbourne. A correspondent writing
to the Aegus pleads for the erection of a sixth .
Heard at a gloomy hole of the drama some weeks back.
“ What was in the house last night ?” “£7 10s.,’’ re-
plied the treasurer. “ Oh, hang it then; sack the first
old woman and the clarionet."
• • •
London papers say that Dean Stanley onoe
wanted to marry Jenny Lind In one of the new
theatres now approaching completion in London there
will be a photographic gallery, where the portraits of
visitors are taken by limelight They employ pretty
girl ushers at the Court Theatre, London On tho
first night of “The Foundlings” at Sadl-r’s Wells
Theatre, London, a handsome donkey was introduced
in the third act, and was so tickled by tho novelty of
the situation that he lay down, stared at the andience,
and then, turning on his back, kicked up his heals
with evident delight, the voices of tho actors being
drowned in the uproarious laughter of tho amused
spectators, which continued until the animal was
put on his legs again and led from the scene
After the defection of Charles Drew, the tenor, Alice
Oates, at tho last moment, abandoned her journey to
Australia, and went once more east of tho Rocky
Mountains Sara Bernhardt’s album contains tho
following: “ When you hear it said that a man has
made a good match, you may be nearly sure that his
wife has made a bad one.” The white memorial
stone placed over Charles Dillon’s grave at Bromptou
bears the following lines from Willis’s play “Bolivar”—
“ Methought I heard God’s angel call the muster-roll.
Lord, I am here!" Wo read that E. D. Davies, tho
ventriloquist—our own dear Teddy—joined Tony Pap-
tor’s troupe in New York, November 14. “Ain’t it
lovely, Teddy?” August Siegrist, at latest, was
engaged at Woodward’s Gardens, ’Frisco We have
a N. Y. Miekor by this mail from tho quean of
Australian favourites. Miss Emilia Melville, wh >
at. latest was in Boston with “ Patience." The
affair was a big boom. The Mieeor publishes a
“ portrait ” which is as much like the dear
little woman as Piddington is like an angel
Persian audiences are peculiarly susceptible to the
emotions of tho stage. The spectators frequently-
become so excited that they howl piteously, tear each
other’s hair, and plunge knives into themselves. A
prologue is usually spoken by one of the lesser actors
to prepare the audienoe for what is to come. In tho
course of his recital he groans, weeps, and lacerates
his flash until the entire audience is in tears. He th -u
goes among the audience and collects all the tears ho
can in a bottle, it being believed that each tear will save
a sick man’s life. This done, tho drama begins. In
this couatry, the weeping often comes in on account of
the coin wasted paying admission Mine Janausohek
possesses a princely fortune in gems, which are ail o;
the rarest, among them a set of diamonds embracing a
pair of bracelets, eardrops and ring containing flvo
solitaires, each we’ghing ten carats. They are of tho
first water, and are worth £lO,OOO The first dress
Mr. Compton wears in the character of Dr, Ollapod in
Colnaan’s comedy “ The Poor Gentleman,” once graced
the wardrobe of no loss a personage than His Majost”
George the Third, and was given by that moan-ch to
Dowton, the celebrated comedian, who gave it to Darren,
he in his return giving it to Compton pere, by whom it
was transmitted to the present wearer Japanese
Tommy, at latest was displaying his eccentricities at
Emmett’s Academy, Chicago Jennie Winston and
her husband are travelling in the States, with tho
Mnrtha and Stevens Co Mary Francis M. Vicker,
wife of Edwin Booth, is dead Louisa Kellogg, the
prima donna, was married on 10th November, to a
wealthy New Yorker named Whitney. Discussing tho
affair, the journals think him unworthy, as ho has been
the hero of several escapades more or las scandal-
ous The Moore and Burgess Minstrels, have
commenced tho 17th year of their occupancy of St.
James’s Hall, London Signor Sosini, who travelled
the colonies with Da Murska, was at latest with an
Italian Opera Company at Bath. The Signor must be
close on 65. He has in America a daughter, who is
described as being one of the loveliest of women.
Patti’s concerts in America, a failure. High price aim
bad management. She has superseded her Paris manager
by an American Carlotta Patti, with Chevalier De
Munck, her husband, are at Hamburg. She has no
sympathy for Australia. De Murska, on the otherham-’,
is always describing its beauties and advantages, not o!
omrse forgetting the marrying desposiPon of its
bachelors On tho authority of Charles Harris, it is
stated that Mrs. Langtry ia to appear on the stage
Tho Cuckoo says the lady has determined to tread’
the boards. She will assuredly make hor dehut in New
Yo rk in January next An Aberdeen j udge has decided
that property dresses may be seized for debt, on the
ground that they cannot be understood as being neces-
sary to “cover nakedness” or to “keep out the cold.”
The judge must really have been to see " Olivette.”
The handsomest diamond ring worn on the stage flashes
on the white hand of pretty “Stella,” of tho Solder e
Opera Troupe. She was introduced to Govc-nor Tabor
at Denver, behind the scenes one night, and he was
suddenly called away. He promised to finish the inter-
view some other time “You’ll forget," sail hi alia.
“Never," said the gallant and smitten Governor'
“Well, give me that ring as a token that you’ll come
hick," responded the ; stuto actress. He hesitated a
I moment, but it was a direct challenge, end ha gjve the
I ring. Of course, under the circumstance.', d'i
' return; but the ring did not. Stella cleared,


PEPPER AND SALT.
The other day Dr. Egan was examining lunatics
in a room at the Central Police Court, when two re-
porters, eager for items, got mixed up with the mad
ones. Aa they didn’t come forward, the doctor appealed
to the sergeant of police, but the latter, only answered
by a loud guffaw, afterwards, however, whispering in the
ear of the medical man the rank and social status of the
intruders. Still sceptical, the doctor called the
twain of literati to him. “What will you take?” he
asked in a mild voice. “A long beer,” was the dual re-
ply. “I am quite satisfied now,” rejoined the doctor;
“You are reporters."
• • •
They were sitting by Lady Macquarie’s Chair.
Her head was on his shoulder, their lips were glued
together, and his arms were clasped around as much of
her as ho could grasp. Then she heaved a deep sigh of
intense enjoyment, and exclaimed—“Ob, 'Arry, ain’t
this nice; ain’t it Clontarfy 1“
* * *
We received, some time since, from Mr. S.
Freshman, a treatise by Dr. Leslie E. Koolej on the
Cure for Drunks. As we are rather partial to an occa-
sional whisky (an expensive luxury, by the way) we sig-
nified, through a friend, to Mr. Freshman, that wo
would be glad if ho would send us along half-a-dozen
bottles (the price is only £lO 10s. a pair) to try. Mr,
F., however, notified to us that ho was unable to com-
ply with our request. He had supplied the other
papers with the cure, and his present stock was ex-
hausted.
* * *
Commencement of the “festive” leader of 795
country papers:—“ Christmas is once more upon us,
ushered in by glorious sunshine and unbounded pro-
sperity.” Then, in the same issue, sample of the inevi-
table pica par:—“ Wo regret that it has again become
necessary for us to remind our readers that their
accounts for last quarter have been rendered to them,
and to request them to pay up. With the beginning of
the new year, all-outstanding accounts will bo placed in
the hands of our solicitors for recovery, without regard
to persons.”
# * *
“I’ve been robbed by a man two miles up the
Balbroggery Road,” yelled a swagsman, arriving at the
llalbrcggery lock-up, to the constable whom ho saw
through the window one moonlight night. “If ye
wako the childer I’ll run ye in,” were the responsive
words which floated out on the summer breezes.
* * «
“Hullo!” exclaimed a member of Parliament
mealing a well-known J.P. canvassing for quarter-ton
weight bibles.” “ Hullo! What aro you up to this
game for ? ” “ Because, sir," was the grave reply “ the
glory of the Bench has departed. It was hard enough
to make a living sitting three days a week as it was, but
yet with a fat assault or perjury case I mauaeod to just
rub along. Now that the Licensing and Stipendiary
Magistrates’ bills are the law of the land my occupation’s
gono. I can’t afford-to sit on the bench for nothing,
and what’s to ho made- out of signing summonses and
warrants? And to think I should come to this, who
never threw a man up as long as ho had a fiver in his
pocket or a little stock left in his shop I"
# * *
Impecunious J.P. to Minister : —“ Can’t you
make me a Stipendiary P ” “ Impossible,” was the re.
ply; “offers for all those posts,have been made to
Government members. Besides, you’re so near-sighted
and, very deaf, and then there was that ugly rumour
about that selection up in the Jumbuck Ranges. All I
can do for you under tho circumstances is to make you
a Harbour Policeman." Accepted with a sigh; but still
accepted.
“ Heavy mail, this morning,” remarked
** Critchett,” as the venerable postman staggered into
his office’with abont 2001 b. of correspondence. “ Yes,
eir," said the letter-carrier. “ I shan’t be sorry when
them stipenderies is appinted.”
• « »
“ Has it come at last ? ” said sho to her husband
the barrister, as the hired girl handed in a large oblong
letter on a cracked cheese-plate. He opened it and
said —“Yes, my love, it has come at last." She clopped
her hands joyfully,and kissed him fondly on his left
eyebrow. “ I don’t know what to do for joy," she ex.
claimed. “ Tien I’ll tell you,” said he. “Get a quart
of kerosene and borrow a lamp from Mrs. Sniggins;
they’ve cut off tho gas.”
* • •
The congregation of a minister at Braidwood,
which had of late shown unmistakeable signs of thin-
ning, has of late been increased by one member—the
clergyman’s son and heir.
• • •
“ I’d like to marry a dlergyman, xna, when I
grow up,” said a shrill young lady of six, addressing
her mother, who was entertaining a select circle of
acquaintances at her Potts’ Point mansion. “And
why, my dear?” enquired an affable alderman, while
seventy-five people listened with breathless attention.
“ ’Danse then I could get all my babies christened for
nothing,” was tho demure reply.
•* ' •
“ Can yon toll mo where Mrs. Lazarus do Moses
resides ? ” asked a stranger of a newspaper man in
Blank-street. “ One of the houses in the terrace,”
said the journalist. “ Which one ? " said the stranger.
“ Don’t know the number, but you can’t mies it. Go
along Shylook Terrace till you come to a house whore
they’re thumping ‘Silvered is the raven hair* on a
Collard piano, and if it’s not there, go on till yon hear
the ‘Magnet and the Churn' on a £3O Bord. Then
you are bound to strike it. They are at poor ‘ Patience ’
all day, excepting at meal times and when they are
cheapening cauliflowers with the Chinaman."
• • •
At ‘Windsor Castle, in two months time. Sir
William Knollys to the Empress of India: “ That
Piirkes has arrived." E. of I.: “ What a bore I I
suppose ho’U have to ho asked to dinner.” Then down
a pipe : “ Cook, there’s a colonial Knight coming. Got
a small leg of roast pork, and six pounds of the silver
side.”
• ♦ •
He had started for Broken Bay on Boxing Day
hnt had only fetched a harbour picnic-ground. “Any-
thing worth seeing ? ” said he to a friend whom he met
on the lawn. “ I should rather think there was,” was
the reply. “ There’s a summer in blue, dancing with a
chap with black whiskers. Pair of ankles and a head
of hair picked out of a Mid-summer Night’s Dream.
Go and see ’em.” He took the advice and went in!
When he came out, he had an excoriated
cheek-bone, and had lost three teeth; but he trium-
phantly bore aloft about five ounces of black whisker
and a mutilated blue bonnet. “What’s up?” was the
chorus which greeted him. He spat out a hanging
tooth, pushed in a quivering eye-ball, and then said
with a loud chuckle, “ My missus and our lodger."
• • •
Many of our readers will doubtless have noticed
in tho newspapers occasional complimentary references
to “Lady Brassey’s charming book of travel, The
Voyage of the Sunbeam," which work, by the way, has
long been a fashionable peg for tho London journals to
hang their garlands of adulation upon. When the book
first appeared, our morning contemporary, with her
usual quickness at discovering merit in titled parson-
ages, lavished upon it an amount of slobber (0 term
expressive !) worthy of the best efforts of Melbourne
Mortimer, and others of our colonial contemporaries
followed suit. Well, the other day we chanced across
a copy, and read it religiously through from start to
finish. Tho result to us was a great surprise. There is
not a flash of humour, a touch of fancy, or a piece of
artistic description in the whole volume. It is a dull
record of the doings of dull people, and has in it about
as much literary merit as a poem by “ Australie” or an
“opening address" by Lewie Scott. When we had
perused the book, the dominant feeling in our mind was
one of surprise that a lady could have seen so much
that is beautiful, and written about it so little that was
attractive. This is the kind of thing of which this
“charming book of travel" is composedLuln’e
puppies, born yesterday, have been respectively named
Butterfly (who survived her birth only an hour), Posei-
don. Aphrodite, Amphitrite, and Thetis—names sug-
gested by their birthplace on the ocean close to his
Marine Majesty’s supposed equatorial palace.” And
this: —“Wo went to eleven o’clock service at the
cathedral. Later, Tom read the evening service to the
men, and we afterwards landed and dined at the hotel."
This truly eloquent poetic burst also is worthy of re-
cording “ Good-bye, lovely Tahiti I I wonder if I
shall ever see you again; it makes me quite sad to
think how small is my chance of doing so.” And this
is the sort of idiotic rubbish that is raved over by the
very journals which hadn’t a single good word for that
most fancifully-written and charming of all works on
southern travel, “ South Sea Bubbles, by the Earl and
the Doctor." In Lady Brassey’s hook “ Tom is cither
going to church or reading service," and is a bore
generally, while the other characters are equally inter-
esting. If, therefore, this is a “charming book of
travel,” what we say is give ns a Benevolent Asylum
report written by Ikey, or a copy (bound in calf) of Sir
William Manning’s judgments.
• • •
The Presbyterian people work very hard to
send their paper along, and that journal (which we may
casually inform our readers is not devoted to the
chronicling of sporting events, theatrical gossip, and
sensational tit-bits) deserves a larger meed of success
than would seem to be accorded it. In last week’s
issue it has a par. headed, “ How to increase the circu-
lation of the Pbes3Yleeian,” and states that “ a
minister had a hurried run to the country in the end of
last week and beginning of this. He was able to do his
work proper, and to bring before the people, who were
strangers to him, the importance of the Church having
a literary organ. The result was, that several gave
their names as reader?, and arrangements were made
for getting others." This is all very well in its way, but
there is hardly go enough in it. If they really want
some’suggestions about increasing the circulation, why
hero they are : In the first place, let them advertise to
give a goose away with every thousand copies, and then
offer a prize for the best conundrum bringing in the
names of Cetewayo and Dr. Barker. If that doesn't
draw, let tho editor write down some howling abuse—
show up some den of infamy that festers in tho heart
of the city. He will have to go to gaol then, of course,
but his circulation would get a big fillip. These are the
only courses that occur to us at present which the
Presbyterian people might adopt to send their rag
along. When wo think of any more, wa will let them
know.
* ♦ *
“ What a melancholy expression of countenance
that man has 1 I wonder what can bo tho matter with'
him," said a gentleman to a friend, pointing to a very
sad-faccd passenger in the tram-car. “ I’ll tell you,”
was tho reply; “ he’s a shareholder in the Bum.
* * *
A Herald reporter was crossing over with a
detective from the Central Police Court to tho watch-
house, having some enquiries to make of inspector
Anderson, when a paper was thrust into his hand by a
man in rusty black with a dirty white necktie. When
he got over, the journalist glanced at it. It [was a
tract, headed “Tear that black Soul from.oot that
sinful Bout. —To he r cad in your cell." !1 1
• • •
Time, 3 p.m. Boxing Day. Place, a small house
in Sydney. Fond mother, loq.; “ Oh, yes, Mrs. Jenkin-
son, Mary Ann has gono to a nice little picnic down tho
harbour with some of her schoolfellows. They are to
have Divine service when they land, and a nice plain
dinner of cold meat, vegetables, and ginger-beer." . . .
Time the same. Place, the picnic. Mary Ann, loq.:
“ Here goes another pull at the sho-oak, ’Arij, and just
you pin my dress behind where It was torn in tho fight
with long Sarah, and then We‘ll have a go at tho bloomin’
Lancers."
* * #
A Wesleyan camp-meeting is being now held at
Qneeuscliff (Vic.), and is to last until Saturday next.
The ladies and gentlemen who meet for the purpose of
praying alfresco are to sleep in tents, and will be fed on
payment of a shilling a “ tightener.” I'ue Argus also
informs us that 11 several ministers will attend, and the
programme comprises preaching, services of prayer,
and ladies’ and children’s meetings in camp. It is
arranged that expenses are to bo defrayed by tho
voluntary contributions of visitors " Well, now, lot’s
see. They are going to be together for six days and six
nights. There is one thing certain, that th»y cin’t be
praying all the time. We wonder what they’ll be doing
when they are not praying f
• • •
From a contemporary :
“ A Bf,dboom required within five minutes of
—Post Office; must be of Christian principles.
Apply, by letter only, stating terms, to Chris-
tian, office of this paper."
We know the “ Christian ’* wild wants this bedroom,
well. He is a rusty black suit and white-tie “ joker,"
who will pay no monoy for his shako-down, hut will
talk|a lotjabout the “Looard.” After the third day, he
will borrow half-a-crowu of the landlady, and a clean
shirt of the landlord, and in the dead of night will pack
up his luggage in a gin-case, put his small tooth comb
in his vest pocket, and slither. There are plenty of
Christians like him in Sydney. They are the terror Of
lodging-house keepers, and the dread of tho sixpenny
restaurants. You can’t lick them either at putting
down a long beer or offering up a prayer.
# # *
There is a gleam of joy in the eyes of the Sydney
editor as he cbps a joke from a Melbourne paper, and
labels it “ Pith and Point ’’ for his own rag; but he
doesn’t look quite so happy when he subsequently
discovers that the item he has “scissored" is a
Bulletin wheeze, which the Melbourne paper had
inserted without acknowledgment. Whfin that fact is
mentioned to him, he smiles a fat smile and pretends
to be absorbed in Ms hymh-book.
♦ * •
Mr. E. Cyril Haviland, tho father of innumer-
able publications, all now, alas! ’ in their graves, has
taken once more to writing for the press, and it is
hardly needful to add that his lacubrations appear iu
the Telegraph. His latest effusion is, with singular
aptness headed, “ The Abuse of Barmaids,” and is a
literary composition cf a most ludicrous nature. Mr.
Haviland says“ lam entirely against the employment
of females as barmaids, and will use every means in my
power to prohibit such employment by law." We
should like to know what this means (if it means
anything), and also what are the special powers vested
in Mr. Haviland, that procure him the means of prdhi-
biting anything. Cyril says that ho has spent “ hours
of an evening from 8 p.m. until past midnight," mouch-
ing about the bars and “ picking up information," and
that he has seen “clerks and tradesmen of all grades”
in a state of intoxication, saying “ nasty things " to bar-
maids “ because they are privileged by lawand he
trusts finally that the legislature will “ abolish all bar-
maids,” and that tho D.T. “will take the matter up,"
as it has already exposed many evils. This last bit is
rather curious satire, siuve our little contemporary has
in its eccentric paragraph's chiefly exposed Itself—hut
let that pass. Fortunately no bosh Mr. Haviland may
write in the D.T. can in the least affect a very hard
working, and, as a rule, respectable section of the com-
munity. His letter, and the insertion of it in the D. T.
prove, however, one of two things conclusively. Those
are, either that Mr, Haviland must be very short of
brains, or that tho Telegraph must be very short of
copy.
* * *
Juduo Docker for comparing the
British juryman to Jndas Iscariot. Ho now says, in
effect, that it was too rough on J udas.
• • •
There’s a revolution brewing. Dr. Beg now
wears exactly the same “rig out” as Dr. Vanghau—and
the Pope’s health is delicate. Which of the Dr's will
fill the vacant chair ? Beggared if we know; do you F
* * *
Sir Cavan Duffy .has married Miss Louie Hall
of Cheshire. There’s a trifling discrepancy of about
40 or 5'J years between the pair—bnt now that the great
patriot' has married again, we ma>-1-ox forward to the
appearance of more editions of “Young Ireland’’ at an
early date.
» » *
“ That’s a lot of prime meat,” remarked a
friend to a well-known butcher, as one of the men was
filling a cart with succulent sirloins and plump-looking
legs; “who’s all that for?" “Those,” replied the'
butcher with a grim smile, “ are newspaper samples."
# # *
The Young Men’s Christian Association I
“announce that young men visiting Sydney during the
Christmas holidays, will be made cordially welcome at
their rooms, corner of Pitt and Park-streets.” This is
a fine throw in for those who hunger after a halo or a
nimbus, or who wish a recommendation to a boarding*
house conducted on godly principles. We’d go our-
selves this week if we had time, hut we hirent. All
our spare moments are occupied in praying for the
Judges.
H * *
This is a truthful tale for Christmas She was a
popn'ar actress, and the public would stand a lot before
they hissed her, but this evejshe blundered from line to
line, and finally messed up the whole part completely.
This caused the manager to chant inverted psalms, and
coming round he demanded the right to know all about
it. “ There's nothing much wrong,” explained the
prima donna, “but I have a dying child at home, and
not a shilling to buy it food,” " That gruel is rather
thin just now,” said the S.M., “ because I paid you £5
on Monday.” “ That’s so,” replied the weeping Wife,
“ but my husband drank the lot on Tuesday. Slow
musis—curtain—and, we need scarcely add, this hap-
pened—not in this enlightened land, but in Spits-
bergen.
* * *
He works 15 hours a day * is compelled to put
goose fat on his hair, and wear good clothes j to be as
polite as a Chesterfield, and to risk his life as often in
one day as if he stood before the Chassepot rifles of
Sedan, or the Gatling guns of a naval sham fight—and
all this for half-a-sov. per diem. And who is this ill-
used, ill-paid man ? is the holiday tram-line con-
ductor.
* • * . . ■ .
He is licensed to haul 12 passengers 12 hours a day,
and on joyful event?, like those of the anniversary of
the birih of the greatest man that ever trod this earth,
he is compelled to lug 35 able-bodied electors, each of
whom holds at least one whip. And who is this ? The
holiday ’bus horse. After alt, the editor’s life—even in
a “gagged” land—isn’t half as bid as we once thought
it was.
* * h
A Melbourne journal thinks Sir Henry ia going
home to try for a seat in the Houso of Commons’, and
the Nooze thinks it is just as likely “that Sir Henry
when he gets to England will blattken his face, take off
his clothing, stand on his head on the top of St. Paul’s,
and sing ‘Rule Britannia.' ” The question at issue,
therefore, is for which of the positions is the average
colonial politician bast fitted. However, as this is the
first live joka Alfred was ever known to be guilty of,
let us waive the important part of tho matter, and give
three faint cheers, d la Mrs. Bardwell.
* #
What it will bo next week on Sunday. “ Let’s
go and have a drink, Bill,” “Can’t, old fellow; I’ve
not more than a fiver coming to mo this week.”
* * *
Tho rumour in London now, according to the
Home News, is that hereditary nobility is to be estab-
lished in the ,olonies. We may therefore look eut for
the Duke of Dubbo, the Countess of Clontarf, tho
Baron ot [Potts’ Point, and tho Eatl of Henniker.
Poor old Pid. will ha in it, too, dnd tlh
most seasonable title that Can bo conferred upon
M'Elhono would bo the Order of the Bath. The new
aristocrats will, on the average, have reason to be much
prouder of their ascent than of their descent.
“George Eliot” and the present N.S.W.
Parliament.
The present Ministry—
“ After all the talk of scholars, there are but two sorts
of Government: one where men show their teeth at each
other, and one where men show their tongues, and lick
the feet of the strongest.”— Bidolfi, in “ Eomola.”
The Speaker—
*' It’s easy finding reasons why other folks should bo
patient."— BartleMaiscy, in “Adam Bede.”
Sir Henry Parkes—
“ If old Harry wants any work done, you may be sure
he’ll find the means.*’—Mrs. Poyser, in “ Adam Bede,”
Sir John Robertson—
“ Life was never anything but a perpetual see-saw
between gravity and jest.”— Qei, in “ Eomtla”
Mr. John Duties—
“ If x got places, sir, it was because I made myself
fit for ’em. If you want to slip into a round hole, you
must make a ball of yourself, that’s where it is.”—
Mr. Deane, in “ T he Mill on the Floss.”
Mr. Garrett—
“ No, no; not me, Mr. Tom. There is no law again
flea-bites. If I wasn’t to take a fool in now and then,
he’d never get any wiser .’’—Bob Jakin, in " The Mill on
the Floss."
Mr. BUchanan—
“ It is better sometimes not to follow great reformers
of abuses beyond the threshold of their homes ’’—
“Adam Bede”
Mr. M'Elhone—
“ It is poor foolishness to run down your enemies."
—Adam, in “ Adam Bede,”
Mr. Dan. O’Conp.oi—*
j- J* 9 ne Cail everything best over a meal.”— I "Adam
Mr. William Forster—
" A feeling of revenge is not worth much that you
should care to keep it."— Philip Wakem, in “ T he Mill on
the Floss,”
In opening the Irish Land (Commission Court
October 20, the Registrar rose and solemnly said “ I
now declare the Court of the Land League open." The
lapsuslingucE was received with yells of laughter.
Good pickings for the lawyers over the Darling
Harbour compensation oases. Mr. Lucas’ gigantic
claim has been rediloed by the Government valuator to
less than a tenth of tile amouiit asfcd for. So far as
Mr. Mills’ valuations have gone, claims totalling
£250,000 have been reduced to £15,000. g
William Mitchell, the medical student charged
at Melbourne with stealing a gold watch from a
woman of ill-fame, is, according to the Melbourne
Hebaid, identical with the young man who recently
obtained o divorce from Amy Lewis, the soiled dove
whose madly jealous paramour, Colley, first cut her
throat and then his own.
Even the severest injuries to the brain, then
are after all not the precursors of immediate death A
post mortem examination of the body of T H Reid
the Sandhurst self-shooter, showed that tho bullet had
entered the skull about an inch above thc.earonthe
left side, and penetrated right through the brain to the
other side of the skull The substance of the brain
along the track of the bullet had suppurated. Reid
survived this terrible wound for over a month, and was
frequently sb well as to bo able to talk reasonably on
various subjects. J
The Australian J.P. system is' evidently rotten
for there is just as much shameless corruption
amongst the great unpaid of Victoria as among those
of New South Wales. The other day a school feachl?
was charged at Kilmore. before J’s.P., with indecently
assaulting a female pupil. The case was dismissed,
though tho evidence was so strong that the Victorian
Attorney-General has now filed an information against
the defendant It has transpired that one of tho magis
trates wno adjudicated on the case Laa boasted that
to the cost of defending the accused
Not many oases of extreme old age so well
authenticated as that of Mmo. George, nee Pidmlt
who was born on the 21st April. 1766, and who is still
living at Luzy, in the department of Saone-et-Loire,
I!er. Lie consejueniily extends back to the time of
Louis XV., and her memory to the scenes of the reign
of Lotus XVI., the Revolution, the Directory, the
Consulate, the Empire, the Restoration, and the reign
of Louis Philippe, the Republic, the second Empire
and the third Republic. Her husband was killed by a
Wurtemourg soldier at tho invasion of 1314- and in
three years it will bo exactly a century since she
married, for she was only eighteen at the time. The
old lady is in capital health, enjoys all her faculties,
and loves to recount the laoidents of her long life.
The Fizz of Stephen and Company.
Mr. Harold W. H. Stephen has brought out, as
is hi 3 gentle wont, a Christmas book. It is entitled
“Fizz,” and is described as being “home made” —
which can hardly be called a recommendation. The
little volume contains prose by Messrs. Stephen, Lewis
Scott, John Shaw, Captain Dam Phunny, Dick Thatcher,
and “Venator," and poetry from the pens of Messrs.
Kendall, Halloran (of course !),.Ironbark, Phil Holds,
worth, and others. Mr. Harold Stephen has a niee
story called “Bart von Schinkenstein,” and a ctf.snal
perusal of it leads one to the supposition that he has
recently made a study of the French language. Here
is a bit of it:—“ * Any news this morning, Mick ?' asked
Bart, when he had swallowed a bloater dla Seine Margot,
washed down by two Cups of coffee. * Divvle a bit, yet
honner. Them’s lovely praties—try ’Bnl, sor,‘ said
Mick, offering his master a dish of pimtAes ae terri
If he calls a herring “ a bloater A la Erin's
it would be interesting to know what appella-
tion Mr. Stephen wohld.give td boiled pork and beans.
Mr. Henry Hallotan exhibits a poem setting forth what
Rizzio said to Mary. Hera is a bit of Rizzy’s pitch
according to the Echo's poet-laureate
“I bow me down
Before thy beauty’s crown,
More than to that bright crown which girds thy brow:
O list, bright star.
Brightest where bright ones are.
Listen, O regal soul! to huh who prays ihee now.”
If he really said this, a subscription list ought 10 be
started to erect a statue to the gentleman who bored a
hole through him. Henry has also a chant in honour 0!
the Aphrodite, which somewhat paradoxically com-
mences :
“ "Pis vain to sing of her.
The bright Aphrodite.”
and is announced as being for music—possibly ths
barrel-organ. Mr. E. Lewis Scott contributes a paper
called “ Fizz-ionomy," which possesses the merit of
being original—at any rate so far as the punctuation is
concerned, since every period is separated by a full
stop aud a dash. “ Fizz-ionomy ” is the philosophy of
Mr. E. Lewis Scott, put into the mouth of a Call-boy,
and is, we are sorry to say, very great rot, indeed. He
has, it seems, with the impertinence of a smp.ll mind,
essayed to drag in real actresses (the names of
whom are feebly disguised) jinto his article —a piece of
presumption which those ladies will probably reward
by knighting the illustrious author with their boot
heels. Fancy five or six pages of this kind of bosh
“ Don't you take any notice of a gout as is waiting out-
side, Miss Mary, he’s no good -ho sent a note, bttt 1
tore it up, and ho wanted to buy the ffoWers as 'avb
in the bar, but I wouldn't let’ini ’ava’em. Then bo
gave mb a arf sovereign for myself, and this ring to give
to you. Lot me give it him back, ha’s tad. I can see
it in his phiz." Dick Thatcher has a lively little paper
called “Lying in State,” and “ Venator" Contributes
the bast thing in the book, a story entitled “Mrs.
Potts gives a Pucker Party,” in which We leam that
“ Mrs, Penelope Potts is the very much better three-
quarters of Mr. Potts, who is ‘ something In the city,’
but deticed little when he happens to be at homeand
also that “ three long, gaunt daughters of that par-
ticular style of beauty which is best represented by
sticking a last year’s cornstalk in a this year’s flour
bag.” are their offspring. Henry,Kendall’s “Twilight
Reflections,” is a poem of great merit. A Mr. A. H.
Holden has slid in poetry by the yard. Hero is one epic
—complete in itself—
“He wouldn’t tell a lie.
To save his soul from hell;
So where he’s gone, the God of truth,
Methinks, will Use him Well.”
“ itohih Goodfellow," edits a tale called “ The Burst up
Planet,” which will be of great interest to those in-
terested in the more abstruse phases of organic chem-
istry. Here, now, is a charming little bit of holiday
reading:—“The motions of the former were increased,
and the fragments took up a larger orbit, while the mo-
tions of the_ latter being retarded, their orbits were, of
course, diminished, so as in both cases to restore the
equilibrium of the two forces, that of gravity and
inertia. These went to form the belt of planetoids, of
which there are probably millions, Juno, Pallas, Vestas,
Flora, Hebe, and over a hundred others have, I believe,
been discovered by the astronomers upon earth.” Taken
as a whole, Mr. Harold Stephen’s book is a fair shil-
ling’s-worth. Taken in pieces, however—bat to use a
term of the language which Harold has apparently
made his own—passtms.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Total subscriptions totho Marcus Clarke fund to
date are £lOO6.
Bisrbarck has grown so stout that he dan no
longer occupy an ordinary dining chair, and is obliged
to sit on a low sofa.
Mr. Chaa. H. Boss and Miss E. M. Braddon
(the abridger of the Waverley novels, are now known as
the Burke and Hare of literature.
Wanted, the names of the “ over-zealous, though
no doubt conscientious persons," who interfered between
Dr, Colatti and the discharge of his duty;
4 ,, Professor Malhaftjr baa bfeen iitilizing Oscar
Wilde, the aesthetic, to illustrate the proposition that a
stupid boy gains more than a brilliant one from a Uni.
versity training.
Mr. Richard Anthony Proctor has in hand a
new scientific journal, called Knowledge. By the
way, E, A, P. will, no doubt, enthusiastically welcome
Sir Henry to England.
The Mudgee Independent says that though
some hint at the Agont-Generalship, and others at a
seat in the Commons, Sir Henry Parked real ambition
is to be appointed succpssdr to Lord Ldttiis. Heaved
forefend 1
Mr. Strickland, the well-known city coroner of
Sandhurst, is slowly recovering from blood-poisoning,
consequent upon handling a corpse. There has been
great danger of a necessity arising for an inquest upon
the coroner.
tfdm Sayers, jun., son of Tom Sayers, the
famous pugilist, has achieved considerable fame in
England as a fine baritone, singing much at social enter-
tainments. It would pain the old man to see his family
so degenerated.
Mr. Murray Smith has, after all, refused the
Victorian Agent-Generalship, but it is stated in inner
political circles that if the term of the office were in-
creased from tnree to five years* Mr. Smith might he
induced to alter his decision.
His Majesty the King of Ashantee' has just had
two hundred young girls killed, using their 'blood to
mix the mortar for repairs to his palace. This placing
of girls on mortar-boards is directly at variance with
the modern University system of placing mortar-boards
on girls.
Sir Francis Smith, Chief Justice of Tasmania
who enjoys a srilary of £lBOO. will shortly retire on a
pension of £l2OO. Ho is to be succeeded by Puisne
Judge Dobson (brother of Dr. Dobson, M.L.C, of Vic-
toria). Mr. W, E, Giblin, the Attoruey.General, will
then take the vacant Puisne Judgeship.
Dear old Mr. Hongiat (Orion) Horne (he used to
be in the Victorian Civil Service.) has been writing a
long and turgid poem for an illustrated English con,
temporary, chiefly is praise ot Her Most Gracious
Majesty and her late lamented Consort. Does Mr"
Horne seriously contemplate an increase of his penl
sion? *
A Melbourne business man, while on a visit to
Tasmania, two years ago, contributed £lO towards as.
sisting to prospect Eingarooma for tin. The pro-
spectors took up a claim, and as that turned out well
they applied £l5 of the returns to buying a share in an
adjoining claim for the Melbournite, who is now draw-
ing, and is likely to continue drawing, £lOOO per month
from the concern.
Stubley, the mundic king, of Charters Towers,
has determined to resign his seat in the Queensland
Parliament;. ThadeusjO'Kane is a probable candidate,
x*oor Thady is now on what appears to bo a downward,
Editor-member of parliament—possibly
Minister of the Crown! o‘Kane stands in wel Iwith the
miners, as he deserves to do; but some say that Sachs,
of Townsville, is the coming man.
v M - M‘KeUar, of Western Victoria, has
bought 230,000 acres of laud, ip the Santa Rosa district,


assocHf^ 1 ’ e ? IC0 '-°? wbich he and those who are
associated .with him intend to put 100,000 sheep. The
JS nd *iT Unate ’ ar ® excellent—bat the country is un-
who inhabit it mnst be removed oil
ot W K^ rt * h be , for .’ life and property will bo secure. An-
her big tract of New Mexican laud was some months
ago secured by a Victorian syndicate.
edndernil; ?°F 5 . ter > to the S.M. Herald
at phssrvations made by the Premier
M' fc irt S s filamentary ban J net, says : “Any
T 1 was over honoured with by Sir
-how unfnri„ da H T” y yea, i 3 ba ck-to a period when
sever»l bv ,^ a i e y * or } need not say-it was
disco very'tha^n 0^3 Pasl * in consequence of the
bblieationa t »«wo 0 n P i; Tle *? upon questions of pecuniary
omigauons were unhappily irreconcilable.
de'-e^ted’ir^rt 6 ■ r a. p * r *t i m ®<lmnL ’ was recently
toXka matt w hIS tncka in the Stat3s - A reporter,
df the tbS - worse, cmcoaled himself in the flies
down into tiff which the medium performed, looked
on his arm a P d saw him unlock an iron ring
tied ThomT^ 1 0 t h 6 audience thought he was securely
will not hfln 3 . B^™ et hiug in spiritism, but legerdemain
only the tSfJf* P?®®*hing along. Truth favours
which Otheff 03fc ’ aru *P en sbo will disclose secrets
waicn otherwise will be kept to herself;
Inflkfr alld energetic
Peciiniarv nir° r P hforthumberland, has resigned.
anv r; o y r C r amS - tan< if* he sayfl - do not permit of his
it not bfm, ffi % lnBr Position. Ho adds that had
league f °r the unsolicited generosity of his col-
retaitfed hU £H tclur f ho 00uld a °t have
Words Mr 80 Jen? as he has done. In other
s°ntativA r>?ti^ ae r’ an honest and genuine ronre-
learnt M mUv tlle 4 true workman, is poor, and has not
carat to irtako money at the expense of the conritry.
tlm M'Culloch takes hia departure for
Porkes C °/ri^ ry simultaneously with Sir Henry
noJref f S ’ Vlot Sr uin Premier, who, when iu
lat* veir« 1 rt as s plf-assertive as Sir Henry, has of
fact 7 11 lerJI er J small Potatoes,’* politically. In
Collins fffofi that he sometimes strolls down
and Hia limch-hour, wearing a white waistcoat
onnoaii a button-hole bouquet, or has his name
church-contribution in an Anous list, Mel.
anvlmd7fl Ud weh-mgh have forgotten the existence of
anybody named James M’Oullooh.
. literar y man, now of Melbourne.
XTZ* t 0 hi* numerous friends by the soubriquet
°L?ired to 30IE0 /ears ago, while on a lee shdre,
H story for a certain Sydney flows-
nimon’ro Wa3 paid for week by week, as it
Hiaftfn {f b ? 4 W r°, n . Jack had got about half through
the candle t Srf k . the gaiflo was hardly worth
a BiSSanK«i • wedt t? the proprietor, and asked for
bo?nl L 1 ?-^ 8 - 9 I! \ th ? rate ofhis remuneration,
all the cbfrmf lled i ll ™’. ho m the very next issue took
•»“ “ ‘
t „te tice tbafc liord Clandeboye, eldest son of
swam across the Bosphorna in
ftiflpr-iM V f r au hour. Hig Lordship’s swim was con-
lsatoa b fo lW r than Byron’s famous water trip from
aud that, the poet assures us in one
Eng i«b mim to3 uir ,ls computed to ba upwards of four
oinfi. m l l0 3, although this was making pratty liberal
bv th + b °i the swimmers were carried
f y the Classical readers will remember that
thf w!v^ deP H SO “ooomphshed the feat of swimming
r som f yeara before the erratic Byron
frnSi •! Leander, however, had the incentive of
waiting for him On the other side, which
fn fbf “ 6 ' I c r rcu ? l^ anc9 soems to have been wanting
In the case of Lord Claadoboye.
ti,?, reS a W , au address to Mr. Parnell at
the other day, and part of it ran thus : “We
Hm “T ed y , ou will neither pause nor rest in
r ffch tbi W f P 7 k J° * hale begun, until in the end you
[® a fh the goal ” And now Mr. P. is in gaol. For a
TTa aimfSi v abu sed the Queen. No notice was taken.
So o No notice was taken. He incited,
Ko rnlPf* ra heUion. No notice was taken
inuW WUr Gl< * d *tone. He was immediately clapped
under lock and key. This should teach Irishmen to be
t®“der to the vanity of Prime Ministers. It was
y remarked by someone that there were two
m f- rela nd—one Mr. Gladstone’s, of which
flobody took any notice j tho other, the Land League’s.
frfivri 6 m . l f^ afee is commonly made of alluding
Pa ™t llas lf his name rhymed to—well, Hades.
Ihe accent, however, is on the first syllable.
A discussion has taken place in one of the
as to the original nomenclature of the bay now
known as Port 1 ' Hacking." On one hand, Mr. John W.
eermg asserts that the port was named after one
Bonry Hacking, quartermaster of H.M.S. Sirius, one
of the two vessels that first entered Port Jackeon.
Mr. peering points out that ou the chart published in
Colhns New South Wales, in 1802,” the port is
marked Port Hacking," and that Flinders supports
Ins contemporary. On the other hand, Mr. E. B.
„ ?pdh°flS6 states that “Hacking” is a corruption of
**“ n i an d that the port was named after his (Mr
W. s) maternal grandfather, midshipman (afterwards
commander) Aitkin. It will be remembered that
some months ago there appeared in this journal a
paragraph embodying the latter view of the case: but
it must how ba admitted that Mr. Deering, so far, has
the best of the argument.
A very distinguished individual, in the person
m her Majesty’s chiropodist, has made his bow to a
London Court, as defendant in an affiliation case. It
Will be remembered that once upon a tkne a gallant
officer saved the Queen of Spain from death by extri-
cating her foot from the stirrup when a bolting horse
was towing her prostrate Majesty along the ground.
Castilian-etiquette caused his instant impeachment;
and his only defence, being that ha released her
Majesty’s leg, ho was promptly executed, on the ground
that “tho Queen of Spain had no legs.” Either Court
society has grown more reasonable since those days, or
the pedal extremities of tho British royal family are
somewhat different to those of the royal Andalusian.
Her Majesty, no doub,t, will bo highly delighted to have
the fact thus publicly announced to the world that she
has corns. V How’s your poor feet? " will now be a
resonant sound within cooey of Buckingham Palace;
and—but here Martin’s Treason-Felony Act puts Ditch-
plaster on our eloquence.
In the stomach of an ostrich, which lately died
at Paris “ Zoo." were fouud four large stones, seventy-
one smaller ones, seven nails, one fir apple, one pen-
knife, two small keys, one cigar case, one rosary, six
sous, one. pair of scissors, one belt plate, one door
handle, and : »everal pieces of a baby’s trumpet.
A certain tile fraud —one of those scoundrels
whose ,“ religious ” fervor gives him a holy rolling of
the eyes, breeds callosities ou his knuckles and makes
him trip over his feet—was the other day bush mission-
ing near the Walsh Biver, N.Q, and, while there,
stayed a day or two at Sam Poole’s ** Sovereign ” pub.
Early on the first morning the holy Joey lightly tripped
to the bar .window just below the stairs and enquired of
Samuel: “ Have yon any really good whisky f" Sam.
spread out a store of bottles—Badcnocb, Eoyal Blend,
&c, and Joey immediately proceeded to sample the
liquor, taking from each bottle a “stiffener," but
finally selecting tho Badenooh, poured out a “ St.
George," put down his shilling (all drinks are a shilling
on tho Walsh), and went along, the verandah to
read his “ Secret of England’s Greatness,” Samuel mut-
tered something about being iammod; but as ho had
lived too long in the North to be “had” by a roving
Joey, he wreathed his face with pleasant smiles, and
asked the reverend gentleman to drink every time he
met him. He also let some of the boys into the secret,
and they, too, shouted for the parson, who, of course,
was unable to resist the flattering courtesy, and bowed
aud drank till his gills were aflame. Then he proceeded
to take tho sinners,aside one by one, and talk to them
about the erlror of their ways, and invite contributions
in aid of his “ bush mission; ’’ but the digger men
wouldn’t subscribe to “ the cause," or aid in sending
along “ the Word,” in any way but by dosing the holy
one with rum. So ho didn't press them, but thought
he would wait until he got them together. Ho
ascended tho platform that night, and Barefooted
Peter from the Homeward Bound, and Jerry O’Brien
from the Just-in-Timo,'came along, with alot more from
the other claims. They sat dawn very quietly for a
good while, but as soon as the kind, good missionary
began to talk about the glories of a happy death, Peter
and Jerry headed a procession of lads who each ad-
vanced towards the saint, and laid down at his feet a
bottle, labelled “ whisky ’’ —it wasn’t whisky, it was
water—to further the'good work. Then Joey had some
lumps of mullock petted at his head by the black
trackers from the escort, aud ho hasn’t been near the
field since-
BRIEF MENTION.
D a vid Bachauan was rounded on rarely the other
,-“, e t°ld.a woman whom he was examining not to
gat excited. She replied that He was doing aU He codld
to make her so.
Wanted—very much wanted.—A new Rand-
wiek starter. Must be a respectable married man. and
able to start a field of three in less time than it takes
to start an Orient steamer.
A certain city hotel has now a waiter six feet
four high. When he spills the soup, it cools fn its pas-
sage through the air before arriving on the pate of the
bald old gentleman underneath.
“ Christmas ! What wonderful emotion this
word awakens in the human breast! " This is cut from
the Cobab Herald. We suppose that by “breast"
the editor man means “ stomach."
Sub-inspector Seymour recommends that a boy
brigade ba formed to pick up refuse from the city
streets. The idea would not work, as the boys would be
laying hands on peripatetic aldermen.
To increase its street sale, a ’fhrisco paper has
adopted the plan of giving each newsboy a free pass to
a blooa-and-thunder tHeatro for each seventy-five copies
he sells. N.B.—lt is an evening paper,
. “Well, and how did you enjoy yourself?”
inquired his sister of him when he came back from the
harbour picnic. “ Fine! Had three fights, broke two
mirrors, and only put my thumb out."
The Czar s motto, as he strings up a batch of
conspiratortr “ Anmhilo Nihilum, nihild me po’enit et
unqnam. When the late C6ar was bloWu up. he re-
marked quietly: “ Nihil est "—lt’s nothing.
Henry Bullock, we see, has been acquitted of
stealing a bull. He looked somewhat cowed, until they
told him to clear out of court without a stain on his
character as a Bullock. This is our last heifert.
Layoook spent about ten days in Brisbane,
during which time there wero four Area and no ice.
t, nu rm .2 m9 ? or ’ degrees or so. Brisbane is known as
1 uhe Northern Paradise by insurance companies and
ce-suckers.
"What better indication of the prosperity of Rock-
hampton could be desired than the fact that the local
Benevolent Society can find no other objects on which
to lavish its charity than certain old women with bank
accounts ?
Arab : “ Evenin’ Yell—Slck-in-Edeeshun !”
Benevolent-looking old gentlemen: “ What’s in the
second edition, my littlo boy ?'* Little boy: 11 Con-
teradickshun of the fust edition. Will y’ave one,
master ? "
Thus the Tamwoeth Obseeveb to its de-
faulting subscribers Gobble up yoar turkeys, find
be happy; read your papers and laugh. If the printers
die, there are plenty more in the land, and others in
course of formation."
All that’s wanted to float a N.S.W. mining
company is a prettily-coloured map, drawn by a fellow
who never saw the ground nor tha surveyor’s flald-
book, two bits of (North Queensland) quartz, a man
with cheek, and some fools with money.
In reply to the allegation that teetotallers never
commit crime, Mr. G. D. Carter, M.L.A. (president of
the Victorian Licensed Victuallers’ Association), says
that Adam and Eva were presumably teetotallers, £ut
they lost Paradise, and that was a pretty good crime.
A correspondent hopes that before any other
Minister allows himself to bo banqueted, he will
remember the alpaca spread, given by Mr. Atkinson in
the days of yore, and that at the same time he won’t
forget the Singleton Agricultural feed and its con-
comitants.
In Maryborough (Q.) the Telegraph Department
provide the messenger boys with uniforms—one suit per
year. When a boy leaves, tha local telegraph-master has
to insert an advertisement thus : “A respectable youth
wanted. Must not he more than 25 inches in the legs
or 19 inches round the waist.”
At a farewell banquet given the other day to
Mr. Alexander Brown, at Newcastle, one of the
speakers waxed most eloquent. In the course of his
remarks, which chiefly had reference to the various
industries the ought to bo established in the coaly
city, he exclaimed: ’‘And, surely, gentlemen, wo
ought to get our hides tanned! ”
A Bulletin man got into a ’baa the other day
and, when an old lady had rested a 501 b. parcel of
groceries upon his knee, a young girl in passing him
had knocked his hat oif with a fat goose, and a small
toy had emptied his lungs into a toy whistle, it dawned
upon him that it was Christmas Eve.
Tho Age cannot see why the blame due to Pro-
fessor Nanson for calling ElkiCgtOh a liar can be com-
pared in any way to that of Elkington for boxing
Nanson s ears and kicking him. The reason is said to
be that the Age has itself so often and so unwarrantably
been called a liar that it's got quite used to it.
We hoped they would marry right off, and leave
that seat vacant, but after all it has only culminated in
a threatened breach of promise action, and the girl will
occupy the same old seat, £*nd carry on the same old
way as before, only with a new fellow. “ Ton won’t
get a seat, unless you go early to P’matta Park.
He perspired freely while dancing, and his
clothes clung to his manly form, and that was the rea-
son why both suspender buttons flew ofi when he
suddenly stooped to pick up his partner’s fan. Those
who did not hear the snap wondered at the joung
gentleman s hasty exit, which was effected sideways.
In a recent issue (3rd Dec.) of the T. and C. a
brilliant Correspondent makes this idiotic inquiry
“ Whether the top or bottom of a wheel goes round the
faster?" Here’s another question “ Whether silly
No. 1, who puts the question, or silly No. 3, who deliber-
ately pens an answer to it, is the more consummate
ass?”
We have already in our language many equiva-
lents for “drunk;" but the latest and most delicate’
way of saying that a man has more than sufficiently
“ lubricated his ejaculator, 1 ’’ or of convening that he
has “ kissed the baby to death," is “He has exceeded
his physiological minimum." “ Physiological mini-
mum ” is indeed a good expression.
Buesangong Argus on the six now city
stipendiaries “ The Great Metropolitan Stipendiary
Stakes of’ ISOO sovs., to bo subscribed annually by the
Government of Now South Wales, for all political
hacks of any ago, height, or colour. The first six who
may be placed to divide the stake equally. The usual
Government course. No qualification."
Young Evans levanted with a large sum of
money, and another land clerk, Henry Vincent Harris,
embezzled a goodly amount. Evans got two years without
hard labour, and Harris got five years’ hard labour.
Evans was a young fop, and an influential politician’s
protege; Harris was a stranger, and a man of colour.
Hence, though their crimes were equal, their sentences
vary.
No one will be satisfied if Guiteau is merely
i if 6 ?' i>ublio indignation demands that his death
shall be as lingering and agonising as possible. Our
devil suggests a plan: Put him in a cell, and shove
copies of Sydney Punch, or Herald loading articles,
through the bars to him. As joke after joke fascinates
him, his sufferings will be awful; he’ll pray to be hanged
or burned—but don’t mind, keep on till ho dies.
Up in the North, the other day, a Thomas-cat
tackled a big black snake, killed it, and swallowed it.
The meal disturbed its digestion, and it went off to sleep
on the hearth with its mouth wide open. The internal
warmth of the snake’s quarters revived the reptile, who
crawled out of the cat’s mouth without disturbing pussy.
The snake then swallowed the cat at one gulp. We can
vouch for the truth of this story, which was related to
us by a trustworthy eye-witness.
Time, 4 a m. Scene, Bar of a small “ public” in
the Far North. Present: A PM., a bank manager, a
storekeeper, and the local editor, playing “ Yankee
Grab a sovereign a shot. Presently the P.M. loquitur:
“ Gentlemen, it’s four o’clock; let’s go double or units,
and adjonrn the court, for I’ve got to try old Billy (the
landlord) at ten o’clock for a breach of the Publicans’
Act.” So they went double or quits, and old Billy was
duly paraded and fined that day.
The storage of invisible force was very marked
in this city on Boxing Day. Fifteen rounds were fought
in the most satisfactory manner possible opposite
Cole’s in George-strcot, and when the pair of belli,
gerents had reached that desirable stage of assuming
the appearance of a bill-sticker’s board after a heavy
shower, a sailor squared the trouble by taking the
heroes into a pub., and standing two long colonials.
The police were, of course, at picnics.
A young gentleman who has lately taken up his
residence in Maryborough (N.Q.) amuses himself by
prowling about at night, and following any young lady
(especially if unprotected) he happens to meet, Ono
evening lately he followed a young lady some distance,
and then addressed her thus: “ May I have the pleasure
of waiting with you, my dear?" The young lady at
Once replied: “ Certainly, Arthur. How kind of yon to
come and meet mo 1 ” Tableau—it was his sister.
It appears from the evidence in a recent
diverse case, that four years ago a young man without
a penny on his back, and with only one suit of clothes
to his name, arrived at a certain up-country township,
and a benevolent old gentleman took him into service
without a reference. A few months since he eloped
with his master s wife, some valuable jewellery, and a
round sum in cash. Close application to business,
coupled with pluck and industry, wins every time.
During' an examination of a witness named
Jr Bjvyer, the last Melbourne General Sessions,
Mr. Quinlan, barrister, asked witness who told him of
a certain fact. Witness: Paddy Dwyer, sir. Mr.
Quinlan: Was anybody present? Witness: Yes, sir.
Mr. Quinlan: Who? Witness: Paddy Dwyer, sir.
(Laughter.) Mr. Quinlan • Of course he was—but any.
body else ? Witness .• Yes, sir, Mr. Quinlan (thinking
he had got him at last); Who ? Witness i I was, sir.
Economy is better than extravagance, bat it
may be overdone. A young rowing club gave an-enter,
tamment the other night, at a town outside the penny-
• postage radius, and after the concert was a dance at ss.
a head. No refreshments were provided, and it was
when some ladies who had given their services as
piaiastes were faint that a gallant member came to the
rescue with a Washing-jug of cold water. Deep grati-
tune was manifested, and the next lot of visitors (the
same lot won't go again; to a P.E.C. hop will probably
take rations with them.
She was a dear old Irish lady, and it arrived to
her to bo arrestel for the two hundred and forty-ninth
time for intoxication. The magistrate who heard her
case was a captain of Volunteers, and it was his duty to
sentence her to fourteen days’ imprisonment. Then
the Celtic eloquence broke forth. *• Sorr, mo first hus-
band was hanged for murdher, and my second is doing
sivin years’ toime for burglary, Ono of my sisters is
a strate walker, and tho other haa been convicted for
keeping a disorderly house, but, thank the great hivins,
I never had a relative in the Volunteers!’’
The Good Templars of a Northern town found
themselves called upon the other day to enquire
whether their “ W.G.T.” had not presided at a cham-
pagne dinner, and stowed away two or three bottles of
Mumm. When called upon for his defence, the worthy
brother paraded two witnesses, the local bank manager
the town policeman j but as they, in company with
several Civil servants, were found the morning after tbo
affair studying astronomy, it was decided not to take
their evidence. A verdict of guilty was returned, and
the dear brother was taken down from his perch.
i A man at Bendigo was too sharp for a broker
t other day. He employed him to soil certain shares,
but when, as is usual on the market, tiro broker
announced that he would buy a hundred South Ex-
tended Mullocks at 3s. (in order to run them up), the
f, mar t man yelled out, “you can have a hundred at
that. Thus publicly taken up, the broker had to
accept the shares from his own client, or risk hia repp,
tation by repudiating tho bargain. He took them, but
if ever he gets a chance to sell that smart client a few
Milburn Creek shares, he intends to whip them in.
There -tfaa a “ select family picnic ” on Boxing
Day at the Avenue, Lane Cove, under the auspices of
the “Gladstone Lodge. No. 80,1.0.G.T." Some very
high-toned circulars were issued to the invites, and from
ono of these, addressed to a lady, we make the follow-
ing verbatim extract“ Strictures relative to respecta-
bility will be enforced on the day—in fact, anything
detected and calculated to mar the pleasure of the occa-
sion will be promptly dealt with.” Now, if the picnic
had been down the harbour—but, we stop here, for we
have only room to observe that a man may be a very
good Templar, and at the same time a very awkward
hand at writing circulars.
This time the invention comes from Britain,
and as it is one which so many in our midst could use
with comfort: to themselves, and everlasting profit to
their fellow-men, we have much pleasure in bringing it
into public notice. It is called “ The Patent Perpen-
dicular Back-action Side-delivery Suicide Machine ”
and the prospectus states all the would-be corpse will
bo asked to do is to sit quietly down in a softly cushi-
oned arm-chair, and by leaning his head back to open a
small reservoir containing a powerful narcotic. Over-
powered by the fumes, he sinks down further into the
chair, and so touching a spring, discharges eight revol-
vers simultaneously into his body.
Says the Melbourne rag which has prigged our
? al ? e !— !‘ Things are apparently very bad in Sydney, for
3055 meals were given at the Sydney Soup Kitchen and
Kefuge for tho Destitute duiing last month.” Very
bad! Of course they are! And how can it be expected
otherwise when the exodus from Melbourne still eon-
tinues to rage ? Directly a Melbourne man arrives here
he wants a tightener for nothing, and, if he’s a
journalist, his heels made level and a clean paper collar
on the same term?. We should ba very glad, indeed, to
hear of our contemporary ceasing to publish. That
journal frightens more scarecrows over tho border in
army W6ek thaU would make n P a big Falstafilan
The Ministry are going to do “ Tourip ” en
masse. Some of the crowd have well earned their fun •
some have acted otherwise. Generally speaking, otherl
, wise has all the best of it. Something like 120 years
a ? oasim , ilar P iece of pleasantry was enacted in a corner
of this self-same “ Yourip,” and a fellow named Junina
who was slinging ink for a London journal at that time
wrote— Away they go, leaving their country, like a
cast-off mistress, to perish under the diseases they have
given her.’ These diseases didn’t include “ringbark-
, “*»” p r ‘‘ conditional sales " at the time, but suppose
Byron a Old NominisUmbra had writ like that in theso
days; that the Palladium tried tho same; that one of
the judges was afterwards asked to “eat the leek,” and
, r but Dt us pause this is too sultry for a
land where Mercury scores 125, and carries out his
Men’s garters are now exposed for sale in
American shop windows, though whether for actual nso
IS not clear. An American lady, struck by the elabo.
lately beautiful specimens she saw in a showcase of a
gentleman’s outfitting establishment, says • “ With a
. woman’s curiosity, I asked it gentlemen wore those
exquisite circlets made of silk and lace, and clasped
with gold initial letters, above tiny satin pads, which
prevent the elaborate clasp from abrading tha limb
The proprietor smilingly informed mo that such garte s
were bought but not worn by gent lemon. Pressing for
information as to what gentlemen could do with them,
being too elaborate for sleeve bands, he quietly informed
mo that these garters were in great demand, as gifts
f‘om gentlemen to ladies, .Sunday-school superintendents
and church deacons being the chief purchasers.” Theso
elegant articles would, of course, only be given as
prizes, for the Sunday school scholars who learned
their versos best.
“ Yelox,” writing to the Mxtdgee Indepen-
dent, says that the pen which, in Australia, supersedes
the sword, “is the ‘ram pen,’ the ‘bullpen,’ or the
pigpen, —not the‘writingpeu,’ it would seem. Wo
bajoa ll manipulators of the ‘ former pens ’ adorning
Bench, and none find fault with their
socia! status; but it would appear that a skilful handler
of tho latter, if he makes his efforts public through
the medium of a printer’s press and types, labours
under the disability of not being stupid enough for a
J.i. A recent decision of the Supreme Court in a
newspaper libel case set forth that ‘ the proprietor of a
?S aper ’ i and ( ?^ aer . o ?, P resa aud types, has as much
freedom and social privilege as any other citizen, but
no more. How anomalous that appears, or how
wrongly interpreted,’ when the one plei raised by the
residents of a township to have an unpaid magistrate
removed from the Bench is, as stated—tho fact of his
being conductor of the only newspaper in the town."
.We have received from Mr. F. Lyon Weiss, of
J e M f rn High School (per his secretary), a circular
“ has P la ced three exhibitions,
value £B6 each, for competition from tho primary
schools of New South Wales to this school ”—what*
over that may mean. It was not without difficulty wo
mastered tho contents of Frederick's circular. It is a
niu.tigraph, and decidedly the most rnulty graph wo
ever saw; but having waded conscientiously through to
tne bitter end, wo confess we are inspired with moro
admiration for Mr. Weiss’ generosity than for hia
secretary a handwriting, and out of consideration for
our eyesight we implore him not to send us any mcro
circulars. The special object of this ono is, it seems
to let worthy but necessitous boys" know tho oppor
A CHEERFUL EXPERIENCE.


I LEV BRTHERS,
3
SYDNEY.
386 GEORGE STREET,
600 GEORGE STREET
165 OXFORD STREET
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,.
MAITLAND,
AKT)
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DBAPIKS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE ORIGINATORS OF THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
yards Qambroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 (pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
Jdoz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Strap*
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, Ac. Ac.
Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladies* Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pairs Ladies* Drawers
1 Ladiea’White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies* Stays
1 Ladies* Camiaele
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Plant. Petticoat
4 Infants' Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Hair c o i d
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Bolters
1 Infant’s Stay Band
\ dozen Infants’ Diaper
So nares
Puff Box, Pnß A Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infants’ Christ’ing Eobe
1 Infant’s Christening
Sedate, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infants’ Christening
>t Hoed or Hat.
JES Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 fergeMarcella Quilt
10 varus. Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 'Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yard* Strapping Tweed
< Ail the above are good
wearing articles.
£S Men's Clothing JtS Free Selector’s
Bale. Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Drert Material
12 yards Cotton SWrtlng
4 pairs good Stocking*
1 pair strong.Stay*
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambtoen
6 Brown Holland
4 large White Towels
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons
Thread, Ac.
JS5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black, Crape
1 dozen Crap* Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves ,
Carriage Free.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
8078, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, largo
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
JB5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies' Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawees
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The abore are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, ether
articles may be ordered In-
stead of any of the above.
RILEY BROTHERS*
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
4 Infanta’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Niyht-irowng
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
J dozen Diaper Squares
PnS Box, Puff, * Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Fair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Kobe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
• Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Bilk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer,
£2 Stockman's jg2 Ladies’ Parcel*
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 Soft Pelt Hat
1 Elastic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
We wish it to he disti
article in the Bales may he
about the same price.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole ■
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer,
icily understood that any
changed for some other of
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOE BOYS.
School Saits, 2s 6d
Hussar Saits, 3a lid
Picnic Suits, 3s> lid
Sunday Suits, 7a 6d
Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, la
Shakespeare Hate, Is lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coate, 2s lid
Tweed Trouser?, 2s lid
Moleskin Trouser*, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 9$d
Linen Collars,
Elastic Braces, 3d
Cotton Sookt, 3d
Neckties. 3d
FOB LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12e 9d
Satteen Prints, 3|d
Dress Matwials, 4|d
Black Alpaca, 51<i
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Plop Hats, Is 6d
Night Drawees, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, la 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is Hd
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2s 6dj
Muslin-Edging, 24d
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 9d
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOE MEN.
Working Shires. Is 64
White Shirts, 2s 61
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 444
Seamless Bocks, 64
Elastic Braces, 64
Tweed Suits, 19s 64
Summer Suits. 19s 64
Trousers and Vest, 9s 64
Tweed Trousers; 3s 114
Beet quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3a lid
Tweed Pagots, 13s 94
Tweed Coats, 10a 6d
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakespeare Hats, 2s 64
Colonial Tweed, 2s 64
Silk Umbrellas, 7s 64
FOE THE HOUSE.
American Lengcloth. 244
Nightshirt Calico, 444
Grey Calico, 2|4
Double'width Calico, 744
Pillow Calico, 644
Swansdpwn Calico,
White Flannel, 744
Wide Flannel, 1144
Scarlet Flannel, 744
Saxony Flannel, 1144
Cotton Tick, 3 Id
Linen Tick, 744
Stripe Bed Tick, 54d
Unbleached Sheeting, 744
White Sheeting, 7*4
Twilled Sheeting, 944
Mosquito Eet, 614
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS BE ICE L181. —Persons who may read this
advertisement must sot thick that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low tha goods axe very
common. The; are by no means the commonest goods.
We have lower prices still j but the lact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
bnt with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now bo had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
I HI
CHEAPEST DEAPEBS IN AUSTRALIA.
I initios that await them; and we are requested to bring
It under the notice “of any whom we think would
prove deserving exhibitioners." this affords ns much
pleasure ; we have an office boy whose efforts of genius
have hitherto been restricted to filling our ink.bo.ties,
and wheeling tho poetry into the back-yard ; but be is
as worthy as he Is necessitous.' We’ll send him up to-
feterf ow, Frederick, straight away.
u Mr. TV. E. Langley has been appointed a
fhomber of tile Boyal Commission appointed to inquire
into the management and working of friendly societies,
in the room of Mr. A. Cameron, M L.A., resigned.
61 Does anybody want to buy a dawg ?
Mong tho distinguished foreign. arrivals this
week wo must not omit to mention,.the following:-
Admiral Aslam begoff, L’anthnant Wavakooeky, Naviga-
tion officer Timetheafsky (evidently of Irish uescent)
and Sub L eutenaut O vrascherosky. Mmd your stops 1
“What ” roared Larry Foley, at the meeting of
tho publicans, at the Masonic Hall, “what’s become
of all the greed that’s been subscribed for police
eases ?” Then all the members of the two Societies
1 iokcd at Larry's watermelon of a fist, and considered,
’they are considering still.
He was a meatier cf the Municipal Council and
ho had spelled bopelestly through every jUm in the
minu, the reiult being chaos generally. ‘ Waiter, he
h mrsely whispered at last—“ Waiter, if you can give
ms some corned best and carrots, and a lit of Cheshire
cheese. I’ll tip you half-a-James
- and son had been to"the pantomime, and
Pa" hail thrown Sinbad a. bouquet. ‘ Ma, said the
youngster next morning; "is [Pa very fond of strange
bo’ S?” “No, my d ar. tVhy Because he threw
simeauch nice flowers at a boy in the pantomime last
nfglit, and said ho was a little duck.
Bibhv. the champion porridge-eater, is now
in Bvdi-py, and wants to make a match. He called
IhthD office yesterday, and informed us that, though u
S oTnotour at present, ho is equal to the task cf
consuming four qfatts ef "burgoo" within the half-
hour This is a big feat, or,’ ratter, * big eat. Four
quirts, wo learned in' childhood s uays, make one
gallon.
Only fancy! She is esthetic now, even to the
clocks on her stockings—never travels without a hot .e
At Frangipani and a platinum toothpick, and knows
Robedv under the social rank of a Town Clerk Yet it
only the other day (so to. speak) that her husband
wm butchering on the Bardekiu, and she was known in
ttm township by the bizarre cognomen, of the Long
Handled Shovel.”
W« see bv the Herald that a presentation
was made to the Bev. G F. Dillon, at Balmain, prior
to his departure for Europe, on last. It
consisted of an address and a bank-draft. The r-v.
eentleman said that he should treasure the address up
a« the most precious thing he had ever possessed; that
when he felt sad he would take it out and road if, and
the thoughts which it would recall of his dear friends
In Balmalu would at once pour balm upon his wounded
spirit. He didn’t say much about the draft.
A vottnsr gentleman, well known on the Pator-
soh took two ladies to the Quintette Club in Maitland.
Nhf having a keen appreciation of music, he found that
the Sid melody did not prevent him from feeling
thffatvi sd he “ Went out to see a man." He returned
In time to hear Miss Cota Miller sing, and the beauty
of Vw charming ladv, together with the measures he
bL sLcesstouf adopted to alleviate his thirst, so
affected the susceptible youth that his admiration could
only he expressed by standing up, and muttering,
“ BAi Jove, tha's good, tha’s firs’-class-do t again.
Miss."
Mr. D. Magill, of the Adelaide Register, has
left that paper on being appointed secretary to Wie S A
Education Commission. Mr. Magill is a dramatic
anther, who. like Tobin, has only written one piece.
This was a burlesque called “ Henry 11., which was
produced daring Mr. John E. Fulton’s management,
and which had a run of one night only. It was such a
funny production that, after abont halt-an-hour of it,
tile people began throwing turnips on the stage, wad a
demoniac yell was uttered by the gods for the author
Mr Magill then bowed his acknowledgments—in the
next street.
When some of the Paddington men leave their
homes now to walk into town, they are Careful to put
a piece of paper legibly inscribed with their name and
address iu their pockets, and a sealed memorandum,
stating where their will is, locked up in their hats. Then
they kiss their wives and cbildrenltondly, and set out on
their perilous journey. If a husband is ten minutes
late tho wife drives the Infirmary; and re-
cently, during the festive season, when so many stopped
cut all night, the dead-heuse was mobbed at daybreak
by enquiring females. We live in an ago of advanotd
civilization—and of tram-motors.
Newfoundland dogs are always doing something
noble Last Tuesday, a boy coming across m tho
Fyrmont ferry to his work, with hi* dinner carried in
a handkerchief, missed his footing and fell overboard.
All was terror and confusion, and for a moment it
seemed as if tho unfortunate boy would perish; but
while the bystanders looked at each other in helpless
auxietv. a sudden rush was made by a large dog, who
plunged boldy into the rescue, the gallant animal
swam on his errand of mercy with quick, Powerful
strokes cheered by tho anxious passengers, till he
reached theTcene/of tho accident, and thou, with
almost humane sagacity and courage, seized—the
dinner and brought it to shore. And while a sailor
saved’tho boy, that heroic dog devoured tho prize he
had so nobly rescued from the engulphing wave.
There is a Commission inquiring into a series of
frauds, which have Veen perpetrated by a ring of
canting scoundrels, now being held in San Francisco,
The Newsletter says“ We observe that a French
gentleman has been imported from Limerick, Mon-
sionr M. O’Brannigan by name, and has obtained the
contracts to remove a few thousand of bncka carefully
into the central court, which is simply unnecessary
work; at a cost of 400 dollars ; also, 2nd, to grade City
Hall avenue at a cost of 400 dollars, the above work to
be performed in three and five days; 3rd, to procure
differ* nt useless material to use up all balance , bo
that the new Commission will have nothing to handle.
We have no hesitation in branding as rogues the men
who have authorised this plundering of tne rate-
wavers. They are infernal scoundrels, and deserve five
years a-piece. How comforting it i* to bp able to slate
the ’Frisco aldermen for their roguery! We bnt
there I wo will not pursue the subject.
Yea it was rather rough on him, bnt in a shear-
ing shed you have to get used to strange experiences;
and as he was a man cf splendid physique and pro-
digiously bony knuckles, he managed time after time
to completely squelch out those those turbulent
spirits who tried to dispute his supremacy in the shed.
Year after year ho had to fight one or more of the men,
until at length, from constant practice, he became a
perfect master of the noble art, and there were few
who could stand up to him after the first few rounds.
And yet the men were not happy. Now, to the adjoin-
ing station there came a big, blustering, hard-ffited
pugilistic swagman, tho terror of accommodation-house
teeners, and cock-of-the-walk in many a roadside brawl.
To him a deputation, beseeching him to come over and
pick a quarrel with the big Stotch manager, and “take
ft out of the blank burgoo eater." Congenial task!
Over he came, breathing fire and slaughter, and com-
menced to pick a quarrel. Our brawny Scotchman
thought the time had now come to make a decided
protest. So. addressing the assembled mob of shearers,
he said: “Look here, boys; I'm sick of this. Ive
fought you fair year after year, and licked your best
men fairly and squarely, and now you send to another
station for a champion.. I don't mind licking my own
men, bat I’m getting sick of this constant warfare, so
now I'll give you all fair warning. 111 fight tins time
once more, but it will be my last fight. After this time I
shoot "—and he produced a revolver. Even the shearers
said this was reasonable; hut they would have one
more fight, anyway. And so, at it they went, Por-
rid e strain triumphs. After three rounds, tbs shearer
champion, with both eyes bunged up, no.-on* a side
angle of forty-five degrees, jaw in splinters, and pigeon s
, V JL «'plover his “phizog, tried to hold up his band n
toson cf abmission. “ What!" said Scotty; “ haven’t
-c">v<d enough ? " “ Enough." spluttered tne maimed
. spv “ enough 1 I'd much rather ye’d shoe'...” "oe.ee
■0 • '■.s in one shed, at least, on the Mm
The Story of a Stowaway.
(From London PUNCH.)
(When the mail left, a fund for a memorial to the
brave Captain Strachan, lest in the same fierce storm
as that in which the Clan Macduff (having on board,
among others. Miss Ada Lester, an actress wall known
in Australia) foundered, had been set on foot in
London.]
Come, my lad, and sit beside me; wo have often talked
before , , ~
Of the hurricane and tempest, and the storms on sea
and shore:
When we read of deeds of daring, done for dear old
England’s sake.
Wo have cited Nelson s duty, and the enterprise of
fever’d din of battle, roll of drum, and
scream of fife, . ...
Heroes pass in long procession, calmly yielding up their
life.
Pomps and pageants have their glory, in cathedral
aisles are seen
Marble effigies; but seldom of the mercantile marine.
If your playmates love adventure, bid them gather
round at school, ,
Whilst yon tell them of a hero, Captain Strachan, of
Liverpool.
Spite of storm and stress of weather, in a gale that
lashed the land,
On the Cyprian screw steamer, there the eaptam took
He was no fair-weather sailor, and he often made the
That the ocean safer sheltered than the wild Carnarvon
He’d a good ship underneath him, and a crew of Eng-
lish form. ..... ,
So be sailed from out the Mersey in the hurgMjano and
All tlmlnok was dead against him—with the tempest at
Firesexpired,’ and rudders parted, in the middle of the
Sails were torn and rent asunder. Then he spoke with
bated breath:
“Save yourselves, my gallant follows! we are drifting
to our death 1 "
Then they looked at one another, and they felt the
awful shock,
When, with louder crash than tempest, they were
dashed upon a rook.
All was over now and hopeless ; but across those miles
of foam .
They could hear the shouts of people, and could see
the lights of home.
“All is over!” screamed the captain. “You have
answered duty’s call.
Save yourselves 1 I cannot help you ! God have mercy
on us all ! ” , . . .
So they rushed about like madmen, seizing belt, and
oar, and rope—
For the sailor knows where life is, there s the faintest
ray of hopß
Then, amidst the wild confusion, at the dreaded dawn
of day.
From the hold of that doomed vessel crept a wretched
stowaway.
Who shall tell the saddened story of this miserable
lad?
Was it wild adventure stirred him, was he going to the
bad?
Was he thief, or bully’s victim, or a runaway from
school, . ~ .
When he stole that fatal passage from the port of
No oim r ?9okeJ at him, or kicked him, 'midst the
paralysing roar: .....
All alone he felt the danger, and he saw the distant
shore .... , ,
Over went the gallant fellows, whan the snip was break-
ing fast.
And the captain with his lifebelt—he prepared to follow
last;
But he saw a boy neglected, with a face ef ashy grey.
“ Who are you ? ” roared out the captain. “ I’m the
boy what stow’d away I"
There was scarce another second left to think what he
could do.
For the fatal ship was sinking—Death was ready for
the two. ....
So the captain called the outcast, as ho faced the tem-
pest wild.
From his own waist took the life-belt—and he bound it
round the child.
“ I can swim, my little fellow! Take the belt and make
for land.
Up, and save yourself 1” The outcast humbly knelt to
kiss his hand.
With the life-belt round his body then the urchin
cleared the ship;
Over went the gallant captain with a blessing on his
lip.
Bat the hurricane howled louder than it ever howled
before
As the captain and the stowaway were making for the
shore.
When you tell this gallant story to your playfellows at
school,
They will ask you of the hero—Captain Strachan, of
Liverpool.
You must answer—They discovered, on the beach at
break of day.
Safe—the battered, breathing body of the little stow-
away;
And they watched the waves of wreckage, and they
searched the crnel shore.
But the man who tried to save the little outcast—was
no more.
• • •
When they speak of English heroes, tell this story
where yon can.
To the everlasting credit of the bravery of man,
Tell 'ic dut in tones of triumph, or with tears and
quickened breath,
“ Manhood’s stronger far than storms, aad Love is
mightier than Death I"
Mr. 0. Y. Morgan, of the European Mail
proprietary, passed through Townsville the other day
It is said that the committee of the Reform Club
are considering whether Mr. E. A. Baker should longer
remain a member.
C. B. Jones, the eloquent Victorian M.L.A., of
bribery and corruption notoriety, at present in America,
tells the Ballarat Courier that it is his intention to
return to Australia shortly, and lecture on “ America
and some Americans."
It is now said in England that the Princess
Beatrice is to be married to. Thomas, Duke of Genoa,
the only brother of Qneen Marguerite of Italy. This
is supposed to be the outcome of Queen Victoria's
visit to the Italian lakes two years ago. The Bake of
Genoa is 27 years of age, amd the Princess Beatrice 24.
As tendingjto show how any man may reform,
it is relate! that when, in the old days," a | certain very
well-known personage, who now occupies a dignified
legal position, was oat of his articles and asked a
clergyman of his acquaintance to give him a certificate
of moral character, the minister respectfully but firmly
declined.
A friendly contest is going on between the
Count Labawsky, an eminent Bussian nobleman, and
Baron von Mueller, of Victoria, as to who has the
greatest number of titular distinctions. The Count
has 560 medals, and is a member of 1283 scientific
societies. The Baron has only 419 medals, but in addi-
tion !to this ho has two bandboxes full of “ orders,"
and the initials to his name consume three alphabets.
The golden wedding of Bishop Ullathorne (to
the B.C. Church) was celebrated at Birmingham. He
was ordained to the priesthood in 1831, and shortly
afterwards came out as a missionary to Australia. He
laboured among the convict population for some years,
and was appointed Vicar-General. He was the first
priest who visited Norfolk Island, and was strongly
instrumental in stopping transportation to this colony.
Sir Arthur Nicolson, one of the three Victorian
baronets, is a passenger by the incoming mail steamer
Surat. He was for a long time in the mounted police, but
on the death of his father he managed to find a Victorian
heiress who was willing to accept his title and elegant
“ Dundrearies" as a set-off against her big fortune.
The other two Baronets are Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, the
head of the present Government, and Sir George
Farmer, who lives a very retired and unostentatious
life near Bacchus Marsh.
Guiseppe Randazzo, the famous Sicilian brigand,
who was arrested some years ago but escaped, has been
recaptured in New York (where he sold oranges and
lemons, sent him by his friends) and extradited to Italy.
While in New York he accumulated a fortune of nearly
41,000 francs, which will be enjoyed by his wife, who
assisted him in his trade. Randazzo is of a short and
robust stature, and his bronzed complexion, crisp black
hair, sparkling and restless eyes, and the indomitable
energy of his expression, rendor hia head a fit subject
for au artist’s pencil.
The London Spectator takes exception to
the central incident of Bice.and Besant's story, “The
Chaplain of the Fleet," the marriage of Lord Chudleigh
to the heroine while ho w is in a state of intoxicated
stupor and unconscious of what was going on, on the
ground that it is “too extravagantly inprobable an
incident for use in a novel." Yet in the M'Evoy
divorce case, tried a day or -two ago in Melbourne,
the petitioner declared “ at he met the respondent,
whs was a barmaid at the Hotel. He went •on the
spree,’ and on the 30th June, 1873, he was married to
the respondent at the Wesleyan parsonage. He had *o
recollection of the ceremony, but when he came to his
senses four days afterwards, his wife told him that they
were married. He made inquiries, and found that it
was so."
The accountants of the Lands Departments in
both New South Wales and Victoria are in gaol; and as
the accountants of the other departments in the two
colonies ate their Christmas dinners with their families,
it’s plain that the two convicted accountants must bare
got into trouble on the “Evil communications" prin-
ciple. When they saw the open plunder that went on
in the public estate, they couldn’t help joining in it.
Ministers, members of Parliament, everyone who had a
hand in ruling the country, thought the land fair game,
till the moral perceptions of the officials who saw so
much plunder going on became blunted, and they came
to regard swindling as a law of nature. We see what
the end is. Bnt it appears hard that the accountants
should be the only aytferers. When will the turn of
the members of Parliament corns 7
A far from enchanting picture of Disraeli
making his maiden speech, is given in Mr. Bwald’s
recently printed life of that statesman. He stood on
the floor of the. Honse, dressed in a bottle green
frock-coat, an extensive white waistcoat, trousers of
vulgar fancy pattern, and round his neck a black tie
which effectually concealed any collar ho might have
worn. A network of glittering chains covered the front
of his chest. His face was deadly pale, and his hair,
combed away from thd right; temple, fell in bunches of
well-oiled ringlets over fc is left cheek. As he addressed
his audience bespoke with great rapidity, moving his
body from one side to another, and throwing his hands
out and then quickly drawing them in again. He looked
like a sporting Israelis, whp’had studied elocution on
the boards of a third .d o 1 . theatre.
INTAGLIOS.
“It is not good for man to he alone.”
A yonth with a high and thoughtful brow.
And the first flush
Of the noontide warmth of his summer life
In gleesome rush—
With health, strength, riches, and all that a man
Can need, or be—
Is he not eoiltent with his earthly lot ?
Oh, no—not he.
Whence is this evCr-recurrlng attest
That he doth feel P
What is the canker that evermore eats—
Ever doth steal _
The honey from life, and poisoneth aye
Its cheerful tone ?
’Tis Nature; teaching that it is not good
To ba alone. , .
* ♦ * * *
A starry-eyed maiden, with golden hair.
And heaving breast.
Gazed out from her lattice in pensive thought—
Thought unexpressed —
And the soft and delicate rose on her cheek
Turned dim and pale;
Nor anght did she see, though her eyes were fixed
On bill and dale.
What aileth the maiden with starry eyes
And golden hair 7
’Tis the seif same stirring within n&t breast—
Her breast so fair:
Within her striveth a yearning soul.
Whoso monotone
The same old burden doth evermore sing,
| “ Lone —lone —so lone."
••* • * •
The yonth and the maiden go hand in hand
Through IlavVy Mff r
Their souls are blended in trifShful Test—
Husband and wife:
And the diapason of perfect bliss.
In full rich tone.
Peals oat “ They have learnt that it is not good
To be alone."
FLUTA.
Balmain, 1881.
The Laughing Jackass.
A Bush Reverie, By A. M.
Here’s a tree—so, a pull at the bridle
And a pipe let me hare while I may;
’Tisn’t often the chance to be idle
Falls now in mv wav.
'Tis a good twenty miles to the station.
And the heavens are gleaming like brass.
Ha !—it seems with that observation
I’ve tickled you laughing jackass.
Bat I’ll stop his confounded guffawing—
And yet, no—l don't goidge him his glee,
Though I almost cculd think hia haw-hawing
Was levelled -.t me.
Well, he’s right, If it is, for, by jingo !
I'm a fool to be riding this day.
With a beard like the brush of a dingo,
And a hide that’s the colour of day.
With a dirty red shirt on the shoulders,
And a battered straw hat on the head,
Of the man that admiring beholders
Used to speak of as “ Elegant Ned."
Ah, wall, fhrir sort of friendship was rotten.
As I found when it came to the test*
And my name they've bv this time forgotten;
But, what of the rest r
What of those who once loved—why, plague
take it!
That drop on my hand was a tear —
And the first these long years—but I shake it
Impatient away, for I fear
That I know what they’ve said and are saying,
Could 1 hear them to-day :
“ Oh, he's only the penalty paying
Of his chance thro wo away.”
“ Life opened out brightly, before him/*
Ay, I know it; but where was the use ?
I was bound to go— morevuijorwn—
To the dogs and the deuce.
Was I bound to go ? No 1.1 may addle
My wits with the water that kills,
Cut I’m not snch a fool as to saddle
Blind fate rfith my ills.
'Tis the rankest of folly denying
The part that I’ve played;
I bat re ip what I’ve sowed, and am lying
On the bed that I’ve mode.
So. I’m sorry, old Jack, that I blamed thee
For thy laughing at me, since, alas!
Thou art wiser than people have named thee.
And I’m the jackass!
Well, this southland Is (rtrown with the breakage
Of promise as fair and as tine
As once was my own—and the wreckage
Of ships that were prouder than mine.
What matters for my little shallop ?
What matters my puny regret P
So, I push the old horse to a gallop.
And strive to forget!
—AUSTEALASIAN.


American Wal ham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition 1881
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received'
.Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U S A
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham'
Ma-’s.is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
caedings will he taken against any peisms copying or
i(riling same, or any vendors sellirg or offering for
rale watches bearing colourable imitatio is, or in a.uv
way infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, Waltham Mass.-ADV. U
At Temora sports on Boxing Day, the cham-
pion race was won by Cooney, Cam shell 2, and Benda,
berra (aboriginal) 3. The match.for £5O between Bun-
daberra and Roberta did not come otf; Roberts for-
felted. Another match for £lOO is fixed between Camp-
bell aid Cashman...... Qifl'eu, the crack South Australian
batsman, will play with the combined Australian
Eleven in the forthcoming match against the All-Eng-
land Eleven in Melbourne......Gough, the rider of
Rosinante; Matthews, rider of . Valet taj uni Raynor,
rider of Templar in tire Summer Cup, at the A. J. C.
meeting, have been disqualified for three months for
disobedience of starter’s orders.
Great activity amongst the aewing machine
companies. It appears that the Australian martet has
been flo ded with counterfeit imitations of the world-
renowned “ Singer,” of inferior construction -n>d manii.
1 icture, under various names, which, by the way. were
▼e-y poi .t 3dly referred to in the judges’ report on the
Sydney Exhibition, And so the Singer Co. !,. !f gone
on the war-path, and have opened sub-depths m New-
castle, Hathurst, Goulburn, Tamworth and Grafton
The chief depot for New South Wales is at ho 1 Dar-
te 5 ' 1 Harb ;J'^- stree .S lute i*ttLe
l,Xu,Cw> '3 1, on •' Signer, *
LATE SPORTING.
Victoria ia five matches ahead of N.S.W.
Gannon is the Btartor for TattersaU’s
Auckland Cup; King Quail 1, Hilda 2, Kenil.
worfcn 3.
Eacps, . seooad. bay.—^Nnrsert
Winter & 0r ? 01 * l. forced
Handicap; Godivr JU
. 0. bfithbull of the Ballarat Swimming Club, is
jh Sydney. Ha visited Foley’s Baths on Sunday morn-
lag m the hope of fe;iag Corbett, of shimming fame,
hut was disappointed, 6 ’
®^ es > Second Day.—Maiden Plate i
nattier 1. Hurdle Race : Mexican Plug 1. Wallsend
"*“ i S “* A
t fiogihg Day.—Maiden
mie: Svern#a, Prince of Wales Stakes: paddy.
tgV.+f?* 1 - 3- J- f. Handicap: Sazarac 1. .Flying
FSHan&p o : iUrBe: L
Graltaniatown '(AdelongJ Eaojes. -Maiden Plate \
U, Hack Selhna Race:. Queen d. fdp t,Love-
Mlnvs ClalrL ladies’ Purse:
v. ““R® .}• ,"°rced, Handicap • Miss Adelong 1. A
sOtah>at<Jir was in full swing on.the course.
i.,0. , Racjs > Boeing Day.—Maiden
Plate: Fisherman 1, Subena 2, Edith 3. Miners’
Purse: Quail 1, Speculation 2, Bundah 3. Town Plate •
Partino 1, Claymore 2, Fisherman 3 Champagne
Stakes; Quail 1, Speculation 2, Peter Simple 3. 8
« >P I9 , C lO combined tealri who play
English Pleven at Si dbourne to-day (Satur-
-1 B , lBckh 1 a “. Boyle, Bonn, M’Donnell,
Pdlm«t. NS. Wales: A. Bannerman, Evans, Garrett,
Murdock. Massie. South Australia: Giffen. Emer-
gency: Edwards.
It was very difficult to get a seat in the Band-
wlo :J ram ui n Boxing Day in Elizaboth-street, and it
was impossible to do so along the l : ne of route. Many
etortel from King-street in the Redfern tram, got out
at Liverpool-street, took the Bandwick tram on its
reiched eno8 ’ a “ d kept their seatB uatil Bandwick was
Ele T2 n v ’ Soath Australian
Fifteen, resulted In a draw. The scores were-El6ven ;
5 A> (Shrewsbury 2(1,
» If’ 18 fifteen: 244 —Giffen {>s. Hide
tJ Gooden 1?. Waldron 12. King (not out) li.
a - "** ****• ,ot
S , Abm£?'l‘*°”'l“"i°' j“* N ”' wli msi£“ot
tht ?A r t( ? P la y a « up hill game, and for
the pluck of the Victorian tai'. The scores were as
fonowi-Victem. first innings, 232-Horan 95, Edwards
43, Bonnor 17, MDounell 17, B!ackham.l6 —N.S. Wale»,
first innings, 145—A. Bannerman. 27; G Binnefmah 25
Mnrdqch2l. Hiddleatene \jx6t toS 14, Allen 13, Garrett
l|. Pavia id) .SedOnd innings, 215-Davis 53, Murdoch
Garrett 39, Hiddlestoue, 30, A. Bannerman 18.—
> tetona, second innings, 3 wickets for 130-M‘Donnell
is’ H B’ Blackham 19, Palmer, not ont. 19 Monle
is-. Vtctom s win was hatched from Maasie’s duck-
e SJS»
A.J.C. Summer meeting, Boxing Day. Great
attendance—plenty of trams, yet not enough. Hurdle
Race : Jack 1, Pluto 2, Wrangler 3; won by ait lengtha,
after a splendid raoe. .December Stakes: Jessie 1,
Clemence 2, Van e dish a; start troublesome, whether
the fault Of staPket or riders la hot certain. but the
2? the ever seen pn .Bandwick.
SBUmnier Gup : Tcumu Toss 1, Valeria ?, Bathurst 3;
°u du the nost fiy Hales’ artistic riding. Amateur
ahdioap: Jack J, Rainbow 2; this race was a tie, but
in the run-off Jack won a splendidly contested race by
Sailing Bare: Bosimnte 1, CapUmedgin 2.
-Middlesex 3; through the start being made in front of
the post, this raoe was run over again, bat Rosiaante
won each event. Two-vear-oH Plate: King’s Head 1,
Albert Victor 2, The Witch 3. AJ C. Handicap: In’
verary 1, Creswick 2, Stella 3; a desperate race up the
straight. *
Pyrmont Eegatta, Boxing Day:—Youths under
16: Grasshopper (W. Fagan), l t Young Australian
(Yates), 2; Princess (W. Chinney), 3. Cautas dingies,
15 feet: Daisy 1. batons % Olivette 3. Youths under
c ,? ste , r (J. Macintosh), 1; Sapphire (Ft. Penglay),
S; Stella {J. Glaeson), 3. All-oomers : Banana (G.
8010 non), 1; Shark Wand (J. C. Laycock), 2 : Myrtle
(0. A. Berry), 3. Skiffs under canVaa, l 8 feet: Vjo.et 1,
Daisy 2, Regina 3. Quarrymdn’s Race: Amy (F. Gar-
diner), 1; Sapphire (P. Ryan), i. Open boats under
Canvas, 22 feet: Velox 1, St. Crispin i, Rosetta 3. All-
comers, in light skiffs, handicapped: Emerald (A;
Pearce,.4sth ), 1; Clythera (W. Beach, 201 b.), 2; Sur-
prise (J. M'Clerkiu, feather), 3. Amateurs, double
BCUlls: Sweetmeat (W. Clark and T. Walker), 1 • Parra-
matta (R and J. Gascoigne), 2. 20 feet boats, haudi.
capped: Dreamland (scratch) 1; ffchol (Simins), 2.
All-oomdrs, pair oars : Shadow (T. and H. Jenkins), 1 •
Our Fred (W. and G. Lynch), 2. Skiffs, 14 feet: Alice
1, Young Jack 2. All men-of-war’s men; Young Aus-
tralia (J. Wallace, Wolverene), 1; Emerald (T. County,
Emerald), 2. Juniors’ doable sculls: S.B.G. (W.
Dwyborough and! W. J. Kloster), 1; Marguerite (A.
Blacketone and W. F. Corbett), 2. Livensed water-
men; Susie, 1051 b. (A Pearce), 1; Rachel, feather (J.
Wann), 2. Tub Raoe: Hanlan (W. Brown), 1.
Another of those “ glorious meets,” for which
Canterbury is distinguished, took place last Saturday
on the usual little course—for the use of which a-sum of
£5 had to bs paid to an enterprising alderman, who
evidently has a strong desire for the promotion of sport
in the neighbourhood. The attendance was very fair,
and the events were all well contested. Mr. George
Brad burn’s horse, Blacktracker, won two races, proving
himself a real demon; George Brett’s handsome little
mare. Mystery, secured the Hurry Ssnrry Stakes, after
a good race. The great evqnt of the day was, of coarse,
the Canterbury Handicap, for which four faced the flag
—Archer’s V.G., Gordon’s Browney, Dixon’s Cycloae,
and Slattery’s Judge. After a vary exalting race,
daring the greater portion of which the favourite, V.G ,
led comfortably, old Browney came in an easy winner,
much to the delight of the bookmakers, who made a
pile. Complaints by the public, respecting the style in
which V.G. finished, were loud and numerous. One
unfortunate, who had the temerity to shout sarcas-
tically, “ Hurroo for the Mayor of Barwood," spent the
rest of the day on a log ia the adjoining paddock, patch-
ing his clothes together, with two boys holding beef-
steaks up against his head. The Beaten Stakes
were won by Gertrude rather easily. Great credit is
due to Alderman Nightingale and his brother-stewards
for the successful manner in which the meeting was
conducted. After the^races wpre over, a private match
for £2O aside took place between Rogers’ 8.0. T. and
Archer’s Roguery, Both horses had many admirers,
and after a very exciting race. Roguery came in a winner
by a short length. Considerable disappointment wss
felt by many present at the falling off in the number of
fights compared with the previous meets on the course.
There were three policemen present, only one of whom
received anything like a satisfactory bruising, having
been struck two or throe times over the head w»th a
rail, and the enterprising man who was selling raw beef-
steaks hardly made enough to pay his train fare back to
Sydney.
FAST AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Last week’s coal export from Newcastle, §0,708
1008 The Deep Lead Go., Grenfell, sltlidod t#o loads
of stuff from thalf shaft, tod gdt 14 oi. g01d...... Burgl toy
it the Technological Mrisenm lUglßoqme. Gold .valued
t£ree.i3.n*ut diimcndc, and other
stolen....Frehdeir£ost, landlord of the American Hotel,
Meibolimc', where a number of men were Recently found
gambling qjid hag beep fined,
in a fair months theßallaratGemsr heg boon
truked by if forged teleßvam. A reward of £5O has been
offered by the indignant brokers for discovery of the
offender The SMS, Home was blocked in Port
Phillip owing to tho shallowness of the water The
council of the recently-rubbed shire of Marong have
decided to engage a secretary at tho etortoa-
gant remuneration of £3 llg„a week, less a
fraction. The shite hits & reteriue df dbbut
£9OOB pef tomnjl—l?93 ths .neyt defalßitloii
WijljaA Coilek ts jjtap.s operator, while
bathing in th<} Macquarie, slipped from one, log on to
another, and received internal injuries from which ho
died in a few\hours......Despite flogging, the recluses of
Madges gaol still give cantatas in their cell®*....At
Gympie, ft named |Bham : .hah Wfis struck by
lightniao jqh A fer’ndrh. Trß metric :'.uia passed
thfdkgh flib bony, tearing his clothing and one boot to
fragments, and of course causing immediate death
The Hobart whaler Eunnymede parted cables at French-
man’s Bay, Tasmania, and went ashore. It is not
thought .that she can again be floated Tho LiTrteow
Mercury, price 3d., has bean enlarged, and is-now, ac-
cording to the editor, the cheapest paper published in
the colony A child named Fraser, four years of age,
disappeared mysteriously from Emerald Hill, Mel-
bourne, where it had Vaepleft by its father in charge
of a (fiend,whilfli its mother,Was in thfl hospital.
It Kow apratoa that tlld boy Was committed to
tho Industrial Schools under another name
A large moneyed company has been formed to work the
Mount Perry (Q ) Copper Mines At Culleubone, a
copper-coloured snake, 4ft. 2in. long, was killed and
hung up on a fence. Shortly afterwards, a big snake of
the same kind was caught in the act of swallowing the
dead serpent, and was killed with six inches of it down
Its throat The firm of Mmgirs. O. W. and T. Waddell
have “squatted on 1,500 000 acres of land In the North-
ern Territory. This is tl la B Oman in tho old days
Says the Bcbrangono Chronicle :—" A farmer near
Marengo sent the following postal card message to a
merchant in this town: —* Please send mo by the first
one crimin' this Way. tod potlns shtlgot, a bladkin
brush, five potlns coney, and Some .little nails. My
Wife had a baby last hite and two padlocks. It’s a hoy
tod two of Ldrit whisky.”’ :The pro-
secutor ip a Cafie df larceny in Mud£ee has b-?en sum-
moned for oohiponudiug a faldny, for settling the case
by .taking the costs from the accused...... George Gdllins
Levey, of Melbourne, desires the words “ Assistant
agent-general ” appended to his name, bat a cruel
Government declines .to give the necessary porniis-
sioa. However, it’s said that G. p. is to be given the
snag billet pf travelling collector of pnrios for tho Vic-
torian Museum..,..-Father Henueberry took over £2OO
from the, Smythesdftle (Tic.) district as the rosrilt of a
week’s worfc id selling “ temperance sashes.’*.,
The longest jetty in Australia isabeing constructed at
Port Kembla, a few miles south of Wollongong. Alta-
gether it will bo between 800 ft. and 900 ft. long, the
greater part of which is already completed. It is
intended for the shipment of coal in connection with
the Mount Kembla Coal Co Alligators very numer-
ous and bold at Herbert Eiver (Q.) Two natives and a
Chinaman were recently taken down. Pears of small-
pox do not disturb the appetite of the cheerful crocodile.
Three convicts wero flogged at Pentridge, Melb.,
last Thursday morning. One of them Was sulking
terribly front ulcers at the time ;At Sandhurst (V.) a
man sited his late pjitner for tho recovery of d mpjikey,
voided at,£lo. Tfic- defending solicitor urged that the
monkey was not a domesticated animal, and conld not
be sued for as a chattel. It, however, came out that the
contestants had been partners, and us ad to attend ra m-
meatingg, with the monkey and a pack of cards,
doing the “lucky number business,” whereupon the
Bench asked whether a monkey which could actually
gamble on a racecourse was dot only domesticated but
civilized P The police objected to a Beechworth pub-
lican’s license being renewed on the ground that, as the
applicant had compounded with his creditors no less
than three times during the last six years, to grant a
renewal of his license would simply be providing him
with a legal means of cheating the public again.
The Bench postponed decision in the matter
First-class pig-iron has bsen turned out by tho Mount
Pleasant (IllaWarra) Coal Co. Iron ore, limestone and
coal lie Within a fe# yards of each other. A valuable
discovery of hematite iron ore has also been made on
the same property. A company is, it is said, being
formed to develop this industry..,...Joubdrt and Two-
pony gre floating a gold mining companv in Western
Australia for £5O|(X)O ThejEilrynotno, 1347 tons, which
Sailed from Geelong to Havre, May 19, with 16,829
bags of wheat, has been posted as missing at Lloyd’s,
216 days out The Melbourne larrikins have now a
new game—striking people on the fade with' thistle
artichokes From The Argus :—Morgan.—On the
15th instant, at the ab >riginal settlement, Coranderrk,
the wife of Alfred Morgan (aboriginal) of twins, son
and daughter.” Civilization is advancing. Another
aboriginal, some time ago, filed his schedule in the
Queensland Insolvent Court —A Ballarat tradesman
recently paid a cheque for £9 to a neighbour of his,
which, on being presented at the bank was dishonoured.
The receiver, finding that a number of other cheques
bearing the signature of the tradesman had also been
dishonoured, grew alarmed. He procured the services
of a countryman, who went to the tradesman's
shop, bought goods to the amount of the cheque
and tendered it in payment. Tradesman looked blank
Captain Manning, of the steamer Invincible, well-known
on the Murrumbidgee, was drowned at Wentworth last
week Frank Hilman, 37, Englishman, a late arrival,
found dead near Baulkham Hills. His corpse was in a
decomposed state, and under a rock near a creek. It is
supposed that he fell over, the height being 30 feet. He
had been in the Fusiliers..,..,An escapee from Dry
Creek prison, S. A„ kept to the bush for over 100 miles,
when hel trudged up to a station and asked for work.
The overseer chanced to be the constable who had
arrested the prisoner in the first instance, and he had
the runaway recaptured. Kismet A bullock of 1600
lb., bred on the late Hon. Neil Black's station, Terang.
Vic., was the other day slaughtered at Ballarat A
Townsville orator, while speaking at a jetty meeting,
mouopolisedltbe time by “ spouting” for an hour. The
chairman thereupon gave him five minutes to wind up,
on which he indignantly sat down “ under protest.”.,,...
In one day, Mr. Beardmore, of Cooktown, sold sixteen
tons beche-de-mer, average price, £97 15a.; gross value,
£1564 Gran Bros, have bought Iveragh plantation,
Maryborough Bill Hall, who fell iuto such good
luck at Gympie a while since, gave the men working in
his claim a week’s trip to Noosa, paying all expenses ...
In 1862, gold value £900,000 was sent from Forbes gold-
field....The roof of a carriage in the Ballarat-Melbcume
train took fire the other night. A passenger succeeded in
arresting the attention of the stoker, who stopped the
engine Tho silver lodes at Gilberton (N.Q ) are turn-
ing, out splendidly The mail between Taldora ,*nd
Mount Emu (N.Q ) being overdue, a troopor and tracker
were sent out to look for the mailman, whom they
found. His horse had fallen on him, apd injured him
seriously, and he had lain 16 days in the bush The
body of an unfortunate man, who died from thirst, has
been found on Yanoanuia run, Wilcannia district. A
scrap of paper was picked up on a road leading to the
pine ridge near Yantara Lake, on which tho following
words were written in pencil.— ‘ Lost in the bush.
Perishing for want of water. J. Grant. Friday, 4th
November. Crawling along this toad northwards ”
About 100 yards further along the real the man’s body
was found, which was in a state of decomposition.
Beside the body lay a quart-pot, two pistols, aud some
money
* • •
The German Government has been conducting a
vigorous crusade against tuc manufacture of spurious
wines outbe Khine No fewer than 656 casks, each con-
taining more than 1009 quarts of fabricated stuff, were
lately seized at Eudeslioim The new Cunarder,
Servia, on her trial trip, attained a speed of miles
an hour, with 2500 tons of deed weight on board In a
West [End (London) thoroughfare is to be seen a man
who has neifher armf nor legs, but who with the stumps
of his arm knits anti-macassars A statue of Lord
Byron nnveilod at Misaolonghi, Greece (where he died),
»widst free* enthusiasm, Largo orders for liver pads
ftrfl ooffila# la from Ireland. It was recently discovered
that one of them, properly pnt on, Wo vt’d stop a bullet.
an Briglisli pri son onp Hoflvidt ha« Silled another
Bonviet ill a fjnhrrel 8.3 to the ownership of a tame
jhotiS3,.....Mr. FipWceit, the Hiiglish Fostmastef-
General, is abolishing postsSe-siamp dtstinctiohs With
Receipt; telegraph, Jnd .postsajrd new
gll one. .PreseHtlr people will lie able td stick thi)
penny Useif on $, letter {.without bothering about a st9ins
at. all ..i...Sir Battle Prere -states that in one year
diamonds ta-the. value of £3,250 000 hare passed through
the Capetown past-ef!ice...:!.,Tho original half million
cterlliig givbii by the late Mr. Feabody for the ejection
Of model lodging buildings has now become £720,000
George Pfeiffer and a confederate, by means of forged
documents, effected heavy insurances on the life of
Mrs. Pfeiffer, in Pennsylvania, while that lady was
actually dying. It came to her ears, and the shock
killed her almost immediately. The insurance com-
panies, of course, reject all claims.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
i A thermometer known to have been in the balloon
in which Mr. Powell, was a passenger, has been
picked np on s the sands hear Portland. There is
scarcely a dohbb that the billoon and all ini it Lave
tiorisbetl j. . Atembn.vs of,lift! Itish Ladle.* Land Lpaguo
hare hub? 41 utility dil defiance Gofctanaei’t from?,'
bi*iou Great ga-i explosion in Vienna, several persons
injured, some fatally New York Customs’ officials
have-discovered, that so-called hardware shipped for
Liverpool consisted of 1800-cases ©trifles Boats from
Gordon Bennett’s long,miseing *, Arc'ic-exploidng
sohoonor, Jeanette* hare readied’Siberia with some of
the crew. One boat missing. The scheflmsr crashed
by ice in Behring Straits Storms and floods in 'Eng-
land.l..,.The Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs states
that Italy does not recognise the treaty between France
and the Bey of Tunis, and intends to watch French
ttSf'dn there. Aim that Britiin has tacitly.-accepted
tire fruity pfdtest. ....Large.roefiting of Irish
landlords demand compensation for loss of rents due,to
reductions by the Laud Courts ....Proposed Industrial
Exhibit!m at Dublin abandoned The promoters could
not agree about asking for the Q men's patronage
Constant seizure of arms and ammunition in Ireland....
Kettle, prominent Land Leaguer, released owing to iH-
h a’th—O'Donor in, la'ely correspondent of the
Daily News at Merv. has arrived at Constantinople and
published startling statements slandering the Saltan in
reference to his treatment of the Mussulman popul ititn
of Turkestan. He was sentenced to six months’ im-
prisonment, hut at the application of the British Ambas-
sador ho has since beeu released ...Montreal (Canada)
brttcnli of the Irish Land Leiguo threatens to publish the
rAitles cf Irish local residents wbd refuse to contribute
to the fdadg fof tilH Chic vgd Contention .Seve-al Jfibil*
ista atteateil .ia St. Petersburg dairying dynamite ill
granges ...Swiss Acganiblvlias vpted money in aid of suf=
ferSrs byreddut earthquakes. Workmen at St. Go‘hard
tunnel pail off . French trodps siftVi from cold and
exposure in Algeria jSpairi dbjjec’s td Great Britain
asserting rights over Borneo ...S;x Indies hafa contri-
buted £9(joo td the fuiids for the defence of property in
Ireland ,Bifico the qatistropife atthS Rink TheHtre;
Vienpa; the public yron’t attend the dtber theatres
there. The proprietors hate petitioned the Enjfi.erortd
hfltfe the means of egress reported upon, ip order tora
store confidence . . .17 British, seamen arrested at Kew
Orleans for disturbing a public meeting Statement
that Mr. Parnell has been removed from Kil main ham
gaol to Armagh is contradicted....... A fourth part ■f he
fortified city of Cronstadt, in the Baltic, has been de-
s‘royed by incendiary fires. The Nihilists again The
Home Rule party has been reduced to ,‘mpotoncy by the
secession of Mr. Shaw, M.P. All interest and powet
now centres in the Land Lsagno Gambetta hat
become unpopular in consequence of .having sanctioned
M- Eoustan’s return to Tunis as Minister and Chargi
d'affdirs, after the verdict in favour of Rochefort charged
with libelling Eonatali by accusing hini of promoting
the War fof stock-jobbiiig purposes The UniTeiJ
ißianitAS newspaper, suppressed in Dublin, continues
publication, being printed in London and sent to Ire-
land. Copies have been seized Haytian revolution
suppressed. 150 insurgents killed Agitation at Dur-
ban for the restoration of Cetewayo Numerous
petitions for the release of the candidates con-
victed of bribery at elections in England
Yet another Nihilistic plot to assassinate the Czar dis-
covered A lady land-leaguer clapped into gaol
Sir Evelyn Wood has embarked at Natal for England.
Much regret expressed that he declined the Governor-
ship of the colony Prussia continues to intrigue
against the settlement of the Turkish debt The
Pope publicly declares his position in Rome to be grow-
ing intolerable Staffordshire potters’ strike col-
lapsed Sir Arthur Kennedy relinquishes the Gover-
norship of Queensland next year, and retires to
England Austria and Russia have entered into a
treaty with reference to the Balkan Peninsula.
" Whom the gods love, die young.” Another
merry voicfe is hushed—another genial heart has ceased
to beat. Poor Jim Stanislaus was drowned whilst
bathing in the Hunter Eiver, on Saturday. He was an
ardent sportsman, and a staunch friend. Here, in a
strange land, a circle of sincere friends keenly feel his
loss, and their deepest sympathy extends across the
Pacific to the stricken household yet.to learn its sad
affliction.
Mr. J. A. Dowie was a frequent visitor at the
house of a certain newspaper proprietor. One day said
Dowie : “ I hoar that you are going to introduce sport-
ing news into the Herald —pabulum for the sons of
Belial. Pause, ere it be too late.” But the man of types
spoke never a word. “ Then choose between my friend-
ship and the course you are announced to pursue,”
thundered Dowie. The newspaper man chose the sport-
ing. And it must be admitted that the firm have since
contrived to worry along pretty well. By the way, how
about Dowie’s tabernacle? The joker went home, and
Dowie went too —not after him, of course; and now we
see J.A. back again, but the man who was to have put
np the bullion has not returned. Could he, now. have
come across a better prophet than Dowie—or a cheaper
oae ?
Fragment of a conversation recently overheard
in one of the passages of the House. Someone : 11 If
you put my name about amongst the big wigs at home,
and do what you cau about the knighthood. I’ll keep it
sweet for you till you come hack; if not .” Ex-
tract from Telegraph a few days later:—“Ha will be
convoyed to the steamer by the united temperance
organisations of Sydney, and previous to stepping on
board he will be presented with an emblazoned address,
setting forth the regard entertained for him by tho
members of the temperance cause, and the good work
he has achieved in its behalf. The arrangements for
the presentation have been conducted by Messrs. John
Davies, C.M.G., M.L'A.; John Eosoby, ML. A.: T. E.
Nicholson, P. E. Holdsworth, and a strong committee.”
A-hem.
At a school, a short way “ along the line,” the
dictation class was enlivened the other day by a little
variation. The teacher was dealing out monosyllable?,
and made havoc with his h’s. When a young hopeful
brought up his slate for inspection, with “ 'orse, ’am,
and ’at” among the products of his industry the teacher
gave an angry gnlp, and demanded what these things
meant. The pupil confessed hia ignorance, but blandly
explained that he had but followed instruct ions, and
written the words as pronounced by the teacher, who
crowned the discussion by declaring that he ’ad a good
mind to give the pupil a severe ’ammering.
Begin tho New Year by turning over a new leaf.
Determine to nse only the pure, genuine, and uaadul.
terated Indian Teas, blended by the Oalcntta Tea
Association so as to make the most perfect tea for
flavour, strength, and economic nse that the world can
produce. All the leading grocers and storekeepers in
town and country, are now in receipt c I regular suplies
of our packet teas. When yon ask for the Calcutta Tea
Association’s pure Indian Teas, see that you get the
genuine article. Tho word Calcutta ocean three times-
oa the wrapper. A ton or twenty pound tin of the
Calcutta T ic Assoc ition’s pure Indian Teis forms the
neatest, most emv, i able, and most acceptable Now
Year's gift The Teas are imported direct from the
gardens where they are grown under European
supervision, and they are warranted absolutely pure ard
the best dnahiug tern ever put up in Australia Whole-
sale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte Place (oj-posite Dr,
Bowket’s) aad at «0 King-street, Melbourne,—Ady. 1
POLITICAL POINTS.
Said that the Roman Catholics of Rockhampton
intend to hold a meeting protesting against the ap-
pointment of Dr. Gani as their bishop,
,f*r- Ffcaraflyn, M.L:d. of N.3§., ha§ been doriL
mittcd for trial fdr voting twice in the same district at
the recent election. The ponfilty fa imprison iriant fo#
not npore than two years, with or without hard labour.
There is no option of imposing a flno.
Sir Arthur Fa’mer succeeds the late Hon. J. JP,
Bell as President of the Queensland Legislative
Council.
Northumberland election.—Date of writ, Deo.
23; place of nomination, Waratah; nomination day,
January 10; return of writ, January 31.
Sir A. Palmer having accepted the President
ship of the Queensland Legislative Council, tho Premier
has been appointed to the position of Colonial Secretary,
bnt it is believed he will not keep it permanently, It js
thought be given to Mr. Archer, tho
Member for Blaekaß,
Mr. Gresley Lukin has been mentioned aa a can-
didate for Brisbane.
A---H Tighe will, it j 3 said, be asked to
contest the vacancy for Northumberland, which con-
stituency he formerly represented.
Messrs. John Tait, Juur., and Co.
. 1 ! K . i .. I,'
A mistake was made in our last issqe, when giving the
names of the partners in the aboveeuterprisiug firm. The
firm comprises Messrs. John Tait, junr,, Mr. Frederick
Milsted, and Mr. Walter Nickless. In our last issue
Mr. Milsted’s name was incorrectly given aa V Prank
Milstead.”
902 people at tho Museum on Sunday afternoon,
and 158J on Boxing Day.
Never make friends of your creditors, never
make creditors of your friends.
It is certainly a reflection on the appreciative
taste of the bride that the best man at a weeding is not
the bridegroom.
Messrs. William Sloane and Co. are understood
to have purchased the business of the largest and oldest
established Far Northern firm of merchants.
Eight years ago, a memorial tower was com.
menc-Cd at N. Plymouth (A.) to mark the spot wht re
Miles Staudlsh landed from the Mayflower in 1020, but
it is still unfinished, for want of funds.
Why is this thus ? That good and favourite
actor, W. G. Carey, is still an Inspector of Public
Buildings s—
“’Tis tnlej ’Us pity— and pity 'tift ’tis true;'*
Golden calves, with AddrUi nidi inscribed thflreofl i
are the latest fashion ora*a for htdios. A great deal of
tho success of these adornments will, of coflfse, depor.fi
on the style of the dalt worn and the taste of the calf
that is called upon to adore it. But, anyway, we've had
enough sawdust calves of late; aad even gold will be a
relief to our Early English feelings.
A pleasant evening was spent on Friday, 23rd
instant, in St. James’s school. Forest Lodge, on the
occasion of the annual quadrille party given by the
momban of the Glebe Brass Band. There were about a
hundred persona present, and dancing was kept up till
twelve o'clock, the music being nr-wided by the bar d.
The room Was gaily decorated with flags and greenery.
Eowloy Pickering tipped Trump Yosa for t’io
Summer Cup. He won, thus proving that “Nemo”
was, after all, not so far out in hia judgment when he
expected tho son of Conrad to distinguish hiais -lf in
the last Metropolitan and Melbourne Cup. Tie per.
formanoe was a good one—to carry 8it 71b. to the
Lout in 2.37 The horse was beautifully ridden by that
prince of jockeys, Tom Hales.
The Parramatta Rowing Club gave an enter-
tainment in the local School of Arts, on tho 1-lth lust
The drama of “ Daddy Hardacre ” was performed firs’.
second came a concert, and third, dancing, which lasted
till nearly daylight. Cumberland Band dished up the *
music, and Mr. Dennis, captain of the club, made a
speech. Anyone who has ever heard Captain Dennis
sp ak never forgets him.
Scientific and instructive institutions have
never paid in London, as a permanency. The Polytechnic
failed, and is now closed. The Crystal Palace has had
a long struggle, and is now moribund. The scientific
Adelaide Gallery was turned into a casino, an I is now
an ice saloon. The Panopticon was converted first into
a circus, then a music hail, and is now a theatre It is
the sensuous, not the scientific, that wins tho crowd in
the long rnu.
The performances given by the Melbourne
Liedertafel have fully explained the high favour in
which that association is held—unlike a prophet—in its
own land. Perhaps many Sydneyites never under-
stood before hearing tho Liedertafel the significance of
tho expression that a vocalist has “ a fine organ.” The
members of the Liedertafel singing together with an
exactitude of tempo end intonation seldom equalled
and never surpassed in the colonies, produced organ!
like effects which explain the origin of the phrase
There is no instrument the tone of which equals
in sympathetic quality the notes from the
human throat. And when these sounds are massed
ia harmony, skilfully produced, they leave orches.
tral effects far behind. A very fine illustra-
tion of this was furnished by the “ hum.
ming’ accompaniments by the Liedertafel to vinous
eolos, &-J. No “ fixed-toned ” instrument cau arrive at
the perfection of .intonation produced by proficient
choralists, such as constitute the rank and file of the
Lied-rtafel, and those who remember the really bril,
liant rendering of the Blue Danube waltzes by the
Austrian Band, and haye now heard the same composi.
tioa sung by the Liedertafe', wiP be able to appreciate
the supremacy of the vocal music. Our Melbourne
visitors have given our own musical people a grand
lesson as to what can bo eccomplished when singers are
car-fully “culled” and placed under the direction of
a first-rate conductor. Tho Rapport betwe.-u the
members; of the Liedertafel and their conductor is
something remarkable. A furrow making its appear.
anceinMr. Herz's forhead sets the singers all on the
alert. Every gesltre-e eu the slightest—is understood
and obeyed. Shouting is a thing unknown. A vianis
simo passage resembles, as it should, the soft pr-moui-
tiry “ soughing” of a zephr. We are to have a Lieder-
tafel of our own immediately. The new society could
not wish for a better introduction to tho public than
has been afforded by the performances of its Me.bourne
godfather.


Hotels, &o.
ROBINSON’S FITZEOT HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS. 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockhnrn’s Grapa (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The compagnoni cateeing company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “Alcock” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
stall of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
With any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jateeing (Company,
315 GEOEGE STEEET,
(late Harris’ Caf(s, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen,
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CON FECTIONER Y of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used iu any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and ail kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
f] HA S. E. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
SCHWEPPE’S MFNEEAL WATEES
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
can ha obtained of the jrincipal hotelkeepers, wine
merchants and chemists throughout the colonies.
LITHIA (for
gout),
SELTZER,
TONIC,
MAGNESIA
Waters.
51 Bernees-street, London,
and
58 MARGARET-STEEET, SYDNEY.
SODAWATEE,
LEMONAD F,
GINGER ALE,
POTASS,
&
r
Op
Hotels, Sec.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, Iks.
KIAMA HOTEL, KIAMA,
Q. TOBY, Proprietor.
Commercial Travellers, Excursionists, Holiday-
seekers, and persons travelling generally, will find this
hotel the best and cheapest on the Southern coast. A
splendid table kept, and every convenience for families,
travelling shows, &o. Sample room for Commercial
Travellers.
The “ haycock” Coach meets the steamer, and carries
passengers, luggage, <fccv. to and from the wharf or to any
part of the country. Buggies anij horses always for
hire. Billiards.
ICE
I
ICE
E
ICE
fTHHE CITY ICE COMPANY, haying made such
ADDITION to their WOEKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE per diem,
ore prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, Ac.,
Apply to
3 WYNYAED STREET,
OB TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
Robert butcher a co„
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
so*
s
o
tA
c
fp.
Sk
&
cLa/
TO effectually stop the deception that has be«n
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPT OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, wo will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
120,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA,
No. 1, —Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle nsconly, £6.
No. 3.—Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, 17.
Where the Genuine Australian " Homo ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and pocking free.
Solo Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYAED LANE, SYDNEY,
ear LOOK POE THE NAME 111
w
H A E I E L L,
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Keht-steebt, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingham and Co.'s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Beucraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon * Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Gonlburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
A.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES:—I47 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY;
Sashes glazed on the shortest
NOTICE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
SHOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BESI
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
• G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
British plate and sheet gl^
WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869;George-street South.
JpAPERHANGINGS WAR.EHOUI
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 869 George-street;South.
WHITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMEJ
&e., &c.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 839 George-street South.
LATE GLASS. PLATE GLA!
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-atreeUSouth.
Tobacconists
«
TIN TAG!
T MY TAG!
Caution to Storekeepers.
ANYONE selling Tobacco with any Bound Tin Tag
other than those bearing our brands
“CONQUEKEB” or “YANKEE DOODLE”
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded against
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice, ns a Sydney Mann,
facturer has been sending out one of his inferior brands
of Tobacco with a Bound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YORK STEEET.
TOBACCO SMOKEES,
Note the Above.
J.EVB . TOBACCONIST .149.
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STBEET.
LOANS GBANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Bopay-
menta to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTBAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street* next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS. OILS, VAENISH.
PAPEBH AN GIN QS
(a really splendid stock).
BOOM and PICTUEE-FEAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BEUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK, 281, GEORGE-ST.
INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY.
705 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket (Onlt).
Onr Star (jd India Teas are noted for Purity and
Weight. fresh every day on the premises in
Jib., lib., and 2lb. packages.
Superior Sugars, General Groceries, and Christmas
Frnits of first quality; cheap for cash. Good delivered
in Town or Suburbs daily, free.
E. OLIVER, Manager.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
, summer, warn in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets,
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear tjvice as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat;
' great saving of fuel; apply several layers
1 The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paper Works, Liver-
pooL Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Price, 4£d & 6d per yd.
SO A 40 inches wide.
My length.
O
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
'36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.'
ADVT
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE,
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
ORXE
ViD
BHD
SrUntUU
It is of tho utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as largo quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when' they will find a difference of at
least 10 por cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIHGOE. SON,“AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MARTIN AND CO..
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
COOLALTA WINE CRLLAP.S,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform tho Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITIWttfKD CELLARS.
Although tho principal bnsiifoss will be transacted at
tho above address, tho’CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will beTotained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and fur SHIPPING
TRADE.
«r Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of tho Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, ho feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
QHBISTMAS WINES.
HOOKINGS and Co. invite buyers to book orders for
tbeir Christmas supplies without delay. Address—
Opposite City Bank, Pitt-street. HIGH CLASS
WINES ONLY.
jp R. LARKIN,
• Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT.
• Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-sirest).
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats,
P. E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spibit Merchant,
778 aud 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
Tho Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of tho Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, io.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
The Celebrated
WOLFE’S
The PurestStimuiant
worv^.
The Fame of M. MOSS & 00.
every Genuine Bottle.
DAX
OR NIGHT PORTRAITURE.
The elegant Studio of
THE ELECTRIC PORTRAIT COMPANY,
205 OXFORD STREET,
(Opposite to the Court House, Darlinghurst),
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the Morning till 10 in the
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.:
Architectural, Mechanical, and Landscape Photographs
in the highest style of art to order.
The Autotype process also practised in all its beauti-
ful varieties.
BOOTS.
ASK FOR
WOOD AND CO.’S
CELEBRATED GOULBURN
BOOTS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
•sxooa
C 0.,
MJ. LAMBERT &
• Ale and Porter and Australian
Wine Merchants,
23 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY,
have on hand Prize Wines from the Celebrated Vine-
yards of Messrs. A. MUNRO (Singleton), J. T.
FALLON, GREER and Co., and Dr. LINDEMAN
(Albury). and all tho leading growers of the colony,
which we sell at their prices.
We have also a largo stock of superior Ale and Stout
brewed specially for us, which is second to none in
Sydney.
Schweppe’s Mineral Waters supplied.
N.B.—Orders delivered in town or suburbs daily.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRV
W O II M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.


OHEISTMAS H
EXCURSION FA
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUE!
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH
and
ROCK HAM]
TUESDA'
For all particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
STEAM TO LONDON—(
1881.
The following Royal Mail Stean
tlib ORIENT STEAM NAVIGi
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SY]
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, .
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calli
And the service will be maints
steamers at intervals of a fortnight,
Saloon passengers homewards me
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goi:
steamer within a month; but failiuj
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea;
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be gra
For plans and full particulars, !
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANE
Joint Managers of the lino ; or to t
General Manager in Aui
G.
QEIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPRE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small paekag
Steamers to London at reduced rat{
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a fc
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior 1
sailing. All freights payable in Sj
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient
267 George-street, Sydney.
fJIHE PAINLESS COEJ
A Sure Belief, and in multitudes
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Ch<
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Ellio
ney and Brisbane; and sold by a
vendors.
ASK FOR HANDBI
OP GOOD
We beg to draw yc
PARTICULAR ATTEJ
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEA
Packcdjin pounds and half-
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s. and 2s
PURE INDIAN TEA,
__ 2s. 6d. am
PURE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d. am
PORE JAVA TEA, •
2s. 6d. am
Special Quotations given to Who
France is now building 17 ironclads, England 10.
This will give Prance 53 and England 57,
A romantic young girl and a tenor singer are
harmless when apart, but make a terrible combination.
A fashion item says that “ rings are not to be
worn, in the street.’’ This will be a knock on' the
fingers for some women.
A French writer, with a view of accounting for
the numerous mysterious disappearances of individuals,
suggests the existence of a disease, not yet recognised,
which, without any previous warning, suddenly re-
solves the patient into vapour.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[TFe shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Sydney Tnrf Club. . December 31.
Kensington Park (Vio.) December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Doc. 26 : Jan. 2. 3—1882-
LF, C - 9^ a ?cP 1 f a '"V '• January 2.
Taltersall s (Sydney) January 2.
'• January 2-
lain January 2.
Adelaide E.C January 2.
S?* I ™-. January 2.
Wilcanma January 2.
„, ay " January 2, 3.
Glenlnnes January 2, 3.
Port Macquarie. .... ..January 3, 4.
‘Marton, Eangitikei (N.Z.) J.C January 2 and 3.
Victorian Betting Club T. January 7.
jJ 00 ! 011 !? .......January 26, 23.
Brouleo. .. .....January 26 and 27.
New England J.C...,.,..., ~ January 26. 27.
Parramatta January 26,28.
Wellington (N.Z.) E.C. Summer Meeting ..Feb. 2 and 3.
Newcastle January 26, 27.
Northern J.C ‘ February 7, 8.
Vegetable Creek February 9, 10.
Tasmanian Jockey Club.......„...February 14, 15, and 16.
Inverell February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,21,25.
V.B.C March 4<L 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11, 12.
Albnry , March 16,17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club .March 16 and 17.
Corowa ; .March 23.
A. J.C. Autumn. Easter Week.
AQUATICS.
Newcastle Annual Eegatta January 2.
Dane Cove Eegatta January 2.
Port Macquarie Annual Eegatta January 2.
Stockton Eegatta „ January 26.
Anniversary Eegatta January 26.
Man lan v. Boyd, on the Tyne April
PEDESTEIANISM.
Highland Society, Association Ground .January 2.
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven:—December 31, January 2 and 3,- Com-
bined Australian Eleven at Melbourne; January
12, 13, 14. against 22 of Otago at Dunedin;
January 16 and 17, against Oamaru or Timaru;
January 20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January 26, 27, 28, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2,3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park ; February 17, 18, 20, against
Combined Australian Team at Sydney.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Excellent entries for the Y.B.C. meeting at
Flemingtou on January 7.
Nominations for the Hawkeabury Handicap and
Sydney Cup are duo on January 9.
The South Australian Government granted the
English cricketers free railway posses.
Mudgee races. Maiden Plate: Audacity 1.
Christmas Box Handicap: Mavoarneen 1.
On Oct. 4, at Lillie Bridge Grounds, England,
W. Griffin walked 8 miles 172 yards in one hour.
West Bourke races. Handicap : Ned Kelly 1.
Steeplechase : Daylight 1. Maiden: Crusader 1.
Newcastle races, January 26, 27. Shorts, 14
entries ; N. J.C. Handicap, 31; City Handicap, 30,
None of the usual games of chance were allowed
by the police at the Dunedin J. C. Spring meeting.
The Northern Jockey Club hold a two days’
meeting at West Maitland, on 7th and Bth February.
St. Leonards beat the Carlingford Club for the
Gardiner Challenge Cup in one innings with 78 runs to
spare.
Robert M'Kinstray, ex-champion pedestrian of
England, died at Maybole on September 27, aged 41
years.
Boyle got the Carlton Club trophy for best all-
round play amongst the Victorians in the English
match.
An important sale of yearlings is to take place
at Mr. S. Gardiner’s Bundoora Bark Estate, on the 31st
instant.
Courtney, the American sculler, was a first-
class amateur, bat he has proved an unsuccessful pro-
fessional.
The Mandelsohn Cup still remains in Tumut.
The local club defeated the Adelong clubin one innings,
by 92 runs.
1000 to 12 Segenhoe for next Melbourne Derby
and Darebin for the Cup has been laid by an Auckland
bookmaker.
An effort will be made in the coming session of
the Now Zealand Parliament to repeal the Gaming and
Lotteries Bill.
The North Shore Bowing Club is to be repre-
sented in the Maiden Fours at the forthcoming
Anniversary Handicap.
Mr. W. Forrester has purchased Grosvenor
(brother to Chester), giving £l5O on his bargain to the
purchaser at Long’s sale.
The English Cricketers have finally accepted the
terms offered by the Canterbury (N.Z.) Cricket Associ-
ation for a three-days' match.
Moruya races. Nominations : Maiden Plate, !
7; Cup, 9; District Parse, 8; Hurdle Race, 9; Baum-
berg Cup, 9; Publicans’ Purse, 10.
Hanlan is to go to California to play a star
engagement at 500 dollars each of six appearances.
Plaistcd is engaged to accompany him.
The A. J.C. have endorsed the disqualification for
twelve months hy the Bathurst Amateur Tuyf Club of
the pony Magpie and the rider Crook.
The obstacle race, the latest thing in athletic
sports, is an important item on the programme for the
Highland Gathering OnNow Year’s Day.
races. Maiden Plate: Old Gold 1.
Flying Handicap: Idea 1, Easy 2. Christmas Box
Handicap: Banshee 1. Prince of Wales' Stakes; Idea 1,
A grand billiard touramont was being organised
to take place at Paris, in December, amongst all the
best known billiard players, amateur and professional.
In Jim Punch’s time wo had wires at the fall of
each wicket. Now, Harry Hook, of Filzroy-street,
Surry Hills, is tho only publican who runs to that
expense.
A great fight comes off in January in the States,
between Eyan and Sullivan, two well-imp wn pugilists.
The Eastern papers are full of training yarns about the
contestants.
At the Dunedin Spring meeting, .£333 was in-
vested in the totalisat >r for the President’s Handicap,
£lOO being put on the winner, Tasman, who was ridden
by a Victorian jockey named Williams.
The Mercury Bay Regatta (Auckland, N.Z.,)
was to take place on the 27ch December. Among the
competitors for the Champion Sculls is Carter, of
Sydney, who left by the s.g. Hero on her last trip.
Messrs. Stevenson Brothers, jewellers, of Ade-
laide, have presented an elegant silver cup, valued at 75
guineas, to the S. A- Cricketing Association, to bo com-
potod fjr by with the Association.
The Spirit op the Times of 22nd Oct. says
that if once the great Yaoht Cup goes to English yachts-
men, it will be surrounded with rules and regulations so
impregnable that no American bowsprit will be able to
pierce them.
After bowling nearly all the Victorian Eleven
out, .reate must have felt much elated. But when he
SW'Suinea Waltham from his waistcoat he
reic bod a bit. He has not yet recovered either himself
or the “ ticker."
Myers, the American amateur runner, has been
unsuccessful in his attempts to beat the best time on
record for a quarter-mile. He heads the list, how-
?I er ’ f, or 1000 yards, and 350 yards. Myers,
like all spare men, is a hot-weather runner.
Grafton races, Boxing Day. Maiden Plate:
Envy 1, Leviticus 2. Produce Stakes: Recruit 1.
Prince of Wales' Stakes: Terry 1, The Nob 2. Graf-
ton J.C. Handicap: Frederick 1, Acacia 2, Envoy 3.
Members' Cup: Warlock 1, La Periehole 2, Waratah 3.
In the five hours’ swimming match between
Webb and Jennings, Webb became delirious some time
before the pistol was fired. For the last quarter of an
hour or so he lay like a log in a stupefied state. A very
few seconds’ more immersion would certainly have
killed him.
Parramatta J.C., Boxing Day. Trial Stakes :
B. O Lynn 1, Oscar 2, Master Tarragon 3. Flying
Handicap: Verdict 1, Jerrawong 2, Doctor 3. Selling
Galloway Race : The Roe 1. Selling Race: Fireball 1,
Dora 2, Cripple 3. Christmas Handicap : Silver Arrow
1, Jeffawong 2, V.G. 3.
Wallsend J.C. meeting, Boxing Day. Plying
Handicap: Hypatia 1, Lochinvar 2, Woodlands 3.
Handicap Hurdle Race : My Story 1, Mexican Plug 2
WaUsend Town Plate: Twilight I, Comat 2, Bulgaria
3. Mile Race : Little Nell Maid of Morpeth 2. Trial
Stakes : Battler 1, Diadem 2.
The Spirit of the Times (N.Y.) says: “If wo
cannot admire Tnckett’s aquatic ability, we must, at
least, reverence his sublime impudence.” He has
challenged Hanlan; and the latterfthinking he can beat
Tnckett, and that the match is sought for steamer-
money purposes, declines to row unless ho gets a good
deal more than the stakes.
Messrs. Holdswortb, Gardyne, and Co. , very
properly withdrew their trophy for the outrigger race
when it was ascertained that it would be a walk-over.
Impossible to got two crews to row an cight-oar race
for a splendid trophy, and yet we wonder why the
Victorian Eights beat us so easily! That the domra
should have to withdraw the trophy is a disgrace to
Sydney.
Myers the American runner’s performances are:
75 yards in 7|sec., 100 yards in lOpeo.. 110 yards in Hi
sec , 200 yards in 20* sec , 220 yards in 2*isec., 250 yards
in 26) sec., 300 yards in 31f sdc., 330 yards in 35 sen.,
350 yards in 364 ssec., 440 yards in 483-ssec., 500 yards
in 58 sec., 600 yards in 1 min. 14) sec., 660 yards in 1 min,
22 sec., half-mile in 1 min. 55 3 5 sec., 1000 yards in 2 min,
13 sec., three-quarter mile in 3 min. 18) see., and 1 mile
in 4 mki. 29) sec.
. The Wollongong people have decided on arrang-
ing for a visit of the English cricketers to their town.
It is proposed that a match be played against a local
twonty-two. The terms asked by the visitors are £lOO
and expenses. A spirited business man has under-
taken to guarantee all expenses conditionally on the
right of charging admission to the ground being trans-
ferred to him. The match will probably eventuate
towards the end of February. «
Victoria Amateur Turf Club meeting, at Caul-
field, Boxing Day. Selling Race : Langulac 1, Blantyre
2, Bruno 3. Handicap Hurdle Race: Dhurringrile 1»
Glenarvon 2, Monitor 3. Juvenile Stakes: Boolka 1.
Bassemo 2, Sylvanus 3. The Welter Handicap: Dhur-
ringile 1, Respite 2, Cremorne 3. Christmas Handicap:
Bellodrnm 1, Cynic 2, Pawnbroker 3. Handicap Steeple-
chase; Abdallah 1, Gazelle 2, Twilight 3. Malvern
Handicap : Guinea 1, Josephine 1, Gonzago 3.
Mr. W. A. Long’s string of thoroughbreds
were sold on Thursday, the 22ud instant. Sang Froid
(Mr. Canvin), 80 guineas; Brian Born (Mr. W. For-
roster), 160; Trump YSSa (Mr. Hart), 510 ; Qrosvenor
Mr. Smart), 1500; Saionara (Mr. Hall), 600; Gamin
(Mr. Baker), 130; Sunburst (Mr. W, Gannon), 45; brown
gelding bv Yattendon (Mr. Hall), 145; Aureola (Mr,
Town), 1750; Henbane (Mr, Forrester), 160 ; Sonbrotte
(Mr. Smart), 200; Poresseuse (Mr. Forrester), 1025.
Trickett writas to the N.Y. Clipper that he
always rows to win, and when beaten is invariably de-
feated on his merits, and that if a match be made with
Hanlan he will certainly try his best to win. Here is
an extract from his latter“ I was not exactly satisfied
with my defeat by Hanlan, although sickness prevented
me rowing him again last season. I determined to come
to America in the spring of this year and try to get
matches on with some other oarsmen before challenging
Hanlan. I have been in this country since the middle
of June without being aole to find a man in the States
who would row me a fair up-and-up race for money. I
conld have had plenty of matches if I had agreed to
row to please other people; but that is not my game.
Since I arrived in St. Louis I have found friends to put
up 1000 dollars to back me in a match with Hanlan for
the championship of the world. This is the only place
where I can find backers, so I trust that Hanlan will
favour me with a match, and if he defeats me this time
I will be satisfied. There is a forfeit of 250 dollars in
the hands of the proprietor of the St. Louis Globe-
Democrat, and I am anxiously awaiting a reply. I
have Harry Kelley with me as trninrr, and, as you know,
his name has never been mixed up in anj thing wrong."
Trickett had a very stormy interview with Hanlan,
during which the latter was accused of cowardice.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Sir W. Fitzherberfc, Speaker of the N. Z.
Legislative Council, the Hot. John Martin, Mr. 801 l
(Crown Prosecutor), and Mr. Lyon, secretary to the
Harbour Board, have boon fined JElOeacli, at Wellington,
for having got tip among themsely, s a private £lO
sweep. They did it as a test ca'e, and s; nt for a
detective to sea them, believing that the law was never
intended to prevent private sweeps of the hind In a
cricket match at Melbourne, the Press won on the first
innings by two wickets. Parliament got 146, of which
“Sugar” Gardiner scored 53. The Press made 162 fox-
eight wickets, Messrs. Coulson and Aytouu (nephew of
Professor Aytoun), representatives of the Age, contri-
buted 87 and 53 each, both not out Just after their
match at Cootamundra, seven of the Siigli h cricketers
adjourned to the back of the Park, and there quitetly
in the dark a stand-up inter-county fight was witnessed,
which came close to provoking several more “milK”
Yorkshire was deep in it A watch val ed at 120, the
property of Poate, the English cricketer, was stolen
from the dressing-room at the ground during the late
match at Melbourne.*...Opo Southern f’rm of metalli-
cians dropped £lOOO over'the recent All-Englaud-
Victoria match, while they only stood to win £lOO
Merry little “mill” at Greta last week. Jt lasted au
hour and twenty minute-, and was not interfered wi h.
......Beach won the final heat iu t he Woolloomoolco Bay
sculling race. Ward was second, M'Clerkia third
Belvidero v. Albion, at Maitland, otTSainrday. Albion,
108—Lawrio 37, Barry 24, Fawpott 10, Readott 11.
Belvidera, 102—Barnes 52, Nathan 21, Lindeman 12
The ICO yards race for £5 aside, between Joseph
Ingram and R. Brown, came olf last Saturday on the
Albion Ground, West Maitland, resulting in an easy
win for Brown Corio v. Alexandria, for the Thomson
Challenge Cnp. Corio, 27 and 55—Burton 17. Alex-
andria, 25 and 13 The first division of matches for
the Thomson Junior Trophy will conclude on Saturday.
The annual mooting of the South Australian Row-
ing Association was held on Wednesday week. The
report showed that operations so for were su icessful
The gates, booths, &e., for the Glen Innes meeting on
2ni and 4th January, realised £150.......C1i0 v. Croydon.
Clio 54. (Sweetmon 17.) Croydon 17 The Melbourne
Christian Young Men’s Association tried to atop the
women’s go-as-you-please contest...;...The all comers’
race, 150 yards, at the Druids’ gala, was won by J.
M’Quillan, Spiers second, Killigrow third. The all-
comers’ walking match, 2 miles’handicap: S. Lewis,
scratch 1 The Melbourne bench would not allow
liquor to bo sold at the local woman’s “go-as-you-
please." At the sports on the Albirn Ground, at
West Maitland, on Boxing Day, the 150 yards foot-
race was won by H Beckman, J. Clayton 2, M. Bren-
nan 3. H. Thomson won the J-milo handicap; T.
Organ, thc| mile handicap; and J. M’Lu’e, the hour’s
go as-you-please The handicap foot-race for £5O, at
Bathurst, was won by E. Ashworth, Guttrell 2, Arnold
3 Thus the Hamilton Spectatob: “Most bowlers
hate to face left-handed batsmen. How would they liks
ta encounter the Myamyn team, which played at Branxc-
holmo on Saturday, and contained something like nine
left-handed players? The sire of most of these, Mr.
18 the grandfather of no fewer than forty-eight
children Jem Mace, the ex-pugilist, was fined 10s.
and costa at Melbourne for threatening a plasterer
employed at his hotel Mr. W. B. Burnett, "sent
up the other day for a twelvemonth, on a proven
charge of false pretences, is the identical hair-pin who,
some years back, got together a team of aboriginal
cricketers, which (with poor Wills as "coach") he
pretended to mean to take to England. He got them
wirilr “ er tllan Heidelberg (near Melbourne), where he
left them in pawn to a publican Edward Fossbrook
Broom, who was apprehended in New South Wales on a
charge of the moneys of his employers in
Adelaide, is the individual that gave it to the Victorian
iKiokmakers to the tune of £3OOO Canon O’Beilly, the
clergyman whose decease we last week recorded, prided
himself on being the bitterest foe to bookmakers on the
face of the earth. Ha is averred to have stated that
he would rather not enter the Kingdom of Heaven at
all, if the metallic fraternity enjoyed the same privi-
lege.”
• » #
Great dissatisfaction was evinced over the
recent English walking match between Eaby and Han-
cock. The latter was not in condition, but Baby's
backers announce that he will walk anybody one, two,
or three h urs, for anything up a " monkey ” aside
In the States there is talk of a new trotting wonder, a
mare named Trinket, who, without being warmed tip,
did a mile in 2 mm. 14 sec. She is to he publicly tried
against St. Julien, Maud S.’s great rival of last year.
Maud’s recent performances have cast somewhat of a
shade over St. Julien, but it is to be hoped that he will
vindicate his character and his 2 min. Hi sec. record by
means of bis race with Trinket Henley is again to he
invaded by an American amateur crew When BUI
Day wrote his book on the horse, he little thought that
the time would come when the jockey of a horse trained
by him would be paid £2OOO for a winning mount . A
Kentucky grand jnry have indicted the owners of the
dogs Crib and Pilot, who recently fought. Warrants
for the arrest of the officials have been issued A
pugilist named Carney, and four others, have been
arrested in Loudon on a charge of manslaughter, for
causing the death of Highland, the champion light
weight. Highland received fatal injuries in a prize-
fight near Birmingham A Queensland nigger jockey,
when asked why he didn’t win a certain race, replied :
" Because n’ofher fellow been in too muchem dam
hurry.” After all, Archer isn’t invariably lucky. At
a recent meeting he only won one oat of sixteen races.
The once-famous Joe Eowe, who fought Harry
Broome and others, is pushing a go-cart in London, a
common costermoagrr The Vienna regatta com-
mittee indignantly deny the bribing of Shiukel in the
late race between Cornell and V ienua fours Hanlan
demands of Trickolt 2000dols. as a condition of rowing
him for lOOOdols. a-sido, in St. Louis. This is regarded as
a blnff. The course is in magnificent condition, and
Trickett is anxious) to row The winnings o! the
American horses in England and Paris during the
racing season amount to £530,000 sterling.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Hey. Charles the popular Australian
lecturer, is now pastor of the Hoaven-grcon new chape l ,
Ealing.
On Hospital Sunday in Melbourne, this year,
£6621, the largest sum yet obtained, was collected for
the charities.
The Governor of the Lebanon has issued
instructions for the protection of the historic cedars
of Lebanon, which for a long while have stood in danger
of perishing in consequence of the depredations of
memento-hunting travellers.
Rev._ Mr. Price declined to stay at Wiloannia,
even with an addition to his stipend, for the reason,
among others, that tho hardest part of his labours
heretofore had been tho collection of his salary, and
it would kill him to try to collect any more.
A “ captain ’ ’ of the Salvation Army was sen-
tenced to eighteen months’ hard labour in London for
embezzling 3s. and other sums from his employer. It
was proved in evidence that while conducting services
at Whitechapel he seduced a young woman who at-
tended them, under promise of marriage, and then
deserted her. Tho magistrate said he was a hype-
critical scoundrel.
A Wesleyan clergyman, who runs a church near
Ballarat, on several recent occasions failed to hard
over to his stewards the full amount of the collection
money, and this caused trouble. Tho minister has
admitted the deficiency, stating that he had made a
mistake which, now it was pointed out to him, ho
should bo happy to rectify. Tho explanation was con-
sidered satisfactory by the stewards, and there the
matter ends for ttie present. It is likely that tho
parson and his people will soon part company.
Rev. Mr. Ware, of Young, is at loggerheads
with Archdeacon Pownalland tho Bishop of Qoulburn ;
who, he contends, have acted unjustly in not confront-
ing him with his accusers. Writing to tho Bobean-
GONG Chbonicee, Mr. Ware says that ho shall look
upon himself as a victim (not for the first time) to an
utter want of constitutional church government in tho
diocese of Goulbnru if the attempt is successful (which
ho doubts) to bully him into resigning his charge at
the caprice of these who are interested ia providing
someone to succeed him.
Bishop Quinn, of Bathurst, says that ho has
now in his diocese 50RC ichools, with a total at-
tendance cf 3200, the Catholic population numbering
20,000. G rtnany, he remarks,lias a larger percentage
of population in attendance at school than any other
European state —namely, one in seven ; France being
next, one in eight; so that Iho Catholic diocese of
B ichnrst could cla.-m to come in between tho two. Ho
dd not anticipate any difficulty ia providin' for tho
maintenance of theU E.C. schools whuh still receive
State aid, after that til shall be altogether withdrawn.
Haydn’s Imperial Mass, No. 3, was performed
at St. Mary’s Cathedral on Sunday, but the pet formance
of tho music afforded a sad reminder of Cordner’s
time, when the Christmas hymn went up with full
orchestral accompaniment. With so mmj good artists
in Sidney, it is a ma'tor of surprise that tho authori-
ties nn<l not secured an orchestra for Christmas Day.
The Mass wss txcolhnt.lv performed, the principals
being Mrs. Brewer, Miss Stafford. Mrs. Guilfoyle, Mr,
Hincby, Mr. Flyvn, and Sienor Riccardi. Tho latter
saug the majestic “ Qui Tollis'* in a most impressive
manner, toe fine solid tones of his voice being heard
with great effect in every part of tho building. The
'• Adcste” was well performed, aad all the singers ac-
quitted themselves well. Mr. Banks officiated as
organist.
This is how they polish off revivalists in ’Frisco.
Bays the Newsletter :—lt is goncra'ly understood that
tho boy preacher, Harrison, intends to 1 ccom > a Bene-
dict as soon os he can convert, r-ue pretty girl who will
marry him ; but it is also believed that nearly all tho
fsmale converts ha has extracted from whut he would
call the mire of unrighteousness and the quicksands
of sin, are slab-sided, flat-chested ladies of uncertain
ago, with cither red hair and a tendency to pquiut, or
with waterv.,intellects and a pulse like a cold leg of
mutton. Now, we respect religion, bo it Jewish, Pro-
testant, or Catholic, and imbusd with that respect, we
enter our serious protect against thin howling, hypo-
cr.tical Dervish, who, by his squealing, hunts from
their boles all tho wall-eyed male and female lunatics
in this city of a quarter of a million inhabitants. In
the name of decency, we bid this parasite on all that is
holy be gone; or, still better, if he will die in one of
his paroxysm®, we guarantee hi m preservation in alcohol
and a place in the Academy oi Sciences among tho
stuffed skunks.


“Can You Swim?” —Professor Cavill, the world
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths ai e romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and he back within the hour. Return boat fare,
including bath, 6d.. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and ou Wednesday afternoon from 3 tul 5.
Adti.
SOCIAL.
On the occasion of the Modern High School
breaking up for the holidays, on 22nd inst., Ml. Head-
master Weiss gave an entertainment at Glammia Had.
A number of visitors attended to ece the prizes dis-
tributed and hear the speeches in the afternoon after
which, ten. was served in the ball, and about sLc o'clock
dancing commenced. The entertainment was unique,
and the free-and-easy style quite appreciated. Ohe
energetic and versatile headmaster of the M.H S., how-
ever, prides himself somewhat upon being original
rather than imitative. On Thursday, he put on a full
bead of so. ial stesm in his endeivours to diffuse happi-
ness, and the departure from conventionality was a
success. Dancing was carried on, with short inter-
missions for songs and refreshments, till midnight. It
is hardly needful to say there were nice girls there.
For instance, there was the petite daughter of the great
legislator from London Terrace, in a quiet bat pretty
dress, accompanied by her promising twin sisters in
white. Two daughters of a Government Printing official
and two others from Mooro Park graced the scene. A
Paddington young lady wore a satin dress which_ dis-
played a harmonious blending of light delicate tints,
such ts straw yellow, fawn and light blue, with a silver
wreath; while her mamma earned blessings from the
dancers by her excellent playing. Two tall girls in
black danced skilfully—one being from Crown-street.
A fawn silk dress was admirable. A quietly dressed little
thing from Pyrmont, also a young lady in white, were
pretty. The belle was decidedly the Waverley lady in
full green sateen, draped with til my silver ganze. One
of the features of the evening was the spirited singing of
the "Marseillaise” by M. Jules Lefebre, in French,
though it’s likely tha boys considered the best fin was
the prizes, which they took home in furniture vans and
special trains.
* * •
The two handsomest dresses at the Nifchsdale
ball were, one of plain cream satin, trimmed with
honiton lace and pink rosebuds; the other cream satin
and brochti, with honiton lace and blush roses—and
both with splendid trains. They were worn by the
Misses Parry, of Church Hill, and were objects of
general admiration. The attendance at the ball was
large, and many dresses exceptionally brilliant, notably
one representing America, which was all satin and
stars, and a perfect glow of rich colour. Miss Gannon
was pretty in pink covered with white lace, while Miss
Galvin wore a beautiful 6cru satin with shaded gold
sash and trimmings. Mias Nellie Playfair, in white
satin trimmed with heolthy-looking daisies, [did not
appear in the slightest like a “ lovesick maiden.” Four
nice characters were a blue with cap and hells, Arline,
a Harlequin, and Contrary Mary, with tinkling bells all
over, excepting on her toes, where the song sayk they
should be. But Mary needn’t mind that, because no
one would ever look at her toes, sj long as he conld see
her face. A Eedfcrn maiden, who must hare looked at
the glowing sunset till some of it got tangled
in her hair, was a pretty Flower Girl, and
a Gleaner with a dangerous cardboard sickle
garnered a harvest of hearts. The daughter of
the host was in white and scarlet, trimmer with ivy
leaves, and it hardly need* to be said, looked well and
danced celestially. A gentleman appeared in a good
Tambour Major costume, while two others wore the
well-known dress of Verdi as Archibald Qrosvenor, and
it is just io say they were really excellent. Two sisters
from Davonshire-street were Olivette and Claudius.
The drosses were handsome, and as there had heeg a
careful avoidance of any waste of material in their
construction, were probably cool. The fair wearers
were excellent dancers, and their costumes afforded
appreciative spectators every opportunity of enjoying
their dancing. A young lady, all in blue, from Eiley-
strect was very pretty, so was tha William-street
brunette as a French coquette. Two of the oldest
pupils were from Bonrke-street, one being in blue
satin and black lace, the other in fancy character as
the Bohemian Girl both clever reversals. Miss
Modini was in pink sateen, covered with Madras
muslin ; Mias O’Brien in pale bine satin and pink plush
trimmed with lace. A little girl from Crown-street
was considered very pretty in cream cashmere and
satin, puffed, with pearls, an Elizabethan ruff,
and a fascinating style of coiffure. The lineal de-
scendant of one of the greatest painters was Euth.
and another lady was Edith (" The Pirates,”)
both these drosses being among the best of the fancy
ones. Miss Olive, as Stray Leaves, wore pale green
satin, a white satin bodice trimmed with creim lace,
and set off with numbers of large leaves of all kinds,
giving the dress a novel appearance. A holly wreath
was also worn, and completed a charming costume. A
rose pink sateen dress, elaborately shirred, and strung
with large pearls, was liked for its make and colour.
From Forhes-street eame Patience, with a Peasant
aister. Two well-known athletes from Hunter’s Hill
wore a Cadet uniform and a Spanish dress. A young
gentleman rendered himself unhappy by browning his
face and getting into a nondescript rig of vivid scarlet.
He had evidently been persuaded to don these clothes
in a moment of weakness, and without being aware,
probably, that the coat was too small, the hat too
large, and the continuations so short and so much
frilled at the bottom as to be strikingly suggestive of
childhood's happy hours. Up to the time of his ap-
pearance in th>s garb, the unfortunate young man had
always been regarded as sane, and even respectable; but
his friends shun him now. There were, of course,
handsome dresses which cannot all be noticed; some
have been described in these columns before, and some
were on wearers whoso modesty leids them to shrink
from the profane gaze of the critic, and to experience
agonies at tho bin idea of public mention. The
charms of such can only be contemplated in silent
admiration. Daring the programme, Messrs. W. and
E. Needs 'danced a hornpipe, in full sailor costume,
flags in band, and the footing was faultless. The supper
tables were patronised by those who felt hollow and
fleshly, and the flirting corners by those sentimental
young people who are always turning up unexpectedly
when a fellow goes out to enjoy a cigar in solitude, and
whose snpremest idea of bliss is to cling together and
'think of nothing at all. Tho music was by Mrs.
Bentley, and therefore first-class. These annual balls
•riven by Mr. Needs are looked forward'd© with pleasure
during six months of every year, during the other six
months pc o pie are busy looking backward on them
with similar feelings. And it’s a peculiar fact, that
they are none the leas popular bscause the people who
generously patronise them don’t have to pay.
* » •
Miss Eolfe, of Summer Hill, gave an enjoyable
tea-picnic, last Saturday week, to aoout 50 ladies and
geatomea. Tho Ageuori* left Circular Quay at 2 30,
and after a cruise down Lane Cove, made for a well-
known ground where an appetising tea was served in
the pa vilion at half-past seven, and at its conclusion a
start was made for ho -e in the steamer.
Captain Hezelton, of Balmain, gave a large party
on Friday week. About 70 guests. “Belle of the
ball ” a stately brunette from Bourke street, Surry
Hdls
Bombala was enlivened by another plain and
fancy ball a fortnight ago. The School of Arts was
beautified by a local Turning, who also undertook the
catering in a style that would make Compagnoni wild
with envy. Chief "fancies” were—J. Badgery as E.
Backstraw; Miss Bennett, Queen of Night; a Flower
Girl a Koyal Arch Mason, Mr, Edwards, Bulgarian
Chie’f • Miss Heritage, Lurline; Miss Millington,,
Countess Bousillon; Beauseant, and Vivandiete.
Dancing continued till 5 a m.
• * •
A wooden wedding waa celebrated most inter-
estingly at ’Frisco. On the plate of each of the 28
guests waa a card prettily mounted on wood, ona of
them being a wooden locomotive and palace car with 23
wooden faces, each a fac-simile of a guest, looking out
of the window. The dining room was decorated with
shavings, and all kinds of wooden devices ingeniously
planned. We wouldn’t mind if some one tried such an
experiment in Sydney.
* * *
A successful fancy dress ball toot place at
Balmain School of Ar s, on Wednesday 21st instant.
There were many chaste and elegant costumes, the
most noticeable of which were—" Coming though tha
Eye ” "Starlight.” *• Queen of the Gipsies," “Manama
Favart.” “ Nancy Lee, 1 ' and a•’ Countess." Among'st
the gentlemen, a ” Highlander” was undoubtedly the
best, the-splendid physique of the wearer showing to
great advantage} a well-known footballer went as
11 Day and Night,” and danced well—the costume he
wore quite ou--rivalled similar rigs-out worn by other
gentlemen. The following costumes were also very
yood, Duke Della Volta, Bambini, G own, and Harlequin,
Qriolet and Giribaldi. Some persons were of the
opinion that the young lady as “Starlight” was the
balls, bub the general impression seemt d to be in favour
of * 1 Coming through the Rye." Two sisters as Claudiae
and a Housemaid were much admired. 1 here were also
numbers of sailors and pea-ants of ail rationalities
present.
• • »
Considering what a prominent, and, we may
say, fascinating item they are in the world of fashion
now-a-days, it is not surprising that an American re-
porter should have been making special investigations
on that delicate subject—ladies stockings. First he
went to a milliner of some rermte in that line, and she
told him that the grgat aim of the day with “ society "
ladies is to have pretty limbs —not only arms, but lags,
and the maddest craze is for beautiful stockings.
“ There has never been,” she said, “ in the history ot
the world so much time, trouble and money expended
upon the manufacture of ladies’ hosiery as at present.
Dealers vie with each other in accumulating largo,
varied and attractive assortments, and Urge show cases
are completely occupied with the exhibition of ladies’
hose. And what an array, too! Just think of it I
Stockings as lovely and as brilliant-bued as hate, bon-
nets and feathers. Of course, a modest woman can’t
expect that much of her hose will he s?en; but, still,
there is the same satisfaction in having it dainty and
temptingly beautiful, as there is in having many other
articles of her raiment, which are never supposed to be
subjected to the profane gaze of a man—too superfine.
Besides, there is a chance that her stockings may be un-
expectedly exposed, and it is j ust as well to be prepared,
you know.” The reporter admitted this. Then he
thought of something that had often puzzled him, and
though he felt diffident in inquiring on such a topic, he
determined to do his duty at all oo=t, so ha con-
tinued : “ But why is such an extraordinary variety of
colours necessary, men don’t need them ?” “ Well, there
is where the art ot dressing comes in. Don’t you know
that the limbs can be made to look smaller or larger,
according to the colours of the material that covers
them ? You never, or at least seldom, see ladies wear
black hose, for the simple reason that this colour makes
the limbs look smaller. Blue and pink are the favourite
colours, which, over a shapely ankle, are irresistibly
beautiful.” The journalist sighed, and Madame Lamode
resumed. “ This craze for coloured stockings has been
brought about by burlesque actresses, who, as you
know, are attractive and popular according to the
beauty of their faces and figures. They have pretty and
shapely legs, and they understand how to show them off
to the best advantage. Ladies dress to please them-
selves and the gentlemen. They see that men admire
the pretty figures of actresses, and the more they are
exposed the better pleased they are; and so fashionable
ladies, who could not live unless they attracted notice
and admiration, imitate the actresses. And they find
the plan successful." The modiste was quite unreserved
in what she said ; it was simply a question of selling
stockings with her, not of sex; of money, not of
modesty. The reporter thought he would get the
opinion of an entirely unprejudiced person, an outsider,
on ths matter, so later on he called on on elderly lady,
who was reputed to have been in her young days
a leader of fashion. The lady said“ Ah! well,
Society is becoming very fast and loose, and there is no
telling to what depths of immodesty her votaries will
eventually fall. They say that men are not chivalrous
as they used to be, and I do not wonder at it. Who
can blame a man for entertaining unholy thoughts of
woman when he sees how reckless they are in exposing
their persons. Low nocks and bare arms ore bad
enough; but when it comes to parading ankles and legs
to the public gaze, what woman’s reputation is safe ?
Is a man likely to turn away his bead when he sees a
nicely turned ankle, clad in the loveliest stocking, come
tripping down the street; and is he to be b'atued if ha
makes bold to follow the owner home and seek an in-
troduction for the purpose of having a little fan. If
women depend upon a pretty ankle and a gorgeous
stocking to attract the attentions of men, I think it is
time to stop teaching children to be modest and demnre.
For what good will the lesson do ? As soon as the
child grows to years of discretion she or he sees that
they have been deluded, aud that there is no such
thing as modesty. Young men marry new for
the sake, not of a pretty face, bnt of a pretty ankle,
and they are proud of it. Only the other day I heard a
young married man say to his wife ; ■* Oh, well, Nellie, I
followed you home that day I saw you get in a car, and
if you want to oblige me, wear those blue stockings.
They caught me.’ Just think of it I Suppose that a
blue stocking on a shapely limb does inspire thoughts
and desires in a man's breast that be would be ashamel
to acknowledge, who is to blame for it all ? Society is
to blame, and society alone. God help the married
couple whose wedding has been brought about by the
sDht of a pretty ankle and a coloured stocking!” The
old lady became quite excited as she lamented the de-
generacy of hep sex, and said; she didn’t know what
things were coming to. Some day, she supposed, people
would have to exhibit all the natural attractions they
possessed, in order to maintain their position, while
those possessing none would either have to be assisted
by art, or remain in eclipsed obscurity. This terrible
picture of the future was more than the reporter could
endure, so ho bade the elderly lady a deferential adicn,
and went out to stroll round the block. But the faces
interested him very little that afternoon.
• m *
There was a large garden party at Government
House last Thursday. The Permanent Force Band
played, and refreshments were provided in the grounds.
The company included the Lieutenant Governor, Com-
modore Wilson, officers of the Wolverene, Miranda,
and Emerald, and many members of Parliament, anl
leaders of fashionable society.
The annual breaking-np party of Ailantus
College, William-street, took place on the 22nd inst., in
the presence of a large number of friends. The room
was handsome'y decorated with festoons ot ever-greens
and flags, and the walls with mottoes made of ivy, ths
handiwork of the senior pupils. At nine o’clock, the
Hon. G. A. Lloyd gave out the prizes, after which
several presentations were made to the Misses Gillam
by the pupils, consisting of desk-, bracelets, lockets,
books, &c., which were duly acknowledged. Dancing
then commenced. There were many pretty dresses. The
most graceful dancers, and I est dressed young ladies in
the room were two Jewish brunettes from Darling,
hurst, in cream cashmeres handsomely trimmed with
satin, and lace of the same colour, the younger sister
having a I road pale blue scarf draped across the front,
wi h blue forget-me nots in her dark hair and around
her throat; while the other wore pink with gloves, &c ,
to correspond. Another pretty dress was worn by a
jcuug lady from Woolloamooloo, which was composed
of pale pink gauze, trimmed with satin and ribbon. A
joung lady from Sutry Hills looked very pretty in
white aud blue satin, os also did a young lady from
Moore Park, who wore pale pink muslin, profusely
trimmed with white lace; while a fair creature in black
and gold was charming. A charade was performed by
some of the gentlemen, and at half-past one the guests
departed to their respective homes.
# # #
The second annual ball of La Coterie de dix,
takes place in the Oddfellows’ Hall, on Friday, 6ch
January. A large number of invitations have been
issued.
• mm
On dit, Commodore Wilson and officers are to
be entertained at a public banquet eie they depart.
• • •
At ’Frisco, a Chinese couple were lately married
according to the rites of the Episcopal Church. The
bridegroom, the Rev. Walter Ching Young, D.D., has
been a C. of E. minister for several years, and the bride,
Miss Ah Tim, late of Hongkong, has been of the same
faith from childhood. He was in cleric garb, she in the
full noonday blaze of celestial glory, that is, a dress of
bright blue, lined wi:h scarlet, and fringed with gold,
her a — a— nether appurtenances being of a bright rich
brown. The Rev. Walter speaks excellent English
sermons, i.nl this dusky ex.;ajan labours energetically to
bring white Christians to repentance.
• • «
The may Xmas decoration of the Loch
Etive deserves chronicling. This vessel, lying at the
Quay, had one long, thick festoon of leaves
from the stem continued over the three mastheads io
th j end of the jibboon. Leafy arches were erected on
deck; ani betveen the fore, main, and mizen mast 1 ,
were formed with leaves and greenery, the legends “ A
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year"—“ Health*
Wealth, and Prosperity to N.S.W." The letters v»ere
very large and perfectly shaped, and as they dangled
in mid-air from the trucks, they formed the most
conspicuous and splendid ornamentation in the harbour.
• * •
One of the moat remarkable features of Wollon-
gong that strikes strangers is the fact that young ladies
and gentlemen never walk out with each other —at least
not in daylight. Gentlemen are to be seen walking out
in small groups, and bevies of fair maidens do their pro-
menades in various directions (accompanied only b.v the
“dawg”). It is curious—for Wollongong belles, take
them all in all, are very presentable, and certainly not
markedly distinguished foi excessive bashfulaosa. The
only solution of the puzzle is to snpposo that the youths
have a tear of being mangled by the gossips, and being
either forced to marry prematurely or 41 fork out” for
breach of promise. It might be inferred by strangers
that morality ran very high, but—it’s a wicked world.
* * *
There was a large attendance at the Liberals’
(Sydney Progressive Lyceum) picnic at A.thol, on Tues-
day, and the Prince of Wales (0 was loaded over and
over again. The inspire! Tom treated the pleasure-
seekers to one of his eloquent orations. He did not go
41 into trance "—always drops business on holidays, you
know. The Progressive young men and women kept
the small pavilion to themselves, and had some fair
dancing, albeit it was hot. The large pavilion was
patronised by young gentlemen not connected with the
Lyceum, with donghy looking faces and tight c'othes,
who graspei one another round the shoulder blades,
laid their cheeks together, took a firm bite of their clay
pipes, and then sailed gracefully away, with minute,
mincing steps, and fixed eyes, in the mazy waltz. The
committee used every possible effort to run things
satisfactorily, but as these putty-faced young gentlemen
are now protected by law, they could not prevent their
presence. There was nothing disorderly, and wo dare
not say anything about it if there had been.
VANITY FAIR.
Miss Amanda De Young, sister of the late
Charles Da Young, of the S.P. Chronicle, has been
married to Mr. Leonidas Dallas Archduchess
Valerie, daughter of the Emperor of Austria, who has
written a drama, and is betrothed to that eccentric
royalty. King Louis of Bavaria, is a girl of but thirteen
years The habitues of tho Paris Morgue were re-
cently greatly puzzled by a curious india-rubber leg
that lay exposed for recognition on one of the slabs.
The body of an elegantly-dressed woman, apparently
aged about 50, bad been found in the Seine, hut it was
so decomposed that it could not be kept. It was re-
marked, however, that tho left leg, amputated at the
thigh, bad been replaced by an ingeniously-constructed
india-rubber leg, which was exhibited in the hope that
it might lead to tho recognition of its proprietor
The will of a dust-contractor was lately proved in Eng-
land under & 120,000. He made a bequest to his doctor,
the amount of which depended on how long he kept him
alive. Ashe died in most inconsiderate b aste, the doctor
got very little Proposed barmaid show at Adelaide
abandoned. One of the Adelaide papers deplores tho
fact, saying, among other things, “ Barmaid shows,
instead of being degrading, are a healthy index of the
progressive spirit of this msthotic age. The human form
divine in its fairest form, and in its flimsiest dross, must
always be a pleasing and instructive study to the philo-
sopher." At Durham assizes, the foreman of a jury,
who were trying a bigamy case, returned to Court and
said: “My Lord, we find the prisoner guilty of both
marriages.” His Lordship: "Thank you, gentlemen.
Yon were only required to try him upon one marriage.
The second marriage was his crime—the first marriage
was his misfortune."
“ A disinterested correspondent” writes to say
that as a healthy, corpse-reviving tonic nothin? equals
a glass of Queensland rum mixed with Woolloomooloo
milk; but as we have since discovered our disinterested
friend to be a popular coffin builder, we accept his state-
ment with just about a ton and a half of salt to make it
tasty. Besides, it has been sent to the wrong paper.
We never mix.
It is generally supposed that wounds of the
heart kill immediately, bat a correspondent has sent to
us a stag’s heart with the loft auricle practically anni-
hilated, and the upper half of the left ventricle torn
completely through by a bullet, so that three Angers
can be readily passed through the wound into the
cavity. Notwithstanding the extent of the injury “the
stag ran about sixty yards, the first ten yards up hill."
The fact is that wounds of the heart are but seldom
immediately fatal, if ever so. Wo know of no
ease of absolutely instantaneous death from a wound
of the heart, in any part or however extensive. The
experience iu the battle-field corresponds with that of
the sportsman, as given in the letter of our correspond-
ent, who “ never saw a deer shot through the heart that
did not run some distance.” Wounds of the apex kill
comparatively slowly, in from one hour upward ; and in
one cae mentioned by John Bell, in which the apex was
completely severed from the rest of the organ by a
sword-cut, the man lived twelve hours. Indeed, out of
twenty-nine collected cases of injury to the heart, only
two were fatal within forty-eight hours, and in
the others death resulted iu periods varying
from four to twenty-eight days. Recovery may take
place oven when the wound is extensive, fer a bullet has
tem found imbedded in the substance of the heart
after a lapse of six years from the date of the inj sry,
the patient having died from a disease of another organ
in no way connected with the lesion. Some little time
elapses befor« the blood wholly escapes from or fails to
enter the cavities, and the walls continue to contract
and propel some of it into the vessels for a much longer
period than is usually thought to be the case.— Lancet.
George Darrell—our own George—is getting on,
and William Shakespearo, Baron Munchausen, and Co.
will havo to brush up and watch their laurels. From
Aikausas, the only George writes to say he has just
discovered the moat remarkable place in this or any
other world he knows of. This place is called the
“ Kissing Springs,” and it certainly is a remark-
able place when in full swing, and the weather frosty.
These are truthful George’s very words : “ I o amo up-
on the springs which flow from a mountain about 400
feet high, coming out about 100 feet from the top of the
mountain on the north side. The water flows at about
the rate of forty gallon a minute. It is of the colour of
cider, and tastes like apple brandy. The effect of drink
ing this water is intoxication, with a tendency to most
ridiculous amorousness, those being under it’s influence
hugging and kissing in a most promiscuous manner."
This makes uS dream wo are a bay again, and
we are compelled to rush down ' the cellar
and hug • a bale or two of old •* exchanges”
in “the most promiscuous manner” before we
can clip the 2ad act of the daring Darrell’s drama.
“ Peeling a trifle cooler now, we read farther on, and
learn George came upon an old grey-bearded man who
was making most violent love to an old lady—his wife—
and the way they hugged and kissed each other would
have put a modern lover to shame. The place is a
great resort for clergymen, who say, that the water is
very strengthening ; and as they are seldom accom-
panied by their wives, they hug and kiss every pretty
woman that comes within their reach. While hero I
saw a noted Minister of Little Bock, the ver/ pink of
propriety, hugging a charming young widow, who re-
turned his hugs with innumerable kisses. It was a
strange sight, and one, I should think, calculated to
make a great deal of trouble should any of his flock
chanced to be about." That’s enough. We’ll hear no
more ; but, taking a large tin of herrings along to
provoke a thirst, wo start for the happy hugging
grounds by the first boat, hnd once there, if that bald-
headed old Bantist doesn’t drop that young widow,
we’ll have his heart's gore in five acts and appropriate
music.
Hints for Insurers.
As the Marine Insurance Companies find that
lately very few and frivolous claims have been
made upon them by tjaders in the colonies, we
append a few hints to importers and others which
may be useful, and tend to increase the number
and amount of claims :
1. Before taking delivery of a consignment,
always consider whether yon have a claim against
either the ship or the Insurance Company. If
you have not one, you most decidedly should.
2 Your object in importing goods is, of course
to sell them at a profit, but if you can also sell
the Insurance Company, yon will have attained
this, and, moreover, escape the anxieties attendant
on uncertain markets. Yon should, therefore,
refuse to give a receipt for a part cargo ; but put
the ship off, say it is not customary, that you will
sign a receipt when the entire invoice is delivered,
and so on. By these means you will be able to
gain time, get possession of the major part of the
goods, and consider how best to make up your
claim, and thereby get the fullest advantage of
the benefit for which you paid the insurance pre-
mium.
3. It is commonly supposed that a case which is
entirely in good order cannot be claimed on. This
is an error. The importer who cannot make a
claim under these circumstances, does not know
his business, and is entirely deficient of Colonial
experience. Say, for instance, it is a case
of soft goods of which you have taken deli-
very, and for which, of course, yon will make
a claim against the Insurance Company yeu
support. It is, as far as can he seen in
external appearance in good oriler, but it is your
duty, as a merchant, to make a claim of some
sort; and, as a business man, yon will, of course,
know that by hydrochloric acid you can imitate
every appearance of salt water damage. This is,
however, not all that has to be attended to, as
original invoices are likely to ho asked for, so that
yon should be well supplied with blank forms by
your London (or foreign) agents with whom yon
deal. These, of course, you fill up according to
your own ideas, and present for inspection by the
company’s agent. Then, by the help of these and
a surveyor who krows nothing of soft goods (and
is under the impression, say, that it is usual for
gloves to come packed, in shirt boxes, the thing is
done, and you can make what claim yon desire ou
the company.
4. Say that there are some cases damp, packed
by the manufacturers, and, consequently, mil-
dewed. Out of twenty cases, say, two are
damaged. Here is an opportunity of displaying
knowledge that a clever business man will not
fail to avail himself of. A fool would send in his
claim for the two, and think he is doing well in
getting it allowed; but a man who knows his
business will distribute the contents of the two
damaged cases through the lot, and claim for the
whole invoice. He need not even stop there, for
he still has a claim on the manufacturer for damp
packing, and, by a trifling expense, can so re-
furbish the goods that they will fetch the market
value when sold.
These are a few of the ways in which an able
man may benefit by insurance ; but to such a man
it is unnecessary to point them out, while to the
fool, or the man devoid of common sense, the
above hints may be valuable, and the benefits of
insurance made more clear.
WOMAN ITEMS.
MisS Lizzie Costello, a duly qualified doctor,
has commenced practice at Brisbane as an accouche use.
An ungallant correspondent delares that there
was not one pretty girl among the 20,000 pilgrims to
Borne—and a fourth of these were women.
The Princess Dolgorouki was at latest in the
Eiviera, the mild emotions of roulette and trente-et-
quarante being expected by her medical advisers to le
likely to assuage her grief for the loss of her husband.
“You might to marry.” “ Never,” “ I know a
good girl for you.” “ Let me aloue,” “ She is young."
" Then she is sly.” “ Beautiful.” “ The more
dangerous." “Of good family,” " Then she is proud.”
“ Tender-hearted." 11 Then she is jealous.” “ She has
talents.” "To kill me.” “ And himdreds of pounds.”
“ I will take her."
First record of a breach of promise action in
England was that brought before the Archbishop of
Canterbury in 1454, against "John Keche of Yppcs-
wyah.” The gay John not only promised to take
Alice Gardigner for better or for worse, but he had
taken the sum of ten marks, cash in advance, by way of
dowry, and after pocketing the “ spnns." he went away
and married another girl, with the hprrid name of
Bloy, “ to the groate deceyt of the saide Alice, and
ageyn all resonn and conseiense." It is not recorded
what the Archbishop said to the fickle John, bnt he de-
served to "Keche” it 4iot. Nothing can excuse his
taking the girl’s money.
The Prince andPiincess of Wales were received
with acclaim when they visited Wales, and the Princess
was a great favourite. She is still beautiful, very grace-
ful, and most affable to everyone in her manners. At
Swansea her walking dress was of peacock blue velvet,
bonnet same eolenr, long sealskin jacket trimmed with
sable, and rnnff .with white iaco. At the ball she wore*
pale blue silk, covered with gauze, and scintillating as
if sprinkled with diamonds, also a magnificent coronet
of diamonds, necklet and pendont. It was remarked
that the Prince refrained from occupying his allotted
seat on the dais during the evening, in order to atforct
an opportunity for some person of local consideration,
to sit by the Princess. The Prince received a present:
of grey cloth made from Welsh wool by hand, and the*
Princess a “whittle," which is a Welsh shawl of bril-
liant red hue with a fringe 12 inches long.
In his eighth “ Chinese Sketch,” the “ Vaga-
bond” declares that "the Jesuits in the Flowery Land,
have assumed the natioual costume and pigtail—the'
latter artificial, of coarse.”
Two ladies belonging to different circles of
American society in Paris, met lately at a reception.
“ Have you been long in Paris ? " asked the first, who
considered she belonged to the set. “ Several years,*'
responded the second, who is sure her set is the first.
“Strange,” from the first, "that I have never met you
in society." “ You flatter me,” smiles the second.
Much dissatisfaction was caused to a large
number of churchmen who attended St. Andrew’s
Cathedral on Christmas Day by the introduction of
mournful music and the preaching of funeral sermons.
The mneh-regretted death of Canon O’Beilly, which is
the reason given for this extraordinary proceeding, can
in no way be held to justify it; for no earthly sorrow,
however great, is ever obtruded on the Church’s joy on
that, its natal day. If the sad event referred to had
occurred elsewhere than in Sydney, its due and proper
recognition would, in accordance with the established
usage of Christendom, have been postponed until the
following Sunday, or some special day fixed for it.
Unfortunately, however, even such elementary prin-
ciples of chnrchmanship are not known to those who
have the control of affairs at the Cathedral; and perhaps
the moat hopeless aspect of the position is that these
individuals are sublimely unconscious of tbeir ignorance
in this reepect—for, in this matter, they really thought
they were doing something most appropriate and very
clever indeed 1 It would appear, then, that we most
tolerate things as they are, until, by. a succession cf*
anoh fiascos, our so-called Cathedral shall break down
under the concentrated force of public scorn and ridic ale-
This would open the way to » new condition of things.


1881 CHRISTMAS 1881
CHAELES J. CHRISTIE
HAS ON SALE—
HAMS
Compton’s
Darcey’s
U brand
BACON.
CHEESE, Bodalla and Melbourne.
MUSCATELS, ELEMES, VALENCIAS.
SULTANAS, CURRANTS, FIGS.
. Prnnos '
Battled Emits
. Jellies
Almonds
Soft Shell
Jordan
Candied Peel
Spices, Ac.
Cordials
TEA, COFFEE, SUGAR, BUTTER,
all of the Best Brands.
Note the Address—*
CHARLES J. OHRI T I
(Late W. N. Eokee),
571 GEOROE STREET,
between Liverpool and Qonlbnm streets.
~pl ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
OABLES AND ANDEBSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
m GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
JUST OPENED,
NEW STOCK I
Consisting of
DOLLS, TOYS, AND FANCY GOODS.
Every Department In this Establishment offers un-
precedented attractions to those looking for
BIRTHDAY AND WEDDING PRESENTS,
Either Useful or Ornamental.
A LARGE Collection of Imitation Jewellery —a
perfect substitute for 18-carat gold—fashioned
witu such elegance of design and choice finish as to
bear comparison with the most expensive Albert Chains,
Lockets, Bracelets, Earrings, Brooches, plain or en-
graved, with various ornaments, all the last 18-carat
gold pattinu and best workmanship.
Cheap, Elegant, and Useful Articles.
Writing Cases, Travelling Bags, Portmanteaus
Desks. Mahogany or Rosewood
Dressing Cases, lined with silk velvet
Do. with silver fittings
Gentlemen’s Travelling Dressing Cases
Pocket Books, Letter Cases
Key Boxes, Jewel Cases, Perfumery, Ac.
Fort Monnaies and Tablets
Card Cases, in pearl, silver, and tortoiseshell
Albums and Scrap Books
Instands, in bronze, ebony, walnnt, oak, Ac.
Reticules, Carriage Bags
Envelope and Stationery Cases
Ladies’ Companions, Croquet, Ac.
Velvet Frames—latest styles. Toys, Games, Puzzles,
and Novelties imported expressly for this season.
CELLULOID CORAL JEWELLERY.—The lasting
qualities of CORAL place it far before anything else
that has vet been produced. There is no doubt that
this excellent substitute for and change from Real
Gold Jewellery, will soon be in extensive use, for Celia-
loid Coral Jewellery will not tarnish, will not Break,
and will never Change its Colour. It can be worn by
the most fastidious and particular, being wonderfully
neat and elegant. Yet the price places it within the
reach of all.
IMITATION DIAMONDS-The Greatest Novelty.
IMITATION DlAMONDS—Marvellous Brilliancy.
IMITATION DlAMONDS—Prismatic Hues.
IMITATION DIAMOND3—In Rings.
IMITATION DIAMONDS—In Pina.
IMITATION DIAMONDS—In Bracelets.
IMITATION DIAMONDS aennted in
Gold, the only imitation equal in appear-
ance to real,
This Is an exact imitation. On compiling it, the sterl-
ing article suffers by the comparison; for in colour and
brilliancy this is really beautiful. There now is really
no occasion to seek to screen the fact that those best
able to afford valuable ornaments adopt in preference
the fashionable and beautiful fac-similes, supplied at a
cost, by
E. C. C R E E.
The above was personally selected in the Home and
Continental Markets, from which he has but lately re-
tamed. Au early visit is requested to
510, George-street, opposite the Tswn Hall.
QP RA D E J?Ji OTECTION.
On and after the Ist JANUARY NEXT, the
MUTUAL TRADE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney,
intend leaning a WEEKLY LIST to members, which
will contain thousands of acts in a symbolised form
Which affect Mercantile credit, hitherto never under-
taken by any institution of a protective character in
this colony.
3674 PACKET'S SOLD LAST YEAR.
G R A V E U R’S
charming
CHRISTMAS and NEW TEAR CARDS
for 1831.
Twenty Beautiful Cards in each Packet, Peat Free for
fifteen 2d. stamps.
The real value of each Packet is ss.
E. ORAYEUR,
196 George-street, Sydney.
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
■m
X !,i
; ..I; s
i! 1
m
3
m
r ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to part of
the Co.ony.
H A v E
I
YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHETS,
283 Pitt Street?
B
LISE’S TAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
484 GEORGE STREET,
' DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pro-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled, i
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
KING STREET, SYDNEY
O • (two doors from George-street),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Fall directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMO REST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway),
MAD AMEWEIGEL’ S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to. 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d,
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King.street, Sydney.
r
£1
$
m
0
j
s*l
rvZk
a
&
m
m
a*
A
D
AVID M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To bis Royal Highness the Dnko of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen's Saddlosjat the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875.
BROOK’S SEWING COTTON.
MELTHA M
NEAR HUDDERSFIELD,
MILLS,
ENGLAND.
‘Frade MARK
thenf-— CBITION PEIZES is a sufficient guarantee o? the superiority of the COTTONS
THE ONLY PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION 1851
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS PRIZE MEDAL, PARIS KXIBITTOn' 1855
PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION 1867
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OF HONOUR. VIENNA 1873 IO * 7 ‘
MEDAL AND AWARD, PHILADELPHIA 1876
GOLD MEDAL,
ASK FOR BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
PORTABLE TALLOW Ct A S APPARATUS.
-
39
ecUl9
MANUFACTORY,
SON-ACCORD
WORKS,
9 MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the moat effectual substitute fer kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches Store* &o • is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent !ad with perfect safety. ' ' ’
This GAS is much desner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace •
in some oases almost ml Sevan pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. ’
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in perference
to Goal Gas,
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, *3. Shipments Received monthly
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER
c
ASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
Claret
Hermitage ..
Shiraz ,
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL WINE.
BED.
per doz
9b Od
10s Od
11s Od
12s 6d
13s Od
per doz.
J. T. Fallon’s Port 25b Od
Adelaide Grenacha
(rich Burgundy
Adelaide Fort
30s Od
30s Od
WHITE.
Beisling
Hook ... ». ...
Madeira
Bouffier’s Finean..
9s Od
10a Od
11s Od
15s Od
15s Od
Brown Muscat
Muscat, vintage’7s 21s Od
Adelaide Tokay ... 30s Od
Tokay, vintage 73 30a Od
60s Od I French Claret from 25s Cd
FOBEIQN WINES.
Good Port ... 24a to 36s Od | Good Sherry 24s to 36s Od
Champagne from..
SPIBITS.
Imperial ** Scotch
ditto
Imperial **• Ssotch
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
Hennessy’s * Case
Brandy
Hennessy’a •••
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brapdy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Vaughan Jones’
U squebaug h
Scotch Whisky 38a 6d
Imperial * Scotch
Whisky 40s Od
46s Od
42s Od
42s Od
44s Od
Irish
40s Od
38s 6d
43s Od
Whisky
Burke’s Irish
Whisky
D'Arcy’s
Whisky
Bum, Bed Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz... 52s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size) ...
Gin, Key, Casa of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
46s Od
43s Od
44s Od
Bull Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
„ „ pints
~ Stout, qts.
•> m Pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts
11s Od
8s Od
11s Od
8s 0a
10s Od
7s Od
10s Od
7s 01
10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Helles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
7s 6d
IDs 6d
7s 6d
10s Od
7s Od
11s 6d
12s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts,
4 dozen in a cask; pints, 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, quarts,
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Foster’s
Stont, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts
in case; 7 doz. pints.
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
eut on receip t of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any addresa in
town, or to the Wharves or Bedfern Eailway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash en giving order.
T. VIVIAN BAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-strcet, Sydney.
UEE CHINESE TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART & CO.
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
opened at
300 GEOBGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the French Cafr>),
AN AGENCY FOE THE EAMOUS
LOON SHAU TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co. will also submit for
public approval Silks and General Merchandise.
N.B.—Mr. QUONG TAUT has just returned from
a visit to China, where he in person selected the above-
mentioned Teas, so that their purity can be guaranteed.
INSPECTION INVITED.
300 GEORGE STREET —SHOW ROOM, UPSTAIRS,
Near Hunter-street.
T Z,
CHARLES GIE
(from Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bakers’ Ovens,
Mountings, «ko. OS No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sydney.
B UEKE, CO UL SO ft LEEDS,
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK. STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
"PARISIAN FRUIT SALT, la. 6d. per bottle,
is a gentle APERIENT; a BLOOD-PURIFYING
TONIC, and a cooling EFFERVESCING DRAUGHT,
slod by all Chemists and Grocers. S. P. HOGG & CO.,
12 Wyuyard-lano.
(J # AND S. PREDDET
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ebskinb Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves
Morldings. Cases. Turnery. Ac., at lowest rates
rjIHE LARGEST SALE OF WATCHES
AND JEWELLERY
Ever held in Sydney.
In consequence of extensive alterations to Premises,
C. H AF E R,
314, Late 328 GEORGE STREET,
Oilers his Extensive and Magnificent
Stock of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
At ft reduction of 50 per cent.
On Original Prices.
FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY.
Call at 314, late 328, George-street, for List of Prices.
JjjJ T H O M A .
IMPORTER OP
WORKS OP ART,
GERMAN AND SWISS WOOD CARVING 3,
ARCADE BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
AFGHANISTAN GOLD
AFGHANISTAN GOLD.
Wears equal to 18-carat gold
Much strongerithan gold
Keeps its colour in any climate.
TO BE HAD ONLY
at
No. 9 ARCADE No. 9.
fJIHE NEW SYDNEY ARCADE.
F. C, PASSAU, Jeweller
(23 years with the late H. F. Delarne),
has opened at No. 2, inside the Arcade, George-street
entrance, with a new and choice stock
of the LATEST DESIGNS in GOLD and SILVER
JEWELLERY,
suitable for Christmas Presents and New Year's Gifts ;
all prices strictly moderate.
An oarlyinspeotion respectfully Jinvited,
ROTHERHAM’S
Celebrated Patent Lever Watches from £4 15s.
G canine Waltham Lever Watches from £3 to £s‘
Beal Brazilian Pebble Spectacles,
reduced to Bs. 6d. per pair.
Country orders, with remittance, promptly attended to.
THE “PENRITH ARGUS” will appear on
7th JANUARY, W. WEBB, Proprietor.


JILIFPOED, LQTE,..IND CO.
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and new arc in
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
OFFICES :—79 YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
TOHN DANES.
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers' Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin, -
and Lead Pipe, &o.
119 LIYEEPOOL STEEET, SYDNEY.
H. L SUHiKERFIELD.
ECONOMY IN CLOTHING.
—o—
save 20 per (Sent, by procuring
YOUR GOODS PROM THE
DIRECT IMPORTER.! 14
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR,
PATTERNS
and ,
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT
gent to any part of the country.
The particular attention of country resi-
dents is requested to this notice.
Any style of Garment made to Fit by using
SUMMEEPIELD’S
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT.
a
235 PITT STREET, j
Trousers..... 16s. 6d. f 205., 255.
Suits ... .£3 35., £3 10s , £4 4s.
30C0 PATTERNS TO CHOOSE FROM.
THE PATENT REVETTED BUTTON!
ON ALL TROUSERS.
EVERY GARMENT THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
FIT GUARANTEED.
| SYDNEY, j
E. GREER AND CO.’S
PRIZE
ALBUUY WIN ES.
E«» Wines i ' White Wines
Buranndy
Carmufet
Shiraz
Malbeo
Reisliug
. Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
IS MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
The Terms of subscription for The Bulletin are— in
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly,
35.; booked, Od, per quarter extra._ Remittances may
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z.,
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W. -
Printed and published by W. H. Traill & Co., at
The Bulletin office, 24 'Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.
Wales. - -
9 GEORGE-BT,
Sydney.
MARTIN & FAIN
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE IMPLEMENT & MACHINERY BUSINESS.
Sole Agents for the W. A. WOODS’ STRING-BINDER, with all improvements,
THE WOODS
String-binder
is quite SELF-
ACTING. A boy
w work, the
WOODS’ MA-
CHINE SUC-
CESSFULLY.
1881 STE.ZNG BINDER
VOIDS’
W. A.
THE WOODS has
Wrought Iron
EOAD WHEEL,
Wrought Iron
GUTTER BAB,
Steel Plated FIN-
GERS, and all the
1881 improve-
ments.
THE WOODS IS A PROVED SUCCESS, NOT AN EXPERIMENT.
mors should write to us for all the IMPLEMENTS, MACHINERY. &c., they require. Wc have th
i, :in d the Largest Stock in the Colony.
MARTIN and PAIN, 389 GEORG'S STREET, SYDNEY.
Cl
9. Bc. ll .HUNTER S FREE I .
SI LVER.V-W ATONES
GOLD WATCHES
SYDNEY
X. 3.10 ;
£A : \O
send Tor.
CATALOGUE.
mHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVER Y WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE. KW^ F ° E
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING ,
SYDNEY- STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
—139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street
PRIZE
awarded
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
8/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- por dozen.
SHIRAZ I Fruity l u ,
MADEIRA ) Wines J ' ” "
BURGUNDY \ Dry lot/.
RIESLING ] Wines ) ‘ ” ”
G. H. STEPHEN & GO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
wines.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PEE GALLON.
MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTER AND PARRY'S NEW EXTRACT
OP SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
(MADE PURELY from INDIGENOUS
V PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the most deli-
caW hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot bo surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grocers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
ju-
is
■. i ,
1
•V.
v'~.
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at loss than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, *c.
ALL KINKS OP DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address-
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings. /
fit
if
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
GCI GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels andPre
sontation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises,
DIAMOND SETTEE 1
A now and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
its
*
KING SIR
;
fW(jV
Ufa
T SYDNE
AI LOR
m
fOfrcfa
POST OFFICE.
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
W^IUA/Ar/n.
TO ORDER.
FIT GUARANTEED!
jAlt handwork!.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
F
> ESTABLISHED 1837.
OWLEE’SP 0 T T B E Y
AND
BEICK WOEKS,
OAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
List on application.
‘'Standard” Summer Tweed Suits E O
‘‘ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 0
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality ... ... 2 2 0
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 11” 6
“ Standard ” Superior ditto ... 115 O
White Military Drill, and Navy Buck Coats
Silk Coats, "White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and:
well made.
PEAPE 3 and SHAW,
PE APES and SHAW.,
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DAMP> COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building nso CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Course* ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate a nd Cbmont.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, yrMch fan-
dcrs them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Solo Agopt for N. S.
