

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 56.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1881.
Rotten Foundations.
M'Elhone has, for once in his life, cried “ wolf ”
to some purpose. Those rotten foundations at
the Town Hall which his pen-knife probed so
successfully appear monstrous enough in their
way. But the real importance of the exposure is
not confined to the five or six thousand pounds
worth of work which may have to be done over
again. When M‘Elhone made his discovery, he
pricked away but an inch or two of superficial
work. The inference he drew was the important
affair. He said, in effect, if this trifling bit which
I can see is rotten, when it has been taken for
Cted that it was good, may not also all else
b with by the same manipulation be also
retten ? So with the matter of the foundations
collectively. If, under the management of the
Corporation, a work of so much importance be
rotten and unsound, who is to say what else
effected under the same control is simply corruption
covered over with a layer of concealment ? The
citizens of Sydney may be perfectly assured that
the history of management by cliques or rings
everywhere presents the same features. Where,
in a community of money-makers, there are large
public funds to be distributed, the only real safe-
guard against a system of plunder, and connivance
at plunder, is to be found in providing for
a thorough discordance of personal interest and
sentiment among those who have the manipu-
lation, control, and distribution of the money.
The moment the formation of a “ ring” or clique
strong enough to override opposition and defeat
inquiry, becomes possible, from that instant there
is danger of collusion and corruption. Several
years ago, by exertions which have never since
been relaxed, the control of municipal affairs
was seized upon by a particular organization.
What would be the result, any sagacious man
could have foreseen. What have been the results
is scarcely yet conceived by the citizens in general.
This affair of the Town Hall foundations is but a
single, although a startling, disclosure. Like
everything else, this work has been carried out in
a “ brotherly” fashion. How many more brotherly
jobs remain to be revealed it is impossible yet to
say. The Orange body is very serviceable in its
way. The aspirations of the Roman Catholic
hierarchy for supremacy in things temporal and
the dangerous docility with which the laity of that
communion perform every behest of their clergy
are well known and not to be endured. There is
probably no safeguard of liberty which a Roman
Catholic majority would not surrender had they
the unrestrained option. As a set off against
bigots of this color, bigots of another color are
useful enough. But when they establish their
predominance so powerfully as practically to get the
control of public institutions and public funds
into their own hands, they in turn become dan-
gerous to the commonweal. It is neither right nor
desirable that any public institution should be in
the hands of a secret society whose very existence
is bound up in antipathy to another considerable
section of the community. Men in power should
be of a cast of mind sufficiently elevated to look
upon all others with an equal eye; and if such
are not procurable in sufficient numbers, citizens
should think twice before they permit their affairs
to be managed by one clique bent on maintaining
its supremacy at any sacrifice, and whose members
would look upon any evil as trifling compared with
the evil of their delegated power passing into the
hands of their antagonists. To such a clique, all
things are justifiable which would help to per-
petuate their tenure of power. Not one, not the
most corrupt, of the arts by which support is won
and retained, but appears a small evil when com-
pared with loss of control. Those who would
themselves scorn to soil their hands with the
fruits of greed and plunder, with gains not fairly
earned, and payments never due, compound with
their consciences for conscience sake, and become
accessories to robberies which they would scorn to
share. Weak brethren who need mutual comfort
cannot be allowed to secede when so much
money is in course of distribution, and if the
result be bad work, it is always pleasing to think
that a brand is plucked from the burning as a set-
off. Let cliquism flourish. Let the community
f * n *° rmnous fragments by the contentions
ot the Orange and the Let them take
therrfturn to enrich their dependents and their
wire-pullers with the city funds. Let everything
bought on public account cost threefold its market
value, so that brothers get the profit. But, in the
name of God, stop shortof muedeb ! Stop short
oi laying foundations which are more deadly
wl? 1 vf 8 an Nihilists’ torpedoes—foundations
wnich, if a superstructure were built upon
nem, would give way when the hall was
most crowded, and bring, perhaps, hundreds
d V|_^ oc oot people crashing down to a horrible
eath. Load your ceilings with plaster flummery
wherever a moulding can be stuck ; paint
it orange or green if you like; spend
thousands upon thousands in massive furnishings
while the streets go unrepaired. Fling money
broadcast to astute brethren who faint without
refreshers of that kind, but stop short of muedee-
teaps !
His Honor Sir William Montagu
Manning.
The Supreme Court of New South Wales has
been presided over by judges of great learning
and _ strict integrity—nor were they ever
wanting in dignity. Sir John Nodes Dickinson
came up to Lord Bacon’s ideal of an upright and
dignified administrator of the law. Painstaking,
patient, punctilious, and impartial, he won the
respect and admiration of the whole community;
and his departure from our shores was deeply
regretted. According to Bacon, “ judges should
be more learned than witty ; more reverend than
plausible; and more advised than confident.
Above all things, integrity is their portion and
proper virtue. Their office is jus dicere, not jus
dare, to interpret the law, not to make it His
Honor Sir William Montagu Manning possesses
those solid qualities of mind and manner that
evidently fit him for a seat on the Bench of the
Supreme Court; and it has often surprised many
keen observers of passing events that his elevation
to a judgeship had not come quicker. Held by
the profession to be a sound lawyer,
a ssiduous in all his engagements, purified
by years of heroic self-sacrifice t® vindicate
the honour of his family, he made long ago that
abiding impression on the public mind which is
better than mere popularity, because it recognises
the fitness of an individual for a high and resnonsi-
ble position. Sir William M. Manning has lived
through a public career, as a politician and legal
interpreter to the Crown, with great credit, and
not without some profit to himself. The bio-
graphic items of his life are not startling, but still
they are very interesting. Bom at Alphington,
near Exeter, in June, 1811, he spent the early
years of life amid scenes of great beauty and
historic interest. At a suitable age he entered
University College, London, where he passed
through a good classical and mathematical course
of studies. Though slow and not very brilliant
himself, there was plenty of genius in his family,
more than one of its members being distinguished
in general literature; in fact, his daughter, “ Aus-
tralie,” occupies a premier position as a graceful
and high-toned writer for a section of the Press in
this colony. Sir William M. Manning was called
to the bar in 1832, and attached himself for some
years to the band of “ learned brothers ” who went
on their Western circuit. Soon after his arrival
in Sydney (1837), he was made Chairman of
Quarter Sessions, and subsequently (1844) he was
appointed Solicitor-General. In the discharge of
the duties of these offices he exhibited, in a marked
degree, the best qualities of his character.
Punctual, painstaking, full of self-respect and self-
command, it is not surprising that confidence in
his ability and integrity was soon established. He
had a “spell” as Acting-Judge of the Supreme
Court in 1847-48, during the absence of Mr.
Justice Therry, and in 1849 returned to his office
as Solicitor-General. His first experience of the
Parliamentary arena was as a member of the
Legislative Council, to which he was nominated in
1851. Four years later he became a representative
of the people in the House of Assembly, haying
been elected in 1856 for South Cumberland. In the
same year he became Attorney-General. So con-
scientiously, so thoroughly, did he grapple with
the multifarious duties of this high office, that his
health broke down in 1857, and he had to retire
for a time. Several leading men in the community
recognised his worth and the quality of his work
by a handsome spontaneous demonstration, the
presentation of a valuable piece of plate and a
thousand sovereigns, besides securing a portrait
of him painted by the distinguished Royal
Academician, Sir Watson Gordon. During his
visit to England in 1858 he was knighted, and
returned to the colony the following year. In
1860 he was again appointed to a seat in the
Legislative Council, and became Attorney-General
for the second time. In 1876 he was elevated to
the Bench of the Supreme Court; and in 1877,
the crowning honour of a distinguished and
meritorious career, he was chosen Chancellor
of the University. To the duties of this office, he
has brought intelligence, tact, and experience,
and has already done much to stimulate superior
education. The most notable characteristic of Sir
William Manning as a Judge is the patience he
exhibits in dealing with the cases which come
before him. Jurors generally like his manner of
summing up, although some learned members of
the profession may think him tedious. He is not,
perhaps, quite as lucid as the late Chief Justice,
Sir Alfred Stephen, was, nor does he seize the
points of a case with the mental grasp of Sir James
Martin, but he discharges all his judicial duties
with a strong consciousness of responsibility, and a
manful determination to do justice. He has been
twice married first to the daughter of Mr.
Edward Wise, of Hill Grove, Isle of Wight, and
secondly to a daughter of Dean Sowerby, of Goul-
burn. The long leave of absence very properly
granted to Mr. Justice Faucett will add con-
siderably to the judicial oner a of Sir William
Manning.
Marginal Notes.
The other week we referred to the peculiar
adjuncts of abstract and apparent beauty incident
to our antipodean Australian shores, as compared
with those of older lands. It is noticeable that
the genius of the people of any country is deeply
tinged with characteristics correspondent to its
peculiarities of physical conformation. The dis-
position and nature of the hardy Norseman has
something in common with his rugged mountain
tracts and stormy sea-board ; while, at the other
extreme, the Italian borrows much of his idiosyn-
crasy from the reflected hues of his ever-smiling
skies and purple sunsets. His nature, ordinarily
soft and impressionable as one of his own pellucid
lakes of clearest azure, deep set at the base of
the snow-capt peaks that ring it round, partakes
in its passionate outbursts as strongly of the short-
lived fury of the hurtling avalanche or whelming
snowdrift in his native Alps. The transcendental
German, among his spectre-haunted mountains,
gnome-peopled gorges and forest shades, has
nothing in common with the “ unspeakable Otto-
man,” who brings from the enervating climate of
his traditions the luxurious indolence and love of
the dolce far niente, which are his distinguishing
features. In the same way, we contend, that our
colonies here, with their “images of a virgin
found in sky and landscape, and in the flora
and fauna of Australia,” must eventually
bring forth a class of people with mental
and intellectual characteristics of their own,
in accord with the natural features of
varied loveliness and beauty, proper to the
sunny land in which their lot is cast. Again, we
find the character of a people mirrored in its
literature : each national literature has a spirit of
its own. While one may seem by its strength and
terseness fitted for the prompt despatch of diplo-
matic affairs, another will sound best in accord
with the soft or passionate strains of music.
Where one is the language of a nation of commer-
cial distinction, prosperous in trade, its poetry is
dogmatic and stiff, with more of the solidity of
ethical soundness about it, than the grace of
prosodical description. On the other hand, where
a people is more noted for a cultured love and ap-
preciation of the beautiful the verse will flash
along like one of its own golden rivers, brilliant
with overhanging verdure, animate with the song
of birds, and bright with the glow of reflected
sunlight caught in its own rippling wavelets.
To the ordinary observer it may seem that pre-
fatory remarks of this kind are rather far-fetched
and out of place as applied to anything existing
in the colonies. With us a desire for and
appreciation of the amenities of a higher cul-
ture are doubtless to a great extent lost sight
of in Hie pursuit of more tangible wealth.
But it must be remembered that society with
us is still in a state of formation, made up
of widely various units, aggregated by circum-
stances of a nature very different in almost
every case. Much time must elapse before the
elements can coalesce sufficiently to form a dis-
tinctive national character. In the meantime, it
is to be observed that in instances already given
the characteristics of the divers types of literature
in which the popular spirit is so happily reflected
are more noticeable in the infancy of a people than
at a later period. The early bards
caught better in their verse the beauties of their
vine-clad landscapes and the chivalry of their age
than could the poets of our more practical days.
As Lytton tells ns, youth is that period, for nations
HIS HONOR SIR WILLIAM MONTAGU MANNING.—[Photo, by Boake.]


as well as individuals, which “ peopled the woods
and waters with divinities ; when life ran riot, and
yet only gave birth to Beauty—all its shapes of
poetry, all its airs, the melodies of Arcadyan and
Olympus ! The golden age never leaves the
world : it exists still, but only for a youth.” It is
that period of virginal freshness which appeals
irresistibly to the poetic fancy, and claims
utterance in its verse. Now, this is an aspect of
the question which is not so abstractly ideal in its
relation to ourselves as may at first appear. We
have already the coherent echoes of the harmonies
of virgin Australian beauty in the verses of our
native poets. In the latest work of the foremost
living Australian bard, Henry Kendall—whom the
least prejudiced and best qualified critics credit
with the possession of the true poetic facility in a
strikingly original degree —may be found the
advance notes of a national love of beauty charac-
teristic in every way of the peculiarities of our
“ natural gifts.” We would fain believe that his
verse reflects the more attractive side of the
popular spirit of the future in its better mani-
festations as truthfully as it mirrors the varied
tints of the Australian forest and the azure
brightness of the fair Australian sky.
It would, however, be impractical and fanciful
in the extreme to infer that the state of things
thus foreshadowed can be safely left to the
gradual growth of time. A national taste is
the result of the fostering care of individuals,
and the prophetic pre-intimations of the national
bard are less the outcome of existing tact
than hints of still distant possibilities. And
while, as before pointed out, an endeavour to
place the enjoyments of higher Art within the
appreciation and reach of all, is a first duty of the
State in this regard, it remains to the social insti-
tutions —the family, the school-room, and so forth
—to fill in and colour the picture of which the
former presents but the vaguest outline. Though
“ high Art,” properly so called, be the perfection
of artistic excellence, it need not necessarily fol-
low that the enjoyment of its less ambitious
forms is lost to all who have not a cultured appre-
ciation for the same, and opportunities for its
exercise. An appreciation of Art in itself is pro-
moted indeed by the contemplation of works of
high Art, hut it is formed in the first instance,
and afterwards gradually developed, by compara-
tively unimportant and small objects. The judi-
cious choice and arrangement of these it is within
the province of all to exercise, and in this way do
their part in the formation of a correct taste, and
consequent development of that love of the beau-
tiful which humanizes and idealizes life, and
refines the manners, while diverting the thoughts
from low and vulgar things. Everyone has there-
fore a part in the working out of the civilization
of the future, for it must be obvious that in pro-
portion as the aesthetic sense is cultivated and
enlarged, the refining and humanizing effects of a
higher civilization will be apparent.
That Emerald Affair.
Am. the newspapers have had the wrong story. The
Emerald proved herself a terrible avenger. They’ve
captured “ One Small Nigger,” it’s true, but have made
at least 1200 darkies bite the dust. Shrapnel did the
fatal work. The crews saw what they did see. One
thing was regretted. At dusk one evening, a canoe was
chased. Not a soul lived under that withering musketry
fire. The canoe had been “manned” by women—that
was the regret. Every island lost several hundred
men. The truth leaks out sometimes, this time
through “that one little nigger.”
Conversion of the “Herald” People.
•* Bt the way.” People will have noticed, by the way,
that the Echo has commenced to imitate us. There’s
no paper published in these parts whose imitation of
our style we can stand better. A Bulletin from the
Herald office ! What next ? Where have the Zig Zag
men been lately ? It’s most unfortunate that their
temporary disappearance should have been coincident
with the big increase in the lunacy rate.
The New Daily Paper.
Arrangements are almost complete for the issue of a
new daily paper—from the Express Office. Like our
big morning contemporary, the new journal will be a
denominational organ. Where now is the sensational
Baptist Record ? or the Anglican Sporting Times
and Turf Register? Where’s the Wesleyan society
paper and the Presbyterian Fashion Gazette and
Matrimonial Times, and the Methodist Illustrated
Tomahawk ? Truly our religious brothers are on the
war path.
The F[?]ji Divorce Case.
Everyone recollects the famous Fiji divorce case—
with its florid speeches, romantic situations, and
passionate love-letters. The little affair was an
admirable illustration of a saying which the French
have, to the effect that the woman who weds a man for
whom she doesn’t care and trusts to the love which is
supposed to come after marriage, will certainly fall in
love —but not with her husband. Well, everything is
•nee more straight, and the trouble has ended just as
any novelist would have made it end. Mr. Garrick
quietly got mar»ied to Mrs. Scott in Sydney last week.
That Brilliant Literary Cabal.
Quit* by accident we have become possessed of “ The
Syllabus of the Eedfern Literary Association, Estab-
lished 1866.” No doubt we’re expected to reply. It
matters not it we are late with some of the dates. We
proceed to give each question for debate and—our
answer; —
January 11. —“ Can a person commit suicide without
being insane ?” —[If be likes —Ed. B.]
January 18.—“ That the Drama is capable of being
employed as a cogent moral teacher, and as such, the
Churches should take steps to regulate its representa-
tion.”—[No doubt; that is why we see several ex-
ministers scrambling to get behind the scenes —Ed. B.'
February 1. —‘‘Prom which has the World sufferec.
more, the wickedness of man or of womanP"—[Woman,
of course —Ed. B J
February 8.— ‘‘ Has the spread of Literature been at-
tended with beneficial results P”—[A». far as the Young
Men’s Christian Association Monthly Notes is con-
cerned-yes, for the suaaage-roll man.—Ed. B ]
February 15. —“ Does Poverty or Wealth the more
conduce to rascality—political rascality?”—[Poverty,
undoubtedly. McElheme’s a poor man. —Ed. B ]
March 1—“ Should the State take measures to re-
gulate the practice of preaching?”—[At once; but
not if Tarban is fall already.—Ed. B.]
March B.—“ls a civilized country morally justified
in annexing the territories of a barbarous people ?"
[Tea; we’re about annexing Victoria. —Ed. B.]
March 15.—“ Should the killing or injuring of ani-
mala in sport be suppressed by law?”—[Yes; but not
jackasses—otherwise the Eedfern Society, 4c., Ac.—
Ed. B.]
March 29. —“ Is civilization adverse to the growth
of Poetry?”—[Tea; especially of a spiritualistic cha-
racter; newspaper men slaughter poets.—Ed. B.]
At » ball at Dublin Castle recently, the guests
danced a Boycottilion.
How many shares are you going to take in the
Sydney and County Bank ?
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
That Newcastle wedding has come off.
Nine bridesmaids at that hardware wedding on
the 26th.
A Braidwood widower, fresh bnt foolish, has
yielded to the charms of a local belle.
The daughter of an ex-Mayor of Sydney (Wil-
! liam-street way) to be married shortly.
[ ' Mr. John Yonng gave a very enjoyable garden
party at Kentville last Tuesday evening.
A wealthy miller of Braidwood takes the
daughter of one of the leading local gentlemen.
A Braidwood bank clerk is to be married shortly
to the fair daughter of a resident of the district.
The eldest son of the oldest J.P. in Penrith is
about to lead to the altar one of Balmain’s prettiest
belles.
A yonng lady from Elizabeth Bay is to be
wedded ere long to the son of a canon of the Church of
England.
The daughter of a deceased wine and spirit
merchant will shortly become the bride of a Springfield
gentleman.
A well-known and skilful captain takes unto
himself and the South Seas, the sprightly daughter of
a George-street artist.
An accountant in one of the Western banks is
shortly to lead to the Hymeneal altar the daughter of a
well-known railway official.
The second daughter of a wealthy pastoral man,
residing at St. Peter's. Cook’s River. is to be the bride
of a gentleman in the Railway Department.
The pretty young'lady of Windsor who was in
Sydney last week, is now engaged to the handsome son
of a well-known Custom House official, of Newcastle.
A marriage is on the tapis between an accom-
plished and pretty young lady of Darlinghurst, and a
wealthy elderly gentleman of great squatting renown.
A well-known sporting auctioneer of West
Maitland will shortly take to himself, for better or
worse, a Maitland belle, a daughter of a popular
surveyor.
A prominent Eandwick belle wears a moat
extraordinary bonnet. It is composed of cream lace on
a red foundation. The crown is of immense size, with
a big leaf tied down with satin strings.
The lady who, according to general opinion,
bore off the palm at the Strauss Band Concert on
Saturday, wore white Indian muslin with requisite
embroidery trimmings, over a pink silk skirt; pink and
white toque of Spanish lace.
Balmain ecclesiastics complain bitterly of the
maenness of the average local bridegroom, and say that
“ The smiles that lovers are wed in.
Who are bom and buried in tears,”
don’t form so satisfactory a remuneration as the time-
honored “fiver.”
The Newcastle gentleman whose engagement
was announced the other week has a brother who is |
abonc to lead to the hymeneal altar the second daughter .
of an old resident of “ The Hill,” Newcastle. The lady’s |
sister is engaged to a bank manager not a hundred miles
from Coonamble.
A very pleasant evening was passed on Wednes-
day week at the monthly gathering of the Newtown
Skating Rink. Some specially excellent skating was
executed by a charming young lady, a local resident.
The evening wound up with half a dozen very enjoyable
dances. An exceedingly pretty dress was worn by a
Surry Hills young lady, who attracted much attention
from the “ other side.”
On Saturday last, atßankstown, Miss Carrie
M’Quillan, daughter of Mr. John M’Quillan, was
married to Mr. Patrick Hunt. The ceremony was
performed in the Roman Catholic Church, by the Rev.
Father Luckey, of Liverpool. The whole affair passed
off with the greatest 6clat. There were six brides-
maids, all most fashionably dressed. The happy
couple have gone on a trip home for the honeymoon.
A very elegant costume was seen at the Garden
Palace on Saturday, It was composed of black cash-
mere, and trimmed with black Spanish lace, tassels
looping up one side of the over-skirt. The hat was of
black Spanish lace, with a cluster of yellow and helio-
trope-coloured convolvuli at the rim, a cluster of the
same flowers being worn at the neck; black gloves and
and parasol.
A very pleasant moonlight picnic was given by
one of the principal residents of Glebe Point on last
Thursday evening. The late S.R.C. barge (now belong-
ing to Donnelly) was the mode of conveyance, and two
well-known S.R.C. men did their work with the oars
manfully. The very clever manipulation of the yoke-
lines by the fair coxswain, who carefully eluded the
many steamers that ply over the harbour, was generally
admired.
The “Three Graces ” have returned from Mel-
l bourne, and put in an appearance at the Strauss Band
Promenade Concert on Saturday afternoon. No. 1
Grace wore cream Madras muslin, over cardinal skirt,
trimmed with bows of red and toque to match. No 2
wore a tassour silk costume, flounced to the hips, blue
silk Spanish lace toque, with strings. No. 3 still carries
her hair in whiskers at the sides of her face; she wore
white costume, and pink toque, with strings.
A marriage, not in high life, was on the tapis a
few days ago, at Parramatta. The cake was bought,
the house furnished, and so far everything had gone
“merry as a marriage bell." The prospective bride-
groom, however, received a communication from an
anonymous letter-writing scoundrel, containing serious
imputations upon the character of the intended wife,
and he at once “ cried off.” Now there is a big brother
searching around with a cowhide for an unknown scribe
and a levanted Lothario.
As there are many ladies who like to assume at
fancy balls the character dress of the beautiful Mary
Queen of Scotts, we give the following detailed desenp-
tion of the dress worn by a well-known Enghsn
beauty. The under dress is of brown silk brocade,
heavily embroidered with jet down the front, and made
with sleeves to the elbow, with large slashes of brown
velvet on the shoulders. The neck and sleeves to the
wrist are filled in with old print. Over this, coming
from the shoulders, is a floating robe of brown velvet
brocade, edged with broad bands of chinchilla. A long
white muslin over-dress sways and floats with every
movement of the wearer. The coif is of white muslin,
cut ont in a small point over the hair. It is caught at
the neck, bending outwards again so as to enclose the
enormous ruff that surrounds the neck, and thence the
coif falls upon the the shoulders.
The charming dinner dress of which we give
our fair readers a representation on page 5, is one of
those pretty models for which the house of Messrs.
David Jones and Company are so celebrated. This hrm
seem to have caught the inspiration of Parisian taste,
and, with their usual enterprise, have determined to
secure the admiration and patronage of the very of
fashion. The costume is composed of rich cream-color
satin duchess, the front closely plaited from waist to
hem, broken across with bands of gnagings or drawings.
The trimming consists of superb cream Spanish figured
net, prettily caught up by loopy bows of brilliant cardinal
satin tulle and ribbon, festoons of satin and rosettes,
and small box-pleated flounce immediately above the
hem. The entire effect is enough to show that very
great taste has been displayed in the fabrication of
this elegant production.
A romantic wedding took place the other day in
one of the eastern suburbs. A mother induced, some
people say , compelled her daughter, a girl of 17, to
marry an ancient Adonis of 76, whose worldly posses-
sions are many. The cream of the affair is that the
youngest son of the frisky old buffer, a promising
youth somewhat older than the bride, had been paying
marked attentions to his papa’s darling, and wanted to
marry her, but was, as above indicated, “ cut out by
the old man. And we suppose that in this case the
whirligig of time cannot bring its revenge. Though
the son may yet find his father’s wife a widow, yet it s
not considered correct to marry one’s stepmother.
However, it’s not always that one can get a stepmother
to one’s liking, and the downcast youth can at least
indulge in the melancholy reflection that he is able to
admire his “governor’s" taste. As a dutiful son, he
mo doubt hopes that the old gentleman will at least
live long enough to eelebrate his tin weddin .
Garden Party at Government House.
On Saturday last Lady Augustus Loftns enter-
tained a large and fashionable assemblage at a
garden party at Government House. Amongst the
numerous guests present we noticed the Hon. Sir
Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C M G., Lieutenant Gov-
ernor, and Misses Stephen, Sir John Hay,
K.C.M.G., and Lady Hay, Sir Wigram Allen, Lady
Allen, and the Misses Allen, Sir P A. Jennings,
K.G.M.G., Lady Robertson, Lady Manning, His
Grace Archbishop Vaughan, Colonel Halkett,
Captain Maxwell and officers of H. M.S. Emerald,
Captain Bruce and officers H.M.S. Cor nor ant,
Mrs. Bruce, Mr. Justice Hargrave, Mr. Chief Com-
missioner Deffell and Mrs Deffell, Judge Josephson
Mrs. and Miss Josephson, Judge Wilkinson, Mrs.
and Misses Wilkinson, Mr. Christopher Rolleston,
C.M.G., Hon. Professor Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C.,
Hon. John Marks, M L.C., Mrs. and Miss Marks,
Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C., Mr. Henry Halloran,
C.M.6., and Misses Halloran, Mrs. James White,
Mrs. F. M. Barley, Mr. R. Burdett Smith, M.P.,
and Miss E. B Smith, Mr. Sydney Bnrdekin, M.P.,
and Mrs. Bnrdekin, Miss Rodgers, Mr. J. Bavies,
C.M.G., M.P., and Mrs. Bavies, Mrs. W. Macleay,
Mr, C. J.(Roberts and Mrs. Roberts, Capt. Hixson
and Mrs. Hixon, Mr. and Mrs. John Alger and
Miss Alger, Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, Mrs. and
Miss Laidley, Mrs. S. A. Joseph and Misses
Joseph, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Robertson and the
Misses Robertson, Lieutenant and Mrs. Bouverie,
Hon. Geoffrey Eagar and Miss Eagar, Misses
Benson, Br. Garran, and the Misses Garran,
Mr. Garbntt, Misses Knox, Mr. J. de V. Lamb,
Mr. Alfred Lamb, Mr. Gritchett Walker, Mr.
Reginald Bloxsome, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Terry,
Major Airey, Lieutenant and Mrs. Le Patonrel,
Lieutenant Baynes, Lieutenant Savage and the
Misses Savage, Lieutenant Prnschop, Lieutenant
Augustus Loftns, Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Simpson,
Mrs. Nott, Major Le Patonrel.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Bishop of Rochester still favours diocesan
Parliaments.
Most of the vacant Presbyterian pulpits in
England have been filled.
One-third of the prelates who sat at the Vatican
Council are already dead.
Mr. J. Myers has been elected President of the
Brisbane Hebrew congregation.
Mr. Davis, of Bristol, has accepted the pastor-
ate of the Baptist Church, Sydney.
Messrs. Moody and Sankey have accepted an in-
vitation to the next Christian Conference to be held in
Dublin.
The Rev. Joseph Cook, of Boston lecture fame,
is now in England, and has been invited to debate with
Mr. Bradlaugh.
Mr. Isidore Myers, late of Sydney, has, his
friends will be glad to hear, been appointed Minister to
the Sandhurst Hebrew congregation.
The most extraordinary sermon of recent date
was preached on Sunday night, at a well-known dissent-
ing church in Pitt-street. Pews empty.
The Rev. Mr Spurgeon’s son, now in
New Zealand, has a twin brother, who is in
charge of the Baptist congregation at Greenwich,
England.
The health of the Pope is said to be causing
anxiety. He breaks down occasionally under the strain
of continual mental labor, and is liable to frequent
attacks of illness.
Mr. John Bright recently spoke of the Anglican
Church as “a church which was the creation of law.
and therefore born to submit to the law.’’ He referred
to the Ritualists.
Mr. Henry Wilson, of Sheffield, who anony-
mously gave £5OOO towards a mission to occupy the
ground opened by Stanley and Cameron, is dead. His
charitable donations amounted annually to £lO,OOO.
“All penance should be voluntary, my dear
Christian friends,” remarked the preacher at St. Mary’s
on Sunday, “ so I’ll not inflict ou you the pain of a
long sermon.” Now, that’s the right kind of eloquence
for a hot day.
The Earl of Shaftesbury recently said that “ the
religious horizon was dark, and men’s hearts and minds
were so little suited to the exigencies of the times that
he began to fear the final close of the Established
Church was near at hand.”
The Rev. W. Clare, from South Australia, who
for some weeks past has been supplying the pulpit of
the Bathurst-street Baptist Church, has announced his
acceptance of a unanimous and cordial invitation to
the pastorate of that church.
The Bishop of Goulburn held services on Sunday
in the theatre, at Temora. There were crowded con-
gregations. At a public meeting, a committee was
formed, and £lOO towards the erection of a church was
collected. The Bishop gave £2O.
A young lady named Mary M £ Guinness was
invested with the habit of the religious order of St.
Joseph, at Bundaberg, on Wednesday week. The
ceremony, which was a very impressive one, was per-
formed by the Kev. J. E. Tenison-Woods.
There has been a split among the teachers of
the West Maitland Wesleyan Sunday-school over the
election of a superintendent. An attempt was made to
oust the present superintendent, to make room for a
respected member of the legal professien.
The Methodist (Ecumenical Congress, which
meets in London in September, will consist of tOO
members. The Congress is to demonstrate its essential
unity in doctrines, ordinances, and evangelising work,
by an imposing assemblage of representatives from
every one of its branches at home and abroad.
Moody and Sankey found that wrestling with
sin was a harder job in San Francisco than they had
bargained for when they went there. One of the conse
qnenoes of their having their hands more than full of
vileness and regeneration unequally mixed is that they
have had to postpone thtir contemplated visit to New
Orleans.
A public meeting was held at the Glebe Presby-
terian Church on Friday night, to welcome the Kev.
Principal Kinross and Mrs. Kinross on the occasion
of their safe return from the old country. The Kev.
A. Gardiner, Minister of the church, presided. An
address of welcome was presented, and acknowledged
by the Kev. Principal in a most interesting speech.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. W. J. Forster has been elected Chairman
of the Elections and Qualifications Committee.
Mr. Fred. Walsh, Conservative candidate,
elected for East Melbourne by a large majority.
When Mr. Service leaves Victoria. Mr. Murray
Smith, it is thought, will be the ostensible leader of
the Opposition, with Gillies as fighting man.
A late M.P. for Parramatta is said to deeply
mourn his departed greatness. A substantial testi-
monial didn’t at all compensate him for his rejection.
He now weeps over the Parliamentary debates.
Melbourne Punch, in its current issue,
publishes a cartoon after its own heart The picture
is entitled “ Gagged,” and represents Mr. Gladstone,
iron-gloved, pushing before him a number of
remarkably savage-looking Milesians. Adds Punch :
“ The leader of the Liberal party of the Universe uses
out iron hand. Chorus of Victorian Liberals: i ah!
shame—stifling free speech—yah!’ ”
A few short months ago, a candidate for a con-
stituency not a thousand miles from West Maitland,
when addressing the electors, dwelt with touching
eloquence upon the many ties which hound him to the
place. His statements thac he “ would never (or hardly
ever) reside a week ont of it,” that he “ couldn’t he
'appy elsewhere," &c., were always applauded by those
who think Parliaments were made for ‘‘local men,”
and he was elected. Alas! for the mutability of human
promises! Ou Sunday morning last, what the member
himself would call “ ’ammering,” was heard at his resi-
dence, and on Monday nitrht the very honorable
member was seated in Her Majesty’s mail en route for
Sydney, his residence empty, and Ms constituents, like
Lord Ullin, left lamenting. Truthful, Truthful James !
The junior member for Young has provided a
book in which all those who have woes and trouble
which they wish him to enquire into, as their Parlia-
mentary representative, may enter statements of their
grievances. This book is known as “Watson’s Book of
Martyrs,” and is, we think, the outcome of a very prae-
tical idea. Some of the troubles arc of a really terrible
kind. One aggrieved person has a selection on the
projected line of railway from Mnrrumhurrah to Blay-
ney. When the line was measured he felt that his
fortune was assured. He discontinued work of all
kinds, took to discussing politics around all the pubs,
within a radius of twenty miles, and bought numberless
castles in Spain. Recently his hopes received a rude
shock. Some one told him that the projected railway
is to be an elevated one —that the Government have
decided on this in order that no compensation shall be
made to property owners, the land being still available
to them. The selector thinks himself hardly dealt by,
and means to stirr up Cain generally.
On Tuesday night, in the Assembly, Mr. Slattery
moved a series of resolutions affirming in effect that it
was of the utmost importance that the development of
agriculture should be encouraged; that no class of per-
sons ought ever to be placed in individual and direct
subordination to the State in a relation different from
that occupied by other classes; that it was advisable to
alter the system which made conlitional purchasers
interminable Crown tenants, and that, therefore, the
payment of interest upon conditional purchases should
cease on and frem the Ist July next, and grants be
issued upon payment of the balances by annual pay-
ments not to exceed one shilling per acre each. He
claimed the support of the Colonial Secretary on the
ground that he pledged himself on the hustings, in
October, 1877, to give his voice in favour of removing
the selectors from the position of Crown debtors, and
he said the legislation of Sir John Robertson of 1861
had failed in its principal object, which was the settle-
ment upon the public lands of an agricultural popula-
tion. The Minister for Lands opposed the motion on
the ground that the land legislation of N S. W. had been
more liberal than that of any other colony ; that they
could not break the contract between the selectors and
the Government without being guilty of a great moral
wrong, for which a precedent could not be found in any
British Legislature; that the remission of interest
would be followed by applications for the remission of
the - balances; and that the resolutions were calculated
to lower the credit of the colony in England, where
they had obtained loans to the extent of £15,000,000.
Messrs. Garrett, Badgery, and Wilson also opposed.the
resolutions, the debate on which was adjourned until
Friday.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Gamer.
The dramatic season at the Royal which closes
tin'a week will stand on record as being’ up to now
the greatest success in the history of the drama in
Australia. For twelve months the London Comedy
Company have held the boards of the principal
theatre in this city, and they close their unprece-
dentedly lengthy season with the achievement of
having created an elevated taste for tte Drama
and of opening the way for the possible—because
payable—production of the best works in histrionie
literature. As a fitting memento of the brilliant
season just closing, we give the portraits of
Mr. Arthur Garner and Miss Blanche Stammers
(Mrs. Gamer). To Mr. Gamer the public is in-
debted for the rare judgment displayed in the
organization and management of his company, and
to Miss Stammers, who has been “ the bright
particular star” of that company, art is no less
a debtor. Mr. Garner and his talented wife
originally came to this country in 1873, and were
immediately engaged by Messrs, Harwood and Co.,
the managers of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
where they soon became great favorites. From
that period until 1876 their efforts were confined
to the principal metropolitan theatre of the adjoin-
ing colony, with the exception of short starring
engagements in Tasmania, Ballarat, Sandhurst,
and Geelong. In 1876 family matters compelled
Mr. Garner to return to England, but Mrs. Gar-
ner remained at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
Mr. Garner’s farewell benefit drew one of the
largest houses ever gathered within the walls of
the Theatre Royal, and when, a few months after,
a complimentary benefit was tendered to Mrs.
Garner, upon her leaving the colony to join her
husband, hundreds were unable to gain admission.
On this occasion Mr. H. R. Harwood, on
behalf of the citizens of Melbourne, presented
the lady with a magnificent gold bracelet, accom-
panied by a suitable address, and on the same
evening she was the fortunate recipient of a
massive gold and jewelled cross, presented by the
professional ladies of the company. Upon
her return to England Mrs. Garner was
prevented by ill health from following her
profession for a short period, but at various
times she appeared at the principal London
theatres with a very large amount of success, her
principal characters being what are now know*
as the old comedies, such as “ Schoolfor Scandal,”
“She stoops to conquer,” &a., &c. In 1878 the
late William Lyster went to England in search of
novelties for Australia, and one of the results was
the London Company, which was selected and
organized entirely by Mr. Arthur Garner. For
five months the Opera House, Melbourne, was
filled with large and delighted audiences; then
followed a highly successful season at the Theatre
Royal, Adelaide, and the crowning triumph of the
management has been the series of brilliant suc-
cesses obtained during the last year at the
Theatre Royal, in this city. Mr. Garner’s success
has been gained by thoroughly legitimate means.
Always endeavoring to give the best entertainment
in his' power, and surrounded by such accessories
in the way of scenic display as are rarely equalled
in any part of the globe, he has secured his laurels
rather by a combination than by any individual
talent. -To good generalship and hard work
can be traced most of his success ; for although
Mr. Garner is an artiste who has stood the test of
the most critical audiences of the English- speaking
world, from London downwards, he has never
sacrificed his policy as a manager to qualify us
vanity as an actor. The present season at the
Theatre Royal will terminate after Friday evening,
when the company will pioceed to Adelaide,
where a hearty welcome awaits them. Whenever
Mr. and Mrs. Garner return to us, they may oe
sure of a renewed substantial recognition of their
talents.
Prayer-books bound in plush are the correct
thing. They should match the hat, Ac., in colour.
After Miss Christian’s first concert, at which
, nearly all the best people in Sydney were present,
“ Rachel would not be comforted.”
At Messrs. Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist’s sale of
land at Moss Vale, last Saturday, 322 lots were disposed
of for £13,000, the sale being at the rate of two lots pe
minute.
A Manchester young man is accused of having
thrown his sweetheart, a girl not 17 years old, and wu
was near her confinement, into a canal, as they werc
walking together at night.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
All attempts to float the Collaroy have been un-
successful.
Cousins’ Imperial Hotel at Mount Victoria has
been crowded all the season.
Ridge Park (s.s.) wrecked on Beware Reef, Cape
Everord, on Thursday last. All hands saved.
That Katoomba Mountain excursion train was
well managed—thanks to Mr. Reid and his assistants.
The Melbourne cabmen are agitating against the
construction of tramway. The pitchfork and the sea
again.
A case of spontaneous combustion in the body
of a dead woman is reported to have occurred at
Albury.
An approaching bigamy case will, so they say,
disclose some interesting correspondence discovered by
somebody in an old dress.
The Victorian Minister for Railways has ordered
that in future all the railway carriages on his lines are
to travel with unlocked doors.
Cobb and Co. have started a coach from Wil-
eannia to Mount Poole and Mount Browne; fare, £4.
The Messrs. Morrison have also put on the road a
coach, which was the first to leave Wilcannia for the
diggings.
Castner’s refreshment rooms, at Junee, are a
great boon to travellers, It is the only spot on the
whole of our lines that brings railway travelling in this
colony up to anything like what it is in Victoria and
Queensland.
,£6OOO is being expended in enlarging the
Catholic Orphan Asylum, at Parramatta, and tenders
have recently been accepted for additions to the Pro-
testant Orphanage. Why this, if the boarding-out sys-
tem is to be adopted ?
The Orient Company intend immediately fitting
up some of their steamers with refrigerating apparatus
for the carriage of meat as freight from these colonies.
The Garonne, or Chimborazo, on their next voyage,
will probably be the first vessel available.
The New Zealand Insurance Company have had
a very successful half year. After all ascertained losses
are provided for £lO 000 is carried to the reserve fund,
which stands at £150,000, and the sum of £21,797 is
available for division; dividend, 15 per cent, per
annum (£15,000), and the balance, £6,797, carried for-
ward.
Mortimer Franklin’s new weekly paper is to
«)me out at Melbourne about the beginuing of March.
The new venture is to be of a cosmopolitan character,
taking up the ground more of such periodicals as the
Satuedat Review than of our present weekly journals.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke is at the back of the affair.
Twelve or fourteen years ago there was a rush
o the Barrier, 150 miles south of Mount Poole, where
geld was said to have have been found. Some thou-
sands started for the locality, and many deaths occurred
from heat and want of water when crossing the dry
plains on either side of the Barrier Range. As a fact,
no gold was found, the person who spread the report
having shown gold obtained elsewhere.
A writer in Truth says: “ I remember once
going over a German Champagne manufactory. The
entire store rooms were filled with bottles of cham-
pagne with different French brands attached to them.
Their destination, the proprietor informed me. was
Brazil and the Australias. Saxon champagne is by no
means bad, except that it is a little sweet for our taste.
It’s wholesale price is 2s. 9d. per bottle.”
Parramatta ratepayers should keep an eye on
the civic expenditure, or else it will be a case of
“ bung. The local Council has just spent the increased
endowment, the current year’s rates, et cetera, and on
Monday aldermen complacently authorised another
overdraft of £lOOO at 8 per cent. Now, all this money
has been invested in a new council chamber. Bathurst
Council played some pranks of this kind recently, and
the result was —dishonored cheques !
When Mr. E. Hopton was injured by a railway
accident some years ago, he brought an action against
the Victorian Government and recovered £3OOO dama-
ges. And as though this were not enough, the snug
billet of inspector of vineyards has since been con-
ferred upon the unfortunate man ! Mr. Levien, M.P.,
remarked in] Parliament,that when Mr. Heaton’s appoint-
ment was under consideration, the “ Government first
paid £3OOO for knocking out a man’s brains, and then
paid him well for the use of them.”
At the annual meeting of the Grand Lodge of the
Loyal Orange Institution of N.S.W., held on Tuesday
evening, at the Protestant Hall, there was a large
attendance. Mr. Hicks, in returning thanks for his
re-election as R.W Q.M., said that the institution had
occasion to be grateful for the political triumphs it had
achieved at the last election, for out of 108 members
returned to Parliament 26 were Orangemen, while by
far the greater number of the remainder were elected
mainly through its instrumentality.
Saya our Fijian correspondent:—“ Sir Arthur
Gordon said, that “this was not a white man’s coun-
try.” And we are every day having evidence that it is
not. The Fijians are getting unbearable, and the police
think nothing of using the clubs with which they are
armed. The reason of their insolence is because Sir A.
Gordon treated us as Kai-si’s (slaves) and they have a
supreme contempt for us on that account. Mr. Des
Voeux, however, will treat the settlers with the respect
to which each is entitled, and no doubt the conduct of
the Fijians will regulate itself accordingly.”
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
The Baautos are sneing for peace.
More reinforcements go to the Transvaal.
The Ladies’ Reform League active in Ireland.
Terriblyjseverel weather in the north of the U.S.
The cutting of the Panama Canal has been
commenced.
Government intend Coercion Bill to be retro-
spective from Ist October last.
Rumour current that there was a plot to destroy
Windsor Castle by means of dynamite.
Alleged that 500 Irishmen have sailed from New
fork to join the Boers in their rebellion.
The British losses in last engagement with the
Boers amounted to 150 killed and wounded.
Copies of the Coercion Bill publicly burned at a
crowded meeting of Irishmen held in Hyde Park,
London.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts was, on the 12th
inst., married to Mr. Ashmead Bartlett, brother of the
Member for Ely.
Mr. Parnell has not attended any of the sittings
of Parliament during the past week. He is, however,
still in London.
Sir G. P. Colley has been isolated by a move-
ment of the hostile Boers, who apparently intend
resisting the advance of British reinforcements.
England offers peace to the Boers, saying that
if they immediately desist from hostilities, she will be
prepared to make arrangements for a permanent
friendly settlement of the existing difficulty.
The secret correspondence between the Russian
Government and the late Ameer of Cabul has been pub-
lished. It shows that the Russians advised the Ameer
to make peace, while preparing for war, with England;
and that they intended, had hostilities broken out be-
tween England and Russia, to have incited the entire
Mahommedan population of India to revolt.
The old Woolpack Hotel, Parramatta, has been
completely renovated by the present proprietor, Mr.
W’ehloyr, and it is now certainly one of the most
attractive hostelries out of Sydney. Nearly £3OOO has
been spent in altering, enlarging, and finishing the
hotel, and otherwise in making it suitable for families
who might require a change from the city to the old
township. The Woolpack is well situated, and is but a
very short distance from the Parramatta Domain,
LATE THEATRICAL.
Operatic “ Pinafore ” —Saturday night.
Mr. E. S. Smythe will be business manager for
Mr. J. C. Williamson during the “Pinafore” and
“ Pirates ” season in Sydney.
Miss Christian killed Ketten at the Exhibition
Building last night, the Masonic Hall being crowded.
Miss Christian’s brilliant series of concerts just
concluded, under the direction of Mr. R. S. Smythe,
will long be remembered as the means of introducing
an excellent English tenor and a fascinating American
prima donna to Sydney.
“An Unequal Match” has been the attraction
at the Theatre Royal for the week—at least. Miss
Blanche Stammers has been. A word for the other
artists. They terminate a brilliant season in a
brilliantly successful style.
Thompson’s Diorama, at the School of Arts, has
been drawing crowds ever since it re-opened. The sue-
cession of Utrecht velvet stars that appear and disap-
pear every night carry all before them. W. H’s. name
is now a household word in Australia; in short,
wherever he goes the public appear to be uncommonly
sweet on hi s suites. When the lecture and the pictures
are over—and as a diorama they are extremly beautiful,
and as a lecture the discourse is highly entertaining
and instructive —it is a sight that does one good to
observe the unfeigned joy of some of the people on
receiving a valuable present. It is the liveliest show on
record. Everybody seems in a high good hnmonr —
from the jolly lecturer to the boy who cools his nose
against the gallery rail.
Miss Christian’s concert have been most
successful, in every sense. While introducing
to the Sydney public the new artists, Miss Annis
Montague and Mr. Charles Turner, Miss Christian’s
own popularity and reputation as a gifted songstress,
have been sufficient attractions for the crowded
audiences that have thronged the Masonic Hall on the
nights of her concerts. There is a sympathetic quality
in this lady’s voice that appeals to the heart, as well as
to the cultured ears of the audience. While Nature has
gifted her with a voice wondrous as to its clearness of
tone, and its pathetic quality, Art has taught her to
convey the sentiments of her song straight to the minds
of her hearers. The audience hangs spell-bound on her
lightest whisper, lest a tone, a note, the faintest articn-
lation should be lost; one cannot be inattentive while
Miss Christian sings -like a true vocalist, she at once
commands the sympathy of her audience.
BRIEF MENTION.
Who waa it that suggested to Sir Salmon
Wilson, at the late wool show at the Melbourne Inter-
national, that he should leave off his bushy side-
whiskers, and get an advance on the ensuing clip F Was
it Envy, Hatred, Malice, or only a little Iniquity F
We’ve said many times you must go to the
religious prints for pure kindness. This is how Dr.
M'Qibbon speaks ofj a reverend brother’s venture: —
“ The new paper, the Redpeen Times, is not much of a
success.” Now, none but a Christian pea could write
that line.
A German newspaper (we’ll wager it was an
evening paper) lately gave its readers the following
interesting piece of information The Rev. Pelham
Dale has been committed for contempt of court to the
prison of Holloway. Holloway is a town near London,
famous for its pills 1”
The Townsville Herald, after telling its
little snake story, gravely remarks: “ Such bedfellows
are not desirable, especially in the summer months.”
Quite right. And they might have added—Whatever
species it happens to be, it could not be otherwise
regarded than as a boa.
One of our suburban school teachers knows how
to teach the young idea. When he catches his boys
practising the manly art, he shows fair play—-makes
them fight it out to the bitter end, and then gives the
vanquished one an essay of some three or four hundred
lines to write on pugilism.
A fashionable man the other day gave satisfac-
tion to an ardent youth who, though tall, was no match
for his nuggetty antagonist, whose superior science was
terribly effective. The “ swell ” still parades Oxford-
street ; the youth has taken a holiday. “ A woman at
the bottom of it,” as usual.
It is rather amusing that while our saintly
morning contemporary is holding up to public approval
the words of a Queensland Insurance man against reck-
less insuring, a Brisbane paper is chaffing him about the
“ reckless insurance business,” and amusing its readers
by humorous inuendoes on the very same subject.
Y.M.C. Association organ says—“ We are
pleased to notice that Monthly Notes has been looked
on with favor by the Honolulu brotherhood.” There
was a time when the brothers would have been looked
on with flavour, too. But this was in the good old days
when coooanut oil was not to be found in the bible.
What’s the name of the local printer’s broker
who fills up Saturday afternoons by driving hearses ?
Not a bad way of spending one’s holiday this—going to
a funeral outside. However nearly every fellow who
isn’t an undertaker is quite satisfied to wait until it
becomes necessary for him to go in the capacity of
corpse.
“ Saturn,” in the Tamworth News, wrote
that the Armidale Age had gone the way of Free-
thought. By way of reply, the Aob people send a
copy of their paper to the News Office. Upon which
that journal rates its correspondent soundly. In fact,
it cannot be otherwise considered than that “ Saturn ”
is sat on.
The Express has a heavy hand. Mark this on
the Herald: —“If a man’s liver is out of order, he
should go to the Blue Mountains, and leave to persons
of greater robustness of body and mind the task of
treating of difficult and vital questions of education.”
And yet on the following morning Granny actually
came out 1
An ancient bachelor at a private party in one of
the suburbs, after having consigned several pale
brandies to the realms of darkness within his slender
form, found himself flirting with a charming damsel,
who remarked that “ the 'eat was cr/ul.” “ Zactly,
my dear,” leplied he; “ but I can recommend the (hie)
Hennessy.”
A rev. gentleman who has just started a subur-
ban paper says he doesn’t want to make money—he
merely desires to employ his leisure moments. We
used to know a little holy rhyme about “mischief
still” and “idle hands,” &0., but as the Herald file
isn’t at hand just now we can’t look up the quotation
for this issue.
A recent Rubie says:—“With characteristic
modesty, Mr. David Buchanan has published a volume
of his speeches, under the title, * Specimens of Austra-
lian Oratory.’ The brochure is inscribed to ‘A. 8.,’
whose identity is, however, for the present at least,
enshrouded in mystery.” “ A.B.”—let us think. Ah!
we have it—Hoo-Rae!
A fact. Two old ladies, who had given a party,
gave the domestic orders to ask for the cards of any
who should call. A few days afterwards a heavy swell
rang the bell. Before he could open his lips the servant
exclaimed: “Produce your ticket, sir ! Produce your
ticket! I have strict orders to let no one in without
they show their tickets.”
An old Croajingolongayarramanamungeescandal
is being revived. A gallant son of Mars up there
meets Miss Blank in the Park, &c., so indiscreetly that
it is matter of comment. Young Mars is a benedict,
and Mrs. Mars, jun., is choleric, jealous, of much phy.’
sical vigour, and well-informed. Result: ,A missing
whisker, and a bald patch.
Mrs. Blank, at Blank-street Public School:
“ Who has written in Miss 's copy book P ” Scholar •
“ I did.” Mrs. Blank: “ Ton should not annoy the
Misses , they are nice young ladies, and could be
very proud if they like, their father holding such a
title. Don’t let me see this happen again or yon shall
be severely punished.” Fact.
A gill of Parramatta brandy waa analysed the
other day. It returned two parts white spirit, ten per
cent, vitrol, fifteen per cent, brandy, ten per cent,
sugar, fifteen per cent, water. And yet people wonder
that a lunatic asylum is necessary up there. There is
only one liquid more impure than Parramatta brandy,
and.that is Parramatta water.
Albnry belles are charmingly naive. 0n the
day of the railway demonstration, an elaborately-
dressed yotmg lady, who had been on the platform a
long time awaiting the arrival of the train, got tired
of standing. She looked round for a seat, and seeing
an empty tin bucket, she —ye gods ! —turned it bottom
upwards, and sat down on it.
A lady holding a diploma from his Royal High-
ness the Duke of Edinburgh for her powers of manipu-
lating soiled Crimean shirts and linen in general still
persists in boarding ships before the Customs officers
are aware that the ships aforesaid have entered the
Heads. Commander Jones says her proceedings are
quite contrary to H.M. Customs.
A Carcoar man writes to say that it’s locally
fashionable to cook puddings in handkerchiefs. We
suppose his wife told him to send us this information.
We don’t know why we print his statement, but we
ctSi hataires are somehow or another gratified to learn
that Carcoar people use handkerchiefs, and not opos-
sum rugs, blankets, or old coats for such a purpose.
A clerk in a George-street bank aspires to be a
billiardist. The other evening he challenged a wine
and spirit merchant of this city. A match was ar-
ranged. Scene—“ The Civil Service.” Marker asleep
—game 50 up. After working hard for 58 minutes, the
antagonists adjourned for refreshment. Then the
marker awoke, and offered them a trifle to retire. Te
Gods!
When “ Maori” (Mr. Inglia) was last in .
he went into the office of a friend who had a “ rag," and
was asked to read one or two “ revises.” He, of course,
complied. After he had read for a few minutes, he said
to his friend, “ Why, in thunder’s name, you’re not
goingto print this rot! Who wrote it! ” “ Hush, mad-
man,” cried the bard; “ it’s an essay of my mother-in-
law’s.”
The meeting of Baron Maclay and his pet
monkey at the museum, after an absence of some years,
is described as having been a most touching sight—
that’s to say, the monkey exhibited the most intense
delight at the return of his master; ran round his neck,
danced a horn-pipe on his head, and wound up by tear-
ing open the fingers of his keeper, who sought to
restrain his mirth.
A Melbourne paper is rather rough on the local
Y.M.C.A. for chaining up the comb and brush in the
lavatory in the rooms in Eusaell-street, and makes
some insinuations about the honesty of the juvenile
Christians. The fact of the matter is that certain
circumstances pointed to the conclusion that the comb
and brush, which had been used for some time, might
possibly run away of their own accord.
“ Many a slip,” &c. A country swain, living
not far from Kiama, recently led his idol to the altar,
where she objected to be worshipped, for just as the
ceremony which would have tied her to him “ for
better for worse,” was about to be commenced, she
intimated that she had not given the matter sufficient
consideration and left her lover and his lascerated
feelings to the tender mercy of a bantering crowd.
There was an exhibition the other day at Shoal-
haven, and the opportunity was seized by a local
business man as a favorable one for showing round, and
introducing, a newly-arrived professional friend. The
introducer was the local undertaker, and his friend was
the—what d’ye think? The doctor. The latter is
living temporarily with the former. What a truly
humorous man 1 These are the people we want to write
for The Bulletin.
A certain coast town, not a thousand miles from
Sydney, has sent two pious men into the Christian
ministry. Not long ago a congregation passed a
scathing vote of censure on one of these worthies for a
gross breach of faith towards a highly-respected young
lady. And now, in Bananaland, the o hor reverend
brother has been guilty of a similar, but if possible,
meaner and more cowardly action. If ordinary laymen
did such things they’d be called—well, never mind.
Here is a bit of Horace Walpole; “ Lord
Stavordale, not oneand-twenty, lost £ll,OOO last Tues-
day, but recovered it by one great hand at hazard. He
swore a great oath—‘ Now, if I had been playing deep,
I might have won millions.’ ’’ And yet it was only the
other day in Sydney that two desperate gamesters
(combined ages 18) were arrested for playing pitch-and-
toss up a Sussex-street right-of-way. And in the face
of this, the Kev. Mr. Dowie says this is an immerai
city.
Pastor Allen writes to Mr. Sutherland’s little
paper about the “ uses of the trumpet as named in
the Old Testament." And very well Daniel does it
too. There is no man we know who oujht to be a
better authority upon trumpets, so often has he blown
his own. Bnt as an instance of Daniel’s extreme
versatility, we may state that he is not only an
authority upon trumpets, but crumpets. Of hot ones,
well buttered, the rev. gentleman is a superlative’
sampler.
Said a Pitt-street newspaper man to his sub.,
“Send M to the murder case.” “ I can’t. He’s
gone about that suicide.” “Well, let T go.”
“He’s down for the burglary, and I’ve sent G -out
for the frightful accident; and C hasn’t returned
from the fire.” “ Well, can’t you slip out yourself ?"
“ Not before half-past 1; I’m cutting down this big
divorce case.” “ Well, we can’t let this murder slip.
Yeu must put another man on—not more than 30s. a
week, though.”
The Christian Young Men’s organ, Monthly
Notes, speaking of some books, says:—“There are
love stories in some of the books, but what oodness (sic)
at all without love. Echo answers. What ?’’ Now we
know what sort of books these young fellows r- ad ■
“ Ouida,” no doubt. We knew from the first they
couldn’t carry on without love—for “ what goodness at
all without love ?" And they drag the Echo in, too.
Fancy the Echo being mixed up with love! Ah ! you
don’t know what paper to take now.
As great difficulty has been experienced by the
Land Surveyor in H.M. Customs in preventing tide-
waiters from dining on the ships they are placed upon
to discharge, Commander Innes intends having each
tidewaiter muzzled, the key of the muzzle to be kept
by the Commander himself while the tide-waiters are on
duty, and the muzzle to be paid for out of the proceeds
of the tidewaiter’s monthly cheque. Applicants for the
position of tidewaiter must in future come armed with
a muzzle. Landing waiters are to be excluded.
A New Zealand exchange has the following:—
“The Kaiapoi Woollen Factory shareholders voted the
Chairman of Directors of the Company (Mr. Isaac
Walton) £2OO as an honorarium last week.” Now, this
is snf-flsh-ently pike-culiar to make one say that no-
thing ever bait it in the complete Angler-Saxon lan-
guage. Just Mary Stuart—now—but it’s no more nor
less than Izaac-tly rod-icnlous.—[Friend, if you that
sent this don’t quickly mend your ways, you’ll come to
a bad end—you’ll be made an alderman.—Ed., B.]
At the Water Police Court on Tuesday, there
was a little trouble between two traders about a small
matter of shirts and clocks. Plaintiff had engaged a
lawyer; defendant, who was born eloquent, pleaded
his own case—and lost. Plaintiff got a verdict for the
full amount claimed, with solicitor’s and witnesses’
costs. Defendant, when he heard that he had to pay
for plaintiff’s witnesses, innocently inquired, to the
intense amusement of the Court, “And who’s to pay
for my witnesses ? ” They numbered half-a-dozen.
At Melbourne International. Scene : A young
lady visitor from an agricultural district. Name : Mrs.
Jenkins. Under the guidance of her father, she arrives
before a statue of Apollo. The lady (loq.) “ And this
is what they call Apollo ?” “ Yes.” “ And what is he
supposed to be ? “Oh he, you know, is regarded as
the model of grace and manly beauty in the human
form.” “ Oh,” is the response heard as the pair turn
away—“that’s it, is it. Well, all I say is, give me
Jenkins. Bravo! Mrs. J. Honi soit qui mol y pease.
The Shoalha.ven News is evidently in-
disposed. In the first place, it is as white as the local
member’s tombstone; and in the second, the setting
betrays an originality bordering on the maniacal. It
reprints from our columns Henry Kendall’s masterly
poem “ Gehazi, and this is how the first stanza runs :
“ Gehazi.
“(From The Bulletin.)
“ Bow iow, and uncover thy head
At the foot of the alter (sic) agust (sic)
Where the mighty immaculate Doad (sic)—’’
Then, in another part of ’the paper we have a mysterious
commencement to a side par.;—“ A Wife.—lt
is hard to teach aged dogs new tricks and nally diffireut
to break them off old ones.” We see no explanation
v? r . . . Gus, except that Mr. Eoseby represents the
district.
He was a Civil servant, and Piddington’a little
game had placed him, like the rest of his t ribe, in a fix.
After thinking the matter over for some time he came
to the conclusion that punishment should be inflicted
on the guilty and not on the innocent; so he walked into a
bookseller’s shop in George-street and purchased, on
credit, a 50s. set of books. An hour afterwards he sold
the lot for £1 10s. cash, and as he put into his pocket
the thirty pieces of silver he playfully said, Now we
are level. It may be for years and it may be for ever."
There is a storekeeper on the Northern line
who advertises largely that he is an importer. The
other day, one of the compositors of the local paper,
probably suffering from too much “ glucose,” substi-
tuted in the word importer an “s” for the “r,” the
line reading thus: ‘‘lam a well-known impostor.”
The proof was sent to that storekeeper, and cor'ected.
The printer and he have not yet met; but if in the
course of a few hours particulars of a tragedy in
Maitland are published in the evening Reveller in
Gore, our readers will know its cause.
“A commercial traveller has given me” (“iEgles”)
“ this tabulated experience of his last quarter’s tour in
the country:—Travelled miles, 1191; carried trunks, 4 ;
shown goods, times, 116; sold goods, times, 16; been
asked the news, times, 5061; told the news, times, 2000;
didn’t know the news, times, 1500; lied about it, times,
750; been asked to drink, times, 1861; drank, times,
1861 ; changed politics, times, 46; daily exp-nses
allowed by house per diem, 325; actual average per
diem, 28s; clear profit per diem, 4s; been to church,
times, 1. Old Pepys was not more candid.”
We thought so The hollow truce already over.
Tuesday’s Telegraph says:—“ The Evening News
charges us with copying their cable messages, and only
acknowledging them as from ‘an evening paper.’ It is
quite right; but then the Evening News copies out
messages without acknowledging them at all. Under
the circumstances we fail to see the justice of our con-
temporary’s complaint." All we have to say is, go in.
bully boys, and let the best man win. Lay it on as
strong as you like, only don’t make old Lindley squirm
in his grave. The other people in the vault don’t like it.
A great expression of Mr. David Walker’s, when
a nice young novice is introduced to the Y.M.C.Ass., is
to say ; —“ Ah, how are you P Grand thing to be on the
Lord’s side.” The other day a yonngster came up and
he was told it was a grand thing to be etc., when not
catching the word he said—“ I’ll be on any side you
think best sir.” Then there was a deadly silence.
“ Are you it sir?” innocently proceeded the wretched
young man. “What do you mean, sir?” thundered
David, hysterically grasping his No. 2 collection. ‘ ‘ The
board, sir—you said it was a grand thing to be on the
board’s side —are yon the board?” On this explana-
tion being given, and possibly recollecting how near to
being the board he was, Mr. Walker unbent himself;
and taking the novice’s first subscription, told him to
hold as much of the Port as he could and closed the
interview.
The local Milton thus sings in the Otago
Witness
“ I was tired and lay down, and lying down fell asleep.
And so I dreamed I was in a strange land.
Walking, I lost my way; the path was narrow so I had
to creep,
And with difficulty reached the end; it was more than
ever
Surrounded by space, dark, deep, and unfathomable,
I clung in wild fear, clutched the earth, but fell, and
never
More was I to see this beautiful world wherein I bo-
lieved all things ‘ chance.’
Stunned, in everv sense, I found myself—where ? In
heU I"
The general opinion in the city on the day the paper
appeared was that if he only struggled out to tune his
banjo in this fashion, it’s a pity he didn’t stop there.
The Riohmond-Windsor Saturday night train,
which leaves town at qnarter-past the hour “ when
churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes forth con-
tagion,” is called the " Lightning-catcher,” because it
annihilates time and deposits its benighted passengers
at their destination somewhere between cock-crow and
church time on Sunday. The Hawkesbury is a poor
district, as everyone knows, and anything is good
enough for the residents. The following programme is
suggested for next Saturday: Rookwood Station
(stoppage for 10 minutes): Solo on steam whistle,
“ Dead March in Saul;” Parramatta (Interval of 1®
minutes): Chorus of officials, “ They won't get home
till morning.” Blacktowu : delay of half-an-hour, t»
get up steam enough for the awful rush to Richmond—
pace 11 miles an hour at least. Those who live beyond
Blacktowu, upon the branch line ought to be quite
happy.
No. 9 of Mr. Atkinson’s (sporting) venture has an
article docketed “ Ourselves.” in which he says:—“ We-
are delighted to find our efforts everywhere cordially
recognised. There has been no lack of kindly words,
but we want something more. The poet tells us that
those whom the gods love die young, hut we do not
desire that such should be onr fate It is
our wish to live to a good old age But to
secure this, we must have stronger encouragement than
that afforded by complimentary expressions.” This
lowks like desponding,—and to be despondent in jour-
nalism is always a mistake. The AS. predicted a
tremendous success in its second number, but in its
first announced its anticipations realized. And now
. . . . However, brighten up, Tom ; for even if yon
do “die young” you can have the satisfaction of say-
ing that the paper was “Aw, too good for the com-
munity.”
When a man is to be charged at the Croajingo-
longayarramanyabwnyip Police Court, the J.P.’s are on
the alert. The first question asked is, “Ishe a Tay-
lorite, or one of the Byrnes-es-es ?” Then there is a
roll-np of the J.P.’s of both factions—and their name is
legion. They literally comprise “ the batcher, the
baker, and candlestick-maker.” The defendant knows
his fate when he sees the Bench. If his enemies prevail
in number he does* t employ a lawyer—he knows that
would only be waste of money. He takes his gruel
quietly. If the J P.’s of his faction are in force, however,
he strengthens their hands with the best legal advice ;
and they always dismiss him “ without a stain on his
character.” Government should have only a paid Magis-
trate forJCroajingolongayarramanyabunyip, and make
him reside in Sydney. In the words of one of the few
local residents who neither adore nor hate either Byrnes
or Taylor, “ Perlitical justice hain’t by no means had-
mirable.”
The dignified Mayor of and M.P. for a certain
borough is noted for his fondness for the bawbees and
his aptitude for a free lunch. The other day he went
into a well-known fruiterer’s to buy a watermelon.
Thus the interview He: “Well, Mary, fine melons
those; what price?” She; “ Ninepenoe, yer wurd-
ship.” He: “Tut, nonsense, Mary, say sixpence!”
She; “ Couldn’t, yer wurdship; they cost me seven-
pence.” He: Well, Mary, tap one, and let’s see it.”
[Melon tapped; found to be a beauty, weighing thir-
teen pounds] He: “Yes! that’ll do; but I’ll give
you sixpence,—not a penny more!” She: “An’it
cost me sevenpence, yer wurdship ! I’ll sent it to the
poor-house first.” [Exit dignified Mayor, sans melon.]
. . . . Mary’s revenge: Two days later dignified
Mavor again emerges from Mary’s fruitshop, labelled
on the back, “ Ninepenny melons for sixpence ! Apply
at the Council Chamber.” And he wondered what the
procession of little boys meant!
The Presbyterian is really a very good-
natured paper. It is always willing to give a good turn
alike to the highest and the lowest. Distance lends
enchantment to the view of Mr. Parquhar, and absence
makes his heart grow fonder. No, even in the press
of raking in the gold and silver, is the President of the
United States forgotten. The paper says:—“ Mr. Gar-
field, the President of the United States is a Christian
and a scholar." Now, with what a glow of pleasure
will the General peruse this eulogium in his parlour at
the White House when the next Australian mail arrives!
He will see at on«e that lofty as the Presbyterian is in
its general tone, it will occasionally stoop to pat a simple
President on the back. We trust that Gmeral Garfield
will acknowledge this supreme condescension on the part
of Mr. Parquhars journal. He might do it by cable,
say, poetically thus; —
So far-you-axe,
But yet so near.
Because so dear
Fair Par qu-har 1
The Minister for Education would confer a very
great boon on those who live up country if he were to
establish a class for country editors, and make it com-
pulsory for the in to attend until they could pass a fair
examination, at least in English. In one of the up-
country towns there are two papers (Cooma Express
1 and Manaro Mercury), one of them edited by a Dr.,
and here is a specimen of his English:—“ The


remarks had been circulated in an hole-and-corner way.
He could give the name if it was wanted.”
The baker’s favorite historian —Hallam.
Sub Boer gruel. (We’ve a cold id our dose).
The Demosthenes of the Chamber —J. M'Laugh-
lin.
Forthcoming—A “ bust up ” of some lingering
rags.
A man can be fired by emulation —but a house
can’t.
A Grimm joke — The new editor of the Evening
Ltre.
Post Office reform wanted —4d. an ounce for
valentines.
When David read Sapsford’s report, he said—
“ Go-liah.”
Discharged Victorian civil servants are called
in-Vale-ides.
Why is M‘Elhone two animals at once ? Because
he is a bug-bear.
The whisper of the day—the Skuthorpe-
Leichbardt relics.
The Transit Commissioners are never asked for
fares by the ’bus men.
The idea how to utilize the Garden Palace—
Model lodging houses.
A Glebe lady claims to be a member of the press.
She takes in mangling.
New local drama at the Opera House—Ha, ha! —
but no-o mar-rr-terr-r!
Inspector Anderson thinks it’s a case of
“ pecher ’’ with Bechet.
The success of the “ Wedding March ” is owing
to the Wedding Marshall.
Some printers’ actions against defeated candi-
dates are on the tapis. Gall.
Mr. Fnllford, M.L.A. for Maitland, is too much
for most white men at billiards.
Foundations to be relaid at a cost .£15,000 —
Bubble, rubble, toil and trouble.
The “lot” Lewis Blank went in for at
Katoomba—the lot of sandwiches.
Sydney ladies all row. At any rate, they
‘‘feather their sculls” extensively.
The Flora and Fauna of New South South
Wales—Larry Foley and John Davies.
The shakers are not extinct. There are even
shakers in N. S. Wales— paper-shakers.
A Macquarie-street lady has a large Newfound-
land which she calls her “large black fan.”
The brief of each of the Q.C.’s defending
Parnell and party in Dublin, weighed 1 cwt.
There is no foundation for the report that the
hon. Mr. Lucas is in training for a foot-race.
The city tea-men say that swell brokers “ of
long experience ” should write good English.
A new and increasing nuisance—The Good
Templar puffs in the Herald. Who writes ’em ?
The latest amusement on Sundays is running
the girls round on the merry-go-round at Chowder.
Politicians love their country. That’s why
they’ve picked out her eyes on the Blue Mountains.
The tide is turned at St. James’. All is Low
now, although the curate wears a High Church cravat.
On dit that an action for slander is pending
against a well-known lodginghouse-keeper of Wynyard
Square.
A deputation of the quondam lodges of the
condemned houses are about to apply to the Mayor to
ask to be allowed to live.
“ We all do it,” was the meed of sympathy
offered to Mr. M’Beath, by a brother J.P., on Mr. Saps-
ford’s report being published.
The Ltre says the Penny Morning Ghost
steals its telegrams. The P. M. G. says “you’re
another! ” Which is it —or both P
When a man says of his paper—“ Everybody
likes it, every body believes in it," we only con-
sider it a pity nobody will buy it. —A.S.
What fish should a learned moderator be partial
to ?—Why. lam-preys, of course! We expect after this
we shall experience Dr. Steel’s steel-itto.
The Brisbane Telephone couldn’t jerk out a
poem by Byron, although they promised it. This was
shrilly a dissapointment to its one esteemed subscriber
Trickett, writing on the 17th December, says
he does not like to return home, after losing his all.
Never mind, Ned, losing yonr all if you havn’t lost
your sole.
At the land sale on the Mountains, at Katoomba,
last Saturday the sun came out very hot. The cream
of the joke was, the butter ran. It seemed to know its
whey about.
Johnny Hall writes from Adelaide to say that
it is not true he has gone for a temperance hotel.
He has gone in to a temperance hotel, prior to going in
fora license.
In the Witness, Daniel Allen says: —“I
omitted one which, I believe, gives the key to the
meaning of the seventh trumpet.” This is doubtless a
misprint for “ crumpet.”
The Penny Morning Startler now terms a
buggy accident, a “ vehicular collision.” We suppose
in the case of a curious omnibus smash, they would call
it a rum-bus-tical castastrophe.
When a small newspaper writes a large article
on an eating-house ill-natured people begin to think
the editor has a steak in the place. No reference
intended to any Sydney journal.
The other day in the Assembly, just as the
senior member for Northumberland was laying himself
out for a long oration, Mr. M'Elhone began coughing.
Ninny thereupon became mute.
That Western constituency thinks its Member
is entirely wrapped up in its interests. He unfolds
himself, however, to the Coffee Palace Hebes. Audit
Is a well-known fact the girls don’t like clerics.
How about those spiritualistic scoundrels, the
Fletchers, robbing Mrs. Davis in London of £5OOO P
They were, the papers say, mediums of the most exten-
ded power. How about— — ? But more anon.
The landlord of a fashionable suburban hotel
thinks his customers have young ladies’ appetites.
After dining there the other day, two “squattahs”
went to the pastry-cook’s, and had a square meal.
Owing to the pressure of other sporting items
we have until now been unable to give the following:—
“ January 11, at the Parsonage, Campbelltown, the wife
of the Rev. T. V. Alkin, M.A., of twin daughters.”
At the dinner at the Dubbo railway banquet, a
Western youth operated on the olives to some tune.
After getting rid of two, he objected to the third and
east it away swearing, “ Them’s queer plums.”
A lady went into a big city drapery establish-
ment and ordered widow’s weeds. She called next day
to fit her bonnet, and said her “ husband was a little
better, but could not exist long.” She is thought to
be mad.
The Molong Express unconsciously perpe-
trates a good joke, thus :—“ A man was drowned at
Morpeth on Tuesday, but unfortunately for his widow,
he allowed his life assurance policy to lapse last
month.”
The influential organ ground weekly by Mr. A.
G. Taylor announces —“ Waste paper for sale at the
Mudgee Independent Office." We thought that the
Giraffe’s tale would at length be too much for the sub-
scribers.
Memo, for Mr. Goodchap.—Townsman, en route
by rail to Sydney with family, asks several porters at
Parramatta station to help him lift three boxes from
platform into baggage van. Is told they won’t —it isn’t
their duty. Townsman himself lifts in boxes, and
nearly causes coroner’s inquest. On his arrival at
Sydney—mark the contrast! —he asked for help, and
three porters at once proffer it, carry boxes to van, and
civilly decline reward.
The other day a tidewaiter of H.M. Customs
was arraigned for taking a cup of coffee during pro-
hibited hours. He was suspended for a month (!) and,
it is said, now declares that the coffee was the hottest
he ever tasted.
A Parramatta alderman says : “ Sharley Byrnes
vos a goot mayor dis seven year. Und de mayorel
loonch at de Voolpacks dis next weeks vill take de
shines out of de race feeds 1” Lord Loftns will
probably be present.
A leading Maryborough (Queensland) butcher,
who is an alderman, wrote the other day that the
Maryborough Volunteer Corps would make the
“knuckles of a fine corpse,” meaning “nucleus of a
fine corps," of course.
In a country town not 100 miles from Wagga, the
post-office clerks have cheap newspaper reading. A sub-
scriber to a Wagga paper receives his copy three days
later than necessary with signs of the address having
been removed and replaced.
Hard lines at a certain leading town hotel just
now. The regular boarders bathe at midnight, since
the arrival of a pack of athletes. Six of these were
timed in the bath by stop-watch the other morning.
Their average was 45min.
A playful gentleman has just been sent to prison
for breaking his wife’s ribs. This rib-breaking is bad
form; but it must be remembered that if a man’s ribs
had never been broken, there would have been no wives
in existence for men to retaliate on.
In the Hawke’s Bay paper is the following
advt.: —“ Mrs. Caro, dentist (mechanical and operative),
may be consulted at her residence, dive-square." We
suppose Mrs. Caro must be “ dear,".and we are quite
willing to believe that she’s Oliver.
The most modern instrument of torture has
been invented by the railway department. It is a back
van attached to the “ pick-up" trains on the Western
line. People of suicidal tendencies travel in it some-
times, but they seldom survive long.
“ Prophet” suggests that when the tramway
rails are laid to Waverley and Woollahra twenty or
thirty ’buses could be turned into waiting sheds for the
convenience of passengers during the coming winter
season, if they can be made waterproof.
The desperate bushranger, “ Steve Hart’s bro-
ther,” has turned out to be a moon-struck boy, with
Ned Kelly (and water) on his brain. And this after all
the sensational wires! But we live in an age of ad-
vanced civilization and evening papers!
There was considerable alarm in New Zealand
over Bechet’s fire. One telegram stated that it was
feared Bechet had perished in the flames. The storm,
however, subsided when another wire announced—
“ Bechet is safe.” This news was correct.
The Weekly Mickey says they’re building an
arcade stretching from King-street at right angles
into George-street. All we can say in regard to this
extraordinary proposition is that even if the Mickey
can get the angle Euclid himself could’nt.
At the Mudgee sessions, the Judge and a lawyer
named Meares had a row in Court. His Honor told
him (Mr. M.) to sit down, and Mr. M. wouldn’t.
Mudgee was breathless for days after; and the small
boys now all pinch the calves of the attorney’s legs to
see if he’s real.
Prom the Auckland Star : — Respectable girl
(12) is anxious to nurse a baby; no wages required—
Address “W. J.,’’ Star office. And strange to say in a
couple of years or so “ W.J." will stand out for 12s a
week, and put her young man on the free list for cold
pie and pickles.
Some of the leading male singers belonging to
the choir of a fashionable Anglican church in
Woollahra are in the habit of vacating their seats when
the minister ascends the pulpit for the purpose of—ah !
what? Getting a little fresh air? Oh, no—only to
“ wet their whistles."
A Melbourne paper says that “one of the
Sydney Morning Herald reporters at the Albury
banquet the other day came dressed as if he were going
to assist at a cock-fight or a colliery explosion.” Now,
we’re quite certain it wasn’t . But who could it
have been ? For the most part the Herald staff is
eminently respectable. As has previously been re-
marked, no one ever yet met a Herald man who wasn’t
carrying either an umbrella or a baby, or both.
The Mayor of Sydney has made a new discovery,
according to a telegram in the Manaro Mercury.
“ The Central police are unfit for habitation.” The
Mayor must have had a very warm time of it whilst
doing the rounds of the policemen’s stomachs, wander-
ing up and down those alimentary canals, prying into
the recesses|of a policeman’s heart, to ascertain whether
its owner were inhabitable. What secrets must have
been discovered ! Of course the heart was inhabited.
Whoever knew a policeman that was not inhabited by
cold mutton ?
An interesting ercounter took place in Bourke-
street, the other day, between—well, Mr. Brown and a
vote canvasser. The v.c. finding the gate locked (there
is a small grass plot in front of the house), and being
unable to reach the door, hit upon the expedient of
using blue metal. One—two—crash went the stones!
And then came the trouble. Mr. Brown tried in vain
to scale the 3-fc. fence, with mamma hanging on the seat
of his pantaloons, imploring her dear boy (who, by the
bye, is nearer 40 than 29) to restrain his anger. The
canvasser enjoyed the scene immensely, as did also did
the assembled crowd. Mr. Brown was at length
induced by his mamma to retire to his castle, while the
vote canvasser went on his way rejoicing. It’s always
useless to resist vote canvassers or travelling Bible
agents.
Again onr hopes are dashed to theground, and
all our pleasing expectations withered. We announced
some time ago, in a good-natured par., the meeting at
the Civil Service Club of persons wishing to form a
Sydney Press Club. At that meet ing various resolutions
were passed. Since then an ominous silence respecting
the affair has reigned. We have been daily expecting
to see a large building growing np somewhere, labelled
“ Boomerang Club,” but not even a coffee-stall has, as
yet, been engaged by the committee for the accommoda-
tion of members. There is something wrong some-
where.
We don’t often give anybody a free advertise-
ment, but wa really can’t help reprinting the following
which, with a deal more to the same effect, appears in a
Maitland paper in poster type :—“ MAN CAN MAKE
HELL his feast, or HEAVEN his fond REPAST.
TEMPER. This hot weather nothing so disturbs the
economy of Nature and so destructive to general well-
being as letting THE DEVIL get hold of you. Keep
cool. THE LIVER in this hot climate has to do double
duty. The heart sympathises. SUDDEN DEATH.
Be calm. Take Dr. Stevenson’s LIVER MIXTURE
and PILLS.”
We wonder how the glass stood at the Mnltnm
in Parvo when the dramatic critic of the Evening
Grammar revelled in the following extraordinary
stretch of poetic licence in his critique upon the per-
formance) of “East Lynne" at the OperajHouse. He
sweetly warble d thus: —“ The piece and pathos with
which some of the passages were delivered, imbued the
whole with a sense of the reality, which caused the
greater portion of the ladies present to experience a
‘ rising in the throat ’ peculiar to and resulting from
the exercise of the higher sensibilities of human na-
ture."
Not long ago a giddy conple (both married, and
with grand-children), he 60, she 58. eloped from Mount
Ida, N.Z. “It is believed that the lady went via
Blacks and Lawrence to Dunedin, while Adonis jour-
neyed via Pigroot taking with him, as a mark of
esteem and gratitude, a horse belonging to a man who
had befriended him tor years, which he left at Palmer-
ston. The guilty pair met in Dunedin, and the last
that was heard of them was that they had left for the
south, presumably with the intention of catching the
steamer for Victoria, which was then about to sail
from the Bluff."
Here is an incident related in the French papers
just to hand. An official of the Paris octroi met a very
thin gentleman, whose face seemed familiar to him, but
which he had always associated with a body of unusual
obesity. Next morning, however, he met the same
gentleman endowed with a most redundant figure. He
stopped the fat one, who tried to run away, but who,
failing to outpace his pursuer, was arrested and relieved
of a large false stomach of India-rubber, containing
about twenty quarts of alcohol, which he was endea-
vouring to smuggle. Thank Heaven, we have at least a
few fellows in Sydney who can carry as much whisky
without showing it.
It was at Phair’s Hotel, Melbourne, on the
evening of the Champion race. A well-known Wagga
Wagga boniface, at all times remarkable for his quiet
demeanour, sat down to dinner, and not seeing the
customary cup of tea, asked the waiter to procure him
one. As the tea did not put in an appearance, our
Wagga friend, catching sight of a large jug beside him,
hastily filled a “ long sleever,” and drained it to the
last drop. Then (turning to his neighbour, a well-
known Collins-street auctioneer) he remarked, in his
usual quiet manner, “ What a peculiar taste your
Melbourne water has!” “Sir,” blurted out the
auctioneer, who seemed boiling over with indignation,
“do you know, sir, you have been drinking my
champagne and soda ?" Whether or not the Wagga
man replenished the jug is not stated.
“Madello” sends us fifteen or sixteen
“ werses ” addressed to “ Miss Blank.” The first two
run thus :
False is the bloom on those carmine lips,
False is the down on the blush-rose cheek.
False are the pearls t’wixt the rose-bud mouth.
False the coy glance and smile so meek.
False, all false.
False is that golden coronet of hair.
False the figure of symmetrical grace.
False is that tiny dainty-shaped foot.
False is the brilliancy of the young face.
False, all False.
[Chorus —Faults—all faults. — Ed Bulletin.]
A Parramatta reporter bubbles over with senti-
ment. He describes the peaches at the Horticultural
Society’s Show in that town as “ line a dream,” and
the pumpkins as a “perfect poem.” A few days pre-
viously he informed his readers that the liquors at the
race meeting were “ etherialised nectar fit only to be
quaffed by the gods,” and then, taking the one step
from the sublime, “ especially the curacoa! ” Last
week he told us that some chopped-down gum trees
were “ defunct monarchs of the mighty primeval
forest 1 ” Yet he turns the scale at nineteen stone, and
eats a quarter of a sucking pig at a sitting.
The editorship of Monthly Notes has been
giving it to a “ young man” in the Lands Office.
Nothing has yet been said about the salary ; but it is
generally understood that he will be found in tram-
tickets and galoches. We are told that he is a very
meek and mild young person, and spends all his spare
time blowing a great deal into a flute and getting a very
little out of it. The tone of it will be improved (the
paper, we mean, not the flute—nothing would improve
the tone of that), and an exciting serial is to he com-
menced, entitled “The Mysterous Muffin-muncher ”
There will also appear “ Thoughts about Balaam,
written by Himself.” And a poem—“ The Faery
Flee-ute,” by the editor. How’s this for journalistic
elevation ?
The perfection of toadyism was illustrated at the
Railway Station of a certain ancient borough, a few days
ago. The through train was detained while the station-
master despatched a porter three hundred yards, for
Mr. Blank’s spectacles! And at that same station
a few days before, some porters refused to lift a
woman’s luggage into the van. But then Mr. B is
the father of an M.P., and the woman is only a poor
widow. What does Mr, Goodchap think of this ?
At a certain house in an old township, inhabited
by a choice collection of Spiritualists, the different
members of the “circle” are always going into trances.
There is an old lady in the company, whom we will call
Mary Ann, who chooses her trance business always
when the “ circle " has been joined by a party of
visitors. She is a flat-faced old person, and weighs
something under two tons ; and as when she goes into a
trance, she falls down on the hearth-rug, and
(like Matilda Yane, at Hans Breitmann’s party)
“ makes the windows sound,” it is difficult without a
derrick to raise her. Well, the other night, the spirit
moved her in the hall whilst conversing with a nice
young medium from the Glebe. She opened her month,
shut her eyes, and flopped down at his bluchers. He
bent down over her, first took a tug at one arm, then at
the other, gave a despairing glance at the recumbent
sylph, and fled. When he had been gone about two
minutes, Mary Ann sat up with her back against the
wall. Then she murmured with a sigh, “ Broke my tie-
back again for nothing!”
A railway surveyor, engaged in sectioning the
country between Parramatta and Wollombi, a short
time ago, walked into a village inn. called for a glass of
old tom, and remarked, wiping the perspiration from
his face, that it was a long distance to walk. The land-
lord politely answered, “Just so—where are you
camped ?” " Well,” replied the worker of the improved
dumpy, “it is like your confounded cheek to ask me
where I’m camped." The landlord, not to be put down,
said, “ I’m not going to take any insult from you. My
question was merely put in the ordinary course of con-
versation. I care not a straw where you are camped,
so the quicker you are out of the bar the better.” Re-
plied the reducer of back sights and fore sights, seeing
that perhaps it would be better to reduce the rising
anger of mine host, “Well, old fellow, don’t get into a
scot. I meant no harm. My instructions from the
Minister, or rather the Engineer-in-chief, are very clear
on this subject. My lips are officially sealed as to the
latitude and longitude of my camp; sealed as to what I
am doing, or what I intend doing; sealed as to whether
the railway will go this way or that way. In truth—
but mind I tell you this on the quiet—those instructions
are to guard against gossip—newspaper gossip particu:
larly. My camp is at Yango, some seven miles away,
and I’ll be glad to see you out there at any time. Au
revoir, old man.”
Some girl has been getting on the soft side of a
Toowoomba paper to get her poetry in. We expect the
editor had gone kangarooing that day, or that his
mother-in-law had ridden over to give them a look up—
a proceeding on her part which would, of course, neces-
sitate a stampede on his. Anyhow, the verse appeared,
and infit she explains a few things—guileless creature 1
—that she wants :
“ Wanted a hand to hold mine own,
As down life’s vale I glide;
Wanted an arm to lean upon.
For ever by my side;
Wanted a firm and steady foot
With a step secure and free.
To take its straight and onward pace
O’er life’s rough path with me;
Wanted a form erect and high—
A head above my own.”
This sounds very romantic, does it not ? Well now, we
can take the starch out of this kind of thing in about
two minutes. All the requirements we have quoted
would have done her splendidly for the first fortnigh t.
After this period her little wants would be something
in this stole—
Wanted an easy time all day,
A hired girl that cooks.
The “ old man” all the bills to pay
At which he never looks ;
Wanted bright ribbons to bind my locks.
Stockings of silk with golden clicks;
Wanted the washing given out.
The “ hus” to lunch in town.
For dress five pounds a week about ;
To never see a frown;
Wanted—it’s best to plainly say—
To run the “ bungalow” my own way.
This is what a man came into The Bulletin
office the other day and told us:—“ I notice the Echo
people are now trying to copy The Bulletin in their
column headed ‘By the Way.’ By-the-way, this re-
minds me that when I was in the hush I had two dogs,
one a splendid pointer, the talk and envy of the whole
country-side, the other a little mongrel, who originally
belonged to a black gin or a bush missionary. Well,
this d little mongrel got jealous of the pointer,
and when he saw the big dog patted and praised he
thought he’d commence and point too. However, the
poor little devil used to point with his hind leg, and
that’s what the Echo’s doing now.”
Nowra and district are being brought under the
dominion of that great educator, the Press. The
prettiest present (with the exception of that valentine
with the baby, among other things, in it) we’ve received
for a long time is half of a copy of the Nowba
Colonist, of 26th January, 1881, which some obliging
unknown person has been kind enough to send us. Our
correspondent has carefully gone through the sheet,
and marked the mistakes in red ink. There are, ac-
cording to his own count, and so far as we can see it’s
correct enough, 232 errors in four columns. Had it
been on the 26th December instead of the the 26th
January that the editor of the Colonist felt like that
we could have forgiven him.
THE MUNICIPAL OCTOPUS.


The Refere.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Australians, let Hanlan slide !
Allen missed another catch on Saturday.
Strathearn has been backed for the Hawkeshury
Handicap.
The kangaroo is a grass-fed. and they give him
more gruel 1
Olkers and M'Donald, two Toowoomba peds.,
are matched.
The Auckland Regatta Committee paid over
£5OO in prizes.
Pearce will challenge Laycock when the latter
returns from England.
The Albury Racing Club, we are glad to hear,
has been resuscitated.
The last boat built for Hanlan (by Jewett) was
fitted with a 26-in. slide.
Midwinter, the crack Victorian cricketer, is a
most enthusiastic angler.
The general entries for the Tamworth races close
(Mi Friday the 18th instant.
Splendid entries have been received for the
various coming coursing events.
The Annandale bowling green is enlarged so as
to admit of four rinks being played.
The Orange Jockey Club have fixed then-
meeting for the 17th and 18th of March.
Craig, an Adelaide pedestrian, goes to Mel-
bourne to compete in a six days’ tournament.
Spinningdale and Monmouth are about equal
favorites for the Champagne Stakes at 7to 2.
It is a pretty general opinion amongst cricketers
that Davis should be in the Intercolonial team.
Savanaka has been purchased for the stud by
Mr. John Croyier, of Wentworth, Lower Murray.
Silver cups were presented to Murdoch and
Pahner, of the Australian team, in Christchurch.
Sweetmeat, Grand Flaneur, and Progress are
most in| favor for the Sydney Cup at 100 to 8 and 10.
The race between the sailing boats Adelphi,
Wai Tui, and Buttercup, fell through, last Saturday.
“Augur,” of the Australasian, thinks that
Geraldine, with 7st 41bs, is best in for the Sydney Cup.
Mata has been purchased by Mr. Weeks, and
will be taken to India after the Auckland Birthday Cup.
The Wagga Wagga Autumn Meeting has been
fixed for Wednesday and Thursday, 13th and 14th
April.
The yacht race at Adelaide for the 50 guinea
e«p, presented by Sir Thomas Elder, takes place on
Friday, 18th.
Hack horse-racing is becoming all the rage in
West Maitland. Several small meetings have taken
place recently.
The Victorian Coursing Club has passed a reso-
lution in favour of amalgamating with the Australian
Coursing Club.
Jack Thompson said he thought there was
“something in Hanlan’s boat.” He now says he’s
quite sure there is.
The pavilion which once adorned the Albert
cricket ground has been converted into shops. “To
what base uses,” &c.
Genial Tommy Horan is in the best of health,
and was surrounded by welcoming friends in the
Pavilion on Saturday.
At the Ararat races, which took place on the
Srd instant, Diamond won the Cup, and Princess Alice
the Grand Stand Stakes.
Craig did 65 miles in 14 hours in his 24 hours’
walking match on Saturday at Adelaide. The affair was
i« every respect a failure.
The Australian Eleven were defeated by the
Wanganui Twenty-two by ten wickets. The former
played with only ten men.
The late rains have greatly improved the As-
sociation Ground, and splendid wickets will be obtained
for the Intercolonial match.
A correspondent asks : —“ Why are Carpenter
and Eyan not going to get second prize, which they won
at Anniversary Day Eegatta.”
George Moore and George Gilbert, two old
veteran Intercolonial cricketers, were on the Associa-
tion cricket ground last Saturday.
The Adelaide Racing Club has allowed the
disqualified horse, Mata, to be entered for the Adelaide
Birthday Cup. Something sensible.
Downs, of the Western team, is a performer as
a batsman. He made 24 and 18 in the District Match,
and 22 against the Intercolonial Eleven.
Young Baker, who accompanied Captain Webb
in several of his famous swims, is one of the crew of the
Peshawar, now lying in Sydney harbour.
Satisfactory nominations have been received for
the principal events to be run at the Christchurch
Autumn Meeting on April 18th and 19th.
The Parramatta bookmaker was very lucky at
Blacktown races. He had the field all to himself, and
made what the craft call a “regular skinner.”
A Jockey Club has been established in Cudal.
Many of the leading sportsmen of Sydney and Orange
are members, including Mr. Thomas Ivory.
The Champion Pour-oared Outrigger Race at
Auckland Eegatta, for a prize of £lOO, over a course of
three miles, was won by the Auckland crew.
On Friday, J. Hines, the coming ped., meets P.
Thorpe in a spin for £l5 aside, distance 150 yards. The
race will be run at tbe foot of Bourke-street.
Coulthard and Kelly come redhanded with the
scores of 64 and 84 respectively, in their last match.
Watch them, boys. “ How’s that umpire ?”
It is stated in the New York Clipper of Bth
January that Hanlan and Boss offer to pull a pair-oar
race against any other two men in the world.
Legerdermain, the Skittle — Sharper filly, one of
Sir Hercules Eobinson’s purchases, ran third in the
Flying Stakes at the Wellington (N.Z.) meeting.
A match at Moore Park, on Saturday last,
between the Aurora and Eugby C.C.’s, resulted in a
victory for the former by 75 runs. Scores—A,C.C., 116:
5.C.C.,41.
A boat race for =£lo aside came off on Saturday
iu Newcastle Harbour, between John Sullivan and
Professor West, and resulted in a narrow victory for
the latter.
The Eastern C. C. defeated the Balmain Surry
G. C. on Saturday last, on the ground of the former, by
25 rims. The scores were: Eastern C. C. 66, Balmain
Surry C. C. 41.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club matches are
postponed to Saturday the 19th instant. What is Mr.
Corbett about ? That is the date of the Intercolonial
Cricket Match.
The match Australian Eleven v. Nelson was
drawn. The local team in their first innings made 83,
in their second, 77. The Australians’ first innings
amounted to 72.
Good news ! There is still a chance of a match
between the Australian Eleven and a combined team of
the colonies. The 4th, sth, and 7th of March will be
about the dates.
Who is Mr. White that has taken Aliek Banner-
man’s place in the Australian team ? He goes in last
every match and so far has secured an average of about
two runs an innings.
Bryant’s wicket-keeping did not favourably
impress the critics. He took a good many balls
smartly, hut he gave the longstop a good many chances
to distinguish himself.
An amateur boat race for a trophy valued at
£2O came off on Saturday, at Newcastle, between J.
Broughton and W. Lockhead, jim., and resulted in a
victory for Broughton.
The Mangere Club of New Zealand lately
obtained the overwhelming scores of 6 and 3, in their
respective innings. In the second innings, the three
runs obtained were extras.
Manion scored 105, not out, just before the’
Melbourne team was selected, and yet he was over-
looked. He and Ned Sheridan should exchange tele-
grams of mutual condolence.
The sight of the veteran George Moore in the
Pavilion on Saturday brought back to memory the days
when George’s ‘’googlers” stuck up the Melbourne
and English teams on the Albert ground.
The sprint match between Gordon and Phillips,
for £5O, is causing a little stir amongst the sporting
public of Greta. The race is fixed to come off in a
fortnight, on the Albion Ground, Maitland.
Fletcher, of San Francisco, is open to swim a
match, say, from 440 yards to a mile, with any man in
Australia. Should Walter M'ludoe, of Melbourne, com-
municate with him, no doubt business will follow.
After all, Lady Emma did not run at the Wel-
lingten (N.Z.) meeting as was expected, the jockey
Williams, who was to have ridden her in the Cup,
having broken his collar-bone in the Maiden Plate.
Acceptances for the Wanganui Cup (N.Z.) run
March 11King Quail, Dan, Socket, Redeemer, Libel-
ler, Foul Play, Badsworth, Natator, Grip, On Dit,
Rand wick, Norseman, Opawa, Soukar, My Dream.
The opening match of the bowling season was
played on the Annandale green on Saturday last between
the Parramatta and Annandale clubs. The contest
resulted in a majority of 14 for the Annandale club.
Tarryer, who has rowed the fastest time on
record between Putney and Mortlake—22m. 55s.—was
defeated easily by L. Gibson over the same course on
November 17 in 23m. 58£s. So much for time trials
The Cumberland (Penrith) club defeated the
Windsor (Sydney) club on Saturday, by 87 runs. The
bowling of A. Eyans for the victors was very good.
He took 7 wickets, the last three in three successive balls.
The contest for the championship of England
and Astley belt, go-as-you-please, was to take place Jan.
24-29 last. The holder, “Blower” Brown, had been
challenged by G. D. Noremac, of Edinburgh, Scotland.
Evans experimentalised a good deal in the match
against the Districts. He gave his leg-breaks a trial,
and in some cases overpitched them, when they were
most unmercifully “landed" to the fence by the country
batsmen.
Elliott, the Victorian wicketkeeper, is ill, and
Turner, of the Richmond C.C., has been sent for to
keep the wickets in the Intercolonial match. Report
speaks well of Tomer both behind the sticks and as a
batsman.
The well-known pugilists, John Sullivan and
John Donaldson, fought at Chicago with gloves under
Queensberry rules, on 18 Dec., for a purse. After a
lively set-to, which lasted 22min., Sullivan was adjudged
the victor.
When the American horse, Parole, won the
Epsom Cup a great deal was made of his victory in the
States. The cup was valued at £590, and all the talk
was out when Mr. Lorillard had to pay £2OO duty before
he could import it.
Cook and Roberts played a game of 3000 up, in
India, in the middle of December, for a silver cup,
presented by a number of subscribers. The game
extended over three nights, and Roberts won by 938
points, his best break being 261.
Albert White (of White Bros., Mercury Bay,
N.Z.) has issued a challenge offering to row an outrigger
sculling match for £lOO or £2OO and the championship
of New Zealand against any resident in that colony. No
acceptance yet of the challenge.
John Mayo, the winner of the Grand Handicap
at East Maitland, on Anniversary day, has been chal-
lenged by Thos. Agnew, of East Maitland; 150 yards,
£2O a side. The challenge has been accepted, and the
match will come off on March 7th.
A match was played last Saturday between the
Young Australian C.C. and a combined eleven of men
and youths, under the name of the Britannia C.G.,
which resulted in an easy victory for the former, by 12
runs. Scores: Y. A.C.C., 30. 8.C.C., 18.
The Christmas Morning 100 yards’ Swimming
Handicap on the Serpentine was won by J. De Levante
(20 secs, start), A. Hudson (11 sec.) 2, E. C. Danels,
the_ 500 yards amateur champion (scratch) 3. Time,
Imin. 55|sec. The race was a very close one.
The last cricket match played between Molong
and Cudal resulted in an easy victory for the latter.
There is some talk amongst the Cudal cricketers of
visiting Sydney at an early date for the purpose of
competing with the crack metropolitan elevens.
The Victoria House Cricket Club (Parmer and
Co.) have initiated a new system of holding annual
meetings. After the business was transacted, a regal
spread and toasts became the order of the day, and the
rest of the evening was spent in fun and harmony.
Webb might be tried as a bowler in our next
Intercolonial practices. In the match between the
districts he secured three wickets for 20 runs, a fair
average on the Association Ground, and in the match
with the Eleven he obtained a most excellent average.
A meeting of the promoters of the Woolloo-
mooloo Bay Regatta was held on the evening of the
10th. Various preliminaries were settled, and the
co-operation of the leading aquatic men invited. The
12th April was spoken of as the probable date for the
regatta.
A trotting match took place on Randwiok race-
course, on Saturday, between a chesnut belonging to
Dr. West and Mr. Baker’s bay. The distance was four
miles, and the stakes £5O a side. The chesnut was the
favorite at sto 4, hut the bay won rather easily. Time,
14m. ss.
Says Pendragon : —“ Trickett and Laycock are
much the same men in public. That the ex-champion
is decidedly the fastest sculler in private everyone now
knows who doesn't shut his eyes and stop his ears to
whatever is being done and said around him.”
Bignell has a peculiar style of bowling. He
walks leisurely to the wicket, and only raises his arm.
The delivery is low, and he should never be effective on
good wickets. Tracy, who is consideredin the Northern
district to he the best bowler in Australia, was tried
twice, and failed to get a wicket.
The score of the Eleven on Saturday was equal
to about double the number with eleven in the field.
Many splendid drives were made, but stopped by the
extra men. Very few fours were obtained; no less than
five “ trappers ” being out at both ends of the ground.
The field generally was well placed.
The return rifle match was shot at Parramatta
Park on Saturday between ten of the Parramatta Volun-
teer Rifles, and ten of No. 1 Naval Brigade, the former
using the long and the latter the short Henry rifle-
seven shots at each range 500 and 600 yards. The local
team won the match by nine points.
The Mercantile and Glebe Rowing Clubs held a
joint rendezvous, at Birkenhead, last Saturday. About
60 mustered up, and the impromptu athletic sports were
well contested, the handicapping giving complete satis-
faction. Tho attire of some of the contestants was
characterised by a masterly disregard of the pro-
prieties.
Massie and C. Bannerman must have missed at
least a dozen leg hits each in the match on Saturday, j
Roberts made most of his runs to the leg. It would
be advisable for batsmen to practice their leg hitting,
as an occasional fonrer obtained thereby considerably
swells the individual and general scores.
Gale, the English pedestrian, broke down in his
attempt to walk 2500 miles in 2000 consecutive half-
hours. He had been going about five weeks, and was
within a few days of the finish. He accomplished, how-
ever, 2232 miles in 1786 half-hours, which is the
greatest feat, in point of endurance, ever performed.
The Arabs thus, in a nutshell, describe the
horse : He must have four things large—the front (or
brow), the breast, the rump, the limbs; four things
long—the chest, the upper ribs, the belly, the haunches;
four things short—the back, the pasterns, the ears, the
tail. To this Abd-el-Kader adds that three things
should be clear or pure—the eyes, the skin, the hoofs.
The captain of the Eighteen on Saturday
showed a strong partiality for his district in changing
the bowling. No less than five changes were tried
before a Western bowler was put on. Then Turner
went on at the southern end, and showed by the average
he obtained that he was worth a previous trial.
Duddle, of Preston, the little fellow (sft. Sin.)
who the other day astonished the English athletic
world by covering a mile in 4min. 19}see., was matched
to take 20 yards in a mile from Cummings, the present
long-distance champion of Great Brit tin. However,
latest advices state that Cummings has forfeited.
Roberts did not distinguish himself as a wicket-
keeper, but as a batsman he deserves a foremost place
im the intercolonial team. He played a grand innings,
showing plenty of defence and hitting powers. He
made the hit of the match —a splendid leg hit—the ball
hopping over the fence and striking the Grand Stand.
The fact of direct communication by rail ex'
isting between Sydney and Melbourne ought to have
some effect upon secretaries of clubs. A match at
Easter on one of the Melbourne grounds would be at
once a novelty, and a treat for many of the Sydney
clubs. Could not the Civil Service arrange an annual
match in that way ?
The Newcastle Mayor’s trophy is to be pulled
for to-day (Saturday). Crews and their weights:—
Enterprise—E. Graham (stroke), list. 31b.; E. D. Wil-
liams (3), list. 41b.; M. H. Christoe (2), 9st. 71b,; T. S.
Macdermott (1), 9st 41b. Ariel—E. E King (strike),
9st. 21b.; E. Burke (3). 12st. 11b.; E. Evans (2), list.
61b.; H. Finch (1), lOst. 41b.
Laycock, on a recent visit to Newcastle, Eng.,
one evening appeared on the stage of the Tyne Concert
Hall, where he was presented with a handsome gold
medal, subscribed for by some of the north-country
admirers of his manly, straightforward conduct and
pluck. He met with a hearty reception by the patrons
of the popular place of amusement named.
It appears -that the reason why the Dreamland
was not manned in time for the recent race, was that
some members of the crew, who reside at North Shore,
were unable to leave their business in the city in time
to get the craft ready. It appears, too, that those
members of the crew “ who come a long distance,” are
not very forward at all times rigging and launching the
vessel.
Fred. Archer again heads the lists of winning
English jockeys, though his average is far less than
for the last five years. He, last year, won 121 races out
of 361 mounts. This is exceedingly good, considering
he was prevented from riding for some time, owing to
the injury to his arm. “ Georgy ” Fordham, who is
riding as well as ever he did, comes next, with 105 wins
from 365 mounts.
The representative teams of the Cambridge and
Croydon cricket clubs met on Saturday last. The
Cambridge men occupied the creases all the afternoon,
and when the last wicket fell had 147 runs to their
credit. Sweeney (52) showed rare form, and was not
dismissed until the seventh bowler had been tried
The bowling of Dennis, a Warwick representative, was
greatly punished.
The Victorian team, with the exception of
Allan, arrived overland on Friday morning. They were
met by members of the Association, and escorted to the
Oxford Hotel. They had a short practice on the
ground on Friday afternoon—Midwinter showing the
best form. Horan does not play so well as on his
former visit. The team generally regard the match as
a win for Victoria.
It is rather too late to introduce new men into
the present Intercolonial team, but in view of these
matches between country teams becoming annual affairs
on the Association Ground, it is suggested that they
take place at least a month before the Intercolonial, so
that any batsman or bowler distinguishing himself
might be selected for practice to run the ordeal of the
Selection Committee’s supervision.
A match was played on Moore Park on Saturday
between the Perseverance C.C. and Pioneer C.C.. which
resulted in a victory for the former by 43 runs. Scores :
86 and 43. The batting of Jacobs (39) and Saunders (10,
not out) for the P.C.C. was very good, and also that of
Smithers (7) for their opponents. The bowling of
Chippendale and Davis for the P.C C. was excellent,
as also that of Knox for the Pioneer C.C.
The Australian Surry C.C. and Clifton C.C.
played a match on Moore Park on Saturday, which
resulted in favor of the A.S.C.C. by 19 runs. Scores ;
38 and 19. The batting of Hall (16) and Ayres 18, not
out) for the A.S.C C. was good, as a'so was that of
Alderson (7) for their opponents. The howling of
Adams and Blackburn for the Australian Surrys, and
Coleman for the Cliftons, was very good.
If Tom Garrett would only play the game, there
is nothing to prevent his making a big score in the
coming match. He is a powerful hitter, but he must
not expect every second hall to be a loose one, and go
“ slamming" at a ball which should take him all his
time to play. But even if he obtain few runs, his
bowling entitles him to a place. His average of 6
wickets for 24 runs in last Saturday’s match speaks for
itself.
Mr. Tonkin, the proprietor of Tatteraall’a, at
Bathurst, has succeeded in collecting upwards of £2OO
towards the annual race meeting, which is proposed to
be held in May. It is intended to give £8i»0 added
money in prizes for the two days’ races. A good
training track has been made on the course, avoiding
the much dreaded hill, and it is confidently anticipated
that this will be the most successful meeting that has
taken place in Bathurst for many years past.
A very interesting race took place at the Auck-
land Eegatta, on January 29, being the Champion Eace
for brigantines, schooners, and ketches of 5J tons
register and upwards; first prize, £lOO, second prize,
£25, third prize, £lO. The following were the entries :
—Caledonia, 58 tons; Linda Weber, 114 tons; Edith,
63 tons; Sovereign, 85 tons ; Belle Brandon, 65 tons ;
Torea, 78 tons; Borealis, 130 tons; Myrtle, 66 tons.
Sovereign won, with Torea second, and Borealis third.
Following are the results of the annual races at
Braidwood on the 10th and 11th instant First Day.—
Maiden Plate: Lady Laura, 1; Selling Eace: Moyceau,
1; Publican’s Purse, Strathmore, 1 Plate:
Strathmore, 1; Stockman’s Hurdle Race: Whipcord,
I.—Second Day.—Ladies’ Mile : Reckless, 1; Turf Club
Handicap: Reckless, 1; Steeplechase: Wrangler, 1;
Forced Handicap : Tim, 1. The settling took place
satisfactorily on the evening of the 11th, at Kartyman’s
Hotel.
Dr. Carver is willing to shoot Captain Bogardus
a match, at 100 pigeons each, from five traps, five yards
apart, and 30yds rise, for £5OO aside and the champion-
ship of the world. The match to take place in March
or April, within ten miles of London The whole of
the birds (the best Lincolnshire blue rocks) to be
trapped out of the same hampers, and the proprietors
of Bell’s Life to be stakeholders and appoint a referee.
Dr. Carver has left £5O with the editor of Bell’s Live
to make the match.
Eight of the Eleven out for 117 runs and two runs
to get to win was the state of the game on Saturday when
the eighth wicket fell. "Go in, Tom, and hit up two
runs,” said Alick to Garrett, “ don’t bother about the
pads." Tom went in, and trying to cut one of Turner’s
to leg, lost his wicket. “ How many did yon get, Tom ?”
were the cheering words which welcomed him when ho
returned to the pavilion, with the ominous duck-egg
glaring (on him from the scoring board. Alick had to
go in to get the required runs.
A 7-mile walking match for the championship of
Auckland and a money prize took place in that town
about a week ago, between Fernandez, the champion,
and Brett, and was won by the latter rather easily. Mr.
D. T. Fox officiated as starter, and the committee con-
sisted of Mr. Fred Marks, F. H. Lewisson, and Fox.
The fallowing is the time of each mile: —Ist mile, Bm.
305.; 2nd mile, 9m. 155.; 3rd mile, 9m. 215.; 4th mile,
9m. 245.; sth mile, 10m. 10s.; 6th mile, 10m. 95.; 7th
mile, 10m. 18s.; total, 67m. 18s.
The Timaru batsmen didn’t shine in their match
with the Australian Eleven. This is the commence-
ment of the published score of the local men’s first
innings;—
Godby, b Spofforth 0
Jones, b Spofforth o
D’Emden, not out 0
Jefferson, c Boyle b Spofforth 0
Raymond not out 1
Ashby, c White b Spofforth 0
Leg bye 1
Total 2
Four wiokets for two runs!
A match was played on the Windsor ground
(Moore Park), between the Oriental C. C. and the
Pyrmont Excelsior C. C., which resulted in an easy
victory for the former by 41 runs, the scores being 64
and 23 respectively. For the Orientals, Lnlnnd34, and
Patison 8 (not out) were the chief contributors. For
the Excelsiors, Baxter 8 was the highest scorer. The
bowling of M'Oaan and Downes and the fielding of
Leeky and Thomas for the Orientals were excellent, as
was also the bowling of Baxter for the Excelsiors.
The weights for the big events are out, and the
double betting is getting brisk. The Leger is of course
considered a certainty for the Flaneur, and scarcely
any other horse is pencilled for that event. Progress
is considered a good thing for the Sydney Cup, though
there are mauy good ones among the light weights.
The Hawkesbury Cup is just as open ; it is simply ab-
surd to attempt to pick a winner until the gallops
commence. The handicap-* are considered good; no
horses appear to be thrown in, which is much to Mr.
Sckrr’s credit.
Edward Trickett paid a visit to Jarrow, in the
Newcastle district, and he was presented with a purse
of gold subscribed for by a number »f his Newcastle
admirers. In acknowledging the gift he said that dur-
ing his visit to the north he had been received
with great cordiality wherever he had gone, ai d he
thanked all his Newcastle friends for their kindness to
him during his stay. The audience was also addressed
by James Percy, 'William Elliott, John Glasper, and
Edward Winship. Trickett was enthusiastically cheered
by the audience.
The captain of the Eighteen, on Saturday, did
what many metropolitan captains would have resolutely
declined to do —viz., allowed the match to bo continued
after the time arranged fordrawing stumps, so that the
Eleven might win the match. The general applause
which came from all sides for this concession must
have been pleasing to himself and his team, and if the
“little stonewaller" had suffered the same fate as
Garrett, the victory thus unexpectedly gained would
not have been begrudged to them for their willingness
to take the defeat.
There will probably be a great race this year
between the Melbourne and Footscray eights for the
Clarke Challenge Cups. The latter club are the present
holders. The battle will be, as it was on the last
occasion, one of “ manual labour men ” against what
are known in Sydney as amateurs. In fact, the case is
Democracy versus “ Harristoeracy,” just as the
matches between the Carlton and Melbourne Football
Clubs are. According to the Australasian, the
Footscray men don’t think much of “ the swells,” in
whose ranks are numbered two men fresh from the
English Universities.
A match was played on Saturday last between
the Clio C.C. and Albion C.C., and after a very
gleasant game resulted in a draw greatly in favour of the
lios. The Clios were first to bat and put together the
fine score of 114 runs. W. Wright and E. Fewingg
batted in fine form for 52 and 30 runs respectively. The
Albions lost no time in going to the creases and quickly
lost seven wickets for 36 runs, of which Russell made
top score with 11. The most notable feature of the
innings was the magnificent batting of Wrisht and
Fewings. The bowling of E. Able for the Clios was
remarkably good.
The Wellington (N.Z.) races came off on the 3rd
and 4th, but were not as well attended as usual, which
is attributed to the depression in the town for some
time past. The Governor won the Maiden Plate. Agent
the Hurdles, and the favourite, Natator, the Cup, of
400 sovs, 2 miles, Libeller second, and a “ rook” called
Dan third. The Flying Stakes went to Luna, theHutt
Park Stakes to the Sydney-bred Randwick, the Racing
Club Handicap to Libeller, and the Ladies' Purse to
Billingsgate. An accident occured on the first day, a
Victorian Jockey named Williams, who was riding his
first mount in N Z, getting his collar-bone broken while
riding in the Maiden plate.
The Auckland Intercolonial Regatta passed off
successfully The principal events, Champion Schoo-
ner Race and Champion Inrigger Race, causing a large
amount of excitement. The Inrigger Race was won
by an Auckland crew, who rowed in a new gig
brought out from London and built by Swaddle and
Winship. The White brothers were hot favorites at
the start, but their boat was swamped. Morpeth won
the Champion Sculling Match, rowing ip a boat by
Donnelly and Snllivan of Sydaey. The other events
were well contested. Two accidents occurred, but they
were not serious.
The Victorian cricketers have been assiduously
practising every day on the Association Ground since
their arrival in Sydney. They display fair form in
batting, but the bowling is scarcely better than that of
the Sydney team, which is certainly weak enough.
The batting element ot the New South Wales team is
very strong, Evans, the two Bannermans, Roberts, and
D. Gregory showing the best form. Hiddlestone and
Jones are improving fast, and should be hard to be got
rid of in the match. Geary has been practising all the
week, and may get a place for his howling. The match
will be close and interesting, bnt it should prove a win
for New South Wales, it luck favours equally both
sides.
The match between the Western and Northern
Districts on the Association Ground, on Thursday and
Friday last, resulted in a win for the Northern team in
one innings by 16 runs. The principal scorers were :
For the victorious team—Bignell, 38 ; Bryant (not out),
24; Elliott, 20; Hall, 21; Lawrence, 17; Webb, 17 ;
Morley, 11. For the Western team—Downes, 24 and
18; Sweetman, 21; Hayes, 15; Meares, 12; Turner, 11;
Gaud, not out/10, The stumps were drawn on each
day at four o’clock, so that the usual practices should
not be interfered with. The play, on the whole, though
not first-class cricket, showed that it would not be
inadvisable to encourage these matches in the metro-
polis in the future, whereby our intercolonial elevens
might be improved.
The race for third-class yachts for the jfi‘2o prize
given by Commodore Gilchrist, of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron, came off on Saturday afternoon, and
resulted in a victory foijthe Guinevere. The conditions
were a flying start at the firing of the one o’clock gun,
the yachts to be manned by Corinthian crews except
the man in charge. The handicaps were as follow :
Guinevere, 10 tons, J. H. Want, scratch; Harpy 10
tons, C. H. Benbow, scratch; Daphne, 10 tons, C. T.
Gedye, 7 minutes; Pleiades, 9 tons. E. W. Knox, (4
minutes ; Mabel, 7 tons, J. R Love, 10 minutes; Doris,
5 tons, F. Milford, 15" minutes. Guinevere led at the
start, and though the Harpy pressed her closly all
one portion of the race, she won easily. The official
timing was : Guinevere, 4h. 41min.; Harpy, 4h. 45min.
15sec.; Pleiades, 4h 52min. 20sec.; Daphne, 4h. 66min.
20sec; Mabel, sh. 14min. 22sec.; Doris, sh. 19min.
50sec.
“ Pendragon ” in the Referee referring to the
differences between Trickett and Ross, indulges in the
following insinuations: —“ Rarely or never has anger
similar to Trickett’s been shown, unless the winner has
in some way failed to keep his promise to the loser. I
have no desire to know the secrets which exist’between
Trickett and Ross, or between the friends and backers
of either, but when bullying begins in public, a word or
two of comment on the transaction is but fair and
natural. It is patent to anyone who knows what sport
and sport's professors are, that Trickett’s objection to
Ross could hardly be based ou the mere fact that Ross
had proved the superior sculler. The refusal to fake
the money subscribed, and the torrent ot abuse heaped
upon Ross are significant enough, when taken in con-
nection with other and equally singular features of the
engagement. There can be no doubt the better man
won, and for that we ought to be satisfied.” But then
Pendragon is an uncompromisingly malicious enemy
of Trickett’s.
HELP THE BRAVE.
Laycock defeated! 'Tis, indeed, too bad.
Laycock defeated, n\e»ns Australia sad;
Laycock defeated, means Australia done;
Laycock defeated, means much money won.
Then let the winners, each and ev’ry man.
Stand by the one who’s done the best he can
For Austral’s glory; and when Laycock lands.
Place something handsome in his honest hands.
Brave Edward, too, who has on us a claim
For more than sympathy—his ev’ry aim
Was like to Laycock’s. Then let our nation’s pride
Bring fittest help to each from far and wide.
F. HOU[?]H.
Forbes Hotel, 15th Feb., 1881.


Tailors, Drapers, be.
JB. Y O U D A L E,
• FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
65 6 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Jnst below Liverpool-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen's Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAYID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
Comprising Coat, Vest. 1
and Trousers, in all the q 9 ..
favourite colours Well V
cut and finished in the per 8 ’
best manner. I
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In light Homespuns and'
thin Cheviots and Ban-
nockburns. for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for ! 48s 6d
general wear, in neat | per suit
checks and mixtures. )
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Light and'i
Durable, the materials 1 R o„ ___
having been well}- „, 4 per
shrunk before being j 8 x *
made up. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
rin Superior Orientan
| Tweeds, cut in the
| latest style, and J- ;r.
finished the same as f per sulX-
ordere I clothing.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
("Beautifully light
Orient j Texture, permanent
Serg Suits. j colour and very dur-
V. able in wear.
38s 6d
per suit
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
out, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
8.8. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
("Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and )■ Orient
most perfect in stvle I Clothing,
and finsh procurable |
in the colony. J
'ln Superior Tasmanian')
l Flannel, thoroughly (
I shrunk. C 188 6 “
{China Silk Coats 16s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s fid each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
ftn
lln1 In
Un
In fine Black Alpaca, 27s fid.
Black Merino, 30s.
Super Sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to fig fid.
~ „ in Self Colours, fis fid.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, fis fid.
Super White and Fancy Maiulla, fis fid.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s fid.
("In Superior, all Wool - )
Tambary Tweed, well > 80s each
(. finished. J
r A Special Dress Over-'l
coat, silk trimmings, (
and facings, beauti- >
fully tight, and agree- j
able to wear. J
65s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY Invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
'I 7s fid, fis
In neat fashionable fid, 12s fid,
Tweeds,* neatly cut I 13s fid, 15s
and well, made, and [ fid, 17s fid,
finished. ” I 19s fid per
- J suit.
'ln new shapes, very') 12s fid to
prettily trimmed, and >l9s fid per
~ thoroughly well-made. J suit.
■"ln fancy and plain
) Drills, trimmed
new and effective
L styles.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
, material, and excel
lent shape.
"Ifis lid,
J-fid, 9s
\ per sui
lid, 7s
fid
suit.
■a)
'}
20s to 21
fid p«
suit.
24s fid to
27s fid per
suit.
In superior Navy Serges'
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
r ln light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- | 21 s fid to
able styles, well {-to 23s fid
trimmed and strongly | per suit.
L. made. J
In fine durable Esta-\
mene Serge, admirably 22s to 27s
adapted for school and fid.
general wear.
[For dress we
trimmed and made
a superior manner.
"}
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPBING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot he sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
' lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
. every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
1 printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
(. other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS. —Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best, efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
■( meut of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to B|d; French Percales, from 9|d
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
„ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
_ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
66
ACE CUETAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
AN NIX B E OTH E E S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOB
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
Business Announcements
[Legal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
<59 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary "Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperbangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brush ware.
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
T HARVEY,
U * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS.
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
S
ANDEE LAZARUS AND
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
CO.,
E. P, WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YOEKSTREET.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS,
147 YORK STSEET.
TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND PROPERTY
BUTERS.
Our PRINTED PROPERTY REGISTER (7th issue)
is NOW ready for circulation.
COPIES may be obtained at tbe Rooms, ON APPLI-
CATION, or will be FORWARDED PEE POST to any
part of tbe colony, free of charge.
This issue gives full report of sajes made during the
year ended December, 1880, in addition to other and
full information,
HAEDIE AND GORMAN,
Property Auctioneers,
132 Pitt-street, Sydney.
P
E I N T IN
Of Every Description
G
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN."
P
ERMEWAN, WRIGHT
(LIMITED),
and
CO.
Capital—£loo,ooo, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1858.)
RAILWAY and GENERAL CARRIERS, CUSTOMS
and
SHIPPING AGENTS.
Hon. HENRY CUTHBER^M.L.C.
C. W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson)
JOHN PERMEWAN, Esq. J.P. I Manaeintr Directors
JOHN E. WEIGH, Esq. S Directors.
SHfhfOiJ
Registered Office —120 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Sydney Office —King.strpet, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Branch Offices at
Ararat
Avoca
Albury
Beaufort
Beechworth
Belfast
Benalla
Ballarat
Ballarat East
Bridgewater
Bethunga
Baimsdale
Colac
Clones
Corowa
Dimboola
Deniliquin
Dubbo
Everton
Geelong
Hay
Horsham
Hamilton
Maryborough
Murtoa
Moama
Narandera
Orange
Sandhurst
St. Amaud
Sale
Wiurga. Wagga
Wodonga
Wpngaraitn,
Wah gun yah
Portland
With Agencies at Adelaide, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Bourke, Balranald, Booligal, Forbes,Parkes, Wilcanma,
Hillston, and Molong.
Sydney, Ist February, 1881.
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BDTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OB. POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OP BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
G.uments, Posted 2s.
PEESENTS AT ALL PEICES
SPEING MILLINEEY NOW OPENING.
DEE83M AKING.
Ml L L I N E R T.
T ADIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
JLi WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PEE
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
(JIHE
BEST
AND LARGEST
of
STOCK
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL
482 (late 484) oeokgb street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16e
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
ter All goods well made, well shrunk, and m
perfect fit guaranteed.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
AT
HORDERN’S
PITT STREET
IN
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
You can buy CARPETS @ 1/11,
FLOORCLOTHS @ 2/11
(seasoned). XX
Every description of FURNISHING —
not Furniture. XX
XX
63* Remember: XX
J. L. HORDERN, ||
In PITT STREET—2II. XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements :
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
<m London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marc lib of the Southern Hemisphere.
ABOUR BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 215, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840.
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
rate than at any other house in the colonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO..
Manufacturers and Importers.
gj. AND S. PEEDDET.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves.
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
£JHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKBT.
TEA, Is per Ih.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.


Hotels, &c
F O S T 1
The BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANT*
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should be carefully co npar
are being imported into New S<
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK'S
other brands, when they will fin
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.;
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
JgASTEEN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND A]
Direct special attention to the:
CHOICE TEA
c
A good useful tea ... .
Good family tea
A really first-class tea .
A fine blend of Indian an<
Finest blended tea, unsur
Finest Indian peko»... .
Superior coffee
CABLES AND ANDEKSOS
724 GEOEGE S
HAYMARKE'
Hotels, Be o.
O
CCIDENTAL
WYNYARD SQU
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTJ
WM. TANNER, Pro
(Late Club House Hoi
Situation Central, Terr
c.
W. ROB
MARKET STEE
POE FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
Hotels, &(
rOHN A. W 1
WINE GKO WEE & Ml
COOLALTA WINE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf. C
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Braniton,
PEICE LIST <
COOLALTA
Extra fine quality, 42s.
EED WINES Quarti
3. <
Bungundy 30
No. 1 Coolalta Eed 21
No. 2 16
Yin Ordinaire 12
WHITE WINES.
Muscat 30 1
No. 1 Coolalta 21
No. 2 „ 16 I
Yin Ordinaire 12 (
I
ICE. I C I
E
FROM FILTER El
Supplied nr 'ant Qc
AND AT REDUCE!
Direct from tl
CITY ICE COMPAN
WATERLCM
Office— 24 O’OONNEl
T
HE
GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by th
Manufactured
JOHANN MARIA
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Eh. (G
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Eo;
By appointment to His Eoy!
Prince of Wab
Prize Medals:—London, 1851; Nei
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (4
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili)
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (1
not represented.) Sydney, 1879
Notice.—The Public are cautioi
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudub
Colognes; and notice is hereby g
Marks being duly registered, all i
ceeded against to the full extent o
JOHANN MAR
J
WHOLESALE AG
MESSRS. RABONE, F
3 WYNYARD SQ1
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING M
Hotels, &c
The compagno
CAFE AND CATERING C
The ladies’ and gentlemen's BEST
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured tl
Harrietts, late chM de ouisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne
Three hoars notice required for pj
•The spacious rooms of Messr
been greatly enlarged, re-decoi
Every attention will be paid t<
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30, 1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE
serve up in their be
OYSTER S'lEWS
OYSTERS SCOLL
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATUI
Patrons of our Theatres and Cc
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposr
w
EHLOVV’S WOULP
PARRAMATT
SUPERIOR ACCOMMO DATIOl
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the
moderate charges. First-class B<
use of those who are fond of recre
B W
Z E A
To Tourists and others Visit
WAIWERA H
(Hot Springs and Mineral (
NEAR AUUKLA
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMU
(Sulphur and other Baths of evi
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, 1
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the i
HANA TERRACES, one of the \
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, A
Visitors to Auckland can make f
at any of these favourite establish
On receipt of telegram or letter
Manager," at Ellerslie, the fullea
immediately supplied.
ROBERT GRAHAM, P
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF
AND ROTORUA WATERS
BY Dr. ECCLES.
Lake House, Rotorua, 121
I have visited Waiwera (Hot
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terri
on a tour, for the purpose of invest!
of the various Hot Springs. I hav
at the hotels owned by Mr. R. G
thank him and his managers for tl
tended towards me. The Springs
tioned places, I feel conddent, po
able medicinal qualities, whilst th
cessible from the last-mer bioned
every person possessing the me. ns
internal arrangements of the varit
made to meet the requirements ol
ists, and this object has been fully
A. LESLIE A
B.A., M.B., Cantab; F.i
po ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighb
and the Public gem
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW £
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT VICTOI
Is in the midst of all that is worth e
Mountains. First-class acoom:
and gentlemen. Comfort, clet
combined with moderate charg
J. G. C O U S I
Proprietor.
P.
E, L A.
Wholesale and
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimulant
WOR'-S
The Name of M. MOSS & 00,
Is on every Genuine Bottle,
JUNIPER
T I
sS
5
E
&
as
r
Qml
sft
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—O MAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condith
Ale that preserves this bram
mation. Common bitter r’rude beer
but no other brand has tuo same n
ter, the fulness on the palate, an
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C'
fore cautioned against traders whi
extra profit represent the cornmoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, .
CO., Sole Agents,


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
the[?]cal profession.]
Lotti Wilmot is in Wellington, N.Z.
The Australian Proliques are at Kiama,
A ballet-troupe attracts by its new ditties.
At latest dates Edwin Browne was at Gympie.
Cole’s Mammoth cleared <£6ooo in New Zealand.
Miss Louise Beaudet took a benefit in Dunedin.
The Carandinis are going to Western Australia
soon.
Hoskins is much affected by Florence Colville’s
death.
The Juvenile Pinafore troupe shortly visit New
Zealand.
Haselmayer and wife are performing in Wel-
lington, N.Z.
It is said tho Lynch Family shortly go to Java
and the East.
The Herr Bandmann Company did good payable
biz. in Dunedin.
American clergymen warned their flocks against
Sara Bernhardt.
Dampier opened at the Surrey Theatre, London,
in “ The Eoyal Pardon.”
Harry Braham, at last accounts, was at the
Sun Music Hall, London. ,
Grattan Riggs is playing at Wellington, N.Z.
He next visits Auckland.
Clara Stephenson, at latest, was in Christchurch.
She shortly re-visits Australia.
The Simonsen opera company has been doing
fair business at Christchurch, N.Z.
A Christchurch journalist, named Irzett, has
written a comedy called “ Terrible Terry."
Miss Leaf, Harding, and the Barry O’Neil are
giving entertainments in the S.A. provinces.
Kelly and Leon’s troupe open at Maryborough
(Queensland) for another season on the 22nd.
The Lydia Howarde Company opened in Auck-
land on the Bth February. There was a good house.
The Simonsen company produced “ Maritana ”
in Christchurch, N.Z., with H. F. Towle as Don Csesar.
The Garrick Amateur Dramatic Society, Mait-
land, are going into work again. Plenty of blood and a
new piece.
A showman has made an offer of marriage to
the two-headed girl, hut he is in mortal fear of a suit
for bigamy.
Edwin Booth, it is maliciously observed, may be
the Bayard of the stage, but Sara Bernhardt remains
its boneyard.
Sara, the high-kicker of the Soldene Burlesque
Company, has been honored by having several mules
named after her.
lima de Murska and company (which includes
Signor Susini) are giving concerts in the principal
towns of England.
Our Auckland correspondent informs ua by
letter that Kett.en played ten nights in Auckland, and
drew payable houses.
It is the actress who receives the greatest
number of presents that is now-a-days looked upon as
the most gifted artiste.
Travelling companies have given the Queensland
bonifaces such a treat that it is now requisite to pay for
everything in advance.
Seagrave is about to travel a company in North
Queensland. He will have his hands full to get through,
for money is very scarce.
Miss Amy Horton, the charming burlesque
actress, is open for a short engagement previous to her
departure for San Francisco.
It is expected that Adelina Patti will visit the
United States next Autumn. Preliminary arrange-
ments are already being made.
Our old friend, De Belleville, is described by
Sarah Bernhardt as not only a great actor, but the
handsomest man on the stage !
Dampier recited “The Charge of the Light
Brigade,” at the Surrey on 28th December, so effec-
tively that he was recalled four times.
At latest date J. K. Emmett was hard at work
once more, and offering a thousand dollars to anybody
who finds him “ on the drunk ’’ again,
Wybert Reeve drew good houses as Count Posco
in “The Woman in White." He obtained the heartiest
enlogiums from both press and public.
The well-known old pro., Jack Flintoff, who
supported Bandmann on his first trip to Australia, is
advance agent for Thompson’s Zulu War.
The Bnrford-Clinton Company, with Grattan
Eiggs still playing lead, did a capital business in
the Masterton and Manawatu districts, N.Z.
The Yaidis Twin Sisters, at one time of Simon-
sen’s Frolique -, are performing at Lnsby’s Summer and
Winter Palace, London. £6O a week salary each.
Mias Annis Montague has a full sweet soprano
voice, and executes wonderfully well. Her rendering of
“ It was a dream ” is a triumph of ballad singing.
Nat Douglas’s pet dog “ Jim,” died suddenly in
Adelaide, on the 25bh January. Poor Jim was well-
known to the pros. It is supposed he was poisoned.
Dampier writes that “ The World,” judging by
its success in England, ought to bring in a fortune to
the purchaser of the Australian copyright. Bland Holt.
Walter Reynolds recently took a benefit in
Wellington, when there is'an immense house. It
was packed, and the largest seen in that town for years.
What queer impressions some people leave be-
hind them! Says an Auckland paper "E. S. Smythe
is still in Sydney, nominally resting, probably
scheming.”
The success of “La Fille dn Tambour Major ’’
in Melbourne is phenomenal. Since its production on
Boxing Night the curtain has never been raised to a
vacant seat.
The Marchioness of Lome has written and
published a pianoforte piece entitled “ The Doctor’s
Gallop.” On the title-page the Eoyal composer figures
as “Louise Campbell.”
On the occasion of his farewell benefit, prior to
his departure for New Zealand, Zulu Thompson will
give away a splendid chestnut thoroughbred buggy-
horse, by New Warrior.
George Giddens, who travelled in these parts as
lead to “Little Nell, the California Diamond,” is play-
ing at the Criterion Theatre, London, in the new
comedy, “ Where’s the Cat
Professor and Madame Haselmayer opened at
the Theatre Eoyal, Napier, on January 17th, to a
capital house, and continued to be well patronised up
to the close of his season on Jan. 28.
A tribe of North American Indians, headed by
their princess, Marie Lulu—a beautiful, Mghly-eduoated
girl—are shortly to appear in England in “ The Queen
of the Forest,” written specially for them.
Outside audiences are all the rage in North
Queensland towns. Halls are so constructed that the
people who don't pay any admission can hear and see
the performance much better than those that do.
Barlow and Walhalla’s American Circus is doing
first-class business in the western districts of Victoria.
The Brothers, who are really splendid athletes, are a
great draw .in themselves, Sydney—about April.
Augustin Daly, the New York manager, has
imported a strange novelty from Judea in the shape of
five Nautch girls, two jugglers, and three snake
charmers. They appear in a drama called “ Nisido.”
Messrs. Meade and Maginley refused Manager
Haverley’s offer of £6OOO for the copyright of their
plav, “ Deacon Crockett,” rnnning at the Union Square
Theatre, New York. They hope to make fire times that
amount by it.
The “ Eoyal English and Comic Opera Com-
pany,” the stars of which are Mrs. J. H. Fox and Mr.
Charles Florence, have been playing at Beechworth to
rather small houses. However, Mrs. Fox’s benefit was
well attended.
A Parisian impressario recently took with him
to Brussels a theatre all ready constructed and in-
geniously packed in boxes, comprising lustres and
seats, which can be put together and taken asunder in
forty-eight hours.
Miss Julia Hudson (Mrs. Byers) benefited at
Eockhampton on 7th inst., in “ The Stranger.’, The
excessive heat interfered with the attendance, but the
performance is spoken of by the Northern Argus in
terms of Mgh praise.
A. M. Palmer’s “False Friend” Combination
(says a San Francisco paper), of wMoh Eleanor Carey,
Fred, de Belleville, Kate Benin, John Wilson, and
other Californians were members, recently collapsed,
in consequence of bad business.
The Gunnedah amateurs have announced
“ Bombastes ” and “ Turn Him Out.” “ Life ”is
expected, as several of the townspeople figure in the
burlesque, and intend to figure in the egg-throwing
should their names be mentioned.
Miss Harriet Jay, the novelist, made her dehut
as an actress at the Crystal Palace, London, on Nov. 17
last, in a play founded on her own novel, “ The Queen
of Connaught.” She sustained the role of the heroine,
and was supported by Mr. Henry Neville.
The Kelly and Leon Comedy Opera Company
(Liddy,Manager)now comprises the following :—Messrs.
Kelly, Lester, Bolton, Bogarde, Dignam, Hagan,
Frazer, Abrahams, Misses Wangenheim, Lucy and
Amy Frazer, Dignam and Hetty Croucher.
Mdlle. Sara Bernhardt’s oil-paintings and sculp-
tures were placed on exhibition in the Union-square
Theatre, N.Y., on the night of Nov. Id, when many
invited guests were present. All the works were
pronounced failures, except a high relief in marble of
Ophelia.
Parramatta people have aesthetic tastes. A bad
“ nigger” minstrel show there a few weeks ago drew
two great houses. At Fairclough’s Shakespearian
readings on Tuesday last there were ten persons
present. The talented tragedian gave back the money
taken at the doors.
Mr. R. J. Roberts (“ Merry Moments”), recently
playing as a member of the London Comedy Company
in Australia, reached London in the latter part of
November, and was to appear in the Christmas panto-
mime of “ Eobin Hood,” at the Eoyal Alexandra
Theatre, Liverpool.
A New Zealand journal states that Lotti Wilmot
has been gaining notoriety, profitable to herself pos-
siblv, but not over nice. She lectures every Sunday
night, to a shameless crowd of males—composed princi-
pally of boys and old men—who listen to her utterances
with apparent relish.
Under the title of “ Cleopatra’s Needle,”
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke have introduced a novel
illusion. The needle, which is apparently an empty
frame, is placed on a stand, and from it issue several
living figures. The mystery is how the figures get
there, the frame being to all appearance isolated.
Mr. Gordon Gooch, A.R.A.M., writes to us
from Auckland, stating that Mr. Luscombe SearelTa
“ Wreck of the Pinafore,” which in his opinion is a
most meritorious work and highly creditable to the
composer, achieved success despite the fact that it was
handicapped by inefficient rehearsals and chorus.
Between the acts one night at the theatre a
retired actress, who had gone upon the stage to see a
friend, went to the curtain to peep at the house. A
gentleman, who did not recognise her, approached on
tiptoe, and put his arm round her waist. “ I beg your
pardon,” said the lady, calmly, ‘ll don’t belong to the
company."
The veteran Hoskins has been writing to a New
Zealand friend, and states that he longs for the climate
of that colony. Speaking of Miss Pomeroy, he says :
“ She is a very charming woman, and a clever one, and
indeed an educated, thinking, practical one. There is
purpose and intensity in her acting.”
Fifteen responsible men —theatrical managers
and other speculators—applied to the London owners
of the copyright for permission to produce “ The Pirates
of Penzance” in Australia. The successful applicant
was Mr. J. C. Williamson. His chances were doubt-
less favoured owing to the big hit he made with
“ Pinafore.”
Chiarini is now in Bombay adding to his troupe
Chinese, Indian, and Japanese jugglers. He returns to
Sydney shortly on another tonr through Australia and
New Zealand. Mr. Beattie, Cbiarini’s advance agent,
has arrived at Cooktown. Chiarini has added to Ms
menagerie several Bornean ©orang-outangs, boa con-
striotors, &c.
As Herman Vezin was going down the Strand,
he was jostled by a rough. The affair led to a little
altercation. Mr. Vezin passed on, and a bystander
said to his assailant, “Do you know who that was ? It
was Herman Vezin,” “Whv didn’t you tell me
before?" was the reply. “If I’d’ave know’d. I’d’ave
basked ’im for a border.”
Mr. Charles Turner has one of the finest tenor
voices we have ever heard. It is of great power and
compass, and though the middle register is slightly un-
even, and the lower notes have a tendency to the baritone
quality, his high notes are resonant and powerful, re-
minding his hearers of Eosnati in his best days. He
sings artistically; his “ Message” was a great treat.
The Australasian gives a most favourable
notice to Cole’s circus. Amongst other things it says :
—“ln Part 11. Mr. William O’Dale, who rides five
horses, stands out most prominently of all. You have
no doubt seen five horses ridden before, but hardly ever
so well, and with such perfect grace, and by a man who
might stand for a model to the best sculptor in the
world.”
Theatrical matters must be in a bad state at
Wellington, N.Z. Says a local journal: “An ac-
curately dress-clothes’d man was the only spectator in
the dress circle. By-and-bye he pulled out a cigar-case,
and began to smoke. They threatened to turn him out
if he did not desist. He said he was obliged to smoke
because he was so lonely. Couldn’t they turn some
other people in ?”
We are glad to see by the Melbourne Argus, of
3rd February, that a Sydney young lady (Miss A.
Drewe), possessing considerable musical attainments,
has taken a prize for musical compositions at the
Melbourne International Exhibition. There were about
sixty competitors. The same lady took a prize and
received a medal at the Sydney International ExMbition,
also for musical compositions.
A Christchurch critic gives Miss Leonora Simon-
sen “ taffy " for her playing of Azucena in “II Trova-
tore.” Here it is;—“ Miss Leonora Simonsen delivered
the recitative in a voice of singular purity and great
power, her high notes ringing out with telling effect,
while her low notes were equally full. Her enunciation
was faultless, her gesticulation quite in keeping with
the character she was assuming, and her intonation
perfect."
If the following announcement, which appears
in the daily papers, be a joke, it is not at all a bad skit
upon the ordinary run of charity concerts given by
foreigners “ Agram Concert.—Herr Heino Hugo in-
tends to give a concert in aid of the hard struck
inhabitants of Agram. Artists who feel inclined to
assist him are requested to address, Sec." If the
annouaesment be intended seriously, it is none the less
diverting.
A dramatic sketch, “ Zealandia’a Welcome to
the Australian Cricketers,” from the pen of Mr.
Thomas Bracken, of the Saturday Advertiser, was
lately produced by the Bandmann company in Dunedin,
N.Z., with the following cast: —Zealandia, Miss Louise
Beaudet; Australia, Mias Grace Hathaway ; Concord,
Miss Louisa Crawford; Victoria, Queensland, New
South Wales, West Australia, and South Australia by
ladies of the company.
This is how the great Charters Towers Thadeus
speaks of the Kelly and Leon Opera Troupe:—“ The
first nights here are not generally successes, for some of
the ferociously-moral females on this field send their
‘sheep-dogs ’ first to judge of the performance and its
perfect propriety before they trust their precious selves
to witness it. This is a peculiarity of Charters Towers
grand dames. They are nothing if not virtuous aua («*
angles." Some one has been giving Teddy either very
bad French or very bad whisky.
P. T. Barnum, who is lying ill in New York,
asked the prayers of the clergy and congregations of
Bridgeport, Conn., his home, on the 11th, in the follow,
ing appeal: “In a spirit of firm reliance on the omni-
potent arm of Him who doeth #ll tMngs well. I hereby
request the prayers of all the congregations of Bridge-
port for His blessing to rest upon me, with thanksgiving
for all the mercies wMch I have hitherto so abundantly
received at his hands. P. T. Barnmn.”
The memorial to the late Adelaide Neilson has
now been placed on the grave in Brompton Cemetery.
It consists of a colossal and a beautiful cross of rich
Sicilian marble fixed upon a base of the same material,
with a marble enclosure to correspond, and is similar to
that depicted in the well-inown engraving of the “ Eock
of Ages." It was contemplated having a sculptured
figure of Miss Neilson as Juliet, in a recumbent
position, but the idea was abandoned for the simple cross.
Madame Ristori’s tour in Sweden has been a
triumphal march. The King was most enthusiastic,
and overwhelmed her with kindness. The students at
Upsal waited fifteen hours to buy tickets for her
performances. Special forms of glasses were fabri-
cated in her honor, and named for her, and at her de-
parture from Stockholm she had a perfect ovation.
She now goes to Germany to play at Hanover, Leipsic,
and Munich, before her return to winter palace in Eome.
The N.Z. Printers’ Register says: — “Mr.
Huxtable, the talented bass travelling with, the Caran-
dini company, was at one time night messenger on one
of the Dunedin dailies. The sub-editor of the journal
is allied to the great “DanT O’Connell "by the tie of
nationality Mr. Huxtable sometimes amused himself
by rehearsing music when not running proofs or carry-
ing telegrams. The irate sub. one evening waited upon
Mr. Huxtable, and requested Mm to “go outside and
make that noise, and any passing butcher would mis-
take him for a ‘ caff,’ and kill him for Christmas.”
Mr. Abbey, the New York manager, who pro-
posed to produce the Passion Play, has abandoned his
intention, but he has contrived to “ take a rise ” out of
a good many of the reyerend gentlemen who howled so
loudly against Mm and his project. He left tho
announcement that the scheme had been given up until
Saturday evening. The parsons had written fresh
sermons in denunciation of his plans, and had no time
to prepare “discourses” on other subjects. Conse-
quently, they had to do the extempore business, and
according to advices to hand, some of them made a
pretty mess of it. Eevenge is sweet, and Abbey didn’t
see whv he shouldn’t enjoy a little.
A very effective arrangement for the prevention
of accidents has been adopted at the Opera House. It
consists in the footlights being protected by brass
guards, whereby the possibility of anything coming in
contact with the gas-jets is prevented. The effect is
pleasing, and in no way interferes with the light. The
most perfect provision has been made at this theatre
for extinguishing fire. Hoses have been fixed at different
parts of the interior, supplied by a three-inch main led
direct into the building. TMs, with the addition of a
large tank fixed on the roof, reduces the risk from fire
to a minimum, and should be extremely reassuring to
an audience. The work was performed by Messrs.
J. Skinner and Co., King-street.
A party of boon companions, Billy Emerson
among the number, iuvited the late Billy Manning, the
well-known minstrel, to join them in a social time at a
fashionable drinking-place. Whether by accident or
design, each one of the company—excepting Manning—
carried a gold-headed cane. Manning hadn’t a penny in
Ms pocket, and the rest of the party knew it. They sat
down and one of the boys wrapped with his gold-
mounted cane and ordered luxuries. When they were
disposed of, another wrapped on the table in the same
way, and the order was repeated. So it went around,
each one in turn attracting the attention of the waiter
by wrapping conspicuously with his gold-headed cane.
When it came Manning’s turn he looked across the
table to his friend Billy Emerson and said, with great
composure, “Mr. Emerson, be good enough to rap for
me. I have no cane.”
The ex-Viceroy of India has handed to Manager
Hollingshead, of the Gaiety Theatre, London, another
play from the prolific pen of the first Lord Lytton,
which was found by Ms son among his papers. The
story, like the plot of Ben Johnson’s old comedy,
“The Case is Altered,” is founded on Plautus’s play of
"The Captives.” Its scene is laid in iEtolia, in the
days of ancient Greece, and as in the work of the Latin
poet, the action arises out of the efforts of a father to
regain his sons, taken prisoners in childhood by the
Elians. Tho consignment of the younger son, Tyn-
dirus, to servile labour in the stone quarries by his
own father, in the belief that a trick has been put upon
him, and in ignorance of the young man’s true
parentage, is also strictly followed; but a love story is
interwoven with the English play in accordance with
the requirements of the modern romantic stage. Mr.
George Eignold will probably sustain the leading part
in the new play in London.
“ Where is the Cat,” the new piece produced at
the Criterion Theatre, (London, in succession to
“ Betsy,” is described as even more uproariously,
noisy, bustling, and laughter-moving, and delightfully
improper than even “ Pink Dominoes,” or “ The Great
Divorce Case.” Vanity Fair says : “ The piece has no
story; it is a tangled skein that would take volumes to
unravel; there is a plot at the bottom of it all, but
who cares for plot when one can laugh at the odd
situations and extraordinary dialogue ? Are not the
most sacred situations of life made mock of ? Do not
wives and husbands shock all good wives’ sense of
propriety ? Note, 1 pray you, her sense of hurt pro-
priety in this one passage. A random memory. A young
woman in the play remarks that she does not know
‘whether she is standing on her head or her heels’ (a
bewilderment shared by the audience); and, with
indignant glance and rising colour, good wives
seterely observe, ‘ That is a position no decent woman
should ever have a doubt about! ”
The “ Danites,” at the Queen’s, has had a most
successful run, and bids fair to last at least another
fortnight. Miss Annie Mayor, as the unfortunate Nancy
Williams, displays great dramatic power, showing much
promise for her future in the profession she has adopted.
Mr. Theo. Hamilton as the poetical, rugged, yet withal
gentle Sandy, has scored a signal success. The “Par-
son” of Mr. J. J. Wallace is one of the greatest deline-
ations of character acting it has been onr lot to witness.
The conflicting passions for good and evil in the turbu-
lent yet honest nature of the digger are most vividly
ponrtrayed; his acting in the scene on the mountain
with Billy Piper is most intense. In the genial part of
the “lludge ” Mr. Harry Leston revels; he has full
scope for his powers as a humourist. The part, good
in itself, develops his originality of humour, and wMIe
he is on the stage the fun is high. There are many very
dramatic situations in the play, notably the entrance of
the school teacher when the boys are “ a-layin’" for
her, and the farewell of the parson in Sandy’s hut.
Gastronomics at Enfield.
Enfield was the scene of a porridge-eating tournament
on Saturday last. Two matches had been arranged—
one between old Dick Brown and Long Tucker, for £5
aside, and the other between Jem Kern, of Burwood, and
Jack Snllivan, C.M.Q., for £2 aside. In the first match,
the betting was 2 to 1 on the tannery skeleton, owing
no doubt to the easy manner in which he “ eat the head
off” Bill Lane on the previous Saturday. However, old
Dick looked fresh, and the odds were freely taken by
his fanciers. The struggle commenced at half-past two,
and both men dashed off amidst the cheers of their
admirers. They finished the first quart together; then
the second; then the third; both still together;—but
at the end of the fourth quart Tucker looked consider-
ably swollen, and stopped to ask for more elbow-room.
The crowd retired a few feet, and the struggle proceeded.
In the middle Of the fifth quart, a spoonful of Tucker’s
“ west the wrong way,” and he had to be led outside
for a while. When he was tit to continue, it was found
that old Brown had “stuffed away” seven quarts.
Tucker’s hitherto pleasant face assumed a grief-stricken
appearance, and his backers could see at once that he
had “funked.” However, he pushed on hopelessly to
the end of the fifth quart, when he got “ full up," and
stopped work. Old Dick was loudly cheered when the
■takes were handed over. —The other contest —between
Jem Kern, the jockey, and Jack Sullivan—did not excite
■o much interest. Sullivan started the favourite, as
it was generally known that he had been reared on
porridge. However, his backers picked the wrong man,
for “ ould Andy’s bhoy ” led all the way, and, as when
Sullivan “ threw up the spoon," his opponent was a
quart ahead, and had " plenty left in him” the struggle
was rather a hollow one. Kern then challenged old
Brown to a match for £lO aside. The money was duly
deposited, and articles signed.
Writes “ Back Blocks —“ It is said that dur-
ing the late dry weather in the Humbug country, feed
became so scarce that the kangaroos were in the habit
of going down to the Lachlan to several hay-staeks,
and that they used to carry away armfuls to feed their
weaker brethren at the former place. This is a deve-
lopment of marsupial instinct which has hitherto
escaped the notice of our natural historians. I am
certain that this is true, as a Dundoo Hills man told it
to me. He added that he knew some other customs of
the kangaroo, which evidenced the possession by it of
such a remarkable amount of intelligence as to lit it for
employment in the Civil Service—after all sons and
cousins of Members have got places. On pressing Mm
for proof of what he stated, he said, ‘ Were I to have a
misunderstanding with any of the adjoining inn-
holders, and should any of the kangaroos from the runs
of the latter come on to mine, those on my land would
immediately surround them, force them into the trap-
ping pits, and sit on the bank and pelt them with
sticks. One old man kangaroo died here recently. I
knew him 40 years ago. In those days he was a smart
young buck, and used to assist me in drafting sheep,
and was even more particular than I was in drafting
out any of the jumbucks which strayed on to my land
from the neighbouring runs. Latterly, however, as the
country got opened up, and station hands became more
plentiful and wages cheaper, he gave no assistance
whatever. Well, on his death I had him opened, with
a view to preserving his skeleton. In his paunch I
found a copy of Governor Phillip’s proclamation on
landing in Sydney, several uninteresting papers, as well
as several copies of a religions journal published by
Dr. McGnven, of Sydney, and a copy of “ Murmurs of
the Stream.” I can’t make np my mind where to bury
the body, not knowing what particular theology he
affected, and were I to decide from what I know of Ms
character, I would be certain to be accused of sectarian
bias. He spoke Gaelic fluent ly.’ ”
We are about to acquaint our readers with a
very harrowing fact. There are dissensions in the
camp of the Young Men’s Christian Association. The
society is in debt, and these halo-adorned young
mortals object to the general secretary, Mr. David
Walker, getting all the “ fat ” in his salary and all the
lean at meal times; in short, there is a thunder-clap
hovering over the holy institution, which bids fair
each minute to burst and scatter confusion among
muffin and-crumpet communities generally. From
what we can learn, the Young Christians all want to
be secretary. There is no.t one amongst them but
considers himself cut out by the hand of Providence
for Mr. Walker’s position, with its attendant £400 per
annum. Some of these honeyed youths argue, “ How
can the Association afford to give Mr. David Walker
£400 a year, when the concern doesn’t ‘ gee ?' ”
Then again, they complain of the manner in which
their sixpenny banquets are— we use a phrase of
the brotherhood—“ slung ” at them. Another says
that when Mr. Walker doesn’t fancy what is
on the table, he orders the care-taker to
go to the four corners of the metropolis in search of
tripe, polonies, cocks’ heads, and other patrician
dainties. A third budding young angel calls our atten-
tion to the fact of the Dutch cheese always appearing
in a profuse perspiration, and he also—in tremulous
oaligraphy—draws our attention to the circumstance
PEPPER AND SALT.
THE CAPTIVATING CONSTABLE.
A LAT OF LILYDA[?].
“ On Tuesday night a young girl, named Maria
Eeville, who was residing at the Crown Hotel, Lilydale,
was taken suddenly ill, and died. The deceased, before
her death, stated that she had taken strychnine, be-
cause Constable O’Callaghan had declared he would not
marry her, though engaged to her some time. An
inquest is to be held on her body.”
Maria was a love-sick maid,
Of habits, too, most propel,
Who, though she earned a fairish wage,
Went mad about a “ copper.”
One day he said, “ Oi’ll marry thee,
O fairest av Ave’s daughters I”
Qnoth she, “ Sweet, I am willing, now,
To halve your country quarters.”
Maria loved, with a fond love,
O’Callaghan the dapper ;
Alas ! that such a gallant trap
Should turn out such a trapper!
She served him with the best of brands,
From bottles with glass stoppers,
When—like weak mortals —of a mom
That brave “ cop.” had “ hot coppers.”
When off his beat, at eve he came.
Of “ nips ” she’d be the tipper ;
Ah, shame on Mm who took those nips
To turn out such a “ nipper.”
But when for wedding bells tho maid
At length enquired with feeling:
She, to her peeler, for those peals.
Most vainly was appealing.
She pointed to his breast, on which
He had been wont to hush her,
And cried, “ Oh, crusher of my heart.
You’re still my poor heart’s crusher.”
She drank the strychnine up, and said,
• “ Tell him he needn’t call again—
My last heart’s throb is on the beat
For Constable O’Callaghan.”
The Crowner came and held the ’quest ;
The jury were divided—
Half thought she’d taken her own life,
And half she’d suicided.
So then they put her in the ground—
That earthen dormitory—
The sexton then closed up the grave.
And we’ll close up the story.
“ALL AMONG THE BRUSHES.”
A [?]OMANC[?].
Dorothea Bold
Was a creature luscious ;
Dorothea sold
Pretty combs and brushes.
Arctaxerxes Brown
Frantically rushes
Blank-street, up and down,
Thirsting to buy brushes.
Arctaxerxes stops.
Oh, and his face flushes;
In one of the shops
Arctaxerxes rushes.
Dorothea’s there
(How the sweet gyurl blushes).
Looking—oh! so fair,
’Midst the combs and brushes.
Dorothea’s small,
Dorothea’s scrumptious ;
Stranger he is tall.
Stranger he is bumptious
Dorothea’s mild,
N ever, never harsh is;
Stranger is “ no child,” —
Look at his moustaches !
“ Want—aw—want to buy—
(Gad, the gurl’s delucious !
What a melting eye!)
Nice—aw—pair of burushee.”
In a bird-like tone.
Sweet as any thrush’s,
Dorothea (“ alone ?”)
Murmured ‘‘Yes, sir—brushes.”
Stranger caught her eye
(How the nymph gushes) ;
Stranger heaved a sigh—
As he took the brushes.
« * » • •
Ere the week has run
(Charm of beauty much is),
A. and D. are one—
‘‘All among the brushes.”


that the pie-crust of the Association is regarded by the
members as a dread aud awful mystery. Several state
that they are willing to accept the position of hon.
tecretary, provided it’s a case of Walker and David.
This, perhaps, is because they have an eye to the tripe
and cocks’ heads. We consider that if Mr. Walker
parts his 6d. (as no doubt he does), he has a perfect
right to eat what, and as much as, he pleases. It is a
curious fact, however, that with all the blow that there
Iras been about the Y.M.C.A., it is (whatever it may be
morally) financially a failure. The banqueting hall
inflicted a loss upon the Society last year of £23; but
then this is not surprising, for who could expect to
make a profit out of feeding the Christian Association
man at 6d. a pop ? At one time this year the Association
got “gone” upon ttfe “ wonders of the deep,’’and so
an aspiring youngster was got hold of who “ ran ” the
Board that ha could make an aquarium. Well, £2O
was found for this laudable object; but after the work-
man had tolled and spun for a week or two, it was
discovered that he could no more make an aquarium
than he could a telephone. This being the ease, the
secretary scoured Lower George-street till he rooted
out a Chinaman named Gin Kee. The Celestial said:
Missee Walker, me aquarely m ikee lumber one,” and
*n baing promised £8 for the job, he set to worn. The
result was a hideous engine that paralysed the Asso-
ciation with terror. The water in it used to roar like a
cataract, and after the “ specimens of the finny tribe”
had been in the tank half an hour they used to be seized
with a mania for swimming on their backs and changing
their color with dolphin-like suddenness. So eventually
it was arranged to accidentally break the plate-glass
with a bit of the Association “plum duff;” and the
machine was sold to a furniture dealer for £2 10s., who
required it for a widow client, who wanted a cheap
mausoleum for her deceased “lord and master.” It
will thus be seen that things are a bit unsettled at the
corner of Pitt and Park-streets. There is not much of
it, of course —hardly anything. At the same time, this
will let the public suspect that Mr. David Walker and
bis “ young men ” are not always blowing trumpets and
singing hallelujah. We have always regarded ourselves
as akin to being benighted through not belonging to
the Y.M.C.A., but since we heard about the aquarium
we are becoming slowly and gradually reconciled, to our
heathenish position.
Mr. Tallentire, the Council Clerk at Hill End,
is gathered to his uncles. This gentleman was widely
known and largely respected. When, in his official
position, he had to distrain, it was with a tenderness
almost beyond bailiff; and, in short. Hill End was in
possession of a man in possession whom it greatly res-
pected. At his funeral, we understand, there was a
considerable levy, and much distress was apparent
among the mourners. It is stated that the Hill End
Times is about to publish a biographical sketch of the
deceased officer, which will comprise many of his varied
experiences, extending over a long life spent in the
colonies. We trust so : for then we shall be in posses-
sion of a tale entire of Tallentire.
A short time ago, the landlord of an hotel near
■Singleton, who is the owner of several horses, ran his
horses at the annual meeting at St. Albans. After the
first day’s races, a telegram was sent to his better half
(who of course remained at home conducting business),
stating that he had won both handicaps and expected
to win the big money on the morrow, “ aud yon may
stand a few shouts.” This news so elated the good
woman that she soon became filled np to the tongue
with liberality. A decent number had assembled,
ostensibly to hear the result of the first day’s contest,
so the wassail-bowl went freely round, and as the over-
joyed landlady insisted on doing the whole of the
“ shouting,” a very jolly evening was spent. Some few
days after he himself arrived home dejected in mind
and body, for he had lost every race he had entered for.
The telegram was a fictitious one, sent by a friend of
those who were awaiting its arrival within beckoning
distance. He bore the ruinous news like a martyr.
They say that the practical joke is not without a moral,
for mine host aud hostess were never known to “ return
the compliment,” and the dots and dashes were in-
tended to force a change.
The wheel of fortune’s turned, and thia time
David’s got a nasty jar. Well, he can’t be always
successful. Only a little while back he slung stones at
Goliah, and cooked him, and now he slings stones in the
Town Hall trenches, and gets cooked himself. We
rarely say rough things in this paper, and wouldn’t
especially like to mb Mcßeath’s hair the wrong way,
because he has got so little of it. Alderman Taylor,
however, has no respect for even a temperance apostle’s
scalp. On Thursday, in the Municipal Council, he
“ expressed his regret that a contractor and a city
architect could be found to effect such a disgraceful
piece of robbery—as be could apply no other term.
(Hear, hear.)” Then, with respectjto the builders, who
were supervised by drink-denouncing Dave, the Mayor
remarked: “ Ten years’ hard labour was not too heavy
a punishment for the contractors.” Now, both these
iildermanic statements almost amount, in our opinion,
to personalities; and personalities in connection with a
holy man like David are things we cannot too strongly
deprecate. We think there must be a mistake some-
where. Whoever is guilty of a “ robbery,” it isn’t
David. Why, it stands to reason that a man who has
literally for years and years (and necessarily when he
was supervising the rotten foundations of the big hall)
sat upon offences of all kinds, could never have been
guilty himself of deliberately wronging the citizens.
But here goes. The verses may be slightly rough, but
by no means so much so as Mr. Mcßeath’s foundations.
Mr. Boake, the well-known photographer in
George-street, has had a romance occur at his studio.
It was in this wise. He took, some time ago, a fine
cabinet photo, of a very charming young lady. This
portrait being one of his best efforts, he put it in a
show case outside his door. Well, one morning a young
man came running in and wished to buy the portrait, at
the same time earnestly requesting to be supplied with
the name of the original. Mr. Boake, however, refused
both these requests—stating that he must first ask the
affirmative from the subject of the negative. Just as
the young gentleman was about to turn away, disap-
pointed, in walks the lady herself to order some por-
traits The bride wore white something de
soie, Brussels veil, and wreath of orange flowers. They
have gone by the ’Frisco mail, are going to travel to
Paris—perhaps farther —perhaps even as far as Boakara.
“No cards.” 4
A “lecture” was delivered at the Temperance
Hall the other night by Mr. E. Cyril Haviland on
“Spiritualistic Phenomena.” The hall was sprinkled
with a choice selection of the Sydney unemployed, most
of whom were deep in slumber before the talented orator
h id waded half through a long rigmarole which he said
w.s from The Thkosophisx. After this he began to
talk. It became apparent then that Cyril had mistaken
h’s vocation. He will never shine on the platform—
that is unless he shines his boots there. He opens his
mouth too wide, and shuts his eyes too often. At the
pump-handle business he excels. The lecture was the
bald old stuff about the “ harmony of the circle ” that
has been harped upon by every table-rapper for years.
One man near the front row woke up in the middle of the
pitch and cried “ bravo,” being nossibly under, the im-
pression that he was at a dog-fight, and that he heard
the bull-terrier harking outside. When it was all over
Milner Stephen, who was there, chirped in and told us
what he knew about it—which wasn’t much—but to the
apparent disappointment of those present he didn’t
either offer to cure anyone, or te sing a comic song. If
he’d only done the latter, he would, as the papers say,
have sent the audience away in a high state of good-
humour. As it was we all filed out as though we were
marching to instant execution —nothing but the fiercest
monosyllables being exchanged by the enraged yet
mournful procession. As for the gifted orator he went
off in a great hurry and a pair of galoches, or someone
would certainly have had his blood. Next time Cyril
lectures perhaps he’ll send ns round word. We shall
pine until we hear him again.
There resides not fifty miles from Carcoar a
modern Timon of Athens, sound in mind, bitter in
spirit and tongue, and hideous in aspect: his only re-
deeming quality, he grows delicious fruit. A pair of
angels in human form drove out to his place one after-
noon on mirth and mischief, but with latent evil designs
on his fruit. Timon, crowned by an ancient dilapidated
hat, whose leaf drooped over his long ears, met them
on their arrival. The horses, looked at him, stared,
started, and smashed the trap. Here was a fix—two
delicate ladies, many miles from home, incapacitated
from returning, the shadows of evening fast elongating,
compelled to throw themselves on Timon’s inhospitable
hospitality. Well, being young and light hearted, they
soon forgot the misery of their position, thought it
would be good fun to bake Timon’s damper and boil his
billy for one night, and only waited to be asked. The
invitation thus came: —“ Ladies, I am greatly dis-
tressed by this unfortunate accident and well know how
painful to you is your enforced stay. To me it will be
a pleasure and happiness to entertain you to the best of
my ability. Mayhap, it may be my privilege to meet
angels unawares, as my friend Tristram Shandy
hath it in his ‘ Sentimental Journey.’ [Angels smile.]
To you I assign those sofas. May your dreams be
pleasant 1 But, look! you see that door and its keyless
lock? It leads from this room into the next. That
next is my own, and Iam —a somnambulist.” The
ladies “cleared,” and Timon chuckled.
V.
The Two [?]sculapii.
A PATHETIC BALLAD.
(DEDICATED TO SOME YOUNG SYDNEY MEDICOS AND A
BALMAIN BEAUTY.)
There were two iEsculapii,
Each solitary—solus.
And both for the same ghurl did sigh
To marry holus-bolus.
Now, strange to say, they brothers were
Who loved this demoiselle.
And she liked the fraternal pair—
And some one else as well.
Each doctor paid her visits when
His brother was away ;
And if they neither came, why, then
The third one spent the day.
The elder brother, one morn, said
Her finger he would “ fetter,”
When, later, his own brother—la! —
An offer sent by letter.
That evening, when the gloaming pale
Obscured the summer sun.
The maiden donned her hat and veil.
And met the other one.
Beneath a tree they straightway stopped.
And he—why can’t you tell ?
Why, he the question plainly popped—
Yes, popped to her as well.
Now, what did that fair maiden do ?
(Alas, that it should be !)
She, in a tone so sweet and low,
Accepted all the three !
Next day, “ One ” bought a watch so grand :
The other, a gold charm ;
The third came in the evening, and
Just merely gave—his arm.
The climax came, when “ One ” and “ Two ”
Her company did pray
To go to the same picnic —phew !
And spend the holiday.
’Twas then the maid made np her mind
(A fickle girl was she)
For neither invite she declined—
But “ cleared ” with number 3.
« * * * •
They met —those brothers—face to face!
Where their love should have been —
Ha-ha! —upon that trysting place,
There was an awful scene!
And ever since the dreadful day
They got that shocking sell.
That twain of doctors, people say.
Have been—oh, so unwell.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
(BY SHAN[?]HAI.)
We are likely to have a great musical treat in a
few weeks. Attempts are being made to induce Kowalski
and Ketten to give a series of piano recitals conjointly
when the latter returns here, which be is advised as
doing shortly. It will be something to hear two such
artists performing alternately on the same evening,—
the more especially as their styles are so totally unlike.
Ketten belongs to the noisy school, his execution being
wonderful, though at times not harmonious, while
Kowalski is a dreamy player, whose touch is as delicate
as it is true. To coin a suitable word, he reverieses
while Ketten bangs. However, each has got his own
admirers ; but, to my mind, and that of some excellent
judges, Kowalski is, in an artistic sense, the greater
pianist of the two. As to his powers of improvising on
any theme given to him, he is wonderfully clever.
Then, .again, their styles of manner are hugely apart,
Herr Ketten knows the value of assuming peculiarities
and eccentricities as advertising media, while M. Kowal-
ski is too retiring—albeit he is quite the ladies’ pet,
owing to his French polish and enthusiasm when
aroused by a pair of soul-speaking eyes. Then, again,
the fact of being a member of tho corresponding staff
of such a paper -unique in the world —as the Figaro,
speaks of what the little man has in him beyond the
mind musical. If only he were to visit you. I’ll guaran-
tee he’d break as many hearts as he has apparently
done here, judging from the number of fair ones who
haunt his Exhibition piano recitals.
And, talking of Ketten, his “ ways are as peon-
liar” as those of the Heathen Chinee. His dress, his
hired carriage, his arm-flourishing manner, his flowing
locks, are all attractive features. Moreover, he has
such a nice way of loading the said hired conveyance
with a multiplicity of parcels, of an afternoon, in
Collins-street. It makes the silly people who “do the
block” stare, and wonder, and ask questions, and
finally visit the striking one’s performance. In fact,
Mr. Editor, there is nothing like advertising. I re-
member me, when poor Walter Montgomery stopped
one afternoon, while out riding in Collins-street. and
gave a lot of men who were then building our Town
Hall money to drink his health. On being asked why
he had become so suddenly liberal, this answer was
made: —" Why, my dear boy, all these men will bring
their families to see me.” And quite true, too; and it
was for the seli-same reason dear genial Walter used
to have the poodle Prince Alfred gave him driven up
and down Collins-street, seated in a hansom. It pavs,
this sort of thing; and you should advocate advertising
in every shape, as out of it you make your living and
swindle the public.
Referring to Ketten, I must tell you that when
at the Conservatoire de Paris, he used to dress, up to the
age of sixteen, in short pantaloons, and ait upon the
knees of gushing yodng ladies. It is marvellous how
these piano-thumping creatures manage to win the
affections of women. Music must have charms to
soothe, not only the savage breast, but the bosoms of
the fair portion of our common humanity!
The Howitz Concert was a very fair success,
despite the fact that some of those who had promised
to assist their sister artist did not keep faith with the
public, although they allowed their names to remain
on the advertised programme. This was scarcely nice
of Mr. Farley or Miss Ada Willetts. But, however,
through Mr. Macdonald’s management and energy, the
performance was gone through without a hitch, and
resulted satisfactorily to the lady who is leaving us
sorrowing behind her.
Cole’s Circus is a marked success, as it deserves
to be. The horses are the best bred and trained I have
ever seen in such a show, and some of the acrobatic
performances are exceptionally good—notably that of
Mrs. Cooke, who balances herself upon a trapeze some
forty feet from the ground, and swings herself about
without touching the ropes. Honestly, this is a mar-
vellous feat, and the young lady deserves great credit.
I only hope she will not some day make a mistake, and
fall into the arms of her husband, who is always on the
watch below for a fall. Of course it is only right to see
af man and wife embrace, but I fancy such an embrace
as this would unsettle their nerves beyond calculation.
Gresley Lukin is, it is said, endeavouring to
float the great transcontinental railway to Port Darwin
—and I believe he will succeed, as money is cheap, and
he has wits!
Turning to other subjects, I have to tell you in
confidence that every night, when the “ opera’s over,”
there are to be seen driving away two hansoms, each
containing a charming couple—male and female. To
say who these are would be rude, and destroy the
curiosity which should exist about so interesting a
matter. Suffice it to hint that the gentlemen are not
unknown at the Melbourne Club, nor yet in medical
circles; while the young ladies belong to the captivat-
officerial band which adorns nightly the stage of one
of our houses of music. But enough 1! !
Fashion has at last invented something really
“fetching” for women to wear. There is a bonnet coming
into vogue, yclept the “ Blusher.” Any girl who wears
this, be she ever so pale or swarthy, has her face suf-
fused at will by a gentle flush which is perfectly
killing. It is done in this way : The strings or ribbons
of this bonnet are attached to springs which are placed
on the jugular vein, and these springs, when the wearer
bows, press the vein, cause a flow of blood to the cheeks,
and produce the result already referred to. Isn’t it
nice—so nice. Fancy, if we could only invent a spring
to press on the muscles of the female tongue, what a
world of harmonious bliss would not this become ?
Oh ! the very thought of the peace that would reign is
enough to frighten one!
They had strange ways of doing things in
Tasmania in days gone by. Among other queer things
was their manner of advertising. Here is a
Hobart advertisement of forty years ago:—“Mr.
Watchom is seeking assistants, and as inducements
states : “ Hot Supper Evening, Night, and a Mortal
Gorge on Sundays." What would the Coffee Palaces
do if Mr. Watchom’s ghost were to start in a feeding
business now ? At least, he would be kind to the poor
waitresses.
The latest news in the fashionable world is that
Mrs. Langtry has been excluded from the-Princess of
Wales’ entertainments, that royal lady having resolved
to run her pen through Professional Beauties’ names
on the invitation list. This example might be followed
by some of our leaders of fashion with very beneficial
results, I think. Soiled doves are a much maligned
race; but, at all events, they are not daws in borrowed
plumes. They do not assume a virtue they don't
possess.
Perhaps you don’t know that you have in your
colony, living at Mittavong, where he principalises a
large boys’ school, conducted on the English Public
School system, a grandson of Robert Southey, once
poet-laureate of England, author of some of the
best biographies in the English language—to wit.
Nelson’s, Wesley’s, &c.—and the man with whom
Byron had not a few exchanges of literary amenities.
And the Laureate’s descendant is no mean hand at
verses himself, as witness the hexameters on a Parlia-
mentary cricket match once published by the Herald,
and which Dr. Badham did not disown as his.
There can be no doubt that the world (or rather
those who live in it) is getting wiser. It is on the cards
that the ridiculous garments by which woman has tied
herself np and deformed herself will give plaoe to more
sensible robes. This change is being worked for zea-
lously by the Marchioness of Hartington, who is advo-
cating that the skirt, to enable women to walk not as
if on hot bricks, should be divided at the back from
the calf downwards. Now, this is a very good idea,
and would, if carried out, be the means of showing off
the stockings which are now in fashion. The style
would suit an English climate, but why in this
salubrious land of ours should not our fair help-
mates adorn themselves in the woman’s garb of
ancient Greece—the loose flowing skirt displaying on
one side the lonic proportions of a beautiful limb ?
The public competition engendered, however, by such a
competition might result in too much padding and
other attractive artificialities, but it would be the lesser
evil of the two. Again, the ridiculous habit of women
riding sideways is likely to be a thing of the past, too.
Miss Baird and other lady travellers have, in imitation
of Mexican senoras, than whom none are finer riders,
adopted the astride seat as being more healthy and
safer. To accomplish this novelty they arrange them-
selves in loose trousers tucked in Hossian boots,
which the dark sisters of Mexico wear. Some such
changes as these are positively necessary, as I can
testify, much to my annoyance. I went recently to a
picnic, the chief enjoyment of which consisted of
ascending and descending precipitous cliffs and huge
rocky boulders. To accomplish this feat it took all the
reasonable available time of a man, weighing not less
than fourteen stone, but when added to carrying this
portly substance over monstrous and slippery stones, he
had to drag up, keep from slipping down, and occa-
sionally embrace rudely a form not purely sylphic,
enveloped in tight frilling skirts (draw-backed with a
vengeance), and high-heeled shoes, the task was,
I assert, too monstrous for any whitefellow to
undertake. I must admit that I iflwardly cursed
the fashions, and thnsly it is that I have
read with overpowering delight of the glorious innova-
tions which are promised. I have hastened to inform
you of them, sir, lest you may have had, or may yet
have, an experience similar to mine. Before closing
this par., would you kindly let me ask your fair readers
why it is that at a picnic men and women are almost
invariably apportioned off according to weight ? The
fact of two beings of different sexes being embonpoint
does not necessarily signify that their minds, souls, or
hearts are thereby in closer affinity. Indeed it is gene-
rally the other way about. I know I like a seraphic
form in a female: the contrast is so great and so reliev-
ing to the eye accustomed to gaze in the glass at ex-
travagant dimensions, and I should imagine that the
woman who could only admire herself in a cheval glass
sideways, would prefer looking at and talking to a
definition of a line—length without breadth.
The Exhibition is beginning to show signs of
decline. Speaking poetically, it is rapidly falling into
the “ sere and yellow leaf." One misses faces that were
as familiar as broken promises. With the exception of
a few remnants, the surging crowds that lounged there
on the days of its commencement have disappeared.
A few “ furriners,” and other signors who are plain and
’cute Yankees, are still to be seen ogling and drinking
alternately, but a change of a decidedly sombre character
has come o’er the scene. Even some of the landmarks
in human form are gone. The place that knew him
knows no more that observant, long-sitting, Waltham-
railer, Morris Greenwall. He has gone, but the melan-
choly of his face still haunts the spot. He has gone to
the regions of Adelaide, relinquishing the pleasure of
admiring ladies for the onerous task of looking after
the babies of “ Pinafore ” in South Australia’s capital.
And when he has accomplished for the second time
this feat of nursing the “babbies," he will, it is
rumoured, enter into the state connubial, and start a
business on his own account. However, he had better
not try it here, as such things are protected in this
happy land of taxes.
It is said that the Daily Telegraph news-
paper has changed hands, the purchasers being a
company chiefly composed of the Sons of Israel. What
the politics under the new regime will be it is hard to
say, but one thing is certain—that under the Hebraic
rule only such politics will obtain support as will
bring in that commodity without the existence of
which the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
would be nowhere. •
It is said, too, by the way, that a certain daily
in your]colony is losing its chief proprietor. It is alleged
that he finds your climate don’t suit him—nor, for the '
matter of that, your advertisers either.
NOTES FROM BANANALANO.
[BY ONE OF Us.]
AtGympie, the doctors, who prescribe brandy
for every patient, are rapidly accumulating fortunes.
Of course they never prescribe for themselves.
The first steamer of the new British-India mail
service is due in a month. Northerners say this is
the one thing wanting to give them a start. Notes
verrons.
The Mayoral elections have passed off very
quietly, as usual. Nothing short of a first-class earth-
quake, or the day of judgment, will rouse some of these
Sleepy Hollows in the North.
The weather in the North has broken at last,
and the rainy season commenced in earnest. Although
the wet comes nearly a month later than usual, the
country has an improved appearance already.
In the Brisbane marriage market the greatest
demand still exists for barmaids. Results are said to
prove their qualification and extreme willingness to
lead Brisbane society. Consequently, the Queensland
upper ten are “ wiring in.”
The commission to enquire into the steel-rail
contracts should be nearly home by now. The leader
of the Opposition is there, too. So everybody expects
some startling revelations shortly. When mothers-in-
law quarrel, we hear fragments of the family history.
The sons of several of the Anglican ministers
resident in Brisbane are, strange to say, among the
steadiest and cleverest pupils of the Brisbane
Grammar School; Unlike tbeir “Governors,” how-
ever, they are going in for curing bodies instead of
souls. It is conjectured that parents*know which
pays best.
Little attention is paid to the frivolities of dress
in Bowen. His Worship the Mayor and a prominent
member of the Telegraph Department recently appeared
in a public place at mid-day attired in suits of pajamas.
The latter’s rig-out was of anything but a quiet colour,
and forcibly reminded one of the figure on the tins of
American devilled ham.
“ Great Expectations ” are entertained as to the
fun that will be afforded to the Queensland public when.
Parliament assembles, and William Henry Walsh and
Morehead cross lances. There is even betting as to
which will win the battle of words. Neither is polite,
but William Henry, while more forcible in his expres-
sions, has hardly so good a temper as Morehead.
The Portuguese barque Veillepo, from Port
Douglas to Melbourne with a valuable cargo of sugar,
ran on the Pioneer Rock, north of Mackay, and has
been abandoned—having the rock sticking six feet
through her bottom. She is well insured. The barque
Cordelia, Townsville to Newcastle in ballast, was also
aground, in Bowling-green Bay, but got off without
injury.
There is great rivalry between the Northern
ports—Cooktown, Townsville, and Bowen —each place,
of which, according to its residents, takes the palm.
In Bowen harbour, the bottom of the bay is too near
the surface of the water; Townsville has no harbour at
all, but there is a big pile of stones which by courtesy
is called a jetty; and Cooktown is too far north to be
inside civilisation as yet.
Prices are at present ruling high in the Queens-
land slave market, in consequence of a couple of
M’s.L.A. having bought up all the recent cargoes for
their western slave holdings. Present stocks are in
low condition and of poor quality. However, we expect
some choice lots in soon. But, bless yon, they all say
there’s no slavery in Queensland. Slavery doesn’t
mean the mere buying and selling of niggers.
Here is a copy, verbatim et litteratim, of a “ tes-
timonial” given the other day by a Brisbane medico
who calls himself a “ Physican (sic) and surgeon—
“ I have known for the last three years, he has
acted temporarly as Dispenser to Hospital during
Mr. Z.’s abscence. He has an acturate and extensive
knowledge of Dispensing in all its branches, and is
steady and attentive to his buisness. (Signed (!) X. Y.Z.,
Physican and Surgeon."
The Queenslander can get hia nip at the railway
station. Fancy his horror when, ignorant of Sydney
morals, he asked the matron at Redtern for a glass of
whisky. The following dialogue ensued Matron (with
holy horror): “We never sell it.” Queenslander:
“ What, never ?’’ Matron: “No, sir.” Queenslander:
“ Oh, lor ! Perhaps you could let me have a tract or a
hymn. Eh?” Matron(yirtuously severe): “We never
sell anything intoxicating.”
The neglected North is coming in for some of
the plums now. Cooktown is to have a bridge over the
Endeavour River (up which Captain Cook sailed); the
railway from Townsville is being pushed inland vigor-
ously ; and Bowen has the new Supreme Court nearly
finished. The jetty there is to be repaired and extended
at an immense cost, and tenders are out for a new lock-
up and a telegraph-office. How nice it is to have a
Minister for your member!
Considering that there are only two morning
papers, two evening ditto, and about five weeklies
running in Brisbane just now, there ought to be room
for a few more. The Courier’s experiment of starting
an evening paper to run against the now successful
Telegraph will, it is generally considered, result in a
most disastrous failure. Morning paper literature and
evening ditto cannot come out of the same office and
out of the brains of the same men. You can’t serve
God and Caesar. Look at your Echo, par example. [But
then, the Echo isn’t a newspaper.— Ed. B.]
Maryborough is becoming aristocratic. A recent
advertisement concerning an allotment for sale sets
forth that the land in question is “ surrounded by the
elite.” The “ elite ” referred to are, some of them,
male and female, said to be very fond of braedy and
water, and to be very quarrelsome aud noisy at night.
Now, it is recorded that when Mrs. Caudle happened
to be particularly noisy at night poor Mr. Caudle used
to dream that he was a pot of currant jelly. So that
the advertisement alluded to gives a chance to any-
one who’d like to imitate Douglas Jerrold’s genial
hero.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
“ Cavalier C. Romano ” says the Hobart girls
“ kees ”so nicely. What does “ Carlo " mean ?
The officers of “ R.N.J. Europa” were most
remarkably free with their invitations to dinner. Their
hospitality was better then than their discrimination.
A certain gay Cavalier and a Hobart brunette
had an exceedingly awkard spill at the last assembly.
There was intense excitement in “society” for several
days after.
A lay-preacher has been struck off the “ plan ”
for heartlessly jilting a young and charming girl,
without an income, for an elderly dame with £2OO a
year. Oh, you gay tub-thumper !
The “Cricketers’ Bazaar” is engrossing the
attention of Hobart this week. They say they are
going to get £lOOO clear. Where it is to come from
one can hardly tell. Certainly not from the visitors.
But then, perhaps, the officers of the Foreign “Trans-
jiorts ” will assist.
Several maiden ladies interest themselves in ill-
used quadrupeds. There may be seen following them
in their “ constitutionals " a troop of prize mongrels.
On every vehicle that passes they (the ladies and the
mongrels) jointly and severally have “ a heye like a
awk.” They’re the terror of cabmen.
Lieut. Blank (he’s a naval officer, and a
foreigner), not thinking himself distingui enough in
himself, indulges in eccentricities of costume to attract
youth and beauty. His magnificence in equestrian
attire is worthy of imitation. However, he has, so far,
spared Hobartonians a sight of that gorgeous light-blue
uniform so well known in Sydney. The short coat, I
allude to. Teutons don’t look well in short coats.
WHAT ?—DAVID! NEVAH.
There’s something up with temperance!—
The water is too strong!
One moke of the I.O.G.T.,
Ye Muses! has “ gone wrong.”
They’ve “ tumbled ” to the Town Hall “ job ” —
Tom Sapsford “bustthe bubble” —
And Sankey Dave they want to get
la trouble for his “ rubble.”
What, David —YOU ! —it is a shock !
We’ve heard you oft hold forth.
And threaten, if one took a nip.
All sorts of brimstone wrath.
We’ve seen you deal hot justice out
On both the Police Court benches.
And now they talk about “ loose stones ”
That fill the Town Hall “trenches.”
We’ve heard you pitch about the siu
Of going to the play;
And yet the work you supervised
Is quite unsafe, they say.
We’ve seen you send small boys to gaol
For merest trifles, “ neighbour,”
And now they say they’d like to give
Yon, in your turn, “ hard labor.”
Apostle ! for this sinful earth
Not long are your old bones.
So not in trenches, Dave, nor in
Glass houses do throw “ stones.”
And till 'tis time your shroud to don
When on the bench you sit,
Some mercy show, for one day, p’rhaps,
You may icant some of it.


Public Compa
IOMMERCIAL BANKINI
1 SYDNEY.
Established IS
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £'575,000. Eeserve
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Job
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy
T. A. Dibbs, Esq,, I
Auditors :
C. T. Qedye, Esq.; J. E.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson
Messrs. Cape and Wesi
Head Office— George-st:
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; IVN. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector ; G.
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office— 39 Lomba
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.l
Esq.; F. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel C
Branches in New South Wau
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bei
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoaj
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Cc
dra, Cudal, Dub bo, Dungog, Forlx
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundaf
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Eiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloi
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twe
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Naran
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qi
Eichmond, Shoalhaven, Singletoi
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wa
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, W<
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Bris
Maryborough, and Bockhan
Agencies in the Co
Victoria: The Bank of Victorii
Australasia, Colonial Bank <
Commercial Bank of Australia
South Australia: The Bank vt
National Bank of Anstralasi
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dien
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the
London : The London and Westn
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester an:
Ireland : The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco: The Bank of B
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de (
New York: Messrs. Drexel, Mor<-
India, China and Singapore : Tl
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lon
Oktlon : The Chartered Mercani
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of ’
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and C<
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grant:
advances on approved security, a
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, a
lects bills payable at any of the a
elsewhere, at current rates; collect
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investmen
ties in Great Britain or in the coloi
to undertake the agency of Banks i
be mutually agreed upon.
1HE MUTUAL ASSURAN
VICTOBIA (LIMP
Established a.d. 1
NEW SOUTH WALE!
9 Wynyard-street, S
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chf
Ebenezer Vickery, 1 1
Andrew Drysdale, Es
This Society is established for Li
granting of Annuities and Eudown
STBICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the enti
society at every distribution there
LOANS granted on Mortgage or
combined with Life Assurance.
WEDDING PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS,
The most Fashionable and Stylish class of Goods
PEAPES AND Shaw are now mak
NOVELTIES for PEESENTATION, SUITABLE to the S
THE USEFUL
AND
t
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
IN
BEAL AND IMITATION
LACE GOODS.
PAY A VISIT
OF
. INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
LADIES’
SILVEE
AND JET
BEACELETS •
MOBOCCO BAGS
WOODWOEK BOXES
SPKING BOOK SLIDES
EUSSIA LEATHEE BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHEE DESI
ASSORTED SCENT CASKE
EOVAL CABINETS OF GAB
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CAS
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARR
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING (
gold wall and corner bra
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET C
LADIES’ FANS FOE DRESS OR PRO
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS H
HEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF
CEIBBAGE BOARDS AND EOUU
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING
BOUDOIR TIDTEH—A « TJOTTET
Public Comps
The meecantile baj
ESTABLISHED
INCOEPOBATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital,
Reserve Fund...,
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.l
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS :
Jas. Scroggie, Esq
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wils<
SECRETARY
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, G
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Chaj
Agent—G. H. Alexam
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the most favor
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other produce shipped to England
IOENWALL FIRE AND 1
' ANCE COMPA1
CAPITAL, £100,1
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
Q. A. LLOY D A
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STR
SIDNEY.
The national m
ASSOCIATION OP AUSTR.
Established 180
The only Life Office in the Austr
has been conducted on PUREE
01PLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pi
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown am
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, B:
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made
belongs to the policyholders, and is
every THREE YEARS. The bor
been excentionallv lame.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
In,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE.
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
• ris i is mos *' effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Coun
simple, clean, and durable, and can be mode by any intelligent lad with
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free froi
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for f umai
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to n
process as part of our contract.
k. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDC
and effectual took. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window al
-thout cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PEIZE Special a
T
he; best paint in the woeld
X>&
A
CLASTIC
&OHOHKAL
&
A.»
s£
C 5
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns :—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
E CIBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
jyj UEPHY AND
IMPORTERS OF;
SON,
I sj*rvC»«r.
GLASS (all sizes out
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leal
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brush ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE. ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
G.
A. SMITH,
88 KING STREET
(From Rotherham’s, Loudon),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under Q, A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
E. CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
POSTAGE STAMPS.
| TKAMWAY TICKETS.
(Opposite Court-hon
DAELINGHU
T
HE GEEAT PEOMENADI
KING-8TEEET,
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Pri]
See the Bon Marche Pompadour C
each.
See the Bon Marche Wool Beiges i
vard.
February 19/1881.


Business Annonn
W. H ' p 4
PIANOFORTE WAR
352 George-stre
PIANOFORTES. PIA
JUST RECEIVED. JUS'
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPI
A splendid stock to sel
EVERT RENOWNED
AMERICAN OR(
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and s
OVER ALL OTB
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIOI
HARMONIUI
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENO
in all the various n
A FEW GOOD SECOND-E
at low prices, now ii
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hi
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEORGE S
Opposite Wynyard-
Sydney.
B
OYD’S SAN FRANCISCO
260 and 262 GEORGE-!
(over Peate and Har(
Now open to the Public. The hig
Photographs, Oil Paintings, C
Crayon Water Colours, an
will be produce
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fa
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respe
Tobacconist
JAMES
CELEBRATE]
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Let
Best Imported Bn
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and 1
159
PITT st;
Next Post Offic
TIN TAG TOBi*
None are genuine but the E
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKE
dixson & so:
155 YORK STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGjI
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4
m
Manufactured 1
T. S A TW E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBAGO
Clarence-street, S;
rp HO S. J. BOW
ENGINEERS, BRASSY]
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, Sj
HOSE, Ac.
LEON
TIN
BRASS
Chemists and Dr
JhS
m
..V
ÜBL I C
THE following Li
WATSON’S RENOWNED 1
MEDICINES,
90 well and favourably known to ti
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson’s (Vegetable) Woi
Watson’s Gingerbread Wo:
Watson’s Compound Cbloi
Watson's Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Verm
Watson’s "Excelsior Toothi
Watson’s Concentrated Qc
Elixir (a most valuabl
jan be obtained, wholesale and r
factory—
WATSON’S DEU6
581 GEORGE STR:
14 OXFORD STR]
Neae Hyde Park (
(N.B. —The Tram-car atoj
W. D. EAMESj P]
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of 1
Societies of Victoria and Nev
h e cabi
nm
p i
V,
mmam
HI
3
W, D. E. thanks the public ant
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Chemists and Dn
T
AKE NO MO:
but try
EANDEESON’
PODOPHYLLIN LOi
Do you SUFFEE from HEAI
Then try '
PODOPHYL
Do yen Complain of Indigestn
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYL
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, and
EANDEESO
Do you constantly suffer from
If so remembf
PODOPHY]
will soon cure, if taken as i
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDIi
Are any’of your children sick
can safely give ~hem one
for the small members of
TAKE WE]
*ar Remember this, and alwayi
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and <
45 and 47 George-sf
T ROYAL LETTE
The Creates
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’f
AUSTRALIAN OINI
Guaranteed to 1
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Mattel
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any pin
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the publi
long deceived. In fact, people are:
lons regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot belli
But one trial will convince the m
High and low, rich and poor, hav
fits from its use, and scarcely an,
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
iB now the household word of the c
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP Tl
which, taken altogether, prove the.
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
casualties attending the human fr
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OP THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perfi
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephson
ment p
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums ar
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson's Australian Ointment if
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is prov’ed by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is* of a
the natural extracts of the plants fi
and totally free fr*m any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S I
OINTMENT,
which is guoranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and Is 6d each throughout the cole
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD EO
ENTRAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING 81


LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe-
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, aud ORANGES.
Taken according to direction pn the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a or cure of Biliousness,
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the anuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, &c.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, S ',all Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidions attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, aud by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece—Man. Remember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
A PPHOVED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
The Australian Churchman says:
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, aud Co.. Brisbane.
jeWellefj/%: W/\TCFJ P/^T
N|ADE JO m
pL/MN fICUF(Ep, DEjSicdjS.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND^GENEYA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime,
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds
Plain figures—Low prices.
E
N
O
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest to enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of DyspepsiaandTjiver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PAR ALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s Cd.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
JIHE REDFERN AND SUBURBAN TIMES.
A NON-SECTARIAN WEEKLY NEWSPAPER,
levoted to the Religious and Social interests of the
People.
It is circulated in Sydnev, and throughout Redfern,
Waterloo. Alexandria, Botany. Darlington, Chippen-
dale, Glebe, Surry Hills, Randwick, Paddington, Wool-
lahra, aud Waverley.
It contains all local intelligence of interest, articles
on topics of the day, and digest, of general news, while a
large portion of space is devoted to Sunday reading of a
aon-sectarian character. The children are not forgot-
ten. PRICE—TWO-PENCE PEE WEEK, or TWO
SHILLINGS PEE QUARTER, if paid in advance.
Publishing Office (Open Daily) :
CLEVELAND ST., NEAR PITT ST., EEDFEEN.
AGENTSJ. J. Cooper, 857 George-street South,
near Railway Bridge; G. Wallace, 125 King-street; J.
W. E. Clarke, 5 and G Market Buildings, George-street;
E. E. Cole, George and King-streets ; William Bullard,
342 George-street; E. Turner, Brickfield Hill: J. Whi-
ten, Railway Station; G. Hill, 79G George-street south;
Jas. Hill, 792 George-street south; Mrs. Mihell, Eegeni-
street, Redfern; Mrs. Hiuchclitf, Botany Road, Water-
loo; C. Howe, Botany ; S. Downs, Lodge-street, Forest
Lodge; J. E. Spragg, 125 Oxford-street, Sijrry Hills; J.
Kuhn, Rae-street, R-iudwick ; H. L. Smith, Stewart-st.,
Paddington; H. Richardson, 11 and 13 John-street,
Woollahra; F. Brogan, near Charing Cross, Waverley-
It is the only newspaper published in the suburbs
named above.
rpE y
H. HOOKINGS A CO
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS % MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WOELD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We axe in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
{lO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
DC
H
CO
LU
CO
o
LiJ
CO
in
OUE CUSTOMEES EEAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUE LAEGE CASH PUECHASES.
|We But foe Cash—We Sell for Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
| COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS j
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
SHIRTS! SHIRTS! AT MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
GOWING BROTHERS,
Having bought (at a very large discount for cash) a consignment of Gentlemen’s White Shirts,
are now selling the same at manufacturers’ prices.
J. E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STEEET, Half way between Post Office and Hunter Street; and
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George-street, Opposite Central Police Court.
Gentlemen are respectfully invited to inspect the above, as we are convinced they are the very best
value that has ever been offered in the Sydney market. The same goods
are usually sold at 84s. the dozen.
** # See Shirts in Window, 332 George Street. J. E. GOWING, Men’s Mercer, Outfitter, &c.
GOWING BROTHEES’ 3s. lid. military front, open back, White Shirts, are unrivalled.
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 GEORGE STREET,
* Opposite Central Police Court; and
J. E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET,
HALF WAT BETWEEN THE POST OFFICE AND HUNTER STREET.
o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED
lilihimtiMiWM
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
ont which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
pH
\\StO
TRADE
MARK
SsH
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac,
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney. N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO.,
87 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
JJOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
HOUSES FUR-
NISHED
throughout in
the nicest and
most economical
manner. Pull
particulars post
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EVERY WED-
NESDAY. we
keep open until
nine o’clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend during
the day. The
SHOW-ROOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
LARGE
AMOUNTS OF
money have been
saved by pur-
chasing at the
Royal Furnishing
Arcade, which
has from time to
time been ac-
knowledged a
great boon to the
public.
EFFORTS TO
make the Arcade
a centre attrac-
tion have to the
present time been
most successful.
Visitors feel such
a pleasure in
walking through
the Show-Rooms
—they can do so
without being
worried or even
expected to make
a purchase.
SAVE MONEY
by purchasing at
the ROYAL
PUNISHING
ARCADE,
426, & 428,
George - Street,
Next the
Royal Hotel.
THERE CAN
be no better proof
of the increasing
popularity of the
Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade than
the last month’s
record of its busi-
ness transactions
If you are about
to furnish pro-
cure a copy of our
Economical
House Furnish-
ing Guide. You
will find it very
suggestive, and
consequently a
great help. All
classes of goods
are kept. It is
our constant
study to buy in
the cheapest mar-
aud give our cus-
tomers every
satisfaction.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
jyj A N L
YBE A C
H.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS,
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds »f Poultry.
Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies wonld do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEEY BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
3s lid. Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
from Is lid. Ladies* White Cotton Hose from 4|d per
pair. Ladies’ Scarres, Collars, Gloves, Fischns, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, Ac., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested! to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
An old nickname —Lueifer.
Sorghum is bad for the teeth.
A cheap country seat—A stump.
The Border Duty—Pay in advance.
Every street runs, but its sidewalks.
A duck suit makes a nice bathing costume.
Book of Eebel-ations —Duffy’s-Young Ireland.
A short-tailed dog cannot express his feelings.
A printer has always pressing business on hand.
The finger of Providence has never been ampu-
tated.
Misers like come-penny. They don’t like to be
a loan.
Tobacco weakens the sight but strengthens the
breath.
The tree has always its trunk ready for the
Spring.
The only saint that goes down in Victoria is St.
Albans.
It’s a wise mining stock that knows its own
par nowadays.
One-half of the world doesn’t know how the
other half lies.
Soup Kitchen Motter: —“Who enters here
leaves soap behind.”
The way to meet a man of doubtful credit is to
take no note of him.
Woman’s inhumanity to man is what keeps the
broom market steady.
A man cannot help being satisfied with his lot
when he’s buried in ft.
A hint for certain Sydney agitators. Nature’s
water scheme—Drop it.
The time an oyster is most eloquent is when it
is carved on a tombstone.
You’re quite safe at Newtown. Your dog
barks and mosquitoes bite.
“I’m after you,” said the shark. “None of
your iaw ” said the bather.
“Half Way House,” is a better sign for that
pub at Petersham cemetery.
A Frenchman says that the soul of wine is at its
top. It must be a cork soul.
Provincial graveyard notice —“ Only the dead
who live in this town buried here.”
A Sydney Presbyterian has every Sunday his
choice of going either to Beg or to Steel.
This is a political dogma—No man should
change his opinions, except to adopt yours.
Goak by Dr. Beg. “ The place all mortals fear :
That bum from which no traveller returns.”
There’s no quarter of the globe where there’s
such activity as in the hind quarter of a mule.
When American preachers give a farewell ser-
mon, husbands keep the keys in their own houses.
“ You’ve changed your tailor ; he sends you good
Sts still, doesn’t he ?” “ Yes, but he sends the bill too.”
The freedom of the press. When you wind a
clock up it goes, but when you wind an article up it
stops.
It must have been in the green-cherry season
that Tennyson wrote, ‘‘Prom our waist places comes
a cry.”
A steam-bicycle has been invented. This will
fill a long-felt want. A steam bicycle may explode and
kill its rider.
Whether old age is to be respected or not
depends much upon whether it applies to men and
women, or poultry.
As a rule, those men who growl loudest about
woman’s extravagance are the very men who are fondest
of a woman’s waist.
Nature is never at fault, says a philosopher.
How comes it then that there’s a coolness between
night and morning ?
Plant your neighbour’s cats early. One under
each fruit-tree will help your crop and do your neigh-
bour a good turn besides.
The Lyee said : “It was a wonder how he es-
caped with his life.” Wouldn’t the wonder have come
in had he escaped without it ?
“ Can love die?” inquires Mary E. Nealy, in a
recently published poem. It cannot, though it gets
dreadfully adjourned occasionally.
A blind man is without prejudice—he judges
men not by their color ; and as to their creed, ten
chances to one if he sees any difference.
We never yet saw a working man, who hated
kings and queens, bad enough not to take a couple from
the bottom of the pack if an opportunity offered.
Phonological: “My dear, was your head ever
read?” “Well, that’s rather personal, but I don't
mind telling you it was till I used that hair dye! ”
When a wag told the old lady that the people
eat a dead bullock at the Dubbo railway opening, she
changed her mind and went to Albury on her pleasure
tour.
“You are always this way when you are that
way,” as the boy said when getting a thrashing from
his mother, who occasionally takes more than is good
for her.
A Dublin wife has forbidden her husband
carrying a pistol in the rear pocket of his pants, her
reason being that she is afraid that he might blow his
brains out.
“ When I was a boy,” said a very prosy, long-
winded orator to his friend, “ I used to talk in my
sleep.” “ And now,” said his friend, “ you sleep in
your talk.”
The poor ye have always with you. Yes ; that
is so. We have, as yet, heard of no process by which
we could be enabled, for a single moment, to break
away from ourselves.
Several boys weeding onions were prostrated
by a stroke of lightning. Boys whose fathers own
onion beds should cut this out and paste it in their
fathers’ hats.
*“ I never argy agin a success,” says Josh Bill-
ings. “ When I see a rattlesnake’s head sticking out
of a hole, I bear off to the left, and say to miself * that
hole belongs to that snake.’ ”
A rather gaily dressed young lady asked her
Sunday-school class, “What is meant by the pomps
and vanities of this wicked world ? ” The answer was
honest, but rather unexpected: “Them flowers on
your hat! ”
A man full of liquor rolls out of a drinking-
place. “ There, husband! ” exclaims the wife of the
proprietor, “look at that. Haven’t I always told you
that you don’t put half water enough in your wine ?
One would suppose that water was scarce in this
country."


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Archbishop Vaughan turns the scale at 16
stone.
Miss North is now engaged painting the flora of
Tasmania.
Sir Henry Parkes is 66 years of age, and Sir
John Robertson 65.
Mark Twain, the great American humorist, is
said to be going mad.
Captain Eussell, E.N., brother of the Mar-
chioness of Normanby, is dead.
Canon Moreton, who is in feeble health, left for
Europe by the Rohilla, on the 11th.
Friends of the late Florence Colville (Mrs. Hos-
kins) intend erecting a monument over her grave.
The Bourbon newspapers in Paris complain that
President Grevy does not smoke tobacco or play
■billiards.
A scion of a noble house, who is heir to a large
rent-roll in the old country, is at present a senior-
constable in Sydney.
Madame De Friedland, the real live daughter of
a real live duke, who was once French ambassador to
the Court of St. James, is in prison for forgery.
Mr. Charles Ligar, for many years Surveyor-
General of Victoria, died recently in Texas. He drew a
pension of £5OO a-year from the Victorian Treasury.
Mr. D. Kennedy, formerly manager of the
Bathurst branch of the A.J.S. Bank, died at his resi-
dence in the town named on Thursday last, aged 69.
Ex-Queen Isabella, now a fat, ungainly, but
good-natured looking woman, drives about Paris in a
handsome landau, drawn, not by horses, but by four
mules.
A memorial is to be raised at Beechworth to the
late Dr. Mousse, for many years medical officer of
the local hospital, who was recently drowned in
Queensland.
Bishop Barker leaves for England in a few days
for the benefit of his health. This will be his Lord-
ship’s fourth visit to the old country since his arrival
here in 1855.
Many of her readers will be sorry to hear that
Mrs. Lynn-Linton, the clever novelist, is very ill in
Florence. She is threatened with total blindness, and
is shut up in a dark room.
Not content with lecturing, Mr. Eiehard A.
Proctor intends, upon getting back to England, to turn
publisher by issuing a newspaper devoted to the moon
and other scientific matters.
They believe in perpetual mayors at Parramatta.
Or is it that there’s only one man in the Council of that
borough fit to govern ? C. J. Byrnes was elected for
the seventh successive year on Friday.
Judge Cope is to be chairman of the Victorian
Police Enquiry Board. Mr. James Williams, formerly
■editor of the Pleasant Creek News, and late leader of
the Age reporting staff, will be the secretary.
The Duke of Westminister, says a London
paper, has £3OOO per day, including Sundays, and a
prospect that twenty years hence the then life-tenant
of the Grosvenor estates will have nearer £5OOO per day.
Mr. W. H. Dendy, one of the oldest Victorian
colonists, is dead, aged 80. He it was who originally
took up, at £1 per acre, the ground on which now stands
that 'magnificent Melooume suburb, Brighton. Mr.
Dendy having- become involved in financial difficulties,
had to sell the ground for £430. Subsequently, he
engaged in many speculations, but was not successful.
For some years prior to his decease, he resided with
members of his family at Walhalla, where he died.
The many friends of Superintendent Hare, who
so greatly distinguished himself at the Glenrowan
affair, will learn with regret that the Victorian Govern-
ment are about to reward him by stationing him in the
out-of-the-way township of Kilmore. The loss of his
society will be much felt in Melbourne, where he and
Mrs. Hare have been looked upon as leaders in
fashionable circles. Mrs. Hare will be missed on the
committees of many of the local charitable institutions
in Melbourne.
The Hon. George Thornton fell into the water
at Manly, last Friday night, while jumping off the boat.
The hon. gentleman went pretty nearly to the bottom,
but soon rose to the surface, bag and umbrella in hand;
while young George, with coat off, stood on the paddle-
box, keeping his eye on his father. By the way, the
hon. George is the most enthusiastic believer in salt
water resident in Sydney. Summer and winter he
travels along the beach at 4 30 a.m., on his way for a
dip, and such has been his practice for thirty year*.
This explains how he is so often mistaken for his
good-natured, humorous son; but what we now await
is an explanation concerning the fact that Mr. Thornton
jun., is often mistaken for his father. A paradox here.
A writer in one of the London papers, referring
to the (then) approaching Bartlett-Coutts marriage,
said that Cupid never had anything whatever to do with
the affair, and pointed out in support of his assertion
that the following paragraph had appeared in one of
the dailies:—“ The Baroness Burdett-Coutts and Mr.
Ashmead Bartlett are prolonging their stay at St.
Leonards ” “ This,” remarked the writer, *‘ is how one
couples husband and wife, and, as in spite of the
rumours about plain gold rings, &0., the lady and
gentleman still remain bachelor and spinster, their
names should not be coupled in such a doubtful and
misleading manner. What would be thought if the
Morning Post came out with the following:— * The
Earl of Sahara and Miss Topsy Twinkleton are pro-
longing their stay at Brighton,—even if we all knew
that Sarah was desperately in love with Twinkleton and
meant to marry her some day ?”
Worth, the dressmaker, has apparently attained
his apotheosis. A little play has just been brought eut
in Paris in which he is represented under the name of
“Sampson.” The actor who takes the part is made up
to wonderfully resemble the dressmaker.
Mr. Percy Waddy, the well-known captain and
mainstay of the redoubtable Singleton Cricket Club, is
about to sever a connection with Singleton of many
years* standing. He goes to fill a lucrative position as
manager of the Commercial Bank at Orange.
It has been stated that the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator, of Austria, with other distinguished Germans,
have been staying in Melbourne under assumed names.
They are said to have come out by last mail, and have
now gone toiTasmania.
Lady Dudley is said by the papers in Paris to
have an ethereal and sylph-like figure ; but as she takes
gloves at 5J and boots at 4|, her figure has evidently a
good deal of British solidity about it. And, by the way,
less than three years ago all the Australian papers were
trying to make people believe that a certain young lady
who had been saved from death under romantic circum-
stances, was a kind of Cleopatra. The real facts have
never even been whispered until now. They are thas
she weighed over 12st. and took sixes in boots.
Garnet Walch is not lazy. Pantomimes at the
Melbourne Royal and Sydney Queen’s; Exhibition
letter in forty or fifty papers; “ Victoria in 1880 ” —a
bulky four guinea volume, just out; a smaller book—
“ A Little Tin Plate and Other Verses ” —in the press ;
an Easter book to follow ; plays in hand for two stars ;
and “ New South Wales : Historical, Descriptive, and
Picturesque ” looming in the distance. Good for
Garnet.
Sir John Eobertson has been twenty-five years
in public life. This is the period of his actual connec-
tion with politics—that is, from 1856 to the present
time; but for several years prior to his entering the
legislature, be identified himself with various impor-
tant movements, particularly in relation to the public
estate. A glance at the programme which he
enunciated in 1856 shows that Sir John has in the main
been steadfast to his principles. He entered public life
with four good causes—Manhood Suffrage, Vote by
Education, and Free Selection,—and
he has lived to see them become statute laws and to
observe them in operation, day after day, to the advan-
tage of a free and prosperous people.
Louis Yon Tempsky, son of the gallant major,
is now in one of the smaller islands of the Sandwich
group, of which Honolulu is the chief, keeping a
butchering business with his brother Randall, doing
very well in it, and looking as handsome as ever. Yet
surely something better might have been the fate of
Major Von Tempsky’s heir.
Mr. R. H. D. White, who recently won a big
lawsuit and came into the possession of very valuable
property in Melbourne, was banqueted at Mudgee prior
to his departure. Mr. White was manager of one of
the local banks, and long before his good fortune was
known had very many friends.
It is thirty-three years, this month, since Leich-
hardt penned his last letter. He was at Canning Downs,
and stated his intention of starting on the 28th down
the Condamine, up the Victoria, and then north to the
Gulf of Carpentaria. This is the last authentic news
ever received of the ill-fated explorer and his party.
There is a loud whisper in mercantile and other
circles that a well-known, fast-driving doctor and the
wife of a city soft-goodsman are likely to acquire con-
siderable knowledge upon the subject of matrimonial
law at an early date.
Mr. William Forster will be entertained at a
public breakfast shortly after his arrival in the colony,
probably about March 3. The circular of invitation
states that “ the reception, in accordance with Mr.
Forster's wishes, is intended to have no political
significance. It will be simply a welcome home to a
highly honorable colonist, whose unsullied reputation
and great ability we all admire.” Forty seven members
of the Legislative Assembly have already signified their
intention to be present.
Mr. Julian E. Salamons, who returned to the
colony by the Peshawar, on Saturday, is, we are glad
to say, in restored health. The brilliant little gentle-
man found telegrams at Albany and Glenelg, securing
him for severa 1 cases, and the mail steamer had hardly
entered Sydney Heads before she was boarded by
enterprising solicitors with pockets full of retainers.
On Wednesday the Executive Council appointed Mr.
Salamons, a Q C.
Patrick Murphy, an old identity, died at the
Deniliquin hospital on Sunday afternoon last, aged
107 The poor old fellow had been an inmate of the
institution off and on for a period of 20 years or more,
but of late years he preferred to live outside the bounds
of the hospital, making a camp for himself, and rely,
ing on the assistance of the charitably-disposed for
the means of subsistence. Having been convicted at
Nenagh, Tipperary, in 1815, when 31 years of age, of
knowing too much about an illicit st’ll, Paddy was
deported to Botany Bay. He landed in 1817, during
the governorship of Major-General Macquarie, and
after 18 months received a conditional pardon. He was
engaged t>v his Honor Judge Wylde as servant when
he left Sydney for Hobart Town, to hold the first
Criminal Court at Tasmania in 1819. Previous to then
all persons arrested in Van Dieman’s Land were tried
in Sydney. After leaving Judge Wylde, Murphy came
up to the Monaro country, and was there employed by
Messrs. Benjamin Boyd and Co., the well-known
squatters of the day. Thirty years ago he took sheep
to Lower Riverina. Murphy was bom in 1774.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Ready maid —The girl waiting for rn offer.
A suitable dower for a widow is a widower.
There are 1,800,000 marriageable girls in France.
A woman is like an army, she is lost if she has
no reserve.
There is a report that the Queen has become a
teetotaller.
Marriage after all is a legal affair. Isn’t one
generally non-suited ?
It takes two to make a quarrel, except when a
mother-in-law is around.
The native Roman ladies are very handsome,
tall, and exquisitely formed.
The great beauty of hanging a witch is that
it prevents her from lecturing.
After all, the Duchess of Edinbugh’s measles
were no better than other people’s.
“ Spanish girls,” says London Truth, “ are
the most sprightly flirts in the world.”
A Glasgow lady has worn a pair of earrings 63
years without their being once removed.
There’s a girl of our acquaintance who’s been
twenty-one now for a number of years back.
Sara Bernhardt, when working at home in her
studio, is always to be found in male attire.
A little girl says her prayers thus: “ God bless
pa and ma, and my sisters, and my cousins, and my
aunts.”
Milton was against his daughters learning foreign
languages. One tongue was enough, he thought, for
any woman.
A lady is very much like a gun: her locks may
be all right when she sets her cap, hut she won’t go off
without powder.
It was not till the clothes of the fruit season that
Eve began to wash. How many bosoms have been
wrung since then 1
A Newtown girl says she dare not go out in a
thunderstorm. “ She is so attractive—and the light-
ning—you know! ”
Henry VIII. was an eccentric wooer. He never
popped the question. He just married a woman, and
axed her afterwards.
“You are an idiot!” angrily exclaimed a
domineering wife.—“ So my friends said when I married
you," replied the husband.
“ Divorce is well enough,” writes a French-
woman to a Paris newspaper, “ but for myself I prefer
widowhood. It is surer still.”
An old lady being asked to subscribe for a news-
paper, declined, on the ground that when she wanted
news she manufactured it herself.
One of the prettiest widows in New South Wales
is in the Civil Service. She resides within twenty miles
of Sydney, and visits Government House.
Melbourne society just now is distracted over
the question whether a groom may not wear the ticket
when his watch happens to be left for repair.
The widows of Brigham Young do not bedew his
grave with tears, and this is fortunate, as if they should,
and all at once, it would wash the whole business away.
Mr. and Mrs. Garland, of Newcastle, recently
celebrated their golden wedding day. They married in
1831, and their ages then were nineteen and seventeen
years respectively.
“Are you not afraid of the Colorado beetle?”
said Ange to her bashful lover. “No, dear; but why
do you ask P ” “ Oh, nothing; they only eat up every-
thing green, you know.”
“ How shall I have my bonnet trimmed,” asked
Maria, “ so that it will agree with my complexion ? ”
“ If you want it to match your face, have it plain,”
remarked the hateful Harriet.
At eighteen, girls wish a husband much more
than they do a lover, but they dress themselves in such
a way that the exaggerated luxury of their toilets drives
away the one and attracts the other.
Certain Russian ladies occupy unofficial diplo-
matic positions, some of them receiving from the
Government as much as £13,000 annually for entertain-
ing, bribery, and other secret service expenses.
A man recently died in America, and he left his
entire fortune to a young fellow. There was but one
stipulation. That young man must marry before enjoy-
ing a penny of the legacy. “ What a nice old man."
At Owanyilla, near Maryborough, Queensland,
the other day, on the occasion of the first marriage
celebrated injthe new church, the bride, Miss M'Kenzie,
of Forndale, was presented with a Bible and hymn-
book.
Mrs. Garfield, wife of the American President,
refuses to have her face photographed or engraved.
Mrs. Garfield will be assisted at the White House by
a young English lady of rare character and accom-
plishments.
Dr. Johnson once silenced a lady back-biter,
who was condemning some of her friends for painting
their cheeks, by the remark that it is a far less harmful
thing for a lady to redden her own complexion than to
blacken her neighbour’s.
“I have left all my fortune to my wife,” says
the philosophic spouse of a Xantippe, “on condition
that she shall marry again.” “What is that for?”
“ I wish to he sure that there will be some one to regret
my death when I am gone.”
When two men fight a duel about a woman
there is almost always, somewhere, a third man, who
laughs heartily at their folly, and while risking nothing,
gains, perhaps, everything. Anyhow, that’s how it
was at Melbourne the other day.
The brevity of the ball-d’-ess has shocked
London Truth. The particular shock was the appear-
ance of a (Übutante at a ball in a white tinsel dross over
white satin, the latter very tight, and certainly not
more than six inches below her knees.
Ladies along the line of the tramway complain
that the employes throw kisses at them. It must be
very annoyimr. The tram goes generally at such high
speed that few kisses hit the mark; and, besides, the
wrong woman is always imagining that the kisses are
meant for her.
A romantic wedding took place recently at
Bordeaux. The groom was a convict, who wore hand-
cuffs at the ceremony, and htd three policemen for his
best men. His mother and sisters were present, and
for the honeymoon the bride was allowed to talk to
him alone just five minutes.
The three countries where they marry the earli-
est are Hungary, Spain, and Greece. Marriages of boys
of fourteen and girls of twelve are not uncommon.
Among the wedding presents there are always several
dolls, and the happy pair spend the honeymoon in play-
ing hide-and-seek and hop-Scotch.
Vice-Chancellor Malins has committed a young
man, named Frederick Arthur Law, to prison, for
marrying a ward of the Court, with a fortune of £7OOO,
after he had been forbidden by the Court to hold any
communication with her. This is only a family
quarrel—one law locks another Law up.
A daring editor writes as follows: Artists and
anatomists are universally agreed that the shoulders of
a woman should be narrow and the hips broad. The
modem school of “ wasp ” waists and “ pinafore ”
tippets induces the inference that a lady of fashion is
broader across the shoulders than across the hips ; and
the modern female torso has come to resemble an
inverted pyramid Finally, artists have in all ages,
save the present one, come to the conclusion that it a
lady be normally deficient in the peculiar attractiveness
of the Callipygian Mentis elle doit se Meubler —she is
bound to impart a strictly moderate amplitude of
drapery to that part of her attire which doesn’t con-
front the spectator. There need not be absurd pro*
THE FASHIONS —A NEW DINNER COSTUME.
MR. ARTHUE GARNER, AND MES. GARNER (MISS BLANCHE STAMMERS).


LILLIAN.;ESTATE. LILLIAN ESTATE.
ROOKWOOD, ROOK WOOD, ROOKWOOD,
within five minutes walk of the station.
IN 64 LARGE ALLOTMENTS.
BATT, RODD, and PURYES have received
instructions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, the 19thof February,
at 3 p.m.,
OS- WITHOUT RESERVE.
ALL THAT large block of LAND known as the
LILLIAN ESTATE, subdived into 61 VERY
VALUABLE BUILDING SITES, situate
within EASY WALKING DISTANCE of the
ROOKWOOD STATION, and fronting the
GOVERNMENT RESERVE for BOTANICAL
GARDENS, PARKS, PUBLIC INSTITU-
TIONS, &c., of about 1400 ACRES.
THE LAND has been cleared, and subdivided on a
MOST LIBERAL SCALE, and all the allotments aare
pegged out.
ROADS 66 feet wide, and the SITE, SOIL, and
SITUATION CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
TERMS, ONLY £5 deposit on EACH LOT, the
balance at 5s per week or £1 per month —or a liberal
discount for cash.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS’ ACT.
LITHOS. and SALE PLAN ready.
FREE RAILWAY TICKETS on application.
N.B.—The AUCTIONEERS call SPECIAL ATTEN-
TION to the above sale, as the situation of the allot-
ments is one to GUARANTEE an IMMEDIATE IN-
CREASE in VALUE, as they are MUCH NEARER
the station than the well-known Estates which we have
recently sold, and are daily improving—-viz., “THU
AUBURN PARK ESTATE,” “ WALDRON ESTATE,”
“REGENT’S PARK,” and “ST. JOHN’S WOOD.”
THE TRAFFIC has so GREATLY INCREASED in
this suburb, that the Government have decided to ereet
a NEW STATION and LENGTHEN the PLATFORM,
and
THE TERMS ARE WITHIN THE REACH OF ALL.
For further particulars and LITHOS. apply to the
AUCTIONEERS.
BATT, RODD and PURVES.
BOWRAL. BOWRAL.
THE FAMOUS GIBRALTAR ESTATE.
Being all that elevated good agricultural Land, situate
between two of the most thriving townships on the
Southern line, and consisting of 1400 acres of Land,
subdivided into FARMS, COUNTRY BLOCKS,
BUSINESS and VILLA SITES, as follows
1. NORTH BOWRAL TOWNSHIP, consisting of
NINETY (90) MAGNIFICENT BUSINESS and
VILLA SITES, commanding frontages to CLIVE,.
OXLEY, KING, and CLABKE STREETS, and
the MAIN MITTAGONG ROAD.
2. EAST BOWRAL TOWNSHIP, consisting ef
EIGHTY-SEVEN (87) SPLENDID SITES, com-
manding frontages to MEKRIGANG, GLAD-
STONE, and CARLISLE ROADS, and QUEEN,
OXLEY, and EARL STREETS.
as- These Allotments being so near the BOWRAL
RAILWAY STATION, are especially adapted for
BUSINESS purposes or VILLA SITES.
3. GIBRALTAR TOWNSHIP, being that portion of
the estate nearest MITTAGONG, consisting of
SIXTY (60) Business Sites, fronting the MITTA-
GONG EOAD.GIBRALTAR PARADE,and DEAN
and BRIGHT STREETS, and adjoining the pro-
perty of the Fitzroy Iron Company.
4, MANCHESTER.—ONE HUNDRED AND FITE
(105) BLOCKS, varying in area from -| acre to 4
acres each, fronting MAIN ROADS, leading from
Bowral and Mittagong townships.
5 WINGECAERIB BEE FARMS, consisting of
FORTY-EIGHT (48) FARMS, varying in area
from 9 to 70 each, situate between GIBRAL-
TAR. MANCHESTER NORTH, and EAST
BOWRAL townships.
%* This WELL-KNOWN Estate, the admiration of
everyone, situate in the healthy climate of Bowral,
will be
SOLD BY PUBLIC AUCTION, ON THE GRONND,
AT 12.30. P.M ,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 19th FEBRUARY.
V3T THE TERMS will be —} cash, and the balance
by promissory notes at 12, 18, and 24 months,
bearing interest at 6 per cent, per annum.
*3- THE TITLE IS FREEHOLD.
Messrs. DEANE and DEANE, Vendor’s Solicitors.
HARDIE and GORMAN, acting under instruc-
tions from P. L. C. SHEPHERD, Esq., will
sell by public auction, on the ground, at 12 o’clock
SHARP.
SATURDAY, 19th FEBRUARY,
that large country estate known as
the GIBRALTAR ESTATE, lying between
BOWRAL and MITTAGONG,
on the
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
oar Lithographs may be obtained at the Rooms, and
and an inspection of the land is invited.
This is a clearance sale, and the proprietor has deter-
mined to sell.
The land is worth attention, and with increase of
population, will rise in value.
RAIL COMMUNICATION is regular and frequent,
and in the TOWNSHIP of BOWRAL, besides having
the advantages of a good Public School and Churches of
all denominations, all the necessities of life can readily
be secured.
The drives are many and pleasant; the country
around is undulating and pretty. The elevation is 2800
feet above sea-level.
*3- LUNCHEON will be PROVIDED, and a FREE
TRAIN will leave SYDNEY on day of salt at 7.30 a.m.,
and return from Bowral at 3.45 p.m.
SATURDAY, 19th FEBRUARY,
at Bowral.
G
BAND COMPLIMENTARY QUADRILLE
ASSEMBLY,
tendered by Mr. C. BAILEY to
Mr. WILLIAM INGLIS,
CORNETIST,
late Spencer’s Polytechnic, Head Quarter’s Band, Ac.,
on TUESDAY, February 22.
TICKETS, 2s. 6d. Dancing at 8 p.m. Sharp.
C. BAILEY, M.C.,
at the Rooms, Hay-street.
gYDNEY WATER SUPPLY.
A PUBLIC MEETING of the citizens of Sydney and
suburb i will be held THIS EVENING, THURSDAY,
the 17th, at 8 o’clock, at the Temperance Hall, Pitt-
street, to take into consideration measures to secure
the adoption of the best scheme.
I WALTER McINDOE, of Melbourne, claim
• to be CHAMPION SWIMMEIt of N.S.W., if
not taken up in one week. Will swim for any sum over
£5O or any distance. Would LIKE TO HEAR FROM
ME. CORBETT. Address care of Albert S.MandbbS
and Co., Press and Telegraph Agency, 91 Little Coll ins
street E., Melbourne.
Every encouragement for young people to marry
now. Why, sugar is very plentiful, milk and honey
cheap; all kinds of furniture at ridiculously low
rates —and, as for carpets, sheetings, blankets, &c.,
one has only to look in at our friend Horden’s to he
satiated with household bargains. Verily Pitt-street
hath charms for the economical. — Advt.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTURING
Have opened a Depot in
COMPANY
S
YDNEY, AT No. 1
HARBOUR
DARLING STORES,
STREET.
S
INGBR’S SEWING MACHINES.
- Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for address of nearest Agent.
s
INGEES, THE BEST FOR FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
s
INGERS SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
s
iNGER’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS.
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d, weekly.
s
INGERS THE BEST FOR TAILORS.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
s
INGEB’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
s
INGER’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-Presser Machine.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
HAND OR TREADLE.
s
s
INGER’S The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE -Light to Work, Light to Carry.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
s
s
s
INGER’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
INGER’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
s
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
INGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
S
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
ADDRESS: THE
SINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney.
trusions of the Hottentot kind, but the drapery should
fall into folds. Just look at Hope’s “ Costumes of the
Ancients ” and you will see what I mean. Under the
present astonishing sumptuary dispensation, where
there should be flatness there is rotundity; and where
there should be rotundity there is a ludicrous and most
unhappy flatness.
A man who employed a doctor without a diploma
for his wife, was questioned at the police station:
“ How comes it that you placed conddenee in this man ?
Where did you become acquainted with him ?” “ I
took him because he treated the wife of one of my
neighbours.” “ Did he cure her ?” “No. She died.”
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Cooktown tin mines are turning out well.
Campbelltown sessions before Judge Dowling, Mr. E.
Lee prosecuting:—W. Smith, larceny, eighteen months ;
Louis Yonder Muhl, larceny, twelve months; James
Nelson, larceny and receiving, acquitted. Mr. C.
Burt, the accountant of the Australian Joint Stock
Bank, at Hay, has made an extremely fine collection of
birds’ eggs, comprising those of almost every bird in
the Eiverina district. He is now engaged in getting
together a large collection of snakes. A School of
Arts has been established at Clifton. One gentleman—
Mr. Walker, of Concord —promises to contribute £lOO
when a similar amount has been raised by the inhabi-
tants of the coaly township. Mr. Freeman, the
excellent artist photographer of George-street, is now
engaged in taking photographs of the whole of the
members of the Legislative Council and Legislative
Assembly, to be arranged in two grand pictures. So
far, Mr. Freeman has been eminently successful.
There has been a split in a Church of England choir in
the C district. The only single gentlemen
in it has been requested to leave it.
Alderman N. Hawker has been unanimously elected
Mayor of Darlington. In Charters Towers now, on
Sundays, it takes the police all their time to watch the
publicans, and the publicans half their time to watch
the police. At Townsville they go in for yacht-racing
on Sundays. The genial manager of a well-known
meat-preserving establishment has upwards of a hun-
dred dogs. Truly one-halt the world don’t know how
the other half live. The spectacle of a Son of Tem-
perance Mayer “shouting” a champagne banquet at
Newcastle to celebrate his election to the civic chair
must have been peculiarly edifying to the Order.
A Grafton man, the other day, used a live goose to
clear his chimney of soot. Fined £5. A grand ball
will shortly be given in the Temperance Hall, Camp.
belltown, by some Menangle residents. Two Enfield
men have arranged to grin through a horse-collar in
public for a wager. The other day, a pig was cooling
itself in the Mosman Eiver. An alligator “ went for" it,
bnt though he pulled the pig three times beneath the
water, the latter eventually got away. The editor of
Molong Express says that on principle he must refuse
to insert advertisements, disguised as letters, in his
paper. He adds, however, that he contemplates devot-
ing a column to free advertisements, just to see how it
will answer. Every Saturday, from 10 to 1, Professor
Cavill gives girls under 12 years of age gratuitous
instruction at Lavender Bay baths. The Cairns
Chronicle is dead. The Advertiser, with Dr. Myers
at its head, is still to the fore. The Great Britain
Tin-mining Co.’s lodes at Mole Tableland are looking
splendid. There is a great deal of sickness among the
hands on Mr. Fitzgerald’s sugar plantation at the John-
son Eiver. 60 blacks and 30 Europeans are employed,
and of the latter, 20 are laid up ill with fever. One poor
woman, only a few weeks there, has lost two little girls.
The Hodgkinson Miner has been “ Phcenixed."
The Palmer Chronicle says that two claims at
Stony Creek are down 70 feet, and that one of them
yields £2OO worth of gold weekly. Nuggets of from 9oz,
to 16oz. have been found, and small rich patches are
frequent. The monster alligator which has done so
much mischief at Barron Crossing, Smithfleld, near
Cairns (N.Q.), is still on the war-path. Various attempts
have of late been made at shooting and poisoning it.
Sixteen tons of mundic tailings treated at the Mabel
pyrites works, Eavenswood, yielded 58oz. of good.
Mr. Haigh, of Liverpool, leaves for England shortly.
Another alderman then wanted. The niggers have
driven away settlers off the M’lvor Eiver (Q.)
The Keilawarra made fastest passage on record from
Sydney to Brisbane. Time, 82 hours. The editor of
the Bundabkrg Mail calls his loeal contemporary a
“ harmless, muffin-loving, pedantic old charmer."
The ship Hereford, which recently stranded on the
Victorian coast, is likely to be floated again very
shortly. Several gambling cases tried at Dubbo, and
offenders each sentenced to 24 hours’ imprisonment.
The Cudal School of Arts is to be formally opened
on March 10. A grand concert, dramatic entertainment,
and ball takes place at night, The railway now runs
to a distance of 277 miles west from Sydney, while the
southern line is 386 miles long.—-The Protos has been
chartered to bring two more cargoes of frozen meat to
London. Tender of Mr. Samuel Amess accepted for
the west front and dome of the Melbourne Parliament
House for £180,023. Saturday, Feb. 12, was the 30th
anniversary of the discovery of gold in N.S W.
The Aramac Mail says there is some talk of diamonds
having been found at Willis’s Creek. A number of
ladies in Grafton, from about the age of twenty to
forty are commencing to learn French. Splendid
specimens have been taken from the Eeform company’s
mine at Lucknow. One specimen weighs 1641 b., and is
valued at £lOO. Hntkeeper, Idamere Station, Pituri
Creek, Queensland, murdered by the blacks. Two
unknown occupants of a boat drowned off Thursday
Igland. Straight channel being cut through Brisbane
Eiver channel. £lO9O per mile was the lowest tender
for the thirty-two mile line of railway between Emerald
and Capilla, Queensland. New dredge, Saurian, suc-
cessfully launched at Maryborough. The Malayan
proa picked up off Mulgrave Island, Torres Straits.
had nine men aboard who were 34 days adrift. Kate
Layland killed at Williamstown Junction by a passing
train; she took no heed of a warning. The new
Christchurch society paper is out. The Sydney
Bulletin is its model just as Thomas Carlyle is David
Buchanan’s. Fearful hurricane in Fiji on the2od
instant Nurse Marsden, of Sydney Infirmary, died
on Friday of typhoid fever and pnenmonia. The s.s.
Collarov was twenty-five years old when she ran
ashore the other day outside Manly. Certificates of
captain and chief officer suspended for 3 months.
An alligator’s nest with 100 eggs in it has been dis-
covered on an island in the Fitzroy Eiver. Mr.
Amhurst, member for Mackay (Q.), died on passage to
England. The Brisbane Corporation has voted an
annual salary of £5OO to the Mayor. A summons has
been issued against Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, for
driving over street crossings too fast. The Union
Bank has purchased a fine site in Townsville for abuild-
iug. One-twentieth of a share in No. 14 North
Phoenix claim, at Gympie, has been sold for £l4OO.
A son of Mr. C. B. Payne, Braidwood, was severely in-
jured by falling from a ladder Eecovering John
Fowler Mnlgoa Postmaster, thrown from his horse
and killed. D’Orsay Ogden, it is stated, is likely to
share the management of the new Queensland theatre.
Mrs. Spencer and two daughters are to receive a
large amount of compensation from the Victorian Go-
vernment re the late railway accident. The “Ancient
Order ofiDruids", in Sydney now numbers 1277.—A
Chinaman has been eaten by an alligator at Smithheld,
near Cairns. The hare nuisance at A 1 bury is
a subject of complaint among agriculturists.
Thermometer, 76 deg. shade register in Sjdney at 1.30
p m on Saturday, and 96 deg. at Parramatta 1 What
wonder that Parramatta people are choleric. Tbe
flying foxes in the County of Cumberland are terribly
destructive this year. A raid upon their fast w sses at
Colah would prove of inestimable service to orehardists.
Government should offer so much a pair for their
c <_ awB The Government works at Wollongong are at
a standstill for want of funds. Alderman Clifford has
been elected unopposed Mayor of Goulburn. The in-
habitants are looking forward to a merry time on the
occasion of the opening of the new local public build-
Tbe other day tbe child of a Fijian settler was
drowning in a river, and a Fijian standing by would not
give any assistance, although he could swim like a duck.
He was offered anything he chose to ask for; but he
stood stolidly by and let it drown beforethe eyes of the
white woman, in whose charge it was.——Theintroduc-
tion ef the “ cat” into the Fijian gaol discipline would
regulate matters as quickly as it put down garrotting
in England. Hundreds of people went to the Garden
Palace on Saturday to hear the music of their own
sweet voices, and prevented others enjoying what they
were ostensibly there for. A “ whispering” gallery
would be an agreeable acquisition to a Sydney music
hall. Granville public school (says a correspondent),
156 children, 1 teacher. A new paper the Mirror,
is to be brought out at Portland, Vic. Just about
time. The best engraving that has appeared in the
Melbourne illustrated papers for some time, is the
front page of the illustrated Australian News, en-
titled “On the Sands at Qneenscliff. It was drawn by
Mr. Samuel Begg, late of this journal. The Cumber-
land Band is all the rage in Parramatta just now. It
recently gained second prize at the hand contest in
Sydney. Enterprising townsmen are endeavouring to
arrange for a series of Saturday afternoon perfor-
mances in the Park. Larrikinism on Saturday nights,
is becoming a pronounced evil at Parramatta. The
police there should make some captures. Five
orchards robbed wholesale at Parramatta, on Sunday
night, and none of the thieves discovered. Surely
there is a local police force! On the occasion of
Cole’s Circus procession through Melbourne the other
day, a British firm who are exhibitors at the Exhibition,
chartered several cabs, and having hung then round
with large posters setting forth the merits of their
wares, “ fell in ” at the rear of the “ Grand Progress,”
and so secured a splendid gratis advertisement. At
Penhurst, (Vie.) on a man named Philip Kelly, who had
been remanded on a charge of having no visible lawful
means of support, was on being searched, found to be
the possessor of no less a sum than £lollBs in hard
cash. A correspondent ascribes the waning interest
of the Melbourne International to the fact that all the
Sydney barmaids have left the big show. The Comet
Company, Maytown, Palmer River, crushed 154 tons
stone for 430 ounces, making 1200 ounces for six
months’ work. Ignatius Keogh, theatrical manager,
is insolvent, owing to the bad attendance at the Prin-
cess Theatre, Melbourne. Liabilities, £1583. A
Melbourne woman has been fined £5, or three months,
for throwing pepper in a constable’s eyes. At
Temora, the owners of the Narrabnira Creek water
supply have raised the price of water to 9d. per cask.
Buckley and party, Temora. got a splendid nugget
weighing 50oz. 13dwts. A claim at the rear of
the Golden Gate got a 17oz. nuggett. Good reef
gold is being got in Farr’s claim, Lower Temora.
——Mr. Matthews, representing an Adelaide company,
offered to purchase Head and Aldridge’s reef, Temora,
on the following terms: —£4000 cash, and £lOOO in
scrip; they to test the reef within one month, and
have the proceeds. Several claims on the newly.
rushed, but not tested, ground near Nugent’s, Temora,
have bottomed on good gold. The Golden Gate
washing, Temora, has disappointed the owners,
as it only went about an ounce. Some Victo-
rian capitalists have offered £lOOO for one-fourth
interest in the Fly claim. Upper Temora, four
men’s ground; but the offer was refused.
A hut-keeper at Idamere Station, Pituri Creek (Q.) has
been murdered by the blacks. The library of the
Bathurst School of Arts contains 6000 vols. The hall
debt is now £HBO, as against £2OOO in 1876; and there
are 400 members on the roll. On Thnrsday-week a
Chinese patient, suffering from hydatid, died in Sydney
Infirmary during operation, of pulmonary apoplexy and
nerve shock. Navvies encamped at the starting
point of the Bonrke extension demand Bs. per day
of eight hours, and refuse to accept the terms
offered by the contractors—six shillings per day.
Mr. James Kilgour, master of the public school at
Raymond Terrace, is reported to have committed sui-
cide, by drowning in the river, during aberration of
mind occasioned by excessive study. Hutchinson
and party struck a splendid reef at No. 1 Mountain
Maid, Pikedale (Q.). The stone is estimated to go 100
ozs. per ton. It the case of Martin F. Tenas, tried at
the Geelong Assizes for the murder of his wife at Ondit,
the jury found that prisoner was insane at the time.
John Ormond, a well-to-do free-selector, has suicided
at Eulah Creek by shooting himself. He was a married
man. The remains of a man who had evidently been
dead at least three months have been found in the bush
13 miles from Nowra. Deceased was a European, 25
or 30 years old. The body was dressed in a Californian
brown felt hat, flannel undershirt, blue-striped shirt,
moleskin trousers, dark paget coat, and heavy hob-
nailed boots. Some spare clothes were tied up in a
calico tent, which had green baize and gold swing cloth
in it. The skeleton was scattered about, the bones
completely denuded of flesh, and the skull broken to
pieces. A newspaper of 12th October was found in his
swag.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“E.P.M.”: Not locally interesting:. “ J.S.
M.": It is against our rule to insert letters. We cannot
in such cases afford space for anything but brief state-
ments of alleged facts. “ Blue Label You’ll notice
that we don’t use such of y»ur matter as is purely per-
sonal. “Ajax” (Braidwood): Good joke. “ A.V.”
(West Maitland); We don’t see the drift of the joke.
“ Agent Bulli:’’ Sorry received too late. “J.
B.We gladly avail ourselves of part of the informa-
tion. “Observer (Wollongong)”: Glad to hear
from you regularly. Your last communication was by
some means delayed in transit. “ E.F.”: Just the
kind of information required. “F.D B.": Your kind
letter, of which we gladly avail ourselves, received,— —
“Bondi”: We agree with your suggestion. The idea is
one to which for some time we have thought of giving
effect. “ C.A.P.": Don't make your communications
enigmatical. Our rule is not to publish anything which
we do not ourselves understand. “C. A. Jones ”: (I)
The fastest mile yet pulled on the Parramatta was the
first mile rowed by Trickett and Laycock, in their match
for the championship. (2) We don’t exactly know
what Trickett weighed when he commenced to train for
his match with Hanlan; it was no doubt somewhat over
1901 b. “ Anonymous ’’ (Liverpool): You should be a
little more definite. We do not, for instance, know
what to make out of your reference to want of punc-
tuality on the part of the Warwick Club.
“ J.E.T.” (Narrabri): Hardly in our style. The
sentiment is fair but the verse is indifferent.
“A. 8.” (The Book): Even were the style of
your contribution suitable, it would be too much
for our space. “Pepper and Salt”: Not in our
style. “Friend and Admirer”: Much obliged,
hut not of interest. “Cognito”; Do not think
that the letter you refer to reached us.
“A Subscriber;” Under consideratien. “Isabel”
says: “ All history proves that the plain woman makes
the best wife; what is your opinion ?” Well, we
wouldn’t like to say—at any rate, not before we saw
your photo. We’re under the impression you would
make a good wife. “ Inquirer” (Bourke): Yes, there
are several reverend gentlemen editing newspapers in
Sydney—eight on one paper. You are quite right; if
you can’t make the pulpit pay, start a newspaper.
There’s generally 15 per cent, in it. “ Captain
You have sent us two columns; we only want two lines.
“ J.B.N ”: The information you send is incomplete.
“ G.E.”: Good stories. “G.H.” (Eedfem): Hanlan
we believe, was originally a fisherman. He is now not
a clerk, but the keeper of a whisky mill. “Stella”;
When describing your friends’ costumes it’s quite un-
necessary to state that they wear belladonna round
their eyes. However, your communication is very ac-
ceptable.- “ C.A.H.”: Thanks. Capital advertise-
ments. “A.8.C.” (Adelong Ck.): Utterly imcom-
prehensible. “K.E.C.” (Melbourne): Much obliged.
“C.A.B.”: Evidently spiteful. “E.A.8.”: The
column devoted to information of the class you send, is
not intended for “skits.” “Eye Witness ”: Wedon’t
understand your communication “ Sleepy Head ”
(Maitland): First rate story. “J.C.D”: Too late;
match reports should be in Tuesday evening at latest.
“Amicus”: Please call.
Mr. C. D. Bardwell, of Oberne, who is 59 years
of age, and weighs fifteen stone, recently made a bet
that he could ride from Oberne Station to Bago—which
is a distance of over sixteen miles, over a very rough
road, and a mile of up-hill to finish with —in one hour.
Mr. Bardwell found his steed, started from Oberne at 7
a m. precisely, and reached Bago exactly six minutes
under the hour, horse and rider being in capital
condition.
The rush for the land at Katoomba last Satur-
day shows that the attention of capitalists, business
men, and city residents renerally is at last directed to
this great sanatorium. Tbe land fetched up to 635. per
foot. Mr. Wrench (of Eichardson and Wrench) con-
ducted the sale and described the charms of the
locality quite eloquently. The result of the sale a
Seneral advance in the price of land all over the Blue
fountains.
LATE SPORTING.
Grand Flaneur is first favorite for the Australian
Cup at 7 to 2.
The date for the intercolonial eight-oar race is
finally fixed for April 9.
Active training for the eight-oar race after the
Woolloomooloo Eegatta.
At the Melton (Vic.) races, on Monday, Alert
won the Werribee Handicap, Shadow second, Maid of
Honour third. Langulac won the Enford Plate.
After the ie Harpy” ran down the dingy
“ Julia ” on Saturday, the crew of the latter, four in
number, swam ashore singing —“ Oh, see that my
grave’s kept green."
On Thursday week, thirty-seven members of the
Nimrod Fishing Club took an outing in the s.s.
Commodore. 1119 fish—loo4 of which were schnapper—
were the result of the excursion.
It is hoped that for their own sake the Woolloo-
mooloo Bay Eegatta committee will not decide to hold
their sports on the 12th March, that being the date on
which the Public Instruction Eegatta is to come off.
Young Fitz, of the Civil Service, tips the follow-
ing players for the intercolonial: —The Crow, Toby,
The Nigger, Uncle, K.C.8., Beauty, Chambers, The
Scud, The Fakir, Fiddles, Person, with probably The
Deacon as umpire.
The New South Wales crew will be picked from
the following names: —Messrs. Lord, Finlayson, Arthur,
Strange, Anslow, Gaden, Brett, Bros, and Williams—
unless further on any other oarsman can be placed with
advantage in the crew.
A match was played at Moore Park on Saturday
last, between the Clarendon and Young Oxford clubs.
The result was an easy win for the Clarendons by 38
runs. Scores: Clarendon 74, Young Oxford 36. The
principal scorers in Clarendon team were E. C. Gregory
20, and H. Eichardson 19. Eichardson bowled well for
the winners, taking 7 wickets for 7 runs.
The annual meeting of the Sydney Turf Club
was held on Monday at the secretary’s rooms. King,
street. The balance-sheet showed a prosperous season,
closing with a balance of £845. Messrs. E. Eichards,
E. M. Betts, F. Weston, V. Dowling, and J. J. Taylor
were appointed as the committee for the ensuing year.
Mr. J. B. C. Miles was re-elected auditor, and the
secretary’s salary was increased to £2OO a year.
At a meeting of the N. S. W. Cricketing
Association, on Monday evening, Mr. J. Swift was
appointed umpire of N. S. Wales, and Mr. E. Weller
scorer, in the coming match. It was ascertained that
the Commissioner for Eailways had decided to charge
the extra twopence for the short ride from Moore Park
gate to the gate of the Association Ground. The
selection committee postponed the final selection until
the arrival of J. Evans, a cousin of the redoubtable,
and who is said to be a first-class bowler.
Joe Thompson (“the Leviathan”) and Louis
Barnard were arrested at Jerusalem, Tasmania, for
playing cards in the train on Sunday, and sentenced to
one hour’s imprisonment. If there is a law forbidding
persons to play cards in Tasmanian trains under any
circumstances, we can have little to say against the
conviction, except that a fine might have met the case;
bnt if, on the other hand, the defendants, who, by the
way, were Hebrews, were fined merely because they
played on the Christian Sabbath, we consider the
decision iniquitous, tyrannous, and disgraceful.
The great sculling race for the Spoetsman’s
Challenge Oup and the Championship of the Thames,
between Hanlan and Laycock, took place on the 14th
instant, and resulted in an easy victory for Hanlan.
Both men were in good form; but Hanlan remained a
strong favourite at 3 and 4 to 1. A good start was
effected, Hanlan immediately showing slightly in
advance, and rowing 35 strokes to the minute ; Laycock
rowing faster with 38 strokes to the minute. Hanlan
gradually forged ahead, and at the mile-post led by two
lengths. Laycock made a succession of splendid spurts,
but could never overtake his doughty opponent, who
came in a winner by half-a-dozen lengths—the time
being 25 min. 41 sec. Laycock was loudly cheered by
the spectators for the gallant and plucky manner in
which he rowed. The Sportsman Challenge Cup having
been three times won by Hanlan, now becomes his pro-
perty.
The “Little Sprat” and the Whale
This is what a mean whitewashed Yankee sends
us:—
Elias found the “little sprat ”
To much for him ard “ Ned.”
Elias now will doubtless wish
Elias less had said.
Because the fact is patent now —
A fact he can't assail —
If Hanlan represents a “sprat ”
Elias does a whale.
For certain 'tis that little sprats
Are very good at going ;
While whales are noted less for speed.
Than what they are for “ blowing.”


n
mm
'i;
T
HE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
T
HEA T R E
Lessee
Asftiag Manager ...
ROYAL.
Mr. Sami. Lazar
Mr. G. L. Goodman
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY),
and
TO-MORROW NIGHT. February 18.
Tom Taylor’s World-renowned Comedy-Drama,
AN UNEQUAL MATCH.
SATURDAY, February 19.
Engagement of MISS MAGGIE MOORE and ME, J.
C. WILLIAMSON.
Grand Revival of
H. M. S. PINAFORE,
With a powerful Operatic cast,
including
SIGNOR VERDI, ARMES BEAUMONT,
and other leading artistes.
DOUBLE ORCHESTRA and CHORUS of 60 VOICES,
conducted by
SIGNOR GTORZA.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
Musical Director Mr. Chas. Austin.
THIS EVENING, and until further notice.
Will be presented the most Successful of all American
Dramas, in 5 Acts, by Joaquin Miller, the poet of the
Sierras, and founded upon the onslaught on the Chris-
tians by the Mormon Sect, subsequent to the murder of
the Prophet Joe Smith.
THE DANITES;
or THE DESTROYING ANGELS.
Magnificent Scenery, Authentic Sketches, by Mr.
Kinchela.
Mr. J. C. Williamson informs honourable managers
and actors that he has purchased from its owner, Mr.
M‘Kee Rankin, the sole right of performing this Ro-
mantic Story of the Sierras in Australia and New Zea-
land, and trusts that his interest in “THE DANITES”
will be respected.
Pit, Is; Stalls, 2s; Boxes, 3s; Reserved seats, 4s;
Private boxes, 30. Box office at Paling’s.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessees... Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
EIGHTH WEEK OF
ME. FREDERICK MARSHALL.
TO-NIGHT, and uutil further notice,
W. S. Gilbert’s
THE WEDDING MARCH.
Preceded, at 8 p.m., by the Domestic Drama,
THE PORTER’S KNOT.
Mr. MARSHALL IN COMEDY AND DRAMA.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson.
Continued Success of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
WAR IN ZULULAND,
Received nightly by Crowded and delighted Audiences,
who have testified by unanimous applause that the
Exhibition is the MOST ARTISTIC ever introduced
in the Australian Colonies.
THE MAGNIFICENT DISTRIBUTION
of a
COMPLETE SUITE of DRAWING-ROOM
FURNITURE,
and
HANDSOME PIANOS,
takes place every alternate evening,
together with one hundred other COSTLY PRE-
SENTS.
TO-NIGHT,
SUITE of DRAWING ROOM FURNITURE.
TO-MORROW NIGHT,
HANDSOME ROSEWOOD PIANO.
Recipients of Drawing-Room Furniture on Monday
and Tuesday:—Mr. Rosseli, of Stanley-street, and Mr.
Sachs of Manly Beach.
Prices of admission —3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at half-past 7 ; overture at 8 sharp.
Sole Proprietor & Lecturer... Mr. W. H. THOMPSON.
Agent PHILIP STUART.
Professional Addresses
M
R.
R.
S. L A Z
ADDPESS ;
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private —“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra,
Mr. j. r. greville.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Mr. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MR. FRED. MARSHALL.
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
ISS MYRA KEMBLE.
M ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. Prom
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
M
R.
& MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macqnarie-street, Sydney.
M
R.
M. S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Misses alice and Constance
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS:
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
M
R. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
H
I L I P STUART,
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney
M
R.
C. WILLIAMSON,
ADDRESS:
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Bth February, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR] MINERAL
LEASES.
kTOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the under-
entioned Mineral Leases within thirty days
om this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
0., 841; W. H. Short and others; Portion No., 210;
mty of Westmoreland, parish of Irene; 20 acres;
jlioation No., Trnnkey, 2.
b., 842; W. H. Short and others; Portion No., 209;
mty of Westmoreland, parish of Irene; 20 acres;
plication No., Rockley, 15.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines, no moving of work, alteration
tension, or breaking of needle in crossing thick seams*
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
MACHINES will sew two folds of gossamer or
muslin, or six folds of leather or moleskin with the
same stitch and tension, a thing we defy any other
machine agents to show.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an appliance for hemming any
width, straight or bais, without folding by hand.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
MACHINES have an appliance for making frill-
ing, will gather with or without a band and betwee n
two bands, and sew on at the same time.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an appliance for sewing on rib-
bons and trimmings without tacking.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
MACHINEShave an appliance for making double
felts without folding.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
MACHINES have a beautiful appliance for laying
in cord in stays, sun bonnets, and similar works.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have a perfect appliance for sewing
on binding on dresses, carpets, coats, and other articles,
without tacking.
mHE WONDERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING-
-S. M ACHINES will make an exceedingly pretty laoe
stitch, to be used as an open work insertion.
mHE WONDERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING-
JL MACHINES will braid the most delicate material
without dragging, which we challenge any other agents
to show.
The wonderful wertheim sewing-
machines have an automatic bobbin winder,
by which the bobbin can be filled, and sewing continued
at the same time. A superior griding stone is also pro-
vided, by the aid of which, scissors, knives, needles,
&c., may be sharpened.
rjIHE WONDERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING-
MACHINES may be had on trial at your own
houses free of charge, with thorough instructions.
The wonderful wertheim sewing,
MACHINES have also other appliances too
numerous to mention, that are not supplied with any
other machine in the market.
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES-
BEALE and COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET, near MARKET STREET, and 612
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
HUN PER STREET, NEWCASTLE, near BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA.
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST, near SCHOOL OP
ARTS.
WE GUARANTEE TO KEEP THE WON-
DERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINE
in THOROUGH WORKING ORDER for 2 YEARS
from date of purchase, a thing that no Agent of Yankee
or Glasgow made Rubbish would dare to do.
w
E can also SHOW SPECIAL MACHINES
for
FAMILY USE
DRESSMAKERS
TAILORS
SHOEMAMERS
SADDLERS,
NOTICE.
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
Have sf.ocd the tesfr o/PUBLIC OPINION
for more than. : • :
, A QUARTER OF A CENTURY,
t •;'/ 'are still acknovl, dyed to. be unequalled.
All i/j/ih'wear skirts arjd value pojnfort are
respectfully solicited to patrortize
§T SMITH & MANNELL.
• SHIRT MAKERS & HOSIERS,
298 George Street,
ESTABLISHED 1844. SYDNEY.
E
XCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
Us 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s, BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit Hie indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Haeeis-steeet, off Geoege-steebt,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw tbe particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon March* 5 and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Yisites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see tbe
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon March 6 system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.
SYDNEY AND COUNTY BANK,
(limited).
CAPITAL £5OO 000, in 50,000 shares of £lO each,
FIRST ISSUE 12,500 SHARES.
Upon which the sum of £5 will be called up, as under:
—£l Deposit on Application ;£1 Payable on Allotment;
Balance in Calls ®f £1 each, at intervals of not less
than three months.
PROVISIONAL COMMITTEE :
P. Cook, J.P., (formerly Manager Union Rank,
Melbourne.)
Alfred Bennstt (Evening News).
W. A. Brodbibb. M.P.
John Harris (Mayor of Sydney).
Anthony Horderw (A Hordern and Sons).
Henry Hudson (Hudson Bros.)
George Kiss.
Montague Levey, J.P.
J. Yelverton Mills, J.P.
Alfred Nathan (Cooper and Nathan).
Thomas Saywell,
John Young.
PROVISIONAL SOLICITORS:
McCarthy, Robertson, and Fisher,
BANKERS:
Australian Joint Stock Bank.
Prospectuses and Forms of Application con be ob-
tained from Palmer and Thompson, Brokers, and from
Mr. Fredk. Cook, Provisional Secretary, 113 Pitt-street.
T
HE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
A BRANCH of this BANK, under the management
of ME. JOHN SOUTTAE, will be opened at 99 Pitt-
street, in the first week of March.
E. E. DEUEY,
General Manager.
General Manager’s Office,
Brisbane, 11th February, 1881.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Eoyal.
CE
D E.
raw
-
T
SMUHLEBACH
- ■
s
m
C'
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-EOOMS. FIEST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOE TEAVELLEES.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PEOPEIETORS.
QOALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON —22401 b.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price ot
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, bonesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal oi
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used'to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
Coalcilff
Newcastle
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, Ac., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ~)
17s. Ditto single ditto >
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened \
225. Ditto single ditto )
The new south wales
PROPERTY INVESTMENT COMPANY,
Limited.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT.
CAPITAL, £20,000, with power to increase to £lOO,OOO.
FIRST ISSUE, 800 SHARES OE £25 EACH,
One third of which were taken up immediately upon
the formation of the Company. The remainder are
now offered to the public on the following terms: —
Fifty shillings per share on application, and the
balance (up to £l2 10s per share) in calls not ex-
ceeding (10s) ten shillings per share, at intervals of
not less than one month.
DIRECTORS;
Mr. George Crawshaw, Chairman.
Mr S. T. Whiddon, Jun., Vice Chairman
Mr, Johr Nobbs
Mr. Thomas Moore
Mr. T. S Parrott
Mr. J. W. Benson
TRUSTEES;
Mr. John Nobbs Me. T. S. Parrot.
AUDITORS :
Mr. G. J. Waterhouse Mr. George Qrbville.
MANAGER:
Mr. H. G. Swtnt.
BANKERS:
Bank op New Zealand.
SOLICITOR:
Mr. William Cope.
Temporary Office of the Company, 129 Pitt-street,
Opposite the City Bank.
The objects for which the Company is established, as
set forth in Memoiandum of Association, are:—
The acquisition by purchase, lease, or otherwise, of
lands, houses, and other real and personal property in
New South Wales.
The erection of houses and buildings on any land of
the Company; the enlargement, alteration, and im-
provement of existing houses and buildings thereon;
the converting and appropriating of any such lands into
and for roads, streets, gardens, parks, and pleasure
grounds, building plots, and other conveniences, and
the general improvement of the property of the Com-
pany, with power to make, construct, and maintain
tramways thereon or in connection therewith, or to
subsidise vehicles for the purpose of facilitating com-
munication with, and enhancing the value of the pro-
perty of the Company.
The selling, leasing, mortgaging, and otherwise dis-
posing of the lands, houses, and other real and personal
property.
To negotiate loans of all descriptions upon any terms
as to profit or remuneration, and to lend money on the
security of any description of real or personal property.
To give any guarantee or any security of the Com-
pany that may be required or agreed upon for the per-
formance of any business undertaken by the Company.
To do all or any of the above mentioned things where
the same may lawfully be done respectively, and either
singly or in connection with any other corporations,
companies, firms, or persons.
To receive money on loan or deposit, or otherwise,
and either with or without giving any security of the
Company, or upon any property of the Company, for
any such money.
To purchase or acquire the goodwill, assets, and pro-
perty of, and in any trade or business of a character
similar to any business which the Company is hereby
authorised to carry on, also to amalgamate with any
other companies, partnerships, or corporations.
To do, or cause to be done, all or any such things as
may be conducive to, or necessary for, the attainment
of the above objects, or any of them.
The liability of the members is limited to £25 per
share, but it is not intended to call up more than £l2
10s. per share.
It will readily be gathered from a perusal of the fore-
going that this Company is not a Building Society in
the general acceptation of the term. The scope of its
operations is much wider, and, having a proprietary
capital, it affords additional security to the investor
and a decidedly more profitable employment for the
capital.
The evils attending the present system of sub-division
have already nearly ruined some of our most favoured
suburbs. Visitors from other countries are constantly
remarkinghow far behind the times we are as compared
with other cities of like importance, where the value of
co-operation in planning suburbs is more fully under-
stood and appreciated.
The want of some better system has long been felt,
and the present season of railway and tramwaw exten-
sion, together with the very low price of money, afford-
a splendid opportunity for the operation of a Company
like this. Large ar->as of rich and beautifully situ-
ated land have hitherto remained locked up for want of
improved communication ; and now that new suburbs
are to be formed, it is most important the evils of the
old system should be avoided.
In its operations this Company will, by a liberal
treatment of the various modes of sub-division,
endeavour to develop the natural|features of the land,
at the same time secure to the purchasers the ines-
timable advantages of wide roads, suitably located with
ample reserves, and, by proper building regulations,
present the erection of unsightly tenements, and thus
p eseiving the character of the property, and conse-
quently enhancing its value of investment or residence.
The House Property and Investment Company,
Limited, of London (established in 1876), obtained
£40,000 premium from the issue of the first half of its
capital. The second half, amounting to half a million
sterling, is now being issued at £5 per share premium
(£25 shares), affording us an example of success that
can be more than realized here where we have a rapidly
increasing population and greater facilities for securing
large and eligible blocks of land for subdivision.
Under the management of Directors we have been
for many years engaged in the acquisition and disposal
of landed property, this Company offers to the public a
safe and profitable means of investment.
Early application will be necessary, as the number of
shares to be issued is limited.
Forms of application. Articles of Association, and
any further information, may be had from the Manager,
at the Temporary offices of the Company, 139 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TO SQUATTERS. HORSE BREEDERS, AND
OTHERS.
THE SYDNET TRAMWAY AND OMNIBUS CO.,
Limited, are purchasers of
GOOD UPSTANDING HORSES,
4 to six years old, fit for coaching.
Apply—Head Office, 66 King-street, Sydney.


Miscellaneous
TJEYSDALE AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
lEONMONGEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied ; and comprises all the lates productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Elms, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENEEAL lEONMON GEEY.
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellera,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. 6EEGOEY AND CO.,
Nc. 11, PITT-STEEET,
Importers ®f all Descriptions o
MACHINEE Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Pay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
*
KING STREET SYDNE'
km
#:
LS
t!C
POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER.
FIT GUARANTEED!
/ill VAHDy RK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETUM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler % CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. -Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
mm OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-etreet, next corner
Dag-street. Established 1859.
Miscellaneous
0 LIFFORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHTJTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
fefeig
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
A)
(»
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
ALL WOOL (djylfeJ WEED
Tp TWEEDSUITS
16s.6cf. mW\ \t
LENGTHS
_AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
FROW
H L SUMMERFIEID
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
K
E.
GREER AND CO.’3
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Red Wines: White Winesi
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malhec
Reisling
Yerdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS s
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed andpnblished by the Propnetore.
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices o*
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Blacket and Davy.
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
Adv
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSO N'S STEEL.
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A LAEGE TAEIETY IN STOCK.
Send for
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,l
IN STOCK.
J EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT)
Non-poisonona! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield: —Por a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney : —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2$ years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney ;—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Eetail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMEE (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (.184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country,
INOER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES—.£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STEEET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
HE
UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
T
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STEEET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAELEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
CD
6*
PRIZE
Her
Cocoa
M
eo
-<
Against the world
R, Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten Fiest Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
CD
0*
w
Q_
oc
c^r.
BUY
P
TSDTT.W
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CO
E. GORDON,
HOMCEPATHIST,
No. 2 Hyde Park Terrace,
171 Liverpool-street,
Eradicates hereditary diseases
in the young, and chronic com-
plaints in the adult, and holds
references for the cure of
Typhoid, Bilious, Intermittent,
Scarlet, and Rheumatic Fevers;
Bronchitis, Asthma, Consump-
tion, Pleurisy, Scarlatina, Croop,
Whooping Cough, and Dipthe-
ria; Heart, Liver, Stomach, and
Kidney complaints; Cancers,
Ulcers, Erysipelas, Scrofulous,
Dropsy, Opthalmia, and Urinary
complaints. Terms for chronic
complaints, £1 per month, pay-
able in advance; consultations
ss. No letters answered unless
the monthly fees are paid in
advance; and patients at a dis-
tance are requested to be very
minute and particular in men-
tioning the symptoms of their
complaint.
& rAtrs
Improved Dam-Making Scoops
3 S
•** K C 5
X <
gr
Kittecl with
NEW PATTERN ROCKERS
And
IMPROVED
-BRIDLE.
ARTIN & PAIN’S Dam-Making Scoops,
Fitted with STEEL MOUTH PLATES AND WHEELS.
Scoop* an turn being used in preference to all other*. Price*. llta*tratlon», and every Intormatioa by P**»
BAHTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street, Sydney.
