

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 81.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1881.
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1881.
“The Herald” and the Irish.
Father P. J. Mahony, an Irish priest, resi-
dent in this city, has come down upon the
S. M. Herald with a charge of misrepresentation
of the struggle how proceeding in that distracted
country between landlord and tenant. The priest
takes exception to the Herald’s allegation that
“ The Land League has made no distinction be-
tween good and bad landlords, and ordered indis-
criminately a non-payment of rent. In a perfectly
well-chosen and temperate form of words, Mr.
Mahony challenges the Herald to support the
allegation with proof, or, if unable to do so, to
withdraw its charge “ against a generous people
who have never done you wrong, who have by
* order ’ of the leaders of Land League offered to
pay rent according to ‘ Griffiths ’ (i.e. the Gov-
ernment) ‘ valuation,’ but who firmly decline to be
any longer * rack-rented ’ —starved.”
* * *
Now, this puts a fair and plain issue before the
Herald ; and to deal with it, there is a footnote
published by the editor, which is nearly twice as
long as the Irish priest’s letter. This note
commences by attributing to the priest bad sense
and bad temper, of which we, as totally dis-
ugfcerested readers of the argument, can discover
S indications in the letter. That appears to us
to be severe, indeed—severe in the trenchancy
of its logical demands, not in its tone or expressions.
But the Herald commences its rejoinder by say-
ing, as a specimen of the manner in which such
contentions should be debated —“ If the Irish
agitators generally do not show better sense or
better temper than our correspondent, it is not to
be wondered at that the discussion is bitter and
envenomed. He flies into a passion because it is
said that the leaders of the Land League have
ordered a non-payment of rent, and in the same
breath admits that this is a fact.”
* * *
Now, we repeat, we perceive no indications of
distemper in the Irishman’s letter, and the accusa-
tion of passion therefore recoils. Besides, the
Irish writer does not admit any such facts. We
have quoted his exact words, but we will repeat
them. The Irish people have, by “ order ”of the
leaders of the Land League, offered to pay rent
according to Griffiths’ valuation, but (the same
people) have firmly declined to be rack-rented.”
The Herald shuffles through this difficulty by
remarking that, although the tenants’ terms are
at present Griffiths’ valuation, what they may
be hereafter no one knows. This is a sheer evasion.
The writer of the letter did not deal with “ what
no one knows,” or speculate in imaginary con-
tingencies. His case is that the tenants offered to
pay rents at Griffiths’ valuation —a valuation
made some years ago by Government authority.
The next clause of the Herald’s explanation is
accurate, —and damaging to its own position.
“ The landlords ” decline Griffiths’ valuation,
which they declare to be antiquated.” It is, then,
not the tenants who decline to pay. It is the land-
lords who decline to receive! Why, this is the
priest’s case admitted. But, continues the
Herald, the landlords decline “ any other rent
than that which the tenant has voluntarily con-
tracted to pay.” Voluntarily contracted to pay !
This is begging the question with a vengeance.
We have here a suggestion of a free and happy
peasantry cheerfully agreeing to pay a certain
rental, and then going straightway into rebellion
to get rid of their own “ voluntary ” contract !
Presumably, a contract voluntarily made would be
one which would admit of a tenant earning a decent
subsistence. Therefore, the Herald’s position
is that a tenantry in that comfortable situation,
would, with one accord, sacrifice it, and plunge into
an almost hopeless conflict, for no reason at all, or
out of sheer perversity.
* * *
‘* The quarrel between the landlords and the
Land League,” says the Herald, “is not as
between a fair rent and an extortionate rent, but
between a fair rent and no rent at all.” Here we
have the whole question begged once again. The
tenants’ and the letter-writer’s position is that the
struggle was between a fair rent (Griffiths’
valuation) and an extortionate rent. The Herald
chooses to term what the tenants call an extor-
tionate rent, a fair rent, and to argue upon that
basis. But that is not reasoning. It is merely
assumption. Dispassionately stated, the case
stands, on the Herald’s own admission: —The
tenants offered what they regarded as a fair rent.
The landlords refused it, and demanded what the
tenants regarded as an extortionate rent. The
tenants refused to pay that rent. The landlords
persisted in their demands. The tenants then said
“ accept rent at Griffiths’ valuation, or none.”
Only a landlord, or one heart and soul bound over
to the monopolist ideals, could state that this con-
stitutes “a struggle between a fair rent, and no
rent at all.” That is landlord’s language. A
tenant would say, it has become a struggle be-
tween an extortionate rent, and no rent at all.
We, for our part, do not pretend to pronounce.
There have been infamies on both sides—on the
one hand, grasping monopolists ; on the other, an
ignorant peasantry goaded to outrage. But the
peasantry are in no way responsible for the land-
lord’s greed, while he would be indeed an auda-
cious apologist who should say that the landlords
are in no degree responsible for the debasement
and ignorance of the Irish peasantry.
m m *
The explanation of the Herald’s infatuation in
this instance appears to be that the writer of the
letter is a Papist priest. Anything emanating
from a Papistical source appears to have the same
effect upon our contemporary that a red rag has
upon a bull. It lowers its head and butts blindly.
This demeanour in the present instance is more
than ordinarily a blunder. An Irish priest who
espouses the cause of his countrymen in the
present trouble is more of an Irishman than of a
priest. The Pope has obviously felt himself to
be placed, in relation to the Irish land question,
between the Devil and the deep sea—in other
words, forced to choose between taking the part
of a Protestant proprietary against a Catholic
people, and lending countenance to principles
which savour somewhat unpleasantly of Com-
munism. In this quandary, the Vatican has been
comporting itself in a fashion too strongly re-
sembling vaccillation to be entirely agreeable to
an authority which lays claim to infallibility.
Without decidedly espousing the cause of the
Anglo-Irish landlords, who are chiefly Protestants,
it has flung considerable quantities of cold water
over the tenants, and has especially turned
a drenching stream on such of its clergy as
showed too great an inclination to encourage the
tenantry in their semi-communistic agitation.
The Pope cannot consistently countenance in
Ireland those principles which he combats on the
Continent.
* * *
The position of the Vatican is at the same time
embarrassed and sagacious. At the bottom, it is
antagonistic to the Land Leaguers. It has not
failed to recognise—though the Herald has failed
—that the struggle now commenced in Ireland is
something quite distinct from a religious conten-
tion. The agitation, in fact, is not religious but
agrarian ; and the arguments and abuse which
ultra-Protestant writers to-day thoughtlessly hurl
against a peasantry of Papists will, ere long,
have to be recast at the heads of a tenantry of
Protestants —or else swallowed. The English
yeomanry begin to apply the lessons of the struggle
in Ireland to their own case. The contest has
served to give prominence to principles which are
discovered to be of universal application. Rack-
rents may appear defensible to the sort of men
who constitute the majority in the British House
of Commons —that is to say, moneyed men, and
members of the squirearchy; but when thrust into
prominent view, they attract the attention without
charming the eyes of the masses in Great Britain.
The popular organs are not slow to point the
moral for their readers. Thus, we find the case
stated in an English journal, circulating very
widely among the working classes, in a remarkably
concrete form:—‘‘The whole principle of the
present controversy is involved in the aristocratic
view. Landlordism is an astute invention by
which the labour and culture of the land is per-
formed by intellect and labour, to be enjoyed by
one small class of families which take all the
profit, and call it Rent.”
* * *
Again, a correspondent in England, of a New
York newspaper, writes :—“ One thing is certain ;
the state of English agriculture, and the present at-
titude of farmers all over the kingdom, have fright-
ened the landlords of the House of Commons. The
English land question and the Farmers’ Alliance are
rapidly coming to the fore. The position is
fraught with danger, tor the British farmer is a
sturdy animal when roused, and the news from
tke midland counties is ominous. Four bad sea-
sons in succession, and inadequate concessions on
the part of the landlords, joined to American com-
petition, have swamped agriculture. The farmers
are bankrupt. The landlords are, however, by no
means shutting their eyes to the state of affairs,
and a sort of feeler has been put out in ths shape
of a book upon land tenures, by Mr. John Shaw
Lefevre, a member of the present Government.
In this book he attacks, primogeniture and entail
in no measured terms. The Cobden Club have
also issued a book, at Mr. Gladstone’s express
request, entitied ‘ Systems of Land Tenure in
Various Countries.’ All these point one way. It
can no longer be doubted that the English land
system is doomed, and the Irish question has
pulled the whole fabric down. The ventilating of
Irish grievances, in Parliament and out of it, has
educated the people of the three kingdoms in a
manner that nothing short of actual experience
could equal. The British mind has been moved to
its depths, and speedy action may bo looked for.”
» * *
There is no room for doubt that the drift of
events trends towards an Agrarian agitation in
England, which will be identical in principle with
that which is now in active progress in Ireland.
And the arguments now so freely employed
against a Catholic tenantry engaged in resisting a
Protestant proprietary, will be inexorably applic-
able to a Protestant tenantry under identical
circumstances. The religious cloak will be
stripped off, and the underlying principles will
have to be argued on their naked merits. A news-
paper cannot be conservative when Papists have
to be trodden down, and yet pretend to liberalism
when Protestants are in like case, in a question
purely agrarian. If the Herald elects to be the
champion of landlordism in Ireland, it will find
itself under the necessity of being also the cham-
pion of landlordism in England—and in Australia.
Principle is a rigid thing, and will bear no tam-
pering from prejudice.
THE LATE MARCUS CLARKE.
Marcus Clarke.
“ Whom the gods love die young, was said of
yore,” sang Byron, and how truly may it be re-
peated now! At the early age of 34, Marcus
Clarke has passed away, and in his death Australia
has undoubtedly lost the brightest star in her
literary firmament. And what makes his death
the more sad, is that the end came before he was
enabled to take that rank in the world’s literati to
which he was, by his remarkable talents, justly
entitled. Those only who have studied his works,
as we have, will be able to form an idea of the
genius with which Mr. Clarke was endowed. He pos-
sessed all the attributes of a successful litterateur
but one —application. His wit was keen and
polished, his humour delicate and refined, and his
powers of description masterly. Evidence of all
this will be found, not only in “ His Natural
Life ” —certainly one of the most powerful novels
of the present epoch, and the only Australian
novel, we believe, which has been translated into
German, French, and Italian—but even in his
shorter works: “ Holiday Peak,” “ ’Twixt Shadow
and Shine,” ‘‘ The Peripatetic Philosopher,” and
others. Marcus Clarke's existence was a singular
one. His life—like himself, poor fellow—was a
paradox. It was a succession of literary successes
and commercial misfortunes. In literature, he was
a lion: in commerce, a visionary. He knew
not how to care for money, yet he had none
of those vices which ordinarily reduce men
of genius to destitution, and are cloaked
beneath the hackneyed phrase, “He had
no enemy but himself.” We have him now,
in our mind’s eye, seated at the table of his
pleasant room in the Melbourne Public Library,
evolving wondrous schemes for newspapers that
were never to come out, and books that were
never to be written. His face was a remarkable
one—remarkable for its singular beauty. Like
Thomson, the poet, he was “a noticeable man,
with large grey eyes,” and one had but to look
into them to perceive at once the light of genius.
The history of his colonial life may be chronicled in
a few words. Arriving in Victoria at the age of 17,
he at once commenced a course of colonial station
experience, followed by a short service in a bank-
ing institution; but the merits of one of his brief
tales attracting the attention of the editor of the
Argus, he was offered a post on the staff of that
journal; and, coming to Melbourne, began, under
favourable auspices, his literary career. To the
Australasian he contributed, under the heading
of “ The Peripatetic Philosopher,” for about two
years, a series of weekly sketches, chiefly humor-
ous comments on current events —which at once
brought him into prominence as a writer of the
first force. It was felt to be quite a blow to the
fmblic when—having, through the interest of Mr.
afterwards Sir) Charles Gavan Duffy, been ap-
pointed Secretary to the Trustees of the Melbourne
Public Library—“ The Peripatetic” characteris-
tically took leave of his readers with the
announcement that he had “ sold his birth-
right for a mess of official pottage.” Mr.
Clarke was subsequently given the post of
sub-Librarian, which he retained until his death.
To the outside public, this may seem an uneven-
ful career enough, but yet his private life was full
of incident. He had a theory that all men of
talent are mad, and would gravely inform his
friends that he was gradually growing unfit to be
at large. While, of course, this was but whim-
sical fancy, Marcus Clarke was undoubtedly
eccentric. In the earlier days of his career,


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Storm-tossed Puddle.
The lie has been given to such persons as have been
accustomed to argue that the Sydney Corporation is
entirely devoid of sensibilities. That notorious body,
which has for months past sustained with complacent
indifference the contempt and suspicion of the entire
community, saving those linked to it by bonds of
interest and corrupt expectations, has been touched at
last to the quick. Its great soul has been moved within
it, and it has risen in dignified wrath to resent disgrace.
Its Aldermen have not been asked to dinner, and its
Mayor has not been invited to a public ceremony! This,
then, is the vulnerable patch in the municipal hide.
Accuse them of incompetency, charge them with
winking at fraud, flout them with an obvious anxiety to
let persons who have robbed the ratepayers escape
scot-free —they show no sign of discomposure. But
neglect to invite them to dinner, or omit to summon
their chief to a paltry pageant—and they rave (with
wrath, and fume with indignation. Worthy Aldermen,
not content with supplying chickens and greens at cur.
rent values, to the Vice-regal table, insist upon
assisting to eat these provisions, gratis. A Worshipful
Mayor, who is content to write calmly about the city
finances drifting into a state of hopeless insolvency,
bursts into indignation and bad grammar when not
afforded the opportunity to stand by, in ridiculous
vestments, while a Prince taps a stone with a mallet 1
Mr. Alderman Davies, that individual who has,
by his acceptance of a Companionship in the most
honourable Order of Saints Michael and Qeorub,
done so much to invest that Order with attractions,
is, of course, in the thick of the mud-tempest.
The tone of his brother-Aldermen renders it requisite
for him to make a preposterous disclaimer of having
attempted to degrade the Aldermanic body. Prepos-
terous, because even John Davies, C.M.G., ceuld not
perform an impossibility. The Corporation is not —
now —susceptible of degradation. It occupies in that
respect the peculiarly felicitious position of Buntan’s
Shepherd in of Humiliation, who sings—
“Ho that is down need fear no fall.”
The usual trumpery disclaimers of personal mortifica-
tion have been made. It is not, we are told, as indi-
viduals, but as Aldermen —as representatives of the
citizens —that the various slights are resented. If this
be all, the worthy Aldermen may smooth their ruffled
feathers. The public, whom they affect to consider, do
not doat upon them as social representatives. As a
general thing, the public reckon that if it comes to
grace and propriety at dinners, they could individually
outshine any of their Aldermen in any function —except
it were behind the chairs of the guests. The public
will not care a rap although the Mayor and Aldermen
are never again invited to display their accomplishments
and do the knife - swallowing trick in public.
What it does want is that the rottenness which saps
municipal affairs should be probed to the core: that
scoundrels should be rigorously prosecuted not
sheltered and shuffled out of harm’s way; that the
taint of collusion and conspiracy which pervades the
municipal atmosphere should be got rid of by a sweep"
ing disinfection. If the Corporation -re so feverishly
anxious to support the dignity of their functions, the
way to do it is clear before them. Let them get to
work, and do their plain duty. When that is accom-
plished—when they even seem to try—the citizens will
commence to be jealous of their good fame and dignity.
“One More Unfortunate.”
•• * God cannot love,' saye Blount, with tearless eyes,
• The wretch he starves ’—and piously denies.”
This caustic couplet of Pope’s has not lo*t its applica-
bility with age. There are tales of wretchedness told
from time to time, calculated to make the heart of
humanity bleed for the misery of its kind; and side by
side with the instances which give rise to these tales,
are seen the evidences of what is cautingly called
“ material Christianity ” strewn broadcast through the
land. Surely the one must contradict the other, unless
we take the foregoing aphorism as the perhaps un-
conscious key-note of the feeling of society on the
subject. Very recently, the liberality of a noble philan-
thropist placed at the disposal of the public that
materialised thought of Tom Hood’s—that true sermon
in stone—the marble statue illustrating his “ Song of a
Shirt.” Much sympathetic tenderness has been
lavished on the pathetic story to which the artist in
this instance owes his inspiration, but the state of
misery and want there disclosed is positive comfort as
compared with those which the common course of
events almost daily turns up in Sydney. Only the
other day we read an account of the finding of the
wasted body of a female, as it still lay in the kennel—
for such in effect it was —where she died. The miserable
objects of her past care lay strewn around her : among
others the material wherewith she used to compose
that marking ink, by the sale of which, as it appeared,
she had found the scanty means of subsistence. Her
case was a sad one. She had, some few years ago, occu-
pied the respectable and responsible position of a
teacher in one of our primary schools ; and in such
capacity, doubtless, with her own feminine delicacy and
sympathy, had implanted in tender minds that senti-
ment of fellow-feeling with human suffering of which
she hers elf, eventually, was destined to stand so much
in need. But this is no isolated instance. Our streets
are crowded with helpless creatures, hideously carica-
turing the semblance of woman, whose present lot and
future end seem as sad and hopeless as hers. Is
‘ material Christianity " powerless in this direction ?
or are its benefits confined to monopolists, to the
exclusion of the godless poor?
The Milburn Creek Job
During last session, Parliament voted, despite a pretly
lively opposition, a sum of £17,192 to the Milburn
Creek Copper Mining Company, as compensation for
being deprived of a mine to which they had never had
any legal right. In that company the Honorable (“ for
Brutus is an honourable man”) E. A. Baker, Minister
for Mines, is one of the largest shareholders. On the
25th July, a meeting of the proprietors was held to con-
sider the balance sheet. It then transpired that, of the
£17,192 voted by Parliament, only £8553 6s. Bd. was
available for distribution. The balance, £8633 13s. 4d.,
had been expended in sundry ways. Amongst others,
were the following items :—Sundry small expenses,
£356 10s. ; Bnssell (legal expenses), £lB2O 7s. lid.;
legal manager’s expenses, £200; trustees’ expenses,
three and a-half years, including travelling expenses to
Sydney, Bathurst, Blayney, Milburn Creek, and other
places; barristers’, selicitors’, and witnesses’ expenses;
to setting aside injunction; expenses of trial at '
Bathurst; appeal to the Supreme Court, and initiating
steps for appeal to the Privy Council; expenses of
several select committees of the Legislative Assembly ;
expenses negotiating with Government for arbitrators;
attendance of witnesses, and sundry expenses, £4710 .
sundry debts and legal expenses to be paid, £570. The
trustees who are responsible for this extraordinary
statement of accounts are the Honorable E. A. Baker,
member of the Ministry, Mr. Waddell, of the A.J.S.
Bank, Orange, and a Mr. Matthison. Certain share-
holders have been injudicious enough to look their gift
horse in the mouth, and to demand detailed informa-
tion as to how the trustees had got rid of the large
sums not specifically accounted for- j These inquiries
have not been satisfied. Mr. Waddell significantly
remarked “ they must know that interviewing members
of Parliament and Government officers all costs
money ;” while Mr. Hall, a shareholder, gave point to
the remark by stating that he understood from the
trustees that “they had given a portion of the
money they would not account for to some persons they
did not like to name." The shareholders have quashed
these significant inquiries, and have adopted the
balance sheet. But the matter cannot end at that. The
public have a greater interest in the affair than even
the shareholders. The tax-payers of the colony fur-
nished the funds, and have a right to know that these
were properly applied. It is a matter of public interest
that no part of the moneys voted by Parliament, osten-
sibly in satisfaction of a just claim, has been diverted
to bribing Government officers and corrupting members
of Parliament, and it is undeniable that Mr. Waddell’s
explanation is susceptible of being interpreted to mean
that considerable sums were so expended. Mr. Lynch*
M.P., appeared not at all desirous of too close'an inves.
tigation. Hs deprecated inquiry, in fact, although he
must have been concious that Mr. Waddell’s explana-
tion amounted to an impeachment of the integrity of
officials, and of members of Parliament. Mr. Lynch
did not think the shareholders should be too particular
in asking for items, “as no doubt a great deal has been
spent in travelling.” The Honorable Mr. Baker de-
clared himself tired of the whole affair, and would not
go through it again for the whole mine. Judging from
what is reported respecting the actual value of that
property, one has no difficulty in believing that Mr
Baker is quite sincere in his latter remark. But how
comes he to be so fatigued ? The public had been led
to understand that the very honorable gentleman had,
with a delicacy highly commendable, carefully abstained
from taking any active part in engineering the vote at
all. What, then, can have fatigued him ? The public
has, we repeat, a right to know whose fingers have been
plucking plums out of this evil-smelling pie. Present
appearances seem to indicate that “ lobbying ” has
been added to the other attractions of responsible
Government in the colonies. The entire body of Civil
Servants, who have been approached in the course of
the affair, have been placed under suspicion by the
statements made by these trustees, and not only Civil
Servants, but every member of Parliament who voted
tor the appropriation. A Boyal Commission and a
searching investigation can alone clear away the cloud.
We, the People of Sydney.
There is very little doubt that, like most other peo-
ple, we have our own little ways —our natural proclivi-
ties and forming characteristics, at present being in a
very pulpy condition, but approaching solidification,
and sufficiently marked to be observed by all who have
eyes and use them. But hn the visitor from without
or the dweller within ever observed any particularly
condemnatory trait about us— any distinguishing brand
of puerility or t’otage or idiotcy, whereby we are de-
barred from ordinary perception of all things good?
The longest and most observant experience will surely
sanction a negative reply. Then, why the perpetual
apology wherewith sundry colonial critics prelude the
advent of each new bright visitor to our shores ? •’ Last
night’s gathering must have given ample proof to
Signora Blank that the people of Sydney are not slow
to recognize,” etc.; or, “it was impossible to gaze at
the vastj assemblage at the Theatre Eoyal last night
without arriving at the conclusion," etc.; or, “Any
lingering doubt that miy have remained as to our
capability to appreciate really first-class talent ."
It seems reasonable to ask, who, save the authority
quoted, ever had any doubts upon the matter ? Was it
to be suppose! that all things, save the rattle of coin
and the gurgle of a grog cask, should be to ns as
caviare to the Turk, or hachish to the Finn ? Imagine
the New Toek Herald thus justifying the taste of the
New Yorkers, or the Temps of Paris gravely stating,
“In the welcome accorded to Patti last night we find
evidence to support our belief that the people of Paris
really will support artists of the very highest class;"
or a London journal of repute giving forth to the world
that Londoners are not without a due appreciative
faculty. Are we not as other men, and is our city not
as other cities ? There is humbug and ignorance
enough within us—dead-locks, leather-heads by the
thousand, money-bags, wool-packs, tallow-casks doing
duty as living men, but, let all the world know it, they
are not to be confounded with that very average com-
munity—the real live people of Sydney.
Some Gorgeous Essentials.
We learn, with pleasure, from an esteemed contempo-
rary, several remarkable circumstances in connection
with the recent laying by the Princes of the founda-
tion-stone of Her Majesty’s Statue, which had at first
escaped general attention. “ The Vice-Begal party was
pleased with the manner in which the various arrange-
ments had been carried out by Messrs. Davies and
Smith,” M’s.P. So carried away by enthusiasm were the
Vice--Regal party that Prince Edward of Wales,
with a self-sacrificing abandon which was as
honourable to his heart as to his head, shook
hands with those deserving gentlemen at the
conclusion of the ceremony, and personally—actually
personally—expressed his gratification at what he had
seen. The amiable Prince further informed the gratified
—ah —Smith that he would mention the matter to his
Pa, Now, this is superlatively enchanting, at least it
must be so to Mr.—hum—Smith. But the distinction
achieved by that happy individual did not end with this
episode. Shortly after the procession had started, there
was reason to apprehend—appalling thought—that there
would be a considerable break in its continuity. This
catastrophe was averted solely by the activity of this
admirable Smith, who, we are charmed to learn, hurried
forward with the promptitude which is an attribute of
genius at critical moments, and, without losing for an
instant his presence of mind, grasped the proper expe-
dient, dashed forward In a cab—not in a wheelbarrow,
or a fire-escape—not in a steam-roller, or a butcher’s
cart—but in a cab—and arrested the too rapid progress
of the State carriage. It is incidents such as these
which serve to bring into high relief the splendid
qualities of Mr. Smith’s mind, and naturally revive the
recollection of—to quote again—“the prominent part
i which Mr. Smith took in the Cook ceremony," while it
■ prompts the reflection that in all probability it was
!“ the success which then attended his efforts ” which
(under Providence) ** spurred him to renewed exertion,
and in all probability contributed materially to the
success of Tuesday’s demonstration.” Here we pause,
overcome with pride and emotion, and summarise the
' exploits which have so affected us and shed lustre upon
Mr. Smith. Let us see— ltem, he get into a cab; item,
he stopped a State carriage, and prevented a gap of
several yards in a procession ; item, he had his hand
shaken by a Prince. This is, indeed, a man of whom
any community might feel proud. Our one anxiety
now is to know by what appreciative soul, prompt to
recognize indications of true genius and desert, the
paragraph in which all these noble actions were set forth
and emblazoned, was communicated to the Press.
Now and Then.
In mourning over the unrealisms of the present, one is
naturally led to; review the stern realities of the past,
and to strengthen a good cause byia contrast of manners
and deeds. The ages of gold and of silver and of iron
have come and gone, crumbled and decayed, like those
various metallic monsters seen in vision by the prophet
Daniel ; and now we are in the midst of gilt, and
veneer, and electroplate—sham-full, and flimsy—barren
of deep emotion, of earnest purpose, or of real and
zealous life. We cannot compare with the times of old
but to our great disadvantage. A Duke of Manchester
going to and fro in the world has not the earnest appear,
ance of his remote ancestor —
" Sir Gut, Sir Bevis, or what not.
Clanking abouc in foreign lands.
With iron shoes upon his hands.
And on his head an iron pot.”
A Russell in his Observatory is not quite so much Of
an astronomer as Ttcho Brahe amid the marvel and
mystery of his island home. An Ellis or a Mooe-
house is a flimsy divine, indeed—a thing altogether of
lawn and posture—if compared with a Sacheveeel or a
Laud. And there is less reality (in the verse of a
Tennyson, who tells us of
“ One God, one law, one element.
And one divine far off event
Toward which the whole creation moves,”
than in the sonorous lines of the Miltonian epic,
glorifying the fable of, Him whom
"The Almighty Father flaming hurled.
With hideous ruin and combustion, down
To bottomless perdition.”—
And there was less humbug generally about the hundred
thousand monks of old, who illuminated missals and
sampled wine, than is manifest in those callow drivellers
who bow before God’s altar to-day. They believed it
all, those monks ofj;old,—had no doubt whatever
about it ;
“ They drank to God Almighty,
And they drank to Christ the Lord,
And to each of the twelve Apostles
Who had preached His holy word.”
To them it was all intensely real. Moreover, the
language of the times of old was simple, terse, and
honest as the good old ways. It takes four whole words
now to ask for a kiss. Sir Pijsrcib Shafton, in the
golden time of great Elizabeth, would have approached
the same sweet subject briefly in this mode: “Even as
Rude Boreas stoops down from his bluster to quaff of
the lily’s sweet breath, so to thee, queen of lilies, I stoop
imploring.” He would have begun in that manner—
how he might have finished, space permitteth not to
say. But, of course, he was more earnest than we poor
children cf this trivial time. Nor can a Ttndall or a
Huxlet, in the class-room, compare with the learned
doctors of Padua. Only one instance of downright,
earnest, real, conviction occurs to one of this presen c
time. It is that of the Arab dog who died at Tunis for
the murder of poor He believed, had no doubt
upon his mind : the prophet and forty houris were wait-
ing for him in Paradise. Pity we can’t all believe that
wayl It would greatly increase our zeal. But, ’tis
impossible: the genius of the time is against it. And,
trying to be earnest for a moment, is there not a living
genius in this our Mother Age ? Burdened with tinsel
and tags as we are, have we not given evidence of a
pulse of might and a heart of oak within ? And is there
not good ground of hope that, with " bangs,” and
i‘ bustles,” and “ pull-backs,” we shall shake oft such
frippery, as did our forbears their hoops, and ruffles,
and powder, and queues—borne upward, ever upward
by the lifting surges of time ?
Sauce for the Gander.
Mr. Buchanan did not succeed in securing the support
of a single other member of the Assembly when he
called attention to the arbitrary conduct of the Govern-
ment in compelling the conflnees in gaol to be innocu-
lated with the virus of cow-pox—the process known as
vaccination—whether they consented or objeoted. Yet,
there can be no doubt but that Mr. Buchanan’s
contention was perfectly just, that in ordering such
operations the Government had exceeded their legal
powers, and had been guilty of a series of what may
be regarded as aggravated assaults. There is no law for
compulsory vaccination in this colony, and there is small
probability that such an enactment, if proposed, would
be adopted by Parliament. There has grown up of late
years an increasing doubt whether the vaccination
antidote may not be nearly as bad as the small-pox
bane. It has been undeniably established that vac-
cination, as often practised, has frequently been instru"
mental in conveying from one individual to another ma-
lignant diseases,and gaol inoculation is a sort of mingling
which must present features perfectly abhorrent to the
class of non-habitual detenus. There has been a prone-
ness to exceeding legitimate powers evinced on numer-
ous occasions by the Pabkes Administration, which
requires curbing. The deportation of unhappy sufferers
from small-pox from their residences, has been one
instance of this tendency. Nothing could be more
clearly arbitrary ; and there is but too great reason to
fear that more than one victim’s life has been sacrificed
by the circumstances of such removals. It is, we trust,
not true that persons awaiting trial under detention
have been compelled, as well as sentenced criminals, to
submit to inoculation. The idea of an individual,
possibly innocent of any crime, being compelled to
submit to having the virus which has been passed
through the blood of some vicious seoundrel, intro-
duced into his system, is almost too shocking for
illustration.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Madden, member for Wimmora, spoken of as
probable Minister for Lands in Victoria vice Gaunson.
A treaty of peace between Britain and Tonga is
gazetted. We can now retire to rest without having to
look under the bed for the Tongan army.
The Tasmanian Election and Qualifications
Committee in the Legislative Council unseated Mr.
John Watchorn, and declared Captain William Fisher,
member for the Huon, elected.
Mr. Buchanan’s latest craze is anti-vaccination.
Says ho, “After all, small-pox is a small affair, sot
worth a second thought." We wonder what his second
thought would be in the event ef his being a small-
pox patient in quarantine.
One would imagine that a distinguished ex-
pounder of the Gospel would, at least, have some respect
for old age. But Mr. Melville has not. His boyish tricks
on that estimable old gentleman, Mr. Brodribb, are, to
put it mildly, exceedingly unkind.
That distinguished teetotaller, Mr. Abigail, in-
terrupting Mr. Buchanan, during an impassioned pero-
ration respecting vaccination: “ The hon. member
believes in local option.” Mr. Buchanan: “ A little
local suction would do the hon member a good deal of
good.” The small man went home immediately.
This is no exaggeration :—“ Hat the present
moment hi do not lay claim to hunderstand the hinner
hor the houter mysteries hof the hextrahordinary
combination of hacts known as hour land laws ”
Rather an hex-hasperating sentence, as Mr. Poole would
say. That gentleman evidently favours the haspira-
tionsof Sir’Enry.
(SiThere have been some severe comments in
political circles anent the absence of Mr. Day from the
Assembly whilst the Ringbarking Bill has been under
discussion. He is supposed to represent the free-
selectors, but perhaps he thought it better to represent
himself in the matter of compensation for ringbarking,
and that he could best do that by staying away.
Captain William Fisher, head of the Good Tem-
plars, in Tasmania, and chairman of the local Steam
Company, was tried at thellast criminal sessions in
Hobart for having said to the wife of a Huon elector,
“ Old lady, if you can get Mr. Slough to give me his
vote, I will give you the best bonnet in Hobart." The
electioneering agent of the rival candidate, who had
previously stood his trial upon a similar charge, said he
believed if Slough had voted as he wanted him to do,
the wife would have got a new dress. The Captain may
be congratulated upon his safe transit through the
Slough of Despond, for an obliging jury disagreed.
The Speaker has eliminated from the notice
paper the following motion which Mr. M’Elhone wished
to propose That in consideration of the valuable
services rendered to this colony by R. B. Smith, Esq.,
as Commissioner to the New South Wales and Victoian
Exhibitions, and also in the organization of the demon-
stration at the laying of the foundation-stone of the
statue to be erected of Her Most Gracious Majesty,
and other public services, that the Government should
at once recommend the proper authority in England to
appoint R. B. Smith, Esq., M L.A., p K C.M.G." The
much-respected and esteemed R.B.S. now crosses
over to the other side of the street when he sees the
sarcastic Mac. approaching.
In the light of subsequent events, the division
list taken on the occasion of the now celebrated Mil-
burn Creek Copper Mining vote being submitted to
Parliament will prove interesting to our readers.
For the vote (35) : Parkes, Hoskins, Lloyd,
Brunkor, Parnell, Carter, Clarke (H.), Burdekin,
Combes, Smith (R. B ), Ross, Watson, Wisdom, Clarke
(W.J, Abbott (R P.), Fawcett, Kerr, Tarrant, Myers,
Melville, Teece, Bodel, Suttor, Ferguson, Pullford,
Martin, Davies, See, Reuwick, Beyers, Garrett, Lynch,
Cooke, Barton, Fletcher. Against the vote (7): Ab-
bott, O’Connor, Reid, Withers, Garvan, Slattery and
Bowman. Pairs. —Against: Webb, M Elhone, M’Lough-
lin, Proctor, Badgery, M’Culloch, Trickett, Young
Jacob. For: Holborow, W. J. Watson, Stuart, Day,
J. Brown, Pnrves, Kidd, Murray, Garrard.
The attorneys have gained a victory so far as
the second reading of the Legal Practitioners’ or “the-
more-mouey-iu-the-attomeys’-pockets ” Bill is con-
cerned. The barristers spoiled their cause through
wearying the House with long-winded speeches. They
must have imagined that the task they had before them
was to deaden the sensibilities of a jury of four. On
Friday night, when Mr. Foster was talking, one mem-
ber became oblivious of the gross things of earth. Mr.
Reseby, with an Echo clenched in his fist, and a happy
smile on his countenance, was n picture worthy to
behold. Nought becomes him so well as dreamingof
angels. We may do Mr Foster an injustice in suppos-
ing that his splash had the somnolent effect on our
teetotal friend; possibly the ’•Zigzagger" was the respon-
sible party.
The squabble in the Assembly over the Ring-
barking Bill is very instructive It makes it clear that
real politicians are not the ideal self-sacrificing men
who sink their individuality to promote the public
good. The fquatters are in a miserable minority, but
their persistence is remarkable. They have a doughty
champion in Mr. Garrett, respecting whose actions in
the matter there are some ugly surmises afloat. It is
strange that the gentleman who, a few days since, con-
however, the eccentricity was more marked. At
one time he became “stage-struck,” and, to use
hie own words, “ made a palpable hit as ‘ au
Adelphi guest ’ ” in several country theatres —
notably Ballarat and Sandhurst. One outcome of
this inclination for the drama—an inclination, it
may be noted, shared with Charles Dickens and
all the brilliant wits who founded London Punch
—was Mr. Clarke’s marriage with Miss Marion
Dunn, an excellent actress, and alady who combined
in her person the best attributes that woman is heir
to. Prior to his marriage, however, Mr. Clarke
may be said to have let his fancy run riot in the
planning and executing of eccentric schemes. He
formed one of the expedition who started from
Melbourne to New Guinea, but who got no farther
than the Royal Hotel, Sydney, where, as Marcus
used laughingly to relate, “ the whole thing ended
in a big carouse.” One peculiar fancy he had was
to wander about the city in search of “faces”
The writer has accompanied him on many of these
weird pilgrimages, which embraced all quarters
of the city—from the slums about Little Bourke-
etreet to the aristocratic precints of Toorak. In
these expeditions, the deceased author’s strangest
fancies were exhibited. For instance, he would
pretend to recognise in living members of the
lower orders startling portraits of dead-and-gone
celebrities, whom he insisted lived again on earth
in their persons. Thus a Collingwood ’bus driver
was Julius Caesar, and a barmaid in a Bourke-street
hotel the “positive presentment of Cleopatra.” In
a like manner he would discover extraordinary
beauty in various types of both sexes where none
to the ordinary observer existed, and, in the same
spirit, Was (or professed to be) an enthusiastic
admirer of obscure novelists of “ Minerva Press ”
and “ Della Cruscan ” schools, whose effusions,
he would insist, were superior to the best efforts
of Lord Lytton. When more than ordinarily
pressed by creditors, he used to do what he called
“ a temporary levant,” which consisted in getting
a buggy from Cleal's stables, and, accompanied
by a friend, driving away in the country. Once
well out of the city, he would stop at a small
hotel, and, getting out, gravely purchase two long
clay pipes and tobacco, and other refreshments,
and then drive to some unfrequented spot and
“luxuriate.” Comfortably settled on the grass,
he would assess with great care, the exact salary
Dr. Johnson would command on the Argus, could
he be resuscitated, and would whimsically canvass
the position Robespierre would occupy in the
Victorian Parliament, could that blood-thirsty
person once again figure in the world. These,
perhaps, are but trifling reminiscences, but,
Heaven knows, they are written in a tender spirit.
To those who truly love the literature of this
country, every little recollection of the greatest of
Australian authors will be eagerly read, and
sacredly cherished. He who is gone, eannot be
replaced. The gap in the ranks of our literature
cannot be filled up.


g ATUED AY 13th AUGUST.
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISION
ILL AWARRA EOAD
and
ADDISON EOAD,
MAREICKVILLE,
CLOSE TO THE TEAMWAY ROUTE.
CLOSE TO THE POST OFFICE.
THE BEST BUSINESS SITES
in this most important borough,
GOOD FRONTAGES.
GREAT DEPTH.
FINE BACK STREETS.
MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST
HAVE received instructions from the pro-
prietor
TO SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION.
ON THE GROUND,
THIS DAT, SATURDAY, 13th INST,
AT HALF PAST 3,
This splendid property, formerly known as
MEEK’S PADDOCK.
No suburb has increased more rapidly during the last
few years than Marrickville. Situate as it is between
the Boroughs of Petersham, Newtown, and St. Peter’s,
it has hitherto been considered as a quiet country place,
just fit for gentlemen’s villas and cottages for newly-
married people. As a few large manufactories have
been started, it is now time that a township should be
formed in a central place, to transact the business of the
district. The land now to be offered is admirably suited
for such purposes, being situated at the junction of the
principal roads in a most central position, where all the
traffic will intersect.
This property has been subdivided by that eminent
SURVEYOR, BISHOP,
ON A MOST LIBERAL SCALE,
each allotment having, besides good frontages to the
Illawarra Road, the Addison Road, and Shepherd-street,
depths of 140 feet and back entrances to wide streets,
some of them 30 feet wide.
THE TITLE—TORRENS’ ACT.
THE TERMS ARE MOST LIBERAL.
TEN PER CENT. DEPOSIT,
the balance in 18 monthly payments, with option to pay
up at any earlier time, 6 per cent, interest on amount
due, lessening month by month.
This sale will present a splendid chance for—
-Ist.—Those who want to establish a business.
2nd.—Those who want to build a cottage home in a
choice neighbourhood
3rd.—Those who want to invest money to good advan-
tage.
This sale should be attended by all investors in landed
property.
LITHOGRAPHS CAN BE OBTAINED AT THE
ROOMS, 114 PITT STREET.
Mr. Harron, in charge of the ground, will show
intending buyers the various allotments.
OMNIBUSES will leave the Rooms at half-past 2 on
the day of sale, to convey intending buyers to the
ground, free of charge.
REMEMBER THE DAY OF SALE,
THIS SATURDAY, 13th INSTANT.
REMEMBER THE TIME OF SALE,
Half-past 3, sharp.
REMEMBER THE EASY TERMS,
Ten per cent, deposit, balance in 18 monthly payments.
REMEMBER TORRENS’ TITLE.
REMEMBER MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST,
Auctioneers,
gATUEDAY 13th AUGUST.
THE PICE OF SOUTH CREEK.
MOUNTAIN VIEW ESTATE.
About 100 ACRES of GOOD HIGHLY-ELEVATED
LAND,now subdivided into J-acre, 1-acre, and 2-acre
blocks, as follows: —
SECTION I.—EIGHT (8) ALLOTMENTS, fronting
WESTERN and MAMRE ROADS, and COLLINS
and BWANSTON STREETS.
SECTION 2.—SIX (6) ALLOTMENTS, fronting
SWANSTON, JOHN, and COLLINS STREETS,
and MAMRE ROAD.
SECTION 3.—TWELVE (12) ALLOTMENTS, fronting
JOHN, COLLINS, and MITCHELL STREETS,
and MAMRE ROAD.
SECTION 4.—SIX (6) BLOCKS, fronting MITCHELL.
LONSDALE, and COLLINS STREETS, and
MAMRE EOAD.
SECTION S.—THREE LARGE BLOCKS, fronting
COLLINS, LONSDALE, and MARGARET
STREETS, and MAMRE EOAD
SECTION 6.—THREE BLOCKS, fronting MAMRE
ROAD and COLLINS and MARGARET STREETS.
SECTION 7.—SIX (6) BLOCKS fronting MONPAR-
VILLE, MARGARET, and COLLINS STREETS.
SECTION B.—SEX (6) BLOCKS fronting MONFAR-
VILLE, COLLINS, MARGARET, and LONSDALE
STREETS.
SECTION 9.—SIX (6) BLOCKS Fronting MO NEAR.
VILLE, COLLINS, LONSDALE and MITCHELL
STREETS.
SECTION 10.—SIX (6) BLOCKS, fronting COLLINS,
JOHN. MITCHELL, and MONFARVILLE
STREETS.
SECTION 11.—FOUR (4) BLOCKS fronting JOHN,
SWANSTON, COLLINS, and MONFARVILLE
STREETS.
SECTION 12.—TWELVE (12) ALLOTMENTS, front-
ing WESTERN ROAD, COLLINS, MONPAR-
VILLE, and SWANSTON STREETS,
TITLE, FREEHOLD.
A. J. BRADY, Esq., Solicitor, Elizabeth-street,
Solicitor for Vendor.
HARDIE AND~GORMAN
HAVE received instructions from Messrs.
DESPOINTES, BROTHERS, ARCHITECTS,
to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
* on
SATURDAY, 13th AUGUST,
The above-described property, situate in village of
St Mary, opposite the Church of England, near
the PUBLIC SCHOOL and other SCHOOLS,
and fronting the WESTERN and MAMRE
ROADS.
* a SPECIAL TRAIN LEAVES SYDNEY at 12.15
p.m. on DAY OF SALE, returning at 5.25 p.m. Re-
freshments provided.
TERMS2S per cent, deposit, and the balance in 6,
12, and 18 months, bearing interest at the rate of 6 per
cent, per annum.
PLAN ON VIEW AT THE ROOMS.
WLITHOS. AT THE BOOMS.
u s
PR O S P E C
of the
ORANGE SLAUGHTERING
and
NEW SOUTH WALES FROZEN MEAT EXPORT
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Capital; £50,000, in 10,000 shares of £5 each (with power
to increase to £100,000).
£1 per share upon application, £1 per share upon allot-
ment, Ist Call of £1 three months after allotment,
arid balance by calls not to exceed £1 per share and
at intervals of not less than three months, if re-
quired.
Provisional Directors:
A. T. Kerr, Esq., M.L.A., Wellwood.
James Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Dalton, Bros., Orange
and Sjdney.)
Edwards Heaton, Esq. (Wright, Heaton, and Co.,
Limited.)
Hon. John Smith, M L.C., Gamboola
John A. Gardiner, Esq., J.P., Gobolion.
T. L. Richardson, Esq., J.P., Duck Creek.
James Richmond. Esq., J P., Haddon Riggs.
H. C. White, Esq , J.P , Glenalvon.
J. B. Bundle, Esq , J.P., Pomeroy, Potts’ Point.
James Rutherford, Esq., J.P., Bathurst.
Gtorge Lee, Esq., J.P , Leeholme.
F. A. Wright, Esq. (Wright, Heaton, and Co.,
Limited.)
F. H. Moore, Esq. (Dalgety, Blackwood, and Co.)
Walter R. Hall, Esq , J.P. (Cobb and Co.)
Thomas Dalton, Esq , J.P. (Dalton Bros.)
T. F. Waller, Esq. (representative of R. Golds-
brongh and Co )
William. Alison, Esq., jun., J.P., Cannonbar.
Bankers :
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Brokers:
CLEMENTS and M’CARTHY, Bathurst c .„ -
BURKE, COULSON. and LEEDS,
Orange and Sydney \
C. J. BUCKLAND. Exchange, Sydney ) Af?ents -
The departure of the Cuzco, with the first cargo of
frozen meat from the works of the Orange Slaughtering
Company, having conclusively demonstrated the efficient
working of that establishment, the proprietors think
it is now desirable to extend their operations, and with
that view invite the co-operation of squatters, mer-
chants, and all persons interested in increasing the ex-
port of our surplus stock —thereby assisting the Com-
pany to make this a truly national industry, and one
which must in a short time assume vast proportions.
To the public, not conversant with the operations of
this Company, it may be explained that the work con-
sists of killing, freezing, and shipping stock sent to
them on owners’ account. By adopting this system an
opening will present itself to squatters, at all times and
seasons, to send home their own sheep and cattle, and to
derive full benefit therefrom, as in the case of other
shipments. It opens a vast field of enterprise to the
merchant, who can thus purchase in the colony, and
send to England, an article on which he may realise a
handsome profit, as is now the case with wool, hides,
tallow, &c.
For this purpose, it is proposed to increase the capital
of the present Company to £50,000, by the issue of
10,000 shares at £5 each, with power to increase it to
£lOO,OOO. The property of the present proprietors is
offered to the Re-formed Company at its original cost,
viz., £25,000.
It comprises about 2100 acres of magnificent freehold
land, abundantly watered and subdivided into suitable
paddocks by substantial fencing, for the accommodation
of stock brought to the works for slaughter.
The buildings are designed upon the latest pattern,
and consist of slaughtering pens, chilling-rooms, four
freezing-chambers, engine-room, boiler-house, large
dining-room for workmen, hide, skin, and tallow-houses,
in which the digesters are worked.
The machinery consists of one 20 h.p. Giflfard’s
Freezing Machine, three Pumping Engines, with con-
nections, ons 8 h.p. Vertical Engine to drive bone-mill,
two Steam Digesters, with all other appliances for the
complete mechanical working of the establishment.
The works are connected by a branch of the Great
Western Line of Railway.
In addition, there are extensive piggeries, with about
200 pigs, sheep-yards, stock-yards, and about 100 tons
bone-dust.
The additional capital is required for the following
purposes of: —
Ist. —To erect more extensive buildings and
machinery, capable of dealing with 500,000 sheep, or
50,000 cattle annually, and, as the trade expands, to
still further increase the plant.
2nd.—To charter vessels so as to secure lowest freights
by guaranteeing large quantities of frozen meat for
specified periods. The rate now paid is 2sd per lb.,
but overtures have been received offering freight at
lid per lb , provided sufficient quantities to load cer-
tain steamers would be contracted for annually.
3rd. —To provide cold storage in Sydney for the recep-
tion of the frozen meat,by the purchase of a hulk to be
fitted with refrigerating machinery. This would en-
able the Company at all times to keep a stock of meat
in Sydney ; and, when a vessel required loading, the
hulk could be towed alongside to tranship cargo,
then taken back to the wharf at Darling Harbour to
receive further consignments direct from the
works.
4th. —To furnish sufficient space on board the hulk
where meat could be kept chilled by the waste air
from the freezing machine, and constitute a sale
room for meat that could be sold in Sydney, if
prices were found sufficiently remunerative. By
this means owners could hold their meat in Sydney
and await markets, or ship it, thereby avoiding be-
ing forced to sell their live stock at a sacrifice in the
sale-yards.
sth.—To construct depots for receiving and slaugh-
tering stock at Dubbo, and at Nyngan, Brewarrina,
Bourke, Forbes, Wilcannia, as the railway lines are
opened at those points
During winter months, when the roads are bare of
feed, and during times of drought and of flood, when it
is impossible to travel without loss of condition, stock
can be killed, and carcases conveyed in properly con-
structed trucks to the works in Orange, to be frozen in
the most perfect condition. When the seasons are
good and the roads open, the cost of railway carriage
can be avoided by driving sheep and cattle from the
pastures to the works.
To the pastoralist, the expansion of this industry
offers a safe insurance against low prices in abundant
seasons, and a great protection against the effects of
drought, by enabling him to clear off his fat stock
before they lose condition. In addition to this, he may,
as an investor, participate in the profits of the Com-
pany. From the experience of the original proprietors,
dividends of at least 15 per cent, per annum may be
confidently expected. The application for £lO,OOO
worth of shares by Messrs. James Dalton, Edward
Heaton, and A. T. Kerr, three of the original share-
holders, proves their faith in the Re-formed Company’s
success.
In inviting the co-operation of the public, the present
proprietors have no other object in view than to make
the industry a national one, by enlisting the sympathies
and assistance of those most interested. The best
guarantee of this is that none of them derive any
pecuniary advantage from this extension of capital.
They have adopted the same rule in this as in shipping
meat, viz., to make it as universal as possible. The
present Board of Directors have surmounted all the
initiatory difficulties of this new industry, and have in
their service a trained staff of employees, thoroughly
conversant with the practical working ©f the establish-
ment.
The Estate, having a frontage of 2| miles to the Great
Western Railway, occupies a position as to railway
communication that cannot be excelled—the grand
trunk line leading on to Bourke, and the next most im-
portant extension from Orange, via Forbes to Wil-
cannia, run past the doors of the Company’s Works.
When the line already sanctioned from Murrumburrah
to Blayney (a few miles from Orange) is constructed, it
will connect the works at once with the Great Scuthem
line down the Murrumbidgee as far as Hay, and through
Riverina as far as Jerilderie and Albury. A glance at
the map will at once convince anyone that its position
for commanding nearly the whole of New South Wales
is unrivalled.
The Company’s Works are at an elevation of 3000
feet above the sea level, on a spur of the Conoblas
Range, that rises to a height of 4000 feet within five (5)
miles of the Estate. This makes the site one which
cannot be excelled, combining as it does splendid pad-
dock accomodation, with a climate that will set meat
at all seasons of the year.
As soon as 7000 shares are applied for, the Company
will ho declared formed, and a meeting will be held in
Sydney for the purpose of electing directors, &o.
Applications for Shares will be received by the
Brokers to the Company; and, for public convenience,,
arrangements have been made with the Auf-tralian
Joint Stock Bank for the various Branches and
Agencies of the Bank throughout the colonies also to-
receive applications for Shares, and to remit deposit
money to the Company’s account at the Branch ot that
institution at Orange.
THE GENUINE AMERICAN
HOP BITTERS I
Manufactured by the
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO. OF
ROCHESTER, N.Y., U.S.A.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK,
The above Company are well-known as being the
originators of the
HOP BITTERS PRIZE,
The great boat race rowed on the Thames, and so suc-
cessfully carried off by the
GALLANT LAYOOCK, of AUSTRALIA.
HOP BITTERS
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEAPEST MEDICINE
EVER MADE.
They are compounded from
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (Podophyllln).
AND DANDELION,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and Valuable
Medicines in the World, and in addition contain all
the best and most effective curative oroperties of
all other Bitters, being the greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent on earth.
REMEMBEB THIS ! IP YOU ARE SICK,
HOP BITTERS
will surely aid nature in making you well agaia
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a resident of a mias-
matic district, barricade your system against the
scourge of all, conn tries —malarial, epidemic, bilious,
and intermittent fevers —by the use of
HOF BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are snffernr
from any other of the numerous diseases of the
stomach or bowels, it is your own fault it you r»
main ill, for HOP BITTERS are a sovereign
remedy in all such complaints
If you are wasting away with any form of Kidney
disease, stop tempting Death this moment, ai«d
turn for a cure to HOP BIT TERS
If you are sick with that terrible sickness Ner-
vousness, you will find a “ Balm in Gilead " in the
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they care ALL diseases of the Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure or help, or
for anything impure or injurious found in them
That poor, bedridden, invalid wife, sister, mother,
or daughter, can be made the picture ot heiith uy
a few bottles of Hop Bisters, costing but a trifle.
WILL YOU LET THEM SUFFER!
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD-
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
Large square panelled amber colour bottles. White
label with green Hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other.
Price ss. No other form, size, or price is genuine.
American Hop Bitters 51 fg. Co., Rochester, N.Y.,U.S.A.
To be obtained at all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEPIOBE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
nW\AL
2k
Ur
r*
■2k
£
J-
asso
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL-
HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEORGE STREET.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. SUBSCRIBED; £42,049,
LIFE and FIRE INSURANCES.
LOWEST RATES of PREMIUM.
W Policy holders participate to the extent of four*
fifths in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
ARGEST ESTABLISHMENT OP THE
4 KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
ASIATIC TKa COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
pSeJ C av y a OTe 0 Tea Tea | 2B ’ 2a * 4a 5s
Pure Indian Tea ) per lb *
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d. Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
I2lhs of any.of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully a d
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
AIETT THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and J. Solomonon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
MONTAGUE-TUENER OPERA COMPANY.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, August 12 and 13,
FAUST.
MONDAY, August 15.
LUCIA DI LAMMEEMOOR.
Conductor ... .Monsieur LEON CARON.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
tended with all the power at his command that it was
never intended that ring-barking should be an improve-
ment for whieh squatters could claim compensation,
should now actually propose that they ought to receive
more than 25 per cent, interest on the cost of the work.
Mr. M’Elhone says that the game is one whieh he does
not understand. And that whieh he cannot detect will
not bear the light of day.
A mis-statement, made in an Evening News
Parliamentary report, has been fraught with somewhat
unpleasant consequences to Mr. Jacob. That gentle-
man, in speaking against the Chinese Bill, said that it
would be just as reasonable to pass a law to prevent
Irishmen coming here, but the News reported him as
distinctly saying that such a law ought to he passed.
An Irishman, named M'Douagh, who is foolish enough
to trust to the News for information as to what is going
on in the world, seeing this extraordinary statement, at
once wrote a furious letter to Mr. M’Elhone, calling
upon him to defend his country against the slanders of
“ a wretched Jew, accursed of God and man,” and mak-
ing the agreeable suggestion that a coroner’s inquest
should he made necessary. Mr. Jacob made an explan,
stiou in Parliament, and Mr. O’Connor aided him by
saying that it was absurd to suppose that a gentleman
“whose best blood is Irish,” would talk of excluding
Irishmen.”
SOCIAL.
Berlin society is not different from society else-
where. Herbert Bismarck has been received back with
distinguished consideration, while tbe wife of another
man. with whom he ran away,;lies deserted and dying in
Vienna.
• * *
Tbe Jewish bachelors of Sydney give a ball at
Needs' rooms, on the 17th August. A large number of
invitations have been issued.
* * #
Mr. Gerald Fitzgerald, C.M.G.. Director-
General of Public Accounts to the Khedive of Egypt,
who was married the other day in Melbourne to the
Hon. Amicia Henrietta Miles, e'dest daughter of Lord
Houghton, is a brother of the Hon. Nicholas Fitz-
gerald, M L C., of Castlemaine brewery fame. The
happy couple met for the first time at the Pyramids.
Their wedding was a very stylish affair.
* * #
’"A concert and ball took place at Largs, last
week, in a.d of the local School of Arts. Several
ladies took part and sang with remarkable success. The
performances of two Maitland gentlemen were very
entertaining, but a Largs gentleman and a visitor
from Sydney sent the people off to sleep by attempts
at song and recitations, and were politely asked to
trouble Lurgs no more. At the ball, several of the
ladies wore shoes, but most of them boots; some were
handsome and lithe; others reminded one of Hans
Brietmann’s Matilda Yane. The affair was much
enjoyed, and was a financial success.
* # *
The Parramatta Bowing Club ball proved a
grand success. About sixty couples were present, who
all seemed to enjoy themselves immensely. Two
sisters from Wagga dressed respectively as “ Snow,"
and the M.R.C. colours were universally admired, as
was also Miss B as a “ Vivandiere ” from “ Tam-
bour-Major,” Miss D as “ Maritana,” and Miss
M as an " Archer.” One of the most unique dresses
of the evening was that of a young lady who represented
the Cumberland Independent Other noticeable
characters were : “ Claudine,” by Miss Taylor, of Syd-
ney ; “Nurse of the Bed Cross,” by Miss Ferguson;
“ Italian Peasant,” by Mrs. E. Bennett; Misses Modini,
as “Traviata” and “The Bohemian Girl.” A young
lady residing in George-street, Parramatta, dressed in
white satin with gold trimmings, was also much
admired.
• * *
On Tuesday the Princes visited Botany, at the
invitation of the Hon. Thomas Holt, M.L C. On this
auspicious occasion Prince Edward planted trees and
chased a deg. He also made a mode! speech, viz:—
“ Mr. Holt, and gentlemen, I thank) you very much for
the honour you have done us.”
# * #
The Muawellbrook bachelor’s ball took place
last Thursday night, and was a great success in every
respect. There were about 120 ladies and gentlemen
S resent, and some of the dresses were exceedingly
andsome. A tall, graceful lady, in black silk velvet
with silver and coral trimmings, was much admired.
A costume of black and silver with cardinal trimmings
and silver ornaments to correspond, was very uncom-
mon, and excited great admiration. Another, of black
lace, with pink satin front, was admired for its exceed-
ing richness. A young married lady wore a beautiful
dress—white satin skirt with black velvet boddice.
Dancing was kept up with great spirit till 4 o’clock,
and too much praise cauuot be given to the Muswell-
brook bachelors.
* # #
The Alexandria Rink Club at Woollahra closed
its season and existence on Wednesday last by a dance,
at which about one hundred people were present.
Among those ladies who proved most attractive may be
mentioned one of the belles of the Mercantile, who
appeared there in pale yellow; two sisters from Queen-
street ; and a Balmain beauty. It may be as well to
mention that the “kangaroo” polka is danced to per-
fection by (luckily) a few who attend these dances in
Woollahra. It is worth remarking that it is the dance
“ par excellence ” of Saturday night quadrille parties
in less (esthetic quarters.
* # *
A fancy dress ball is on the tapis in Liverpool.
• ♦ *
The eldest daughter of a large landowner on
the Snowy River is to be united in matrimony to a
gentleman in the Survey Department.
* # #
The people of D are burning to know
whether the doctor who recently left them, with the
ostensible idea of taking a trip to England, really means
indulge in that luxury.
* * ♦
The balance from the return ball to the Mayor
of Melbourne is £4OO, of which halt will be expended in
a portrait in oils of Mr. Meares. With the other half,
suitable presentations will be made to the Mayoress
and some members of His Worship s family.
• * *
""On the block. Bich but plain young lady, to
well-born hut hard-up swell: “ Why, Mr. , I never
see you on the block now.” Well-born, &o. (looking
ruefully down at his boots, and with a wild burst of
truth) :“ I only came out to-day to ” She (smiliug):
“To enjoy the sunshine?” He (desperately): “No!
To avoid my washing ” Pnllar explanations; a meeting
next day; love; gratitude; au offer, and Well, no I
He ran away with the money she gave him for his
outfit. tyiisontils?
• • *
The following incident (says Vanity Fair)
really occurred at the Bagshot bazaar : —A young gen-
tleman thought he fancied a certain article exposed for
sale at one of the bazaars, and he was certain he fancied
the lady who presided at the bazaar. He remarked,
therefore, that he thought that particular article very
pretty. The lady said, “ Yes, it is very pretty. My
mother sent it.” “ Ah! really,” pursued the young
gentleman, determined to discover the name of the
owner of the eyes that had bewitched him. “ Ah!
really Let me see, I think I have met your mother.
Her name is ?” “ The Queen,” answered the lady.
The young gentleman did not wait for the last train
from Bagshot.
["Those who send us'social items should give their names
and addresses, which will under no circumstances
whatever be disclosed. Our Social column is intended
to be a record, in tfaith, of the leading
social events of the day.]
Two more cases of small-pox, at Croydon.
We have received fcom Messrs. J. M. S. Jozeau
and Co. a sample of their Sanitary Sachet, for the pro-
vention of small-pox, measles, etc. It is elegant in
design, attractive in appearance, and comfortable to
wear; in fact, during the present epidemic, |it may be
considered the great desideratum of the day.


BRIEF MENTION.
Good Gaudaur!
Hymen’s paradise—Mait-land.
Another Sir Roger Tichborne !
Sawkins is in Adelaide, and Dowie, too. Joy !
Languishing eyes ! Deep sighs! The Squadron
is off.
The No. 1 Q.Y.A. went to Lytton, the other
day, for shell practice. The paint on the target is in
splendid condition.
Earl Percy is the chairman of a body called into
existence to prevent Mr. Bradlangh taking his seat.
This is Percy-cution.
At a recent evangelical service at the Brisbane
Theatre, the collection taken up in the dress circle
amounted to nine pence. Hallelujah 1
At Coonamble gaol, compulsory vaccination has
been introduced. A prisoner, in for six months, ob-
jected and said he would leave the gaol first.
The Fish Company has apparently withered
away. The shareholders can’t stand the shivering pro-
cess, so the freezing apparatus is to be sold cheap.
At the Hodgkinson (Q.) the miners don’t now
say “ come and have a drink.’’ What they say is
“ wouldn't you like to go and flood the lower level P"
“Vaccination from the first ourang-outang.
Vaccination fron the second ourang-outang. Vaccina-
tion from the third ourang-outang. Pee, one guinea.”
The other day, at Cobar, a Chinese took the
oath of allegiance. Immediately he had finished he ex-
claimed, ” Posee me takee s’lectwn now. No stoppee.
Me Blitish man.”
A gentleman bet 2 to 1 the other day that you
could not stand half a minnte looking into any shop
in George-street, without having a puff of tobacco
smoke in your face. Try it 1
The superintendent of the Reception-house for
the Insane, Darlinghurst, wants any books, periodicals,
etc., that would amuse the lunatics. This seems a
providential opening for Sydney Punch.
This is sent us by a pious young man :—“ Y. M.
C. A., beware of vaccination. One of our dear brothers
at Ashfield was vaccinated lately from a Roman Catholic
—he has attended Mass regularly ever since."
The Matrimonial News is out. The editor
warns people that nothing low or vulgar will be inserted
—so needn’t be sent. The Ipoint of the joke is the
editor hinting at what he expects from his readers.
The statue of Justice has, we read, been erected
at the new law courts, Melbourne. We wonder what
kind of statue could be appropriately placed outside
some of the Sydney courts. It might be contempt of
Court to say.
A man who held forth at Moore Park, on Sunday
last, was evidently a fish vendor, for when, in the course
of his impassioned oration, he said “ Whosoever be-
lieveth,” &0., ‘‘shall save his soul alive," he added
“ all alive, oh I ’’
Passengers to Northern ports complain that the
small-pox scare has been taken advantage of by a certain
self-appointed health officer, who, by the way, examines
the chests and wrists of travellers without having
washed his hands.
When Mrs. Williams, of St. Kilda, sent the
Princes her “ donkey memento," they returned her
their photographs. And this is exactly what they did
to Sir Henry, and ou r Mayor, and a great many other
distinguished people.
It has been proposed in England that the sale of
intoxicating liquors in railway trains be licensed. At
this rate, we shall soon see the time when a man will
go to church with a revised edition in one hand, and a
beer-jug in the other.
Sir John Robertson on Sir Henry’s illness:
“ Why. he works all day and all night by himself, upon
my soul. Well, I can forgive the man who works by
himself, but it’s my opinion that the man who eats by
himself is a wolf."
An extraordinary facial resemblance has been
noticed by some irreverent person between “ Fijian
Joe,” that's to say the Honorable Sir Joseph George
Long-Innes, Minister of Justice, and—ahem I—one of
the “ Turn I onr-Major ” captains.
So far as we can learn, “officially,” both the
Eoyal Princes possess very fair conversational powers.
Their average chat runs as follows:—Bertie Victor
(aesthetically): “ What a boah I” George of Wales
(sotio voce); “ Got a chew about you ?"
Mr. W. J. Foster, a barrister of 25 years’ stand-
ing, said in the House the other night that the junior
bar should be a nursery for advocates. But when he
was Attorney-General how many briefs did he give to
the junior bar ? Did he ever give one ?
“Wrecker” remarks that though at Parramatta,
on Saturday morning, he can obtain Friday’s Melbourne
papers, a letter posted at Parramatta at 10 30 p.m. does
net reach Sydney until the afternoon of the following
day. Screw loose somewhere. Whose screw ?
The acme of modesty—R. B- Smith. The apex
of loyalty—John Davies. Processions arranged on the
shortest possible notice. All orders punctually attended
to, and no charges made unless perfect satisfaction
given. For further particulars, see small bills.
Song of the youthful apple peddler at the
country railway stations : " Apple 1 Sapples! Two for
five. Napple, mister ? Mister, Rapple ? Wan tanapple,
mister ? Ni seatin’ nappies I Napple, mister ? Mister,
wantanapnl - 9 Want smappuls, mister? Here’s
yourappuls 13
There’s a public vaccinator in Sydney who has
a calf on exhibition in his balcony during the day. Dr.
Dansey, upon being informed of this, exclaimed, “ Has
the profession sunk so low ?” After this notice,
the vaccinator should cry pee-calf-i, and sink the calf
part of his show.
In reply to numerous correspondents, we have
to state that, in Australia, male bipeds—not men—wear
gaiters in order to conceal the cleft in their hoofs. As
has been previously remarked, the man who ports his
hair in the middle is desirous of giving both his ealrs a
chance of flapping.
Not very long since a certain rich man, of Rock-
hampton, was so ill that he was regarded by the doc-
tors as moribund and given the last consolations of
religion by the priest. In fact, matters went so far
that the sexton actually prepared his grave. But he is
still alive and going about as usual.
The English authorities are considering the
advisableness of providing the police in the disturbed
portions of Ireland with shields to ward off stones and
sticks. Civilization, it is plain, is getting played out.
The Government will have to import a few Zulus to
teach policemen the use of the shield.
Rough on Victorian public schools. Here is an
advertisement from a Melbourne daily State School
Head Cleaner has the largest sale of any preparation on
earth. For destroying vermin and nits on children at-
tending public schools, it has no equal. Pleasant to use.
Perfectly harmless to the youngest child.”
The Mayor of a certain inland town is a very
rich man, but dispenses no hospitality at his own
home. Twenty-five years ago the wife of his bosom,
who is not yet disembodied, came home rather unex-
pectedly and caught him chasing the servant round
the table. Since which no domestic has ever crossed his
threshold.
The Tamwobth Observer intimates that
henceforth no credit will be given by it to theatrical
companies which are not favourably known; that it
intends charging double rates for all theatrical adver-
tisements; and that paragraphs concerning the merits
of entertainments will have to be paid for at the rate of
three shillings an inch.
Mr. Cass, M.L.A. for Dubbo, says, with respect
to Mr. Abbott’s Bill tending to the amalgamation of j
the two branches of the legal profession, that he is in j
favour of leaving the devil’s own to fight it out among
themselves. To interfere between the attorneys and
the barristers would, he said, be like interfering be-
tween husband and wife.
That prominent lawyer, David Buchanan, is of
opinion that every prisoner who has been vaccinated in
gaol can bring an action against Sir Henry Parkes for
aggravated assault. It the prisoners hear of this, and
do not institute proceedings, either they must be all
friends of Sir Henry, or they must think that David’s
opinion is not worth a straw.
There is a story to the effect that a certain well-
meaning N.Z. divine, whose misfortune it was to travel
to 'Frisco in the same boat with a lot of Mormons en
route to Utah, attempted to "convert” some of the
girls. However, as might have been expected, they
converted him, —and he is now very much married, and
living “quietly" at Salt Lake.
At late dates, another fasting gentleman—John
H. Orison—was undergoing his period of 45 days' tor-
ture at Chicago. He had already been fasting some 20
days. On the thirteenth day he had lost 19ilb. in
weight. He seldom goes out, and takes nothing but .
water. His temperature is 981, pulse 72, and respiration
24. His condition is reported good, and his chances of
success are said to be favourable.
In the course of a review of “ The Life of Weber,
by Sir Julius Benedict,” the Herald of Monday last
says:—" Disappointed in his children by his first mar-
riage, Anton Weber determined that this boy should be
a marvel. Before he could speak he was taught to put
his fingers on the piano and to sing." No doubt the
father of the fellow who wrote this got his son taught to
bray first and to write afterwards.
The Dubbo Express, in referring to the case
of a single girl, a minor, to whom a publican’s license
was recently granted, says that “ both the Police
Magistrate and Sergeant Chaplin knew what they were
doing." Exactly. But then the worthy P.M. should
recollect that even Dubbo dignitaries sometimes make
mistakes with regard to pretty women.
An alderman of Ottawa, Canada, has, we read,
publicly tested a Hying machine, perfected by him after
30 years’ patient thought and labour. He flew a quarter
of a mile at an average height of 12ft. Sydney aldermen
don’t go in for flying machines. They like the ground
too well. In fact, they like to get beneath the surface
—down to the foundations —though they don’t care
about the public going there, too.
In Brisbane, people are wondering why no bill
was filed against Stewart, the sailor who the other day
fired three revolver shots at a constable, by whom he
was arrested and from whom he had escaped. Malici-
ous people say that the reason is contained in the fact
that pressure has been brought to bear by a certain big.
wig whom the constable concerned was some time ago
so unfortunate as to disturb in a midnight carouse
among the houris of Brisbane.
In London, the other day, Commissioner Kerr
said that " a clerk ought to be able to keep a wife and
family well on £9O a year. If he wants more, it is only
to spend on tobacco and beer.” Whereupon a member
of the class referred to wrote, saying that “ though Mr.
Commissioner Kerr had a good many ninety pounds a
year, he had persistently tried to get an advance from
the city authorities. The obvious deduction is he wants
a great deal of tobacco and a great deal of beer." Sauce
for the clerk: sauce for the Kerr.
A boy fell down an 80ft. shaft, at Rose Valley,
Vegetable Creek, the other day, but luckily escaped
unhurt. As someone was about to descend to gather
all that was thought would be left of him, a voice was
heard from below singing out, "Send down the rope;
I can stick to the —naughty—thing." This was im-
mediately done, and he soon arrived safely on the top.
After looking round for a minute or two, he said,
II it, let mo down again; I’ve left my—unmention-
able—hat at the bottom.” That’s the little boy of real
life, not the little hoy of the Sunday-school books.
The “ Zig-Rag” papers are no more, and the
side-splitting "Brevities” of the only Nooze have de-
generated into acknowledged advertisements of dolls,
sewing machines, blocks of land, and Mick Simmons’
world-renowned tin-tag tobacco ! “To what base uses,"
&c. And what, in the name of Gehenna, will we now
do for an evening laugh ? This is a sad thought,
indeed ; but, as the Rev. John Dowie said when he was
“goosed” at the last election, “this is Heaven’s
punishment On Sydney for its many sins. “ Let us
cling passionately to one another, and think of faint
lilies.”
It’s a large pastoral property on the banks of
the “ lovely ” Namoi. The new manager’s a “ snuffle-
buster” of the-deepest dye, and a shining pillar of the
Y.M.C A. The other day, the overseer, a good fellow
and a thorough sportsman, struggled hard to get leave
to attend the big pigeon match, for which he had
entered. But the small saint turned up the whites of
his eyes and clasped his hands, with “ My de-ah Henry.
I do not approve of any public meetings which have
not for their sole purpose the advancement of our
fellow creatures. Join the Y.M.C.A., Henry; only a
guinea." And Henry—didn’t.
At Forbes, it appears, Dr. Sam, the Govern-
ment vaccinator, being unwell, a local chemist was
ordered to vaccinate the prisoners in the gaol. Now, as
there are two legal qualified medical practitioners
besides Dr. Sara in the township, people wonder why a
mere chemist has been set to do doctors’ work. And as
the chemist in question, who is no doubt a very worthy
man, occupies the position of coroner, it is asked what
would be done as regards an inquest in the possible
event of one of the prisoners in question dying from the
effects of vaccination ? Does the Colonial Secretary
prefer unqualified to qualified men?
A curious incident once occurred in the Goul-
burn (N S. W.) police court. It was licensing day, and
the bench was overcrowded with magistrates, when a
“ soiled Jove,” somewhat tastily dressed, was placed in
the dock charged with being drunk and disorderly.
Presiding J P., addressing the unfortunate: “Guilty,
or not guilty ?” “ Guilty, sir ; but when I look at the
assemblage of Christian gentlemen occupying the
Bench, and many of them good friends of mine, I am
sure yon’ll deal leniently with me.” Presiding J.P.,
evidently confused: “You’re discharged; go away ! go
away I and lead a respectable life."
A letter, no doubt written by a gaol chaplain
for a murderer and palmed off as the condemned one’s
own composition, was, the other day, published in the
English papers. Here it is“ lam in good health at
present. I hope you all go on Sunday to Heeley
Church. I hope your mother is in heaven, where I
hope soon to join her.” The meeting in heaven of a
hanged gentleman and the lady he murdered is one of
those things which are not pleasant to contemplate.
The prison chaplain’s idea of heaven is a sort of Alsatia
to which murder is the password. The funniest part of
the epistle is, of course, the “ I am in good health—at
present.” Ahem I —exactly.
The first “ local ” in the Illawabba Mercury
of Aug. 5 reads thus ;—“ Cauliflower—Mr. George Beadle
left at our office, a few days ago, a very fine specimen of
cauliflower grown by him near his residence, at the
Fairy Meadow Post-office." We republish this, because
we are sure that no reader has ever seen anything of the
kind before, whether regard be paid to the enthralling
interest or to the smartness of the par. By the way,
we wonder where the cauliflower is now. But, stay—
we suppose that the editor purposely refrained from
noticing it—that’s to say, from officially noticing it—
for “ a few days," in order that there might be no
unseemly rush to view the fascinating vegetable.
A few weeks ago, during the hearing of a case
at Thornborough, Hodgkiuson River, some pigeons
alighted on the galvanized iron roof of the court-house,
and began to walk about, making a great noise.
“Silence in the coort," yelled the bailiff. Darby
O’Brien, looking very severe. But the noise continued,
so Darby shrieked “ Hold yer tongue up there wid yer
fate." However, the pigeons still took no notice, so
Darby went outside and commenced to pelt them with
gibbers. After making a tremendous clatter on the
roof the bailiff succeeded in driving off the birds, but no
sooner had he got inside the court again than they
returned. The P.M. said he preferred the scratching
of their feet to Darby’s bombardment.
Just as Dick Thatcher had opened his new pub.
on Saturday last, a tall, gaunt individual entered, and
placing threepence on the counter, called for the longest
beer allowed by Act of Parliament. Hardly had he got
it, when he caught sight of Richmond. “What, Dick I"
he cried, hastily taking up his money and pocketing it,
“don't you know me P I’m Hamlet Pitz-Jocelyn-
Montmorency, the tragedian. You keeping a pub. I
This is too much. But I will not desert you. My
luggage is close by. I fly to fetch it.” And, drinking
his beer with a gulp, he was gone like a nightmare.
Then Richmond gazed sadly round, emptied the change
in the till into his ulster pocket, and culled out to the
hired girl to come and put up the shutters.
“ A nation of cigarette smokers,” says a clever
home writer, “ will always be beaten by a nation of
pipe-smokers. England, I regret to say, is becoming
more and more oigaretty every day. Our young men
now smoke nothing else, and it is a sure sign of failing
physical power and of increasing effeminacy. The
french cigarette-smokers were thrashed by the pipe-
smoking Germans, and conntless instances might be
given. Once our young men smoked cigars and pipes,
now every other male being yon meet is puffing a paper
abomination. It is the surest herald I know of the
departure of bone and sinew from the national consti-
tution.” In this case a straw really shows the direc-
tion of the wind. When a man’s nerves become shaky
he drops the cutty and takes to rice-paper. You can
see it every day in Sydney.
The other day, a rieh Monaro squatter—who,
unfortunately, can neither read nor write—attended a
public meeting, and was entrusted with the moving of
one of the written resolutions. But he was almost
equal to the occasion, for he ran his eyes along the
paper (which he held up-side down), and, with an air of
complete nonchalance, threw it from him, remarking,
**l’m blessed if I move that resolution; I don’t agree
with it.” There’s another uncultivated man on the
Cutgoa, who suddenly found himself so rich that he was
able to invest in a handsome gold watch. But he was
not able to tell the hour, and when anyone asked the
time of day, Jerry would pull out his watch, press the
spring, and hold the dial in the face of his friend, ex-
claiming the while, with a well-feigned air of surprise,
“ Who’d have thought it was that time I”
The cartoon in the current number of Melbourne
Punch, is entitled “ The Fallen Angel,” and represents
Mr. David Gaunson, the defeated of Ararat, being led
in the guise of a Peri to the gate of (political) Paradise
by a policeman personifying the constituency named.
Policeman (loq.) : “ As you say, your politics have been
misunderstood, and your actions misrepresented by a
wicked public and a vituperative press. To prevent mis-
takes in the future, permit me to show you the out-
side of Paradise."—
“ Come on,” the guardian angel said,
“ It isn’t here, ye’ll make yer bed;
Get up out of this, and go on out of that.
Ye’re in disgrace wid Ararat;
Ye’ve lost yqur seat, and dropped your tin ;
Clear out—or, faix, I’ll run yea in.”
Punch has, besides, an admirable caricature of Mr.
Warden Harry Graves, M.L.A. for Delatite, who is
perfectly Gaunsonian in the uncertainty of his politics,
and who is referred to as “ Vulpis Gravis."
In the words of the Herald, we “ have been
requested to state” that anyone acquainted with areal
soul-ploughing dirge will confer a favour on Lord
Augustus Loftus by sending a copy to Government
House at once. His Excellency has bought three most
melancholy-toned harmoniums, a pair of bagpipes, and
an asthmatic barrel-organ to give due effect to any
such piece as may be selected, and has ordered that the
vestibule of the vice-regal abode be draped in sable for
the usual period of court mourning. These arrange*
ments have been necessitated by the official announce-
ment by Alderman Beare that it is his intention to
attend no more of the Government House levees, as the
the Civil Servants are awarded higher positions there
than himself. We suppose there is a foolish prejudice
existing in that House against men of genius. There
are but few people who can shine simultaneously in the
respective departments af umbrella-mending, cabbage-
dealing, and fowl-slaughter.
A balmy evening in June, and the bloated
squatter was peacefully contemplating his wide-spread
domain, when he became aware of the approach of a
horseman, with the evident idea of an interview.
(Sounds like the opening chapter of a 3-vol. novel,
doesn’t it ?) Soon the stranger pulled up in front of
the garden fence with “ Good evening, sir; Mr. ,
I presume?” “Yes,” replied the man of wool. “Well,
then, I’m reporter for the Weekly Snael, and I’ve
come to do this magnificent property of yours for our
ntnor." “ Oh, indeed, have you ?” said the squatter,
taking his visitor’s measure, from the paper-collar down
to me No. 10’s, and casting a pitying glance on the
animated hatrack he bestrode. “ Ton’ll find a pair of
blankets, and you’ll get a feed in the men’s hut.” Sadly
and slowly the member of the Fourth Estate turned
his Eosinante’s head, and hied him to damper and mut-
ton and hard boards, instead of te good fare and feathers.
Next week, there appeared in the Weekly Snael a
scathing and ungrammatical article headed “ The
Decline of Country Hospitality.” The moral of this is
that proprietors should see their people don’t go about
like mendicants, mounted on hideous cross-bred ruins,
and carrying their only shirts in dirty stockings.
It is popularly believed that angels have wings.
Now, when Jacob saw them in his dream going from
earth to heaven, didn’t they use a ladder ?
There is something ultra-farcial in the fact that
the other day, in Eussia, some police spies hid under a
bed and heard five small boys, the eldest about eleven,
plotting the death of the new Czar, The children were
all arrested and will probably be satisfactorily disposed
of.
Here is an index to the condition and prospects
of English agriculture. Three years ago three Kentish
farms were sold for £23,000. A little while since the
same farms were put up for sale, but the highest bid for
them was £BOOO. The reserve price was not more than
£9OOO.
The fastest passenger-boat in the world, the
Glen Eosa, the Thames and Channel Company's new
excursion vessel, is now running on the Thames. She
has been making the passage to Harwich, a distance of
90 miles, according to the course taken, in 4} hours,
including stoppages. Her speed has often been over
23 miles an hour.
Benson, onel’of the central figures in the big
English turf fraud case, is seriously ill in the prison
infirmary, and not likely to recover. It is proposed
that something should now be done for him and Kurr,
for, unless something he done, it’s unlikely that Go-
vernment will find prisoners so ready in giving valuable
information again.
A man who was too poor to indulge in any
luxuries other than children, was presented by a loviug
wife with triplets—three boys—and he sought for some
family to adopt them. Mr. Clarke was rather inclined
to take one of them, but his good wife rather objected.
They were talking it over before their little eight-year
old daughter, who said: “ Why don’t you take one of
them, ma ; don’t they want to break the set ?”
The launch of the new gunless British ironclad,
Polyphemus, marks doubtless a new era in the art of
naval warfare. This monster is simply a ram provided
with a terrible torpedo appliance, and so swift as to be
able to close, it is believed, with any ironclad afloat.
Victory or annihilation must be the motto of the crew
of the Polyphemus should they ever go into action.
Such a vessel should expect no mercy from an enemy.
M. Perrotis, a member of the Greek Chamber,
and brother of Madame Coumoundouros (wife of the
Premier), has been arrested for having bought in Paris
a press for the purpose of fabricating spurious notes.
The Greek Minister of Finance is accused of having
received 55.C00 francs from one of the forgers. Eumours
are in circulation against the Minister of the Interior,
and it is universally believed that these events will
compel the King shortly to dismiss the Coumoundouros
Ministry.
This is how the big .£30,000 diamond robbery
at the Cape was effected. A company of burglars pur-
chased one of the largest and best iron safes procurable
for money in London. They shipped it to the Cape of
Good Hope. Two of the gang' followed it. At Cape
Town they had it sold by auction. It was purchased
for the Diamond Field. Nobody would buy such a safe
as that unless he had something valuable to put into it.
The original investors followed the safe. One morning
when the purchaser opened it, the £30,000 worth of
property which he had deposited there was gone. The
safe had not been broken open. The thieves had made
duplicate keys to fit it before they put it up for auction.
“Mrs” and “Miss” are awkward prefixes.
The former is unpronounceable, and the latter hissing.
“ Mister” is distasteful as a masculine title, “Mistress”
for “Mrs,” might be revived, but how inferior even
this term is to the French “ Madame ! ” For “ Made-
moiselle ’’ we have no exact equivalent, for this term
may be used either as a prefix to the name, or separately
as a title, while the use of “ Miss ” without the name
to follow, is a deeply-dyed vulgarism. Then how shall
one address a young lady whose name he does not know ?
To say “Miss” is abominable; to say “Madame,” if
she is very young, is absurd; to say “ Mademoiselle ”
would be an affectation. The language provides
absolutely nothing appropriate, unless a word fairly
obsolete in this use be revived—the word “lady,”
which belongs rightly to the young as to the old, to the
single as to the married, and could be extended to all
ranks above the lowest.
In 1874, at Chesterfield, coal fetched 225. per
ton at the pit’s mouth. Now it brings 6s. 6d. Then
many of the men earned two guineas a day, and their
extravagance knew no bounds. Some went in for
drink, and the prisons and the lunatic asylums were
filled. Others made a show with their money—there
were colliers who gave each of their daughters a piano
all to herself. In 1874, too, 400 colliers had a dinner at
two guineas a head. They ordered everything to be
provided just as it would be for the masters, with the
exception—every man was to have a magnum of cham-
pagne in front of him, and was to be allowed to drink
it out of a quart pot. Some of the men actually sat
down in full evening dress. But perhaps, after all,
those who spent their money during those halcyon
days were the wisest. The saving and long-headed put
theirs by. Clubbed together, and bought a coalfield of
their own. The result was disastrous. More money
went down the shaft than ever coal came up, and most
of the " men’s collieries" to-day stand idle and closed,
black and melancholy mausoleums of the departed
hopes of labour and capital rolled into one.
Not many years ago, one of oar Melbourne
traders was sailed by an eccentric old skipper, who, on
one of his passages, put into Capetown, and discharged
his chief officer for alleged incompetency. The old
fellow then took up his quarters at the Table Bay
Hotel, and let it be known that he was prepared to re-
ceive applications for the billet. Numerous were the
candidates, but they soon retired in dismay, for the first
question, after inspecting the applicant’s certificate,
was, “ Now, sir, can you make a * Hurlyque curlyque ?' ”
It was getting well on towards evening when at last a
smart-looking young fellow answered the stereotyped
question with “Oh, yes, sir; made dozens of ’em ”
“The deuce you have,” replied the skipper; “then go
on board the , and rig me up one at once.” Early
next morning the captain was called in a hurry to the
hotel balcony, where a knot of brother-skippers were
trying to find out what was the matter with the old
, which resembled an immense floating cobweb
more than anything else. Eopes everywhere, inter-
twined and interlaced in apparently inextricable con-
fusion, from one masthead to the other, fore and aft and
athwartships—everywhere and in every direction. In
fact, the vessel was nearly hidden in a maze of cordage,
every inch in the ship, new and old, apparently having
been utilised. Muttering quotations from the “old
version,” our skipper jumped into a shore boat, and was
pulled on board. The new chief mate met him politely
at the gangway, and was saluted with “ What the
d’ye call this mess ?" “ That, sir ? Oh,
that’s the ‘ Hurlyque curlyque’you ordered last night.”
A grim smile o’erspread the saturnine phiz, of the old
salt as he exclaimed, “ Oh, take it down. I think you’ll
do.”
A “SLIGHT” GRIEVANCE.


There is nothing more nourishing and warming
in cold weather than a cup of really good cocoa, hut the
difficulty has been to obtain it pure. This may be
secured at a cost of one halfpenny for a large breakfast
cup by using Cadbury's Cocoa Essence, which goes
throe times as far as the adulterated and starchy com-
pounds ordinarily sold, the smallest packet mak ng Id
breakfast cups of strong cocoa.— LAdvt.l
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12
Victoria Trotting Club (Spring) August 13.
Sydney Tattersall’s.... August 13.
Kensington Park (Vic.) Angnst 15.
Sydney Sunt Club Angnst 15.
Maitland August 16.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club August 20.
Qympie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury E.G. Annual August 25, 27.
Parramatta August 20.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8,10.
Cooktown September 7, 8.
Northern Jockey Club September 14,15.
Murruruudi September 21.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Maryborough & Carisbook (Vic ) T. C...Septembor29,3o.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Wollongong October 12, 13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park : October 22.
Victoria E C. Soring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 6.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8, 10,11.
Queensland T. G November 9, 10.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 24. 25.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
~ Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A. Summer Meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Wallace Ross v. Morris, £4OO August.
Boyd v. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Ross August.
Walker Whisky Trophy September, 5,7, 9.
Champion Pours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9.
Triokettv. Boyd September.
Rush v. La v cock September.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Sportsman Challenge Cup, 200 guineas—New-
castle- on-Tyne October.
Public Schools’ Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
N-S.W, Rowing Association Regatta Octobers, 15.
Holds worth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDESTRIANISM.
B. Ellis v. A. Skinner (4 yards), £lO aside, 150
yards—lnverell August 13.
T. Allen and W. M'Guiness, 100 yards, £2o—
Ground August 13.
T. Allen v. T. Lloyd, 100 yards August 27.
COURSING.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Hawkesbury C.C. opening August 12, 13.
Victoria Club August 18.
Bathurst August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
,£3OOO was the price paid for Somnaa, Sir
Modred, and Idalium.
Sussex has bidden adieu to the turf, and will in
future be used for the stud.
The Queensland Rifle Association intend to send
a team to compete at Sydney.
The Wyndham races, on Saturday, was a
backers’ meeting, the bookmakers losing heavily.
A meeting of the recently formed Sydney Hunt
Club is to take place, at Eandwick, on Monday, August
15th.
Monmouth is scratched for all engagements at
the A.J.C. meeting, except the Derby, for which he
will start.
A clinker race took place on Saturday between
Messrs. W. Lee and E. Palmer, resulting in an easy win
for Mr. Lee.
The N.S.W. footballers say that the Melbourne
Club team was much stronger than the Victorian inter-
colonial team.
It was reported, during the week, without any
foundation, however, that Monmouth was scratched
for the A.J.C. Derby.
The one-mile race for ,£lOO, 9st. each, between
P.Q aud President, on Flemiugton course, was won
easily by the former.
The N.S.W. Rifle Association have fixed their
annual meeting to come off during the week ending the
19th November next.
The Carlton Football Club met a Singleton
fifteen, at Bast Maitland, on Saturday, and defeated
them by three goals and two tries.
Still another touchdown. A lad named Joseph
M'Cue, 13 years of ago, broke his arm playing football
at West Maitland, on the 2nd instant.
Muagrove. Diamond. Falmouth, The Rake,
Venom, Pollio, Rupert, Henchman and Aureola have
been scratched for the Metropolitan Stakes.
The Auckland Racing Club have endorsed the
decision of the Victorian Racing Club as to the dis-
qualification of Mata and his jockey, R. Ray.
Edward Trickett, of Sydney (very much), took
Sort in a sculling match at a regatta at Barrie, on Lake
ntario. Gaudaur won the race, Trickett coming in
second.
The first meeting of the new Victorian Trotting
Club will be held to-day [Saturday), at Boccaccio Park,
Brighton. The entries for the various events are very
Satisfactory.
A football match took place on Saturday, at
Wagga, between the Albury Mechanics’ and the Wagva
Clubs, resulting in a victory for the former by four
goals to two.
Mr. Arthur Young, of the N.S.W. team, was
awarded the gold medal, given by Mr. M'Farlaue, for
the best all-round play in the Intercolonial football
match on Saturday.
The recent big Sheffield handicap was won by
an American—Smith, of Pittsburgh, Pa., who was by
no means well in, having had to give starts to other well-
known winners of handicaps.
The Northumberland Club, started under Vic-
torian football rules, is arranging a match with the
East Sydney Football Club, to come off at the endjof
this month, at West Maitland.
Roma (Q.) races, Saturday, August 6. Hurdle
Race: Baker 1, Warrong2. Roma Handicap : Doctor
1, Panacea 2. Steeplechase: Baker 1, Charley 2. Forced
Handicap: Panacea 1, Garryowen 2.
A new oscillating stretcher, invented and patented
by Mr. Y. Tomkins, of Tork-street, Sydney, was used
by Mr. Brett, in his late race, with most advantageous
results. He recommends it highly.
A Handicap Race took place at Glen Innes on
Thursday, the 4th inst., of 100,120, and 150 yards, for
which there were 12 competitors. It resulted in a
division of the prize between Mitchell and Martin.
On the 2nd instant, a football match was played
on Moore Park, between Royston College and Sydney
Grammar School (2nd fifteen) Football Clubs, resulting
in favour of the former by two touches down to one.
Corowa Winter meeting, August 2nd. Flying
Stakes: Waitawhile 1. Handicap Hurdle Race:
Angler 1. Winter Handicap: Count 1. Corinthian
Hurdle Race: Andover 1, Hack Race: Bannagher 1.
Some time ago a handsome fountain was pre-
sented to the Australian Jockey Club by a gentleman
who is a member of that club, and also of the Zoological
Society. The A.J.C., not being in a position to erect
the fountain, have handed it over to the Zoological
Society, who will have it put up in Moore Park.
A trotting match took place on Wednesday, the
3rd instant, at Band wick, between Mr. VSatt’s horse
Butcher Boy, and Mr. J. Tait's black horse Dimond,
for £2O aside. Mr. Salt's horse won by several lengths.
The rights to the gates, booths, &c., for the
Tattersall’s meeting were sold on Monday. The gates,
purchased by Mr. M’Gill, brought £165, and the Lcger
stand, £25 10s. The whole properties realised £242 10s.
The Melbourne Club after showing our Sydney
footballers the way to do it, got a “ doing " on Saturday
from, the South Melbourne Club, who won a close and
exciting game by two goals to one and a majority of
behinds
On Saturday morning a rifle match took place at
the Sydney range, between the Windsor corps and the
Torpedo corps, resulting in a victory for the visitors
by five points, the scores being—Windsor 471, Tor-
pedo 465.
The nominations for the Murrumbidgee Turf
Club meeting, November 23, 24 and 25, are as fo'low
Wagga Gold Cup, 2 miles, 31; Grand Stand Handicap,
li mile, 32; Town Plate, 1* mile, 30; Hurdle Eaco, 16;
and Steeplechase, 10.
A billiard match has been arranged between
between Byrne, of Victoria, and James, of the Oxford
Hotel, Sydney, 1000 up, for £2OO, to take place at the
Masonic Hall, Sydney, during the Metropolitan week.
Joe Thompson backs Byrne.
Advices from America state that a race in lap-
streak boats has been arranged at Toronto, Canada,
between Wise, of Eiverside. and Edward Hanlan, for
lOOodols. aside, and was to come off about the present
time. The course was to be five miles, with a turn.
The nominations for the Hawkeabury events
are satisfactory. For the Hurdles, 8 ha o entered;
County Purse. 37; Member’s Handicap, 30; Turf Club
Handicap, 25; Claret Stakes, 60; Prince of Wales
Stakes, 15; Maiden Plate, 15; Public Auction Stakes,
The working plant of the Queanbeyan cricket
club has been sold by auction. It realised next to
nothing, and, therefore, not enough to discharge the
liabilities of the club. The local paper significantly
remarks—"We shall have more to say on the subject
anon.”
A billiard match, 500 up, was played in the
Adelaide Exhibition Building, on a looal-made table, by
Albers and Professor Rudolph, resulting in a victory for
the latter by one point. Both players spoke in high
terms of the table, which was made in Qav’s esta-
blishment.
Echuoa Races, August 4. Plying Handicap:
Native Jack 1, Snorter 2, Moak 3. Echuca Handicap:
Phantom 1, Supple Jack 2. Brayboob 3. Hurdle Race:
Nora Creina 1, Millewa Stakes: Snorter 1, Monk 2.
Selkirk 3. Town Plate : Phantom 1, Native Jack 2,
Supple Jack 3.
A ploughing match took place at Glen Innes on
Wednesday, the 3rd instant The first prize of £lO was
won by W. Sharp, D. Macalpine being second. Maiden
Match : W. Gould 1, J. Pomroy 2 Boys under 18 :J.
H. Tutt 1. The prize for the best plough on the
ground was awarded to Mr. P. Bonrke.
Adelaide Races, Saturday, August 6. Hurdles :
Veno 1. Fictitious 2, Emerald 3. Sapling Stakes:
Royal Irishman 1, Footstep 2, Blue Stocking 3. Duke’s
Handicap: Assyrian 1, Lady Melissa 2, Mountaineers.
Steeplechase: Ristori 1, Clifton 2, Kangaroo 3.
Flatter : Priuco Patrick 1, Vagabond 2, Baalbec 3.
Wyndhara (Vic.) Races, Saturday August 6.
Selling Handicap: Bruno 1, Sonnetteer 2. Cora 3.
Handicap Hurdle Race; Union Jack 1, Zanga 2, Acro-
bat 3. Winter Handicap: Bruno 1, Bushman 2,
Cantata 3. Handicap Steeplechase : Intrepid 1, Actress
2, Eight Bower 3. Galloway Handicap : Van Tromp 1.
After all, Lorillard won nothing on the Derby.
He cables the London Sportsman that the result of the
race was a surprise to him, Ha didn’t think Iroquois
good enough—in fact, before the race, he considered
Barrett and Passaic (two others of his stable) better,
and on them put his money. He had only £2500 on the
winner.
The weights for the various events at Randwick,
on Saturday (to-day), were published on the 3rd instant.
For the Tramway Handicap, 6 furlongs, Rupert, Sang
Froid, Creswick, and Carmen look best. For the
Loftus Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs. Trump Yoss, Master
Avenol, Lord Lisgar, Zulu, Carmen, and Templar should
include the winner.
Bundaberg (Q.) Races, 3rd and 4th instant:—
First day.—Maiden Plate: Pretender 1, Lea 2. Town
Plate.- Mistletoe 1, Pacha 2, Pretender 3. Champagne
Stakes: Recruit 1, Lieutenant 2.—Second day.—Hurdle
Race: Gamester 1, Cornstalk 2, Bugler 3. Mulgrave
Handicap: Mistletoe 1, Pasha 2. District Plate: The
Sea 1, Lady 2, Nonsuch 3.
A youth, named Weiss, from Corowa, has been
tackling the Melbourne billiardists, and has been suc-
cessful in all matches, but one, against Byrne, the
champion, who defeated him in 700 up by 19 points.
Weiss’s backers are so satisfied with him that they are
arranging another match with Byrne, after James, of
Sydney, is done with him.
Those nice people who like free advertising, and
who generously give a £5 pot to be rowed for three
times, with the result that it’s battered and worn out
before it becomes anybody’s property, are informed
that their little game is up—anyhow, that’s what’s said
by people who know all about the feelings of the
Rowing Association committee.
A match in light skiffs took place on the Parra-
matta River, on Saturday, between C. Messenger and
S. Edwards, of Hunter’s Hill, for £2O. Before a mile
was covered, a foul occurred, and Messenger stopped
rowing. It then transpired that no umpire had been
appointed, and the race therefore lapsed. The stakes
were handedjback men on Saturday evening.
In the walking match on the 25th ult., at London,
Merrill, the American amateur champion, won easily in
14 min. 35 sec., beating Bickley, of Loudon, and Murphy,
of Highgate. Myers, of New York (American amateur
champion sprinter), easily won the 440 yards running
race in 49 4-5 sec. The races were open to all amateurs.
And America won the Derby and the Sheffield Handicap,
too. Poor old Eu gland!
Richmond River Turf Club meeting. Maiden
Plate; Fir min 1, Response 2, Princess of Lome 3.
Novel Race: Beetle 1, Kisber 2. Cup: Centurion 1,
Mick 2. Hack Race : Lady Vaudah 1, Ingleside 2, Fir-
min 3. Club Handicap: Centurion 1, Retrospect 2,
Cedric 3. Publicans’ Purse : Lady Vaudah 1, Kisber 2.
Hurry Scurry: Vixen 1, Lecturer 2, Huntsman 3.
Plying Handicap: Acacia 1, Booyung 2, Pirmin 3.
The next regatta of the N.S. Wales Rowing
Association will take place on the Bth and 13th October.
On the first day maiden and senior oarsmen and junior
scullers will compete; and on the second, junior oars-
men, senior scullers, and Public School boys. As a
slight acknowledgment to the Mayor for his generosity
the committee have decided to tender him a copy in
bronze of the medals given to the Victorian crew.
The Mayor’s trophy, for the Public Schools
race, is to become the property of any school winning it
three times, not necessarily consecutively. The dis-
tance to be rowed is not to exceed two miles on the
Parramatta River. Competitors must be scholars who
have attended the school during the year of the race,
and the N.S.W. Rowing Association will present
annually a silver medal to each member of the winning
crew. The boats to be used are string-test gigs.
The race between members of the Mercantile
Rowing Club for'Mr. J. R. Fairfax’s tr< phy—a musical
cigar-stand—came off on Saturday. The race was for
maiden scullers, in heavy club skiffs, over a course from
Circular Quay around the mail steamer in Lavender
B.iy and back to club-house. The starters were Messrs.
J. Whelan, H. B. Pickering, C. Booth, and J. R. Pegy.
A good race took place, Whelan winning by nearly a
length from Pickering, who was a long way ahead of
Pegy.
It seems as if Myers, the young Yankee runner,
who has arrived in England to astonish the natives,
were going to have it all his own way. According to
late accounts, Lockton, the English champion amateur
sprinter, is prevented by business affairs from training,
and W. G. George, an amateur who has made some
splendid records, has been ill. George can run a mile
in 4m I9s whenever thoroughly wound up, and he has
ran half a mile on roughish ground in 1m 575. He
intends, in addition to meeting Myers for the chain-
pionsbip, to make matches with him at such distances,
bet veen 600 yards and a mile, as may be thought suit-
able after the big meeting.
Myers, the Yankee flyer, stands well inside sft
Sin, and runs at a trifle over Sat, measurements which
should make him far from formidable; but then he is
not made like ordinary men. What there is of him is
all quality. Ho carries no lumber, and for thews and
sinews will compare favourably with many a 12st athlete
who thinks his proportions unmatchable. He and his
companion, Merrill, the walker, are in the hands of
people who expect to make a great deal of money out of
their English performances.
Three foot-races took place on the Association
Ground, on Saturday. The first was between C. Banner-
man and Summerfleld, 100 yards, for £4O, resulting in a
win for Bannerman by about a yard, which he nego-
tiated by a good start. After the football match,
D'Arrietta and McQuinness toed the scratch for 100
yards. McGuinness won by about a yard, th ‘Th his
opponent ran very gamely Time, 10}sec.
Slattery then met for a 150 yards race, which was won
easily' by Slattery in 16|sec.
Wallace Rosa has challenged Hanlan to a scull-
ing match for the championship of the world. Boss has
two races arranged to come off this month—the first
with Morris for £2OO aside, and the second with the
English sculler, Boy d. The latter has to meet Elliott
also. If these matches have not fallen through, and
Hanlan accept Ross’s challenge, we shall soon know
whom to “go for" to regain Australia’s lost laurels.
As will he seen by our index of aquatic events, the
ensuing three months will witness the results of several
important events.
Messrs. Holds worth, Gardyne, and Co., have
liberally offered a hundred-guinea trophy, to be rowed
for by seniors in eight-oar outriggers, and to be won
three times in succession by one club. The races to
take place over the champion course, Parramatta River,
on the first Saturday in December of each year. The
clubs, notably the premier one, have been very dilatory
in the encouragement of outrigger rowing; this liberal
offer will doubtless awaken our amateurs to action and
be the means of sending a superior crew to the next
Intercolonial contest. The stipulation as to three suc-
cessive wins should keep the pot boiling for a long
time.
Good gallops have been done during the past
week by Doctor, Morpeth, Courteney, Lord Lisgar,
Lord Clifden, Cadmus, Wheatear, Zulu, The Pontiff,
The Beau, Tyro, Templar, and Carmen. Betting has not
been very brisk. Trump Yoss is still first favourite for
the Hawkesbury: Wellington, Major, and The Mar-
ohioness also finding support. For the Derby, Mon-
mouth continues first favourite at 2 to 1, Springdale and
Wheatear being at 3to 1. The Derby and Metropolitan
doubles deal mostly with Monmouth for the first event.
The two Monmouths are the favourite double for the
V. Derby and Gup. Somnus gets a great share of
support for the first event.
The August meeting of the New South Wales
Coursing Club, at Rooty Hill, closed on Saturday, with
the following results All Comers’ Stake : Mr. J. H.
Crawley’s Merry Dool and Mr. W. R. Hall’s Helpmate
divided. Puppy Stake: Mr. R. Tooth’s Thebais 1, with
Mr. W. Lamb’s Locket runner-up. Champion Stakes :
Mr. E. E. Jones’ Mayflower 1, with Mr. R L. Tooth’s
Tambour Major runner-up. Cumberland Stakes: Mr.
R. L. Tooth's Taxation and his Temerity divided.
Locket, who was beaten by Thebais, was found when
picked up to have broken one of her toes. Harkaway
had to be drawn, through lameness, from the final
course for the Cumberland Stakes.
Rockhampton Rowing Club Regatta, August
Ist: —Maiden Fours, 1 mile: W. Nixon, G. M. Bam-
acciotti, W E. Livermore. J M. Hendrick (stroke), 1.
Senior Pairs, 14 mile; E. K. Ogg, 8. W. Hartley
(stroke), 1. Junior Double Sculls, 1 mile: W. Q.
Thompson, J. M. Hendrick (stroke), 1. Junior Sculls,
1 mile : E. A. Murray, 1. Maiden)Sculls, f mile: W. Q.
Thompson 1. Senior Double Sculls, 14 mile: J. H.
Forbes, H. W Johnston (stroke), 1. Junior Fours,
Imile: R. W. Qoldner, A Boldman, W. A. Leigh, G.
B Jones (stroke), 1. Senior Fours, 14 miles; J. H.
Forbes, A. H. Julius, S. Q. Hill, H. W. Johnson
(stroke), 1. Maiden Double Sculls, 1 mile: A. P.
Hanlon. W. Schmidt (stroke), 1. Tub Race; A. G.
Craig, 1.
The annual general meeting of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron was held last Thursday afternoon at
the Exchange Rooms, Dr. Mackellar in the chair. The
credit balance, according to the treasurer’s statement,
was £240 14s sd. Mr. J. R. Fairf ix resigned his Com-
modoreship on account of his intended departure for
Europe. The following ore officers and committee for
the ensuing year;—Commodore, Mr. W. G. Gilchrist;
Vice-Commodore, Mr. C. K. Mackellar, M.D.; Treasurer,
Mr. Edward W. Knox; Auditors, Messrs. C. T. Gedye
and R. Binnie, jun.; Secretary, Mr. W. Cornwell;
Committee, Dr. Milford, Messrs. H. C. Dangnr, M.L.A.,
W. J. Trickett, M.L.A., W. Laidley, A. G. Milson, and
J. Gilchrist. The rules were assimilated to those of
the Yachting Association of England. Several donations
had been promised for prizes, and the forthcoming
season was confidently expected to be a very successful
one in every respect.
The intercolonial football match, between Vic-
toria and New -South Wales played under the Victorian
rules, on the Association Ground, on Saturday, resulted,
as was expected, in an easy victory for the visitors by
nine goals to one, with behinds to spare. The Sydney
men showed a marked improvement on their previous
plav. During the first half, Victoria established a
decided lead, but after half-time the Sydney men
rallied up and played a level game, the ball going down
to the Victorian goal very frequently. In forward play
the sides were quite equal, bat in the return Victoria
showed a decided superiority. As befere, the “ small
marks" of the visitors did the damage, and the victors
seemed to be trifling with their less experienced oppo-
nents. Young, for N.S.W., should be particularized
for his excellent play; but the “ demon" element in
the Victorian team was altogether too strong for us.
Our visitors are highly pleased with the improvement
of our men in the game, and expect the next Inter-
colonial to be a formidable tussle.
After an existence of such duration that it seemed
as if it would last for ever, Lang and Richards’ mile re-
cord has been snuffed out most completely. At
Preston Borough ground, Cummings, the Scotch run-
ner, did a mile over ground which had been properly
measured with a correct chain in the presence of the
representatives of London sporting papers, in 4 min.
16 l-sth sec. Even Pendragon admits that Cummings
is, when he chooses, far and away the best miler that
ever pulled off shirt or put on running shoe. The oc-*
casion of the wonderful performance above alluded to
was Cummings’ race with Duddle. The former’s
backers were at the st*rt prepared to lay 5 to 1 that
their man won, notwithstanding the fact that Duddle
was known to have beaten 4 min. 18 sec. in more than
one trial, and they were farther ready to bet upon the
slightest provocation that Cummings got inside 4 min.
17 l-4th sec., despite the damp and dirt and drizzle.
According to the account of those on the spot, the
Scotch flyer looked round and eased off in the straight,
and might have won by ten yards further had he cared
to do so.
The entries for the contest for the Walker-
Whisky Trophy are: —E. C. Laycock, Charles Reynolds,
W. Trickett, C. Messenger, J. C. Laycock, B. Edwards,
Henry Pearce, of Sydney; M. Rush, D. M'Donald,
of the Clarence; J. J. Power, Twofold Bay; R.
Wing, W. Greenland, B. Edwards, T. Edwards, E.
Shepherd, of Melbourne; and George Priddle, of Ray-
mond Terrace; in all, IS entries. The trials are to ex-
tend over three days. On the first day, Monday, Sep-
tember 5, there are to bo four heats; on the second
day, Wednesday, the 7th, two heats ; and the final heat
will bo rowed on Friday, the 9th. The course (or the
first ancLsecond days will be from the beginning of the
champion course to Gladesyille wharf, 24 miles; the
final will be contested over the full champion coarse.
In justice to that portion of the public who cannot
afford to lose a day’s wage for pleasure, we ask why is
the final heat to be rowed on a Friday instead of a
Saturday ? Messrs. Mason Brothers and Co. offered
the prize in the interests of good sport, but it must be
their wish to make the affair as public as possible. The
general public have not evidently received due con-
sideration, and we hope it is not too late to alter the
arrangement. Again, why has the Rowing Association
not been asked to co-operate, it being our highest
rowing tribunal ?
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
In a 16-mile race, at Brighton aquarium, be-
tween Captain Matthew Webb and W. Beckwith, the
latter allowing the former two miles start, Webb won
by three-quarters of a mile A hunt-club is to be
formed at Singleton Owing to the utter impossi-
bility of bringing off a ring fight with bare knuckles, and
also to the very unpleasant legal consequences with
which recent fights with “raw ’uns” have been at-
tended, a number of sports who are desirous of seeing a
contest between John L. Sullivan and Paddy Eyan (the
present champion) of New York, have decided to offer
a purse of £5OO to be competed for by the men named
with hard gloves. Queensberry rules. In the latest
sporting papers to hand Sullivan formally challenges
Byan Daniel O’Leary, who is at present in England,
may, according to the N. Y. Clipper, visit Australia be-
fore returning to America Curcier and Adet, of
Melbourne, have presented to the Victorian Bowing
Association, on behalf of Krug and Co. of France, a cup
value £5O, to be called the Krug Champagne Cup, to be
competed for by seniors, and another valued £2O for
juniors, on similar conditions. Each prize to be won
three times. In addition to the above, £lO for first man
and £5 for second if six compete It is the opinion
of the London Spoetino Times that if all had gone
right with Paw-Paw, sister to Parole, Lorillard would
have won the Oaks also The Hurlingham Champion
Gup, value £5O and a £lO sweepstakes added, 15 birds
each, all nt 27 yards, was won by Captain Francis Gist,
who killed all his birds but one This is how a French
sporting paper puts it:—“ Le oheval de steeplechases
Marshal Neil a et 6 scraiched ; il dtait irrdmddiablemcnt
broke down I" Mr. Arthur Johnsou won £lO,OOO on
the Newmarket Spring meeting, chiefly through the
ten successes of Archer The N. Y. Herald sug-
gests the erection of a magnificent bronze statue of
Iroquois, the first American winner of the Derby
A horse bred in the Qwydir district was recently ridden
18 miles on the main road between Cobbadah and Bin-
gera in 54 min. 55 sec. This was at the rate of 3 min. 3
sec. per mile, and must be pronounced a remarkable
performance, considering that the rider weighed be-
tween 11 and 12 stone A fine specimen of the salmo
aalar was recently captured in the Derwent When
Iroquois won the Derby, a Canadian paper headed its
report with “Glorious Canadian Victory I” adding in
explanation, “ As our neighbours of the United States
persist in appropriating to themselves Hanlan and the
honour of his victories, we have thought it equally just
10 annex Iroquois.” Mata has once more changed
hands, having been purchased by Mr. Hazlett, of
Dunedin, for £7OO The walking match in London for
the championship of the world ended in Weston’s
sickness. He became quite lightheaded Mr. Boole,
an old member of the \ ictorian ring, who has b< eu for
some years in England, has returned to Melbourne and
been elected to the Victorian club Sir Thomas
Elder’s Australian two-year-olds are said to be doing
well at Manton, near London The Goldsbrongh-
Paradise mare Beatrice, whe won the two principal
events at Maitland amateur meeting, has been bought
by Hon. John Bales for £BO In the principal event
at Maitland recently, Qoldsbrough’s progeny were
first and second, and The Drummer’s third Boodee,
brother to Chester, has been purchased from Hon.
James White for £lOOO, by the White Brothers, of
Edinglassie, near Musclebrook. Fee, £lO 10s.’
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Pfere Hyaointhe and his wife go from Paris to
America.
Archdeacon Potter, of Bathurst, has died after
a long illness.
The Rev. Father Casey, late of Rockley, died
last week, at St. Stanislaus’ College, Bathurst.
Jones to Smith: “Have you read the new
version?” Smithto Jones : “ Yes; have you read the
old one ? ”
Over £105,000 has already been expended on St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, and about £50,000 more
is required to finish it.
One of the most curious episodes to bo observed
in New York is the cry of the newsboys, “ Here’s your
revised Testament, only 10 cents.”
The Pope has summoned a special congregation
of Cardinals to pronounce upon Father Curd’s new
book, which is likely to be placed upon the Index
Expurgatoris,
The Very Rev. Dean Backhaus, who has mar-
ried nearly all the EC. population of Bendigo, aud
christened their children, is leaving Sandhurst to take
up his abode in Melbourne.
We read that Dr. Tait, the Archbishop of Can-
terbury, “had an interview with her Mijosty, and
presented her with a copy of the New Testament.”
Why “ interview ’’ ? Why not Tait-a-Tait ?
The action for slander brought by Mr. Maurice
Brodzky, newspaper reporter, against the Rev. Rabbi
Blaubaum, of Melbourne, resulted in a verdict for
defendant. A woman was at the bottom of the affair.
John Alexander Dowie has been trying how the
thing works “ the other way on." He, the other day,
at Adelaids, prosecuted the acting Commissioner of
Police for obstructing the march of the Salvation Army.
Case dismissed.
The Pope, who is known to bo an accomplished
Latinist, has just printed for private circulation a small
volume of Latin verse, exquisitely printed and bound,
copies of which have been presented to the cardinals
and a select circle of friends in Rome.
In preaching from the text: “ For where your
treasure is, there will your heart he also,” on Sunday
last, the Rev. T. Kemmis said —“ Mauy people accuse
High Churchmen of not preaching the Gospel; if chis
isn’t the Gospel, I don’t know what is."
Not only are a number of the leading merchants
in Edinburgh and Glasgow now of Jewish extraction,
but representatives of the once “ detested " race are
now occupying positions of the first importance in
Aberdeen, which used to boast that no colony of Jews
had ever been able to effect a footing in it.
The Bishop of Segur, just dead, was a remark-
able man. He was descended from the famous Rostop-
chine, who fired Moscow, and when only 32 received a
mitre from Rome. Struck by an incurable blindness,
he was unable to officiate; but he devoted the remainder
of his days to the propagation of Ultramontane prin-
ciples. In this way he spent a large fortune.
There was a big turn-out on the Hodgkinson on
Sunday, 2ifch July, on the occasion of the opening of
the Kingsborough R. C. Church by Dr. Oaui and
Fathers O'Doaoghuo and Hauley (pastor of the dis-
trict). The congregation numbered 150 to 200, and the
ladies, who had for some time been preparing for the
event, appeared in full war paint, and made a show
which one would not have expected to see in the Far
North. The most conspicuous dress was of sea-green.
£l2O was collected, and the debt on the building thereby
reduced to only £2O.
The nice sense of delicacy which has prompted
the authors of the new and original New Testament to
substitute the words “He shall be condemned ’’ for
“He shall be damned,” deserves recognition in all
young ladies’ schools and Young Men’s Christian As-
sociations. Ten years hence revisers, grown nicer
still, may suggest “Ha shall be d d.” There was
once an old lady who always read aloml to her servants
that Adam earned his bread “with thfc perspiration of
his brow." She thought “ sweat " so vulgar. Surely
she must have been the mother or the granamother of
one of these learned revisers.
The “ Salvation Army ” promises to be au
English national institution, and the notions of the
organization are becoming, as in Australia, bold, not to
say cheeky. Whitsuntide was to be celebrated by the
Army, in various parts of the country, in a new way.
The “officers” were to lead their companies, mounted
on white donkeys, to commemorate the entry into
Jerusalem. Ober-Ammergau was bad enough, but an
amateur pantomime, founded on the New Testament,
and played in the public thoroughfares, was oven moro
than the “ unco ” could endure. By the way, how
nice it would be to see our dear old friend, John Alex-
ander Dowie, captain of the Adelaide Salvation mob,
mounted on a donkey. And, what an appropriate
steed!


Tailors, Drapers, fro.
gPBING REQUISITES.
;john bTvoudale.
LADIES* AND CHILDREN’S GARMENTS MADE
TO ORDER.
We can please you in DRE -iS MATERIALS.
We can also please you in DRESSMAKING.
CHECKED and PLAIN SA ' EENS sow opening.
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBRICS now opening.
NEW SPRING MILLINERY now opening.
CASHMERE DOLMANS MADE TO ORDER,
Prices 355, 455, 555, 635.
A GRAND LOT OP SILK NETTED FICHUS,
From Ss 6d to 255.
A New and Varied Stock of Prillings, Fringes, Tassals
and Girdles, Laces, Hosiery, Corsets, and
Satin Parachutes.
In all DRAPERY GOODS, including Millinery, Man*
cheater, and Dressmaking, wo can promise to serve you
well.
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
Tailors, Drape:
T HO
MPSO N A 1
DENISON HO
358, 360, 362, Oeorg
OPENING NEW i
for
WINTER SEA
EVERY DAY DURING 1
FIRST GENERAL
of
NOVELTIE
in
FANCY DRES
FOR THE WINTER
AN IMMENSE VARIETY T(
FRENCH CASHMERE CAM
DOVER HOMESPUN IND]
ELASTIC BIEGE ANG
KASGHER CASHMERE JER-
STOCKINGETTE VAL:
AND A LARGE ASSORTM:
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.-
cases of veri
ERY, somet
handsome, di
houses in Loi
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPA
SILK, Rich
to 24 inch wic
4s 6d, 5s 6d, i
dinary value.
BLACK SATH
BROCADES,
SILKS, in a v
BLACK SATH
inches wide,
6a lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and s'
for wear, and
BLACK VEL\
NAUCUNIUM
every yard si
BLACK SATH
inches and 2
3s lid, 4s 6d
are light and
under usual
SILK VELV
eveiy shade i
I and Brooade<
Floral Design:
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAI
OPENED a
MENT of i
LACES in e’
imitation, Em
Ruffling, Moi
Cuffs, Collar
Lace Ties i:
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS
FROM DREJ
be no decep
washed. La
Sheetings goi
makes. Pnc€
to Is lid; 80.
inch, la 6d to
to 3s. Ameri
& Horrocks’ (
QUILTS, fro
prices. Cob
QUILTS, 24 1
COVERS at a
the yard, 27 a
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINE!
departme:
been our stuc
this class of
character. B
year after yei
of FIRST-CL.
are now show
ment of of D.
NAPKINS, b.
Damask. Th
every size, an
for cheapnes
colony. We
MASK CLO'
425; 5-8 NAP
3-4 NAPKII
29s 6d; D
round or squa
DAMASK, 6-
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to
SHEETINGS
PILLOW LI
wide ; W B
TOWELS, fr
cording to si
ISH TO WEI
TEA CLOTH
TURKISH :
Tailors, Drape;
161
MAD
Paper
Mantle
sizes f<
ren fur
taons ai
mg up
ing fro
styles monthly in WEIGE
FASHIONS. Price, 7dj by
annum, post free. Catalog
Patterns sent to any part of tl
of price and measure. Fostag
Address;
MADAME WI
161 King-street, S
JJ AV E YO T
TO
R. MORPP
233 Pitt Sti
LISE’S PAPEE CU
All communications to b<
“ ELISE,"
No. 12 PARK STREET
Six doors from Qeorj
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patter
style, cut, and finish, being modellc
Fashions, and are always sent ]
receipt of stamps or money order.
M XT IS A WELL-KNOY
JL for Household or Fami
Hordern’s” Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H ' hi
for Value, Variety, or Extent of 6
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES .
Business Aunonn
LLEGAL.J
HOETEE, FITZGEEALI
1 SOLICIT©:
69 CASTLEREAGH STRE
and '
MACQUARIE STREET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOR, has c<
practice of his profession, s
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
QHEAPEST AND BEi
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA
HAY STREET, HAY!
TEA, Is per 1
Other articles equally ch
Goods packed and delivered fre<
Oity and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS I
WITH.
TVTANOS. A MERIC! ANT fl
Easiness Annoau
I HAVE this day comment
Stock and Share Broker, an
undertake any commissions eithe
chase of shares that may be entm
References :
Hon. S. D. Gordon,
Hon. E. Flood, M.L
Hon. L. W. Levy, In
Bichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-st
AVI D 1
14, Hunter-street, S
SADDLES AND HAENI
By special appoint;
To his Boyal Highness the Dak
Excellency the Bight Hon. 1
His Excellency Sir Hercules '
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.O,
Best Coursing Material of Newe
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentle:
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 187(
IASTEEN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND AI
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA.
which will be found equal to an;
much higher pri
724 GEOEGE S
HAYMARKEI
AG. C H U R C
• 147 TOEK STB
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUFi
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS. SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE I]
for Liverpool and Black Hon
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
680,000 AMERICAN SK
Just arrived, all s
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sa:
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
NOWUI
30
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH every THURSDAY i
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY ai
COONAB AR ABRA N.
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NATO,
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY tor WEE WAA,
|ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHETNK
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEORQE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established I8&4.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12a 6d,
AND A PEEPECT PIT GUAEANTEED.
B
L A N K E T S.
BLANKETS.
“ FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON”
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Anstra-
Han market. SNOW WHITE, FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied.”
CUT PA]
MADA ME DEM
Perfect Pitti:
Newest styles every mail from
Pull directions and illustrations
MADAME DEMOEEST’S pul
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gi
MISS LOUlil
87 King Street, Sydney (two d
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-f
E O. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASH
S BRIDGE STREET
LATE
CUTTER TO E. M
Begs to inform his friends and i
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, &e., at a low price t
Gentlemen requiring this with V
should give me a trial.
Country orders prompt!;
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM (
R.C. HA(
FASHION AII
TAILORING ESTa
127 KING STE
Cannot Cannot
be be
Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, an
To effectually stop the extorti
tised in the way of clothing R
pure West of England and Scotol
In Five-button sac pattern S'
Canadian Tweed Suits, tc
Homespun Tweed Suits,
West of England, Tweed
TROUSERS, TROUSERS
West of England Tweed Trouser*
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order
N.B.—Patterns, with self-meae
post free to all parts of the colon;
Note the Addr
127 KINO S'


Hotels, fco.
The compagnoni cater:
OF PITT-STREET have muc
nonncing to the public, that to remoi
want of space to accommodate their
Luncheon hour, they have convert
Banqueting Hall into an additional
which is now open, and where ever
directed to visitors patronising this i
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior
is under the management of a first-ch
branch of Catering undertaken, and
staff of experienced and polite waiter
Through continued misrepresentat
beg to mention that they are not in ai
with any other person, or persons, in
SAMUEL PACK
NOW OPEN,
THE
£)ity (Catering (
315 GEORGE STRE
(late Harris’ CaW, opposite Feapei
A superior CAFE and RESTAURAN
REFRESHMENT ROOMS fo:
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ES’
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cake
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest def
GUARANTEED that no dangerous
or ingredient of any kind injurious to
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, P
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demoni
Civil and attentive waiters always <
CHA S. E. S
MANAGER.
FOLEY’S NATIONS
BRIDGE STREET
(Opposite Bulletin Ofl
E. W. FOLEY, PROPRI
BOARD AND RESIDE
Wines and Spirits of the choic
BILLIARDS.
HOTEL DE FRA
78 & 80 CASTLEREAG
Opposite Thbatee Eo
Hotels, &c.
C.
W, ROB
MARKET STREI
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
B
OBERT BUTCB
(Late William Lot
WINE AND SPIRIT ME!
534 GEORGE STRE
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Prgi
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAR'
AND CASE.
AGENT- Q- EOHGI
BRIDGE STREET CHA
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to
that owing to the increasing demar
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retail
WINES IN LARGE BULK and
TRADE.
mr Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, he feels confident that, w
the above-named two experienc
favours will be attended to with tl
tude.
Royal exchange di
KING & GEORGE ST
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.R.H. the Prince
PROPRIETOR OF THE AB
Begs to intimate that he is r
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for
The best INDIAN CURRY, by a
the premises. Suppers ready, hot
12 p.m. Separate room for lad;
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant f
Your patronage is respectfully so
A. A. WEB
ROYAL EXCHANGE DIN:
King and George streets
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com]
UNCOLOURED T.
and is made up into lib and half lb
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, fto.
O tD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PEINGE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
8 Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, Ac.
■WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
from the wood. _ . ,
drawn iro THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
. tt, the best brands of ale and porter,
ls PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
—Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, is one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ThePure&tStimuiant
wnRVSjL
Tho BEST ALE and STOI
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEE
TMTKIPPTTATSm
The Same of M. MOSS k GO.
Ib on every Genuine Bottle
HONESTY IS THE BI
XjORJN-^
LOB.ir,£
m ■
BIB)
yitt/*Uy
!j faen&u
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should be carefully
are being imported into New Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bever
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L<
WHISKY.
VIRGOEj SON,TnD
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND (
(Late Collins and Be
iE R A T E D W
AND
CORDIAL MANUPAC'
438 HARRIS STREE
First Prize, International Ex!
for Soda Water
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lem
Ginger Beer, &i
CORDIALS OF ALL
The Trade supplied with prompt
NOTE THE ADDjU
BOSS AND C
438 HARRIS STREET,
MAE T I N
AUSTRALIAN WINE M
AND BEER BOTI
105 PITT STREI
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s i
4T BTTTJV WTVT
a:
IT is not the clearness or conditio
Ale that preserves this brand
mation. Common bitter crude been
but no other brand has tho same m
ter, the fulness on the palate, am
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Cc
tore cautioned against traders whc
extra profit represent the common
qnal in quality to tho Bull Dog. J
equal in quality to
CO., Sole Agents.
DC MAR
OARS HEAD
This favourite bran
T O
Is selected with great care from tl
tags of the celebrated firm of AH'
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cam
V. A PtiA/mva/l ‘Rron


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Miss Kelly, the once famous actress, is still
alive, at the age of 91. She played Prince
Arthur to the Constance of Mrs. Siddons, and says that
after the great scene between mother and child the lace
collar, which she used to wear in the character of
Arthur, was saturated with the tears which Mrs,
Siddons shed Melbourne Opera House Company has
paid a 5 per cent, dividend The dress circle is to be
entirely ra-seated William Seymour the Sir
Mincing Lane of the original ** Billee Taylor,”
while recently labouring under an attack of
“Emmet,” attempted suicide by throwing himself in
front of a train on the New York Central Railroad.
Ho was, however, rescued Levy, the famous cornet
player, whom we all know so well, was arrested in
Brooklyn ou June 1, at the instance of the old original
Mrs. Isaac Levy, who lately arrived from London with
her two children, and charges Levy with bigamy.
Emily Levy is the lady’s name, and she claims
that she was married to Levy on August 20, 1860, in
London, and that subsequently her huslnnd married
Marianne Conway, daughter of the late Mr and Mrs.
F. B. Conway, of the Brooklyn Theatre. The lady
further asserts that on October 31, 1873, a deed of
separation was drawn up, by which she retained the
custody of her children, and by which Levy agreed to
pay her £l6B annually. He has neglected this portion
of the arrangement, hence the proceedings. Bail in
£5OO was given, and Levy was released William
Horace and Alice Dunning Lingard sailed from New
York for Condon ou June 10 On 6th June Miss
Griswold, Bret Harte’s niece, appeared as Ophelia at
the Grand Opera House, Paris, in Ambroise Thomas's
“Hamlet," and made a great success News has come
of a falling-oat between Adam Forepaugh and his
10,006 dol. beauty, Louise Montague. Instead of a
10,000 dol. contract, it is said, Forepangh’s engagement
of the lovely Louise was at 150 dol. a week, but it
appears that Forepaugh, the gilded edge having worn
off, regards even that as rather an extravagant sum to
pay a woman for riding an elephant in parade about
onoe a week. The beauty is reported, however, as being
determined to hold the mammoth showman to his bond,
and she will continue to ride that elephant until the
thirty weeks for which she was engaged have expired.
This is said to be the way “Richard III.” was
played in Lancashire : “ My lord, we’eucotch’d him 1 ”
Richard: “ Cot oh d whoaP” “Why, Bookinem.”
Rich.: “ Noa, you dunnot sav so ? " “ Aye, but I du.”
Rich. | (assured): “ Weel, fetch 'im afore me and I’ll
chop his chump ohf.” Frank and Emma Howson,
the latter Conducting, have made “ Masootte” a success
at the Bijou Opera tlonse, N.Y The Victoria Loftus
Blondes are at Howard, U.S The other day Baldwin’s
Brilliants, a company comprising spiritualists aud
musicians, had a domestic infelicity drama at an
American Hotel. Mrs. Baldwin took lOgrs morphia
in the presence of her husband, with the avowed inten-
tion of rapidly dematerializing herself, and continuing
the next act where spirits dwell in harmony. However,
the stomach pump came to the rescue successfully
In the Royal Theatre at Munich, bouquet throwing,
wreath and harp giving, and other similar tributes, are
to be prohibited in the future, except upon rare and
special occasions—such as the re-appearance of an actor
after a long illness or absence, or the occurrence of his
benefit night or anniversary commemorations. Other
theatres are advised to do likewise Max Strakosoh,
the imnrosßario, is bankrupt Camilla Urso, Mr Luer
(her husband), August Sauret, pianist, together with
their manager, Mr. L M. Reuben, sailed from New
York for Rio Janeiro just before the mail left, to be
absent ou a Brazilian and South American tour until
next fall Mary Anderson and her stepfather, Dr.
Griflin, have fallen out about monetary affairs. Mary is
said to have not only £25,000, but a little lamb in the
shape of a lover who feels much interest in the s welling
bank account Mine. Anna Bishop, who used to give
concerts about 100 years ago, when we were a boy, if
our memory is not at fault, has made her reappearance,
says an American paper, on the concert stage She
must he nearly 30 years old now, despite the fact that a
“ star " never gets past 22 Some observing eld critic
has this to say of st age kissing : Bernhardt’s osculation
is a convulsive hug. accompanied by a kiss that seems
to come from just back of the spine, but which has no
explosion to it. Fanny Davenport has a different style.
She catches Armaud just as a West Philadelphia girl
does a fellow she means to marry, gives him a tender,
yet robust squeeze, aud kisses him with a fervour that
can be heard clear to the custom house. If Ed Price
gets ’em regular in private life, he ought to be satisfied.
Mary Anderson’s kieses are delivered at a temperature
of forty degrees below zero. Soott-Siddons’ kiss is a
peck like a bird, and a chirp that sounds like a “chirp."
Jan msohek’s kisses are rare and matronly. They come
with words that are growled forth from a deeply-
imbedded diaphragm, and are mere touches
not like Soldene’s used to be in the old days,
when she gave her stage lovers the full benefit
of the mammoth cave that yawns across her face
Clement Scott, one of the dramatic critics of the
London Daily Telegraph has served a writ on the
Rsfereb for libel Those managers who are not
actors have, it is said, no sympathy with what was
once considered the inseparable weakness of the pro-
fession, and this is the sort of thing which occasionally
results Manager; Sir, you were drunk last night on
my stage. Actor: But I am the great Manager:
I don’t care a blank who you are. Yor were drunk on
my stager. I've no use for yon. Git Alice Dunning
Lingard proposes to star in America next season with
the Neilson repertoire Mrs. Scott Siddons has taken
a short lease of the Haymarket Theatre, London, be-
ginning in September next. Sosayeth Dame Rumour.
Another new theatre is about to be built in London,
ou the north side of Great Queen-street, Liueoln's Inn
Fields, for Mr. Prank Green It will accommodate about
800 persons. The architect is Mr. Verity, who designed
the Criterion Bernhardt denies emphatically that
she contemplates marrying Augelo, the actor, who
played leading parts with her throughout the United
States. She has no desire whatever for a husband, and
would not marry. She tells of her deep love for her
two sons, and avers that she is only thirty-two years of
age. The awkward point is that although the divine
Sara vows she won’t marry, she doesn’t pledge herself
not to have more sons Faure, the French singer, is
of medium size and well built, carries his head high—
a little too high, perhaps—wears a peaked beard in the
Henry IV. style and dresses in the latest fashion
Alfred Dampier, Dan Harkins, the tragedian, aud b'red
Maccabe (“ Begone dull oare,’’) aie passengers by the
Lusitania, due at Melbourne 24th August Professor
Pepper aud his ghosts are about to pay Queensland a
visit Vleuxtemps, the fiddler, is again dead
Edwin Booth has dined with the Prince of Wales
It has been published that Mary Anderson has been
offered, aud has declined, an engagement at Drury Lane
Theatre One of Haverly’s coloured minstrels re-
cently shot aud winged another in the course of a dis-
pute about the hair of a lady seated among the audience.
The gentle youth who is charged with turning out
the gas at Leeds Theatre Royal, and thereby causing a
panic and consequent injury to several persons, has been
committed for trial The de mortuis business is
played out in London. One of the papers, in a para-
graph re the annual meeting of the theatrical fund,
refers to a certain worm eulogium passed on that
amiable aud charitable man. the late Mr. Sothern, who,
because his wife would not become a consenting party
to his licentiousness, out her and her children off from
participation in the benefits of his will. To use a
Hibernioism, this is the kind of thing which papers
should be able to say of some dead men while they’re
still alive Sir Julius Benedict, who is a very ancient
personage, has been presented with a baby boy. As the
nappy father’s natal year was 1804—anyhow that’s the i
year in which Sir Julius was born—it is suggested that
this last little composition should he christened “ Op.
77.” The Prince of Wales stands godfather Billy
Belford, the well known English comedian, who was
stricken with paralysis a few years ago, is dead. His
metropolitan stage career, extended over more thirty
years. At Sadler’s Wells he was for a long time a pro-
minent member of the company recognising the sway of
Messrs. Phelps ard Greenwood, and the most pleasure-
able recollections of him are in connection with the
Strand, where in farce and comedy he was wont to
make all laugh by his CharJes-Mathews-like volubility
of speech and airiness of manner. Off the stage Billy
was immensely popular John M’Cullough has beeu
visiting Ireland Commodore Nutt was 37 when he
died. He left a wife, but she wasn’t Minnie Warren, as
was generally supposed. He has left a considerable
amount of money by way of consolation for his loss
Kowalski, assisted by that gifted young pianiste, Miss
Ada Willetts, a pupil of Madame Tasca, has been
c noertising in Ballarat and district Hudson’s Sur-
prise Party doing splendid business at Gympie, Q
The Empsoms at latest dates were at Kempsey. Says
the Macleat Herald, in re their advent: —“Mrs.
Empsom's singing is really very attractive, and the
little cemmediettcs (sic), sustained by Mr. and Mrs.
Empsom and their little boy, abounded in most amusing
points, and were loudly applauded." We don’t know
what the “little oommediettes ” are, but wo trust our
friends are experiencing better luck than they had last
month. They are clever, and should succeed: for how
runs the proverb: “ Empsom is that Empsom does."
Yah I... The “ Florence Neville ’’ Opera Company, includ-
ing Mr. C. Florence, Signor Fredorico, Messrs. Crowley,
Johnston, Newton, Ansley, Miss Isabel Rees, Miss J
Octavia Lane, Miss Minnie Nordt, and others, are in
the Western District of Victoria Arthur Matthison’s
touching poetical story, “ The Little Hero,” was
recited on the Derby night at the Duchess of Man-
chester’s, by John M’Cullough, in presence of the
Princess of Wales and many notables. The Princess
enquired the na ne of the author, and remarked that
the story had much affected her, for, said she, " I have
boys of my own at sea.” Arthur, on hearing this, sent
her Royal Highness a copy, which was promptly and
graciously acknowledged Adelina Patti visits the
States shortly, with Nicolini as manager Voltaire,
the ventriloquist, who was at Murrurundi tor a time
ill and unable to follow his profession, is again all right,
and will soon start on a tour A troupe of Parramatta
burnt cork men lately visited Liverpool, and coolly
appropriated the names of most of the U. S. Minstrels.
A local critic, in noticing the performance, after laying
on a little honey, ventured to suggest to the company,
that if they practised hard and copied the men whose
names they assumed, they might at some future period
of their existence, become a tenth part as clever. This
little drop of vinegar, after the honey, was too much
for one of the party, who has since publicly
denounced the critic as a mean, ignorant, prejudiced
being, incapable of appreciating the efforts of talented
gentlemen Clive Hersee (brother of Rose) suicided
at Denver, on June 4. He was jealous of his wife, a
member of the same company “ Professor Jailer
Solomon, a conjuror from Bombay,” has been perform-
ing at Mudgee Johnny Cowan takes a benefit at
Parramatta on Wednesday next, to which performance,
we hear, all the townspeople are a Cowan. Jim Rain-
ford will manage, and the S. M. D. S. have offered their
services At Mudgee, “Blow for Blow" has been
produced, with fair success, by the “ Vaudeville A. D.
Company.’* Says the Auckland Observer of Gerald
Dillon’s impersonation of Jacky in “It’s Never too
Late to Mend” :—“ In the third act the chief honours
fell to Mr. Gerald Dillon. This gentleman gave ex-
cellent effect to the part of the Australian native.
Jacky, and acted with a quiet humour and degree of
unaffected pathos not easily to be surpassed. Mr.
Stanislaus Calhaem, the Jacky of the Leeds, London,
and Liverpool ‘lt’s Never too Late to Mend,' played
the character without a break for some years, first in
one company then in another. We can’t help thinking
Mr, Dillon must have seen Mr. Calhaem.’’
SUNDRY SHOWS.
What, ho ! without there—wine. But we charge
thee, O cup-bearer, to fl.ll not the flagon with base juice
pressed from colonial grape. Crime de boosie can wet
our lips no more, and we scorn the gurgling glucose
even as anew J.P. does a poor relation. Dry Monople,
then, and in our ancestral loving cup. 'Tis well! Re-
tire, now, base lacquey, land share the lees with the
master of the horse. Wo would be alone.
• * «
“Whence,” gasps the startled reader, “these
fer-rills P" ’Tis even thus: —Once again we have mingled
with royalty—
Yes! once again—at this the whole Press winces—
We’ve beamed on heroes—and hob-nobbed with Princes;
We’ve sat ton inches from Lord Charles Scott’s chair;
We’ve jostled Batty, and we’ve smelt the Mayor.
Yea, further —and all know we never lie —
We’ve heard “ George” laughing, and Prince Edward
sigh.
At " Arthur’s” head we’ve stared—in faith, a woolly
un!—
We’ve gorged our gaze with tons of naval bullion.
Aud more than this—celestial social boon I
We’ve jost f and middies, and seen captains spoon.
At “ gallant nobles’ " feet—jam by the shovel—
We’ve seen a great enlightened public grovel.
We’ve heard men long—how this to “ slobber” suits I
To brush “ Bat's ” hat, or black the Princes’ boots :
All this in ebon garb—the dress-coat loaned —
So cease to wonder, reader, we’re “ high-toned/”
In a word, we attended the Amateur Theatricals on
Saturday night, at the School of Arts, and ever since
we have considered the world hardly round enough for
ns —and have out all our friends and relations under the
rank of chemists’ assistants. Let us —to use a
memorable phrase of a Buleetin “ back-hander ’’ pur-
veyor—” now proceed to grovel together."
# # #
If fresh flowers and stale shrubs, clean pro-
grammes and dirty flags could make an entertainment a
success .histrionically, the performance of Mr. J, H.
Eainford’s amateurs would have been an artistic triumph,
in comparison to which the efforts of Booth and Irving,
in " Othello," would sink to the insignificance of a cut-
throat “four-soener'’ at a country fair; and if fran-
tically lavish applause from a white-kidded “ claque”
be a criterion of the general favour with which an
entire audience receives a dramatic spectacle, the ladies
and gentlemen who performed before the Princes et
autres for the benefit of the Qoodenough Home will
have a fair right to consider themselves very bright
theatrical stars indeed for the rest of their gilded
existences. Certainly, we can conscientiously state—
and we always are as conscientious as the libel law will
allow us to be—that in all our experience of both ama-
teur and professional entertainments, we have never seen,
in a building, more faded flags and fresh flowers, per-
fumed programmes and stale shrubs—or listened to
more continuous clapping—than at the show under
notice. This being the case, we will leave the verdict
as to the general success in the hands of the intelligent
public, and go in for a little individualizing.
# # #
Imprimis, then, Mesdames Smith (C.M.G.),
Labertouche (2). and Moreing, and Messieurs Wrey
(8.N.), Unwin, Corbett (R.N.), Forbes, Montefiore, and
Labertouche are entitled to the thanks of the charitable
section of the community for giving their services in a
good cause; and, so far as we are concerned (being
quite more than intensely charitable), we would bo
willing to kiss the hem of every one of their garments
if they could manage to root out anew play. Like the
Romanys, however, who hammer eternally at “ Meg’s
Diversion" and "Sweethearts." the Smith-Labertouche
combination (we humbly aek pardon for this apparent
familiarity) grind away continually at “ The School for
Coquettes” and “ Woodcock’s Little Game," —the first-
mentioned ’piece being a terrible bore, aud the last-
named a farce, which, we believe, was first produced in
the ward-room of the Ark daring the preliminary flit
of the dove, under the sole superintendence of Shem,
The public (we don’t speak for ourselves, for we adore
the aristocracy) have, it is well known, a craving for
novelty. And, while we ask no better than to part
seven-and-sixpence in order to feast our eyes on beauty
and mingle with "society," irrespective of the per-
formance, other persons are more difficult to please, and
their declining (which is to be deplored) to grovel
equally with ourselves, causes the charity to suffer.
* * *
On Saturday night, there was a very large as-
semblage of spectatators, indeed, —outside; but the
Hall itself was scarcely more than half filled. We
arrived at about a quarter-past eight, at the same time
as the Princes and others of our equals in the social
scale, and had the satisfaction of languidly saluting the
intensely loyal multitude which had assembled to gaze
upon royalty. Our condescension was well received,
and we think it may be fairly said that we divided the
honours with Prince Edward. A delicate compliment
was paid by Mr. Posbery to the loyalty of the un-
combed by stationing, both in and outside the Hall, the
largest body of police wo have ever seen on duty at a
place of amusement. Myriads of policemen in uniform
kept back the public, while detectives patrolled the
passages and embellished the pit. We noticed one
well-known "crusher" feebly disguised as a check-taker,
and Detective Williams was doing the gandin iligant
amongst the swallow-tails and furbelows in the front
seats, while Sergeant Mulqueeuy appeared in the
character of link-man to royalty, for one night only.
Inspector Anderson (accompanied by Jim ttainford)
narrowly scanned all incoming ticket-holders, and
death by the how-striag would have been the fate of
any country editor seeking admission “ on the never ”
upon that memorable evening. Once inside, we had
hardly time to remove our goloshes, when a number of
musical miscreants, up stairs, struck up a tune. We
don’t know what band this was, and will not enquire
until we have secured, on the quiet, the requisite quan-
tity of dynamite for their destruction. We have no
idea what the air was, but incline to the belief that it
was a melange of “God Save the Queen," “ Shoo Ply,”
“Bless the Prince of Wales,” and “Old Bob Ridley."
This instrumental earthquake gave the audience such a
shock that all stood up involuntarily. On the custom-
ary " bobbing ’’ being accomplished, Mr. Forbes (who,
by the way, looked a eredit to his washer-woman)
signalled to the orchestra to stop, upon which some
ceased playing and some went on—one demoniac blarer
continuing to blow confusion out of his instrument
until requested by a marine with oaths to desist.
» • *
“The School for Coquettes,” which was the
first piece, has been already noticed by us; but we feel
we should bo doing the performers an injustice did we
not again make some mention of their individual
efforts. And this the more especially as the cast em-
bodied a fresh aspirant for histrionic glory, in the
person of Lieutenant Wrey, R.N., who succeeded to the
part of Sir Aubrey Qlenmorris, vice Lieut. Wylde, of the
Koval Marines —who, for all we know, has gone to
“ star ”in other climes. The latter gentleman was not
a brilliant success in the character, as we stated at the
time; indeed we havesome notion of havingrecommended
him to devote his attention exclusively to the shedding
of foreign gore, and not again appear in pufi-and-powder
comedy, and beadle’s boots, to distract an, as yet, un-
revolutionary public. But if Lieut. Wylde, of the Royal
Marines, was bad as Sir Aubrey. Lieut. Wrey, of the
Royal Navy, is very bad. He wore nicer shoes, mounted
more “ calf,” and possessed a larger amount of “ cheek,”
than his predecessor in the character, but his reading
was a very dreary business, indeed : being, in fact,
scarcely anything more than a succession of piteous
appeals to the prompter. We expect Lieut. Wilde will
he rather glad to find that the new star has not (in
spite of his parochial pumps) outshone him : and if he
sets any value upon this, our critical opinion, we accord
him our full permission to lose no time in “ telling it
to the marines.”
# * •
Mrs. Smith, of course, looked very charming in
a bewildering costume of embroidered pink satin,
lace, and a hundred other things, the names of
which the mind of man can fathom never. Prose would
be as useless in this case as an order from Parkes for
admission to Heaven. Here goes, then, for the
customary jingle:—
The two Misses Labertouche, directly they
appeared, enslaved the army and navy; and the majority
of the male civilians also immediately became mere
drivellers. Miss E Labertouche has taken our hint in
re her costume, and now, though she adheres to the
brown skirt, wears a Dolly Yarden'polonaise business
(bed-curtain pattern) which not only lights the dress up
materially, but causes her to look so much like the
inn-chambermaid, that had she only come on with a flat
candlestick, we should all have instinctively taken off
our boots, and yelled for slippers, the numbers of our
rooms, and hot water. Miss Labertouche (Lady Glen-
morris) exhibited much improvement, but wo consider
it a mistake on her part, even though she was playing
for a charity, to play at the Princes. The manner this
young lady had of looking through her lover, and
smiling on Royalty, proved so embarrassing to Prince
George that, in order to hide his contusion, he had to
turn round several times and request a bite off Lord
Scott’s navy plug, whilst Prince Edward notonly seemed
to scrape his feet about uneasily, but twisted about with
a weak pretension of looting for the ginger-beer youth
or the porter can boy—both of whom are acknowledged
institutions in the Old Country. Miss L.’s dress was
exceedingly elegant, but life is too short to enable us
to describe it. We may, however, say that
She looked delightful—quite as fair
As “ angels’ faces in the air”—
But answer this, O soaring Muse,
Why did she wear such great big shoes ?
As we have remarked that this young lady has improved
under Mr. Raiuford’s tuition, we will venture to hint to
her that a greater improvement may still be effected
if she will not pronounce “au re voir ” oh-revore;
and we will also beg leave to inform her that people only
say my lord in their prayers,
* * *
The faroe went, all things considered, with
tolerable briskness, Mrs. Smith, as Mrs. Lieut.-Colonel
Carver, being “ more than excessively but.” Mr. Forbes
was well up as Mr. Woodcock; and Miss E Laber-
touebo was quite more so as Mrs Larkins. In the part
of Mr. Larkins, Mr. G. E. Labertouche impressed us as
being super cesthetiealiy too, while Mr. G. Monteflore,
by his representation of Swausdown, can justly claim
to be considered the J. L. Toole of the most exceedingly
remote future. During the whole performance, Prince
Edward was grave and melancholy; but during the
progress of the farce the expression of his features
closely denoted despair. Sir A Kennedy looked on it all
much in the same manner as a naturalist would examine
some rare beetle; and Prince Batteuberg (how are you,
Bat., old boy F) applauded energetically throughout, but
was never more enthusiastic than when the sheet was
rolled down, and he was free to go and indulge in a
“ draw.”
* * *
In conclusion, we trust that when these ladies
and gentlemen again appear it will be in something
great. Shakspeare, now, would afford them excellent
scope for the display of their various abilities—or, it
they don’t like Shakspeare, let them try Lewis Scott.
** * *
We are inclined to think that “ Maritana ”
which succeeded “ Mignon,” at the Gaiety, on Saturday
—is, taken as a whole, the most successful performance
that the Montague-Turner combination has given us.
The cast is a small one, and, therefore, completeness is
the more easily attained ; and the part of Don Csesar
affords Mr. Charles Turner an opportunity for the dis-
play of the undoubted talents for comedy he possesses,
which, in other productions (notably in “Mignon”),
has been denied him. As the impecunious blusterer,
always in debt and dauger, yet ever in a good humour,
Mr. Turner achieved a great success. He looked
splendid, and, despite a slight touch of the bronchial
bugbear, sang the music with immense effect. Albeit
his complaint necessitated the omission of the choicest
passages in “Oh, Maritana,” and of “I like a
soldier fell,” in its entirety. Miss Montague’s
Maritana is a delightful performance, full of
rippling melody, and abounding in humour and pathos.
It is in this opera that you see Mr. and Mrs. Turner at
their best. And the simple story is one that has a
strong hold upon the public. It is full of life and action
—replete with everything that is picturesque to the eye
and pleasant to the ear. The Sydney public is not an
aesthetic one; it prefers the realistic to the classical,
and, therefore, the management of the Gaiety would do
well to bear this in mind when discussing prospective
operatic arrangements.
* * *
The opera “ went” delightfully, and Mr. Leon
Caron had his orchestra well under control. He evi-
dently knows every note of “ Maritana” by heart, since,
whilst conducting, he can manage to exchange civilities
with unemployed members of the company in the re-
served stalls. Mr. Templeton, as Don Jo*6, sang
his music throughout with the skill of a true artist;
and, as the King of Spain, Mr. Gordon, though
vocally effective, adopted a costume and “make-up”
that caused him to look a cross between a mad under-
taker and a barber in reduced circumstances. Miss
Lambert, in tights, was a delicious page, and exhibi ed
so much touching fidelity to everybody that, should
our own “ hired man ’’ leave us to join the Ministry, we
will gladly give her n show to watch over our lives and
interests.
• * *
The rest of the company were efficient, if not
brilliant—Miss B. Sutherland’s ideas on the subject of
the Marchioness being peculiar, not t® say eccentric.
“ The Eose of Castile ’’ was produced on Tuesday, and
on Monday next we are to have “ Lucia ” —of the repre-
sentation of which delightful opera we shall have a
good deal to say. Business at the Gaiety has, since the
return of the Montague-Turner troupe, been splendid.
The effect of this is to be seen in the brilliant figures
cut by the company. They buy flowers for their button-
holes every day, to do the block with ; and we believe
that “ Johnny ’’ has it in serious contemplation to
purchase a fourth share in a mule. So — vogue la galere I
** * *
A gentleman named Newton Griffiths, who is
described on the bills as “ the great English character
actor," made his first appearance at the Queen’s Theatre
on Saturday night, in a version of the “ Two Orphans."
We must confess that, though our knowledge of Eng-
lish actors is considerable, we have never before hoard
mention of Mr. Newton Griffiths, either as “ the great
English character-actor ’’ or as anything else. The
ladies and gentlemen at the Queen’s Theatre, however,
ar ® so utterly unable to stand criticism that Mr. Newton
Griffiths need not be surprised if his acting does not
receive a critical analysis at our hands. We should be
glad to give him a show, of course, —but, perhaps, after
all, he would be happier without it.
• * *
Mr. J. B. Steele takes his benefit to-night
(Thursday), the bill consisting of " Leah-’’ and “ His
Last Legs." Wedon’t know which character Mr. Steele
plays, Leah or O'Callaghan; but wo frankly admit that
we should like to see him in Leah best. Anyhow, we
hope he will have a good house. We consider that ha
plays Claude Melnotte in a manner which casts Irving
into the shade, and would cause Barry Sullivan to shed
tears of envy. If that’s not enough for him, why
blame our oats I
• * •
Mr. Dewhurst makes his first appearance in
Sydney at the Queen’s, on the 20th instant, and we
recommend him to have his opening piece thoroughly
and carefully rehearsed before making his dibut. Too
much attention cannot be paid to detail. He will see
the force of our reminder when he sees the theatre.
* * *
Next Monday some more of Mr. Rainford’a
amateurs—" The Hercules” crowd this time—play the
“ Lancashire Lass," at the Queen’s, for the benefit of
Mrs. Eout. We hope the thing will be a financial
success. The object is a very good one. We understand
from James that the H.A.D.C. s a-re clever. Any-
how, the name they have chosen for their society is
appropriate. It is only natural that Hercules should
have a club. Pass the claret.
** * *
There are amateurs and amateurs. There are
the curled darlings of fortune, whose performances,
always “ under distinguished patronage,” draw crowds
of other curled darlings to witness them; and there
are the clerks and warehousemen whose entertainments
attract other clerks and warehousemen to attend them.
Well, during the past week we have attended—and are'
consequently, in an exceedingly feeble condition—per-
formances given by both these types of amateur
societies. And, at the risk of forfeiting for ever the
favour of the horny-handed, we must confess to pre-
ferriug the patchouli and rose-leaf contingent. Our
reasons for this are manifold. In the first place the
Government House people can talk English - in the
second they look pretty, and in the third they (the
audience is included in this reason) smell nicer. We
paid very great attention to the efforts of the Eomanys
and to the coruscating combination who performed
before the Princes on Saturday, and we were just as
observant of the doings of the Mercantile Dramatic
Society, who played Byron’s “Wrinkles," at the
School of Arts, on Monday evening, and the result of
our observations is, that while a performance by Mrs.
Smith’s company is, however indifferent the acting a
series of pleasant, and even artistic, tableaux vivants—
the entertainment of the S.M.D. Society, though a
couple of performers may possess distinct merit,’ has
certainly little, if any, claim to the picturesque. Mr.
J. H. Eainford, the dramatic tutor of the Society, has
done his best with his pupils, but, of course, even that
astute gentleman is unable to cope with natural defects
of person and articulation.
* * •
Of the comedy itself, it will suffice to say that it
is mere Byrou-and-water, and though it was “favourably
received in the provinces," was damned with great ex-
pedition in London. There is, however a sparkle here
and there in the dialogue—but, for the most part, the
points were as much lost through the obtuseness of the
performers as were those ill treated innocents the
Babes in the Wood, on the third day of their desertion
by naughty “Nunkie." The ladies (of whom there
were two) were quite phenomenally bad. Miss L.
Beverley, who played the ingenue, was so stage-scared
that she spoke what lines she knew in the breathless voice
of a girl being pursued by a bull in a four-acre paddock,
and Miss Lizzie Lizette, the leading lady, was so badly
“ got up,” and spoke in such peculiar manner that to
put it mildly, she appeared to us quite out of place’ in
Mr. Graham Cadre’s drawing-room. In fact we
momentarily expected to see the mistress of the house
come in and give her the orders for dinner. The gentle-
men were, as a whole, more presentable. Mr. Adolphus
Isaacs, who was cast for the part of Hob Biewit
(the traditionary spendthrift) exhibited some
talent, and his performance would have been
a good one, had ho not spoiled the whole thing
by speaking the words of Bob Biewit in the
voice of Ezra Lazareck. Mr. J. E. Smith was quiet and
effective as Graham Cadre, though we do not think he
improved the part by“making up" as the late City Archi-
tect. Mr. W. L. Norton (who played juvenile lead) was
well up in his part, but dressed like a chemist’s assistant,
and Mr. Fred Stokes, the flunkey of the piece, gave
a capital—in fact, a polished—representation of a
stage footman. The character in the piece, however,
who created the most sensation was Mr. Charles
Vernon, the Wilfred Gordon of the hour. This gentle-
man appeared to be abent eight feet high—therefore,
when he stood up, his head was amongst the flies, and
when he stooped down to spoon with the haughty
heroine, he looked like a railway-arch. His costume
consisted of a gigantic double-breasted velveteen coat,
which, while he carefully buttoned it in front, opened
invariably behind, producing an effect which had, at
any rate, the merit of being novel. The audience quar-
relied with this coat directly. They couldn’t stand it.
While in front it was as wrinkled as Sir Alfred
Stephen s forehead, tbe back part made the wearer’s
shoulders look like a huge pincushion. Directly the gods
set eyes on this garment they at once became infuriated.
As most of the pathos of the piece fell to Mr. Vernon’s
share, and as the “ boys" received every touching senti-
ment with maniacal whoops, the performance, when he
was on the stage, became a shriek. Men laughed till
their chests became sore, and their eyes watered ; and
ladies roared to such an extent that, by the time the
performance concluded, there was not an unmutilated
pull-back in the hall.
* * •
The audience was moderately numerous, and
Mr. Gordon’s now historic interior—bereft, however, of
the “ Dado ” banners and white sheet—comprised the
scenery.
** * *
Haselraayer opened at the School of Arts last
night. Too late, however, for a notice this week. The
great Henry Neville was to the fore, looking after the
“ spons." Indeed, his appointment may not be inaptly
termed—Sponsor to a presdi but we never could
spell it.
** * *
On Monday, 15th, Mr. H. W. Chapman takes a
“ben.” at the Protestant Hall. We are glad of this,
but recommend him not to give so long a programme,
and to divide it only by one interval. If possible, we
shall be there to beam on him. This will be an advan-
tage to the gifted elocutiouist. For if we point out the
mote in his optic, he will be able to say something
about the beam in ours. The Imperial Band will bo
provided, but we have heard, as yet, nothing about air
cushions and sausage rolls for critics.
** * *
Mr. Sebastian Hodge made a great “ hit ” with
his saxophone solo at the Mayoress’ reception, the
other day, and has received all kinds of kudos from press
and public. Of Sebastian’s tooting, the Sydney cor-
respondent of the Tamwoeth News remarks:—“ Mr.
Sebastian Hodge was at his best in a solo on his saxo-
phone—an instrument that seems to combine within
itself all that is best in cornopean, ophieleide, French
bugle, and clarionet, with hints of the ‘ loud bassoon.’
Mr. Hodge was never heard to better advantage than in
The lovely lily dipped in dew
Is not one half so fair as you;
No lightsome fay from fairy dell
Could play the part one half as well; —
We never saw—don’t this despise—
An amateur look half as nice.
We loved the pretty Georgian rig,
And, oh, we just adored the wig;
The picture was, to state it right.
More than deliriously “quite!”
Oh, would we had a poet's flame—
W ith praises we would wreath thy name I
Yet now we can but end this with
A sigh that that name should be—Smith.


the vestibule of the Town Hall, and the company were
enthusiastic in their praise of his performance.” We
can endorse this, as we have heard Mr. Hodge perform
very many times. We take an interest now in instru-
mental music to which before we were strangers. The
fact is that our next door neighbour has commenced
cultivating the clarionet. We shall immediately begin
to learn the trombone.
*** * *
Mr. Fred. Mervin, wbo had for many days been
Qg hoarse as a raven, once more resumed his part of
Monthabor, at the “ Tambour-Major,” on Saturday last.
The opera went as merrily as ever, and the house was
crowded in every part. A contemplation of the stalls,
hy the way, during the ran of this piece, is both
amusing and instructive, and as tomorrow (Friday) is
the last night of it, we recommend our readers to roll
up and take all the young men with the low foreheads
and big binoculars out of winding Audran’s long,
announced opera will be produced on Saturday, and we
shall, of course, spread ourselves out, in order that our
readers may enjoy “all the fun of the fair.” By the
way, here’s a riddle on the subject—Why is the opera
to be produced at the Royal on Saturday like baptismal
water ? The answer, of course, comes upon you like a
flash. Because it’s “ holy wet.” No extra charge 1 By
the way, we are sorry to find that the genial Fred has
had a return of his unpleasant bronchial affection.
** * *
We hear casually that Kelly’s Company open
at the Theatre Royal, Newcastle, next week, and that
they will shortly play a season of comic opera in
Sydney. We are glad of this, since we understand that
not only has Mr. Kelly secured some novelties, but
that Miss Emma Wangenheim has made strides in her
profession. Her Girofld, is, we are told.
Something out of the common way.
Something that makes all the people say.
As on her form they look,
n And are in admiration lost—
'* We don’t know which to envy most,
Marasquin or Moorzouk."
* * * Hi
Here is the very latest about poor Fritz : —“ The
Prince of Wales’s, Birmingham, in consequence of
‘ Fritz’s’ wetness, has had to dry up during the .week.
They say in Birmingham that the actor has not dis-
appeared, but is being taken care of by a provincial
manager, who has a lien on him. The manager sleeps
outside his bed-room door at night, and has supers to
follow him by day. Just as Fritz thinks he is going to
have a drink, a demon or a fairy darts into the pub. and
snatches the glassaway. No wonder, if this sortof thing
be true, that poor Fritz got on board a Guion steamer
for New York, and was just off, when the provincial
manager seized him by the coat-tails and said, ‘ No, you
don’t 1’ That’s only how the story goes. Of course it
isn’t true. Poor Fritz 1 It’s a shame he can’t play
when he chooses and stop at home when he chooses
without being accused of being * elephant’s trunk.’ ”
** * *
Actresses complain of the scarcity of bouquets
in Sydney as compared with Melbourne. They like to
have something thrown them. So slack lately has been
the supply of what the Noose calls “ floral tributes,"
that even a hunch of onions would be welcome. “ You
can’t wear them, it’s true, but they’re nice for supper.”
However the pros.—ask Wallace—don't like being hit
by bunches of carrots.
** * *
The genial Morris Greenwall, who looked and
felt, not so Icng since, as if he were going to “ pass in
his checks,” is now, we are glad to see, almost himself
again. Everybody will be glad to hear, too, that
■William Horace Bent, who was some time since attacked
by severe illness in Queensland, has greatly improved
in health.
** * *
The health of several members of the “ Tambour-
Major ” company is, at present, far from satisfactory.
One young lady got hysterical the other day, and now
hysterica are very fashionable among the ladies at the
Royal.
-X- * * *
Surely we’re not going to have the Governor
Bowen-Qeorge Coppiu iuhroglio over again in Sydney ?
** * *
Let’s get rid of all these items.—
With great success Louise has played
La Reine in Adelaide ;
But yet the critics do not write
That Harry Vincent doesn’t rant any
(Rhyme nearly perfect, if not quite),
When acting with her as Marc Antony.
# * *
The Dwarf is gone—now life is shady.
For so’s the fair magnetic lady.
The Giant, too—eh, this we’ll rue!—
Has likewise faded from our view.
Sans Lady, Dwarf, and Giant, we
Resign ourselves to miserie.
** * *
This is satisfactory. In addition to the plays
Mr. Dampier had advertised (through our own Hop-
kins). we now learn that he has secured the Australian
right to produce the following:—“ ‘ Mother-in-Law,’ by
George R. Sims (‘Dagonet’), the greatest and latest
success in Loudon. ‘ lan Varcoe’s Oath,’ by George R.
Sims. ‘ True Lovers’ Knots,’ by Frederick G. Brough-
ton, author of ‘ Withered Leaves.’ * Realities of Life,’
by George Conquest.” This is more like the kind of
thing, and we will undertake to say that one “ Mother-
in-Law ” will draw better than a Tower of London full
of “ Black Flags.” Mr. Conquest’s “ Realities of Life”
we await with some impatience, since George, we should
think, from the style of plays he has up to this pro-
dneed, knows about as much concerning the title of his
drama as a hedge-hog does about Euclid.
** * *
The Lynch Bellringers were recently at Tenter-
field, and the Star is rather severe upon their perform-
ance. It says:—“On the part of the Tintinuabulists
themselves there was nothing new; the same old tunes
they played years ago ; the earns old farces and ecoen-
tricities, which are now stale and uninteresting; so
that in saying they are as good as ever is really not
saying much. This much-travelled troupe ought now
to give the public something besides ‘ The Jolly Jere-
miahs,’ ‘Hallelujah Band,’ ‘Mr. Johnson,’ ‘The Four
Quakers,’ &c., of which we are * full up.’ ” We recom-
mended the Lynches some time ago to endeavour to
secure some novelties, and it would seem that they
would have done well to have followed our advice.
Their farces certainly are very curious relics, and their
jokes such bald-headed old wheezes that they have
adorned the pages of every sixpenny “ side-splitter"
since the days ofJJoshu a true humourist, by the
way, and one whose joke about comm-’nding the sun to
stand still has become quite historical.
* * m
Miss Georgina Smithson (by whom we expect to
have our “ hair combed ” when she comes down) se-
ceded the Lynches, and the Star critic approved of
her “ Funny Photographs ” highly—a circumstance,
doubtless, which will cast a roseate glow of happiness
over the whole of her future existence. Mr. Holloway
he didn’t care much about, but then these giddy critics
somehow seldom do admire the husbands of pretty
actresses.
** * *
We understand, on good authority, that Mdme.
Pasta-Moore is engaged as premiere danseuse to Mr.
Arthur Garner, for the pantomime at the Royal. And
those that behold Madame trip, will at once admit that
Mrs. Moore is not Pasta prime.
** * *
Dr. Simms, the celebrated physiognomist, opens
at the School of Arts on the 17th inst., and from what
we have heard of him, “ in other climes,” we can con-
fidently pronounce him to be, not only a physiological,
but a “medical,” wonder. We shall make a point of
turning up, and having our countenance studied. But
we trust, if we do, the doctor will refrain from bringing
out out “ murderous instincts.”
** * *
Mr. James Kitts has given up the Barkly Hotel,
Carlton, and has come back to the stage, of which he
has taken so many touching farewells. This, now, is
an affecting circumstance, and we recommend him to
let us know in good time when he next contemplates
quitting with tears “ those with whom he has been so
pleasantly associated for a quarter of a century,” so that
we may be enabled not only to send along the perform-
ance, but to give our mite towards ** the gold hunting
lever and appendages."
* * *
We however, welcome Mr. J. Kitts’ return to
the ranks of the “perfesh ” with effusion, and we trust
to see him again play Devilshoof before we die. For
years his voluminous organ has haunted our dreams,
and his slim, yet symmetrical form has, in our hours of
meditation, floated in mid-air before our entranced
gaze. When he was absent from the theatrical firma-
ment, all was dark and dreary: now that he has re-
turned, he has brought sunshine with him. As a
landlord, to us, he was nothing: as as actor, he is
everything. That reminds us, though, that when he
was a boniface he was a good deal to the pros. This is
how the matter stood :—
To-morrow (Friday) Miss Annie Mayor takes
her benefit at the Opera House, when, for the first time
in Sydney, Grundy's “scream,” “Snowball," will
be played, with the following splendid cast: —
Felix Featherstone Mr. Wybert Reeve
Uncle John Mr. Frank Cates
Harry Prendergast Mr. Neil O’Brien
Saunders Mr. Osborne
Mrs. Featherstone Miss Annie Mayor
Ethel Grainger Miss Howarth
Penelope Miss Annie Taylor
• • •
Miss Annie Mayor’s claims to a benefit are
undeniable. Her admirably artistic representation of
Dora, in “Diplomacy,” will live in the memories of
Sydney playgoers a lifetime. In this character she
showed herself to be tbe true artist. That Mias Mayor
will have a good house, we have no doubt whatever.
But that she will have a house equal to her merits, we
are convinced she will not. To ensure that, Wynyard-
square would have to be roofed in, and excursion trains
laid on from all points of the compass.
* * *
Besides “ Snowball,” Mr. W. J. Holloway will
recite a patriotic ode and the “ Screen scene ” will be
played with Wybert Reeve as Charles Surface, Cates
as Joseph, Mr. Frank Forbes as Sir Peter Teazle (a
performance which will be of great interest to ns), and
finally, the fair benefls’iare as Lady Teazle. So roll up,
dear boys, and let us all enjoy a treat together.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Near a certain Northern town there lives a
squatter, who is known, let us say, as “ Hungry ”
Brownlow. Here is one of the ways in which he makes
good his title. He owns a dam close to the main road,
and on a recent evening he caught an unfortunate
traveller who had j net watered his solitary saddle-horse.
Hungry B. (loq) : “What the —— are you doing
here ? ” Traveller: “ I’m only giving my horse a
drink, sir.” H. B. : “Two shillings.” T.: “Haven’t
got sixpence in the world.” H. B.: “ I’m a J.P., and
I’ll summon you for trespass. What have you got in
your swag?” Whereon the poor wretch untied his
scanty bundle, and our J.P. rode off in triumph with—
a bar of soap. But he's such a dirty wretch, physically
as well as mentally, that it will be many a day ere he
uses it.
* * *
He was a navvy on the new railway extension
—which passes for the most part through sheep country
—and he had just ended the struggles of a fine fat wether,
when up came an overseer full split, with 1 Hallo ! what
the are you up to there P” The excavator,
without a moment’s hesitation, stood up brandishing
his reeking knife, and replied, “stand off, mate,
stand off. I allow no four-legged crittur as runs
this here country to bite me’.”
* * #
A condensed novel. Some fourteen years ago,
in Parramatta, there lived a couple who dearly loved
each other. She was the daughter of a well-to-do
farmer; and on account of the poor position of her suitor,
their meetings had to be of a clandestine nature. The
lady fair noticed that her devoted “ Jack " never would
take her of an evening into the gay city, and at last she
found out the reason—he was bootless. On the oc-
casion of their next meeting she brought with her the
black-lead jar and brush, and applied the latter to her
lover’s feet. Thereafter they “did” town together,
avoiding the brightly-lighted spots, so that it should
not be noticed by the passers-by that he was without
leather on his peds. He that was bootless once is now
well off in property and bank-shares. She is now lowly,
for her love was bootless.
* * *
When Pat Berrigan ran the mail on the North-
Eastern line in Victoria, he was late one trip coming to
Beechworth; and, to make up for lost time, he “ went
for the distance." Occasionally, while speeding along
over the stumps and boulders, he heard plaintive yells
from behind ; but, supposing that they proceeded from
passengers who had been slung out, and were dying in
agony, he of course took no notice. At last, however, a
most demoniacal collection of unrevised edition curses
compelled him to turn round. The imprecations, he
perceived, came from a little man whose head had been
knocked through the roof of the coach, and whose neck
was firmly fixed in a setting of leather by the debris of
his own hat. collar, ko. “ I’ll make it hot for you, you
unrevised edition of on adjective driver!” gasped the
choking passenger. “ Hold hard, yon scoundrel—
for God’s sake, do stop—please do stop—pull up for a
minute—oh, do. I’m dying—do, please 1” “ Well,"
coolly returned Pat, “ I’m rather late, and, as it must
be pretty close inside the coach, I think you’d better
stay where you are, and get the fresh air. Besides, it’s
only ten miles to Beechworth now.” “ I’ll summon you
when we get there; I will, by ,” shrieked the man
who had his head outside. “ All right, mate,” returned
Pat, “ we’ll f ee.” Arrived in Beechworth, the horses
were unharnessed, and the remains of the passengers
taken out of the coach, dressed by a local surgeon, and
put to bed. And then Pat went round to the police
office, and took out a summons against the little man
for damage done to the roof of the coach.
* * *
“ What are you looking for?” asked a friend of
a bearded Parramatta editor, as he saw that worthy
rooting around amongst some small boys, with a stick.
“ Looking for ?” repeated the journalist, indignantly;
“why, it’s nearly 1 o’clock, and my horse-power has
never shown up.”
* * *
The gifted editor of the Cumberland Evening
Times (eulogised elsewhere) is in capital spirits. It
appears that a Parramatta pedagogue recently had four
pigs killed, and the man to whom he gave the heads
(nothing is said about the entr dls) invited old Pergy to
the feast. Mark, now, with what a master-hand our
friend chronicles the event: —" The Rev. Mr. M’Arthur
kindly presented the executioners with the heads of the
departed swine, and a modem improvisation of a
mediaeval Saxon banquet was the result. Assisted by a
couple of gallons of mead—we beg pardon, we were
dreaming of the good old days—Neioh’s good ale, a
jovial evening was spent. The Rev. Mr. M’Arthur was
unanimously declared a jolly good fellow by the
assembled company. And so say all of us." We call
this looking after local matter in a very praiseworthy
manner. Only we don’t think one par. can d> justice
to such a splendid gastronomic event. As there were
four pigs’ heads, there ought to be four pars. Wo
should like a notice, ourselves, in this valuable paper;
and if Pergy will do the correct thing, we can safely
promise him not only the tails of our chops, but our
tea-leaves.
• • •
Says a recent number of the News ; —“lda
Luck, aged 4 years, fell from some rocks at MiUer’s
Point, yesterday, and fractured her ulva and radius.”
Poor creature 1
• * *
“ I could stand, sighed a lovely lady as she
looked up at the window of a certain newspaper office
in this city, “ being without money; but to be without
Price is to be undone indeed 1”
* *■ •
“ My boy,” said the editor of a country journal
to his special reporter, war-correspondent. South Sea
Island commissioner, and clerk, “this is the second
time you have been caught playing marbles in office
hours. I can’t look over it. Begone, groveller, that
you are I Take your fortnight’s wages and leave,” —
here he looked proudly round the weather-board ma-
chine-box —“ the premises." And flinging a two-shilling
piece on the inverted gin-case that served for the edi-
torial chair, he motioned his retainer to depart. “Don’t
send me away, sir," whined the boy—“ I’ll never do it
again." “ Out yon got, sir,” cried the editor. “ Oh,
only let me stop, sir," yelled the youth, in desperation,
“and I’ll —I’ll—I’ll subscribe to the paper.” Upon this
the journalist gave an exclamation of joy, took back
the two shillings, debited the boy with the balance in
the washing-book which was the official ledger, and
then formally re-instated him in his position of sub-
editor by sending him over to the public-house for a
pint.
* * #
When Sir John was at Grafton, recently, he
gave a poor old beggar-woman a handful of silver, and
the elderly dame being of a spertive disposition, and a
“ character,” “ chucked ’’ the sprightly young knight
under the chin. “What a liberty 1” indignantly ex-
claimed a Manning River belle, who was of the party.
“ Oh, never mind,” said Sir John, glancing slyly at her;
“itis a liberty I have often pardoned." At that mo-
ment the school children came along, and he told them
that if they said their prayers every night, and never
kissed the girls on the sly when they felt like soaring,
they’d find the gate ajar, and the trumpet .ready. The
school-teachers appeared much impressed.
« * »
“When will you be ready to come, Jane?”
enquired a lady who had engaged a recently-arrived
cook from Mrs. Hicks. “ Where do you live, mum ? ”
asked the girl. “At the North Shore,” replied the
lady. “ Then you’ll have to suit yourself with another
cook, mum," was the answer ; “ I ain’t a goin’ in the
bush,”
# * *
See what it is to be educated ! Whenever a
well-known Justice has anything to do with writing of
any kind, he always makes his mark.
* * *
Verbatim copy of a letter, recently received by
a member of Parliament: —“ a sarten partey by the naim
of Lblank] unbenownst to me ’cept by heresay wants to
git the counteract fur putin up the nu jale at if
his tindar zackcepted a sarten mP will cum inter a
leggassy of 400 pound nex day.” The writer’s friend
got the contract, of course, and the member came in
(through the death of a distant relative) for the £4OO,
and that is the way the world goes round.
* m *
In relation to the “ sick” juryman in Goode v.
Onslow’s case, the Narandera Argus has the following:
—“ As time went on no apparent improvement took
place in the man, and two medical gentlemen had to be
called in to examine him, who pronounced him unfit for
a juryman. The prisoners were then amoved, and the
court adjourned." Let’s see. Do they grow sugar-cane
in Naraudera ?
* * •
Do you want an insight into the actual value of
jewellery that is retailed in the shops iu Sydney ? Here
yon are, then, in the first six lines of a police report: —
•‘Sylvester Bulge was, on Friday, brought before the
Water Police Court on a remanded charge of stealing
46 silver watches, 20 silver chains, 20 silver necklaces,
and 10 silver sets of brooches and earrings, valued at
£6O, the property of George Alfred Smith." We wonder
whether these watches were capped and jewelled, fitted
with chronometer balance, and all the latest improve-
ments, and warranted for two years. And then, now,
with regard to the 20 silver chains. 20 silver necklaces,
and 10 sets of silver brooches and earrings, what—but
where’sgthe use of straining conjecture ? Our taste for
jewellery has gone.
« « «
Milner Stephen is still “ starring ” in the pro-
vinces, and a country paper informs us that the Wagga
journals have given the worthy healer “ fits.” If that’s
all they’ve given him, it oughtn’t to trouble Milner
much, for fits are just the things he professes to order
away. But perhaps he has the same fault that Hamlet’s
mother found with the Player-queen—he professes too
much.
« * *
The little curl-paper that is published every
evening in Parramatta says that the Royal Princes
have not yet been introduced to the hangman. No
more they hr ve: hut then so few people know the hang-
man. It is, unfortunately, too late now for the Times
to trot his friend out.
* * •
A new chum, who had spent his all on dress
circle seats and guinea bouquets for “ Tambour-Major,”
entered, the other day, a sixpenny restaurant iu the
vicinity of Clarence-street. Hardly had he taken a seat
at one of the “ geographical” tables, when he looked up
and recognised in the waiter a man who had ministered
to his wants at Pfahlert’s. “ What,” cried the waiter,
“do you dine here?" “Well,” returned the other,
gloomily, “ you wait here, don’t you ?’’ “ Yes, but I
don’t eat here,” replied the waiter. “ Stewed tripe—
onel"
* * *
Charity begins at home, and in some cases it
would be just as well if she stayed there. For instance::
one of our most charitable clergymen was recently
waited on by an apparently helpless old lady, whose
days on this earth were fast drawing to a mournful
close. She wanted neither money nor food—but simply
an order to get into the Infirmary, and there die. The
good padre gave the order for admission; but when the
poor afflicted woman learnt the distance to the hospital,
she feebly moaned she could never walk there. Half-a-
crown was at once handed over to pay for a cab. and,
with a thousand blessings, the dying one departed.—
This is act the first. Slow music as the curtain falls.
Act the second has for its principal scene a public-
house on “ The Rooks.” A fiddler is standing at the
door, sending the dance-inviting strains of “ Garry-
owen" inside, and sounds of revelry are heard on every
side. Just then, the good priest passes by, and, looking
in, he finds the poor, helpless old woman, who couldn’t
walk to the Infirmary, “jigging” away, as active as if
she were “ Sara the kicker," leading off in the ballet of
an opera-bouffe. It was a clear case, and, as the dis-
gusted gentleman turned away, this frisky old dame
came to the door, pewter in hand, and coolly observed,
“Well, Father , here’s at ye—fur it’s the kiud-
h arted sowl ye are, begorra., an’ may the hivins be
your bed.”
• * •
Some 2000 years ago, one Eupolis, who wrote
divers plays, said : “No man without spirit ever yet
crested a trophy." John Davies, however, burst this
opinion up completely when he erected the Marshal
Wood trophy the other day to our honoured Queen.
There’s the trophy, and if Eupolis will get up aud say
the man who erected it is a man of spirituous tenden-
cies, we’ll go for him ourselves with all the determined
energy of a big “sojur ant” going for an old grass-
hopper. V.
WOMAN ITEMS.
History chronicles perfect loves ; it leaves mar-
riage alone.
The smaller the woman, the larger the poke
bonnet that she wears.
Old women are sillier than young ones, because
they have been so longer.
A pretty woman’s kindly look is particularly
grateful only because it flatters one’s good opinion of
one’s self.
There are at Morpeth—a comparatively small
town—thirty widows and nine widowers. All efforts to
strike a balance have failed.
Lady John Manners wrote the now celebrated
article on Lord Beaconsfield, which appeared iu The
Times on the day of his funeral.
A negress, 103 years old, who waited on Napo-
leon in his Egyptian campaign, recently died at Cairo.
She retained her faculties to the last.
Mrs. Baeyertz has commenced Evangelistic ser-
vices in Adelaide. It is mean of her thus to oppose
John Alexander Dowie and “ his army.”
Once they started a girls’ seminary in Utah. It
flourished well; but j ust in the height of its prosperity,
the principal eloped with the whole school.
A man who has married his deceased wife’s
sister, who is neither rich nor pretty, says that he did
so merely to avoid a change of mothers-in-law.
A newly-married man, who is bald as an egg,
raved over his wife—said she was a dream, a marvel, a
perfect Delilah. Said a friend: “What does that
matter to yon?”
An engagement is mentioned between Lord
March and one of the season’s prettiest debutantes, the
Honorable Frances de Moleyns, eldest daughter of
Lord and Lady Ventry.
The most proper girl yet discovered is one who,
when her best young man was helping her to tie on her
bonnet, insisted that he should stand in front of her so
that she could keep her eye on him.
The younger daughter of an English peer has
married a young pressman, whose father is a London
tailor. It was a ruuawaj’ match. The noble parent
was very indignant at flrsc, but has since calmed down.
The Ballarat Star remarks that the Hilder
(poisoning) and the Margaret Smith (abortion) cases
open up such probabilities of secret crime by members
of the medical profession that society may well shudder
with alarm.
Ouida : The loveliest love is that which dreams
high above all storms, unsoiled by all burdens ; but
perhaps the strongest love is that which, while it
adores, drags its feet through mire, and burns its brow
in heat, for the thing beloved.
There is one way of telling a leading actress
from one who isn’t, but wishes she was. The former
promenades the streets like other women, while the
other will always be seen pulling a string behind her,
with a pug-nosed pup at the end of it.
The married ladies this season in London carry
away the palm of beauty. Lady Lonsdale, Lady Mande-
ville, Lady Castlereagh, Lady Dalhonsie, Lady Claude
Hamilton, Mrs. Masters, and Mrs. Arkwright, are the
acknowledged soverereigns in oveliness.
Dr. Johnson : A woman of fortune, being used
to the handling of money, spends it judiciously ; but a
woman who gets the command of money for the first
time upon her marriage, has such a gust in spending it,
that she throws it away with great profusion.
“ My wife,” remarked a prominent manufac-
turer, “ never attends auctions. She went once, just
before we were married, aud seeing a friend on the
opposite side, nodded politely, whereupon the auctioneer
knocked down a patent cradle, and asked her where she
wished it delivered.”
Included in the trousseau of Miss Maynard,
who has just been married to Lord Brooke, heir to the
historic earldom of Warwick, were dresses which are
really unique. One has a train covered all over with
gold and silver shells, and is worthy of being worn by
the Queen of the Naiads.
A systematic wife-beater, named Frederick
Duckett, who has held first-class commercial positions,
and who lately gave his luckless consort “a merciless
thrashing all over the body," was brought up the other
day at Melbourne. Frederick will beat stones in gaol
for one quarter, paid in advance.
Enough able-bodied Germans have gone to
America during the past decade to make three good
army corps. 56 per cent, of all the emigrants who left
the Fatherland for America, between 1870 and 1880,
were males, and, as a consequence, a surplus of 1,000,000
females is to be found in the empire.
It was stated in some of the home papers that
Prince Leopold wanted to marry Miss Gladstone. That
youn r lady, however, as has been publicly announced,
is “ otherwise engaged ” The sole foundation for the
report is the undoubted fact that they are both fond of
music, and have been seen “practising” together.
Victoria Qoukhovokaia, who, when arrested at
Odessa, in 1879, for a political offence, was but 14 years
old, was, after fourteen months’ imprisonment before
trial, finally condemned to banishment to Siberia.
Driven to despair by her sufferings, the unfortunate
girl has now committed suicide by hanging herself.
A widower, whose first wife had been lean and
shrewish, married another. She was plump and fair
to look on, but, alas 1 shrewish, too. Said a friend :
“My boy, I’m sorry for you. In marrying, you have
simply taken a second edition of your former spouse.”
“ But a revised and amended edition,” said Henpeck,
feebly. “ No,” retorted the other, “only an enlarged
one.”
Among the many freaks of fashion this season ia
the sudden re-appearance of the long-discarded white
stocking. While a pretty ankle never looks prettier
than thus adorned, a large number of ladies will regret
the accommodating black which has so long baffled the
most indiscreet admirers of this particular feminine
charm.
Burglars broke into the house of a horribly
ugly old maid, the other night, aud, just as they ap-
proached her couch, the woman, who was dreaming she
was being proposed to by a handsome young man, rose
up in bed and exclaimed: “Yes, love, I will marry
you." The frightened burglars sprang thirty feet
through the window-sash, and never stopped until fif-
teen miles from town.
It is said that so much did Queen Victoria ad-
mire Lady Brooke’s (Miss Miynard’s) wedding drees
that she insisted on her dining in it at Windsor Castle,
and after dinner told the bride to “ walk about," that
she might “ see it better.” The result of these move-
ments was that her ladyship was “ commanded ” to be
photographed therein.
In Russia, a colonel of the Imperial Guards,
who had become melancholy through a love affair, got
his peasants to build an immense bonfire, which he
caused to be saturated with all manner of inflammables.
At midnight he proceeded to the bonfire, set fire to it,
then, climbing to the top, took his seat on a barrel of
tar, blew his brains out, aud was cremated.
A Walgett girl advertises that she wants a hus-
band. All grades, from the bullock-driver to the
squatter, are eligible. However, the latter’s chance
woqJd> no doubt, be better worth backing than that of
his teamster. A local paper insinuates that the lady is
a moribund old maid, freckled in the tenth degree, of
awful corpulence, bow-legged, and bald-headed.
A Wellington (N.Z.) Chinaman, determined to be
in the fashion, got an English wife, and changed his
name from Ah M&ig to “ Mr. W. Lee.” The lady,
however, drank heavily, and got an English sister to
help her. When the cream-coloured one found that his
capital was fast dwindling, he went in for a little fraudu-
lent insolvency, and was arrested. He has been com-
mitted for trial.
There have lately been shown, in some of the
Sydney shop windows, photographs of pretty hands
holding flowers. The latest fashionable craze at
home is to have the hands and feet photo-
graphed. Beautiful hands and feet are taken in a
dozen different positions; also many hands and feet
that or 3 not beautiful. A pretty hand, taken on a dark
background, looks very nice, and a pair of pretty feet in
embroidered slippers and silk stockings, is something
in a picture too awfully sweet for anything. “Feet,”
we learn from a fashion paper, are taken as high up aa
the knee. And knees aren’t feet.
You could not pass poor Jim’s hotel
(The sign of it “The Barkly ”),
But many a pro. against the wall
Loomed down upon you darkly.
The bar was always full of “ stars,”
Who lounged and took their ease;
And disappointed tragedy
Went in big licks for cheese.
The gaunt-framed nigger “ corner-man ”
Went there, of nights, to sup ;
And though he put the tucker down
He always “ stuck it up."
And chorus-singers bulbous-nosed.
Went regular to tea.
And paid too—with the whisper—“ Jim,
Just put that down to me."
They’d ask “ when the now cask was on,”
Those seedy, thirsty elves.
And then they’d call for drinks all round
And so get “ on ” themselves.
Some high-toned pros, were epicures.
Drank only hock, they said ;
But though they “ looked upon ” Jim’s wine,
He never saw their red.
As time rolled on, Jim smiled no more.
Yes, faded was that grin;
For though the pros, were getting fat,
Poor Kitts was getting thin.
This ad. then straightway he drew out
(It took some slight reflection) :—
“ Hotel for sale that has a fine
Theatrical connection."


Public Companies
The mercantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Oidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARYt
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorga-street Brickfield Hill, and Redfern.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
Other nroduce shipped to England for sale.
gCOTTISH
IMPERIAL
COMPANY,
INSURANCE
CAPITAL £1,000,000.
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEST RATES.
INGLIS, NIXON, & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
O T I
C E.
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES &c.
P.
R. L A R K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-sweet),
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spibit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
Forty years’ testimony for cure
OF INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS.
“ This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
“ 1 have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
omplaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
s iffering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Carroll,
“ 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney.
“ Nov, 24,1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes. Is. 6d., 35., and 4s. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS & PARKES, Herbalists,
240 George-street.
M
ELBOURNE CF n , 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OP PRIZES
ON the
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT JEI EACH.
Bankers —National Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
about 250 FRIZES.
First Horse £l5OO
Second Horse £7OO
Third Horse £4OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non-Starters (divided) £2700
Ten Prizes at £lOO each £lOOO
Twenty Prizes at £5O each £lOOO
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each £l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
Professional Addresses
IR. M. S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
IR. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ON TOUR:
Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, till 21st June.
Western Australia to follow.
unadulterated
B AK/NC POWDER
w
MWnaiUlll
EMMT
m
i vyg_
L
**ll
mr**
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STEEET, HAYMAEKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of the pubUc to our BLENDED TEAS Finest Family
Blend, 2/-f Finest Royal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen’s Blend 3/.; Superior Empress Blend 4/-
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of purity and weight Sold in pb and 21b
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; aiso. catties boxes, i-chests SAMPL S
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.— REUBEN OLIVEB, Manager.
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWAEDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mndgee*
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE.
Public Companies
C
OENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OIT
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles'
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
tor Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JAERETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY A BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,'
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter*
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York*
Street. WILLIAM JAERETT,
Manager.
NCOMES ASSURED.
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING AND COMMEB*
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY, Limited.
This Society provides a certain fixed allowance for its
members when thrown out of employment.
Medical attendance during sickness ; assistance in old
age, and when incapacitated from following any employ-
ment through disease or accident; and in special cases of
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence to procure them
suitable re-engagements.
For further particulars, apply to
G. HORTON MORRIS,
Secretary,
W ent worth-court,
Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Applications for Agencies invited.
■
Photographers
PARLOUR STUDIOS
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d per dozen.
ROARTT’S STUDI.O,
-■ .
'
pm
sssmß
pwiiiig
B
fmmm
m
604 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T HARVEY,
• WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J, HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
DR, STANTCH, the EMINENT AURIST,
announces that POOR PATIENTS with EAR
DISEASES will receive the Doctor’s valuable services
GRATUITOUSLY, on production of a certificate, that
they are not in a position to pay, under the seal of their
respective Municipal Councils.
The SEALS of the various Corporations of Victoria,
for the valuable services gratuitously rendered
Dr. Stanich to sufferers, are on view at the CONSULT"
ING ROOMS, 50 WYNYAED SQUARE SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND C O.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
MANUFACTORY:
N-ACCOKD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This it the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o, ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace ;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. . .
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas. FO E TULL PAETICULAES APPLY AT THE MANUFACTOEY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of onr Contract.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all oases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BEOS.,
PITT STREET.
THE " PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
hy both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Temporary Premises.
SYDNEY:
No. 11 BLOOMFIELD STREET,
SURRY HILLS.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H. S. BARROW & Co.'s
“ PYEAMID HAIE PEODUCEE.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
rjIHOS. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS. BEASSFOUNDEBS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, ScC.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 B ATHUEST-STREKT, SYDNEY.
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse £3OOO
Second Horse £lOOO
Third Horse £5OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non Starters (divided) £2OOO
6 Prizes of £lOO each £6OO
6 Prizes of £5O each £3OO
£llO Prizes of £lO each £llOO
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
CONSULTATION on the Metropolitan Stakes
—250 at £1 each, divided as follows First horse
£l5O, second £5O, third £25, starters (not 123) £25.
N.B.—All communications must be accompanied with
stamps forreply. Address, A. TURNER, 91 Elizabeth-
treet, Sydney.


Chemists and Dru
T
AKE NO M 01
but try
R ANDERSON’f
PODOPHYLLIN LOZ:
Do you SUFFER from HEAD.
Then try B
PODOPHYLI
Do you Complain of Indigestio
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYLI
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness f
Spend one shilling, and
RANDEKSO:
Do you constantly suffer from 1
If so remembe:
PODOPHYL
will soon cure, if taken as d
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDIC
Are an;
our children sick f
can safely give „hem one c
(or the small members of
TAKE WEL
W Remember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Prc
EDWARD ROW and C
45 and 47 George-sti
Y ROYAL LETTE]
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINT:
B
Guaranteed to b
Free from all poisonous qualitie
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Planti
in the Bush of New Soul
This Ointment is not a mere cal
public, nor does it require any puf
as it has been so well proved for th
that it is impossible that the pnbli<
long deceived. In (act, people are r
lous regarding its efficacy (never 1
article of the kind before which i
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m
High and low, rich and poor, hav<
fits from its use, and scarcely an;
found without it: and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the c<
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF TI
which, taken altogether, prove the 1
to be the Eighth Wonder of the "W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, <
hands and lips, bunions, soft con
casualties attending the human fr
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA.
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perf<
Joseph sou’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External 1
may be cured by using Josepbson
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly foi
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums ai
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excorial
tion when a remedy like Jose;
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles i
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ii
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the largo
demand, prove it to be still pre-en
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fi
and totally free frem any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S j
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storel
and Is 6d each throughout the col<
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
H
ILL OF PI
(Late Felhinghai
7 8 KING ST]
Dispensing Establish
Business Auuouuc
S
ashes glazed on T]
NOTICE.
G. P. MURPHI
Regent House, 869 George-s
■s
HOP FRONTS GLAZED
BRITISH PLATE G 1
B
G. P. MURPHY
Regent House, 869 George-s
RITISH J IPLATE AND
WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHI
Regent House, 869 George-s
IAPEEHANGINGSj’W
• j
G. P. MURPHY
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-si
w
HITE LEAD, OILS. COL
&c., &c.
Q. F. MURPHY
Regent House, 839 Georgo-a
iLATE GLASS. PL
GEORGE P. MURP
Regent House, 869 George-s;
HOUSES furnished at the C
Arcade, on Time Payments.
.street.
WE repectfully invite the j
Show Rooms, Central Pm
31, and 33 Park-street.
WE Furnish Houses fror
Central Furnishing Arcad
ark-street. I
CENTRAL FURNISHING
Tobacconist:
JAMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cat Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leal
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and B
15 9 PI TT ST I
Next Post Offlct
TIN TAG TOBA
None are genuine but the E<
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOB or TANKE
DIXSON & SOI
15 TOBE STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT. & I
Manufactured b;
T. S A YW E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBAGO
Clarence-street, 85
For VENETIAN
TRY
Chemists and Dm
THE following Lie
WATSON'S RENOWNED P
MEDICINES,
so well and favonrably known to th«
Watson’s (Vegetable) Anti'
Watson’s (Vegetable) Won
Watson’s Gingerbread Wor
Watson’s Compound Chlor
Watson’s Strengthening E 3
Watson’s Australian Vermi
Watson’s Exoelsior Tootha
Watson's Concentrated Go’
Elixir (a most valuable
can be obtained, wholesale and re
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STRI
POTHECARIE
14 OXFORD BTEE
Near Hyde Pare C
(N.B.—The Tram-car stopi
W. D. EAMES, Pb
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Pounders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Irrespective of Club presoriptior
has dispensed 34,000 original presc
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
PACTS SPEAK POE THI
j Every prescription is CAREPIL
the BEST DRUGS, copied, number
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folk
E AMES’S QUINi:
Which improves the appetite at
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGE ST]
For severe oases where the gastr
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTI
Which relieve the bowels gently, t
naturally healthy functions
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6
CLAEKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Eetail
TBAMWAT TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTEALIAN WINES and GENEEAL
GEOCEEIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHUEST.
RON AND BRASS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Boh
Sheets, Blankets, Conn
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtai
j. iawle;
MANUFACTURER AND
608 Qeorge-stree
.p O W L E B’S
ESTABLISHED 1
P
AND
BRICK WORI
OAMPERDOWN, NBA
Price List on applia
W.
H. A R
PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 AND 345 Kent-street, nej


jJREAT CASH CLEARANCE SALE OP
BOOKS. FANCY GOODS, and STATIONERY.
REBUILDING OF PREMISES,
16 AND 18 HUNTER STEET.
The present buildings being not large enough for the
rapidly increasing business.
Messes. Tcenee and Henderson,
have made arrangements to rebuild (with great
additions) and to save expense of removal of stock, they
offer the Whole of their Fine Stock of Books, Station-
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Public at VERY LITTLE
OYER COST PRICE, and in some cases UNDER
COST.
TURNER and HENDERSON,
16 and 18 HUNTER STREET.
H
R.
WOODS AND
13 BRIDGE STREET,
c 0..
for
PRINTING-OUT OF THE OLD GEPOVE.
for
ARTISTIC ARRANGEMENT
of TYPE and COLOURS.
for
SHOW PRINTING in the AMERICAN STYLE.
for
ALL KINDS OF
ORIGINAL AND ARTISTIC PRINTING.
H. R WOODS AND CO.,
13 Bridge-street.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
OS
ro^/oN£££X
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SOEIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN'S
schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELYIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
H - PALI
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
n a,
352 George-btreet.
"v • -.
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
EEAED (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLAED and COLLAED,
SOUFLETO,
BEEDEN and CO.,
TROST
AUCHER.
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PEKE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
w.
G,
H. PALIN
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYAED STREET
SYDNEY.
'li
h/|ADE -**
’ plyAlfJ f\lC)j SyOC)\, piEVy DEplC^jS.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
vanmnm/.m
m
saw
I
■ r -'--.
.>
iliiP
---
RE
■<
ENTRAU
FS^
Jfioq
npLALN
ALU
a w lit-aCT'IKEBS •■;•."
f-R5
M.R
noorcc
m
>\W. COY
aklVWn
ggsSs
llLMll
11 • i • —rvi u-j-Uuj juiuj
1-rlm1.1 ; "i mm
wmmm&wm
"
91 JwmStwaii
■SBM
CWB
&9E
aT _ v-ss&g* .Sg^g
2T
«P^n«SP^IISS
ALARMING SALE OF BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOB ONE MONTH ONLY.
SOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
10a 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, un Foxe’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’ READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 60s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
GEORGE STREET, shrunk and well out. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD TOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly ” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
Mi
ALVV^
TRADE
MARK
h
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, A o.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &o.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and Genera!
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
IS CHAEL TTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO„
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
AKE TOU P t PURCHASES
THE EOYAL FUENISHING AECADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTEACTIVE PEICES.
A PEEE DISTEIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respeoting eeonomi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PUECHASEES
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant maimer, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATE
W, B. CAMPBELL,
EOYAL FUENISHING AECADE,
426 & 428 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Eoyal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Bough Gems.
EDWAED P. EAMSAY
Curator.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Repeal of the Union—Divorce.
The Dark Ages—Ladies’ ages.
The vaccinator’s cry—“ To arms ! ”
Girls set their faces against moustaches.
The Gilded Age—A bejewelled old woman.
When women are getting grey they try to keep
it dark.
Jones calls his poetry Virtue, because it is its
•wn reward.
In Woollahra, there’s Nott a doctor, but there’s
one Gumming.
She cooed; he wooed; the old man said they
could if they would. No cards.
If an oyster supper is a supper of oysters, is a
missionary banquet a banquet of missionaries.
A three-armed man has come to the fore. He is
the only fellow who can take two girls out driving, and
enjoy it.
The Empress of Russia is said to look like a
corpse. Perhaps the poor lady is trying to please the
Nihilists.
The nearest approach to perpetual motion yet
discovered is pawnbrokers’ interest. It goes right on
day and night, and never stops.
An old bachelor of 60, who had married an old
maid, explained that it happened because he never could
get a wife and abe never could get a husband.
Another well-planned attempt to take the life of
the Czar has just been frustrated. An American
cucumber was found in his morning mail.
We like true politeness. The other day a small
boy went to the head-master of a public school, and told
him “ there was a lady drunk on the doorstep.”
Smart young lawyer (to female witness): “ How
old are you ?’’ F. W.: “ Old enough to have sold milk
tor yon to drink when a baby, and I haven’t got my pay
yet.”
The difference between spermaceti and a school-
boy’s howl lies in the fact that one is the wax produced
by the whale, and the other the wail produced by the
whacks.
“ My mother’s going to get a new piano,” said a
a little girl to another a few days ago. "Oh, that’s
nothing," replied the other, “my mother’s going to get
a divorce."
“Offer a passive resistance to the murderin’,
thievin’ minions of England’s power. Use nothing,
my children, more dangerous than stores and clubs.’’—
▲rchbf. Cross.
They say Beaconsfield never wore anything but
patent-leather shoes. A man with nothing on but
patent-leather shoes must have been a pretty Dizzy
spectacle in Parliament.
“ What is the moon good for ? ” asked Professor
Miller; "what are it’s principal uses?” And the smart
bad boy looked up from the foot of the class, and said
11 To rest the gas companies."
An instance of Scotch piety. Scene: A pub.
Time: Sunday. Travellers: “Three small whiskies, if
yon please.” Waitress (shocked): “We dinna mak’
sma’ glasses on the Sawbath.”
Neighbour’s pretty daughter—“ How much is
this a yard?" Draper’s son (desperate “ spoons” on
her)—“Only one kiss.” “If it’s so cheap, I will take
three yards, and grandma will pay you.”
It is gratifying to learn that the revisers of the
Bible have not made any changes in the genealogy with
which the Gospel of St. Matthew begins. To know that
our pedigrees are all right is a great comfort.
It isn’t safe to infer that the man who walks
along the street with a constable is under arrest, any
more than it is that a good-looking young woman in a
bachelor doctor’s carriage is one of the sick patients
whom he is taking out for a ride.
“And you’ll always be true?” “Miranda, I
swear it!" “Truly true?" “Fair girl, doubt that
the stars are fire, but never daubt my love. Dost thou
trust me ?’’ “ Aye, Algernon, trust thee will I ever! ”
It was more than hia tailor would have’done.
Scer-e ; Stamp window, Brisbane Post-office
.Little Boy : “ Please, sir, can you inform me how many
stamps it will take to convey a mangle to Mary-
borough ? ” Clerk : “ Can’t send a mangle through
the post-office.” Little Boy, perplexed ; “ Oh, can’t
yer ? ”
An atrocious party. — Little boy : “ Why do you
say you vill only make a short visit here, mamma ?”
Mamma : “ Because Ido not like Mrs. Brown.” Little
boy: “ Why not mamma ? Is she wicked P” Mamma :
11 Far, far worse than that, my child. She is most un-
lady-like."
“Then you recognize,” said the Judge, “this
handkerchief as the one which was stolen from yon ? "
“ Yes, your Honor.” “And yet it isn’t the only hand-
kerchief of tbe sort in the world. See, this one I have
in my pocket is exactly like it." "Very likely, your
Honor; I had two stolen.”
A gentleman who has been dining extremely goes
to a hop at a friend’s house, and displays an oppressive
amount of gallantry. " What expressive eyes he has ! ”
says a lady to the mistress of the house. “ Yes,” replies
the hostess, "one of them expresses too much brandy
and the other too much champagne."
A minister’s two-year-old son, who has a turn
for mechanics, and has been studying the steam-engine
in the intervals of catechism, asks his father: “ Papa,
as we all inherit the sin of Adam, and the baby is such a
little fellow, is there not a greater pressure of sin to the
Square inch in the baby than in the rest of us P ’’
A Courtship Scene.—George : Oh, Angelina, idol
of my being 1 star of my soul’s existence! Oh! ah 1
. . . . ? ! I Angelina : Oh, dearest 1 ! ! Ah! . . . .
Oh! ! How nice 1 just one more! !
. . (Old man enters suddenly) ! ! I !
? ? sar f ®ar ! ! I (Oh I pa, don’t I) But
he did.
Alexander 11. has found expression for his anti-
German ideas by abolishing the spiked helmet in his
army. The Hussion troops are now to wear the Astrakan
cap.
PREHISTORIC SMITH.
QUATERNARY EPOCH—POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD
A man sat on a rock, and sought
Refreshment from his thumb j
A dinotherium wandered by.
And scared him some.
His name was Smith. The kind of rock
He sat upon was shale :
One feature quite distinguished him—
He had a tail.
The danger past, he fell into
A reverie austere;
While with his tail he whisked a fly
From off his ear.
“ Mankind deteriorates,” he said,
' Grows weak and incomplete;
And each new generation seems
Yet more eifote.
Nature abhors imperfect work.
And on it lays her ban;
And all creation must despise
A tailless man.
But fashion’s dictates rule supreme.
Ignoring common sense;
And fashion says, to dock your tail
Is just immense.
And children now come in the world
With half a tail or less;
Too stumpy to convey a thought,
And meaningless.
It kills expression. How can one
Set forth, in words that drag,
The best emotions of the soul.
Without a wag?"
Sadly ho mused upon the world.
Its follies and its woes;
Then wiped the moisture from his eyes.
And blew his nose.
But, clothed in ear-rings, Mrs. Smith
Came wandering down the dale;
And, smiling, Mr. Smith arose.
And wagged his tail.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The hon. the Premier is better.
Mr. Joseph Leary is not enjoying good health.
Prince Edward, who has a big nose, is known on
board as “ Edward the Conk-eror."
Mr. E. C. Weekes, a former Colonial Treasurer
of N. S. Wales, died on Thursday last, aged 74.
An old resident of the Young district, Mr. T.
O’Brien, of Stockenbengie Station, died last week.
Mr. Buzacott, manager of the Courier and
Queenslander, has purchased a third interest in those
journals.
Mr. Burnand, of H.M.S. Carysfort, is a brother
of the editor of London Punch, the well-known writer
of “ Happy Thoughts."
Mr. Macalister, Agent-General for Queensland,
is very ill, of Bright’s disease, in London, and has been
forbidden to attend business.
Father Leeming, of Imperial Hotel fame,
eotures in America on “Justice for Ireland." He
knows more about the Levant.
Mrs. Isley, the wife of that well-known Queens-
land police officer, Mr. Inspector Isley, has died very
suddenly at Port Douglas, of apoplexy.
Purser James O’Lyman, well-known to travel-
lers by the Californian and Australian route, died at sea
on a recent trip from Panama to San Francisco.
Mr. Thomas Travis, merchant of Maryborough,
Queensland (brother of the late Mr. Robert Travis, of
the same town), has been found dead in his store.
Professor Denton, the eminent American geolo-
gist, who has been highly successful in Melbourne,
will probably commence lecturing in Sydney about the
i VI inst.
y Mr. Buzaoott’s reason for abandoning his libel
action against the Brisbane Telegraph was that two
of the lawyers he employed gave opposite opinions on
the matter. Ha, ha 1
Rev. Fred C. B. Fairey has been exhibiting his
Eob-Roy canoe (new version) to the Squadron officers.
He probably wants his initials converted into finals,
thus: —Revd. Fred Fairey, C.B.
That well-conducted paper, the
Tass Courier, is now issued tri- weekly.
According to a well-informed Lon-
don journal, General Skobeloff is a
Scotsman by blood.
The Mayor of Brisbane, Mr. Sin-
clair, is nearly well again. His medical
advisers recommend rest.
Bismarck’s illness has been due
to his old complaint—inflammation of
the blood-vessels of the legs.
Mrs. Segol, well known in Tam-
worth district as the wife of the some-
what famous Dr. Segol, is dead. She
leaves a numerous family.
It is understood that Mr. M‘ll-
- the Premier of Queensland, is
engaged in writing a history of that
eminently progressive colony.
Mr. W. I. Booth, late assistant
Clerk of Petty Sessions at Thorn-
borough, has taken the Port Douglas
Gazette. He was testimouialised before
leaving the Hodgkinson.
Mr. Justice Williams has been
entertained by the members of the
Victorian bar at a sumptuous dinner
at Gunsler’s cafd, in honour of his
elevation to the Bench. Forty were
present.
The other day the Prince of Wales
appeared in public in the uniform of
the Life Guards. He looked as uncom-
fortable, and considerably heavier, than
one of the men in armour at the Lord
Mayor’s show.
A special meeting*of the Y.R.C.
will be called in a fortnight for the
purpose of considering the advisability
of granting to the widow of the late
Mr. R. C. Bagot a lump sum of £3OOO,
in recognition of the great services ren-
dered to the club by her husband.
Dion Boucicault’s brother Wil-
liam died suddenly in a railway carriage,
in London, on 16th June, of an attack
of heart disease, aggravated by hurry-
ing to catch the train. He was a news-
paper man in Australia many years ago,
and returned home with a fortune, but
had since suffered from mental derange-
ment, which prevented him from re-
entering business.
Swanwick, the now celebrated
barri-ter, has returned to Brisbane from
the Far North. One of the papers, in
welcoming him back, says that he makes
the court livelier for the reporters by
his amusing sarcasms. Swanwick al-
ways did look good-humoured, even
when he threw the water-monkey at a
legal friend’s head; but on one occasion,
when he had to apologise to the Bench,
his countenance was sublime—in fact,
quite seraphic.
Pressure has, it is said, been lately
brought to bear on Mr. Gladstone to
induce him to accept a peerage. The
Queen is said to be willing to allow him
to assume the title of “Oxford”—she
refused it point blank to a politician of
less pretensions, and the Gladstones
generally wish, both for his sake and
their own, that he would shelve himself
in another place. The Earldom of Ox-
ford was originally that of the De Veres.
Afterwords the title was borne by the
Harleys, and a wag remarked apropos
that there was but one step from Harley
to Harley-streetl
As a banquet was given to Mr. Justice Williams,
of Melbourne, in celebration of his elevation to the
judicial bench, it is presumed that a similar spread will
now be given to Mr. Justice Windeyer.
At Tumut, Mr. Edward O’Mara, J.P., a promi-
nent public man, 37 years of age, died of typhoid fever
on .baturday afternoon. His funeral was attended by
residents 61180 conconrse> including all the leading
The Russian Socialist Mokriewitch has suc-
ceeded in escaping from penal servitude in Siberia and
reacning_Switzerland. There is only one other instance
from Siberia apolitical prisoner making good his escape
Mr. Roderick M’Lellan, of Marlborough, Rock-
nampton, and one of the oldest pioneers of that district,
med, on 25th ult., of congestion of the lungs, aged
”V, He was formerly a settler in N.S.W. He leaves a
TOdow and several sons.
England very nearly lost one of her baronets
the other day, at Wellington. Sir Charles Gust, a
young officer of the Squadron, offered one blackfellow
stalling to punch the head of another darkey, where-
upon the niggers both “ went for ” the baronet.
• are glad to hear that, under the beneficial
miuences of the atmosphere of the Blue Mountains,
m. r - t/harles Bright is rapidly recovering his health.
ue people of Mudgee may now look forward with some
distant d* £ Cond(ience b 0 a visit from Mr. Bright at no
Rev. Mr. Fletcher has been temporarily ap-
pomted professor of English literature at the Adelaide
“H* l ike en d of the year. This was the
Mia l ?? beld b y tbe late Professor Davidson, and it is
no- t ia *‘ Mr. Fletcher has no idea of taking it
permanently.
Charles Keiley, the musical critic of the Argus,
nnr. Sln • fast: during his late illness, and could take
nian° Ur ?® bmen * - friend brought him some Tasma-
anw”. lre oysters—very rare delicacies now—and his
Pilf . ® revived - Hereafter he should feel a very
that’s to say, if Byron’s to be believed.
At the laying of the foundation-stone of the
Queen’s statue Prince Edward said: “ I declare this
stone to be well and truly laid.” Then he looked up,
and, seeing the Rev. Mr. Child just across the stone, ho
added in a confidential way: “In the name,” &c. It
was really very funny. He is an astute young man.
The other day, M. Joseph Perrot, of Forbes, re-
ceived notice that unless he returned to Prance and
entered the military service within nine months, he
would be proclaimed an exile for forty years. M.
Perrot’s grandfather was a commandant, and his father
was a captain, in the French army. In such cases, the
French Government provides for the return passage of
its absentees.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke, M.L.C. (who, by the
way, is going to Europe, and will be entertained by his
tenantry prior to his departure), has promised the
Humane Society of Victoria a gold medal every year,
to be granted, after the manner of the Stanhope
medal, for the most deserving act of humanity that
may be brought under the notice of the Society. Mr.
Clarke says he hopes to return from England in time
for next Melbourne Gup.
In speculative circles there is much excitement
concerning the Dixon cheap gas patent. It is now said
that by some happy chance Mr. Dixon has made a
further chemical discovery, the full effects of which
are hardly yet comprehended. It is supposed that by
the chemical combination of the gases of certain
metals, a white light is produced in the same way in
which the various coloured gases of the primary metals
unite in the solar spectrum to produce the,pure white
light of sunshine.
General Valentine Baker (Baker Pasha), for-
merly of the 10th Hussars, who got into trouble over
the Miss Dickinson railway carriage affair, a year or two
back, has returned to London. He has been invited to
dinner by the Prince of Wales: a circumstance which
is regarded as having been intended to pave the way to
his re-admission into the Army and Navy Club, the
required number of fifty members having signed a paper
expressing their opinion that the “ cause of his
quitting the service does not affect his standing as a
gentleman."
Mr. Francis, the newly-elected member for
Ipswich, Q., is a typical colonist. Sixteen or seventeen
years ago, he was selling tapes and nick-knacks from a
basket in the town which he now repre-
sents in Parliament. Then he bought, at a cheap
auction mart, a job lot of crockery, and hawked that.
None of the family were idle. By-and-bye, Francis ap.
peared with a spring-cart, and hawked among the
settlers in the surrounding district. Next he had a
shop—and so on, step by step, till he achieved his pre-
sent honourable position.
The Royal Family seem to be improving in their
manners. We read that the young Princes “ bowed re-
peatedly," which was more than their uncle, the Duke
of Edinburgh, did when at Colombo. All the merchant
vessels sent their boats, decked with flags, to form a
double line from the Galatea to the jetty. At last,
after broiling six fearful hours under a tropical sun
waiting for H.R.H., the boats’ crews raised hearty
cheers as the Galatea’s launch steamed swiftly between
the lines. But the great one looked straight ahead of
his nose, not making the slightest acknowledgment.
He wasn’t even heard to mutter the now proverbial
11 Pack ’em up carefully.”
The following yarn is told of the late Mr. J. Dowe,
the well-known Murrumbidgee squatter, and one of the
owners of Toganmain. He rode along on a hack one
day, roughly dressed, and suddenly came across two
swagsmen, playing: euchre under the shade of a tree.
“ Well, mates,” said he, “ what’s the stake ? ” “We
are just playing,” returned one of the sundowners, “ to
see if we will stay at Jacky Dowe’s station, or go on to
the next one, to-night.” Scene 2: Toganmain head
station; time, sundown. Two swagsmen at the store.
Enter Mr. Dowe—“ Well, men, I see Jacky lost. Go
down to the hut—the cook will look after you there."
He was one of the best-hearted of men.
The talented mother of Oscar Wylde, the ultra-
asthetic English poetaster, contributed a number of
patriitic articles to the Nation newspaper, under the
signature “Speranza.” It is related of this lady that
when Gavan Dully—now Sir Charles Gavan Duffy—was
on his (third, we think) trial for sedition in 1848, and
when the Crown counsel were loudly denouncing one
article the author of which Duffy refused to disclose,
“Speranza” rose in the body of the court, proclaimed
herself the writer, and expressed her willingness to take
the consequences. It is said that it was the bold
avowal of this gifted woman which caused the jury to
agree to differ. No verdict was returned, and Mr.
Duffy was not tried afterwards.
News of the death of Mr. Christopher Pond, of
the firm of Spiers and Pond, formerly of Melbourne,
now of London, arrived by cable last week. Mr. Pond
was the prince of hosts, a jolly good fellow, and a first-
class man of business. Those were glorious evenings
at the Cafr, ever so long ago, when bright wit was
flashing, and merry tales were told, and healths were
drank, and Pond sat at the head of the table, the'em-
bodiment of a genial boniface. He was a man that
would have succeeded anywhere. The invitation to
Charles Dickens to come to Australia with his readings
was “a circumstance" in the career of Christopher
Pond. It was a near thing with Dickens. He was on
the point of accepting the offer—then, at the last mo-
ment, thought better of it. The correspondence between
the firm and the novelist is a curiosity of literature.
Dickens privately referred the matter to the decision
of a literary acquaintance of his, at that time in the
colony, and the decision was adverse. On this hint
Dickens acted. His private friend (and adviser in the
case was Mr. R. H. Horne—“ Orion " Home, formerly
a member of the Victorian Civil Service.
Mr. Folingsby, R.A., is engaged on a portrait of
the late Dr. Cairns. Mr. Folingsby, unlike most artists,
is a man of deep religious feeling, and, though educated
in what some may term the “ errors ” of the Catholic
Church, has for many years practised Methodism in
that severe yet kindly manner which that strictest of
the Independent sects has made a household duty in
so many families. When we reflect that Mr. Folingsby
was for many years an inmate of the somewhat prodigal
household of King Ludwig of Bavaria—where ho
Eainted, in many attitudes, the portrait of our old friend
ola Montez, otherwise Mrs. James—it will be under-
stood that Mr. Folingsby was often placed (between
Ludwig and Lola) in a position of peculiar difficulty.
The portrait of Sir Redmond Barry has mode Mr.
Folingsby’s reputation in Melbourne, and all classes of
people are anxious that he should take their portraits.
It is remarkable that he does not paint under 300
guineas, and still more remarkable that persons patro-
nize him at that price. But such is the case, and the
new salon of Melbourne will be decorated by a picture
from his easel. Folingsby is a thoroughly pleasant and
nice fellow. His pious tendencies sit on him easily, and
his band of artistic friends is powerful, though small
small because composed of really clever people, and
powerful because composed of men more or less inter-
ested in the business of the newspaper, the critiques of
the salons, the great “ how-to-do-it ” of the struggling
genius. Folingsby is a man of genius, and he can afford
to despise such follies, painting calmly the while.
The uncertain tenure of life has had a terrible
illustration in the death of Mr. F. J. Pirani, M.A. and
C.E. of the University of Melbourne, from injuries
received by a fall from his horse on Saturday, 30th ult.
The deceased was so distinguished in the neighbouring
colony, and had, by his own exertions, attained to so
conspicuous a place in the educational world there, that
a brief sketch cannot fail to interest those who, while
unfamiliar with the subject thereof, have a ready ad-
miration for good sterling worth, are glad to trace the
career of a successful student, and who will heartily
sympathise in the general grief caused by so sudden a
termination to his life. Frederick Joy Pirani was bora
in England, in 1850, and arrived in Victoria in 1857 or
1858; and at the age of 13 became a pupil at the Mel-
bourne Church of England Grammar School, under Dr.
Bromby. When he left, he was first in mathematics
and classics, and invariably brightened the proceedings
of Speech Day by his pianoforte playing. He passed
the matriculation examination in October, 1866, “ with
credit," and the following February gained the Classical
and Mathematical Entrance Exhibitions at the Uni-
versity. Each year found |him in the honour list, Ist
class ; he gained several Exhibitions and a Scholarship
in Mathematics and Physics, and studied the Arts
Course and Civil Engineering. In the latter school his
first teacher was Professor Andrew, the first alumnus of
the Melbourne University who was appointed a
Lecturer therein. The Course was finished under
Mr. Kernot, the present Lecturer, when Professor
Andrew went to England. In 1870, Mr. Pirani
obtained his G.E., graduated B.A. 1871, and M.A. 1873.
He began his profession as engineer, but soon relin-
quished it, and became lecturer in Elementary Mathe-
matics, under Professor Wilson. At the death of the
latter, in the end of '74, Mr. Pirani became acting-Pro-
fessor of Mathematics until the arrival of Professor
Nauson. He was the first Melbourne graduate appointed
to lecture in the Arts School. In 1876, he became
lecturer in Logic and Natural Philosophy, and at the
end of the present academic year, would have been ap-
pointed Professor of Natural Philosophy, this being one
of the two new Chairs the Council have resolved to
establish. He was enthusiastic in his work, and was in
correspondence with the leading English authorities in
his favourite science, Natural Philosophy. He was the
examiner in Euclid, at matriculation, for many years,
and, in conjunction with Professor Andrew, published a
text-book on Geometry. He was for some tim e secretary
of the Royal Society, and contributed valuable papers on
different subjects; was a good linguist, and ever main-
tained a prominent place among the amateur musicians
as an accomplished pianist, and one whose taste, though
catholic, was refined. Yachting was his great recrea-
tion. He was owner of the Mischief, 12 tons register,
in which, with Professor Andrew, he sailed from Mel-
bourne to Tasmania during the long vacation of ’7B and
'79. Mr. Pirani was admired and esteemed by all who
knew him for the perseverance with which he had
developed his brilliant mental power, and for his
thorough integrity and high sense of honour, while to a
very large circle he was endeared by the possession of
all those genial qualities which combine to make a true
friend. He was a model son and brother, and devotedly
attached to the young wife whose orange blossom is all
too soon changed for the sables of woe. By birth a Jew,
he had severed his connection with his co-religionists;
and, while respecting the creeds and prejudices of all,
held himself aloof, diligently enquiring, “ What is
truth ?” and in his daily life bearing without reproach
the name of gentleman. In accordance with an oft-
expressed wish, he was buried in non-sectarian ground,
and was borne to his last resting-place by six of those
who had best known and loved him in life.
THE NEWSLETTER.
There are 100 public-houses at Temora.
Victorian maltsters desire to malt in bond
barley from other colonies. Ministers hesitate.
Edward Hackett, draftsman, acquitted at
Adelaide of criminally assaulting a married woman.
Mr. John Black, J.P., while teaching Sunday-
school, at Eiama, was seized with apoplexy, and died.
An unfortunate girl of 16 has been committed,
at Lithgow, for concealing the birth of her illegitimate
child.
Mr. James Mitchell, of the Albion
Hotel, Forbes, and the oldest licensed
victualler in that district, is dead.
George Smith, a prisoner, who on
a former occasion escaped from Berrima,
has left Qonlburn gaol without giving
notice to the governor.
Wollongong public school is often
attended by as many as 127 boys and
girls, and 124 infants. There is only
accommodation for half that number.
In the Palmerville district the
available country is covered with corn-
fields, which look well and yield pays ble
returns. Chinese gardeners make a fair
living by selling to packers.
Mr. George W. Thomas, chief
officer of the the Tasmanian clipper,
Harriett M’Gregor, fell overboard on
the voyage out and was drowned. Ho
was 49 years of age, and belonged to
London.
The Sydney greengrocers, who say
they are not hawkers, inasmuch as they
serve only regular and fixed customers,
are agitating for the reduction, from
£lO Bs. to £2 of the annual license fee
charged them.
Hitherto, telegrams for country
newspapers, sent at Press rates, have
had to give precedence to ordinary busi-
ness. The Postmaster-General is now
going to see what he can do to place the
country Press on a better footing in
this regard.
Catherine Britten, whilst out
dining with some friends, in Melbourne,
on Saturday, was choked by a piece of
meat. Her husband was found dead in
his bed a few days previous. Either her
bereavement had not affected her appe-
tite, or she was choked by a sob.
An enterprising hawker, from
South Australia, has brought into Wes-
tern Queensland over eight tons on
camels. All of these goods were easily
disposed of at high prices. We hear
that over 100 pairs of Adelaide boots
were sold at £1 per pair. There is no
one to collect duties in that part of the
colony.
At Bathurst hospital, a nurse,
who had served the institution for
eleven years, and had suffered from
the attacks of insane persons, found it
necessary to resign. When her case
was brought before the committee, it
was suggested that she be allowed 2s.
6d. per week to help her to pay her
rent. A committeeman then said that,
if they began to pension off servants,
there would be no end of it—and the
matter dropped.
Mary Ann Spice, a married
woman, has hanged herself at Orange
This is part of what her daughter said
at the inquest“ I sent my little
brother into the house for some play,
toys for the baby, and he came back and
said mother was hanging up. I went
in, and saw her hanging in the bed-room.
I shook her and called to her, but she
made no answer. I then, with my
brother and baby, came into town, found
father at the public-house, and told him
what had occurred. Father and mother
were jawing all the day before. Father
did not beat her very often. He was
in( the habit of going away, and coming
home drunk, very often.”
A splendid marble quarry has been found at
Nemingba, by Mr. J. G. Griffin, a Government flailway
engineer.
The firm of William M'Culloch and Co., limited,
of Melbourne, is to be enlarged on a wider basis. The
shares will be subdivided.
At Queanbeyan, William Collier has been com-
mitted for trial for having refused, when called upon,
to assist the police in the execution their of duty.
Since Mr. Hilder, of Maryborough, Yic., has
ceased taking the ohlorodyne prescribed for him by Dr.
Jackson, who stands committed for the manslaughter
of Miss Hilder, he has greatly improved in health.
An unqualified medical practitioner, named
James Eagan Wall, has been committed, at Sandhurst,
for performing an unwarrantable operation, which re-
sulted in the death of a married woman named Margaret
Smith. The evidence is sensational.
Incipient compulsory vaccination is being pro-
ceeded with. At Coonamble, by order of the Colonial
Secretary, the gaol officials and convicted prisoners, as
also those awaiting trial, have all been “done.” In
this case, the uncmvicted are treated as criminals, and
at the same time placed on equal terms with the gaol
officials.
The electric railway is a great success in Ger-
many. You must be careful how yon walk over the
rails, though. The current has an awkward way of com-
municating itself, and one of the prettiest sights
imaginable is, it is said, to see foot passengers and
horses go down flop, all of a sudden, with the unanimity
of supers killed in a stage battle. Electricity, it is now
tolerably plain, may yet supersede steam. : 'l
In twelve months the Sydney Night Refuge and
Soup Kitchen has given 49 411 meals, afforded shelter
in 25,666 cases, and relieved in all 2600 separate and
distinct persons. Its income in money was only £604
155., and some local tradesmen have been most generous
in supplying provisions gratis. Last year the manage-
ment found employment for over 300 men and women,
who otherwise must have sank lower and lower. At
WHAT’S SAUCE FOR THE GOOSE IS SAUCE FOR THE GANDER.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
8
INGER
MANUFACTUE
Have opened a Dei
8
YDNEY, AT No. 1
HARBOUR
DA]
STB
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sei
8
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLI
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of ne
8
INGER’S, THE BEST ]
Have received 160 First I
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGER'S MEDIUM MAGI
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
8
INGER’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 M
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
8
INGER’S, THE BEST POI
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
8
INGER’S SEWING
HAND OB TREAI
8
INGER’S. The BEST. Tin
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6
SINGER’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvement
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
8
INGER’S, THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and hi
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
SINGER’S THE BEST and H
Will last a lifetime in cc
SINGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: T 1
8
INGER MANIJFACTURI
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hai
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street. Hay mar
have been appointed agents fo:
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cas
SINGER’S SEWING Mj
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is <
GER MACHINE. See th.
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES. —J
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—B
Cast iron imitations. Onb
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH:
ments with the Singer C
8
INGER’S SEWING MAt
cent, discount for cash, or on r
8
YDNEY.—From TURNEE
GEORGE STREET, opposit*
8
INGER’S SEWING MAO HI
but 160 FIRST PRI
T
HE A U S T
"HOME” SHUT’
AMERICAN LOCKS’
SEWING MAC
i S\
ONCE MORE!
There is a pretty local superstition that if you drink the waters of the fountain of Trevi before
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eternal City, drawn thither by the potent spell which you have
thus invoked. The
PALACE EMPORIUM,
being an institution founded in more recent times (although, it is true, its founders can point to a
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition handed down from the remote ages of the
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless. For those who are once induced to step
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. A gain and again they go, as if by some
irresistible impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to that historic shrine beneath the shadow
of St. Peter’s ere the enchantress will put forth her magic wand; but at tne
:PALACE EMPORIUM,
come when you will—by moonlighter sunshine, cloud or fair—the spell is ever active. However, to
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then is dazzling—the long tier of exhibition
cases extending down the centre of the main building for a distance of 200 feet—the contents of the
cases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us from the hands of the manufacturers :
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the present time, more than ordinary skill has
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various festivities of the present season; and
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
may be seen in all its glory—a sight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATINS of every conceivable hue, and includes
BLACK AND COLOURED GEOS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE. AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBRE RATE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON, Black and Coloured
EADZ DE MOET
FANCY OMBRE
MERYEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHEE CASE is fitted with EVENING- FLOWERS, and the effect is unique to a degree.
SEYEEAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying display of FANCY GOODS, such as
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES’ TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
WINTER GLOVES OF ALL KINDS
WIDE PLUSH RIBBONS, from 5d per yard
SCARF LACES, SHADED LACES, &c. &c.
The USEFUL, as well as the OEN AMENTAL, is equally well represented. There are
DRESS MATERIALS, ad infinitum!
MANCHESTER MANUFACTURES, such as FLANNELS, SHEETINGS, &c-
BLANKETS of a 1! sizes and prices, of which the favourite is the GUINEA
BLANKET, unequalled in tins city at 27s 6d.
In a word, the wants of all may be supplied at prices that cannot be approached elsewhere in the
colony. In conclusion, we would respectfully point out that the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
AT THE
HAYMARKET,
is our ONLY ESTABLISHMENT, and we trust none will be misled by a similarity of name.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HATMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINE
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
rjTHE
LIGHT EUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HATMAEKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHIN
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON'S DEPOT,
HATMAEKET.
fIIHE WONDERFUL WEETHEIM
X SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at onr offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may he had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at TOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERT HEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price Hsts and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony yon
live, we will supply you with a WEETHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT. WITHOUT
NTEEEST.
MRS. BRITCHER begs to inform the Ladies
of Sydney and the surrounding suburbs that
she has established an ELECTRIC BATH, under all
the latest improvements ; and hopes, by care and atten-
tion, to merit a share of their patronage.
Ladies from a distance can be provided with BOARD
and RESIDENCE during treatment, if required.
MRS. BRITCHER,
Elizabeth-street, opposite Belmobe Pare
Department of ]
Sydney, 2:
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS :
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given thai
execute and take deliv
mentioned Mineral Leases with
this date, they will be declared
No. 939 ; W. A. Cross and othei
county of Gough, parish of Herbc
cation No., Tingha 326
No. 940; W. A, Cross and othe:
county of Gough, parish of Herbe:
cation N©., Tingha 327.
No. 941; W. A. Cross and othe:
county of Gough, parish of Herb©
cation No., Tingha 328.
No. 942; W. A. Cross and other
county of Gough, parish of Herhe
cation No., Tingha 329.
£IOPY OP CEETIFICAT
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT I
the contents <
JOZEAU’S SANITART
and find
I. —That it consists of a skilful <
drugs enjoying a wide re pi
their Deodorant and Antisej
11. —That the heat of the body c
the Sachet to gradually vola
rounds the body with a dis
It also penetrates the clof
prevent danger from contagi
111. The chemical effect produc
composition of the Sachet i
Hydrogen liberated in the
action.
IV. —The Drugs and Chemicals
mended by Dr. Squibb of
Kolbe of Germany, and all
Officers of Great Britain.
(Signed) FREDERICK
„,1 ’
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
unooloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. — Karl Theodors Staigek, analytical
chemist. ” —Advt.
PEEA HOUSE
BRILLIANT SUCCESS. CONTINUED APPLAUSE.
THURSDAY, LAST NIGHT
of the
CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN.
FRIDAY, Farewell Benefit of Miss ANNIE MAYOR.
New Comedy of SNOWBALL, and Screen scene from
The School for Scandal.
Prices of Admission: ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
Bonnets not allowed in the Dress Circle.
S resent, the great object of the institution’s authorities
i to raise the building fund from £441 to £lOOO, so as to
be able to obtain the Government subsidy of a similar
amount.
Good cotton is being grown at Cairns, N.Q.
In London, in one week (May 21 to 27), there
were 103 deaths from small-pox.
Cox v. M‘Gregor, for malicious prosecution—
verdict for plaintiff, damages £5OO.
Colonel Scratohley goes to King George’s Sound
to examine the harbour, and report re defences.
Mr. William Coote’s action against the Queens-
land Evangelical Standard resulted in a verdict for
defendants.
The N.Z. police have recovered, unopened, the
box of worn silver stolen from the Stormbird. Two
men arrested.
The project of a transcontinental railway through
South Australia to Port Darwin is being favourably
received in London.
The now celebrated s.s. Ferret is to be thrown
open for public inspection at Melbourne. A small sum
will be charged for admission and handed over to the
charities.
The Maryborough-Gympie (Q.) railway was
opened by the Premier on Saturday 1 ast; and promptly
slaughtered a contractor’s clerk, who fell off the
Ministerial train.
A badgered Chinaman shot two of his European
tormentors at Tamworth, killing one and dangerously
wounding the other. Then he blew out his own brains
with the same revolver.
The Colonial Sugar Co., according to a Northern
prper, have purchased 10,000 acres sugar-land on the
Herbert River, with the intention of forming a monster
plantation. Clearing and ploughing will commence at
once.
The other day, a constable at Eden lost one of
his children, and over its grave erected a neat marble
headstone. Some unfeeling ruffian has since wreaked
his spite against the father by defacing the marble with
a pick.
On the Johnstone River, N.Q,, 35,000 acres have
been taken up for sugar planting by 20 selectors, 10 of
whom are women resident at Brisbane. Of the 9 male
selectors only four live on the Johnstone. Twe agents
acted for 18 of the selectors. Only one plantation yet
formed. A land ring here.
“ The most-travelled,” Mr. E. S. Smythe, is now
in Sydney, waiting, like Athos in “ The Three Mus-
keteers,” for his equipment to come to him; in other
words, for a show worthy of his magnificent supervision
to throw itself at his astute head. “ Summerhill ” is
illuminated by his presence and residence.
The Anglo-Boer convention gives the latter
liberty to elect their own Legislature and President,
but not to make war or treaties without British leave.
This is the more necessary, because, recently, the
Boers did not ask British leave to make war—on the
British. At Majnba Hill the British took French
leave.
Mr. Lineker, of Bridge-street, is the King of
Cutters. His stuffs last so long, that when Pater-
familias has a suit made at M. L.’s it descends from
father to son (like an heirloom) from generation to
generation. Mr. Lineker chooses all his materials
himself, and he claims to know the difference ’twixt
tweed-ledum and tweedledee.— Adv.
New Victorian wool-rates by rail are, per bale
of 4 cwt., to Melbourne from Wodonga, 7s. 6d.; for the
clip of stations north of an imaginary line drawn from
the southern portion of Urana Swamp, on the west to
Qerogery Station, on the N.S. W. line on the east, and
east of an imaginary line drawn from Qerogery to
Imgellic—from Wodonga, Wahgunyah, or Echuca, 4s.
6d. per bale.
Trooper W. J. Adams, of Junee, was, the other
day, riding along an old track that brought him on to a
wire fence which had no top-rail, and, before he could
pull up, his horse tumbled over it. The horse escaped
without a scratch, but both Adams’ arms were broken,
the animal having rolled over him. Having managed
to get to his feet, he led it by holding the reins between
his teeth to the camp, some miles distant. And yet
some say there are no game men in the police.
Spofforth, the Demon bowler, narrowly escaped
death the other day, near Cassilis. He was mounting
a fresh horse, and, having a gun in one hand and his
pipe in another, was unable to control him, when he
suddenly dashed off. Spofforth was half mounted, and
was by degrees getting into his seat, when the horse
collided violently with another, throwing the Demon
very heavily, severely injuring the side of his face,
breaking a bone in the right jaw, and apparently a bone
In the left wrist. Spofl. is recovering.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCBt COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.— Adv.
The camp of a man named Thomas Marshall,
formerly of the Queen Co., Maytown, who left May-
town, Palmer River, on 6th July, was found on the 15th
or 16th ultimo, by some men who arrived at Thom-
borongh, Hodgkinson, on the 17th. Marshall’s saddle
and clothing were lying about, but no fire had been
lit for several days. A constable and black tracker,
sent out by Sergeant Breen, returned on the 22nd,
bringing two horses and ore pack and one riding saddle
and the clothing. The horses were found 15 miles from
Marshall's camp, hut no trace of the man could be
found. As there were no bridles in camp, it is thought
that he left to look for horses and was either speared
by niggers or lost.
The people of Tasmania are in mortal dread of
small-pox. The other day the Melbourne boat was
stopped in the Tamar in order that the Sydney mails
might be fumigated. The editor of the Hobart Meb-
cdrt says there happened to be no brimstone at hand ;
so it may be presumed that he was aware all the
available supply of the colony had been transported to
a certain place which is said to have a climate more
closely resembling that of North Queensland than that
of Tasmania. As a substitute, the officers of the
steamer are reported to have “ damped,” or “ damned,”
some gunpowder, hut as they were very good and just
men, the ‘‘devil’’ was contented for the present, with
scorching the cheek of one and the hand of another.
George Augustus Constantine, Earl Mulgrave.
Marquis of Normanby, and Governor of Victoria, about
to visit Sydney—will be accommodated at Government
House. George will come by special train, and the rest
of him by sea. The Domain is to be enlarged to hold
him and his titles. But, seriously, the poor old Marquis
is in anything but good health. During the latter part
of his life, he has been a steadfast martyr to a not
ignoble ideal. The family estate is encumbered, and as
the world would come to an end if there were no Mar-
quis of Normanby, the present holder of the title
voluntarily exiled himself, and suffered the humiliation
af being a colonial Governor, in order that a future
Marquis of Normanby may be able to take his proper
station among his peers. The estates will probably be
about clear by the time that the forthcoming agrarian
revolution comes to a head, and abolishes the present
system of landlordism altogether.


UNDER THE “ SPECIAL
of HIS EXCELLENCY TH
LORD AUGUSTUS LOPTUS, P.i
and
LADY AUGUSTUS I
SCHOOL OF AT
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENT!
FRIDAY and SATU
HASELMAYER’S M
of
THAUMATUEGY AND Eg
as exhibited by him, by special com
meat House, Thursday Ever
in the presence
His Excellency the GOVERN
AUGUSTUS LOF
PRINCE EDWARD and PEIN
WALES,
VICE-ADMIRAL EARL CLAN
and the
OFFICERS OF THE DET ACHE
Haselmayer’s “ Electric Spark
HHH H Satanella’s “ Crystal C
HHHH The Incornorehem
HHHH PSYCHO.
HHHH
HHHH HHHHHHHHHHHHHI
HHHH HHHHHHHHHHHHHB
HHHH HHHHHHHHHHHHHI
HHHH
HH H H Satanella’s “ Mysteriou
HHHH cease."
HHHH Haselmayer’s “ Diddle-dii
Shananism of the Esq
Every child in Sydney shonl
NEW vVONDERS OP TI
Half-price to Front Seats, Is 61
PSYCHO—the astounding—has
Vigilance and Keenest Scruti
fessor of Natural Science
his mode of opera
HEA T R B
Lessee
Treasurer Mi
LAST NIGHT BUI
of
LA FILLE DU TAMBOT
SATURDAY NEXT, AI
the latest novelty in Comic Opi
with tremendous success in Eng
and America,
OLIVETTE, by At
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle,
chased during the day at H. Solta
King-street.
“Illustrated Sydne;
ART PRIZE COMP
In the Illustrated Sydney Ne\
1880, Messrs. Gibbs, Sballard, and
riching the columns of that paper, i
furnishing facilities for the encoun
ment of native art, offered prizes, (
Artists, professional or amateur, a
I.—For the best Original Black
illustrative of Colonial 1
ll,—For the best Black and W:
of Sketches, of Scenery i
New South Wales or Qui
lll.—For the next best Drawing
In response to this offer, a i
several possessing considerable mi
submitted to the Council of the
South Wales, upon whose reoomn
premiums were awarded to Mr.
May Vale, Barraba; Mrs. Collan
Chas. H. Hunt, Sydney, respectivi
Tbe first of the two drawing
principal award will form the Cole
the September issue of the I:
News, and will be followed, in dn
panion picture. The drawings ■
Second and Third Premiums are n
hands, and will appear next month
of the Illustrated Sydney Newi
Stimulated by the marked success
Art Competition thus initiated by tl
Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard and Co.,
announcing
A SECOND SERIES OF
Amounting in value tol
100 QUIN]
As follows:
FIRST PRIZE
SECOND PRIZE
THIRD PRIZE
FOURTH PRIZE
FIH'TH PRIZE
QTVrpiT "D TOT VC
A MAGNIFIOE
TO EVERY READER OP r
A ONE-GUINEA PROOF
GIVEN A 1
By the Australian Ag
LONDON ART
The Agent of this S
DR. WALTER R<
191 WILLIAM STI
SYDNEY,
has received instructions from '
EVEEY EEADEE OP TH
with a
FIRST-CLASS EN
36 INCHES BY 24 I
on Plate Paper, from the worl
LANDSEER, MI
and numerous other long-reoogn
artists.
The presentation is mode with a
artistic taste in Australia, ano
confidently to the recipie
port in the futi
The Society will be amply oompem
costly distribution if within
months some portion of tl
public extend its pati
the Sydney represer
of the Londo
office.
The following are a few of the pi
namely:—
ECCE HOM(
THE BLIND BE(
CHRIST LEAVING THE
DEATH THE GATE
MORS JANUA i
WINDSOR CAS:
NO ENGEAVING will be forwi
lowing conditions are strictly con
distribution will take place in n
cations are received:—
I. Each applicant must out out 1
COUPON,
and enclose it with Is. 9d. (to del
copyright, rolling, casing, Ac.), e
Order on the General Post Office, g
11. Each address must be most d
111. Without the COUPON, no
under the Society’s usual charge o
ONE GUINI
IV. Applications for the Plates v
rotation as they are received. (
V. No application for the Gift
POUETEEN DAYS after the di
announcement appears.
VI. Particular attention is drawl
Picture will be forwarded unless the
is enclosed to the address of the D
with the sum of Is. 9d. to defray
lay for copyright, [carriage, Ac.
X. APPLICATIONS PEOM C
must be accompanied by one shillii
ditional postage expenses.
I
QUEEN’S TH
Under the distinguished patronag
LORD AUGUSTUS LOPTUS,
and in the presem
His Excellency Sir ARTHUR KE
Governor of Queens
and Miss KENNE
MONDAY EVENING, 15th
BENEFIT tendered
HERCULES AMATEUR DR.
in aid of the
ROUT FAMILI
First production in Sydney 1
THE LANCASHIRE
Dress Circle, ss; Stalls, 3s; Pit,
Tickets to be obtained from thi
Pitt-street; Kirby, Pitt-street; Wi
Conway, King-street; Cole’s, King
Box plan at W. H. Paling’s, Geo:
J. H. RAINFOR
DR. J. SIMMS, of New Yo:
Physiognomist and Popular
a course of six illustrated and a
Practical and Scientific Physiognc
tion of Mental and Moral Cha
peculiar qualities of the Figure
Gestures, Habits, and Lines of
The course, which he has the plef
will open with a Free Lecture on
and How to Read it,” to be deliver®
Hall, Pitt-street, Tuesday Evening
at 8 o’clock. In this Series of L
will unfold his New System of Ph;
based upon the closest observation
firmed by the daily experience
practices, and that which marks tl
lower animals as well as man. Tl
TICKS THE TELEGRAPH.
Earthquake at Geneva.
Tunisians calming down.
Indians raiding New Mexico.
Numerous sunstrokes in America.
International Exhibition, Shanghai, 1883.
The cause of Dillon’s release was his ill health.
More arrests for rioting in Kerry and Tipperary.
John Dillon, M.P., released from Kilmainham
.gaol.
Queensland mail steamer Chybassa arrived at
Batavia.
Sixty deaths from sunstroke in New Tork, last
•Saturday.
Seven British burghs are to be disfranchised for
corruption.
Two Geneva Nihilists arrested for another plot
to smash the Czar.
The German and Austrian Emperors have had a
.conference at Gastein.
Hartmann, the Nihilist, expelled from New York,
has crossed into Canada.
Fenians active in America. Sensentional dyna-
mite programme adopted.
Company projected to reclaim waste lands in
Ireland. Capital, £4,000,000.
Garubetta has declared for a reform of the
French Senate, limiting its powers.
Bradlaugh suffering from erysipelas, but intends
to redemand admission to the House.
Another dynamite plot, to assassinate the Czar,
discovered. High personages implicated.
The Austrian Emperor has had interviews with
several of the minor European Sovereigns.
Hickie, an Irishman, has been convicted of
j «atening the life of Mr. Forster, Irish Secretary.
*,OOO nail-makers, on strike, declare that they
prefer starvation to yielding to the masters’ pressure.
The Peers have put a new face on the Irish
Land Bill. Government will refuse the amendments,
British Cabinet has decided to alter the law
next session, in order to permit Bradlaugh to take his
seat.
Bradlaugh applied for a summons against the
Police Inspector who “ chucked him out.” Summons
refused.
National Free-trade League formed in London
te advance an international system of reciprocity in
regard t> Custom charges, &c,
American Government undertakes to punish
manufacturers of infernal machines made in the States
for export—when they catch ’em.
It is officially denied that the recent conferences
of royal personages had any political significance. They
only wanted lights for their cigars.
The Durania have ratted to Ayoub-Khan, who
is preparing to march on Cabal. Abdur-Rahman is
making arrangements to resist his advance.
Bradlaugh has addressed an enthusiastic meet-
ing of 10,000 persons at Northampton, The Gladstone
.Government propose to relieve him from disabilities.
At Lord Mayor’s banquet, Gladstone said the
Government would sooner renounce the name of Eng-
lishmen than their responsibilities in connection with
the colonies.
M'Grath and M'Keritt, Fenians, convicted of
attempting to blow up Liverpool Town Hall, hare been
.sentenced —the former to imprisonment for life, the
latter for 15 years.
The case of Edward Galley, of Yass, wrongfully
■transported to N. 3. Wales, 40 years ago, for a murder
he did not commit, has been discussed in the Commons.
Compensation likely.
Courtney, member for Liskeard, succeeds Grant-
Duff as Uuder-Seoretary for the Colonies, and Lord
Eoseberry succeeds Courtney in his former position.
Heaven only knows what Courtney knows about
..colonies.
Debate in the Commons about South Sea
outrages. Government decline to transfer Sir Arthur
Gordon’s powers, but promise naval activity—especially
in deporting British subjects who may be obnoxious to
■the natives.
Farm Produce Report.
■On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is
selling at £3 ; ditto old hay, £2 10a to £3 per ton.
The hay market is well stocked and business dull.
Maize 2s. 9d; oats, seed and feed, 3s per bushel;
N.Z. potatoes, £3 10s to £3 15s; Circular Head
ditto, £4 10s to £4 15s per ton; Victorian
onions, £l2 to £l3 per ton ; ditto chaff, £4 5s to
£5 per ton, bags included; butter 9d to Is 6d per
lb ; eggs, 9d to lOd per dozen ; fowls 3s 6d to 4s;
ducks, 4s to 4s 6d; geese 6s to 8s; cock turkeys,
12s, hen ditto 7s 6d per pair. The flour market is
dull, and only a few leading brands are now
enquired for by purchasers. Sydney mill flour,
superfine, £l2 ; household, £11; seconds £10;
N.S.W. country brands, £ll 10a to £l2; Vic-
torian £ll 10s to £l2 ; Adelaide £lllos to £l2 ;
bran and pollard, Is 2d to Is 3d per bushel. For
first class N.S.W. wheat there is a steady demand
Adelaide is not much enquired after. For Vic-
torian, Launceston, and N.Z. wheats our quota-
tions are nominal. Adelaide wheat, 5s to 5s 6d ;
N.S.W., 4s 6d to 5s ; Victorian, 4s 6d to 4s 9d;
N.Z., 4s 6d, and Launceston 4s 9d per bushel.
Pat Cattle Market; At the Homebush cattle
sales, best beef was worth 17s to 20s per 100 lb.
For fat sheep the market was unchanged, 561 b
wethers are worth 14s to 15s. At the Darling
Habour railway terminus the usual sales occur
daily, of fresh beef. Trade continues brisk and
the market is well attended. Prices are from 4fd
per lb, for prime beef.
Lady Beaconsfield had a career almost as event-
ful as that of her second husband. She was the
daughter of a retired army captain, and in her youth
was employ ed in a millinery establishment in Exeter.
Her attractions fascinated an elderly gentleman of
North Devon, Mr. Wyndham Lewis, who died a few
years after the marriage, and left her his entire fortune.
Within three months of his death she married Mr.
Disraeli.
At an inquest recently held in England on the
body of a woman, whose husband had kicked her to
death, the jury severely censured the bystanders who
bad quietly witnessed the murder, and never raised a
hand to interfere. What preposterous ideas coroners’
Junes have ! If a freeborn Englishman can’t kick his
wife to death without a lot of outsiders interfering,
things have come to a pretty pass. Every man has a
ri !fnt to wallop his own nigger.
Mrs. Miller Mundy, the modern Mrs. Potiphar
. England, who let the Earl of Shrewsbury run away
with her, will not, it appears likely, be divorced by her
husband. The Earl—who, by the way, is now called
because he went after Mundy—is a
u Sht, lissom yonth, with blue eyes and light brown
r? lr - As already stated, he was brought up in the
.dour of sanctity, but no sooner did his father’s death
tab! j lm * rom paternal authority than he began to be
wised of in connection with several of the leading pro-
ss'ona l beauties. It was said that he caused that
*ddd man, Mr. Langtry, much anxiety, and it is not
lo , ng since a spicy story was told of a collision be-
i him and the Prince of Wales. Lord Shrewsbury
•Cast) fee sisters, all happily married, the eldest, Lady
LonH 0164 ** 1 ’ being one of the most beautiful women in
shop-' J here ller photographs are to be seen in every
The Musclebrook Ball.
At the Musclebrook ball, which was intended as a
kind of local set-off to the Princes’ ball at Sydney,
eighty couples were present, including visitors
from Maitland, Mudgee, and the metropolis. The
leading families of the district —and it is astonish-
ing how many daughters the leading families
always have—were well represented, and never to
any ball before did so many bachelors come alone.
However, the Benedicts brought the ladies, and
the fair sex had the advantage, or, perhaps, the
disadvantage, in numbers. The room was neatly
decorated, and good music was discoursed by the
Wallsend band. About twenty of the costumes
were rich and attractive, but among the rest there
was a tailing off which recalled the memory of the
date of “My Grandfather’s Clock.” There ware
some fine specimens of provincial beauty in the
room, and Mnrrurundi sent down its dashing
daughters in grand style. There, pale pink pre-
dominated in the costumes. A Murrurundi lady
wore a dress (one of the richest in the room) of
white satin, with a wreath of flowers ; diamond
ornaments, and fan to match. This lady’s
sister, a dark-eyed, graceful girl, whose very
glance means an extra paragraph, wore a pale
pink, enriched with doru, and a coiffure of natural
flowers embellished with diamonds. Another
Mnrrurundi (married) lady wore a dress of white
satin and cardinal, with silver ornaments. A
graceful young lady from Sydney, who by many
was voted the belle, was attired in a pale pink
skirt and white polonaise, bodice cut square and
low and filled in with lace—no sleeves A tall and
stately lady wore a rich and very attractive dress,
composed of dazzling white satin and violet
velvet, with silver ornaments. The tall and
handsome daughters of an old local family were
attired in pale satin and light polonaises, diamond
and gold ornaments, &c. One young and dashing
daughter of fashion, who appeared in a rich pale
pink, wore low white slippers, and cardinal
stockings, on the instep of which were medallions
formed of the portraits of two of her admirers.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.W.G. : As a general rule, the advertising
doctor is a quack and a scamp. Go and see a surgeon
whose name is on the medical register “A Friend ”
(Pyrment): Your half-sovereign duly to hand. The
fund is, for the present, closed “Ethel": Thanks.
If you are the “ bootless" one, accept our condolences.
Capital. Glad to hear from you often
“ C.P. J.”: We don’t insert letters merely because other
editors have rejected them. Life is short, and the
sooner you feel this, the longer you’ll keep out of the
Necropolis “U.": You will find that your “drafts”
have been accepted. Excellent “W. J.P.”: Write
again “H.W."; Glad to hear from you often
“ W.F.Q.": Much obliged “ W.P."; Your para-
graphs would be suitable for, or at any rate would be
accepted by, the Melbourne paper to which you allude.
But you will see that we do not seek to gratify mere
coteries. Send ns something of general interest
“E.W M.”: Will in all likelihood have to be held over.
“F.H.S.”: No space this week. Next issue, per-
haps “ Yentas Most acceptable. But why in such
a case do you not send your name ?
Colonel Gannon: There is no telling when a
blind hog, by persistent rooting, will find an acorn.
Dr. Gutkrie Carr, of Gunnedah, writes taking
exception to our jocular little reference to his recent
communication to The Bulletin. He thinks it may
do him harm. Well, we didn’t—and don’t. We can’t
see that it can injure a medical man to hint that he
writes a bad hand, or uses for press “ copy ” miscella-
neous sheets of paper. However, if the Dr. thinks
otherwise, we are sorry we spoke.
Mr. J. W. Dodge’s benefit at the Opera House,
on Tuesday, is rendered worthy of special record for
more reasons than one. In the first place, the henefiqiare
has, by his exertions in catering for the public, merited
the good word, and accompanying pecuniary compli-
ment, of every theatre-goer; and in the second, because
of the first appearance of Mr. Frank Cates in a new line
of business—that of delivering a most difficult tragical
recitation. It will suffice, this week, to say that Mr.
Cates succeeded even beyond the hopes of his most
ardent admirers ; but we will—as the Brisbane papers
say—reserve until next week a detailed criticism upon
his performance. What we shall have to say in the
next issue will—but we will not “ anticipate.” The
“ Ker-rnshed” went immensely, Eeeve being more than
quite hilariously droll.


Miscellaneous
riLIFFORD, LOYE
TEA imports;
EASTERN AND COT
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignment
in receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualitii
Do. Indian Prize Mec
CHUTNIES—Indian Pri
PRESERVES—Indian P
COFFEE —Plantation Nc
Do. ~ Pe
Do. m N(
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B 1
OFFIC S '79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
XOH N D
IMPOSTER OS
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric !
Butchers’ Brine P'
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
235
PITTSTREn
BEAUTIFUL . aj
ALLWOOL
jp TWEED,
TO
Miscellaneo
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E "V
416 GEOEGE STI
Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English pi
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spon
ALL KINDS or DRUGGISTS’
Send for a Price List. Countr;
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Ton cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New B
W. KER
; i .i ■ ■ • i ;
MANUFACTUEING
WATCH AND CLOCI
664 GEOEGE STEEEI
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals’of every description. Mas
sentatiou Trowels designed i
Premises.
DIAMOND SET’
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Watches, froi
1
KING STREET S
TAILOR
Jw
I m?
i
Blacket and Davy.
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Bbos., Biemingham.
.miiwir
CANDY S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
or TTTfITHft A HTI TRTMftA
SILVER WATCHES
FROM c^fe.^.lO.
-rt' ;
c r 'JRm'cjevJE'-
9, &.. lI.HUNTER SI
-ches SYDNEY.
SEND, FOR
CATALOGUE
fTIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE;
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy
THEY ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY
ONE
WIGZELL
rd-street.
Oxford
SYDNEY
T A
And
On
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE “IVANHOE”
AWARDED —~~™ mi. „„
[LVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOR
HERMITAGE.
.10/- per d
DINNER WINES
V l-' i
SHIRAZ ■) Fruity 'll;,
MADEIRA V' ”
BURGUNDY Dry )
RIESLING j Wmes 1
>2l/-
