

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4. —No. 52.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1881.
Price—3d.
& bulletin,
SATURDAY. JANUARY 22, 1881.
Our Anniversary.
The number of The Bulletin which the reader
now holds in his hand is the fifty-second which
has been issued. We will be excused if, on thus
attaining the age of one year, we indulge in a
retrospect and exchange with our readers con-
gratulations on the auspicious occasion. We have
had the good fortune to hit the popular taste from
the outset, and the success which has attended
our venture has been unprecedented in the annals
of Australian journalism. The circulation of The
Bulletin, at first necessarily small,has expanded,
week by week, with extraordinary rapidity. Had
we ever doubted that we had struct the right
chord to success, we should have ’ad ample
evidence of the fact in the eagernes ith which
all sorts of established journals set aemselves
to imitate our style, so far s lay in
their capacity. Several newspa .'S have
even been started in emulatioi of The
Bulletin, whose form aad mannc treat-
ing occurrences they have, we are dt 1 to say
vainly, striven to imitate. Ik-'der,
'■ompliments upon us —and compliments are ever
welcome ; but none have been so substantial as
the compliment paid by the ■newspapers far and
wide which have been graceful enough to steal
our paragraphs, and are cautious enough to re-
frain from acknowledging the source from whence
they pilfered. To these enterprising gentry we
return our warmest acknowledgments. We only
regret that regard for our readers places it out of
our power to return their attentions, and steal
their matter. Imitation, says a proverb, is the
sincerest form of flattery. Our literary brothers
have been no misers in evidences of their admira-
tion. The Bulletin we believe to furnish theonly
instance of a journal started with the object
of providing its proprietors with bread and
butter—started with little capital but energy,
pluck and brains—developing without delay into a
powerful and profitable organ. The secret of our
success we believe to be very simple. We started
level with our own times, eschewing antiquated
models and superannuated methods. The purely
comic journals, we thought, had had their day and
their reign. Any observant person could see that
London Punch and its host of descendants —
and some of them have descended very low indeed,
are no longer the things they were. Like all old-
established things, they have survived their
founders; and, instead of their staff supporting
them, they have been under the necessity of sup-
porting their staff. Jerrold, Thackeray,
A’Beckett, Lemon, Shirley Brooks, made
London Punch— just as Edmund Yates, with
his picked contributors, made the World. Each
generation knew its own times, and hit upon the
exact thing to “take” in its day. But while
times and tastes change, the courage and the
ability to strike out a fresh line is not given to
every one. Men drift into writing for Punch
because they have the knack of writing in the
traditional Punch style—that is to say, in the
style of the humour of our fathers. Again, the
ordinary newspapers are equally slaves to played-
out traditions. They are, without exception,
copyists of dead and gone mannerisms. Because
The Times made its mark half a century ago by a
pompous solemnity of diction, hundreds of papers
take it for granted that “ pomposity” and verbose-
ness are the proved avenues to success to-day. It
is only necessary for our readers to glance at any
ordinary newspaper to perceive, now that the hint
is given, that the sheet is mostly filled with what
he does not care to know. Even the incidents
which he is interested in learning about are
so dressed out in unnecessary words
or so flatly related as to cause weariness. There
are no efforts made to bring out the salient points
of an occurrence, no attempts to please by the
manner independent of the matter. The theatres
afford a clue to the drift of popular inclinations
which has been quite lost upon our seniors.
Tragedy will not draw unless it be of the very
first order. Classic comedy is neglected, and
played to poor houses. Light comedies of the
present day run for season after season in London
and week after week in the colonies. The Bul-
letin was projected with all these facts in view.
Our aim was not to imitate any dead-and-gone
ideal, but to please the people around ns ; and if
a constantly-increasing circulation be any criterion,
we have succeeded. It may be objected that some-
times the friskiness of youth has been too apparent
in our columns, and that our experiments have
occasionally been a little rash. We do not dispute
it. The Bulletin is very young—a fault which
is every day mending. Experiments cannot always
be successful, and The Bulletin has been above
all an experiment. That it has been in the main
successful is all the better for us—and for our
readers. We like to be modest.
Henry Kendall.
Whatever objections may be urged against the
theory of “ the survival of the fittest” in the
physical developments of universal vitality, the
phrase unquestionably expresses the experience
of mankind in reference to those who hold high
positions in the world of Letters —more especially
in that section of it represented by those who
cultivate the “ divine art ” of poesy. The classical
aphorism which indicates that the power to
awaken human emotions, or inspire sublime aspi-
rations, must be the gift of Nature and not an
outcome of special culture, has been amply illus-
trated in every age and in every civilized nation,
and it may possibly have its counterpart among
semi-barbarous communities. It would be a too
tedious, because a too metaphysical, theme, to
maintain that the poet is born such, not made—
poeta nascitur, non fit: it is far better, therefore,
to assume it as a conclusion, founded on man’s
historic experiences, and one which people wil-
lingly accept as a primary truth, without taking
the trouble to demonstrate it as a psychical prin-
ciple, than discuss it. Doubtless a fine organiza-
tion, healthfully employed, will soon manifest its
peculiar forces, to whatever sphere of Art it may be
th° '■ they • b ■ still there is - me* 1 ;' ;
surpassing critical ken in that combination of
mental and moral powers which enables certain
individuals to perform successfully on “ the living
lyre ” of human sensibilities and passions, and
merely by the use of simple imagery and rhythmic
numbers, awake emotions the most profound.
The poet who achieves the best of all poetic
reputations is the one whose name glides into
the affections of his countrymen and country-
women as a household word, and whose work,
however feeble and artificial a great deal of it may
be, is accepted on the whole as a praiseworthy
fact. More than two centuries of active endeavor
passed away amongst the English-speaking com-
munities of North America before an interpreter
appeared who could explain the mysterious con-
nexion between external nature and the mind of
man, and raise the latter from earth to heaven ;
and it is not even now certain that Cullen Bryant
deserves the designation of “ national poet” in
the same sense in which it is given to Robert Burns
and Pierre Beranger respectively. The fragrance
of the forests, the roar of the cataracts, the glory
of rich sunsets, and the repose of solemn glooms
are suggested by many of his best poetic creations,
but in other respects he caught echoes from afar
—from other lands —and only modulated them for
American ears. It is a curious coincidence that of
the two native-born poets of Australia —Charles
Harpur and Henry Kendall—both from the
beginning endeavoured to give transcripts of the
world around them —of their everyday environ-
ments—and that in language and measure adapted
to their subject. So far the best writings of both
are national —are instinct with a peculiar aroma of
the Australian mountain, bush, dell, or seashore —
butare unequal in manyrespects. Mr. Harpur wrote
too much that was merely imitative to justify an
impartial judge in awarding him the praise of
a distinct originality. Not so with his successor.
He stands before these Australian communities
acknowledged, without qualification or envy, to be
the uncrowned laureate of Australia. The good
fairy who gave him the gift of genius failed, or
forgot to bestow, those accidents of fortune which
are often curses in disguise to persons of a poetic
organization. Henry Kendall was born at Ulla-
dulla in 1842, his father being a man of more than
ordinary culture, and (we have heard) for some
time a clergyman of the Church of England. O
the maternal side, Kendall can claim kin with the
witty, vivacious, and clever Irish barrister,
Leonard McNally, who was one of the celebrities
of his day and whose variety of talents won the
admiration of the fastidious Sir Jonah Barrington.
Henry Kendall received the rudiments of his edu-
cation in his native place, where he also received
many strong impressions from the grandeur or the
loveliness of the scenery around. While a mere
boy—delicate and sensitive —he seized the oppor-
tunity of going to sea in one of the vessels of
his uncle, the late Captain Kendall; and,
during the two or three voyages to the
South Sea Islands, he not only improved
in health, but felt an awakening of those vivid
powers—particularly a keen love of external nature,
of grandeur in all forms, of beauty in all hues —
which were afterwards so harmoniously developed
in him. On his return to Sydney, he was put in
an offiee to acquire the mysteries of business; and
although exact in his routine duties, he devoted
his leisure to reading and reflection —he is con-
stitutionally meditative, —and soon tried his
“ ’prentice hand” in versification. From his first
crude efforts, one can see that he possessed a
correct ear and an observant eye, and he certainly
wrote verses, before he attained his seventeenth
year, which possess intrinsic merit. “The Cur-
lew’s Song ” is yet a weird strain in our memory,
and “ Kiama, Robed in Night,” is still a dreamy
pleasing recollection. It was fortunate for the
rapid development of Kendall’s poetic powers that
he became acquainted with gentlemen who helped
to “fan the flame of genius.” Of these, he is
perhaps more indebted to the late Lionel Michael,
himself a son of the Muses and an exquisite prose-
writer, than to anyone else. To Michael, Kendall
became not only a companion and friend, but
also an apprentice at law. When the former
gentleman removed to Grafton, the latter accom-
panied him as clerk, and remained with him about
two years, during which time they read a con-
siderable amount of French literature together, as
well as solid works on Philosophy, Political
Economy, and History. During those days, by
“ the shining Clarence,’’ Kendall began to
manifest his peculiar poetic moods, and enriched
the columns of the Empire with many vigorous
stanzas. At this period, a certain tone of sadness
pervaded his Muse ; she was ever leading him to
the silent glens, bleak headlands, or wave-torn
shores ; or in the spaces of the night to meditate
on the sorrows of an imaginary Ulalnme. It was
feared this mood would become permanent in him,
but in time he shook it off ; and so successfully,
too, that many now regard him more as a
humorous than as a sentimental writer. He
received a situation in the Lands Office in 1863,
and was afterwards promoted to the Colonial
Secretary’s Department, in which he continued
till 1869, when he resigned, and went to Mel-
bourne, that city then assuming the airs of
a literary Athens of the South. Although
Kendall wrote for all the best newspapers and
magazines there, edited a monthly and a comic
journal, carried off the “ lucre ” offered for three
or four prize-poems, and supplied the words for
Horsley’s Cantata, on the occasion of the opening
of the Melbourne Town Hall —in a word,
although he did as well, in a pecuniary sense, as
most of his contemporaries, he must have had a
very hard time of it during his stay at Athens by
the Yarra. Over-work brought on illness;
anxiety for his wife and child —he married, before
removing to Melbourne, the eldest daughter of the
late Dr. Rutter, well known in Sydney as head of
the Vaccine Establishment —soon acted on his
sensitive organization; and when he returned to this
city in 1871, he could neither boast of a mens sana
in corpora sano, nor take delight in those pursuits
which once led him, like the Saafi of his own crea-
tion, to pursue the Immortal towards the “ white
throne.” Working hard, when work could be
got, he made a struggle; but disappointments—
the series of ‘ ‘ unmerciful disaster ’ ’ that
“ follows fast and follows faster those that falter
by the way ” —drove him at last to seek consolation
in the lethal bowl, which of course aggravated
the evil. We will not further penetrate the gloom
of this period; it is probably forgotten by the
victim of the distressful circumstances which
caused it, or is only like the memory of a hideous
nightmare. Kendall recovered his mental equi-
librium and moral tone almost at a bound.
Through the more than brotherly kindness of a
friend, he shook off (in 1874) his but momentary
weakness, returned to the activities and responsi-
bilities of life, soon became a good business man at
Gosford, where he now resides, and has even
utilised some of his harshest experiences, embodied
in verse that will long survive. It is needless to
dilate on his most recent literary achievements.
His double honours (prize-poem and cantata) at
the International Exhibition, his latest contribu-
tions to journalistic literature, and finally the
announcement of his most complete work, “ Songs
from the Mountains, ’ ’ which we briefly notice in this
issue, are known to most of our readers. To add
a further laudatory remark would mar the simple
force of this sketch of his career. It is not
improbable he will some day give us, in his
remarkably smooth and rythmic prose, a few
autobiographic pages. His life is now for ever
identified with the fame and glory of his native
land.
HENRY KENDALL.


A Distinguished Australian Novelist.
A considerable amount of attention has been attracted,
in literary circles, by the intelligence that the Earl of
Beaconsfield has given to the world another of his
splendidly-written and scholarly novels; and not a few
Australians are longing for the time when they shall be
able to clutch “ Endymion," and once more revel in
the fancies of the illustrious author. Now, so far as we
are concerned, we can’t sympathise with this feeling.
We believe in supporting our own writers. Why, we
indignantly ask, why, in the name of St. Luke (himself
an author), should all our enthusiasm be lavished on
European novelists, when we have here—here in the
colony of New South Wales—a story-writer of super
lative excellence P Mr. A. G. Taylor, the editor of that
world-famed journal, the Mcdgee Independent, is at
the present time adorning the pages of his paper with
a tale, simply entitled “ Crime in the Blood.” In
elegance of diction, boldness of grammar, profoundness
of thought, and originality of punctuation, the yarn
certainly surpasses anything we have seen since the late
Bernardo Bladkins wrote “ Eodolpho the Eevengeful,”
in the Grub-street Groveller. Out author takes for his
hero a convict now serving a life sentence in Darling-
hurst Gaol, and with an ingenuously-delightful dis-
regard of the man’s living friends and relations adopts
the convict’s appellation for the hero’s name. The tale
has the sub-title of “A Christmas Story," and as the
whole plot of it reeks of gore and graveyards, it is just
such a cheery little tale as we want at the festive season.
Mr. Taylor is an impressionable writer, and his style
varies with his changing moods. Here is a bit of him
when he is discursive.
“In due course Bertrand fell in love. The bump
of amativeness, which ran riot (sic.) in the old
country, and had gone to seed in the multiplicity of
intrigues in Melbourne, now began to assert itself.”
Fancy a bump running riot, and going to seed!
Who but A. G. Taylor—whose brain but his—could have
forged such a metaphor? In another portion of the
instalment we are immortalising, our illustrious author
becomes metaphysical. Here, for instance —
“ However, true it is that there is more than one uncap-
tured bird in the bush of the ‘ Oh had I,’ species, and true
it is that if the course of love doesn’t run smoothly
between two given points, it is bound to do so between
either of those two points and some more accessible site.”
This reminds one of the problem about building
an equilateral triangle on a given straight line, only
it’s rather more puzzling. In the disquisition, however,
Mr. Taylor’s scholarship displays itself in a very re-
markable manner. Not even ornithology troubles him.
There he is, squeezing from his mighty brain his bird
of the “Oh, had I species"; a delicate allusion to a
time-honored proverb; a touch of the railway-signal
man, with his “ two given points,” and a smack of the
architectural with his “ more accessible site." But,
lost as we may be in admiration over the extract we
have here alluded to, it is in the humorous that Mr.
A. G. Taylor more immediately excels. In describing
one of the characters our talented novelist is thus
delivered of a few chaste yet playful sentences.
He says:—
“ His particolored hair was an especial attrac-
tion, and led to his being dubbed ‘ Old Skewbald,’
while one adventurous spirit enquired how much a
week he was paid to test the excellence of Mrs. (sic)
Judson’s Hair Dyes. Having tasted of the first fruits
of his error, Bume was careful in future to conceal his
hirsute eccentricity by a skull-cap.”
With this quotation—calling especial attention to the
author’s masterly punctuation—we have done. We
trust, however, that we have said enough to convince
the most sceptical that Mr. Taylor is no ordinary
author, and that his story deserves a prominent place
in the pipe-light miscellany of modern civilization.
The Doctor and the Lawyer.
The article, headed as above, which appeared in our
last issue is, we desire to state, purely a fictitious story,
having no reference to anyone living in this city, or to
any member of the legal profession, and certainly not
to one gentleman whose name has been mentioned in
connection with it -whose reputation is without
blemish, and wuo-i; f idship any man might prize.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
A Sydney cantatrice is engaged to a Goulbum
gentleman.
It is said that a well-known Queensland gold-
field warden is engaged to a Brisbane lady of high
social standing.
A popular sculler from North Shore was
privately married just before 1880 closed, to a charming
widow with a ready-made family. Sculler’s relatives
wild.
We understand, on good authority, that a well-
known Hibernian gentleman of Wellington, will shortly
lead to Hymen’s altar a charming young lady from
Newtown.
A young Bathurst solicitor, son of a squatter in
that district, has been disappointed in love, and intends
shortly cooling his fevered brain in the fair Continent
of Europe.
Wynyard Square will be the scene of a grand
Jewish wedding on the 16th of March. The honeymoon
will be spent in Melbourne, and will be followed by a
trip to Europe.
A fashionable marriage is on the tapis at Par
ramatta. The bride expectant is the daughter of a
leading local churchman, and the bridegroom a well-
known Civil servant.
A sweet union of two loving hearts is understood
to be arranged, on the mutual principle, between an
official of a George-street assurance office and a
beauteous belle of Paddington.
A rather handsome young Irishman, a professor
of the “ Divine art,” lately arrived in Sydney, is about
to marry the attractive and wealthy daughter of a well-
known and much-respected citizen.
A young but burly youth, hailing from the
Hunter District, and well known in Sydney cricket and
football circles, has won the heart of one of the sixteen
bridesmaids at the late Bathurst wedding. Marriage
soon.
The engagement announced between the sister
of an ex-Treasurer and a well-known Adelaide pressman
has come to an abrupt termination. Alleged cause —
want of a larger fortune by the mother (of the bride
that was to be).
In our last issue, we published as a fact what
turned out to be a squib. The well-known footballer
referred to is not engaged. The fact is, he is disengaged
—which is a piece of news that will be acceptable to the'
fair sex in general.
A certain well-known Government official, after
being rather unfortunate in his love affairs, the other
day married a gushing young widow —who is still em-
ployed in a drapery store. His friends are so far in
blissful ignorance of his adventure.
Two discarded lovers of two fair cousins did not,
as was supposed, commit suicide. One married some
time since the daughter of a wealthy member of the
chosen race, and the other is on the point of becoming
a benedict by espousing the other sister.
Some remarkably graceful morning dresses may
be seen this season. In one lately shown at Farmer
and Co.’s, the prevailing colour was pale blue, trimmed
with pretty pompadour and deep white embroidery; a
demi-train land pockets, finished by pleatings and
mixed bows.
A young lady, the daughter of a wealthy land-
owner, who has succeeded to a fortune of £BO,OOO, and is
now staying in Philip-street, has considerably exercised
the minds of her relatives (and of people who want to
be related to her) by declaring that it is her intention
to enter a convent shortly. |
The youngest son of a retired M.L.C. is, ac- !
cording to report, engaged to be married to a young !
lady whose father is partner in a leading mercantile
firm, not far from the General Post Office. Mater
objects, and intends taking her boy to England, where
he will be free from the chains of the fair tempter.
Eligible young men in search of wives could not
do better than visit Braidwood. There is in that
favoured district a large and varied assortment to
select from; also the pleasant security of knowing
that any offer will be thankfully received. An early
inspection is advisable, as Time is relentless, and
Autumn is approaching.
Ladies have hit upon the plan of taming a
walking-dress into a drawing-room costume by means
of a detached train, which is fastened on to the short
skirt by buttons placed under the lowest flounce or
kilting. Another pretty novelty takes the form of
“ floral collarettes,” which are composed of lace, narrow
satin ribbons, and sprays of flowers.
“ Temora is already so civilized,” says a cor-
respondent, “that the editor of a local paper wears a
dress suit at public entertainments." We are assured
that this is true, and can only account for it by sup-
posing that the editor in question has no other suit in
which to make an appearance. At all events, we never
knew an editor who was otherwise circumstanced. To
run one paper and own two suits would be more than
enough glory for one man.
The wife of a Tasmanian archdeacon has always
been imbued with the idea that the spouse of a clergy-
man is 1 a distinct, superior sort of personage. Some
few days since, now her husband is Archdeacon ,
she impressed a counter-jumper with a sense of her
importance. When buying some silk stockings for her
daughter, she said, “Now, they must be the best you
have, something very good—something, in fact, suitable
for an archdeacon’s daughter.” The hose has to he
made specially.
An attractive walking-dress lately seen in Sydney
was a silver-grey silk arranged on the front of the body
in minute pleats, and down the skirt in broad folds,
trimmed with kilting of the same material, and ruffles
of black lace. Another strikingly elegant costume was
composed of cream-coloured silk, trimmed with car-
dinal satin, deep silk fringe and white lace. Bound the
bottom of the skirt, with its long, flowing train, was a
broad band of cardinal satin, while the very graceful
pannier draperies were caught back and finished by a
large bow of cardinal and cream-colour.
Lady Smith has been endeavouring to introduce
at Hobart a weekly gathering of equestrians and others
in what she proudly calls the “ Ladies’ Mile,” but her i
enterprise in trying to start a Tasmanian Rotten Row
cannot be said to be a success. The first and second
gatherings mustered less than a dozen people, who,
getting satiated with patrolling a piece of dismal road i
in the Domain, and bowing to the aristocratic leader of :
fashion, resolved that it was more conducive to comfort
to sit down on the grass, and have a quiet piece of
scandal. They did so. Tableau.
We extract from the the Tumdt and Adelong
Times the following long-tailed half-crown’s worth of
glory :—“ Married.—Tapp—Palmer,—On the sth of
January, 1881, at S. Jude’s Church, Tumbarumba, by the
Rev. Walter White, Incumbent of Adelong, Charles,
eldest son of Frank Tapp, Esq., of Sterling Farm,
near Orange, to Catherine Sarah, eldest daughter of
Rodber Palmer, Esq., S.C.L.. Oxon., C. B. Catechist of
Tumbarumba, and grand-daughter of the late Rev.
George Augustus Middleton, A,M., of St. John’s Col-
lege, Cantab, and for many years Chaplain at Newcastle,
N.S. Wales; grand-daughter of the late Geo. Thos.
Palmer, Esq., Lieutenant of H.M. 61st Regiment of
Foot; and niece of the Hon. Charles Campbell, Esq.,
M.P., Barrister-at-Law, and Chancellor of the Diocese
of Goulbum.” Hooray!
English actresses are said to dress so faultlessly
as to give lessons in fashion to the audience; Miss
Ellen Terry, Mrs. Kendal, Mrs. Bancroft, Miss Gerard,
and Miss Genevieve Ward exhibiting harmony of colour
and beauty of outline in their dresses to such perfec-
tion, that great ladies send their maids to see them,
and get ideas for their own wardrobes. The example
of their London sisters is closely followed by the ladies
of Mr. Gamer’s company, now performing at the
Theatre Royal. All their costumes are in exquisite
taste, and Miss Blanche Stammers in particultu: often
appears in dresses the harmony of colour in which is in
the last degree artistic. In “Ours,’’ the charming
comedy at present running at the premier theatre, the
costumes of the ladies are exceedingly elegant—Mary
Netley’s dress in the second act being a model of good
taste and richness.
Here are Lord Beaconsfields’s opinions on dress,
delivered through the medium of Mr. Vigo, the tailor: —
“ I have known many an heiress lost by her suitor being
ill-dressed," said Mr. Vigo. “ You most dress accord-
ing to your age, your pursuits, your objects in life; you
must dress too, in some cases, according to your set.
In youth a little fancy is rather expected; but if politi-
cal life be your object, it should be avoided at least
after one-and-twenty. lam dressing two brothers now,
men of considerable position; one is a mere man of
pleasure, the other will probably be a Minister of State.
They are as like as two peas, but were I to dress the
dandy and the Minister the same, it would be bad
taste —it would be ridiculous. No man gives me the
trouble which Lord Eglantine does; he has not made
up his mind whether he will be a great poet or Prime
Minister. ‘ You must choose, my lord,’ I tell him. * I
cannot send you out looking like Lord Byron if you
mean to be a Canning or a Pitt.’ I have dressed a great
many of our statesmen and orators, and I have always
dressed them according to their style and the nature
of their duties. What all men should avoid is the
“ shabby genteel.” No man ever gets over it. I will
save you from that. You had better be in rags.”
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Coming Man. —Forster.
Ten little mortals mixed up in a mine—
Hurley went to England, and then there were nine,
Mr. Buchanan’s Matrimonial Causes Act
Amendment Bill was, after a short debate, carried by
40 votes to 14.
Parramatta electors have noted that Mr. C. J.
Byrnes, their member, was absent from the first Parlia-
mentary division on Friday.
Mr. Murray, M.P., is about to dispose of his
Inverell property, and settle in Sydney. And yet the
“ local man” ticket put him through.
No more titles ! loud does rave
Mudgee’s poor benighted Dave;
No more titles! —well, let’s see —
Barring one for me —“ Q.C."
A correspondent asks ; “ Now, can the State
consistently maintain Protestant and Roman Catholic
orphan schools in view of the present Educational
system P” The fact is an anomaly, of course, especially
as the Legislative Assembly has affirmed by resolution
the desirability of amalgamating the two schools.
In Melbourne, Yeomans, the hatter, is at the
bottom of every big agitation among the Collingwood
bookmakers et hoc genus omne. In Sydney, the man
who plays a corresponding role is Mountcastle, and he,
strange to say, is also a hatter. Is there, after all, a
foundation of fact in the aphorism, “As mad as a
hatter ?”
The proprietor of the Queanbetan Age is a
candidate for the representation of that place in
Parliament. He opens the ball by writing a windy
leader, advocating, in an indirect way, his own claims.
There is a storm brewing in the distance; but let us
trust the other five candidates will not “ flee before the
fury of the Gale.”
“ I anticipate, after I have been in the House a
few years, that I shall have sufficient influence with the
Ministry to get them to place a sum of money on the
estimates to defray the cost of sweeping one, er perhaps
two, of the post-office chimneys." This remark is
attributed by the Inveeell Herald to the hon.
member for Glen Innes.
A meeting has been held in Brisbane to consider
what steps could be taken in recognition of the course
adopted by the leader of the Opposition in visiting
England to further investigate the steel rails business.
It was decided that Mr. Griffith ought to be reim-
bursed for his loss of time. Two secretaries were
appointed to receive contributions.
Speaking at Warrnambool, Major Smith, the
Victorian Minister of Education, said he believed the
Government commanded the respect, esteem, and con-
fidence of the people. The Hon. A. T. Clark (Customs)
remarked that in the departmental reductions which he
had undertaken he had done what no man with any
feeling would ever attempt twice —he had been com-
pelled to dispense with the services of more than a
hundred officers.
Mr. Patterson, Minister for Railways in Victoria
(says the Sidney Mail), deserves a statue. Never in
the history of responsible government in Australia, or
perhaps in any other country, has a Cabinet Minister
yielded his patronage, and handed over the power of
appointing to the Government service to his subordi-
nate." This example comes, too, from one of the
fiercest of the Berryites. “ But,” (says * fEgles’) “ the
danger which looms ahead is that the first time Mr.
Elsdon refuses to appoint the second cousin of the hon.
member for Greasepalm to the (charge’of he
may be dragged through the mire on the floor of the
House for fearlessly doing his duty.’’
The new members make a shocking mull of
bobbing to the Speaker. They should rehearse at home
before “the wife or mother-in-law," —they’d put them
through their facings—or, perhaps, as everything has
to be done by the Government, the Serjeant-at-Arms
might devote an hour a day to useful work, and dress
up the hon. members to deportment. The other night
an hon. member who evidently remembered that he had
not shown his respect to the Speaker in passing out of a
middle door, came a step or so back to make amends,
but unfortunately he forgot the position of the chair
and bobbed the wrong way. Give us back the days of
Phil Dignum, Billy Cummings, &c. Then we saw the
court bow.
The Parnellite cause has been enthusiastically
taken up at Melbourne by several M.L.A.’s of the ex-
treme Radical party—including Mr. Longmore, who was
Minister for Lands when the progressive land tax was
passed; and Mr. Dow (agricultural editor of the
Leader), who used to stump Victoria with a huge map,
whereon were marked, in bright colours, the big tracts
held by squatters. The other night Mr. Longmore pre-
sided at a meeting, and made an excited speech. He
complained that Irishmen never got anything but bayo-
nets from England when she asked for the redress of
her wrongs; that the existing land laws had made ty-
rants of the landlords; and pointed out that the de-
struction of a tyrant landlord was telegraphed through-
out the whole world, while the sacrifice of an entire
family received no notice. Mr. Dow and others also
spoke in a similar strain.
On Tuesday night the irrepressible M'Elhone
made a violent attack on Mr. Goodchap, in re the mat-
ter of free railway passes. He said: —“ If any man in
this country abused his position, it was Mr. Goodchap.
He had no faith in Mr. Goodchap’s honesty, and, if
necessary, he would produce some Parliamentary docu-
ments to show it.” This was followed by a tirade of
the hon. member’s most pronounced Billingsgate—in
the course of which, shielding himself within the ar-
mour of his Parliamentary privilege, he indulged in per-
sonalities of the most brutal description. We, in common
with others who have watched Mr. Goodchap’s career,
know just as well that he is an honest and able man, and a
gentleman, as we do that the Member for the Upper
Hunter is a privileged political slanderer. The ear of
M'Elhone is as open to slander as the phonograph is to
sound; and it is a “pitifnl thing” that this person,
with the voice of a mad bull, the tongue of a coal-
heaver, and the gentlemanly instincst of a pig-jobber,
should be permitted to scatter his venom broadcast on
civil servants who are powerless to reply. “ You’re not
game to say that outside the ’Ouse,” has often been the
hon. member’s cry when infuriated by meeting with his
match at slang-whanging. Well, what we ask is this :
“Would Mr. M'Elhone be‘game’—as he calls it —to
repeat what he uttered on Tuesday night in the As-
sembly, in his guise of a private citizen, outside that
classic building which he has immortalized by the ap-
pellation of the ’Ouse ?" In short: —
“ I cannot argue, that is true,”
Says Johnny M'Elhone;
“ But slanging—whoop 1 at that just you
Let M'Elhone alone.
Give him the ground-down artizan
On whom some clap-trap’s hanging.
And bet your life, now, Johnny can
Go ‘ lemons ’ at slang-whanging.”
Introduce us to your neighbour, and ask him to
subscribe.
Attention is specially directed to Mr. Magney’s
advertisement, in another column, respecting a select
picnic at that charming spot, Tennyson, on Anniversary
* Day.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
An Art Union is to be held in aid of the building
fund of St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Moody and Sankey are reported to have seriously
shaken the Salt Lake nolvf amists.
The bazaar in aid of the Sacred Heart (R.C.)
Schools, Darlinghurst, netted £lOOO.
The anti-Jewish movement in Germany is said
to be taking hold of the popular sentiment.
Rev. W. Lumsdaine resigns, and takes another
suburban incumbency at the end of the month.
The Abbe Bicherry, who acted as vicar to Pere
Hyacinthe, has retired to the Trappists’ Monastery to
seek pardon.
Rev. Darcy Irvine, of St. Nicholas’s, North
Goulbum, was thrown from his buggy last Sundaj, and
rather severely shaken.
Rev. George Daniel has been elected president
of the Wesleyan Conference at Melbourne by a
majority of thirty-two.
Dr. Philip Schaff, the Biblical scholar, is quoted
as saying that “ the Bible is not to be regarded as a
book so much as a force.’*
American missionaries are sheltering and
feeding 500 Mussulmans and Christian fugitives in the
mission building outside of Urumiah, Persia.
The first scholarship at Newington College is
the gift of Mrs. Schofield, and will be known as the
Schofield scholarship. It will consist of the interest of
£lOOO.
The Dean of Sydney was entertained at a social
meeting of his Sunday-school teachers and members of
the Bible classes, in the school-room, Pitt-street, on
Friday evening, 14th instant.
Archbishop Vaughan preached an eloquent ser-
mon on “ Education ” at Parramatta on Sunday, and
afterwards blessed the commodious infants’ school
recently erected in connection with St. Patrick’s
Church.
Mr. R. H. McDonald, of San Francisco, offers
£20,000 towards endowing a Christian University, on
condition that an equal sum shall be raised by the
Baptist, Presbyterian, Episcopalian, Congregationalist,
and Methodist denominations.
The Rev. R. T. Hills has annnounced his
resignation of the pastorate of the Congregational
Church, West Maitland. He has been pastor of
the church for nearly twenty years, and is highly
respected by all classes of the community.
The Wesleyan Conference commencedits sittings
at Adelaide on Tuesday. The Eev. J. B. Stephenson
was appointed president for the year. The retiring
president, the Rev. Mr. Burgess, said that Wesleyan
Methodism had progressed during the year.
On Sunday, 9th inst., the Rev. Thos. Kemmis,
of St. Mark’s, Darling Point, accompanied by six or
eight ladies, occupied the front seat in St. Patrick’s
(E.C.) Cathedral, Melbourne. Plumpton’s new mass
was rendered on the occasion. How’s that for High ?
At the close of the Eight Day Mission at St.
Jude’s Church, Eandwick, the parishioners made
handsome presentations, consisting of silver pocket
communion services, to the mission preacher, the Eev,
John Vaughan, and the incumbent, the Eev. Thomas
Wilson.
There are four archdeacons in the Church of
England in Victoria, only two receiving any salary, the
third being the Dean; and the fourth. Archdeacon
Stretch, draws his salary as administrator of the Bishop
of Melbourne’s Fund. Archdeacon Stretch’s salary is
£3OO, and he acts without payment as curate to the
Dean. The highest-paid archdeacon receives £450 a
year.
That accomplished and eloquent London (Angli-
can) preacher, Mr. Stopford Brooke, will in future
conduct ids services in Bedford Chapel—the Duke of
Bedford having extended his license—on a Unitarian
basis. He will use the liturgy of the Church of Eng-
land, with certain rather important exceptions. Mr.
Brooke has offered to return the money which his con-
gregation have paid in advance for sittings.
Bishop Colenao lives a very quiet, uneventful
life at Bishopstown, near Maritzburg. He is described
as elephantine in appearance, being almost seven feet
high, and of'massive frame. He wears a wide-brimmed
hat of the old-fashioned cut, and a long coat of thin
black material. He is regarded with awe and reverence
by the natives, who salute him as supreme or great
great chief. The Bishop is now sixty-six years old, but
retains his vigour of mind. One of his daughters acts
as his|amanuensis, and Kafirs, whom he has always be-
friended, are his printers.
Newington (Wesleyan) College, Stanmore, was
opened on Tuesday afternoon, in the presence of a most
influential assemblage. Sir George Wigram Allen oc-
cupied the chair. Amongst those present were : —Eev.
Messrs. Gaud, Wilkinson, B. Chapman, M’Credie,
Savage, B. Kenny, J. Oram, Sutherland, F. Tait, G.
Woolnough, W. Clarke, Dr. Kelynack, Dr. Steel, Dr.
Garran; and Messrs. H. Gorman, C. Byrnes, H. C.
Fraser, W. Davies, W. Henson, M.L.A.; J. Eoseby,
M.L.A.; J. Davies, M.L.A.; G. A. Lloyd, M.L.A.;
W. Thomas, Kiss, Eeed, T. Eowe, and the Mayor of
Sydney
At St. Stephens (C.E.), Rookwood, a special
sermon was preached last Sunday night by the Eev. W.
A. Phillips, on “ The Divine Origin, and perpetual ob-
ligation of the Christian Sabbath." The preachertook
for his text Mark 11, 27, “ And he said unto them, the
Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the
Sabbath.” As the above had been extensively adver-
tised during the week, there was a good congregation—
mostly “working men,’’ and they were especially
preached at: why, is best known to those who would
deprive them (the workers) of every kind of rational
enjoyment, outside church affairs.
The annual meeting for the election, by ballot,
of the Hebrew Philanthropic and Orphan Society will
be held at the Great Synagogue Chamoers, on Sunday,
the 23rd inst., at 10.30 a.m. precisely. The following
gentlemen have been nominated: —For President, Mr.
George Myers; Hon. Treasurer, Mr. H. E. Cohen;
Hon. Secretary, Mr. Hyman Isaacs. For directors,
eight to be elected—Messrs. I. J. Assenheim, A. B.
Simmons, S. Ackman, C. Netteim, H. Solomon, I. L.
Isaacs, Moses Moss, E. W. Myers, L. M. Levy, E.
Saber, W. Gotthelf, M. Barnett, Isaiah E. Cohen, B.
Braun, A. L. Nelson, A. Garcia, M. Menser, A. Myers,
C. Cantor. The first eight are members of the present
Committee.
“ What a wicked world this is ! ” George Coppin
and his talented young daughters give annually, down at
Sorrento, an entertainment in aid of the building funds
of the local church. A goodly sum has been handed
over —enough to build a porch, etc. The local clergy-
man, in a Christian-like manner, thus gracefully acknow-
ledges the services of Mr. and the Misses Coppin:—
“ I feel mere grieved than I can tell you that our church
has been so dishonoured as to have its name attached to
your play-bill. I pray that the Lord our God will bring
you all to understand these things as they are in the
light of His truth—a curse, instead of a bleseing.
Wishing this New Year may bring you and yours better
things than you are looking for, —I am, &c., A. Max-
wbll, Church of England.” Of a “terooth” Chadband
has come to Australia!
Herberton is a new township in Far Nor-
thern Queensland, and to it Father Hanley, a Catholic
priest, paid a visit about two months ago. An Irish-
man, who has been lucky in reefing, purchased, on the
occasion of the priest’s visit, an allotment, having on it
a bark humpy, for the sum of £9, and presented the
same to the priest in order that he might be enabled to
say Mass, and he received honourable mention from the
altar for his generosity. Exactly one week after the
priest left the Irish gentleman sold the identical bark
humpy and allotment to a lady for £ll, and the lady is
still doing a roaring business in it as shanty-keeper.
Father Hanley returned to Herberton a week after the
sale, and was much astonished, on going to his chapel,
at (finding the fair one behind a row of bottles. He
straightway accused her of having jumped his allot-
ment. but on hearing her statement he made for the
Irishman, whose only excuse for the shabby trick was
“ that he never had any thing given him for nothing.”
The priest, it may be observed, is a little man, and the
sometime philanthropist stands 6ft. 2in. The priest
said, “If I were only a little bigger, I’d roll into you,
you scoundrel, and give you a thundering good hiding.”
Thus have James Henessy and the Christian religion
fallen out.
An Elopement Prevented.
Her father was rich, and apparently of a somnolent
disposition. He kept a large emporium (no matter
what he sold) in one of our principal thoroughfares.
She was a little brunette, with large, dark Lalla
Eookh-like eyes, Her name was Johanna. Her form was
trim, and her costumes irreproachable. He, the pri-
tendu, served behind the counter. He had red cheeks
and curly leeks, and his paper collar was always of im-
maculate cleanliness. His intellect was small, but the
breadth of his chest unbounded. His ideas were
narrow, but the sole of his foot was broad. In short,
though magnificent physically, he was intellectually a
pigmy. Still she loved him. She knew not why, but
still she loved him. And the more she didn’t know why,
the more she loved him. He was a man of expansive
ideas. He loved her, the shop, the stock—everything—
especially the shop and stock. She used to trip in
about five; alighting from an elegant pony carriage
to see what time daddy was coming home.
“Daddy” was, generally, at that time, .asleep on his
office sofa. So the lovers used to have a jolly time—
while the customers foamed at the counter. Months
elapsed, and the year and their love increased together.
“ Fly with me,” one day he said; “ I have no gold,
but” — “Ah, what matter?” she ecstatically ex-
claimed ; “my father’s wealth is as boundless as the
circumambient waves of the ever-rolling ocean. Let us
wed: then, if he holds aloof, we can toil side by side,
and still” —(here she laid her cheek against his) —“be
happy.” This picture appeared to cause the bride-
groom some slight emotion, and a shadow passed for a
minute over his beefy—we mean beauteous —features.
“ We will fly,” he said, “ to-morrow night by the moun-
tain mail.” To thrust her parse into his hand, and to
murmur, “ Eudolph, adieu!” was but the work of a mo-
ment —and she was gone
With a rattle, a whistle, and a whoop, the train departed.
Ensconced in a first-class carriage were the run-aways.
She had brought all her jewellery, a stray soup-ladle or
two from the family plate-basket, and “ Pa’s ’’ last new
ulster for “her own precious.” The gentleman had
brought a carpet-bag with a yawning chasm in the
bottom, and one of the handles holding by four strings
of worsted. They travelled on —on through the stormy
night; now admiring the moon, now passing fervid
encomiums upon the starlit country. At the stroke of
midnight, that weird and witching hour, the train
steamed into the station of Mount Victoria. Here
they descended —he in her father’s ulster, she enveloped
in an ermine-lined travelling cloak. They glided towards
the refreshment-room in deep converse. Suddenly a
stout form touched Albert on the shoulder. He turned
round sharply, and beheld a figure wrapped up and dis-
guised. “ A word with you,” murmured the stranger.
Quitting his love’s arm, he followed his mysterious
interlocutor aside. There the figure undid its wraps,
and disclosed the fat form of the bride’s father.
“ Young man,” said the old gentleman, “ I ask you to
consider the feelings of a father.” But that touching
appeal didn’t move Albert to anything beyond taking a
bite out of an almond biscuit. The old gentleman gazed
upon the luscious edible, and recognised it as belonging
to the brand which he retailed; but he merely sighed,
and said nothing. After an effort, he continued—” I ask
you, then, to consider yourself.’’ The lover appeared
more struck with this entreaty than with the other.
Quickly producing a sheet of paper and a lighted travel-
ling lamp, the father said, “Bead that.” The lover did
so, and saw it was a copy of a bill of sale over the whole
of his effects, made over to that well-known Hebrew
financier, Eehoboam. What, all gone ? ” cried
Albert, huskily. “All,” repeated the father; “you
will not even have with my daughter her travel-
ling equipment, as I mean to take her luggage,
my property, back to Sydney.” So it ended in his
taking a fiver and going on, while the father clutchedhis
daughter end stayed behind. There were tears on her
side, and hoarse chuckles on the part of the old gentle-
man. And as they were travelling home next day, the
old man, flinging himself back on his cushioned seat,
laughed long and loudly. “ The rogue," he cried, “if
he only knew that I run the Eehoboam loan-shop
myself, and have a bill of sale over my own stock, how
wild he would be! * * * So Johanna still drives her
ponies about, a wiser little lady than she was; and he
is at present employed manufacturing a very fine
sample of road metal at Orange.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Hamburg Socialists go to America.
San Francisco mail delivered on Wednesday.
English mail arrived at Albany on Wednesday.
Many fires in Brisbane —but always on insured
premises.
The average attendance at the Melbourne
Exhibition to date has been 5172 daily.
p 0. Fysh and Co. own half the drapery
establishments in Hobart.
Skuthorpe fined only Is. for horsewhipping the
editor of the Western Champion.
The Hon. John Fraser has given =£soo to the
city of Sydney,to erect a drinking fountain.
It is not true that the Hongkong Government
deports its Chinese criminals to Australia.
There are many books belonging to the Free
public Library still unreturned. Prosecutions coming.
In future, the Mayor will only receive depu-
tations of citizens on Wednesdays, between 11 and 12.
Malietoa, the King of Samoa, is dead —and they
are fighting away harder than ever. The Consnls are
laid to 1)6 at 4116 bottom of this -
In a fire at the Royal Standard Hotel, New-
eastle. on Saturday night, an infant of 16 months was
terribly roasted about the head. It has since died.
A large quantity of putrid offal has been washed
on Bondi beach. However, this nuisance is to be abated
at once, more dessicating machines having been ordered
for the abattoirs.
The Johnsonian Club, Brisbane, have held their
apcond annual meeting. The report read showed the
Club to be in a prosperous state. Chief Justice Lilley
was elected President.
All difficulties in the way of acquiring the land
for the extension of the Randwick tramway line have
been removed. This week the work will again be
started and pressed on.
Citv Bank declared dividend of 10 per cent.,
which absorbs £12,000 out of £20,032 18s. 4d. Balance
stands to credit of profit and loss, and £5OOO goes to
the reserve fund, now amounting to £BO,OOO.
Mr. David Williams, of Ebury House, Glen-
more Road, collected £2B 10s. for the widow and or-
phans of the late Captain Murray, £l3 being paid to
Mr. Pnngle and £l5 10s. to Mrs. Murray herself.
Donald Munro, master of the steamer Fawn,
has been called upon to show cause why his certificate
should not be cancelled—he having been found guilty
by the Marine Board of running down a dingy, and
endangering the lives of those in it.
The Good Templars held their sports at Gympie
on Boxing Day. One of the brethren bought the right
of a luncheon booth, as a spec. It was a bad spec. All
the brothers and sisters brought their own lunches, and
ate them under the friendly shade of his booth. Let
brotherly love continue.
The new refrigerating apparatus ordered by the
Government trom England for the Glebe Island
Abbatoirs arrived by the steamship Chimborazo. The
machinery is the most extensive and on the most
improved scale that Bell and Coleman, the manu-
facturers and patentees, have made.
Mr. Mack, a Temora squatter, tried the question
of trespass by the watermen taking water from his
dams without paying. It was decided in Mr. Mack’s
favour. A meeting of watermen was held afterwards,
and it was decided, if they have to pay 6d. per cask, to
raise the price to 3s. The dams are falling rapidly.
When Tuhi, the Maori murderer of Miss Dobie,
was, on the night preceding his execution, impatiently
and restlessly pacing his cell, as though anxious for the
moment which should disclose to him the “great
secret," the attendant warder earnestly advised him
to take a little rest. “No matter,” replied the doomed
convict, “ I’ll have plenty of that to-morrow.
A benefit is to be given at the Masonic Hall, on
Tuesday night, in aid of the widow and orphans of a
man named Potter, who died suddenly at Burwood a
few days ago. His family have been left in very unfor-
tunate circumstances, and a few of the leading resi-
dents (Mr. John Bennett among the number), have de-
cided to assist in the manner above indicated. The
concert will be good, and the object a laudable one.
The appeal to the Privy Council of the Oriental
Bank, in the case of Robey and others v. Oriental Bank,
has been dismissed. In this case plaintiffs obtained a
verdict for £750 and costs, in February, 1878, against
which the Bank appealed to the Pull Court here for a
new trial, which was unanimously refused. Then they
appealed to the Privy Council, by whom it was dis-
missed. In. this case plaintiffs won every point, step
by step, yet it took three years to have the action
finally settled.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Betting 5 to 2 on Hanlan.
Detached squadron sent to Cape.
Explosion at Salford still a mystery.
Strong anti-Jewish feeling at Berlin.
Winter in Great Britain very severe.
Serious riot of colliers in Lancashire.
Increased activity among the Fenians.
46,000 coal miners on strike in Lancashire.
Mr. Shaw and party seceded from Parnell.
Earl Kimberley hopeful of pacifying the Boers.
Edinburgh militia barracks burnt down by
Fenians,
Amicable settlement of Greek frontier question
probable.
Mr. Gladstone again indisposed, but not
seriously.
Mr. Parnell admits that his object is autonomy
of Ireland.
Boers still actively aggressive; have captured
Christiana.
Existence of plot to massacre Europeans at
Kolapore positively denied.
Basutos defeated by British in neighbourhood
of Mosem and Deribe.
Greek frontier question to be referred to arbi-
tration of Great Powers.
General Skobeloff storming Geok Tepe, the
Turcomans’ stronghold.
Eumour that the Turcomans have defeated the
Russians in Central Asia.
Sir George Colley, Governor of Natal, arrived at
Newcastle, Natal province.
Mr. Parnell’s amendment on Address to the
Throne negatived by immense majority.
The idea of submitting Greek frontier question
to arbitration by Great Powers abandoned.
The Ritualistic clergymen, Messrs. Pelham Dale
and Enraght, released from prison. Chancery writs
were defective.
Messrs. Low and Kerr, the contractors, write o
saying that it is not a fact, as stated, that £40,000 is t,
he expended in paving the new buildings.
Parents in the country, where medical attend-
ance is not at hand, are frequently perplexed to know
what is the best family medicine to keep in the house
suitable for all casualties to which the flesh is heir.
We call attention to the advantage possessed in the
combination of a mild aperient and effectual physic,
not in the shape of a pill or bolus, but a lozenge, which
con be given at any time to the younger members of
the family. Extract from a letter from C.R.: —I never
knew a child refuse them.” Then keep a box of
Randerson’s podcphyllin lozenges by you, and when
once yon have tried them yon will never be without.
Ask for Eanderson’a lozenges. Is. per box.—Advt.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Southern Argus, Goulburn, has changed
hands, the present proprietors being Messrs. E.
O’Brien, P. A. Kenane, and James Locke. Rich
specimens are being obtained every day in No. 2 north
Lady Mary, Gympie. Some rich specimens got in the
Nicholls lease. The balloon ascent did not take
place at Granville on Wednesday, as announced; but
Mr. Nobbs and Alderman Henry Tucker Jones are
going to make an experimental ascent on Anniversary
Day in a captive balloon. A novel race is shortly to
come off at Bulli for £2O a side between a draper and
shoemaker. The latter will ride an intractable old
mule, while the former will take his seat on an ancient
black cow. stol on the draper. A large number of
very fine turkeys, etc., went from the Parramatta
station to Faulconbridge a few days ago. High time for
the Conference delegates. Granville is to be a muni-
cipality shortly. In next issue, we may tell who will
be first Mayor. Since our analysis of the Parramatta
River water last week, local business-men have sold
eight and forty filters. A man who was charged at
“ the Central” with being drunk the other day, asked
the bench to deal leniently with him, as he’d been
“ brought up for the church.” 20s. or two days.
The contract cost of the improvements to King’s-school
grounds, Parramatta, is £l4O. Rev. G. F. Macarthur
incurs the expense himself. His boys have a good deal
to thank him for. Great excitement exists in Careoar
at the present time as to who is to be Mayor. A fancy
goods warehouseman has been nominated as alderman,
but his chance of succeeding to the mayoralty is small,
the drawback being that he has no “ encumbrance” to
fill the high position of Lady Mayoress. A quad-
rille party takes place at the School of Arts,
Parramatta, on the 25th instant. Inspector Morriset
and sergeant Burke were fined at the Roma Police Court,
with the option of three days’ imprisonment, for assault-
ing a constable named Bowman, while removing him to
the lockup for drunkenness. A civil servant, a news-
paper reporter, a cab proprietor, a bookmaker, and a
billiardmarker played “ hazard ” in Brisbane lost week.
The metallieian lost considerably over a “century.”
The billiardmarker now proposes visiting the Melbourne
Exhibition. A movement is on foot to induce the A.
S.N. Co. to run a boat from Brisbane to Hobart direct,
for the convenience of excursionists. All the settlers
have left the MTvor and Coen country, in consequence
of outrages by the blacks. Two of the resident
staff of the Melbourne Hospital have been dismissed in
consequence of circumstances connected with the re-
cent death of a woman named O’Donnell. They refused
to sign certificates for interment on the ground that
the Committee had not allowed her the medical
comforts ordered by them (the residents).- —-Captain J.
R. Hughan, of the barque Girvan, of Ayr, died suddenly
at Rockhampton on Sunday, of apoplexy. The wreck
of the Hereford has been sold for £B6OO to Mr. Hugh
Thompson, of Elizabeth- street, Melbourne. Mr.
"William Chisholm, of Goulburn, N.S.W., having under-
gone the necessary examinations for the diploma, has
been admitted as an M.R.C.S. The Joint Stock
Bank, Grenfell, has purchased a splendid cake of gold,
which, with blanketings, weighed 3000z5., the result of
130 tons of quartz crushed from the Enterprise claim.
The Hogarth Meat-preserving Company commence
operations shortly at Toowoomba, Queensland.
Richard Hart, brother of the dead outlaw, has been
remanded from Echuca to Sandhurst, on a charge of
highway roberry. 91,000 bales of river-bome wool
have reached Echuca this season, being an increase of
7000 bales on the previous year.— —-The average attend-
ance at Sydney Grammar School during the year was
4071. The following message has been received from
Port Darwin: “ Eight men with twenty-two horses
arrived at Elery’s camp this morning from Queensland.
They report that Mr. A. Wallace and his stock are
camped at Nicholson River for the wet season, all well.”
£2oo has been cabled from Temora for the Parnell
Defence Fund. Very rich stone struck in Burke
and No. 1 Amalgamated claims. Upper Temora.
Last year’s yield of Braidwood goldfields, £30,000.
A pump is coming direct from Califernia by next mail
to pour water on the tops of the high auriferous hills
near Nerriga. Three cases of typhoid fever reported
from Parramatta district this week. The heavy rain-
fall has improved the public health there, and greatly
purified the fresh water river. Dr. Manning’s ably-
written pamphlet on the “Causation and cure of
Insanity” should be read by every adult. It gives clear
advice for the prevention of the greatest human
malady. There is at present in the Parramatta
Benevolent Asylum an old blind man who thirty years
ago was worth quite £50,000! Gambling and drink
were the factors of his present misery. He was an
associate of the celebrated “ Bill Nash." Many of
the Surry Hills streets are still in the condition in
which Captain Cook found them. Perhaps this
is the reason why Cook Ward was so named.
A big bacon factory is to be established at Mount
Gambier, S. A. Shane’s Park Hotel at South Creek is
built entirely of mud. Orchard-robbing is becoming
the larrikin amusement at Parramatta; and, as a
result, orchardists now load with coarse salt
instead of shot. The Parramatta butchers are
philanthropists. Two of them supply the public in-
stitutions with good meat at a loss of at least 15 per
cent. The prisoners and the paupers never had such
good times before. The shanty proprietors at
Gerogery do a roaring trade. Their bonded store is a
hollow log some miles in the bush. The boy is always
ready to start for the store when the last bottle gives
out. Mr. James Tonkin, the well-known landlord of
Tattersall’s Hotel, Bathurst, has been summoned for
allowing gambling in his house. As the bench were
divided in their opinions, no order was made. Mr.
Little, of Benalla, has a horse, aged 32J years, which in
the old days used to do the distance between Benalla
and Melbourne, 121 miles, in a day and a half, and
which even now can trot eight miles within the hour.
Proctor left for America by the last outgoing mail.
A new weekly, on the lines of The Bulletin, has been
published in Christchurch, New Zealand, under the title
Liberty. The publishers are Messrs. Willis and Le
Grove, a new firm of printers. Mr. Ivess’ paper is not
expected to be issued till February or March. A
monument is to be erected in New Plymouth, N.Z., to
the memory of Miss Dobie, who was murdered by the
Maori, Tuhi. The consumption of water at the
Melbourne International averages 500,000 gallons daily.
A company is to be formed with a capital, of
£300,000 for the construction of tramways in Melbourne.
The directory includes very influential men. The com-
pany will also undertake the construction of tramway
cars. A constable named Digby, and a lumper
named Frank Wright have been drowned by the up-
setting of a boat at the wreck of the Hereford.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“D. M‘F.”: Capital ; glad to hear from you.—
“T.H.D.” (Emerald Hill): Will write yon on the sub-
ject. “A Friend”: You’re an ungrammatical wolf in
sheep’s clothing. Haven’t you ever heard of the libel
law? “Caution”: Thanks; glad to receive letter.
However, advice is “ what everyone gives, what every-
one asks, and what very few take.” “ Ajax” (Braid-
wood): Rather too vague; might be troublesome.
“Lady Reader”: Will read your copy and decide.
“ Elite”: Nous ne comprenons pas. Murrurundi”:
See onr reply to “Jos.” in this issue. “S.A.P.”
(Brisbane): No; we don’t insert matter of the kind.
“ Jos.”: Most decidedly not. Were we to insert para-
graphs merely of interest to small coteries of readers,
we’d be taxing the many for the benefit (?) of the few.
The Bulletin is run on free-trade, not on protectionist
principles. “Naptha” (Carcoar): Thanks; but from
the fact that we print only one of your paragraphs you
will perhaps understand what class of information we
are not in need of. “ Subscriber ” (Adelong): Much
obliged. “R. 1.”; In such simple matters we expect
our correspondents to send name and address.
“C.G.M'G.” (Cullenbone): Capital. Glad to hear from
a correspondent whose lines smack so strongly of the
soil. “J.A.C.”: We don’t undertake to make or to
unmake matches. Chacun pour soi. We’re afraid that
our advice in the matter, even if given, would not be
valued. “Pandora”: We print the sporting
information; other unsuitable. “M. P.”: If you
send your name as evidence of honafides we’ll comply
with your request. “ Braidwood ”: Capital infor-
mation.
Mrs. Morgan, whose husband was killed a few
days ago, suffers from derangement of mind through
puerperal fever, not from domestic troubles, as was
inadvertently stated in onr last issue.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Civilians are quartered at Dawes’ battery.
New military rule for Sydney.—lnfantry adju-
tants, while in uniform, may smoke in the streets!
How is it that certain Government House people
set the law at defiance by gathering rock-oysters at
Cremorne ?
Mr. Gerard Krefft, the eminent naturalist, and
late curator of the Australian Museum, is, we regret to
hear, in indigent circumstances, and very ill.
On dit that the Editorship of the Evening
News, rendered vacant by the death of Mr. E. E.
Waters, has been offered to a clerical gentleman.
M‘Elhone has resigned his seat as an alderman
—it is said, because he thinks he can’t abuse people
properly at the Town Hall and at Parliament Houses
too.
The Davies and Lewis company, after playing
at Grafton, went to Rocky Mouth, and there broke up.
Davies afterwards joined the Empson family at Grafton.
The other members of the company (who include Miss
Amy Horton, Mr. E. L. Lewis, and Mr. Harry Con-
rales) are now in Sydney. As they are all good in their
several lines, they will doubtless soon be performing
again with success.
The Opera House re-opens its doors on Saturday
next, under new management, the novelty being Mr.
Tom Theodore’s operatic extravaganza, “Hero and
Leander, or Beneath the Sea.” It is to be produced
with entirely new scenery by our best artists, Setright
and Clint; and the whole will be under the special
supervision of Mr. J. A. South, the new lessee and
manager—to whom we wish every success.
They were coming home —mother and daughter
—coming home to, what was thought to be, a happy
reunion. * * * * There is a large steamer flashing
with its weird lights through the waters of the tropical
sea. There is on board a deadly stillness, broken only
by the sound of the propeller cleaving the phosphor-
eteent waters. * * * * There is a state-room in
which are two ladies —one young, the other elderly.
The elder is short, stately, and grey—the younger,
short, supple, and fiery. They converse: at the com-
mencement in low tones : then the mother endeavours
to calm her daughter. In vain. There is a cry of
alarm; there is a sigh of despair; there is the shriek
of a mad woman—and a lamp has been used as a deadly
weapon; and a grey head lies blood-dabbled on the
floor. The night winds sigh and ripple the waters of
the red sea; and yet amidst all the calm splendour of a
tropic night, a lady whose hair is whitened by the frost
of age lies stark dead upon the cabin floor. * * * *
And the letter merely came—“ died on the voyage. ”
It was done in this way. But never mind who
did it. The scene was an Orient liner, and she had been
about two days out. Well, about midday there came up
from the third cabin a passenger who sought audience
with the captain. “ I wish to change into the first
saloon,” said he. The captain gave him permission to
do so on payment of the difference in the passage
money. However, it was found he had no ready money.
Then he said he had goods on board; but the manifest
disclosed none. “Well, no matter,” said he, “ I will
give you my diamond ornaments as security.” The
captain agreeing to this, he handed over the jewellery
and blossomed into all the magnificence of a first-class
passenger. On the ship arriving in port the skipper
requested the passenger to cast up. This not being
done, said the captain, “Well, then, I shall have to
sell your jewellery.” The passenger received the threat
with such an amount of nonchalance that the mariner
was quite taken aback. When, however, a few days
later he found that 7s. 6d. was all a jeweller would offer
for the property he understood the reason of his
passenger’s composure. And now it’s quite on the cards
that we shall hear a little —perhaps a great deal —more
about the “first-class” passenger. Everyone should
look to the daily papers— of the other colonies, of
course—for information.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
BY SHANGHAI.
Unfortunate Captain Fowler, who brought out
the Sorata, did not, it appears, want to come, but was
told that he, being one of the ablest commanders in the
Orient line, must go, as some celebrities—to wit, the
Duke of Manchester and Mr. Joseph Clarke—wore to
sail in the ship. So at least says Joe, but he is so fond
of a joke that it is quite possible he was cracking one
when he uttered this.
All out here have heard of poor Aspinall, but
not all have heard of this bon mot of his. He was
invited to go into the Athenaeum Club one night. He
objected. His friend pressed him. He still objecting,
his friend asked for the reason. The answer came
tritely—“Oh, I don’t care about pubs.” “But this is
not a pub.,” remonstrated the friend. “ Well,” replied
the wit, “is it not the Dew-drop-in’.” The children of
Israel did frequent the place.
It is authoritatively stated that the Hon. W. J.
Clarke intends going home shortly, and remaining there
for some years. Apart from the loss to the country of
so nobly representative a man, there will not be a little
wailing and weeping among the very many poor fami-
lies towards whom he acts the Good Samaritan with a
liberality almost beyond credence. It is not an un-
common thing to see his breakfast table adorned with
some dozens of letters of application for “ the needful,”
and very few are disappointed. Would that there were
more like him!
There is a wealthy resident of this colony who
is famous (or notorious) for his predilection for shabby
clothes. When asked one day why he indulged in so
peculiar a “ fad,” his answer was that it made no dif-
ference, as he was well known. The same individual
was afterwards met in London dressed in equally
squalid garments. When remonstrated with on the
subject, his reply was, “ Oh, no one knows nre here.”
This worthy was never at a loss for a suitable answer,
and it was through this gift that he was enabled to
dummy land and rob the country.
Starting public-houses with “fetching” bar-
maids as hostesses is generally done by brewers and
wine and spirit merchants, but here we have a well-
known millionaire who has not a few houses going at
his expense. Indeed, he has become so well known in
this line that once a girl fastens him with her angelic
eye, and he falls under the spell, she is made —so far as
hotels go. The rest is silence!
Complaints have been made that the decision of
the judges in the Pine Arts section of the Exhibition
are not in accordance with the merits of the pictures
shown. Can this be wondered at when the appoint-
ments are made thus: A creature with local political
influence wants to see his name as a judge, or some
such thing, at the Big Show, and, to secure this,
buttonholes his member. The member, bearing in
mind the tap-room influence of his constituent, applies
for the asked-for honorable position. Only one vacancy
happens to exist. It is in the Fine Arts section, and
forthwith the man of ambition, not art, figures as a
judge of paintings. Hence results. Poor artists !
When the Victoria Amateur Turf Club was
started, some few years ago, the subscription was fixed
at £25, and a knight, who owns his hundreds of
thousands of jumbucks, was asked, of course, to join this
aristocratic sporting circle. He declined on the ground
that the subscription was too high for his means—mean-
ness. A year or two afterwards the subscription was
reduced to £5. He then put up as a member, but —oh !
ye gods, listen ! —was pilled, and mainly, it was said,
through the instrumentality of his own nephews, two
well-known “ young bloods.” But he “wam’t” going
to be done out of visiting the next races of the Club,
and as he could not get in as a member, he went as one
of the suite of that quondam, most accommodating
Governor of ours. Sir George Plausible Bowen. Then
he not only saved his subscription, but his grand-stand
entrance money (the extravagant sum of 10s.) And by
such noble specimens of humanity are we represented
in our high places. Weep for us, Mr. Editor, but do
not gnash your teeth over so much worthless clay.
The times, journalistically speaking, being stale
and flat, the Argus has encouraged in its columns for
some days now a precious discussion on “ The Atone-
ment.” The multiplicity of views put forward upon
this question is almost incredible. The public has
been treated to so many shades of thought that a
chameleon would feel puzzled, and the affair has only
gone to prove what Dean Swift said about the difference
between orthodoxy and heterodoxy—that the! former
was one’s own doxy, while the latter was every one
else’s doxy. One view of the question, however, has
not appeared—viz., whether man is destined to
perdition or not. It is certain, according to the so-
called correct thinkers, that a vast majority must seek
the shades of Hades; that is, if there can be such a
thing as shade in so brilliant a quarter. But some of
the most prominent thinkers of the day maintain that
it is an anomaly to say that the God of Love can act in
this manner. Perhaps you can get up a discussion in
your midst, with a view to ventilating this vexed
question. I pass.
The cricket match between your and our Uni-
versities was a dreadful fiasco, your representatives win-
ning with ridiculous ease. The only men on our side
who played at all were Moule and Scott, the latter of
whom distinguished himself as a bowler in an Inter-
colonial match some two or three years ago, but on this
occasion he was unable to trundle owing to a sprained
knee. There was some superb fielding shown by our
boys, most of whom were evidently under the impres-
sion that it was not the correct thing to allow the ball
to remain in their hands when it came in their direc-
tion. Certainly, we could not play such men as Donald
Campbell and Dan Wilkie, but had we done so, it would
not, I think, have altered results. Coates showed that
marriage had not effected his vitality or his sight; he
hit away in a merry manner to some effect, as the
score testifies.
As Mrs. Langtry, besides being a “ fashionable
beauty,” is well known to common fame. I’ll tell
you how she came on to the swell platform. She and
her husband—poor man —were shopping one day in
London, when they met Lord Londesborough, who was
a schoolmate of the male Langtry. His Lordship was
struck with the beauty of his schoolfellow’s wife,
and being a kind of fisher of such things for H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales, he got the innocent couple
asked to an “At Home ” at Marlborough House, and
introduced them to the heir to the English throne. As
a matter of course, the heir in question, who has got a
fine eye for womankind, became quite captivated—
Platonically, of course. From that moment the quiet
“Jersey Lily,” the wife of a gentleman with £lOOO a
year, began to reign as Queen of Fashion, which post
she still holds despite very severe competition. I
would like to know what the “Beauty’s” garments
cost, and whether her husband pays his bills regularly.
This is a strange world, my masters !!
A sensational wedding takes place in your city
next month. In Geelong there resides an old gentleman
who, it is expected, will “cut up” for something like
a quarter of a million, and who gave to his eldest son,
when the latter came of age a few years ago, a valuable
station. The young fellow has for some time past
devoted much attention to the turf, has won several
important races, but having had “his fling” and dis-
covered that
“ Sport’s like life, and life’s like sport—
It ain’t all skittles and beer,” —
has just sold his racehorses, determined to attend to
his more serious duties to himself and his country, and
“settle down.” He disposed of his station the other
day for a splendid figure—about £85.000, —and will be
wedded to the girl of his choice early in February at
Sydney. The fair one comes from a well-known city
establishment where
“ Ever the laugh is loud around.
And the lamps are bright above.”
In other words, she is, or rather was, a barmaid, and, by
the way, kept a well-known and respectable little hos-
telrie in Melbourne about a year ago. She is a hand-
some girl, who stands sft. 9in., is an accomplished horse-
woman, and has often appeared to advantage in the
hunting field on mounts lent to her by admirers from
among the sporting community, with whom she is a
universal favourite. There are, of course, many who
grudge her her luck; but, on the other hand, I may tell
you that there is more than one wealthy young Vic-
torian who envies the bridegroom-elect, and is of opinion
not only that a woman, if true to herself, may adorn
even the position of a barmaid, but that a girl of
splendid physique, plenty of pluck, business ability,
and irreproachable character, is jnst the wife for a
young fellow who lives most of his life in the bush,
especially if he happens to have some Norman blood in
him. She is now in Sydney, living privately at one of
your big hotels, and will leave with her husband by
next month’s Californian mail.
The barmaid, who is often either the cause of
making a man marry or preventing him from getting
married, is socially much dreaded in Melbourne.
During the past few years several scions of leading
families have taken to themselves barmaids for better
or worse—among the number, a well-known young
professional man, erstwhile a bright particular star in
the cricket field. His wedding created a deep sensation
in fashionable circles.
Talking about barmaids reminds me of a little
incident which may serve to point at least one
moral. A year or two ago a girl employed behind
the bar of a licensed house which in this city is the
chief resort of literary and other professional men, and
who by her gentle manner rather than by her appear-
ance had made herself popular with her patrons, died.
The poor girl, it afterwards transpired, had formerly
been a “nursery governess,” but had grown tired of
being treated as a domestic servant while acting osten-
sibly in quite another capacity. She, as might have
been expected, left no money, not even enough to bury
her. A young professional man took the matter in
hand, and in a few days collected among the habitues of
the place nearly £3OO, £2OO of which was remitted to
the girl’s old mother in England, and the remainder
spent in interring her remains and in erecting over her
grave in the Melbourne cemetery a plain marble cross.
But there he barmaids and barmaids. A few
months ago a young fellow, the near relative of a most
popular Australian governor, arrived in this colony.
He was rich, childish, and handsome—that is to say he
was of a girlish rather than of a manly type of beauty.
He got into company with a remarkably fascinating
woman who was sometimes a barmaid. He became
dissolute —and in consequence dissolved. There is a
strange story—strange but true—of the circumstances
under which he met his fate. Suffice it to say that he
did not die a drunkard’s death. The woman, in whose
favor he made his will, which involved about £9OOO, has
received the money and is now proprietress of an hotel,
round which there flicker other gilded moths. And
thus the world goes round.
Perhaps all the readers of The Bulletin
don’t know that there lives in Melbourne a lady—and a
charming one too —whose hand (and, let us hope, her
heart) was disposed of by raffle some years ago. Briefly,
the facts of the case are these: —She was the daughter
of a widow in poor circumstances, but she was a fasci-
nating girl, and had numberless rich suitors. She was
a flirt of the most pronounced order, and smiled upon
all alike. When a man asked her to marry him she
didn’t decline. On the other hand, she didn’t consent,
but allowed him to walk off in that happy state of mind
wherein a man estimates his chances according to the
state of his liver. She often said “ good-bye ”to a
lover, but never “ adieu.” Well, several of the afore-
said suitors, after eyeing and dodging each other for a
long time, saw that, so far as direct negotiations with
the girl herself were concerned, it was “ no go,” and
bethought themselves of the old couplet—
" He who would a daughter win
Must with the mother first begin.”
They severally interviewed the old lady on the subject.
Then it became pretty plain that the mother, whose
daughter was in business and was her principal support,
had a keen eye to the “ main chance.” Three of the
suitors, Hebrews, were not long in “grabbing” the
difficulty. They met, talked the matter over in a com-
mercial way, agreed to put down £5OO apiece, and to
play one round of “ Yankee grab ” for the total amount
—the understanding being that the winner was, in the
first place, to consider himself entitled to the girl, and,
in the next, that he was to pay over the £l5OO to her
mother —not in exchange for her daughter, you know,
but merely that she might not be in any way embar-
rassed by the proposed marriage. Well, only one could
win. One did win, pressed his suit on the substantial
basis above alluded to, was accepted, and got married.
The unsuccessful pair are, it is said, still bachelors. If
the latter statement is true —and let us hope it isn’t—
we trust that the successful man will never gloomily
moralise on the saying that “ marriage is a lottery,”
and exclaim, like the survivor of poor Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s “Three Friends :”
“ These.two were slain that I might kiss
Her sweet mouth: I did well.
I said— ‘ There is no greater joy
For those in Heaven that dwell!”
I lost her, and I said—* There is
No deeper pang in hell.’ ”


BRIEF MENTION.
The Pet of the Elections—Reid for East Sydney.
As the Waters came in, alas ! the Waters flowed
out.
White slavery—The labour of the Sergeant-at-
Arms.
Essence of Moriarty.—A Darling Harbour per-
fume.
Thames frozen! That’s an ice reason for post-
poning the race.
“ The Adelaide Coffee Tavern shows a loss of
£230 for six months.”
There is a good deal of Masonic bickering going
on at Campbelltown.
By way of novelty, the Toowoomba Amateur
Minstrels are playing Slocum’s Dog.
What is wanted at the Eveking office —
A little more oiling of the human machinery.
Deeds of grant shouldn’t be kept at Government
House awaiting signature for more than two months.
“ Our sacred carcase,” says the editor of the
Temoba Herald, writing of his own symmetrical form.
The railway station-master at Bethungra weighs
twenty stone. He rides a borrowed horse to kangaroo
hunts.
A visitor to Gympie says it is a place teeming
with goats, cows, and girls. It is verily a land of milk
and honey.
It’s wonderful how history repeats itself. The
Northern Queensland snake story has, at last, got
round to the Mudgee Independent.
Says the Penny Thakombau “ Sydney is
threatened with another so-called comic paper.” More
opposition for the evening papers, eh p
The Protestant Standard’s mind is evi-
dently running on Bathurst, for it calls the New
Ireland speculator “ the Marquis de Roe.”
The Parramatta Civil servant who, in loud
tones, offers Government billets to his friends in the
train, is considered to be of weak intellect.
A man named “Pike” has got the Newcastle
Coffee Palace. We know institutions of a similar
nature where “Pluck ” is the ruling spirit!
The death-rate at Darlinghurst Gaol is increas-
ing. In connection with the mention of this fact, we
have to add that Bertrand is hospital dispenser !
Since our par. last week about the benevolent
Anglican clergyman at Parramatta, all the parsons in
that town are hunting up paupers, and giving them
relief.
Mr. David Scott, the eminent photographer, has
produced a splendidly-finished portrait of Mr. Alder,
man Lees, C.M.G.—not of Mr. Lees as he is, but as he
ought to be.
Under the heading of “ Hurley v. Ourselves,”
the Fourpennt M’Quven announces:— •* J. A. Thomas,
Cow Flat, Is." It’s wonderful how the rev. Doctor’s
friends stick to him.
A correspondent writes enquiring whether the
cylinders of the Nowra bridge have come to a standstill
yet, or whether the engineers are still watching them
from the liver banks.
Alfred wrote the other day in the Jumble—
going very slowly over the stones—“ The Town and
Country Journal This week Contains My Love,”and he
has been in a perspiration ever since.
An exchange remarks It is said that there is
an M.L.A. who patronises a six-penny cook shop.”
Now, what member would have so little re-garrd for
himself as to so far sacrifice his legislative dignity ?
The other day Canon Handfield, of Melbourne,
baptized a young lady of 3J years. When sprinkled
with water she didn’t seem to relish the liberty, and
said do the parson, “If oo do dat again I will kick 00. I
will.”
Mr. Ninian Melville, M.P., was observed on
Saturday last sunning himself in Nicholson, the
tailor*s, doorway. The spirit of prophecy is strong
upon us, and we see a new shiny banger looming in the
distance.
A man was admitted into the casualty ward of
the Infirmary the other day, suffering from injury to
his jaw. We understand that he had been trying to
pronounce the name of the Chief Justice of Western
Australia.
King-street in the past was the paradise of the
peris of the pavi. In the future, when the building
improvements in that locality are completed, it will
again be an “Arcadian” region for the nymphs re-
ferred to.
The Newcastle Herald reports a robbery of
bees. If there be any truth in the adage about con-
science’s sting—that, added to the sting of the bees,
must cause the unfortunate purloiner some slight
uneasiness.
A well-known Gympie boot-maker, returning
from the funeral of one of his children, was met by
a woman, who asked him where he had been. Oh!
replied he, “I’ve just buried a child—how did those
goloshes fit you ? ”
Two pigs walked into a Gympie parson’s garden.
The parson let them know that they were intruding by
sticking a pitch-fork into them eight or nine times.
Yet some people find pleasure in seeing poor horses
whipped and spurred round race-courses.
A Blank-street “going-gone” man, who is
high in the world, and between whom and heaven
there is not much when he doffs the beaver, may be
seen daily doing the Park, a gracefully-twirled cane in
one hand, and in the other a bottle of —milk.
The Orient Company will not allow its steamers
to berth alongside any wharf in Sydney, lest they should
“smell the ground" (French nautical expression).
The Company prefers to “ take ” the ground outside
the Heads, for it is thus enabled to strike an “ aver-
age.”
Mr. Sykes has been appointed organist at the
Melbourne Exhibition, and simultaneously with the
a working-man writes complaining that
one shilling is too high a charge for admission. Pos-
sibly he wishes the entrance money reduced to Sykes-
pence.
It is only about six or seven years since the
Argus wrote down Sir Arthur Gordon, in the interest
of Joshua Brothers, when he was Governor of Mau-
ritius. Why this determined change of front? It
would be interesting to compare their articles—then
and now.
A writer in the Melbourne Herald ingenu-
ously observes:—“As a first believer in the encourage-
ment of native industries, so far as they merit support,
it is my practice to drink colonial wine.” We should
be glad to print the excuse given for drinking “ long
colonials.”
A Cootamundra man has a large, tail-less New-
foundland dog. When the owner went to the Palmer, he
and the dog were lost in the bush for several days. Both
were hungry. The biped chopped off the quadruped’s
tail, cooked it for dinner, and gave poor “Nero” the
bone to pick.
Ten thousand a year, by the death of an uncle,
is the income of a man in the northern districts of this
colony who, the other day, advertised for a married
couple “to assist in housework, and make bread and
butter.” Salary about £25 a year, we suppose, and find
your own flour.
Mr. Howell, the Adelaide jailor, is a great poet,
or rather, a poet who writes a greet deal “for private
circulation. He contemplated bringing out a volume
once, but he was at a loss for a title. So he went to
Ebenezer Ward for advice, and that gentleman sug-
gested “ Howell’s Howls.” The book never came out.
The meeting at the Civil Service Hotel, with
reference to the starting of a Press Club, was attended,
we are informed, by two advertisement canvassers and
a sporting tout, who was unanimously voted to the
chan-. Only one resolution was submitted to the meet-
mg-that of taking a drink at the landlord’s expense—
and it was carried unanimously. On this the assem-
blage filed down stairs with alacrity, and all that
remains to mark that brilliant meeting of the literati is
a busted ” paper collar, which the owner can have on
application to the genial boniface.
An old Cullenbone shepherd finds that by
patching his trousers when wearing same he has sewn
garment, skin, and all together. And yet you will find
people pooh-pooh Darwin’s theory.
A certain squatter in the Wide Bay district (Q.)
is so eminently pious that he objects to have “ Sweet
Spirit, hear My Prayer ” sung in his house, because it
is from the opera of Lurline. Yet he was “bowled
out,” the other day, in cheating a servant over a pair
of boots bought by him on the latter’s account.
The Melbourne correspondent of the Hamilton
Spectator says that the authorship of the snobbish
articles on Melbourne and Sydney which recently
appeared in the Bombay Gazette is attributed to a
literary failure named Austin, whom Eobert Browning
castigates most stingingly in one of his recent poems.
Melbourne justice. — A man put his hand through
a pane of glass, and then caught hold of an unfortunate
woman’s arm, and dragging it through the aperture
made in the glass, deliberately tried to saw it, J acerating
the arm in a frightful manner, and subjecting the poor
woman to great agony. And he was jined five pounds !
The Heeald of Monday, in a leading paragraph,
distinctly states that the Fenians were connected with
the attempt to blow up Salford armoury, while in the
same issue there is a cablegram stating that the affair
is a complete mystery to the police authorities at home.
Now, we always thought the Herald was too “ thick ”
with these Fenians.
We have received a handbill from a resident
of Carcoar, which contains a rigmarole about some-
thing which has appeared in the Carcoar Chronicle.
We shouldn’t have noticed the placard, only that it
was sent to us done up in an old Herald supplement—
and unstamped. Some people would call this defraud-
ing the Government.
He had been up all night at Punch’s corner,
awaiting news of the Laycock and Hanlan boat-race.
We’ll not stop to say whether or not he was a corn-
stalk. When at last the news came out that the race
hadn’t come off, in consequence of the ice on the river,
said he: “ Hah ! Olengland—that’s plhash yer can lift
th’ ice out of the riversh into the pnbsh—shthraight!’’
A splendid chance for Riley Brothers! The
World says: “ I hear that Messrs. A. and F. Pears,
the well-known soap manufacturers, have offered the
Government to print gratis the whole of the forms
required in taking the forthcoming census returns,
with permission to have the advertisement of Pears’
soap printed on the back. About eight million forms
will be required.”
Writing to the S. M. Heeald on Jan. 4, Mr.
George Martyr, of Goulburn, makes the somewhat
extraordinary assertion that “in the Land Office at
Goulburn lately a man over 70 years of age had to ride
about four hundred miles to make five additional
conditional purchases, and this is not a solitary
instance." This feat of riding 400 miles in a court-
house deserves notice.
A Wild River (N.Q.) correspondent writes,
saying that Christmas in his district passed off merrily
—“plenty of drinking and an equal amount of good
order.” He adds: “ Good grog never hurts; it merely
stimulates and brings out the best side of those who
use it, and by what I see, the grog is good here."
Whether or not grog is good is all a matter of taste.
We never before heard that there was any specially
good grog in the Far North,
The Wallsend correspondent of the Newcastle
Herald is a rather facetious individual. Here is a
specimen of his wit:—“A very strange circumstance
came under my notice to-day. When I saw the red flag
flying for both Wallsend and Co-operative colleries, I
was almost struck comical!!” For the Wallsend cor-
respondent of the Newcastle Herald to be “ struck
comical” is, we are quite willing to believe, a very
strange circumstance indeed.
One morning during the holidays the skipper of
a crowded Lane Cove steamer unavailingly remonstrated
with six larrikins, who were using bad language.
Losing his patience, he seized one of them, whereupon
the others “ pitched into ” him. Suddenly three
Jesuit Fathers from the Lane Cove College calmly got
up, toek off their coats, waded in, and calmed the row.
Then they put on their coats again, and sat down to the
surprise of the said larrikins.
A Civil servant resident at Parramatta plain-
tively informs us that the 5 25 train from Sydney, in
which three distressed officials are conveyed daily to
their country seats, is detained from four to six
minutes at the Junction for the Southern train to pass.
He says this is a very hard case, as the C.S’s. are ali
anxious t® get home to dinner. Fancy detaining our
official slaves six minutes from their dinners ! " The
Government should see to this if a hideous disgrace is
to be averted.
When you issue a publication at a small price,
give another in with it; present the purchaser with a
lottery ticket, a portrait of the editor, a fore-quarter of
lamb for his Sunday’s dinner, toys for his children, and
a tray for his mother-in-law, and then they won’t roll
up with their little bit of good “gilt;” it is almost
time for the proprietor to order roimi his donkey, and
seek lands where his “enterprise" will receive a better
return at the hands of a periodical-reading and lamb-
devouring public.
Edwin Browne is playing Myles-na-Coppaleenin
the “ Colleen Bawn,” at Gympie. This is how the
Miner criticises the performance:—"Mr. Hesford as
Danny Mann acted in his usual manner, and those who
are acquainted with that gentlemans (sic) acting need
not be informed that it was done in a very painstaking
and effective wanner Mr. Tyrrell as Kyrle Daly acted
in his nsual careful and unassuming manner. Mr. Inglis
as Hardress Cregan rendered the character in a very
creditable manner." A little more of this, and we
should be almost as tired of manner as were the peri-
patetic Children of Israel.
A man was fined <£3 for wasting water, at the
Police'.Court, on Thursday; however he didn’t mind that
much. But when he got soaking wet through, going
home, then the iron entered his soul.
Sir A. Kennedy, Governor of Queensland, at
balls and dinners given by him, has all the labels washed
off the champagne bottles. And, by the way, what’s
the name of the Sydney millionaire who gives parties,
and the other day purchased the big shipment of
damaged “ fizz ?’*
A Scotch grazier from the New England district
entered a fashionable tonsorial saloon last Friday
morning. Lifting up his finger, he addressed the at-
tendant solemnly thus: “If ye draw the bluid, I’ll no
pay.” The attendant carefully gave him three good
gashes, and paid for the shave himself.
The Campbelltown Heeald says : —“ The
Bulletin is better than ever. It improves every week.
No flash in the pan, and then a collapse. For 3d. you
get full value.” Now just before reading this we were
on the point of writing the same thing about the
Campbelltown Herald. Isn’t it odd ?
In the T. and C. Jotjenal there is now run-
ning a tale called “My Love.” Alfred advertises that
he paid £5OO for the copyright. Now if he gave £5OO
for “ his love," all we can say is that it was more than
the current price. We really cannot pardon a man who
“ bulls" the market in this way. Some people have
more money than sense.
We have received a pamphlet—the Schedule of
Prizes of the Hunter Kiver A. and H. Association.
This is a thrilling volume, and will be greatly admired
by the prize recipients. It is printed by Mr.
Dimmook, West Maitland, and the way it is got up
would astonish any leading London printer. They
couldn’t send out anything like it.
A certain new member of the Upper House is so
dyspeptic that after partaking of food he invariably
falls asleep. His servants, therefore, have to walk him
about for a couple of hours, otherwise he would sleep
for two days. After this mechanical perambulating he
takes his place in the Legislative Council, looking as
fresh —and as full-blown—-as a summer rose.
A man under the influence of drink endeavored
to commit suicide on Monday evening, by throwing
himself in front of an approaching tram motor. The
motor was brought to a standstill before it reached him,
and he is now in the hands of the police. The
motorive for the rash act is unknown. [The author of
the above needn’t trouble further, but keep to writing
for the evening papers. —Ed. B.]
Milner Stephen has been writing to the Age,
giving that paper a dosing respecting some remarks
made by it anent the lady who acts as his
secretary. Mr. Stephen says that he “will not set any
of said newspaper man’s bones should the latter unfor-
tunately ‘ come in contact with the lady’s young and
athletic husband.’ ” This sounds like a threat. We
trust that the reporter is also “young and athletic.”
It is said that the Sydney Morning Herald
office is being enlarged and renovated, and a large
quantity of the latest and most improved printing ma-
chinery is being fitted up. But no extra brains are
(xarran-teed in the contract.
The Mcjdgee Independent calmly observes :
—“ Prince Roland Bonaparte has married the daughter
of Louis Cliquot, who is the proprietor of a gambling
establishment.” Now this item is rather rough on
Mdlle. Blanc, the real wife of Prince Roland. Such a
statement may be calculated to cause her Highness a
considerable amount of pain. We do not presume, of
course, to enquire into Mr. A. G. Taylor’s motives for
writing the par. We trust, however, that Madame la
Princesse has not been getting behindhand with her
subscription to the Mudgee Independent.
The dramatic critic of a new sporting venture
writes:—“There has been scarcely any perceptible
diminution of the audiences at the Gaiety Theatre
since I last wrote, and * Quilp * has become even a
more assured success than I, from the stage box, pre-
dicted at first." What enquiring millions are howling
to know now is, when and how often he goes, and which
stage box he honors with his presence. Anyhow, it’s
bad form to keep harping on the stage-box delusion,
because it makes people think that you’ve always been
used to the pit.
A Gulgong young man the other day delivered
his maiden speech, which was duly reported in the
local paper. However, the Thunderer was so badly
printed that what purported to be the oration was in
several places as illegible as a poundkeeper’s brand-
book. The young man, who had bought a dozen copies
to send to his friends, availed himself of the blank
spaces to make the “points" understood by means of
pen and ink. Next morning the editor served him with
a summons therefor. This young man now regards
editors and policemen first favourites for anything
mean.
Mr. Bowman, the Victorian M.L.A., “appeared
at the Highland Society’s gathering in Maryborough
on Saturday, togged out in full Highland suit —bonnet,
kilt, and all. The device was too transparent. Mr,
Bowman is not a Scotchman, but Scotch votes are to
be won by a little fostering of patriotic pride, and so
the hon. member figured as ‘braw’ in his plumage as
the gayest of them all."
He dressed up like a snuff-shop sign.
The canny Scots to please;
He got their votes by that cute line—
But caught cold in his knees.
The Wellington (N.Z.) Chronicle is dead.
The getting out of the final issue was the occasion of a
free fight amongst the proprietary, the air of the ma-
chine-room being darkened at one time by flying hair
and discharges of brevier. One of the literary staff
received such a bombardment with pied stamps from an
irate editor, that when, in the bosom of his family, he
removed his shirt, his good lady found about 25
columns of prose and verse indeliably imprinted on his
back and shoulders. The young man himself ling signi-
fied to his friends that he thirsts no more for literary
glory, and he is believed to be sweetening-up the way
for a billet as driver of a corporation cart. After seeing
so much dust raised, he wants to lay some.)
We like, in a mild way, to encourage colonial
industries. That is why, last week, we gave the
Barwon Argus Almanac a turn. Well, this week, we
have received the Mudgee Independent one, and we
have been lost in wonderment ever since. It is printed
in mauve ink, with a jobbing-rule border ornament at
tke four corners, and striking representations of the
cabbages grown by the editor of the Independent’s
celestial purveyor. The appearance of the sheet is,
therefore, peculiar, and we consider that a constant
contemplation of it would drive a man to commit any
crime. If, as our friend “ the giraffe ’’ intimates,
these almanacs have been “ largely circulated ” in the
district, an exceptionally heavy 11 calendar” may be
consequently looked for at next Mudgee assizes.
Could ‘ ‘ The Vagabond ’ ’ have caught all the
“Is that afflict him from the Argus ? Book how he
writes in his “Circular Notes” to the Newcastle paper—
“ I remember that before I left Melbourne I was over
the clothing factory of Messrs. Gray Bros. The
material used there are all of colonial fabrication, and
I was so much pleased with what I saw that I was
measured for several travelling suits.” Now, what
kind of “form does our good friend Julian consider
this, we wonder ? What, in thunder, does the general
public care about the “ Vag.’s” slops ? Besides, it is
generally the case that when a man talks about the
extent of his wardrobe, his outfit consists of a spare
pair of spare pants and a box of paper collars. But
we’ve been that way ourselves.
All people who live near Sydney are quite friendly
even when they differ in politics. Here is an instance:
A leading tradesman, owning a large factory,
actively opposed the present member for a
suburban constituency at the late election. Trades-
man is proprietor of a large block of land, right
in the centre of which is a small square piece
belonging to the Government. There is no way to
this piece except through Tradesman’s allotment,
three or four weeks after election. Tradesman receives
letter from Government ordering him to at once “ hand
over to the proper officer,” etc., the “ portion of land
herein ret erred to,” which Tradesman has held twenty
years, but which isn’t worth £5, and can’t be “re-
sumed” without spoiling Tradesman’s valuable lot.
Local residents are now curious to know wbo set the
official machinery in motion. We think we could say.
only the damages might be £250 or so.
Writes Viator:—“The Nowra bridge having
now become a matter of history as the gigantic bungle
of the day, I would call attention to another glaring
bungle a little nearer home. For about two years the
Bail way Department have been endeavouring to
erect a structure over the railway lines at Darling Har-
bour, and although assisted by a great array of talent,
their combined efforts have failed to surmount the diffi-
culties incidental to such a gigantic undertaking. It
now stands a heterogenous, structureless mass, repul.
sive to the eye—imported and colonial workmanship
most inharmoniously blended together; in fact, it could
only be designated a bridge by a stretch of the imagi-
nation or courtesy to its projectors. It seems to have
no definite purpose—to start from nowhere, and finish
there also. The cost of this structure will rather
astonish ordinary mortals, and in all probability 1881
will have grown old before the master mind can say it
is finished.” J
A few Sundays ago, at Wallerawang, two
strangers were noticed suddenly to leave their pew in
the Scotch Church on hearing the whistle announcing
the arrival of the goods train from Sydney. Thinking
they were taken ill, or merely shirking the plate, the pew
opener followed, to see them commence (oh, horror i) to
unload some rather dilapidated-looking sheep from the
trucks. All were got out save one, which had been
nearly smothered. “ Weel, John, we canna afford to
lose her." “ Na, we canna, Thomas," answered John
“But what can we do?” “Here," said Thomas, “is
my lemonade bottle, which I always carry. Do you run
and fill it with watter, and come back.” John did so •
and while Thomas opened theewe’s mouth, and rammed
the water down her throat, John looked round to see if
there were any observers. The sheep revived, and ran
amongst the stock, whilst John and Thomas forthwith
returned to church, said their prayers, deposited their
usual three-penny bit in the plate, to the delight of the
pew opener, and congratulated themselves on having
saved the “ fair beastie’s life," and made 3s. 6d (her
cost) at the same!time. ’ '
The Grafton Aegus is a clever and carefully-
edited little paper, and we always skim it with pleasure
before selling it, with some Mudgee exchanges te
Pastor Allen. From the last issue, however, it would
appear that the real editor is having a time down here
because they have inserted a poem from “ a resident of
Clarence Eiver,” which begins thus
In the Northern part of New South Wales—Grafton—
stands.
On the banks of the noble Clarence, which rolls its
golden sands;
But the place has been forgotten by the Government of
the day;
No ships ride in the harbour—no steam horse there
does neigh.”
This reminds us of Stott’s poem, beginning:—
“ Oh, for a lay, loud as the foam
That lashes Lapland’s rugged shore.”
Grafton Argus appears to think something of it
f the verses are heralded by a long primer par We
think something of it, too; and that is that we are
acquainted with many “residents of Clarence Eiver •*
who write very much in the same style.
Mr. A. G. Taylor, editor of that brilliant
publication, the Mudgee Independent, is evidently
impatient under criticism. Like other great
he considers that the mere fact of his writing anything
should be sufficient to stamp upon it the prestige of
genius. In a recent number of The Bulletin we in
the interests of common sense, devoted a few lines’ to
an eccentric story, which he is now writing in the
Independent, and we, if the truth must be told, let
| Mr. Taylor down with almost (for us) unexampled
gentleness. Instead, then, of being grateful to us for
our sparse application of the critical rod, he rushes
into print, and accuses The Bulletin of plagiarism in
publishing a poem on Fiji, which is an admitted para-
phrase of one of Enssell Lowell’s ballads. Not being
accustomed to deal with persons of the small in-
tellectual calibre and poverty of research of Mr A G*
Taylor, we did not think it necessary to preface the
contribution with a notice calling attention to a fact
which must be patent to even the moat superficial
student of modem literature. Now, we take our leave
of Mr. Taylor with a few airy anapaests .
You’re too simple by half
If you cannot stand chaff.
Dull Giraffe.
It would raise a good laugh.
Just a crisp epitaph.
On a long Mudgee calf—
Eh, Giraffe ?
If the gall you will quaff.
Why, we’re on! Now, Giraffe.
At Mullocktown, in the Far North, they
recently gave a dance. Now, though Mullocktewn
boasted the prettiest girl, Dufferville, the opposition
township, had the best tiddler. This individual, who
originally was a man of great talent, and has led the
orchestra of more than one first-class opera company in
Australia, happened to be under engagement to a
woman who kept a dancing saloon in Dufferville.
However, it was necessary to get him, and it was
resolved that he should come and play willy-nilly. A
party accordingly set out from Mullocktown, found* the
violinist even more drunk than usual, captured him, put
him on a horse, and conveyed him to their town, where
a bush doctor commenced operations with a view to
getting him into form for his musical duties on the
following night. However, the lady in whose service
the once almost-famous soloist was, rose equal to the
occasion. She, in her turn, got together a party of her
customers, and at once proceeded to Mullocktown,
where, after a short and sharp struggle, the violinist
was “ collared.” He was a very little man, so they had
no difficulty in fitting him into the flour-bag they had
(O shade of Paganini!) provided for his accommodation.
They graciously cut a hole in the bag to allow of his
admiring the beautiful scenery on the track, and having
tied the poor little man up to their
they put him aboard a packhorse, and carried him
away in triumph. For a long time this incident will
cause unpleasantness between Mullocktown and Duffer-
ville. Sydney people will probably not believe all this,
but it’s quite true, nevertheless. The poor fiddler is
now dead. He was a graduate of a Scotch University.
WHAT DID NOT COME OFF.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
A racing club bas been formed at Albury.
Eighteen horses have accepted for the Geelong
Cop-
Progress and Odd Tricks are most fancied for
the Geelong Cup.
Laycock gave half the Hop Bitters prize (.£500)
to Ned Trickett.
Another match—Progress and Grand Flaneur—
for the V.B.C. Leger.
Surgeons and physicians are the great support
of football in America.
Fletcher, of the Albert c.c., made 47 in the
match Bohemians v. Launceston.
A bicycle journey, fifty miles, from Melbourne
to Geelong, was made in five hours.
The pigeons in the late flying match were
evidently waited upon by the hawks.
The annual meeting of the Mercantile Rowing
(Sub will be held on Thursday evening.
English sporting papers call Laycock the
it demon oarsman ” and the “ bushranger.”
Mr. T. W. Field, a well-known Tasmanian
sportsman, died in Melbourne on the 14th instant.
When Laycock beat Hosmer the ’Merioan papers
said, “ Wall, what’s in it; Hosmer is only our boy. ’
Captain Standish has declined the position o f
private secretary to Sir Hercules Kobinson at the Cape
“ Pendragon,” of the London Referee, slates
Trickett unmercifully, but speaks favourably of
Laycock.
Rowell got as his share from the six days’
“go-as-you-please” tournament, £B5B 10s. —including
the stakes, £6OO. ■
Rowell, the English pedestrian, was in no way
exhausted when he did the 100 miles in 15 hours in
London recently.
The Carltons say that Geary is a bettor bowler
than Garrett. However, the latter is on the selection
committee, so it matters little.
Mr. J. W. Taylor—better known in sporting
circles as “ Tam o’ Shanter of the Tasmanian Mail,
is dead. Consumption was his malady.
Bright prospects for the Turf at West Maitland.
The annual meeting of the Northern Jockey Club was
adjourned on Monday se’nnight for want of a quorum.
The Temora Jockey Club expelled Mr. Woollier
for alleged irregularities, and Messrs. Keiran and Eyan
were appointed to sign all cheques for the Club in
future.
The totalisator was introduced to the public by
the Adelaide Racing Club, at their New Tear’s Day
meeting. During the day £2484 passed through the
machine.
Evans is not only the best all-round cricketer in
Australia, but he is also the best in each department of
the game. Either as a batsman, bowler, or field, he has
no equal.
The Parramatta Jockey Club, it is understood,
is making ample provision for the Press in connection
with the Anniversary Day Races. The novelty will be
appreciated.
Laycock stood to win £3OOO on Trickett against
Hanlan. He lost all but a £lO note. His victory in
the Hop Bitters Regatta was hailed with enthusiasm
by the populace.
“ Augur,” of the Australasian, tips Pro-
S'eas, Avernus, Darriwell, or Western Princess for the
eelong Cup. Eli Jellet thinks that Savanaka is the
only horse in it.
The dog show at the Hippodrome, Melbourne,
has proved a great success. The entries were nume-
rous, and all first-class. The Governor and suite
visited the show.
The results of the second day’s racing at Bega
are as follow:—Hurdle Race, Wrangler; Town Plate,
MissWbiffter: Southern District Purse, 0.K.; Plying
Handicap, Belmore.
A check to public confidence in “ consultations”
on racing events has been caused by the levanting from
Auckland of the holder of a £4OOO sweep on the Wel-
lington Cup, New Zealand.
The intercolonial coursing contest will doubtless
be very successful, as both the New South Wales and
Australian Coursing Clubs are 00-operating to bring
matters to a successful issue.
The weights for the Newcastle Jockey Club
handicaps are published. Sweetmeat tops the list in
three events; Black Swan, Secundus, Braidwood, and
Strathearn have got “ steadiers.”
The prizes to be given for first-class yachts at
the New South Wales National Regatta are: £4O first,
£lO second; for second-class yachts: Mr. Yeend’s
trophy (value £25) first, £lO second.
The Yarra now presents a busy sight every
afternoon. Rowing men are all getting into form for
the various events next month. None of the crews
have yet been definitely decided upon.
Alick Bannerman was very sore about his duck-
egg, especially when Charley began to chuckle. Alick
said that he would bring the Carlton bowling down to
his brother the next time he played against them.
The rain will much improve the Association
Ground. It was getting very bare and sandy.
“ Shooters ” and “ bumpers ” have knocked a good
many batsmen oat of form during the past month.
A forty-mile race in Hobson’s Bay, for .£5O
a-side, has been arranged between the owners of the
yachts Annie and Haidee. Other boats may enter, pro-
vided the total sweepstakes are not less than £250.
Tarryer’s time over the Thames Champion
Course was 22mins. 55secs. Hawden rowed it in 22
mins. 57secs, in 1878. These are the fastest times on
record. Both were done on the top of very strong tides.
Nat. Thompson has so far recovered from his
severe illness as to be able to take an innings at the
Albert wickets occasionally. Though he is mueh out of
form, and scarcely well yet, he shows a lot of the “ old
demon,”
A cricket match is arranged to come off in Mel-
bourne between representatives of Tattersall’s and the
Victorian betting rooms. Joe Thompson and Jem
Mace captain their respective teams. Betting is strictly
prohibited.
Professor Miller, the champion wrestler, has
contested in six'-y-four wrestling matches, of which he
won forty-eight, drew nine, and lost seven; but over each
of the winners of the latter events he was afterwards
victorious.
Trickett writes to Mr. P. C. Wentworth in
reference to his match with Hanlan, and says that he
can and will yet row Hanlan down. Ned makes a pass-
ing reference to the rumour of there being “some
thing” in Hanlan’s boat.
At the Geelong regatta, which took place on
Monday week, the Hon. W. J. Clarke’s Janet won first
prize, the New Zealand yacht Taniwha securing second.
The Edith and Zephyr, from Adelaide, carried away
their topmasts, and gave up.
Athletic sports are played out in Brisbane. The
public won’t pay a bob to see sprint racing on a circle a
little over 100 yards in circumference, and peds. won’t
risk breaking their limbs for 80s., trying to run with
one leg and steer with the other.
The reported death of old Melbourne has been
contradicted. The Brisbane Telegraph first heard
and published it, then wired the news throughout the
country, and now state from their knowledge of Mel-
bourne’s owner that from the first they did not believe
the report!
Old Tom, who works on the Association ground,
says that it reminded him of the line in Eugene Aram’s
dream, “ fonr-and-twenty happy boys bounding out of
school,” when abont twice that number of tram travel-
lers filed past him into the cricket ground to take their
five minutes’ batting.
At Adelong, the other day, a valuable (greyhound
dog jumped off Hodgson’s balcony, clean over the rail
to the ground—a height of about 22ft. The animal
turned two somersaults while falling,. but, although it
received a yery severe shaking, broke no bones.
We hear that certain of the Parramatta Park
Trustees, who sought by legal means to prevent the
local Jockey Club from charging the public for admis-
sion to the course on race days, have accepted tickets
for the Anniversary Day meeting and Governor’s
luncheon.
Messrs. Conlon and Cottier, of the Glebe, have
each given a bat for the highest aggregate score in the
cup cricket match. Borough of Glebe v. Darlington.
In addition to this, Mr. Brown, M.L.A., the Mayor of
Darlington, and several of the aldermen, have sub-
scribed towards the expenses of the local team.
A capital programme has been issued for the
regatta and aquatic sports at West Maitland on
Anniversary Day. A programme is offered at East
Maitland for athletic sports on the same day. £2O is
given for an all-comers’ race of 150 yards, and silver cups
are also given by Messrs. J. N. Brunker and S. Cliff.
The annual report of the Queensland Turf Club
expresses regret at the apathy of the public, but con-
siders the prospects are improving. The year’s total
transactions show a loss of £4OO. The totalisator
produced £5OO. The Club’s liabilities are to be
consolidated, by which £2OO interest will be saved
annually.
At a meeting of the committee of the New South
Wales National Regatta, on Monday, the 10th, it was
decided that the regatta be considered as public.
Messrs. Clark, Benson, and Bull were appointed a handi-
capping committee for the rowing races. The various
prizes were fixed, and entries for the regatta closed on
the 15th instant.
The results of the Bega races, which took place
on the 13th inst., are as follows :—Maiden Plate, Miss
Whiflier; Bega Cup, Stand Up (late Bismarck); Trial
Stakes, Shadow; Selling Race, Yarramine; Members’
Handicap (including a cup presented by Mr. Bamberg),
Rainbow and Express ran a dead heat; Rainbow won
the run-off by ten lengths.
The Maitland Albion, and Morpeth cricket
clubs commenced a match on Saturday last on the
Albion Ground, West Maitland, for the Waddy Chal-
lenge Cup. When the stumps were drawn the scores
stood as follows: —First innings, Albion, 100; Morpeth,
64 ; second innings, Albion, 1 wicket for 33. The match
will be continued next Saturday.
Stevey and Jolly are in great form with the
irons. For the safety of the bystanders the ground
ought to be roped in at Moore Park, as the quoits fly-
in dangerous proximity to the heads of the onlookers,
who will always get too close. How is it we cannot,
yet boast of a quoit club ? Joe Rochester would be an
invaluable aid in its formation.
In the first race between Trickett and Hoes,
which was declared null and void, and which was won by
Trickett by four lengths, it was evident that Trickett
won the race on its merits. Ross won the row-off,
which may be accounted for by the fact that he had
improved upon his bad form in his first race, and that
Trickett’s condition was still unsatisfactory.
The “noble art” is being revived in England.
A “ mill ” took place in Essex on the 10th instant,
between Taylor and Longen. Fifty-two rounds were
fought, lasting about an hour and a-half. Both men
were severely punished, and fought till they could
scarcely stand. At last Longen was unable to come to
“ time,” and Taylor was therefore declared the victor.
Here is a practical example of the importance
of local sports to Parramatta people on public holidays.
On Boxing Day, when there were Parramatta races,
upwards of 7000 return tickets to Parramatta were is-
sued at the Sydney and suburban stations. On New
Year’s Day, when there were not sports at Parramatta,
the number of similar tickets issued was less than 700.
The Shoalhaven District Jockey Club had two
days’ racing on the Numba course on Thursday and
Friday last. The results were as follow: —First day :
Maiden Plate, Guinea; Shoalhaven District Handicap,
Constantine; Hack Handicap, Inayela; Ladies’ Purse,
Kelso. Second day : The Shorts, Regret; Hack Handi-
cap, Ladybird; Numba Plate, Constantine; Prince of
Wales Stakes, Mooyeau; Forced Handicap, Gazelle.
Gale, of Cardiff, is attempting the stupidly
stupendous feat of walking 2500 miles in 2000 con-
secutive half-hours. He has to start at the even hour
and walk a mile and a quarter, and then again at the
half-hour, and do another mile and a quarter—and so
on. Up to latest advices, he had accomplished 700-odd
miles in 560 consecutive half-hours, but it seemed very
doutful whether he would pull through, as he betrayed
signs of exhaustion and light-headedness.
A match has been arranged between the
Northern and Western Districts, to come off on the
Association Ground shortly before the Intercolonial. A
match will then follow between a combined team of the
above and the selected eleven of New South Wales.
The Australian Eleven have notified the Association of
a desired change in the date of the Intercolonial, so that
they can meet a combined team, but at present there is
no possibility of complying with their request.
The Banks in Brisbane are maintaining an
interest in aquatic sports by organising a series of
sculling matches between the officers of the different
banks. Two crews of four from the Bank of Australa-
sia and (Queensland National Bank met on Saturday
last in a two-mile contest, which resulted in a win for
the representatives of the latter institution. A series of
matches in waterman’s skiffs have been arranged by the
members of the National Bank, to be pulled in heats,
after the fashion of the Hop Bitters Race.
The International Yacht Race in Hobson’s
son’s Bay, was won by the Janet, 38 tons, the
property of the Hon. J. W. Clarke. Six yachts
started in a light northerly wind, and the Janet
and the Taniwha immediately singled out and made a
race of it. The Janet showed her superiority even in a
light wind. The Taniwha came in second, but did not
save the time she had to allow the Secret, who there-
fore gained the second prize. Victoria gains first and
second prizes. New Zealand third. South Australia,
nowhere.
The rain on Saturday stopped all out-door sport
in Sydney and the neighbourhood. Luckily for the
Warwicks, their match with the Carltons will now be
considered a draw. It looked like a one-innings victory
for the Carltons if it had been continued, and therefore
their disappointment must be keen; but the weather
has not been unkind to them, for it befriended them in
their match with the Alberts, when theyhad something
like 250 runs to make to avert a defeat, though there
are many members of the Carlton C.C. who were con-
fident of their ability to do it.
The Pacific mail ship Australia has been placed
at the disposal of the N.S.W. National Regatta Com-
mittee as the flagship on Anniversary Day, and will be
moored off Circular Quay. For the Laidley Sculls,
Messrs. D. Lord, W. G. Anslow, and W. G. Brett are
entered, and an interesting race may be anticipated.
For the first-class yacht race, the entries are Mistral,
Oithona, Magic, and Waitangi. H. Pearce, J. C. Lay-
cock, and W. Trickett are the entries for the Champion
Belt, and in the All-comers* Race with single sculls in
waterman’s skiffs, Pearce will have to meet G. Solomon
and C. Messenger.
Thus speaks “ Felix ” of our University Team :
—“ Each man knows his place in the field, and gives
the Captain or bowler no trouble; the batsmen are so
accustomed to one another that they can back up each
other, and judge runs splendidly ; and altogether the
play of the team is marked by that unity of action in
the absence of which no eleven can be called first-
class.” He attributes their victory to the fact that
their club has for years been one of the very best in
Sydney, and their men have played together season
after season for so long a time that they are now a
thoroughly organised eleven, strong in ail departments
of the game.
The race meeting at Parramatta on Anniversary
Day bids fair to be unprecedentedly successful. The
entries closed with a very large number; the right to
hold the gates brought £191; the saddling paddock,
£100; the grand-stand booth, £39; booth No 1, £l9;
booth No. 2, £2O; cake stalls, £l5; the right to printing
cards’, £l9. .On the cricket ground, which is encircled
by the racecourse, a match will be played between the
Warwick C.C. and the Parramatta Alfred C.C., so that
during the intervals of the racing events visitors will
have an opportunity of witnessing an interesting
match.
On Monday next, at the Lighthouse Hotel, there
is to be a grand gathering of the “talent”—aquatic,
athletic, and pugilistic. Larry Foley is to box. Pro-
fessor Miller is to wrestle—Heaven knows with whom 1
—and “ set-toos” are to be indulged in by any amount
of fisticuff tyros. There will be fencing, and wrestling,
and dancing, so that the spectators will have a good
time generally. The proceeds ofthe entertainment are
to be devoted to a deserving cause—that of assisting a
good man who has been prostrated by illness. We
trust to see a large audience assemble, and parti-
cularly urge our sporting friends to “ roll up ” wtih all
alacrity.
It was immediately after the Hop Bitters race
that Laycock challenged Hanlan for the championship
of the world. He was so anxious to meet the Canadian
that he offered to row him for a bundle of cigars, to see
which was the better man. Hanlan, of course, declined,
but consented to pull him on terms which Laycock
could hardly comply with. The British admirers of
Laycock’s pluck came to his rescue, and with the
Australian remittance of £350 made up the stake of
£5OO, independently of the amount offered by the Hop
Bitters’ Company. Hanlan was very anxious for Lay-
cock to come to Toronto, promising him a fair treatment
and a straight race, but Elias sensibly preferred to be
beaten on the Thames.
The annual general meeting of the Mercantile
Rowing Club was held on Thursday evening at the
Sydney Exchange Hotel. The report showed that'the
number of members had increased, and the liabilities of
the Club decreased. The ex-Mayor has presented a
splendid prize, the Fowler Challenge Cup, for a race to
be rowed annually in best boats over the Champion
Course. The annual ball realised £lO2. Messrs. Ben-
son, Keddie, and Mitchell were appointed delegates for
1881 to the Rowing Association. The overdraft was
£133 as against £583 at the beginning of the year. The
Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L.C., was unanimously elected
president “ vice-presidents, Messrs. Sahl, Alderson,
Holdsworth, C. K. Moore, and Fowler; hon. treasurer,
R. A. Keddie ; hon. secretary, J. Blackman. Mr. W. R.
Benson was elected captain of the Club. The election
of the committee resulted as follows: —D. Murray,
F. Mountcastle, N. Lockyer, W. G. Brett, T. Strange,
C. Boos, W, A. Coker, and H. Lockrey.
The particulars of the Hop Bitters Regatta,
which are published in English files now to hand, show
that it was intended by the competitors to keep Laycock
out of the prize if possible but his great superiority
and his pluck brought him to the front in spite of their
endeavours. Hosmer gulled a grand race, and showed
that for a mile he would take a lot of beating. Smith
tried to do the fouling while Ross got away, but Elias
soon rowed him out, and he gradually drew on his
leaders. A gallant struggle ensued between him and
Hosmer, both in the meantime gaining upon Ross, who
seemed to have the race well in hand. Laycock finally
disposed of Ross, and made his call upon the leader.
He came up hand over hand, until Ross collapsed, when
a slight foul occurred —Laycock striking his opponent’s
left scull, and the pair were locked for a few seconds.
Eventually Laycock drew clear, away from Ross,
and finally won at his leisure. Hosmer then came up
level with Ross, and rowed himself right out in unsuc-
cessfully trying to pass him. After the race Ross
claimed the foul, but it was disallowed by the umpire,
whose decision appears to be universally endorsed by
the public.
John Thompson on the Boat Race.
Bell’s Tavern, Putney, Nov. 18, 1880.
Dear
The mail leaves to-morrow, and I must give you a
few details of all that has transpired during the last
two weeks. I need not tell you that the shock we got
on the 15th was enough to unnerve a man of iron. To
commence. You may think I was over-confident when
1 wired you “ Balloon,” which was some seven days
prior to the event. Had it been rowed a week before it
was, we could not have lost. Hanlan was “green,”
and his mentors could do nothing with him. His un-
easiness gave them no end of trouble. He had a cold
which caused a slight bronchial gathering. They eased
him down for three days, and it had the desired effect
of completely curing him. I had at that time your
commission to put £2OOO on for Sydney and Adelaide—
to be done immediately. The London market was full,
having the same news as myself. I wired Barney the
£2OOO, and told him to put it on at all hazards. Think-
ing the Hanlan party were trying to get their money
off, I put several commissions in the different London
sporting houses to back Trickett, and met with no
response —in fact everything I did convinced me
that the news from a private and good source was quite
true respecting Hanlan’s condition. At the final deposit,
to test it conclusively, I offered to lay them any part of
£2OOO, even, that we won. All the money I got on was
£3OO. His backers and trainers were in the room.
They would not bet a shilling when £2OOO was offered
—no mean sum to win in one wager—and it went beg-
ging. I could conclude nothing but that the informa-
tion was perfectly reliable. Since that time the Hanlan
party have told me that they had all they could do to
get him over his difficulty. Now for the race. As in
all past events, you will hear how the defeated man was
overdone, and how haggard he looked. I hope you will
give men like Harry Kelley and Laycock credit for
knowing a rowing man’s condition. Trickett himself
declared, both before and after the race, that he was
never fitter or more confident in his life. Laycock,
who did all his work with Ned, put over £BOO odd on it,
Trickett the same. They gave me their money, and
whatever odds I got to it they were satisfied. You
know a man like Laycock never before had over £5O on
a boat-race in his life. They even put their colour and
boat money en it. I never saw men so sanguine. On
the morning of the race, the Newcastle contingent came
pouring in, besides thousands of American commission
money. All my “sugar” was done, and they offered
2tol in thousands. I took £5OO to £2OO, being my last
“bob,” and I looked upon it as finding the money.
The men backed up to the post and shook hands amid
great cheering. At the word from the umpire, go, Ned
took the water first and momentarily had the advan-
tage. Both men pulled scull for scull at what appeared
to be a rapid pace, and neither could get the advantage.
The shouting from both sides was immense. As we saw
Ned hold him for the first mile we were certain he must
row him down. At a mile and a half the struggle was
severe, and I knew from what I saw, Harry Kelly
stirring Ned up, that Hanlan first showed signs of
distress. They went up together up to Hemmersmith
Bridge, when I thought I saw Trickett struggling.
Hanlan led him half a length through the bridge, and
poor Ned with clenched teeth and leaden colour in his
face showed signs of compounding. The pace was that
merry that one had to crack, and we cracked first.
From this out Hanlan did as he liked, lying backward
in his boat and going through a lot of antics, for which
the press has reproved him. Trickett continued to
struggle bard, and occasionally spurted after him, but
with no avail. I was glad when it was over, for it
looked too bad to see so good and game a man exerting
every effort against all hope. At the finish of the race
they shook hands, when Trickett said to him, “You
have beaten me and I acknowledge my defeat, but more
than a man’s power has done it. Yon are cleverer than
me, and I give you credit for it. When I possess the
same amount of ingenuity as you do I’ll beat you."
Trickett referred to Hanlan’s boat. I am not super-
stitious, nor do I believe in miracles, but that they
have some unknown method which can be used by an
artist is beyond doubt. Hanlan’s boat at the bow when
in the race lifted clean out of the water a couple of
feet forward. While Trickett’s boat was going through
the water, Hanlan’s was skimming on top. Trickett
said he could understand being beaten but not played
with after two miles. Another circumstance which
astounded us was, he had previously done the time to
the Bridge one minute quicker than the race and
not fully extended. Then again, they pulled in what is
called a sluggish tide, and that makes an incalculable
difference. Hanlan has told me he never yet met a man
like Trickett who could extend him for. so long a
journey in a race when he was fit to pull. Mr. Ward,
the chief mentor of Hanlan, a very shrewd and ap-
parently fine man, told Charley Lett that Trickett and
Laycock are the two best men in the world properly
fitted. There is something in it. I mean following
the Hanlan party to the States. They like me, and if
possible I’ll find it out. I am heartily sorry for the
Australian losses. I have never left a stone unturned
for success. You don’t know what I have gone through.
I never left the boat for a week, sleeping in the cold sheds
every night, in fact working the flesh off to do all I could
The trip has been an unfortunate one forme, but there’s
no use fretting over it. I thought Trickett would
break his heart over the affair. He said he not only
wanted to win, but desired to win for his friends ; but,
old man, Trickett and Laycock both stood up penniless
after the race. I must not omit mentioning that Lay
cock is one of the stoutest-hearted men I ever met. He
took his gruel like a man. He has his peculiarities of
temper, but when yon know him, he is such a manly
fellow you mast admire him. He and Trickett are like
brothers, though once rivals. It is surprising to sea
what friends they now are. This will reach you a mail
before they arrive. Meet them, and show, as I know
you can, that you will be their friend in adversity as
well as in success. Make no difference between them.
They are both deserving, and and they are, in the great
defeat, standing by one another in a straightforward,
manly fashion. I will always think that the ereat
amount of money and anxiety which hung over Ned’s
head at one time of the race nonplussed him. Still, I
admired his gameness.
Tours, &c..
J. THOMPSON.
Songs of the Mountains.*
It has been remarked that, with the death of Jeffrey,
at whose decease the glories of the redoubtable
Edinburgh Review, in a great measure, departed;
the “ swingeing ” criticisms which, appearing as they
did in the various high-class periodicals of the time,
were wont to gladden the hearts of our forefathers,
gave way to the more “ paternal ’’ style of reviewing.
And of late years, more especially, a disposition
has undoubtedly been shown by the principal prints,
from The Times downwards, to encourage, by negative
criticism, wi iters who would be benefiting their species
in a far greater degree by adopting some other trade or
profession. If, as the Latin bard observes, “ the
gods will not tolerate mediocrity in poetry,” nine-tenths
of the verse that is written all over the world should be
condemned as worthless; and we are sorry to have to
observe that to consign to the waste-paper basket
that average of the verse written in Australia at the
present time would scarcely be to stamp out all the
unmitigated rubbish with which the literary market
of the Antipodes is inundated. We perfectly agree with
the aphorism of Horace —
“ Non est jocus esse malignum j”
but, at the same time, it is undoubtedly necessary to
apply the scourge occasionally, if only to awaken in
the minds of a legion of poetasters the ab-
surdity of allowing their “ half - strung harps ”
to “ whine mournful to the blast.” No persons but
those immediately connected with the production of a
largely circulating newspaper can form any idea of the
amount of hopeless drivel which is daily “ sent in” by
rhyming idiots for editorial consideration. Those whose
duty it is to wade systematically through the news-
papers published in this and other colonies, know, to
their cost, how the prints teem with doggerel of the
most atrocious description. There are journals pub-
lished in Sydney in which poor brainless jinglers per.
petuate, week after week, atrocities in verse which,
would shame, so far as the ordinary rules of syntax are
concerned, a charity-school boy. In a general way,
therefore, the mere mention of “a volume of Australian
poetry” is apt to unpleasantly exercise the mind —more
especially if the duty of reading it through and com-
menting upon its contents devolves upon a man whose
natural common sense will not allow him to per-
ceive beauties where none exist, and to “ melt in pure
delight” over the maudlin rubbish of “nincompoops ”
whose proper sphere is either the barber’s-shop or the
draper’s counter. With Mr. Kendall’s poetry, however,
it is different. This gentleman, in whatever part of the
world he might choose to reside, would be acknow-
ledged a poet du premier rang. Like every other bard,
Mr. Kendall has his faults —faults of style and manner-
isms ; but these can be freely forgiven him when the
extreme beauty of the work under review is taken into
consideration. In the volume before ns the author has
written in a great many styles. The pieces, indeed,
range from the fiercest satire to the deepest pathos.
There is undoubted humour in some of the poems, ad-
mirable description in others, and scholarly ver-
sification in all. Indeed, as a master of versification,
we regard Mr. Kendall as being practically unexcelled
by any contemporary poet. His skill as arhymster is ex-
traordinary. In playful verse he is always smooth and
compact, as in “ Billy Vicars,” for instance: —
“ He, being bush-bred, stands of course.
Six feet his dirty socks in ;
His lingo is confined to horse
And plough and pig and oxen.
« * * * •
As you’ll assume, he hasn’t heard
Of Madame Patti’s singing;
But I will stake my solemn oath
He knows what maize is bringing.”
His best satirical effort is “A Hyde Park Larrikin.”
This poem, which originally appeared in the Freeman's
Journal, is aphillipic of unmitigated fierceness. The
shaft is directed against the “ howling dervishes ” who
periodically make our parks hideous by their ridiculous
raving. Here is a specimen of Mr. Kendall's vigorous
verse:—
“ The Lycian sage, my ‘ reverend ’ sir,
Had not your chances ample ;
But, after all, I must prefer
His perfect, pure example.
You, having read the Holy Writ —
The Book the angels foster —
Say, have you helped us on a bit.
Ton over-fed impostor ?”
• * * • ♦
“ What sort of * gospel’ do you preach ?
What ‘ Bible’ is your Bible ?
There’s worse than wormwood in your speech,
You livid, living libel.
« « * * *
“Now mount your musty pulpit—thump.
And muddle fat clod-hoppers.
And let some long-eared booby ' hump ’
The plate about for coppers.”
In " Orara,” which is a poem of the metaphysical school,
the influence of Coleridge is made very manifest. The
verses are of extraordinary beauty. The piece com-
mences —
“ The strong sob of the chafing stream,
That seaward fights its way,
Down crags of glitter, della of gleam.
Is in the hills to-day.
« But, far and faint, a grey-winged form
Hangs where the wild lights wane:
The phantom of a by-gone storm —
A ghost of wind and rain.”
In blank verse, and in poems written to a certain extent
to order, Mr. Kendall is less successful. This extract
from “ By the Cliffs of the Sea,” written in memory of
the late Samuel Bennett, is by no means remarkable for
poetic fire—
“ He knew of the bitterness cold
That saddens with silver the head.
And makes a man suddenly old.
The dignity gracing his grief
Was ever a lesson to me.”
Our poet was a competitor for the prize offered by the
Melbourne Exhibition Commission for the libretto of ».
cantata to be sung on the opening day, but Mr. Kendall’s
poem was, ludicrously enough, rejected in favour of an
eccentric, and apparently far from original, composition
by Mr. Meades, a Collingwood “bard.” The opening
of Mr. Kendall’s poem is in trochees, and there is
delightful music in every line: —
“ Brothers from far away lands —
Sons of the fathers of fame —
Here are our hearts and our hands :
This is our song of acclaim.
Lords from magnificent zones.
Shores of magnificent sway—
Awful with lustre of thrones.
This is our greeting to-day.” ...
And yet preference was given to Mr. Meaden’s verses,
(extracts wherefrom were recently given in our columns)
which were not even up to the standard of bare medio-
crity ! A charming instance, truly, of the critical powers
of our Victorian cousins.
We have quoted enough and said enough to enable the
readers of The Bdlleti n to form some idea of the merits
of this, Mr. Kendall’s latest venture in poesie; and we
have only to add that “ Songs of the Mountains” is a
work which by its intrinsic merit, both as regards
scholarship and poetic conception, is destined to cast a
radiance upon Australian literature. We trust, there-
fore, that the public will, in recognition of Mr. Kendall’s
undoubted genius, speedily exhaust not only the present,
but more than one future edition.
By Henry Kendall. Sydney: Msddock, George-st.


Tailors, Drapers
D A
YID
JONES AND
ORIENT CLOTHU
Por Gentlemen’s Spring and Sumnu
reliable fabrics, fashionably cn
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their in
made clothing for the Spring and
being unequalled in style, qua
whole of their stock having bei
pressly to meet the requiremer
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business si
Gentlemen’s Promenade
Gentlemen’s Travelling s
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits
Comprising Cot
and Trousers,!
favourite coloi
cut and fluishi
best manner.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shap'
ful and dura
for business s
nary wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
In light Hornesj
thin Cheviots a
nockburns. for
.and Summer we
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suite,
In Choice
Tweeds, exce
general wear,
checks and mi
JJAVID
Orient
JONES AND
Sac Suits
t Specially Ligl
Durable, the i
having beei
shrunk befor
made up.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Walking Suits,
rin Superior
I Tweeds, cut
[ latest style
finished the
1 ordere i clotfc:
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Serg Suits.
/'Beautifully li|
3 Texture, perm
j colour and v(
V. able in wear.
D
AVID JONES ANE
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Bummer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
out, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
B.B. Frock
Coats.
fSpocial attentic
vited to our
Clothing, as
the beet va
most perfect
and flush pr
in the colony.
fin Superior Ta
3 Flannel, th
I shrunk.
{China Silk Coats
Military Duck C<
Fine black Alpac
All Wool Merino
Superior Serge C
Black and Blue 1
{In fine Black Al]
In Super Black S
In Blue Sergeret
In Black Sergew
("In fine Black All
■5 In Black Merino
(.In Super Sergert
Gentlemen’s ("Super White Dm
Tailors, Drapers
Thompson an
DENISON HOU
358, 360, 362, GEORGE
SPRING NOYE
In consequence of the great inoi
their importations this season exc«
FIFTY THOUSAND ]
THEY are now making their first d:
early shipments in all de]
THOMPSON AND (
haying purchased these goods in
the world, are marking them at pri
CHALLENGE COMPE
The same quality of material cam
rate i.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON .
opened their
of Millinery, ’
exhibiting in
all choice got
sured that th
with an inspe
gratified at th
now displayini
comprise an e
of British am
made especial!
Giles by the
London and
trimmed Bon
18s 9d. Ladi
Feathers, H
. ments, 4c
("THOMPSON i
TLES, FICH
—We wish to
attention of
Department, i
the finest lot
Capeletts, am
ever been ex
Our Stock co
designs in sha
variety of Bra
‘ lid to 30s; A
trimmed, from
Cashmere Mar
Large lot of P
chased very m
prices; somev
at very low pri
Jerseys, to 1
every colour
dren’s Jerseys
„ every size.
("THOMPSON
TUME DEPA
first houses ii
in every style,
can select in o
vidual taste,
from 42s to 6 ;
signs and trim
variety of Wi
cambrics am
printed sate*
Galatea strip®
from 15s to 30i
well made,
tumes, in a va
_ other fabrics,
("THOMPSON i
ING FABR1
plain and prii
Materials is I
bracing all st
both French
and Linen Te
and colouring
best efforts, (
affirm that a
■j ment of choic
has never be
colonies. Bri
to 8{d; Frenc
to 14d; Fren
to 18d; Plain
lOd to Is 6d;
Galatea Cloth
talea Cloth, in
to 14d; Frem
„ aud plain ; Bri
("THOMPSON t
SOLS and 1
have received
designs in Fan
will find novt
description cc
ness. Our p
l]d, 4s lid, 5(
2t‘s. We hav«
- of 5000 Parasi
i New styles ai
j Satin, Sateens
embroidered, t
j handsome B:
[ shapes at mod
Easiness Announce:
[Legal. J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET
and
MACQUARIE STREET, ]
Mr. Shorter, Notary Pi
T EGAL.-Mr. T. M. SI
SOLICITOR, has conn
practice of his profession, at li
PITT-STREET, opposite th
News Office.
w.
M A C I
PORTRAIT PAIN'
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOL
ME. AND M E S.
Experienced and thoroughly
PATHIC PRACTITIONER
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVE
Pamphlets gratis.
G.
AND S. PR
SAW MILLS AND TIME;
16 Erskike Stbee
Every description of Foreign am
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, I
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, <kc., at 1
Robe-et butch
(Late William Lor
WINE AND SPIRIT MEI
534 GEORGE STRE
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Prgi
T7ICT0RIA YAENISH
ALEX. BOETHW]
OIL AND COLOR MER
Importer of Paperhai
Oils, Colors, Yarn
White Lead, Glass, B:
Marble and Enamelled Slate
Fenders, Tiles, and G
Room and Picture-Frame ‘
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STRE
T H A R
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Stj
Established 1851
Bnilder of WAGGONS, DRAYS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LOB
Railway Contractors would find it t
inspect the large stock of season
able for Dobbins and other I
J. H A R V E 1
Hay and Engine St
B
OOTS! BOOTS!!
MAKE YOUR PUE<
AT
H. H I L D E ]
NEW BOOT
670 GEORGE S 1
BRICKFIELD HI
ALL NEW GOODS, JU
AND TO BE SOI
AT THE
Tailors, Drapei
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d ’ 3s 9d 4s 9d
OB POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JDST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OF BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DRESSMAKING.
MILLINERY.
Ladies will be mu(
WITH THE BARGAINS
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDI
(the “ Hordern " of the city). L.
have ALL THE APPElEANCE
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY
JgXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
Us 6d., 16s. 6d., 21s., 25s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrank
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED;
(JTHE
BEST AND LA
of
w 0 0 L L E
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND
GARMENTS TO C
at
J. TURNER ROBINI
MARKET CLOTH
482 (latk 484) geor
Opposite the Emit A
Established 18
REDUCED PR
TROUSERS TO ORDER,
TROUSERS & YE1
SUITS TO measur:
«3~ All goods well made, wol
perfect fit guarani
TAILORING
16 PARK STR
(Near George-stw
Are now making to measure —
Fancy Silk Vest
West of England Tweed Tn
„ Suits
Ail good, thoroughly shrunk and a
B. L. LINDSi
XX
XXXX
XX XX
XX XX
XX XX
XX IN XI
XX PITT X
XX STREET :
XX AT
XX HORDEN’S.
XX
XX GENTLEMEN’
XX GOOD
XX NIGHT SHIR1
XX 2s. lid., 2s. lid. o
XX —
XX Don’t forget the s
XX
XX COMB AND SEE
XX THESE NIGHT SE
XX
TYYYYXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX


Hotels, &c.
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLAITA WINE CELLAR
A, S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
StTPPLIM) IK ANY QUANTITY,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office— 24 O’CONNELL STREET.
T
iHE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts-
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Eepu6.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili). 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown. 1877. (Paris, 1878 —Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Julichs-Platz, No, 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
'HE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Unncolonred Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLAREE, Gxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
R. S. TIQHE. Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington,
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AN® LAND SALESMAN,
358, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s BESTAUEANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chM de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PAGKHAM,
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTEE S'IEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTEES PEIED
and
OYSTEES NATUEAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
PEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAQNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
TATTEESALL’S hotel,
TERRARA
PATRICK STANTON,
(Late of Sydney and Mittagoug),
Proprietor.
W None but first class ALES, WINES, & SPEEITB
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to Visitors who will find Good
Accomodation.
TERMS MODERATE.
ALCOCK’S FULL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLE.
HORSES and BUGGY always in readiness.
mgr Commercial Travellers and Visitors to SHOAL.
HAVEN supplied with Private or Public Conveyances
on receipt of telegram or letter. Also a commodious
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “ Bulletin ’’ Coach meets Steamer twice wee ak
from the Hotel.
EW ZEALAND.
To Tourists and othbbs Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of eveTy description). 24
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TARA.WERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed ROXOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “The
Manager," at Ellerslie, the fullest information will bo
immediately supplied.
EOBEET GRAHAM, Proprietor.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OP TUB WAIWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY Dr. ECCLES. .
Lake House, Rotorua, 12tb September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springe), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. 1 have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mr. E. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities, whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-mer Toned place) are such that
every person possessing the me .ns ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels have been
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8., Cantab; F.E.C.S., L.M., Edin.
T
0 TOURISTS AND OTHERS VISITING
NEW ZEALAND.
The Auckland Route is the shortest, safest and beat
route to the wonderful Hot Lake District. The STAR
HOTEL, Albert-Street, Auckland (in close proximity
to the Wharf and Railway Station), offers special and
advantageous inducements to travellers. This magnifi-
cent Hotel is luxuriously furnished and replete with
every appurtenance and appliance of a really first-class
house.
Visitors to Auckland would do well to inspect the
suburb accommodation obtainable only at “ THE
STAR,” before deciding where they will locate them-
W. A CLAKKE Manager.
ADAM CAIRNS Proprietor.
rjl 0 ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Westeem
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and aiviftfcy,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
P 0 W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Habbxb-stbeet, off Gbobob-stbbet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stook a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., Ac.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN QLASSON.
Harris-streei, near Railway Bridge.
Hotels, Sec.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYAED SQUAEE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNEK, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Okasoe.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MAEKET STEEET,
POE EIEST-CLASS WINES, SPIEITS, AND
BEEES.
J C. W A L K E
(Late COLLINS & EOACH),
.ERATED WATERS, GINGER BEES,
, and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
138 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTE R
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS,
VIEGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
Sols
Rrapriistorsj
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should bo carefully co upnred, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIEGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
T> HELLYER,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
• English Electroplate.'
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
Direct special attention to their PRICE LIST of
CHOICE TEAS—
G
A good useful tea
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
1/3
1/6
2/.
A fine blend of Indian and China2/6
Finest blended tea, unsurpassed, 3/-
Pinest Indian pekoe 4/-
Superior coffee 1/6
CABLES AND ANDEESON.
<J 24 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
M
0 N £ Y.
MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments-as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
I°N
E Y. MONEY.
MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT
Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
on the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
item.
id in the £ instalments taken.
Honey lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
a mortgage, for short terms,
y to the
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
meats to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
The Celebrated
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now he obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeep ;rs. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
rP
&
m
&
&
n
3^'
1
u
SUPERIOR to'SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for ita PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beei s are made very fine,
but no other brand has mo same u ellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, acd the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
AD£
MARJC
HEAD
GAB’S
STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of AETHUE GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. B CATTEDL and CO.,
Sole Agents


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Ketten’s audiences in Dunedin continue small.
Simonsons are doing well with “Pinafore” in
Otago.
Bland Holt is the coming man in Melbourne.
Good news for the pros.
Pomeroy opens at the Theatre Eoyal, Adelaide,
Feb. 5, in “ As yon like it."
The Dalziel-Dickie Lingard company has burst
up. The ghost didn’t walk enough.
Mias Emilie Cauyin, an American dramatic
reader, contemplates visiting the colonies.
J. C. Williamson will produce “ The Pirates of
penzance ” on a scale of great magnificence.
Plenty of circus for Adelaide. Benhamo’s is
there, and Cole’s and St. Leon’s open shortly.
Miss Laura Wiseman is about to be married to
Micky Andrews- Oh, lor !—we mean, oh Laura!
Louise Pomeroy is writing a criticism on Ouida’s
novel, “ Friendship,” which will shortly appear in print.
A little six-year-old inquires, “Is it a really
boy, like me, that the giant swallows at the Queen’s ?”
The orchestras of the various theatres now open
in Sydney are of a higher standard than we have had
for some years. ' •
Miss Annie Mayor, the rising young actress, is
a native of New South Wales. She is to play in “ The
Danites,” at the Queen’s.
Longfellow, the poet, occupied a box recently at
the Globe Theatre, Boston. He takes an active interest
n theatrical productions.
Madame Frauzini, the bicyclist, don’t draw in
New Zealand. They say her company are like birds of
assage—they can’t swallow.
Theo. Hamilton was in Sydney last week to ar-
range for the production of the “Danites" at the
Queen’s after the pantomime.
McDonald's International Dramatic Agency,
Melbourne, advertises for colonial actors and actresses,
and opera and burlesque artists.
Another of those abominations, a “Juvenile
Pantomime,” has been produced at Sandhurst, under
the management of the Duvalli sisters.
There has been a terrible disturbance in the
green room of the Opera House, Melbourne. As usual
there’s “a woman at the bottom of it.”
“ Uncle ” is the piece to succeed “ Quilp” at the
Gaiety. If the piece were put on at the Opera House
with the present cast—be-lud would flow.
A certain actor proudly exclaimed, in Swords’
hotel, the other day, “ Though America can boast a
Booth, Australia can boast a Boothman.”
From New Zealand we hear of the marriage of
Miss Lily May to Mr. J. J. Kennedy. Both are
members of the Stephenson-Hydes Company.
Eichard (Plantagenet Count) D’Orsay Ogden
arrived in Sydney last week. He proceeds to Brisbane
accompanied by Miss Beatrice, to open the new theatre
there.
D'Orsay Ogden once said that “ Bret Harte was
as sacred us Shakespeare.” Perhaps he finds one easier
to study than the other, and therefore awards him on
equal meed of praise
Herr Bandmann has fallen foul of the Inver-
cargill critics. He wanted to bet “Von hoondreed
pounds that the coompany he had vas a better von as
evar vas in New Zealand."
Mr. J. J. Wallace has arrived, and is going to
superintend the production of “The Danites” at the
Queen’s. It is td be produced after the pantomime, on
a scale of great splendour.
“The cry is still they come” at the Queen’s.
The Highland Fling on the giant’s table, and the dumb
instrumental trio by Messrs. Greville, Leston, and Len-
ton, approaches the sublimity of burlesque.
Mr. Burnand said a neat thing of Sarah Bern-
hardt. In consequence of her eccentricities he has
christened her Sal Volatile; and says that she is so
thin because she lives principally upon French roles.
Mr. Ted Marshall was reclining on the sofa.
“My dear brother,” said Mrs. Fred, entering the room,
“you are sitting on the weeklies.” “ No,” replied
Sampson Brass, “ it’s the weeklies that are sitting on
mel”
Eosina Isidor, an English lady of Jewish family,
educated musically at the expense of the Baroness
Lionel de Eothschild, has just made a very successful
debut at Her Majesty’s Theatre, London, in the role of
Lucia.
Thompson’s Diorama of the Zulu War finished
at Maitland on the 15th. The show started for Morpeth
on Monday, and after a fortnight in the country will
return to Sydney and play at the School of Arts for a
month.
Poor old Mr. Creswick has at last broken up.
He played Lear for a few nights at the Surrey, and then
had to retire. We trust, however, that he will live
many years yet, and above all leave a belle enfant to per-
petuate the names of Creswick and Bel-infante.
It was an affecting thing, a few weeks ago, Jim
Eainford’s speech on receiving a valuable testimonial
when he announced his retirement from the stage.
And how affecting it was, too, to see him playing
Hawkshaw with the London Comedy Company last
week!
At Gympie, the Brisbane Star Dramatic Com-
pany placed the Octoroon on the boards of the Vari-
eties. Zoe was presented to the audience wearing a
head of hair the colour of a ripe banana skin. She
looked the picture of a newly-imported Dutch immi-
grant.
They were discussing European affairs at the
corner a few days ago. The Irish question, the Dul-
cigno difficulty, and the Nihilist plots were lacerated,
hut when J. E. Greville began to talk about the “ Con-
gress of Nations," the boys circulated. They conld’nt
stand the “ shop.”
Miss Patty Laverne, the prima donna of Mr-
Musgrove’s Opera Company, now playing at the
Melbourne Opera House, made her first London success
in an opera-bouffe of Herve’s called L’JEul CrevS, or the
Merry Toxopholites. This was years ago, and Miss
Patty is now said to be—ahem !—archer than ever.
The Invercargill papers call Miss Beaudet a
stick. Miss B. objects to this name. Then the paper
retorts that she ought to be flattered, as they have
given her a handle to it. Bandmann got it rough, too.
He told them before he played that he was the greatest
actor in the world, and yet they wouldn’t believe him.
The Soldehe troupe made their first appearance
this season on American ground at Col. Sinn’s Park
Theatre, Brooklyn. Nov. 8. The programme consisted
of Chilpcric and Trial by Jury, both of which comic
operas were rendered in excellent style. The company,
according to the best critics, is well selected, and no
better organization of the kind is now touring.
On Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday nights the hats had it all to themselves.
The proprietor went to the place on Monday and
commenced Laughlin the place up. He said he wouldn’t
stand any Gannon. He was excited, but he meant
gammon. Half-an-hour after the unexpected cloture,
the poor pros, formed a pretty picture, sitting on the
door-step.
Mr. George Coppin will retire from the stage at
the end of the present lease of the Melbourne Eoyal man-
gement. Before doing so he intends to" art union" all
his wardrobe, library, and all his theatrical collections—
the entire proceeds to be handed to the Dramatic and
Musical Association. His great desire is to see a self-
supporting home for decayed actors established during
his lifetime.
Miss Mattie Taylor opens at the School of Arts
to-night (Saturday), and will be supported by a capital
variety company. The names include those Of Hr.
A. and Miss Helen Vivian, whose speciality is character
impersonations. Mr. O’Brien is well known for his
courtesy ar manager, and he informs us that the show
will be one of what Todger’s “ Bailey" would term
“ a very spicy sort.”
The New York Mirror declares the divine
Sara to be a failure. Thus of the first performance
“ Bernhardt is a big failure already, notwithstanding
the superhuman efforts that are being made to keep the
knowledge out of the newspapers. We fear she will be
a bigger one before the one hundred nights of her
American engagement." Again:—“We regret Bern-
hardt’s fiat failure for Mr. Abbey’s sake.”
We understand that Mr. W. H. Thompson is
about to exhibit his Diorama at the School of Arts for
a short season. He says he will back his drawing-room
suites to draw the hair off the biggest star that ever
twinkled; and he will back his orchestra of three,
backed up by electro butter-dishes, against the attrac-
tions of the Strauss band. Now who shall say that
the taste of Australians is not an elevated one ?
The Stray Leaves Company opened at Burra
(S.A.) on New Year’s night to a splendid house, and
since then have played at several other towns, including
Hallett and Yongala. After visiting Caltowie and Glad-
stone they go on to Port Pirie. At the termination of
their Adelaide engagement, which commences in about
two months, they start direct for Sydney. A great
amount of sympathy has been tendered them in regard
to the Hamilton prosecution.
The Turf, Field, and Farm says that J. K.
Emmet is not dead after all: that he has been getting
up all the story of his madness and decease as a gratis
advertising joke. The American “down-east ” journals
are all preparing to bill him at the rate of 10 dollars a
par., and, as the editors usually collect accounts with
the bill in one hand and a derringer in the other,
possibly Fritz will find in a year or so that he hasn’t
made so much out of the “ spec.” after all.
Mr. Percy F. Stubbs’ concert at West Maitland
takes place on Saturday night, when he will be assisted
by some of the leading Sydney amateur vocalists, be-
sides his own pupils. The programme for the evening
contains operatic and cornet solos, ballads and choruses,
and a new idea in concerts, a guitar sestette, composed
especially for the occasion by Mr. Stubbs. The public
of Maitland never had a better entertainment provided
for them, and are not likely to have another its equal
for some time.
Harry Leston is set down by some critics as a
copyist of Greville. It is unjust to the undoubted
talents and merits of this young comedian that his re-
semblance to Mr. Greville in figure and physique should
interfere with a just opinion of his peculiar excellences.
Mr. Leston, as a character and dialect actor, has few
equals on the colonial stage. Both gentlemen are ex-
cellent opponents of low comedy of widely different
types, and it was under the wing of Mr. Greville that
Mr. Leston made his debtit.
The story of Henry J. Byron’s new comedy,
“ Bow Bells,” arises out of a city tradesman’s fancy for
retiring to some sequestered spot far away from the
sounds of those famous chimes which are supposed to
define the circuit of cockney associations. The hero’s
attempt to escape from the contamination of urban
holiday makers, and his yearning to surround himself
with all that is rustic, simple-minded, pure and idyllic,
is attended, as may be expected, with some degree of
disappointment, and a certain amount of what are
known as humorous complications.
When Miss Neilaon died the seals were affixed
by authority on the rooms which she had occupied in
the Hotel Continental. The rooms remained in that
condition until all formalities were complied with and
the probate of the English court was verified. Then
thejugode paix in person attended, accompanied by
his registrar, and possession of all the property was
delivered to Mr. Lewis, as executor of the dead actress.
This consisted of jewels and money estimated to be of
the value of £3OOO. It may be interesting, says the
Parisian, as some proof of the uselessness of French
seals, to say that when the room was opened it was
ascertained that the windows had never been closed,
and that anybody might easily have entered the room
by the balcony running outside the windows. The
juge de paix seemed quite surprised when Mr. Lewis
directed his attention to the fact.
Theatre Royal.
Amongst the many polished and original comedies
written by the late Mr. T. W. Eobertson, “Ours,"
which was produced at the theatre on Saturday night,
is without doubt one of the most artistic. The plot,
although composed of the slenderest materials, displays
much ingenious whimsicality, and the cast being small,
the author has, with commendable foresight, dealt
out his jokes in almost equal portions amongst the
dramatis person®. The dialogue of “Ours” is very
clever. Abounding as it does with epigram and aphor-
ism, there is a sparkle and a crackle all through the
piece. All the characters say sharp things to and of
one another, and jokes are let off like crackers from all
parts of the stage during the entire representation.
The acting, taken as a whole, was admirable. Indeed
we cannot think of a play in the whole range of English
dramatic literature so exactly suited to the present
personnel of the Theatre Eoyal Company as this spark-
ling little comedy of Eobertson’s. The piece, in fact,
was so cleverly rendered that the performance may be
said to embody one or two surprises. For instance the
part allotted to Mr. H. H. Vincent was that of an
eccentric old Eussian Prince, —a gallant nobleman sup-
posed to be possessed, in an eminent degree, of all the
accomplishments and diplomacy for which the Eussian
statesmen are so famous. It was not anticipated, not
even by Mr. Vincent’s warmest admirers, that he would
make a hit in the part of Prince Petrovsky—more
especially on the first night of the performance. In
their expectations they were, however, very pleasantly
disappointed. Mr. Vincent not only completely grasped
the author’s idea, but his make-up, voice, gestures—
every thing, went towards rendering the impersonation
as near to perfection as possible. As Hugh Chalcot,
the rich brewer, grown cynical from discovering that a
former sweetheart merely loved him for his money, Mr.
G. S. Titheradge surpassed even his wonted excellence.
In his monologues—so dangerous with a Saturday night
gathering—Mr. Titheradge was successful in invari-
ably keeping his audience “on the simmer.” The part
of the old baronet, as interpreted by Mr. E. Shepherd
was a performance of great finish, and he looked the
gray-headed English colonel to the life. Mr. Frank
ates played Captain M'Allis ter, the penniless captain
of “ Ours ” with great feeling, and though, at times, a
trifle stiff in his love-making and occasionally slow in
taking his cue, pourtrayed the man in such a manner as
to merit strong commendation. Mr. J. H. Eainford, as
Sergeant Joce , wasflttel with a part eminently suited
to his peculiar powers that it might have been written for
him. So much for those who interpreted the male char-
acters. Of the ladies—Mrs Marion Stammers, Mrs. Gor-
don, and Miss Blanche Stammers—who played respec-
tively Lady Shendryn, Blanche Haye, and Mary Netley—
were highly effective. Indeed, the Mary Netley of Miss
Stammers we regard as one of that lady’s very best im-
personations. She was full of life and vivacity, and
presented a charming picture in her every scene. In the
last act, where she makes, with an elaborate attention
to every detail, the “ roley-poley ” pudding, she fairly
took her audience by storm. In short, her acting
throughout the entire piece proved her to be no un-
worthy successor in the part that was written for one of
the queens of English vivacious comedy—Marie Wil-
ton. Mrs. Stammers gave a life-like portraiture of the
old Colonel’s wife; and Mrs. Geo. Gordon was highly
successful in her impersonation of the universally
wooed heiress. If, as we believe, the love of genuine
comedy be implanted in the hearts of Sydney play-
goers, “Ours” should have a lengthy existence at the
Eoyal. In any case, the longer the run of the piece the
greater it will speak for the general intelligence of the
public.
The Hodgkinson gold-field in the Far North, is
still a lively place. The principal townships on it, if
such they can be called, are Thornborough and Kings-
borough, and between them a fierce rivalry exists.
Each has now a paper, subsidised by local storekeepers;
there is but little difference between the two places in
point of population, but the one grand distinction is
that at Thornborough drinks are a shilling, while at
Kingsborough what purports to be James Hennessy
may be sampled for sixpence. The consequence of this
is that on Saturday the whole population of Thorn-
borongh turn out and go to the town of cheap liquor, a
few miles distant. It has so far been found impossible
to bring about a liquor reform at Thornborough, as
Billy Little, who runs the place, has the leading
“hotel," is king of the district, and is, of course,
conscientiously opposed to the change.
In these days of Freethought, the following !
ridiculous explanation of the miracle of Jonah may be
recorded. Jonah, from his predilection for the sea, it
is argued, must have been a sailor, and with that open-
handed, jovial liberality common to his class, went to
the “ Whale” public-house to spend shore leave there.
He treated all hands, and it only took him three days to
“knock” all his money down. IHe then suffered the
usual treatment of penniless fools, and was kicked out.
This reads worse than Budge’s account of Johah in
Helen’s Babies.
The Duchess of Manchester has established her-
self in London for the winter, where she has established
a political salon— an institution which has been in abey-
ance since the death of Lady Palmerston. The Duchess’
house, in a word, is to be the focus of politics, and the
place where distinguished men of all shades of politics
can meet and talk over the events. Her Grace possesses
all the qualities for carrying out her idea. The cam-
paign was inaugurated in the last week of November by
a dinner at which Lord Beaconsfield, Lord Hartington,
Lord Dutferin, and Lord Odo Bussell met, and were
joined in the evening by a few choice political spirits,
i including the much abused secretary for Ireland.
PEPPER AND SALT.
It is well known that Mr. Josephson, the
gentleman who recently immortalised himself by losing
his £4O over the East Sydney election, is the reigning
spirit.at the Benevolent Asylum, to which without doubt
he has done invaluable service. Well, he was moving
about over the institution the other day, when he
drifted into the small girls’ school-room. There he
leaned against the fire-place, put his hands under his
coat-tails, and addressing a diminutive but sharp look-
ing pupil who was third from the “ top” scholar, said—
“ Now, little girl, tell me, do you know what my name
is?” “Yes,” “ What is it thenP” enquired the mag-
nate, patronisingly. “ Ikey,” returned the child. Then
spluttering—“Go to the bottom of the class.” I.J.
Josephson, Esq., J.P., shuffled hastily away.
This is how the Northern Miner prints its
Melbourne letter: —“ During the performance of School
for scandal at the Bignon Theatre last evening, Mrs.
Lewis who took the part of Lady Zeale, fainted, the
curtain was at once dropped." This would be as bad as
the Tellab anger theatrical pars., only that people
mentioned by the Miner's correspondent actually
appeared.
Avery great number of persons are acquainted
with Tomattic, the cricketer, but few of those
outside the chaste circle within which he brilliantly
revolves are aware that Tom is a lady-killer of the firs*
water. He is pre-eminently what the ladies term,
“ Such a wicked man;” and without exaggeration, in
whatever part of the southern (or any other) hemi-
sphere that Tom illumines by the heavenly radiance of
his presence, there is a fluttering of nursemaid’s hearts,
and tribulation reigns supreme in the breasts of the
bonnet-trimmers. Now, when the second Australian
eleven played in Adelaide, Tom was the cynosure of
every eye. He had all his European gloss freshly on
him, and the sleek glossiness of the nap he had acquired
in Prance lendered him an “ aggereriwater ” of no
small pretensions. To watch him gracefully leaning up
against the wall of the Imperial Hotel, thoughtfully
picking his teeth with the handle of a bat, and
languidly smiling upon peripatetic beauty, was a
lovelier sight than the loveliest transformation scene.
But to hear him talk—to dwell upon the rhythmic
cadence of the Kennington oval lisp added to the
Tottenham Court-road drawl —was bliss pure and un-
adulterated. Well, one day—the morning before the
match began—Tom noticed a remarkably handsome
young lady pass and smile, not boldly, but sweetly and
unmistakeably upon him —Tomattic. In reply to
this, he got up as killing a smile as he could on
such short notice. Then the lady smiled again,
and Tom sniggered with great violence ; and,
finally, with half-a-dozen chuckles which sounded like
the popping of as many ginger-beer corks, he gathered
himself together and followed. She took the Norwood
tram—he took the Norwood tram. She alighted at the
Parade —he did likewise. Then she tripped on slowly
under the shade of her parasol. Tom stopped in mo-
mentary indecisiveness. Just then she looked round,
and her laughing eye caught’that of the gallant crick-
eter, and with a bound he was at her side. They
entered into conversation. Her voice was soft, sweet,
and exquisitely modulated. Tom, being excited, spoke
as though he had been living for 15 years on the scorns
of Judaea. She said she had long admired him from
afar, compared his prowess to that of Hercules, and his
beauty to that of Apollo. Did she live near ? —oh, dear,
y 6B —quite close. Could he —huskiness more prominent
—accompany her there just for a short chat—pleasanter
there out of the dust ? Delighted. Then Tom gazed
upon his companion, and when he saw how lovely she
looked, he wished all the rest of the Eleven could see
his good fortune. In a few minutes they arrived at
a pretty little villa, enshrouded in beautiful green
shrubs. She entered the garden, followed by the
athletic enslaved. She rang the bell, and a footstep
was heard in the passage. The door was opened
by a very tall man, with an enormous pair of
black whiskers. Tom started, and darted a half wild
gaze into the distant hazy perspective. He entered
mechanically, and followed his charmer into a large
room occupied by several ladies and gentlemen, and
about which, independently of two pianos, were strewn
a number of different kinds of musical instruments.
“ Dear mamma and papa, and you, dear auntie, and you
Belinda and Charley, here is Mr. Tomattic of the Austra-
lian Eleven, who has come here to take tickets for all
of them for our concert at White’s Booms, to-night."
Then Tom saw it all, but gallantly produced the neces-
sary £3, and got up the scaffolding of a sorrowful smile.
They made him stay to luncheon, however, and under
the influence of some decent claret he was just beginning
to recover his spirits, when, from a turn the conversa-
tion took, he discovered that their captain had been
“ had” the same day. When he departed, he wouldnot
hear of the man with the whiskers accompanying him
on his way home; and that night when the concert
took place, although twenty-four seats had been paid
for and reserved for the Australian cricketers, not one
of them put in an appearance. The hall, however, was
otherwise crowded—thousands of handbills having
been circulated in the afternoon announcing that the
entertainment was under their immediate patronage.
“ I think,” said'the landlady of an aristocratic
boarding-house to a well-known impecunious M.L.A.,
after the second “ Monday ” had passed and he made no
pecuniary sign—“ I think it would be more satisfactory
to both of us if, we had some understanding." Not at
all—not at all, my good woman,” interrupted the hon.
member, “I’ve the most perfect confidence in you.”
Since this they have tried all sorts of ways to get rid of
him, but always without success. When they tell the
servants not to “do” his bedroom, he washes himself in
someone else’s apartment. When his boots are not
cleaned, he goes out and gets threepenny-worth at the
comer of Market street. When they shut him out at
night, he returns with two constables, a battering-ram,
and a locksmith, and tells the guardians of the law, in
audible tones, that “ they have been keeping it up in-
side.” When given a verbal notice to leave, he wants
one in writing, and when served with a written request
to quit, he insists upon having it on a printed form. He
has tried over and over again to pay his bill with
orders for the Speaker's Gallery and free railway
passes, and when that wouldn’t do, endeavoured to get a
receipt in full by promising to invite one of the Ministers
to dinner. Gifted by nature with a tremendous appe-
tite, he, not content with swallowing three or fox*
pounds of solids at every meal, sometimes travels to the
Central Police Court, and brings home with him to
luncheon a gaunt and hungry J.P., on which occasion
he aggravates the offence by requesting the landlady to
send round for a jug of “two-ales,” knowing that she
is powerless to ask for the “ change ” wherewith to
purchase it in the presence of his friend. And, worst of
all, instead of recommending the house, &c., dreading
that he might be swept away by the influx of boarders, he
hints darkly to his acquaintances at the frequent appear-
ance of cold mutton, and the abnormal strength of
the oleomargarine. Altogether the landlady is in a
quandary, and she desires us to state that if any per-
son requires a member of the legislature, in good con-
dition, to become a member of his household gods,
she cau let him hqve one at a bargain—with the pro-
mise that they undertake to carry him away.
An invalid, from a rather distant colony, having
in vain sought relief at the hands of the doctors in his
own country, came to Sydney and was recommended by
friends to consult Dr. Hippocrates Blank, a medico
who runs a gorgeously-furnished establishment in a
most fashionable street. On his first visit he found
that Blank had a houseful of patients, and seemed to
be looked upon as indeed an oracle. The sick one,
whom for the sake of identification we shall call
Stubble, sent a card and a letter of Introduction by a
properly-got-up lackey, but notwithstanding thishehad
for a whole morning to dance attendance in the sump-
tuous waiting-room of Hippocrates. When at last hie
turn came and he was admitted to the awful presence
poor suffering Stubble was seized with an unaccount-
able impulse to rush forward and grasp Hippocrates by
the hand. “Yes,” said the patient in narrating his
adventure, “ Do you know, the face and figure, to say
nothing of the voice, seemed thoroughly familiar to me,
and yet I was sure I never met a doctor of the name
before. It wasn’t till I sat down facing the mirror and
Hippocrates Blank got in front of me that I recollected
where we had met. I suddenly remembered that on
the occasion of our last interview Blank, whose name
was then Dash, had caught me by the nose and said,
‘ Kindly turn your face this way for a moment, sir—yes,
sir, now that’s right,—that’ll do nicely—we’ll be done
in a moment.’ He used to be —ahem ! —my barber, in—
well, not in New South Wales. I took his advice and
he took my guinea. The tousorial art, or rather
barberism, and surgery, used to be different branches of
INTAGLIOS.
Ghazi.
(FOR THE BULLENTIN.)
Bow low, and uncover thy head
At the foot of the altar august
Where the mighty immaculate Dead
Have knelt with ineif able trust 1
Cast off, as the fathers have done.
The shoes on thy feet that are hound !
In the reverent light of the sun.
Bow low to the sanctified ground.
Lo I this is a fane of the Faith
At Borne and at Ephesus tried.
When the holy ones grappled with Death
With the Lord over Death on their side.
Lo! hefie is a temple indeed.
Built up by the sons of the sires
Who died for their beautiful creed
Ringed round by implacable fires —
Who stood by the Christ in the flame
Of the circus—in fury of snow—
And glorified fetters of shame,
A hundred of ages ago !
Remember, O son of a time
By Dathan and blasphemy cursed.
Her history stately, sublime —
This chief of the Churches and first!
Remember her sorrows immense
In the awful Gethsemane’s past I
Her patience august, her intense —
Her unspeakable faith to the last 1
Look up at this beqptiful Type
Of the Lord for whose glory the tears
Were shed under arrow and stripe
For three bitter cycles of years!
Ah! note the compassionate Face
That beams from the Cross on the wall.
With its infinite pity and grace,
Like the light of the sun for us all I
And mark the pure countenance there
Of Mary the Mother who kneels,
With the lips of perpetual prayer.
By a Father who listens and feels I
Was it out of a temple like this
The serpent Gehazi went forth
With a lie on his mouth like a kiss
For the winds of the South and the North P
Was it under such marvel of dome
This devil stalked harnessed and shod ?
The burden —the burden of Rome,
The sorrowful City of God I
The grief of the radiant One
Who is Lord of the greatest and least.
Because of Chenaanah’s son—
This wolf in the cloak of a priest I
What litanies purer than flame
The elders must oSer, before
The sanctity smitten with shame
Can glow with the glory of yore !
What psalms of superlative prayer
The fathers who fast in the fane
Must sing, that the Church may be fair
As the Flower of Sharon again I
Because of the wrong thou hast wrought,
Gehazi, the curse is on thee!
Thy feet in a trap shall be caught—
Thy face as a horror shall be!
Confusion shall compass thee round,
And Infamy be as thy friend.
Thy name —a contemptible sound—
In the pits of Gehenna shall end!
Yea, seeing the sin of thine hand.
And the wickedness bom of thy tongue,
Thy soul shall be loathed in the land
As a thing that an adder hath stung.
Behold, in the sight of the pure
Immutable Throne of the Three,
The flame shall be sudden and sure—
The burden of Cain is on thee!
For, under the shadow of sword.
Thou, beaten and branded, shalt go
Forth out of the sight of the Lord
A leper as white as the snow!
HENRY KENDALL.
First Love.
The first time that I dearly loved a lass.
My warm pursuit provoked in her no flame;
Her heart already gone, it came to pass
The hollow only echoed back one name.
Dismayed, I saw how hopeless was my plight;
The maid forsook, and safety sought in flight.
*******
Since then I’ve loved, for many a pretty lass
My aching heart has felt Love’s ardent flame;
Yet, as the various feelings through me pass,
I know the love I love is but a name.
My only love, the lass whose love was plight.
Who captive bound me, and yet caused my flight.
*******
Oh! sweet first-love, the ne’er forgotten. Alas !
The early-kindled, never dying flame.
The uneventful years that o’er me pass.
But blend a sweeter fragrance with thy name,
A sadder memory to my hapless plight.
Love’s bond’s are only drawn more tense by flight.
*******
B.
Wagga Wagga, 7th January.


“ I have analysed an origir
Mixture, and I certify that il
the same occupation, and that’s why Hippocrates Blank
goes in for physic, not for surgery." To anybody
suffering from baldness or dandruff this information
ought to be valuable.
A smart and dandified police officer, who, it
must be remembered, is of exceedingly dark* com-
plexion and loves a joke, even at his own expense, tells
the following: —He had just arrived in a Southern town,
and, while lounging round the verandah of his hotel,
was accosted in a pleasant, off-hand way by a pastoral-
looking individual, got up in long, decided Dundrearies,
tweed suit, red silk tie, and cabbage-tree hat. “ How
are you, old man ? —have a drink ?—going to have a
whisky myself.” They whiskied accordingly, and when
the liquor had been “ surrounded,” the squatter paid
for it with a sovereign. On receiving the change, he
took half-a-crown from the little rouleau and pushed the
coin towards his new acquaintance, saying, ‘‘We’re
square, now, aren’t we ?" The police officer couldn’t
make it out, and remarked that he was quite sure that
no financial gap, even of the width of a haif-crown,
existed between them. Explanation: There was in the
town a coloured barber who had been trimming the
squatter’s whiskers.
A very pleasant fellow, who is “no end of a
swell," and who formerly, in the days when he thought
that the bulk of the paternal estate was bound to be his,
used to figure extensively in the Home News, and to be
as prominent in London, where he drove grand cattle,
as an Australian “young blood" could be, has just left
our midst for the second time, and betaken himself
once more to Belgravia. “ The Governor ” didn’t put
him too much in the will, and the consequence was that
he had to return to Australia and become a squatter.
Well, he has succeeded, and, as stated, has gone home
to enjoy his earnings. It is related of him that he one
day surprised the natives of a certain bush town by
turning out with a team of four piebalds. As he drove
along he came up to an acquaintance who was driving a
buggy in the same direction. “ Bless me! ” exclaimed
the latter, “ I didn’t know it was you. I looked round
when I heard the rattle, but, upon my soul, I didn’t
recognise you; I thought it was the d circus! ”
“For the tricks that are vain and the ways
that are mean,” some other people than the Chinese
are peculiar. Listen to the story from—well it might
cost too much to say. A high official representing the
educational branch of the public service learns that
Mrs. has a room to let that will suit him for an
office. He arranges as to rent, and an agreement for a
term is drawn up and signed. At this time public
official thinks Mrs has a lease, but subsequently
finds she hasn’t. Let it be noted here that he knows
she is a poor woman, struggling to make ends meet, and
that to give up her house means to her dire distress.
A few days elapse and Mrs. receives notice to quit
from her landlord; and to her astonishment and no
small disgust discovers that her quondam tenant has
literally leased the house over her head, and that the
rent charge is more than half covered by the office rent,
which the Government has to pay. Mrs. now wants
to know if there is any redress for a case of the kind.
If we were that man’s official Minister we think we
could answer to her satisfaction.
It is my pleasing duty to inform the public at
large that at least one compositor has done the state
some service. He was the means of causing one of our
most gifted crow-poets of the female persuasion to
shuffle off this mortal coil. And here’s the way it
happened. Sappho was a gushin g young singer at 19, and
had never a beau but one, and he was scarcely one, as
he happened to be a tailor. Luckily for himself, how-
ever, he died,(and then Sappho banged her gridiron, and
inked her fingers, and read Martin Tupper, and lived on
fried bread and boiled mutton to encourage what she
called the divine afflatus, but which there is every reason
to suspect was simply wind. Her last poem, De Profun-
iis or the Blasted Heart, was sent to the Australian,
and contained the following soul-rending couplet, in
which the rapturous joy of her early love is thus de-
Boribed: —
“ My life was thick with sorrow-clouds, and sadness
fill’d each day.
But joy! the right man quickly came, and parted all
away.”
Lovely, isn’t it; and in how many an aching heart would
not those cheering lines have touched a sympathetic
chord. Alas ! for the bardess. Her trouble was given
to a teetotal compositor. And here’s the way it went
before the world: —
“My life was sick with sorrow-clouds, and sadness
fill’d each day.
But Joe! the night man quickly came, and carted all
away.”
Verdict, found drowned.
To “ Arthur Sketchley.”—“ It is broadly stated
here that the author of the article headed ‘An Indian
view of Sydney,’ is Arthur .Sketchley, who was a
sia-nal failure here, and thus attempts petty revenge.”
—Lyee.
“ Good Templar,” writing to the Holy Howl,
says:—“ But as I have just observed, moral sensibility
is blunted se that many violations of the law are con-
sidered trivial offenses, and others none whatever”—
Yonr argument we’re willing quite
To state is very well;
But yet, before you dare to write.
You ought to leark to spell.
A certain well-known solicitor, who practises at
a city Water Police Court, is a man of varied accomplish-
ments. Not only does his eloquence, at times, astonish
his clients and the Bench (and not unfrequently himself),
but he considers himself to be}a vocalist of no mean order.
He is great; at warbling plaintive ballads, softly accom-
panying himself the while, and, though he plays the
same bass to every tune, the effect of his performance
is sueh as to please him greatly. The other day, on
visiting some young lady friends, he was requested by
them to oblige with a song. They were seated in a
little morning room up stairs, and the piano was
temptingly open. After a little preliminary coughing,
and a glass of “old East India rum," he sat him-
self down to the instrument. He ran one hand over
the keys, and passed the other over his alabaster brow.
Then he commenced—“ Silver threads amongst the
gold." Hardly had the singer begun the second verse,
than a little girl of 12 burst into the room, and ad-
dressed her elder sister, “ Oh, Jane, ma says she wishes
Tom ’d put some oil in your sewing machine. Her
head is splitting with the crackling sound it makes."
• • • • The only song the fat little man now
sings is the song of six-and-eight-pence.
A young girl named Laura Glee, drowned her-
self in a dam at Bahgallah, on Wednesday morning.
Another victim to man’s rascality.” Country Pap£e.
THE TRAGEDY OF TUCKER.—A ROMANTIC
BULLETIN BALLAD.
A piece of paper was produced by a witness,
who said deceased had given it to him for insertion in
the Aegus. It was very badly written and spelt, but
read thus; —‘ My dear—l loved you as I loved my life
and soul. I would* make you my wife, but alas, you
hate the sight of me. You may think this is temper
but it is not—it is passionate love. When I broke that
parasol it was not temper. Goodbye for ever. Good-
bye dear mother.’ ” —Daily Papee,
There was a youth called Tucker, who
Possessed a tender heart;
His hair was red, his eyes “ sky-blue
He drove a milkman’s cart.
He loved his master’s daughter—she
Was really very plain;
Yet often as she “cut” him, he
Would always “ oome again.”
He wrote her, till his eye-sight dimm’d;
He promised robes of silk;
And while the notes the daughter skimm’d.
The father skimm’d the milk.
He shed so many tears that she
Cried “ O you foolish man!
Why waste that water sinfully ;
Go weep now in your can!”
“Take me!” he moaned : “ don’t let your brow
Sweet one, with dark frowns pucker;
With me grim hunger you’ll ne’er know—
You’ll always have your tucker."
But laughed the maiden loud and shrill.
Then cried that youth so true: —
“ I’ll go and load my gun, I will.
With duck-shot ‘ number two!’ ”
He died; but her eyes didn’t dim.
Quoth she—“ A silly elf !
I oft * made game ’ of him, but Jim
Now’s made game of himself."
“ Why waste his shot,” the girl did say,
“ Upon his skull so thick ?
A pint of our milk any way
Would just have done the trick.”
Wrote he —“ Life is not worth a whelk;
The world I quit this day;
I go to serve the coves with milk
Up in ‘the Milky Way.’ ”
After taking a careful survey of the “ block ’’
during the past week, I arrive at the conclusion that
short dresses and long feet will be very fashionable
until the end of the present season. The medallion
stockings are not very much worn just yet, but there’s
really very little necessity to ornament these enchant-
ing articles in Sydney. The Corporation mud-man sees
to that.
Apropos of nothing, how’s this for high? A
certain large and influential journal, called Choeus, un-
blushingly tells us that “ Ladies’ Exhibition calf can be
had at Hunter and Co.’s from 10s. 6d. upwards." Now,
what in brimstone constitutes an Exhibition calf ? We
are getting too much of this Swinbumian element into
society just now; and the reckless manner in which
these sacred subjects have been handled of late proves
that we are swiftly drifting into the flippant irrever-
ence and demoralizing licentiousness of a Melbourne or
a Gomorrha. Holy Pietro and Francisco the Good,
pray for us, and deliver us, if possible, from Exhibition
calves from 10s. 6d. and upwards.
“ Hang the expense!” A number of squatters
and others had met, not a hundred miles from Inverell,
to arrange a private race meeting; and, business being
concluded and dinner over, about a dozen of them en-
gaged a private room at the hotel, and started a game
of 100. After some hours’ play, a little alimentation
was thought desirable, and one, a weklthy squatter and
J.P., whose successes during the evening had caused in
him a momentary burst of magnanimity, ordered
supper for the company. Here is the dialogue verbatim:
—W.S. and J.P.: “Aw, waitah—can we have some
snppah?” Waiter Yes, sir.” W.S. and J.P.: “Can
we have some sardines, waitah ?” W. (who knew the
customer): “Yes, sir. Would you like a large ora
small box ?” W.S. and J.P. pauses for a moment, and
hurriedly calculates the amount of his winnings. Then,
with the air of a prodigal: “Oh ! a large box, waitaw—
certainly—a large box!”
V.
Revenue of the Australian Colonies for
1880.
New South Wales £4,911,990 increase over 1879 £430,325
Victoria ... £4.705,514 „ „ £292 391
South Australia £2,027,963 „ „ £319,609
Queensland £1,656,320 „ „ £140,000
Tasmania £437,522 „ ~ £71,500
£13,719,339 £1,253,825
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
Melbourne has a strange fascination for Sydney
young ladies.
If inanity be the soul of wit, then read the
columns of a certain Melbourne weekly.
A good lunch when the thermometer is 92 in the
shade, is a glass of Cleeland’s spa and a biscuit.
Eecipe for the pantomime of the future, a la
Bijou:—An infant, a yard of .gauze, and a penny-worth
of blue-light.
The Exhibition floors want scrubbing badly, i
Surely there are enough scrubbers on the Commission
to do this work ?
A certain French restaurant in Lonsdale-street
is the present rendezvous of all the bright luminaries
of Melbourne Bohemian life.
Mr. Eichard Birnie, M.A., is the father of the
Victorian Bar. He has seen Kemble, and has witnessed
Hamlet performed 576 times.
The best business sites in Bourke-street, are
those occupied by Hebrew clothes-men who originally
began life in the “ old do' " line.
Some of our lamp-lighters now go their rounds
on horseback. They are armed with long poles, and do
their work without leaving the saddle.
“ An Old Playbill” by “ J. 5.,” which is in the
Argus of the Bth inst., is one of the most interesting
articles that has appeared for some time.
The disgraceful exhibition of mites is still in
progress at the Bijou. The youngest in the company
is of the mature age of three. She is a juvenile lead.
Max L. Kreitmayer, of the Waxworks, is the
jolliest entrepreneur in Melbourne. On his estate at
Abbotsford there is the largest mulberry tree in the
colony.
La Fille du Tambour Major is splendidly
mounted, Harwood is inimitable, Mervin versatile,
and the Catholics much annoyed at what they deem to
be a farce.
Theo. Hamilton’s prize drama competition
seems to be a “flam.” A “Victim" writes to the
Argus of the 13th that he cannot even get his manu-
script returned. Oh Theo.!
A Melbourne gentleman, just returned from a
visit to Western Australia, shows a certificate he was
obliged to sign. He was compelled to swear that “he
was not, nor had he ever been, a prisoner of the
Crown!"
Sinbad the Sailor at the Eoyal, Sinbad the
Tailor at St. George’s, Novelties at the Novelty, Kitts
at the Apollo, and Magic Music and Worth at the
People’s, which closes its dramatic season on Friday.
The dog show opened on the 13th. We wonder
if any of the puppies who have made the International
their home for the last three months have moved their
quarters to the other Exhibition at the Hippodrome.
Berry and Yale have gone over to the Inter-
national Conference. Oh! that Govett’s Leap, the
Wannon Palls, and Berry and Vale were mixed up in
wild confusion. Wouldn’t Victoria get along spin-
ningly then!
A Quakeress, who has a very overbearing
daughter, was calling on a friend a few days since, and
begged the lady to pray “that the lion might be
changed into a lamb.” Of course, this was in reference
to her child.
Promiscuous-like, observed a smart American
exhibitor to some one connected with the International
awards—“ A gold medal would be worth a thousand
pounds to us.” “ Put the money down, old man," was
the reply, “ and you shall have it.” Exhibitor was so
surprised that he could do nothing but walk oft.
The Austrian Band has smashed up. Some of
the members have gone to Tasmania, others to the
Austrian Restaurant, and Baron Willdner and Mr.
Godwin have severed connection. The Baron, however,
will appear shortly in a new character—Willdner v.
Schonberger (the ponderous Austrian Commissioner).
Only one jug of milk, daily, is allowed by the
Melbourne Hospital authorities to the four resident
medicos. The committee consider it a capital joke, but
the four resident medicos can’t see the cream of it.
They say (and rightly, too), that the committee lac the
milk of human kindness. These four resident medicos
have evidently started on a new lait.
We have had very hot weather here. One
evening, prior to a religious meeting, a wag put a couple
of bottles of Hollands into the water intended for the
congregation to drink. Delight was consequently
visible in some faces ; horror in others. The idea is an
advanced one, and will, no doubt, be improved on as
churchwardens become more civilised and less narrow
in their views.
The Eev. J. H. Gregory, incumbent of All
Saints’ (Anglican) Church, St. Kilda, is away on leave.
His church is being looked after by his two young
curates, who are “running” the concern admirably.
The church has become “Higher,” and consequently
more fashionable, than ever; and at least half-a-dozen
members of the congregation cross themselves devoutly
on entering the sacred edifice.
The Council meeting of a certain Melbourne
suburb, noted for its effective drainage and palatial
tenements, was enlivened somewhat the other evening
by the proceedings of one of its members who had been
taking a “wee drappee” too much. A teetotaling
councillor present drew the attention of the Mayor to
the disgusting fact. The Mayor, who wasalso in a
whiskey-mood, said “he couldn’t see it.” A fact.
There is always a block under the dome of the
International, composed of inane young men who
lounge, insipid young ladies who leer, and fat old
matrons who 1011. The exhibits and the Exhibition are
the last things thought of by these weak specimens of
humanity. Buskin says : “In the Nineteenth Century
there is certainly not one man in fifteen thousand who
looks at anything, and not one in fifteen thousand
capable of a thought.” We are beginning to agree
with the venerable art critic in his belief.
An article appearing in the last Melbourne
Review, written by A. M. Topp, an Age man, attacks
the Irish as a worthless, deceitful, and rebellious race.
As a matter of course, the Hibernian is up in arms,
and mouths and rants anent the calumny, with hints as
to what may be expected to follow—but nothing does
follow. Whatever may be one’s opinion about the
article, it is at least well worth reading. But whether
the Argus, particularly at the present juncture, was
wise in drawing special attention in its columns to the
Toppian theory about Victorian Irishmen, is very ques-
tionable.
A courtship, in which (so rumour says) she was
the active and he merely the passive spirit, is shortly
to culminate at the altar. The lady is the only
daughter of a wealthy individual who made his big
fortune by selling boots; who the fortunate swain is
does not much matter to anybody. He adored her
“from the jump,” as they say in Queensland; but, as
she was very poor, and he very rich,
“ With distant bow, and stately
He saw his true love pass—”
for a time at least. Finding that he did not dare to
come to the point, she proposed to him, was accepted—
ca ra sans dire —and duly ratified the understanding.
As stated above, the wedding will soon come off; but
under the circumstances one, ef course, cannot say with
which of the happy pair will rest the privilege of
naming the day of execution.
The other day a subscription was set on foot by
a charitable lady in aid of a gentleman who, after having
an active and up-and-down life in another country, and
occupying in the course pf that time some splendid
literary and commercial positions, recently came to
Melbourne in bad pecuniary circumstances and broken
health. His brother, one of our biggest capitalists,
deliberately refused to afford him any assistance
whatever, merely remarking that he himself had worked
his way up in the world without aid, that he had never
asked help from anybody, and didn’t expect any one to
appeal to him for it. One of these days, Christians are
taught to believe, the positions will be reversed. Dives
will, in his agony, cry out to Lazarus. As the case is
one which, after most careful inquiry, has been found
deserving of every consideration, a substantial sum has
already been raised in aid of the unfortunate gentleman
and his wife and family.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
[FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.]
His Excellency the Governor, with the Earl of
Ellesmere and party, has been in Gippsland during
the past week. They stayed at Mrs. Thomas’ Hotel,
at the Latrobe, and went in both for fishing and shoot-
ing. The Gippsland fish are notedly fine, and quantities
reach our market daily now that the rail is open.
Mr. Summers pave a recital on the “ great
organ ” in the Exhibition on Saturday afternoon. The
attendance numbered over 7000 persons. It is notice-
able that on Saturday afternoons all the mechanical
dolls are worked, clocks kept going, and attendants at
the different exhibits more desirous of showing off their
wares to best advantage. There has been no difference
in the price of admission of late, but Thursday after-
noon is the day when the fashionables muster most
strongly. Last Thursday Mddle. Charbonnet and
Mons. Kowalski performed on the pianos in the dif-
ferent Courts.
At half-past four numbers of people wend their
way to the Indian Court, where tea is served
to all who care for it, free of charge. It is done in
excellent style. The Court is an exquisite lounge,
fitted up with cane furniture, and the waiters who
attend are Indians. They bring you tea in most dainty
ware. People want to know, though, if it is out of
compliment to our nation that they clothe half of their
bodies in European clothes, whilst their embroidered
coats and turbanned heads proclaim their Indian origin.
On Saturday evening a dinner was given by the
Post Office employes at Hockin’s Hotel, to celebrate
the anniversary of the letter-earners’ half-holiday. A
presentation of a cabinet, writing table, inkstand, Ac.,
was made by them to Mr. Patterson, Minister of Rail-
ways, in token of their appreciation of regulations
formed by him for their advantage when he was Post-
master-General.
It is decided that 1000 children"shall be invited
from each of the principal inland districts in turn, te
visit the Exhibition. A public holiday is to be solicited
on each occasion, to enable friends and relations to pay
a visit at the same time; and arrangements are being
made to hold children’s musical services.
There was a wedding at All Saints’ Church, St.
Kilda, last Saturday, when Mr. Thompson, of New
Zealand, was married to Miss Priestly, daughter of Mr.
Alfred Priestly, St. Kilda. There was a choral service.
The Rev. Dr. Torrance performed the ceremony. The
bride wore white cashmere, trimmed with satin and
lace, orange blossom wreath and necklet.
On the 15th, Miss Libbie Wilkinson, a daughter
of the Master in Equity, is to be married to Mr. Lake.
The wedding is to be a quiet one, but the bride’s dress
is described as very handsome, being composed of
white satin.
The visitors’ list at the Grand Pacific Hotel,
Loutit Bay, Lome, is a very lengthy one, and this seems
the favourite retreat of the season. Great accounts
are to hand of the fun the visitors there have had.
There are many beautiful walks along the cliffs, bmt
one must be a good walker to surmount the rocks, and
visitors are cautioned to bring sundry pairs of boots.
In the evening, the scene both at the hotel and Mount-
joy’s boarding-house is very gay. dancing being the
order of the time. In such a mixed assemblage there
is plenty of food for amusement. In addition to the fun
the wreck of the Hereford on the coast, within II miles
of Lome, has caused great excitement among the people
there.
The only life sacrificed in the Hereford disaster
was that of a pig which was washed overboard and
might have reached the shore were it not that a shark
took him for a meal. The passengers on being lauded
were housed and fed most hospitably at Mr. Noble’s
station, Mrs. Noble even staying up all night to bake
bread for them.
On Wednesday evening, Mrs. Maloney, wife, of
Dr. Maloney, Collins-street, gave a very large juvenile
fancy dress ball. Some of the children were m#st
exquisitely dressed. The Christmas number of the
Queen is to hand, asd contains some interesting
descriptions of children’s fancy dresses. Juvenile en-
tertainments are quite the rage in London, and ladies
vie with one another in sending their children in most
appropriate costumes, historical and national costumes
having particular attention.
Hundred-year-ago bonnets are all the fashion
for children here just now. They are made mostly of
pompadour sateen to’ match the dress, but in many
cases are simply composed of white marcella and em-
broidery and ornamented with coloured ribbon bows.
Many ladies wear them now at lawn tennis, but I think
for this purpose they look more comfortable than
attractive.
The outline crewel work ia in greater vogue
than ever, and the figures stamped for working are of
the quaintest and most old-fashioned kind. This work
is never shaded, but simply done in outline, in the one
colour; and is most effective for chair-covers, d’oyleys,
night-dress bags, tidies, etc.
A new book for children, published by Fred.
Wame and Co., London, called “ Afternoon Tea,”
contains rhymes for little folks, and is beautifully and
comically illustrated. One can hardly be at a loss now-
a-days for children’s books. Their name is legion, and
they are so well got up that they afford amusement to
old and young. *
The Rev. Dr. Torrance, of St. Mary’s, Caul-
field, to give a performance of some of his charal and
orchestral works in the Melbourne Town Hall on
Monday evening, 28th February. The Bishop has con-
sented to become one of the patrons of the performance.
The surplus money is to be applied to the purpose of
founding a school of mnsic in connection with the
Melbourne Cathedral.
Mias Pomeroy ia at present at Ballarat. Her
Sandhurst tour was most successful. On New Tear’s
Eve the citizens serenaded her, and on Thursday
evening she was escorted to the Shamrock Hotel, the
band preceding her carriage and playing American airs.
The Boarding-out Committee are still at variance.
On Monday last about 200 poor women, assembled at
the Richmond Town Hall, where the Committee used
to meet. * They expected to receive their monthly pay
for the children, but as none of the officials were in
attendance the women, highly aggrieved, had to depart
with their unfortunate little charges. Some one in the
crowd suggested leaving the youngsters on Professor
Hearn’s doorstep, for matters are in his hands since he
quarrelled with the ladies. On the following day Miss
Wilson, the new district superintendent, drove round
and called on the foster parents to pay the allowance.
The women lost a day’s earnings by this “ slight mis-
take.” It is understood that a Roman Catholic clergy-
man in the district has undertaken to form a new
committee, and it is inferred that the children are to be
handed over to the Roman Catholie body. By the
way, the charitable institutions of Melbourne have a
never-failing friend in the late Mr. Edward Wilson,
who left £500 a year to be divided each half-year in
certain allotted sums to the different charities.
During the week we lost an old colonist—Dr.
Hay, of Geelong, much esteemed by the members of the
profession and a large circle of friends. He died after
a short illness in his 66th year. He was a recognised
authority on zymotic diseases.
The Dog Show was opened at the Hippodrome
on Thursday afternoon. There were about 300 entries,
and the advertisements proclaimed it an excellent
opportunity ‘‘to buy a beautiful;puppy for your sweet-
heart.” •
Among recent additions to Melbourne society is
a daughter of Lambey, of Convent Garden fame. The
lady, who has not been here more than a year, is
married to a St. Kilda gentleman. She is already noted
for her charming entertainments, and is certainly doing
much in the way of refining a certain class who, in this
city, have so far only been noted for their richness and
vulgarity.
An episode of Newtown :—
He’s been engaged for seven years.
And ev’ry morn he takes his kiss;
And yet, so droll as it appears.
His chosen bride is yet a miss.
Npw why should he procrastinate ?
He’s doing well—has lots of tin: —
“ Put up the banns eer’t be too late.
Or else another will step in."
Why let the bloom of youth, decay ?
And eyes grow dim with toil and care ?
Why let the bright days pass away ?
Age the romance of life impair ? —
To hoard up, day by day, the gold.
And yet wed not —it is a sin !
“ Put up the banns! —for once be bold.
Or else another will step in.”
'Mid trumpets’ flourish, with a famous name,
For eloquence, for humour of renown.
One day amongst us a fat stranger came.
And “pitched” about a certain Mrs. Brown.
We listened for an hour and-a-half;
We took our sisters, cousins, and our wives;
We tried with all our mights and mains to laugh;
But yet we couldn’t do so for our lives.
The “ pitcher” was by far too slow ‘and fat;
The “ jokes” we, every one, had heard.before; •
The whole thing was unprofltably flat;
The whole thing was a most infernal bore!
So Mrs. Brown was “cut” and went away.
And now to be revenged upon us all.
She takes her pen up out there in Bombay,
And drenches Sydney with her inky gall.
He could not speak, we saw, when he was here.
And truly that astonished us all quite;
We’ve read his Arehite, and now ’tis clear
This journalist can neither spead nor unite.
In the solemn dead of night.
When Diana’s on her throne.
And the zephyrs whisper light
An eternal monotone,
And the living things unseen
Utter weird and ghastly cries.
Bursting on the night serene.
Floating upward to the skies—
On the waters, calm and cool.
Of a deep and placid pool.
Floated slowly, here and there.
With a fixed and ghastly stare,
The white, drawn, and pallid face
Of one of the human race.
Oh ! the horror of those eyes.
Fixed and gazing at the skies !
Oh, the fearful, fearful sight.
That was bathed in the moonlight!
On the ripples of the stream
She reclined as in a dream—
In the dream that does exist
With the weird somnambulist;
And her long and flowing hair.
Once so golden and so fair.
Was entwined, in tresses dank,
’Midst some floating garbage rank!
Her small hands wqre clasped with care
In the attitude of prayer.
* * * • *
She had loved, and been deceived
By a villain’s lying vow;
She had listened and believed
With his kiss upon her brow.
She had listened while he spoke
All the honey’d words to blind.
Of the priest and “ golden yoke,”
With her ruin on his mind!
Then the girl was blythe and gay.
And her smile was merry, too.
And ’twas sweet to watch the play
Of her laughing eyes of blue.
And she was her father’s pride,
And the children loved her dear.
And the neighbours far and wide
Loved her merry voice to hear.
Then her name unsullied was.
And her soul was pure as snow;
Yet how soon came all the cause
Of her agony and woe!
♦ • • * *
But her wounded spirit’s fled.
And the poor girl is at rest,
For she sleeps amongst the dead.
And her soul’s amongst the blest!
If there’s mercy to be shown
By a gracious Deity,
Prom his shining judgment throne—
There is mercy then for thee.


Public Compani
The mercantile bank
ESTABLISHED 186
INGOEPOEATED BY ACT OF Pi
Paid-up Capital.
Eeserve Fund....
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.6
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hob. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
AUDITOES:
Phillip Gidley King, I
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A Wilson
SECEETAEY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Geo:
.LONDON BANKEI
The National Provincial Bank <
London Office, 30, Great St
Director —Edward Chapa
Agent—G. H. Alexande:
This Bank transacts 'all usual Bar
Agency Business on the most favoun
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mar
other produce shipped to England fc
CORNWALL FIRE AND M
ANCE COMPANI
CAPITAL, £100,06
EESEEYE FUND
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD Ah
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEI
SIDNEY.
The national mi
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTKA
Established I860
The only Life Office in the Austra
has been conducted on PUKE LI
CIPLE8 from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pit
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Bi
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of profits made
belongs to the policyholders, and is ■
every THEEE YEAES. The bon
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and o
combined with Life Assurance.
Public Compau
C°
MMERCIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established 1834
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £550,000. Reserve F
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Xi. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., M
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. B. S
Solicitors :
Messrs. Waiit, Johnson i
Messrs. Cape and Westg
Head Office—George-str<
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Gadeu, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Geori
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M
Esq.; P. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wales
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Beg
Blayuey, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, 1
Campbelltown, Cannon bar, Carcoar,
Cobar, Coelah, Cooma, Coraki, Coi
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbe
Innes, Goulbnrn, Grafton, Gundagi
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Melon;
Mnrrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narand
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qu
Richmond, Shoa.haven, Singleton
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, We
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Young, With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisl
Maryborough, and Eockham
Agencies in the Coi
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria
Australasia, Colonial Bank o
Commercial Bank of Australia,
South Australia : The Bank of
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia ; National Bank t
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies bhtond the (
London : The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland: The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland ; Tbe Commercial Bank <
San Francisco: The Bank of Bi
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionalo de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore : Tn
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Loni
Cbtlon : The Chartered Mercant
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of 1
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, a
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, ai
lects hills payable at any of the al
elsewhere, at current rates; collect
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
tif s in Great Britain or in the coloi
to undertake the agency of Banks (
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEANl
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. li
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S,
Directors t
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Ea<
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entii
Society at every distribution there
LOANS granted on Mortgage or <
combined with Life Assurance.
CHRISTMAS SHIPMENT OF FA
Ex Orient steamships LUSITANA and 3
Peapes and Shaw are now mak
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the S
THE USEFUX
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
FOE
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BuXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESK
ASSORTED SCENT CASKE
ROYAL CABINETS OF GAM
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CAS
SILVER BROOCHES AND BARE
i SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING (
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRA
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILE T G
LADIES’ PANS FOE DRESS OR PRO
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS H
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF
CRIBBAGE BOARDS AND KOUd
LADIES’ Pitted TRAVELLING 3
BOUDOIR TlDIES r A.JVNOVEL
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
,(U.
A
tv-
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKIS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow Urged and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract. —
.
A. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the'only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used writh or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80.
/M
4
wavgh;
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC
ACKXOWUOea TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MA HU FA CTUKBD BY W. DAV/£S& Cf COt/lBURHN.S.H
a
jy|" URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes oat
to order)
Plato
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Begin, Tar
Cement, 4c., 4c.
White and Bed Lead
Turpentine
Eaw and Boiled Oils
Brush-ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, 4c.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT, BEADY FOB USE. ANT SHADE
EEQUIBED.
All orders promptly executed by Bail, Steamer, ©ity or
Suburbs.
THE BEITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31'GEOEQE STREET WEST.
G.
A. S M I T
88 KING STREET
(Prom Rotherham’s, London),
H,
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-olase assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the beet LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
IHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and i gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns.—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
ROBBER PAINT to he all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears aa fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pynnont Bridge.
| TRAMWAY TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Conrt-ho
DAELINGHU
T
iHE GEEAT PEOMENAE
is
KING-STEEE1
See the Bon Marchd Pompadour Pi
See the Bon Marche Pompadour
eaoh.
See the Bon March <5 Wool Beiges


Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE
NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness H
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any’of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
B
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE,
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’a
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, la.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICH
SEWING
SHUTTLE
MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
u r a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its dmability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List:—
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Business Announcements
w.
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
i
as.
—3E
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son's Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 362 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s), •
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blac
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will he produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
z
REDGATE’S
PATffIT MEM.
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON
•old kj kU Crocen and Storekeeper**
B.
AND F. W. MASON,
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND. ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
TRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
"*■ Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 Geopge-street.
Tobacconists
JAMES EY E’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, (Sold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist,
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
VC
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
15 5- YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
r'Ts
i'l ■
m
* a m
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
fjl H 0 S. J. BO W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, Ac.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
JL
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description exeented.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
c
HRISTMAS PRESENTS.
v>
\
N»
Bs
~<h
3
&
<5
A. J. HUFTON,
636 GEOEGE-STEEET SOUTH.
Cheapest House in Town.
N ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
VISIT
o
t
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INVESTMENTS.
PIANOS, ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to snit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CAS
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Jvm..
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
Chemists and Druggists
m
m
---
ÜBLIC- NOTICE.
THE following List of
"WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson's Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Grout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
AL
A POI
EAM
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sims and Parses,
Sirs, —If it is any benefit to yon, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time, you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlarge-
men of the Liver and Spleen, with all the accompanying
pains and aches. For FOUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer, and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, but my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, as a Last
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE,
Grose-Street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
October 27, 1879.
SIMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies, on receipt of Cash and Post
Office Order. Address—
-240 GEORGE STREET, opposite Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Co igh
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price 1 s at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Sonl,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
TATTERSALL’S CUP.— Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee—£l. First,
£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. All net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. “ Senior Wrangler,”
care H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Eliza beth-
street, Sydney.”


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE RETAIL IMPORTERS tf
ONE or THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WOULD.
A Visit op Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS,
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale: —
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CO
LU
CD
c c
o
LU
CO
o
55
CO
CD
OUR CU
01
| We I
Only thos
COB
Boys’ anc
OurStocl
N«
For evei
Sa
New (
Gents’ S
own i
7/6, woi
Our imu
chases en
undersell
establish
We abs
it would
copy, wii
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness,
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the abuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, &c.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases, ft is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat tbe insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece—Man. Remember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
A PPROYED BY THE GOYEENOE.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I have fco inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
11 1 am, Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“ Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
The Australian Churchman says:
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
JJ N J O Y LIFE.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest to enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation or pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups, the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s fid.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
ABODE BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840.
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
rate than at any other house in the colonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on .the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO.,
Manufacturers and Importers.
WEHLOW’S WOOLPACK HOTEL,
PARRAMATTA.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES.
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the very best brands, at
moderate charges. First-class Bowling Green for the
use of those who are fond of pecreation.
o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACMOAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
al^ays
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac,
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value ?
And WHEEE AEE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special nmnth,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required,
FOE COLLECTION AND VAEIETT, The Eoyal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
alasting reputation. PASTIES DESIEOUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double —Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enambled, brass mounted, black and gold,
alsoflowered, withthenew extendingfoot rail —Patent
Sanitory Spiral Spring or'Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors —Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites—Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards—Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials —An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames —Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables—Papier-
mache goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets —Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match— Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from —Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets—
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
EOYAL FUENISHING AECADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
TELE SHOW-EOOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Seperate tables being laid out with
SPECIALITIES FOE THE CHEISTMAS SEASON
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MAECHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEET BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
3s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
from Is lid. Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from 4£d per
pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fischus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, &c., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders,
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
A Berry’d city.—Melbourne.
Did you ever see a pillow slip ?
Vulgarity needs no introduction.
The pennies mightier than the sword.
Melbourne wants a remedy for suicides.
The wheelwright soonest tires of his work.
Little rivers are generally born in the spring.
The profession of medicine is a siok-cure one.
A pugilist ought to be a proficient khockulist.
Sleight of hand —refusing an offer of marriage.
Youth looks at the possible, age at the probable.
A bad Wood for for Boers.—Sir Evelyn Wood.
A vendor of cabbage claims to be a head sales-
man.
Which of the reptiles is a mathematician ?—The
adder.
The coal was black, but it is often made to
weigh light.
Money can’t hire a Chinaman to talk through
the telephone.
The busiest man can always spare the time to
right a wrong.
For rabid teetotallers. No man is free who
can’t command himself.
Hissing a play is regarded in London as a hiss-
trionic right of the people.
A sick man is considered out of danger when a
doctor discontinues his visits.
Undertakers are now calling themselves “ fune-
ral directors.” The world moves.
A traveller saw on a London hotel register these
words : “ Sir A. T. Galt and fifteen children.”
Knowledge is better than wealth; yet how many
people there are who prefer the inferior article!
It is said the ordinary life of a bee is only ninety
days. The end of a bee, however, is very lively.
A very impressive sermon was last Sunday
preached on “ the racecourse.” Time not given.
An artist painted an orange-peel on the side-
walk so naturally that six fat men slipped down on it.
Brisbane claims a citizen who pours hot water
down his wife’s hack because she won’t join his church.
There is one beauty about a mustard plaster,
viz., the wearer don’t hanker after any other under-
clothing.
The hunting season in Ireland is practically at
an end, most of the landlords having gone to London
for the Winter.
There are more red noses at St. Kilda than at
any other place on the continent. It is a curious effect
of the salt water.
The individual who saw the mouse fighting with
a piece of Limburger cheese readily realized that the
battle is not always to the strong.
There are 5000 more words in the English lan-
guage than in the Trench, and yet more unclean things
can be said in the French language than in all others
put together.
A bushman, having a dread of the punishment
in the future state, consoles himself with the reflection
that at any rate it will be too hot for flies, ants, and
mosquitoes there.
It is queer that a man’s creditors will all arrange
themselves on the shady side of a street when he goes
from dinner and make him walk down in the sun. It’s
mean to use God’s sunlight to help to collect a bill.
Even a deacon doesn’t say grace when he steps
into an up-country railway refreshment room. He
knows that it would be asking too much to request to
be made thankful for anything he will get there.
A poet asks, “When I am dead, and lowly
laid, . . . and clods fall heavy from the spade, who’ll
think of me ? ” Don’t worry. Tailors and shoemakers
have retentive memories, and you’ll not be forgotten.
While praying by the side of a grave a preacher
was struck by lightning and killed. There is a moral in
this case, but unless it means that ministers should
wear lightning rods up their backs, we can’t point it
out.
It is very sad to learn late in life that the
hitherto unsuspected primrose is “ a corollifloral dico-
tyledonous exogen, with a monopetalous carolla and a
central placena." Professor Huxley is responsible foe
unearthing this scandalous fact.
A true son of the Emerald Isle, who was think-
ing of building a house at Adelong, said the other day
that he was thinking of building it of “pulverized
zinc,” but as the “ quack-valorem ” duty was on, he
concluded it would be too expensive.
“ I’ll teach you to lie, and steal, and smoke, and
use profane language! ” said an irate parent to his
eldest offspring, at the same time swinging a good-sized
sapling. ‘ ‘ I’ll teach you, you young scamp! ” “ Never
mind, father; I know all them branches already.”
The Orangethorpe Sunday-school celebrated its
sixth anniversary last Sahbath afternoon. Jn the
review of past lessons, the question was asked -. “ What
did God do on the seventh day ? ” (referring to the
creation of the world). Answer: “He rested.” “What
else did he do ? " Promptly came the answer from a
little eight-year-old boy: “He read The Bulletin ! ”
Nothing neater and more pointed has been said
in the way of gloom than the remark of a Brisbane
wholesale liquor-dealer, who said that, since Sir Arthur
Kennedy came in, his orders for wines to serve to par-
ties and at dinners at Government House had fallen off
immensely. “ Ah,” said he, mournfully, “ I don’t know
as it seems so to everybody, bat I think the world is
g*ing backward.”
“ What’s wrong between you and Smythe, that
you don’t speak?” “Haw! Fact is, we were both
wivals for the hand of the same young lady—a cele-
bwated beauty, you know! —and —well, I don’t want to
bwag, but I got the best of it. Poor Smythe! ’’ “My
dear fellow, a thousand congratulations ! ” “ Thanks
awf’ly! We both pwoposed last week, you know, and
she accepted—a—him! "
The difficulty of regulating the weather by
prayer was recently illustrated in a forcible manner. A
congregation in one locality was praying for rain, while
at the same time a congregation in a neighboring town
was praying for sunshine. The minister of the wet
district wrote to the people of the dry: “ You folks
oughter be ashamed of yourselves. This cross-cut
prayin’ is enough to get the Lord so bothered that he
don’t know what to do.” There’s a great deal for good
Christians to think about in this paragraph.
A Galveston mau met a gentleman from northern
Texas, and asked how a certain mutual friend was com-
ing on. “He is doing very well,” was the reply.
“ What business is he at ? ” “He has got the softest
thing in the world of it. He bought a lot of Mexican
donkeys at San Antorio for 3dol. apiece, and having
taken them up to his rancho, he clears 27d01. a-head
on them.” “Do they bring such high prices ? ’’ “No;
but he lets the railroad trains run over them, and the
company has to pay him 30dol. apiece for them.”


Ludwig Leichhardt, the Explorer.
The news of the discovery of the relics of
Leichhardt and his party has aroused a strong
interest in the fate of the great explorer. We
give his portrait this week, but postpone to a
future date the publication of a sketch of his career.
We hope, when touching at length on the subject,
to be able to present our readers with authentic
particulars hitherto unpublished.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
His Honor Mr. Justice Faucett goes home by
the Hydaspes.
Mr. Warden Sharpe, of Temora, has been
appointed to Forbes.
Captain Standish receives from the Victorian
Government a pension of £6OO.
Mr. William Denton, a well-known American
lecturer, is coming to Australia.
Mr. Walter Hill, the talented curator of Bris-
bane Botanic Gardens, is about to retire.
Colonel Peard, “ Garibaldi’s Englishman,” died
recently at Trentham, Cornwall, England.
Mr. Bruce Smith, a rising member of the Vic-
torian bar, is about to commence in Sydney the practice
of his profession.
Mr. E. E. Drury, Manager of the Queensland
National Bank, goes to England early next month,
returaing about November next.
President Grevy draws a salary of <£24,000
annually. During his presidentship, he will have
drawn, in salary and allowances, £252,000,
Mr. John Brown, formerly of Cannonbar
Station, has bought “ Emu Hall,” the late residence of
Mr. J. C. Eyan, and intends to reside there.
Miss M. E. Braddon has written thirty-nine
novels. She lives at Lichfield House, Eichmond,
England, and is married to Mr. John Maxwell.
All the delegates to the Intercolonial Conference
have been put up at the Union Club—except Messrs.
Graham Berry and W. M. K. Vale. How is this ?
Judge Meymott met with a severe carriage
accident on the Murrurundi Eanges, and was insensible
for some time. Poor old gentleman! Two upsets in
such a short time.
Dr. Bedford, of the N.S.W. Artillery, has taken
Dr. Mackellar’s late residence, near the Cambridge Club
Hotel. There is a fight, of course, for the doctor’s
quarters at the Barracks.
Mr. A. K. Smith, the well-known engineer, who
represented East Melbourne in the Victorian Assembly,
and who had been ill for some years, died last week of
heart disease and dropsy.
Mr. Melvin represents the Melbourne Argus at
the Intercolonial Conference. Mr. J. Williams, of the
Age, another well-known Melbourne pressmen, and Mr.
J. Brown, of the same journal, are also visitors to
Sydney.
Mr. Gladstone has granted a pension to the
family of the Eev. E. S. Hawker. Mr. Hawker wrote
the ballad, “ And shall Trelawny die P ’’ which Macaulay
printed in his History, supposing it to be an old Cornish
war-cry.
Dr. Eutter, of Parramatta, was entertained at
a dinner on Monday evening, the occasion being the
81st anniversary of his birthday. He is still hale and
vigorous, and has practised his profession in Parra-
matta for fifty years.
Sir Archibald Michie is about to be enrolled as
a Supreme Conrt barrister in Tasmania, in order to
conduct a case, Smith v. Smith, Sir A. M. appearing
for Mrs. Smith against the defendant. Sir Francis
Smith, for breach of trust.
James Stephens, the founder of Fenianism, for
whose person the English Government offered a large
reward, was discovered in New York not long ago
destitute and starving. His immediate needs were
supplied by a newspaper reporter.
The five members of Parliament who are being
tried for conspiracy and generally disturbing the Queen’s
peace in Ireland refused to attend their own trials on
the ground that a proclamation ot the Queen has called
them to Westminster. They pleaded the Queen’s
proclamation against the Queen’s writ.
The crowned heads of Europe are not noted for
their domestic virtues,—it being popularly supposed
that worse husbands than the Emperor of Eussia, the
Emperor of Germany, the Emperor of Austria, and the
King of Italy, it would not be easy to find.
£lO,OOO is the exact price paid by Messrs. Long-
man to Lord Beaconsfleld for his new novel Endymion.
This is £lO a page, or 2s. a word. Endymion is described
as a practical joke in three volumes, and a joke in which
the late Prime Minister has very much the best of it.
A telegram from Blackall informs us that the
editer of the Western Champion has been publicly
horsewhipped in that town, by Mr. Skuthorpe, for hav-
ing, in his issue of Friday last, cast doubts on the
veracity of the latter gentleman in regard to the al-
leged discovery of relics of the Leichhardt expedition.
David Syme, the great liberal and democrat, of
the Melbourne Age, paid a visit to Fiji some twelve
months back. Sir Arthur Gordon gave him a free lunch
at Government House, and a trip in his own barge, the
Eewa. Ever since, the Age, body and soul, has been
Gordon’s, and has vied with the aristocratic Argus in
Binging his praises.
Sir James Palmer, baronet, is now, and has
for many years been a constable in the Victorian force,
notwithstanding that he has a private income of at
least five or six times his poor “official screw.”
Another baronet. Sir Kenneth , was, when last
heard of, getting an honest living by packing between
the Hodgkinson (N.Q.) and the coast.
Somebody was recently much annoyed by the
fact that, on the occasion of a certain dinner, he wasn’t
placed in what he considered his proper position—at
the head of the table. There are, of course, a number
of m«#hl people who hold that he needn’t have been at
the table at all. The offended one it is said, has almost
decided to 'cake no further notice of Sir Henry.
Mr. David Gaunson, M.L.A., and Mrs. Gaunson
are now on a visit to Sydney. Mr. Giunson, his Kelly
and other escapades notwithstanding, is one of the
ablest, and in private life, at least the moat popular
members of the Victorian Legislature. He is an orator
of no mean order, and is a solicitor by profession. He
is a native of Sydney, in which city his mother was
horn 65 years ago.
The Australasian of the 11th December
contains a most fulsome article with reference to the
departure of Sir Arthur Gordon from Fiji. In truth,
he left Levuka in the midst of a chill, sullen silence—
none to do him reverence. But, then, the correspondent
of the Argus and Australasian is Mr. Thurston,
Colonial Secretary of Fiji, who naturally praises up
his master. Our Victorian contemporaries are easily
got at.
“ Wales” and Gladstone are great friends. Mr.
Gladstone seems to have been greatly petted in his visit
to Sandringham, and it was by the Prince of Wales’s
especial (desire that he read the morning lessons. On
“*■ departure his Eoyal Highness expressed himself
a ® x |ous about the health of the Premier, and, in view
of the inclemency of the weather, pressed upon him the
deck °^j a ur coa, t» which W.E.G. gratefully but firmly
Among the passengers by the Cathay were the
Bon Alexander Campbell, M.L.C., with his wife and
amily whose intention it is to visit the mother-country,
nor to the departure of the vessel, a large party
accompanied Mr. Campbell round the harbour in the
Prince of Wales (s.s). During the trip the health of
Mr. Campbell and family was proposed by Mr. Alex.
Kethel. Mr. Campbell, in replying, said, among other
things, that he was not going home, but from home.
Mr. Alfred Clarson, the artist, who wa s sup-
posed to have been drowned, has turned up again. His
boat having been smashed against a jetty on a small
island in Moreton Bay, he was unable to leave the place,
and had to live for three months, d la Eobinson Crusoe,
on 301bs. of flour and Boz. tea, supplemented by oysters
and bandicoots ad lib. Alfred never was a very portly
man, but now ! He looks like old Classen come
to life again. Under what class of reporters can we be
Clarson Clarson ?
A N.Z. Herald correspondent hears that the
health of the Hon. Lady Eobinson, during the voyage
home in the Orient steamer John Elder, was such as at
one time to cause considerable anxiety. She suffered
severely from the heat in passing the Eed Sea, and was
attacked by a somewhat serious illness, which for some
time necessitated constant nursing and attendance. On
arriving in the colder latitudes, however, she gradually
recovered, and on reaching London had nearly regained
her former health.
There are considerable heartburnings among the
Australians in Loudon. Alderman McArthur, who
made all his money in Australia, was raised to the Lord
Mayorship of the chief city of the world. The Aus-
tralians were in ecstacies, and more than one pointed
out to the city magnate what a grand chance of
cementing the union between the colonies and England.
The Eight Worshipful gave a grand opening banquet;
hundreds were invited, but not a single Australian —not
even the Agent-Generals—was asked.
Phillips, one of Leichhardt’s companions on his
first expedition, is now a resident of Victoria. He is
what people term a “ character,” living by himself at
the head of the Diamond Creek, and maintaining him-
self by hunting and shooting. He is, like all hermits,
very reticent, and it is with difficulty that he can be
persuaded to narrate his adventures with Leichhardt.
No doubt the intelligence that has come to us of the re-
covery of relics of the old chief, and a settlement of
the question of his fate, will deeply interest him.
The Chief Secretary for Ireland, the Eight Hon.
W. E. Forster, lunched at a well-known dining-room in
Dublin last month. He found himself at the same table
with an outspoken young gentleman, with whom he
entered into conversation on the topic of the day. His
companion, warming with the subject, said: —“Some
reform in land tenure will certainly be necessary when
the country becomes settled; but no wonder it is in
such a state when we are governed by that d —d old
fool, Buckshot Forster.” Mr. Forster inquired at the
bar for the name of his vis-d-vis, and will probably press
an appointment on him one of these days.
We regret to have to announce that on Monday
the wife of the well-known and gifted barrister, the
Hon. W. B. Dailey, Q.C., departed this life. The lady,
who was well and widely known by reason of her great
benevolence, was a sister of Lady Martin’s, and a
daughter of the late Mr. William Long, We heartily
sympathise with Mr Dailey in this the hour of his
affliction, and can assure him that the commiseration
felt for him is very universal in the colony. Mrs.
Dailey leaves six children, the youngest but an infant.
The first printed roll of Victorian barristers
contained three names—those of James Croke, Esq.,
Edward Jones, Esq., and Eedmond Barry, Esq. The
.attorneys were—Messrs. W. Meek, H. N. Carrington,
J. W. Thurlow, Edward Sewell, C. Legh, David Ogilvy
(Writer to the Signet), E. Deane, E. O’Cock, J. Mont-
gomery, and A. M. M‘Crae. Singular to say, only one
of these survives, i.e., Mr. O’Cock, who is still in busi-
ness at Ballan. Dr. W. H. Campbell, the “ Sir Walter
Ealeigh of Melbourne pauperdom," is one of the only
trio of ancient medicos still left. He was surgeon to
the Melbourne Hospital in 1847.
The Marquis Goyuzeta, Italian Consul at
Melbourne, and Commissioner for Italy at the Inter-
national, on arriving in the southern city, paid an
official visit, in full war-paint, to H.E. the Marquis of
Normanby. Now, the distinguished foreigner, in his
simplicity, imagined that all marquises were equal, and
that “ Normanby” would hasten to return the call of
“Goyuzeta.” But “Normanby” didn’t, and to this
day the Italian cannot understand why an English
marquis, even though he happens to be the repre-
sentative of the Queen, who never returns official or
other visits, should hesitate to call upon an Italian
marquis, who represents the land of Julius Ceesar and
the King thereof.
The Hon. W. E. Giblin, Premier of Tasmania,
who represents the “ tight little island” at the Inter-
colonial Conference, is de facto the leader of the
Tasmanian bar, and is one of the most gifted of
Australasian orators. He takes a very deep interest in
institutions for the special benefit of the working
classes, and was the founder of the Hobart Working
Men’s Club, which is now one of the most successful
institutions of its kind in the world, and is even in
England held up as a model. We should much like to
hear Mr. Giblin on this subject before he leaves Sydney.
The Trades and Labour Council might with advantage
interview the hon. and learned gentleman prior to his
departure for Tasmania, in which colony, by the way,
he was born.
We are to have another distinguished visitor.
It appears that the ex-Lord Mayor of London, Sir
Francis Truscott, is so much exhausted in health by
the Civic duties of the year, that he has been recom-
mended by his medical advisers to take a voyage to
Australia and back in a sailing clipper. What the
nature of these extra-onerous duties was, I know not
(says a London newspaper correspondent), unless it
was the fatigue consequent on carrying the Paris
municipal bouquet, which measured tenfeet in diameter,
or perhaps in erecting that ugly obstruction on the
site of old Temple Bar. Lady Truscott remains in
London, and for the present will do the honours as
Lady Mayoress during the seclusion of Mrs. McArthur.
The following account is given in the Indepen-
dent of the way in which the author of that beautiful
poem the “ Light of Asia " found his wife .—“Mr. Arnold
was in the British Museum one day,—the day when the
pictures by the old masters were allowed to be copied,
—when his attention was arrested as never before by a
picture of Perugino, which a beautiful young lady was
copying. Irresistibly he halted, and admired the paint-
ing with her. Presently, the face of the fair woman in
his eyes grew more charming than the work of Perugino;
and Mr. Arnold did not rest until Miss Fanny Chan-
ning, the daughter of the Eev. W. H. Channing, of
London, had become his wife. He was married in 1869,
and his home life is said to have been exceptionally
happy.”
Most South Australians and New Zealanders
remember Sir James Fergusson, who was Governor of
those colonies. They will also remember that Sir James
cut out a fellow in S.A. who was engaged to a young
lady, and married her himself. Sir James afterwards
went home, and having failed three times to get a seat
in the House of Commons, was appointed Governor of
Bombay. Last month we sympathised with a young
officer who, returning from the races, galloped past the
Governor’s carriage, and was arrested for the heinous
offence. Here is the other side from an English file :
“ The officer who is going to be tried by court-martial
for his rude behaviour to the Governor of Bombay, is
the eldest son of Lord Vernon, and gave his father con-
siderable trouble a few years ago, when, owing to his
foolish and extravagant habits, he had to leave the
Guards. He does not seem to have improved in India.
Driving in a dog-cart he tried to pass the Governor’s
carriage, which contained Sir James Fergusson and his
wife and daughters. Sir James beckoned to him not to
pass, pointing to his restive horses, which were new
ones, and not easy to handle ; but the officer was not
going to stop for the Governor or for anyone else, and
tried to force his way past the troopers, one of whom
was sent to tell him not to pass the carriage. Vernon
struck the native trooper in the face and forced his way
past. These facts speak for themselves, and no com-
ment is needed.”
While chronicling the untimely decease of Mr.
Errest E. Waters, late editor of the Evening News,
we perform but our bare duty as brother journalists in
stating that he was a gentleman, held, throughout the
length and breadth of the colony, in universal respect,
as much from the geniality of his disposition as from
the undoubtedly liberal spirit he infused into his
writings. Only twenty-eight years of age, he passed
from amongst us just as he was at the outset of a bril-
liant and prosperous career. What adds additional
gloom to the melancholy occurrence is that Mr. Waters
was married but a short time prior to his untimely
death. The deceased gentleman was a native of Man-
chester, and the son of a former Mayor of Liverpool,
and came to the colony four years ago for the benefit of
his health. Mr. Waters —who was not so much a jour-
nalist, in the ordinary sense of the term, as he was a
newspaper politician—was the author of a work on the
Slavonic races of modern Europe, which was accepted
as a most valuable contribution to the literature of the
past few years on the Eastern Question, and was highly
commended by Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Bright, whose
personal friendship and confidence it was Mr. Waters’s
privilege to enjoy. The lamented gentleman had tra-
velled much, and was an art connoisseur of no mean
order. By his death a severe loss is alike sustained by
the literary and political interests of this colony.
Every bushman should have The Bulletin
mailed to him. 3s. per quarter.
Mr. Bladon, the well-known pharmaceutist of
Parramatta, has commenced to run a new industry.
This is a pleasantly mild aperient and blood-purifier.
The taste is exceedingly agreeable, and the result of a
matutinal dose is in the highest degree refreshing.
Mr. John Stewart, the American advertising
agent, who has long much exercised the public by
reason of his watchchains and his wagons, has, we
understand, taken the contract for advertising in the
Australian colonies that now well-known American tonic
—Hop Bitters.
If, when you are nearing the entrance to the
Union Club, a man hastily approaches you and says,
“ Pardon me, sir, but of late my friend and myself have
been singularly unfortunate” —your best course is
gravely to turn round and reply, “ Now, that will do.
You’ve already told me that well-rehearsed story on
this very spot no less than three times. It’s useless
longer to pursue me. As the French say, 'lf one has
no memory, one must have legs.’ ” The accomplished
young beggar referred to is the only Sydney mendicant
who speaks in the language of the novelists.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Miss Coutts inherited £1,800,000 and has doubled
it.
The best legacy a woman can leave the world
is an educated family.
As with a woman, so with a horse. His back
hair is his mane trouble.
Many a young lady marries a rich man, but finds
soon after that he is a poor husband.
The time has come when a lady can make her
dress almost as she chooses and still be in the fashion.
The woman who weighs her groceries to see if
the storekeeper has given her a fair count believes in
measures, not men.
Man is a gudgeon ; woman the line; her smile
the float ; her kiss the bait; love the hook and mar-
riage the frying pan.
It’s a poor rule that won’t work both ways. A
Ho barton girl married a barber, and he turned out to
be a rich man in disguise. She knew it.
A sensational story reaches us from Philadelphia
of a regular modem Blue Beard, accused of having dis-
posed of seven successive wives in a most mysterious
manner.
An impossible feat for a female pedestrian, says
a contemporary, is to walk 1000 miles in 1000 hours past
1000 millinery establishments displaying the latest style
of spring bonnets.
Vera Zassoulitch, of Nihilist notoriety, will
shortly contribute to M. Felix Pyat’s journal, the
Commune, a series of articles on the revolutionary
movement in Eussia.
Now that the French have no queen, the Princess
of Wales seems to wield the sceptre of fashion, and
French ladies are adopting the Eenaissance toilettes
which she introduced.
When you hear a man sneer at the honour and
virtue of a woman, you may be sure that he is not ac-
customed to walk in high places, and that his boots are
soiled with the mud of a low life.
A lady, speaking recently at the Edinburgh
Social Science Congress, said a married woman was the
only servant who received no wages. Mind, it is one of
the sex who says a married woman is a servant.
In a recent English railroad accident, Mrs.
Mitchell, a widow lady of fortune, on her way to a Sum-
mer retreat, lost two sons and a daughter, while she,
another son, and her servant were seriously injured,
A man had the misfortune recently to lose his
wife. Over the grave he caused a stone to be placed, on
which, in the depth of his grief, he had ordered to be
inscribed, “ Tears cannot restore her—therefore I
weep.”
Our domestic we call Mary Ann,
She came from the County Cavan ;
But to lessen her toil.
Lit the fire with the oil—
Now we miss her, and also the can.
At a fancy dress ball at Brighton a lady wore a
costume representing the “ Gem of the Ocean.” It was
composed of plain coralline satin, the trimmings of
natural seaweed, all of the most delicately-tinted kind,
small pearly shells and large pink anemones.
A handsome young lady entered a milliner’s and
inquired for a “ bow.” The polite shopman threw him-
self back and remarked that he was at her service.
“ Yes, but I want a buff, not a green one,” was the
reply. The young man went on measuring goods imme-
diately.
A lady traveller remarks that the cleanliness
and order on board ship, where all the work is done by
men, including that of the kitchen and the care of the
cabins, almost convinces her that woman has mis-
taken her vocation in attempting to grapple with
housework.
H.E.H. the Princess of Wales is remarkably
popular among the working-classes, so much so that
when she goes out shopping, however quiet and un-
assuming her nquipage may be. she is almost certain to
be surrounded bv such a crowd that the police are often
obliged to interfere before the royal lady can reach her
carriage on coming out of the shops.
The Marquis of Stafford, eldest son of the Duke
of Sutherland, is to marry Miss Harford, one of the
new beauties, whose name, however, was kept out of
the newspapers last season. We could give the young
people a larger par than this only we can’t well Harford
the space. Anyhow, we send them our felicitations—
and we’ll owe them the plated butter-dish.
Some time ago, a letter addressed to “ Queen
Victoria, Windsor Castle,” was mailed at the Boston
post-office. For some reason it was sent to the dead
letter office, where it was found to contain a request for
the queen’s autograph for return postage. The point of
the circumstance is that the writer, a boy 14 years old,
boasts that he tried it again and got what he wanted.
At a recent wedding, that of Miss Emily Spicer
with Mr. Miles, of the First Life Guards, a pretty little
page, dressed in a miniature ruby velvet cavalier cos-
tume, held up her train. This revival of an old custom
gave to the wedding a picturesque air, which was
greatly increased by the mob caps, puffed sleeves, long
mittens, and paste buckles of the thirteen bridesmaids.
Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon, the first female
lawyer who ever addressed a jury in California, defended
not long since a man accused of murder. The San
Francisco Chronicle, in speaking of the occasion, says :
“ Mrs. Gordon wore a black dress, and her only orna-
ment was a rose at her throat. Her appearance caused
excitement, and she was several time applauded. Her
client was acquitted.”
M. de Lesseps, the great designer and construc-
tor of the Suez Canal, had eight babies, and he is now
baptizing the ninth. The Queen of Spain will be god-
mother; and a godfather had been found in the Bishop
of Panama. M. de Lesseps is in the habit of taking
seven of these babies out every day in a pony-carriage.
The Oaulois devotes an article of nearly two columns to
these interesting facts.
The fame of Mrs. Mix increases throughout the
U.S. She is a colored Methodist, and, if the belief of
those who have been treated by her is well founded,
works miracles upon invalids. Alice Ball, of Pittsfield,
was enabled to walk after sixteen years of helplessness,
and similar cases are numerous. On the other hand
some of those who thought they were cured are as bad
as ever. Same as in Australia.
A new petticoat has been just brought out. It
is so arranged as to keep the short skirt out at the back,
just at the spot above the ankle, where it frequently
annoys by falling in. The plan is a simple one, like
most clever inventions, and consists merely in a crino-
line steel being run through a casing in the back breadth,
where it stands out stiffly, and holds out the dress, to
the great comfort of the wearer.
The other day a young woman called at the
office of the Eegistrar-General, Sydney, to get married.
The usual questions were put to her with a view to
having the necessary forms filled up by the time ap-
pointed, but in answer to the official enquiry : “ What
is the bridegroom’s name ?” she said, “ Oh, sir, I don’t
know, I haven’t asked him yet." “Well,” remarked
the questioner, you had better postpone the affair a
little—you should both come up together.” They did
both come the next day and—were married. Judging
from this little incident, lovely woman would appear
to think that that “there’s not much in a name.’.
At a fashionable marriage in England quite
lately the bride wore cream brocaded satin trimmed
and draped with rich flounces of Brussels lace, the
tablier embroidered with chenille of the same shade
and mother of pearl. Large clusters of natural orange
blossoms looped up the lace wreath of the same flowers
and a tulle veil. The five bridesmaids wore bronze,
cashmere, and plush, trimmed with gold plush Gains-
borough hats, trimmed with long shaded feathers;
muffs to match the costume, trimmed with cream lace,
ornamented with gold chrysanthemums, pinned with a
gold pin, the gift of the bridegroom. The travelling
dress was of prime cloth trimmed with plush. Every-
thing is to be trimmed with plush, and all the most
fashionable hats are entirely made of fur or feathers.
LUDWIG LEICHHARDT, THE EXPLORER.
January 22. 1881.


ATOOMBA! KA
Messrs, RICHARDSON and
have received
instructions from the pro]
F. CLISSOLD, Esq
to sell, about the end of January, a
MAGNIFICENT ESTi
The following’
ADDITIONAL and IMPORTS
are now furnished.
THE PROPRIETOR
has decided on reserving a portion c
TOWNSHIP,
facing the Railway Sta
to be called
THE KATOOMBA TOW]
What has induced Mr. Clissold to foi
SHIP on this PARTICULA
The fact that here are to be had
IN ABUNDANCI
the very best descriptions of
COAL
KEROSENE SHAL]
FIRECLAY
MARBLE
TIMBER
BLUE METAL
SANDSTONE FOE BUH
CLAY FOR BRICKMA
THE PUREST OF Wi
and the enticing advantage of a suita
on the high land for
ANY KIND OF ENGLISE
and on the low portions for
TROPICAL FRUIT
The altitude, 3,400 feet, preserves
PURE atmosphe:
and FREEDOM from
MOSQUITOES and SANI
Although thi’ estate has been for i
LOCKED UP,
there are on it, erected in a subst
following PUBLIC BUIL
A POST OFFICE,
A TELEGRAPH OFFICE,
A LARGE HOTEL, in c<
A PUBLIC SCHOO
BUTCHERS’ BAKERS, and GEN
THE ESTATE
will be THROWN OPEN
EVERY SATURDi
until the announced
DAY OF SALE,
FARES—RETURN, Ist class, ELEi
Ditto, 2nd class, FIVE SHILLING
PURCHASERS
must remember this—that the Pro
to them
ALL EXPENSE INCU
by them in journeying to
VIEW THE ESTA
LITHOGRAPHS
may be obtained from
Messrs. RICHARDSON and
about the end of this week.
THE TRIP
is a most enjoyable one, apart from a
The latter will come as a matter of i
AFTER VIEWIN
the estate and trying the magnified
ECHOES.
o
KATOOMBA. KATO
R D E R OF
of
SUNDRY PROPER:
TO BE SOLD BY PUBLIC
by
BATT, RODD, and PI
at their Rooms, 88 Pi
on
THURSDAY, January 20, £
MARRICKVILLE,
Maria-street.
COTTAGE
MENT, knov
property, jusl
Road, and nee
butcher.
SUMMER HILL, SEVERA
ASHFIELD, ALLOTMENT
Underwood Estate, improving sul
and 28, sectic
lots 8,9, and b
200.
BALMAIN,
Rountreet-street.
ALEXANDRIA,
Redfern.
TWO COT 1
three rooms,
house, on larg
and known
property.
TWO COT!
Stone, the otl
Wyndham-sti
known as Mr
Professional Add:
M
M
R. S. L A
ADDRESS:
Professional —Theatre I
Private —“ Oeta,” Quee:
l g r
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for th«
Mr. l. M. BA
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-str<
M
R. FRED. M .
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlerea
MISS MYRA
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal,
April until end October —Theatre
MR. & MRS. HARRY
(Miss Marion Melr<
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street
PRIVATE ADDRI
Macquarie House, Macquarie-
Mr. m. sal
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-stn
Misses alice and <
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hoth
February.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Miss Pomeroy is a great success at Ballarat.
“ Our Friends ” was not a draw in Auckland.
W. H. Leake is now playing “ My Partner ” at
Hobart.
Cole’s Circus is doing immense business at
Adelaide.
Yerdi is to have a farewell benefit at Melbourne
on Saturday, the 22nd.
Mrs. Lingard wore one of the prettiest dresses
at the late Auckland races.
The Williamsons have played a most successful
engagement at Hobart, Tasmania.
The Novelty Theatre, Melbourne, is now in the
hands of the International Dramatic Agency, to let.i
Mrs. Lingard gave Aucklanders a treat last
week. She played Pauline in the “ Lady of Lyons.”
Carrie Godfrey (late of the Froliques), and
Signors Riccardi and Paladini are a big success in N.Z.
The Sergeant in “ Ours ” should salute his
Colonel when in uniform at least, although they are
Supposed to be old friends.
Searell worked hard to make the “ Wreck of the
Pinafore ”go on its first production in Auckland. The
local papers were not at all enthusiastic in their praise
of the opera.
The performances of the Stewart family, Miss
Lena Edwin, B. N. Jones, Bland Holt, and Charley
Brown, in the pantomime at the Melbourne Royal,
have been the means of crowding this theatre from
floor to ceiling every evening during the last three
weeks.
The Gunnedah Amateur Dramatic Club have
wounded the feelings of a well-known son of Vulcan, by
introducing his name into their Christmas burlesque of
“ Bombastes.” The Club intend to repeat the perfor-
mance, and the son of Vulcan swears that, as eggs are
cheap he’ll . But enough.
An Auckland print is responsible for the state-
ment that Mrs. Lingard leaves for Europe via San
Francisco by the February mail steamer, and that
Lingard goes to Melbourne to produce “ The Wreck of
the Pinafore.” From all accounts, we don’t think Mel-
bonmeites will stand the latter.
Our Auckland correspondent writes by the last
mail: —“The Lingards and company, at the Theatre
Boyal drew excellent houses during the holidays, but
they are now falling off. Lingard and Searell’s joint
sreduction,5 reduction, “The Wreck of the Pinafore,” was pro-
uced for the first time on New Year’s Night, but I
cannot say much in its favor. As is generally known,
the opera is intended as a sequel to the original
“ Pinafore.” The principal parts were distributed as
under The Admiral, W. H. Lingard; the Captain, A.
Campbell; Ralph, F. Dawson; Dick, C. Westford;
Boatswain, C. Craig; Josephine, Mrs. Lingard; Butter-
cup, Miss Ethel, Adelaide ; Hebe, Miss Horan. The
original “ H.M.S. Pinafore” has also been reproduced,
the “ New Magdalen” being the latest bill put before
the public. The season will probably close on the 22nd
of the present month, Ketten having the theatre
engaged for the 24th.
G. A. Courtney, proprietor and manager of the
Zoological Circus bearing his name, wrote to the New
York Clipper from San Domingo, W. 1., September 16,
as follows Last night at 10 o’clock the well-known
lion-tamer, Herr Elijah Lengel, of Philadelphia, Par.,
entered the den of Brazilian tigers attached to the
circus, and had nearly concluded his performance with
them when he made a false step, and one of the tigers
caught him by the head and neck, and in less than five
seconds he was torn to pieces. His jugular vein was
cut, his right ear completely eaten off, and his body
was a mass of mangled flesh and bones. The tent was
densely packed with people, and the scene that followed
it is impossible to describe. The guard and also a few
private individuals commenced firing with revolvers
and rifles at the tiger, and soon killed it, thereby ena-
bling the attaches to drag the body of Lengel through
the compartment. The remaining living tiger at_ once
fell upon the dead animal in presence of the audience,
and tore it into fragments. No pen can describe the
horror of this scene. Mr. Lengel’s remains were fol-
lowed to the grave by the whole company and a large
concourse of citizens, who manifested their deep
sympathy at this terrible misfortune."
LATE SPORTING.
Young Turner is the coming Bathurst cricketer.
He made 103 in a scratch match the other day.
The Australian Eleven beat twenty-two of
Invercargill by an innings and twenty-two runs.
Bonnor, the cricketer, was born in Durham-
street, Bathurst, and not in Orange, as generally be-
lieved.
Mr. Herbert Underwood has bought the yacht
Osprey for £l9O. The boat will be entered at the Anni-
versary Regatta.
Old Woolstone is the favourite for the Anniver-
sary Handicap, to be run for at Bathurst on the 26th.
Good race expected.
Edwards, the well-known walker, is now in
Dunedin, N.Z. He recently walked 180 miles in 48
hours at the Garrison Hall, in that town.
There is some talk of a match between the Janet
(Hon. W. J. Clarke), of the Port Phillip Yacht Club,
and the Taniwha (Mr. Nicholls), of Auckland.
The following are the measurements of Professor
William Miller, champion athlete: —Height, sft. lOia.;
weight, 17st.; chest, 47in.; biceps, 17iin.; forearm, 13|in.;
thigh, 28in.; calf, 18in.
A cricket match was played at Moore Park, on
Saturday afternoon last, between the Yonng Oxford and
Alpha C.C.’s. The result was an easy win for the Y. O.
club by an innings and 3 runs.
The stewards of the Parramatta Jockey Club
have obtained the use of a large piece of ground on the
Parramatta road, between Rookwood and Granville,
which they intend to convert into a racecourse.
The Northern Jockey Club managed to get a
quorum together on Monday evening. The report
shows a balance of £2OO, although extensive improve-
ments have been made on the course during the year.
A cable states that the race between Laycock
and Hanlan is to be rowed on the Thames on Saturday
afternoon next, at 4 o’clock, unless the severity of the
weather continue unabated. Won’t it be dark at the
hour named ?
It has been stated, on what appears to be good
authority, that two days after Hanlan’s match Trickett
and his companion were tried again between the
bridges from Putney to Hammersmith, and the
ex-champion won by three lengths.
Still more suspense! The Boat Race is post-
poned owing to the intense cold, and to the fact that
navigation on the Thames is stopped by large masses
of ice. The articles provide that the race may be post-
poned from day to day at.the discretion of the umpire.
A cricket match comes off shortly between the
Carltons, of Sydney, and the Bathurst club, on the
grounds of the latter. With such men as Cassidy,
Enderby, Turner, Black, and Charley West, the
Bathurstians (ought to give a good account of them-
selves.
The Oxford Handicap, which was to take place
on Saturday, has fallen through on account of the Dar-
linghurst ped. having announced his intention to start.
He is willing to run anyone entered for the above handi-
cap for any sum of money, or for a trophy of the value
Of £lO.
Professor William Miller, the champion athlete
of the world, in conjunction with Mr. G. H. D’Harcourt
of this city, will open the Sydney Gymnasium about the
Ist February next. All branches of gymnastic and
athletic exercises will be taught. The list of members
already numbers 80.
In the final heat for the Hop Bitters contest,
Laycock struck the water for 26 consecutive minutes at
the rate of 40 strokes a minute, and wound up with a
tremendous spurt. “ Nothing but marvellous strength
and finely-educated lungs,” says the SportinaJLife,
“ could have stood such a strain.”!' —■—— » «
The annual general meeting of the Australian
Jockey Club was held at Tattersall’s on Monday after-
noon. The debenture debt is reduced to £BlOO, and the
prize money of the Autumn Meeting has been increased
to £3OOO. The balance remaining at credit of profit and
loss account is £7182 12s. 2d. A discussion arose upon
a motion as to the desirability of removing the dividing-
rail on the Grand Stand, a motion in favour of such a
course being negatived by a large majority.
A meeting of the New South Wales Cricketing
Association was held at Tattersall’s on Monday even-
ing. The match between the Northern and Western
districts is arranged for the 10th and 11th February,
and on the 12th a combined team of the above will play
an eleven of Sydney. It was decided not to alter the
date of the Intercolonial Match to suit the engage-
ments of the Australian Eleven. It was urged that in
future, during Intercolonial matches on the M.C.C.
ground, the stumps be drawn at 5 o’clock. Messrs. D.
Gregory, J. M. Gibson, and E. Teece were appointed a
Selection Committee for the forthcoming matches.
Says the London Sporting Lite, of the final
heat for the Hop Bitters prize There may have been
finer races, ending with a more meritorious win, than
last Saturday; but in face of the truism that the last
event is the best remembered, it is safe to say that an
instance does not suggest itself of any contest be-
tween four scullers wherein for nearly a mile there was
little to choose between three, and a fourth only led by
a length or so ; at two-miles-and-a-half the leader was
pressed by two who were not a length-and-a-half off, and
where there was no certainty as to who would win till
three miles had been covered, and then the ultimate
second and third were dead level. These items furnish
briefly the history of the struggle between Laycock,
Boss, Hosmer, and Smith —a memorable contest, made
immemorial by the intensely plucky way in which it
was won by one of the stanchest men that ever sat in a
boat—Elias C. Laycock.”
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER XI.
“ Opportunity is always golden and beautiful. It is
the use it is sometimes put to, that is—imperfect.”
Sebastian did not find any opportunity that afternoon
for carrying out his purpose. He was fully occupied; so
was Adrienne, and he was forced to see her, half an
hour before he could leave himself, walk away alone in
the direction of Blake-street, without having been able
to exchange a word with her. This annoyed him, and
made him feel nervous and anxious. Three months ago
he would, without any inordinate vanity, have felt
almost secure of being accepted if he proposed to
Adrienne; now he felt very far from sure of it. The
unpleasant scene with Mrs. Mallory left him determined
to wait no longer, no more to “ fear his fate too much,”
but “to put it to the touch, and win or lose it all,”
that very day, be it early or late.
Accordingly, he returned home after the j meeting,
dined alone before the usual time, and, knowing that
Adrienne was usually at home about half-past seven,
set off a little after seven.
His shortest way to Blake-street was to go past the
town hall, and proceed through the pleasure-grounds
on the hill-side, through the park at the top, and so
across the Townfield into Blake-street.
This he did, and having ascended the hill, entered the
park by one of its gates, and found that it was almost
deserted. There was a nursemaid and some children
playing about the croquet lawn ; there was a man re-
clining upon a bench in a rooky recess—a man who
seemed tired, for he was almost crouched together; his
face was completely hidden by his arm and hand which
was stretched on the back of the bench. There was
also A woman’s figure advancing from the other end of
the park, and Sebastian’s heart gave a spring as he re-
cognised Adrienne Blisset.
He walked up to her, and met her.
“You here, Mr. Mallory’ at this time? That is
unusual, isn’t it ? ”
“lam here because I was on my way to your house,
hoping very much to find you in. lam glad I have not
missed you altogether.”
“I am glad too. I was going to see Mary Heywood,
and should most likely have sat with her some time, for
my conscience accuses me of having neglected her. But
shall we return to my house ? ”
“Not on any account—that is, if you are not tired
and do not object to walking about on this terrace for
a short time.”
« Not in the least. What a lovely evening it is! And
how clear! Look at those purple moors to the north.
I have often longed to get to the top of one of those
moors. What do you think I should see at the other
side ? ”
“Yorkshire—and other moors.”
“Those are the moors on the other side of which
Charlotte and Emily Bronte lived,” said Adrienne, her
thoughts taking any direction but the one Sebastian
wished.
“Yes, I believe so. Haworth and Keighley, and all
about there. You should go there some time. But
don’t look at the prospect now. I want to ask you
something.”
“Yes!” said Adrienne, turning to him with a half-
smile.
The smile died away. She found his eyes fixed upon
hers with an unmistakable meaning in their earnest
gaze. Her own face flushed deeply, as he gently took
her hand and said :
“ I have tried in vain to take an opportunity—at last
I have had to make one. I must know something,
certainly. I cannot wait any longer. Adrienne, I love
you dearly—l have loved you ever since I lost sight of
you on that unhappy morning after you left Wetzlar.
I knew it then, and my love has only grown stronger
ever since. Can you return it ? Will you—some time —
be my wife?”
He felt his happy confidence falling from him on all
sides, as he beheld her face, and stood there, cold, as if
a warm mantle had dropped from his shoulders.
“You —“lam very sorry,” she stammered. “Oh,
Mr. Mallory ”
“ Mr. Mallory! ” he echoed drearily. “ Adrienne, I
see what you are going to say, but think again! I
must have been a terrible, conceited fool all this time;
but will you not think again? Wait till to-morrow.
Don’t speak to-day. Let me explain.”
Adrienne’s face was full of pain as she said; tremu-
lously but decisively:
“ No. It would be wrong. I know what I feel, and
must always feel, now. I admire yon very much; I
respect yon, oh, more than I can tell you. I have a sort
of affection for you. Indeed, 1 am very fond of yon,
yon were so good to me,” said Adrienne, with tears
swimming in her eyes ; “ but I cannot marry you. . . .
Oh, do not look like that! ” she exclaimed in an agony.
“lam so sorry; lam so sorry.”
« Are you quite certain ?” he asked in a low voice.
“ Have I all along been so utterly indifferent to the
woman I ”
“ Not indifferent. You are never [indifferent to me.
And once ”
“Once!” he echoed eagly.
“ I thought—l believed ”
“ That yon could love me—perhaps you did love me ?”
She bowed.
“ Ah, that was when I was away. But why should
yon not love me now, dearest ? If yon would only let
me show you how I love you —you must —you could not
help—so good and so loving as you are.”
“No, no! Do not speak to me of it. It can never he.
I know my own heart now—too well,” she said, look-
ing at him almost appealingly, and with distracted
troubled eyes.
“ And there is no love in it for me ?”
“ Not that kind of love. Oh, heavens I why must I
say such things to you I You must know that you
ought to have a very different kind of wife from me.
Your wife should be rich and beautiful, and quite
different. You will see it yourself some day, when you
meet a woman worthy of you, who will love you as you
deserve to be loved.”
That is cold comfort when the woman I love won’t
have me. I cannot make yon love me.”
“ Only because another man has all the love I have to
to give,” said Adrienne, scarcely audibly, as she turned
aside her face.
Sebastian stood still for a moment.
“Forgive me!” said he; “it is hopeless, I see. I
will never speak to you of it again.”
"Forgive me I” she said, much moved. “ I ought—
no, I could not tell you. I have been distracted. . .
I ”
“Do not reproach yeurself,” said he, chivalrously.
“ I understand. After this ” (they had begun to move
towards the farther gate of the park, along the broad
terrace where the man was sitting on the seat in the
trees) —" after this I have not another word to say. We
shall have to meet as before, Adrienne. May I call yen
Adrienne sometimes ?”
“ Always, if yon like.”
"Will you try to overlook this—to treat me as if I
had not annoyed you thus ?”
“ Annoyed me—you ! Oh, how can you ask ?”
And then slander will be silenced, and there will be
no more misunderstandings. All will be clear between
us.”
The tenderness he felt he could not banish from his
voice, and hers trembled as she answered:
“ Quite clear —as it should be.”
He raised her hand to his lips and they passed on.
The man on the bench had not moved, and they, as
they uttered these last words, which were in effect a
farewell, saw nothing and no one but each other.
“ I must go home. I cannot go on now,” said
Adrienne, as they arrived at the gate.
“ I will leave you. Good-bye.”
“ Good-bye," said she, putting her hand in his, but
not looking at him. He kept her hand in his so long
that at last she looked up.
“ Dear Sebastian, I ”
“ There, that is all I wanted,” said he, with a rather
faint smile. “ God keep you, child. Good-bye!”
When Adrienne had left her home, it had been with
the firm resolution to see Mary Heywood before return-
ing. But she met Sebastian and the visit was not ao-
plished.
CHAPTER XII.
“ Great Mother Nature!
Eternal good and blessed!
Hear me! Hear my prayer!
Forsake me not in this my need! ”
Myles Heywood’s life had become worse and darker
than) merely a sad life. It was filled with a wretched
pain and unrest, which had been growing like a disease
for weeks. His was an earnest, passionate nature
deep and intense; but there was in it a well-spring of
contentment, a something essentially sweet and whole-
some, which, so long as no very disturbing element
intruded, left him tolerably at ease with his life, in spite
of the vague dissatisfaction and striving which had led
him in earlier days to associate himself with radical
working-men’s clubs; which had made him devour all
kinds of iconoclastic literature, and which had often
sent him home, on pay-day, meditating upon the
unequal manner in which the wealth was distributed.
But he had had nothing to make him feel this inequality,
keenly and cruelly, until, with one single circumstance,
one single evening’s adventure, the turning-point in his
life came, and he seemed all at once to realise the
significance of all these things: wealth, station, and
culture, in the shape of Adrienne Blisset. From that
time his view of things was. changed.
[to be continued].
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially oh matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
The Austrian Strauss Band will give their
first concert in Sydney, at the old Exhibition building,
on Anniversary Night. It will therefore be seen that
the statement made by a Melbourne contributor to the
effect that the company had disbanded is incorrect.
At Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion, Botany, on
Anniversary Day, our pleasure-loving citizens are
promised another treat. This favourite resort is
too well known and appreciated to need much com-
ment. The beautiful grounds are thrown open to the
public ; two bands, and a troupe of negro minstrels,
have been specially engaged; and that clever comique,
Johnny Cowan, will also also appear. Dancing will
take place in the large pavilion, and the whole will be
under the personal supervision of Mr. Frank Smith.
Most people enjoy a good curry when they can
get it, whether the grosser part of the dish be flesh,
fish, or crustaceans; still how few cooks (res valde defen-
de!) know how to prepare a really exquisite curry. Did
the late lady orators on the culinary art dilate on this
gastronomic accomplishment ? If so, they certainly
said that, as a condition antecedent to success, genuine
powder must be used. We have been treated to some
such lately—that known as the “ Empress of India”
brand—and it proved to be an excellent condiment. Its
heat is tempered by a gentle sub-acid. Messrs. S. P.
Hogg (we forget their place of business) are the im-
porters.


T
H E A T E E
THIS EVENING, and nntil f
the Brilliant Come
“DUES,”
by T. W. Eohertson, author of Cast
omopsis of Scenery—Act 1, «?-Sh
9 T.adv Sheridan’s Drawing-room
<7OURS.” Act 3, Officer’s hut
Winter.
NEW SCENES BY GEORG
Tn,p next production of the Eob«
be the brilliant Comedy. SCHOOL.
popular Prices—Dress Circle, 5s
iBoiOfc® at Elvy and Co.’s, 321 G
Plan of dress circle can be seen and
ARTHUR GA
QUEEN’S T H
Managers ... Messrs. Copp
Greville.
Musical Direct^ v;E i R Y EVENIN
THE GLASS OP PAS
«id the MOULD OP FORM EXE
** QUEEN’S CHRISTMAS Pi
JACK, THE GIANT B
Pounded on the original version by 1
with annotations vocal, an
different authors
illustrated with magnificent scene
John Hennings. GRAND CONGR1
forming the most impressive sped
to a Sydney audience, the stage bei
stuttering galaxy of bewitching b.
typical of some prominent national]
timing to present a picture of
binmg to BEILi
Ping Arthur’s Steel Castle, Ballri
THE FAIRIES’ HAUNT, and CRY
Views on the Rhine and Hi
Glorious Transformatio
SPRING’S DELIGHTS TO SUM
Reserved Seats, 4s ; Boxes, 3s ; Si
Box-efflee at Pahn(
o
p E E A
H
Lessee
OPENING NIGB
SATURDAY, 22nd JANU
First Production of the New Open
HERO
and
LEANDER
The Music comprising a brilliai
Tom Theodore, and especially arrai
Broadhurst. The sparkling Libret
local author. The new and magi
Messrs. Setright and Clint. Tl
Effects by Mr. John Ice. The ex
travagant Properties by Mr. W. 3
produced under the special superv:
A. South.
G
A I E T Y
T H
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
FIFTH WEEK C
MR. FREDERICK MAI
ON SATURDAY, 22nd JAN
Introduction of H. J. Byron’s f
UNCLE,
concluding with
J. J. William’s amusing
MY TURN NEX'
1ENNYSON T I
T E N N Y S O
SELECT PICNIC FOR ANNI1
TENNYSON for respectability and
TENNYSON for largest and best-vi
the harbour
TENNYSON for quoits, swings, da:
lent Band
TENNYSON for shady books, c
ground, and magi
TENNYSON for temperance drink
charge, and NO S
TENNYSON for respectable peoph
TENNYSON for steamers every ha
King-street, from
THOS. Ml
%• Families car rely on their da
marred by the larrikin element, as 1
not allow them on the ground.
TJP v t> a v
E
ANTHONY HORDER1
OF THE
HAYMARKET (ONI/
CHEISTMAS AND NEW YEA E’
Welcome news for all those affectionate Fathers, Mother;
Husbands, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., &c., and all who v
NICE LITTLE PEESENT on CHEISTMAS or NEW YEAE’I
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HORDERN A1
PALACE SHOW EOOMS,
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELTIES from e
INCLUDING:—
FANS,
ALBUMS,
' BRACELETS,
OPERA GLASSES,
DRESSING CASES,
FANCY PERFUMERY,
ILLUMINATED ALBUMS,
RUSSIAN LEATHER GOODE
LOVELY DOLLS FROM Id. TO
SEALSKIN PURSES, POCKET BO
WORK BOXES, PORTFOLIOS, WAT
M A T — T
THE ORIGINAL AUSTRALIA
BUTTERCUP,
(Of the Bijou Theatre, Me
This Marvellous Child, who first
appearing before a Melbourne audit
Royal, on the 5th of February, 1880, c
enthusiasm.
Daily Telegraph, Saturday, J
“ There was a brilliant audience at
last night on the occasion of a presi
tea service being made to Miss Matt
nition of her talented impersonation
“ Little Buttercup.” Mr, Whiter
gift, remarking as he did so, that he
would receive it as a mark of her
her, and that whenever she looked
remember the donors, as they tho
kindness. He further said that he <
an incentive to her to seek an honou
her profession, in which she had f
rapid strides considering her youtl
Mattie Taylor, who is wholly unacc
making, said, turning to Mrs. Lewis,
I can’t.” With this request Mrs.
her usual happy manner."
SCHOOL OF ART
SATURDAY EVENING, JA1
Programme.
Piano Solo
Billing and Cooing Arthur and
MISS AMT HORTON’S Merry ;
Banjo Solo, by the champion
Favourite Ballads M
Arthur Vivian’s Comici
MRS. WATKIN’S PA
By Val Stocker, the John Parry
Intermission of 10 mil
Overture Piano
To conclude with the Petif
W. H. RICHARDS
JAS. O’BR
A. M - -
OPENING of the NEW SCHOOL,
NORTH SHORE
On SUNDAY next, the 23rd of Ja
afternoon, his Grace the ARCHBIS
will open the new School at Lai
Shore.
W. B. DALLBY, Esq., Q.C., ai
will speak on the occasion.
The ferry from Circular Quay cal
every quarter of an hour. The ne
minutes walk from Lavender Bay.
Department of Min
Sydney, 7th
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOI
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take delivery
tioned Gold-mining Leases withi
this date, it will be declared voic
Bathurst Mining Dn
No., 113; George Pullin and ano
2 GL ; Anthony’s Creek, county of 1
Melrose; 4 acres; Application No.,
Department of Mir
Sydney, lit!
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given, that
execute and take delivery
tioned Gold-mining Leases withi
this date, they will be declared i
n.
C. HA
A.
G. CHURCHWOO
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
D,
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS.
147 YORK STREET.
TRY
BUSHE1L
FOR
I G N
P.
11 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. LARK]
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N,
BRANCH STORES—
48 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
A. S. N. CO.’S WHARF.
Sydney, January 14th, 1881.
IH have much pleasure to inform my GONSTI.
TUENTS and the general PUBLIC that, in consequence
of the large INCREASE in my BUSINESS, I have ar-
ranged with my brother, Mr. WM. WILKINSON (late
manager of the Kirkton Vineyard), to act in conjunc-
tion with Mr. D. MURRAY, in Sydney.
I am now placed in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote the necessary time to the
growth and maturing of my WINES.
ADDITIONAL CELLARS
have been engaged in a central position, and will
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
I am pleased to again have an opportunity of thank-
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SUPPORTERS
for their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BUSI-
NESS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN A. WILKINSON.
A
USTRALIAN FRUIT SALT
(SIMMON DS & CO.’S).
PRICE Is 6d per Bottle.
Prescribed by the
MEDICAL FACULTY,
patronised by the
MEMBERS of the LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.
Retail by all Chemists.
Wholesale—MESSES. ELLIOTT BEOS.
Sei
m
m
■ ./
WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED TROUSERS AND VEST.
To Order, 16s 6d. All Garments well shrunk. Fit guaranteed.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Tweed Suits to Order, in fine-buttons Sac pattern, 70s.
Note the Address—
„ „ ( 127 KING STREI
Five Books From P
gANDEE LAZARU
General Importers
AMERICAN HARD 1
CHINA, GLASS, EARTI
E. P. WARE, CUTI
STATIONERY, CLOCKS. .
BERLIN WOOI
AND FANCY GC
INDENTS EXECUTED LO’V
YORK STREE
January 22, 1881.


Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHTJTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. ~ Nos. I and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANK Si
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrrc, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STEEBT, SYDNEY.
o
2A5
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL . cv<*
w
OR
ALLWOOL
TWEED
Tr oV -
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
Be3.Ss
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooofatterns"’choose from
H L SUMMERFIEID
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
GREER AND CO.’&
PRIZE
AIBUEY WINES.
Bed Wines :
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines:
Reisling
Yerdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS s
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John Haynes and J. P. Aechibald, at the Offices OT
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W 1
"ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERIC AN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
N«. 11, PITT-STEEET,
Importers *f all Descriptions o
M
C
E R
T,
H I N
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Bmery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
*
KING
STREET
m
mr.
fo*oy
N IPA-
i
PE
SYDNE
TAILOR
OS
fO/r<4§
MNb POST office:
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
-3® TOORDER.^I:
FIT GUARANTEED!
fill handwork.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
quinetum wine.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler % CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VV
ELCOME TO HON. WM. FORSTER.
The friends and supporters of the Hon. WILLIAM
i'ORSTEE who have not already given in their names
o join in welcoming Mm on Ms return to Australia,
vill nlease do so without delay. _ _ __
via piease j jjENNIKER HEATON.
St, Canice, Darling Point, January 5.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Beos,, Bieminqham.
s
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERf,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
EYES’
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Danse y: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be'patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolrunigh, M. A., Ashfield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes* Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney Jeyes* Perfect Purifier has 'no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee ; —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ;—My child had sore eyes for 2$ years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney: —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
U
off
5*
PRIZE
Cocoa
USE
CO
-<
Against the world
E, Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
mm
•TA,
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Eeport says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
BUYe^-^o^Q
CT^
CD
4 & a
CO
OQ
PRIZE
cc
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
READY MADE,
from 30s. the half-dozen.
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE ONLY
PRACTICAL SHIRTMAKERS
IN THE COLONY.
298 GEORGE STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
RINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
AT.T, foemee years outdone.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES— £6 10s. Cash. . , m _ .. , „ w ,
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—5s. Deposit and 2s. per Week,
fhe Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCZSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
389 Xmi*
/Agents
George Street
*
FOR
S
Sydney. s f
** * ' ‘s-AattraMan
99
Anglo
3
STRIPPERS
& PAIN
AND
WITH
4.
189
187
❖
Regues^
Farmers
j*
York
St
examine
*
Hornsby
$
x
STRIPPERS
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest- \» A
Our H0RNSBY*S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
\mbine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to
lean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
iRVEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
lie Leading House in tlie Agricultural Implement Business.
