

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 10._N0.12 9.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY. JULY 15, 1882.
Price—3d
(% bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1882.
What Are We Living On?
toralist. His total, therefore, would run up to
about fourteen million pounds sterling.
## , *
Agriculturists do not make so brilliant a show.
Although there are 40,000 of them —mixed ages
and sexes—and they have 706,000 acres in cultiva-
tion —that is to say, about an acre to each inhabitant
of the colony, they have not succeeded in doing
much more than raising produce sufficient for
their own wants. They have not raised enough
to supply their co-workers in other branches of
industry. The exports of their produce did, in-
deed, in 1880, amount to £261,000 ; but, on the
other hand, there were imports of articles
they should have produced, to the value of
£11,100,000, leaving a deficiency of about three
quarters of a million. To abandon detail, how-
ever, the total export of our produce in 1880 was
£212,679,782, while our imports were £213,950,075.
So that the 100,000 producers had to make good
about a million and a quarter sterling besides
what they actually had for sale in that one year.
This does not seem a good way of growing rich,
but it is argued by some superior persons that we
are so smart a community that our exports really
balanced our imports because we make good bar-
gains and have not to pay the difference. It is
the profit of our smartness. We get the better of
the dull Englishmen to that extent. He sends us
goods worth a million and a quarter more than he
gets, simply because he doesn’t understand his
businesss and we understand ours.
• • •
Still the fact seems awkward 'that our 100,000
producers have to get the better of the exporters
of Europe to the extent of £21,250,000 yearly, in
order to keep things level and support us all.
That is about £l2 a head per annum they have to
produce, over and above what is needed for the
We hear on every hand exuberant felicitationa
respecting the astounding prosperity which this
colony enjoys at the present time. Money is
plentiful, business was never more brisk, profits
were never more easily made or more largely
diffused. Everyone is in good temper, and a
spirit of enterprise gives promise of remarkable
developments in the immediate future. All these
indications of a prosperous community undoubtedly
exist, and there should be no nervousness about
the process of stock-taking and balancing the
accounts of the community. We are apparently
making money fast. Every sort of property, we
might almost say every sort of chattel, is worth
more than it was two or three years ago, and each
individual who had then “ a stake in the coun-
try,” on reckoning up to-day finds that his
property is, on a fair estimate, worth a very great
deal more than it then was. Under such happy
conditions few persons feel any disposition to
break off their mutual congratulations and to
chop logic. But the sagacious man does not permit
enthusiasm to run away with his judgment, and it
will be allowed, by the minority who come under
that description, that it may be a good thing to
suspend felicitations over these cheery facts, and
grapple with the inquiry why wo are thus pros-
perous. We shall accordingly endeavour to
review in a rough and ready fashion the bases of
existing prosperity, and see what it all amounts to.
« • •
Since we are getting collectively richer every
year, there must bo some grand process in opera-
tion on a constantly augmenting scale. The
source of our wealth is admittedly the territory we
people. Transport the population of New South
Wales on to a barren land net mineralized island,
and we should starve instead of piling up wealth.
As, therefore, we are drawing our prosperity from
our territory, let us see how we manage it. Clearly,
those amongst ns who sit in office chairs and con-
duct correspondence are not doing anything
directly to render the territory productive. But,
of course, it is admitted that the man who minis-
ters to the actual producer bears a genuine share
of the industrial work of a country. The tiller of
the soil must have his implements, his clothing,
and so forth. The tender of stock requires similar
accessories. The miner, likewise, needs tools and
food. Each ministers to each. But, obviously, if
the proportion of persons engaged in supplying
the wants of actual producers exceeds a
limit, the producer will be overweighted. Suppose
we have twenty agents, clerks, shoemakers,
grocers, carriers, and so forth, to every individual
miner, farmer, and stock-breeder at work in the
country, that miner, farmer or so forth, will have
to be doing a rare stroke to maintain all hands in
comfort. Except he is on a rich lode, or raising
plentiful harvests, or doing grandly with his stock,
he must out down his outlay, and the agents, &c.,
will find that they have nothing to do, and have
©thing to live on.
• • •
Now, as a matter of fact, the population as per
census is 751,468, of whom only 318,077 live out
of the towns and villages. If from these 318,077
we subtract only half as representing children,
159,000 adults remain, in round numbers.
Allow that the odd 59,000 are females —the
proportion of females to males in the whole
colony, is really more, viz., as 34 is to 43—this
leaves 100,00 U adult males actively engaged in
pursuits which they could not carry on in
the desert island we have imagined. That is to
»&y, each man working at the true productive
industries of the country, has to make enough
profit by his operations to support six other
persons. And if our alleged prosperity really
exist, it would appear that the gallant 100,000 not
only do this but do it handsomely. They them-
selves and their six dependents, men, women, and
children, are exceedingly prosperous and flourish-
ing in the aggregate. This is gratifying, and
exceedingly wonderful. Let us try and make out
how it is done.
* • #
Taking the stock-breeders and tenders—in other
words, the pastoral interest—first, the statistics
©t 1880 show that these industrials were able to
sell to customers outside the colony produce to
the value of £9,700,000, and the increase in the
herds and flocks represents an additional produc-
tion equal to quite a million sterling besides. In
addition to this, all the other producers and non-
producers were supplied with meat, so that the
Pastoralist discharged his share of support very
well. We can't get at the value of local con-
sumption of meat, but supposing we treat it
liberally and say for the 700,000 people, including
Bucking babes, Jl5 per head per annum, that
would be £3,590,000 more, produced by the pas-
general sustenance. They have a tremendous
load to lift, poor fellows. To provide for the ad-
ministration of public affairs —that is to say, for
the repression of crime and the maintenance
of order and the regulation of civilized
life —they had to provide in 1881, £6,714,327.
Each man of them thus had to make
£67, to bo absorbed in public expenses,
before ho could begin to provide for his six de-
pendents. Thus his productive earnings would
need to be his share of the exports, say .£l4O, his
share of Government expenditure £6O, his share
of the difference between exports and import*
•£l2—in all -£212 per man, before he could reckon
himself any better off than at th« beginning
of the year. But we are getting rich, accord-
ing to the preamble. The question is, how?
What constitutes our unreokoned profits. We
have calculated all our raw produce, and find it
falls short in value of what we are taking in ex-
change. We have reckoned the increase in our
flocks. What more do our 100 000 producers
create for us? What is it that pays for all the
miles of residences which are being every day
built in the capital ? Whence comes the wealth
which runs up values of suburban lands two and
three hundred percent, in two or three years? We
export our products. Wo do not manufacture to
any appreciable extent. Our 100,000 can only
have money for what they sell to outsiders,
for those exports in fact ; and, as we
have seen, they spend at least all that in Buying
imports. They can’t get anything from the non-
producers, because these create nothing. Yet
there is no question that values are rising and
that people account themselves becoming rich.
• • •
We are, then, becoming rich on nothing! We
make no profit, yet are better off yearly and
monthly I There seems a hitch here. And, in
fact, we believe there is a serious, nay, a desper-
ate, hitch The sola increment in wealth is that
due to improvement in the productiveness
of the territory. When land is broken
up by the plough, the first crop does not
represent the gross value of the gain.
The labour sunk in the operation of reclamation
is capital. By so much the colony is yearly richer.
Every fence which constitutes a paddock and so
cheapens production of wool or beef, every day s
labour judiciously expended, every payable mine
once opened, remains to our credit. It is impos-
sible to arrive at an estimate of the gross incre-
ment thus attained, but it may safely be asserted
that even this falls far short of the aggregate
inflation of values which has occurred within the
last couple of years. Some substantial progress
has been made. A considerable proportion of our
imports has consisted of appliances which are
reproductive and which assist and economize pro-
duction. But, to a certain degree of real enhance-
ment of values, a largo proportion of artificial
innation has been added. We have been bitten
with the tulip mania which once misled the stolid
Dutch. By mutual excitement it has been agreed
to regard houses, land, and other property as
worth more than their intrinsic value. So long aa
nothing happens to disturb this comfortable
agreement, wo shall do well enough. But depre-
ciation inevitably succeeds inflation. A trifle
disturbs an artificial arrangement, and ‘‘margins,’'
which only exist in a general idea, disappear on
the instant when touched by the wand of realism.
Classics in Sydney and in Canada.
Whether there is any desire on the part of any
considerable number of the members of the
Senate of our University to dispense to a large
extent with that department of culture which is
directly connected with the study of the great
classical writers of antiquity is at least doubtful.
There are certainly not wanting indications of the
existence of such a disposition ; and there is,
naturally enough, amongst those who are best
qualified to form a judgment on the question, an
idea that the curriculum which would most
thoroughly harmonize with public opinion is one
which would not, at all events, increase the im-
portance and augment the responsibilities of the
occupant of the Greek and Latin Chair. For our
own part, we have a very strong impression that
this idea is entirely erroneous. We do not at all
believe that there is anything like a general
desire on the part of the people, who are prac-
tically the constituency which returns the repre-
sentative youth of the colony to the University, to
assist in any way the withdrawal of their study
from those magnificent fragments of literature,
which are admittedly the most perfect com-
positions that the world has ever seen; and
which, it may be remarked for the instrpdiidn of
a democratic people, were produced, as far as
Greece was concerned, in the midst of a metro-
politan population far surpassing, os has been
said, the lower orders of any community that has
ever existed in this world.
• •
1 But if wo sought to give satisfactory reasons for
our faith, it is sufficiently obvious in the circum-
stance that the University is, in the popular mind,
almost exclusively associated with the name and
labours of the splendid scholar who is its Clas-
sical Professor. And apart from his European
reputation, which is, as everyone knows, un-
rivalled, it is natural enough that this should be
so. In his own consummate culture ha presents
a picture of precisely the kind of intellectual re«
finement which ordinary men of fair education
and deep reverence for genius associate with
scholastic foundations. He admirably pourtrays
the student of those great classical writers,
whose ability, says a brilliant modern writer on
“The Athenian Orators,” is confined within
no limits except those which separate civilised
from savage man;’ ’ and he is a representative
man among those editors and commentators
of the classics who, in the language of the
same critic, in the performance of the
lowest menial offices to their memory, are
considered, like the equerries and chamberlains of
sovereign princes, as entitled to a high rank in the
table of literary precedence. And as a bare matter
of fact, thelpublic interest in the University has
been almost exolusivsly sustained by the brilliant
and laborious services to popular education out-
side his Chair which Professor Badham has ren-
dered. His crusade for the Bursaries, his eloquent
appeals in all parts of the colony for larger facili-
ties for the education of poor scholars, his kindly
sympathies w Ihobscute and struggling students
seeking the opportunities of soljf-improvement—
all these things have, perhaps as mush as, or even
probably more than, hia magnificent sohelarship,
attracted men to the University. And it would
have been a strange thing if this had not
been so.
•
Our purpose, however, in drawing atten-
tion to the proposed alteration and the
supposed reform in University teaching is
simply to point out that the change has
not in the smallest degree the countenance or
support of the example of young and mighty and
flourishing communities elsewhere. It is only a
short time since that the (Edipus Rex was produced
at Harvard University at a money cost of nearly
the annual endowment of two professorial chairs
n our University. The ’cutest and most business'
like people in the whole world paid for a night’s'
enjoyment of a Greek play something more than
.£2OOO. And, following the example of the United
States, two months ago, in the Convocation Hall
of University College, Toronto, the Antigone of
Sophocles was given, with Mendelssohn’s
music rendered by an orchestra of forty instru-
ments and by large and well-trained supplemental
choruses, in such a way that Oxford critics have
THE LATE GENERAL SKOBELOFF.-(See page 10.)


£1 ;o UG H S AN D
The Best Cure for the above ii
and taken at bod-1
PUE E E
Extra Strong:
6s. Per Imperial Q
C. W. ROl
SINGLE BOTTLE DEP
MARKET STEi
WHEN YOU VISIT S
go to
C. W. EO SEE
NEW BAE,
GEOEGE STEEET, NEAE Mj
where yon can obtt
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY. BEAb
BHEEKY, OE B 1
of such a Quality that cannot I
other establishment in
C. W. EOBEE'
COLONIAL WINE DEP
is now open i:
MAEKET ST
BED OE WHP
only
3d. per Half-Pi
Quality Superlat
NONE BUT WI
the
PEODUCT OF AUS’
la
SOLD IN THIS DEPi
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP
MADE HOT IP EE<;
Please Call and Sa:
C. W. EO BEETS’ BPECIA
at 4a, 6d. per bottle, is i
VEEDEILHO
a lovely White Wine, Is. €
POET MACQUAEIE El
Is. 6d. per bottl
MUEEUMBIDQEE
2a. per bottle.
C. W. ROI
MARKET STEE
FURNITURE! FUR
FUENITUEE 1
“ Wf HERE Is the best place t
\ T This question is being as
is ot as much interest to anyone I
tide, os to the “ Happy Conple ” jo
keeping, and who want everythii
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
;htde pa
FURNISHING EX
OXFORD STEEET. S':
arrived at the conclusion that “the best Greek
play ever acted in the Empire has been produced
In Upper Canada in a mushroom University.”
It is needless to point out that so marvellous and
successful a result could have only been obtained
by the most patient and absorbing study. It is
admitted that the preparations for the drama had
been made for rather more than three months.
But the significance of the incident is to be found
in the fact that people infinitely more progressive
than we can pretend to be refused to abandon
the old haunts of information and still desire to
watch for the
. . , “jflash. of garments, and to know
The awful Muse by her harmonious wings.
Charming the air to music as she flies. ”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Irish Repression Bill.
An infatuation almost inconceivable appears to have
taken possession of the British House of Commons in
reference to Ireland. When Mr. Gladstone’s Govern-
ment took office all their talk was of conciliation. The
Raiieal members of the Government were in a minority
in the Cabinet, but they constituted a potent minority
—a minority of principles and ideas. Conciliation was
their conception, and in deference to their susceptibili-
ties, and because it sounded well in a humantarian
sense, a good deal of verbal parade was made of the
principle. But the Whig majority in the Cabinet re-
presented Landlordism. To the members of that ma-
jority, conciliation represented a different system to
that which was present in the minds of the Radical
minority. The Landlord party in the Cabinet, certain
of being supported not only by their adherents in the
Honso, but also by the Tories in opposition, regarded
conciliation simply as another term forjwheedling. The
same end was to be attained as if force were employed
—•the Irish tenantry were to be brought to terms.
But os the terms could not possibly bo landlord’s terms,
or indeed any which did not involve a considerable sur-
render of the “ rights of property," a rather savage and
entirely senseless satisfaction was sought to be attained
by making the insolent peasants accept the surrender
in a humble posture. They were to be brought to their
knees first, and have the boon which could not be with,
held, ungraciously flung to them while in that attitude.
The Coercion Bill was given precedence over the Land
Dill. The result was exactly what might have been
expected when thus undertaking to deal with a people
already irritated by a sense of wrongs which the intro-
duction of the Land Bill, ipw fasto, acknowledged. The
Irish people received the Land Bill as a right grudgingly
given, and consequently as in no way imposing any
obligation to bo grateful; while they resented pas-
sionately the affront which preceded it. The Coercion
Bill was a failure, and to a great extent involved in its
non-success the Land Bill, so unhappily coupled with
it. Now, as a remedy for the failure of the Coercion
Bill, the Government are infatuated enough to attempt
—more and stronger coercion 1 This seems sheer mid-
summer madness. The declared object is to quiet Ire-
land. This can only be done by regaining the confidence,
if not the affection, of her people. It is possible to win
affection; to bully a people into it is impossible. Re-
pression must fail. There is no coercion so drastic —
even it the people of England would consent to see the
extremity of tyranny instituted—which has not been
tried with utter failure in Russia. Martial law even—
that panacea which the Tories try to goad the Govern-
ment to try—is ehlld’s play compared with the arbi-
trary control to which the people of Russia are sub-
jected. Modern invention has so strengthened the
hands of malcontents and desperate people that the
sole fruits which can bo expected from deprivation of
civil rights and ordinary justice are dynamite ex-
plosions and frightful sassinations. There is only one
method of quieting Ireland, and that is justice admin-
istered with affection, not justice doled out with con-
tumely and curses for seasoning.
Preacher Cooks Once More.
It is exactly three months ago to-day that we called
attention, in the most forcible style we could command,
to the brutal treatment which Cocks, the Domain
preacher, experienced, Sunday after Sunday, at the
hands of the roughs in the Domain. That our descrip-
tion of the manner in which the poor man—whose only
offence is that he endeavours to follow with literal
fidelity the example of .his Master —was buffeted and
reviled, attracted attention, we received ample evidence
Bat the authorities took no notice—bestirred them-
selves not at all. The same scenes were repeated week
af ;er week. The Domain was still permitted to be the
arena of unchecked ruffianism. While our pious
Ministry, like their great leader, went to church, and
compounded in a respectable conventional way with
their Makbr for the sins and omissions of the past—
and the succeeding—week, they obdurately refused to
admit any consciousness that on earnest missionary,
who had not the Divine graee and Heavenly recogni-
tion which a snug salary and hebdomadal “ tak-
ing up a collection ” confer, was being hustled
and assaulted by the very people who stand
most in need of religious ministrations. We
bare called attention to the recurrence of the
outrages inflicted upon this earnest man, again and
again, while the professedly religious papers have, like
the authorities, with perverse stolidity pretended un-
consciousness, and “ passed by on the other side.” To
the Pharisees of to-day, we are, we know, but Samari-
tans. Wounded men of our finding are an offence,
to be ignored it possible. But the persistent breaches
of tbo peace and aggravated attacks upon Preacher
Cocks have become crying scandal. The Pharisee
journals and the Pharisee rulers, who for a pretence
make long prayers, and love high seats in the syna-
gogues and—lecture platforms, dare uo longer pretend
unconsciousness to what has become a theme of common
condemnation. I* may be M well that the authorities
should know that if proper provision be not made for
the preservation of order, and the protection of this
harmless man from outrage next Sunday, by the proper
officers, there are citizens who will take the duty upoa
themselves. When the constituted authorities abro-
gate their functions, vigilance committees take their
place.
The Salvation Army.
The spread of the Salvation Army throughout England
and into France, seems on the whole not a subject for
rejoicing. A crusade against lack of honour, dis-
honesty, drunkenness, and squalor, deserves all en-
couragement. To such au extent the Salvation Army
is praiseworthy. So far ns it inculcates the loveliness of
charity, honour and sympathy, and teaches that obe-
dience to sanitary laws will ensure a healthful life, that
dirt is the twin-brother of disease, and that water is
better than',beer as a beverage—so far it merits praise.
The ponderous machinery of the churches rumbles on
from week to week, hut with little effect. The cathe-
drals and chapels are tolerably filled, but with whom ?
All very nicely dressed, respectable people—not the
dregs of society. Beyond what a few city missionaries
may accomplish, the churches never reach these. The
Archbishop of Canterbury would rather forfeit the very
elegant crown and harp which await him in the New
Jerusalem than go down into the by-ways and consort
with publicans and sinners. That was well enough for
the son of the carpenter, but an Archbishop is a cut
above that. One can picture his Grace at the dying-
bed of a cost ermonger, in a stinking alley in London
imparting “ spiritual consolation" through the folds of
the snowy-white handkerchief applied to his holy nose.
Let us look at the results of the Army’s labours. What
are its conquests ? A great sum of money has been col-
lected ; how has it been expended ? In feeding the hun-
gry, in clothing the naked, in building asylums f No 1
JE15,!00 have been for a large hall in which the religious
gymnastics of the Army may be perpetrated. Hundreds
of pounds have been squandered on banners, trumpets,
drums, and all the gaudy paraphernalia of this motley
company. 320,000 persons are enrolled as subscribers
to two newspapers, whose pages, if they at all resemble
some orthodox prints, are clogged with idphur, and
ring with everlasting hell. And what is meaning
of all this jargon about “generals,” “lieu enants,"
“war correspondents," “battle-cries," “ nndred-
pounders of applause," “ volleys of cheers, &c. ?
What has this to do with him who came to preach
peace on earth, good-will to men ? What has
“General” Booth in common with the Nazarene ?
The founder of Christianity, whose name is inscribed
on their banners, trudged, starving, homeless, and
footsore through Judeea from end to end, doing good,
and preaching charity and honour. The Salvation
army, a noisy, straggling mob, in mock battle array,
march from city to city, with blaze of trumpet and
beat of drum, bawling hymns of, very often, worthless
sentiment, set to tunes of doubtful origin, and din the
least lovely parts of their creed into ears willing and
unwilling. Among the pariahs of society much good
might be accomplished, but when moans are employed
such as the Salvation Army uses, buffoonery displaces
devotion, a spasm of sentiment is mistaken for a
“change of heart," and what might have been the
glorification of charity becomes the apotheosis of
hysteria.
A Penrith Bench has just done summary justice to a
man named Upton, for assaulting his stepson, aged
eleven. The case, as the evidence is reported in the
local paper, lies in a nutshell. The boy was a lie-a-bed.
His own testimony admitted that he had been called
several times on the morning when the assault was
committed, and that,when at last his stepfather entered
his room and told him to get up, he replied that “he
would not for him.” The “ prisoner " went and got a
leather strap, and hit him once with the strap and
several times with the buckle end. The boy yelled,
his aunt rushed in from next door, and, on her appear-
ance, the beating came to an end. The boy showed
several marks on his back, and, in reply to the Bench,
stated that he did not get up because it was so cold.
The Bench sentenced the step-father to four months’
imprisonment in Parramatta gaol! This sentence
seems quite preposterous when read with the evidence.
The prisoner was certainly not justified in hitting the
boy with the buckle-end of a strap. But evidently the
lad was insolent, lazy, and unmanageable, and enough
to provoke a saint—let alone a step-father. There may
be circumstances of local notoriety which give peculiar
significance to the evidence, but, it such there were,
these did not transpire. The effect of the judgment
seems to be that a decent man, for an excess of severity
which was not productive of any serious consequences,
has been disgraced for life and sent to herd for months
with felons and scoundrels. The Minister for Justice
might fitly devote a few moments of inquiry into this
case, and, if there be nothing more against the prisoner
than appears in the reported evidence, he should be
restored to liberty without an hour’s unnecessary delay.
There is nothing to show that society will be benefited
by his seclusion, or endangered by his being at large.
In the feeble columns of the Herald the Lucas com-
pensation case is fading into indistinctness. The lead-
ing journal spoke out with laborious and safe trenchancy
on the morning after the verdict, and on Saturday it
returned to the theme. Bat with the weary old mis- ]
take. Discussing any side issue rather than the vital '
point. Who wants a dissertation about Mills’ valua-
tion and Pilcher’s change of front? We declare that
the essential subject now remaining is Lucas, Lucas,
Lucas, Lucas, Lucas, Honorable, Honorable, Honor- ■
able, Honorable, Lucas. What is to be done with the
Patriot, Patriot, Patriot ?
War!
Oub nation ia fairly at war. Our ironclad ahipa,
floating batteries of the moat formidable type,
have battered down and blown up at Alexandria
sundry land batteries which were not in complete
readiness for the assault. Having effected this,
our vessels, impregnable to the missiles o
assailed, poured shot and shell into the i
And all this for what, and with what justification ?
Wall, to begin with, the justification has seemed
so insufficient to the other Powers of Europe that
the bombardment was protested against by their
representatives. However, we have information
enough to enable us to judge for ourselves. Let
ns trace the history of the affair.
• *
About a couple of months ago, there were indi-
cations ef domestic movements in Egypt. The
military and the Notables—which latter corres-
pond, so far as representative institutions exist
in Egypt, to the British House of Commons—were
dissatisfied with the then existing Ministry of the
Khedive. The dismissal of that Ministry was
demanded, and, yielding to the military and popu-
lar agitation, the Khedive dismissed his then
advisers, and replaced them with a Cabinet repre-
senting the party of reform. Shortly after, the
leading spirit who has been chiefly instrumental
in bringing about this substitution of an Egyp-
tian Liberal Cabinet for » Conservative one, dis-
covered a plot laid for his assassination. The
culprits —Circassian officers —were brought to
trial, convicted, and condemned to death. But
the Khedive, exercising his sovereign rights,
commuted their sentence ito banishment. Ban-
ishment of Circassians —aliens in Egypt—seemed
little different from a farce. They might return
to Circassia. This would be as if the Sultan
were to banish Baker Pasha —to England The
Minister protested. The course adopted by the
Khedive was tantamount to a proclamation that
malcontents might renew attempts against the
life of his Ministers with the assurance that, if
detected, they would be saved from the penalty of
their crime.
• • •
Now commenced a struggle between the popular
leader and the Khedive. Arabi Bet, supported
by the military and the favour of the people,
prevailed. The Khedive definitely accepted his
constitutional predominance, and, for the moment,
the internal dissensions in Egypt appeared settled.
A distinct political revolution had been accom-
plished, and completed, too, without bloodshed.
In fact, the national desire for more effectual
constitutional Government had prevailed. The
affair had been entirely domestic. Not a foreigner
had been so much as annoyed. There had been,
up to this moment, no animosity to foreigners dis-
played ; there bad been no batteries erected;
there had not been the ghost of a demon-
stration against the security of the Suez
Canal. The revolution seemed as complete, was as
favourable to national liberty, and had been as
bloodless, as that which placed Williah of
Orange upon the throne of Great Britain. And
it had this superiority over that event, that, while
its effects promised to be equal, it had not involved
the introduction of a foreigner in place of a native
prince, and had, in fact, scarcely exceeded in
point of disturbance the change of Ministry in
England when Mr. Gladstone supplanted Lord
Beaconsfield.
• * «
It was just when all seemed thus happily settled
that Great Britain and Franco intruded. They
ordered the Khedive to dismiss Arabi and
reinstate his previous advisers. From this
moment confusion commenced, and irritation —
naturally enough—began to be manifested against
the foreigners resident in Egypt, who had up to
this time been unmolested The Khedive
abjectly, or gladly—it matters little which—com-
plied with the injunctions of the Foreign Powers.
He dismissed Arabi and his new Ministry, and
reinstated his old advisers. Then commenced an
undisguised struggle between the Khedive,
openly acting as the tool and servant of Foreign
Powers, and Arabi Bet, the now recognised
exponent of the Egyptian National sentiment.
The question which has exercised all minds has been
—what England has sought to gain or to prevent
by this intermeddling in the domestic arrangements
of a Foreign people. This has never yet been de-
finitely stated. At that time, although the British
squadron had anchored in the harbour of
Alexandria, it gained access unchecked by torpe-
does, because it was time of peace! There had
been no ill-feeling to resident foreigners evinced ;
there had been no batteries commenced. There
had not been a whisper of designs upon the Suez
Canal. There seems reason to believe that the
Western Powers conceived, or knew, that in the
national aspirations a readjustment of financial
affairs was included, which would put an end to
the “ control” exercised by French and British
officials, in the interests of the holders of Egyptian
bonds ; and that the claims of the Anglo-French
proprietary to regard the Canal as an A nglo-French
highway would be sooner or later challenged.
# * *
The overbearing attitude assumed precipitated
a crisis. Turkey, appealed to to suppress Arabi
and the Nationalists by armed force, prevaricated,
shuffled, and at last peremptorily declined. The
Khedive, one day submitting to dismiss the
Nationalist Ministry at the command of the
Western Powers, and the next reinstating him in
deference to the menaces of his own people, was
threatened with deposition. The Great Powers of
Europe, after obvious reluctance, consented
to confer about the condition of Egypt, but,
while formally seeming to negotiate in Con-
ference, were evidently intriguing much more
to the purpose outside it. The British began to
refer to their squadron with menacing emphasis,
as a demonstration. The Egyptian populace,
inflamed by these indignities, rose upon all
foreigners, commenced to raise defensive works,
and threatened to retaliate, if assailed, by cutting
the Suez Canal. This furnished the casus belli
which before had seemingly been sought in vain.
Thenceforth the safety of “ Our Road to India ”
was the cry. The half-finished batteries at Alex-
andria have now been demolished by our fleet, and
a war on the Egyptians has been commenced by
the bombardment of Alexandria in the teeth of
the protests of every civilized power.
•
f Honest and liberty-loving Englishmen may wish
i that our fleet had more glorious employment But
I the Rubicon has been passed, and lovers of liberty
—and sympathisers with the aspirations of a
nationality struggling to cast off the tyranny of
■ irresponsible rulers, and to escape from the
oppression of foreign usurers —can but assume the
| attitude maintained by Burke and Fox during
the war of American Independence. While
deploring that our troops should be engaged in a
cause morally bad, no true Englishman could but
be distracted did any mishap befal them. Mean-
while the outlook is most portentous. England
is engaged in a formidable war against a brave
and united people, who proved capable of offering
desperate resistance even to the veteran soldiers
and overwhelming military talents of the first
Napoleon. Great Britain is isolated, and thus
embarrassed and engaged, stands liable to be
taken at a disadvantage by any third power which
may be disposed to fall upon her. Turkey seems
fully inclined to such an enterprise, while the
dispositions of the other Great Powers of Europe
are, if not evidently unfriendly, veiled in a
dubious and minatory gloom.
Admiral Seymour haa prohibited all vessels
from entering' the Suez Canal.
Lord Augustus Loftus suffers from partial deaf-
ness, and has been under Dr. Stanich’s treatment. He
writes to the Doctor as follows : “ With the enclosure
Lord Augustus Loftus begs to thank Dr. Stanich for
his attentive services, from which ho has derived con-
siderable benefit, his hearing having been improved.
On his return to Sydney, Lord Augustus Loffm hopes
to avail himself of his further services. July 2,1881."
Mr. Sturt, the Melbourne Police Magistrate
deliberately asserts that the nignt prayer mending and
the Sunday school, ar e responsible for more immorality
than the theatre. “ I have sat on the bench for thirty
years," says Mr. Sturt, "and I say, advisedly, that a
clear half of the ill-gitimato births of which I have
been cognisant in my official career have been proved
against the religious world." “ Don‘t yon remember,"
Mr Sturt goes on, “ a certain case a little while ago,
wherein a young mother of tender years had a multi-
glioity of lovers, all from one Sunday school, which she
eraolf attended. That te only a specimen of hundreds
I have seen." The fact appears to bo that young people
will get into mischief unless sharply looked after,
wherever ithey are associated together without keen
superintendence. When a mother lets her girl goto
the theatre with her young man. she generally “times”
the couple pretty rigidly. But when a snivelling youngj
woman goes out with a prayer-book in her hand to meet
only snnfflebusting young men, the mother is off her
guard, and the household song soon is, That's what’s
the matter with Anna."


GO. o.
# NATIVE ROSE LOD9
PLAIN DRESS £
will be held in t
PROTESTANT HALL. CAS'
on TUESDAY. JULY
Double tickets 10s, Gentlemai
Single 4s. To be obtained np a
Secretary.
String Band under the Directk
the Arcade.
Refreshments provided througl
Doors Opened at 7.30 p.m , Coi
BEOS, O. TAYLO
J. RITCHII
-W
V
;V / > .-'• -V v 4
s
MOKE
EUREKA
THE PARAGON OF PEI
FINER THAN THE
the tobacco op
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AN
ALL OTHER BRA
THE ONLY TOBACCO COMBINI
OF QUALITY WITH EQONC
Each Ping is stamped with the si
SMOKERS SEE THAT YO
Take no other
manufactur;
SAYWELL’S TOBACCO I
AT THE EAGLE T
KENT AND CLARENCI
And can be obtained wholesale at
Park-street, Sydr
Bold Retail every where, and will bi
as soon as its merits beco
EUREKA TOBAC
Registered according to Act of Pi
the public against spurious and wi
MADDOCK’S SELECT
,381 GEORGE BTR:
THIS Library is supplied regal
Steamer with the latest Pnb
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Po
the higher olass of Fiction; also, a
zines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway
mnnio&tion with Sydney, every fao
BICYCLES AND Tl
SOCIABLE TRIG
THE LIGHT RUNNING
The Lightest Running and Stroi
THE BEST INVESTMENT OF Tl
The Latest Novelty is the Soc
Cushioned Seats for two persons,
know what real enjoyment is, shou
TRICYCLES FOR :
The Latest Design. Cannot Ups
arms or collar bones.
Liberal mannriKT bn club
.->■
if}
Mr<
m
m
mP.
sm
m*
'*** +
k
wtr*
H'l
(Cf
'M
P&
r ■ Uii
-
SBtPs»g«2fe
m
zsßsmssmg
ifti* Hf* jffiPfTf^r
wHBB
VIBTUTia GLORIA MERC
COALCLIFF C
THSFSTMig E iL c^n.?Ss£xio^.■”"
T
18a. PES TOW WET, delivered wi
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WH§LE
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO 1
ALLAN A. MARSHAL
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLi
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS
DIVING GEAR, &o.
Celebrated CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels. Soles. Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS & SPECIAL
Established
was
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
’HEN building use CALLENDER and SUNS' Pure Bitui
, CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than 1
r
ONE OP THE WOULD’
OARSMEN.
T N a recent conversation in Kin
a representative of one of the I
the United States, Mr. Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to i
world, gave the following as bis opii
FEBEIER’S BAKING POWDER,
rF
7^]
| T
%
w»»t
:MARK
MANUFACTORY:
QEORaK-STKBET WEST, STDNBT.
SELF EAISING FLOUE
YEAST POWDER.
H
fEBTABI.ISHEn 30 Ykj
ODffSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET
near Goulburn-atrei
B. H O D O S
Wholeaale and Rot
. WHIP THONG MANUPAC
Evary Description of Kangaroo and (
Made to Order.
Xw* - .
—■
'JIL'-niJ-'Jill'.iiinniiHrmi-rmi
’Xirr-liW-firiFlJ
i m
r-
L_i T
77777777T777T/ITT
Wmfwi/iMWHWiih
670 h.HILD
70
UjI.LDER
s T ww«,3,
nm
■I i
V;,r


SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a:
at the
SYDNEY AR (
SINGER'S SEWING 1
ARB MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacturi
Head unices:
31 UNION SQUARE, HEW
Chief Office in Euri
39 FOSTER LANE, ]
Depot for New South
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAI
JgINGEE’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2a. 6d. per week-
And no interest ch
10 per cent, off for 01
BEWARE OF IMITj
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY •• SING;
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOf
SEWING MACHU
haymarke:
Singers Sewing
Miftktnis /
Public Companies
'JIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman} William B. Walferd,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Randle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager:
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Red;ern
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coouamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gaeu-
feU, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, luverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Mol Dug,
Morpeth, Mudgea, Norandera, Newcastle, Onißge,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockley, Bylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfleld, Ulmoiin,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannla, Woodbum, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Cloimcnt,
Gladstone, Gymnie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Knveuswood, ROTkliampton, Htauthorpe, Toowoomba,
Twwnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
rHE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PABIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund, £116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.0., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C,
AUDITORS »
[Jan. Soroggie, Esq,
_ H. E, Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F, A. A. Wilson.
- SECRETARY :
Hector Allen.
J: J
'if I pc
BRANCHES •
587 George-street, Brick Held Hill Redfern;
Z Girilambone; Goslord ; N^ngan.
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 158 LeadenLall-acrtet.
i Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
vu liioau lavuiUfcOKi tcimb,
Bilid dißcpunted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
F. J. POLLE’S
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, SY D.N EY.
A Urge and well assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut n the Most Fashionable Styles,
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HATMALKET.
THOMAS WIBB & SONS
26 9 OEOHGE STREET,
Zrr.Beg to announce that they have |
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment ofj
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOORS and HALLS.
J. MASSEY & SON.
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SQN,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNE^.
Chemißts and Druggist*
And
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drug's.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson's American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-stroet next to
Punch’s Hotel.
riIICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
JL tralian Relish, mode by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
AKAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY.STREET, SYDNEY,
ITINQtNEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
\i and Brats Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Q rartz-crushing.
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sngar-tmlis, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, witn latest improve-
ments.
N.B —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Ha,ve your Uun re”a Frames
ra- covered, and your
Parasols Re liimd and made
equal’to New, at
J. Sullivan’s
511 Georgo-atreet,
BrickiU-io-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
JOHN BUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONE 3 & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, *c.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
Furniture ro-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
♦
George lan
(Formerly of George-street,)
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE
Begs to announce that he has RE COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
J.EVB . TOBACCONIST .149
Ski
mi
■urnnwnaiiiiiiiniMiiuiiniitiiiriimmiiiiiiiiii
umuu.wimtnmnmafUtUTinnUnillllliniUllllllllll
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
MOULTONS
LITER COMPLAINT positively cured bv MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Business Announcements
f\r--
a
m
El \.
o
S£2
Of
33,9
cTaWK&fci
r
h(G\RJiY OPPOSITE POST OfflCfi;
kAtATeor sqseeopoe sTmi
fm
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. BLATTEET,
-* ■* SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PTTT-BTREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
lON FOR
MAS A WIDE
EXCELLE
ANDTHECHEM
SYDNEY INTERNA
HAVE CERTIFIED,
I
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIbiJS
Antomatlo
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10a
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUENS,
Corn-8 hellerf,
TOBACCO
GUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., *o., fro.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
16 GEORGE STREET.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO;
STEREOTYPE/^
-AND-
FODDuT?
—and—
PRINTERS'
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St,
B'sriDisrE'sr. 9
"Also »t 70 LITTLS COLLINS STSXXT, KILBOWH*.
THOMAS W, ARNE,
ENGINEER A t OUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIFE GIRDERS,
AND STOVES,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF . OVENS.
SAFES DEED
AND BOXES,
DOORS. Ac., Ac.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, A GLEBE FOUNDRY,
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
To Country or Intercolonial Journalists.
A GENTLEMAN, educated, well-informed, and re-
liable, is willincr to supply city correspondence.
Address, “Mecuin, 0 Bulletin Office.


w. HOWARD SMi:
SXRUTH’S WHARF and
(foot of King-st
Offices : 7 SPRINC
Steam to MELBOURNE]
Every TUESDAY uad ]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUG
and
ROCK KAMI
On TUESD.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMIT
T
HE FEDERAL BANK
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MEL
Capital, £l.OOO,
Subscribed. £6s<
Directors:
Hon. J J. Casey, CM.(
J. B. Watson, Etq., Vic
John Robb, Esq.
John Whittiagkam, Eh
William M'Lean, Esq.
Hon. James Munro, M,
ing Director.
Temporary Banking Ho
25f George-btreot, X
Francis 8. Maoclern
Manager.
John Docker, Esq , A
Messrs. Robertson and Fio
THE FEDERAL BANK OF Al
oilers severa
Special Faoilit
to those
Who Rcquit
Banking Aocommt
L Interest will be allowed on on
2. Fixed deposits will be reoeii
rates.
3. Every branch of banking bns
4. Bills will be discounted di
moderate terms.
5 Every arrangement oomplet
ness without delay to custoi
FRANCIS S. MAODE
CHARLES TWEMLOW d«
friends mid the pnblic that
centrally-situated Premises, next
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, i
and specially selected stock of
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical
fully invites an early visit, whiol
goods, which are all morked in pla
moderate in price and > f the best
An experienced s aft of workm
Presentation and other jewellery i
Watches accurately repaired,
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silvers!
£JOOLALTA WIN
MORT'S PASSAGE, back oJ
Paling and Co,
Choicest Wines, by the glass or
the Bodega. Hat Spiced 'V
Openfrom 0 a.m. till 6 p.m,
by the dozen or it
nt the Bodega, at Cellars ad;
Cellars, 110 Pii t-streot.
CASH PRICE LIST OF
AND JIPIRI
COLONIAL WI
RED.
per doz. I
in. I a -_i
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The 20th August next will be Sir Alfred Stephen’s
80th birthday.
On dit, Judge Dowling goes to England at the
•ad or the year, and Judge Josephson retires. More
Tontine appointments!
In a letter which Lord Salisbury had sent to the
papers Mr. Gladstone was described as a man of “un-
controllable temper and overweening vanity."
An eminent gentleman who has just arrived in
from Melbourne by a big ship, lost no less than
*2OO at cards on his way from the Southern Babylon.
Mr. Burke, the Irish landlord, who, with a dra*
goon, was murdered (recently in Gal wav, was a first
cousin to the late Robert O’Haia Burke, the Australian
explorer.
Sir Alfred Stephen declares that calling him the
hanging Judge" is a compliment, for it proves that
he always sympathised rather with the victim than with
the criminal.
It will interest the Sydney Sabbath Observance
Society to learn that their old friend Professor Proctor
has just been blessed with a baby girl, and that he is
endeavouring to discover what conjunction of the
planets governed the phenomenon.
The wholesale reductions in the emoluments of
Clerks of Petty Sessions in the country have completely
ruined several of those gentlemen, yet £l5O a year off
income did not prevent Mr. Leslie Macarthur,
* rom offering the Governor the use of his
pretty cottage at the opening of the railway.
There is one man in Sydney who longs for the
return of the Eev. John Alexander Dowie. He is a
®“Ojtband-writer, and he reported John’s lecture on
* The Drama, the Press, and the Pulpit,” which created
such a furore among the—Esquimaux. John dodges
pretty well all over “ the vineyard." It is to be hoped
the vintage will not suffer.
It is yet uncertain whether Mr. Plimsoll will
come on to Sydney. Mrs. Plimsoll, who is at present
in Brisbane, has no recent advices. Should Mr, Pllm-
soli come here, the Seamen’s Union intend to organise
a reception which will show the Seaman’s Friend that
even at the antipodes his disinterested exertions are not
forgotten or unappreciated.
Sir Arthur and Lady Gordon leave for London
per is. Home in August next. He wants to be re-ap-
pointed Governor of Fiji and High Commissioner of
Western Pacific, and influential persona are pressing his
desires on Lord Kimberley. Meanwhile, Hew Zealand
is ignorant of the personality of his successor. Soma
attempt is to be made there to reduce the gubernatorial
salary.
The steward of Sir Wilfrid Lawson, M.P.,
having reported that one of his farms in Cumberland
had keen re-let on a ten years' lease at an increased
rental of £BO per annum, S r Wilfrid inquired who was
responsible for the improvement, and being informed
that it had been effected by the tenant, immediately
ordered a cheque for £BOO to be made out and sent to
the tenant.
The Wraxall baronetcy, by the demise [of Sir
Horatio Henry Wraxall, a Juaatio pauper, now passes
to Sir M, N. W. Wraxall, whose son and heir was edu-
cated at a workhouse school and afterwards appren-
ticed to a pawnbroker. The family fortunes were
rained by drunkenness, but the next baronet should
know how to redeem them. He must have frequently
token the pledge.
S.A. telegrams last week inform us that Mat-
thew Burnett boasts of having induced 5000 persons to
sign the pledge during his five months’ labour in that
colony. Matthew is a great hand at obtaining signa-
tures at teetotal meetings. He has been known to order
the oh apel doors to bo looked, and refuse to allow the
audience to retire until a specified number had signed
the pledge. By these means, it would not be difficult
to obtain 1000 signatures in a month.
In reference to the report that the heirs of the
late Hon. W. Highett. M.L.C. of Victoria, contemplate
demanding from the Government the accumulated £3OO
per annum which the deceased declined on principle (he
being opposed to payment of members) to draw as
M.L.C., there seems every excuse for the poor heirs.
The sum they want is no less than £7OO, and the
deceased has only left them £200,000. We would auggsst
that they change the family name from Highett to
Lowett.
John Lucas didn’t do so badly out of his Darling
Harbour property after all. He spent £4lO on it, and
obtained £4500. Setting down the law costs at about
£3ooo— say, £296o— he still clears £llOO on his principal
in three years—an annual simple interest of 83J »er
cent, or compound interest of a fraction over 51-829
per cent. Had he received his claim of £76,915, the
profit of £73,505 would have been at the rate of an
annual simple interest of 5795 5-6 per cent 1 Or a com-
pound interest of over 459 2 per cent (I), the"amount’’
increasing equirationally over 6i times every year.
Mr. Brooke Smith, the Victorian police in-
spector who has just died, once had a warrant placed
in his hands to arrest Mr. Carroll, M L.A. The Ballarat
and Ararat railway was just being opened, and Mr.
Carroll lent his store for the purpose of holding a ban-
quet and ball. Brooke Smith was too tender-heartt d
to spoil the feast by arresting Carroll beforehand, so
he kept his errand dark ; but, as soon as Sir Roger do
Coverley had been disposed of, he quietly tapped the
M.L.A. on the shoulder, and walked off with his prize,
who was sentenced to a heavy term of imprisonment.
Mr. Carroll was just about being released from quod,
when poor Brooke Smith turned np bis toes to the
daisies.
Carl Feilborg, the Queensland journalist, who
has accepted a position on the Melbourne Argus, will
be much missed from Bananaland. His loss weakens
considerably the totality of literary ability that colony
possesses. He is the hero of many feats, one of which
may be worth recording. A Brisbane paper had adver-
tised the appearance of a certain story. The M £l. was
come over in two hatches. The first came to time,
the last showed no signs of its approach. The proprie-
K»r was in despair. Carl Feilberg toik up the un-
finished threads of the story, and went on weaving the
skem. When tho second portion of the M.B. appeared,
itfound that he had exactly divined the author’s
thoughts—married the right couple, murdered the
right victim, hung tho right man, found the will in the
nght place, driven the right (or tho wrong?) woman
into the madhouse, and drawn the right moral.
Writing of Thadeus D’Kane, the Brisbane
I B u El i VEa remarks:—“We cannot say whether it be
lack of discretion, or love of contention, or indifference
to results, which is accountable for Mr. O’Kane being
so often in hot water; but we do not think for a
moment that it is Ishmaelitiah malice or vindictiveness.
T l 9 9*“® a spade a spade in a way more manly and
candid than judicious. Ho runs at human follies,
toiblea, and dishonesties like a bull at a gate. But the
colonial law of libel is very particular in its gnardian-
fr’P °" those human infirmities. It more readily pro-
j®ol® dl «reputable man than the exposer of his dis-
reputablenesa. The blunter the truth tho plainer is
.“® } and the heavier the penalty, Mr. O’Kano
nas had many lessons about libel in the school of ex-
perlenoe, but he grow* hardened in his defianos of law.
, -7 .***. arbitrary and unjust, why should ho
truth 1“ lt9 ln justice by a sycophantic concealment of
,■ Dor6 ia about 50 years of age, has a
nnalT/iv “* etio fram *> and an intellectual head. He is
i tbo worst dressed men in Paris, and his studio
tu ne °, “confusion worse confounded." Almost
onto bis pictures is done with the brush,
.7 barest outlines being indicated by charcoal;
“0 neither makes sketches nor uses models; all
in from bis brain. He sketches constantly when
’ *bat is ’ when he is not dancing around
bi. oif ® ln bis hand, which he often is. He gives
away freely, and is gifted with unparalleled
he no 01 I<aeas - His ocular memory is so strong that
copy almost anything he has once seen with
nw„!?f ru ‘ exactness. He made a replica of his great
L Christ leaving the Priotorinm.’’ from
when preparing a book on London, made
• V sketch at night after returning to his hotel. Dord
gu , JOeQ working for seven years at illustrations for
aespeare, wbioh he wants to make his masterpiece.
wbn* f ‘ Sonias Walker, the Freethought lecturer,
n f ._ i J^ a< lui»hed the Eev. Tweaty-thousand-ponnd
actor 6 t? 8 'k” l action recently, is a remarkable char-
low u i l * an Englishman, was bom In Lancashire in
nas lectured in many part# of the United King-
ao 1 a s d Australia, and before he was
both^ *' 9* dwplayed wonderful debating powers in
the^d?v bI TTn«? i>nva4 ? dieonsslons with noted men of
be “ i n y Jr«y nt ” reeentl /> a il hia ntteranoes were said to
state Tn ; nO Z t H ey #re delivered in a normal
the Particular feature of his leotures-
W q ha?*lth WWe f $ th ® oloBe -" ‘e unrivalled,
imare W and cyoo p l asdiao knowledge, his scope of lan.
ingenuity in reply and
mental labon? laf cornered. He performs the severest
S brimm) b n » al . waya refcaina spieudid health; he
" ith animal spirits, and a capital social
aeSal S «.£ m , on **£ 18 I . eMer accomplish monte, the
write PitmmJ? 1 P l ay J. h * Piano, make poetry and pans,
any one of a ’ and tura handsprings with
tb^oi h a O°P 0 °P the Queensland Parliament,
toSSSSr/V int ? rrQ P fced during the delivery of
in th furious escalations from one of the visiters
Farmiir i ery ' blackguarded the Queen and Royal
catrageous way. Buzzy of the
the 04 attention to the matter, but the name of
whieb no l ono ° utter ed in the discussion
A ),, > . ca ,*“®u«d. We, however, can recognize the party,
runs’b P m Jn Y °Fi^ k ,A bright, intelligent, amiable boy,
event 1 r * C t "P 1 n 8 from the bachelors’ quarters to the
after . * ha P d Bome dark-eyed lad withal. A few years
unaarthw ™l Brl i 00 “l y bearded man with a mysterious
e„?h» If those deep lustrous eyes, brought
mont effl D afc *®pdant. Then again, a clerk in a Govern-
diligent, saving, natty, but apt to take off
herf hi. ? • s ni i° UBly 410 arrangers in the street,and ex-
ftle t ds ** ® earc b the scriptures. Then a period
tlfrf Th eßt , Thenceforth, for years, oscillation be-
n‘ l :„ he asylum and the Government Department.
Harming not a soul, poor follow. But odd, unaooount-
a4 *• a ?“ sometimes unoanny.;Oh I Buzzy, Buzzy I you
ahnt a^ 1 , e 8p ® 01 P I « n , ofa Christian, why couldn’t you
Lv W^ et i^ hed ears and mouth for once, for
cnanty a sake? Damn your twopenny dignity I There,
t ca hlog»am from London states that
fha nnil n .f Tr si B, T, r l:^ ely a hl o f clerk and accountant In
jP®, Queensland Pohce Department, is dead. Poor
I r aB “ ■ woet-tempared, courteous, harmless
gentleman. In his youth ho served as an officer in the
«7™r«^ m^ y B „£ avyi bat "hen the Queen’s Service
m }htary and marine of John Company,
Queensland, where his introductions secured
the easy-going, well-paid, semi-sinecure post in
the police department. Barron was greatly liked in
and always a favourite at Government House.
During the absence on leave in Europe of the Com.
S i88l ?“ er 01 Police, Mr, Seymour, Barron discharged
the duties of Acting Commissioner. He was also
Vmitmg Justice for St, Helena, the island penal station
w.r. /r Bton B j y! . hut, about a year ago, irregularities
r^L dI J , i 0 Ve f 6d m h>s accounts, and he was allowed to 1
f.^ i ? n, i th( i a ? h 801n * Pe°P le there was gross|favonrit-
ism in his being permitted to get out ef the matter in that
Mr. Barxpn was twice married. His first wife
was a Miss Manning, daughter of Mr. Manning, the
then Under Celonia.l Secretary of Queeasland.and niece
Sn ° lr William Manning, and big second wife wag a
Miss Blakeney, daughter of the Deputy Eagigtrzr-
General of Queensland. Mr. Barron left one child.
r , Pcrkina, the Queensland Minister for
Danas, is not very happy just now. The Melbourne
shareholders in the company recently formed to buy up
• B iu^ wery aQ d grog business a>e suing fora return
°‘, fc helr money. This is awkward enough. But, be-
sides this, people are tittering a good d“ai over the evi-
dence of the chief steward of the Kanelagh. Mr.
Perkins is a big man, somewhat coarse, and decidedly
blusterous in manner. But wheu the Kanelagh was
stranded, he seems to have become the mildest of men.
The chief steward gave evidence that he “did not 1
notice any particular alarm amongst the passengers
after the vessel struck; Mr. Perkins took greater pre-
cautions than other passengers ; he secured one of the
life-buoys from the stern, and was walking about the
deck with it In his hand; after getting into the life-boat
ho secured one of the life-jackets and had it put on him,
and no still held possession of the life-buoy, but as it
was in his way on his knee he was induced to allow it
to be put down on the bottom of the boat; none of the
other passengers had either life-buoys or jackets on:
Perkins went in the first boat, containing the
ladies and married couples; one of the passengers
asked who was going ashore to protect the ladies in
case there were cannibals on the Island; a stout German
woman wished to go in the first bmt, and Mr. Perkins
offered to exchange seats with her." This evidence is
creating smiles, and people remind one another that
the non. gentleman was credited with quite equal ex-
pedition in scrambling ashore among the first when the
Wotouga was wrecked a few months ago.
The sensational Tasmanian case of Smithy. Smith,
Gellibrand, and another, has been compromised. It was
a suit in equity, by which Mrs. James Smith preferred a
claim against Sir Francis Smith (Chief Justice), Mr.
William St. Paul Gellibrand, and her husband, Mr,
James Smith, as her trustees, for alleged irregularities
as regarded the Investment of certain property held j
ia trust. Sir Francis Smith had, in 1878, accord-
mg to plaintiff, written and caused to be printed
and largely circulated throughout Tasmania a
letter containing statements calculated to Injure
her. Lively oisolosures |in court were antici-
pated. as a strong bar had been retained on both
side*—Sir Archibald Mlchle, Messrs. C. F. Collier.
C. H. Bromoy, and A. Dobson, for the plaintiff: and
Messrs. W. E. Giblin and K. P. Adams for the defend-
ants. However, when the business began to settle down
in earnest, the defendants offered a compromise, which
was accepted. Sir Francis Smith withdrew, and the
other defendants repudiated, the letter already referred
to; tho whole of the defendants withdrew all offensive
expressions that had been used, and announced their
regret that these should have oaused Mrs. Smith pain
and exposed her motives to misconstruction ; they also
undertook to pay within three days £6OOO, and £l7OO
costs, and guaranteed the release by Mr. James Smith
of his life interest in the trust funds comprised in and
under the plaintiff’s marriage settlement, and also the
release of all his rights aud interests thereinunder, and
in|the sum abovomentioned. New trustees were to be
appointed. Sir A. Miohie, in accepting this offer, said
that tho suit ought not to be regarded as a family
quarrel, but as a case of ordinary trusteeship.
A good deal has been written and said about the
libel action of Scott v. Mampson, which resulted in Mr.
Clement Scott recovering £l5OO from tho Ebi-ekee.
Here is & small piece of the article to which Mr. Scott
took exception. “Another theatrical critic, whose
name had not been mentioned in tho will called upon
Admiral Carr-Qlyn, and hinted at a good many terrible
things which might be said about Miss Meilson, that
he felt very much hurt after all he bod done that his
name should bs omitted, and that of course he should
not do anything objectionable, but, Ac., Ac., Ac., as
anyone who understands what such a creature would
say can fill in for himself. The result was that Admiral
Carr-Qlyn paid this representative of English journal-
ism £5OO in kind or coin. A way was, I believe, arranged
for making the bargain lose some of itsbloodguiltiness.
Now this critic, as the story goes on to say, belongs to
no hele-and-corner or struggling periodical, hut is
engaged on a great and influential aaily paper. If
there is no great and influential daily paper which feels
aggrieved by this plain and unvarnished narration, it
there is no critic whose withers are wrung by it, then
the lie oan be allowed to drop as a a infamous lie should
drop, and club gossips need no longer whisper it
mysteriously to one another; but, if the story be true,
Inold that the man who thus blackmailed Miss Noil-
aon’s residuary legatee is no less infamous than were
those wretches who, according to Herodotus, outraged
the dead bodies of women which were entrusted for in-
terment.’* There oan be no doubt that Mr. Scott got
the money from Admiral Carrulyn, but it was domed
that he uttered any threat. But he got it; and like
a fiat, put it in a Magazine. What he did with the
£l5OO of the verdict has not yet transpired. Perhaps,
he gave it to the London charities 1 or bought a stained
glass window for a church.
Billy Townsend —“ the People’s Billy ”—Chair-
man of Committees for several years past in the bouth
Australian Legislative Assembly, is not going to resign
bis position. “Atjthe solicitation of friends," Ac. Ac., he
has o banged his mind. Billy is not a bad sort, though
he has his faults. He is genial to a degree, and has
been known to occupy the Chairman’s seat “after
dinner." He is a walking paragon—at least, ho says so
—of Standing Orders, and knows how to assert his
dignity when in the chair. At; the times that he shows
the least dignity, he asserts the most. His oratorical
role is the facetious—the stale facetious, and the most
crippled punning. He is a literary man—again we
quote from his own statement—for he is always offering
to support various schemes with his “ pen and voio i.”
He loves to prate about his ‘‘friends’’ Mr. Walter, of tho
London Times, Mr. Haddon, of the Melbourne Argot,
asd our own Dr. Gaxran, of the Herald. And he is a
Ifoturer. It haa been computed that ho has delivered
mg lecture upon the “ Lights and Shadows of London
Jjue at least fourteen million times It must be
recorded to his praise that the lecture has always been
Riven by him in aid of charitable institutions. He is
an auctioneer by profession, though he claims to have
once been " connected" with the London Times.
, n ?*° u L however,credits him with a juvenile experience
ot nrtstles and wax-ends. Anyhow, he is a swinging
success as an auctioneer—makes plenty of money, and
spends it as fast as he makes it. Formerly, the
arm was Townsend and Sotting, but lately he has taken
ms son into partnership, and severed connection with
Hotting, Of course he is the “ working man’s friend.”
He has a presentation gold watch ts prove it. He has
Dean member for the Sturt for ever so many years, and
is sometimes addressed as the “Father or the S.A.
Assembly.” It was a great blow to his aspirations when
fvoi’/?’ ® 080 waa elected Speaker after the decision
® r . 8 „ l ,. eor * e Kingston, but there were many reasons
wny Billy stood no chance. To one course of action
i , Townsend unbounded praise is due. He founded
almost by his own exertions the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind
Asylum, and ha is now the mainstay of that institution.
H?®? Be *. tbe P0 °l> lo 'a Billy" romping amongst his
blind protegees, and witness the love and the confidence
they bear him, and you will cease to think of Mr. Town-
send s many blemishes of character, which, after all,
mainly spring from excessive good nature and
generosity, with a spice of that vanity which more or
less leavens all mankind.
It is of coarse impossible to classify a man
a d lB Oft s® or httS closed, but up to the present time
*be National leader of the Egyptians is
™ he regarded as standing in the same rank
with Wallace of Scotland, Tell of Switzerland,
Washington of America, Kosciusko of Poland, Kossuth
ot Hungary, and Garibaldi of Italy. Whether he will
ran from his patriotic eminence and descend into a
mere throne.winner like Napoleon I, whether ho will
“J? n 80 ? noble “»«ion achieved like Washington
and Garibaldi} be crushed into quietude and insignifi-
cance like Kossuth; die on the field of battle like
Kosciusko ; or by the hands ©f a foreign executioner
iiiT 8 I ool * o an< * taunts of the successful enemies
of the liberty of his country, like Wallace, are alter,
natives which lie in the womb of the future.
But to-day he is the Sir William Wallace
or the down-trodden Fellahs of Egypt—the
champion of national independence, and the
inspiring leader of their efforts to shako off a foreign
( . i need as a means ot plundering the fruits
ot their industry, and crushing their aspirations for
progress and elevation. Aohmet Arabi is by birth a
fellah—a son of the people, e plebeian. He e itered the
army as a private, but, having education and intelligence
he soon gained a sergeant’s stripes. His ardent genius
spurred him to seek higher advancement, and by dint
of sheer industry, working with natural gifts, he sue-
oessfully passed the examination which enabled him to
claim a commission as officer. Unaided by influence, he
rose to the position of colonel, but at this stage he was
high enough to be envied. A charge of misappropri-
ating pay intended lor his men was brought against
him, and, althongh ho courted inquiry, the nroceedings
were protracted by the arts of his enemies daring three
years. It was necessary at last to bring the affair to a
conclusion, and it was found that nothing what-
ever had been established against Arabi. Never-
theless, his enemies had the ear of the
Pasha, and Arabi’s name was struck off the
army list. A change of ministry repaired this
injustice. Arabi was reinstated, a man embittered
against the corrupt cliquism which exposed native
Egyptians to unmerited disgrace, while foreign farceurs
and harlots were loaded with benefits and honours by
the wretched tools of European money-lenders who sat
in the palaoes of the Pharaohs Arabi, throughout,
displayed a spirit of courage which gained for him the
obseryation aad respect of a constantly widening circle
• ” a M°nali«ti. When domestic agitations commenced
in Egypt, all eyes turned involuntarily towards Arabi,
known to be imbued with patriotic ideas, to bo honest,
and to have remained poor, when by prostituting his
recognized abilities, he might have become rich. Huoh
is the man whom the Premier of Great Britain is strain-
ing every nerve to crash, and to consign, in common
with his fellow-workers for constitutional principles
and national emancipation, to ruin.
J- H. Finlayson, editor and part proprietor of
the Register (8. A.), is as honest and hard-working a
journalist as was ever evented. It would bo folly always to
expect scintillations of wit, sparkling epigram, or biting
satire from his pen; but it would be as useless to
search for 111-nature, malignity, designed misrepresen-
tition, or cowardly i. u tendo in anything he writes. He
is generous and kind to those employed in the office,
and can always bd depended on lor more than his fair
share of routine labour. These are qualities far more
useful in the successful conducting of a daily paper
than the biggest forked lightning flashes of those
geniuses whose mission in life appears to be bright
writing one day and heavy drinking six days of the
week. Finlayson has been abused because ho does not
happen to be a Henry Labouohere, an Edmund Yates,
an Edwin Arnold, a Sir Algernon Borthwick, an F, H. i
Hill, or a Justin M’Carthy. But Finlayson manages,
nevertheless, to remain head of one of the best-paying
concerns in Australia, and to do this without making
mistakes. For a long time, he dreaded the intro-
duction of a joke among his columns, having rather a
mistaken appreciation of the limits ot the sphere of a
daily newspaper. But he has somewhat conquered this
propensity; and, though unable to joke himself effec-
tively no longer hesitates to believe in the real capacity
ot those who do. In private life, Finlayson is about
the readiest man in the colonies to do a charitable
action. It a semi-inebriated contributor rolls into the
office at 2 o’clock in the morniag,aud demands a cheque
which is not due, ha is almost bound to retire with Fiu-
layson’s own cheque in his packet. Many and many a
good nan goes wrong in Adelaide as in njdney ; but
supposing that man is on tne Register, his chief, for
long enough, ignores the failing; never preaches;
uses every means in hie power to cure for
the sake of any fibre of ability possessed;
not seldom manages to work restoration; and refuses,
until refusal becomes impossible, to send a month’s
salary with the polite intimation that certain services
are dispensed with. The oth r night, about eleven
o’clock, just as ha had settled) down to thorough
work, in walked a stranger carrying a big roll of manu-
script. Finlayson laid down his pea and motioned the
visitor to a chair. “ I want to show you something."
said the stranger ; 11 1 believe you are the editor of the
Register and Observer?" “ Yes," murmured Finlay-
son, politely, “most happy, I am euro." “ The fact
is," resumed the stranger, “ that I have a small poem
here which I fancy you will find suitable for your
columns’" “ Oh, I daresay we can liad room if It is up
to the standard, and a «®all poem." The emphasis
was so apologetically done that the stranger measnred
his man at once. “I write a shocking baud," con-
tinued the poet, “that’s the way University fellows
generally write; so perhaps it would be better forme
to read the little poem." “Ob, certainly," weakly
answered the good-natured pressman. The stranger
opened his roll of manuscript, which contained suffi-
cient "copy" to set up two Bulletins, and began to
read in a sad, monotonous voice. “ ’Tie but a little
poem, but mine own," was his preface. Time flew on.
The stranger ceased not. Nothing changed. No vari-
ation, except the Post Office chimes as quarter-hour
after quarter-hour passed by. Tbe reading of that
little poem oceupied three hours I Afterwards, the
stranger wanted to recite a compendious epilogue. But
Finlayson kicked at last, and said he always preferred
“ little poems " without epilogues. Then the stranger
gathered up hie roll remarking that Finlayson could
not bo a literary man. as he was rude and unpolished,
and wont out to seek Jeff Stow, the presiding genius of
the S.A. Register. Jeff simply uttered a big, bigD, and
went out to “ see a man."
• • •
Rumoured that the Campbelltown medicos are
going to law. Libel. Only £20,000 damages claimed.
The M'Elhone is not completely a bear. Pleased
with tho assiduity of the waiters in the Palace oar at
the Hay railway opening, he started a subscription for
thorn, and realised a pretty round total, giving the
largest amount himself Much sorrow was caused in
Shellharbour by the.death, from typhoid fever, of Mr.
Charles M'Arthnr, manager of the Commercial Bank.
Ho was only la months married, 25 years of age, and
was universally liked Sir Alfred Stephen has had
ereoted over the grave of his sister, the late Mrs.
Remmington, in tbe tho cemetery at Yass, a handsome
monument Mr, T. G. Rusden, one of the oldest of
the New England squatters, died in Glen] lanes
Hospital a few days ago.... Jules Moihlan, the musician,
has died suddenly at Napier...... Mr. John Matheson, an
old Victorian colonist, died suddenly ot an apoplectic
fit on Monday, at Melbourne. Up till last year he had
been Manager of the Bank of Victoria since 1853.


ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
THE ORIGINAL CASH SYSTEM FIRM.
NO BRANCHES.
NO OTHER PLACE OF BUSINESS.
ANNUAL MID-WINTER STOCK TAKING.
COMMENCED
MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1882.
GREAT BARGAINS OFFERED IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.
GOODS CAREFULLY ARRANGED.
NO TIME NEED BE LOST IN PURCHASING.
EVERY FACILITY FOE INSPECTION.
Bargains in Costume Cloths.
Bargains in Dress Goods.
Bargains in Wool Wraps.
Bargains in Ladies Ulsters.
Bargains in Children's Ulsters.
Bargains in Wool Goods.
Bargains in Wool Fichus.
Bargains in Wf ol Clauds.
Bargains in Millinery.
Bargains in Fleecy Gloves.
Bargains in Bibbons.
Bargains in Laces.
Bargains in Ties.
Bargains in Parachutes.
Bargains in Men’s Hats.
argains in Men’s Overcoats.
Bargains in Men’s Trousers.
Bargains in Youths’ Overcoats.
Bargains in Youths’ Suits.
Bargains in Little Boys’ Suits.
Bargains in Ties and Scarves.
Bargains in Men’s Shirts.
Bargains in Hosiery.
Bargains in Boots and Shoes.
Bargains in Flannels.
Bargains in Blankets.
Bargains in Carpets.
Bargains in Umbrellas.
BARGAINS EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT THE
IMMENSE PALACE EMPORIUM,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET
(ONLY).
A Trams stop at GIPPS STREET close to tha PALACE EMPORIUM.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERT SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL ~
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in. Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Trade
Mark
THE FAINT FOH IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN AN CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD. AND WILL NEVER
BLISTER CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF.
IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST.IEVEETTHINQ CONSIDERED
Stocks *lw kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, 1* white,
SEWING
and colours.)
Trade mark
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
COTTONS
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
them Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prise Medal, London, 1851. Only First-class Prize Medal, Faria, I»s*.
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, 6ou“
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special Fire* Award, Sydney, )/
Ask for BROOK'S SEWINCh COTTONS^
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Woreho*
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
“ /
lATENT PORTABLE OtkS COMPANY (Limited),
25 York-stroet, Sydney.
all the
COMPANY’S LAMPS
ISSUED AFTER THIS DATE
bear their
TRADE MARK
ON THE
TRADE MARK
■BURNER.
The Company is now prepared to supply Lamps
suitable (or Houses, Mines, Stores, ko. The Lamps re-
quire no trimming, afford a brilliant light, superior to
coal gas or kerosene, at loss cost, and ciu be carried in
the hand. Samples may be seen at the Company a
Office, and the Lamps obtained from the principal iron-
mongers and country Storekeeper*. s hELTON,
Secretary.
July 15th, 1882.
Department of Mines
Sydney, 27th Juno, 1882,
NOTICE |TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE ia hereby given that unless the Lea-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned gold-mining leases within thirty days
from this date they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWTCK.
Clarence and Richmond Mining District.
No. 3: William Kenny and another; Portion No. 105 j
Nana Crc»k ; 1 aero ; Application No. Kempsey 8-14.
No. 5i J. Benson and others ; Portion No. 104 ; Nona
Creek; 1 acre; Application No. Kempsey 6. „
No. 9; J. B.n-ion aud others; Portion No. 113; Nana
Creek; 1 acre; Application No Kempsoy 12.
No. 10; William Ksuny and others; £ onion No. 114;
Nana Creek; laore; Application No. Kempsey 13.
No. 11; J. R. Ward and others; Portion No. 115;
Nana Creek; 3 acres; Application No. Kempsey 14.
Western District.
No. 3881; J. J. Coates and others ; Dnokmaloi River ;
1000 yurilij
No. 3811 a ;J. J. Cbates and others; Duokmaloi River;
1000 yards.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 30th June, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
VTOTICE is hereby given that unless the
LI Lessees execute and take delivery of the
ndermentioned Mineral Leases within thirty
,ays from this date, they widbe declared void.
No. 1178; James Ross and others; Portion No. 63;
bounty of Gougn, parish of Uloxaome; 40 acres ; Appu-
sati®a No. Glen Lines 80-24 m.
No. 1335; C B. Lows and others; Portion No. 10,
louuty of Ciivo, parish unnamed ; 20 acres; Application
So. Glen lanes 80-9 m. w
No 1291; A. Murray and another ; Portion No. 5U2,
louuty of Gough, parish of Clive; 40 acres; Apphca-
,ion No. Xiirgha 512.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 30th June, 1882.
SGTICB TO APPLICANTS FOR . GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
is hereby given that unless the
A-vl Lessees execute aiad take delivery of the
indorwientionod Ooid-raining luoasd within "thirty
lays from this date, id will
Tumdt and Adelono Mining District.
go. 109; A. Bruce and others ; Portion No. L. 32;
uuty of Wynyard, parish of Adelonj; 7a. Ir. 17p. j
iplioation No. Adelong 68.
JTICE TO
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th July 1882.
APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
kTOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the undor-
entioned Gold-mining leases within thirty days
““ th “ “ ” iU be d *S‘^ i 4rawicK.
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
No. 590; G. T. Somerville; Portion No Gl, 486;
lounty of Gloucester, parish of Bindern; 2 acres; Ap-
ilioation No. Copeland 603.
No 591; T. Hutchinson and another; Portion No.
.n. 59; uounty of Gloucester, pariah of Bindera; 3
ores; Application No C-ipolaud 60S.
Tambaroora and Tubon Mining District.
No, 242; Henry Geary and others; Portion No. 25;
lounty of Wellington, pariah of Iroubarks; 10 acres:
implication No. Iroubarxs 46.
Peel and Uealla Mining Distirct.
No. 256; G. B. Stewart and others ; Portion No. 26;
bunty of Darling, parish of Woodsreef; 10 acres; Ap-
Ucatlou No. narraba 79-3.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 7th July, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
is hereby given that unless the Lea-
-31 sees execute aud take delivery of the under-
lentioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from
his date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
No. 1231: Thos. Moore and others; Portion No. m.l.
02; Parish of Arvid, county of Gough; 40 acres ; Ap-
lioation No. Vegetable Creek 518.
No. 1315; Thos Moore and others; Portion No. 131
ndl32; Parish of Arvid, county ot Gough; 40uoios;
.pplioation No. Vegetable Creek 447.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 7th July, 1882.
OTICB TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
Ikf OTICB is hereby given that unless the Les-
-3l Boea execute and take delivery of the under-
entioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty days
nm this data, they will be declared void,
omimsuato, j ARTHUR RENWICK.
New England and Clarence Mining District.
o 171 • J G Jackson and others; Portion No. 12;
mty ot’Grcham, parish of Nullama; 2 acres; Ap-
latmn BB. p tion No n ,
mty of Gresham, parish ot Nullaraa ; 2 acres ; appli-
frs/j 1 Mansfield and others; Portion No. 13 ;
mty of Gresham, parish of N ullama ; 2 acres; Ap-
satlon No. Dalmorton 90.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 7th July, 1882.
a TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING
Leasees of the undermentioned Qold-
ining Lease are hereby called upon to show
within thirty days from this date, why
aae should not be cancelled, for non-pay-
rontdn, thereon.
Hunter and Maclbat Mining District.
fo 270- C W. Ohlsen, O. R. Reitschall, H. Sipple,
Peirce, and C. Nnslo; Portion No. g.l. 224; Bow-
n Riier, counvy of Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 6
; Application No. Copeland 385.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 27th June 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES,
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take deliveryiof the under-
mentioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from
thi, date, it will be deol.red^kl^
No. 1292: William Peadon; Portion No. 372; County
of Gough, parish of; Herbert; 20 acres; Application
No. Tingha 514.
10,000 JO 1,
LEGITIMATE ODDS FOE ALL INVESTORS !
£2,500 to 6s.
on THE
SYDNEY METROP. & MELBOURNE CUP DOUBLE
Divided into Three Prizes, viz,.
Holder of Metrop. Winner aad Cup Winner...£2soo
Holder of Metrop. Winner and Cap 2nd £WO
Holder of Metrop. Winner and Cup 3rd £2OO
Every Investor of £1 gets FOUR DOUBLES, and
£2,500 to sj. about each, besides the chance of 2nd and
3rd Money.
Bankers The Bank of Australasia.
At the desire of a number of friends, I have decided
to hold a consultation on the above events; and, instead
of following the beaten path, I have resolved to adopt a
plan,which 1 think will commend itself to all wmo nave
the slightest knowledge of sporting matters. The idea
that I wish to carry out is not an entirely original one,
but its advantages are fuoh as are possessed by no other
system of drawing Sweeps.
The entries in the Metropolitan number 100, and
those in the Cup, 128, and consequently there are 12.8U0
ways of coupling the horses In two events or, in
other words, there are nearly (13,000 different possible
doubles. ... ~ ,
The longest odds offered by the most liberal hook-
makers about any double on these two events is 400 to
1, or, It two favourites are chosen, 200 to 1, which is nn
absurdly short price when the number of ways i f lay-
ing the double ate calculated. . .
What I intend to do is to couple the horses in the two
events In the manner described, and draw tne sweep on
the 12,100 doubles thus created. There being such a
large nnmh.r of doubles, it would probably t;e difficult
to dispose of so many tickets at the usual price, £1; so
it has been thought prudent to fix the price of the
tickets nt five shillings each ; but to obviate the trouble
which would ensue in disposing of tickets for so small a
sum, it baa been decided not to dispose of less than
four tickets at a time. This would leave the amount of
£3200 in the sweep, the whole of which, less the usual
10 per cent, for expenses, will go to the winners.
One of the principal features of this mode of drawing
a sweep is the opportunity it gives to those drawing
good doubles of hedging or laying off. Even after the
Metropolitan is run, there will remain 128 ticket-holders
holding the winner ot the Metropolitan coupled with a
horse in the Cup, and standing to win £2500; conse-
quently, if a holder of the Metrop. winner has a favour-
ite in the Cup whose price is (say) 10 to 1, ho will be
able to lay £2OOO to £2OO, and thus stand to win £5OO
if his horse wine, and £2OO if he loses, and so on in
proportion* ... . i>
Finally, as the time is so short, the promoter would
particularly desire intending inventors to send for
tickets at once, as the drawing must positively take
place on the 31st August. In the event of the whole of
the tickets not being taken up by this date, the remain-
ing doubles will bedistrihuted pro rata.
To prevent misconception on tno part of t qq public,
it is necessary to state that the above calculations are
based on the original entries. ,
All moneys received will he duly paid to a Trust
Account in the name of a Committee of well-known
gentlemen.
Address—"DOUßLE EVENT
Caro of GRATTAN’S PRESS AGENCY,
284 Qeorge-street, SYDNEY.
N.B.—As the Post Office Department ohsrge 4d. on
ioh letter, clients must register their letters or enclose
tamps to that amount; also, addressed stamped en-
elope for reply.
HIKE TAILOR FOB THE PUBLIC.
F. H. H A G O N,
late cutter to B. C. Hagou, of 127 King-street,
having taken
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
at
102 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every facility will be afforded him for
having his work cade under his
PERSONAL SUPERVISION,
is now in a pasition to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILORING
of a quality and price that cannot bo Excelled.
West of England Tweed Saits, to order, 63s.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 63s.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
F. H. HA.QON.
F. H. HAGON.
N.B. —All Garments HAND-MADE.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
Sin HIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENTS
for
BROOM FIELDS
CELEBBATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LIT HD AN lAN
MAGIw BITTERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
A S 0 N I C BALL.
AUSTRALIAN SOCIAL LODGE, No. 260 I C.
Under the Patronage
of the
E.W.P.G. Master, J. W. Guise, Esq , I.C.
R.W.D.G. Master, Dr. W. Q. Sadgewiok, 10.
Right Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney.
The ANNUAL BALL in connection with the above
Lodge will be held in the Vestibule of the TOWN
HALL on THURSDAY Evening, 27th inst.
R. A. Andrews ) Hon,
J. D Stephen J Secs.
J, H. Young, Hon. Treasurer,
01i *StotcIiW)i^
m


CITY CATERING
315 GEORGE ST
A. NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional work:
tical experience, nearly all from 1
of Compagnoni and Co., who p
and carry on the working: of tt
general manager.
It is not a public company, and
AT 6 B Pon ® eB ther
N.B.—Since opening, on
suocessfelly catered THE I
CULT, and MOST
have taken pkce here to the pres
~ 6 Consular Dinner, in our new
the Major’s Picait
and Banauots. and all Entertal]
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball
Building, at which his Worshl
tamed their R.H.'s PRINCE A]
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Offi
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constltnl
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.B.W. Constiti
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE A
to Lithgow Valley Mines and
Russa, for 60, in Government Pi
travelling’.
Government Refreshment to 15,0
Queen’s Statue Demoustration-
NOTICE, only receiving the or
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m.
Visit of THEIR K.H.’s PEI
GEORGE to Captain Cook's I
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon
100, under VERT SHORT NO'
at 9.30 p.m., to be ready oa the
mg day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Ti
The (Union Club) Bachelor’s
Bnilding, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judi
Banquet Boom.
Dinner d la Ruue at St. Paul’s Co]
of the Church of England Sync
Dinner d la Russe to the Inter
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refresh men
gentlemen, at the turning of thi
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling 8t
ville.
The Lnncheons and Refreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons apd Resreshmor
Races, in Gram|Ntand.
Refreshments at e Favre of
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at To Oldo Edo-
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of 1
Dinners, I easts, <fco„ *o.
The CITY CATERING COMP
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, G
and all requisites for Balls, Pioni.
and will be glad to send out th
Pastry, Oakes, Jellies, Ices, Confo
Civil and attentive waiters ol
services required.
We have in our possession lette
high standing in the city, oomp
wanner we have performed the da
CHAS. R. EM
’{Late of the firm of the original C
MALT BIG
The great Cure for Indigestio
Complaint, Weakness, &o.
PRICE 71 ...
A, G, KEBBLEWHITE,
43 Erskine Sti
AND
W. H. SOUL, Pitt
KOUMISS ! (MILE DIET
Will at once Relieve the AC]
STOMACH and NAUSEA
excessive DRINK
Registered
Lives of business men ren
That, by using printer’s
We’ll grow rich, and leave
Lovely lamps of golden
Messrs. E. Row and Sons,
have been awarded a silver medal,
for their exhibit of pure malt \
International Exhibition.
Inghams Euphorbia Pilulipi
oeived from hundreds as to herb b<
in case of Asthma, Bronchitis, <S
sanoe, also tobacco.—See Advt. I
agent, Thos. Ingham, 130 Elizabet
Mr. Piimsoll will not come
colonies after all. He has receive
oessitate his return to England,
family, who are at present at Tool
have received from Mr. Piimsoll a
him in England.
A snooessful concert, in aid i
Club, was given in the Parramat
the sth July, The large andien
thing. Signora Fabris, Miss £. £
Miss King, and Messrs. Fairfax ai
Mr. Blanchard in comic singing, a
Bent’s lecture, “What is Art?"
lots of lauuhter. Mr. Huenerbei
the Alfred C. Club were satisfied.
During the week, we had
visiting Mr. Burtt’s new Jeweller,
and 311, George-street, nearly opj
Wo could scarcely credit the ai
visible in everything in and about 1
number of novelties in jewellery, &
ing, and is a thorough artist in his
window is a marvel, which we wil!
scribe, as it must be seen to be
whole, his establishment forms one
live business marts in the city.—A
The first “Buffalo” Lodge
night (13th July), at The Bdlletj
named “ The Bullakn Mather Li
Wales." The Buffaloes are an imv
land, having over 100 lodges in Lon
in the provinces, and a uewspape
also in Melbourne, Ballarat, and
of the society are goodfellowship
great growth eleswhere augurs we
here. —Advt.
It is necessary, during hot
beverages likely to heat or sti:
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous
absolutely pure, is a most sooth
refreshing beverage. Bo sure t
BURY'S COCOA ESSENCE whe
imitations are often pushed by i
sake of extra profit. Makers by
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
BATES’ DANDELION COCOA 1
the most favourite of all household
bines the strengthening qualities o
the well-known curative powers of t
consequently is invaluable for bil
plaints, indigestieu, debility, Ac.
packet from any of the principal
COULTER, Sole Agent. 107 Suscet
SUNDRY SHOWS.
WUoh seems to bo—-that is, lucre seems to be —
pretty much the reason for the production of such
dramas as “ Youth.” They are not high-toned, but
they are successful. They are not good in the abstract,
but the concrete result jiagles in the pockets of the
management with a saintlier ring than ever came from
church-bells. The Eoyal was filled from pit to ceiling
on Saturday night. The dress-circle entrance is magni-
ficent as a dream of Assyrian splendour or the interior
of a Chinese joss-house. A crimson carpet of Sidon
covers the stairs. This is what we call putting side on,
though perhaps it is a small thing to carp at. Flags of
all nations, including Lord Howe’s Island, droop
grandly from the walls. And Goodie’s smile is still the
same old seraphic ear-toucher. The stage appoint-
ments are de hats. The management have certainly
spared no expense in putting this piece on.
• tt *
But it ia too long 1 . There are eight tableaux,
This is too much for the money. In the Tyrol, where
people carry their lunch and supper with them when
they go to see a Passion play, a piece of this length
would be popular; but here where men are hardly able
to spare ten minutes now and then to die, it is tedious.
The plot is simple. Prank Darlington, who stands as
the representative of Youth and its follies, is an army
officer. He ia in love with a little Frenchwoman, Eve
de Malvoisie, and marries her, the prohibition of his
father notwithstanding. The old man, it seems, had
himself canned on some similar little game in his young
days. His former mistress, Mrs. Walsingham, drops
across his path, and there is a scene. E-r-evonge I It
is Mrs. Walsingham who brings about Frank’s mar-
riage with the Frenchwoman. But this latter
little lady loves the gallant Majah Eecklay. Eeck-
ley commits a forgery, which, with the help of
Mrs. Frank, he shifts on to the shoulders of her hus-
band. Frank is sent to a convict prison, serves his time
like a man, and after being discharged enlists in a
regiment about to sail for Afghanistan. And of course
he comes back, covered with.honour and glory and mos-
quito bites and freckles, to marry his old and true sweet-
heart, Alice Wenlook, having discovered that his sup.
posed wife had been previously married to Tom Gord-
ham, a fellow convict.
• •_ 9
Some of the scenes are intensely realistic —the
convict prison especially. We have never been in a
convict prison ourselves—at least not in the real
business section—but we know those who have, and
they say the bncks which are being piled up when
the curtain rises are masterly imitations of the real
thing. The detachment of troops marching on board
ti>e outgoing vessel, band playing and bayonets flashing,
nuvie a superb picture. Wo have never seen anything
more inspiriting except perhaps Cyril Haviland’s spirit
photographs. But it is in the scene at Hawk’s Point
tha.s the intensity culminates. Fully eighteenpence
worth of powder is spent here in firing at a number of
figures in bedgowns, who subsequently rush in from the
side wings and commence a deadly combat with the
British troops. Every alderman should see this. It is
more exciting than a dog-fight.
• • •
Mr. George "Rignold as Frank Darlington is not
a greater success than wo expected him to be. And we
did not expect much. He is too massive for the part.
His pathos and playfulness are both Cyclopean. And
yet somehow he seems to get through pretty well if not
well enough. His father the Eeverend Joseph (Mr. J.
14- Dewhnrst) is an eminently clean-looking clergyman.
There is not much passion about him, but there is an
immense amount of respectability. Mr. H. E. Walton
makes a gallant Majah though he wears too much
celonr in his cheeks for a vielU moustache. Mr. J. E.
Greyille (Larry O’Phesey) is the rekoj of the piece.
(This is a Sanscrit word, meaning, literally, the person
whose mouth is kept open with a stick ; figuratively
one who is always laughing. We are getting tired of
using languages that everybody understands). It might
be as well to mention just here that Larry is an Irish-
man. And he is as amusing as an Irishman can be
when (ho can spare time from casting bullets
and planting dynamite for the benefit of
the base and Saxon. But we grew sick at
heart to hear in a play called “Youth” a number
of ancient wheezes that were played out in Ireland long
before the Firbolg invasion. Colonel Dalton (Mr. Hi
Hodaon) is a military-looking person. Captain Lavender
(Mr. E. Forbes) is as insouciant as Mr. Forbes can make
him. Willie Spratley (Miss Brabrook Henderson) is a
very pretty fellow. As Eutherford, Mr. Oily Deering
has nothing to do hut to look ugly, and he is wonder-
fully successful in the attempt. Mr. Charles Brown
(Tom Gardham) has a small part, but plays it well. So
also a good many others whom we have not space to
mention, much as we should like to give a column of
criticism to each of them.
• • •
Miss Flora Anstead (Mrs. Walsingham) still has
a soft, easy way of speaking, which, though not,very
impressive in exciting situations, is very charming in
itself. Miss Solange Novaro (Eve de Malvoisie) has
nne eyes, red lips, and a wicked little mouth. These
make a good capital to start with when undertaking the
contract of fascinating a foolish young Englishman.
And she carries out that contract in such an artistic
style that the spectator goes away believing that women
are more dangerous than Parramatta rum. Mrs. Wool-
dridge (Mrs. Darlington)Js such a mother as we should
fike to have to put us in our little bed to die after wa
fiad come home from an Owl Club literary orgie. Miss
■Koland Watt Phillips (Alice Wenlock) has an imposing
*or such a little person, but she is pretty, aud so
is Miss Wooldridge (Bessie), and so are we, aud so ia
everybody—pretty passable. The “ 150 soldiers, con-
victs, villagers, warders,” and Evening Newts reporters,
are too sublime a spectacle to. be lightly dismissed with
a Una 90 we dismiss them in a lump. If the attend-
“Aoe on the first night of its performance be any criterion
neraby to judge of the future, “Youth” may slide
to a green old age at the Eoyal, and go away us
as some of its own gags.
** * *
_ Martin Simonson has made another dash for
Uc Patronage with what used to bo a favourite
opera Un Bnllo ia Masohera.” We believe that the
treasury will bo able to hold all the coin that
-I” 8 • brou gbt in, without much of a strain This
—O' B produced at the Gaiety—a throe-
art, a “ alr - Madame Fanny, Martina, and Luisotti
■n-.u 8 P ro P 3 - Paladini sings, well one night and
JTj ® a U P the next. But even with this drawback,
‘ , ®tidea along in a smoother and more satis-
itarH B y le than did most of the operas with which
m h*- 8 so far favoured an awestruck public.
Use FS S Y monaen a * Adolia is very—but what is the
to gay— ® r haps we had better sing what we don’t care
Time, Madame, brings its yew to you—
ion need not rue the rhyme—
»r t J 10U Sh the rose has gone, the rue
And yew smell sweet of thyme.
toßmJi* Bay » the old art is still there, but only a
Her JZ , tbe °M sweetness. Eheu! And Martina ?
hicklbliLu 5 !. 18 tr®sh and clear, but she has evidently
and fv,„ “ er Bt y? e singing upon that of her mother,
takes ,l reaul . t * s n °t always ASolian. But time that
the mntv, ay 7 lth oa . e baat l gives with another. What
WiU trail 68 the coming years the daughter
Ka U. Time might be represented as a policeman
with one hand behind his back clutching an obolus,
the other stretched out in front giving evidence,
Martina sang the Oscar music with much {tan. She
has also a pretty way of looking troubled that always
makes us long to go round and asit her to lean her little
head upon our manly bosom. But when a smile lights
upon her face we love all men. We have even known
ourselves in the mad generosity of the moment to turn
round and shake hands with a Daily Bum reporter with
r <hnark, ‘'Nihil humanum me alienum puto .” But
when he started up with a look of wild joy in his eye,
and replied, “Will I? You bet—haven’t had one
since lunch-time,” the old bitterness came over us once
more, and we relapsed into misanthropic gloom.
Paladini sang very well the first night of the
performance of “ Un Ballo," but on the second night ho
at the very last moment. One of three things
is the matter with him :—His voice is going, or he is
not taking care of it, or it requires rest. We would
prefer to believe the latter hypothesis, as we knew him
when ho could sing like Israfel, and we should be sorry
to see him come down to the level of hack singers, and
have the stately Italian proportions of his name cut
down to “oldpal” by Christy minstrels and variety
showmen.
• • •
And now Signor Luisetti shall have a little
paragraph all to himself. He sang his part (Eenato)
like a man. The splendid solo, “ Eri Tu,” was es-
pecially well sung and well and deservedly applauded.
Signor Luisotti does everything he undertakes with all
his might, and though he is fond of improving tableaux
and throwing himself into Ajax-defying-the-lightning
attitudes, ho is the only actor in Simonsen's company.
• • •
The Italian of Mr. Fitzgerald (II Primo Quidioi)
13 kind that is spoken in the fashionable circles
of Sienna. It is unmistakably Surry Hillish. And
Samuelo (Mr. E. St. Clair), Silvano (Mr. Wentworth),
and the rest of the minor characters were, judging by
their performance, never nearer the sweet Ausouian
shores of song than (say) Pinchgut Island. But, though
not wild achievers c r anything in particular, they made
a splendid Rembrandtesque background for those who
could sing. That is to say. they were shady enough for
anything. The choruses were sang somewhat spiritedly.
Wc have this to say in conclusion. Mr. Martin
Simonsen must re-model his company if ho wishes to
retrieve his fortunes.
* * -Jr *
“ Jeatnes” ia still drawing like a barmaid at
the Opera House. Bead this carefully for there is a
joke in it somewhere, though wo can’t just now see
exactly where.
** * *
“ Unearthed, or the Dead Alive,” has been at-
tracting fair audiences to the Morgue. Mr. W. Sheri-
dan opens in “ King Lear" on Saturday night week.
*» » *
Messrs. W. H. Leake and Arthur Vivian have
returned from Newcastle, where they did good business
with their Company.
** * *
South’s Opera Company 1 are playing to good
houses at Mudgee. They finish a capital Western tour
at Penrith on the 19th and 20th. Three days later,
James commences his Southern tour, opening at Qoul-
burn on the 25th; thence to Temora and Wagga.
*** * '
The Gem Dramatic Company were playing at
Townsville a short time ago. They advertised a per-
formance of “East Lynne’’ “as produced at the
Olympic Theatre, Loudon.” They suid nothing, how-
ever, about the bricks that were produced by the
audience at the same time. Theatrical people are so
forgetful I *
** * *
We understand that Mr. Delaney, chorus-master
of the Simonsen Company, has been appointed con-
ductor of the choirs of the Roman Catholic churches
which are to be amalgamated in one grand body for the
§ reduction of the ceremonial services at the opening of
t. Mary’s Cathedral, in September next. These ser-
vices will extend over three days, Mr. Delaney is a
sound musician and a good and good-looking fellow. In
fact he runs ourselves pretty close in the matter cf
pleasing personal appearance.
** * *
Mr. Robert Barlow, “ The Original Blue-tailed
Fly,” has returned from South Africa, and is sow in
Brisbane. He has with him Chang, the giant, and
Little Hongkong. And this in the face of all the bul-
wark s of a bleeding country have done to keep down the
heathen. This ia the worst of all free trade. Here wo
have fat men and dwarfs of our own, and we’ve got to
run them into the Church and the forensic profession
because these Chinese cheap monsters—raised at one-
tenth the price—are allowed to swarm in here and take
the bread out of their mouths in what should be their
own monopoly—the show business.
** * *
Writes our Adelaide correspondent:—You may
guess how people in Adelaide have to “ suffer and be
strong” while Grattan Bugs shows his predilection for
dramatic antiquarian research in the resuscitation of
“Handy Andy,” “ The Irish Emigrant,' and “Peep o’
Day." There are feeble attempts to stage Falconer’s
drama with some right attention to details; but as re-
gards the first two remnants of past ages none what-
ever. The fact is that Adelaide is growing out of its
one theatre—at least, as that theatre is now conducted.
Foolish i> a rsimony prevails in every department.
Allison’s stage-managers—since Will Holloway’s days
—have not the pluck to face their boss resolutely when
he declaims per rigid rule that he will not spend a san-
guinary extra sixpence over such-and-such a produc-
tion. It does not benefit us that James treats Sydney
with a more liberal hand. Here he is practically with-
out opposition, for Garner’s Folly is not a real theatre,
while the Academy is only fit for a minstrel troupe or
sermons on Sunday’s. There is a fine chance in this
place for some enterprising manager, who would build
a good house and maintain a good company.
The Royal would soon be deserted, and the remainder
of Allison’s lease of little value ts him. When this
latter event is accomplished, it is reported that Edgar
Chapman, the freeholder, will not renew, but “ run "
the Royal himself. We fervently hope so, because the
reigning lessee most certainly gives no fair equivalent
for the entrance money he receives For instance, at
present. Miss Marian Melrose does duty as leading lady,
Jerdan ns heary|lead, and Tolano as comedian. The
stage management is wretched, and Riggs has to inter-
sperse his dialogue with swears at the carpenters and
other louts who “ make night hideous.” The stock
scenery is supposed to hare belonged to the Adelphi in
Paul Bedford’s early days there.
** * *
The N.Y. Herald, of 2nd May, goes straight
for George Darrell’s original play, “Solange," which,
while it served to introduce to the New York public
Mdlle.EugtSnie Legrnud, “also gave the spectators a view
of the person who had the assurance to inflict this fear-
fully and wonderfully-constructed play upon an un-
offending actress and a too patient public. Mdlle.
Logrand proved to be an actress who, under less
disheartening circumstances, mi*ht make a very
pleasant impression. The play proved to be irre-
trievably, irredeemably bad To exactly
describe all that was done on the Union Square stage
last night would be unkind, and it is unnecessary to
give a detailed description of the unhappy nature of
the proceedings. The play belongs to the ‘penny-
awful literature, and its action was described in these
columns a few days since.” Belud 1
** * *
A nice family, now dead, will bo introduced to
ns in one of the new dramas which George
Darrell has written in America and is about
to bring over here. The family soup-bowl
was a .section of a bomb-shell, the dinner knives
were shaped d la bowie, and the forks were made to re-
semble a hand dyed with blood. The kitchen range
was an old bank safe, which Jesse had ventilated with
dynamite, and the stove-pipe was a cannon standing oa
end. Gunpowder served for pepper, prassio acid for
salt, and it was a stringent rule that no dish should be
served up unless strongly seasoned with blood and
tears. On the occasion of Jesse’s last successful ex-
ploit, he gave a little dinner to a few select friends.
Covers were laid for eight, the honoured guests being
Slit-throat Sam, Brain-blasting Bill. Gouging George,
• Pistol Pete, Dagger Dan, Thieving Tom, and Murder-
ing Mike—all gentlemen very well known in the district
where Mr. James chiefly operated. The menu was
simple! but recherche. There was no french fringe
about it. On the contrary, it had a thoroughly honest
American frontier free flavour about it, which is posi-
tively refreshing after the Gallic nonsense which de-
grades the average bill of fare. Haro it is in all its sim-
plicity: Soups—Human blood, widows' tears. Poultry
Fowl play, coward style, dead ducks, smothered in
orphans, roast vulture. Fish—Broiled shark. «t tiffed
with corpses, sucker, done brown with bullet sauce.
Cold Meats—Slaughtered stage drivers, 11 good " In-
dians, smart deteciives, bank cashiers, delicate slices
from all who have objected to being robbed. Entrees—
Stage-coaches, railroad trains, defenceless towns, banks,
when the poliseman isn’t abont. Boasts—Farm-
houses, homesteads, with incendiarism in all styles.
Dessert—Vendetta pie, outlaw pudding, broken hearts,
revolver crackers, Winchester wafers, bnokshst settler*.
Wines—Gore, extra dry, groans of old vintage, sighs,
heavy but genuine, sobs, full and free, tears on draught.
** * *
A London correspondent writes to a friend, and
says there are now no actors in the world's metropolis:
—“ The stage is abandoned to ballets, opera bouffe, and
variety shows. Even ‘ Borneo and Juliet,' now playing
at the Lyceum, is more of a show piece than a tragedy.
Polite comedy has given place to an affectation of
manner which must always be the defect of a nation
that worships aristocracy. The prevailing affectation,
copied faithfully from the “swell" class, is that of
indifference and sang-froid, characteristics that never
did and never can distinguish Englishmen. These,
with a ‘ haw-haw ’ method of speech and carelessness of
costume (other affectations) make up the present
gentleman on the English stage. It satisfies the re-
quirements of the audiences, because it is a faithful
copy of the English gentleman in novels, and is not
unlike many English gentleman in real life, but it Is
death to the drama. Such gentlemen cannot dress
characteristically, cannot take anlaotive interest In any
event, cannot display emotion, cannot even move about
naturally. Passion becomes extinguished with them,
ana with the extinction of passion the drama languishes
and dies."
** * *
The plot of Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera is
founded on one of Gilbert's “Bab" ballads, “The Fairy
Curate," which tolls us how—
“ Once a fairy, light and airy,
Married with a mortal;
Men, however.
Never, never,
Pass the fairy portal.
Slyly stealing, She to Ealing
Made a daily journey;
There she found him.
Clients round him—
(He was an attorney).*’
The result of this strange union was a son named
“ Qeorgie,” who became in due time aourate, and, being
half a fairy, had the power of paying flying visits to
hi 3 fairy mamma. Ono day, however, his bishop, drop-
ping in unexpectedly, finds Georgie’s mamma a la the
fairy Eebeeoa, in wings and short petticoats, and ns-
Burning her to be a lady of the ballet, denounces her
son, who, in his indignation at the insinuation, “changed
religion, like a pigeon, and became a Mormon." The
denouement is changed, and the story much elaborated
in the new libretto j but the leading idea of the latter
is identical with that of the ballad.
** The peet in a golden land was born,”
So sang old England’s aliovel-hatted poet,
And, as he got up early in the morn
To find this out, you’d think he ought to know it.
Out here, men care not for the poet much,
And less about the place where he was yanked up,
They only know that ho is prone to “ touch “
His friends for beers, most marvellously swanked up,
And that, however high-toned be his verse,
No man has ever seen him once a “ nip ” shun,
And that when dead they’ve got to hire a hearse,
And bury him by general subscription.
So much for poets. Do we write for fame ?
Not quite; because you see our heads are level—*
Which might mean flat, but doesn’t all the same—
We’d rather write for Perot or the devil.
No, we admit to you beneath the rose,
We sing our highest strains for filthy lucre;
And now we plunge, head-foremost, in the “ Shows,”
To make up for our last night’s loss at euchre.


PEPPER ANd SALT.
A recent number of that influential journal
with an enormous circulation that has taken the present
Administration under its protection, notices a manu-
script book of ballads and sketches, written and drawn
by one “ Pyn.” The writer considers this to bo
“ comical” :—
“ Maria O’Shans
Was a singular dame (sic),
A terrible prude was she.
The whole of her cry
Was ever proprie—
Was ever propri-et-ee.”
This specimen is also quoted with applause:—
“ On the block she, all frizzled and laced.
Her stateliest attitudes aired.
With her hands in ten buttons encased,
Yet nobody—nobody stared.” (! 1)
Well, we don’t want to discourage Mr. “ Pyn," more
•specially as be hasn't published yet; but we can’ll
resist inscribing to him this little stanza
Yow humour seams so very thin,
Your wit, too, is so skinny,;
That if you ever publish, Pyn,
Why, publish at a Pynny.
• « •
What it is now. “Mias So-and-So was pre-
sented at the drawing-room by the Duchess of Putney,
bridge. Our fair countrywoman wore a magnificent
tiara of diamonds,” &c. What it used to be. “ Here,
•ome on, boss, and wash the kids while I run over to
Long Sarah’s tent and borrow a couple of pounds of
fleur and a pinch of soda.”
• • •
Supporting himself with the utmost difficulty,
he rang the bell of his residence, and on the door being
opened fell into the hall. There he lay groaning.
“ What 1” cried his wife, “ my Bonald come home at
half-past twelve at night with a black eye, all his teeth
loose, and a contused forehead. What have you been
doing, husband, tell me P" The reply came in a faint
voice. “ I offered a night cabman his legal fare.”
• • •
Largan, Laycock licked, and Pearce:
Layoock then was licked by both :
Now, he’s gruelled, it appears,
Boyd the champion of the North.
But, we should like to know you, you know,
If Boyd can Largan lick or no, -
For if he can, then white is black.
And anyhow—but there!—we’re “Jack."
• • •
Prince Leopold is married. VIvat regina, and
several things. The Duke was very queer on the morn-
ing of the ceremony, but he wouldn’t postpone it. His
equerry when fixing up the gallant Colonel’s uniform
in the vestry whore the port wine and plum-cake were
said: “ Have you got your galvanic chain band on,
and your knee-cap, and your ankle support, and are the
ankle-splints and chest-pads in their right places?
Good. Now, if your Eoyal Highness’ porous plaster
sticks well in your back, the glove keeps your thumb
n its socket, and you’ve got the pills and tonic for the
ourney, I think we may begin the eeremony." The
Boyal Colonel] was then propped up to the altar and
hitched.
• • •
We’ve this minute got this. Ah elderly lady
who had just come out of limbo accosted a clergyman
in the street, the other day, and implored assistance.
Do you drink ?" asked the clergyman in a low tone.
“ Bather,” was the reply; “ where shall we go ?” The
parson looked stealthily round, and, drawing his purse
from his pocket, said: ” Always tell the truth, and
people will respect yon. Go over the way and get half,
o-orown’s worth. And, ahem I in two separate flasks.”
And that good parson went round the corner and
waited under a shady tree. . . . His belief in his
knowledge of human nature is much shaken.
• e •
Hurrah! Tip-cat’s in. It’s a most amusing
game, and this is how it’s played. A boy saws about
five inches off his mother’s broom-handle, sneaks the
washhouse copper-stick, and he is set up. l5e then
cemes and plays right in front of our windows. It is
not a difficult game to play at. All you have to do is
to tip the cat up, and then slog at it madly with the
copper-stick. If it goes through a window, that counts
one, but if it only knocks a lady's eye out you have to
■tart again. As in those round games we used to
buy for a shilling, “any number can play.” Thus,
when one performer has broken a pane or two, he is
invariably joined by half-a-soore of still more demoniac
tip-catters who bang away by the hour with nndimin-
ished energy. Having been rather busy this week, we
have not been enabled to get an entire fir,-out yet. All
we possess at present is tho stick. The first player we
catch near our premises will do for tho cat.
• • •
"Three thousand costs," he murmured in
His most uneasy sleep;
“ My appetite, also, is gone:
At dinner, I felt so forlorn—
I but picked half a sheep.”
• • •
There was a Chinese funeral at Tnmut, the other
day. The local paper says “ the rites enjoined by Chinese
custom on such occasion were all duly observed; ” and
what we consider to be Tumutch is that they Adelong
notice. The ceremony, we|believe, was mast impressive.
So much so, indeed, that while it lasted those who lived
in the vicinity of the cemetery were divided in opinion
as to whether the Circus had got drunk or the Eussiars
had landed. The rites, we may remark, consisted of
tom-toms, crackers, [and curried fowl •• got” from tho
white trash.
» • •
Scene, Melbourne. Time, 12 p.m. Policeman
in Victoria Parade to passing pedestrian : “ Fine night,
■ir.” Pedestrian: “ Constable, I am an old man. Take
my money, but spare my life.”
• * •
Football is an awfully jolly game. Especially in
the rain. We saw a few minutes of it on Saturday, and
were much impressed. Both our men and the Geo-
longers looked lovely when they began : and so did the
The great idea seems to bo that while two cr
three are fighting for the ball, all the rest keep on push-
ing each ether down in the mud. Our men seemed to
have a good deal more to do with tho mud than the ball,
and were toppled over like ninepins by the Gaelongers
nail directions. It seemed very simple. Tho visitors
■imply had to spill our crowd in tho slu«h, and tick the
ball over their goal or behind it. They did this twoaty-
fonr times, and then went back to Eainford’s covered
with mud and glory. Football is a very nice game ; but
it is eminently one adapted to large minds. When
cut's grow big enough to appreciate being rolled about
on the wet grass in the pouring rain, while a dozen or
so of madmen are fighting to kick a greasy ball between
two olothes-props, we shall join a football club. Up to
the present, we have found quite excitement enough in
being members of a Dorcas Society.
- » .
Up at Liverpool, last week, Mr. A. H. M‘Cul-
loch, M.L.A., told his constituents that a land shark
had taken five old men out of the Parramatta Benevo-
lent Asylum, and sent them np to Walgett by coach to
select on a run at Pocketaroo, and that, if these old
men “ succumbed to the weather,” perhaps the squatter
could hold the selections without residence, if wills
were made in his favour. Awake, O Muse !
The fashions. —What a male voice was heard to
say through an open window in William-ctreet, “ Look
here, Mariar; if you don’t get me a pint of beer, I’m
hanged if I button up the back of your dress." He got
the pint.
• • •
“ You must ,go back to Canada next week,
Louise,” said her Majesty last month. “Don’t want
to 1” pouted the Marchioness of Lome. “ What do I
hear ‘ don’t want to 1’ ” exclaimed Victoria B. “ She
didn’t say, * don’t want to 1* but * Toronto,’ ” said the
Princess Beatrice, chipping in. •* Oh, that indeed,"
said Her Majesty, patting her favourite daughter on the
head with a fire-shovel. “ Then, as harmony once more
reigns, let the ginger-cordial and abemethios appear.’’
It is not impossible, now that everybody is being pre’
sented at Court, that we shall make these little fashion
able items a speciality. That is, if our London man
continues to send them along.
The poor old Pope’s been having a poor time of
it lately. It is not sufficient that he should have been
persistently abused in the Protestant Standard (which
is in itself a crasher), bat other misfortunes have be-
f illen the Sovereign Pontiff. Not only do the cardinals
continually borrow his kerosene and persistently steal
the wood out of his yard, but if any admirer in the
country districts sends the old boy a trunkful of old
stock, or a few dozen doubtful pines, it's always six to
four he doesn’t get them. It was but the other day that
the Duchess of Madrid (Dun Carlos’s wifay) sent him a
magnificent cape embroidered by herself. Yet when
the box arrived at the Vatican, it was found to contain
only rabbit-skins and old copies of the Town and
Country Journal Loo blames the cardinals, the car-
dinals blame the brigands, and the brigands blame the
customs. And all this time his Holiness laments the
loss of his garment in a strain of poetic sadness which
rivals the most pathetic pieces, even of Chubb.
• • *
Upjohn, the hangman of Victoria, is of a social
disposition. He rides about in 'buses, and converses
pleasantly with the passengers; but, strange to say,
there seems to be a general objection in Melbourne
amongst the insides to discuss the political situation
with him. His language, it is alleged (by his enemies,
| doubtless), is more “forcible than polite.” It is also
j hinted that when contradicted he becomes ropeable,
I and refuses to “ drop" to any hint that his company is
I not required. Upjohn is described as being a very
I “ self-o-pinion-’ated" man—which, after all, is natural.
I Politically, he is a supporter of Berry. But his views
I are described by those who best know him in Coburg
I as deing decidedly cat-achrestical. Polled individually,
the inhabitants of this pleasant Melbourne suburb are
decidedly against this local Upjohn.
A man with the alias “ I’m on the rocky road to
Dublin’’ was brought up at the Newcastle Police Court
the other day. His alias proved singularly prophetic.
He is now on a heap o( blue metal,
• » •
A Queensland paper has a paragraph to the
effect that certain Inspectors, having finished their
work in that town, “ returned below yesterday
morning.” This is a cautious kind of journalism for
you. I; is a household word known up there that the
devil has a lien on all papers north of the Capricorn,
Down here he is half proprietor of several. The Church
owns the other half.
* * *
The commission now visiting the Aboriginal
Mission Station at Warrangesdaand Malogafind nearly
all the children to be half-caste I”—Evening Tragedy.
w
It is a peculiar thing that bush missionaries can
scoop as much [money as they please—or nearly—for
the conversion of the blaok heathen while not even the
most exemplary Christian will advance them a dimo for
the conversion of the heathen of Sussex-straet. Per-
haps this is because the Snssex-street heathen will not
hearken .to them. No man is a prophet in his own
street.
• • •
A Rockhampton solicitor was summoned the
other day for driving his horse at a *• fast trot'* over
the local bridge. It appears that one of the duties of
the Mayor and councillors is to take turns in standing
under the stately edifice to hold it up when vehicles
are passing over. It happened to be the Mayor’s turn
this time, and the solicitor, wanting to crush him with
the weight,took with him in his buggy|a copy of Chubb’s
poems. The bridge broke down and they are now dig.
ging for the Mayor in the river-bed.
• • •
The station-master at Parramatta is a party by
the name of Thompson, and ho recently produced a piece
at the Queen’s Theatre called “ The Telephone.” It
was the funniest performance ever seen in Sydney since
Lottie Wilmot played j uvenile lead at the Royal. When-
ever the piece is mentioned, Mr. Thomson first wipes
the foam off his lips with the nearest porter’s ocat-cuff,
and then shows you the little hatchet he keeps rolled
up in a jersay within a drawer of his writing-table.
Then he will tell you, in au agonised whisper, how
Johnny O’Neil used the pipes like eating-house tubes,
and shrieked for “hash" {.instead of listening for
developments. How, in his part, he spi ke some of the
“ Shanghrauu," a little of the First Gravedigger, did
the best business of the Policeman, and ended by con.
vulaiug everybody but the author. The audience, the
author describes as dense. Only just before the curtain
went up, a party next him asked his girl what a tele-
phone was, and she told him it was “ a kind of camel."
Altogether, Mr. T. has decided to write no more farces.
He is going to desert Momus for Melpomene, when
doubtless he will find it handy to take all the best things
out of his comedy, and put them into his tragedy. The
author’s new effort should not anyway be devoid of
points. A man in his station in life should always have
plenty of those. Eh ?
• • •
“ At the Mayor’s luneheon on the 4th of July,
Dan. O’Connor (there being no Americans present) re-
turned thanks en their behalf. . . . There was no
reporter present.”
A country paper published a reeking paragraph,
the other day, about the astounding feats that were
performed by a cirous showing in the town. There was
only one thing wrong about the paragraph. The cirous
never performed. But, as the editor has to eke out a
living by collecting wallaby-scalps in the intervals of
his literary labour, it is unreasonable to expect him to
tramp into town to verify every statement that is made
to him in the bush. The circus, at any rate, did pass
through the town. It consisted of three piebald horses,
two of them wall-eyed through constant squinting across
the ring to find out how much money there was in the
house, and the other stone-blind and nameless with age
I an( * sorrow. There were also a pony and a sick monkey.
They all looked very despondent. They had been on
half-feed for some time. The “ clever pig ” died jnst as
they entered the town. That was the reason the circus
conldn t show. Here, however, is where the ghastly
part of the affair comes in. A leading Justice of the
Peace was missing next day. We don't pretend to be
able to inform a mourning public what has become of
him. But we have heard it whispered that he has been
se.en in various places touring round with that very
circus, answering questions and playing “ seven-up.”
On the bills he was called “ The Clever Pig; ” and
those who saw him say that he never looked so nature ,
in his life before.
* * #
A correspondent sends ns a parody which he
calls 11 Froth or Foam." It is not exactly bad,butitia
cadaverously indifferent. We have always noticed that
poets never write parodies as well as when they sit
down with the honest intention to let themselves out
in the grand serieux. Here is a little advice to our cor*
respondent, couched in unassuming doggerel.
When your head grows headstrong
With song, just go and churn it
Bird of the burning song !
We've had to burn it.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Eeoent boarding house statistics lead to the con-
clusion that butter was invented by Mr. Strong, of
ancient Greece.
“ The world is round. Now what round thing
do we live on ?” asked the pedagogue. “ Spuds.” re-
plied the best boy.
Clergyman, who has caught a boy stealing:
“ Don’t you know that the devil gets naughty little
boys?” Boy I know it now.”
“ I don’t know whether there isn’t something in
Christianity after all,” remarked a starving Jewish
sailor as he stove in the end of a barrel of pork.
The Englishman enjoys fox-hunting more than
any other kind of work. He has a horse to carry him,
and a dog to do tho smelling, and a servant to kill and
skin the fox.
The husband of a WoollooAooloo woman was
recently threatened with typhoid, and she couldn’t
have worried more over him if he had been a clean
table-cloth with a smooch of raspberry jam in the
middle.
A shoemaker was taken up for bigamy and
brought before the sitting magistiate. “ Which wife,”
asked a bystander, “ will ne be obliged to take ?” Brown,
always ready at a joke, replied, “He is a cobbler, and.
of course must stick to his last.”
Present. A narrow road, with twining
branches bowered; a pair of lovers whispering in the
shade; a sigh, a blush, a loftly whispered “yes,” a
kiss, and thus the old, old contract’s made.
Ten Years After —Three pairs of toeless boots
require renewing; three boys are waiting for the happy
chance, that dad can buy another pair of breeches
(his old ones going to the boys for pants); a grocer's
bill to meet, the winter’s fuel, rent day next week, and
school book sto be had; the problem how to make one
dollar fifty, for ever pressing on the happy dad.
Twelve Years Later. —Three lovers o’er three
maidens softly bending; six hearts that beat as three
will never sever; the same old problems looming in the
distance—and thus the merry world goes on for ever.
Old Jimmy Jumbuck ’as made ’is 'eap. T’other
day his wife passed along in her “kerridge” resplen-
dency arrayed in silks and velvets. Jimmy was on the
footpath with a knot of membahs and such-like cattle.
“Ah,” said Jimmy, proudly, “ There goes mv Sal with
fortyjbullocks on 'er back.”
A very well-to-do but stingy shopkeeper in a
country town was talking with a friend of his in the
shop, when a poor woman entered, and asked for help,
bat,|to,avoid giving her anything, the shopkeeper turned
round, and. pointing to his friend, said, “This is the
master.” whereupon his friend said, “ Certainly; clerk,
give this poor woman a shilling cut of the till.’’
He had been gazing on the wine until there was
no more left to gaze upon, and he arrived at his own
castle gate by the last Waverley tram There was a
(female) spectre on the stairs. Seeing which, he pulled
up his collar, and remarked: “ Sholl ri’, Shusin, shorry
I'm late, but couldn't (hie) get car ’lore.” “ Oh,
then,” replied she, angelically, “ the ct-rs were full, too,
were they ? I wonder what they drank ?”
Mabel is Sitting at the Piano, and she is Singing
a Song. The Song says He is Waiting for Her in the
Gloaming. Mabel appears to be giving herself Dead
Away. He is Not Waiting for Her in the Gloaming at
all. He has just been Dealt a Shocking Bad Hand, and
he Wonders whether he had Better betaken Bad him-
self sudden. Mabel Would Touch an Answering Chord
in his Bosom if she were to sing, “ Take Back the Hand
which thou G a vest,”
They went for the purpose of ceasing to be two
and becoming one, and the clergyman commenced:
*' Man that is born of woman has but a short time to
live and is full of trouble.” The bridegroom here in-
terrupted him with, ” Sir, we are here to be married,
not to be buried." “Well,” answered the clergyman,
with a sigh, as he turned over the pages for the other
service, “if you insist upon it, I will marry you; but
believe me, you had much better be buried.” But this
wasn’t the Eev. Dr. Fullerton.
Writes a youthful poet;—
The evening for her bath of dew
Is partially undressed.
The sun behind a bob-tail flush
Is setting in the west.
The planets light the heavens with
The flash of their cigars.
The sky has put its night-shirt on
And buttoned it with stars.
v • •
He was sweet on the girl, and asked for her
photo, but only got her negative Prisoner - “Do
you think I shall get an honest verdict ?’’ His counsel-
“ No, for unless I am very much mistaken, I see two
men on the jury who object to hanging.” .. “There I
that explains where my clothes line went to i" exclaimed
an lowa woman, as she found her husband hanging in
the stable. A “brute of a husband” advertised in
the morning papers for a strong, able-bodied man to
hold his wife s tongue Say what you will against
narrow skirts, it is easier for a lady and gentleman to
walk under one umbrella than it used to be Patrick
~ . ®P rla !! say s Shakespeare wrote several Irish p 7 ava
-O Thello, Corry O’Lanus. Mike Beth. Kathrine and
Pat Euchio Jumbo takes a bottle of whisky and
ten lemons as an “eye-opener." It is to be hoped that
Jumbo squashes" will not come into fashion
" Y f. ur fac ® Powder is perfect, and for the future I
shall use nothing else," writes an actress to an apothe-
oary. Her wants are few The man who s*ed the
Emerald Hill (Vie.) Corporation for damages, caused by
his having fallen over a street obstruction, was beaten
He d broken his nose, so the jury evidently thought his
looks had improved The beet way to make hens lay
m this winter weather is to post np in the fewlhonse a
notice that eggs are going down 3d. a dozen every day
One year ago a needle entered the wrist of a young
lady, and the other day it was removed from the right
arm o£ the fellow who is her steady comp’ny The
reason elderly spinsters like parrots, is that they have
no man about the house, and they want something
around that can swear.. .Pro means ” for.” Parliament
is sometimes prorogued. Parliament is for rogues only.
A SQUATTING IDYLL.
In the town of Parramatta-
Far-famed haunt of Evening Fekgt,
Nursery of luscious orange.
Town of gambols and of gambles.
Shrine of dark, forbidding prison—
In that town, there lingered sadly
In Benevolent Asylum.
Five white-bearded, pauper cripples.
Stiff and bent and seamed and wrinkled,
With no thought for aught around them,
Save the passing warmth of sunshine,
And a chronic crave for bacca.
Them, espied a foxy stranger—
Ho, the Land Shark, Dummy Bummer,
Cunning, wriggling schemer, up to
All the wrinkles of the Land Act;
They, decrepid, poor, and hopeless.
Spake he unto them and tempted.
Tempted them with rum and bacoa.
Not a semblance of his cunning
Let itself into his bearing.
Like an angel form appeared ho,
Angel, moved by love and pity,
Angel, loaded with tobacco.
And the hoary-headed paupers
Mumbled welcome in their patois.
Listened eager to his message.
Drank his rum and took his bacca.
Then the dust of Parramatta
These five shook from off tbeir sandals,
Going forth with Dummy Bummer.
Full are five white-bcaided paupers,
Soaked with rum and drugged with bacca.
New life opens out before them.
Short but merry in its tenor.
Chuckling gleefully, they listen
To the words of Dummy Bummer,
And the trembling, aged fingers,
Sign the crisp and crackling parchment
Which shall make them land-selectors,
Seat them under vines and figtrees,
Line their kicks with endless bacoa,
Cheat the State of land for tillage,
In that legal form and manner
Sir John Bobertson determined.
Yet another parehment signed they.
Ere the pen forsook their fingers.
All such tillage land bequeathing
To the Land Shark, Dummy Bnmmer.
Harnessed are the cobs of Cobbo,
Beady is the coach for Walgett;
Forth upon their last earth-journey
Go these Parramatta seniles—
To their run at Pocketaroo,
To their slab-huts and selections.
To their salt-horse and their damper.
Washed down with the rum of commerce.
Post-incensed with clouds of baoca.
Thus the Parramatta legend;
How four dolts and Dummy Bummer
Saved a squatter from destruction,
By their legal enterprising
Under Sir John’s famous measure.
At Temora small Bailey has drawn in his horns.
To call Wehr hard names he appparontly scorns;
While Wehr no more gives B. a Saturday blister.
But writes of him pars, with the prefix of “ Mister.”
Now, wo’re not behind, in this matter, the scenes.
So wonder what all this nice “ marmalade" means.
Can it be that Bailey now stands in dread fear
Of the fist or the boot of bold warrior Wehr ?
Or can it (we ask this all smiling and gaily)
That Wehr is afraid of the bludgeon of Bailey f
O sweetest and fairest Parnassian muse.
Just whisper—was this brought about by—De Boos ?
WHAT SHE WANTED.
A little maid with dark brown hair,
Eeolining on a door-step low;
A faee Madonna-like—so fair.
All lit np bj the sunset’s glow.
Of human flowers a lovely bud ;
Yet she was playing with bricks and mud.
“Good-day, thou lightsome.little fay,”
We said, “ Thou hast a face so sweet.
It is a shame to see thee play
With mud and bricks in Snssex-street.
Choose from our store thou pretty fairy"—
Then deep in thought was little Mary.
The wintry sun gleamed bold and bright.
And turned to gold the grey-blue skies;
And at the flood of heav’nly light
The fair child raised her deep blue eyes.
Then said she, with an airy laugh—
“ I think I’ll take a porter-gaff."
What libel’s] this,! explain 0 Qribble,
That perpetrates the Evening Ogbe?
It teems that there’s the very dibble.
To pay, old fellow, at Maloga.
We learned that shootin’, and that flshin
Mixed np with rum and prayers hearty,
All tended, Gribble, at thy mission,
To holy make the nigger party.
But thy Eeport forgot to mention
(Now just forgive a little chaff.
We know it was without intention,)
That all the kids were half-and-half.
We did not, on our honour, mean
To use another “ Patience ” gag, Dan;
But this time yon are " crushed 11 we mean.
Not being in a single rag, Dan
You must have made a sorry blunder
Not to have squared one rag, by thunder /
Why, you’re n»t sharp enough by half
(Oh, could the world that "pitch" have won it !)
Why not have tried the ITelegeapa
Why Dan, a saveloy’d have done it!
Or say, at most—oh, how you’ll rue it I—
"A small leg and a pound of suet."
Of that oration we have heard.
How all thy periods photogenic
Lit np (so tells a little bird)
That brilliant harrangne. Demosthenic
We’ve heard, and wept; for, who’d have thought it,
That “ pitch ” has never been reported!


BRIEF MENTION.
A Nobel invention—Dynamite.
A barrel organ—The Licensed- Victuallers’
Gazette.
Why u the member tor Gnndagai bound to
speak against the present Ministry P—Because he’s
foroed-ter.
The squatter’s eighth commandment: —“ Thou
shalt net steal, except in so far as is necessary against
theland shark."
Ever since a Dock presided at a Parkes banquet,
Sir’Bury always says “’is Grace” before and after meals,
and practices Eorl-y habits.
“ What is this man charged with ? ” asked Mr.
Crane, P.M., the other day. “ With dhrink, sor," re-
plied the sententious policeman.
In a country paper’s description of a certain
Station, this passage occurred :—“ Two splendid horses
built of red brick, with water laid on."
Scholars are agreed that tho most brilliant
Hebrew in Europe is the Jew who recently was soaked
in kerosene and set on fire by the Russians.
“ Gone to Hay ; return week,” wrote a well-
known gentleman on his office card. “ Gone to grass •
return strong," is what a wag has substituted. ’
A leader recently appeared in the Dubbo Dis-
patch, the length of which was 360 odd lines.
Ohlorodyne is now for sale there at London prioea.
That Townsville policeman who recently ar-
rested an unfortunate man for having got drunk on his
wedding day almost deserves to be married himself.
“ Why have not M’Beath, Garrett, and Lucas
been nominated for C.M.G. ?" asks a correspondent.
How should we know ? Very likely they have been.
“ Stand back from the body—he was a good
father to me," remarked William Jones, as ho went
through the corpse’s pockets in Sassex-etreet. Six
months without the hoption.
A Sydney man who recently got married writes
ns that ere the honeymoon was passed he got by post
no less than seven circulars from “Widows’ Fund"
and other Life Assurance Offices.
At the return ball to tho Mayor of Petersham,
the band played ** God Save the Qneen ” on the arrival
of his Worship. This heats Cobb of Carooar’s response
to the toast of her Majesty’s health.
A. M. Hutchinson, photographer, of Orange,
baa discovered a euro for drunkenness. Since this,
nearly all the town have had their photographs taken,
of course not for a moment thinking . . .
‘‘Where are you gom’ to, Billy?” asked one
little fellow of another. “To hell for all eternity,”
was the awfully solemn response. Such is the use the
rising generation make of poor old “Butler’s Cat."
One Melbourne physician has challenged another
to cure as many patients suffering from acute diseases,
with alcohol as he can without it. For ourselves we
would prefer to die under the treatment of “ the other
doctor.”
This is for our Victorian readers. Signor Schia-
parelli, director of the Milan Royal Observatory, has
discovered that there are “oanawls" on the planet
Mars. May we not, therefore, assume that there are
also M'Colls P
Alderman Richardson, of Parramatta, has re-
tired from the proprietorship of the Cumberland
Independent. His partner now advertises that he is
the sole boss, and scores one. That, of conrse. is one
for his Nobbs.
A waiting room for tram passengers is to be
appropriately built next to the undertaker’s in Hunter-
street. And to show the jealous care of the Govern-
ment, they actually took the coroner with them to open
the line to Hay.
In Rockhampton, two-thirds of the people
stammer. This reminds us of a story we once heard of
two men who stuttered. One said to the other:—
“ P-p-p-eter, why d-d-ont you g-g-o to Doctor B-b-b.
rown; he c-c-ured me P"
Thus the Adelaide Observer of 13th May -.
—“Frank Reynolds, the well-known sire of Kelpie,
died at Tocal on Saturday, at the advanced age of 27
years.” As soon as Frank Reynolds sees this he’ll gat
down the sabre of his sire or the meat-axe.
In the Police Court. P.C.: “He was very
drunk, your Worship." S.M.: “ Fined five shillings.
How much had he on him?” P.C.: "£l2, your
Worship." S.M.: “ And was that money brought to the
station?” P.C.: “Yes, your Worship." Sensation in
Court.
Sirenree has put a ,£3OO bed with a .820 pillow,
in the main stateroom of the Treasury. When he comes
back, he’ll probably bring a lotmore fixings on the same
scale. Everything about the room, except the boss,
will then be of the most valuable material that can be
obtained.
At Traralgon, Qippsland, one George Hearder,
a baker, shot himself in the stomach with suicidal in-
tent, but the stomach, accustomed to his pie-crust,
qoietly digested the bullet (that’s the only possible
explanation) and amiled. George is now looking for a
pile-driver.
Dr. Eenwiok, on the occasion of a recent
Sydney hospital meeting, said that “ there was such a
large number of members of Parliament oa the board
that the Colonial Secretary would, no doubt, in his
wisdom, see that it was a proper thing to assist the
institution.” Ahem 1
A “ drunk,” named Garrett, was found by the
Melbourne police lying in the gutter, and trying to
drink the water. He was cruelly prevented. He was
suffering from alcoholic poisoning, and no donbt con-
sidered the gutter-water an improvement upon the sort
of grog he had been drinking.
Giving a man of cloudy character a decoration
or a distinction is like covering a damp wall with a
handsome papering. The blotches are bound to show
through. And ultimately, while the dampness will not
be concealed, the paper will be ruined. Ob, C.M.G.,
Esq.! Oh, Honorable Mr. Pnddock!
The other day, a Rockhampton chemist bought
a small mob of “ steers.” During an interview with
his bank manager, a few hours subsequently, he (the
chemist), speaking ef the cattle, said, “ They are fine
animals, and will make splendid breeders; in fact, I
believe some of them are in calf now."
The lodgers in—say Blank-street —Darling-
hurst, don’t miss the 9 o’clock gnu during the absence
of the Commodore. They always set their watches by
the report of the kiss given by the barmaid to that
chap who slinks out at tho back every night at 11.30.
Not even the bribe of a C.M.G-ship would induce us to
say which bank he’s in.
The newly-appointed Librarian of a School of
Arts in N.Q. was “ had ’* the other day. A wag sent
him a note asking for the following book:—“ The His-
tory of the World before the Creation." Some of the
books not having been catalogued, the “ victim ” began
a search through his stock, and it was not till after a
two-hours’ hunt that he discovered he had been
“ sold."
The man in blue accused her of that very elastic
effenco entitled “ insulting behaviour, in Queen-street,
Brisbane;’’ aud the beak asked what it was that she had
done. The constable said that as be was walking
Peaceably along the footpath an ngly-looking woman
“ opened about seven inches of mouth and yelled at
bim just as if she belonged to the Salvation Army.”
Dismissed, with a sigh!
When a Brisbane constable on the Albert-street
“bate" (noir), hears a once feminine voice shrieking
out “ holy murdherl" and ending with “P’leeo*!” on
the top note, he moves himself off, momrnfully shakes
his head and observes, “’Tilda’s sayin’ her prayers
agin. She’ll soon be singin’ * I’ll be all smiles to-night,
me love 1’ and in the mornin’ they'll be askin' where I
Was when I was wonted. Let ’em 1"
The Pope nominated Cardinal Howard, the
English ex-Life-guardsmau, to represent the Vatican at
the obsequ—wo mean, the coronation, of the Czar.
When Howard heard of his luck, he at first crawled
Hnderjthe bed, and said he’d see Leo further first. Why
didn’t the Pope go himself if he thought the affair was
to a lark? Subsequently, His Eminence
calmed down, and consented to go, merely grumbling
that, although he had alwaysjbeea ready to mount to
Heaven, he’d have preferred to arrive in fewer pieces
that now seemed likely. He didn't want to have Bt.
Peter troubled to flatter round scooping up toe nails
and examining the false teeth embedded in the Golden
Gate by the force of the explosion in order to Identify
the remains of a Howard and a Cardinal, prior to
admission.
Th o Government, nay the country, is trembling.
» vi w hiBpered that Mr. Lucas has threatened, in view
of his failure to get the amount of compensation he de-
manded, to withdraw all his sons from the civil service.
Should he do this the only way to meet such a catas-
trophe would be for the Agent-General to lay on two
large ships immediately full up of single young men,
eligible for Government appointments.
A Brisbane Civil servant wrestled with a bicycle
ontside the Drumhead department. The bicycle scored
the first fall. He gathered his fragments up, swore his
mg was broken, and was conveyed home on a stretcher.
He limped to the effloe next morning, and obtained a
fortnight’s sick leave. An hour afterwards he won a
100-yards’ foot-race for a bottle of flz, and is now
doing" Sydney. Yet, Brisbane has no Milner
Stephens.
It came out recently in Court that there is, in
one of the Southern districts, a young man whose re-
lotionship to himself is of rather a novel character. If
the sworn statements made be true, he is the son of his
own grandfather, and, consequently, brother to his own
mother. If not his own father, he must be bis own
uncle, and he is at one and the same time brother and
nephew to his brothers and sisters, while he is uncle
and cousin to his nudes' and aunts’ children I
There is a journal in Melbourne styled Satur-
day Nioht, which lately published a poem, "Work-
men’s Wooing," by an author who modestly veils his
identity under the initials I.D.S. Now, “ Workmen’s
Wooing" happens to be by Mr. John Plummer, who is
indignant at the piracy. So are we too, and disgusted
also. Saturday Night seems to he not only a thief, but
a mean thief. Your gallant literary Claude Duval only
robs the rich. But Saturday Night not only steals
from a poet, but from a poor poet t
In Verona, if wo are to credit the immortal
William, people used to bite their thumbs. In Victoria,
they kiss them. In the Melbonrne police courts, it is
said that a man is told off to see tbs people don’t kiss
their thumbs instead of the eightpenny Bibles. The
old female gammers of the Victorian metropolis have
an idea that when they don’t kiss the book they cau
say anything. The same notion appears to prevail in
licensing-oase witnesses here when they do kiss the
Book.
A squatter of tho old school, near Wagga, gave
a party the other day; but songs of the “ Blue Alsa-
tian ’’ order did not meet his primitive tastes, so, turn,
ing to a rising young postor&list (once his boundary
rider), ha broke out: “ Eternally condemn these yere
sent-ment songs, Ned. You give us 'Bobbers of the
Gion,’ or ‘ M'Caughey is a coloured man,’ something
wot all can jine in the chorus." Ned obliged, while the
ladies studied the pattern of the carpet, and relieved
their feelings by discreet little coughs.
A little Omeo boy, gave, says the Campbell-
town Herald, one, Mr. M. J. Keogh a pen. Nosooner
does he get the pen than his nibs iafliots a poem on
the donor. Here is one of the sixteen cripples .
“ Be bold and fearless, when you speak of God,
And all things holy keep yeu clear in view.
Heed not the scoffer, who but makes a rod
To flog himself and cannot harm you.”
The next time the boy lavishes anything on Mr. Keogh
we advise him to have half-soled the shoes of his poetic
eet.
Mr. Wilkins, the amiable Secretary of the Edu-
cation Department, will no doubt be charmed to heir
that there lives, not far from Wollongong, a public
school teacher, who, in public documents, writes “ It’s
is’n ** for “ it’s his ;" “ don’t loss it" for “ don’t lose
it;” spells vicinity “vacclnity,” and writes forbear
“forb&rc.” However, the department which, in Ita
examination papers gives as arithmetical questions
problems which, according to Professor Gurney, can
only be done algebraically, can afford to overlook such
trifles.
Lively times in tho Polemical Show business
just now. The Rev Joseph Cook drawing like a patent
lever forceps, at 3s. 2a. and is. Thus, for a bob, one can
have all one’s doubts resolved—in tho back benches,
but if one wants one’s orthodoxy confirmed in the re-
served seats, it will cost three shillings-worth of demon-
stration. Tho present stir will be welcomed in all
directions. Somebody is certain to run an opposition
show in the Victoria Hall and make a scoop at million
prices in proving Joseph to ba all wrong. Opposition is
the soul of trade.
Taroufcta is said to be a rich mining district.
Two men who were “short of means " told the Tamnt
editor this. The writer knows these two men. He
was down at Tarcatta attending a coroner’s inquest on
a man who had gone mad with joy and shot himself,
because he had got, after seven months’ work, five and
a-half grains of gold out of nineteen tons of washdirt.
These two men were on the spot. They went off in the
night with the corpse’s “ billy ” and the writer’s horse.
Tarontta may be a very rich mining district, but all
depends upon how you mine.
At a Rockhampton ball to the officers and crew
of the Egmcnt, a couple of larrikins threw an egg at a
French flag which helped to decorate the hall We
have no information as to how two lads managed to
throw one egg, but it is clear they did, for the P.M.
fined them each £2 10a., with 15s. for damage, 10s. 6d.
professional costs, and 4s. 6d. costs of court. The
defendants said it was only their little yoke, but the
P.M. was determined that the French flag should not
be shelled while under his jurisdiction, nor be sub-
jected to the indignity of a foreign yoke.
He was a town tramp. The rags on his free-
citizen form proclaimed his poverty. There was a
million horse newer of undeveloped work in his patriotic
bosom. Still he was not too proud to beg. He strolled
into a chemist’s shop, and asked for sixpence with
which to get a meal. The chemist proffered him a
ticket for the soup-kitchen. “No soup-kitchen for this
free-born native colonial,” was the haughty response ;
“ Gimme a tenner.” The chemist still refused. “ Well,
then," urged the tramp, “ if yer won’t gimme a tanner,
gimme some scent to put on my handkercher.”
In one of tho colonies—we won’t say which—
there is a civil engineer who has a big finger in the pie
of railway extension. Curiously enough, he now in-
variably benefits by untbought-of coincidences. In
this way. It is resolved to connect, say, Humbleton
with the metropolis. No one knows exactly whereabouts
in Humbleton the connection will be made. Before
this is decided, our engineer finds himself the possessor
of a section of land near Humbleton. This curious
coincidence follows. The railway always stops on this
section, and a site for a station is fixed there. Then
our engineer, glad to benefit by the circumstance, sells
the section at, to put it mildly, a thousand per cent,
profit. Meubahs who are civil to him also have aha bit
of getting lucky windfalls, to®.
He was a Ballarat volunteer. She was a ditto
belle. “ And can you hit a haystack, Edward P” she
asked. His proud bosom heaved. “ Mariar," said he.
“thou shalt witness my skill. Seest thou yon barn-
door? It, will I shatter.” He raised the weapon to
his shoulder; he shut his left eye; he screwed the left
corner of his mouth under his ear; and he fired.
Bang! When the smoke cleared away, there was a
“dead dorg” under the verandah of an East Ballarat
public house, about three degrees to the west of the
barn-door. That shot cost Edward £l2—and Mariar.
An old man was recently found dead down
South, having been left for three days in the sun. At
last, a trooper was ordered to take the corpse to the
dead-house ; and, in removing it, discovered £5 11s. sd,
in one of the pockets. Half an hour later, a person in
black called round, and enquired of the constable what
style of funeral he thought would be most soothing to
the feelings of the poor old gentleman’s relations. He
got a pine 6-footer, and a tip-cart feebly disguised with
a coat of coal tar, and the bill was just £5 11. As no
especial item was taken exception to by the corpse, we
suppose we have no reason to find fault either.
That eminent legislator, whose private address
is Macquarie-street.and who has,we regret to bear, been
very unwell lately, attributes his indisposition to having
taken tea d la Rusm, without milk aud with a slice of
lemen floating in the cup. Since then he has taken 6
bottles of ohlorodyne, I* of chalk-mixture, 4 of Pain-
killer, 3 of Mother Thingummy’s syrup: and he has
also swallowed a bmshel of starch, and drunk a gallon
of port wine and brandy. As soon as he's well enough
to write or dictate, he'll advertise for a cure for the
colic, and it is the opinion of his relations that he must
either have got hold of the wrong tea or the wrong
lemon.
“ I have waded through the mysteries of Trans-
cendentalism, and sounded tbo depths of Spencerism
and atheism. I have threaded the mazy labyrinths of
theology in general, aud tracked Swedenborg through
seven heavensjjand two hells. I have lectured in Lon-
don, studied German rationalism in Heidelberg, and
sent many an unerring shaft into the camp of materi-
alistio infidelity; but may Ibe Gehenua’d if a culti-
vated intellect is sufficient without inspiration to
undent and this track into a great city," murmured
Rev. Joseph Cook, as he stepped off the King-street
wharf, and clambered up the hill from our beautiful
harbour.
Now Mathematical definitions by several
eminent authors for use in New South Wales State
Schools:—What is an imaginary quantity P—A Darling
Harbour landowner's estimate. The differential cal-
culus P—The Government valuation of the same. An
integral quantity P—The verdict. An interminate
quantity ?—The amount out of which the State has
been diddled in the past. Infinity ?—The cheek of a
C.M.G. Involution P—Bankruptcy. Evolution ?—Dis-
honored bills and cheep feeds. An irrational quantity ?
—The D. T. An equation ?—Scratch my back and i’ll
scratch yours.
A minister now in a N.S.W. township was once
stationed in an up-country Queensland town. One day
he personally answered a knock at the door, and was
confronted by a pious eider, who said: “My prayer is
heard —the Lord hath sent thee personally to tbo door
in answer to my earnest supplication." And the elder
held out an accommodation bill for the parson to sign.
Tno minister said he would retire for a while, wrestle
in spirit, and enquire of his Master. The outcome was
not satisfactory, and the elder left calling upon the
Loard to send down all the plagues of Egypt upon his
pastor. He joined the Shakers next day.
He put it to Sir John Robertson neatly thus :
“ Sir,—l have the honour to notice that there are three
trains laid on for the Hay Railway Demonstration-
Parliamentary, Complimentary, and Public-Paying; or
in other words, Patriotic, Equitably Patriotic, and
Ultra-Patriotic. As I am only Equitably Patriotic, 1
shall bo unable to go by any other train, and if a ticket
is sent me, probably I may be able to sacrifice my time
upon the altar of my country to the extent required of
visiting Hay, and thus benefiting the district; also by
that means exhibiting similar Patriotism to the other
oomplimentarians.—l have the honour to be," &c.
“Tho Divinity that doth hedge a King” is
alleged by the Newcastle Herald to have “ caused the
discovery of the treacherous plot" to blow up the
Prince of Wales. Now as there was no such plot and
consequent no discovery was “caused," the Divinity
wasn’t in it this time, and the little slip illustrated the
necessity for caution when an inspired person feels dis-
posed to lug in tho Almighty. The Divine Bight
theorists bad best drop it. Their dogma has a douced
cutting doable edge. It is evident that this Divinity is
very particular about the exact rank and title of the
magnates He hedges, or else that He occasionally
“sleepeth, like Chemoth and such fabled deities."
Assassins have within the last five or six yearn scooped
in a Sultan, an Emperor, and a President. Is all the
Divine quiok-set reserved for “ Kings ’’ ?
Latest donations to the Australian Museum :
From John Davies, C.M.G. : A specimen of 00-agnlated
cow-juice or oleomargarine. From the Milburn Creek
Copper Co.: Their balance-sheet. From the Hon. John
Lucas, M.L.C.: A section of water-frontage, a model of
a wool store, and his word of honour. From the Aus-
trallan Club: Several fossilized mummies. From Sir
John Robertson: Boron Maclay’s monkey. From Sir
Henry Parkes: An essay on the “ Art of teaching
Grannie to suck eggs," or “ How England can learn
from tho Colonies." Prom the Rev. J. E. Tenison-
Woods: A revised edition on the Zoology of New South
Wales. From Bland Holt: One of the horses used in
“New Babylon," since dead. From the proprietors of
the Age, Melbourne; Copies of their own aud Bryant’s
signatures, and photo, of Hanlon’s tombstone. From
Sub-Inspector Lenthall; A small-pox pustule. From
Williamson, Garner, and Muagrove: Specimen of a
Pass for the Pit, after seven years use.
The Western Grazier devotes half a column
to a description of the habits of camels, on the authority
of Mr. J. W. Keys, who bosses two of those auimiles.
We handed the article to the son of a destitute C.M.G.,
now employed in our office, and this is what he gleans
from it:—“Camels is four-footed swagmen; they alius
Carries their Humps, He is a Beast of burden, and
Not a bird of Pray. Camels is differunt to lawyers;
they can only Lie down ; lawyers can lie (Ip and Down.
Camels cant kick,but splodges out Sideways with their
fourlegs, and Stamps upon the Perostraight bedy of
their Poos. The vital part of a Camel is the Soul of
the Fourfoot. Achilles was the first Parcel. Hence
the expression “ Twig ’er heel." Camels eats grass
sometimes, bat prefers herbs and Saltbush. Nebnchad-
nezzy was another camel, only he good on his belly for
a term. A Camel’s hump is soft; if 3 oat stick apm in
it there will be an earthquake. A camel will carry
5 owt. 20 miles in a day. Camels is Ugly, and alius has
the Mange."
Tho Cooma Express must be a power in the
State—of Cooma. It says :—“ The Court waited tor
the ‘Press’ on Wednesday, and the officers did not
forget to acquaint tho * Fourth Estate ’ of the important
fact.” In doing this, the Court showed great oourt-esy.
The fact was, the Fourth Estate’s time had been pretty
well taken up that morning. It was dark when he got
up, and he had to go and knock the shoemaker up in
the next'street to borrow his bellows. Then, while he
was sewing a trouaers-button on tho back of his shirt
with about two miles of pack thread, the blacksmith’s
cat crept in and stole his red herring. Then, when the
preas had boiled the willow twigs, and was just sliding
on the oleomargarine, a boy came running in to say that
the circus was at the four-mile. Gulping down Half a
loaf of bread and bolting the door, he saddled the
thirty-bob hair trunk aud sot out alter the ad., only to
find that no circus had been seen or heard of. So the
Fourth Estate was a bit late that morning, and when it
did arrive, could do nothing but curse the cat that had
stolen the red herring.
The crayfish that does the paragraphing for the
Kiama Independent has been writing on marriages
this time. We are glad to see the face of the Kiama
Independent at any time because it is clean. In other
words it is hyalinely blank. Poppy and mandragora are
foolish sedatives after one has once got hold of this
paper. Sentence follows sentence, paragraph paragraph,
m a procession of infinite emptiness, as cavern opens
into cavern in the Fish River Caves. One is lulled to
soft and peaceful sleep by the fancied sound, that steals
over him as he reads, of the hollow rumbling in the
writer's head us he dumped down each junk of
nothingness 11 The God of the burning torch and the
purple vest has not been idle of late " is the manner
in which ho opens out directly under the par. about
“ The Champion Pat Pig of the Season." The magnifi-
cent versatility of this gifted litterateur is lost in such
a place as Kiama Parramatta is the place for liim.
There he could employ his rare talents in writing
scathing articles for tho Evening Times, and chewing
up suet for the compositor's Sunday pudding. But
this “ God of the burning torch." How is that for a
style in which to writ© of marriage ? Euphuism!
Faugh! Sir William Lilly kicks in bis gray®.
IN COURT.
Why do I cry P
Six sons have I,
Well-read, refined, respected.
Their duty they
Fulfil each day.
What more can be expected P
On every hand.
See here they stand.
Doing their duty ? Bather !
They’ve come to see
How you treat me.
Their honest poor old father !
THE BABY.
9 P.M.
“ Don’t take the baby from my sight,"
The happy father said,
“ I’ve only a few slips to write
Before I go to bod.
A poem—some airy little verse—
A few light jokes in prose—
• Annoy its dad! ’ Oh, dear no, nurse!
Why bless its ickle.toes!
10 P.M.
“ Oh, take away that 8-day bowl.
That shriek-box," cried its pa.
“ Oh, take him anywhere's," the growl,
“ So that you take him far.
It’s very odd that none of you
Will do as you are bid.
But pester me you always do.
With that confounded kid 1"
THE THREE GRACES


Sidney Smith returned for East Macquarie.
Sir Henry Parkes to be banqueted on his
arrival in Sydney. John Davies, C.M.G., archangel of
the demonstration.
More ‘‘ wholesome fun.” Lord Loftus said at
Hay every family he had met in this
colony comprised from 14 to 17 children . But, then,
Augustas’ acquaintances are principally pf trie air J otm
Robert; on, Hon. John Lucas, and Sir Alfred Stephen
kind, Ha evidently thinks colonials are born in
“ clutches." His impressions are drawn from the hen-
coop.
Another case of heartless cruelty! In Parra-
matta, this time. It appears, that by button-holing
Dr. Taylor, the Superintendent of the Parramatta
Lunatic Asylum, the manager of an amateur minstrel
company, called "The Balmeral Minstrels,” got per-
mission from that good-natured officer to give a per-
formanoe before the lunatics. They did so. When,
however, on the night of the show the curtain
staggered up, the stage-manager came forward, and in
a broken voice stated that several Balmorals had not
wended their way to the Asylum, so that the pro-
gramme would have to be varied. The chair business
began it; and it soon appeared that riot only had the
minstrels left some of their company behind, but their
voices also. I». the course of the evening a Mr. Dunbar
gave a “ flute solo.” The audience, whe, up to this, had
good-naturedly applauded the performers, prlnoipally
because they ware familiar with them, through so often
seeing Ithem in their several carts, looked gloomy, not
to say threatening. Mr. Dunbar has a theory of hie
own with reference to flute-playing; but, aa only the
practice is exhibited to the audiouce. they must be
sympathised with in their non- appreciation of rules for
fingering with which they had no chance of being eon-
versnnt Regarded in the light of an executant, Mr.
Dunbar appearo 1 to blow a great deal into bis nut©* and
to blow very little out of it. Sometimes, however, a
weird and wild note ]would go shrieking through the
building, only to be followed by a feeble clicking of the
keys and much lip-moistening with a tongue that would
have been a tight fit for the Bt. Qothard tunnel. The
patients, however, applauded heartily, and were much
amused. It happened, though, afterwards, that they
wore all labouring under the idea (wickedly propagated
by an attendant) that it was a cat and monkey show.
We read that the composer who signs the
Initials “ M.E B.” is Ernest, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen.
Well, we haven’t happened to coma across any of
“M.EB.’a” music, so we can’t say what it is like.
But, as Ernest is a cousin of tho Queen, we presume
his music is considered a good deal superior to Mozart .■>,
in Court circles, and we have no doubt it is extensively
purchased by tho aristocracy. Probibly it is among
the loose sheets ontopof the wanner at John Davies or
the Hon. J. Lucas’, or ilr. M Baath’s. But what wj
want to say is that tho last Ducal composer we can
remember was Her Majesty’s brother-in-law, His
Serene Highness the Duke of Saxe-Goburg Gotha—
brother to the Prince Consort. The Dook was a very
great musician—at Court Dord Palmerston used, in
convivial moments, to distinguish him Lora his hroi-her
by referring to the latter as the Prince Cons wt and to
the former as the Prince Concert. Well, the Queen
greatly admired Gotha’s compositions, and used to
perform some of his airs vary feoliugly with a comb and
one of her royal curl papers; and when Mendelssohn
was invited to Windsor, Gotha played over a few
trifles to him and so touched kis emotions that Felix
prayed him to stop, declaring that he should die it he
listened to any more. When, in addition to this testi-
mony, it transpired that John Brown had taken Gotha
under his patronage and had offered to give him private
instruction on the bag-pipes, all the Lords* in-Waiting
went about vowing that they didn’t care about going to
Heaven now that they had heard His Sirene Highness
tho Duke. Thev said golden harps and celestial
choristers might be all very well, but unless some
guarantee were afforded that ilia Royal Highness s
grand opera “Casilda" would be on tho Celestial pro-
gramme, and the composer engaged to conduct in place
of St.’Ceollia (whose style has bqeeme much out of
they oonldn’t look forward to'enjoy the performances.
Besides it was generally, conceded that a proportion of
vpry vulgar people got into Heaven with passes from
the Management, and, really the audience was likely
to be mixed oven in the better parts of the housa, while
there was certain to be a devil of a row in the pit. How-
ever, it was determined that the highly-born have duties
as well a* dignities. Her Majesty utiered this sentiment
herself, one day, when issuing a patent of nobility to an
Irish landlord who had rack-rented £lO,OOO from his
tenantry, and given £lOOO of the amount to the Patriotic
Fund after the Crimean war, Bo to carry out the
principle, Saxe-Qotha consented tsparmit his splendid
work to be produced before the common people at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Drury Lane. Lntuley was manager
at the time, and wouldn’t hoar of scooping all tho
profit* which ware certain to be derived from tbq pro-
duction of the greatest work ever heard in this or any
other world. So the Duka had to consent to pay the
expenses of production, as Lumley stood out. Rossini
and Mozart were thrust aside; and the glorious work
was produced, and Instantly, signally, and unanimously
damned.
General Skobe!off.
General Skobeloff, the most popular, daring
and skilled Russian commander—the hero of
Loftoha, Plevna and a thousand fights- after
bearing a charmed life midst the thickest battles
and tbe ghastliest carnage, has died a natural
death in time of peace at the early age of 39.
Skobeloff’s latest exploit was his philoslav ad-
dress to the Servian students in Paris, which
utterance led to hia recall by the Czar, and strained
severely the relations between Russia, Germany,
and Austria. Archibald Forbes saw much of
Skobeloff daring the Russo-Tarkish war, and
describes the General thus;—” Six feet in height,
straight as a pine, the head carried high with a
gallant debonnair fearlessness, square across the
shoulders, deep in the chest, slender of waist,
ojean of flank, the muscular, graceful, supple
figure set off to perfection by the white frock ooat
■with tjie decoration and gold lace on it. Skobeloff
vyith bis high frank bearing looked a genial king
pf njea- It was impossible to know him, to have
him smile on you and not to love him.” Skobeloff’
was the idol of his soldiers. He never followed,
he always led. He never said “Go,” it was al-
ways “Come.” He sought death in its most
terrible aspects, but found it not. Death sought
and found him with hia arms laid aside. Michael
Skobeloff was born near Moscow in 1843, and
educated in the St. Petersburg Military Academy,
where he graduated in 186:5 as a staff officer. In
1868, he commanded his first company of Cossacks
in Turkestan. His brilliant career in all the sub-
sequent Russian wars is pretty well known, up to
tho crowning honors he won at Loftoha and
Plevna. He was a tactical genius, a wonderful
polylinguist, and possessed all the chiefly-attrac-
tive social qualities in addition to his military
attainments.
Kenny Hill Water Scheme Meeting in a few
days to in new nos il ties
Professor Stanich, anriab, now on a visit to Me 1 -
hiurue, will return to his Consulting Rooms, Wynyard-
square, by the m ebl o ot Auguot — adv.
A. gold msdil has been awarded with a eerti-
-1 iatp of first order of merit, to Mr. Washington H.
g iui of Pitt-street, for bis exhibit of culinary and
oharmaoeniioal preparation-) at ihe N Z International
~ r.ibition. I'heP.rtb Exhibition awa ded him a silver
> idal Tis saia Washington was ths Soul of both
$ ihibitions.
Two new papers. The Debater, and the
' ttebart News Tue forintr is an offspring of the
Til do nraiu of Cyra Haiiisnd (he ought to b* “lull
p inter’s ink by this time) j and the other a reprint
t 5 G asgow compilation.' Wo don’t know, rpallv,
w ach wa like heat. Bo’h are such astoundingly attra’’-
i'l a publications. Ti q Debater appears once a week,
u.l is a penny a copy. H..n, now, is a magnifioei t
;i iace for tie piofianle investment ot a few millions.
'» .1 don't hoppm 10 have quite so much n n'y j’st
" v, but directly we do, wa shall make a point of at
uie putting it into a Sydney weekly that is sold at a
„_ny per copy.
The H. R. N. S. N. Co.’s Steamer
Maitland.
The trial trip of the splendid steamer. The Maitland
took place on Saturday the Istinst., and was more than
usually successful. It will bo remembered that some
four months ago tho Maitland, while steaming between
Newcastle and Sydney, snapped her crank shaft and at
the same time almost completely destroyed the hnga
entablature on which it rests. At first it was thought
impossible to effect thorough repairs in the colonies,
bat the resources and capabilities of More s Dock and
Engineering Company were equal to the demand, and
obviated the necessity of an appeal elsewhere. A
splendid shaft which the company had made for the
International Exhibitions, and for which they had been
awarded a gold medal with the highest eoomiums from
the first engineers at tho time in the colony, was ready
for the work; and the manager of the company, Mr.
Frank, was confident they could cast an entablature
which would render tho recurrence of such an
accident impossible. This entablature, weighing
13 tons, was specially and carefully cast, and
together with the shaft (5 tons) and other incidentals
represents a piece of engineering which would reflect
credit on tho first manufactories of England or Soot-
land. To Mr. Frank; and hie establishment, the
success must be most satisfactory, and the result of the
trial trip stated below must have tho effect of
encouraging the marine public to roly more on tho
capabilities of eur colonial manufactories than has
hitherto been the case. At the time of tke accident to
the Maitland, the trade of the Newcastle and Hunter
line pressed heavily on the company, but, hoping "Ith
a temporary assistance to meet tho requirements, the
directors decided to give the steamer a thorough over-
haul, and she has consequently been in tke dook nearly
four mouths. From tho first a splendid boat, she is
now a matchless passenger and cargo vessel, and will
prove a boon to the travelling and trading publie. It
may safely be said that with the Maitland, the highest
success ever aimed at, in attempting to meet the re-
quirements of the two ports, has bean attained. She
U the Go’s, swiftest boat, and is now certainly equal
to our big ooean-going vessels in point of accommoda-
tion. In this latter respect, she has been completely
altered from designs ly the well-known marine
architects, Messrs. A. L. and Q. M'Credie.
Additional first-class berth* have been provided
above and below, with tho great desiderata of
privacy, room, and comfort On deck there is a large
and brilliantly-lighted ladies’ saloon cabin—a new ar.
rangoment-, which will be largely availed of ; and oa
deck, also, are large state rooms furnished in a rich
unique stylo. An electric bell, a decided improvement
on the pneumatic system, operates from every cabin
and room L r communication with tho stewards. Tho
alterations give roomy and enjoyable accommodation
to 100 first-class passengers. Nor has the forward port
of the ehip been neglected in tho general overhaul. On
Saturday, Istinst ,tho steamer,under Cap'aia Knowles,
her old commander, mode her trial trip. Among the gen-
tlemen present wore thive of the dirtotors, Mr. Wol.e,
Mr J B. R. Rober son, and Mr. John aoe. M i’.; Mr.
Henry Clarke, M.P., Mr. Frank, Mr. J. P. Abbott,
M P , Mr. Lae f Acting-Manager), Mr. Frauklyn, Mr.
M'Credie, and Mr. Crulokahank, tho Government Ex.
amlner. Tho vessel moved away from the dook at
1130 a.m., and steamed down the harbour. She ran
the measured mils from Piuchgut to Bradley’s
in 4 min. 8 sec., or a little over 14fc knots an
hour. The machinery was naturally stiff, so this
means about a five hours’ passage from Sydney
to Newcastle The several engineers on board pro-
nounced the mechanical improvements as an engineer-
ing triumph, and Mr. Frank was justly complimented
for the success. The directors entertained the visitors
at a luncheon m the saloon. Mr. Wolfe occupied the
chair, and Mr. J. B. R. Robertson the vice chair.
Apologies wore received for tho non-attendance of the
Hon. Sir John Robertson, and other gentlemen.
Reference was made in the course of the speeches to
the groat change that had taken place with regard to
our coast trade daring the last forty years—from the
days when the Shamrock and the Thistle could mot
obtain cargoes on the lino to the present time* with
such splendid vessels as the Maitland running to meet
the trade. Mr. Clarke, Mr. See, and Mr. Robertson
traced the history of tho H.R.N.S.N. Co. with its
developments, its difficulties, and successes, to its
present prosperous condition with a large dividend-
paying business. It was stated that, notwithstanding
the fact of the Maitland being laid up for four months,
the past half year was so profitable as to giveagooddm-
dead and meat ths expenditure of £4oou juot expended
on the Maitland. At the present moment, the man-
ager Mr. Thomas, is in England superintending the
construction of a vessel larger and superior even to the
Maitland. High testimony was borne by the speakers
to the valuable serri >es of the officers of the company
by whose aid, with the generous patronage of the pub-
lie, the company had been brought through heavy
losses into sound prosperity. The Maitland will run
four times a week to Newcastle, and once each week np
the Hunter to Morpeth. She will be still in command
of the veteran Captain Knowles Her providers will be
Mr. H. Q. Rose, formerly of the Morpeth. [Since the
the above was written the Maitland has riaii tho dis*
tance between Newcastle and Sydney in the extra*
ordinary time of 4h. 20m 3
POLITICAL POINTS.
When the ’Ouse meets, an enquiry is to be made
as to how the 00a 1, of certain Parke -gloriacation cable-
grams was mat—whether out of the Public Treasury,
for instance? , .
The Melbourne Age says that Sir Enry Parkes
“ means to apply for £6OOO out of the Sydney Treasury,"
as a set-off to the expenses of his tour round the world.
Of course, our own D.T. is the first champion to rebut
this infamous slander.
The “Contagions Diseases” Bill will, we hear, be
reintroduced next session. Before being sent up, it will
be fully considered by the local branch of the British
Medical Association, which will probably ask Dr.
Harman-Tarrant to represent their views in Parlia-
ment.
Archibald Forbes would “back a brigade of
little Gourkas ta thrash soundly the whole array that
Atabi Pasha could bring into the field.’’ and yearns for
a week of the good qld days of “ Old Pam.” He thinks
Palmerston, if alive, would settle the Egyptian difficulty
with neatness and promptitude.
A South Australian M.P. (Dixaon) is moving for
members to be allowed to deliver written speeches in
the House. If this wore adopted, speech-secretaries
could make a decent living, and Hansard hacks could
be dispensed with. Dixon himself is an oratorical
gymnast, and a swallower of ouoy ciopoelias.
Mr. Griffith, who assumes to himself the leader-
ship of the Queensland Opposition, has found friends
in the North. In an article on him, a Maokay paper
Bays, ‘ He has not shown, during the whole of his
nuasi-iendership, tha most remote indication of being
possessed of one original idea.’’ Scarce guilty of
original sin, wa suppose 1
Ebenezer Ward is the S.A. legislator who is to
introduce a Bill for tha repeal of the postage oa news-
papers. Ebenezer is a bloated newspaper proprietor
himself. But, down Adelaide way, they don’t ask hon.
members to refrain from voting on any question which
affects their pockets directly. Such a leatriction
is not necessary, as there, all M’s.P. are as honest as
Parkes.
The notorious O’D mo van Rossa sends forth in
his New York rug utteramei of joy respecting the
murder of Lord Broderick Uavendi h and Mi. Burke.
Kossa expreast s astonishment that “ manhood **
enough was left in any Irishmen to do such a deed,
and thanks his God for what has taken place, and that
ths victims are on the English side this time. It is
reallr wonderful that the American Govern .sent allows
thia man’s paper to continue to exist.
Jack Gardiner, M.P. for Carlton (Vie.), the
“edioated tutballer, as it were,” intends tabling a
motion lor the exclusion of reporters from Parlia-
mentary proceedings. More protection I Such a course
would suit David Syme, of the Age, to a hair, because
he gets nearly all of his staff into Parliament. The
taking of notes on shirt-cuffs would, however, neces-
sitate a harrowing expenditure in changes ot lini-n.
Dow you see the point ? Quick! It’s a Pearson one.
Tho grayest blunder" the Gladstone Govern-,
ment has committed iu Ireland, though it kas not
attracted much comment, is that it has invaiiaily
failed to protect its informers. Bernard Bailey, the
last of them, was shot in the streets of Dublin because
tae Government would not give him a small sum where.
with to take himself away. On the inquest his wife
said: “He had written twice to the authorities and
to the Lord Lieutenant (Cowper) to ret as much money
as would take him and hisj family out of the country,
and it was refused."
Mr. William Forster has been righting himself
with his constituents. Ho urges that he has been mis.
represented as to his English speeches. What he did
say in the mother country was that there “ had been a
marked and lamentable deterioration In the standard of
public morality in this colony, and in the standard of
public men.” And ha now further explains that mem-
bets of Parliament “seem to pay much more attention
to speculations in land, to getting railway platforms
on their property, and to similar matters, than te
public interests." Eight yon are, Sweet William.
Mr. Dixson, the protectionistest protectionist of
SI,, is the sponsor of the new Marriage BUI recently
discussed by the Parliament of that colony. Mr. D.
created a mild sensation when he moved that the Bill
be taken Into committee. In fact, he committed hitn.
self as well as the B I), After premising that no one
respected the marriage tie more than he did, he started
off at a tangent to say that the present custom wasn't
liberal enough in a connubial direction. Even the good
old Book, he argued, sanctioned poly gamy, and he had
no hesitation in asserting that —. Members hero
skedaddled ; attention was called to the state of the
House; and a count-out shelved the BiU for the
present.
The Burranqokg Argttb is severs on Judge
Forbes lor having attended the meeting of Touag
electors at which it was decided to ask Mr. W. J.
Watson to retain his seat for that constituency during
his approaching visit to Europe in search of health,
Mr. Forbes, the A nous says, repudiated all idea
of being a political J udge, but then he, by hie presence,
lent his influence to the movement, and the words he
nsed in congratulating the meeting on its decision had
a force which could not be mistaken. Mr. Forbes,
though a highly respectable lawyer, has made mistakes
since he has been a judge, and that of the PhUo-Wat-
son meeting isn’t the least of them.
The country press begins to look up. The
Forbes Times gives the 8. M. Herald an nnmistake-
ably logical uaot-fall in the following neat paragraph:
—"The Victorian manufacturers have overtaken the
demand in this colony, and are looking for outside
markets. This, according to the H braes of the 20th
June, is a practical confession of the unsoundness of
the policy of Protection; for, says our leading journal,
if they are confined to their own markets, Victorian
industries will sosn be In a fair way to undergo suffeca-
tion for want of space. On the following day the
Herald says that a partial reaction against free-trade
has set in in Emlana from the very development of
manufacturing industry. Production has so enormously
increased, that markets have not increased fast enough
for it. The Herald does notadd that it no new markets
are found for the manufactured goods of free-trading
England, English industries will soon he in a fair way
to undergo suffocation for want of space. The Herald
does not see in the state of English commerce a prac-
tical Illustration of the unsouudnesa of Free-trade. Yet
it would be just as fair to attribute to Free-trade in
England what is attributed to Protection in Victoria
Another instance of the fair play meted out to Pro-
tection.”
Commenting on a speech by Lord Salisbury, a
Lancashire paper says:—“lt never occurs to h'm to
enquire how it Is that there should be agitation m Ire-
land more than in an/ other part of the dominions of
Her Majesty. We suppose he thinks that the Irish
people have more 1 original sin,' or that the devil is
more active and supreme in Ireland than elsewhere.
His lordship never by any chance lets out a word of
sympathy with the wrongs the Irish people have suffered
for ages, wrongs which too many continue to suffer
to-day. He can see a sort of parallel between certain
Earts of Turkey and Ireland, but it does not eeem to
ave occurred to him that this parallelism goes down
to causes, and that these can -a* are essentially the same
in both countries. Tua industrious people in both
countries have been robbed and pillaged by a dominant
class—in one by a class «t licensed robbers called tax-
gatherers, and in the other by rack-renting landlords.
In both countries it is a sense ef utter insecurity, the
feeling that, however industrious and prudent a man
may be, another and not himself will reap what he has
sown, and gather what he has strewn, that is at the
bottom of all the mischief. But Lord Salisbury can
see nothing but the ‘ right# of property’ of one class.
And Lord Salisbury is astonished that there should be
class antagonisms I With such Lords as Lord Salis-
bury, how can there fall to be a war of classes, and with
a few more lords like him it would soon be a war
indeed 1"
Apropos to the defunct Milburn Creek business :
—“ Mr. Baker showed a very extraordinary method of
keeping accounts of his doings with people for whose
benefit he had been entrusted with certain moneys; but
had not any of those who took up the task of clearing
the character of the House at some time in their lives
displayed a peculiar me’hod of keeping accounts ? Was
the Premier so pure and blameless that he could stand
up as the Simon Pure of Parliament to inflict penalties
upon another, and trample in the duet an uchappy man
who had done nothing half so bad as the Premier him-
self had been guilty of P What was the origination of
all that evil ? Nothing but the corrupt action of the
Government in leading the Assembly to make a grant
of £17,000 of public money to he put in the pockets of
their o dleague, Mr. Baker. That was ia the days when
Mr. Baker waa above suspicion; that was at a time
when Mr. Baker was hand-in-glove with the present
Premier, and when it aid not suit the Premier to make
asacrifiie of any of his colleagues. The Premier did
not think it beneath the dignity of a Minister of the
Crown to go to members of the Assembly and tell them
that it was a party question, and that members who
opposed the payment of the compensation would vote
at the risk of producing a Ministerial crisis. Mr.
Salomons made one great mistake in t v e inquiry which
he conducted. He should have summoned Ministers
as witnesses, just as other people were summoned; and
ha should have put them on their oath, just as he did
Mr, Baker and Mr, Garrett." These are not onr own
libels, dear reader; but just what Mr. William Forster,
M.L. A-> told his constituents np atGnndagai last week.
That gentleman also made this remark s—“ He would
like to know whether the House was to bo purged of all
those men who had made money by their public action
and through the exercise of their influence. If all thots
men were to bo subjected to a process similar to that
wnich Messrs. Baker and Garrett bad to undergo, he
would like to know how many of the present members
would be left." Anyway, it wouldn’t take a Babbage’s
Difference Engine to tabulate the residue. And at
Cootamundra,. Mr. Forster rubbed it in to onr Great
Mogul in this wise“ That champion of morality and
pecuniary honesty; that man who ha 1 left so many
pleasant memories in the minds of those who had the
good fortune to have monetary dealings with him."
Sarcastic case, William 1 Keep in good torm. Already
we hear the trumpet blow, and scent on the morning
breeze the battle.
# # *
J. M. Gaunt, barrister, to oppose smiling Long-
more, at the next Victorian elections It is estimated
that the colonies will require to borrow £10,000,000
next your Mr Harris, who owned the freehold of the
land leased by John Lucas, at Darling Harbour, was
satisfied to surrender all his rights therein for £3025.
Lucas, M.L.C., fir the leasehold, only wanted nearly
251 times that amount Buzacott, M.L C. Queens-
land, resigned. He edits the 'Courier and Qdsens-
lander Mr. George Glye, nominated ML C. ion
W.A., vice Mr. Edward Stone, now Crown Solicitor...
Pofctir’s motto: “The people of Qundagai have
nothing to learn from Sydneyit.es." Not even “ com-
pensation?" Mr. Robert Eamsay, late member for
East Boarke, Vic, was, at the time of his death, en-
gaged in writing an article on religions instruction of
children He favoured secular education ia State
schools W.A. loan for £260,000 sanctioned; railways.
'i he proposal of the free-trade Melbourne plutocrats
to banquet Sir ’Bary did not, of course, emanate from
Farkes’para.ites here. Oh, no! Ifure admiration (or
modesty and genius combined set that snowball polling.
Be that as it may, however ; the demonstration is, in
reility, cot intended as a personal honour to Farkes,
but as a fres-trs.de exhibition, ami a *f crosj»-oount«r " to,
protection at-seriji, -u* The chief objection to, the
Channel tunnel is that the profits would go,to priv.a q
peipons, and thie ijiass fall,.on the taxpayer......Thgy say
it'is quite on the cards that Charles Roberts, Esq., will
r.tin for the Manning and Hastings, electorate, as he
occupied the frontest seat at all Bob Smith’s boi ed
beef and bott ed beer banquets on his recent tour. And
we wou’d even breathe this—that it’s not very im-
probable that Burdett will bunch with C J. for the
Manning and Hastings—it’s an old love of cupid a.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
DECLARATION OF WAR.
According to threat, Admiral Sir 'Rewcrcfiatnp
Seymour commenced bombarding Alexandria soon after
daylight on Tuesday morning, thus committing an act
of war. Firing commenced by H.M.S. Saltan and
Superb; remaining vessels followed suit. Egyptian
batteries immediately answered British fire, but with-
out serious effeet, while their own Injury was extensive.
After 20 minutes .cannonading two of the forts ware
silenced. In two hours Fort Kan at was blown up.
Egyptian fire slackened; at 950 a.m. the Monarch’s
Gatling guns wore completely sweeping the shores.
British ships engaged are the Inflexible, Temeraire,
Penelope, Superb, Sudan, Invincible, Alexandra,
and '(Monarch. Highest tower of Fort Pbaron
demolished. Civil population withdrawn from
Alexandria; few remaining hiding in cellars. Up-
to 11 a.m., no attempt had been made to land a force,
but forts were being rapidly silenced. Members of
Geneva Crois were engaged in hospital duty. Greek
flag remains flying from consulate.
The previous course of events was somewhat-
as follows: England proposed to detail 25 000 troops*,
consisting of 16 000 British soldiers and 10,000 Gonrkas
to Egypt 81r Evelyn Wood to command land troops.
Admiral Seymour, with Vioe-Admiral Hood and Rear-
Admiral Hoskins to command fleet Cyprus nearest.
base *f operations and military depot... Turkey declined!
te Join Conference, and Arab! Bey refnsod to proceed to
Censtmmtiuople ae ordered by Sultan Admiral.
Seymour formally demanded cessation of fortifying'
operations, threatening bombardment Egyptians
protended to comply, but the electric light revealed!
night work being carried out Admiral Seymour de-
clared ho would commence to bombard Alexandria on
Tuesday morning at 4 o’clock British Consul-
General suspended all relations with Egypt*
and intimated to Dervish Pasha, Sultan, special
commissioner, that ho would be held answerabl®
for tka safety of the Khedive Abdurrahman Pasha,
Turkish Premier, resigned M. do Freycinet asked
Chamber of Deputies for a vote of 8,000,000 francs for
naval equipment, but the Chamber hampered his free-
dom of action Two regiments left England, and on®
left Gibraltar, for Egypt !.French Toulon fleett
ordered to Port Said Foreign Consuls'at Alexandria
left tha: city and withdrew to their respective men-
of-war. They first protested formally and officially
against the bombardment. All other European men of
war withdrew outside the harbour... French alliance
thus defln.tely broken 0ff......The Bombardment com-
menced, as per notice, shortly before five o’clock on
Tuesday morning Alexandrians panic-stiToken„. ..
Orient steamers will all take the Cape route for the
present Rebellion in Soudan, Central Africa,
revived; false prophet headed insurgents, and defeated
Egyptian troops, killling 2000.
• • *
Es-Peniau murdered, Dublin Archbishop M’Cabe,
Dublin* received Fenian letters threatening assassi-.
nation; he declines special police protection........^
Repression of Crime in Deland Bill passed by-
House of Commons 22 suspected assassins arrested!
in Dublin Tories opposing Arrears of Irish Rents:
Bill Channel Tunnel Co. has desisted from prosecut-
ing its projected works Government decided to em-
ploy bloodhounds in the detection of assassins in Ire-
land., Imperial Parliament will adjourn about
middle of August Friendly, non-pelitical meeting
to take place shortly at Qasteln, Austria, be-
tween the Emperors of Germany and Austria
General Skobeloff is dead Daniel Webster, tho cele-
brated comedian, and formerly lessee of the Adelphi,
London, has died, aged 82 years James Russell
Lowell, U.S. Minister at London, received notice of
recall; Mr. Bancroft Davis succeeds him Dutch
man-of-war, the Ander, wrecked ; eighty lives lost
Hew goldfields discovered in the Transvaal Pearce,
the Australian sculler, paid forfeit to Largan Aus-
tralian Eleven cricket matches t—Beat Northampton by
one Innings and 80 rnns; brat Middlesex by eight
wiokets—Middlesex scores, 101 and 91; Australians,
136 and 61 (with loss of two wiokets).
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correepondente who give neither name nom -de-plme
cannot expect to have their communicative noticed.]
J. J. Stacey”: We can’t issert bo long a
lettrr—which, tnmmednp, is to the effect that politics,
judged by Parkas’ actions, means the art c£ stirring up
discontent with a view to living on the sale of nostrums.
......"Collier'’: That’s not the point. Any Government.
which places an avowedly rabid teetotaller on a Licenc-
ing Bench might as well empanel a jury of men opaaly
opposed to capital punishment to try a man arraigned
for mnrdtr " J.0.C.”: What yon send is a gr»iat dealt
too pointed; write about subjects of general, not*
merely local, interest "An Eye Witness”. Would!
not item do its subject some barm? "Mabel"? Tom
will have seen report. It was in type ere yours came..
But thaiks for your trouble "E.J.P.": Good
"Tim”: Account in type the day before yours arrived
Old Fly ” : We don’t print such things.
“Q.G.E.”: Has tern already noticed briefly.
• E.J.T.” : We endeavour to nofioe all fancy
characters worthy of mention at public balls; but cer-
tainly cannot notice particular persons unless they are
conspicuous “ Warrego": Thanks; shortened
“Lantern": Send us more gospel from your heathen
land “ Surry Hills ’: You send ns a riddle
“composed by your own mother, who thinks it
a wry good one.” Well, we do not
“ Geo. Knignt" : Thanks •* Toro” : Tes—an {esthetic
comedy which is anaesthetic. “Lena”: Tee,
it's no doubt specially disagreeable to ladies. But
some day, perhaps, a way will be found to utilise the
strength of mid-day soup-blasts from the underground
kitchen restaurants "Cromwell": (1.) Queen
Victoria has about thirty grandchildren. (2 > Should
the eldest son ef the Prinoo of Wales get a settlement
from Parliament on attaining his majority, we suppose
that the rest of the cohort of royal infants will have to
be provided for in the same manner, too
“Passepartout”: Thanks “CJ.J.” (Mo’ong) :
Mr. Verdi is not, and never was, an Italian. But he
has studied his art in Italy “ Arrow" (Stroud): Mr.
J. B. Thompson framed the Victorian rules of footbaV,
He died several years ago ‘ Araluen” : We dfea’t)-.
believe in poltical-reliaious societies. We like Vy, sec.
people cultivate the olive, not the orange or a\.,y other-
old-world party colour “ Charles ThompsQA v (Mut-,
taburra) : The paper we print on is made at Qtwan and.
Go’s best mill for “ flue printings,” and a very ex-,
pensive article. The Queenslander paper is, wa
believe, identical in substance, but without the.
special glazed surface, which wo pay extra for
“ L K.": Ar-ke-tect, not ar-ohe.taot “ Albion ” : All
right, old man, but The is not tho Chron-
iclb. We can’t give quite a page notice with a five-
bob id. Vale “Torre”: The Sydney Mail. Yes^
we are considering the thing you mention “Stray
Leaves ’’: Good. Write again “ Figlia.” * (I) No.
(2) Marriage with a deceased wife’s sister ia not lawful)
in England. The ecclesiastical element ta the House of
Lords continues to bar the passage ol the Bill, which
has been repeatedly assented to by the C0mm0n5......
“Q.M.C.": It doesn’t matter i*i*oh The eminent
gentleman may be head of fifty such organisations, but
he takes his beer for ail that...'* 1 Anonymous Female" s
Ho, we icon’t "kindly insert your par. in our next
issue.” Who do you think cares about the fluctuating*
loves of your postman and the coal-dealer’s daughter ?>
Spite! “Carolus” : locally interesting, no doubt,
but although Junee people might scream at it* it would:
evoke groans everywhere else “Murrumbnrrah":
We can do nothing without fader particulars. Ton
should send us the rqport of the inquiry, which you say
was held. According to your representations, the ca*U
looks like manslaughter. Too serious to touch without*
information.
Doubtless the chief reason of tha prosperity off
our rail wav finances is the fact that the population of
Sydney it largely moving to the unbiaabe, being drive*
out by tbe extraordiaary demands sjr business sites in
'h* city. But a couple of years ago one train usually
b, ought ia the.city business people from, the suburb/.,
Now, tea or fifteen ay a almost inadequate, and It is
o>j-Calnly a great compliment to the depanment to find
that the distant extensions, requiring special arrange-
mint., have not interfered witn but have rather accom-
panied the extraordinary development of the suburban
traffic. The suburban trains run with great frequency,
and, compared with the past, the arrangements are
fully equal to, if not ahead of, all public requirements.


THE NEWSLETTER.
1390 people at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon.
English mvrine insurance offices clapping 5s per
cent, extra on charges for vessels passing through Suez
Canal. Cause-war risks.
The S. A. Assembly has its Sir ’Enry, so far as
haspirates” are concerned. H's name is 'alnes.
M.P. for Gumaraoha. (No connection with the Cion,
tarf martyrs.)
A Maoksy publioan, in his hotel advertisement
in a local paper, has caused the following memorandum
to be added at the foot; fl N.B.—A quiet room at the
back specially provided for Good Templars."
The Dalby (Q.) local paper, regrets the absence
o lawyers in than town, and prophesies that law pro-
oeedings there must be abnormally expensive. Why
not try to do withsnt any law proceedings at all P
In the days of Sir Charles Cavan Duffy’s
Premiership, a newly.lnstalled country postmaster
used to hand enquirers all the letters in the place for
mto select their own frost. He oonld*nt read.
New kind of fish oaught off Palm Islands, N.Q.,
name unknown; took ten hours to capture. It was
twelve feet six In breadth, about eight feet six In length,
with a toll very narrow, and resembling a ridisg whip
two taet six in length. The mouth was two f«ot three
broad, and had on aaoh elds twe large fins about
fifteen inches long, and eight inches broad.
Mr. G. B. Shaw, tbo well-known Rockhampton
auctioneer, imported coolies largely till a vessel which
he had chartered want down with a cargo of them. Since
then, he looks oulooolies as a degraded race, with whom
white men should have nothing whatever to do. The
Mr. Shaw in question has no eenneotion with Mr.
Uowusnaw, of the Brisbane Tblbsbaph, except that
both hate coolies—at present.
People want to know all about Lucas’ timber
and the National Park. The trustees of that reserve
chose to exclude the Press from their last meeting,
at which they were to have heard the Honorable John
in explanation. There is also another rnmonr about
the diversion of £lOOO a year of the Park expenditure
into the pocket of another trustee. Why meet in
secret conclave when it Is so easy to explain r
Lionel Henry Pettinger, charged with em-
nestling two cheques, the property of Mrs. Mary
Bo .A Proprietress of the CiRCCia Osrosicls, was
acquitted by the Judge’s direction, on the gronad that
he was ne svrvant of the lady-litterateur, who, A
appears, had some business arrangement with respect
to her paper with Mr. Dodd. Pettinger was re-arrested
on a fresh warrant, Dodd being the fresh prosecutor.
The bailees of insurance Forsyth have had to
dub up ’’ the amount of their recognisances. One of
them—Mr. C. R. Jones, a spectacled speculator and
man about town, who went bail to the tune of £loo—
he did sobeoanse Fred. HarvieLinklater, Forsyth’s
counsel, and a gentleman known to Sydney, said “ It
would ;be all right.” Linklator and Jones used te be
close eld cronies : now, they don’t walk on the same
side of the street.
Nothing has yet boon hoard of the promised
prosecutions of defaulting Friendly Societies, whose
had been discovered by the - ,Royal
fjomniission. This batch of “ well beloveds" is simply
p. bear gr.rdsn, where representatives of the various
orders fight over their own virtues and other vices. Our
pirn C.Jf G- is chairman, and the only man who derives
any benefit out of it is the secretary—who makes little
than £lOO a month.
A man naujed Walton was in the Watson’s Bay
steamer on Thursday evening lose. He leaned against
the gangway rails. Suddenly, these clasped Walton
round the waist and sprang overboard with him. At
least that’s the way the Herald seems to think it was
done. Walton was left in the water till next day; then
he did not say how it happened or if he liked it. A
verdict of mnrdar and suiotds ought to be returned
dgainst the gangway rails.
Kiddey, who some years ago was found guilty
of murder, and sentenced to death in N.Z , has been re-
leased. His offence consisted of killing a man who had
entered his house with his (Kiddey’s) paramour, and
v?ho refused to leave when ordered. The absence of
important ceremony, the marriage rite, made all
difference, for, had Kiddey bsen married to the
tto) iury, acting under the Judge’s direction,
jvould po have returned a verdict of justifiable
jfiomicide.
Tte old SSftnp at Hobart been pulled
Jiojrn Hundreds of readers who have visited
Tasmania will remember the kind warm-hearted old
party, Mrs. IJartam, who jtept it fop years. She was the
Mrs Malaprop of t(ia cplbny, apd no£ uafrequently made
the whole dinner-tablo gasp again with some innoceatly-
iutendod speech of terrific meaning old Charlie, re-
juvenated, is making up for lost time, having planted
Another fruitful vine, and is filling up his quiver wjth
punctuality and despatch.
He was only a sawmill hand, working at Man-
gnrr, Queensland, bat he had his romance. This wax
Mary Ann Albeek, the 13-year old daughter of his
employer. She wanted to see life; he wanted her.
When tha old man was away, they started on their
travels by taking train to Maryborough, and from
thence shipping i y steamer te Rockhampton, nodtr the
names of Mr. and Mrs. Ward. She was in short frocks,
and was easily traced. He is now on ** short commons"
fa gaol on a charge of abduction.
Tfaaja the opinion of the Council of the N.S.W.
L-iccnped Victuallers’ Association concerning John
JDavies, C-ty-ty. " That, in the opinion of this
/Council, the appointment of Mr. John Davies, the
/lading spirit pf to the Licensing Bench,
is a direct insult to the whole community; nothing
that that person has ever done for the public entitling
him to an oh consideration at the hands of an adminis-
tration* whose action in thus rewarding a servile tool
deserves the greatest condemnation."
Francis Sheehy, the master of the recently-
wrecked ketch Lillian, freely owned up to the Marina
Board that he had not considered the vessel to be
seaworthy. He didn’t report her leakiness to the
however, because he knew that he would lose
his billet, and that the owners would get plenty of
others who would be glad of the chance to command
j. 2. keteh. In fact, he said there would be no
difficulty in getting men te go to sea in “a basket with
two sticks in It. Plimsoll is on his way here. Not
too soon.
Under such «n accumulation of crushers what
man can bs considered a free agent ? Liston r —“ We
Fnsmc Opinion that cream of tartar
« M vet cent. rino. Tea is spiced with several kinds
<K deadly poison; and the article sold as black pepper Is
simply something else." And this brings ns to the
natural reflection that if Plddingtonskr isn’t Pidding-
tonsky, what kind of groceries or chemicals is ha ? We
see that a thousand chests of tea, suspected to be
"factitious,” have been seized in Melbourne, and
samples of them handed to the Government analyst.
“ Inventor ” is, in N.S.W., another name for
“ victim." la England, a naan oan patent anything, but
he ran* the risk of the penalty for infringement
Here he must first plank down £2O te the Treasury,
then pay a sollelter to draw up his specifications, and
supplement all hy about eight guineas to an agent •• to
see the mater through " the Government departments :
that makes £4O in all. True, his representations are
examined by a Board ("of two) to see if he clashes
with any other inventor, but, even for that donbbful
security, the boon, in most instances, is far too dearly
purchased.
At it again ! The Forbes Times wants us to be-
lieve that a " grey horse laid down and was unable to
rise, when two friendly quadrupeds came to the rescue.
One caught hold of it by its teeth by the head, and the
other by the small of the back, and literally lifted the
poor animal on to its feet again. So soon as they had
accomplished their charitable mission, they showed the
liveliest sieus of delight.” Some mad wag has been
ringing some of Maver’s epelUng-book in on that editor.
But even if it were true this is not so very remarkable.
Why, we knew a mnle once that—no, hang it! That
male Is dead Lot him rest.
Fiohard Brewster, a darkey, is cook of the ship
Staffordshire, now at Sandridge. He wne fool enough
to go to law against his captain, John W. Sheldrake,
and he was "foolsr enough ” to win his cose. Shol-
drake had him enticed and looked up in a abate room
and then knocked him down and kicked him. Brewster
“ on* his lucky ” through a porthole, and "had the law
of ‘ Sheldrake once more. Sheldrake was fined £l, and
bound over to keep the peace for three months. The
darkey had better get Bishop Moorhousa to frame for
him a special prayer for those at sea, applicable to his
circumstances on the voyage home.
Mr. W. B. Cooper, an American scientist, avows
that the hnman skull is becoming thinner. An
Brntcoes man read this, and remarked, as he afterwards
hatted against a tramear: ** Thank 'Eving it doesn’t
apply to people here, or what would become of us in
this haunt of the fiery shrieking demon." W« may
remark, parenthetically, that the tramear was a total
wreak. The Evtjnoozb man simply scooped np the
tobacco ashes which had fallen oat of his nose-warmer,
and wandered on to wrestle with the germ of a spark-
ling “ brevity " he had got a faint hold of, and te bag
a laoifer from the first pedestrian he met.
The row amongst the shareholders of the Port
Augusta Land Company is over. Sir William Milne,
ex-President of the Legislative Council, has caved in.
He was accused of misrepresentation in promoting the
Company, and the irate shareholders demanded their
moneys bask, with 7 per cent interest added. Sir
William and his coadjutors talked big at first, but now,
altnough he denies that there was misrepresentation,
ho accedes to the demands made—interest and all.
Meanwhile, lawyers consulted have pocketed big fees ;
while others are poorer. Insurance Forsyth is sup-
posed to have made a haul out of the project.
A girl Darned Matilda Dunn, has poisoned her-
self throngh shame at Charley’s Forest, Little River.
She had been engaged to the son of a local preacher,
named Cornelius Bentley, but her lover died, and she
lived with Cornelius, for three years as his adopted
daughter. Her father, hearing that she was enciente,
called upon Bentley, had a row, and took his girl Seme.
She swallowed some strychnine and died. The post
mortem examination proved that she was within two
months of her confinement. We would like to know
the name of the seductiag scoundrel, The local
preacher—her adopted father—should make it his
business to find out.
There 1 * a Hansard row on in N.Z, Somehon.
members have been growling ttiat the recording angels
don't report ttem, while others have championed the
reporters. The fact is that half the members don’t
know what they do say, but as they are allowed te
correct the “ proofs" of their speeches they get the
bulge on the country by talking tod in Parli&msat, and
quoting from text books in print. This remark also
applies to the S. A. only the people there see
members’ speeches before they are re-hashed, because
the Kboistbr, under its qontraot, has to publish its
reports daily In Sydney, members axe not allowed te
see proof* of their speeches;
Darwin’s ghost has already been prowling
around the Atlantic on soienue bent. captain Robson,
of the British steamer, Jesmond, has disooyered about
203 miles west of Madeira, a newly-formed volcanic
island, barren and desolate, and full of yawning chasms.
While raking about among the pumice-stone and lava
debris, he picked np a number of stone arrow-heads, a
bronzed sword, and other articles of antiquity, inoln-
dm* a ummmy. It we could only get that muir my to
speak, we d begin to know all about Noah's flood. The
sword had a cross-hilt, so that missionaries were evi-
dontly around in the days when its owner killed his
first foeman in the cause of right.
Annual Orange day of religions celebration was
last. When about 16,000 attended at the ex
hibition building, which had been engaged for the
occasion by the Orange Institution of N.S. Wales.
. D-Q M’s.. P.Q.M’s., Reverends,
and M s L.A. present. Rerd. D, Madgwiok (Episoo.) ad-
dressed hi wsslf to the text, “ I have fought a good fight."
the late Dr. M'Oibbon, of course, coming in for a thick
Slaster of praise. Revs. J. W. Brown (Wesleyan) and
eorge Sutherland (Presbyterian) also spoke, and,
according to the Hekker, “ while denouncing all bigotry
ftna %nmUranc9 t they claimed that every cerson should
have ftesdom ef oonsolenoe." Shade of Procter I
Hirakl, the Maori who was hanged the other
day, confessed, so the newspapers told us, to the
ofM'Lean. But Hiroki did not confess any
admitted haring killed the man, bat
stated that M'Dsan, when cautioned by him (Hiroki)
against surveying certain country, replied that •• he
£?I*Lr e £?.t d ft . pi *-” Subsequently Hiroki went
towarasM Lean s tent for the purpose of “ having it
out. When M'Lean saw him coming ha fired at him
from the door of the tent, and sent a bullet through
his clothes under the armpit. Then Hiroki caught his
IK?*?®?, ran away, whereupon Hiroki fired and
killed hi aa. Thu is what Hiroki’s confession of
murder amount* to.
Robberies aro committed in and around Oxford-
street nearly every Sunday, and no arrests are made.
Ihe secretary of the Zoological Society’s grounds at
Moore park has written to the authorities to say that,
owing to the entire absence of police protection, so
much Injury is done to the property by larrikins that
the grounds will have to be clesed to the public. Ladies
cannot walk up Oxford-street without being insulted,
and Moore Park is a rendezvous for the soum of the
rlty—there, unhindered, obscenity and disorder are
rampant. The police are in Oxford-street, watching
public-houses and tobacco shops, so that no one shall
quench his thirst or buy a cigar on the Sawbath. When.
6T4r i , B P 9cial legislation (occurs, it always entails
special duties. Let special officers, then, be appointed,
and let not public decency be sacrificed. Our police
are small enough in quantity and quality for ordinary
purposes. Let some of the most degraded be told off
the boer-soenting duty, and the openings filled up
with better men. Then may Parkos be proud of 11 his ”
Licensing Act which "he made Parliament pass I"
John Francis D’Aroy has written to the captain
of the Ballarat City Fire Brigade, denying a current
rumour that ha was "identical with a man named Burns
who was executed in Sydney for raurdtr, and that he had
changed his name in order net to cast any odium on his
family." Wo feel relieved. Well, D'Arcy, it’s all right
now. We hate having hanged men perambulating the
colonies disguised as firemen, though, probably, they
would be well seasoned to any degree of heat, and
would make first-rate salamanders. But D’Arey need
not have written to his captain to prove that he wasn’t
a hanged murderer. He could simply have shown his
jToft ear. The absence of Nosey Bob’s favourite bnmp
of destruction would have scorched the suspicion out
of the moat credulous mind. After all, p’raps it’s a
pity that things are so. A hanged murderer in any
disguise would make his pile in these colonies lecturing
after Archibald Forbes had gone. He would be able to
toll C.M.Q’s. and compensation olntohers »o much that
would interest them — e.g., aVout the pit of Tophe’-.
which, of course, they will never have a cbmoo of
seeing for themselves.
South Australian Government is going to place
an additional sum of £9OO on the estimates for the
Bslair Inebriates’ Retreat. That institution is at
present a one-horse show; and its past career has been
anything but a success. Its inmates pay for board and
lodging, and no pauper drunkards are admitted,
although it is under the ccgis of Government aid.
Under its first manager, who by the way was not a
teetotaller, some very racy scandals occurred. After
they were looked up for the night, the inmates would
frequently break out, and make for the Blackwood
Hotel, about a mile off, or even visit the Theatre Royal,
Adelaide, seven miles distant. The second manager
dispensed with bolts and bars, and tried .‘‘moral
suasion," but|tha inebriates didn’t mend in proportion.
The third asd present superintendent—Mr. Osi orne—
combined both the previous systems, and, aided by the
rigors of the law, got his patients into something like
order. But the principal danger against tha Retreat’s
success is still its tendency to become a temporary re-
tiring-house for confirmed drun-arJa who only go
there to recuperate their energies towards a fresh boat.
How long are a set of pumpkin-headed official
idiots to retard the progress of this colony ? Any one
who looks at an American newspaper, even the smalle-t
daily, sees at a gianco the va->t ext nt of its telegraphic
enterprise. The day after the last opening of the
Impe.ial Parliament the N.Y. Herald had a cabled re-
port far exceeding in length the report published same
day by the London Times —equal, in fact, to the whole
of tha telegraphic mat'er from alt sources, pr nted in
that day’s issue of the British Thunderer. In Aus-
tralia the Press has to struggle agiinut a fish-blooded,
marrow-freezing officialism. Not long ago our Post-
master-General deliberately tried to increase Press
ratoe for telegraphy, and at the same time to diminish
Press opportunities. The Victorian Government has
rsfased to all<w David dyme, the enterprising pro
prletor of the Aon, to ereot at his own expense a tele
S-aphio-llne between his office and Sidney and
delaide; and our Government, we now hoar, has
declined to sanction the laying < f a special wire be
tween the S.M. Herald and Anous offices —which are
connected telegraphically, but not by a special line.
Were an extra wire pat up there would be practically no
limit to its use; but at present the amount of matter
sent through is necessarily restricted. The paltry
narrow-mindedness of the Telegraphic Departments in
ttos matter forma a heavy indictment against
Government. New Zealand ia half a century ahead o
ua telegraphically. A telephone line 100 milea long is
m operation between Christchurch and Timaru. The
wire cost £l5OO. Conversation ia carried on with greal
case, and during the grain season a great saving of time
results. It is the property of a private firm (Maasrr.
Cunningham and Co ) The extension of the line to
Uamaru is contemplated. Here, a grab-all, dog in-tho.
manger Government will neither push the telegraphic
and telephonic systems ner allow the public to do so.
Items picked np at the Hay railway demonstra-
tlon:—Mrs. Esplin, landlady of Tattersall's Hotel,
was offered £lOO to accommodate his Excellency Lord
.Loftns and snite, but respectfully declined, because
well, no matter. So the Vice-Regal retired to roost in
a hen-cooped cottage, behind the courthouse, his tern-
poraiw d welling being encased with wire-netting to keep
out the hot polio t The motto adaptable to the demon-
stration is “Pro hono publicans." Five shillings w»s
tne charge for a corn-beef sandwich and onp of tea; £1
for a single bed, and 10a. for a shake-down iu the stables
or / al j A party of five Sydney gents, recklessly
ordered dinner-charge £2 10s, or half-a-sov. each.
Inc banquet was a gorgeous affair, and Mr. a P
Stewart, manager of the Joint Stock Bank at Hiy, and
hon. sec. of the demonstration, boused through his
onerous duties very effectively. About 100 provincial
papers won’t agree with ns on this point., because their
representatives didn’t got a free feed. There is nothing
riles a country editor more than having to pay for any.
thing he eats. The only free tickets issued for t.be
banquet were; To The Bulletin (of course), the S.M.
Heuald, the Daily Telegraph, Town and Country.
the Melbourne Arous and Aon, and the Hay papers.
Mr. Walter Turnbull ably assisted Mr. Stewart, and
helped the committee of thirty through nil their diffi-
culties. But a dire insult was offered to the representa-
tive institutions of the colony. Speak of it with bated
breath All members of Parliament, except Ministers,
had to part their hard-earned greed in order to partake
banquet. The feed was quite worth tha money,
bat Members didn’t look at it from this standpoint. Wo
think the committee were wise. There were about
forty members of Parliament present, and, ye gods,
what oau t forty patriots ‘‘put away?" As a matter
of conrsj John Davies, C.M.G., was not present, the
market value of second-hand tram-tickets being just
now at a discount. John M’Elhono, however, was there
—at least, at Hay. Bat he didn’t go into the banquot-
haii, contenting himself with walking up and down out-
silo, chewing tha end of his dhndean, and sniffing the
viands from afar. Ha was heard to characteristically
remark that, if ho did shell oat a guinea and enter the
munch teg-house, ‘'there would be a gore-bespattered
novol aml Peasant feature of the banquet was
that ladies wore present. This gave -Sir Alfred Stephen
a chance, and he availed himself of it right gracefully.
Ho mentioned that ho had, during his oareor in the
polony, turned his hands to various employments— c q
he had boon a solicitor, a Member of Parliament, (truly
an “ employment 1 ”) ami ho had “gotten a great many
children .’* The ladies beamed back gratitude upon this
41 wholesome fun." Sir Alfred said,he had been accused
of being a hanging Judge—in fact, his enemies went so
far as to circulate a report that when he was going over-
land to Mel jonrne, cu one occasion, he could not bring
himself to pass the “ Hanging Kook," but had to return
to Sydney and take the Victorian steamer. Bishop
Mesao Thomas, ®f Goulburn, hallowed the banquet, and
pronounced grace. Prom a cursory observation, we
would say that he preferred Krug to Pomeroy. The
S.M. Herald man must have got nistv before the swill-
iug en masse came on, as he credited Mr A. P. Stewart,
tne Hay banker, with having replied to the toast of
" The Parliament," whereas the sppechifler was Mr
Alexander Stuart, M.P. There wore fully GOO at ilo
banquet. The Hail way Department desirves piauc,
worthy mention for the excellence of its arrangements.
Foot-warmers and t-availing-rugs were issued to every
passenger, irrespective of class. Inspector Roberts
generally superintended. A few squatters will vet y
much rejoice at the completion of this lin<-. All the
tract of country between Junee and Hay—l6o miles in
length, and (say) for 20 miles of width on either side cf
the line—is in the hands of 14 squatters.
* • •
A ton of valuable stone was recently stolen
from the Patrick Block, Charters Towers, in one night
Canty and Callaghan, two prisoners, escaptd from
Townsville gaol; mystery. Wnrdorssay they prized a
Chubb’s patent lock during a warder’s momeutniy
absence, but circumstantial evidence docs not lit that
theory. Warders appear to have been “doinga bauge ’’
Canty was an ingenious ironworker, and some think ho
manufactured a skeleton key.
The effect of KOUMISS on the COMPLEXION ia
very remarkable. The dirty bilious colour of tue facr,
or the paleness of the skin, soon gives place to a pink
and white complexion whfNh the p-ople in Moscow
have given the paipe of KOU MISS COMPLEXION
Aoyy
A “ dead set ” has been made recently by some
of th-a Sydney •• knowing one* " to depreciate Gvmp’e
Mining stock in which uua turnons No. 1 North Phts ix
i« included It is just ns well, therefore, to mention
that, amae February 1881, this company has paid divi-
denda aggregating £3 19s. per £1 share.
Extract from private letter dated London, 17th
Miy, received by a Sydney gentleman ; “ Thanks vtry
much for sending me the two Heralds and The Bullk-
tins ; they are all appreciated, but more especially the
latter. I have only as yet had time to read two of
them, but I read them straight through, and have
passed them qn to others tq dp likewise ; they are very
funny. Indeed, lam sorry that we have not an equiva-
lent paper here which I could send you in return. Tha
only one I know of is the Sporting Times, and that is
not to be named in the same breath as the The
Bulletin,"
H.R.N.S.N. CO’S S.S. “MAITLAND."-(See page 10.)


Tobacconist*
*
sS
TO SMOKERS WHO PEOFESS'.TO BE JUDGES OF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
The following facts are comt'i'ed from official
resource;!, and, therefore, should be read with
special interest
DIXSON AND SONS paid dntv in 1880 on
2*8,303 lb.
591,609 lb.
478,935 lb.
620,992 lb.
307,100 lb.
All the others paid d uty ini 880 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid dnty in 1881 on
AH the others paid dnty in 1881 on _
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
on for the two years wa« only
HIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUST, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine "Tin Tag,” each ping branded with a
Bound Single Tin Tag, stamped “ Con-
queror" or *' Yankee Doodle.”
ALL TOBACCONIST - ’ GOODS, PIPES, &c.
?or)V
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
A ND the enormous success of the CAN’T B BEAT
\ has not escaped the usual penalties of merit. Its
i iioq fixoitfifl tbs envy of th&t olrsh
Sf“ who trade upon the discreditable capital
li a Wrowed name My Tohacco has been imitated
and counterfeited, and although I have need all avail-
nhle means to guard tb« public against imposition, snd
. , i, both Foreign and Home-made Imita-
cs eft js. omjirf
amttrti AN WEsJi>. Now, to further guard mv
both town and eountry. as well
as the SinoVing Public from all Imitations. 1 neve
arranged with the American Wanueactuker that each
plug of nr Tobacco be branded with a blivet Tag,
bearing the device thus:
without which none is genuine. The Tualiti™,
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well known to
comment. But in justice to the public, as »«{* “
myself. I urgently request my cusU mere to assure them
selves that the article they pnrohaM genuine, and
tl>at each plug bear the above device, to be known as
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B BEAT BRAND
Heartily thanking the public for their lib«»lBupport,
and determined to deserve a continuance of Vie same
by keeping a first-class article at the lowest possible
price.
MICK SIMMONS,
Sole Wholesale Agent in the Colonies for the
Can’t B Beat Tobacco,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
COENEE OF GEOPGF. snd CAMPBELL STREETS,
HAYMARKLT.
N.B—NO BRANCH SHOPS.
READ THIS! READ THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
57 7 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LABGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware,
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STREET
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
rBE PBESH POOD AND ICE CO-, Limited.
to inform the public that they have n ®, pß p
leted arrangement* which will enable them to
REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
nd are in a position to take on fresh customers,
lay bo given to men on carts, or sent to office,
Order*
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
iIGHT -Try WILDERS ’*
WATER j" never n*e any other lemonc fl)r
3 ” All-healing Lotion" i. a P er / ect "ent«-S
: all bad sores on man or beast. **' 8 , Co .
mg & Co . Sydney. Pelton.Grimwsde.
emmans, Lawsend Co , Melbourne,
>.. Brisbane, W. H. Sonl, Bydn*y
Gr
Hotels, Ho.
UNSLER’S HOTE
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
L.
B
GREET BUTCHER *
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO..
GouHxat Orders Receive Prompt Attehtioh.
JIALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J, T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all variatie.%
and the public may rely npon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
CENTRAL DEPOT)
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyardi
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class
following Exhibition :
London International
Paris „
Vienna „
Philadelphia „
Frizes at tho
1663
... 1884
... 1873
1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vie-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Drown Muscat I Carblnet Malbeo
Tokay 1 Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
[Business Annoanc
Australian "non
SEWING MACHII
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
lingi profit—are offering for sab
Machines that will not stand a yea)
VA
S
M
tA
*
&
h
THE HOME SHUTTLE L
Manufactured for us, baa the ab<
name on the work p
PURCHASE NO OTHJ
We solicit ln'o r -raation of the att
terfeits of the above Machine, wh
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genui
procurable, wo will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE IiOW SOLD 4
HAND MACHINE COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLI
Do., WITH COVER COMI
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular posi
M. MOSS ANi
WYNYARD LANE, t
AMD
LL
u
NION MORTGAGE A
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEOEGB-8TBE;
To Small FREEHOLD an*
PROPRIETOR:
This Company is prepared to g
gaga of freehold or leatenold p
noon the deposit of deeds, on com
on houses in course of (Taction, in
repayable by the sma’lest weekly
meet'', taken by the society in thi
iug table will show
Fir ev.ry £2O b mwe<
£3O
£4O
£5O
£75
£lOO
and up to any amount at the s ime i
For further information sn.-lv at
WM P. fi
Hotels, fco.
OHNA . W I L
COOLALTA WINE (
119 PITT STEEET
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, BR
SOUTH WALE
RED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage l , extra quality..
No. 1 Coolalta Red
No. 2 i, ~ ••• ••• ••
Burgundy ;
Port
Vin Ordinaire
WHITE WINE
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Ros(
Imported by ns direct, and mat
for this climate to the order of onr
Every instrument is WARE.
YEARS. They are of v.ry bandar
are meat sensitive, sweet, and pow<
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYW
Examine and teat them before pi
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheai
BEALE and COMP
1, Oxford-street; 612. George-
Buildings, Sydm
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Hig
Howick-street, Bathurst ; A
burn ; Church-street, Parram
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we wi'
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
jp LATE
AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPERS AN Gib
(a really splendid s
BOOM and PICTURE-FRAMI
KENT’S BRUSH
GOLD LEAF, I
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK.
W
H A R
PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL OOMMIBI
343 and 345 Kknt-stkeet, NEi
SOLE AGENT for the underment
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lon
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victor
Bencraft A Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria To
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Coi
A. M. Hunt A Co.’s Qoulburn 1
Sauce.
343 and 34.5 KENT-STEEET, nea
346 GEORGE STEEET
STUBBS & S
The Celebrated
The PußESiSiiHiuiftN
worvP,
The Hama of M. MOSS k CO.
la on erery Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
to
'1
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
o PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE)
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
rigs
1
m
ft 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BE 2RS, and SPIRITS
at:d general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
T LAWLER, 608, George-street, Bedding Mannfac-
• turer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.


RILEY BRDTI
386 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET. J
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NBWCA
AND
10 COLEMAN STREE'
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN CO
THE ORIGINATOR
NOTED £5 BJ
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or ua-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Rad
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
21 yards Qambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Corer
I pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men's, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Bruces
1 doz Fooket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. &o.
£B Men’s Clothing
Bate
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shires, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
sise
1 best Pelt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &a.
JBS Ladies’ Bale.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies' Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
Me
2 La
2 La
2 pa;
1 La
1 pal
1 La
2 pa
1 La
4 Ini
2 Ini
2 lul
1 lul
1
2 Ini
1 lul
i do
Pnff k
1 Plf
2 Bil
IKS
1 Ir
E
C
1 1
1
£
1 Ta
10 yi
20 yi
12 SI
20 W
10 g(
6 yt
1
wear
£B
1 pa
1 wl
5 ya
10 w
C
6 wl
12 ya
12 ya
4 pa
ifi
6 Btl
6 Bt
4 lai
3 $
T
RILEY B ROl
£2 Infant's Parcel. £2
4 Infants* Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hai
2 Infants’ Long Flannels j,oi
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown riol
2 Infants’ Rollers 1 Inft
I 1 dozen Diaper Squares gqi:
Puff Box, Puff. & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infa
2 Bib* Bil*
1 Pair of Wool Boots Ca
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s £2
H arcel.
1 Pair Tweed Tro’ sera 2 Nig]
1 CMhmii Shirf. Q m.n,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[TTe shall he glad to have this indea posted up by secretaries
of racing duos and managers of sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Deniliquin... July 19.
V.E C. Grand National July 22.
Geelong August 5.
Victorian Trotting Club ..August 12.
Tattersall’s, Randwiok August 12,
Hawkesbnry Spring..., August 24, 29.
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 2,5, 7, 9.
S.A J.C. Derby Meeting September 23.
Melbourne Hunt Club September 30.
V.E.C. Spring Oct. 28, SI, Nov. 2. 4.,
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Bendigo. November 15,16.
Mnrrumbidgee Turf Club Nov. 22, 23 24.
V.E.C. New Tear Meeting January 1,1883.
Sydney Turf Club January 26, 1883.
AQUATICS.
Mercantile E.C. Regatta August 28.
Gardiner Cup,. Mercantile October 28.
Krug Champagne Trophy.. November 25.
Gardiner Cup, Amateur December 16.
PEDEBTEIANISM,
Bathurst Football Club Sports July 29.
Wallaroo Football Club's Sports, August 19.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. Balmain, Moore Park July 15.
Olenhead v. Carlton, Parramatta July 15.
Gaelong v. Sydney July 11.
Geelong v. Petersham July 13.
Gaelong v. Combined Team July 15.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club’s Eac» Meeting (Association
Ground) ; August 26.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
United North,./{ * July 13,14,15.
Yorkshire July 17, 18,19.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
A Wallaby drive took place in the Bnlli Moun-
tains last week.
Bennett, from Qonlburn, is a great acquisition
to the University Football Clubs.
The Townsville (Q.) Tnrf Club intend to intro-
dace the totalisator at their next meeting.
According to latest netfs, we may expect to hear
of Boss, Hanlan, Laycook, Courtney, and Pearce meet*
ing at the Winnipeg Begatta.
A foot race, 150 yards, for .£5O, came off at
Terrara on Monday, between Michael Hyam and J.
Suma, the former winning by three yards.
W. Cook, on May 16, whilst playing a billiard
match of 1000 up made a break of 917—about 300 spots.
This is the largest break be has ever made.
Massie scored the first run for the Australians
on English ground. Bannerman had the chance, but
he played a maiden over; Massie scored fire off his
first over.
The English critics are discussing the question
of the premier batsmanship of the world, borne say
Massie, others say Murdoch. Grace or Btndd is not
mentioned.
Football like cricket has its paradoxes. Uni-
varsity beat Burwoed by four goals, Bnrwood beat
Wallaroo by two goals, and now Wollareo beats
University.
The English sporting Press will have to coin a
title for Giffen that will cause “ Demon " to play
sacond fiddle. The “Australian Bighter” would be
very appropriate.
Henry Cooper, aged 45. died lately whilst row-
ing a race on the Thames. The doctor said deceased
died from congestion of the lungs, caused through over
exertion in rowing.
By the bye, who was that University half-back
who hit Belcher in the mouth and threatened to smash
Bead ford’s adjective face in. He was an artistic swearer,
and was very Clontarfy.
What a strange fact P Out of the 66 bookmakers
already approved of by the Victorian Baoing Club 41
are of the Hebrew persuasion. There are Jews—and
Jews, as Joe Goodman observes.
A sculling race took place last Saturday on the
Hhoalhaven Begatta courae, Numba, between the
Mayor of Numba (Mr. P. Hall) and Mr. J. Longbottom.
the latter won easily in 23 minutes.
Mr. E. E. Jones gives a 25-guinea Cup for a
cross-country steeplechase, to be ridden by gentlemen
wao have followed the hounds during the season. It is
tj come off about the end of August.
Speaking of Massie’s innings against Oxford,
tne London Sportsman says: “Ho scored, perhaps,
oue of the most brilliant innings, taken all round, over
witnessed on an English cricket field - ’*
TwoN.Z. players have accepted the challenge
ot two Sydney handball players for £250 aside. The
Players are P. Hogan and M. Murphy. A member
or the Auckland racket club is willing to play any Syd-
®ey man for £5O aside.
According to the published list of fixtures, to-
»y (Thursday), Friday, and Saturday, the Australians
Play at Dewsbury against United North of England ;
Monday. Tuesday, and -Wednesday, against
Yorkshire County at Bradford.
tt,P ours *P£ f° r the Ercildonne Stakes, run under
™ Mipoas of the Ballarat Club, cn Sir Samuel
muon s estate, was concluded on 7th July. The
stakes were won by the Hon. J. BromeU’s West Thorn,
otira : the runner.no being Mr, T. C-
"»Ple s Nita, by Dean Swift from Madge Wildfire.
Rockhampton Races, July 6 and 7, Gold-
wn»e iv, Wo ?> Champion Stakes by a neck j Proctor
bain J^ ort Curtis Handicap, the second and third
can vf??° U P- Proctor won the Rockhampton Hand!-
tmatmg Centurion bv a neck; Sllverhair won the
Stakes.' “ Cnp * and Murlel th « Mares’ Produce
Cln?f tPjJti?*? footballers gave the East Sydney
6 bating on the (Association Ground on
behind! f’i h S souring 7 goals 15 behinds to 7
the atfLdL Ewt s * dn °y- rained all the time and
anintire*i'h?o^-fn aB K B^! 11 : Altogether the play was
every time 0 * ball being too near the Sydney goal
W^vvnf^? m Z, was beaten last week at Blayney.
eourthonsnV/Tni'* of Corooar, walked from Carooar
»Ues overall 7llo7 . p 1 ' Ulwa 7 S» te «, a distance of ten
The mninVi f^ ou>f b metal road, in 1 hour 49 minutes,
number of hnv B affainßt time > two hours, for £lO A
walked f a ; r T 3rB . e ®* n . acoo ™Penied the pedestrian, who
‘ 80 fair heel-and-toe all the way.
that the A j^ s J' ralian Rowing Association asked
their firof atlua * men be allowed to form part of
This the Msfw » n an . Intercolonial Eight-oar race,
agreed to niiT. W ' " BB ®? l ation could not allow. It was
the InteroolinT ? Soath . Australian crew to compote in
ooald I al rao ® in 1883 or 1884, but no promise
Th v V * n Bend a orew in r *t u rn to Adelaida.
the *? owing Association have altered
Cnp, It the eontest for the Gardiner Mercantile
U for the tv, ■’iS 0 ?® 8 the property of the house winning
Competitor!, tima October 28th is the day fixed*
Wholesale I 00 ?" 11 ? included) shall be employes in
test (rim, houses; the boats shall be string-
c°nte»ta * Bub l #e t to alteration hereafter for future
hounds had a severe run of nine
July. Th!V fter a din *° »t East Maitland, on sth
straight, tii- < r! ng i? ?ave them a splendid course, and ran
P«th °* th® principal etroete of Mor-
fitter him l l®P e< l I , nto the river and the hounds went
• After a long swim, he returned to the bank,
and the hounds were beaten off. It was one of the
best runs of the season.
The London Spobtsman says We have been
waited upon by a member of the Toronto Citizen’s
Kept ta Committee, in which contest Trickett competed
last year, and he asks ns to deny that the Australian
oarsman was at all interfered with by steamers or other-
wise, excepting some ©f the other competitors treated
him to their •' wash.” He adds that Toronto people
really sympathised with Trickett, and would have much
liked to see him win.
The Australian Eleven disposed of the North-
ampton team very easily, defeating them in one innings
by 80 runs. Northampton, in the first innings, scored
122 runs. Garrett took th<-ee wickets for 27 runs. The
Australians made 270—Giffon 81, Bonnor 58, M Donnell
38, Garrett 82, being the principal scorers. In the
second innings, Northampton scored only 68. Palmer
» » it w *°^ e^a f° r 22 rune. The attendance was large,
but the weather was, as usual, fine one day, cold and
Inclement the next.
. Asteam trioyole has been invented in England
®* r T, P&rkyns to travel twenty miles an hour
without noiae or smoke. It consumes a pennyworth
?* 8 P®* day; this ought to commend itself to
the nder. It condenses and returns to the boiler its
own steam. As the law stands, this machine cannot be
ran in England on the public roads. It is a wonderful
invention, and asan exhibition would make a fortune for
the proprietor. To keep up steam on a penn'orth of
spirits is a kind of best-on-reoord feat.
Laycock, going l to Middlesborongh where Boyd
locates was taken to Newcastle by mistake. Layoook
wished to row on the Thames, and offered Boyd £3O
expenses to pull on that river. Bovd said he would not
be outbid, and would give Layoook £35 as expenses to
r °rs r u on Tees. Lavoook sprung to £4O for Boyd for
■• Thames match, and there the matter stopped, Boyd
stating that he wished to row on the Tees, and had no
doubt they would make a match. Layoook said that if
they rowed either on the Tees or Thames they would
see the beet man win.
Stella was scratched for the Hawkeshury Grand
Handicap on Friday last. She was made first favourite
and some backers will now have a dose of dead money
to get back. Loud, therefore, is the grumbling; but
we, who never bet, and are th<refore not prejudiced,
think that the owner deserves the thanks of the public
for the timely scratching of his mare, instead of playing
into the hands of the books by allowing her name to
remain in the list until the last moment. The public
have lost money by it already, but the owner, by hie
early action, has saved a deal cf further loss.
Mr. F. Punch offered a prize to bo rowed for by
the unsuccessful competitors for the Champagne
Trophy. The N.B.W. Bowing Association declined the
offer, the late period of the year and the numerous
other important fixtures being amongst the reasons
given. However, Mr. Punch has determined to carry
out the affair himself, and the entries close to-day. The
race is to come off en August 5. Whether the scullers
will act in opposition to the desires of the N.S.W.
Bowing Association will be decided to-day when the
entries close. We think one association can best
manage our amateur sculling contests.
The entries for the Intercolonial Champion
Ploughing Match, to take place at WerriboePark (Vic.)
on 26th ana 27th instant, ore numerous and very satie-
faatory on the whole, though the competitors in triple
farrow ploughs am all Victorians. The class in single
furrow numbers 52, the entries, including four repre-
sentatives from South Australia, New South Wales, and
Tasmania, whilst Queensland sends one. In class B,
double furrow ploughs, there are 33 entries, including
three from South Australia, two from New Zealand, and
one each from New South Wales and Tasmania. The
Hon. W. J. Clarke’s steam-plough will be exhibited on
the ground.
We learn that the subscription list for the
testimonial to Ned Gregory, the veteran cricketer, is to
be shortly closed and the amount banded over. Ned
deserves well of the cricketers of the colony. His ser-
vices have been invaluable in bringing the wickets of
the Association Ground to snoh a state of perfection as
to evoke the admiration of the last English Eleven.
The footballers do not improve the ground, and It is
worth while to hoar Ned’s objurgations when any lucky
player makes a mark and digs his heel into the turf
The next time a Bugby game is played on the ground,
we advise Ned to get his shovel and be ready to dig a
sod to fix the ball for & place-kick.
Before the Australian Eleven commenced busi-
ness, Blaokbam and Bannerman played in a match
between the Blenheim and Bohemian clubs, the wicket-
keeper going on first fer the former. He was not by
any means at home, and it was not long before he played
on. Bannerman went in first also for the Bohemians,
but, presuming on a mistake by one of the field, Black-
ham, to hie evident delight, had the wicket down
before Aliok could recover his ground. The Vine
Invited Palmer to be one of their eleven in a match
against the Yarra Club, but he was not allowed to bowl,
having to be content with fielding at point. He played
in good style, bnt after getting into doable figures, he
was clean bowled.
The best football match of the season was played
lose Saturday in the jraia on Moore Park, between the
University and Wallaroo clubs, resulting in favour of
the latter club after a close and exciting contest. The
University men play fast, and the wet grass prevented
them, through slipping, from making the effective runs
which generally cause their success. The heavy men
in the Wallarooe had all the advantage owing to the
wot weather. We do not like the Bugby game, but we
think it better worth witnessing than the slip-shod
game we saw, after half-time, on the Association
Ground. There is no bull-fight broken-bones excite-
ment about the Melbourne game. When we meet a
footballer after play, we expect to see a black eye, a
little blood, and a limp arm or two. We revel in gore—
so give us the Bugby game until the Melbourne game
be well played.
In referring to the physique of the Australian
team, the London Daily Telegraph says:—"Save
young Maseie, the athletic, spare youth, as shapely as
a greyhound, who looks as if he were made for leaping
hurdles, who walks well, and has not aa ounce of
superfluous flesh on his body, and who never allows a
ball to pass him in the field, the others look ponderous
enough. They are flue men, but one feels astonished
occasionally that they can run so fast. They are active
s boys, but well set-up, like men." That’s just the
■ifferenoe between Australian and Englith cricketer*.
Our men oan both run and throw well; the Britishers,
with few exceptions, could do neither. Selby was the
only runner in the last team, and they all jerked the
ball In, Instead of throwing it. What surprised us here
was that men like Ulyett and Shaw, with so much flesh
on, eonld do as much as they did in the field. The
English spectator, unused to throwing, must be
astounded by the smart returns from Bannerman,
Jonea, and Mardooh.
The match at Lord’s Ground, between the Aus-
tralian Eleven and Middlesex County, resulted in a
win for the Colonials by eight wickets. Middlesex had
the sat of Studds that performed so well against our
boys in the Cambridge match. The weather was
showery and the attendance moderate. Middlesex took
the wickets first, and scored 101—C. Studd 23, Soott
14, Leslie 10. The sundries were 29. Garrett took five
wickets for 21; Spotforth five wickets for 27. The
Australians made 136—Murdoch (with three ehanoes)
51, Horan (not out) 38. Bannerman 23, Spofforth 8,
Qiffen 4, M’Donnell 3, Bonnor 2, Palmer 2, Massie 1,
Garrett and Jonea (1.b.w.) duck-eggs. Sundries, 4.
Middlesex, in the second innings, scored 91—C. btudd
30, Q. Studd 20, J. Studd 15, Soott 12, being the highest
scores. In the second innings, the Australians ob.
taimed the rnns required with the loss of two wickets,
the scores being:—Massie (not out) 28, M’Donnell (not
out) 21, Bannerman 10, Murdoch 1.
The most exciting football match ever seen on
Moore Pa*k was play»d last Saturday by the Univer-
sity and Wallaroo Clubs. The former had an unbeaten
record this season, and the latter had suffered but a
single defeat. So great was the interest in the matoh
that the other olnbs decided not to play; and the
playsre of Balmain, Burwood, Glsnhead, Arfoma, Bed-
fern, etc., helped to swell the lines of onlookers who
braved the falling rain. Baper won the toss and ohoee
the lower goal, the play for a long time being very
even, the brilliancy of Bennett, Baylis, and Baper for
the 'Varsity being counteracted by the steady, deter-
mined play of their opponents, amongst whom Brodie,
Lind email, and Beadferd shone conspicuously. F. Fligg
made m marvellous run, and scored first try for the
marsupials. The place kick just missed the goal, and
H. Fligg scored another try with no better result.
Ends were changed and the Wallaroos, amidst
well-deserved plaudits, forced last season’s Cham-
piona twice behind their goal, and Beatty sent
the oval neatly over the bar from a try
by H. Fligg. Bennett then made the run of the day,
and, unaided, scored a try for Alma Mater fair behind
the posts. The place kick was badly missed; but
within a very few minutes, amidst the wildest enthuai.
asm, the ball was again rushed down the ground, and a
try awarded to the University, from which they scored
a goal. With ten minutes still to play, each side strained
every nerve. The dashing play on both sides, and the
babel of applause awarded to every piece of prowess,
made up a scene not to be readily forgotten. The
Wallaroos thus won by a try, and they well deserved
their victory. The return match between these crack
clubs takes place on the Association Ground on the
22ad instant, when a most exciting contest may be ex.
peoted.
There is no mistake about it; Sydney is the
home of fair play, notwithstanding Lord Harris and
that ilk to the contrary, Everybody now knows that
the cricket imbroglio was a mistake, and it was the
only stain upon our treatment of our visitors. England
snubs our cricketers whenever a ohanoe is offered;
Victoria assaults the Adelaide footballers; and now the
latest thing which makes New South Wales men open
their eyes in astonishment is that a team of Brisbane
footballers cannot get fair play at Ipswioh. The players
themselves were not to blame; the crowd did all the
“ bad form." The Brisbane men were openly aeoused
of oheating, while simply asking for fair play. Fancy
the Wallaroo • or the University a attempting to rub
out a country team in this measure. The Pavilion and
Grand Stand occupants would ho it them off tbo
ground. In cricket, our very best umpire, Mr. James
Swift, is always chosen, because we know that he will
favour nobody. Somehow, we begin to think we are
behind the age.
The Hay annual races, which came off on the day
of the opening of the railway, wore well attended. The
weather was beautifully fine. Strange to say, a newly-
patented totalisator was on the ground, and was largely
patronised during the day. About £lOOO passed
through it, 5 per cent, being charged by the Hay J.C.,
and 5 per cent, by the proprietor ot the machine. The
police took no official noi ice of it, bat this should not
encourage intending totalisator proprietors to give
Randwlck a turn. They know more about the law
down here. The Maiden Plate was won by Rapid, after
a good race wth First Light. The Prince of Wales’
Stakes was a great straggle between Coolamidgin and
Touchwood, resulting in a dead heat. In the run off,
the former won rather easily Nine started for the
Club Handicap, Mulatto being a strong favonrite, but
Mameluke won rather easily. The Members’ Cup, for
grass-fed horses, was won by Di, carrying lOat. 101 b.
Two of the last horaes were knocked inside of a post at
the start. On the second day, the Hurdle Baoe was won
by Sarawak. Three horses fell. Mulatto won the
Midwinter Handicap, beating Mameluke by two lengths.
Mameluke won the Plate, and Peeping Tom won the
Murrumbidgee Handicap by a nose, First Light being
second. Evidence won the Selling Race rather easily,
and the Last Spurt was won by Savignon.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Ballarat Anglers’ Aasoniation have resolved
to procure 1000 trout ova from Tasmania for stocking
the local creeks and reservoirs The nomination of
The Gem for the Great Metropolitan Stakes has been
accepted by the A.J.C. committee At the Townsville
'Q ) Haoes on July 6, the Town Plate, after a good race,
was won by Pair Jane, Mirabeau second; Crazy Jane
won the Maiden Plate and Flying Handicap, and
Drummer Bey the District Plate A billiard tourna.
ment took place at the Louth Hotel billiard room last
week, which created considerable interest amongst the
townspeople The following are the results of the
various events First heat: Pearson 160 v. M'Callagh
127, P. Mathews 150 v. Eiokard 142, Whittaker 150 v.
Green 138, W. Mathews 150 v. Cunliffe 138, Turner 150
t. Lynch 130. Second heat: Moses 150 v. W. Mathews
118, Pearson 150 v. Turner 110, W. Mathews 150 v.
Whittaker 116. Third heat: Moses 160 v. Mor-
rison 111, Pearson 150 v. W. Mathews 131.
P nal heat : Moses 150 v. Pearson 133
The Parramatta footballers had a paper hunt last Fri 1
day night. Over six miles were covered. „ Numbers of
persons turned out to see the start The Sega foot-
bailers have decided to play under Eugby rules. A
doctor wanted down there At a billiard room in
Brisbane, there are electrical appliances by which the
contesting “ cueists “ can record their scores without
the slightest danger of a mistake A sportsman near
Walgett lately shot in a morning six turkeys weighing
in all 144 lbs Young Dutchy, who puffs himself as
the Champion Light Weight of England, is at Tam-
worth teaching the noble art, single-stick, sword, and
Indian club exercise T. Ellem and Arthur Nond, of
Grafton, are to run 200 yards, for £6O, on July 22nd
A member of the South Australian Assembly is to
make an attempt to repeal the Totalisator Act Bed
deer have been seen on the Upper Murray The “fair*
podromedaries " are threatening Lithgow with a visit.
Six-days-go-as-you.please is the attraction : £lOO and
trophies. The Lithgow pubs, are preparing for the
event The Mercantile Bowing Club have ordered
two string-test gigs from Don-ellyand Sullivan, to bo
delivered in about five weeks Two Cooma amateur
peds. were walking a match for a wager. In the course
of the race one fell and the other close behind fell over
his leader. Both of them were slightly injured.
However, they play football, so it doesn't matter
A match for 4(10 aside is in process of arrangement be-
tween a Penrith ped. and one nailing from Par-
ramatta At Brewarrina last week a billiard match,
300 up, for £34 aside, was played between John Brown
and Bobert Kelly. The game was well contested
throughout, both players leading occasionally, until at
the finish Kelly made a break of 20 which carried him
out. A second match was played for £2O aside 500 up,
when brown led from the start and eventually won by
105 points A 200 yards race for £4O came off at
Brewarrina lately between E. Brooks of Walgett and
L. Noonan of Brewarrina, the latter getting five yards
start. Brooks parsed his opponent when half way and
won as he liked by four varda On May 12, negotia-
tions were in progress for a match for £lOO between
Pearce and Nicholson for a mile and a half spin on the
Tees. It did not come off Mr. J. H. Forbes, of the
Bank of N.S.W., Bockhampton, who is about to be
transferred to Sydney, was banqueted, the other day,
by the rowing men of the city of sin, sweat, and sorrow
Mr Forbes—which his name is Joe—is a Jolly little
pocket Hercules, who will, in all likelihood, work him-
self into a place in the bow of our next year's repre.
sentatlvo eight “Augur," of the Australasian
strenuously supports the introduction of the totalisator
into all race meetings The London Sportsman of
6th May says: “Layoook and Boyd had a little tussle
from the Aqueduct to the Creek on Tuesday
evening for a bottle of champagne. The Australian
says he believes he won, but other people were of a
different opinion, and therefore ho paid cheerfully.",...
On 28th June, a big football match took place between
the Wilcannin and Albion Football Clubs, resulting in
a victory for Wiloanniaby two goals twelve behlnds to
the Albion's four ,behinds A sculling contest came
off on the Nepean on Saturday week, J. M‘Kay and C.
Piesley against C, Payers and Lewis, resulting in a
victory for the latter by about six lengths. The distance
was about s mile and a quarter, the time 11 min. 10 sec.
Arowi; golib has been formed at Penrith. It is
intended to uold a regatta to inaugurate it The
Narandera Turf Club hold a meeting on 6th and 7t Sept.
The New Zealand footballers were expecting a visit
from a Sydney team this season The Dunedin total-
isator has paid some good dividends latolv. Over the
Grand Northern Handicap, run at Maitland, N.8.W., it
paid £l7 2s to each of the backers of (jueensberry.
Battler's victory in the Maiden Plato, at Oamaru, re-
suited in a dividend of £3O 12i.; while Kosciusko's win
at Waimate gave his backers £2l 18s. each J. B.
Wakely won the gold trophy for best average bowling
in the Bin* e a Club, Eiley won the batting trophus
one for highest aggregate, the other for highest indi-
vidual score At the second day of the Townsville
(Q.) Baoes, Mirabeau won the Club Handicap, and
Sleepy the Members’ Cup A mile match for £4O a
side, between Mr. Hope’s Diver and Mr. Bull’s Jilk,
came off on Saturday last at Bourke, resulting in an
easy win for the former A football match took place
at Blayney on Saturday, between the newly-formed
Blayney Club, and Our Boys Club of Bathurst, resulting
in a victory for Blayney by one goal three tries to one
try.
At the New Zealand Exhibition, just concluded,
1 Singer’s Sewing Machines have carried everything be-
fore them, taking a first order of merit, two gold medals,
and two «ilver medals. The New Davis was awarded a
silver medal.


SOCIAL.
THE MESOANTILE BOWING CLUB BALL.
Like a stray sunbeam that a moment shone.
The giddy •* Mercantile” has oome, and gone,
A night of glitter, bfiauty, and of dress,
Of smiles and gaiety—a grand success.
For those who were there, those who were not, too.
The Bulletin will give a bird's-eyO vie*.
Eight hundred present. LesS than last year s but It
was inoonvoaieutly crowded then, and the tickets were
limited this time, to avoid a crush. Economy was
practised With regard to decorations. In trying to
ornament our barnlike exhibition building, more money
can be spent and less got for it than in any other way
we know—except in trying to get justice from a
Supreme Court in Lapland. No amount of money
would hide the bare ugliness of the building. Little
ornamentation was attempted, but that little was neat.
Leafy garlands depended between the pillars, flowers
wore placed in gilded baskets on each post, flags and
bannerets were displayed, and the rest was simply sculls
all round the galie'y, which looked characteristic oi
the occasion. Suites of chairs, sofas and lounges were
ranged on the edge of the dancing floor. The fountain
was playing all the time, and was docked with greenery.
Under one gallery, screened off by draped curtains, were
the refreshment tables; under the other we diun t
explore: all who did, went, Noah’s-ark-fashion, in
pairs. The programmes were fanshaped, to fold in
three, and were not pretty. Suburban and harbour
localities were used as rendezvous. At 9 o clock, tne
“Olivette” quadrille opened the ball: the Young Aus-
tralian Band, on the platform, played popular airs, and
the music was satisfactory. Cloak arrangements
worked well. Little preparation seemed to have been
given to the floor, which might have been improved.
The refreshments by the City Catering Company met
all wants, some light wines not usually seen being
specially nice, and up to the last moment there was
plenty to be had. Altogether, the ball was good, and
the shining seeretary has been patting himself on the
back ever since. Now for the people. —
Conspicuous were :—Miss Florrie Bind, who appeared
at a previous Bowing Club Ball, as Marie Stewart, in
her white mourning costume, now represented the same
queenly character in black velvet, and satin strewn
with pearls, velvet coif and floating tulle veil. Miss
Bind is best in the black, but lovely in either. Her
sister, as Snow, wore a costume of white plush, dusted
with powdered glass, wreath and hair sprinkled with
the same frostlike substance, and looked charming.
Miss B. Birks, in white and heliotrope satin, with
bunches of violets. Miss E. Brasoh, as Bonbon;
Misses Gold ah Brasoh, and Clara Pays, as Mari tanas.
Mis* Aggie Tighe caused a deal ®f aggieny la her pretty
ted and white yachting costume. Georgia Leslie and
Nellie Kelly, Colleen Bawns. Belle Joseph and Mies
Carugati, French Coquettes. Josephine Hogan, Greek
Xisdy. Louie Bay, Carmen. Miss MlUett, as Dolly
Varden. Miss Hargraves, as SnowbUt’ Miss Castle,
Buttercup. Miss Snlway, was Mabel, and Mias M. ditto,
Mary-quite-oontrary. Miss Pay ten, Diana Miss Cooper
in a good costume as Eobinson Crusoe, all white, with
a parrot on the shoulder. Gissle Earle, Pauline. Miss
Coombe, a brunette im straw-coloured satin, with
scarlet poppies effectively placed in her black hair,
was exceedingly pretty. Most picturesque was
a dainty little creature in a Queen Anne costume of
quilted blue satin petticoat, cardinal bunched overskirt,
high-heeled shoes, laooroftles andface patches. Peasant
Girls, Gipsies, and Operatic characters were plentiful,
and several ladies displayed the M. 8.0. colours.
<■ Ouida's ” Cigarette was a pretty character, in garnet
satin, gold bead work, and fringe of cigars. Miss Pearce,
Bohemian Girl; Mies Jessie Pearce, Gltana. Mrs. V.
Merrick was Queen of Diamonds ; Nellie Glen. Spanish
Countess; Mrs. G. H. Johnson, Mephisto ; and Mrs. E.
Sutton, a charming Bride. Mrs, F. Warskitt’s costume
as Baughtor of the Segiment was as complete as her
dancing was admirable. Miss Bones, Frost. Virginia
Modiui was vergin’a good deal on the beautiful. Mr.
and Mrs. W. P. Be Boos were from
Temora, and it seemed to agree with them. Mrs. E. J.
Thomas, Marguerite. Master W. Beattie was a French
Marquis—a little gem of a make-up. MiSJ L. Lind was
Buth in the “Pirates.” Mrs. Hanby, Esmerelda.
Miss Nellie Christie’s rose and black satin, and Miss
Kiss’s white grenadine decorated with satin ribbon,
white wreath, were tasteful. A beautiful Eastern type
of face, with lovely dark eyes and tresses, appeared in
conjunction with ecru satin, studded with white bon-
que s, and a diadem of white flowers. Mrs.J Q. Scott
and Miss Walker were both brilliant Americas.
Taken as a pair, no dresses could compare with
two fine “ Follys.” Both ladies wore tall and shapely
semi-blondes. The dresses, perfectly flttingr, were hifcli-
uecked but sleeveless, medi nu leneth, of light blue
and ecru satin worn with bells and little square satin
caps. There were several other Follys. Umree fancy
characters deserve special mention. Mias Manmx was
a pretty Nun—none prettier—from “Tambour Major,”
in the blue stuff dress, with black velvet stripes, white
chemisette and cap, worn by Pattie Laverne as Stella.
Then, Mias Skinner was a Captain’s Daughter, quite
au ideal one, in blue and shaded crimson satin, big blue
hat and big brown eyes, pretty face. And lastly.
Patience, with an enticing face and figure—Miss Fife s
copy of Alice Bees did her high credit, the costume
was faultless, with a ravishing hat and a little meal-tub
carried on the shoulder. “Isn't Patience nice ?” every-
one said ; and she was. Mr. Beub Brasch had a most
original fancy dross, as Laud Sale, made of white duck,
the breast and back representing a surveyor's plan of
allotments for sale, charted and coloured, while his
limbs set forth the easy terms. Mr. Branch's “good
run” of partners must have been due to the special in-
ducements he offered in the shape of “ free tram
tickets," and a (cornbeef) “ lunch on the ground.” One
yonng man wore a washed-out suit of bine cotton,
a black cap, and a hammer; and opinions differed as to
whether he was a butcher, a burglar, or a civil en-
gineer. A French officer of a past century wore scarlet
pants and sky blue coat—a costume whose brilliancy
would ensure death soon on a field of battle, and ought
to ensure it immediately anywhere else. Mr. V. L.
Walker, as a South Sea Islander, wore tight brown
material, a waistcloth, collar and club. The dress was
unique, but he did not dance in it. Neither did Mr.
H. M. Cansdell, in his football dress. By the bye
A gentle gymnast quite deserves a “ dig,”
But hold—what muscles 1 No, wa won’t be rough,
For we are small, and he is very big—
We’ll simply hint, he didn't wear enough.
Mr. H. B Cox was Tambour Major ; Mr. A. Borne, Sir
Peter Adams; Mr. Norman, Faust. H. Moyse, the
popular little bicyclist, wore, as Bugler, the neat grey
uniform of the Suburban Bicycle Club. A. W. Higstrin
was Archibald Grosvenor; D. M. Smith, Earl of
Leicester; and Mr. Bones, Night and Morning. It
must not be supposed that all the fun was on the danc-
ing floor. By no means. The building is a largo one.
and affords very fair facilities to*"*
young people who like to enjoy solitude in twos. Many
a litfle romance oonld the quiet corners tell. As or
our discreet selves, _
Now, what d’ you thinkP In in * we , , .
Onr pen, and cry—plain prose be blowed I
Let Muses’ fire inspire our lyre.
We’ll thyme ft little episode. (
It’s a shocking shocking surprise to a modest mans
eyes—
No wonder he stares,
At the do-as-yoii-pleasfl of a couple he sees—
Most loving of pairs 1
Where’s the barm of a kiss from the lips of a Miss
w gay, a girl Militaire’s f ,
Wall the 'arm’s round her waist; while they re having
a taste
Of a spoon on the stairs.
And that was not the only sort of fun, either, Legend
hath it that the spirit of Bacchus roused the spirit of
Mare in some manly bosoms, and that foment •
pressions of the "let mo at im and whosagomg
to put me out?" character were heard in ekoitod and
indistinct tones from gay and festive youths. And
rnmoar whispers that the athletic 7®*jthi nMmlate
removed their gloves and took the usual *,*
prevent their cuffs betsg crumpled, and
willingness—even their anxiety-to violently knsok
certain supposed “spots'* off the persons of « 7*
one who doubted their ability or sobrietT. And, in
fact, gave it to be understood that they
kept a private grave-yard near at hand, and specially
wanted a few corpses to pnt therein. However, sue
little misunderstandings will happen. and the muacola
young men were pacified by fnends at lasi.
Mrs. Smith was tady Teazle. Mrs. W. H M Oartny
was Lady Archibald Campbell,, in a,
costume of song de botuf. and cense satin, with eUborate
chapeau. Miss Grace King was a queen in beauty, tall
and handsome, in an ivory llama dress which contrasted
well w“th her raven hair and dreamy dark eyes. Mibb
A. Seale. Flower Girl. Miss Minnie Patrick, an enchant-
ing little Dutch Girl. The garnet velvet and pale
amber satin robe, with pearls, worn by Mms Cane)U
was exceptionally handsome. And
the tasteful evening dress of Miss £ ri #stly. E
shaped black satin bodice, matse satin
fiti«a of lilv of the valley. Mies Java navies
jockey dress was of white satin _ with crimson
bunching, striped crimson satin l eodioe an-d jo<ekr
cap. silver horseshoes, dear little boots
and soars, and it looked pretty. A lady, with wavy
brown hair, wore one of the nicest or ® of
watered moire and lace. Miss Burns.
beautiful maize satin dress, embroidered, like that of
the “ lily maid of Astolit, with a bordered MUt y
of branch and flower” in coloured erewels-and a
splendid hat. Miss Horn, of Goulburn, donned black
brooby lots of white blossoms, and her bright smile
horuts us still. Altogether, the ballreo-s w, u
GbjlNnt, with all her original quaint ness. ?D*® rT0 ">
"brilliant as well as animated. We can b beat that
ne it bit of description, aad as it has'
before, we’ll borrow it. It was the Dailt Tame man.
however, who discovered the scone to be
it was motley.” We were sober all the time, but we
didn’t observe anything “unusial about it. itteemea
just the same old giddy whirl of careless pleasure. We
can shut our eyes, and see it still.
The merry bolls jingle where Folly is waiting,
A shimmer of satin and glimmer of pearls,
A medley of merriment, music, and talking,
A glamour of giddy and glorious girls. .
A mixture of blue and pink, grey, cream, and crimson
(Though why always cream—why not some of them
And many stray glimpses, the while the hall swims on.
Of dainty “ enoasings, of ootton and suk.
And the belle? Well, people view things differently.
Some are dazzled by one bright stari some we lull
enough never to see any. In hinting at ths lady, we
prefer to finish where we started.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. J. Pennell, of Band wick, gave a
social party last weak, to the great satisfaction
60 guests. A luxurious supper was provided, and an
unusual feature was introduced in the ®hape
One room was kept for dancing, and another large
apartment for rinking, at which a dark young lady’from
Snrry Hills shone pre-eminently. She showed Eand-
wick girls a fewrinkles.
• • •
The opening ball of the Narrabri Winter Dances,
initiated by leading squatters and townspeople, was
successfully held at the Mechanics Institute on Wad-
neaday, 28th June. Between 40 and TO were present,
including parties from " Killaraay, Tibereena,
" S.nglewn,” "Terriaro,” and other stations. Seven
legal gentlemen shed their presence, one ef them being
riffles* conspicuous for his dancing
cions tondussa for the supper table. All enjoyed them-
selves The acknowledged belle was a young lady in
cream’and pink silk, who lately figured as bridesmaid
at a fashionable wedding in Sydney ; the Mde of that
occasion (now the wife of a popular solicitor) being also
present.
• • •
On Friday week, Mrs. Eowley Halloran of Peter-
sham gave an enjeyable evening party The dresses of
the ladies were mostly of a quiet description, hat never-
theless set off some charming faces and figures.
Musical selections were given, the performances of two
Bister, from Glebe Eoad. playing and singing, being of
high excellence. One of them, in black and crimson
satin, was considered the belle. The hostess was
charmingly dressed in black and cardinal silk: bo was a
local belle in black silk, with almost a garden of roses
at throat, and on her hair. The wife of a well-known
architect, in black silk trimmed with garlands of white
flowers, was noticeably nice. Dancing was protracted
for several hours.
* # •
The Owls, delighted with the success of their
Town Hall entertainment lately, have determined to
afford their lady friends an opportunity of into
the mysteries of the club. The Masonic Hall is to be
engaged for an evening next month, and ths members
intend to show what they can do in the singing, reciting,
and instrumental departments. A dance will follow,
concluding a little past midnight.
• • •
With the approach of epring, an increase is
noticed in the attendance at the Garden* on band after-
noons, and last week several hundreds of visitors
thronged the lawn and meandered up and dewn, listen-
ing perhaps, but criticising and being eritieised,
certainly. After four o’clock, the masculine contingent
arrived, and then, whithersoever ene’e footsteps turned
in quest of quiet corners an* sheltered nooks, groups
were found enjoying the beauties of nature and their
own congenial companionship, while music’s soothing
influence oast a charm around. We hied to the band-
house, and noted the throng that gathered there. A
tall form, In olive green satin, flounced with black lace,
and green velvet cavalier hat, embellished with a
greenieb, yellow plume, moved in graceful style over
the sward, in company with a pretty little figure and
face clad in navy blue, bltmk sailor hat with cluster cf
scarlet roses at side. Remarkable for simplicity and
elegance was a deeply kilted black skirt, tight fitting
velvet bodice fastened with silver buttons, and black
velvet oapo'e. Two showy dresses, one of violet velvet,
the other of blue satin and black velvet, were—to nee
an elegantly expressive phrase—" swearing at each
other ’’; or, in other words, they contrasted badly.
Very handsome was a polonaise of ruby velvet worn
over a cashmere skirt, and finished by a picturesque
crimson velvet hat and feather and la Enbens.
• • •
A number of German ladies. resident in Sydney,
intend holding a Fancy Fair in the Prince Alfred Park
Exhibition Buildings during September, in aid of a
Deutsche Kirsche. The affair promises to be a success.
* • •
On the stb instant, a large party was given at
" Ashgrove,” Ashfleld, by Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Webb ;
and few persons know how to give such nice ones.
Chinese lanterns threw their xue’low light over the
grounds, and there were plenty of comfortable seats,
which many seemed to enjoy, despite the coolness of
the air. The ballroom was beautifully decorated with
evergreens and ferns, and the music was good, though
scarcely loud enough. Dresses generally were pretty,
some very handsome. The hostess, in a rich jblaok satin
and brochd, with white unmounted roses In her hair
and bosom, fostered enjoyment by her pleasing atten-
tions to all. Specially attractive were A pale blue
satin and broche, (richly trimmed with floss lace.
gloves, wreath and shoes to match« a young lady of
AshflsU. who daneed gracefully in bright pink silk ,
sisters from Botany in ®^. e .
and coloured sashes; a peacock satin with. white Use
and wreath to match; while a pearl-white «llh, trimmed
i»ith old gold, whirled in the dance as gaily as any.
Mr H lUdgery kindly acted as Master of Ceremonies ;
his handsome wife appearing in black satin and Boarlet
poppies. The Misses Webb looked
pure white India muslin. Catering wM by theCUy Oa.
and In the early fltern when the guests sepeiateo, au
guest it was very 9
Dean Cowper, of Sydney, oelettated hie 72nd
blrthdav on Thursday last, by a social gathering in ot.
Andrew’s school.honse ; hall crowded ; presentation of
address, silver flsh-eetvice, and travelling bag.
» • •
The Warialda Subscription Ball eventuated on
the SOth June, in the Assemby
oheerfnliy decorated kv the looai bankOT smd some
Samaritan ladles. A good sapper was ana
dancing lasted from 9 till the time-homonred Bog«J
brought the end of the programme at half-past *. ■«
polkas. five waltse* ) some losing pUnl.le.
rendered mnsio. One brunette wore a moe orwm flgMod
satin and eardiaal; another, pretty and a
short pale satin and cream laoe. A young lady.
in pale blue satin and sliver fringe, wore JoMolls and
hyacinths. Another, not long a bride, was cl “
satin and shaded pink, fine jewellery. The pretty and
dimpled wearer of cream muslin-de-laine wbh red
camellias was voted belle. A Tam worth wl dow, a
Hebrew brunette, and a lively Big Eiver young
as well as two sisters from the West, were allnofice-
able. A tall brunette was graceful m Japanese cream
silk, plush, and old gold; while a pink net shut, satm
bodice, ivy leaves and moss-rose bods exmted
tion. As there was still some unexpended
the Warialda enthusiasts, they met again the same
night, and danced till after 11 o clock, all being e-
lighted with the management of the festivities.
« * *
A largo audience at the odnaert at Liverpool
in aid of ‘ho local St Luka's ohareh. oh 6tk instant. All
She performer* wore in evening eostume, ««*▼«* “ *“• J
oonldVt sing they at least looked pretty.
for the listeners, however, seme vcrf«»« w«e
numbered amongst thocompany thoniMly-dM«M'bed
stage. A Parramatta warbler (Miss Bayiy), Miss E.
Priddle (from the rectory), and Miss B abTr*
Messrs. Tucker and Armstrong, from the North Shore,
were chief favourites. Twenty items occupied the
programme, and as a eonple of encores were allowed,
the Liverpudlians could scarcely complain of not
having an equivalent for their admistlon naonoy.
» • •
Tho V eohanioa’ Institute, Coonamble, held up-
wards of on* hundred Masonic gentlemen and their
friends on the 26th ultimo, on the occasion of a very
successful ball. Invitation cards and programmes oame
from a Sydney establishment, and were much admired.
Music and catering excellent; iw w&s thei dandng of
the wives of the postmaster and doctor. The former
lady donned black and cardinal satm and silver . the
latter ecru and lavenderjiilk. Belle-ship restedlbetween a
fair and a dark matron, the young folk being out of
it.” Coonamble ladies are not a whit behind their
metropolitan sisters in matteis of dress, and, glad of an
opportunity, oame out in fine styie. Amongstthemost
noticeable toilettes were a pink satin. with silver and
pink adornments; yellow and crimson silk; and lavender
silk, trimmed with cardinal satin,
• • •
The service beginning with “ Dearly beloved
and ending with ” amazement,” was performed at All
Saints’ Church, Albion Park, on the 28bh June, when
four loving hearts were made to beat *■
Sarah Dunster (daughter of the late Mr. J. Dnnster,
of “ Hope Villa, * Shell Harbour) and Mr. John James
made one couple; her brother, Mr. W. Dunater, and
Miss Agnes King, another. The rßfc ,7® n . D *
so pretty in cream silk trimmed with lace, orange
blossom wreath, and bridal veil. Six ■
tendantsfollowed, wearing pink sateen costumes decked
with cream laee-Miss King’s grace even more apparent
than usual in a getting of cream satm and ®* B ““®f®>
orange wreath, and floating veil. Half a dozen
attired in blue sateen ornamented with cream laoe, »ot-®
ker company ; and a similar number of stalwart young
fellows acted as escorts to the ptetty
Twenty vehicles whirled the company hack to Hope
Villa,’’ where breakfast was served; and, later in the
evening, Messrs. Dnnster and James, with their re-
cently-acquired treasures, left for Melbourne, where
the " mooning ” is to be done.
• • •
The wedding of Mr. W. Buis with Miss M. Bolls
Herberts, lost month, is most gushingly described in
a Far Northern paper by an eyewitness. The bride is
“of an amiable, lively, and affectionate disposition,
combined with all that oonld be possibly wished for in
loveliness of expression and grand personnel. ms
Lordship Bishop Stanton performed the ceremony,
and the “bridegroom was eo nervous that the best man
got first kiss.” However, no doubt the bridegroom was
comforted by thinking it would be the last one he would
get. The breakfast was “ the grandest, most sumptu-
ous, and elegantly displayed ever produced in North
Queensland, and the subsequent dancing continued
till after sunrise. His Lordship tho Bishop# in return-
ing thanks for the bridesmaids, “ was intensely hot on
the single men, telling them they were very useless
members of society." Altogether it was quite a high
affair; and the description of the lovely Mrs. Buis, to
say nothing of his Lordship’s “little jar, is enough
to give brides an “ upward tendency in ths North
Queensland market." #
A plain and fancy dress ball was held in the
Cumberland Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, on the 4th
Julv. The hall, which has a fine floor for dancing,
was aecorated pleasingly. About 120 guests, mostly in
fancy costumes ; music, supplied by a Parramatta string
band, was, with one or two exceptions, good; and a
local caterer provided excellent refreshments, but tho
arrangements of tho supper room were far from com-
plete. Danoing commenced about 9, ana continued till
5 o’clock a.m. Among the noticeable characters were ■
Miss Paine becomingly dressed as an Eastern Gipsy.
A Parramatta blomds fittingly represented Snow, in a
dress of immaculate whiteness; but having pot her
pretty little No. 2 feet into boots which the cobbler had
mode on a No. 1 last, her appearance was eoaetaatly
suggestive of falling Snow. A loeal young lady was
Winter, such a winter os weald make a man love the
North role, os he could always have winter with hiss.
Mies Marine dressed accurately a» lassie Stefel, and
daneed oe mice as she looked. (That’s had grammar,
but we can’t allow grammar to isterfere whea wo re
telling facts) Asa Peasant Girl, Miss Ashcroft re-
eeived as much attention as a Sailor Lam from the
historic borough. Miss Pearce carried a Union Jack,
and dressed as Nancy Leo. It was a flag very suggestive
of another union, but of course we can’t say whether
“his" name is Jack. Colleen Bawn and Highland
Jeannie were nice; so was a petite brunette Starry
Wave, from Sydney. Her danoing and costume were
much admired. Waves ef such a character ought to
visit Liverpool oftoner. She was pronounced belle. A
married lady went as Night; Miss Dene as Sunbeam ;
and among the gentlemen were Robin Hood, Kyrle
Daly, Rory O’Moro, sailors, jockeys, &c. The affair was
decided have been very enjoyable all through.
• • •
There was a Bachelor’s Ball at Campbell town
on the 28th June. Good attendance, string band, and
supper. The district paper sent its literary staff te
“do” ths festive scene, and the staff describee
very delicately that “ the conscious pride of the
gentlemen, with heads erect and sparkling eyes,
as they marched along with the ladies ; and the
responsive looks of the ladies, and the gentle
pressure of the hand when some happy remark
was made, was indeed pleasant to witness." From
this it will be seen lhat Jeamea was a very close ob-
server—or, can it be that the inky fingers of the staff
himself suffered that delicious pressure ? Jeames
closes his powerful half-column by this interesting
sentence :—“The committee must be congratulated on
the success of their entertainment, and we hope that
the god, * Cnpid,’ will soon reward their labours by con-
ducting some of their guests to the hymeneal altar."
* * •
Tho Parramatta Alfred Cricket Club gave a
soirie dansante on Wednesday week. Good music by
Cumberland Band. Refreshments by “ our ©wn ”
M;iry Rafter. Anyone who’s been to a ball there knows
that Mary is quite the Compaguoni of Parramatta.
Sydney visitors were agreeably surprised. But tho
handsome dresses worn were too good for the miserable
all, and a deeent AM U mmoh
istera from eiabroid«w>d will,
tunes ; on© of ©ream groignuu ° . A 4Va« «*
ssarlet shaded carnattene, skirt. A
deep violet satin overskirt, with Bama
bride from Sydney in garnet sdk. tri « girl ( rom
shade of satin, was admired; so was a]£et mal .
Harris-street, Pyrmont, in pale , d dancer from
tese lace and white cashmere. A splendw a*™* g
Sydney combined white wd rnby »tii . gold
lady from Goorgo-street, West, in black velvet a
buttons, was beseiged by partners.
• • *
At Goodooga, Bokhara River, on the 29fc k Jund*
MrRoland Either, late of Willow
to Miss Hanna Crothers, eldestdnnghter ofMn y
Orothers of Henman. The bride looked fascinating
turned with satin of the same hue ; ortho-
dox wreath and tell. Dojennerenmptnonsanddancing
a *
with Bather."
« • •
A quiet, but interesting, marriage took place »»
Windsor kut week. Mr. P 3. Clarke, vren
was best man. Mr. Prank Smythe, the c
was likewise present. r The [ cf " on the
residence of the bnde s parents, the Te aojidring.
banks of the Hawkeshury. Honeymoon at Sandnng
bam.
* * * *
The “ Stiftnngs Ball.” nnder t\e anspicea of
Hie Deateoher Club, last Tuesday, was held »t
dale Booms. It was a small aflwr, not thwi
guests being present, the greater proportion, |f eon««,
Germans. Proceedings opened with the ■
March, which was prettily executed. All the oowpaav
promenaded twice round In pairs, “f,
ladies to right, fea tie me n to the Wt, the
SrsalBg an arch while the follower, all T *seed under
terming arches iu their turn, the first eenple finally
parsing through and taking the lead '
AU joined hands, walking round in nags, tlwni
each gentleman executing an elaborate to nw
partner, and finished off with a general Twenty
numbers were on the programme, the cotillon conn g
on exactly at midnight. As they warmed, the sons o«
the Faderland grew very enthusiaetio. and ev«7
Auguste observed to Hans-" Ohv 1 bud I yust Bel *
dance mit soosh a nriddy gel," Hans vr
•ponded, 11 Ash 1 hut 1 vos yust pood mein
arrm round der vaste," and so on, in tones of
which told plainly what giddy yon»ff |# JSSSSSn?”
Germans are when they get together at a 0tl * tnn * B .
affair. The dancing was very hoppy, andthe p«o«
terrific. "Taster, mein vriend vMUr. on*
one exsited Teuton, rushing with windmill arms ana
legs up to the presiding genius of the orcheetrt.
Korfl's Band strained every nerve to give flaM*.
directed by Mr. E. Needs. Bound the walls wore flags,
the German eagle, md portrait* of r W ‘““!
the Crown Prince, and the “ man of blood and iron.
Oompagnoni catered efficiently, and the
werepretty little novelties, opening fashfon.
Blue and green wore favourite hues. A tallwl
in gleaming pink, and a maiden in white satin “**
letan, trimmed with ivy leaves, were pretty. A little
brunette from up the Elver was pretty in
cardinal, and a diminutive blonde in rich cream, also
Two plnmp young ladies of North Shore, in
with flowered edging, were beantiful dancers} «d the
bellesbip rested between the lesser sister of thepstt
and a tail lady in pale blue satin, trimming a darker
shade, with a handsome face, and roses wreathed
above it.
• • •
The dress worn by Mrs. Mason (wife of the
Engineer for Existing Lines), at the Hay Bail, was
extremely handsome. It was of cream satin-de-lyon
and striped satin moire, trimmed with floss silk, luce,
and pearls A princess overdress of cream JBOire,
uniquely fashioned. and a train of *®Hn-de-lyon,
cut square with elbow sleeves. Headdress of cream
and cardinal roses and pearls. The dresses of the
Misses Mason were remarkable for their simplicity
pale pink satin, trimmed with Phrygian lace and trails
of pink heather, with a drapery of rows of lace and
satin scarf.
* * * *
On Tuesday week a dancing party was held at
one of the houses in a large terrace in Bomk^etreet
sas *ssxs. “Brss^rffrssSa
eaprioions manager of a Hobart steam
lieutenant in the Beds, haring capitulated ta pretty
Pollie H , eldest daughter of the genial and jolly
host of the chief hotel in Tasmania .. ..Some anony-
mous idiot has hoaxed the Auckland (N.Z ) Herald the
Other day with a false marriage announcement.
Apropos was it ever ascertained who hoaxed our
Herald in the same way some time ago At
Charters Towers Masonic ball on 26oh nit.* there was a
large company. The mast striking dresses worn were a
ailve-grey satin and pink plush; cardinal and cream
lace, equally admired with its vivacious little owner;
and a prune velvet with ecru lace ornamentations
Broken-hearted Hobart girls who " refused to be com-
forted" when the Nelson went away are bow verv
indignant at hearing of the Jolly dance given on board
the ship before she left Sydney harbour. The gut
buttons" swore undying love right and left, and the
fair Tasmanians, who went into the closest seclusion
on their departure, fully believed they would never
never speak to any other girls again. Oh I to* ?®*
fldionsneaaof man, but they 11 hear all about that when
they get back to Hobart The Hobart Bicycle Unh-
and here is & hint for their Sydney brethren-gaye a
successful ball at Webb’s Rooms, Hobart, on July 7 ....
The Hospital Ball came off at Herberton, Queensland,
recently, and was a mostpopnlar affair. The gentle-
men wore kid gloves. We only »ote the fact because
it’s a new fashion at Herberton. The belle was dressed
in white satin, amd she drives a whisky mill. Next
sight, the Bishop held a big tea-meeting in the hall......
At Burrowa Plat, a dancing party was held in, and for
tae benefit of, the Boman Catholic school....The second
of the Barrabri Winter Dances takes place about the
middle of this month..,,..Great preparations at Auck-
land fur the squadron. On the Nelson alone are
torty.eifht officers. It will be bard if a de-
termined Auckland girl ean’t get one of them
At Oompaguooi’s, on 4th instant, a pillar of the bnrvey
Offloe was feted and dinabred by his friends on the
occasion of his transfer te another sphere of usefulness.
Spread sumptuous, toast of the evening rapturously
received, response emotional. Mr. Tommy Callaohor
was the victim The Premier of Queensland gave a
large ball at Brisbane, on the 6th instant 4100 was
taken at a Church of England bazaar at Built Great
indignation among the "young bloods" at Forbes.
Their common object of adoration, a pretty barmaid,
was refused admittance to a dance! Another skating
and dancing party at Qlamrais Hall, to-night, 13th.
..A Bachelors* Assembly at Needs’s Booms,
Friday night, the 14th ; and same night a
private soiree at Oddfellows* Hall, Newtown
A ball was held in Boutke by gentlemen, “ who intend
to form an Oddfellows' lodge." There were difficulties,
inasmuch as some persons threatened violence because
the managing committee, desiring to keep it respect-
able, refused to sell them tickets. Police were available,
but all went well on the night The Freemasons of
Young had a ball last month, and visitors from all round
the country. In the morning, a young squatter started
to take a Yass girl home in his buggy (by permission of
her guardians). About midday, the old couple "lost
the run” of them. Just before sundown, the young
pair emerged from the gumtrees, and " fetched" the
township they left at noon; having lost—perhaps
their hearts, and—their way all the afternoon, 'turned
loose a whole afternoon with a squatter 1 Think of it,
girls of Yose
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Intercolonial Football Match (Association
Ground) July 13, 15,
Oddfellows’ Ball (.Protestant Halit July 18.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)... July 21.
Burwood Private Assembly .. July 21.
Hercules Dramatic Club 801 l (Nithsdale).., July 26.
Masonic i all, 1.0. (Town Hall) July 37.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) July 88.
Wallaroo Football Club's Sporte July 29.
University Annual Commemoration July 29.
Sydney Bicycle Club Meeting August 26.
Each maiden fair has donned her sweetest dress.
And seeks to shine in utter loveliness.
Xhe boating clerk —who, oar his ledger pores
And catches crabs (pore chap) with both his oars,
Puts on his pnmps, his curly locks anoitus, t>
And smiles on beiles from half-a-dozen Points.
The Civil Servants their appearance make,
For once they’re positively wide awake 1
It isn’t often, as the public know,
A Civil Servant is discovered so.
Here some stout merchant ponderously whirls,
Mamma’s persuaded him to “ fetch the girls,
And, while he “ spoils the set ” in public view.
She “ keeps their places ’’ at the rendezvous.
In football rig some frugal ones appear.
And soldiers bold, who fight—with bottled beer;
While strict economy we see revealed
In half-worn flannel from the oricket-fleld.
Archaic maidens, who have corkscrew curls.
With forced abandon simulate young girls.
Though both their manners and their scanty skirts
Proclaim quite plainly that they’re time-worn flirts.
Now, to the Patience” waltz or “ Pinafore,
A clever maid who barely feels the floor
Floats swiftly by, like swallow on the wing,
A little, dainty, fairy-footed thing.
There, nestling timidly against the wall,
Some shy, sweet flower ; 'tis her maiden ball.
A night of joy she will not soon forget,
Ah 1 all life’s brightness is before her yet!
O, here’s a pair 1 the ballroom's just their place,
Mark ! mark t their attitude ; ye gods 1 what grace—
“ Pumphandle style” he grips the lady’s wrist.
Puts on her shoulder-blades his clumsy fist.
He holds her vyoe-like, and she grips to him,
And so the heedless pair plunge in the *• swim.
They cling together like a ship-wrecked crew,
And—trust in Providence to pull them through.
Those varied characters, and more, we see
All gathered at thy shrine, Terpsichore.


T H
BAT E E
Sub-Lessees and Sole b
Messrs. Williamson, Garner,
TOUTH,
PIQSOLD,
YOUTH.
BIGNOLD.
YOUTH.
BIGNOLD.
YOUTH.
BIGNOLD.
YOUTH,
BIGNOLD.
YOUTH,
BIGNOLD.
10UTH,
Merr't and Harri
Great Drams
EYEHY EVEN!
Great Cast
of
Characters,
Immense
Success.
Jar
fu /AS.
Box Plan now open daily from
entrance, Castlereagh-street. Sea
days in advance, and Tickets oW
the house at Lloyd's, next the Th«
Treasurer. a
Manager Youth Combination...A
AssUtans Stage Manager... hi
OP E E A
Lessee and Manager ...
SIXTY-FOUETH 1
of
ME. PEEDEEICK: Mi
and his
COMEDY COMP,
EVEET EVENING, TILL PU
SECOND WEI
of
the great London s
JEAMEd JEAMEd ,
SCENEEY B’
GBuKQE GOED
NOTICE.—Mr. MARSHALL ha
right of producing “JEAM.ES"
colonies and New Zealand.
Fhoes as nsua
Box Flan at A. Huenertein’s, O
Acting Manager for Mr. Marshal
GAIETY T
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Baylee
Enormous preparatio
Greatest Production Ever A
WALTER EBYNC
Latest Society Sensation ii
VANITY PAT
To be produced MONDAY, J
A MAGNIFICENT COM
Treble Staff of Mecl
40 MALE AND FEMALE j
•yICT 0 R I A
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
MONDAY EVENING, 17t
and FIVE FOLLOWING
Grand production of Verdi’s
TKOVATuEE, in English, by i
Signora FABHIS,
BOX PLAN at Elvy and Co’s.
Full particulars in bills and futi
gOUTHS OPERA
STILL TO THE E
The above Favorite and Talente
on their Southern Tour, am
GOULBUEN,
TAS3,
MUEEUMBUEEA]
COOTAMU
EN ROUTE
NEW AND CHOICE BJ
Address: BULLETIN
M E -
. J. WHITTINGTO
AND MRS. JA
(MISS MAESTON I
Arrangements completed for «m
June Ist, 1882, under the m
MESSES. GAENBB, WILLIAMS
THEATRE ROTA]
OPEN FOR ENGAG]
Will ...( i j.
TO THE OPERATIC AN!
PROPESSIOI
NEW OPERA. H
WELLESLEY STREET, Al
Sole Proprietor, H. N.
f Macnlfioent Buildinsr is i
JL THE MODEL Opera Horn
M* Largest am A Meet Commodh
Erected o« lastest model*, it will 1
•very Modern Comfort and Lnrui
tbe ourtsin) appertaining 1 to
Theatres in tbe Old and Now Wer
fc perfect. AM parte of the Hon
and egress from broad, Kght, and t
precaution bitt been taken to sar
ease of ffro. and the Auckland Oltv
inspeeted and higmv commended i
to that end. Magnificently and
Its Luxurious Private D
•Meten Stafl*. together with Its
Stniis Aeeomedatten, are featnrea
Colonial Theatres. The Opera *
by the Wllfiamswa Opera Com pi
commencing from 23rd May next,
and Agemte* " Akara," and OomMt
to the Proprietor Air terms
D
E A
MAT I C
98 ELIZABETH S']
Under the Managed
MR. JOSEPH SIJ
Whose many years experience In
fession, both as actor and mnaagoi
him as an instructor. The satis
presented to MB. SIMMONS by 1
a short period, have achieved gi
Colonial and London Stage, must
those studying under bis diroctioi
PRIVATE LESSONS IP
<®“ Tbs Pupils meet every
SATURDAY EVENINQS for den
en application from 10 to 12 and 2
TOWN HAL
MAIN HALL OPEN FOR 1
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, QA
Applications for engagements
EBEfIE
TO THEATRICALS ANJ
THE TOOWOOMBA SCHOOI
been now thoroughly renov
tinge, Ac., erected, can be engage
night.
THOMPSON’S OOLOSSAI
ZULU WAR
Public Hall, Oroymouth, 21th M
Wanganui and Napier to follow;
Abbott’s New Theatre, Auckli
weeks.
Houses packed to snSooatic
ELECTRICITY IS
Yes 1 When properly appliec
THE MAGI
The only Cnre for RHEUMAI
All Nervous Affec
Requires no Acids, no Attention,
SEND PARTICULARS OF CAS
JOHN
17 CHANGE A
PITT STREET NORI
OPPOSITE No. 2 corn
fTIENDERS are Invited for th
I WOOL WAREHOUSES for
and CO., LIMITED, at Pyrmon
namely, one in Harris-street, abon
ef 5 stories s and one in Pyrmont-
by lOC feet, also *t five stories.
Separate tenders to be given for
may be for the whole, or in three p
No. 1 for Stone work, No, 2 Ironwo
Joiners, Plumbing, Painting, Ac.
Plans and specifications can be e
26, between the hours of 10 and 4
of the undersioned, to whom te
dressed up to 12 O’CLOCK AT K
JULY 21.
CROSS'S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DEOPS WILL CUBE INDIGESTION.
Sold in bottles, 3s. 6d. and 4s «d.. by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viot. ; M.H P.5.,Gt.8.,
GAWLEE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT. BROTHERS. HOFFNUNO & CO.
u ndee section y., act 532.
art union.
PURCHASE of the BUNOAEEE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE.
by Subscription.
SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
0t the fQII Tala# ot *10.090.
i i i l7 • s guaranteed, cash if preferred.
t Jl' I st . pr,l!e *4009 ( Lot 3 3rd prize £i«n
Lot 2. 2nd pmo mo | Lot 4. 4th pri^ZJm
Lota 5 to 9, Prizes of £l6O each.
Lot 10, 1 Pmo of £5O.
Lots 11 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
The 2l **? la °» 100 P«*es ef £4 each.
W S° mpe i le , d *° extpl ’<l the time of
arawwg to the first day of Angnst, 1882. Notwith.
standing this announcement, the drawing will nosi
Me e s y ab^oHbed 66 /or d "In ** V9n days after tho
are sußscribed for. All unsuccessful applicants will
have their money returned per retnrn of post. This is
™ °P. port , uul ‘Y ever offered to win a sub.
for^L 1 P ’ f not a argo and inde P«ndent fortune,
En A rouhn 8 7S ET ? R - PEES SE. no. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
rjIHE BLACK CURRANT BALSAM
Acts likoa oharm ia every kind of Cough.
A Single Dose gives Relief at once, and procures
Refreshing Sleep.
MADE ONLY BY SENIOR,
Chemist to His Exoellenoy.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur
„ New H ® me or adding to the comforts oi
your present Home, yon will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CEEERY CO.
who will furnish houses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
ear Note the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M'OEEEEY, & CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
606 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
J. THOMAS.
dfid' £
BILLIA RDTABLE MAKER.
153 BATHURST STREET.
CUES, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS, &o.
w.
H. PA
PIANOFORTE WAKE]
352 Gsorge-streel
fit'vr.
m:Mrn
zm
k.
PIANOFORTES, PIAN(
JUST EECEIVED. JUST 1
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE
A splendid stock to select
EVERY RENOWNED B
AMERICAN ORGi
By the celebrated mi
W , BELL AND
Which gained first and sp<
)VER ALL OTHE
at the
LATE SYDN NTERNATIONA
H A R MON IU
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther KENOW
in all the various mod
A FEW GOOD SECOND.HA
at low prices, now in s
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s,
Soafleto's, Kirkman’s, and Hand
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and Co
W. H. PA I.
382 GEORGE STEE
OPPOSITE WYNTAE
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. P. DeCODRCY 3
(Late Depnty-Chairman of the Mir
Sooth Wales).
Acthob op thb “ Minbrs’ Hamdt
MINING EXPEET
AEBITEATOE, ADVISEE, A
MINEEVA CHAMBI
126 PITT STE
(Near King-street.
MINING PEOPEETIEB EEPO
LEG AT, MAUAfIPRSHTPH TT
BLACKET AND DAYT,
118 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOE
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
kt
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN'S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
QUALITIES .
A
A A
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
T-fT.?r M A o"?T w,ll r, £ B ;™i?cut"s. * Ny


James’ MARTIN & Compy,
386 Gebrge Street
SYDNEY,
Late MARTIN & PAIN, *
The Leading Firm in the IMPLEMENT and
MACHINERY Trade.
We invite correspondence from intending
Purchasers of every class of Implements and
Machinery, and will post Illustrated Cata-
logues with description and Price Lists of
everything required.
Our stock is the Largest and Best Selected in
the Colonies, Comprising
Corn Shelters Single, Double, and Power
Corn Huskers on best American Pattern
Maize Drills The best pattern in America
Corn Crackers From 255. upwards
Chaff Cutters For Hand, Horse, or Steam
Horse Powers For 1,2, 3,4, or 5 Horses
Steam Engines For 2 to 20 Horse Power
AMD EVERYTHING REQUIRED IN THE yj
FARM, FIELD, AND STATION.
Write to us for everything , o ■<s
James MARTIN & Compy,, Sydney
ra m
■
C.
4cr l/RiNG JE
3. lI.HUNTER STREt
SILVER WATCHES
X. 4.10
SYDNEY
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
_L I .
GOLD WATCHES
FROM X. 3.10.
IJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
REAL GOOD BATH.
V*
vov,
Om
MU’ IN EVERY WA I
TET ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY
OYt® *
COMPLETE. _
” ■ —' FOE
BATHS,
- CUTTING ,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
TAILOR,
p
ÜBL I C N
The IMPORTERS of the TAEP
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosec
endeavours to deceive the public '
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for th
| BRANDS ol PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED t<
bearing
" THE TAEPING MIXTURE.
MIXTURE.
Every packet bean the signatt
thus—
Clifford\ Love, &
Those who are desirous of havin
TEA, must be certain that evei
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTER
to take inferior teas, which for th
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A
MIXTURE ABE OUAJ
PURE TEAS
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH
WHOLESALE GROCER AN
TORE STREET, ST
JOHN D
IMPORTER O
Plumbers* and Engineers* Brassv
Gaeflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers* Brine I
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe, 1
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
MOST PLEASANT
A
N
D
S
A
F
E
8
T
HOUSEHOLDERS,
TAKE NOTE OP THIS.
WHEN PURCHASING YOUR GROCERIES
ask for
PANTER AND PARRY’S
NEW EXTRACT OP SOAP
AND BEE THAT YOU GET IT.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
BEST Washing and Disinfectant Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Crockery, Paint, Glass, and every Household
purpose. Used and recommended in the
Laundry at Government House, Mr. Sey-
mour (Inspector of Nuisances), Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and by all competent
judges to be the best article manufactured,
REMEMBER!
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OF ALL GROCERS.
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
D
I
S
I
N
F
E
C
T
A
N
IN THE WORLD.
PURE COCOA,
"With superfluous fat
extracted,
THE
S
£
s
y.
,CJ
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage
Invaluabh
for invalids, 01
those who oannoi
drink the thick, heavj
) liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
BLACK AND COLOURED BROCADED
VELVETEENS, 20 DIFFERENT COLOURS
at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
varjing in price from Is lid to 7s 61 per yard.
"ItTYRA’S JOURNAL” says : -The * MANCU-
It I NIUM’ Velveteen (called from the Ancient
name of the City of Manchester when held by the
Ronuns) is superb, soft, and brilliant, of pure black
Colour, fuller and deeper thanORDiNART velveteens,
which err on the side of blueness, and therefore match
WITH NO OTHER BLACK MATERIAL.
T The ‘MANCUNIUM’ is so rich and full in tone it
CAN BE USED WITH ALL CLASSES OF FABRICS, Which Will
be of importance to many.”
SEE THEM. EXAMINE THEM.
*'LA MODE ILLUSTRE” says:—" Velours ‘MAN-
CUNIUM’ Une imitation parfaite du plus riche
Velours de Lyon se rencontre dans un nouveau velours
brevetd sous le titre de MANCUNIUM.
“Ce Velour* est hrillant d'aspeot; laprofondeur ot
la durability de la couleur en sont remarquablas, tandis
quo pa r une oombinaison de plusieurs autres quality
exoollentes il ost sans rival. La teiutnre du Mancunium
eat garautie solido ; jamais I’expssition a Fair n’en fora
alti'ror la couleur; voila une raison suflisante ponr qu’on
le choisisse pour remplacer le Velours do Lyon.”
ASK THE ASSISTANTS TO LET YOU SEE THEM.
“THE LADIES’ GAZETTE OF FASHION” says ;
—” The best recently produced is the 1 MANCUNIUM,’
which seems to have made immense way among fash-
ionable people. It possesses the suppleness of Lyons
Velvet and power of forming those charming folds
which make the depth and richness of Velvets a cos-
slant delight to the painter’s eye. For those Ladies
who require an evening dress of Velvet we recommend
the adoption of the ‘ MANCUNIUM.’ ”
DIFFERENT COLOURS,
ALL PRICES
at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
Remember this is the “Brickfield Hill” Hordern.
Furniture, furniture furniture.
Cheapest House in Sydney forFurnisLing. Prices
not to be equalled anywhere in the city. H. LEVY
and CO., Ceutial Furnishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33,
Park-street.
Time payment, time payment time
PAYMENT —H. LEVY and CO, Central Fur-
nishing Arcade, 29, 31, amt 33, Park-street. Houses
furnished from £lO to £lOOO on weekly and monthly
payments N.B.—All goods marked in plain figures,
and no deception.
TTIOR SALE, PIANOFORTES, in handsome walnut
lj cases, inlaid, by Erard, and other best makers.
Tricord iron frame, wi:h ceitifioate (guaranteed), to be
had at English cost, on time payment H. LEVY and
CO., Central Furnishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-
street.
FOB SALE, Handsome Drawing room SUITES, in
walnut frames, from £lO. H. LEVY and CO.,
entral Furnishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Z 7 O W L E E’S POTTERY
JLJ
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
bh
GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 15s.
M. QOULSTON’S SUITS, .£4
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. .£4 4s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOE FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERT MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
jo a
Business
PROMENADE
Travel! in. 6
QUALI T Yyacht in G
DttrJlHlity- Picnicm^
UNSURPASSED CriCKGIIIIjJ
“Standard” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto. Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto. Extra Long'
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto ~T* ...
FEAPES and SHAW, ”
P E A P E 8 & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
