

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 113
SYDNEY. SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 1882.
Price—3d
%\t bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 1882.
First Fruits.
The refusal by Mr. Dillon, stipendiary magis-
trate, to grant licenses for dancing and music to
publicans controlling pleasure grounds, may bo
regarded as among the first fruits of the stand
taken by Thr Bulletin in the interests of the
community with respect to the regulation of holi-
day picnics. Mr. Dillon’s duty on the occasion
has been, no doubt, an uncomfortable one. In one
instance it has involved a considerable interference
with the intended enjoyments* of a large, respect-
able, and influential Society, with which he has
been in times past on terms of close relationship.
Still, few persons wi'l now question the propriety
of his decision. The resolution with which the
magistrate brushed away the side issues by which
it was sought to influence his judgment reflects
credit upon himself, and at the same time operates
to revive that confidence in the singleness of the
magisterial purpose, which, unhappily, the
vagaries of packed benches of the unpaid justices
had, for a long time precedent, undermined and
shaken. There is little doubt that had the old
regime still prevailed when these applications
came before the bench, there would have been
present to take part in its deliberations a contin-
gent of publicans’ justices, supported possibly by
■8 quotum of Hibernian J.’sP., which h‘,d rallied
with the deliberate purpose of overbearing opposi-
tion, and winning favor from the persons upon
whom a refusal would inflict a curtailment of
their anticipated enjoyments.
# # •
It is unfortunate, however, that as the law now
stands, the discipline falls upon the wrong
shoulders, and that in order to prevent riot-
ous excesses it r fs requisite to veto innocent
gaieties. Dancing, considered separately, is.
not in any way objectionable. There are,
we are aware, a certain number of well-meaning
persons who rank dancing among the minor
sins. Such people are entitled to have their con-
scientious objections treated —as all conscientious
objections should be—with respect. No one
endued with a proper appreciation of the right of
private judgment would for a moment dream of
requiring them to join in “ the poetry of motion.”
But the majority may claim equal freedom to dis-
port in the dance. Music, again, is not only harm-
less but absolutely refining. It is only when
combined with too easy access to intoxicating
liquors, and in instances where thoroughly efficient
control cannot bo exercised by responsible persons,
acting, in the case of young people, in loco
parentis, that dancing and music become danger-
ous to decency and morality. Now, provocations
to over indulgence in stimulants, are, even when
detached from dancing and music, inimical to
order and decent enjoyment. If there be one
thing harder tq procure than another within the
propincts of a groggery, it is water to drink. Mr
Dillon was probably quite well aware that,
regarding things separately, there was no rea-
son why holiday makers should not enjoy their
dance and their music. His difficulty was that no
power is vested in him to separate the harmless
from the mischievous element. All that ho could
do was to refuse his consent to the injurious com-
bination. The evil brought under his notice
by the formal objections lodged by the police was
only avertible by the one plan—that which he
adopted.
* * *
We certainly think it is a thousand pities
that the law does not afford magistrates—now
that Stipendiaries, in lieu of the Great Unpaid,
administer the law—a wider discretion, and the
power to refuse licenses to sell intoxicating liquor
on public holidays, as well as to refuse licenses
permitting dancing and music. What a public
boon it would have been, for example, could Mr.
Dillon have replied the other day to the appli-
cants, “ Yes, ,as much dancing and music
as you please, but—no sale of intoxicants.”
Of course, there are persons who could not with
propriety or safety be licensed even to have
dancing and music at their establishments. But
the operation of an elastic law, administered
by intelligent and responsible magistrates,
such as the metropolitan stipendiaries seem
likely to prove themselves, would operate
in the way of driving unsuitable, unscru-
pulous persons from the charge ot import-
ant public resorts. It would not pay to have a
large holiday-ground in the hands of a person
‘ „known to the police,” and unable, on account
of the past history of his management of the place,
to get a license either for selling liquor or for
having dancing.
* * #
It will be a desperate mistake if the law bo not
Itered in this respect. At present, the only
attempt at prevention of excesses and rowdyism
at open-air resorts on public holidays is by refus-
ing to permit frolics innocent in themselves.
There are two or three methods far preferable.
The fUst of these is to make a special thing of
recreation grounds to which liquor-selling pre-
mises are attached, and grant licenses only to
persons of really unimpeachable, or rather of
ascertained, good character. But this plan is not
practicable. Considering that administrative con-
trol has utterly collapsed under the responsibility
of selecting magistrates, and even policemen, of
unimpeachable character and genuine trust-
worthiness, it would be vain to trust to that
broken reed to sift out a publican—although
there are some such—who would be inacces-
sible to the temptation of selling aa much
liquor as possible and winking at, if not encourag-
ing, any immorality which would bo profitable to
himself. It is impossible to lose sight of the fact
that from a publican’s point of view, riot moans
“ shouts all round,” and order signifiis “a glass
of water, please.” bi-order generally goes arm
in arm with profuseness. Vice on a holiday is
champagne and chicken. Virtue i*a but ginger-
beer and a sandwich.
« • •
Another plan would be for the State to provide
public recreation grounds and manage them its-
self, sending on all public festivals a respon-
sible officer with the fullest powers to encourage
sport, while insisting on sobriety, decency, and
order. But probably the most feasible plan would
bo to treat public l houses with pleasure grounds
and dancing-rooms attached, by special enactment;
to require- the- .lessee to apply not only for the
right to have dancing and music, but >for the
right to sell liquor, on any proclaimed public
holiday. This would bo simply to turn the exist-
ing practice inside out. At present the publican
has to solicit leave to have dancing and music,
both harmless things in any house but his. Under
the new plan he would have to close his bar when-
ever he threw open his dancing room to allcomers,
unless he had a perfectly clean record in the
Police Court. 1 here are many people who would
go much further than this, and refuse alto-
gether to license houses where there are plea-
sure grounds. But it would not do to go too fast.
The Temperance bodies have done good work in
N.S. Wales. Thoythemselves provide, during the
week, attractions and entertainments in their
lodges, which practically fight against the music-
hall and dancing-hall seductions, of which the
former luckily is not acclimatised as it exists
in London. The latter is, however, a detestable
cancer in the heart of this city.
• * •
We hold that—contrary to the popular scoff—
you can, in a great degree, make men sober
by Act of Parliament. You can go thus far, that
you can prevent inducements to become drunk
from being thrust at every turn under a man’s
nose. 1 n fact, wo think it may be almost said
right out that you pan, by Aot of Parliament,
prevent a man from getting drunk. You might,
it is true, fail with a brute.
* * •
The Temperance bodies need, however, to
have regard to moderation, lest they invoke a re-
action. The community, as a whole, is fairly
disposed to assist in repressing the undue influ-
ence, and almost insolent predominance wh ; ch the
liquor interest had of late years begun to assume.
But, further than this, the majority of men will
refuse to be carried. There are many poople
who know their own minds and are not teetotal-
lers. They have marched with the teetotal party
thus far of their own free will, but will not go a
step further, and, if anything like tyranny were
attempted, would decisively turn back and join
the other aide. The cause of sobriety and decency
is a growing one. It gains aa intelligence is
diffused and man humanized. The more hurry
that is attempted, the less will bo the speed.
Progress must he quiet, firm, but, above all,
modest and gradual.
Mr. John Dawson.
The portrait which we give in this issue is that of
a well-known member of the legal profession in
this colony. IVI r. John Dawson is not only a repre-
sentative man in his profession, but a gentleman of
wide social influence earned by forty years
of upright, and useful citizenship. Mr. haw-
son was born at Great Grimsby, Lincolnshire,
and is a scion of one of the oldest English
families, whoso crestis emblematic of loyal service
in the twilight of our history. Mr. Dawson, after
passing through a course of tho usual educational
studios, entered the office of Mr. Acton, an influen-
tial solicitor in the town of his birth, and remained
studying hia profession till his family resolved on
leaving for Australia. Arriving in Sydney, he
entered tho office of Mr. Rodd, and afterwards
became a partner in the firm. Ihon Mr. Rodd
retired and Mr. Dawson continued the business,
with the result of the establishment, some few
years ago, of the influential firm now known aa
Messrs. J ohn Dawson and ?on. Few men have giyen
such a practical demonstration as Mr. Dawson of
the real duties and obligations which appertain to
the legal profession. He has been offered a seat
in the Legislative Council, but acting under the
influence of the Quaker strain which has boon
introduced into his family, has preferred to occupy
the leas ostentatious position o' a private citizen.
Twelve months ago, when Mr. Dawson was about
visiting England, he was banqueted by many
genuine friends, and hi* return in good health was
a matter for general congratulation. 't
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Those Rascally Irish Again.
The contributor to tho S.M. Herald of “Odds and
Ends from the Old Country ” has been struck by the
distressing circumstance that in England “ ruffianly
assaults are alarmingly common, and attempts at mur.
derous mischief for mischief's sake” extremely frequent.
These are the writer’s facts. Now note his inferences.
“ The infection of crime is diffused from its Irish centra
by the subtle influence of the Press, so widely that it
seems to pervade the atmosphere of the three king-
doms." Again: “In those oases we may fairly racop.
nise a Fenian taint in the air.” Having thus satisfac-
torily fixed the responsibility of British crime upon
Irish shoulders, this lucid reasoner goes on to particu-
larise. In England, be says, “ post-office thefts are not
uncommon,” and ho particularises the theft of £20,000
worth of diamonds from the Hatton Gardens office as a
big thing specially attributable to the “ Fenian atmos-
phere,” which condition of the air ha likewise blames
for tho robbery of £60,000 of jewels from Lord A.
Trevor- The Irish influence upon the atmosphere,
this valuable.co'rrespondent also holds responsible for
the crime of Messrs. May, Mair, and Edwards, iho
" respectable” solioitorsllately convicted of corruption
at English Parliamentary elections. Upon these con-
viots he lavishes that sympathy which he refuses to the
ignorant peasants of Ireland, maddened by centuries of
wroqg and of landlord’s exactions. The Herald's
moralist is quite indignant that respectable, educated,
deliberate beyond-the-temptation-of-poverty criminals
like these corrupters of parliamentary representation
should have been made to endnre the ignominy of “the*
handcuffs, tho prison van, the hardships of bed, (board
and lodging, which they share with offenders of tho
lowest stamp.” What sort of teaching is this that the
Herald offers for tho instruction of thy public? A
parcel of ignorant peasants driven to outrage by hard-
ship and injustice, create an atmosphere of crime which
infects society. Yet educated, well-to-do scoundrels
deliborately undermining the very foundation of the
British Constitution, and scattering temptations to be
corrupt broadcast around thorn, are deserving of
nothing but sympathy and commiseration 1
“A Christian People!”
An inquiry was, the other day, held at Cooktown into
the alleged ownership of a poor little black gin, aged
about ten, concerning whom two beohe-de-mer captains
had quarrelled. When they fell out, Mr. Howard St.
George stepped in, to protest against what looked like
an unholy ownership of flesh and blood. A witness
who. though in the employ of one of the captains, did*
not consider himself bound to go in for “ blackbird-
ing,” averred that Iw had received the little black waif
from hor parents; while the captains both said they
found the poor wretch hungry, cold, and naked; that
they fed and clothed her; that she was willingly con
signed to them by her savage parents; and that they
intended to “ make a present of hor ” to respectable
MR. JOHN DAWSON.


riends. As a matter of fact, up North, black children
are often sold by their parents for a bottle of rum.
And equally as a matter of fact, there are people up
2forth who, when they want a little black boy to use as
a horse-catcher and general slave, or a little black girl,
to serve as a playmate for their children, go out and
give the horse-spearing parents, not rum from a bottle,
but lead from a snider. In the remote diggings of the
IFar North, yon often find an unfortunate little black
boy, who has been orphaned by the murdering whites,
•used as a kind of court jester at a public-house. Per-
baps he is but four years old, and recollects nothing of
the circumstances, coincident with the assassination of
his father and the violation and murder of his mother,
•under which civilization and Christianity came to the
aboriginal camp. “ hat name belongah you ? asks
one of a knot of drunken idlers, “haycock” (the
yatron saint of the North, by the way), replies the
black boy. “Where your father sit down?” “Oh,
they bin shoot him.” “ Who bin shoot him P" “Oh,
bin shoot him.” And so the fun goes on.
Then a long string of native troopers files into the
township, one of them with a crying black baby at his
gaddle-bow. Whence did this child come? Ask the
crows, who fatten on the rotten, bullet-riddled car-
cases of black men and women in the scrub on the
Jrange.
British Empire, North and South.
Me. Henry Eichaed, member of the House of Com-
mons for Merthyr Tydvil, has written an earnest letter
to the English Press with referenoe to the grant to a
company of British merchants of a large territory in
Borneo. He says that this grant embraces one-third
of the island, and, taking the whole area at 290,000
square miles, we get, roundly, a little less than 97,000
square miles, the consideration for which seems to be
about £5OOO a year to the Sultans of Brunei and Sooloo,
and another worthy. The population is not large
relatively to the size of the island—only a fraction
over six to the square mile—but considering that a
tropical vegetation covers a considerable portion of the
surface, this is not to bo wondered at. The Dutch have
secured a (Dutch) foothold on the soil, and occupy, it is
stated, most of the eastern and southern coasts, as
well as a part of the western; so that the land is not
new to European dominion. Mr. Eichaed seems to be
chiefly exercised about the probabilities of war, and of
the introduction of opium and slavery. But by a
recent cablegram we are informed that the English
Government intend to supervise the interests of the
natives as to the latter eventuality. It would be well if
a similar guarantee were given as to the introduction
of opium, for if it will pay the trader to sell opium to
the Bomese, he will introduce it; that is as sure a
thing as can be stated. Mr. Eichaeds, with a per-
spicacity scarcely to be expected from the mover of a
disarmament motion, regards war as next to a certainty
with the Bornese. While he appeals to us on the
natives’ behalf as to slavery and opium and drink,
we can only show him our ledger, wherein there
promises a substantial balance at the credit side
to be realised by those means; and what can weigh
against this ? But when he shows us the probability of
encountering a race brave and cool, and subtle as their
own serpents, that’s another matter and must be con-
sidered. It is quite certain that British interests will
cress native ones somewhere; very probable that they
will cross Dutch or Spanish ones somewhere, and a
mere traders’ quarrel may drag England into annexa-
tion and Malay dominion and all sorts of complications.
But we may| expect all these aspects will be fully pre-
sented to the parties chiefly concerned, viz., the English
themselves, by the association formed in London to
watch the proceedings of Mr. Dent and his co-workers.
It is difficult to understand why the English should
thrust themselves into Borneo at so much risk while a
gracious land is waiting for railroads and population
and a judicious investment of capital, to yield its
hoarded treasures. Western Australia belongs to the
English, there is no fear of Boorish and Spanish inter-
ference. and little of subtle and vindictive natives.
Western Australia offers a climate vastly more suited to
the English nature than the tropical one of Borneo.
It comprises every degree of latitude, and is suitable
for every variety of product. It is now rather a gaol
than a colony, a stall of English guarding a few
prisoners, and a few hardy pioneers of “ new men and
other days." Here, we would say, is scope for colonisa-
tion, here is room for the straitened millions of English
men and women; here is a bank for the hoarded
millions of English money. And our remarks apply not
less to the other lands of these golden young Australias
than to Western Australia, the most neglected of the
lot.
“Once More, of your Charity, Good Sirs.”
Australia’s sympathies are easily awakened in the
cause of suffering and distress. Her efforts to amelior-
ate the victims of the Indian and Irish famines, and of
the Jew-baiting persecutions, testify eloquently to this
fact. Many other instances of prompt national benevo-
lence might also be readily pointed out. We are again
in the presence of a mighty suffering. America, “ the
land of the free, and the home of the brave,” is the
theatre of the present touching spectacle. The whole
valley of the Mississippi has been inundated with de-
structive floods. Even the precise, terse language of
the wires conveys a terrible picture to the mind’s eye.
Over “80,000 people have been rendered completely
destitute, and thousands of others homeless.” There
is a world of fearful significance in this homely sen-
tence. Perhaps America has been before the minds of
no Australian people lately so much as the people of
New South Wales. Our Premier has been advertising
us, and endeavouring to promote our commerce with
the States. Here, then, is an additional and secondary
incentive for us to sympathise with the troubles of the
great American nation. But, above all, humanity
demands of a prosperous people that they should ever
be willing to give of their abundance to those whom
sudden calamity overwhelms. Let New South Wales
be the first in the field to start a foreign fund in aid of
the sufferers by the Mississippi floods. America is a
rich country, but her sources will be none the less
severely tried by this gigantic misfortune.
Law and Justice.
In the libel case of Williams versus the Anars pro-
prietary, tried at the Supremo Court of Victoria last
week, a fresh illustration of a growing evil was afforded.
The Judge who presided, although the youngest man on
any Australian Supremo Court Bench, showed that
oven he had Income saturated with technical law that
the intrinsic merits of a case failed to make due impres-
sion upon him. This is a common failing among j udges,
as recent events in our own Supreme Court have helped
to show. Judges, after a life spent in ministering, as
barristers, to the ever increasing intricacies and trick-
cries of legal trickery, are but too liable to find them-
selves, when elevated to the Bench, unable to shake off
the habits, feelings, and instincts of the past. They
have become ministers and slaves of law, a merely
human and frightfully corrupted melange, and do not
properly appreciate that, while their decisions must
indeed be ruled by the letter of the law, it is expected
that they shall be influenced by the spirit of Justice—a
heaven-bom and incorruptible cssense. In the libel
action referred to, the defendants pleaded justification
and public interest as to part of their article, and as to
the rest, which embodied a false accusation, fully with-
drawn before the action, that apology and reparation
had been made. The defendants were content to rest
their case on the testimony of the plaintiff’s own
witnesses. This, which to any ordinary man would be
strong presumption of innocence, the judge endeavoured
to turn to defendants’ disadvantage, giving the extra-
ordinary ruling that it was not enough that defendants’
case had been established by plaintiff’s witnesses! The
jury, fortunately, were men of resolution and sense.
They disregarded the technical ruling of the lawyer on
the Bench, and to his infinite chagrin and confusion,
gave the verdict which the plain requirements of
justice seemed to demand. This is a strange spectacle
—a jury doing justice in spite of one of the highest
nominal ministers. 'We trust that there will be more
of such juries heard of, and that the legal devil, which
has taken possession of some Australian judges, will
yet be exercised by the influence of wholesome public
opinion.
The case of young Dr. Lamson is a horrible one. He
married a Miss John, who had a little money, and when
that was gone, to get more gold he coolly murdered her
brother, Percy Malcolm John, a paralytic, crippled
schoolboy, by poisoning him with aconite. The unfor-
tunate lad possessed a few thousands, which at his
death reverted to his sister, the wife of prisoner. Mrs.
Lamson naturally loved her brother; she, woman-like,
doubtless loved and trusted her unworthy husband.
She has now to choose between the vindication of her
brother’s murder and the love she bore for the mur-
derer. It will surprise nobody should she elect to
believe to the last in Dr. Lamson, who has been sen-
tenced to be hanged. Mrs. Lamson, so the papers tell
us, is young and pretty. The cynic, while fully appre-
ciating the awful nature of her present situation, may
find comfort in the reflection that, one of these days,
she may, enriched with money bought with the blood of
her brother and her husband, go again to the hymeneal
altar with a light heart. Such is life 1
4
James Barker, William Forsyth, William Hicks,
and Dr. Horton, charged with conspiring to defraud
the Australian Mutual Provident Society, by insuring
the life of the phthisical Weatherhead for a few thou-
sands, and then sending him to Melbourne to die, have
been committed for trial, at Adelaide. A Mrs. Little-
wood was the instrument of their detection. Hicks,
who represented himself as a doctor, lodged at her
house with the dying man, whose life was worth so
little and yet so much. Hicks tore up letters bearing
on the subject of the fraud, and threw the fragments
into the fender. She pasted the pieces together, read
the documents, and, admittedly with a view to making
money, communicated the contents to the Insurance
Company, with whom she bargained keenly. The pro-
verbial curiosity of woman is here manifested—the same
world-old curiosity which caused good mother Eve to
“damn us all for the bite of a golden pippin.” Mrs-
Littlewood said that in pasting together the letters
she only wanted to know what Mr. Hicks’ less
was." Volumes couldn’t express more. Young men
with large correspondence and inquisitive landladies
may perhaps take the hint.
4.
“We read that everybody in Victoria considers himself
able to fill the position of a police magistrate. Since
Ministers announced that some new appointments
were to be made, they have been flooded with applica-
tions.” The Victorian Premier should take a leaf from
the book of Sir Charles Cowpee, who, when Colonial
Secretary, was pestered by fellows wanting billets. Sir
Charles used to listen attentively to their stories. When
they had finished, he would make a dive for his coat-
tails, and produce a huge packet of letters. “ See here!”
he would exclaim—” I have even ahundred applications
for the hangmanship, all sent in because it was
rumored last week old Elliott (the “ finisher” of the day)
was about to resign. Every applicant sends a good
character, and is recommended either by a member of
Parliament, or one of my election committee. I’ll have
either to appoint a hundred hangmen or offend five
hundred people. Now, yon say you are a good arithme-
tician. Just go and figure out this problem. If there
are one hundred applicants for the hangmanship at £3
per week, how many will there be for a clerkship of
Petty Sessions at £250 ? And, assuming that 100
would-be hangmen are recommended by 450 influential
citizens, wanted the number of testimonials which will bo
produced by the 800 applicants for the Police Magistracy
you have in your eye. Call to-morrow with the answer.
Good-day to you, sir.”
Imprisonment of Messrs. Haynes and
Archibald.
A public meeting to express sympathy with Messrs.
Haynes and Archibald, at present incarcerated in Dar-
linghurst gaol, under circumstances well-known to the
whole colony, was held on Thursday evening in the
Temperance Hall, at the convention of His Worship,
Mayor of Sydney, upon the petition of a number of j
loading citizens. The hall was uncomfortably but re-
presentatively crowded. Apologies for inability to at-
tend were announced from Mr. John Woods, Dr. Boss,
M.P., Alderman Young, Bev. Zachary Barry, Messrs.
J. P. Abbott, M.P., Angus Cameron, Hon. J. B. Watt,
Messrs. Joseph Mitchell, M.P., and William Teece,
MP.
Mr G. H. Eeid, M P., moved the first resolution as
follows“ That in the opinion of this meeting, the
article in the Bulletin relating to Clontarf, and the
nublicity given thereto by the proceedings at the trial
of the Supreme Court action for libel, arising out of
the same, have been of tthe greatest service in the
cause of morality and good order. (Applause.) And
that this meeting, heartily sympathising with Messrs.
Hornes and Archibald in their imprisonment for the
costs of the trial alluded to, resolves to inaugurate a
movement for their release." The speaker delivered
a most eloquent address on this motion, was fre-
quently cheered, and resumed his seat amidst a per-
fect furore of applause. He said that the vast
assemblage present had come to lift up its voice as
one man in recognition of the services rendered to
this community by the fearless exposure of the im-
morality which had prevailed at public picnics in the
neighbourhood of this city. They owed the exposure
to Messrs. Haynes and Archibald. (Cheers.) It wras
one which sent a thrill of horror and disgust through
the whole community. The revelations were ua-
pleasant, but they were a more real and lasting service
to the people of this country than all the after-dinner
Batteries which had been said to them by their most dis-
tinguished orators. (Cheers.) Ho referred to the
“ ruffianly excesses and unbridled license" exposed by
the article, and added that “no sensational exaggera-
tions were needed to add to the infamy of the scene.”
One of the most awful features was the extrema youth*
fulness of many of the offenders against public decency.
He then proceeded:—“ It was not until Mr. Traill as
a writer, and Messrs. Haynes and Archibald as news-
paper publishers and proprietors, came forward, that
we had the cloak torn from all this rampant and disgust-
ing vice,which had been practised in our midst under the
guise of innocent enjoyment. Mr. Traill is a gentleman
of high ability and sterling character. (Cheers ) He is
no sensational penny-a-liner. He wrote of what he saw,
and can we wonder that what he saw stirred within him
the warmest feelings; of horror and indignation ?
(Cheers.) Well, the calm graphic power which dis-
tinguished his mind showed it was reliable. Witness
after witness, in the highest Court of the land, proved
that Mr. Traill, ia the picture he had drawn, had only
depicted the truth, horrible and revolting as it was,"
(Cheers.) He felt sure that, when Parliament met, the
libel law which allowed imprisonment for a farthing
damages would be wiped off the Statute-book for ever.
(Cheers.) “There is” (Mr. Reid continued) “no disgrace
about being in gaol in such a cause. (Cheers.) The
glory of their (Messrs. Haynes and Archibald's) services
is heightened by the shadows of their prison walls
(cheers), and although their poverty enabled their
opponents to take a pitiful revenge upon them, they
have been shown to be enriched with something
which all the wealth of the world cannot buy, and that
is the esteem and gratitude of a whole community.”
(Loud and continued cheering.)
Alderman O’Connor seconded the resolution, expressing
his belief that the Clontarf article was true, was written
without malice, and that its publication was a benefit
to the people of the country. He pointed out that, be-
sides individual injustice, the liberty of thewhole press
was at stake.
The motion was carried unanimously and enthusi-
astically.
On the motion of Mr. P. E. Holdsworth, seconded by
Mr. John Eoseby, the following motion was carried
nem. cm. “ That, in the opinion of this meeting,
amendment of the law of libel, as it affects the press of
the colony is imperatively called for."
Mr. G. E. Dibbs, who rose to move the third
resolution, was received with a perfect ovation,
which he declared was a thorough recompense
for his twelve months’ imprisonment for
libel. He added that he hoped that in a few
days they would be able to' place! upon a public
platform the now incarcerated journalists of The
Bulletin. Hia motion was to the effect that a stand-
ing committee be appointed to raise funds to liberate
Messrs. Haynes and Archibald, and to have the libel
laws amended.
Other speeches followed, the meeting being a
thoroughly successful demonstration throughout.
We regret that Wednesday being our publishing
night we are unable to report more in extenso. A meet-
ing was also held at Newcastle at the same time as
that above reported.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At Herberton, Wild River, a chemist, who is a
J.P., jumped an allotment belonging to the School of
Arts. The miners rolled up and threw his shop off the
allotment. He has now sued W. Jack, the wealthiest
of the crowd, for £l7O damages. At a public meeting
£7O wa« raised to defend the suit. “ Handsome Fred ”
Cooper appears for the miners E M.S. Assam took
£41,419 home in gold and specie M’Culloch Carrying
Co., Melbourne, made £14,318 profit last year. They
divide 10 per cent Western Meat-Preserving Co.,
Colac (Vic) started preserving rabbits at the rate of
18.000 per week Mr. James Killian, messenger in
the Lands Office, Sydney, picked up £BO in notes, and
restored the bundle to its sorrowing owner, refusing
any reward. Mr. Killian will never make his pile, we
are afraid, nor will he ever bolt to San Francisco with
a swag In Tauranga (N.Z.) cemetery is this epitaph :
—“ Kind friends all, when this yon see, here lies the
mother of a large familee.” The N.Z. Times is now
edited by a clergyman. New Zealand journalism is
getting respectable since it numbered a parson in its
ranks. Blasphemy is rarely heard within the walls of
the Times’ office, and even the devils sing Moody and
Sankey Eehnca Shire Council wants to borrow from
the Victorian Government, under the Water Conser-
vancy Act, £171,000, for the purpose of cutting an
80-mile canal from the river Murchison 8000 acres
of sugar lands selected on the M'lvor Eiver (Q.)
S.A. harvest yield averages five bushels per acre for
1.910.000 acres; 5,700,000 bushels of wheat to spare for
exportation Steps are being taken to improve the
worst mail coach road in N.S. W.—that between Ilford
and Kylstone. One maintenance man is now in charge
of the whole distance—twenty miles The captain of
No. 2 battery, Q.V. Artillery, Ipswich, is being sued by
a tailor for £l3O, due on uniforms made for members of
the battery. The Volunteer Vote is exhausted, Govern-
ment is unable to help the captain, and plaintiff's
solicitor is determined to bring the case into Court
A man at Wellington, N.Z., named Samuel Marsh, was
found dead in bed in a kneeling position. A phial of
laudanum was found in his room, also a letter written
by the deceased, expressing a wish that his body should
not have Christian burial service performed, but should
bo covered with thick calico, and cast into the ocean
Not long ago the rate collector in one of the
largest gold field towns of Victoria was found to be
fifteen y*ars in arrears with his taxes The Secre-
tary of the Leichardt District Hospital, Eookhampton,
Mr. E. S. Hall, informs us that there is no foundation
for the statement that a female patient had been denied
admission to the institution, and had died in conse-
quence while returning nome The result of a bank-
ruptcy case before the Supreme Court, Dunedin (N.Z ),
was peculiar, in that the debtor’s estate actually paid
20s. in the £, and left £lOO of surplus Hundreds of
Melboumites are visiting N.Z. just now The head-
master of a Prahran (Molb.) State School, who objected
to receiving dull children, will, in a smaller school,
have more leisure to devote to their improvement
A block of land in the main thoroughfare of Auckland,
Queen-street, was sold the other day for £325 a foot.
It is said to be the highest price ever paid for property
in New Zealand The M.U.1.0.0.P. now numbers
in Victoria 151 lodges, with 13,300 effective mem-
bers; and its funds amount to £190,200
Dr. Gribbs, of Tikeranga, has treated 23 patients suffer-
ing from diphtheria with blue-gum steam, and all are
convalescent AtParihaka, N. Z., a Maori, Ngamatu,
suicided. He found his wife in company with a para-
mour, and at once went and hanged himself in a
•whare, where his body was discovered two hours after.
There was great excitmeut among the natives, and had
the offender not levanted previously, summary vengo-
ance would have been taken. A great tangi was held
Population of S. Australia, 292,778 Ah Hong, a
Chinese burglar, has been shot in the knee by the
Inglewood (V.) station master. Hong was after the
safe. His legs had to be amputated, and he says he feels
un-knee-sy More Jolimont railway accident com-
pensations awardedJ. B. Snook, whose father made
a pile on milk at Brighton), £1,500; S. Eenwicx, £800;
Mary Elizabeth Budd, £500; Mrs. Louisa Garrett,
(widow of the late Eev. Horatio Garrett), £3,500; Mr.
Lucas, £550; Major Geach, £725; and A. E. Moore,
£2,500. Mr. F. H. Searla also obtained £225 damages
from the Victorian Board of Lands and Works, for an
accident which happened to his wife at Windsor, on the
Brighton line On the last voyage out from London,
the passengers on board the Potosi steamer, about 400
in number, consumed 17,000 bottles of ale
Another popular delusion shattered. It has hitherto
been generally believed that the late John Thomas
Smith imported the first donkey to Victoria. The
claim is, however, disputed by Mr. Eobert Zelley, a
cutler, who states that his donkey, which attracted
much attention lately in Melbourne, was the same
he had imported 39 years ago from Tasmania
Detective Hartney, a well-known Melbourne police
officer, has died suddenly.... Thus the Forbes Times :
“ Our late Press message last night was 160 words in
excess of the 500 words receivedbefore tea; consequently
we shall have to pay for 160 words at current rates.
We live under a liberal Government.” Our spirited
contemporary the Cooma Express has two libel actions
on hand. We wish we could say the same of every
metropolitan and provincial journal in the colony at the
present time.,..A Parramatta Boniface has been sweetly
diddled by three heavy swells—all lords travelling
incog.—who ran up a score of £75 in the handsomest
manner possible, and have now suddenly vanished like
“ the baseless fabric of a dream,” Sarah Allwood
chipped in when she saw her neighbours—husband and
W ife_ c awing eac ■ other. Sarah say's she'll “ never
do so any more,” because the wife tore out a handful
of her back hair, and the husband broke her head with,
a poker. After this feat, the quarrelling pair had an
oyster supper to celebrate their re-union January
crushings on Palmer —223 tons for 565 oz. &01d.^....
Patterson and Party’s claim. Mount M’Donald, has
been bought by a Sydney company for £3OOO cash and
£3OOO scrip A snake ten feet long was recently kiuoa
at Cboradigbee At Cooktown, 15-feet sharks hover
round the bathing-place The Charters Towers Coun-
cil have boycotted Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, by withdrawing their advertisements...... ihe
butchers are cutting one another’s throats at Too-
woomba. “Best western beef” is now advertised at
lsd. per lb. for cash In Victoria they are now placing
the detectives and the general police, between
there has hitherto been much jealousy, under one head.
G. E. Bassett, who saved the Queen s life in 1840,
when the humpback Bean attempted to shoot Her
Majesty, was last heard of at Ballarat, where he was
keeping an hotel. He is a brother-in-law to Mr-
Burdett Howe, the actor A little boy aged wh ®“
brought up at the “ Central ” as a neglected child who
had been found sleeping in the open air, opened a pair
of intelligent and pretty eyes, and said, “ If you please,
I want to go where I can learn something. However,
his father, a seafaring man, came for him, and he was
discharged....A shark caught at Port Stephens weighed
3360 lbs 538 tons stone from the Tyrconnel claim,
Hodgkinson, gave 758 oz. gold, thus averaging 1 oz.
8 dwts. per ton There is now not a single mason
or bricklayer confined at Pentridgo. One mason
recently discharged from custody continues to worn
at the prison for wages, voluntarily subjecting
himself to the gaol regulations. The building
trade in Victoria must indeed be prosperous..~...
A Victoria Kegia lily is in full flower in the Melbourne
Botanic gardens. Some of the leaves of this plant are
six feet in diameter The purchase-of the Mount
Perry (N.Q.) copper mine has been completed by Hr.
Robertson, on behalf of an influential British Company
An iron works is to be started at Mount Pleasant...
Protog," a local writer, says that Havilah estate
derived its name from an exclamation made by the
late Venerable Archdeacon Gunther, who, on seeing
some gold washed out of a shovel of dirt, exclaimed
“Havilah I" that being the Biblical land of g01d......A
prisoner under sentence in Bathurst gaol has got three
months additional for stealing studs. And this reminds
us that gaol-birds, even it they haven’t shirts, always
carry studs A paper is to be started at Goondiwmdi,
on the N.S.W. border, by two gentlemen from the Too-
woomba Chronicle. In the latter journal, by tne
way, there has of late been a lively correspon-
dence on the subject, “Do unbaptised children
go to hell?” All classes are wading in,
from the Anglican parson to a local
Buzicka, the lucky miner of Hanging Bock, has o -
tained £2,000 from his claim since Christmas....At wooi-
gar, the first crushing of 100 tons averaged over toza.
Between Nymagee and Forbes, 300 miles, things are
very pleasant; not a blade of grass; no sign, and little
hope of any. Stabling for a horse is £1 a nigh ,
other necessaries for travellers in like proportion......
For “ chucking-out" a bum-bailiff, a Sydney man, last
week, was fined £2 and costs Orient S. S. Co. na
established a coaling station at Diego Garcia, one of tne
Chagos Archipelago Group. All steamers will ca
there; this will agreeably break the monotony ol^bne
ocean The Christchurch “ Jabber t” likely to bo a
great success Distribution of the rewards for oaten-
irg the Kelly gang has commenced......At Sprmgsures
Q., a man in the “ horrors ” was, after several day,
search, found by the police in a pugilistic attitude,
gallantly defending himself from the attacks of a
hardened and cowardly opponent, an old gate pest, which
bore evidence of having received some hard knocks.
Ban Jones, king of the Pyrmont larrikins, has been
fined £5 or three months’ Darlinghurst. The royal
exchequer was empty. His Majesty fought, tore and
screamed. But they ran him in The Oampbelltown
Herald has changed hands. The purchaser, Aider-
man Matthews Dr. Hilder found dead at Quean-
beyan. Brandy The Western Steam Navigation
Co. are being sued for £5,000 by Mrs. Cutler, who lost
her husband in the late steamer collision The
Sydney Mont de Piete Co. has not come an hour too
soon. Last week a pawnbroker deposed to giving * or
(not lending on) a cornet ss. Ho afterwards sold it tor
155.; the owner, from whom it was stolen, deposed
that a fair price for it would have been £6 10s......Vic-
torian Government intend to construct a two-storied
fort in tho South Channel of Hobsons Bay, at a cost of
£80,000: also, to expend £150,000 on gun and torpedo
boats, and in improving existing batteries.....Hhe
steamer Bob Boj wrecked at Butcher s Inlet,
Walcott, W.A Petersen, N.Z. mailman, has been
drowned at Pelican Lakes Station A company to
promote pastoral occupation, is being started m Mel-
bourne ;-Stock, £1,000,000. in £5 shares...... Children
poisoned at Eochester, V., through drinking bad
water Dennis Burke Kelly, of Melbourne, thought
Archbishop Goold’s name was suggestive, so he asked
that prelate to lend him £5. On being refused, he
“ tnk and smashed siven panes of glass yer Worship.
Dennis is now in quod An English barrister, named
Lucas, has been found drowned in the Brisbane nver
South Australian Bechabites number 2133, an< l own
funds amounting to £19,420. The Albert district
Bechabites number 1849: their funds tot up to
£15,000 Smuggled cigars seized at Adelaide.
* * *
Population of Canada, 4,350,933 The British
Electric Light Company lost £15,000 on their contract
to light Liverpool thoroughfares, through their inability
to secure stable uprights for the support of the neces-
sary weight of wires The Russian Government has
established a torpedo factory at Vladivostock, for which
£6OOO worth of machinery has been purchased Over
102 000 miles of railway are in full operation in the U S.
£20,000,000 spent last year at home in building new
steamers In England there are about 3,000,000
paupers and 7,000,090 on the verge of destitution. It
takes much wretchedness to make great millionaries......
I At latest dates there were 501 cases of small-pox in
London—a decrease on the usual number. The deaths
were averaging twenty a week The turret-ship
Colossus, to be launched this month, is 1000 tons
heavier than the Inflexible, and will bo the first vessel
in tho British navy fitted with 43-ton breech-loading
Kuns A leviathan bronze statue of Daniel O’Connell
has just been cost at a London foundry Bismarck,
with the aid of his sons, is writing his memoirs Tho
present population of Borne is 300.292—167,327 males,
and 132,925 females. The preponderance of males,
which under Pontifical rule was always great, is still
noticeable A Mr. Hart, of Leicester, has offered to
present a fine free public library to that city, on
condition that it is opened on Sundays A great Italian
pedestrian. Signor Bargossi, claims to teach running
on a better system than any yet known, and has offered
to teach the art of running to the army. The authorities
think that soldiers should bo taught not to run
Fred Pitman, of Paternoster Bow, has issued a novel
Christmas annual; it is in shorthand characters entirely.
and of superior literary merit The “Whitehead
Torpedo Manual ” is a very secret book, only allowed
into tho hands of especial officers, and yet, on a copy
disappearing on board one of H. M. Ships lately, £5 was
the reward offered for its recovery. If it has been taken
to enlighten some foreign naval power, a hundred times
that sum is not likely to fetch it back Tho London
Times has been cleverely hoaxed. A letter signed
“ Chrisophras, ” was inserted, drawing attention and
sympathy to a large bazaar, imputing that it was for a
charity. A few days afterwards, a second letter
appeared, contradicting the first, and rebuking
“ Chrisophras ” for his blunder. Then tho Thunderer
discovered that both letters were simply shop advertise-
ments, from a clever firm, which it had printed free .....
In England, 14 districts, comprising 60 courts with 8,315
members of the Ancient Order of Foresters, have been
expelled the order for failing to register under the
friendly societies act, as legal branches of the order.
Already 2,000 members have applied to know what steps
they can take to become registered and then be re-
instated In Bcotland-yard, London, they have a
horrible collection, the arms with which suicides
have met their deaths, the pistols and poisons
used by murderers, cords, cups and poignards
—quite a “creepy” lot of property. Always,
where there is a murder or a suicide, the police
capture the means of death, and what they take they
ERRATUM.
In “ Pepper and Salt” of to-day’s issue, second column.
the sixth and seventh linos below the illustration, should
read
Kun lawyers down ? ” no need, they’re in the luok ■
“ And, not Malays, we never run amuck.”


RILEY
BROTHERS,
r ’7
r ’C
u
SYDNEY.
886 GEORGE STREET,'
600 GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STREET,
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND.
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPisT SHAFERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE ORIGINATORS OP THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
JES Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men's Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2£ yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Coyer
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. 4c.
Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Flanl, Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Haircord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
4 dozen Infants’ Diaper
Squares
Puff box, Pnff & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Chrisfing Bobo
1 I n fa n t’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, 40.
£S Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longuloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
Stead of any of the above.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
I white or coleured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White Towels
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Thread, &o.
£5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady's Bounet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS 1
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pookethaukerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
1 Elatsio Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Kobe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
£2 Ladies’ Parcel,
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
We wish it to bo distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOB BOYS.
School Suits, 2s Gd
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Picnic Suits, 3s lid
Sunday Suits, 7s 6d
Youths’ Suits, 12a 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakspoare Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 9id
Linen Collars, 4|d
Elastic Braces. 3d
Cotton Socks, 3d
Necties, 3d
FOB LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12s 9d
Satteen Prints, 3Jd
Dress Materials, 4*d
Black Alpaca, s|d
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Plop Hats, Is 6d
■Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2s 6d
Muslin Edging, 2ld
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 9d
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOB MEN.
Working Shirts, Is Gd
White Shirts, 2s 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 4jd
Seamless Socks, Cd
Elastic Braces, 61
Tweed Suits, 19s 6d
Summer Suits, 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9s 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Twbod P '.gets, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s Gd
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakspeare Hats. 2s Gd
Colonial Tweed, 2s Gd
Silk Umbrellas, 7s Gd
POE THE HOUSE.
American Longoloth, 2|d
Nightshirt Cahco, 4id
Grey Calico, 2Jd
Double width Calico, 7|d
Pillow Calico, 6|d
Swansdown Calico
White Flannel, 7|d
Wide Flannel, ll|d
Scarlet Flannel, 7|d
Saxony Flannel, 11 id
Cotton Tick, 3Jd
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, s|d
Unbleached Sheeting, 7|d
White Sheeting, 7|d
Twilled Sheeting, 9jd
Mosquito Net, G|d
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS PEICE LlST.—Persons who may read this
advertisement must not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
common. They are by no means the commonest goods.
We have lower prices still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
bat with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
.V
m
-T-.A
YIBTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFP COAL.
T H IHSiTLEITVoaS“S Sto“,“SS m tKotaj.*™" 0 ' OmAPE3T - CMABEST, mi
18s. FES TON NET, delivered within City boauds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and fears kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting
and cleaner ftre f ban any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak nono of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire
A liberal discount allowed to wholesale customers/
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHAEP.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
I
'TBADiS
M A
THEGREAT
FOB
RHEUMAT
Neuralgia, Sciatica, L
Backache, Soreness of the
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Sw
Sprains, Burns and ,
General Bodily Pa
Tooth, Ear and Headache, i
and Ears, and all otht
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals S
a safe, sure, simple and cheap E:
A trial entails but the comparative
of 50 Cents, and every one sufl
can have cheap and positive proof
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DBUQGISTS ANI
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt
8. HOEFNUNG & Co., Pitt-str
E. PROSSER & Go., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Georg
I. JACOBS & Co., Hunter-street
FEEEIEE’S BAKING P
TRAD
SELF-EAISING FL(
Geobge-street West,
H
[Established 30 Yeai
ODGSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Qoulburn-stree
E. H O D G S C
Wholesale and Reta
WHIP THONG MANUPACI
Every Description of Kangaroo and Q
Made to Order.
mm
tWBBHDBSmiffi)
—
MANUFACTORY,
0 N -ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o • is
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. ' ’ B
This G*Sis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke, The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace’-
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. 11
TA.LLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Governmentßailways in perferenoe
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &c. Shipments Received monthly
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EEEBCTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD'S OYSTER ROOMS,
U 5 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET. OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
££ I
FOR WALTH AM
SK
S
I
QJO'JO
r
W
Uf ?//V
DEPARTMENT
©
■
638 GAujELOki STREET.
w
ELLINGTON met Napoleon at WATEELOO
bat
W. TEITCHABD
will meet you at South Waterloo
on SATUEDAY. March 25,
w
ELLINGTON met Napoleon at
but
W. PRITCHARD
WA
will meet von nt; Wn.to*-100
on SATURDAY, March 25.


SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, an
at the
SYDNEY AEG
SINGERS SEWING N
ABE MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacture
Head Offices:
3i UNION SQUARE, NEW I
Chief Office in Euro
39 FOSTER LANE, I
Depot for New South I
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAE
SYDNEY,
s
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING M,
HAVE
All the Latest Improve
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Largest Variety of V
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Strength and Beauty of
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOE
Embroidery, Braiding, am
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and I
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Silting, Cording, and I
160 FIRST PEL
EASY TERMS—2s. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERT
Offices in Sydnej
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR S
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA'
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAM WO
VICTORIA STREET, GRi
NARANDERA. PARRi
227 QUEEN STREET, BI
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
S
INGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week
And NO INTEREST cl
10 per oent. off for (
BEWARE OP IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TI7RNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHD
HAYMARKE'
Chemists and Dra
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GREAT LIVES B
And successful substitute for Ci
Podophyllum, and all Nos
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Dison
Stomach. , _ .
Moat famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Be careful not to get i
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare!
J. S. A B R A
At the Laborato
434 GEORGE STREET,
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amei
Liuctus, you will not be able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your APPETn
tralian Relish, made by "V
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
OP GOOD
We beg to draw 3
PARTICULAR ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEi
Packed in pounds and hall
2s. and ‘
2s. 6d. a
2s. 6i. a
2s. 6d. a
Special Quotations given to AVI
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA CO]
279 PITT STREET (next S
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U £
182 PITT STRE]
from
D. JONES & C
Respectfully invites an inspects
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEAI
BEI
All of the best quality, and selec
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS
Furniture re-covered and carpets
charges.
♦
George
(Formerly of Georg
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAR
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCAI
where every article ia the above lie
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
Business Announce
|_Legal.J
3
HOETEE, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE'
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has cor
H
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite 1
News Office.
A V E YOU
TO
R. MORPH
283 Pitt Stki
JJOTICE OF B ]
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCR
and EARTHEXWi
Beg to announce that ney bare
REMOVE
to
269 GEORGE .STR
Next but One to the Mere;
A magnificent selection of New C
ILLCOX
W
AND
GlbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STRI
F.T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE/^
Public Comp an
JIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with po
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund
Dieectoes :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; W
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Je
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Waite
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE STJ
City and Suburban Branches: H:
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willia
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B;
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cond
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inncs, Goulbi
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, ]
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Reekie,
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallseud,
Maitland, Wilcaunia, Woodbum, Y
BRANCHES IN QUEEI
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter;
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mad
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
T®wnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
The mercantile bani
ESTABLISHED 11
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wb. Busby, M.L.C.
' Hon. Philip Gidlev King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARYi
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Georgo-ntraet, Brickfield 1
Girilambonc; Gosf
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 158 Leaden
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexand:
This Bank transacts all usual Ba:
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other nrodnee shipped to England t
GRAHAM
• IMPORTER AND GENEE.
17 BRIDGE STEE
Chief Agent for
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURE
ANDREW USHER'S CELEBAT
WHISKY,
ANDREW USHER’S CELEI
SCOTCH WHISK
AITCHISON’S PALE
READ THI
THE BAKING P
manufactured by Os a
as doctor
WAU


w. HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHAEF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock,
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY,
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
1882.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
, LAAC, 1 service win do maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, 1 ort Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a mouth ; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching at Aden, passengers
can proceed to Suez and tbe Continent (the Italian
Ports included) without fear of being detained by
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal duel
os. in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
,5„r aus and fuU particulars, apply to F. GREEb
aud ANDERSON. ANDERSON, and CO.
Joint Managers of the line; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
267 George-street.
QEIENT LINE OP STEAMER
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con
veyance of Parcels and small packages hy Orient Line o
steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
. Packages will be received at this office, and receipt
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date o
sailing All freights payable in Sydney. For fnrthe
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
OC7 „ , Manager of Orient Line in Australia, v
267 George-street, Sydney.
c
| ASH price LIST OF WINES, ALES, ANI
SPIRITS.
Claret
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
per doz.
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
12s 6d
13s Od
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bonffier’s Pineau..
WHITE.
, „ per do;
J. T. Fallon’s Port 25a 6
Adelaide Grenache
(rich Burgundy
type) 30s C
Adelaide Port ... 30s 0
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
15s Od
15s
Brown Muscat ...
Muscat, vintage ’75 21s (
Adelaide Tokay ... 30s (
Tokay, vintage 73 30s (
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 36s Od I Good Sherry 24s to 36s (
Champagne from... 60s Od | French Claret from 25s I
SPIRITS.
Imperial *♦ Scotch
ditto
Imperial *♦* Scotch
71s Od
Hennessy's • Case
Brandy
Hennessy’s *••
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Vaughan Jones’
U sqnebaug h
Scotch Whisky
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky ... ...
59s Od
Ball Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Poster’s Ale, qts...
„ „ pints
~ Stout, qts.
„ „ pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts
45s Od
45s Od
46s Od
42s Od
33s 6d
40s Od
11s Od
8s 6a
10s Od
7s Od
10s Od
7s Od
10s 6d
42s
Whisky
Burke’s Irish
Whisky
D’Arcy’s Irish
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Casa of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
11s Od Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
8s Od pints ...
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Helles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
44s
40s
38s
48s
52s
46s
43s
44s
10s
10s
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, qua
4 dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, qua
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Sb
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Br
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Post
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen qu;
incase; 7 doz. pints.
w Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be f
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen e)
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial M
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stam
All Goods delivered carriage free to any addres
town, or to the Wharves or Redtorn Railway Stat
Terms—Prompt Nett Gash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-strcet, Sydney.
Q- UNS LEE’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
£2OOO CONSULTATION ON T
SYDNEY CUP.
Subscription, 20s.
Ist, £BOO ; 2nd, £3OO ; 3rd, £l5O.
Starters (divided) £37
Non-starters (divided) £375.
No. 1 now on.
Early application invited, with return stamps*
THE KOOKABURRA.
The prime-evil man—Adam.
The aesthetic term for hash —Mosaic.
The first chiropodist—William the Corncurer,
Often thrown together by accident —railway
passengers.
The honeymoon generally ends when the “last
quarter” is reached.
No man whose head doesn’t show genius bumps
believes in phrenology.
Pearly teeth and diamond eyes are delightful,
but a topaz nose is dreadful.
A new novel, “The Garden of Eden,” is an-
nounced. Of course it ends appley.
They were twins, and the parents christened
the one Kate and the other Dupli-Kate.
An English Mayor once sent a man to prison
because he said the Prince of Wales was born without a
shirt.
“ Yes,” she remarked, “he looked like a per-
fect raving angel in his uniform. He was awful
heavenly.”
Guiteau wants a royalty on the sale of his photo-
graphs. He’ll be wanting one on the sale of fragments
of the rope, next.
“After man, what P ” We, who have been there,
reply: Generally the sheriff or some woman. Most
often the sheriff.
The reason why making love is called courtship
is probably because, like other court cases, there is so
much lying in it.
No young man should leave his music lesson or
his lawn-tenuis to chop wood while his mother is at
home and perfectly well.
Under the microscope, a hair has rough edges
like a rasp. No wonder, then, that ayoung man’s moui-
tache often tickles a girl’s nose.
“ Ham, home fed, where fat and lean played
into one another sweetly, like moonlight among roses,"
So Mr. E. D. Blacktnore in his latest novel.
Landlady: “Mr. Digby, will you take some of
this batter ? ” “ Thank you, ma’am, I belong to the
temperance society—can’t take anything strong.”
“Oh, mamma, my button-shoes is hurting! ”
“ Why, my child, jou’ve pat them on the wrong feet.”
“What’ll I do, mamma? They’re all the feet I’ve
got.”
“The second cousins of the corpse will now
come forward and take their places,” the undertaker
announced at a funeral, with considerable pomp and
disrnity.
A boy, who has fallen, cries. “Never mind, my
little fellow, yon won’t feel the pain to-morrow."
“ Then,” answered the little boy, “ I won’t cry to-
morrow."
“ By shimmy, how that boy studies grammar,”
was the remark of a German when his son called him a
“ knock-kneed, pigeon-toed, seven-sided,glazed-eyed son
of a saw-horse."
“ Six printers were killed in the great fire at
Vienna.” So says a cablegram. This must be false.
No printer ever died, except through an overdose of
lemonade straight.
Fond mother (noticing her little daughter wipe
her month with her dress sleeve): “ What is your hand
kerchief for P" “ It’s to shake at the ladies in the street.
That’s what papa does with his."
Schoolmistress (to dull little boy): “Johnny,
I’m ashamed of yon. When I was your age, I could
read twice as well as you.” Johnny: “ Yes’m, but you
had a different teacher to what I got.”
“ Let ns live on the invisible,” says Victor Hugo.
And ever since that saying was translaedand printed in
the newspapers, Victor Hugo’s works are to be found
on every boarding-honse parlour table.
A University student, in rendering an account
to his father of his last quarter’s expenses, entered an
item : “ Charity, £10.” His father wrote back: “ I fear
charity covers a multitude of sins.”
“ Thank God, I knew things would take a turn,”
said six foot out-of-work Jones, as he turned over for
another snooze at 11 a m., after learning that his father
had gone out to a new job of stone-breaking at five.
An eminent Teutonic butcher says he now has a
“good quantity of home-mate sossiches, with the dog
collars all picked owid. Dey vash doo utterly py gosh
goopele of dimes, ant you pet my life if I dold you so I
pite mine het off.”
The total cost of the quantity of coal annually
consumed in the world is estimated at £216,559,800. An
nnregenerate backslider has asked us to give him our
estimate of the quantity consumed in “ the next world
during a similar period.”
A criminal had such telling evidence against
him that his counsel declined to speak to the defence.
The jury acquitted him, thinking that, as the lawyer
did’nt think it worth while to make a speech, the
prisoner must be innocent.
“Do yon know, my dear,” said a husband to
his wife, “ that there is never a divorce case without a
woman in it?" Her response was, “Do yon know
my love, that there is never a breach of promise case
without a very mean man in it ? ”
Just before divine service, the other Sunday,
while the venerable clergyman was absorbed in thought,
he was approached by the organist, who asked, refer-
ring to the opening hymn, “ What shall I play ?’’
“ Lead trumps, if you have a good hand,” responded
the absent-minded one.
The eminent Engish writer who says that were
it not for our Indian Empire, thousands of onr
middle class would be unable to find any re-
munerative career, forgets the opening there is in
Ireland for young men who are willing to make them-
selves useful by collecting rents.
“ You may say what you please,” solemnly
remarked a red-nosed listener to a temperance llec-
turer, “ but whisky once saved my life.” “ How was
that ?” “ Why, I wanted a drink so bad that I got np
once in the middle of the night and went out to hunt
for a pub. While I was gone, the house caught fire
and roasted the old woman,”
Here we have a Baby. It is composed of a Baby
Head and a Pair of Lungs. One of the Lungs takes a
Rest while the Other Runs the Shop. One of Them is
always On Deck all the Time. The Baby is a Bigger
man than his Mother. He likes to Walk around with
his Father at night. The Father does most of the
Walking and all of the Swearing.
This is a Bar, and there is a Race Reporter.
He has Gone to collect the latest Scratchings. See the
kind Lady, with half a Hundred weight of Hair on her
Head. No, She will not Scratch him. She is filling
him a tumbler full of Gin, and his Hand shakes with
Gratitude. Afterwards he will set her a Copy, and she
will Write it on a Slate. Collecting Scratching is
Hard work. I would rather be called to the Bar.
In one of the city warehouses, the other day,
one of the hands was, by a temporary illness, prevented
from turning np at business. During the day, a woman
called on the head of the firm to remark that she had
heard of Mr. ’s indisposition and piously observed
that “if it should please the Lord to take him to Him-
self,” the speaker’s husband would be glad of the situa-
tion I Nothing like being “fore-handed.”
“ Were I to bo candid, I would say you were
just about the nicest fellow I ever met,” she said, while
leaning on his arm in front of a confectioner’s. He
bought the taffy.
Man wants but little here below.
Where little’s to be had;
But when he wants that little—Oh,
He wants it mighty bad 1
A Chinaman thus describes a trial in our courts:
One man is silent, another man talks all the time, and
twelve wise men condemn the man who has not said a
word.
A poor insane fellow, named Guiteau,
A political kind of mosquito,
Having given Judge Cox such a treat-O,
Should be raised to the President’s seat-O
Unless in his grave il est mis tot
By a verdict which acts as a veto
On the further advancement of Guiteau.
Thel following clipped advertisement explains
itself :—“ Walter, dear, —Come home. All forgiven and
forgotten. The chimney is mended since the firewood
exploded, and father is recovering his eyesight. The
doctor has forgotten the man-trap episode. The green
dye has washed off the terrier, and the cat seems com-
fortable without its tail and ears. Your sister Clara
will forgive you for burning her false hair if you will
restore her teeth. Do come home and restore joy to
the hearts of yonr solicitous friends.”
This Awkward Sheet is our Esteemed Contem-
porary. It is Run by an Unhung Felon. We would
not Give Him a Glass of Water to Save his Life, but
We Would Take a Beer with him if wo were Properly
Approached. Our Esteemed Contemporary has no
Circulation, and its Influence is Correspondingly Small.
It Cuts Down Advertising Rates, and is so Mean it
would Skin a Skunk to Save a Son. If we had Our
Way we would Suspend onr Esteemed Contemporary
and put its Editors and Reporters in Gaol, where they
Belong.
Some Mephiatophelian Orangeman has got into
the office of our pious contemporary the Southern
Harchbrcshup ! Omitting names and addresses, the
wheeze reads thus : —“ March 8, 1882, at his residence,
Mr. John——, aged 77 years of age, after a tedious
illness, fortified by the rites of the Roman Catholic
Church to the inexpressible grief of his family.” It
isn’t so many weeks since we read—" On 1881, at
~—i Mr. ,of pneumonia, assisted by the ministra-
tions of the local clergy.” All this reminds us forcibly
of a paragraph we once read in and cut out of a hot
Ultramontane paper : —“ The Italian troops yesterday
entered Rome ; and we may now soon expect to see in
exile the amiable Bontifl who has occupied the chair
of St. Peter for a quarter of a century, to the disgust
of the civilised world.” They’d dropped the last
seven words in the wrong place.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.
<£23,102 collected on behalf of the new Anglican
Cathedral, Melbourne,
The Ballarat Courier gays Bishop Moor-
house is unorthodox and illogical.
A prominent anglican clergyman has attended
all Arobishop Vaughan’s Lenten lectures.
Mr. Marsh, Secretary of Melbourne Y.M C.A.,
visits Sydney next month, to hold a week’s “ mission."
A speculative young man bought up all the pews
in a church, got up a religious excitement, and sold out
at an advance of £ ICO
Several Anglican clergymen are praying for rain
at Melbourne, while Bishop Moorhouse is lecturing in
the provinces on “Irrigation and the Conservation of
water. ’’
Mario, Italian democrat, was recently banqueted
at Rome, and in the course of his speech said he hoped
the next similar banquet would be given in the Sistine
chapel.
United Kingdom Baptist statistics :—Churches,
2586; chapels, 3395; members, 205,035; pastors, 1835;
and evangelists, 3217. Throughout the world the totals
are—Churches, 23,505; pastors, etc., 17.983; and mem-
bers, 2,473,088.
John Jacob was recently fined in the Worship-
street Court, London, in the sum of £l, because, when
at a meeting led by the Salvation Army, the people
cried out: “ Glory to the Lord !” he, for his part, roared
lustily : “ Glory to the devil 1”
Twenty-five different sects or denominations
meet for worship every week in Melbourne; also
one unsectarian congregation. Representatives of eight
or ten sects, who are not sufficiently numerous to have
regular meetings, hold service at intervals.
Bishop Bromby, of Tasmania, is going home,
having accepted the position of Coadjutor-Bishop of
Lichfield. It is generally rumoured that he will be
accompanied by a near relative, if the latter can escape
the bewitchment of certain love-sick ritualistic maidens.
Bathurst “religionists” at loggerheads
R.C, v, Protestants, and all about a ba-a-a-zaar. There
was a race for first available evenings. The Rnmuns
nicked the two race nights, but the Prots. cross-
countered by boning the 16th and St. latrick's
night.
When in Central Africa, Dr. Livingstone once
confounded the native rain-makers by holding a prayer
meeting to suplioate for rain. The clouds descended
and the doctor’s infallibility was established ; but it is
incidentally mentioned that the learned traveller
possessed a barometer and the natives did not.
Our dear old friend Pastor Chiniquy continues
to write to the Evangelical Standard, Brisbane.
Every sentence reports success for his cause, breathes
forth piety,! and most unmistakable cadges. We
recommend Chiniquy’s letters to those who are inactive.
They would make any decent man dance around.
A correspondent charges The Herald with
inaccuracies in its statement of religious statistics,
with regard to the Baptist denomination. Instead of
there being a decrease of about 70,000, there is an
increase of 5,000. The correspondent contends that the
Baptist denomination is the most progressive of all.
The Times says that nearly all the “ converts ”
made by Moody and Sankey during their first visit are
backsliders. The pair are not repeating their triumphs
in England. Their audiences are small, and the clergy,
men do not, as before, encourage their revivalism. The
Salvation Army has helped to pull down their business
Dr. Vaughan is a man of strongly combative
instincts. He is about erecting in Sydney, a Roman
Catholic Bible Hall, and has £1,700 in hand for the
purpose. A lecturer will be specially selected in Europe
for expounding and commenting on the scriptures, and
defending Christianity from Freethought assaults.
Clergymen of different denominations may be heard.
“Adelaide Salvation Army ” is getting on, the
“Army” having once or twice got weak-kneed popu-
larity-hunters, such as Colton, M.P., Goode, chairman
of the local Y.M C. A.—we hope he’s not too Goode—
to preside at tea-fights. The Army has a “barracks"
now, near Light Square—an unsavoury haunt of vice
—and the trustees of the property the Army has
acquired are taking steps to become incorporated.
A correspondent calls attention to what does not
seem very creditable. He states that the Rev. Mr.
McKeon, who has been locum tenons for Canou
Moreton, was invited to remain permanently as curate
at St. Peter’s, and accepted, declining another position.
But the Canon on returning tells Mr. McKeon he is not
required, the church cannot pay two parsons. So
McKeon drops between two stools, and rests nowhere.
We hope this is not true.
Eeedy Flat— we can’t specify which particular
flat—is happy. An Anglican and a Presbyterian clergy-
man, unknown to one another, arranged to preach there
on a certain Sunday. As the Anglican drew nigh he
was informed that the Presnytenan would “hold the
fort" as that place that day, so he turned back. The
very same thing occurred to the Presbyterian. Both
gentlemen enjoyed their dinners comfortably at home.
It is, however, now stated that the people have since
become Mormons.
At the late Bible Christian Conference in
Adelaide, the minister, after carrying a vote of thanks
to the Rev. Brother Bourne, and transacting other
business, held an “experience meeting,” and earned a
resolution of “ unabated confidence in God as their
Heavenly Father, in Christ as their Saviour, and in tte
Holy Ghost as their Sanctifier,” &a. Yotesof this kind
have become so common in the mouths of tea-meeting
spouters, and “ sich like,” that rev. gentlemen w uld
do well to choose a mote solemn mode of showing their
confidence in the Supreme Being. Were their vote not
blasphemous, it would be positively funny.
John Tyerman, Thomas Walker, Mrs. Britten,
Charles Bright and James Greenwood, as well as less
known lecturers, have kept the Freethought section
of the community represented on the Sunday evening
platform for some years past. One by one they have
gone, and now Dr. Hughes reigns in their stead. If he
is not as able as some of his predecessors, he is, judging
from his lectures, more advanced than any of them in
his own line of thought. His lectnres are preceded by
music, but, so far, it has scarcely been equal to that
recently given at the Royal with such skill and taste,
by a lady amateur. Dr. Hughes is a facile speaker, but
many suburban residents have to leave before he closes
each evening, to cateh their home trains.
The Rev. Charles Clark, the celebrated lecturer,
is minister of a very handsome Baptist Church at Eal-
ing at the West end of London. E. S. Smythe is said to
have “ worshipped" there during his stay in the New
Babylon,
The difference between Canon Smith and Bishop
Marsden at Bathurst caused much feeling out West.
A meeting was held at Grenfel to express sympathy for
the Bishop, and |an address sent to him. The speakers
thought the way the testimonial meeting (to the
Canon) was carried out was an insult to the Bishop,
and one speaker eased his mind by saying “he was
never an admirer of the Canon, and congratulated the
church on his removal: yeors ago it was the fashion for
everyone to run after the Canon—why, he could neyer
understand 1”
Atan Auckland (N.Z.) church, the other evening,
it was announced that it had been decided to discon-
tinue services in the building, owing to the Bishop not
having supplied a clergyman. Whereupon a Mr.
Cornish came forward and read the following paper :
“In the name of the most Holy Trinity.—Amen. I,
John Henry Cornish, do hereby, in the presence of God
and this congregation, record my solemn protest against
the closing of this church for public worship, as a sin-
ful act, dishor curing to God, a breach of faith toward
those through whose contribution it was erected, and
disastrous to the interest of this portion of God’s
Church. I, therefore, on behalf of this congregation,
solemnly deposit this protest on the altar, as a visible
sign of their non-concurrence with and dissent from the
proposal.” Another member of the congregation
present called out “Quite right.”
On a Sunday, a week or two, at Goulburn, a
R.C. priest stated that he had received instructions
from the Archbishop that the Good Templars and
Druids were to he classed among the secret societies
regarded jis inimical to the Church, His reverence
announced that two of his congregation, who were
secretaries of such societies, would be denied the rite
of absolution, and those who were in the order(l.O.G.T.)
were to sever their connection with it unless they
desired to be visited with the penalties of the Church.
He added that when he asked them to form a temper-
ance society of their own he could only get ten or a
dozen into it—and this while they were joining the
proscribed bodies to a largo extent. The correspondent
who sends this information remarks that he is a
Catholic, and has belonged for some years to the
1.0. which he has found to be a strictly non-
sectarian organisation, confining its operations to the
suppression of the drink traffic, and doing a large
amount of good in that direction. No doubt of it.
For downright dirty language and ill-mannered
reviling, it is a good plan to look up some religious
controversy. As the disputants never convince one
another, and generally end by bitter abuse, it is natural
that men of common sense, who are not super-pious,
listening to all the foolish outpourings, should wonder
how much real religion there is in these clashing
gospellers. The Wagga Wagga papers, the Express
and Advertiser, have been indulging in a sort of
Kilkenny-cat combat about prayer, and if they had
been horsey larrikins, their language could not have
been much legs elegant. On the remarks of Bishop
Moorhouse about praying for rain, the Express
wrote a leader bristling with arguments more remark-
able for vigour of expression than for politeness of
diction. It advises those who waste water and then
pray for rain, to “shoulder a pick and shovel, and dig a
dam; half an hour’s honest work would be more
effectual than three hours’ loafing on one’s knees.” It
objects to the dictum, “ the prayers of the righteous
avail much,” because “ every humbug imagines he is
righteous,” and “thinks that prayer will do for him
what ho is too lazy to do for himself. The principle of
praying for rain is utterly opposed to reason, and if it
became generally recognised, we should have men
praying for a dinner, instead of working for it." The
article concludes by saying that “Bishop Moorhouse
has done good service in lifting merely a corner of the
veil which covers this superstitious ignorance." Arch-
deacon Bownall objects to the tone of the article as
anti-Christian, and delivers a sermon, wherein he
prods the Express pretty smartly, and finally, “un-
kindest cut of all," nearly ruins the paper by with,
drawing his subscription. What makes him more mad
than anything, though, is the Express associating its
opinions with those of Dr. Moorhouse, as much as to
say “he’s one of us.” This is too much, and the
Archdeacon goes for the erring editor, smites him hip
and thigh, and rescues the good bishop from his pro-
fane clutches. It is here that the Advertiser edges
in, as the champion of Christianity and ally of the
Archdeacon. But if ever a too-much-assisted man had
cause to cry “ save me from my friends," the Rev. Mr.
Archdeacon has. Here are some of the expressions by
which the editorial star who illumines the leading
columns of the eminently respectable Advertiser,
relieves his feelings : —“ Bullies are always cowards,”
“ sneaking conduct,” “ a snivel and a whine,” “ a
newspaper that propagates atheism and profanity,”
and “reviles and screeches at prayer.” Now it’s a
great deal easier to fling epithets like these at the
editor of the Express than to rebut his arguments,
which are rather hard pellets. _ And we cannot help
thinking, when the cause of Christianity is championed
in this sort of language, that the Advertiser, even
plus the Archdeacon, gets the worst of the combat.
As the proprietor of the Advertiser is understood to
be somewhat heterodox in his religious opinions, it’s
plain that his editor is running the show.
Always at home, and no intention of leaving
the Bulletin Hotel, Castlereagh-street (late Wangen-
heim’s). Good grog, board, and billiards. Dick
Thatcher, late of London, Musclebrook, New York,
Melbourne, Luvake, Bathurst, and Paris.— Advt.
Notwithstanding the keen competition existing
in the sewing-machine trade, the “ Singers" are acknow-
ledged to be the sewing-machines of the day. Buyers of
sewing-machines should visit the Sydney Arcade, and
see the numerous first-class prizes (over 160 in number)
awarded them at the leading competitions of the world.
—Ady.
During the past year you have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good eup of tea.
You have heard that the last season’s China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas ?—a blend of the most famous and purest teas in
the world ; kept by all thelleading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place.—Advt.
Abe you Insured ? If not, why procrastinate ?
Call upon Mr. B. Short, the chief agent of the Austra-
lian Mutual Provident Sooiety, whose address is Arcade
Entrance, Qeorge-street, Sydney. Intending insurers
will act wisely by consulting Mr. Short, whose long ex-
perience (22 years) with the Society, should make his
advice worth obtaining; you will always find him or his
son ready and glad to afford every information, either
personally or by letter, or to supply prospectus of rates
60., without charge. If you are insured, could you
not increase the amount? Our free paid-up policy
table should encourage you, see page 11 Prospectus'
Example : Member aged 35, insured for £lOOO, and paid
during ten years in total premiums £276 13s 4d , the
risk of £lOOO having been covered during the whole of
the ten years. If this member is unable, from any
cause, to continue paying the premiums, he can ex-
change the original policy and bonus, for a Free Paid np
policy, amounting to £414 7s. 3d., no more premiums
having to be paid, but this paid up policy continuing to
share in profits all his life. Will you not double or
treble your present insurance ? and if any
future time to continue the policy (it having existed at
loist three years), or should you retire from business,
and be unwilling to continue payment of premiums,
you can then exchange your accumulated Insurances
for a respectable sum in the shape of a free paid-up
policy. Call, and get this table more fully explained.
Youug men and maidens, from 17 next birthday, should
insure to secure the amount payable to themselves at,
spy 53. If parents and guardians encourage the young
to insure, they will foster their provident habits. Mar-
ried ladies are privileged to insure, their policies being
free from the control of their husbands, and can be ar-
ranged as a provision for their own old age. Members
of the Sooiety wiil consult their own interest, as well
as confer a blessing on W idowa and Orphans, by advis-
ing relatives and friends to insure. B.S. will feel
obliged by receiving memos, of such. Policies effected
now, will share in next division, ending December 1883.
“ Delays are dangerous," “Do not procrastinate."
B. Short, Arcade Entrance, George-street, Sydney.


HOP BI T 1
ABE
THE PUREST AlTi
MEDICINE EVER A
They are Compounded
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake i
The Oldest, Best, most Bet
Valuable Medicines in the
in addition, contain all tl
most effective curative proj
other Bitters, being the gr«
Regulator, Blood PnmriE:
and Health Eestoring Agen
Ask your Druggist or
Do not suffer yourself,
friends stiffen, but use, and i
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters
drugged, drunken nostrum
Purest and Best Medicine
and no person or family sho
out it.
VALUABLE TRI
If you are suffering from ]
Or languishing on a bed of si
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Ct
If you are simply ailing,
Weak and Dispirited, witl
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will He
If you are a Minister, an
taxed yourself with your pas
or a Mother, worn out wi
work.
Hop Bitters Will Re*
If you are a man of 1
labourer, weakened by the s
every-day duties, or a mat
toiling over your midnight
Hop Bitters Will Strei
If yon are suffering from
or drinking, any iudiscretio
tion, or are young and grow
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Bel
If yen are in the works
farm, at the desk, auywhe:
that your system needs Clei
ing, or Stimulating, witho
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your hi
impure, pulse feeble, youi
steady, and your faculties i
Hop Bitters Will Give Toi
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegs
and refreshing flavouring fc
drinks, impure water, &c
them harmless, and swe(
mouth, and cleansing the si
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENE
with
HOP BITTI
and yon will have no sicknes
MOHTBPIORE. STUA
65 PITT STREET, STDNI
General Agents for An
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
BUN-CURED YIRGHNU
MOST DELICIOUS FI
FREE FROM ALL ADUI
ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPORIU
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
WE have now opened our Principal Shipments of this WINT
so placed them that Persons visiting: the PALACE EMPO
in inspecting the NUMEROUS NOVELTIES we have succeeded
NENT MANUFACTURERS IN ENGLAND and the Continei
GOODS and LATEST STYLES of London, Paris, Berlin, &c.
Ladies, Maids, and Children’s JACKETS, PALE-
TOTS, and DOLMANS, in Blaok Mixtures, and all
colours of FRENCH and ROYAL CASHMERE, DIA-
GONALS, JERSEY CLOTH, GERMAN BEAVER,
ENGLISH, CHUDDAH, INDIANA, QUEENSLAND
CAMEL’S-HAIR, and BECT1YE CLOTHS. Also, in
SILK, SATIN and SEALSKIN ; also, FUR-LINED
CIRCULAR SILK CLOAKS, &c.
Choice Dress Materials in PLUSHES, VELVETS*
VELVETEENS, BROCADED SATINS, SILKS, and
VELVETS.
Charming Costume Cloths, Soft in Texture, very Ser
vioeable, and well adapted for the present Style of
Dress.
BEAUTIFUL RIBBONS, plain and shaded. All the
newest Colours and Shades in PLUSH, MOIRE, VEL"
VET, and SATIN. SASHES in greatest variety to
match.
LACES: A very Large and Beautiful Stock, com-
prising every known make and Latest Novelty.
For Balls, Fe
and Varied Ass
TED and BUL
BULLION T
LACES, GRAN
VER BUTTON
and SMOKING
ORNAMENTS,
MALTESE CB
CHORS, &c. &3
CRETONNE!
manufactured f<
TABLE COV
Clothing of (
Boys. Best Ma
HARD and !
newest styles.
An immense
KID GLOVES, by the best makers, in all colours
and styles FABRIC GLOVES, Plain and Fleecy,
lined.
BOOTS and SB
the very 1-est
House in Sydnt
ANTHONY HORDERN i
THE PALACE EM]
H A Y M A R K 1
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” E
MOLESKIN TR<
WHITE AND PRINT
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINAR
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FI
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPER:
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH V
THESE GOODS Will
CHEAPEST AND BES1
THE BRAND IS REdlSTEI
IMITATING IT WILL BE PR
Mark
Trade
KEROSENE, 150°
THIS VER
AME HI
rjl H E A T R E
Leasee *
Manager k
FIFTH WEEK
and continued success of the i
LOUISE POMEK
LOUISE POMEK
LOUISE POMEK
To-night, Thursday, las
AS YOU LIKE IT) LO UI3J
AS YOU LIKE IT (
AS YOU LIKE IT l E 0
AS YOU LIKE ITJ
SATURDAY, Grand Prodn
_ . TAL
Lonise , WINTER’S TAL
Pomeroy J WINTER’S TAL
„ as . I WINTER'S TAL
Hormione. TAL
With all the magnificent scenery
Royal, Melbourn
Box office open daily at Elvy and (
where seats can be secured. Tick
the house at Lloyd’s, next Theatre.
rp H E A T B E
GOOD FRIDAY NI
First performance in the Colonies
Bran's popular SACRED MUSICA
THE MARTYR OF A 1
(Produced everywhere with unpa
Principals :
MARGARITA MISS MADE!
JULIA MISS Mi
OLYBIUS ••••••••■••
CALLIAS MR. E.
CHORUS AND ORCH:
120 performs;
Box Plan opened from Monday
OPE K A H
Lessee and Manager Mr
Business Manager ; Mr. K
Stage Manager; Mr. Y
THIS EYENINC
To make way for other i
fhe tiAST 2 NIGHTS, The I
of the present SPLENDID P
the present SPLENDID PRO
SENT & BACHELDER’S BENT
£SS : iI“ alo - iM ™ CJ
LAST 2 NIGHTS of the
FIRST PART and O
and LAST 2 NIGHTS LAS’
H.M.S. PIN-A-4 I m t
H.M.S. PIN-A-4 j
Those who hare not seen it, shot
portunity. Saturday, marc
OUR CHEF D’OUVRE PR
OUR VERY BES
Box Office at A. Hnenerbein’s, (
mission, 55., 35., 25., Is.. Overtui
ruinate at 10.20,
U E E N’ S T H
Fayre items. —Wo hear that a lady living not a
stone’s throw from the Town Hall, noted, for her
charity, is to preside over a stall at the E.C. Fayre, in
the character of a Charity Girl, assisted hy her clever
children. The son as a page, and daughter as the
Queen of Scots Among the attractions will be a
charming Marie Stuart, dressed in a robe of rich black
velvet, white satin and pearls. Also, a bride in cream
satin, and a bewitching widow in black, with blue eyes
and golden hair —a picture that might make any girl
hope to look as charming when her time c0me5......0ne
of the acknowledged belles of the colony is to preside at
a stall at one af the Fayres (which, we won’t say,) ; she
conies from North Shore A rumour having been
spread that some of the waitresses engaged for the Bun
House have been on the theatrical stage, it is desired to
deny this emphatically. Considering the origin and
object of these Fayres, such an idea must be seen to be
false .. Menton, the man milliner, is first in the field
•with splendid photos of Olde Englyshe costumes, and a
crowd is always round the frame shewing the eight cha-
racters which he has prepared. The charming model for
these photos is a young lady in his own establishment.
We only mention this, because some people imagine her
or he either Pomeroy or Patti.
The case of the gentleman who mangled him-
self in order to get his neighbours ten years' gaol has
startled London. Hundreds of innocent men are con-
victed yearly on false testimony, often the result of
conspiracy. That is one great argument against capital
punishment. You can’t unhang a man and beg mg
pardon for the little mistake; and to start his relations
in the greengrocery line by public subscription would
be no consolation to the ghost who sat cursing his fate
en the other side of the Styx. Mr. Fosbery, tho In-
spector-General of N.S.W. police, should paste this in
his hat.
Mr. Woodgate, barrister, refused to allow a
harrier policeman to clip his railway ticket, on the
ground that, “ the ticket was my ticket, and to cut a
piece out of it was to infringe my right of property."
Whereupon the Law Times chalfs the lawyer delight-
fully thus True, to the extent that the barrister was
bailee of the ticket, and could, as perhaps he will,
maintain an action of trover in respect of the piece cut
out, even against; the railway company tho bailor; but
not true to the extent that tho railway company cannot,
under the bye-law, subject the ticket to the reasonable
process of clipping."


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Francis Hopkins, Esq., of Perricoota, has been
once more to the fore this week with a new dramatic
effort, written now, however, not expressly for
Mr. Dampier, but “for the colonial stage.” This, the
latest contribution of Francis Hopkins, Esq. (of Perri-
coota), we had an opportunity of sampling on Tuesday
night, and, such was the effect of the programme upon
us, that we have sharpened a dinner-knife on a borrowafl
grind-stone, tom a paling from the nearest widows
fence, taken the loan of a blue blanket when the atten-
tion of the store-keeper was diverted; and, ere this
merry sheet issues from the press, we shall be armed
with a fourth-class ticket, whooping away in the direc-
tion of Perricoota.
• • •
“L.5.D.,” the title of Mr. Hopkins’ new play,
is stated to be “adapted from Montjoie;" but we
feel sure that this statement is only a simpering speci-
men of the well-known modesty of colonial authors;
and we are inclined, in common fairness to Mr. Hop-
kins (and especially to Montjoie), to credit the Pride of
Perricoota with the whole of it. “ L.S.D.” is a play of
surpassing interest. Celti vo as intrigue. You feel from
the first that the dramatist has a motive, and that
entitles him at once to your respect. Mr. Dampier
plays the part (and this is a startling innovation on the
character of his usual roles) of a “ wool merchant and
millionaire," and appears to be rather a giddy boy, as
we find him residing with a young person (Miss Adore)
to whom he is “ married but not churched." This Lady
has presented him with a family in the person of Mr.
Emmett, in a velveteen coat and top boots, who appears
to improve each shining hour by losing £l5OO a night at
whist, while, at the same time, he does not appear to bo
able to compass a three-penny sliave. Mr. Dampier
passes his time in giving away bank-notes about the
size of the Evening News, and in making love to the
“belle of Sydney society,” Miss M. A. Melville, who is
described in the programme as being “ fond of jewel-
lery,” but whose diamond ornaments, on the night we
saw her, had evidently been stolen by the milkman.
Mr. Dampier is otherwise eccentric in this play. He
appoints Mr. Carey, who is described as a Domain
habitue, as his secretary, at £lOOO a year; makes
poor Boothman his “barrister,” and places his atfairs
in that gentleman’s hands, not apparently considering
the intervention of a solicitor necessary.
* * *
Then there is “an Indian Major,’’played by
Mr. Tasman, who makes his face up so as to give the
spectator an idea that he has just had a few rounds with
Laurence Foley, Esq. Mr. Harry Seftou is clerk to the
Millionaire (fancy a millionaire wool-merchant with
only one clerk!), and is always doing a pitch about “ a
resemblance” ; and there is a Sydney exquisite, played
by a gentleman who announces himself on the pro-
gramme as “ Mr. Ernest de Lorme,” an appellation
which recalls to our remembrance a relation of ours,
who was once secretary to a coffee-stall. To Mi 1 . Sam
Poole is entrusted the part of a man-servant, and his
principal duties appear to bo to waltz (literally) about
with a tray, and openly “guy” the company. Marian
Melrose is Miss Adore’s daughter, and we cannot but con-
sider that the fact of the mother making desperate
attempts to look more youthful (and nearly succeeding)
than her daughter, is one of the pleasantest touches of
nature in the whole play.
• • •
There was another incident, too, that was
singularly realistic. When Mir. Carey comes on very
ragged and with a red nose, after the pattern of that of
the “ wicked uncle” in the “ Babes of the Wood," he
states that ho earns his living by “ revising proofs and
writing pars for the papers.” This little bit was received
with much favour, and went a long way towards securing
that success for the drama to which its intrinsic merit
so justly entitles it.
• • •
Of the acting it is not necessary to say ranch.
Mr. Dampier did his utmost with his most extraordinary
part, but soon got dispirited by the feeble lines he had
to speak, and the stony amazement of a very poor house.
The other performers came on and went off like people
In a dream ; Mr. Carey, especially, playing all through
with a serio-comic expression which seemed to say—
** What in brimstone’s all this about I” Miss Adore was
moaning all through the piece, and appeared without
any heels to her shoes, which we suppose is a new form
of expressing, through the medium of costume,
phrenzied grief and agonising despair. Marian Melrose
looked, there is no mistake, delightful, and if she thinks
of starring in her part throughout the Dubbo circuit,
she can hear of an active, perfumed agent, who looks nice,
at the office of this journal. Boothman was “ a thing
of beauty,” so it’s rather a pity he was only “ a joy”
for three nights. “ Our own Mary Ann” was com-
pletely “out of it” in this piece; but the performance
of “ Mr. Ernest de Lorme” was one of those weird and
wondrous impersonations seldom or never seen out of
a shoe-shop.
«« * '
We await, with feverish expectation, the next
drama that F. E. S. Hopkins, Esq., of Perricoota, New
South Wales, will honour the colonial stage with. If
we might offer a humble suggestion, we think Mr.
Hopkins might with advantage write a libretto for Mr.
Fultons’ Chinese opera company, to be entitled—“ The
Cockroach and the Grub.”
** * *
Mias Lonise Pomeroy, there can be no doubt
whatever, is extremely versatile. And there can be
little question also, now that we have seen her as
Pauline, that she is an actress of great power in certain
phases of the drama, which she is unable or unwilling
to develop in others. Miss Pomeroy’s physique is
extremely suited to the role of Madame Deschappelles’
“sold" young offspring, and the “doing” she vouch-
safed her unfortunate husband after the wedding, gave
us, as well as (we suppose) many others, serious food
for reflection. There is one great charm in la belle
Louise's acting. It is seldom artificial, and her by-play
is always carefully studied and well conceived. She
has faults, of course (who in any branch of life has
not?), but hers have the advantage of being for the
most part upon the surface. In the “ Lady of Lyons ”
(produced on Saturday) Miss P. drew the biggest house
of the season. Business, indeed, has been improving
steadily from the commencement, when the comical
appearance of the “game” brought home to the cave
by Mr. Jerdan in “ Cymbeline ” gave it a nasty jar for
the commencement.
# # «
The Claude of the evening was Mr. Herbert
Flemming, who, besides possessing the stage appearance
necessary for the part, .was careful in all his scenes, and
effective in a great many. This is decidedly|the most
ambitious effort Mr. Flemming has made here in the
“ilegitimate,” and while we do not care to hazard the
statement that Herbert could travel on his Claude and
make millions, we are most certainly of opinion that the
standard he has shown in Bulwer’s play will not only
suffice to keep the wolf from the door, but even prevent
from barking in the meadow.
♦ * *
Mr. Jordan’s Beanseant was just respectable;
Mr. Musgrave’s Damas was but little short of a first-
rate performance. Harry Leston played his part in a
manner which Glavis considerable satisfaction, and Mr.
Hasker as the father interpreted the role very much in
the same manner as he did that of Cymbeline; con-
sequently, as the feeble father he was a success.
• * »
As Madame' Deschappelles Miss Merton made
up and acted capitally; but it is a shameful for the
management to cause poor little Lena Ellis to make a
spider’s web of her face in endeavouring to pourtray the
widow. The other characters were | satisfactorily filled.
On Monday and Tuesday, “ East Lynne ” was played at
the Eoyal, but we never notice “East Lynne.” We
shall, however, most certainly have something to say
in the next issue about “As You Like It,” which is to
bo played to-night (Thursday).
* • •
And now, sweet children, let us tell you that
on Friday night there will be a big boom at the Eoyal,
on the occasion of Josh Pickersgill’s ben. “London
Assurance” will be the piece de resistance, and it will
comprise a cast of very superior strength. There will
also lie other attractions—’tis said a prologue by a
member of our staff, and it is also rumoured that Josh
will dance the Highland fling with a cheese-plate on
his head, and a claymore in his hand. Josh, ,who is
really a capital fellow, and positively only second to
Eochefort as a raconteur, is pretty sure of a big thing
in the way of a let. We should like to see every seat
taken at dress circle prices, and Lord Gussy and Her
Ladyship viewing the play from a step-ladder at the
back of the pit.
** * *
On Thursday evening last, the Hercules
Amateur Dramatic Club, the president of which is no
less a person than John Davies, C.M.G., and the “star”
none other than that most distinguished Thespian, Mr. I.
Reginald Cohen, gave a performance of the “ Lancashire
Lass,” which peculiar production they play wherever and
whenever they can, in the same way that the Romanys
(where are the Romanys now, by the way ?) used to
inflict “ Meg-s Diversion” upon their suffering relations,
whenever an opportunity occurred for an excuse in
rounding up a quorum. But while the Romanys
invariably played for charities, the Hercules people,
doubtless considering that it would involve the
thirteenth labour of their patron god to get anybody to
come and see them, have a playful way of giving their
show for nothing; and after jamming the seven tribes
of Judah into the best seats, they root around the city,
and gather in all the cripples and blind men. The former
are now, we understand, “ Jack” to the arrangement,
while the sightless old uns can only be inveigled into a
Hercules Dramatic performance on being deluded by
the audience-foragers into the idea that they are in
for a square meal, with something hot after it.
• • •
The show under notice was a “ complimentary
performance,” in which professional actresses(including
Miss Ada Ward!) were engaged to aid these aspirants
for histrionic fame in the exhibition of their rather
peculiar dramatic talents. The expenses of the show
amounted, we are told, to over £5O, which is a proof
that the youthful Israelites of which the club consists
have decidedly more money than brains, just as the
performance given by them proves conclusively that
they have less grammar than either. To the uninspired
observer, therefore, the performance is inexpressibly
wearisome, and the only good come in possibly be
derived from the Hercules exhibition, would come in
if the Government permitted Mr. Dillon to sentence
petty offenders to sit the whole thing out —an arrange-
ment which would, at once, have the effect of lessening
crime, and lightening the pull on the already over-
burthenod revenue.
• • •
On Saturday, at the same theatre, Tommy
Hudson’s Surprise Party made their rentrfe and drew
more money than has been taken at that theatre since—
well, since Defries last appeared iu Hamlet. Joking
apart, however the place was so packed that the difficulty
of getting iu was only equalled by the difficulty of gett-
ing out again. Mr. Santly, Tommy’s manager certainly
did his best for us; and though the crowd was too thick
to enable us to behold as much of the show as wo could
have liked, we have seen (quite enough to induce us to
go back again. In a word, the performance of the
Surprise Party is a ripple of merriment. It is the
sort of show wo can fancy a fellow taking his girl to
after a fatiguing day of sandwich-munching and Bulle-
tin reading in the General Post Office. Tommy wo all
know: —the De Gays wo are familiar with; Millie
Norton has lived iu our dreams; Ada Maven is cut three
inches deep in our ormolu writing-table; Mr. Warner,
we have seen starring with Mr. J. P. Keogh, in the
“ Plying Scud : ” Kennedy and MacCarthy are very old
friends; the new comers, therefore, that are entitled
to the first airy notice at our hands, are Miss Louise
(another Louise !) Alvina the lady ventriloquist, and
Mr. Fred. Dark, an entertainer of the Coruey Grain
school. We will at once say that Mr. Dark is exceed-
ingly bright, and pass on to the lady.
• # »
Misa Alvina is almost aa pleasant-looking as her
name is pretty; the entertainment for her three
figures is brightly written, and given by her with not
only great spirit, but remarkable ventrioquial power. It
is indeed, one of the most interesting performances we
have seen for some time. The way she “ comes the man
up the chimbley,’ ’ is only equalled by her imitation of the
boy down the well. We believe she could do the wolf
iu the saw-mill, or M’Elhone addressing the house,
(which is much the same thing) with equal facility. The
performance concluded with “ Rehearsal,” that scream
the “ Loftus" people used to play, in which the whole
cast was inimitably droll. The show is better this time
than ever it was, and Tommy will be certain to make a
lot of money. And, it must be borne in mind, that when
we say a performance is good, no doubt whatever about
it need exist in the bosom of even the most sceptical.
** * *
Bent and Batchelder’a crowd at the Opera
House will play till the Bth ult. Their great attraction
just now is a burlesque on “ Pinafore,” which is rather
funny but very long. It is a task of no small difficulty
to burlesque that which is in itself an inimitable
satire : and therefore the dialogue of the travestie, as
may be expected, loses considerably when compared
with that it is supposed to satirise. The show, how-
ever, is exceedingly droll, and Mr. Fredericks not only
makes an excellent interlocutor, but sings his numbers
in a manner which causes many a matron present to
forget for the moment the old man who is working at the
printihg office, and the kids who are slumbering at home
in their gin-cases. Amy Rowe is still to the fore, but
Beaumont iu some of his songs, is decidely Reedy. As
we stated, Mr. Pollard opens on the Bth of April, and
we shall be glad to receive from that gentleman his
repertoire, if he will lavish a penny stamp on us.
** * *
At the Victoria Hall, the crowd from the
Queen’s produced “ Oliver Twist.” We looked in—and
out. There was so good a house that we felt we were
not needed to help the other gentlemen in the reserved
seats to spit on the floor with high-bred ease. Mr.
Burford (Bill Sykes) was about to murder Nancy when
we dropped in, and as there was every appearance that
many other characters would be murdered by the
company, the thing became too touching. While yet
master of our emotions, we rose and left with our
handkerchief convulsively pressed to our—nose.
** * *
On St. Patrick’s Night, some of the theatres
payed the usual compliment to the “ finest pisantry "
of putting on special balderdash for their delectation.
At the Gaiety the attraction was supposed to centre in
“ Robert Emmett,” which we did not stay to suffer.
The opening piece, however, was the little old comedy
from the French, in which Alfred Wigan used to star in
days-gone by, “ The Life of an Actress.” Mr. Dampier
was the Alfred Wigan of the evening, and his Grimaldi,
an old French actor, was a sufficiently attractive repre-
sentation of a noble old boy with a very long wind and
a very short waistcoat. Mr. Dampier gave a feeling
and forcible representation of the part, and was success-
ful in bringing down the house by the natural indigna-
tion he evinced when Marion Melrose, as “Julia,
juvenile leading lady,” called him a “Vagabond.”
Miss Adere was entirely charming as Violet, and her
song won vehement applause. The Fair Amie has a
sweet voice, but it resembles Table Mountain. It is
flat at top.
** * *
Joe Goodman leaves overland for Melbourne on
Tuesday next, en route for Adelaide, where he is going to
look after Mr. Garner’s interests during the pantomime
season. The rest of the company, including the only
Theresa, leave on Monday. We expect Miss Horan’s
‘ ‘ Little Sailah ’ ’ will get the Adelaide boys to some tune;
in which case we may hear, before long, of her appearing
in the floury city as Lady Macbeth, or once more enact-
ing the role of Desdemoua.
** * *
By the way, we hear from ’Frisco that an Italian
opera company, consisting of Signor Rosnati, Monte
Griffo, Parolini, Signoras Gemma Fiozzo, Bellini, Miss
Coursen, and others will shortly appear in Sydney. We
give this intelligence chiefly for the information of
Kippax and other poulterers. Goose and turkeys will
go up when Rosnati arrives. Ho eats three at a meal.
And a crowd calling themselves Jackson’s Quintette
party have been playing at Kempsey. The show was
much appreciated by the door-keeper’s aunt. It is not
on record, whether or not, the performance was
under the patronage of the Cupid of the Macleay ! Oh,
and at Wagga, Gardiner and Gibbons’ “Nightingale
Serenaders” have been showing. Wo have heard a lot
about this crowd. They are a kind of “ Surprise
Party,” properly so called; for they surprise you very
much indeed. Wagga is also to have the “Royal
English Opera Company,” with Mrs. J. H. Fox aaprima
donna. Lucky Wagga 1
** * ♦
Boor Mrs. Scott-Siddons went an awful buster
in London. Her play was written by a Mr. Walter
Raleigh, who stated that he had spent ten years on tho
piece ! £2OO was expended in mounting, “ yet the next
morning,” writes Mr Raleigh, “ no less than 100 stalls 1
booked at different places were cancelled, every one of
them, and on Friday (next day) the receipts fell to ±'l6,
the result of the Times’ article.” This is as it should
be : and we trust that if there are any thin-skinned
managers in Sydney (which, of course, there are not!)
they will read, learn, mark, and inwardly digest the
above. We have imagined sometimes a dispositionon
part of some theatrical basses to resent independent
criticism. And we can even sympathise with them in
doing so. A novelty, you know, is so often resented—
even when it is an innovation in the right direction.
And, by Jove, we have got a column-critique on South’s
company at Gympie. The great Boucicault, in the
Miner, loftily observes of (the late) Miss Edith Pender
—“ Mrs. South is recognised as the most charming
Josephine, taking into consideration her youth and
personelle (sic), that have as yet graced the part.” What
in thunder what does he mean ? Can Jimmy inform us ?
*_* * *
Great interest attaches in musical circles to
the performance, by the Sydney Musical Union, on
Good Friday Night, of Sullivan’s sacred musical
drama, “ The Martyr of Antioch.” The p rincipals will
be Madeline and Marie St. Clair, Mr. Smith and Mr.
Hollingdale. We have heard of all these names before,
and we have especially heard of Mr. Smith. We hope
the “ Martyr” will go cousumedly—as a martyr ought,
that the public will autioch at the doors, and that the
boys in the gallery will play no antiochs. We merely
make these remarks to anticipate Lewis. Thursday,
the company will play the “ Octoroon,” and on Satur-
day that delightful piece, “ Ten Nights in a Bar-room.”
So, for eighteen-pence, the aspiring theatre-goer will bo
able to see three long pieces. This is good. For a
“note” the worrukin man will, if he watches it, be in
a position to behold the whole range of the British
drama.
** * *
Mr. William B. Henry, some of whose effusions
we quoted a short while since, intends coming, so Arthur
Vivian (noticed elsewhere) tells us, out to Australia
again. It seems the practice with journalistic frauds,
when they cannot earn pork and beans by vilifying
Australia and Australians, to return, with their tails
between their legs, and get fed by the people they have
libelled. Mr. Henry has written another article on
Australia, and this is what he says of “ Tahite ”
“ If Dr. Neild should denounce you on your opening
night, and if you are a new comer he will be sure to be
there, bidEadien for ever to all hope in the future, for
lus opinion is considered to be infallible, and everyone is
anxious to see Monday’s Argus ; for what he says will
either raise you to success or doom your future pro-
spects." Doubtless, Mr. Henry will receive a cordial
welcome on his return. Ho may, we should say, lie
quite ccrtaiu of getting an exceedingly warm reception
at the Gaiety Theatre, for instance.
* * **
George Darrell has written us, and wo rejoice
accordingly. When he wrote (.‘loth Jan.) he was stay-
ing at Ashland House, N.Y., and playing Joseph Surface
in “ The School for Scandal,” with Fanny Davenport’s
company at Fifth Avenue Theatre. The N.Y. Herald
says:—“ Mr. Darrell’s Joseph was really very good, and
indicated that under the discipline of a standard metro-
politan stock company the young actor might be made
one of the best Josephs wo have seen here for many a
day. It is by far the best thing he has done, and was
really a capital piece of work. He deserves more than
a brief line of praise. His acting throughout the screen
scene was well conceived, admirably carried out, and
abundantly filled in with natural and effective bits of
by-play that made it the success of the evening. He
divided the honours with Mr. Fisher among the male
members of the east.” We are more than delighted to
hear that George has thus succeeded. Lots of people
here always thought he shone as a Joseph. At latest,
our friend had disagreed with the management, and
declined to take from the heavy lead a long part given
to him at 40 hours’ notice. George was about sueing
the manager for ±5OO damages. We hope he won’t win
his case, and then get into gaol for costs.
** * *
Johnny Hall and Carden have had a row in
Brisbane, and Johnny has got an injunction compelling
Carden to play with no one but him for eight weeks.
All this, too, after the loving manner in which they
went away together, and the pretty programmes of
their joint repertoires they issued in Brisbane. Can
this row simply be the history of Wolsey repeated, and
signify the temporary fall of the Cardeu-Hall combina-
tion ? Passing from this, we may state that there is a
Japanese cat-circus at Cooktown; and we also see that
a Mr. Williams is giving “ Spectacular Gems” at Tam-
worth. He can come and give a few here if he likes.
We won’t be particular about their being “spec-
tacular.”
** * *
Mr. Arthur Vivian, who has, now and anon,
written us some very pleasant letters from California,
where he and the fair Helen were playing with Stetson’s
Company, has arrived in Sydney as agent in advance
for Mr. Sheridan, an American tragedian of consider-
able celebrity. We have taken Arthur’s word thus
far : but for further particulars our readers will have to
see small bills.
** * *
We see by the papers that W. H. Thompson,
of Zulu war Dioramic fame, has got a little daughter at
Christchurch. We wonder how long it will be before
the kid is billed to do an act in the Show ? Mrs. T. is,
we see, as well as can be expected. We are glad of this ;
very glad. For certain reasons which need not be
particularised, we view this little incident in the
domestic life of Mr. Thompson, at this particular time,
with peculiar interest. And another interesting item
will be that Melville has (for the 500th time) positively
resolved to come out to Australia. We learn also that
Harkins had a ben. at Invercargill, the Governor and
Lady Gordon being Ipresent; and finally Amy Horton
has left Lyons’s “Pleasure Party” a secession which
ought to take a good bit of the pleasure out of it.
*• * * *
The following, extracted from a letter from Mr
J. C. Williamson, unfortunately came to hand too late
for last week’s issue:—“We played three weeks in
Dunedin to splendid business, and four weeks at Christ-
church, where things were very good. While there, we
produced, for the first time on any stage, a three-act
comedy-drama, by W. K. Travers, entitled “ Dear Joe."
It was a hit (also in Dunedin afterwards), and will, I
think, prove a very strong addition to our repertoire.
After Christchurch, we played at Timaru five nights—
place crowded. Then Dunedin, during the race week,
three nights moderate and three nights excellent. Very
busy during week altering theatre, preparing for opera
season. By spending a considerable amount myself, I
persuaded Sibbald to do the same. So, between us, we
completely renovated the Princess’, and quite surprised
the public when we opened on Monday last. We
brought all our scenery and dresses, and opened with
exactly the same cast as in Sydney. Result, a big
success. Every seat was booked the first night, and
business was almost uniformly good throughout the
week. The third night was ±2O better than the second,
and the week will bo considerably over the thousand.
You who know N.Z. will understand that this is un-
precedented business. Opened here last night (Wel-
lington, March 3rd) in ‘Struck Oil.’ Raining in
torrents; still, house packed. Play two weeks, then
finish with the dramatic and join our opera company.
Mrs. Williamson has quite recovered her voice in N.Z.,
and is in splendid form.”
** * *
Mr. Dewhnrst, the transcendental tragedian,
drew well in Hobart, under the management of Valtare
Keuouldes : and the lessee is stated to have made money
all through his season, despite the shindy with the
Junos. And chattering about old pals reminds us that
Mr. John E. Fulton’s lines do not appear to have been
cast in pleasant waters now that he steps upon his
native heath in “Murker.” The Chicago News Letter
goes for him straight. In one paper, in reference to
“ John E." advertising for a company, they politely re-
mark :—“ Fulton is here with the avowed intention of
securing talent to go to Australia. We simply advise
any actor or actress who accepts an engagement from
him to be perfectly satisfied before leaving home where
the ticket if or the retiun journey is coming from.” In
America Mr. Fulton claims “ to rim a circuit in Aus-
tralia” (wliatever in sulphur that may be), and he is
about to bring over here one “Rochelle, the Tragic
Queen,” who seems to be by all accounts a superlatively
sparkling “star” of the “Imogen" stamp. Her
success hero anyhow would seem to be regarded by the
News Letter as extremely problematical. For it
says : —“ The company which Mr. Fulton has engaged
to support Miss Rochelle is a cheap one. It is com-
posed mainly of people who have been in the past, and
are now, unable to get engagements under any re-
cognised management.” However, qui vivra verra.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
What do you thinkjof my voice f ” said a man
who had applied to Bent for employment as a minstrel.
"I haven’t heard you sing yet,” replied Horatins B.
“ What in thunder do you mean ? Why I’ve sung three
times tor you 1 ” “ Oh, that’s your voice, then, is it ?
I thought it was the man behind the scenes sawing off a
sheet of galvanized iron.‘*.,...,Oh, shade of Lyster ! We
hear that the present lessees of one of the Melbourne
theatres, are a gentleman who combines the classical
occupations of pawnbroking and book-making, a barber,
and a super-master......Mr. H. Vincent comes to Sydney
as manager for Williamson, Gamer, and Co.’s dramatic
ventures The other night, in a N ew England town,
a “ ter-ragedian" engaged the local School of Arts and
“had” the people properly. He narrowly escaped a
ducking in the river at the hands of the enraged few
who formed his audience; he passed on without squaring
his hotel bill
* # *
At Philadelphia, La Diva Patti occupied the
rooms used by the Prince of Wales, had a suite of nine
servants, and thirty-three luggage trunks. These
varied from the small portmanteau, one leather thick,
to the 7-storied “ Saratoga ” with bay windows, iron-
sheathed, burglar-proof, parapet round the top, and the
size of a log hut. Patti’s existence involves an expen.
diture of more than £20 a day, on an average; when
travelling, sometimes double that. She doesn’t drink
water, but keeps to the liquid she started her career
with, milk In 1794, Eobert Baddeley, an actor, be-
queathed £100 to buy a twelfth cake and rum punch
once a year for the ladies and gentlemen of Old I»rury.
The feast is religiously maintained, and as Baddeley’a
bequest is supplemented by the management, a lively
gathering is the result Alice Oates, says a critic, is
getting well along in years, but her stage presence is as
charming as ever. She is quite short in a perpendi-
cular direction, but it takes a good deal of cloth to
make a dress-waist for her. She is a graceful kicker, as
all of her bald-headed admirers declare, but she never
elevates her pedal extremities high enough to permit a
perfect view of the sole of her boot Sara Bernhardt
fainted while playing “ La Dame Aux Camelias,” at
Genoa, on February 6th. Sho spat blood. The
audience cried “ Enough,” and quitted the theatre
Eoso Stella, it was stated when the mail left, had with-
drawn her suit for divorce against her husband, H. A.
Froom, and everything was once more lovely One
evening recently, Mrs. Langtry, being at a certain
London theatre, scribbled a note to the author of the
piece being performed, offering him three hundred
pounds to write her a part. He thought it deuced
impertinent, and scribbled her a reply to the effect that
ke had never seen her act, and could form no notion of
her capacity J, L. Toole gave a private performance
at Sandringham. The Prince of Wales “graciously
expressed himself much pleased,” and entertained Toole
and his company at a private supper The Mayor of
Swansea has rendered himself contemptible by reviving
a statute of Charles II. against Sunday trading. Such
was the indignation caused, that his own colleagues, the
Town Connoil, passed a special vote of censure on him.
Another Mayor (of York), when asked to grant his
patronage to a theatrical performance for a charity,
declined, saying “ My time is too fully occupied in the
real acts of life, and preparing for the future, to allow cf
my attending mere representations Our old friend
Ling Look, who recently was acquitted of a charge of
manslaughter consequent on his having shot a boy's
head off during a performance at Brighton, was at latest
playing at Canterbury. He was loudly applauded—nob
because he shot the boy, but because he got off The
latest London joke is the statement that Lieutenant
Ponsonby has been engaged for the forthcoming revival
of “ Eomeo and Juliet ” at the Lyceum A very weak
and reedy tenor was singing, and one of the gods
shouted to an acquaintance across the gallery, “ Cor-
nay, what noise is that ? ” “ Bedad,” replied Corney,
“I believe it’s the gas whistling in the pipe.’
• This is written VillanelU in France. But, then, a
part of our mission is to teach the great French nation
how to spell.
Produce Report.
_ .. . Bulletin, March 21st, ISB2.
On the wharves to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at £4 10s. to £4 15s. Best snmmer hay, £4 to £4 10s
other samples, £3 to £4 per ton. A fair supply of hay
arriving and selling well. Maize, prime, ss. to ss. 3d t
wevilly samples, 4s. 9d. per bushel. Oats, prime, 3e.
3d.; inferior, 3s. per bushel. Victorian onions, £3 ss.
to £3 10s.; ditto carrots, £4 10s.; ditto chaff, £6 to £6
ss. per ton, bags inclusive. Warrnambool potatoes £3
to £3 ss. per ton. Butter in keg. Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. per
lb.; eggs, 2s. per dozen; ham, 12d to 13d.; cheese, sd.
to Bd.; Bacon, 7d.; ditto, hand-cured, 9d.; honey, 4d.
to 5d.; Lard, 8d; Beeswax, 9d. to lOd. per lb; millet
brooms, 7s. 6d. to 10s. per dozen.
Poultry.— At the various auction marts, poultry was
in moderate supply, and sold fairly. Fowls realized
from 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d.; ducks, 3s. to ss. 6d: geese, 5s
to 6s. 6d.; turkeys (cocks), 6s. 6d. to 10s.; ditto hensl
4s. 6d to 6s. 3d.; pigeons. Is. 6d. to 2s. 2d. per pair •
parrots Bd. to 13d. each. 1 ’
Fresh Meat.— At the Riverstone Meat Co’s, sheds
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country
killed beef takes place daily. A fair supply arriving
and brisk demand. Prime bodies of beet realise from
2sd to 3d per- lb.; medium quality, , and inferior
2id per lb. all round; prime mutton, 2d per lb. all
round.
Fat Cattle,— At the Homebush sales yesterday, a
good supply of cattle were yarded, and the market
equal to last week's rates. Best beef 255. per 1001 b.
Fat sheep—a short supply forward, and market firm*
541 b wethers lls. 6d. ’
Wheat.— Wheat is in demand; our quotations show
an advance. Several small lots realisea 6s. to 6s. Id. at
last Thursday’s sales, but we hear of private sales at
lower rates; Adelaide wheat, ss. 9d. to 6s • colonial
ss. 9d. to 6s.;Victoria ss. 6d. to ss. 91.; Launceston, ss.
4d. to ss. 6d.; New Zealand, ss. to ss. 3d. per bushel.
Flour.— The market is fairly supplied with flour,
which continues arriving from Victoria aad Adelaide
this week’s arrivals are above the average. Prices are*
for Sydney mill flour, superfine, £l3 10s.; household’
£l2 10s.; seconds, £1110s.; New South Wales, £l2 15s.
to £l3 10s ; Victorian, £l2 ss. to £l2 10s.; Adelaide £l3
to £l3 10a. Bran and pollard Is. 6d. to Is 8d per
bushel.
To our joy, we saw. They were hand in hand in
the cart, and they blnshingly told us that they had
done it. We said “ Whither away? " and they replied
in a loving chorus—“ We are going on Saturday to buy
a lot at Watersleigh, North Shore. There we will
build a dove-cot that would satisfy the Hardiest
Gorman-diser." This was told us in confidence, but
the auctioneers have been moan enough to advertise
it elsewhere.
VILLAINELLE. *
When we saw you last, Haynes,
You were fat as a monk.
And as broad in the reins
As a Japanese junk.
You can’t tell hew it pains
Us to see how you've shrunk I
And dark Archibald feigns
He is gay, but his sunk
Cheek the scalding tear stains.
As he lies in his bunk
Very dry, and complains
That he cannot get drunk.
O, for lush—berried lanes!
O for Mynheer V an Dunck!
For the flagon he drains—
Quite as deep as your trunk—
O tor you, and for Haynes,
And the dry-swallowed chunk
Of gaol-loaf 1 What more strains
Can we sing now. Quid nunc—
When but one rhyme remains ?
Never mind, never funk.
Though Pigheadedness reigns
With the pander and punk
While yon rattle your chains—
You can smoke out each skunk
When the time comes for Brains.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Small men and small papers will, in future, get
no capital letters at the handsof printers on this journal
Now, see how this looks: “ john ferguson, of the par-
ramatta times,’ ” “ william piddington, the czar s
friend.” And so on.
• • •
There was sharp work between the Victorian
Minister and ex-Minister ef Railways when they went
to see the Zigzag. Woods looked at the rough, sterile
ranges, and observed: “ Not the style of country for
growing cabbages, eh, Tom ?” And Bent looked over
a beetling precipice, and calmly replied: “No, nor for
a heavy train, with your brake on." The conversation
then turned on the great wall of China.
• • •
We are going to write a par., now, that will
illuminate the heart of every young matron. A lady
living at Darlinghnrst went into a registry office, and
paying the required fee, stated that she wished to
engage a general servant. The reduced baroness who
presided over the “ labour bureau ” thereupon recom-
mended her an ancient dame, possib’y a near relation
of Brian Boru—a wizened-faced party with a figure like
a top-boot, and hoofs, that when the sat down, tilted
up, and revealed her bluchers and black cotton stock-
ings in a very distressing manner. Next day, this
treasure arrived at the suburban residence of the lady
(who was newly-married); and having spent two hours
or so in unpacking the 21 greasy parcels of which her
luggage consisted, demanded refreshment in the shape
of malt liquor. This being accorded, she consumed
with her “pint” a pound of cheese and a very large
onion; after which she operated on a cake (which had
been specially reserved for somebody else), and plum
jam, a tin of which she opened with a twenty-five
shilling carving-knife and a carpenter’s hammer. She
then went to her room for a lie down, after which she
laid the tea-table by placing the knives, forks, dishes,
etc. in a heap in the middle of the tabic, and then went
next door to discuss with the servant there the political
situation. Returning at S o’clock, and being remon-
strated with, she stated that she wasn’t accustomed to
common people; ” and on being told by the infuriated
husband that her services would be dispensed with in
the morning, she proceeded to wash up with a noise
like a tempest, and smashed to smithereens an antique
water-jug and cut-glass butter-dish. Next morning,
after being duly aroused from her slumbers by a boy
who was bribed to get through her window by
moans of a ladder and prod her with a stair-rod, she
came down just as the husband’s 'bus was starting, and
served a choice dejeuner, consisting of gory chops and
cinder-sauce. This Belshazzar-like repast over, she
demanded her week’s wages, and gracefully retired.
What the young wife is surprised at is that she didn’t
ask for a reference before she left. We, however, are not
astonished at this. There are about 4000 vinegar
faced old fools doing the rounds of the registry officer,
who are making a comfortable living out of going to a
place one day, kicking-up a row the next, and scooting
off with a full week’s wages. Yet these old harridans are
always “ treasures” at the registry offices. The reason
is that they pay half-a-crown a pop. So the oftener
they want a situation, the better for the dame du bureau.
Tadics I we bow, in anticipation of your heartfelt
thanks.
« « •
The Victorian Humane Society propose to call
themselves the H.S. of Australia—bigger you see. The
Sydney Canary Society will now alter their title to the
Southern Hemispherical Association of Ornithological
Twitterers.
• * •
To a publican, last Sunday: “ Any chance of
getting a drink ?" “ Yes, if you can get a policeman to
join you.”
• • •
A cadger spotted an acquaintance in George-
street, the other day, and, borrowing a half crown,
thankfully acknowledged the loan with “Thanks, old
man ; you have laid mo under a debt X can never repay.”
The donor thought it quite likely.
• * •
One of the witnesses in the Eodway and Wilson
conspiracy case spoke with no uncertain sound when
he declared ho could not swear to the value of the
jewellery supplied to him by the prisoners, but
that he was prepared to asseverate that he would
“ rather have his money back.”
• • •
In a neighbouring colony, a man starting his
career as a nightman became wealthy, and, in the ful-
ness of time, his wife thought she would 44 go into
Society.” One morning she sallied out and left her
card with one of the leading lady fashionables. The hus-
band of the lady called and waited on the would-be
visitor, and blandly observed: “ I have received your
cord and when I require your hnsbanu*j servic( 8 I will
send for him. Good morning.'*
• • •
Mr. Dillon says deaf witnesses should bring ear
trumpets. Why not the lawyers bring speaking-trum-
pets ? They have money enough to tackle the brass
market. With so simple a remedy to hand, we don’t
gee that a deaf man should be compelled to attend
court with a funnel in his ear.
• • *
The wife of a Leichhardt candidate lately de-
clared, during some police court proceedings, that she
placed no value on the “ honour ” attached to the office
of Alderman. The lady’s opinion is one commonly en-
joyed by outsiders; but, if the honour is mythical, there
must be " equivalents ” somewhere. In the City
Council, last week, now, a certain Alderman but we
may as well stop here.
• • •
A physician in the North of Prance professed to
cure rheumatic patients by burying them in warm sand
up to the neck. When at home. David Buchanan
learned this; went over and while the poor rheumatic
subjects were in this condition, read them the whole
of his letters to the colonial press. Dick Thatcher
tells this story, and as he took advantage of our being
in gaol to bring ns his holiday book, we can believe it.
# * •
There’s much significance in the way one carries
one’s umbrella. The Sydney man who wants to be
thought intensely pious, never uses his “ gamp ” as
one uses a walking-stick, but holds it out in front of
him, like a ploughshare properly placed. Ex-Judge
Simpson excites universal admiration by the manner in
which he wears his gingham high up under the socket
of his left arm, and grabs it by the waist. Mr. Julian
Salomons carries his sunshade down straight and stiff,
a little in front of his right leg, and makes an eternal
effort to overtake it. Julian evidently wishes to be
second to nothing, not even to an umbrella. The Hon.
George Thornton carries his parapluie a respectable
distance in front of him, held stiffly down. He’s a
cautious man. A well-known Presbyterian clergyman,
who writes to the Heeald, invariably has his umbrella
open. Clergymen, even if they do work in the vine-
yard, don’t like the burden and heat of the day.
Besides, he’s afraid of his complexion. Then, there’s
John Woods, who swings things about, takes half the
pavement to himself, and gives the other half to his
umbrella. He’s really a good-natured man—he likes to
give people all the roadway. Then, coming to really
great men. John Davies is still uncertain as to what's
correct, and so adopts a mixed style—partly religious
and partly dandified—that’s to say, he swings his
umbrella, but never allows it to touch the ground in a
main street. Sometimes he carries it under his arm,
vury tightly rolled up, reminding one a little of Sir
George Innes, Sir George carries his even on horse-
back. He rolls it up very neatly, and “ freezes ’’ (no
other word will express it) on to the middle. An
umbrella, if baggily curled up and held by the middle,
looks vulgar. Sir George, wo need hardly remark,
never looks vulgar.
* * •
“The public hangman,” is what the Nooze
calls Mr. Howard, the finisher of the law. Now we
wonder who’s the private hangman ? The D. T. alludes
to Mr. Howard as “the common hangman,” and at
once raises the question—who is the uncommon hang-
man P "A sad tragedy,” is a favourite heading with
our playful evening contemporary, and serves to dis-
tinguish such catastrophes from the joyous tragedies
which make a harbour picnic or twelve months in quod
of this mortal life. However, the D.T. never is sensa-
tional, and, consequently, never publishes any of those
gory or corpse-light naratives which yrooeed from tho
facile pen of the chief murderer of the Nooze. “An
achingly pathetic story ” is the D. T.’s wbceze. The
fellow who puts up headings like this, andlthinks they 11
sell the rag, must be identical with the genius who
writes those sparkling uarsljin the Telegraph, com-
mencing—“ Tho father of a large family writes” —“The
only business r( interest at the Water Police Court
yesterday was”—or “Last|~night in King-street, a
large crowd assembled to witness the'lyagaries of a
drunken woman who—” &c , &c. Hallelujah
• * *
The D. T. says it has been found necessary to
label the seats and tables set apart for the press, at the
Central Police Court. Further, that one of the princi-
pal dignitaries of tho Court is of opinion that it will
shortly be necessary to label tbe reporters too. We
haven’t seen the tickets on the reporters' seats; but we
suppose they read: “These are not the prisoners."
Should it happen that the scribes themselves get
ticketed, the word "vacant" will, bo doubt, stare
at an admiring public from their alabaster brows.
* * *
THE EPIGRAMMATIST.
Under this headine we propose to print any-
thing that comos within the nature of an epigram—
short, sweet, and pointed as the business end of a wasn.
It has been said in the old world that the present age
is incapable of producing this species of literature,
and (judging by the samples of genius Europe sends us
by everj|mnil) we should say it is—in the old world.
The material is at hand; the fools are to the fore.
Arise, O singers of the scathing pen, O bards of the
ragged boot I If you don’t succeed in making fun out
of your subject we can make fun out of you. You can’t
expect any fairer deal than this outside a Benevolent-
Asylum coffin. Here are three or four specimens of the
style of thing we mean. The first refers to the modern
improved Christianity as compared with the old-
fashioned cultus. After writing it the author died, and
was duly damned. Her? goes : —
In the serenely sinful days of old,
Christ spoke with Jewish doctors, we are told.
But down on earth were He once more enticed.
Our Christian doctors would not speak to Christ.
Now, this is slightly erroneous, and casts an unjusti-
fiable slur upon the clergy. Let ns be just:—
MT FRIEND THE MEMBER.
“I have moved Heaven and Earth in your favour,” he
said,
Which certainly sounded well.
But he should have gone first to the likelier place.
And urged his claims on Hell.
The man who wrote this is a disappointed office-seeker.
He tried to get his “ friend the member” to quarter
him on his country. How much did he try him with F
THE SPIRIT OP THE PRESS.
“ An Echo man is dying,” Satan said,
“ Fetch me his sanl I” ’J he imp began to leer.
But went, and interviewed the noble dead.
And laid at Satan’s feet —a jug of beer.
The writer has forgotten the saveloy. There is much
journalistic soul in a saveloy; in fact, we, ourselves, at
one time, thought of engaging the Father of the
colonial Press—now editing the Sausage Seller’s
Friend— to sit on a pile of mule-meat saveloys, and
hatch pressmen for the daily papers.
Eun lawyers down ? No need—they’re in the muck—
And, not Malays, we never “run anuck
The saints have stolen a march on the devil.
And lessened his tax by a soul per year.
But if Satan is losing, his head is level.
For he’s starting a dozen branch-hells up here.
• • •
Our authority ia the Nooze. A very thin
horse had been beaten, and Mr. Margetts was “ had
up ’’ for it. “ It had been mistaken for a clothes-prop
on four legs.” Mr, Webber, the Inspector of the
Seciety for Prevention, &o., considered that it had not
eaten (or many months; but this is doubtful, since fur-
ther evidence showed that a shilling had been paid to a
boy to drive the horse away. Would any bey go after a
Tanner while he had a bob F However, Dr. Tanner was
driven into the police yard, and was on Exhibition. He
came in handy to strike matches on, and his tail and
mane were plucked barj for pipe-stem cleaners. The
few teeth that remained fell out from sheer inanition,
and his skin got too|finooth to make any more Welling-
ton knife polish. At this stage a reporter on the Even-
ing News staff called, and hung his hat on the hip
bone. This opens up a wild field for speculation.
1st. It for ever settles the question whether an Even-
News reporter has a head. 2nd. Since the reporter
wore the hat kept for the staff to use on special occa-
sions, and it just fitted the horse’s hip-bone, the long-
disputed question of the shape and size of an E. N.
reporter’s head Is finally determined. 3. It is a victory
for the phrenologists. The contour of the head—that
of a horse’s hip-bone—is unlike that of any known
human head; also the mass of the brain is proved to be
fully equal to that of a chimpanzee. The >ublished
writings of the staff correspond. What more do you
want ?
# * *
There is a story of an uninvited guest, who
came to a tenants’ dinner given last January, by Mr.
Gladstone. An English paper says, “ the fellow walked
in, drank of the best, and pulled Gladstone’s coat tails.
He then handed a letter to the Premier, wherein he
stated he had come from H—11, and was prepared to
sell brimstone in any quantity. The police have
detained him, in order to make enquiries.” They
ought to have no diffiouity in settling tue question. A
wire to any deceased member.of the foorce would bring
up information right away.
* « «
The Young Men’s Bible, Tract, and Persever-
ance Society, had its anniversary entertainment the
other dav in Parramatta. The show was given ia the
Baptist Church, which, it seems, was 11 nicely filled
though at the outset it was rather a crusher to receive
a letter from a Eev. Mr. Murray, saying he couldn't
come, and supplementing this by the cynical remark,
that " his sympathy was with the society.” The “ en-
tertaisment ” commenced with a hymn, which was
followed by an address from the chairman, who de-
fined the object of the Y.M.8.T.P.5., by statin? that
they studied the Bible with a view to making it known
to their fellows ; to disburse tracts ; and by “ persever-
ance,” they meant M sticking ”to it. Our experience of
young men of these societies is that, at disbursing
tracts, and “ sticking to it," they have no equals, and
the same remark applies to their wonderful skill at
concealing edibles at a contract dinner. After the
pitch of the chairman, Mr. Bonger (!) recited “ The
Coming of the Healers” splendidly, and then he read
the report, and in all probability afterwards wrote it.
T ast year, the Society it seems, had for their motto
“Ebenezer"—though what they are going to have this
year did not transpire. We might, however, suggest
“ Walker” in emulation of the T.M.C.A.
The Eeport goes on to say that they had added “ street
preaching” to the repertory, but grieves that they
were 41 confronted with a freo-thinker. who evidently
thought that ho had as great a right to propound his
views in public as we had! This, of course, produced
uproar, and the outcome of it was that we were ord« red
to stop.” But if anything funnier than this be wanted
find it here 44 Preaching in the park has also been
continued. The meetings are. as a rule, orderly, and
often profound attention is given to the speaker.” A
new 44 preaching station” has been opened it seems;
at one of the meetings, says the Eeport— 44 One man
ventured to assert his opinions on religion, but was
soon silenced. The word of God was quick and power-
ful—at any rate, too powerful for him, for he was but a
poor specimen of his profession ” The chairman then
said he was glad the young men had taken to street
preaching, as good had been effected by it spiritually
and physically. We have no doubt whatever about
this. The physical good, however, is, we suppose,
generally effected with a brick. After the Eeport, Mr.
J. Ardill read 44 The Eeligion of Ghosts, part of a ser-
mon.” and then they were 44 somewhat refreshed” by
a solo on the harmonina, 44 rendered very sweetly (sic)
by Miss Ardill.” 44 Tbe Great Attraction,’ 4 an extract
fromlone of Mr. Spurgeon’s sermons, was read by Mr.
Lewis Brown. The choir then sang— 4 Exalt Him all
ye people,' and were again successful and affective.”
After this a collection was made, and at fhe conclusion
of which it was ascertained that the Society had just
7s. 61. to carry forward. At the conclusion a vote of
thanks was moved to the chairman, who said that 44 he
did not expect it. There was nothing in the show that
could offend the most spiritual (sic) mind ; it had been
4 harmony 4 (sic) all through.” All we can say is if they
call this kind of thiugin Parramatta, an entertainment,
their term for a funeral should be a jubilee, and for
a colliery-explosion, a Bacchanalian revel!
• • •
On the occasion of anew P.M, taking his seat
on the bench in a country town, tho other day, thirteen
of the once great unpaid assembled to instal him with
duo honour. The usual ceremonies over, the P.M. took
his seat and proceeded to business. When the
44 machine” beaks disperse! several of them were heard
to express a poor opinion of a man who did not even
44 shout" for them. Pact.
* * *
It is not generally known in Sydney, but a
drunken hangman gets about 10s. per week more than
a competent reporter. It will surprise no one to hear,
therefore, that if “ Nosey Bob " drops into it, that
there will be no difficulty in filling up the billet. This
is what makes the Sheriff so independent,
* * •
“No reductions on these things?” he asked,
shaking his papers.
“ City and Drainage Bates,” said the clerk, no dis-
count sir.”
“ No twenty or two and a-half, e and o-e," on these
things ?
"None Sir.”
11 No chromo ?”
“ None whatever.”
"No view of the exhibition?”
"Not one."
"Nor likenesses of Sir Henry Parkes ?
" No.”
" Not even a picture of the Town Clerk ?”
« No."
"Nor an order for the Minstrels, nor a pass to go
over the gaol, nor a drop of Walker, nor a lunch and
free tram ticket ?”
" Pay in cash nett, Sir, was the firm reply.”
“ Well,” he said, “I think I’ll submit to the levy and
distress clause—there’s no encouragement for a man to
be honest in this country.” And he went down sadly
and sat on the Town Hall foundation.
That was a carious thing that Mather divorce
suit. A lady, who had but reoently been introduced to
Mrs. Mather, called upon her one day and said —*• Why,
where’s your husband. Captain Mather." “ He’s gone
out," said Mrs. M. “ What for P” enquired thelvisitor.
‘'Just to get some tobacco. But I expect him home
shortly,” said Mrs. Mather, taking the lid off the sauce-
pan to see how the pig feet were getting on. “ How
long’s he been gone ?’’ enquired the lady, nibbling an
onion. “Only seventeen years,” was the reply: “he
oughtn’t to be long now." Youlknow the sequel, of
course. He went for that weed by way of Australia,
and took a young milliner with him. Since that he
came in for £28,000, and Mrs. M. got a decree nisi.
Giddy boys, these military men. Ain’t they, ladies F
* * *
SIB HENET PARKES IN AMEBIC A.
Our representative, Sir Henry Parkes, paid on
his arrival at San Francisco the usnal penalty of
greatness. The papers teemed with accounts, some of
them not altogether correct, of his career. Here is a
sample:—
FIERT ANNOUNCEMENT. SECOND ANNOUNCEMENT.
“Sir Harry Parkes, “Sir Henry Parkes,
Prime Minister of New Prime Minister of N.S.W.,
South Wales, who is now who ia now on a visit to
on a visit to this country, this country, was Hem-
was British Minister to peror of Botany Bay at the
Japan at the time of the time of the Geebung In-
abdicatiou of the Tycoon, surrection and Pyrmont
and during the rebellion in Rebellion in '68. Ho
Japan in 1868. He led the led the is toxica ted Snrry
British troops to the Hills savages to the heights
mountains back of Hiogo, of Woolloomooloo, and
to follow the forces of after a tierce assault on the
Prince Bizen, v»ho had position of the great rebel,
attacked foreigners in the Dannero Connero, who at
streets of Hiogo, thus that time was arranging to
making necessary the land- attack Pinchgut Island,
ing of the American, over against the abattoirs,
British, French, and Ger- retired with his victorious
man naval forces to protect forces to the Blue Moun-
their countries’interest on tains, where he had man-
shore. Sir Harry was in- aged to snavel about twelve
strumental in securing the miles of country. Sir
beheading of Prince Bizen Henry Parkes was Fay-
for ordering his troops to master - General of the
fire upon the foreign sai- forces in the early part of
lore.” The mistake into his career, and only retired
which the journal fell was when his signature became
corrected the following overcast with doubt and
day. The writer had evi- sorrow. Sir Henry has
dently mistaken him for fought several duels—no-
Sir Harry Parkes, Colonial tably one with a formid-
Secretary of Hongkong, able adversary, yclept the
Kiama Ghost, in the con-
flict with whom he sus-
tained a disastrous injury
to his nose, which was
suddenly altered from a
pure Holy Bomau to the
plebeian boomerang, affect-
ing a decided change from
very handsome to d d
hugly. Sir 'Euery is now
paying us—a visit. This is
not the first time he has
been known to pay some-
thing to everybody.
« « •
Barker the Insurance joker says that the facts
admit of explanation. So they do. What doesn’t F
* * *
VICTOET AND GAOL.
The good work has, in sooth begun.
No dancing licenses here granted.
And picnic caterers are “done,”
Who for more fearful orgies panted.
We've done tbe work —the old, old tale—
And now, by thunder, we’re in gaol I
* * *
If to Crown-street the kids bring in silver their fees j
They’re smiled on and gushingly thanked;
And if they fetch coppers—oh, then if you please
The sweet things are gushingly—spanked.
# # «
Recently at the Supreme Court at Christchurch,
a witness, a journalist, wanted a drink, and asked for
port wine and lemonade. The judge, however, gave him
a glass of water. The N.S.W. Supreme Court only gives
journalists their gruel.
* • •
Society ia in a healthy state in North Queens-
land. A Herberton man advertises for a housekeeper,
30s. a week, and servant. A young widow answers tbe
ad., and comes up with her little boy. The man then
goes into details of what he will require her to do, and
finishes up by saying—“ I’ll bo a father to the dear
little boy.” ... It wasn’t so much for the value of
the China vases, or the smash of his false teeth and a
few dozen splendid articles of Bric-a-brac, but what
annoys him is to be asked by every second person he
meets —“ How it was he did’nt carry out his promise of
being a father to that dear little boy F ’’
* * *
We have evidently reached the pinnacle of suc-
cess. The Echo calls ns “ gentlemen." All we require
now, to be completely happy, is for the Protestant
Standard to call us the reverse.
* * *
There’s a certain rev. father, not many miles
from here, who looks as if he were going to be promoted
by the Pope. He has got a Cardinal nose already.
* * *
There is a certain dramatic club in Sydney
which ia great fun. It is mainly composed of the
Children of Israel, so that in casting the pieces the
Gentiles get outvoted—the Jews playing all the Lords
and Dukes, and the poor Christians all the thieves and
outcasts. Well, this crowd never give an entertain-
ment but some little unpleasantness occurs which mars
the harmony of the occasion, the row being commenced
by some dissatisfied member refusing to come on and
simply say, “The banquet is served, my lord," to
Mr. Algernon Lazarus, while that gentleman’s friends
are playing ten-side parts, and Lazarus himself has got
two-thirds of tbe fat, and struts about in a green velvet
coat and yellow knee-breeches. A good time ago this
club gave a performance in Sydney. The piece they
played had bailiffs in it, so Lazarus as the Lord was in
his element, as, protecting the heroine (Miss Sheba Bel-
shazzar), he cried—” What! Ton coma to theethe the
furnithurF Wheth I Bergorthl” Just then, how-
ever, the gas was suddenly turned out. Then Algernon
was great, indeed. “ Ladith and Geddleum," he cried,
“ there ith tho danger. Thith wath done by thum dis-
appointed member of tbe company. Thum one who’s
got a sthmall part. I’ll give £5 to know who done it.”
Then another ghost in smalls came in front, and cried—
“ My name ith Aaronth. I’ll give £20 for the man what
put out the gath." The gas was then re-lit, and the
play proceeded, the piece being delivered, owing to
continued explosions—of merriment—entirely in dumb-
show. Next day, the club dissolved, but it has re-
formed again j and with such success that Mr. Lazarus
admits that what used to be a light breeze before, ia,
under the new rules, a hurricane of insubordination.
The company will shortly give another performance, we
believe, and the cast of the opening piece will bo as
fellows :—
The Duke of Braganza...MR. ALGERNON LAZARUS
The Count of Lager Mr. Israel Moses’
General in the bpan. Army Mr. Aaron Josephs’
Sirvant Mr. Smith’
Tae Duchess Miss Sarah Lew*
Her Maid Miss Jenkins*
“Crushed again I ”
* « •
Constable Gall, of Goulbnrn, shot himself in
the leg with his revolver. See what things occur when
there are no Kelly gangs about. This comes of having
constables who are brimming over with bravery!
• * #
The prospectus of the Mont-de-Pietfe company
has made quite a flutter amongst the Sydney pawn,
brokers, and it is rumoured that nearly all the shares
have been taken up by the fraternity. Those who are
out of it, however, will haye their revenge. We heard
two George-streefc Shylocks talking tho other day; one
said to the other —“Tell yon vat we do, s’elp me
Moaish I Ve’U send ’em all the ‘crooked’ pledges.’*
And so they will. So if the Pifite people are not sharp,
they’ll have to tell one clerk off for attendance daily at
each police court, and keep an expert on purpose to
detect cracked three-legged pots and houey-oombed
muskets,
# # •
The gate of St. David’s, Snrry Hills, ia
fastened with a handcuff. This is probably a gentle
hint to poor parishioners not to hang abont the door-
step, and ask (or the crumbs that fall from the parson’s
table. AUeylooyer 1
MALMSBURY JIM:
A SAD STORY.
“On Tuesday, a young man, named James
Carroll, aged 21, residing at, Malmsbury, committed
suicide by strangling himself.” — Some Papeb.
At Malmsbury, Jim Carroll was
A Volunteer so trim:
He’s dead, and so now we will shed,
A failin’ tear tor him.
His love was false, and he with rage
Did frantically bellow;
Then with a strap he hung himself—
This fine young strapping fellow!
“ Farewell, my love,” he sadly cried,
** You’ve sent me to despair
And then he kicked the bucket, as
He kicked away the chair.
The Crowner sat upon his corpse;
And so, behold I they found
That as Jim couldn’t speak a word.
His mind must be un-sound,
“ Here lies,’’ they wrote, “ Poor Jim, who loved
A girl whore he resided;
But Susan wasn’t * on;’ so he
Went home and Susan-cided.”
BOARDING-HOUSE KEEPER : “Not a thing do you get ’till you pay up.”
ANGELO FITZNORMAN JONES, of the Public Shirks Office: “Haw, Mrs. Smith, really, the
end of the month, you know, and all that: the loss of my clothes I could bear, but if you
take my—aw—cane and eyeglass, you deprive me of the only joy in life.”


BRIEF MENTION.
■\Vho inspects the Parramatta Orphan School ?
The hangman committed for trial. “ 0 Merope!”
he cried, as Constable O’Eion led him away.
The S.M. Herald says that the North Shore
municipalities have a perpetual pleasure-ground in the
sea."
Dr. Kelynack says that The Bulletin scoffs
at sacred things. This comes of scoffing at Dr. Kely-
Back.
The Hobart Meecitbt has taken to printing
its jokes In italics 1 This saves a deal of guessing
amongst its readers.
Aboriginals generally sneak on the unwary
bushman just before daylight. It is therefore said
that the darkey’s hour is before the dawn.”
The other day, the Auckland Observer
startled local “serciety" by announcing that “Mrs.
Captain Ashby" was "nie Mrs. Crombie.” I
It is not generally known that the editor of a
a paper in the North-western district was, until r«.
cently, a sexton. They now call his paper the Ghave-
yard.
The Maori, Timoti, for biting the end off a Mr.
Fraser’s nose, at Botorna (N.Z.) races, was sentenced
to six weeks’ imprisonment, and bound over to keep the
“ piece.”
“ Can you manage to change a £5 note ? ” asked
a lady of a cabman. "No mum,” was the reply, “ But
it’s any odds that old blind man over the way could do
it for me.”
Telegram from country town in daily paper :
“ St. Patrick’s Day passed off very quietly here. Only
ten persons are now in the hospitaL Measles are still
prevalent."
A writer in the Grafton Argus says he ha 8
been informed that there is scarcely a quiet nook o r
corner on the lower port of the
river in which there is not an
illicit still. -
“ To the Editor—Y.M.C.
Association Tea-meeting: First
round,|ham sandwiches ; second
ditto, corned beef ditto. Tic-
kets, Is. fid. each; collection
during meeting. Yours truly,
a Member."
A correspondent in an in-
land city informs us that a great
quantity of sealing-wax is used
np there. He also mentions
that some young ladies are om-
ployedin the post-office. Local
residents won’t need to read this
twice.
The D.T. says the remains
of an old man found dead in the
bush “ consisted of the clothes
and bones of the unfortunate
man.” As well call the saveloy
in the coat-pocket of an un-
fortunate Yell reporter a part
of his anatomy.
At St. John’s Church,
Wagga (where, by the way, the
Arohdeaoon only gives ten min-
ute sermons when the thermo-
meter stands over 86 deg.) one
of the choir the other Sunday
evening marched up With a sun-
flower in her belt.
A novel in three chapters.
I. She awaited her sweetheart
at the Museum. “He cometh
not," she said. Chapter 11.
He anxiously awaited bail.
11 He cometh not,” said the
young man. Chapter 111. A
sore head. Second offence;
fined ahaif sov.
J. J. Walsh, the well-
known Melbourne political agi-
tator, once said, when intro-
duced to a meeting, that he had
come quite unprepared and
really didn’t know what to talk
about. “If you want to please
ns,” yelled a full-grown larrikin,
“ talk about five minutes.”
At Maryborough, Q., there
is a man who perambulates the
streets carrying a water snake,
6ft. long, which he binds about
his neck and left arm. He is a
public nuisance, and is fond of
frightening women and chil-
dren. Times have changed since
Mother Eve was bom.
Mr. Prelinghuysen is one
of the handsomest men in
America, but a shade of envy
flitted across his face when
he saw Parkos. For some mo-
ments neither of them spoke :
at last Sir Henry broke the si-
lence by observing 41 'ow ’appy
it made 'im to meat another
great man."
The City Architect and the
City Inspector (the last title is
an euphuism for “ Inspector of
Nuisances") failed to allude in
their celebrated report on their
visit to Victoria, to the ques-
tion of electoral reform, and
matters of a cognate nature.
Their treatise touches upon
nearly every ether current
topic.
“ The insidious canker of
corroding unbelief, and the dia-
helical ramifications of materia-
listic blasphemy which characterise this generation,
were never so keenly borne in on my soul, as at
present,” said Peter the Missionary, as he leaned
over the pulpit and saw in the plate three Tommy
Dodds.”
Says “ Wrecker : ’’—The City Architeo has
declared in favour of wooden ceilings. This is not so
much in the “carpenter" interest as for the sake of
hiving the work in our next ceilings thoroughly
“ above board."
A North Queensland blaokfellow saw a monkey
for the drat time, and was considerably puzzled as to
what it was. After scratching his head and deliberating
for some time, ha came to the following conclusion :
“Old man kangaroo marry um Chinagin—then that
fellow jump up.” What has Darwin to say to this P
When, the other day, a well-known Tasmanian
favourite got married to a charming girl, mine host of
the “Victoria," opposite the Cathedral, hung out a
gorgeous banner from the top window. The Hobart
people want to know whether this was a mark of grati-
tude for past favours, or merely anticipatory of the
future.
The cruel myrmidon of the law draggeth the
lovely British female by the hair towards the jug. The
chivalrous knight hammereth the cruel myrmidon of
the law, and releaseth the lovely British female. Re-
sult :—The chivalrous knight is fined £8 or four
months, and the lively British female goath on her
w ay rejoicing.
“ Wholesale sausage-machines,” is Mr. Pilcher’s
name for the trams. However, when he sports silk and
appears for the Government, we shall find him calling
the State Juggernaut “ one of the greatest triumphs of
science and civilization, and the only solution te the
transit difficulties experienced by people of all great oities
m modern times.”
. The wife of a Sydney lawyer created a sensation
near the Supreme Court buildings, the
other day. “ Whispers dire had raised her ire," and
raised the green-eyed monster within her wifely bosom,
“he waited and watched. Presently, a sweet-looking
creature came mincing along, and all her slumbering
‘•ury awoke within the lawyer’s wife. Uttering a wild
wueop, she termed herself into a cavalry charge, with
a parasol for a sabre, and west for the approaching
sweet creature. She just made the feathers fly, and
don’t you forget it. Denouement: Sweet creature
fainted—lawyer’s wife triumphant—parasol in smithe-
reens—lawyer wondering what hia next "brief” will be,
and pondering about another brief interval |to come
when next he turns his latchkey.
A publican at Leichhardt, near Sydney, was sum-
moned for allowing music on his premises, and his plea
was that the room in which the music had been dis-
coursed formed no part of the hotel. “ Why,” said he,
in illustration, "the Druids meets there. lam a Druid
myself—what you call an honourable member—one as
doesn’t have as much to say as the others.”
It is said that some jokers recently tried t©
arrange with an np-country grave digger for a grave. The
body turned out to be a soaked and cremated effigy, and
the Yorick seooper is wrath. Says it’s a bit too rough.
He’s allers 'appy to dig a grave for a stiff as is a stiff,
but if people want to dispoge o’ rags and sioh, why can’t
they ehuok ’em out with the dead cats and cabbages—
into the street ?
In the Northern district, the other day, a certain
minister of the Gospel was looked up for drunkenness,
and was next morning brought before the P.M. in the
latter’s private room. His holiness was fined and
carted off to Queensland. The case was hushed np,
and the correspondent who tells us about it wants to
know how it would have resulted had the offender been
a “ common working man.”
A countryman went on the spree at Ballarat,
took a sleep al fresco, and found, when he awoke, that
prowlers had stolen his small change and four false
teeth, mounted in gold. He now goes about lisping
" Oh, boyth, we’ll never get drunk any more.” And if
you mention his mishap to him, ho replies;—“Now,
don’t teathe me,” although one would think he ought
to be anxious for any one to teeth him.
The WilcAnnia Times regrets that “ through
some slight derangement in the printing machinery, its
last week’s issue was late in delivery." We feel for our
contemporary. Printing machinery is as a general
thing so liable to derangement that Gladesville seems
the only proper place for setting it up in. We some-
times think, when we read certain of our contemporaries.
that they have recognised and acted upon this view,
but have gone too far, and not only had their machi-
nery but their editors in Qladesville. Most of ours are
in Darlinghnrst.
The Chief Justice has declared that “the Go-
vernment with their trams have no better right to the
streets and roads, than have the ordinary public with
their vehicles." Some of the Jolimont heroes might
take a note of this; many of them have done a pretty
good thing out of a railway accident. If a bit of Jug-
gernaut business fell in their way, it might result in a
good thing for their 11 heirs, executors, and assigns.”
A man was passing down Victoria-street, Dar-
linghurst, whan a small dog seized him by the calf.
He limped into a shop to see the owner (a butcher)
and congratulate him on the possession of so valu-
able an animal. The owner received his remarks
with derision. Next day he found the pet with its ribs
stove in, and he laid it on the block with the other
sausage-meat. “ Not lost,” he sobbed, “ but gone
before.”
Says a recent paper from over the pond : “ Just
now Australian patriots seem on what they call over
there * the wallaby.’ We, therefore, consider it our duty
to caution the public that whenever an Australian
comes along with a * Sir* before his name, or a dozen
initials after, it is advisable to watch what he does with
his fingers, as some of the gang would prig anything
around, from the proprietor’s wife to the baby’s rattle.”
We’re evidently getting known.
Mr. Dillon’s firm decisions in Licensing Act
oases bring again into startling prominence the
wavering imbecility of the old packed-bench rdgime. It
is refreshing to read his clear and manly refusals to
grant the old Saturnalionists permission to resume their
orgies, for describing which journalists have been sent
to gaol. Some down-the-harbour picnics will not fall
through, although you are deprived of your little bloed-
money Mr. (but we must beware).
Up in the heated North, a certain District Court
Judge, of Queensland always puts up at the finest hotel
in the township. But on the last occasion, he was in-
dignant at what he considered an overcharge of £l, and
refused to pay; whereupon, the worthy boniface looked
him full in the face and said, “ Where I come from
(meaning N.S.W.) District Court Judges are as common
as goats ; and don’t imagine you can rogue me because
you are one. Next time yon come here, you can go to
the ordinary table for meals, where yon will meet your
betters.” His Honor does not go there now. And the
publican takes great care not to appear as defendant in
the District Court, for fear he might beat the plaintiff
too shamefully.
That estimable and prolific correspondent. “The
Father of a Family,” writes to the the Nooze, com-
plaining that his bacon has come wrapped up in leaves
from the Prison Commission's report of their enquiry
concerning the abominations of Cockatoo prison.
“The Father of a Family” has, no doubt, been accus-
tomed to receive his bacon wrapped in copies of his
favourite vespernal periodical. The Nooze gave the
par. due prominence. It brooks no rival.
In a recent assault case heard up country, the
other day, the weapons of the assailant were described
as, “ A pick, a long-handled shovel, a keg of nails, a
rammer, a tin of kerosene, and a double-barrelled gun.”
Those with which the other assailant defended himself
with were, “an axe, a hammer, a cross-cut saw, a three-
legged pot, and a short-eared bulldog.” Both parties
were ordered td ‘pay their own costs. They then
adjourned, and tossed for drinks all round.
When proceeding against an offender charged
with stealing, it is, of course, necessary that
the owner of the stolen property should state that he
authorised no one to remove it. At Armidale, the other
day, the •* Sargint ” was conducting a case against a
man for stealing apples, and had the prosecutor in tke
box. Having elicited the facts, and mindful of the law’s
requirements, he put as a final query: “ An’ did ye iver
give the defendant authority to stale ’em ? " Defend-
ant’s reply was inaudible
It is held as a perpetual reproach against
womankind, that the sight of a mouse always makes
them lose their eleven senses, and get up on a chair and
scream at the ferocious monster. Out at McDonald
Town there is an animated object who boasts loudly of
his courage. The other morning, hearing a mysterious
noise about 2 a.m., he at once jumped to the conclusion
that it was a burglar’s footsteps on the stairs. Opening
the window, he crept out. Nearly an hour later, the
figure was to be seen again approaching the house
accompanied by two burly policsman. "Be careful,
perhaps they have firearms.” A procession was formed,
the bobbies going first with a lautarn and drawn batons,
and our hero covering the rear. At the head of the
stairs, they found the terrier worrying a dead rati
Yah 1
A public-house census in Bristol, Eng., shows
that between four and seven on one day, 105.000 people,
or exactly half the population, went in for a drink. This
shows that every public-house should return a member
to Parliament. We’d like to see a public-house census
taken in Sydney, also a pop-shop census. If all the
people who go to the pubs would do what the pawn-
brokers do—take pledges—the face of Holds worth
would gleam, and that of N ini an Melville become
radiant as a rose in a cabbage garden.
A contemporary says: “ The handsome daughter
of our esteemed icitizen, Mr, Timothy Mudge, hair-
dresser and phrenologist, was married yesterday to the
eldest son of a thriving green-grocer in Queer-street."
Now, as a correspondent informs us that Mr. Timothy
Mudge has seven children—all girls—we think it’s a
mean bit of spite to thus single out the ‘handsome
daughter.' It riles the other six, and it leaves every-
body who doesn’t know the gossip of the place com-
pletely in the dark as to the handsome one's identity.
The preacher in a Lithgow church on Sunday
week said that he “ was driving to G a vet Vs Leap a day
or two before, with a lady whom he had always re-
garded as a true Christian.” As they neared their
destination, the dark mist, which had hitherto obscured
the scenery, cleared off, and the lady observed “ that
God had cleared the mist away for their special benefit.”
“ I could not,” he continued, “ help remarking and ad-
miring her beautifol state of mind —such implicit faith
in God." Whereat, it was no tic ad, there was a slight
titter in the choir.
A post-card was dropped in an up-country post-
office in the ordinary course. The postmaster took it up
and read: “ Ton to whom this is not addressed, and
who nevertheless read it, are a contemptible sneak, and
want your prying eyes put out.” The postmaster walked
away to the window, and recited in a low voice Bishop
Moorhouse’s prayer for rain. Again, when the sorter
was fixing up his work for the post, he was observed to
pause, and hum a portion of the Evening Hymn while a
post-card dropped unheeded into the pile. Strange to
say, all down that particular post-line, that afternoon
was observed by the post-office hands as one of profound
meditatien and prayer.
At Herborton, Wild River, N.Q., the court-
house is a room in a hotel, and there is only a very
thin partition between the Temple of Justice and the
Temple of Bacchus. The Bench : “ How do you plead ?”
A gentleman in the bar, hilariously : " Fill ’em up again,
Jem, and d Lawson!” Sensation in the court. The
Bench (sententiously): " How do you plead ?" A voice
in the bar, raised to a high pitch: •* Bum, Jem. Bum
agin’ the world, old man 1” Such little speeches amuse
hangers-on, bat play the devil with the dignity that
properly appertains to the Bench.
Some years ago, a young lady got made to her
order, at a city jeweller’s, a few links, to replace some
which she had lost from a gold chain. Having
smashed the chain again, and wishing to buy another,
she, the other day, walked into the same jeweller’s,
where the man who had sold her the “missiug links”
still stood behind the counter. She asked him how
much he would allow for the old chain. He examined
it carefully, and then pointed out that that portion of it
—the links he had himself supplied—were not gold. She
had paid for gold, but he had forgotten her.
At Battle Camp, near Cooktown, the other day,
the darkies, during the absence of a Mr. Joyce, who was
attending his sick wife, looted his house. They broke
up and carried away all the metallic connections of the
furniture, and even attempted to take the tires off the
dray wheels. The whole of the wardrobe was appro-
priated, and the son of forest, assuming that Mrs.
Joyce’s night-dress was a diploma for elegance and
comfort, donned it accordingly, inside out. However,
as soon as he caught sight of Mr. Joyce and the breech-
loader. he cast away the snowy robe of night, and
skedaddled to the ranges.
The wine we propose to run into Britain at the
promised reduced duties, seems likely to be served up
shortly in a new style. Some man has found out how
to freeze drinks. " Take a bite ole feller, says your
friend, handing you a bumper with the tongs. Awk.
ward though on a frosty night, when you are biting off
a nobbier, if your breath shonld be frozen on your
beard, and the two froze together. A man, coming
home at three in the morning,
couldn’t tell his wife the usual
lie until she had thawed out his
mouth with the lighted caudle.
"Worse than the present being
hit on the head with the rim of
the brass candlestick.
So constable Mahood, un-
der committal for subornation,
has absconded from bail, whilst
letter-carrier, Howard, and a
man named Balderson, two of
Mahoods witnesses, have been
committed for perjury. What
will the “numbers of the
foorce” say to this, and how
do they account for that ? Ma-
hood’s bail was £2OO, two publi-
cans, _ 'ay yer plaze,' being his
A few revelations like
those this case gives, and a few
sharp punishments, would tone
down some of the angular ec-
centricities of over “zealous*'
members of our constabulary,
and compel them to speak
straight about picnics, as well
as prisoners.
The “ intilligent police
officer” has a great deal to
hear. One day (at a place on
the Nepean) a gentleman left
some books with a friendly
hotel-keeper, while he went a
business trip, but he forgot to
call for a few days. On Sunday
night, the “intelligent police
officer” observed a man enter
the side door of a hostelry, and
emerge thence shortly after-
wards with a parcel. “What
have you got there ? ” “My
business.” “Grog, I suppose.
I insist on seeing.” “Yon can
go to ” anywhere; and the
parcel man evaded the official
arm and darted off at top speed.
The suspicions of the I P.O.
were confirmed, and a hot chase
ensued. The active officer
caught the criminal, and
breathlessly opened the parcel.
It contained “ Prilgrim's Pro-
gress,” Butler’s Analogy,” and
two copies of “ Little Women.”
And then the parcel man told
the I P.O. he would prosecute
him for committing an assanlt.
Another good Queens-
lander gone wrong. An ex-
photographer lately brewed a
barrel of whisky, which, when
tested, was found to contain
salt of antimony and fusel oil,
the bases of the spirit being
silent spirit, or refined mm
filtered through charcoal, with
creosote as flavouring matter.
One sample of whisky, which
had been very much interfered
with, had water and sugar
largely added; a sample of gin
was very much watered, and
salt ot antimony added; a
sample of rum had salt of tin
in it lo the proportion of 2grs.
to a 6oz. bottle; a sample of
colonial beer had 112grs. of
common salt, and 65jgrs. of
sulphuric acid to the gallon; a
sample of Scotch beer was
similarly got np." 112 grs. of
common salt is a very fair
allowance, and clearly explains
why, when a man drinks a cask
of beer, he immediately wants
another. Let us be truly
thankful. In honest old Sydney
these things are not— found out.
Ever since Mr. Darley, Q O', laid the found a-
tion of a new species of wit —wholesome fan, to wit—
Sydney Punch has been doing its best to attain that
standard. That it has succeeded to an extent that even
Mr. Darley must applaud, may be judged from Ibe f )1-
lowing extract from one of its leading poems—" And
he’s the feremost gun.” The allusion is made to apply
to Grace in comparison with Murdoch, but where does
the laugh come in ? What comparisi nis there between
a cricketer and a gun ? And when is it a virtue in a
gun to be “ foremost ?” Tb&t quality may grace a
pedestrian or a peddler—the one in speed, the other in
che^k,—but for a gun to bo foremost implies that it is
in the habit of keeping ahead of other guns, that is,
gonig off before it should go ofl . After reading this,
mire the candour Punch exhibits in the poem on the
picnic, in representing its chief contributors by the fol-
lowing significant symbols “ —,*• in all which
blanks we obs rve a commendable uniformity.
At Auckland, N.Z., a man named Robson was
charged with being fonnd on the premises of a Mr.
Fonghey, for an illegal purpose He had taken a fancy
to Mrs. Foughey’s servant maid, a prepossessing young
person, and by arrangement was to appear at her room
at 11 30 on Sunday night. The note, couched in the
moat affectionate terms, was carelessly laid aside by the
girl, and found by one of the inmates; conseQuently,
poor Eobson s visit was not altogether unexpected. He
was seen at the appointed hour in the shadow of a
tree, and presently, like “ Romeo,” was singing at
the top of the ladder to his “ Juliet,” but no sooner had
he got into the room than he was seized violently by
the leg, held down by strong hands, received a heavy
blow on the head, which covered his face with blood,
and was then bound roand the arms, neck, legs, and
body, with stout cords, carried into the garden, and
tied, to a tree until the arrival of a constable. “ Love’s
Young Dream.’*
“J.S.” sends ns fourteen verses about three
sisters who were drowned in the Murray. Thei e ought
to have been fourteen sisters drowned, and only three
verses ; but we can’t always have things as we’d like.
“J.S.” says: ‘‘This was originally produced in the
Newcastle Dispatch, and the editor said bethought it
very good. I would like it put in the Intagglio colum.”
Certainly, it shall go into the “ Intagglio colum,” —but
not this week. We’re crowded. Besides, we are getting
some pretty new type and green ink, which will do
DEJECTED APPLICANT : “Never mind, ’Arry. Bear up, ’Liza. ’Ang them new-fangled beaks! Give me the Supreme Court.”


justice to poetry of this stamp. We give, however, just
one verse, as a sample of what the Newcastle editor
thought very good: —
** Come you feeling-hearted Christians,
Wheresoever you may be,
I’ll cause you all to shed a tear
if you’ll hearken unto me.”
If this specimen, framed on the model of “Willy
Keilly,” sends up the circulation very many thousands,
we’ll print the remainder in the green ink. In the
meantime, we’ve shed a tear, we’ve shed our teeth, and
our hair, and our last three meals. Speaking honestly,
as feeling-hearted Christians, we never read poetry that
made ns shed so much. “J.8.”adds; “ I will sendyou
more whenever you like.” Don’t send it, old man; it
might possibly be stolen in the post-office. Fetch it
round yourself. We want to finish the shedding.
A Walgett publican baa been fined five shillings
for calling a commercial traveller a liar. Rough on tha
publican. What’s the good of a truth-telling bagman ?
Last week, a nerveless would-be suicide entered
a Sydney blacksmith’s forge and offered any of the
employes £50 to kill him. Taken to Infirmary, where
the job will be done gratis.
The Sydney City Council propose to license and
badge the newsboys, no boy under the age of twelve to
he licensed. What they should do is not to license, but
to badge—broad-arrow—some people who are not news-
boys.
Lots of people have made small fortunes out of
the Jolimont railway smash. When a sale is satisfac-
tory, it is now described by Melbourne auctioneers as
“Jolimontary.” So we have now two new words—
“Clontarfy ” and “Jolimontary."
Members of the Sydney “Anti-Shouting
Society” are invited by advertisement to “ call round at
the office and getithsir subscriptions refunded, as it has
been decided to re-organise the Society on a new basis”
—that, we are told, of never refusing a liquor when it’s
offered.
Now that crinolines are begining to dawn once
more upon us, Alderman John Booth, of Parramatta,
wants to widen all the streets, and give his shins a
show. And a local paper carefully adds ; “ John will
do any mortal thing for the glory of God, and the ladies’
comfort.” This is good for John, and we trust those he
favors will not forget him when the time comes for a
liqueur stand, and the usual testimonial.
How they preserve the Northern blackfellow.
Some time ago, Johnny Campbell, the notorious abori-
ginal bushranger, was hanged in Brisbane. In life
Johnny had few friends, when dead he hid none. So
they put his poor clay into a " preservative iluid ’’ con-
sistiug of 41b. white arsenic, 21b. carbon, of potash, 31b.
corrosive sublimate, 40lb. common salt, dissolved in 10
gallons of water, and packed him off to a Berlin scien-
tist. Johnny’s body has been preserved, even if his
soul has been lost. However, they should have pickled
him first and hanged him afterwards. But no matter.
We are always advertising that rising young
barrister, Mr. Prank Smythe, and here he is again. He
has defended eleven aboriginals in his time, and they’ve
all been sentenced to death. The other day, Frank
defended, at Forbes, a man charged with aheepstealing,
and set the court in roars by dwelling with force
and vigour upon the possibility of the “ ear-marks of
the sheep having been washed off! ” Says a venomous
local paper" There was a doubt in tha present case
whether the accuasd or the chief witness stole the
sheep, but Mr. Smythe clearly showed that his client
was the guilty party.” However, we don’t believe this,
“‘Two civilians now stand committed for perjury
in the interests of the police.” Constable Mahood,
the arch-stthoruer, has broken hail; another constable,
who is regarded by Mr. Buchanan, P.M., as having
helped to “ put up ” the job, has been freed from a
prosecution under cover of dismissal from the foorce.
Mr. Buchanan, in referring to this most hideous case,
said that, bad as perjury was, he could understand a
policeman stretching a point in favour of a defendant,
but he failed to conceive how any set of men could
deliberately set about suborning witnesses to commit
perjury and secure the conviction of an innocent man.
Mr. Levieu, following on Mr. Buchanan, observed
that it appeared in evidence that an inspector of
police had instructed two constables to dress in
masquerade costumes, in order to obtain a conviction
against a certain publican, and that to the same end the
said constables had told deliberate falsehoods. If
young constables were instructed to become official liars
they would, without fail, become official perjurers. Mr.
Fosbery should paste this in his glossy tile. There’s
plenty of gum at the club.
The drastic doses which the Sydney stipen-
diaries are doleing out to the publicans of this city, in-
cline people to a belief that the licensed victuallers are
as often persecuted as prosecuted. In order to induce
the publicans to take heart of grace, we may state (on
the authority of Eoseby, or some other knowall), that
the reign of terror for publicans has only just begun.
A new Act is in contemplation by which It is intended
to punish, by exile, any publican who appears to be
made after the likeness of man. Furthermore, licensed
victuallers will be required to garrison and victual a
squad ef one inspector, two subs., eight sergeants, a
score of mounted troopers, and 120 foot police, of the
strict scrupulosity of Constable Mahood. These are
authorised to instantly arrest the publican, if he does
not bar his doors at the approach of Anonymas, Cabinet
Ministers, or other evilgenii. He must eschew mar-
riage and quasi-marriage; must suffer hysterical fits at
the mention of cards and dice, keep only flat-bottomed
bottles, illuminate his premises with electric light, be
knouted night and morning, never venture out of doors
except under escort of the police, and then be as
well ironed as a High Church parson’s shirt front is
starched —and in short he must be a faithful aggrega-
tion of ten saints, a Baptist minister, and a Milburu
Creek trustee rolled into one. Licenses are to be re-
newed daily, and liable to forfeiture if the publican
wink thrice in one hour without the permission of the
head of the police. N.B.—A publican contributed this
item.
“Lily” (Wagga) writes-. —“I send yon some
verses, out of many, that I have received from some
maniac on the far Barcoo. They are written in pencil,
as all the ink has dried up in that pleasant locality.
They were brought to me by gaunt hollow-eyed mea,
who said they had fought their way across the plains
and nearly perished—"
“ Lilian, darling Lilian, I think alone of yon,
Upop these arid, torrid wastes, this terrible Barcoo!
Wit Knot a drop of water for many a weary mile.
And but one thought to cheer me up—the thought of
your bright smile.
“ Oh I Lily, darling Lily, shall I never see that face.
That haunts me like a vision as I wander round the
place P
Will you come to me, my darling, or may I come to yon,
And quit this howling wili'ernees, this horrible Bar-
coo ?”
Lilian wants us to tell her what she’s to do, as she does
not intend going to the Barcoo; nor does she want
“him” to visit the Murrnmbidgee in his present un-
satisfactory siate. We are not at liberty ju t now, or
we’d visit Wagga and try to arrange matters. At pre-
sent we’re detained in town on urgent business. The
best thing Lilian can do if she does not really care for
him, is to keep him on the Barcoo for a while. The
drought’s very bad there just now, and be may die off.
But if she doesn’t want him to die off, she should get
him to subscribe to The Bulletin.
There is in N.Z. a “ remittance-man,” who,
when he receives his quarterly £50, nails ts his door
the envelope of the registered letter in which the
money arrived When the envelope’s up, he’s on the
spree; when ho pulls it down he’s ready to receive
visitors.
At a southern bazaar the other night, a gentle-
man who had gone in a raffle, threw three eighteens.
and thinking himself quite safe, marched off, returning
next evening to claim his priza. But he wa» told he
had not won. “ What! ” he exclaimed, “54 beaten 1 ”
*-Y«s, indeed,” replied the lovely maiden in charge,
" Father Blank got the anti-macassar; he threw fifty
sir."
In Auckland, the other day, one of those “ trea-
sures ” from some fraud of a registry office, asked her
master if she could have a day out. He refused, and in
a tit of rage sho set upon him, and banged his skull with
everything she could lift. She then smashed the din-
ing room windows with tbe poker, made a railway tun-
n«l of the China clock, and ten minntes later, just as
ho had staggered to his feet from a corner, and was.
staunching a scalp wound with a pocket-handkerchief,
she returned and said she was very much afraid she’d
have to give him notice. i
THE NEWSLETTER.
Cowra is to have a newspaper shortly.
959 people at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon.
1530 z. nugget found at Temora ; rush followed,
of course.
Six men’s ground, now in dispute at Temora, is
worth £20,000.
To get level with the Licensing act, they’ve
started a club at Dubbo.
Pestered by larrikins, Bathurst residents still
ask—where are the police ?
Two more deaths from erysipelas, in that pest-
house, Melbourne Hospital.
' About 1500 miners at Mount Browne starving ;
Sir John hiring camels to send relief.
At Bundaberg, a boy pulled into the river and
drowned, by a large flsh he had hooked.
On 9th March, the Groat Cobar Co. had at
their works 679 tons copper awaiting teams.
N.S.W. telegraph business for 1881: 1.610.500
messages sent; expenditure, £116,340; revenue, £100,211.
The Cooktown Chinese are about erecting a
monument to Ah Sam, the companion in misfortune
of the heroic Mrs. Watson,
Jißad blood and law between the ecclesiastical
newspaper company and their manager. A big eccle-
siastical dignitary subpoenaed.
At Mount M‘Donald, 198 tons of Balmoral Co.’s
stone gave 382 oz refined gold. At Temora, 76 tons
from Fanny Parnell returned 139 oz. 19 dwt.
At the forthcoming Agricultural Show, which
opens on the 10th April, Mr. E. B. Woodhonse, of
Mount Gilead, exhibits his magnificent stud bull,
“Royal Brunswick.”
O’Loghlen Government has strong Protectionist
proclivities, despite its Free-trade support. Mr. W.
M. Cook, M.L.A., takes R. de Bruce Johnstone’s
place on the Tariff Commission.
Detective Lyons, now a Sub-Inspector, is
making things lively for the morally deficient of Temora.
Hie latest is the seizure of an insolvent’s hidden stack,
and coin to the amount of £3OO.
The share list of the Sydney Mont de Pititc Co.
£50,000 in £1 shares, was closed in eight days. The
promoters have since refused applications for £25,000,
and shares have changed hands at sixpence premium.
There have been several bad cases of scurvy
among the sourvily-fod minors of the .Albert (Mount
Browne) gold-field. Things on the road are now so bad
that Sir John Robertson has wired to Adelaide for
camels.
More Jolimont Railway accident compen-
sations: —Mr. Jenkins, £1200; Mr. Alexander, £800;
Sophie Bailliore (executrix to the deceased F. F.
Bailliiire), £4OOO, less a life insurance policyiof £908; Mr.
Raddle, £5OO. This ends the list.
Lum Loong, a Cooktown Chinkie, was gobbled
up by a venerable and well-known alligator while
bathing in the Endeavour. “ Big Ben" has had many
human meals, and the residents are now trying to
tempt him with puppy, and strychnine stuffing.
One Smith was, the other day, remanded for
having stolen two horses from Coonabarabran. That
night the horses in question were removed from the
police paddock, and, after being driven 14 miles, were
killed and burned. Smith’s brother and another man
have been apprehended on suspicion.
The award to a Jolimont sufferer was reduced
by the amount of an Insurance policy in force. Had
the award been £l,OOO, and the policy been £2,000, the
Government would no doubt have had £l,OOO to the
good 1 At this rate the Government has only to ensure
everybody, and we could abolish taxation.
A hundred miners at the Day Dawn claim,
Charters Towers, who are now receiving £3, have struck
for £3 10s. per week, on the ground that the mine is
dangerous. Two men, Henry Morton and John Els-
burv, were the other day killed by a fall of 200 tons of
earth; several others have narrowly escaped.
Two Horsham (V.) charcoal-burners, Dominioo
Comini and George Heatching, caught the horse of a
rival charcoal-burner, named Jabez Jones, and started
to beat the animal to death, failing in which, they tied
its legs together and drowned it in the Wlmmera
river. They will bo boss charcoal-burners in Gehenna,
likely.
Attheßelmore claim, Canowindra, D. M'Donald
has found a good reef, estimated to go loz. all through.
A leader running up to it is very rieh indeed, in gold of
splendid quality. M'Donald has already dollied £6OB
worth of gold from the stone raised, and the refuse
stone is expected to yield at the rate of lOoz. te the ton
He holds twenty acres, and a prospector’s claim.
Two prospectors, Allan Folks and Patrick Manse,
are said to have struck a wonderfully rich reef at
Matlock, near Wood’s Point (V.). In one day they
got 400 z., and it is believed that the stone will yield
20 oz. to the ton. We are in doubt as to whether we
would sooner be one of the individuals named, or the
proprietor of the local grogshanty at the end of the
shearing season.
A would-be suicide —a married woman named
Messenger-jumped into the Yarra river near Melbourne,
but stuck like grim death to a life-buoy that was
thrown to her. Women are so changeable. It reminds
us of the other married one who found hanging so dis-
agreeable that she cut the rope almost immediately
alter swinging otf, and went straight home and killed
her husband instead.
A meeting was called at Molong last week to ex-
press sympathy with the Irish Land League. Three
persons attended —the convener, the hall-lighter, and
the printer, who had let the first-named have the
advertisements on trust. The meeting lapsed, but the
lamp-lighter held the candle while the printer and the
convener hud three rounds in settlement of the un-
liquidated balance. The printer won.
In Eaglehawk, (Vic.), Elizabeth Daly swore an
information against H. K. Hall for rape. An alibi
was proved, and Hall proceeded against the woman for
attempting to extort money. Elizabeth is committed
for trial. Should the case be proved against her, we
shall gladly agree with the objurgations of Herald the
Fierce in saying that such means of extorting money
are indelicate —even improper.
The Queensland Northern Railway Syndicate
wanted from Government 12,000 acres from the Mitchell
to the M'Kinlay rivers ; 15,000 acres thence to Parker ;
all the Porker and adjacent islands; permission to
select land away from the line route at certain points ;
a guarantee of interest on part of the won; and
certain concessions in the import of materials. The
Queensland Government answered, “Nary."
In the Northern Territory, the De Lissa Com-
pany have 20J acres under cane, and are rapidly
extending their area. So far, they have expended
£50,000. They are working the place with Chinese and
aboriginals. A Mr. Bean has taken up 60,000 acres
sugar land for some Adelaide men, and is already start-
ing a plantation. There is something wrong with a
Land Act which allows one firm to monopolise 60,000
acres.
John Heffernan, who was wrongly convicted at
Bathurst assizes and sentenced to twelve months’ gaol,
h.os been liberated. Mr. W. Hollyer fully established
his innocence tj the authorities after Heffernan had
served about a fourth of his sentence. He will of course
get no recompense from the Government. It is
merely his character that has been inj ured; had his
elbow been knocked out of joint by a tram, he would
have got £5OO.
A horse-thief was arrested at Albury for driving
five horses without a permit. When he got to Gerogery
ho wrote this letter“ Hear Jack, I have been arrested
for travelling without a permit: go over the river to j
M’Tier, where Percy used to work, and tell him to tell
MTutjre that I stole his horses,and not to claim them,
as I will give them up as soon as I get released. E.
Harlow." The policeman grabbed the letter, and
Harlow is now under commital.
A Wilcannia publican got out of an information
under the new Act by the time-payment system. Con-
stable Hunn had him up for keeping his house open
when a local watchmaker’s timepiece showed 11.35 p.m.
The publican asked the bench to tot np the difference
between Sydney and Wllcannia time, and to take ont
their change. The bench, after consulting a sundial
and n ready reckoner, and conferring with the local
schoolmaster, dismissed the information.
Hitherto the endeavours made to induce the
Eailway Department to issue monthly or quarterly
passes on the tramway have been ineffectual, although
the enormous increase in railway revenue within a
year shows that such a concession might well be
granted. What ostensibly troubles the astute Mr.
Qoodchap is the devising of any feasible plan to carry
out the system; but what really governs him is, prob-
ably, a desire to see the revenue of his department at its
highest figure, and himself covered with glory in conse-
quence. Charles, this is one for you,
Mr. Eobert Howard, the hangman, said it came
about this way. " He struck the dog, and I told him to
go away from the house; he then got hold of me by the
leg and tried to pull me down the steps. I then hit him
with the leg of the chair to save myself.” Some men
to “ save themselves,” under similar circumstances,
would have laid hold of the door post, but Bob acted
under the impression that if ha belabored the cause,
the effect would ceafe. The explanation was adjudged
too thin, and Eobert is a few cell* off, thinking things
over.
The Court Circular— we mean the Evening
News—gives the following item with respect to 6ir
Hanry Parkes’s visit to Honolulu: —“ Soon after the
vessel arrived in the harbour, Jan. 16, Sir Henry Parkes
was waited on by the High Chamberlain of H.M. King
Kalabaua, and by him sent his card to the King, who
appointed 4 p.m. as the hour for an interview. Sir
Henry and Miss Parkes waited on his Majesty at that
hour, and conversed for some time. Dnring the con-
versation the King talked much of his recent tour
round the world, and said that during next year he
intended to visit Australia.”
The old style of getting a gambling debt paid
has been tried successfully in Melbourne. The dodge
is to get a cheque, or 1.0. U., or other recoverable docu-
ment, from the fleeced pigeon, pass it on to a third
party, who gets into the witness-box and pleads “ con-
sideration” on the transfer, and the thing is done.
The case we now allude to is one in which bookmakers
—we beg pardon, “ metallieians ” —shine. A Mr.
Harris “won” £2OO from a station overseer named
Stewart, who paid down half and gave a cheque for the
other ceatury. Harris then passed the cheque on to
Patrick Carey, another metallioian. Carey sues, and
gets his verdict, because with him it was not a gambl-
ing debt. If we could only drive as big a coach and
four as this through the N.S.W. Libel Act, we could
treat all our enemies to full-fledged Masonic signs.
At Charters Towers, the mining interest is
prosperous and improving. Since the Day Dawn Co.
was formed, last October, it has paid £25,000 in dividends.
In February, the shareholders divided £5OOO. There is
every prospect of this kind of thing continuing for au
indefinite period. The St Patrick's Block (Mr.
Stubley’s property) turned out up to April, 1880, 67,311
ounces at £3 7s. 6d. per ounce, equal to £193,325. Yet
it isn't so many years that the hard-working owner,
who is now a millionaire and a member of Parliament,
steadily pursued the avocation of a blacksmith, in
Victoria. Who shall say what the wilds of North
Queensland may not have in store ?
From the W. Advertiser On a Eiverina
run, recently, 18,000 sheep were entirely dependent for
water on one well, which fell in, and which only au
experienced well-sinker could repair. The nearest was
30 miles off. Eelays of horses were sent for him ; tha
well repaired in a day and a night, and the sheep saved.
The owner had £6OOO absolutely at stake in this trans-
action. Another pastoral tenant, in the same drought-
stricken district, says that unless heavy rain fall within
three weeks or so, no less than 50,000 sheep and 2000
head of cattle on his run must absolutely perish. So
that a squatter’s life is not all champagne and lawn
tennis.
The death of Crawley, from caisson disease, a
complaint resultant on the human frame being sub-
jected to undue atmospheric pressure of an artificial
character, has led to the suspension of work at Iron
Cove Bridge, Parramatta Elver. The chamber in which
the sufferers were working was 102 feet deep, and the
pressure required to keep out the large volume of
water is much greater than is consistent with the
personal safety of the workmen, who have accordingly
refused to descend. The difficulty is not merely in
respect to this particular bridge, but in the construe-
tion of "11 future tubular bridges. One of the men has
again suffered from convulsions, and has been in a very
critical condition.
The Sydney Fresh Food and Ice Company are
endeavouring to make arrangements through their
manager (Mr. F. Tullidge), for a constant supply of
B ilk from some of the best dairies in Illawarra, the
price offered being eightpence per gallon, which ought
to pay the farmers well. It is the intention of the
company to run a steamer between Sydney and Wollon-
gong daily, specially for the milk trade. The long-con-
tinuej drought has rendered it Impossible for the
farmers in the Wingecartibee district, from whom the
company has received its supply for some time past, to
carry on the trade, consequently, Wollongong presented
itself as the only field open for the company to secure
a sufficient quantity of milk to enable it to carry on its
operations. The inconvenience of getting the milk to
Sydney, is the best argument in favour of the necessity
of a railway between Sydney and Illawarra.
Hobson Bay railway trains are playing np again
during Tom Bent's commissionership. An express
train from Melbourne ran into a train standing at the
Windsor platform. The express train was late, and
the stationary train ought to have been shunted on a
siding. The danger signals were flying, and were seen
by the driver of tho express, but that officer states
that he could not get his break to work. No one was
killed, and little damage was done to either train, the
hind wheels only of the guard van of the stationary
train going off the line. The papers say that none of
the passengers were ” sericusly injured," but the law
courts will probably change all that. A Mr. Ashcroft
had his jaw dislocated, which is serious enough—for
Ashcroft. Mr. Knipe, auctioneer, and celebrated as an
unsuccessful liberal politician, says his knee and arm
are injured, and Knipe is not the kind of man to get
inj ured “ for nowt." One passenger swallowed his pipe
and a ping of tobacco as a resultant of the shook, and
we should like to hear his opinion as to whether or not
anyone was “seriously injured." We expect to hear
of Jack Woods once more coming forward, and proving
“ incontestably, sir, damme, if my break hod been on
the train, this wouldn't have happened.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), the wife of William
M'Nally died suddenly in a fit. The parties were only
married the previous day.
At Auckland, N.Z., a Woman’s Immigration
Society, for the introduction of respectable female
servants, has been formed under the presidentship of
Lady O'Korke.
In a N.Z. country district, the bedroom of Mrs.
Inglia, daughter of the county clerk, was entered, and
all her back hair cut off, thrust into one of her boots
and thrown into the garden. She remained asleep the
whole time, but was awakened by a noise made by the
perpetrator of the act in leaving through the window.
More than one woman has recently recovered in
the law courts heavy compensation for the loss of her
husband. It’s astonishing at what a high figure a
woman values her lord—when he is dead. A dead lion is
in some places far better than a living ass.
At Melbourne, Mr. M'Evoy, a squatter recently
obtained a divorce from his wife, whom ho married
some time ago when she was a barmaid and he was
young—and drank It now appears, from her state-
ment, that her husband promised her £lOO not to appose
his suit for a dissolution of marriage, and that,
haring accomplished his object, he refuses to pay up.
The money, it is said, was lodged in the City of Mel-
bourne Bank in joint names before the case came on.
Under these circumstances, she asks the Attorney-
General to enter a caveat against the dissolution of the
marriage, and also that she may be allowed to come in
and defend her suit. The Attorney-General declines to
interfere.
A girl of 14, daughter of Mr. Eichorn, a selector
on the Endeavour Kiver, N.Q., has such an intuitive and
intense love of art that she has illustrated the natural
and animal objects of life near her bush home, on the
bark of almost every growing tree neat her father’s
dwelling, with a horse-shoe nail. Sportsmen and
explorers have cut off and brought te Cooktown
some excellent specimens, both scenic and humorous;
and although in some cases the figures and drawings are
necessarily rather crude and grotesque, they display
such natural ability that everyone would be glad to hear
of the girl’s talents being fostered. The story recalls
that told of the circumstances under which the great
Giotto commenced to draw.
We desire to call the attention of our lady
friends to a notification under the authority of the
Senate of the University, intimating that two bursaries
of £5O each will be available to female students this
year, out of a donation from that Mcecenas of New
South Wales, Mr. Thomas Walker, of Yaralla. All
information concerning these exhibitions may be ob-
tained from the University calendar. Further, the
ladies must have their applications in the Chancellor’s
hands before the Ist June next.
There were no less than 90 female passengers
from Launceston to Melbourne per Flinders, the other
day. The Tatmaniennes are abandoning the “tight
little island.”
A Burrowa girl, while carrying two buckets of
water, was rushed by a cow. She dropped the buckets
and ran. Cow drank contents of both buckets and
walked oft.
Twenty-eight years ago, a man named Bruce
left his wife and three children at Great Yarmouth,
England, and came to Australia. He returned recently
after his long absence, to the old town, and opened
business as a shoemaker, under the name of Barnard.
His family passed by hia place many times, and but for
an accidental meeting with his wife, he would probably
have remained unrecognized. His discovery, however,
did not benefit him. His family, now in better circum-
stances, declined to recognise him.
Love in a cottage. Arthur M'Donald, of
Bathurst, who, after breaking his wife’s leg with a
poker, aud letting her lie three days without medical
treatment, again brutally beat her with an axe-handle,
has been committed for trial. Arthur said she got
drunk and neglected her family.
At Melbourne, Mra. Torr hit her husband with
a broom. He re-Torrted with his fist, and there was a
funeral. Jury said sanguineous apoplexy.
A young woman named Jane Noonan died sud-
denly of apoplexy at Mudgee, on Sunday week. She
was but 19 years of age, and was to have been married
a few days ago.
Last week, in Sydney, a Mrs. D’Arcy, who had
obtained a protection order against, and had been
living apart from, her husband, charged that gentleman
with stealing £lB from her. It was held by the Bench
that the fact of a protection order being held by her
did not nullify the common law rule that no wife can
give evidence for or against her husband. However,
Mrs. D’Arcy means to try again, her lawyer having
since discovered in the Married Woman’s Property
Act, a clause which, after setting forth how aud by
what means a woman may become possessed of property
apart from her husband, proceeds to say that “ she
shall have in her ’own name, the same remedies, both
civil and criminal against all persons whomsoever, for
the protection and security of such wages, Ac , as if
they belonged to her as an unmarried woman ; and in
any indictment or other proceeding, it shall be sufficient
to allege such wages, Ac., to be her property.”
At Gundagai, 25 ladies have each been fined la,
for raffling at a K.C. bazaar. The action of the police
in this matter is the result of instructions from head
quarters.
VANITY FAIR.
One of the most dashing of the Hobart beaux
is secretary of the local Ladies’ College, and “ Society "
asks whether this isn’t just slightly anotna-
lou* In America, the other day, a son married his
father’s divorced wife, the father having secured a
divorce in order that he might marry his wife’s sister.
There was a grand masquerade skating carnival at
’Frisco last Christmas, when all the guests were on
toller skates. The flsor surface was covered with sheet
lead, which affords the nearest approach te ice of
anything hitherto tried—no noise, no dust, as on
boards In American cities an observant man may
notice in certain shops, a stand, cr shelf, full of small
numbered drawers with looks. These might be con-
neeted with the trade of the shop or they might be for
many uninteresting purposes; but they are not. They
have nothing to do with trade. Actually they are
“ Cupid’s post boxes.” In large cities there are thou-
sands of people who sometimes receive letters which
they would decidedly object to other persons seeing.
Young men like to have something “ on," while the
more frail and subtle sex also like to have a thread of
mystery and romance running through their lives.
These boxes are just flirtation agencies, and they are
let at a small sum by the quarter to those who desire to
carry on a clandestine correspondence. They are
patronised by persona of good position, not always
young either, and are found in tobacco and similar shot a
for men, and in small milliners’ establishments for
women. There are plebeian “ letter boxes ”of course
but no class of society is above making use of the
system. Street meetings are what, in the majority of
cases, first lead to the use of these boxes, and when
once availed of they are generally continued, the lessee
of either sex usually managing to keep something
“on.” Their existence is not calculated to promote
morality, but they are not illegal. Indeed, the postal
authorities rather encourage the system, as it relieves
the head pest-office of an undesirable branch of
business, and keeps away from the delivery windows a
class of persons whose lives are not in accordance
with the strictest code of propriety When Patti
first went on the stage to sing, at ten years of age, she
always carried her doll —couldn’t and wouldn’t sing
without it The use of beads is now extending to
strange articles. Gloves are thickly studed with them,
chiefly gold and silver beads. Stockings are heavily
“ clocked" with them. When they come off into the
shoes, the lady’s like the uncomfortable pilgrim who
was too conscientious to boil his peas. _ Dresses are
worn short with them A Sydney milliner exhibits,
among photos, of “ olde Englyshe fayre” costumes, an
ambulance nurse. Now, when were ambulance nurses
last seen at an English fair ? A lady says that the
safest place to carry money when shopping is under the
glove, and suggests that a small purse in the palm would
be a boon At the marriage of a Fijian half-caste, the
other day, the eatables provided were —20,000 head of
taro, 200 pigs, 4 bullocks, turtles, fish, fowls, Ac. The
wedding presents comprised 1000 pieces of tappa (native
cloth), 100 pieces of English-made cloth, 2000 native
mats, and other things An American paper asks
whether Oscar Wilde isn’t the precursor of “ the Jersey
Lily." Moncure D, Conway says that the Brights,
Dilkes, Chamberlains, the Hareourts, and Playfairs
(their beautiful American wives at the head of society),
are steadily Americanising European institutions......
Mons. Bonnat, a celebrated French artist, has an order
t» paint the portrait of the late dress of Mrs. Mackay,
wife of the American millionaire. This dress took 14
years to manufacture, and cost 100,000 francs,.....The
new metal, actinium, will turn any object (hair, for
instance) into a dark colour during daylight and change
it to yellow after sunset At the recent Portuguese
fetes. Queen Christina wore diamonds worth £200,000.
Professor Lowe, a well-known dancing-master, says
there is worse dancing in Tasmania than in any of the
colonies. He styles it “ downright larrikinlsm.”
The private carriages ia Hobart, with the solitary ex-
ception of Cecil Parsons’, are worse “horsed” than
any equipages in the colonies. The coachmen dress in
any odd garments that will go on, colour and fit being
totally disregarded Last year 19 peers died, and four
titles became extinct Schiller’s daughter and grand-
daughter were both present 1 1 the centenary performance
of “ I'he Pothers” given at Mannheim recently . Lllen
Terry is the original of Mr. Watts’ picture of Ophelia
The most brilliant dresses at last Melbourne races
were those worn by Mrs. Joseph Clarke and JMrs.
Malleson. Both costumes were made by Worth
“ If you talk to me I’ll knock your eye out.
This gentle remark was made to a legislator as he stood
upon his door-step at Surrey Hills, trying to discover
a star as big as his C.M.G. order. " This comes, n
mused, of living in the same street as a low brotnei
alderman. Hang itl I’ll go to Mills’, Pile, and Oi*
Christ’s sale at Blandville on Saturday, and get
ramatta river frontage away from this low lot. f i v
made my Pile pitching, and there’s Millsions in it.


Do yon love me, darling?” “Yea,” she
murmured, and their lip* met. “When shall I see
thee again P " ha asked, as he knelt at her feet at the
back of the pavilion, after the varsoviaua. “On
Saturday, where the woodbine twineth.” “W r here
does it twineth?” he gurgled hoarsely. “At Batt,
Eodd, and Purves’s sale at Marrickville, on Saturday,
25th. “Oh, that’s too far,” ho cried. “No,” she
replied; “it’s Haenleigh a little beyond Newtown.”
So they’ll be there to-day. Go and see ’em.
“ You’re a clever ohiel, man, but ye wad be nane
the waur o’ hangin, ” said a Scotch judge of the olden
time to a culprit at the bar, who pleaded a bad cause
too eloquently; and when a sewing machine man fills a
oolumn of small type with blatant rhetoric, in the vain
endeavour to make the worse appear the better reason,
it would be good for those whom bunkum oatches,
could the arbitrament of his fate be submitted to the
practical sagacity of such an one, as the old Scotch
judge. Singer’s Sewing Machines constitute three-
fourths of all the sewing machines sold throughout the
world, and the yearly increase on their sales in,
Australia, is greater than the entire out-put of their
puny rivals. And Singer’s machines are sold without
cheatery, chicanery, or cheek,—Adv,
IN THE JUG.
No.3.
[WRITTEN BY ALL OF US.]
It is a lovely morning, and as we commence to
lightly pen this, our third prison pastoral, the warm sun
of “ incense-breathing mom ” is filtering through the
iron-bars of our dungeon, and the sweet scent of the
flowers, mingling with such aromatic odours as emanate
from the “ three crown ” moles of perspiring prisoners
are wafted towards us on the wings of the summer
breezes. There is a dreamy stillness in the air, broken
only at intervals by the steel-shod “thirty-sixes” of
the attendant warder, as he tramps to-and-fro upon his
dreary vigil. Listening intently, though, we can detect
the cheery chaunt of the costermonger in Palmer-street
as he utters the rhythmic “ Feech-0 ! ” and the drowsy
tiukle of the muffin bell, is, at times, faintly
borne towards us, striking upon our ears like the mystic
summons to some goblin banquet.
# # #
Upon the tower reclines as usual the watchful
warder. He is holding across his knees —force of habit,
in consequence of so frequently nursing the baby—his
regulation rifle, upon the barrel of which, and upon his
martial “ baggiuet,” the sun gleams pleasantly. The
other day, Archibald, by way of making himself agree-
able, and demonstrating to this Government minion
that even a man who has hobnobbed with monarchs (in
North Queensland) could unbend, remarked that it was
a flue day. “Yes,” returned the grisly guard, with
ghastly merriment—“ it is a fine day —outside ! " Wo
were well disposed towards this terrible turnkey once,
but now when he looks our way we whistle derisively
aud “make faces”; while should we cast a casual
glance in his direction, he sternly takes the cartridge
out of his rifle to show us that it is loaded, and pulling
a hair from his beard severs it with the razor-like edge
of his bayonet. We pretend to scoff at this grim
pantomime; but in reality it curdles the marrow in our
bones. It reminds us of being captives, and when our
tormentor knots his hauderkorchief (which is rather
bigger than a Mount Browne tent-fly, and about the
s uno colour) in a manner suggestive of sausage-strings
of fetters, wo kneel down in the corner of our
cufhot, and clasping each other’s hands, sing together
all that we can remember of “The Gate,s a-jar, to a
tune (arranged by Haynes) compounded of “ Grand-
father’s Clock,” “Take it. Bob,” and “The Widdy
Dunn.”
# • •
Our sympathisers (though this will be rather
galling news to a few Dubbo Duchesses) will be grati-
fied to learn that in our captivity, wo arc, in all
weathers, soothed by the appearance of sunshine
several times daily. The heavenly glow in question
usually makes its appearance in company with a large
basket, and is received with marked attention by the
warder on duty. Wo know the sound of its advent so
well now, that Haynos usually commences to sharpen
his knife on the sole of his boot when our “ golden
glow” is only about half-way up the garden. We need
hardly explain that the sunshine in question is in petti-
coats. Sometimes it comes upstairs into our dungeon,
and beams on ns. Then we are happy. At others, it
only converses with the Cerberus downstairs, and flits.
Then we ore wretched. Let us seehow shall we
describe it ?—Ah ! —in anapaests, now:—
It's a merry little face
On which you can surely trace,
With a quarter of an eye.
An expression that is shy :—
Just that manner shy, that can
Play the devil with a man.
She has laughing eyes of blue.
And a fair complexion too :
Though our sunshine is not tall.
Yet her form's symmetrical.
Aud her teeth, ah, just suppose
Orient pearls and you'll see those I
Now who is she ? —There’s the rub 1—
Well, —she fetches round the grub.
« # #
Our other retainer —the prison one —is a trea-
sure. He is always on hand, never even asking on
Saturday night to go out with his girl on the Flagstaff
Hill. Hi* temporary retirement of a few short months
is owing to a slight difference of opinion between him
and his “ missis,” but we have no doubt that, when he
rejoins her, peace will again reign in the family circle.
As near as we can find out, our butler is the suffering
party, for he says that whenever he and his good lady
differ upon theological topics, all her family back her
up in her arguments by bombarding him with rocks,
and grinding his skull against the family box-iron. He
goes out very shortly, now, and he has announced his
intention of givingup taking in the Protestant Stand-
ard for the future. Our prison domestic, when not in
attendance on the banqueting-hall, improves each shin-
ing hour in a little dark kitchen, fitted with a plunge
bath and a gas-stove. There he washes up until there
is nothing to wash up, and then, probably, either com-
poses epic poems, or writes critical essays on the
abstract philosophy of Confucius.
* * *
Nearly everyone that comes to see ns brings us
something. The gifts vary in value from a five hundred
guinea diamond ring to a sixpenny bag of grapes. Odd
as it may appear, we have, so far, received more grapes
than rings, but we expect a consignment of Koh-i-noors
very shortly. It is satisfactory, however, to feel that
our friends don’t forget us. The other day, a prim
gentleman in black called on Haynes, and, desiring a
2>rivate interview, was shown into the sleeping apart-
ment of that Stupendous Reformer. In about ten
minutes, John came out bearing a little cloth volume in
his hand. It was entitled “ The Fetters of Folly,”
and bore the superscription “To be read in your cell.”
Several merchants send us in the delicacies of the
season, unaccompanied by that bug.bear, the bill; and
fifteen shoemakers have called on Haynes with offers to
contract on reasonable terms for the half-soleing and
healing of his “ seven-leaguers.” Archibald has now got
nncragh dried flowers and silk book-marks to open a
Utah at “ Ye Fancy Fayre,” and any speculator who is
open to exchange diamond ornaments for tear-blurred
love missives, can be accommodated in either large or
small parcels. We number amongst our possessions a
Dutch clock, 'a horse-shoe, a collection by the “ Sacer-
dotal Sympathisers” of four shillings (one bad), five
China vases, aud a bottle of hair-oil. If things go on
only half so well as they have been doing, we expect,
before long, to be presented with half-a-dozen cat collars
and a couple of coffins.
* * #
Our visitors’ book affords pleasing evidence of
our great and increasing popularity. The company
that wait upon ns daily are of a slightly miscellaneous
character certainly, and this fact is, at times, produc-
tive of results which are of an exceedingly embarrassing
jj.ature. Bereft of pride, we welcome with equal cordh
the worrukin man, and the patrician. But wo
✓DspttfjjJly welcome the man with the horny hand—when
£here ifc (ipything in it. Yes, the crowd who tramp
found ajt */?nfoundedly cosmopolitan. Why, it was
,<?nly the ytlity <Jay that a gentleman who admires us to
t he extent pf a six months’ subscription knocked
fct the front gate, and asked for us. Aud the moment
kv was fixed between tfye two gates, there was a chorus
of Waj’dw? •’ •“ What! Como back again P” He then
sent up to borrow u shilling for fids tram down, stating
that he could sot consent (9 vi$jt gvon us in an estab-
Ji shment where human nature pas thus outraged. The
Mher morning too, happening to glance up from the
composition of a lyric, which will one day either be
immortal or in the pie shop, we beheld a figure standing
on the threshold of the door, beckoning to us in ?.
ghostly manner. Thinking he was a deputation from
Jamberoo, with millions, we flew out on to the landing
to greet him ; when, producing a document rather
longer than the Ellzabeth-street tram-line, he put the
query iu gruff accents : “ When ore you going to pay
me what you owe me ? ”
♦ • •
To tell the truth, we are in continual confusion
with our visitors. Sometimes, as we are exchanging
compliments with a deputation of enthusiasts from
Baldock’s lane, our prison slave bounds up to announce
Government House Gussy, accompanied by a pos«« of
Members, and then wo have to lay violent hands on the
.deputation, and jam them with lightning quickness into
jfcrcidfiald’a bed-room. The red-herring tin is then
Thrust hefiind the arm-chair, the heel of the loaf and
9f butter hastily hidden iu Haynes’s breast
pocket, and we are ready to languidly “receive.” We
haven’t got such a big list down in our book as Dibbs
bad, but we are getting on. All the members of the
press who can go out in the daytime without being
arrested for vagrancy, or followed about by their
family with a needle and packthread, have been to see
??■ ” ® have also had “ Pegasus,” (the renowned Harry
Mostyn), George Collins Levy, and Jim Hogue, the
dashing sub-editor of the Evening Alfred. There like-
wise appear in the book the names of Mathew Charlton,
Roger Bede Vaughan, Wazir Beg, William Manning,
Frank Warden, John M‘Gibbon, Dean Cowper, and
W. C. v\ indeyer; but as Haynes was studying the volume
last night while discussing, prior to retiring, a solitary
Sn —u in the bath-room, this list must not be accepted
without the exercise of some caution. Many other
distinguished members of all sects and denominations
of religion have, we understand, called round, but as
we haven’t seen them, we take it for granted that they
arrived too late for admission. Dean Leonard, Pastor
Allen, “The Samaritan,” Rev. Mr. Jefferis, Canon
Stephen, Dr. Barry, and others we suspect to have been
amongst the disappointed visitors. They may come
again, but must not stay too long.
* * «
The latest addition to our household gods is a
telescope. With this we study at times the mystic
bodies of the heavens, and not unfrequently the human
flowers which bloom at the neighbouring windows. It
may interest the public to learn (and how
pleased we are to instruct it!) that rents in the street
overlooking the windows of our dungeon have gone up
surprisingly since our incarceration. A private opinion
of ours is that, in consequence of the present attraction
of the neighbourhood, half Darling Point has come to
live in Woolloomooloo. We have only to strike our
attitudes at the windows, when nodding nymphs appear,
and placing handkerchiefs to their eyes, wring them out
in order to express, in dumb-show, their grief for our
misfortunes. From one mansion, last Tuesday (it was
one of Haynes’ birthdays—he has a natal anuiver-
sary whenever the idea strikes him!) we received
an exhibition of sympathy which touched us deeply.
Shortly before sunset, our attention was attracted by
the fluttering of a pudding-cloth, and on observing
closely, we perceived that three ladies were lifting a
huge cardboard placard from the floor on to the
window-sill. Fixing the telescope in position, we gazed
fixedly at the window, and, as the face of the signal was
slowly turned towards us, we road, our hearts boating
with delight, the magic motto—
“ YOU WILL SOON BE IIOCT.”
* * *
At night time, when the heavy iron portal is
clanked upon us, we have private theatricals. Haynes
puts on his nightgown (strongly suspected by his friends
to have been poor Powell’s balloon, picked up by John
while cat-shooting one night at Burwood) and winding
his mattrass round his manly form, does the Delirious
Druid, a drawing-room entertainmentjinvented by him-
self. Occasionally, however, John figures as a raconteur,
and in this character, last Monday, he told an anecdote
of surpassing interest, which wo will recount to our
thrilled and hysterical readers next week. With this
unparalleled attraction in prospect, we will close for the
present. What ho I attendant slave without there!
Pour out the sparkling water in the dish, and find us a
dry place on the jack-towel. 'T’s well. We would robe
for the morning meal. ;
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Proprietors ot United Ireland newspaper,
Dublin, have entered an action against the Chief Secre-
tary for Ireland, for alleged illegal seizure of their
journal on Dec. 15; damages claimed £30,000 Bis
march autocratically declares, in opposition to the
action of the Reichstag, that the Falk law is a dead let-
ter......lmperial Government regarded as favourable to
altering the duties on Australian wines New Greek
ministry; premier M. Tricoupis Both Houses of
U.B. Congress have passed a law abolishing polygamy.
Hon. J. Russell Lowell, U.S. Minister at London, has
been instructed to ask that the American subjects,
confined under the Irish Coercion Act, be brought te a
speedy trial President Brand, ot the Orange Free
State, has accepted the honor of G.C.M.G Mr.
Findlater, M.P. for Monaghan, has introduced a motion
in the House of Commons for the amendment of the
Irish Land Act, respecting its legal procedure Glad-
stone refuses to modifly his cloture proposals A
philo-Nihiliatic meeting has been held in London
•eneral Skobeloff is said to be imprisoned
Austria has resolved to annex Bosnia and Herzegovina
Sir Samuel Wilson elepted a member of the Carlton
C1ub......A landlord magistrate, named Carter, shot at
in Innis Bradiaugh’s Nerthampton admirers intend
applying te the Queen’s Bench for a mandamus to com-
pel Bradlaugh to fulfil his Parliamentary duties Her
Majesty arrived safely at Mentone Trickett’s race
sculling boat has been smashed in a collision on the
Thames Tories refuse to coalesce with Home Rule
obstructionists, though they oppose the cloture propo-
sals Gladstone resolved on a cautions pMicy towards
Ireland The Under Secretary of State announce!
that Queensland had not applied to tho l.up. rial Go-
vernment for permission to introduce ooolie labour
Cape Colony Parliament opened; Government will
maintain moderate military force in Basutoland
House of Commons has approved the Borneo Charter ...
Three towns nearly destroyed, much property damaged
and many lives lost through floods at Rio Janeiro
Mississippi floods continue; 85,000 persons rendered
completely destitute, and thousands of others home-
less The aged Emperor William of Germany slipped
on a staircase and fell, but received no serious injury....
More Transvaal troub.es Theatre Boutfo, St. Peters-
burgh, burnt. Panic among audience: many injured
Protos arrived in London': meat in fair condition,
butter doubtful More attempts at landlord.li.ling
in Ireland: a lady shot in S.igo Sir John
Node Dickenson formerly Puisne Judge in
New South Wales, died at Rome. We have
thus lost a £lO5O per annum pensioner
Swiss robbers kidnapped a ehild at B rne, and de-
manded 50,000 francs ransom; three of them were
arrested Albert Docks, London, fired by Fenians,
who intended to rob the volunteer armoury during the
resulting confusion. Their attempt failed, police
having been warned...Hanlau rows Boyd on tho Tyne
for £lOOO, on April 3 A colonial exhibition will be
held at the Hague in May, 1883 Conference of Free-
thinkers to be held at Rome iu the autumn; president,
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh Sir Henry Parkas has
arrived iu Liverpool U.S, trades unionists demand
the recall from London of the Hon. J. Russell Lowed,
for his refusal to intsreede for American subjects im-
prisoned under the Coercion Act Russia proposes
European Conference to determine the Austrian occupa-
tion of the provinces A man named Kinsella has
been arrested at Dublin on a charge of the murder of a
Mr. Andrews Russian Nihilists have resolved
to abandon their assassination policy..,
H.R.H. the Duke of Elinbnrgh ha* launched the iron-
clad, Edinburgh Transvaal upside down with in-
ternal rows Sir Henry Parkes to be banqueted
in London. Duke of Edinburgh to preside Ihe
Marquis of Huntley charged with fraud, has given him-
self up Bismarck says his whole energies will be
devoted to preserving peace A number of Siberian
exiles have escaped.
LATE SPORTING.
Bourko meeting nominations. Central Aus-
tralian Handicap, 30 j Bourke J.O. Handicap, 30;
Handicap Hurdle Race, 9.
Redfern Albion v. Rob Roy, Moore Park.
R.A., 142—Cornwell 68, Dumberell 14. R.R., 21
Cleveland v. Rent and Alexandria. C.C.C., 54 —Fur-
ness 22, Lovelace 12. K.C.C., 31 Balmain Waratah
v. Ivanhoe. W.C.C., 72—Julian 22, Crawley 13, Crego
10. 1.C.C., s—Parish5 —Parish 13, Gardner 12 The Ail-
England Eleven left Melbourne by the Chimborazo on
the 22nd instant. On Tuesday, the team, accompanied
by several Victorian cricketers, were driven to Brighton
in a four-korse drag.
At the Melbourne regatta, on Saturday, Echuoa
won the Maiden Fours. Ballarat City won the Malden
Sculls. Maiden Eight, for amateurs : Yarra Yarra 1.
Kru* Champagne Challenge Cup Fights, for bond fide
amateurs Melbourne 1, Civil Service 2, Banks 3; won
by two lengths. Krug Champagne Junior Sculling Cup :
Pootscray 1; won easily. Clarke Challenge Cup
(eights), for amateurs : Pootscray 1; a splendid race ;
won by two lengths. Challenge Sculls: Yarra Yarra
(T. Beale) 1. Maiden Fours: Victoria 1. Grand
Challenge Cup, four oars : Pootscray walked over.
All-England Eleven v. Ballarat Twenty-two
resulted in a draw. The Eleven scored 328 in the first
innings, whilst the Twenty-two were disposed of f*r
141 runs.
The general annual meeting of Tattersall’s
Club was held on Monday evening, when the follow,
ing office bearers were elected President, J. B.
Olliffo; Treasurer, Q. Kiss; Committee :W. Forrester,
A. L. Park, A. Prince, and J. R. Smith. The balance-
sheet shows a nett profit of £676 during the year.
The deciding heat for maiden oarsman in out-
riggers (pair oars), in connection with the M.R.C.,
came oft on Monday between Pegg and Hanson, and
Dawson and Stephensen. A splendid race, Pegg and
Hanson leading till within a few yards from tne
finish, when they fouled a buoy, and Dawson anl
Stephenson rowed in the winners. The next race of
the Club series will be junior single sculls, for the
President’s trophy, to be rowed on 6th May.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications neticed.]
“ V.Q.E.”: Too long and not sufficiently pungent for a
thing of its kind “ Skeetnr”: Received " C.T.C.":
Tkauks. Write again./’Moonlight." (1.) Yes, wesuppose
wo have our enemies. (2.) There is no place in the wide
world where hell is more thoroughly believed in than
Parramatta “Athena,” (Q.): Have used one item.
GUd to hear from you often “Anti-Humbug": We
don’t know the address of Sydney James “Kappa”
(Lithgow) : Kappatal. You have delta trump; no one
•ould beta “ Morpheus”: We write a paragraph, and
are obliged for your offer....” Eurus” (Wagga); Keep it
up “ Quit” (Narandera): Petty personalities. a«nd
us something of general interest Q.H.B. ( Wild River,
N.Q.): Good, but we don't know wnether wo shall be
able to use your story. Always glad to haar from North...
“A Shopwoman”: The King of Dahomey, wno murdered
200 girls the other day to got blood for the mortar of his
home, doesn’t seem much worse than men like your mas-
ter. However, the retail drapery system doesn’t murder
as many girls aa that—not all at once...” Millie" : We'll
wait till you have learned to “ shut your eyes."
“E.T.C.” (Melbourne) : We don’t deal in such things.
Send it to our Melbourne imitator “ S.C.J." (N.Q.):
Much obliged “J.M.N.”: Not of such interest as
last. However, we’ll see what can be done with it
“Anon.”: No, it doesn’t suit all the Sydney papers
ta hack up The Bullbtin “Coffee”: The napkins
found at the restaurant alluded to are not simply for
people to wipe their months on. They are door-mats
which have escaped from their proper positions
“8. Cook" : By all moans “Lyncceus": It wasn’t
the printer. We whacked our first-born for such a
mistake recently, yet we were this time the “.as.”
“Oscar Obstinate" : Calculated to rouse a sectarian
row. Enough bad blood already, more’s the pity
“J.A.W.”: Wehave used the item, which is very accept-
able “ Freedom ”: Thanks. The subject demands
attention. More clerical encroachment. One need not
be a sectarian to join in a movement for the suppression
of intemperance “ J.P ”: Not quite prepared
“ Anglicanus" : Received. You might have given
your name “Reader”: The article on the Clontarf
libel case in last issue of the Express was written by a
yoaag R 0. bairister, who “doesn’t like our tone.” We
hope the judges will like his tone Right
you are “J, J.” (Yass) : The items sent are of msre
local interest. Shall be glad to hear from you on more
important matters “ Marengo" : We have no time
to read what the little rag alluded to pays of us.
It is run by a man whom we employed a few
ieara ago. When he came to us, we got him a
bath and made, his boot-heels level. After he had
b eu in our service for a fortnight, we discharged
him, and engaged a beer-barrel in his stead
“J. B. S.”: Aa yon remark, Sirs, Colonels, Captains,
and Esquires, ot nome and colonial manufacture, are be-
coming ao common here, that the man who is mply
Mr. will soon be regarded as distingue “B. V."
(North Adelaide): Very much obliged “ Antoine ” :
So it is, but you have no remedy. There’s a common
feature between bill-got ting-disco anted, and betting on
horse racing. In both cases the backer usually has to
pay “ Lyncoous”: We are intimate with David, but
Mrs. Clubb s name awakened no recollection. Hence
the substitution. Au rests —peccavinius “Domain
Preaching”: The sunject, like the preacher, is played
out. We had rather be a goat, and feed upon the suc-
culent tin-can, than one of these “Footlights”:
Mr. Charles Lord, to whom Mrs. P. M. Bates (widow of
the actor believed to have been robbei and murdered at
Melbourne a year or two ago) was recently married,
was, wa believe, formerly manager of the Baldwin,
'Frisco. The marriage took place at Chicago (
“Old Sport”: Wa can't spare room for your lengthy
though interesting “reminiscences of Miss Dickson,
the celebrated and eeoeatrio N.S. W. horsewoman.”
We don’t like lady “sports." It was a woman—Eve—
who first seld the race “Aralaen”: We don’t agree
with you, Macaulay’s saying about the hypocritical
British public demanding a victim for morality’s sake
about ouce every seven years was, after all, founded on
fact. In 1875, it was Colonel Baker; in 1831, Lieuten-
ant Ponsonby “Molongolo” It doesn’t take amine
to start a mining company. However, even tbs mildest
companies have a mine. The fellow who invests is
shown, after a while, that what was yours is mine
“Nancy": Yoar letter is good, but much too long tor
oar columns. You should condense. We think, with
you, that America has treated the assassination of the
President of the Republic as a screaming farce
“ J.C. W.” : Received—will try to use it “ Perambu-
lator” (Grafton), “G. W.” (Hodgkiuson R.): Next week.
“ J.H." (Kodron Brook): You send ns a letter to bo
“incertedm The Bdxletino,” but kindly permit us to
use our discretion. That’s just what we’ve dene;
we’ve “ineerted” it in the “bascit," because our
discretion suggests the idea that our readers would
prefer to have it there “ W.T.D.” (Kempsey): Glad
to hear from you; give full facts so i hat ws may know
what we are writing about “ F.W.M.” (Grafton):
Send along anything thoroughly authentic, and kindly
give particulars for our guidance “Lily M.”
(Wagga); No; we never had courage to “ shape.” But
why talk of Utah —what about yonr admirer on the
sweet Barcoo? “H B. W.”: Thanks for items.
The first an very good; second, no saves
“ Des Gants " : Thshorter the sleeves and the longer
the gloves, the more fashionable a girl is at a ball
“ G." (Clarence River): We have our eye on those
gentry “JH.G.”; Thanks for the extract “ The
Count”: Very welcome "Flying Buck” (Palmer
River): It is not illegal. As some one put it the other
day, a man’s statement is in this country not worth a
rap unless backed up by the offer to bet you a fiver
“Parramatta”: We don’t attend much to what a
drunken, disreputable, rum-sodden outcast scrawls in
the intervals of his delirium. He’s not worth powder
and shot, and we don’t take libel actions against news-
papers. We can stand such a creature’s abase; but we
can’t endure his pity. Ho expresses a doubt about our
manliness and our honesty. On the former head he
can satisfy himself by calling at the office when
we’re in, and shutting the door behind him; on the sub-
ject ot honesty, we don’t regard him as an authority
‘Lancet’’ (Tasmania): First-rate “ C.E.8.”: Call
between ten and (our soma day this week “ Manly
Get a concert up and ask Dr. Ellis to sing “ Come into
the Garden, Maud." Ha’s sure to oblige, and with hifli
success is assured. Ellisiam awaits the audience
“ Belyando." (1) The verses are not up to your usual
standard, so we’d not advise you to send them to the
girl. (2) A lady who knows more than Ovid about love
says, “ A man isn’t in earnest unless he can’t tell his
hands from his feet.” If, therefore, you want to
prove your devotion, young man, put your hands on the
fender and try to get your feet into your pocket
11 C.J.G.”: The longest fight in England was when
Hayes beat Mike Madden at Edenbridge, July 17th,
1819, for £lOO aside—lBs rounds, 6h. 3 min. In Novem-
ber, 1865, at .Fiery Creek, near Melbourne, Jem Kelly
beat Smeeth, £2OO a side, 17 rounds, 6h. 15 min
“Debtor”: Every sheventy per shent. usurer in the
city will doubtless advertise himself as keeping a Mont
de Pidts now that the company is floated. These
gentry, who “ serve you in the present tense, lend in
the conditional mood, help you in the subjunctive, and
ruin you in the future " have had a good time in the past
and their little game is about played out here
“A Pen Picture of Lawyers": Thanks; we have seen
the extract before “Chawbaoon”: Have used one
lof your items “A Roman Catholic”: Write to the
editor The Express, by the way, last week had only
one correspondent. The Express supporters have not
now to write to their brilliant paper. They apparently
all write in it “E. J. P." (Obley) : The entrances
were bona fide, and the conditions of the race (requiring
three entries), were thereby fulfilled. The non-acoept-
ance of the handicap does nob vitiate the entry. It
was quite in accordance with the conditions, therefore,
te allow the two remaining to run for the prize. If the
oonditi' ns required three acceptors and starters, the race
could not bo run, but an entrance does not necessarily
involve a start “ Cornstalk" : You will find question
and answer injthe couplet: “ What is an Epigram ? A
dwarfish whole. Its body brevity, and wit its soul"
‘■E.P.U.”: Not quite suitable in the form sent, but
noticed...“ H. Baxter”: As hot as it is uninteresting....
“J.W.N.”: Good “S. M.” Penrith: Thanks, we’ll
try and use " Victor”: Glad of such items...." Dead-
eye”: Received, welcome “ Traveller”: Latter good,
but too long to publish, and few people would have read
Truth. Subject noticed last week in “ social.” As you
observe, public orgies were put down in India, and
should be anywhere but here. N.S.W. is the only place
where such beastly proceedings would be originated by
public panders, glossed ovsr by pious newspapers,
upheld by the law and police “ Subscriber”: Can’t
hint at name “ Katie”: The old error, Katie; you*vo
started poetry instead of grammar. Yon felt senti-
mental when you wrote these verses, but there’s scarcely
a rule of versification they don’t outrage. Buy Lannie’s
grammar, dear “ Subscriber": Wo have not at hand
the Victorian Medical Register, but wo think you
will And that the person alluded to is an impudent,
ignorant scamp. If “ qualified,” he’s a qualified quack.
He charges a high figure for advice which, convoyed by
letter, and founded on utterly incomplete data, must be
worse than valuelaes. No decent medical man ever
relies merely on a patient’s statement of his symptoms.
“ Balala”: Will read audcinsider...," Scram” Kept
for a week “Burrowa” and •- Armadale”: Held over.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Bismarck has ruined his own constitution, and
now ha wants to settle his country’s.
The Melbourne manufacturers advise the Vic-
torian Government against a continuance of the border
duties.
The Otago pastoral leases return the N.Z.
Government £68,854 under fixity of tenure, as against
£24,659, as formerly.
Gladstone purposes this year to extinguish
£60,000,000 of the hi ationtl Debt by conversion for that
purpose of certain long annuities.
There is an irony of fate in the fact that some
of the most determined opponents of royal grants are
now members of the Ministry which proposes oho to
Prince Leopold and his lady-love.
According to a Liberal estimate, Gladstone can
count on a working majority of about 70. The actual
composition of the Commons is : Liberals, 337; Con-
servatives, 242; Home Eulers, 60 (of whom only 25
blindly follow Parnell).
It may not be generally known that a newspaper
was the first means of directing attention to the Mil-
burn Creek job. The newspaper was, of course,
threatened with all sorts of libel actions, and went to
much expense in securing legal opinions.
It is stated on pretty good authority that the
reason why the petition against the return of Mr.
Porter for Londonderry was not proceeded with was
that while it might have succeeded it could not have
given Sir Samuel Wilson the seat. The Australian
Knight was equally guilty of illegal practices.
Tho O’Connor Don, an Irish landlord, called
meetings of his tenants on January 10, and after reduc-
ing the rental 25 per cent., offered to sell them their
separate holdings, which offer was accepted at a
number of years' purchase. A peasant proprietary has
now got its first signal start.
On 17th April a great public meeting will be
held in Sydney, under the auspices of the Protection
and Political League. The secretaries of the Victorian
and Queensland Leagues will be addressed by Hon.
Graham Berry. Memuers of both Houses of the Legial
latnre will be invited to attend, and the best hall in the
city will be hired.
General Skobeloff has got home and explained
everything. He says the Poles are ready to assist
Eussiainany struggle to relieve the dear Pan Slavs
from tyranny; that's all—ha doesn’t want any fighting,
there’s no promotion in it. All he wants to see is
Eussia to the fore in tho causa of liberty. She has been
to the fora on behalf of the Turks nine times since 1309
and we see how grateful tho Turks are.
The Herald’s special showing that the Irish
Land Act is a fearfully unjust measure, says : “A per-
sonal friend, who owns nearly 70,000 acres (italics ours)
declares to me that last year ho only received between
eight and nine thousand pounds. He is comparatively
well off, but no longer what is called a rich man." Poor
devil I When we think of the opulence of his tenants
and then reflect on the hopeless penury of this " personal
friend,’’ we weep.
In Victoria, there are now 21,331 English, 13 735
Irish, 8057 Scotch, and 2067 Welsh-born men and women
less than there were ten years ago. The total Isss in
this direction is thus 45,240. On the other hand, N.S.W
has, during the decade, gained 20,240 English, 0259 Irish'
5039 Scotch, and 1230 Welsh-born people— in all, 32 75/’
In 1871, the people born in N.S.W. who wore living in
Viotoria at the census-period numbered 8316. In 1881—
the year of the Exhibition—they numbered 9826. In
1871, only 6397 Victorians were in this colony; but in
1881, we had taken from Victoria 25 006 (or 18,609 more)
ef her native-born population. There are 60,000 British-
born persons missing from Victoria, a heavy proportion
of whom—probably far more than 50 per cent.—have
come to No w South Wales. The Argus, in commenting
on those facts, says that Mr. Berry, who shortly comes
here on the stump, has certainly provided himself with
a Victorian audience in this colony.
“An open confession is good for tho soul.” A
North Shore man who says that he is Very like a
Whale,” writes to the S.M. Herald to tho following
effect: “Mr. Atchison is evidently qualifying himself
for the exalted position of a representative of the
people—(may we hope for St. Leonards 1) Now, let me
whisper in the ear which he keeps open for th« reoep-
turn of parochial grievances two little words—‘Whaling,
road !’ The man who gets that matterout of the slough
of municipal, official, and vested interests confusion in
wuioh it has for years past been submerged will top the
next poll to a certainty. We will • vote early and vote
often’ for any man who gets us this road opened, and a
few others which certain territorial patriots have ap-
propriated and fenced in nod far away from the same
Whaling-road.” Just so; that’s how it’s done. And
tho remark applies as much to Parliamentary as to
municipal elections. It does not matter what burning
national question may happen to be before the country,
each little Gutterborough will return the candidate
who promises to fence in its own dunghill, or to dredge
out its own duckpond. Such are N.S.W. politics 1
The Mud is in the Street. The Lady has on a
pair of Ked Stockings. She ia trying to Gross the
troet. Let ua all give Three Cheers for the Mud.”


Hotels, &o.
T' LOYD’S HOTEL,
1 HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Oilers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Business Annonnc
A
USTEAIIAN “HOW
SEWING MAcnn
Unprincipled Dealers —to make
lings profit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
EXPRESS!
OSS
M
tP.
&
cla/
THE HOME SHUTTLE L(
Manufactured for us, has Ihe abo
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHE
We solicit information of the att<
terfeits of the above Machine, win
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuii
procurab'e, we will forward them
Fast Office Order.
WE HAVE KOW SOLD C
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLE
Do.. WITH COVER COMP
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
m. moslTanc
WYNYARD LANE, S
P.
R. LAI
Wholesale and Re'
PRODUCE MER(
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS 1
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 Qeorgo-etreot West (late Par
And
Dorlingbnrst Road, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wink and
778 and 780 GEORGE STRI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payaole at Mayi
For VENETIAN
TRY
WOR M A
112 OXFORD STB
w
H. A R
PROVISION MERC!
AND GENERAL COMMISS
543 and 345 Kkkt-steeet, neai
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lent
Excelsior Mill’s prize Vietori
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Arieli’s Victoria!
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Sou’s Victoria Toi
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Con
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum 1
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, neai
Tobacconist!
TO SMOKERS WHO PRO FT S 3 T
AMERICAN TOBi
THE following facts are com
resources, and, therefore, si
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty im
All the others paid duty in 1889 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid dnty in
All the others paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco pa
on for the two years was 0n1y..,
DIXSON AND SON’S BRi
YANKEE DOODLE, C<
SIB ROGER, GOLI
OUT BUSY, 081 ENT A]
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror ar
genuine “ 1 in Tab,” each plu*
Round Single Tin Tag, stu
querok*' or *• Yankee 1
ALL TOBACCONISIV GOOI
■ >
SWO
M
AGNIFICENT TRON-FR,
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Hose
Imported by us direct, and man
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is VVAKRj
YEARS. They are of very haudso
are most sensitive, sweet, and powe
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TEEMS of TIME PAYM
Examine and test them before pt
AllourPlANuS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMP
1, Oxford-street; 612, Qeorga-i
Buildings, Sydne
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Higl
Howiok-street, Bathurst ; A
burn ; Church street, Paxram
Brisbane.
No matter where you live wo wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
NDIA AND CHINA T
705 GEORGE S'
HATMAKKtT.
OUB “STAB OF INI
Have been proved
SUPERIOR TO ANY
FOR
PURITY, FLAVOE, AND I
Sold only at our Estahli
705 GEORGE S
HAYMARKEI
OPPOSITE HORDERN’
EMPORIUM.
T. A TTS 1 Nr n OUT
R
Hotels, Sc.
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE AND PORTER.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, is per BOTTLE,
all round.
?f,B.—Cockbnm’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The compagnoni catering company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheonbaoon.
which is now open, and whore every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this now addition to the
Pr Tbo S miliard-room, with a superior <• A)cock ” table,
m under the management of a first-class marker. Every
franch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organised
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they aro not in any way connected
with any other person, or persona, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM. Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
fJiTY Catering (Company,
815 GEORGE STREET,
(1 Harris' Caf6, opposite Pcapes and Shaw's).
superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Indies.
e GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds. . ..
JON FECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring inatter
•r ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
and management undertaken for
Jails, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
L'ea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
QIIa s. R. Smith.
MANAGER.
R
OBERT BUTCHER * CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Coujjtbt Orders Receive Prompt Axtentioe,
GUINNESS’S EXTFA STOUT.
BASS a PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE ID
ORJY£
II
HLfIND
AND
WiiUnU>M&
(/H'ir.f'tJ
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should he carefully corapare<
are being imported into New Sot
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beven
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
Jjl MARTIN i
AUSTRALIAN WINE M;
AND BEER BOTI
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42a p
ALBUEY WIN!
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTER EIVEE W
Claret
The Celebrated
WOLFES
The PurestStiniulant
The Sun* of M. MOSS & 00.
If on ererj Genuine Bottle.
m
A.G.THOMSON & c?
PROPRIETORS
GLASGOW
This rare cli Scotch ‘Blend ,
isd 'sringuisned.hyh&ving ci bouquet
as 'in tM'e : .‘old matured- w lntis.
JOHN 01LCHFIST Z< CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WaLES,
22 BRIDGE S I BEET, SYDNEY.
JgUSINESSES FOR SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, and Partnership
AGENTS,
Oiler for Sale Hotel o in Sydney. Suburbs, and Coortry,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO.OOO Intending Purchasers, who favour ns *ith ft
call, chu rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parlies about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79 Pitt-strcet.


SPORTING FIXTURES.
[IFe shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general . 3
EACINQ.
Corowa... March 23.
V. March 25.
Adelong March 28.
Cowra March 28, 29.
Great Northern R.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
Bale Turf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbnry March 30, April 1.
Victoria Trotting Club April 1.
Gonlburn April 5, 6.
Williamstown (V.) April 10.
Canterbury. J C. (N.Z ) April 10, 11.
Auckland E C., Autumn... April 10,11.
A.J.C. Autumn April 10, 12,14. 15.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C April 20, 21.
Wilcannia April 20, 21.
Echuca April 20, 22.
Sydney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25. 26.
Deniliquin April 27, 28.
Lachlan B.C May 4, 5.
S.A.J.C May 6, 11,13.
Dunedin (N.Z ) Winter May 24.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Adelaide E C May 30. 24, 25, 27.
Bligh A.T.C. Mudgee May 22.
Queensland J.C... May 24, 25.
vvarrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
Eockhampten July 6, 7.
AQUATICS.
Messenger and Hearn, £2OO and championship
of New Zealand March 25.
Hanlan v. Boyd, £5OO aside on the Tyne 4pnl 3.
Booky Mouth Eegatta Easter Monday.
Kempsey Regatta Easter Monday.
Victorian Yacht Club Eegatta ........Easter Monday.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Eace April 29.
Globe E. C. Trial Pours, in Outriggers April 29.
Trickett v. Hanlan, £5OO aside on the Thames.... May I.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Eegatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Boss, £2OO aside... June 20.
CEICKET.
Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup—Albert v. Carlton, March 18.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Eoma (Q ) Athletic Club April 10.
Tam worth Sports i April 10 #
SWIMMING
Lavender Bay matches April 1.
W. M’lndoe v B. Cavill, £4OO and championship
of Australia, 1760 yards April 8.
Port Jackson Swimming Club matches April 9.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
49 acceptances for the Sydney Cup.
Hanlan has secured the services of William
Spencer as trainer.
The Adelaide footballers are already holding
|heir annual meetings.
Thirty-one nominations for the Cobar Handicap,
and thirty for the Town Plate.
The Assam, with the Australian Eleven, cleared
from Adelaide at 4 p.m. on Sunday,
The Mayor of Adelaide entertained the Victorian
cricketers at the Town Hall on Wednesday, March 15.
Newcastle Jockey Club Annual General Meet-
ing, March 17. No quorum. Was it St. Patrick’s
Day?
Six to four was freely laid in Auckland on the
Combined Eleven v. English in the late match in
Sydney.
Sixty-nine nominations for the C. J.C. Handicap,
run at Christchurch, next November. Largest entries
ever received in N.Z.
Pollio, the winner of the Australian Cup, was
treated to nearly a bottle of neat whisky before he
started for that race.
Princess Dagmar was recently sold in England
for 1700 guineas. The Princess is a greyhound. A dog
like that is worth a|collar,
Fagan of Christchurch, has challenged Burke,
of Dunedin, to ran a half mile or a mile race for £lOO
aside and championship of N.Z.
“Pendragon” says that Hanlan’s hatred of
anything like a field was the real reason of his with-
drawing from the Physic regatta at the end of 'BO.
Some coursing trials were done at Rooty Hill on
Saturday, in the presence of a number of gentlemen
invited by Mr. Lamb. About eight trials were put
through.
J. C. Laycock and Solomon row over the
champion course, Parramatta river, for £25 aside on
Saturday, and S. Edwards and Gascoigne for £25 aside
on Monday.
Morphett Vale (S. A.) races, March 17. Hurdles ;
Don Pedro 1. Two and-Thrce-Year-Old Stakes : Tempest
1. Morphett Vale Cup: Minna 1. Steeplechase:
Taraxacum 1.
Vacy (West Maitland) races, Saturday. Flying
Handicap : Kanaka 1. Maiden Plate : Camel 1. Vacy
Handicap : Kanaka 1. Hack Eace : Beeswax 1. Forced
Handicap: Bosher 1.
The Parramatta J.C. have issued a programme
for May 24 and 25, the added money being £6OO. The
course has been repaired. Mr. W. H. Hillas will act as
secretary for the May meeting.
Geelong regatta, March 15. The junior fours was
won by the Victorian club; maiden eights, Ballarat
club|; maiden fours, Sandhurst; senior eight, Mel-
bourne; senior fours. Footssray; junior eight. Bar-
won.
The Australian Eleven left Melbourne by the
Assam en Thursday. A large number of friends
assembled to see them off. M’Donald was very ill at
the lime of departure, but ho decided to taka the
voyage. He was suffering from sunstroke.
The race for .£2O a side, over the champion
course, Parramatta Eiver, on Saturday, between J. C.
Layoock and 8. Edwards, resulted in an easy victory
for Edwards. Layoock made a great race for a mile,
but after that he was never in it.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club has arranged
a programme for April 29. It comprises eleven events,
including a champion race of 1000 yards, and 100 yards
all-comers’ cup. Perhaps the first event will bring
Cavill, MTndoe, and Corbett together.
The boat which was built for Edward Trickett
at Torontojhas been smashed and rendered useless while
Trickett was practising on the Thames. A similar mis-
hap occurred to Hanlan on January 27. He smashed
his boat by running on a sandbank in the river,
Oliver, who claims to be the champion of Tas-
mania, ran a match at Dunedin (N.Z.), with Hill of
Shag Point, for £5O a side, three distances—loo,lso,
and 200 yards—Hill receiving a start in each. Oliver
won with great ease, Hill securing the 150 yards’ event
on sufferance.
On the 15th and 16th tho English Eleven played
a Danollr (Vio ) twenty-iwo. The match resulted in a
win for the eleven in one innings. The local team
s-ored 79 and 49. The eleven scored 141. Cocoanut
matting was laid between the wickets. Shaw got 11
wickets for 11 runs.
At the sports at Bathurst on the 17th, the
grand handicap, 150 yards, was won by Irvine, of Change,
with 7 yards start. Malaobi, a black tracker, with 10
yards was second, and Lessay, ol Oberon, 13 yards,
third. M&lachi, 12 yards, won the hurdle race, and
Ferguson the walking match.
Kyneton (Vio.) Faces, March 17. Handicap
Hurdle Eace: Jack I; won by a length. Kyneton Han-
dicap : Crystal 1. Novel Selling Eace: Blantyre 1.
Handicap Steeplechase; Shylock 1. Lauriston Han-
dioap: Bar One 1. Pollio was made the favourite in
both handicaps, and secured second place only in each.
Qundagai J.C. races. First Day: Maiden Plate,
Prudence I. Prince of Wales’ Stakes; Johnny Crapaud
1. Handicap!; Miss Wye 1. Second Day: Ladies'
Purse; Musgid 1. St. Patrick’s Day Handieap; Tait 1.
Miss Wye fell fell and her jockey was severely hurt.
Half-mile Flutter; True Love 1. Forced Handicap;
Tait I.
Funds are coming in very slowly towards the
purchase of a boat and oars for the Intercolonial Eight-
oar crew. There are other heavy expenses to be
incurred, and the public, in the interests of rowing, are
expected to subscribe. Mr. H. Coles, the secretary of
the N.S.W. Bowing Association, will thankfully ac-
knowledge all contributions. By the way, we are glad
to see that Mr. Coles has almost recovered from the
effects of his recent severe accident.
How our second elevens have fallen off! The
fecond Alberts were ignobly defeated on the 15th by
the second Warwicks. There was a time when a match
between these second elevens excited as much interest
in cricketing circles as any of our present Cup matches.
Now it is a matter of difficulty to get a team to play
out of the Association Ground.
The Cup match; between the University and
Warwick ciubs resulted in a victory for the former by
126 runs. The University second innings closed for 130,
Carter again proving hinasalt an acquisition to the
club by a well-earned 26; Coates made 15, and Powell
15 The Warwicks made 62—Newcombe (not out) 17, and
Downes 12, being the double-figure scorers.
Eush is not going into training for the Grafton
Eegatta. Should Beach come, Michael will not contest
the outrigger race. He speaks of Beach as a fine look-
ing fellow with splendid physique, who, in a skiff, dis-
plays extraordinary skill and muscular powers. Eush
thinks there is no one in Australia can beat Beach in
skiffs, and believes he will make a name as an out-
rigger sculler before long.
As an index to the probable success, financially
and otherwise, in England of the recently-formed Aus-
tralian team, we notice that in nearly every issue in
January of the Loudon Sportsman letters appeared
suggesting the names of the Players, the Gentlemen,
and the All-England Eleven. And most of the writers
agree, selecting for the Players’team, in including eight
out of Shaw’s English eleven.
On January 25, J. Roberta, junr., played W.
Mitchell a billiard match, 1000 points, Mitchell receiv-
ing 200 points start. The game at its close was very
exciting. Mitchell ran up to 893, then Eoberts came up
to 975. Mitchell progressed to 996 and then let in his
opponent in attempting a double baulk. Eoberts then
made the necessary 25. Duration of game, 2 hours and
53 minutes, including interval.!
It has been alleged by one of the English team
that four of his companions accepted £lOOO to lose
the last match in Sydney. We hope that there is
no trnth in this statement. Swindlers on the cricket
ground will kill the best game we can ever have in this
country, and it is to the interest of every white man to
expose anything crooked that he sees. Many people
are going about already saying that the death-knell of
cricket has been sounded.
Liverpool Plains Jockey Club Races. First
Day: Flying Handicap ; Queensberry 1. Maiden Plate;
Old Gold 1. Liverpool Plains Jockey Club Handicap;
Qodiva 1. Prince of Wales’Stakes; Conney 1. Borough
Handicap; Queensberry 1. Second Day: Peel Eiver
Handicap; Hypatia 1. Novel Eace; Empress 1. Bail-
way Handicap; Old Gold 1. Betting, 6 to 4 on Queens-
berry, who came in a bad last. Hack Eace ; Battler 1.
Forced Handicap; Hypatia 1.
Orange annual races. First day Stewards’
Purse; Stella, 1; Public Auction Stakes ; Partner, 1;
Champagne Stakes, Mavourneen, 1; Town Plate,
Sting, 1; Two year old handicap, Helena, 1; peuy
race. Myrtle, 1. Second day. Three year old handicap,
Harebtll walked over. Princelof Wales Stakes, Eoan-
oke, 1; Flying handicap, Mavourneen,!. Won by a
neck. Orange J.C. handicap. Sting, 1; hack selling
race, Dundee, 1; forced handicap, Stella, 1.
.£15,000 was passed through the totalisators in
three days at the Dunedin (N.Z.) race meeting. £2170
were invested on the Cup. However, on a recent occa-
sion, when the runner of the totalisator paid on the
wrong horse by mistake, it was held, in a case where a
dissatisfied man sued for the recovery of his money,
that transactions with the totalisator constituted
betting and gambling according to the Act, and that
disputed moneys could not bo recovered in a court of
law.
Nonsense, by Albany—No Name, secured the
Champagne Stakes hard held, at the Dunedin meeting.
Vanguard, by Traducer—En Avant, being second. Tur-
quoise, by Tubal Cain —Topaz third. Nine started.
The Hon. Eobmson and Lance were a bit dissappointed
in this event, having backed their colt. Vanguard, to
win, for a considerable amount. Nonsense also won the
City Stakes Handicap with the greates of ease, never
being urged to gallop; Turquoise 2, Cassivellaunus—
Miss King 3.
Mr. Giles, the well-known bookmaker, opened a
book on the Australian Cup and Newmarket handicap,
laying 1000 to 1 against naming the doable. He got
round in three weeks, backers rushing him for the
liberal odds. In these days of fields and short odds, it
is well to direct bookmakers’ attention to this fact.
Slack, the great bookmaker, made his name by his
liberal odds. Six to four with a field of twenty is rather
rough on backers. A good picking awaits the book-
maker who will venture some points further than the
present ridiculously short prices.
This is how Boyd was training in January. He
was staying at Etdcar, and each morning he com-
menced operations by a sea bath and a ramble along the
magnificent beach at the place. After breakfast, he
walked, at a training pace, fourteen miles, and in the
afternoon, he took one spell at rowing exercise on the
Tees. Dinner and tea were taken at his own house at
Middlesbro’, and in the evening he trotted back to
Eedcar. In a week he reduced himself He
intends to get rid of 14lbs. more. His rowing weight
will be about 11 st. 4 lbs.
Hanlan says that the Hillsdale crew, who in-
tend visiting next Henley Eegatta, “ can row 55 strokes
a minute for a mile and a half, and in that distance
give any other amateur crew of their own country
(America) more than half a minute’s beating. Their
style is not grand, but their pace is paralysing.” They
must be something like the invincible Footscray (Vic.)
crew of manual-labour men, who smoke while out at
practice, have never been beaten, and have j ust had a
walk-over for the Clarke Challenge Cup, which now
finally passes into their posseasion.
A ’Frisco paper puts it straight, thus; —
“ Another fifth-rater has come to the front and chal-
lenged a frirly.good man. This time it is the notorious
Fred. Plaisted, who has challenged Elliot to row a
three-mile race with a turn, on or before May 3Ut, for
SOOdol. or lOOOdol. He also modestly asks Trickett to
join in the race and make a sweepstake of it. Should
Trickett consent, the public had better look out for a
big job, for Fred. Plaisted is one of the most tricky
and unscrupulous men now before the public.” Bough
on poor old Ned Trickett-
Albury Annual Races. First day—Handicap
Hurdle Eace: Shamrock 1. Selling Stakes : Trump 1.
Mares’ Produce Stakes: Gretna Green 1. Alnury
Cup: Eros I. Won by a length and a-half. Time,
2min. 50sec. Maiden Plate; John Peel I. Selling
Handicap : Eeform 1. Second day—Handicap for two-
year-olds : Loiterer 1. Corinthian Cnp: Valentine 1.
Prince of Wales Stakes : Eeform 1, St. Patrick’s Day
Handicap: Thurgoona I. The betting was 3 to 1 on
Eros, but Thurgoona led from start to finish. Steeple-
chase : Wranger 1. Plying Handicap: Lord of Clyde 1.
Hanlan received a cordial welcome in England.
He did anything but training during his first week. He
had to go through a banquet, and saw the last night’s
play of the great billiard match between Eoberts and
Cook. Then he wont and took his first “ square night’s
sleep” since leaving Canada, having been very ill on the
voyage. He went aboard the boat that accompanied
the Brightwell-Harding race, and when tho contest was
over he was heartily greeted by the spectators.
A new totalisator has been constructed for
Messrs. Hill and Poole, of New Zealand, and is being
worked by them over there. One feature in it is that
the figures are much larger than in ordinary machines
of the kind, those indicating the total number of
investors being Sin. in length, while the figure numbers
of the horses are 4in. long, and both are readily dis-
cernible at some distance. These are numbered for a
field of fif ceen. By one pull at the handle the figures at
the top, as well as those of the investors’ numbers, are
turned simultaneously. There are many other improve-
ments, and the constructor intends to apply for a
patent at an early date.
For the Thomson trophy, three matches were
played on Saturday. The Australian defeated the
Lismore easily, and the Surry United “ did” the Corio
by ten wickets. The Corio made in their first innings,
112, and the Surry United 73, but the latter club
played up, and disposed of their opponents in the
second innings for 33; the required number of runs
were obtained by J. Searl, 31, and Beveridge, 40, with-
out the loss of a wicket. A number of spectators
assembled to witness the match between the Osborne
and Our Boys. The latter were disposed of in the first
innings for 53, and the Osborne, with three wickets for
38, looked like winning, but Power and Dennis got rid
of the rest for only another run. Our Boys have lost
three wickets in the second innings for 60 runs. The
fielding and bowling of the Osbornes got demoralized ;
Saunders, who is not out with 31, and Moyes, 19, both
gave chances before they scored.
When the Potosi arrived at the Semaphore,
Laycock and Pearce were met by Mr. E. J. Bigaud, of
the S. A. Eeoistee, and were escorted by him to Ade-
laide, where arrangements were made for both rowers
to take a breather on the Torrens Lake. Layoock used
an outrigger, by Swaddle and Winship, belonging to
Mr. J. M, Christie, and Pearce rowed in a skiff. Lay-
cook’a boat was scarcely up to his weight, and was
rather deep in the water. He had a spurt with a four-
oared crew, which he easily held. The oarsmen were
entertained at the Town Hall by the Mayor, and were
invited to the Adelaide Park race meeting, and the
Intercolonial Cricket Match in the Oval. They wrote
a letter of thanks io the Mayor, specially mentioning
the kindness of Mr. Bigaud, who insisted upon their
being his guests during their stay. Mr. Bigaud is an
amateur sculler of great promise and an enthusiast in
aquatics.
Three to one on Hanlan against Boyd. The
stakes for Boyd are being raised by subscription, and
up to the erd of January only half, viz. £250, had been
collected. It is possible that Hanlan will have to pro-
vide the balance of the stakes, and row for his own
money. As for Trickett, it is hoped that the required
£5OO will be, or perhaps has been, collected in the
colonies. It will always be a blot on Hanlan's glorious
career that he increased the championship, stakes,
making it seem that his object was more the gold than
the glory. Mr. C. A. W. Lett, who was making pre-
liminary arrangements for Trickett in January, twitted
Hanlan with a disinclination to meet Trickett, where-
upon Mr. W. J. Innes, no doubt in chagrin, offered to
back against Trickett, Wallace Boss for £2OO aside, or
Largan and David Godwin (English scullers) each for
£lOO aside. The match between our Ned, and Hanlan
for £5OO aside is now on, and we think the two represen-
tatives en route for England will give the other men
enough to do.
Lady Emma won the treble (Cup, D.J.C., and
Porbury Handicaps) at the Dunedin (N.Z.) meeting, the
Cup time being fastest on record, for 2 miles and
a distance. Eleven horses faood the flag in the Cup, all
going off to a fair start.. Iu the last quarter of a mile,
the proverbial sheet might have covered King Quail,
The Poet, Libeller, Adamant, Lady Emma, and Chan-
cellor. Then Chancellor and Adamant came a little,
and towards the turn Lady Emma also, and Libeller
was sticking gamely to it. As the horses came iu view,
the Zetland spots were seen in the lead, and she held
her advantage all the way up. Libeller had the outside
running, and many thought ho would be able to cut her
down at the post, but it was not to be, and he passed
the judge a length and a half behind. Chancellor an
excellent third. King Quail almost level with him.
Adamant next, and the rest in a straggling order. Out
of 512 investors at £2 on thetotalisator, only 25 wore on
Lady Emma.
THE BIG AMEBICAN PEIZE FIGHT
Came off in Mississippi on 7th February. Sullivan’s
seconds were Billy Madden, seconded by Tom Kelly
and Johnny Boach. Bound First. —Eyan led with his
right, which fell short, catching Sullivan’s left on his
face in return. Both men then rushed together, and
rapid exchanges were made until Eyan was knocked
down; time, 30 seconds. Second Bound.—Sullivan lot
go at once his left on Eyan’s jaw; Evan closed and won
a fall; time, 25 seconds. Third Eound.—Both men
came together with a rush, and Sullivan, after three
exchanges, knocked Eyan dawn with a terrible right-
hand blow on the chest; time, 4 seconds. Fourth
Bound.—After a few seconds’ sparring, Sullivan rushed
in, hitting with both hands; Eyan also acted on the
offensive until forced on to the ropes, and finally
grassed ; time 20 seconds. Fifth Eound.—Exactly the
same as Eound Pour, except that Eyan fought Sullivan
down ; time 20 seconds. Sixth Eound,—Sullivan rushed
in to Eyan, who closed and threw him ; time, 30 seconds.
Seventh Bound.—The men came together after a few
passes, and commenced slogging until Sullivan planted
his right in Eyan's jaw, and knocked him clean off his
feet. Eight Eound.—Sullivan fought Eyan all over the
ring, over the ropes, and down on one knee and hand.
The men turned to go to their corners, when the
seconds cried out “ Go for him!” The men turned and
came together for a clinch, which resulted in both going
down. Ninth and Last Eound.—Eyan came up groggy,
and Sullivan at once rnshed in and forced him into his
corner. Eyan recovered, and drove Sullivan back to
the middle of the ring, both fighting heavily. In a few
seconds Sullivan got in a terrible right-hander under
Eyan’s left ear, and knocked him senseless. As he failed
to coma te time, the light was awarded to Sullivan, after
26 minutes fighting. Eyan’s jaw was found to be broken
in three places, and he was badly bruised about the
body. Sullivan ran down to his quarters, and he was
found to be without a scratch. Eyan admitted that he
was fairly beaten, but complained that he was sick
before the fight. At least a quarter of a million dollars
changed hands on the mill. Eyan stands 6ft. fin.
and weighs 190 pounds. Sullivan stands sft. 10jin.
and weighs 175 pounds, and it is absurd to suppose that
two such men could fight half an hour without both of
them being more or less braised. One of the most re-
markable things about the fight is the utter lack of
science displayed by both of the men. Sullivan rushed
in hitting heavily with both bauds, and Eyan rushed to
meet him, also hitting with both hands. As was to be
expected, the rounds only lasted from 4 to 30 seconds,
and nine rounds were all that Eyan could stand. Now
the great American public, tickled to death at having a
prize fight come off in a decent manner and won by the
best man, will doubtless inaugurate a pugilistic revival,
and instal Sullivan as high priest of the new school.
Science, coolness, and the ability to wait fora favourable
opening will be looked upon as foolish and useless relics
of the old and forgotten school, and the coming pugil-
istic teacher, instead of showing his pupils how to stop,
guard, parry, and counter, will simply say, “ Cultivate
your treceps, my children; learn to make heavy lunging
blows, and when you get up to box, rush right at your
opponent, hitting heavily with both hands. If you
keep that up long enough you will be sure to hit him a
terrible blow under the left ear which will knock him
out of time, unless he should be fortunate enough to
impinge upon your left ear and knock you out." If the
pupil should ask what is the use of studjing the manly
art under a professor, when all that art consisted of was
simply hitting heavily with both hands, he will, of
course,be told that Sullivan, the champion of America,
defeated Eyan by that means. Success is always sue-
oessful, and, because Sullivan won the fight, Sullivan’s
method must be praised; but, if JemMace were ten
years younger, how long would it take him to defeat
Sullivan ? Why, he would let Sullivan rush in hitting
heavily with both hands until he had rushed all the
breath out of his body, and then the clever Mace, who
had been getting out of the way and allowing Sullivan
to fight the wind, would go quietly in, blind Sullivan’s
eyes, and then beat him to a jelly in a scientific manner.
Brute strength, without science, is of no earthly use
when pitted against brute strength with science, and
one can fancy seeing the cunning faces of Joe Goss and
Arthur Chambers watching Sullivan’s motions, and
taking mental notes of his style, so that they will be
able to find a man to defeat him as soon as they go to
England. Sullivan will, of course, be held up as a
wonder, but at this distance it looks as if he was simply
a good second-rate man, and would never have had a
show for the championship in the days of Tom Hyer,
Yankee Sullivan, and the school of champions that
were defeated by Tom Sayers. But no matter what the
extent of Sullivan’s quality, his successful fight will
bring dozens of heavy hitters to the front, who have
heretofore kept in the back ground, because they lacked
science, and a revival may be looked for in pugilism,
which, to quote Lord Palmerston, is no not half so
brutal as ballooning.
At the banquet given in London to Edward
Hanlan, the toast of his health was enthusiastically
received, Hanlan, on rising to respond, was heartily
cheered, and it was some seconds before he could obtain
a hearing. At length he said: <■ Mr. Chairman. Mr.
Vice-chairman, and gentlemen,—lt is very gratifying to
me to be received in this generous and kind fashion, and
I wish I could do justice to your expressions of wel-
come I can never speak what I wish on occasions of
this kind, but I must tell you that this is one of the
happiest moments of my life. (Applause.) I know I
cannot satisf v myself with my words. lam very gnlte-
mid O TOO U f &entlemen V for the great honour you have
paid me, I have come here to row Mr. Boyd, and I
want you to understand that I know he is one of the
I know w n m v ho WOrld - Ido not sa y 1 think he is—
that I think’r Y ° U mUS l fc n , ofc nm awa y wi th the idea
t0 T have a walk over. Ido not
ever Idi<Tnr kn °tT I Shall havo to row as hard as
unon l h d th»t h r dBr ’ B ’ lt * f ntlem °n. you may depend
upon it that I am going to do my utmost to win.
T I 1 alt ? OS / ; Wi . Bh I>wafi 1 > wafi the representative of
London. England—(applause)— for I have never in my
fit sportsmen than I have
Let me again thank you I ought to say that my com.
mg here is due to Mr. W. J. Innes. A better sportsman
I i r T a 1 t *, hat 1 will d 0 “y b «3t to win,
but I cannot hope to do for you what you have done for
me. I known you all want me to win if I can. (Hoar,
hear.) lam so overflowing with thankfulness to you
that I cannot say any more." (Loud applause )
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
Four in-hand Eeibey, of Tasmania, has pono j n
for horse racing again-his new purchase btSSnrriJ
fine® dTys e :“.o ,b C°o U nn d o? PreemL^anT ßollie “efd
sasraafjsssfti"*. s a*aS?
ton, N.Z., m the sculling match. Messenger v Hearn
a 'v- A ‘ three-card artist •• was lately sentenced Tn
Adelaide to six months’ imprisonment Messrs
Coates and Co , of Coristchurch, N Z„ have just com-
pleted a very handsome inkstand composed of
the hoofs of old Traducer. prettily mounted in silver
fnnfhaif 100 “ e ®! ;ln^s > athletic sports, inter-provinciai
football, and bicycle tournaments are to* be held
daring the Christchurch (N.Z ) Exh-bition
Maitland Albion v. Dungotr Albion I °o l 0 + pe s ° d
West Maitland Maitland. 73 and 111
It is said that the well-known N.Z. firm. Mason and
Vallance, intend selling out the whole of
after the ChristchurohVtumn meeting L belter
who ran second for the Dunedin Cun is another Rfrifn*
......On the 12th, the Hill End and Pyramul cricket
clubs played a mateh. Eesnlt. a victory for the latter
Si'S- S
srs^saas-i
t’he 6t M e , a n .° ft^ e . N. I. Cricket Club, and 15
from the Melanesian Mission, resulting in an easy
victory for the latter At Dargaville (N.Z.) Races,
Eandwmk appropriated the two principal events. Cup
and Handicap...... Romeo, Sit. 41bs.. won the Hawke’S
Bay (N.Z_) Kaoing- Club Cup, Soukar, Bst 61bs beinc*
Hippo-SUmier flllf.’gst. 71bs. third Hi!
stated that arrangements have been concluded for
visits to New Zeaiand of the Hon‘ iVZigL’s team
and of the Australian team after their return from
England Three guns killed 500.000 rabbits in N Z
m three months On Fab. 24, in Eowley’s billiard
room, Bombala, a match, SJO up, for £lO was nliv«d
between T. O’Brien. Bombala. and W. Smith, Bega, re-
suiting m a victory for O’Brien by 15 points... Mr.
Philip Dwyer. senior partner in the American racing
firm of Dwyer Brothers, is now in England, and offprs
to match the celebrated Luke Blaokbufn at “ight fo?
age, against any horse in England for £5OOO aside.
°“ “ ar <s U * a 15 ® y ards ma teb between A. Skelton
and r.Oiles, for £2O, was run off on the Tam worth
Cricket Ground bkelton, who was allowed eight
yards, came in about 18 inches ahead of his on-
ponont, doing the distance in 16-1- seconds
The Aibion club defeated the Chatsworth on Saturday
at Balmain by 17 runs In the grand stand totalisator
at the Dunedin meeting, the dividend for each £1
invested on Lady Eama was £lB 9a. and £lB, and in the
totalisator outside, £22 March 11. the Tam worth
and Macdonald -River clubs played at Macdonald Elver
Local team, 52-(Allen 31), and 54-( Wheeler 19, Marsh
13, Alien 10). Tamworth, 61—(E. Cohen 21), and 22
(j. Adams, not out, 14) The Arundel club defeated
the Cambridge on Saturday at Evoleigh. E King
and H. Blackburn made 20 and 12 respectively
Those eminent Tasmanians, Messrs. Guesdon (the
owner of Darebin), Charles Agnew (owner of Queen)
and Ted Wilson (owner of Pyrrhus) are getting ready
for the warpath to England. They’ll be much missed
in Hobart. Darebm’s pace was pretty fast, but even
Wl *l o° beaten yet The Melbourne correspondent
of the Otago Witness says the public lost £250 000
over last Melbourne Gup meeting
* * *
Mr. Phillip Dwyer, of the American racing firm
of Dwyer Bros., is in London on business. He offers
to back -Lord Blackburn at weight for age against any
horse in England for £5OOO a-side Jom Mace, says an
Auckland paper, looks in splendid form, and intends
giving in bl ew Zealand a series of his unrivalled statu-
®S(lU 1 Q exhibitions At the banquet to Hanlan in
London, Major-General Goodlake, V C , presided, and
had his health proposed by a leading bookmaker, who
said:—“Our gallant chairman has faced a hundred
thousand Russian bayonets In the field, without quail-
ing. And yet, gentlemen, I have seen him turn his
back on half a dozen lead pencils—on the racecourse I*'
......The Grand Prix du Casino, the most important
pigeon-shootmg prize contested for in Europe, was de-
cided at Monaco, on Jan. 24, when amidst great excite-
ment, Count de St. Quentin was declared the winner.
On January 19. a souliing match for £lOO took place
over the Thames championsnip course, between Bright-
well and Harding, resulting in an easy victory for the
former All American hfraes are not the equals of
Foxhall and Iroquois, nor il every American sculler as
fast as Hanlan. One Patrick M’luernay. of Lowell,
Mass , whose aquatic reputation was compounded of
one part “has done,” and ninety-nine parts “sajslho
can do,” journeyed to England last year, and under me
fictitious name of “ Joseph Flynn, ot County Tipperary,
Ireland,” made a match with David Godwin, of BatLu-
sea. This was rowed on November 21, when the Eng.
lishman easily distanced the lad from Tipperary-Lowell.
Flynn-M'lnernay was dissatisfied with the result,
claimed to have been badly boated, and made another
race on similar terms. This was rowed on January 6
and Godwin finished six lengths ahead Recently iu
New York, J. H, Davis, practising in a school gym-
nasium on the horizontal bar, raised his body with his
arms seven times, and shortly afterwards died from
over-exertion Champion Hanlan has signed a con-
tract with T. P. Murray to give exhibitions on the Red
River, at Wmnepeg, Manitoba, June 29, 30, and July I
For his race with E. W. Boyd in April, the boat-build-
ing firm of G. and J. Wariu and Co., of Toronto, will
forward to Hanlan a new shell, and he will also have a
boat bnilt by Swaddle and Winship of England
William Elliott, ex-champion sculler of England, ar-
rived at Quarantine, N.Y. Harbour, on the evening ot
J an. 14, on board the steamer Critic. It seems that he
shipped on board the vessel as a fireman, and while
lyi n S Quarantine, accidentally fell down a coal
bunker, sustaining very severe injuries The fast
Ontarian oarsman, Jacob Gaudaur, issues the fol-
lowing manifesto: —“l will row David Godwin for 500
dollars aside; two weeks after I will row John Largan
for the same amount, and three weeks after I will row
Bovd for the same. I will put up my own money if
they allow me £5O expenses, or I will give the same if
they will come to Canada.” An almost unprecedented
bowling feat was credits 1 to E. W. L. Fernandez of the
Eossall (Eng.) School eleven last season. Playing
against another school-team, he bowled eleven overs
(ten maidens) for eight wickets, which cost but a soli-
tary run An English team, including Ulyett and
Peate, professionals, and tan first-class amateurs, pur-
pose visiting America, in September and October next.
They will play in Philadelphia. New York City, St.
Louis and Chicago, and in the principal Canadian cities.
Dr. Stanich desires to announce that poor per-
sons, suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Dis-
eases, will receive his valuable services towards their
cuie gratis, every Thursday in the week, at 50 Wyn-
yard-square, Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Oscar Wilde snores. The idol is shattered.
Tom Garrett didn’t leave for England, after all.
Dr. Kenwick is making a tour of the New
England district.
Joseph Symo. of the Melbourne Age, has been
visiting New Zealand.
Captain Edwards, of the A.S.N. Co.’s service,
is seriously ill at Brisbane.
Mr. T. Wilnntt has, for the third time, been
elected Mayor oi Townsville.
Mr. Frank Eeynolda, of Tocal, has gone to
Tasmania in search of health.
Barnum says if he only had 20s. in the world,
he’d spend 19a. 6d. in advertising.
The subscription list for the memorial to the
heroic Mrs. Watson closes Ist. May
The will of the late Mr. George Kirk, squatter,
of Victoria, has been proved under 4591,500.
Mrs. Marcus Clarke returns thanks for the
kindness and generosity shown in her hour of need.
An ex-Attorney-General of S. A. resides at
Temora—Mr. Stevenson, formerly of the S.M. Herald
staff.
C. E. Jones moans to go for the seat now
occupied by Mr. Eincham, M.L.A., who is a political
nonentity.
Capt. Boycott is back in Ireland. No one molests
him, and he is understood to be entirely “unboy-
ootted” now.
A. S. Kathbone, proprietor of the Auckland
Observer, went on a holiday trip to England by the
mail steamer Zealandla.
Tho Grafton Argus says that one pastoralist
in a Northern district of the colony realised £lO,OOO last
year by the sale of fat cattle only.
D’Oyly Carte offered E. S. Smythe the agency
ot Oscar Wilde in the United States ; but the “ much-
travelled” is fleshly, and did not believe in “Bun-
thorne.”
The Tasmanian Eifle Eegiment Officers’ pretty
little quarrel has been settled at last by the Colonel
Commandant positively forbidding his subordinates to
refer to it again.
The Maori monarchy is in a shaky condition. It
is reported that he whe at present wears the erown
couldn’t raise to pay his entrance fee to
Waikato race meeting.
Labouchere says of Gladstone, that he is too
kind and long suffering, and that his opponents take
advantage of this kindness to insult him, without
having to fear the consequences.
Mr. Hamann, one of the persevering and lucky
men who stuck to the how splendid Day Dawn claim.
Charters Towers, hoping against hope for years and
year*, has gone with his family on a|visit to Germany.
An old man now in tho Parramatta Benevolent
Asylum has succeeded to a fortune of £300,090, but be
cauuot claim it unless h* geos to England. Being under
sentence of transportation, he is not free to return.
Sir Alfred Stephen is generally understood to be
the author of the S.M. Herald paper signed “Lex,"
traversing the decision of tho J udges in respect to the
admission of irrelevant evidence in the Clontorf libel
ease.
Mr William Eobertaon, an old and respected
Clarence River settler, died on Saturday week, aged 89.
Ho was a native ot Lanarkshire, and was the fatner of
Mr. William Robertson, manager of the A.J.B. Bank,
Rockhampton.
De Lacy Evans, the Sandhurst man-woman,
whose caseexcited so much puolicattention some time
is now reported to have entered a second time into
wedlock, but this time as a bride, having imarriod a
widower with a family I
Mark Twain is living in splendid retirement at
Harford Conn., which is noted for its handsome private
residences; and recently Archibald Forbes and that
Innocent Abroad,” R. S. Smythe, spent a pleasant
afternoon with the hnmorou* Pilgrim.
Poor little Carl Schafer, the German traveller,
who nassed in his checks the other day inaN.S.W.
Ahvluiu married a half-caste at Ohinomuri, N.Z , bat
when she discovered that he was only a poor traveller
she went away with some other follow.
It seems that all the people who shoot at Her
Maiesty afterwards settle in Australia. John 1 rancis,
who made the second attempt on the Queen's life, ana
was transported, is now a prosperous man, and
carries on a large business at a Bouih Austalian bay,
under another name.
Sir George Strahan, the new Governor of Tas-
mania. continues to mightily offend the Upper Tenby
making himself agreeable to overybedy This doesn’t
suit the mnshroom-oracy, who nave threatened to
“make his position unbearable." However, they’ve
gob the wrong man this time.
“ The Vag.” writes the Namoi Independent,
,v,. t v has “been asked to stand for East Sydney at
the next election,” and ho “thinks he will do so."
Wo believe ho will slaud-outside tho polung-boolh.
We also believe tbat he ll ‘g«t in.’ Likewise do wo
behove that he’s going to ruu with George Reid and
thr Henry Parkea.
Soofforth when in Melbourne always goes to the
«< SW eiiest ” church. He visited Christ Cfiurcb, South
YsL-ra the other Sunday, and was recognised, when
making his wav down the aisle, by some young cricket-
ing enthusiast, who exclaimed—“ Lor! there’s the
Demon 1 ” It was the very first time Spoff. had been
taken for the devil—in church.
Mr H E Williams, Victorian ex-Ministor for
Mines, ia-st wsek brought a libel action against the
A nous and got ignommxqusly beaten, despite the fact
D.nt the Judge, going on technicalities, told tho jury
♦I »t they were to find for plaintiff on at least ouo count.
Tim iurv took an honest view of the matter, and. dis-
missing quibbles, slated Williams on tho mam issue.
Cardinal Eichelieu imprisoned a man for sixteen
years because he suspected him of having read some
.ocret correspondence which was lying on his (the Car-
Amll’si table Mr. Wiudeyer, father of the present
TmUre used to compel policemen, when he caught them
it hm table, to take a solemn oath on a Bible that they
would never reveal, under any circumstances whatever,
the nature of the correspondence they had glanced at.
Gniteau was not in tho least abashed by his
rwmselfiJ 1 elaborate portraiture of him as a fool and a
counsel s , M Reed predicted that ho would
eventually drivelling idiot, Guiteau laughed
sneeriugly. When Mr. Reed in his peroration brought
thc scena on the scaffold before the jury, Guiteau re-
™»rkPd that be “ would rather die tnat way than bo
smashed up in a railway accident like the one of Friday
night."
The Melbourne correspondent of a rag called
tho Northern Argus, published at Clare, 8.A., alludes
to Mrs Annie Baeaut as “the paramour of Mr.
n.Mlog Bradlaugh—and in doing so tells an infamous
he it would be well were the character of every Eng-
liah man and woman capable of bearing the same strict
scrutiny as those of Mr. Bradlaugh and his coadjntnx.
whose loading fault is that they are a good deal too far
advanced for tli©
Ebenezer Ward, M.P., of S.A., advocates the
remission of selectors’ interest, and in some cases that
ot“he principal also. In this respect he differs from
David Buchanan, who stigmatises such man as blank
robbers Ebby al»o is in favor of spending £2,000,060 in
water supply conservation. He is posing in these day.
of drought and depression, as “ the farmers friend.
His last *peo was a weekly agricultural paper. He
Parted it with £l,OOO, and it la.ted a quarter.
The libel action brought by David Gaunson
Hwaiust Mortimer Franklyu, of the Federal Adstra-
mAN. was settled out of court, each party paying his
own costs. Tho articles which formed.the basisof the
ion arc said to have been written by David Blair, a
?ough .fid journalist of 60. who is a relative of tbe
Vila’ntiff, and who. now a pronounced freethinker,
brings to the editorial sanctum ail the gall which
ormerly stood him in good steaa wnen he was a Pres-
byterian minister.
We learn from that fashionable paper the
B.T.—that “ Mr. R. B. Smith, M.P. for the Manning,
has acceded to the wishes of the inhabitants to be
present to open the new Court house at Taree in the
course of a few weeks. It is intended after the ceremony
to entertain Mr. Smith at a public banquet *' 14 Acceded
to the wishes,** we may inform our readers, means that
the Cupid of the Macleay has had a big banqueting boom
arranged for him; and we arc informed that tho affair
won’t cost much after all.
At Hobart, Major Fysh, of the local Eiflo
Regiment, has been suspended by the Colonel-Com-
mandant (or writing an insubordinate letter re the
decision arrived at in Captain Smith’s case. 0 Boyla,
the Senior Captain, being on leave, the Commandant
directed Smith, as next senior, to assume temporary
command. A thunderbolt from Heaven conld hardly
have created a more lively sensation. FysL, not haying
a bill of sale over the Regiment, is powerless. The
whole thing is a disgrace and a laughing stock.
The fact that some of us are now in gaol recalls
in fact that Bnlwer-Lytton wrote in perfect isolation.
His study was remote, and the least noise was forbidden.
While writing, the floor about him would be strewn with
books and papers, and so jealous was he of the privacy
of his sanctum, that few were ever admitted within its
walls. In his latter days he never gave more than three
hours to composition. After silently eating a light
breakfast, he would enter his study at ten, and regularly
nt one o’clock ho would emerge, his work over for the
day.
Mr. Gateward Coleridge Davis, the barrister,
who died last week, aged 46. was a grandson of the poet
Coleridge, and was in his young days Attorney-General
of Jamaica. He was the Royal Commissioner who
sentenced ex-Judge Meymott to dismissal. To quote
the Mudgee Independent, “ Mr. Davis was a man ot
infinite humour, soft and silvery eloquence, and rare
logical acumen. What is better, he was an honest man,
and that he might preserve his honesty untarnished, he
never entered the world of politics.” The cause of his
death was phthisis.
Judah P. Benjamin, Q. C., the great on on
barrister, who is a Jew, was once widely known in the
Southern states of America, and as a Wing senator at
Washington. He was. and is still, an orator, and a
roally great lawyer. Benjamin was horn in the British
West Indies, and the “ once a subject always a subject
doctrine of England gave him ready access to the
London bar. His American training in law and oratory
enabled him to reach the first position as a British
barrister. Benjamin was cold and calculating, knew
how to fawn at the riorht moment, and in America
used to be called Judas P. Benjamin. When the great
smash up came, he ran away, went to the coast
of Florida, ©scaped on a little vessel and turned up in
London.
The story of Sara Bernhardt’s husband, who
went out to buy some tobacco fifteen years ago, and
hasn't returned, recalls an incident in the career of
Henry Labouchere, the editor of Truth. When a
young man, he filled a Government situation m Wash-
ington. One day a prominent citizen called to see the
head of his department, and walking in, said curtly, I
want to see the boss." ” You can’t, he is out; see
me.” said tho just as curtly. ‘‘ You are no
good to me, I must see the boss, 111 wait. Take a
chair.” said Labouchere, who went on letter writing.
At last the visitor observed, “ Look here, yonng man.
I’ve been fooling here for two hours: when is the chief
coming ?” “ Well,” was the calm reply, “he went to
Canada yesterday. I should say he’ll bo back in about
six weeks.”
Judge Fancett is again unwell. Quarantine was
too much for him. Judge Wlndeyer sustained a severe
shock to his system the other day, by the breakdown of
a cab which was conveying him—we hope to the Court.
Sir James Martin is understood to be indisposed. At
present he’s only well enough to superintend the eree-
tion of ” Martin’s Folly ” at Numantia, on the Blue
Mountains. So far, we are glad to hear, there s nothing
the matter physically with Sir George Innas; but Sir
William Manning, who is heavily handicapped by having
to adjudicate ecclesiastically and in equity finds the
weight beginning to tell, and roundly says he means to
load one of his juniors with the former work.if possible.
It’s just about time the Government looked up the
Judges’ question, and packed off several of these ex-
pensive luminaries for medical examination.
The man Weatherbead, who was made to do the
dying ” part of the alleged Adelaide Insurance frauds,
was a grocer by trade. He was well-known in the
South Eastern part of South Australia, especially in
Mount Gambier, where he resided for years. His first
exit from Mount Gambier was made under a cloud, out
he afterwards returned to that home of the Innocents.
His constitution was then sound. Barker and Micks
are well-known Adelaide insurance agents, the former
bearing the premier reputation in the colony for
smartness. Forsyth is a commission agent, and partner
in the firm of Barry and Forsyth. Dr. Horton is a
young medical practitioner, whose professional lines
had not been cast in too pleasant places, but he was
just beginning to get a fair practice. Tho four prisoners
have been a second time charged with conspiracy, and
been committed for trial, this time at tho instance of
the Colonial Mutual Assurance Society.
The N S.W. bar is at present terribly weak.
Messrs. Dirley. Q C., and-Stephen, Q C , are away in
Eng'aud; Mr. G Coleridge Davis—who should have
been a judge, and would have been one, had bis health
permitted—has just died; Mr. Salomons, Q C., is m
every case, either opposed by, or assisted by, the satur-
nine Pilcho**, or tho genial Jack Want. Fx judge
Simpson is touring on the Continong. Mr, Rogers kas
thrown up the senior Crown Prosecntorship, (which has
fallen to the lot of Mr. Healy), and gone into private
practice. Mr. Healy has been succeeded by Mr. Pit-
cairn, whose jokes now delight the country yokels.
Mr. Bruce Smith has stepped into a comfortable prac-
tice; so has Mr. “Toby” Barton. In the equity
division, Messrs. Gordon and Owen rule the roast,closely
pressed on by Dr. Donovan and Mr. C- J. Manning.
Now-a-days in Sydney, it’s far more profitable to be a
leading barrister than to own a license to steal. When
we want a new judge. Heaven knows where we shall
get him. Mr. Darley might, if opportunity offered,
accept tho Chief Justiceship—but by gaining the posi-
tion he would loss perhaps £3 000 a year ; and Mr.
Salomons’ ambitions are understood not to tend to-
wards the bench. _
Not many men who move in fashionable London
society have had such a career as Mr. Henry Labouchere,
M.P. Born in 1831, in London, he was educated at Etou
and Cambridge, and was never out of scrapes. Ho
yearned for adventure aud left college to go to Mexico,
where he lived till cash ran short, and then rambled for
18 months, but finally retired to that capital, and fell in
love with a circus girl. He travelled with the circus for
a while as assistant; next joined a party of Chippewa
Indians, hunting for half a year; then received a Gov-
ernment billet at Washington. After holding it for two
years, he was dismissed. Subsequently, having interest,
he held diplomatic appointments at half a dozen Euro-
pean Courts, but always did just as he liked, regir.iless
of consequences. He is now a notable; leading pro.
prietor of the Daily News, which has brought him
immense wealth; editor of Truth ; member for North-
ampton; and keeps an elegant oouatry residence, and a
splendid town establishment in St. James’s P*rk. He
is well vsjsed in olitics, and a hard hitter in journal-
ism; hisvasttal r . ikdexperience of the world enriches
the chatty criticisms of his pen, and give* him advan-
tages that no scholarship can confer on less travelled
men.
Oscar WiWe g e t B roughly treated by the New
York Press. They don’t appreciate his stained-glass
attitudes, his lily luncheons, and his supreme calves
They call him an “affected popinjay,” a “tow-headed
Ineffable,” and the “grand hierarch of cockney
quacks.” He wears knee-breeches of “ a wholly fabu-
lous kind,” and there is a legend that it takes three
lackeys every morning to hold him in the air, and drop
his utter legs into them, so as to prevent wrinkles.
Oscar’s voice is like the sad, sad wind among the sad,
sad pines, and his complexion like unto that of the
small boy who has taken an injudicious surfeit of green
apples. His London boudoir is full of laces, fans,
peacock-feathers, and aurora-hued silks, token* of his
triumphs among fair ones of the Ineffable Creed. He
is called the “ aesthetic heap," and has boon pictured
as reclining in an imbecile attitude at the feet of Mrs.
Langtry, with knees and chin drawn up like an ourong-
outang’e, to represent the potential grace of high
Eetthotic cult. One newspaper closes a sarcastic notice
of him thus “ The judicious cannot but grieve that
such a lounger should have been erected into a fashion-
able idol, to be feted, gazed at, worshipped, eulogised,
dined and wined alike by flaunting women, and by men
whose hoary hairs and self-respect ought to have taught
them belter.’*
SOCIAL.
A wedding of some interest to people in two
capitals took took place on the flth March, at Warr-
nambool (Vic). Mr. Arthur Henry M Donald, of
Sydney, was married to Miss Ethel Adelaide, youngest
daughter of the late Dr. Tracy, of Melbourne. The
ceremony, with full musical accompaniment, waa quite
a smart affair, a beautiful arch of ferns and white roses
having been erected for the bride to pass through,
# * #
At Goldah House, Darlinghurst, Mrs. M. Brod-
viak entertained a party last week, on the occasion of
her cousin, Mr. D. Mitchell, departing for Europe.
There were over 40 guests present, and some drfwses
were very pretty, efpocally that of a lady from Eliza-
beth-street, which was of brown satin, richly
with gold butterflies and fringe to match. A black
satin, with steel beads and diamond oraaments, was
noticeable A stately lady from Bedfern was .▼ery
tastef ally attired, so were the charmin j? youujf daughters
of the hostess, the two elder sisters bemg in darkdresses,
and the third in gray and tartan, while the youngest was
in pale blue cashmere, and looked exceedingly nice. The
evening was pleasantly spent, and most of the guests
departed at about 2 o'clock.
* * *
The Wollongong Brass Band gave a .ball and
supper in the Temperance Hall, on St. Patrick
There were about thirty couples pressnt. Sev«al
costumes were very tastefully arranged. A vivacioUS
blonde, from Dapto, an excellent dancer, waa
unanimously voted belle. Varied program , g
music, and a first class snpper about midnight, pro-
ved and served up by the local Compagnom Co.
Break-up at 4 a.m.
• • •
The “ loviers’ paradise,” in . th ®
district, is a small viUage possessing the (Bathetic ap
pellation of Unanderra. Tho ladies (and reaUy nice
girls, too) there abound as thick as bees. There also
reside in the locality about twenty young •
The “ screw” of none of these reaching more ’ •»
ther are, of course, supposed to be dead. t
burden of the young voung ladies Binging is Twenty
love-sick maidens we.
» • •
The attendance at the Booksellers’ and Station-
ers’ fourth picnic, last Thursday, was the
They had the smallest last year, when, it will be re-
memb.red, they went to a place down the harbourr a
place which haunts us in our dreams. This every-
one voted the splendid conveniences afforded by tne
Sir Joseph Banks’ pavUion and grounds Vml’
provement. Preparations were most complete, and,
after the usual oyster snack, the company it once
divided its attention between dancing and a^ h i®“°
sports. The Young Australian Band played the most
modern music in the rotunda a« well as t y . - y
do. There were numerous entries for the sporting
events, and competition for the
prizes was keen. So keen, indeed, that .
petitors for the first race could not when they
finished it, and two or three of them inadvertently went
through the wall of a photographic studio erected
against the fence. The picture man wasi taken aback at
such a sudden “rush of busm.-ss. Some eevea or
eight bootless young beauties started in the girls race
and a desperate struggle was won on the P°*t by a head
—a head ornamented with brown corkscrew rl H. K tets,
and a Grecian nose, whose owner was the proud reci-
pient of a sewing machine; while a
had a pair of blue-at least, we mean she Mdn t any
boots—won a writing desk. The one-mile walking
was trotted off with by a youth appropriately n a “ Bd
Mihell, who adopted a go-as-he-liked style, aad every-
cne wondered how he could win the race when he u®
walked a step the whole time. The sports committee
worked nobly, especially Mr. Wiseheart, on whomt e
chief burden fell, as did also Mr. Wilkinson, as M.C.
among the terpsichoreans. The skippm g race, for gms
who could skip the longest in on# innings, was aao J® l ’yJ
the winner, a wiry-looking damsel of some 12 , ears,
kept bobbing for about nine minutes. The ‘
gramme, printed by Fuller, was a chef d ceuvre complete
and correct. Which reminds ns, the P°P nla f,
wasn’t there. On making inquiries, we this was
owing entirely to his being absent. But he I ’
prizes, which shows there is no coolness. The S P®®o“|®
at dinner had the merit of brevity. Mr. Lewis made
an excellent chairman and the best speech, ine
••Press” was entrusted to a young gentleman who
kept up an animated conversation, in an under tote,
with a beer bottle in front of him. No one hear
a word, but as he smiled delightedly all the
time, the oration was moat likely very eloquent.
The proposer of the “ Ladies” spoke well, and showed
an intimite knowledge of them and their ways, rather
remarkable in one so young. Strange to say, both tne
dinner and the speeches were disposed of without tne
valuable assistance of a single member of Parliament.
This may seem incredible to persons who frequent
public picnics, but it's true. It was a decided relief to
be spared the meaningless jargon and mutual buttering
which usually epoil a good dinner on such occasions.
About the most important looking man present was the
jovial proprietor of the place, Mr. Frank Smith, who
looked so distingue that a young man with a limited
knowledge of history was prompted to whisper to a
neighbour of ours at dinner —“ 'Spoae that s Sir J oseph
Banks, him as the place belongs to. amt it t -At the
close of the day, the daughter of a
seller “kindly consented to present the prizes. We
don’t know whether the picnic wonld have taken place
if she had not consenteo, x>robably ifc would have been
at any rate a funereal affau. Miss M.a( dock is a young
lady with large gray eyes, a blonde friz escaping from
under an overwhelming bat, and a graceful smile, toned
with just a proper amount of dignity, on her handsome
face. Standing behind the bar where the frothy ginger-
beer is wont to be dispensed, she looked very nice, and
lots of people were as mad as anything because they
were not booksellers, good at running and jumping.
There were about 43 prizes, and a young lady could
hardly be expected to make a speech for everyone; but
when Miss Maddock happened to think of anything
she said it, and when she didn't, she smiled. Wo con-
templated with much interest the young purveyors of
literature and leatt pencils, as they walked up hesi-
tatingly to the counter, and backed away again covered
with perspiration aud blushes at the touch of those
delicate fingers. When the ceremony was over, the
’buses were tilled again, aud all made for homo, satis-
fied that the whole! picnic had been capitally managed.
• * •
Elaborate preparations are being made for the
Olden Fayre, to open in St. Mary’s 8.0. Cathedral on
Easter Monday. The nave aud transept of the build-
iiiar are now transformed into two old-fasnioned streets
of the Elizabethan era, intersecting one another in the
shape of a cross; and the quaint two and throe-stoned
buildings, with their heavy eaves and beetling bal-
conies, their great cross-beams and swinging sign-
boards, have been prepared by the artists of the great
Toruing, who hare been assiduously covering acres of
canvas with rivers of paint, for weeks past. In the
centre, the Maypole with its coloured streamers is
already erected, a ad around it will merrily caper
•• jonge men aud may dens " iu the maypole and morris
dances, jast as they used to do on old Cornhill 300
years ago. Through the streets will stalk fierce hal-
berdiers, burly beefeaters, and court heralds in their
gay doublets «nd trunk-hose, in velvets slashed and
puffed, all bedizened with lace and ruffles. Aud there
will be pretty damosels in olden gowns, with furbelows
and farthingale?, and wigs and dimples, and high
collars and aprons and stiff starched ruffs—all very
ancient in one sense, but very young and charming in
another. And they won’t carry out the old manners
too faithfully; these damosels will not munch sweet-
meats all day, or smoke tobacco, or dye their teeth
black, or swear—such pleasant customs will not be re-
vived for the occasion. Some 220 ladies will appear in
connection with the shops, ail in antiquated dross :
the manufacture of the costumes is going apace. Most
of the fayre ladyes are well known in society, and will
no doubt bo as fascinating in thoir curious garb of
Elizabethan shopkeeters as they are in tneir modern
characters of belles of the block or the ballroom. Then
there will be a post-office, a much better one than the
G.P.O. in George-street, because they don’t sell letters
there, but you can always get one at the fayre, so long
aa you have eixpenoe to buy it. From the old Caxton
Press, which is being specially made for Mr. W.
Akhurst, the Daily Couuant will be issued at the office
in the main street. Subscriptions must be paid in ad-
vance, aad the Archbishop will be defendant in all
libel actions. We hepe the paper will be livelier than
the Exfress, and that, like our illustrious contempo-
rary, Sydmy Pumch, it will be replete with “ whole-
some fun,” ot which we’ll be glad to contribute a column.
Dr Gillett, ol St. John's, is to bosa the Art Gallery,
which will contain pictures painted specially for this
Fayre by the old masters and others. At one end of
the street is a gipsy encampment, and at the opposite
is the Chelsea Bun House, where the City Catering Co.
will supply those satisfying pieces of pastry in nn-
limited quantities It will be under the personal super,
vision of Mrs. Smith, who has taken an immensity or
trouble to secure, as waitresses, young ladies of special
attractions. The music for the performances is being
rehearsed, and the dancers are being trained. Cas ig
laid on so as to thoroughly illumine the vast edifice,
which will be open day and evening during the whole
week.
• • •
St. Luke’s Church, Torquay, England, was, on
12th January, the scene of a marriage, in which the
bridegroom was a young Sydney gentleman, and the
bride a wealthy Devonshire heiress—W. J. Beade, son ol
Mr. G. W. Beads, of Everton, Five-dock, and Mary,
only surviving daughter of the late Mr. Johp "y
head, of Manchester, and step-daughter of the late nr.
Eadciyffe Hall, of Torquay. According to a local
journal, the event appears to have created no incon-
siderable stir in the little watering-place, and guests
had to be admitted to the church by ticket. The bride s
dress was ivory Duchesse satin, with flounces or
Brussels lace, veil ot same, surmounted by orango
blossoms and ferns, and bedecked with brilliants, iho
service was choral throughout. There were 70 guests
at breakfast, after which the happy couple took their
departure for Italy. There were nearly a hundred
presents. # m
Mora ©range blossom and wedding-cake. The
three Graces,renowned Tasmanian beauties, of upper
Macquarie street, Hobart, having run down three naval
heroes. So the story goes.
* # *
Miss Marie Carandihi, who last week, at Mel-
bourne, became the bride of Mr. Bobert Wilson, of
Brisbane, was married on her nineteenth birthday.
The wedding presents were intrinsically worth
Four generations of the Carandini family were present
on the happy occasion.
* * *
Last week, the daughter of Mr Thomas Gar-
rett. M.P., wa* married at St. James s Church, to Mr.
George Bird (H. S. Bird and Co., shipchandlers). The
wedding was a very quiet one. Honeymoon at Wood-
ford. _ „
# * *
Last night (Wednesday), a party of German
gentlemen difplayed their patriotism, by meet mg at a
banquet in Compagnoni’s rooms, to commemorate the
85th birthday of Kaiser Wilhelm.
* * *
About two sooie gentlemen tendered a compli-
mentary excursion ana banquet to Mr. Holt (Bank of
N.Z.), last Saturday, down the harbour. A nice after-
noon was spent, and a pleasant yoyage was wished to
the guest, who is going home. A steamer has been
engaged for friends to § * see him ofl *' to-day.
# #
A complimentary dinner was given on Saturday
last, at Wagga, to Mr. H. H. Parke (locomotive inspec-
tor) who resigns the Eailways. His admirers gave
him a diamond ring, and gashed oratory as customary.
• • •
Mr. Walter Lamb, who is going to Europe, was
entertained on Tuesday at luncheon, on the Show
Ground, by the Agricultural Society, and in the evening
a Coursing dinner was given to him, at Aaron's Ex-
change Hotel, by members of the N.S.W. Coursing
dub. # * #
Large bazaar and fancy fair at Albury last
week, in aid of the B. C. Church.
• • •
Miss M'Murtrie, of St, John’s School, Darling-
burst, was recently presented with a gold watch, on the
occasion ot her leaving that school, after two years
teaching, to take up an, appointment at Tumut.
* * *
A benevolent committee are giving a large
number of children in connection with the Jewish
Synagogue a picnic to-day. The Compagnqni Company
are to provide the cloying eatables to gratify the juve-
niles’ appetite.
tt # *
A well-known Government surveyor, up North,
will soon be joined in silken thraldom with the charm,
ing second daughter of a leading mercantile gentleman
of Grafton,
# # •
Ou dit, there is to bo a very grand ball given
on H M.S. Emerald shortly, but date not yet da-
cided on.
• * *
The ball on board the S. S. Chimborazo, on the
15th instant, was a great success; dre.-ses being mogni-
fleent. About one hundred dancers whirling until the
small hours.
# • •
A very enjoyable dance was given to the German
officers at the City Bank on Monday evening. The
dresses of several of the ladies were rich and elegant,
and were much admired. Mrs. G. B. Woodhonsc, of
Mount Gilead, looked charming in pink silk elaborately
trimmed with silver. The dresses of Mrs. Murray and
Miss Grant were also much admired. Sir John and
Lady Kobertson were amongst the guests.
• • •
Mr. J. H. Seamer, timber merchant, was enter-
tained at a banquet ou Tuesday evening, at the Pro-
testant Hall, prior to his departure for Europe. About
50 gentlemen sat down, including many influential
citizens, and the guest of the evening was highly eulo-
gised in the speeches made. The wines and viands
were supplied bp tho City Catering Co.
# * *
A romantic union was secretly consummated
last month iu Sydney. Ha is the hopeful s ion of a
wealthy colonial family, and his fair fate the daughter
of a well-known gentleman, now deceased, who trod
the golden paths of commerce iu years gone by.
Eelatives knew of the attachment, and thought to
break rtoff by “ foreign experience” on the oontinong.
But the young gentleman didn’t want to travel—
alone —and while Cupid's ally, the good St. Valentino,
was still in the meridian of his popularity, he placed
beyond doubt the possibility of two fond hearts being
for ever riven by separation. In other words, he and
the lady quietly interviewed a certain obliging old
gentleman whose matrimonial (practice is considerable,
and tendered the conventional fiver, which it is need-
less to say was accepted and pocketed with much
reverential fervour. The bridegroom’s age is not
commensurate with his affection; though a husband,
he is not yet, legally, a man.
* * *
St. Patrick’s Day has never been kept up so
quietly for years as it was last Thursday; though it
doesn’t follow that people are less patriotic because
orderly. Over 2000 people.-went to the fite at Chowder,
under the management of officers of tho H A.C.B.
Society. Mr. D. O’Connor, M.P., delivered an address
on the “ Day,” and there were other speeches and
toast-giving. In the evening, there was a concert iu
St. Patrick’s Hall, and Herr Alpen’s cantata, “ Aus-
tralia,” was well performed, as were also other musical
selections, especially national ballads. Musical enter-
tainments also took place at St. Francis’ and Darling-
hurst halls. There were, of course, special religious
services; Archbishop Vaughan presided at 11 o’clock
Mass at St. Patrick’s Church, and a discourse was
delivered by the Kev. James Eyan. At Bathurst,
Goulburn, and indeed all the chief towns, the day was
suitably commemorated iu various ways. At Mel-
bourne, the occasion was properly marked by sports,
racing, festivities, &c., and many offices were closed.
There were several concerts, and a ball in the Town
Hall at night. Last Monday, the usual banquet in
Sydney was held at tho Town Hall vestibule, some 200
attending, ou which occasion Mr. \V. B. Dailey, Q.C.,
was chairman, and delivered one of bis ablest addresses,
a speech of chastest language and richest thought, full
of rhythmical, glowing eloquence, and deeply imbued
with the spirit of true patriotism. He paid a high
tribute to the memory of that gifted Irish-Australiau,
Daniel Henry Doniehy. When ho sat down the hall
was ringing with cheers. Other speeches were given
by well-known gentlemen, and the meeting gave three
cheers for the Queen when separating.


It ie necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system,
rvjaoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
•ofroahing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
TRUST'S COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
lake of extra profit. Makers by speelal appointment
to the Queen.—(Adtt,)
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
■Watch Company, of Waltham. Massachusetts, U.S.A ,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against any person copying or
imitating same, or any vendors selling or offering for
•ale Watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any
wa y infrinuing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
We trust onr readers will not neglect this npper-tnnity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If yon want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call at 581, and “see what is the
matter with Hannah.” The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be in great demand
now, if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Adtt.
CHEAP BOOTS ! CHEAP BOOTS ! Impor-
tant notice to the public I The old saying that “ nothing
succeeds like success," is about the greatest truism
ever uttered- What has been the cause of John
11‘Evoy's success ? It is easily told. The large stoon
of Boots ond Shoes at his command, all bought for
cash In the cheapest markets, and the business carried
on ander his own supervision, and having for h(s motto
small profits and quick returns—this has been the
cause of his success. The public would do well to pay
him a visit, as ha is selling his goods at a considerable
reduction on former price. The address is—John
M’Evoy, 574 George-steet, Brickfield HUI, one door
from Bathurst-streef.—Advt,
Next Saturday,
MARCH 25th.
SOUTH WATERLOO.
The Residue of
WANT’S ESTATE.
W. PRITCHARD,
begs to announce that on SATURDAY next, the 25th
instant, he will sell by auction, on the ground, at 3
o’clock p.m.,
460 ALLOTMENTS
of this well-known and popular subdivision, fronting
wide streets with oommensnrate depths.
The Ground is so close to Town, being only aboat two
miles from the city, and some three miles on this side
of Botany, that a lengthened description of it is un-
necessary, seeing that people on the look-out for valu-
able suburban allotments, can inspect them by taking a
3d. omnibus from the Post-offloa.
Apart from this facility, it must be borne in mind
that the Tramway has already been extended past the
property, and will be open for traffic in a month or so,
when the great influx of travellers to the district
caused by this agenoy will enhance the value of all
btdlding laud in the vicinity four-fold.
The Land has been carefully surveyed, every allot-
ment is correctly pegged ont, and Plans of the Subdi-
vision can be obtained at the Auctioneer’s Rooms, 289
George-street.
The Title is Perfect, and all particulars concerning it
can be obtained from the Solicitors for the Estate,
Mossrg. Gannon and McLaughlin, King-street.
The Terms of Sale are, considering the proximity of
the land to Sydney, unexampled, being 25 per cent, de-
posit, and the balance in 20 quarterly instalments, ex-
tending over five years, bearing Interest at the rate of
6 per cent.
REMEMBER to Visit South Waterloo on Saturday
next, 25th March, when free 'buses will leave the Auc-
tioneer's Rooms, 28D George-street, at half-past 2
o’clock.
NOTE.—Among tho sales of the year, that of South
Waterloo must stand pre-eminent.
rjlO PUBLICANS AND STOREKEEPERS.
To Let,
A HOUSE containing 9 Rooms, with Elegant Bar and
Bar Fittings, Kitchen and Stable, built for a Public-
house, but at present occupied as a store. Also, a Store.
Apply to the proprietor,
FREDERICK TEELOW,
' Copper Mines,
Nymdgee.
A GREAT Variety of Pianos by the best
makers just opened at the CENTRAL FUR-
NISHING ARCADE, and are to be sold on Time Pay.
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 33 Park-street.
NOW is your time for Bargains, as we have a
very large shipment of Austrian Furniture to
open, and must clear some of our large stock to make
room for new goods. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 33 Park-
street.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 10th March, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
■jVT OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
, ” executes and takes delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date it will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
No. 1165; Henry Miller; Portion No. 11; County of
Harden, parish of My lor a; 40 acres; Application No.
Young 80-im.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 28th February, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEA.SICS
"JV’OTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
* _ sees execute and take delivery of the under
mentioned mineral lease within thirty days from
this date, it will declared void.
x ARTHUR RENWICK.
No, 1183; J. H. Munro and others; Portion No. 38;
County of Drake, parish of Carnbam; 20 acres j Appli.
catioa No. Solferlao 81-3 m.
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath is the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and bone, can be affected
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, &0., and rids the
system of all impurities; even mercury is token out of
the bedy.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. MOORE,
Homosopathist,
15i Elizabeth- street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
en “* jvhich removes all pain from a burn or scald in
:f°* 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
ertmoates of merit, from the managers of all the
unarms in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
onr h*’ 80ce8 > sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
on complaints, when rubbed into
cheat. Every Householder should keep a pot.
the v, Bre 8 . be a pot kept in every honse, oven if
v BO \ B , ®“Pty. it will do for the next tenant.
oicli a Chemists and Stores, in pots, la. and 2a. 6d.
TV
ELLINGTON met Napoleon at WATEELI
but
W. PRITCHARD
will meet you at South Waterloo
on SATURDAY, March 2-5.
«■ Next SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 25th March.
GREAT SALE ON THE GROUND.
THE WATERSLEIQH ESTATE,
Military-road Heights,
NORTH SHORE. NORTH SHORE.
Thrupp’s Grant,
Cooper’s Leasehold,
99 years* leases.
«r AUCTION SALE,
on the Ground,
at 3,30 p.m.,
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 25bh MARCH.
MAGNIFICENT BUILDING SITES,
Unrivalled Views.
300 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL,
between the Harbour and Middle Harbour.
ROADS ALL 66 FEET WIDE.
Every foot of Land available.
BRICKS AND BUILDING STONE CLOSE HANDY.
Within half a mile of North Shore Reserve.
__ No capital required to be invested.
Annual Rental to be fixed at Auction.
NO BUILDING OR OTHER COVENANTS.
Convenient to Town, via Miller’s Point or Neutral Bay.
Charming Water Views
Charming Coast Views
Charming Land Views
Charming Suburban Views
Grand Views of the City of Sydney.
FOUR SECTIONS—B 2 ALLOTMENTS
Four Sections—B2 Allotments.
66 FEET ROADS
20 FEET ROADWAYS at REAR,
frontages to
«T GREAT MILITARY. ROAD (chain wide)
BEN BOYD ROAD (chain wide)
YOUNG STREET (chain wide)
GROSVENOR STREET (chain wide)
BELGRAVE STREET (chain wide)
SUTHERLAND STREET (chain wide)
GRASSMERE STREET (chain wide),
Nate.—Every lot commands a grand view.
TO BE LEASED for 99 YEARS I
No capital required.
NO BUILDING OR OTHER CONDITIONS.
No capital required.
HARDIB and GORMAN WILL LEASE by
public auction, for a TERM of 99 YEARS.
ON THE GROUND,
at 3,30 o’clock,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 25th MARCH.
82 SPLENDID SITES
(not to be surpassed in the world),
fronting
MILITARY-ROAD and other WIDE THOROUGH-
FARES, as shown on Plans to be obtained at the
Rooms, and as pegged out by Mr. Surveyor Dove.
ew The roads are cleared and marked out.
The lots can be easily identified on the ground.
%• The Auctioneers ask Special Attention to this Sale
of
NORTH SHORE LEASEHOLDS,
99 Years’ Leases,
as affording a fine opportunity of securing
WITHOUT CAPITAL
and
Without Building Covenants
some of the prettiest Building Sites to bo found any
where around Sydney.
Z Vehicles pass the Watersleigh Estate at regular
intervals during the day, and they INVITE INSPEC-
TION before day of sale, NEXT SATURDAY, for
are now READY at the Rooms.
which purpose
LITHOS.
There will be Special Conveyances on Day of Sale.
Printed Leases will be prepared, at the nominal charge
ONE POUND EACH.
Immediate possession will be given.
Remember the Sale Day,
«3- NEXT SATURDAY.
SATURDAY, 25th INSTANT.
Grand and Important Subdivision,
BLANDVILLB.
PARRAMATTA RIVER.
BETWEEN GLADESVILLE
and
HUNTER’S HILL,
opposite SOUTH HVTHB.
52 Choice Water Frontage Lots,
56 Hillside Lots,
108 LOTS IN ALL.
M
Magnificent Views np and down the
PARRAMATTA RIVER.
ABUNDANCE OP VEGETATION.
GOOD SOIL FOR GARDENS.
ILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have received
instructions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
ON SATURDAY, 25th instant,
at half-past 3 sharp.
This charming Ectate,
BLANDVILLB.
All the streets are 66 feet wide.
WATER FRONTAGES ON THREE SIDES.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
THE AUCTIONEERS HAVE MUCH PLEASURE
IN STATING THAT THE VENDOR HAS CON-
SENTED TO THE FOLLOWING EASY TERMS OF
SALE:—
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT.
Balance, 24 monthly payments,
Interest at six per cent.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW READY.
Special steamer will leave King-street wharf, at half-
past 2 on the day of sale, to convey intending buyers to
the ground.
ATTEND THIS SALE.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST,
Auctioneers.
BE SURE TO NOTICE—This grand water frontage
has no reserve on the water line.
ARNLEIGH AND GREEN BANK ESTATES.
MARRICKVILLE,
NEXT SATURDAY, ON THE GROUND.
H
W
LITHOS. now ready.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
ELLINGTON met Napoleon at WATERLOO,
but
W. PRITCHARD
will meet you at South Waterloo
on SATURDAY, March 25.
NEW BUILDINGS. New Buildings. New
Buildings, 29, 31, 33 Park-street. CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LEVY & CO. beg to
draw the attention of the Public generally, to the large
stock of English Furniture just opened, and now ready
for sale, at their large and bear tifally stocked Show
Rooms, comprising Drawing and Dining Boom Suitef,
Plate-glaas door, and other Wardrobes in Cedar, Walnut,
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all descriptions. Loo
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and Bedding. Crockery,
Glassware, Holloware, and every requisite for parties
about to furnisk. CENTRAL FURNISHING AR-
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
HOUSES Furnished on Time Payments from
£l5 up to £lOOO, at the CENTRAL FURNISH-
ING ARCADE. 29, 31, 33 Park-street.
hi. LEVY & CO,
H ' PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
I
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTEU-
MENTS, by
EBARD (Paris and London),
PLETEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO.
BEEDEN and
TEOST
AUCHEE,
PALING and CO..
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
H A R MON lUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. P A LINO.
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNTABD STEEE ,
SYDNEY.
JjIALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J, T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Cxntbal Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard•
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded
following Exhibitions :
London International
Paris ~
Vienna „
Philadelphia „
first-class Prizes at the
1862
1861
1873
1870
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic.
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat I Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
k
r ISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILOEINQ
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STEEET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part
the Colony.
MASON BROTHERS,
A WAR
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for sat.b
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EAETHENWAEE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and. Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
fJIHE PAINLESS COEN EELIEVEE.
A Sure Relief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Gympie (sola
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros. & Co. Syd-
ney and Brisbane; and sold by all patent medicine
vendors.
ASK FOE HANDBILLS,
JJARNLEIGH AND GREEN BANK ESTATES.
MAERICKYILLE,
NEXT SATURDAY, ON THE GROUND.
LITHOS. now ready.
BATT, ROOD, and PURVES.
i.t.484-OFORCF <?. nrFV ’S
e 4. , <hf • Pl -Xs/-
•.*“ ».-, MARKET CLOTH HALL, ''«£ v:
OPPOSITE THE FRUIT MAPI'FIS O
- s '
A LARGE and W ELI SF 1 P TF D srh '(') r P
WOO. L LE N S, IN E. ■ T r'RN’Si
FRor* the m\nwra(' ninfr.^.
T AS! HOM ARi r ,
«NO
FIRST - — CL/ S> CAR top siT?
' 0 'Trjnt P
W(. 01 r W£f C ’•f.MJSE Ro
/ c ■■
L ■ : , 1
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
„ Jhe Universal Sewing Machine
Uaa all the latest improvements Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'Blfif OFFCE.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, blacl
and colours.)
SEWING
BROOKS CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of tho superiority of the COTTONS manufactured by
them Gold Medal, Pans, 1878. Only Prise Medal, London, 1851. Only First-class Prize Medal, Paris, 1855 Prize Medal
Ixmdon, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 187 S. Gold Medal, South Africa 187?'
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, 1880, ’
Ask for BJtOOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Warehouse,
Wyuyarcl Lane, Sydney, New South Wales,


MOST PLE
WANTED TO
that the best clea
TANT and Deodoriser foi
SMALL-POX and all othc
CONTAGIOUS D
can be found b;
PANTEE AND PARRY'S
OP SOAI
which not only contains
dieuts for the greatest cl
ever yet introduced to 1
composed in its manufact
best disinfectants.
MADE PURELY FROI
PLANTS
known, and admitted in
throughout the globe. Coi
it is free from all inpur
pie ng smell, will not in
ia..e hands, is the great
lauoup, i euderiug any arti
with o th purest whit
marvellous short space of
NO HOUSE SHOULD B
as it cannot ba snrpasse<
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Cro
Paint, Flo.
and every Househo
DIRECTIONS for whio
EACH PACKET, which
from all Qrecers and Sto
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEOEI
SYD N I
IN THE Wl
Oispense Prescriptions ch
other House in Syduev. A 1
M *diclnes at less than English
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sp<
ALL KINDS OF DRDOdISTi
Sa id for a Price List. Conn’
lly attended to. Don’t forg
uu cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New
• W. KEF
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOC
664 GEOHGE STEEE
Opposite St. Andrew’]
Medals of evary description, Ms
sentatiou Trowels designed
Premises,
DIAMOND SET
A new and Choice Assortmen
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, fro
118
KING STREET 5
MARTIN & Pi
INFORM
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to bj advising our customers and tm
Farmers of N.S.W. geoeral'y. that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well known ENGLISH and AM SRI
CAN Makers we now notify that we ore
AGE ITS FOR
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OP PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us wit)
their orders early, ns
William Richie’s lE B2 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
HEAD
OUR B
Before Ordc
send ffo
Our Price
AND
All Particu
MARTIN
Pi
389 Georg
SYDNE
Intending Pnr<
Cut ers offered t
USE BUNGLE.
John Bunole, <
his Chaff Cutters
amt on tly-waee
facture. t
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 383 GEORGE S
Vrf
. Ac 1 on i,m g j6vaT
9 Be II HUNTER ST
SILVER > CHES SYDNEY.
FROM c* • r .10. SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
rjUIE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REA
None hotter than WIG ZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syd
pUBLIC N
The IMPORTERS of the TAEP
MOGUL MIXTURE will jroseci
endeavours to deceive the public 1
i UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thi
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
I The public are CAUTIONED t(
bearing
“ THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE.
MIXTURE.
Every paclet bears the signatn
thus—
Clifford, Love, &
These who are desirous of hnvin
TEA, must be certain that evei
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTER]
to take inferior teas, which for thi
ore offered to the public.
THE TAEPINO MIXTURE A
MIXTURE ARE GUAI
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH
WHOLESALE GROCER AN
YORK STREET, ST
J
OH N D
IMPORTER Ol
Plumbers’ and Engineers' Brass*
OauflttingH, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lend Pipe, A
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
B
B
H
A
T
E
E
H. L. SUITES
ECONOMY IN CLOI
—o—
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS FROJ
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE'S T
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAi
sent to any part of the (
ter The particular attention ol
dents is requested to thi
Any style of Garment made t
SUMMEEFIELD
GUIDE TO SELF-MEABI
I 935 PITT ST
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
Business
PROMENADE
TrA veiling
QUALlTYyachtinG
DmSiify Picnicini
Cricketing
UNSURPASSED
‘•Standard” Summer Tweed *uits £. I S O
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 6
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
" Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
“Standard” Superior ditto 115 O
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
TEA PE 3 and SHAW, "
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I BRUKTK ennes sured.
Book free by post.
|> CALL ON OR ADDRESS
I S FRESHMAN,
( 359 George Street, Sydney, N S.W
GOLD CUBE.
GOLD CUBE.
