

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 11.— No. 132
SYDNEY, SATURDAY. AUGUST 5, 1882.
Frioc—3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1882.
The Odour of Corruption.
The value of Parliamentary Opposition can be
fully appreciated at the present time. The
proverb that people never recognise a good thing
until they have lost it, is admirably exemplified by
the existing condition of public feeling in the
colony. The coalition has extinguished all effec-
tual opposition, and at no period of our political
history have representative institutions been more
lightly esteemed, or public men subjected to
equal humiliations. The minds of the people are
full of suspicion and distrust. The Government
has for some years now been practically able to
defeat any attempt to extxact from it any incon-
venient explanations. There exists scarcely any
hope that this condition of affairs will be improved
when, after parliamentary Government has been,
to suit the convenience of one man, in abeyance
for over eight months, it will again be called
together. The whole atmosphere is tainted with
rumours of corruption. An uneasy suspicion
prevails that advantage has been taken of the
junction of parties, and the consequent removal of
jealous scrutiny, to convert representative institu-
tions into gigantic and formidable organizations
for plunder. The prevalence of this idea is easily
traced to its origin. It does not spring,
as angry members of Parliament would
fain protend, from the rabid imaginings and can.
kered suggestions of outsiders. It is not duo,
wholly, even to the disclosures which began with
the Milburn Creak episode, and have kept on leaking
out in various shapes, affecting all conditions of
public men and public bodies. From these causes
it has doubtless received a tremendous fillip. The
Milburn Creek affair threw a reflection upon the
whole Cabinet as then constituted. The Darling
Harbour business brought into ugly prominence
one of the suspected participants in the Milburn
Creek affair, and also a member of the Legislative
Council. Then the people saw an ex-Mayor of
an important suburban municipality convicted of
a forgery committed with a view of plundering a
widow and orphans. Next, persons elected to
represent the public subscribers to an institution
for the maintenance of other orphans are dis-
covered bandying accusations, on the one hand of
ths appropriation of tram-tiokats to the value of
a few shillings, and on the other hand of having
Misapplied the resources of the institution to
TO PPIy a dish of roast chicken. This queer illus-
tration of the smallness of mind and minuteness
of appeticj which may characterise men in im-
portant stations, has bean immediately succeeded
by most extraordinary charges—quite in keeping,
he it noted, with the ticket accusation—being
levelled at the hero of that incident.
• • *
These events, apart from anything else, might
justify the general uneasiness which prevails.
Parliament is not sitting, and it was purely by acci-
dent that the only other tribunal which has
power to investigate was placed in a position to
Wt the corner of the veil behind which public
®9a have been shrouded. The Supreme Court
as no power of initiation. It oannot respond to
an informal demand, however loud and however
general, for a scrutiny of this or that transaction,
nder the monstrous interpretation of the law, as
down by the judges, the Press—ordinarily
0 guardians of the public when other custodians
neglect or betray—is almost powerless The very
a free and outspoken Press is that it
treat of all topics without deferring to the
PM]ttiioea of any person or class. As matters
riß , ht*k a resolved to open a down-
wh npon a public man or other person,
hi* # l>ean betraying his trust or subverting
k l-r^ OSl^011 or tha sake of personal profit, would
0 Prepare a special issue of his paper, so
688 BYQr y o^Br paragraph that it would
no opportunity to a dexterous opposing •
Counsel to address himself to the apparent pro-
indices of a jury and secure a verdict for his
libelled client, on the entirely distinct grounds,
for example, that the same issue contained some-
thing disrespectful to the Pore, or spoke slight-
ingly of William of Orange. Thus deprived, by
the Coalition of party leaders, of the protection
afforded by an Opposition in Parliament, and
despoiled, by the perversity of the judges, of the
alternative safeguard of an unfettered Press, the
people of the colony might naturally fall into an
unwholesome condition of nervous apprehension,
when every accidental lifting of the curtain gives
them a glimpse of a seeming conspiracy to plunder
the community and amicably divide the spoils.
«> *
But even these appearances, sufficient although
they may appear in themselves, are not all the
causes to which the uneasy apprehenaiveness of
the public is attributable. That is due, more per-
haps than to anything else, to the line of de-
fence adopted by the accused in most in-
stances. In almost every case in which a re-
presentative man has been called to account, he has
combined defiance with defence, and has assumed
an attitude quite as expressive of menace as of
apprehension. Mr. Ezekiel Bake a whimpered
—short work was made with him. Mr. Garuktt,
on the contrary, turned to bay. He showed his
teeth in unmistakable threatenings, and, after
considerable parade of resolution to tear him into
fragments, he eventually escaped, and was never
again molested until he fell into the clutches of
the Supreme Court. The public was surprised
and scandalized at the extraordinary solicitude
evinced for Mr. Gabeett’s escape by Sib John
Eobebtson —a solicitude carried to the length of
sacrificing the Cabinet to cover the accused. In
■ the absence of any intelligible explanation, it was
not surprising that the public should havo con-
structed a hypothesis for itself, in which Mr.
Garrett’s great activity in connection with the
design to resume at the public expense lands at
Watson’s Bay, in which Sir John was behaved to
be interested, figured prominently. Ihe curious
transitions from Sir Hknky Parkks’ passionate
and high-spirited denunciations of all who aided
and abetted Mr. Garrett in his extrication from
the position in which ho had stood, to complaisant
restoration of Sir John, the chief abettor, to the
bosom of the Ministry, furnished fresh food for
bewilderment and suspicious surmise. To-day, it
is the common talk Mr. Garrett eseaped
the fate of Mr. Baker because he knew too much,
and let it be unmistakably understood that, if
driven too hard, he would retaliate by disclosing
all he knew, without respect for persons.
* # •
Next there was the spectacle of Mr. Lucas in
j the witness-box, dealing in hints, obviously in-
tended to intimidate the Crown lawyers from
their inquisition, that he and the Attorney Gene-
ral had together been engaged in land transactions
which stood on the same footing with the one
which was being called into question. And finally
we have Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., M.L.A., Al-
derman, threatening, without any beating about
the bush, that, if his follow members of the Sydney
Municipal Council persisted in prosecuting their
'■■uvestigations of his transactions, ho would “ in-
volve the whole Council!”
# * *
If further explanation for the proneness of the
public to credit any rumour attributing corruption
or malfeasance to representative men be required
it is furnished by the extraordinary anxiety which
has been apparently evinced, to smother every re-
velation immediately it made its appearance.
When the circumstances connected with Mr.
Lucas’s sale of fencing wire to the National
Park Trustees were touched upon in the Supreme
Court, the Trustees held an investigation—with
closed doors. When the committee was appointed
to enquire into the serious charges against Mr
Davies, its business was transacted—with closed
doors, Surely, considering that Parliament has
been suspended for eight months, there have been
enough doors closed, without shutting the public
oilt from other places where matters of vital piiblie
import were being dealt with.
Additional fuel has been added to the flame of
the general suspicions and apprehensions, by the
Peetnmg callousness or timidity of the pubuo.rn.Bn.
with threats and hints ©f countar-acousa-
tions by those who have been under exarainatiea.
When Mr. Garrett defied the assembly, it*
clamour came to nothing, and not an individual-
has made a motion to resent the indignity caatf
upon the members individually as well as collec-
tively. When Sir Henry Parkes retook Sir
John Robertson to his bosom, he offered not
a syllable of intelligible explanation. When Mr.
Lucas had dragged the name of the Attorney-
General through the mire, that gentleman mad*
no sign, and took no steps to repudiate the infer-
ences suggested by Mr. Lucas. And now th*
members of the Municipal Council are as dumb
as codfish when brought up standing by Mr.-
Davies’ declaration that he could “involve thenr
all.” Under such circumstances, how can public
confidence be maintained, and how can respect b*
claimed by men who give no sign that they r«»
speot themselves P
More Milburn Creek.
The infatuation of stupid people occasionally
reaches almost the point of sublimity. One wouHl
hare thought that the wretched Milburn Creek
participants would have been only anxious that
their ignominy should be forgotten as soon as
possible. But if such be their desire, they are
exceedingly unfortunate, because, in the first
place, The Bulletin has no idea of permitting
the public pillory to be the transient joke it need
to be while the S.M. He bald was the leader of
public opinion in New South Wales, and seemed
to have no other care than to hush up all nn-
pleasant episodes, and convince people that in a
community which supported an unsupportably
dull newspaper and numerous churches, there
could be nothing seriously amiss. The Milburn
Creekers are unfortunate, in the second place,
in being the sport of an irrepressible “ Share-
holder,’’ who is stung with the “ fad ” that he cam
improve matters by his superlative dexterity in
newspaper correspondence. This particular
“Shareholder” wrote recently in the Hebald,
advancing, as a proof that the mine was valuable
beyond the compensation granted, that during the
twelve months preceding the dispossession ot the
company, there had been raised and sold £9760
worth of ore, and that a population of 500 souls
was supported by the mine. Also, that Govern-
ment servants officially valued the mine at
i 115,000, and that in the long run £13,502 was
granted as compensation. “ Shareholder” is very
wroth that Mr. W. Fobstbr should have coupled
the Milburn Creek affair with the Darling Harbour
Besumption, and, of course, everyone will per-
ceive instantly that, as in the most flagrant of the
Darling Harbour cases the valuation of £70,000
odd was reduced to £3OOO odd, there could have
been no similarity to the Milburn Creek case, where
a valuation of -£115,000 dwindled down to a
quietly arranged compensation of £13,502. In
the one case the first valuation was reduced,
under public observation, to about a twentieth
part; in the other, by a semi-private arrange*
ment, to only an eighth.
• • •
But this is not the only point that “a share-
holder scores.” A mine which produced £9760
worth of ore in one year, must surely have been
worth mote than“£l3,so2. And then it supported
500 people. Now, a mine which supports a
population of 500 is deserving of much considera-
tion But, on reflection, it becomes apparent
that a shareholder’s method of reckoning is, as is
natural no doubt, somewhat Milburn Creeky. Hu
dexterously manages to reckon an asset twice
over. According to him the mine yielded .£976#
worth of ore, and supported a population of 500
souls. But this, when examined, only means that
the mine supported a population of 500 souls with
its output of £9760 worth of ore. This gives as
the annual sustenance of each “ soul ” £l9
10s 4,fd., being about 7s. 6d, per “soul” per
week, which is not bad, taking them all round—
men, women, and children. It is equivalent to
about £97 per annum for 100 miners, each having
four other mouths to feed. This can’t be con-
sidered gorgeous, as wages go ; still, the “ souls ”
could be kept in the corresponding bodies at those
rates.
* • •
But another factor enters into the problem.
The “ Experts ” appointed by Government to
value the mine—one of these mining experts being
in the drapery line, wo believe, —based their valua-
tion on an annual profit of £8214 for the fourteen
years that the Company’s lease had still to run
when the Supreme Court decided it was no lease
at all. Now, if wo deduct this £B2ll of net annual
profits from the gross output of ore, £9760, there
remains for working expenses just £1540. That is
to say the 500 souls had £3 Is. lOd. yearly per soul
for subsistence. A soul may be able to exist to all
eternity on £3 Is. lOd, per annum, but it would
have to be in Paradise. The sum would certainly
not keep body and soul together, and 500 emo*
dated corpses are no appreciable benefit t# the
colony except it be as a fertilizing agent.
• * •
All things considered, it might have been more
sagacious had ‘‘ A Shareholder ’' pursued the course
adopted by the more distinguished of the Milburn
HON. JOHN FRAZER, M.L.C.-(See page 10)


O U » H 8 AN]
The Beat Cure for the above
and taken at bed
PURE E
Extra Stroni
6s. Per Imperial i
c. w. ro:
SINGLE BOTTLE DE]
MARKET STB
■WHEN YOU VISIT I
go to
C, W. KOBE!
NEW BAE,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR M
where you oan obi
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRA
SHERRY, OR B
of each a Quality t hat cannot
other establishment in
C. W. ROBEI
COLONIAL WINE DEI
is now open
MARKET ST
RED OR WHJ
only
3d. per Half-P
Quality Superla
NONE BUT W
tho
PRODUCT OP AUf
is
SOLD IN THIS DEP
THE MOST WHOLESOMEOP
MADE HOT IP RE
Please Call and S
C. W. ROBERTS* BPECL
at 4a. 6d. per bottle, is
VEBDEILH
lovely White Wine, Is.
PORT MACQUARIE E
Is. 6d. per boti
MURRUMBIDQEI
2s. per bottle
C. W. RO]
MARKET STB]
FURNITURE! FUI
FURNITURE
" -fTTHERE is the beet place
v T This question is being a
Is ot as much interest to anyone
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple ” i
keeping, and who want everyth
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HYDE P B
FURNISHING E;
OXFORD STREET, !
.Tiiflf. nnnnnl Vi
Select Consultation. Metropolitan Stakes 1882.
One hundred members, at £5 each No blanks I No
, blanks! Drawer of the winning horse to take whole
i amount of *5OO. There are 100 horses entered so
every subscriber will draw a horse. Filling rapidly
Bankers—Mercantile Bank of Sydney. Date of drawl
mg intimated privately. Result advertised. Address
Hk»VT. LUMP * IN ’ ° arQ 0f A ' L ‘ Sydney
Creek heroes—always presuming that “ A Share-
holder’' is not himself one of these heroes. But,
possibly, he wrote on the calculation that —as
actually happened—the S. M. Herald would,
after inserting his letter, decline to publish any
reply. It is this course of procedure which has
for so many years encouraged corrupt practices in
the community. The leading journal helped lame
dogs over the stiles by suppressing free discussion.
■P P e rtain a striking instance of the manner
in which the best interests of the community have
been abused by the Herald that the grossly mis-
leading exculpatory letter of “A Shareholder” was
published in that journal, and that equal publicity
was refused to a letter in reply from which we I
have culled the figures and demonstrations em-
bodied in this article.
Provoking a Reaction.
Ti*e bigots of the total abstinence dogma are
energetically doing their worst. There exists
throughout the community a profound sentiment
oi repugnance to the predominance of the liquor
interest. For years the power of “the trade”
gathered strength, till it became paramount. The
control and regulation provided for by statute
became almost a dead letter. It was more than a
prudent official oared to undertake, to set the law
In motion against members of an organised body,
which_ possessed and exercised the power of in-
fluencing elections, and which was in a position to
put pressure upon Ministers. “The trade” ex-
tended' the tentacles of its power very far and
very wide. It was represented in every Cabinet;
it had its partizans in Parliament, and upon the
Bench of the Police Courts. But its strength
was not derived merely from its declared ad-
herents. It relied, with justified confidence, upon
undeclared sympathisers in situations where the
Eresenoe of these were least likely to be appro-
ended. Every owner of a corner-house was at-
tracted to the trade by the knowledge that he
could get more rent if he let his house for a drink-
ing shop than if he devoted it to any other pur-
pose whatever—save one, which we need not
specify. Again, some of the most deeply-inter-
ested, and consequently most ardent, supporters
of the publican interest, were serious persons—
church elders, liberal contributors to ecclesiastical
support and to sustentation funds. Some of the
gravest professors of dogmatic religion were,
and are, what is termed “general merchants,”
dealing largely in liquors. Even to-day,
if the returns of the Custom-house were in-
vestigated, it would be found, as it has been
found before, that not only are some of the most
pretentiously “ serious ” of our leading men
among the largest dealers in intoxicants, but that
the intensity of their respectability might be
taken as the measure of their transactions in
materials for compounding spurious and noxious
drinks.
* # «
Thus organized and supported, the public-house
interest proved itself for a long series of years
more than a match for the teetotal organization.
The former worked with the force of pecuniary
interest, the latter relied upon the influence of a
moral idea ; and, in these times, moral ideas stand
e very poor chance when confronted by a system
•f money-making. If there had been only these
two parties, the liquor interest would probably
have retained the ascendancy to-day. Bat there
exists a third party, which, if not more powerful
than either, is at any rate in a position to give a
complete preponderance to that to which it affords
its support. The mass of the population, neither
interested in the liquor traffic nor possessed by an
uncompromising hatred of that trade, were con-
tent enough that the traffic could continue so long
as it was decently conducted and properly con-
trolled and regulated, “The Trade,” however,
inflated by the power it had attained, discarded
all discretion, and snapped its fingers at the statu-
tory restraints. It assumed an arrogant attitnde,
commenced to overrun the cities with ill-con-
ducted dens, and menaced the common weal with
an insufferable tyranny. The moderates reooiled,
alienated and alarmed by constantly-recurring
scandals. They threw their influence into the
opposite scale; and the Teetotal organizations,
thus reinforced, were enabled to turn the tables,
and to acquire for themselves the predominance
bo long enjoyed, and so shamefully abased, by the
liquor interest.
• • •
This predominance, employed with moderation
and ( sagacity, would undoubtedly have been in-
finitely preferable to the supremacy of the liquor-
selling interest. But it is not being wisely em-
ployed. The_ Teetotal party is rushing into
extremes. It is abusing its opportunities ; and in
its turn, provoking a reaction, which is certain, if
not corrected, to defeat the legitimate objects for
the attainment of which it was given predominance.
There is a prevailing desire that the liquor traffic
shall be properly regulated. But there is a
stronger determination on a point of more general
import, and that is, that equal justice
•hall be dealt out to all men and classes. The
appointment of the Grand-Master (or whatever is
Mr. Davibs designation) of the Good Templars
to a seat Jon the Licensing Bench is regarded by
all dispassionate persons as an indecent incident
and as an indication that the Teetotal bodies are
no more concerned to preserve the essentials of
good government, so long as their own views are
attained, than were their antagonists. The mis-
take tans committed cannot fail to be injurious to
the true interests of temperance ; and, if not
retraced, may be even disastrous, by the repulsion
ot moderate men, more anxious for the preserva-
tion ot equal justice than for extreme rigour against
The bicycling tournament fixed for August 26.
Association Ground, is going along electrically. Sue-
oessful meeting certain. J
♦ ®^l T " IC u H * Au r ist to , Hia Excellency Lord Angus.
tß * I t oft , na ' has returned to Sydney, and may be con-
sulted at hie rooms, Wynyard Squsro,—Advt.
Henry Kendall is dead, aged 42. He was a
pure iy liter ary man, therefore he died in poverty We
have much to say about him—more than can be written
in a mere paragraph. We postpone until next week
our obituary notice of the representative poet of this
country.
Wigzell, of Oxford-street, has decided on ex-
tensive alterations, which will give his establishment
the appearance of the best Parisian houses. As now
the exterior of the place presents no contrast, although
the interior surpasses anything elsewhere to be found
in the colonies.
av W £ nn i d " Btand *ender B have been accepted for
ttie Monte do Piot4 new premises, at a cost of some
«4«X», and shares hare already changed hands at Is.
premium. The public can congratulate themselves at
»oon having an opportunity of getting any amount of
cheap money, should necessity require.
The eminent Dr. Creed, being about to leave
Boone and practise at Sydney—ha will, we understand,
locate himself at Woollahra—the inhabitants of the
Maw England township he has served so well presented
htm with an as big ns a hearthrug, and a gold
Ijatoh transcending m B i ze the biggest frying-pan. All
joined in the affair except the local undertaker, who
SOTSaSSISftiSr- 0 "* '»»
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bogus Fame.
Tee crowning event of the last session of Parliament,
and the master-stroke of Sir Henrt Paries’ career
as a wise and l*enefieent statesman (his friends and
admirers allege) is the amendment to the Education
Act—especially the secular and compulsory clauses
therein. “At last,” they cried, “the neglected street
Arabs will be reached, and religion taught in the homes
and Sunday schools. The stronghold of Ignorance,
Irreligion, and Crime will be battered down, and
Larrikinism become a thing of the past.” If this
were the ease, the work of the session was not in vain,
and the head of the present Government would more
than merit all that his most enthusiastic admirers
could say in his praise. Sir Hf. Net Pabkes rests his
political reputation on his Educational enactments, as
Sir John Robertson on his Lands Act of 18G1. If
examined critically. Sir Henrt Fames’ Education Act
will be found to be a greater piece of Brummagem work
than even Sir John’s bunkum Land laws. The latter
professed to settle the people on the waste lands of the
colony, and create a colonial yeomanry class; theformer,
to bring the blessings of education to the door of the
poorest individual in the eolony. What are the results f
Sir John Robertson’s Act has strangled free-selection,
and is surely laying here the seeds of a bursting-np
revolution, while Sir Henrt Parses’ Act has failed to
reach the gutter children, and only educates the families
of the comparatively well-to-do classes. The Education
Department has a formidable army of truant inspectors,
and they are as impotent as Sir Henrt’s famous
“ painted soldiers." A list of nearly six hundred school-
less children was made out by these truant-hunters
a short time ago, but the Department would only
allow a dozen or so to bo prosecuted; and why f
Simply because there is no suitable school accommoda-
tion for the uncared-for children of the city. They
cannot be brought in contact with the comfortable,
cleanlookin? sons and daughters of docent people in
the different State school’, because it is a regulation
that all children must come to these institutions pro-
perly cleaned and properly clothed. It is well known
that there are over 1000 neglected children in Sydney
who are never in their lives either properly cleaned or
properly clothed. If Sir Henrt Parkbs’s boasted edu-
cational system fails to biing these 1000 gutter waifs
within its fold, then his Act is a gigantic swindle.
The public exchequer is thereby used for the benefit of
those classes who could just as well off ird to give their
offspring a g ioi secu'ar education as they can afford to
give them a good religious one. That it has not reached
the stray, badly clothed, unwashed, hatless and bootless
children of this city, is as sure as there is a sun in the
heavens. The Act, therefore, stands self-condemned in
the sight of gods and men ; and all this swagger and
trumpet-blowlngon the part of certain interes:ed prose-
lytizing people is as hollow and undeserved as is the
landshark’s laudation of Sir John Robertson's cele-
brated dummy.breeding legislation. When grave-yard
selections take the place of the homes of a yeomanry,
and the children of our comfortable classes that of the
city waifs, then is the time for honest men to buckle on
their armour ; for there are evil days approaching : a
reign of terror always succeeds a reign of sham and
spoliation.
O, Ye Tears!
We are experiencing quite a wet season. The Honor-
able Mr. Lucas has publicly blubbered, and Mr. John
Davies, C.M.G., has publicly snivelled. Both these
gentlemen insist that they are martyrs. It is to be
regretted that no cock crew immediately after they
had wept. Had any chanticleer but been so accommo-
dating, they might have claimed that the [incident
entitled them to be regarded, not only as martyrs, bu
also as saints. If Mr. Davies be not already a saint, he
is next to one. In fact, he is next to two. He is a
companion of St. George, and in the same swim with
St. Michael. These seems a cruel irony of fate in the
former association. It is painful to think that Her
Majesty should have been induced to associate the
unblemished reputation of Mr. John Davies with the
tarnished character of St. Georoe, of Cappadocia, of
whom Gibbon, the historian, thus writes.- “ George
.... was born in a fuller's shop. From this
obscure and servile origin he raised himself by the
talents of a parasite; and the patrons whom he assidu-
ously flattered, procured for their worthless dependent
a lucrative commission His employment
was mean; he rendered it infamous. He accumulated
wealth by the basest arts of fraud and corruption ; but
his malversations were so notorious that ." Bat
we need not continue the extract. Enough has been
quoted to explain why it was that the appointment of
Mr. John Davies to the Companionship of St. George
produced in this colony a universal groan of indignation
and disgust. People were, of course, shocked that so
worthy a man should be associated with so flagitious a
scoundrel. The quotation will, however, serve to show
that Mr. Davies, in his reply to the charges brought
against him in the Municipal Council, fell into a serious
error. He ascribed the attack upon him to the envy of
those whom he had outstripped in the raee for distinc-
tion. He had, like St. George, climbed from a humble
derivation to an elevated station. It is clear that Mr.
Davies did not carry his retort far enough. It still
remained for him to show by what means he has
climbed. St. George became a bishop. It is obvious
that the talents by means of which elevated station
may be attained are not always talents likely to attract
envy. For our own part, we have the profoundest
respect for Mr. Davies, and are deeply anxious to learn
the hitherto hidden secret of his rise. We may, there-
fore, venture upon some small liberties with him, and
suggest that he should—modesty permitting—lift the
veil which has till now shrouded his no doubt great
specific services to the country, from common observa-
tion; and, in fact, give us more of the inner history of
his public life, and less of tears and of sopping up the
moisture with moral pocket-handkerchiefs.
Marine Surveyors.
Mu. James Thoene has all the best of the discussion
he has been instrumental in opening in the S.M.
Heeald, with respect to the practice of marine sur-
veyors officiating also as ship-brokers. His view is
that the two avocations are irreconcilable in their very
essence. The replies by Captains Sustenance and
Banks in no essential shake Mr. Thorne’s position
Indeed, Captain Banks incidentally stumbles upon the
one case which, of all others, best serves to exemplify
the strength of Mr. Thorne s arguments. The fate of
the Susanne Qodetfroy should operate as a warning
She was passed as seaworthy in some way which is only
comprehensible on the hypothesis that the marine
surveyor or surveyors who signed her report was
suffering from a temporary indisposition to use his
judgment. The vessel was rotten from keel to truck.
She.leaked so desperately when loading that she had to
sail with a short cargo, and, nevertheless, on encoum-
tering a gale, became at once so hopelessly unmanage-
able, that she drove ashore and crumbled into match-
wood the moment she struck. The marine surveyor
occupies n post of the most serious responsibility. He
is the arbiter of men’s lives. A ship-broker may also be
a ship-knack er. His business is to buy and to sell, what-
ever is in the market or is in demand, without any
question. He serves as intermediary between buyer
and seller, and pockets his commission. It is not his
business to ask any questions. For aught he knows,
his principal, buying an old vessel, may intend to break
her up for timber, or to use her as a hulk, or to repair
her and send her to sea. Brokerage is more profitable
than inspection, and if the two be mixed there will
always be a temptation to subordinate the responsi-
bilities of the latter in the profits of the former. Iu
othei words, the broker who is also surveyor will be
constantly exposed to inducements to give at least an
implied undertaking that if a vessel be bought
through his agency, he will, as a marine surveyor, give
her a sea-going certificate. This is a false position for
any man to occupy. It is directly at variance with the
most beautiful and essential of Christian petitions—
lead usnotinto temptation. ’’ Andalthough a rich and
honest broker and surveyor would certainly scorn any
such transaction, a rich and dishonest one—who might
rank, as rich men almost without exception do—among
the “respectable” men of his line of business, would
be very likely to study his pocket only. Aud au honest,
but poor, man in the profession, with the burden of a
wife and family pressing upon him, would be exposed
to the terrible ordeal it an opportunity of getting on by
a compliance of the kind were put in his way. The
separation of two branches of the business would
therefore he all in favour of security for the lives of
sea-faring men, of straight dealings with legard to
insurance, and more particularly all in favour of the
honest members of the profession.
There mnst surely have been a malicious imp of
prophecy at Fir John Robertson’s elbow in the year
1879, when, in reply to Sir Henr? Pabkes’ proposal
that.he should accept the position of Agent-General,
and so abandon the party he then headed in Opposition,
he thus wrote“ Holding myself, as I have ever done,
to be a faithful ana unself-seeking servant of our
country, I think I may rightly claim to judge how I
can best serve it; and I do not think that would be by
departing for Europe at this juncture tor new fields of
labour, however pleasant such employment and its
dignity might in itself be to me. Doubtless, my years
and comparatively long services might tend to justify
the delightfully pleasant change on a visit to the
mother country, in high position, but I cannot shield
myself by the assertion of failing health or failing
energy, as is usually put forth in defence ef leaving the
colony." Somebody might refer to the little coinoi-
denoe that Sir Henrt went home exactly in the manner
foreshadowed in Sir John’s maliciously prophetic re-
fusal, for the delightfully pleasant change on a visit
to the mother country “in high office," shielding him-
self by “ the assertion of failing health," which Sir
John satirically described as being “usually pat forth
in defence of " such a departure. At the forthcoming
banquet, a gay reference to tf is would help to alleviate
the monotony of manufactured enthusiasm, and to give
the generous distributors of gratis tickets, and the
melancholy recipients cf this form of charity, a
chuckle for their money and their sufferings, re-
speotively.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ J.C.E.” : You lose. The present Chinese
popal a t ic> n of the Palmer does not exceed SHOO
again “ G J.C." : Unsuitable^.;,'
Dayadalo : We print only one of your pars; the
otndrs are oat of date, or otherwise unsuitable Glad
to hear from you again ‘J.S.J": Mr, Buchanan is
right. The Skobeloff.Anld.Lang'.Syne yarn and the
story about the great soldier's marriage clearly prove
that Mr. Archibald Forbes isn't competent to edit his
t own writings “JO." (Numerella): Thanks: may
find use for it “H.J.M.”: No. The faculty don't
place reliance on medicine in the treatment of
cancer. The only remedy is the knife. Consult
a reputable surgeon, not the advertising quack you
name. The “ Janocr-withont-operation fraternity ”
s S’!- 6 a t. r °* lying impostors •* a
Miner (Bavonawood): You're not much "on the
B P e i Dannmg Swamp"; lb's very hard to say
what a man should do under such circumstances. On
n ® ver -ki*s-ind-tell’’ principle, we suppose he
i iav * Kntmed and born® it, and gone to gaol
‘ En * d' An " ■ Wby not, in such a case, send
yonr name P.... E.N.P. : Tour joke is venerable, and
only on that ground entitled to respect. Hoary and
”7 aa th « deceived “ Hecko'':
V • , : Seat : lment Rood, but the lines,
which we think are not original, are of insufficient
I?™ 08 *-’;; c (South Mereowie): No, thanks
Thespis : When Kenny s farce “ Raising the Wind”
was farat played, the part of Jeremy Diddler was
piayed by John Davis ‘'Myall": Too much spun
,i ce eas 7 versification but interest diluted
Shoalhaven : We understand that tbe plea is that
representations were made, wh ch subsequent in-
vestigation of the concern haa not borne out.
rhe princnpa l 13 not generally regarded as a man
of nice feeling or overstrained high principle
Gctopus Excellent “ Wattle-Blossom You
were alluded to, last week “Stray Leaves’’- Very
welcome “ J.T.C.K.” (bourke): Thanks; your tele-
band too late for use last week
«r ■W : o^.t ol r i peoi>le all about it in our last issue
...... J.N.B.K. : If you can’t write wit, don’t write
r0t.... Votre Amie ’: Unfortunately mislaid.
Kindly send name. We are glad of similar items
x (P Your three pages don't seem
as funny to us as they probably did to you “Ob-
server : Yes, send along. “J. Irving”; We’re weary
o t ,7 t i WC * ins P« r sona ities without
knowing all about them. Wo always require nar-
ticulars “Agent" (BaPina): Thanks. We nevTr
disclose names “R.H.F.”.- Yes, little items.
Supporter .- W e did not report the dance..." Laura”-
Too vague ..“New-Chum”; Send on; we’re “mum’’
...... One who does not Admire." Ac.: Your pointed
1 tter will appear next week “ J.M.K. Held
over. BTi,” "W.N.," “Whatnot,” "JP” tNi
mity Belle) “EOS.” “ C.T B. Next week (
“Doctor” : Too late " Currente Cal am o Thanks
Too late. Obliged to defer till next week our usual
comments on the Eg-ptiau war •• Discussion "It
S pronounced ‘Bedjenbo.’’ *• Cornua” : Many
oame ka f ° r nat3 "' but W * hai re P° rt type wten they


ESTABLISHED 1837.
0 W L E B’ S POTTERY
F AND
BEICK WORKS,
CAMPER DO WIT, NEAR SYDNEY.
Prim Lint on application.
EUR
KA
EUREKA
moke
TOBACCO.
the PARAGON op perfection,
finer than the finest.
THE TOBACCO OP THE AGE
DESTINED to eclipse and supersede
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
the ONLY TOBACCO COMBINING EXCELLENCE
OF QUALITY WITH ECONOMY IN PRICE.
Eich Plug is Bto, m P o cl with tho word " EUREKA.”
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU OBTAIN IT.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYWELL’S TOBACCO CO., LIMITED,
at the eagle works,
KENT AND CLARENCE [STREET,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse, 6
Park-street, Sydney-
Sold Retail everywhere, and will bo used by everybody
as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Aot of Parliament, to protect
the public against spurious and worthless imitations.
MADDOCR’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET.
THIS Library is supplied regularly by every Mail
Steamer with the latest Publications in History,
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Popular Theology, and
the higher class of Fiction; also, all the leading Maga-
zines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway or Steamboat com-
munication with Sydney, every facility i* afforded.
THE HARWOOD
FIBRE CHAIR SEATING
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Ease. Beauty, Cleanliness and
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly Waterproof cement,
and after fifteen years’ constant use, we can speak
positively! as to its merits. It cannot split or check,
neither will exposure to sun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
FOE RE-SEATING, it is unrivalled. In every
house, store, and offl je, are Chuirs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new
a ebair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOE SALE BY THE TRADE FOE HOME USE.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart man
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
B2 CLARENCE STREET.
HE APOLLO COMPANY, LIMITED
PfRMONT, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS :
JOHN KEEP, E-q. | R. T. REMINGTON, Esq.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
T
Office 348 Gaorge-street, Sydney.
~ Manufacturers of
the Celebrated APOLLO STEARINE CANDLES,
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and FANCY SOAPS.
GLYCERINE, CRUDE and REFINED
„ PRIZE MEDALS
PARIS,
PHILADELPHIA,
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
Si
db
gggft Destroy* tho A Pl ,etJ fe foj . «
' iu or
Permanently Cures
drunkenness
ft
IT
BOOK
never
FOR
FAILS
STAMP
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL.
ADDRESS AT ONCE,
rg " e St., -
PUBLIC WARNING on LIFE INSURANCE,
“bowing the Monetary State of the Offices
icn ought to be published by Government authority.
To be had at the Principal Book Sellers,
Price Sixpence,
ZK
m
m
Ml
■
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
T H T B HRT^^T ft M d N^ A m E9 T £ OAT ; to i ? Y / I ? NEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRU riEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colon j 9
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and hare kent well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting!
and cleaner lire tha a any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bat it affords that domestic desideratum of some binds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumos given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS!
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD, Sc IRON WORKS,
8 and 9 MACQUABIE PLACE,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINCOW SASH BARS
DIVING GEAR, &o.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HCSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,:
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and fastens
the window at any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, Ac.,
n quired.
iIY
Celebrated CHAMPION
and every other make,
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS A SPECIAL
Established
ROLLER SKATES.
always on hand,
and all Accessories,
able Tallow Gas Apparatus,
and cold water
and Boilers.
PRIZE HOLDERS.
1855.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SUNS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
PINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., &c.,'&c.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall bo glad to furnish PRICES
and other particular on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & C 0.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
brooks crochet and tatting cotton.
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES Is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS man.-factored I
them :—Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal ( London, 1851. Only First-clKss Prize Medal, Paria, 1856. Prize Medi
London, 1862. Gold Medal) Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South .Africa, 187
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special Firat Award, Sydney, IBM.
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW should be addreuetjl to their W arehonae,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
T
XIiADK MAK^
MS
m
THEGREAT
ONE OP THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man ia tue
world, gave the following as hla opinion.
*• I have found St, J AOOB'S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cared
mo of severe pains in the back, brought on by ov'tr-ea*
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and svmm
remedy, penetrating at ouce to the seat of the (Up- case,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.’*
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who know what he was talking about; and now he says
that St. JACOB’S OIL & n l good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PRICE HALF-A.
CEOWN.
WHOLESALE BT-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
8. HOFFNUNQ k Co., Pitt-street.
E. PEOSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYEKS and SOLOMON, Gserge-street.
I. JACOBS k Co., Hunter-street.
FEREIEE’S BAKING POWDER,
T
i
MARK 3
TRADE
t 2 .
<■
SELF EAI- ING FLOUE
YEAST POWDER.
MANUFACTORY:
Oeorqk-street West, Stdiubt.
[Established 30 Years.]
H
ODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
near Goulburn-street.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER. &o.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
UH2O
*TT T
-
IJ
J
izn
tV-
'
670! H. H I L PER. |6 70
G7O
OCR
HllDtß
'AWv» / *
boot
jrwi'wwsi,
wmte
m iOH
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
CENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WA
HOUSE,
571, GEORQE.BTEEBT.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND UTTEB
of tbs Best Quality in tbs Trade,
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Hole the Address-
-571, QEOEQE-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Qoulburn Streets,


Chemist* and Di
ABRAHAM’S PILL
Registered
THE GREAT LIVER
6*!
ST
*/>
S//J
, FACTION.—Owing to the ii
Pills have c'Humandid, it has
dauseroos imitation<, Aft for
J. S. ABRAHAM
aid M« thftt each box, by whoi
iwventor's name and trade mark.
WHILE 70 U C
taking Dr. Thompson's An
gtnotns, yon will net be able r
yasHikqton h. soul's, i
Prnteh's Hotel
Tickle your appet
tmlian Belisk, made by
177 Pitt street, price one sblllim
ATLAS FOUNDRY &
COMPAf
HAY-STREET, S
Boilermakers,
Pi and Brass Founders, Co
tf rights. The above firm are f
eobtraots for the manufacture of
Engines, Boilers, and Girder M
Sawmill, Sheen-washing, Minin*
other deacriptions of Muouincrj
meiits.
N.B—Castings executed wit!
T View given for metal.
JOH N R U
183 PITT STB
from
D. JONES ft
Respectfully invites an inapeo
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOT
BEDBTE
B
All of the best quality, and se
KBLIABLE MANUFACTURE!
Furniture re-covered and carpi
charges.
*
George
(Formerly of Gee
importbb (
CHINA GLASS AN It
Begs to announce that he hi
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC
where every article in the above
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERS
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
One Oncca of Fact is Worth a Ton cf Self Praise.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINE*
i
As is utnal, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest P jsslUe Awards.
SINGER'S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition, 18-2—Singer’s Sewing
Machines.
FIRST ORDER OF MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS
Public Oompa
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with r
£1,000,000. Reserve Pui
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman;
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wal
General Manaq
Vincent Wanostroch
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE SH
City and Suburban Brunches: ]
Glebe, Burwoo
London Office.- 18 King Will
BRANCHES IN NEW SO
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, 1
Bourke, Buudarra, Cassllis. Coi
bran. Coonatnble, Copeland Norti
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, GouT
I fell, Guigoug, Hay, Hill End,
I Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudg-ee, Narandera,
I Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockl
ton, fcouth Grafton, Temora, I
I Uruna, Wagga Wagga, Wallsonc
Maitland, Wiicannia, Woodburu,
BRANCHES IN yUEI
Brisbane, Ailora, Bowen, Charte
Gladstone, Gymnie, Ipswich, Ma
Kaveuswood, RAkhampton. Slat
I Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Anstraliau Cole
the World geuen
The w ercantile bai
established
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
„ DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K..C.J
Bon tlMUry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Eai,.
BOn. Wk. Busby, M.L.C.
Bon. Philip GtcUev King, M.I
AUDITORS
.'as. Scroggie, Esq
B. E. Coneu, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A W.k
SECRET A'i»V
B color Alim
BRANCHES
58/ George-street. Brick fluid
Oililambone; Gosford ; a
LONDON BANK
The National Provincial Bn
London Office: 15i Leads
Director: Edward Chaj
Agent: G. li. Akxan
This bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the most lave
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other produce shipped to England
F. J. POi
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLI
728 GEORGE STREE'
A huge and well assorted stock of
direct from the Manufacturer:
All Garments Cut n the Most
PERFECT FIT GUAI
Note the'Addre
728 GEOEGEI STREET
NEAR HATMAIi
T U n HA ft O ill r n n
Business Anno an
To Farmers, Graz:
THE FRESH FOOD & ICE
are open to make arnugements wi
to send milk to Sydney; also, to
tiOLB for ensuing spring.
Fa'mers and others hav : ng mi
requested to communicate with th
MOST FAVOURABLE
Fall particulars regarding pre>
for future bnsi ess, can be otta
suppliers to state quantity that can
fr >m station, and facilities for kee
tity throughout the year.
21 HARBOUR STREET
THE FRESH FOOD & 1C
request customers to see that i
receipt, the number ( f which wi]
see tnat the cilice stamp is ou eac
lu erse of dispute, the Compi
ledge payments as shown by ri
form.
Customers will greatly oblige b
neglect of above, or any alteratioi
2 I Harbour Street. Da
S3ad July, 1882.
B y ¥ AWA’Rjt
ONLY PiM
pyfiM, in the baking
FOR FIST DEGR
SOtDEVERYWHERE IN P
MANUFACTORY 'QU
i-S ~ SY DN E Y
WILLIAM DAV!
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MA.CHINE
Mangle and
SECTION VII —SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufar Firing Company —For thrir
ollecfclau of MmafaotnriDg Machine.-, a fiist
order of merit, —Hold Medal
Sinter Manufacturing Company For.the Be«t
Fiu ily Sewing M ichine. including variety of
work. (Xoehetice of workmanship and ma*
tetiaJ, simplicity of construction and dura*
b lity (fold Medal.
Siogvr Manufactumg Company —For work
executed on Mamif suturing Machines.—Silver
Medal.
linger Mpnofacturing Compand.—For spool-
of bc,h Plain and Fancy Workrxecuiel
on Family Sowing Machines.— Si.ver Medal.
EEA li THE AW RDS.
READ T3E AWARDS.
BoyTtro.9, Weekly 2s 61 Wee
No Interest. No Addition to the
Chief Depot in New Son
No I DARLING STORKS. lIAI
SYDNEY.
Local Depots
Bathurf-t. Willia m-street
Uairanald,
Dnbbo,
Oonlbnrr. Aiburn-otreet
Oral ton. Victorla-atreet
Glen Iddoh. Grey-atieet
Bay, Lachiiu-Btreot
Kempsey, Smith-street
losmore, Wood-lark-at.
Maitland, High street
Madg
Moss
Narat
Newoi
Barra
Bjdn«
Tamw
Wagg
ILLUSTRATED PEIC
and
SAMPLES OF W
Free rom any De
SINGER'S SEWING I
jgINGER'S SEWING
TURNEE A(
ARE THE
RECOGNISED j
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANX
TIME PATMEN 1
2«. 6d. per week—2a. od. per woel
And no interest ol
10 per eent. off (or
BEWARE OP IM IT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A
THE ONLY •• SING
TURNER A
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MAOIIII
HAYMARKE
Singers king
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE,
New Davis.
HOWE.
O
a:


w. HOWARD SMITH AND bONS,
STRUTH'S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
fivery TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o'clock*
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and
AO particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
Sprtng-affWk.
PATENT PORTABLE GAS COMPANY
(Limited},
52 YOEK STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL THE
yjQ COMPANY’S LAMPS
V ISSUED AFTER THIS DATB
BEAR THEIR
TRADE MARK
ON THE ’
MAPK BURNER.
The Compmy ia now prepared to supply Lai>»»
suitable for Houres, Mmes, Stores, &o. The Idimpe nii
quire no trimming, ail ird a brilliant light, superior t*
coal eras or kerosene, at lees cost, and ein be carried la
the hand Samples moy be seen at the Company's
Office, and the Eamps obtained from the principal Istm-
mongers and country Store keeper?.
A G. SHELTON.
, . Secretary.
July 15;h, 1881.
CHABLKS TWEMLOVV desires to inform hi*
friends and the public that ho has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, unit to the George-Street
entrance Cf the Sydney Arctde, with an entirely now
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect,
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate In price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-stree .
N E W PREMISES,
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER.
se favourably known to the General Public, Mayor* and
Alderman of various municipalities, and other pnblio
bodies, has REMOVED to bis Elegant and Splendid
SHOP, No. 607 A 712 GEORGE STREET, ore door from
the corner o( Qoml um-ttreet, wbeie he will be pleased
to see his eld «. uetomers, and to whom he renders tbanka
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
’lhere is a private room aud lavatory for ladles, a
requisite ranch needed in Sydney, aud superintended bv
Mrs, CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN 8 DINNER'*.
WEDDING BREAKFABTH,
ministekiaL Banquets,
got up in Firrd-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
CASH PRICE Lin OF WINES, ALES,
AND SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
Claret ...
Hermitage
Hi nr.i/. ...
Burgundy
per doz.
. 10a Od
. lla Od
. 11s Od
. 13a 6d
per doa.
Sweet Shim a ... 13, Od
J.T. Fallon's Port 2701
Adelaide Port SUs Od
WHITE.
■ XOj 01
lls Od
Us 61
“s Piueau.. 16j Od
Brown Muscat ... 18s Od
Adelaide Tokay ... 30a 0d
Tokay, vintage '73 80s 0d
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 2ts to 48s Od
Krugs Champagne
ats .». 90i 0d
o. do. pte. 92 1 61
Boederer do. qts. )IV>t od
Heidsieck’s Dry
Monopole t’nair*
Pigue ... qte. ieru 0$
Julius Lorrame
Champagne pts. 70* Od
do do. yts. liOg Od j French claret from 30s Od
Good Sherry 2+« to Sts od |
Hennessy’s • Case
‘Brandy
Hennsssy’s ***
Case Brandy ...
D’Oi villa’s * Case
Brandy
Charente *** Case
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp's Scotch
Whisky
Imperial • Scotch
SPIRITS.
Whisky
59s Od Imperial •• Scotch
ditto
71s Od Imperial •♦•Scotch
Whisky
45a Od Rum, Red Heart..,
Brandy in flasks, in
60a Od Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15s Od 15 Bottles (large
B ize)
43s Od Gin, Key, Case of
, 15 Buttles (med.
42s Od ( size)
1 Wolfe's Schnapps
40a
42s
40s
48s
52s
46s
ALES AND STOUTS.
Ball Dog Ale, qts. 11s 01 1 Boar’s Head Ale,
Bad Dog Ale, plats
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar e Head Stout,
pints
Foster’s Ale qts...
L 'lierßier, 4 dozen in case,
8s Od
10s 3d
7s 31
Us Ci
7s ft)
pints
Belles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts. lie 6d
Kai»er do. qta. 12s 6d
Dutkas S'oat qts 10s 6d
do do pts 7s 6d
Bull Dog Ale, quarts.
tdozu in a cask; pints, 8 dozen. Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts, 4 dozen In cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Boar ■
Head Ale. 4 dozen quarts in case; 7 doe pints.
M* Country Orders for Aloe aud stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otaorwise ftl. per dozen extra
will le charged. . , , ,
As-iuple oiozen of assorted bottl/>s of Colonial Win#
sent on receipt of 17a. 6J. by JjfQt Office Order •*
Stamps. Country Cheques thorlx«ve la added for
exchange.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Rodfern Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH * CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pltt-street. Sydney
■ il< ing.t-fashionable Fre'naih v /
STYLE! READ'S Improved .KilTor,
\jU6t Out, 5e., at Sewing Mm bine Agents.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The most wonderful signature ever seen is that
f kee the recently-convicted Victorian Lands official.
It is lite the footprint of a thunderbolt on a dead gum-
tree.
Mr Robert Burgess, late proprietor of the
TmtEBFIBLd Ikpipbndest, is about to start a paper
called the NUbmanton Herald, at the Gulf of Car.
pentaria.
Garibaldi’s body was, up to the eve of the
funeral, preserved in spirits, and the precass associated
with the name of a doctor named Corinl adopted to
.ftnomnlish what amounted virtually to a petrifaction
of the remains.
We read in the Express that "Mr. E. L.
Julian, one of the leading and wealthiest squatters of
the district of Bogelong, was received into the Catholic
Church at Yass on tne afternoon of 24th instant, by
the Eer. P. J. O’Keeffe.’*
Bret Harte dashed off a four-column story in a
single night for a New York doily recently, and received
500 dollars for it. The Melbourne Hbbalti states that
this was just about the sum paid to Mr. Archibald
Forbes for his four and-a-half-column obituary notice
e f Skobeloff, by he 8. M Hebalp and the Melbourne
ABGtTS.
The King of Siam’s place is now ready, and the
bulk of tne furniture ordered in London is being
delivered and arranged. Moat of it was made in Lon.
don by an eminent firm, and some of it is very curious.
The royal bed is made In five compartments. There is
a place for the King in the centre, aud font places—two
on each side —for the wives.
The Vag. is " in it” again. Down at Adelaide
he has offered to lecture on behalf of the local charities,
and the Fijian planters have discovered it to be their
duty lo present him with a 100-gninea watch aud chain
"in recognition of his services iu bringing the masse-
ores of Europeans in the South Sane befoie the Inter,
colonial Conference and the Home authorities.”
The appointment of Mr. H. E. Barff, M.A., as
Registrar of the Sydney University, is evidently a popu-
lar one, jedging by the vociferous cheering which
greeted the announcement to that effect made bv the
Chancellor at the commemoration on S iturday. When
Mr. Barff was afterward* called up to receive hia M.A.
degree, he was saluted with another ‘ volley’’ from the
'Varsity boys.
The Prince of Wales was recently at Yarmouth,
and, getting tired of waiting for the launch that was to
take him across the river, he hailed a fisherman who
was in mid-stream. " Here, my good man,” cried Lord
Carington, *• His Royal Highness wants to be ferried
over.” “Hiswhort?” said the fisher. "The Prince
of Wales,” yelled the possessor of that title, beckoning
violently, “Never heerd on un,” was the reply, and
the fisher went on fishing.
The Echo recently said that one Lamb " is the
first of the scions of the old New South Wales aria,
tooracy who baa attained the dignity ” of midshipman
in the British navy. Writes " Wrecker” anent this
"I would remind the Echo that several scions of New
Ssuth Welsh stock had previously attained far higher
naval rank than that; to name one, for example,
Phillip Parker King, born at Norfolk Island, in 1791,
aose to the rank of Rear-Admiral.”
Almost every one in Sydney remembers the fat
gentleman who, for sometime, figured at the ” Dwarf
and Magnetic Lady " Show, Pitt st., as “ The Scottish
Giant,” and who, by reason of his wondrous obes'ty,
served as an attraction in one of the Courts at Mel-
bourne International Exhlbi'ioa. Well, he’s dead. As
he used to eat eixtsen chops at a meal, and as eating was
his chief accomplishment, it will atonoe be seen that he
was utterly unfit to exist in drought-time, with mutton
at sixpence a pound.
“It seema to be quite true,” says Figaro,
“that Mr. Archibald Forbes, whose first wife died some
years since, left the United States an engaged man
after his last lecturing tour. The happy lady is Miss
Lulu Meigg=, the only unmarried daughter of General
Maiagf, of Washington, and,as at present arranged, the
chief of the Dailv News ‘ specials * returns to America
in October next (or his wedding.” It will bo remem-
bered that another eminent lecturer, who recently
visited vs -Professor Proctor—also got married in
America on his return from Australia.
Neither Vogel nor Parkes, it would appear, is
thoroughly popular. At an Invercargill (N.Z) public
meeting, called to make arrangements for entertaining
Sir Julius Vogel on his arrival, a member of the Town
Council enlivened the proceedings, and stated he
" would object to expense being incurred in connection
with the reception, but would be willing t > vote half a
crown to procure a pack of cards for Sir Jnlim in order
that he might mate another start in the colony.” By
the way, oir Julius didn’t make much by piaving cards
on the recent trip of the Austral from Melbourne lo
Sydney,
Winiata, the Maori murderer, who is to be
hang d for murdering Packer, is a powerful savage, and
more than a match for themejority of Europeans of
average height. Nine years ago he was “wanted” by
Sergeant Green on a charge of horse-stealing, and the
gallant officer essayed to arrest bis man in Onehunga,
with the result that he speedily measured his length in
the road. Fortunately, a by-dander came to the lesoue
and stunned the horse-thief with a blow on the head
with a weight, when Winiata was easily secured. He
was nothing, however, in the hands of the giant Bar-
low, his recent captor.
At the Armidale Oddfellows’ dinner on 13th
inst, the chairman, Mr. Holland, in propoi-ing the
health of His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftas, re-
lated an incident which is not generally known. Mr.
Holland said that daring an Irish famine, when he (Mr.
Holland) was a lad, Lord Loftus, passing through Skib-
bareen, was so struck with the distress of the people,
that he gave £lO,OOO anonymously towards the relief
fond. The donor remained unknown till many years
afterwards, when Lord Loftus, in reply to a question
from an Irish member of the Commons, admitloa that
it was he who had given the £lO,OOO.
Thus Figaro of 17th June“ There is a report,
and I have some reason to believe in its truth, that the
unexpected appearance in England of a husband who
was supposed to have been killed about ten years ago in
Australia, has thrown into dismay and consternation
two well-known establishments in London. In the first
of these, the lady who presides does so upon the
strength of her second marriage, soma three years ago,
when she was fully persuaded her first husband had
“ joined the majority,” and her feelings may bo better
imagined than described on hearing of the re-appear-
nnoe of her first lamented lord in this ’ vale of tears.’ ”
From a London paper of 17th June“ Sir
’William Broun, Bart., ot Colstoun, Dumfriesshire, is
dead. It is worthy of note in connection with this
baronetcy, that on becoming heir to it. Sir William’s
grandfather, the Rev. Mr. Broun, of Lichmaben, do*
cllned to assume the title, caring nothing for such a
distinction. On his death the title was taken up by
®ur William’s father. Sir James Broun, eldest son of
;ho reverend gentleman named. Sir William, who was
m his pevmty.eighth year, is succeeded by hia eldest
•°b William, an extensive sheep-farmer in Australia,
who, I should imagine, will care as little for the title as
his great-grandfather.”
If Joseph Saunders, a writer of plays, on whom
an inquest was held recently, could have conceived
many situations as dramatic as his own death, he would
probably have made a mark in his profession. He was,
U seems, found dead in the miserable room in Stepney,
England, which he had occupied for the last five years.
1 », iL part °t his body lying under the bedstead, in his
. hand he held his pipe, his pen being close to his
rjfht hand. The room contained an old table and a
bedstead; no mattress, no bsdolothing, were to be seen,
there was no food—scven-peuoe-halfpenny was all the
Money in his possession. An unfinished drama on
Drink ” was open on the table. He had died of
starvation.
Remarks a home writer:—“ Garibaldi, the most
oero. worshipped hero of modern times, is dead—dead
with a record as graud as any the heathea posts gave
(neir demi-gods. At present, wo are vying with each
otnsr to lay pen-and-ink bouquets upon his tomb, but
(ue next moon will see a change Our dead liona never
bafore the ass comes along to kick them. Pee-
pare for a flood of magazine revelations. Prepare to
hear that Garibaldi had a liver, aud frequently got
hftKs and blacked his wife’s eye. Prepare to hear that
“a had five wives and four families, aud that bU favour.
I ite amusement was setting his buH-dog to bite priests' J
calves. The thirst for information noneernlng cele-
brities has added a new terror to death."
Garnet Waloh, when a pupil at Denmark Hill
Grammar School, was one of ihe heroes in a dynamite
expedition. He, with two other boys, experimented with
the then novel explosive—dynamite—in the direatlon of
blowing a limb off a tree. Garnet famished the powder,
the other two climbed the tree, and with a gimlet and
penknife made the necessary bore. '1 he mine was duly
tired, one boy holding his head right over the charge
to see how it would look when it went off. He wasn't
satisfied, somehow. The most of the hair on his hood
went oil, too j he was blind for weeks, and had to be
engineered down from the tree. Garnet and the other
lad were invited to a private class in the head-m aster’s
study, and shambled in their gait for days afterwards.
Garibaldi was three times married. His first
wife was the celebrated Anita, whom he married at
Monte Video. She died, as everybody knew*, in the
pine woods of Eavenna, In 1848. la I*Bl Garibaldi
married his second wifa, the daughter of the Marquis
Raimondi, of Milan, a lady who practised upon him
sroh a gross piece of deception that, upon its discovery,
even in the ohnroh, they separated, for which, and
quite recently. Garibaldi obtained a legal divorce, la
order to marry Francesca, his third wife, and legitl-
matisfl hla two children, Manllo and Olelia. By Anita
be had three children, Eicdotl (who married an English
lady), Menotti, and Tere-lta, the amiable and handsome
wife of General C.naio, Donna Francesca, the widow
of the great patriot,, was a peasant and the wet-nurse
to Madame Oonzlo's youngest; son She contrived to
captivate the General, and subsequently married him.
She is a fine-looking emtadinu and in the prime of life.
Her children are both handsome, especially Manlio,
the boy, who was the favourite of the fethi r
The Cumberland Independent publishes a
posthumous poem by the late Charles Matthews. Here
is a bit of it:—
" Do you think that Moliire,
When he polished a chair.
And worked hard at a pillow and bolster; (sic)
Didn’t sioken to do it ;
’Twas bo»h and he knew it,
You couldn't make him an upholsterer.”
This was " banded for publication" to the editor by a
Mr. Goddard, of Orange. The poem, it U stated, was
written on board ship, which would perhaps account for
the retohedness of the doggerel. Evidently when this
was written Charley’s poetic feet hadn't got their sea-
legs. But you can’t expect a man to be everything.
Not, however, but that all Alfred’s bards are some-
thing besides poets. Two-thirds of them
"Pen a stanza when they shonld engross,"
while the balance make a sonnet and a slipper alter-
nately.
“Kosmos,” of the World, among his letters
to eminent persons, has addressed one to Mr. Thomas
Chenery. editor of the Times, and this Is what he says
about Mr. Chenery’s master, the great proprietor
‘‘There are many things which may be said of Mr.
John Walter. Ho is a rich man ; he is a great man j he
is a good man i he Is a regular church-goer; and he
never misses family prayeis. Bat he is not a strong
man, of keen intellectual initiative; he ought
not, therefore, to be allowed to interfere with yonr
editorial operations. Dflane (the former editor) never
tolerated such interference. .... The Times is,
in the nature of things, the one newspaper which can
be really Independent. It is a great and powerful
journal. It now and again publishes leading articles,
and even letters from its representatives, of unique
merit. Among its unpa ; d correspondents, on topics of
the day. are the most illustrious of living men. So it
Is that the Times continues to bo absolutely indis-
pensable as a newspaper to every educated person-
even to those who most deplore its blunder*, and the
vacillating feebleness of its conduct." It is curious,
now, that this should have caught our eye here in
Sydney. At first we did not notice that it referred to
the Times, and we thought—— well, yon know,
“ Big Clarko,” pf Victoria, is a household name
lu Australia. Every one knoere how he walked round
the probate duty by giving hie son a big cheque while
he was alive, instead of devising hie estate in will. And
many have heard of hie princely attempt to bribe old
Father Time into giving him an hour ®r two’s longer
lease of life. A "colonial experience” yam Is now
being told about him. Somebody has unearthed an in-
denture of agreement, dated 2nd September, 1845, be-
tween William John Turner Clarke, otherwiie Big
Clarke, “ of Newtown, in Van Diemen's Land, also of
the district ot Port Pnilllp," and John Frederick At-
kinson who bound hlmaelf for five years to “ diligently
and faithfully assist in herding, dressing, and shearing
the sheep, and in herding the cattle and horses" of said
Clarke in Port Phillip, and to do his share of "all other
work that is usually done at shejp or cattle stations at
Port Pnillip," and generally to watch over said Clarke’s
Interests, for ail which duties Atkinson was to receive
"the sum of twelve pounds yearly, ’ raid half-yearly.
As a solatium to this meagre stipend Atkinson was to
have the privilege of " at all times taking his meals with
the oveneer or manager of the station at which he may
be placed, and uot with the shepherd s, labourers, or men
ial servants ’* <.f sa’d Clarke. It may bo remaraed tnat
Atkimou hid been a oomtniseioued officer iu Hie
Majest/s (George IV ) Army. This accounts for the
high t ne and the beggarly screw.
Longfellow’s description of his reception by
Queen Victors 1 ’• An imposing lady in black, with
flawing arapery, cinae quickly forward to greet me. It
was Her Majesty Queen Victoria. She extended her
hand, and I offered to take It. ‘ What.' I interrupted,
•did you uot bend and offer to kiss it ?’ ‘No,’said he
timidly; ‘ I was not then familiar or acquainted with
Court etiquette, as I am now. She offered me her hand
evidently to shake, and I shook it.* • Why,’ said I.
‘ she is the most inexorably ej igeante of all sovereigns.
You must have horrified her.’ * X presume I did,’ said
he simply. ‘ Now 1 think of it, she was disconcerted, I
suppose for that reason ; but she rallied graciously, and
asked me about America and myself. She explained:
• We speak of America first, because you are America’s
poet. Teuuyson is ours.’ ’Tennyson is the world’s
poet, madam,’ said I, bowing gravely. She smiled in
gratified acquiescence, and continued : ' You are very
generous.’ Her Majesty was then pleased to converse
on general topics, but persistently got back to the
subject of myself. I felt she was piqued about some-
thing at first, and her last words were ; ' We shall not
forget you;’ adding, with a laugh, ‘ why, even all my
servants retd your poems I’ The poet then glanced up,
and, with an almost comical expression, he said: ’ What
do you think she intended by it ? I was nonplussed;
and to-day, although many years have passed, I am
undecided as to what Her Majesty s real meaning
was.’"
Mr. Leopold Sachs, who is a leading resident
of Cleveland Bay, and has just given £5OO in aid of the
Separation movement, which, in view of the giant
strides North Queensland Is now taking, bids fair to
assume a very definite shape ere long, will, it is likely,
offer his services to the Townsville electors at the first
opportunity. To the character of Mr. Sachs, who is
well-known and popular alike in Queensland, N.S.
Wales, and Victoria, there are two distinct sides.
Leopold, who is among the luckiest of Australia is, and
possesses the happy knack of " turning to gold every-
thing ho touches," is, while a mau of substantial
realities, an unrivalled exponent of those airy fictions
yclept snake yarns. As he has shot the biggest snake
ever seen in Australia—it was 22 ft 6 in. long,-and
secured its skin, he is universally regarded as the
leading authority ou inch subjects, hia claim to the
title having been clinched by the publication in a
Sydney paper of a portrait of his worthy se'f struggling,
L loooon fashion, in the tolls of the scaly I at Northern
monster. It is to be regretted, however, that he should
be so utterly heartless in the manner in which be
imports second hand •• Colonial experience ' to new
chums ani otiur verdant travellers. He ordinarily
leads off by telling how the female alligator makes a
nest and lays in it a couple of hundred eggs about the
size of those ot a turkey. This statement, which to
these possessing little acquaintance with natural his-
tory, bears the stamp ot utter improbability, is, ot
course, not readily accepted by tme traveller, who
either appeals to the rest ot the company, or look* up
tue matter in an encyclopedia. Whvn, however, the
innocent finds it to be a fact that the huge saurian s
eggs are really so numerous and so small, he is at onoe
(we quote the artful Bachs) "prepared to believe any-
thing and ready for stuffing." Then Leopold pro-
ceeds:—“Yes, I don’t wonder at (his Australia ot
ours being termed a ‘fantasilo laud of monstrosities
Strange as it may seem that the twenty-foot alli-
gator shonld find his origin in a small egg, it Is Still
stranger that be thdnld be ab'e to- ascend trees ana
prey oa opossums.” It is related that under a big
gum-tree oue dark night, Sachs actually bad a now .
arrival blazing away at a thick limb which he had, for
*the purpose of Affording sport to his English friend,
transmogrified into a Big Ban of the most ferocious etui
bloodthirsty description—a Irate that had eaten six
men separately, and chewed np a whole family and the
contents of their pig-stye in one act. No British
tourist has, after having properly gone through the
preliminary detailed above, ever doubted Bachs* solemn
asseveration that the old man kangaroo eats fish as
well as grass, and that it is the habit of the big mar-
supial to drop his tail into the water, wait until the
flsh stick their teeth into it—and then whip them as
cleverly as Is the wont of the most accomplished angler.
This latter story was, we believe, readied up for Mr.
Anthony Trollope, who, however, didn’t happen to paes
that way—to the great disgust of Leopold, who had
for a month spent twe hours dally before a glass. In the
endeavour to acquire a truthful and artless expression
of countenance which should convoy conviction to the
heart of the novelist. However, Mr. boohs hopefully
looks forward to his views on the snake, alligator, and
old man kangaroo questions being unhesitatingly en-
dorsed by all Baglish writers on natural history, and
finding a place In the British school-books. After rend-
ing this, no one can donbt that Mr. Leopold Sacha,
M L A , will be a great success.
• e *
The Dablin® Downs Qazettb states that
Snb-inspeotor W. B. Armit has been dismissed from the
Queensland police force A report Is circulated that
a well-known 8 dney ecclesiastic intends to leave the
ohnreh for the stage Mr. Twopeny, of Joahert and
Twopeny, has purchase 1 a large Interest In the Christ-
church (N 7.) Dim Teioobaph, and joins the staff as
editor this m0nth...... Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany,
who has just been married, suffers from epilepsy, which,
it is feared, will eventually destroy his reason......Mr
Warden Mowbray is to be transferred from George-
town to Herberton Monsieur Dntruc, dramatic au-
thor and French tutor, died at Randwlok last Thursday,
aged 78 years Mr. Edward Johnstone Jenkins, who
has just gained at Oxford the degree of bachelor of
medicine, is the second son of Mr. E. L. Jenkins, of
Nepean Towers. He was formerlv a pupil at the King’s
school, Parramatta, under the Rev. Q. F. M’Arthup,
where be took the Broughton and Campbell scholar-
ships. He matriculated at Trinity College, Oxford. In
187-1, gained his degree of B.A with honours in 1878.
and has since become M A- He has temporarily accepted
the position ol heuse-physlcian to Bt. Bartholomew's
hospital, London ...Archibald Forbes dined by literary
and Other notabilities at Adelaide. ”No speeches ;’’
so Adelaide pressmen are more sensible than those of
other Australian capitals Corolln, who failed to
score a libel verdict against the Ktneton Obsebvek,
which called him all sorts of Saxon names, has sent In
to the Victorian Government his resignation as a
Justice of the Peace J B. Fisher, of the firm of
Fisher and Marsh, wine merchants, Sydney, died sud-
denly on July 26. He was in the office ol Mr. Charles
K. Moore, when he suddenly fell down, and In a few
moments expired. Ruptured blood vessel Pour new
barristers—Messrs. Walter Edmunds, Frederick Wil-
Ham Gibson, William J. G. Mann, and Alexander
Gordon, junr..—were admitted on the first day of term.
The Chief Justice was unwell and absent.
The story that Sara sleeps in her coffin is ex-
ploded now—ad loss, indeed, ells bus had the Cora a
eul urged.
The Autc-da-Fe.
Dear public, calm yourselves. No fearsome story
Is here recited of grim Valladolid ;
No tale of hatted, Catholic and gory.
No episode of dungeon, iron-wall< ; d ;
No Torque Bada, mercl eas and hoary.
Shall leave you breathless, clammy, and appalled.
I only here attempt a modest version
Of free translation —from the ancient Persian,
There was a Leech *' In the most Eastern East,"
Who flourished since the Emperor Tiberius,
Whose general bearing was, to say lh» least,
Beflned and soft, and pomatumed and serious.
Whereby his practice evermore increased j
And lody.patients murmured, “What a door he is.
Whose lot were Heaven to the crowd which hankers
To win the smile of drnpers'-olerks and bankers.
The potent rulers of Hals sunburnt nation,
Who loved their subjects’ welfare as their own,
(And that was muchly) did contrive and fashion
A mighty jug, compact of brick and atone,
Wherein the criminal found roiormatlon
And tor bis past misconduct did atone;
Where crimes met punishment,both men’s and women’s,
Prom stealing prayer-books to delirium trews ns.
Within this paradise a maniac died,
Who, for the leech's cure had been remanded ;
I l fom|whose torn Augers the foul walls Inside,
With his poor llte’s red element was branded.
God knows what horrors prison walls would hide.
Were there no force to make a witness candid ;
God knows what ends would wait the lower orders,
If Truth were optional with—Persian—warders.
’Twas clearly shown, by evidence unwilling,
This wretched creature suffered sore neglect—
Of course, a man who blews nis every shilling
Could hardly have the conscience to expect
Things otherwise; a gradual lawful killing
In all such cases was esteemed correct;
And, in that climate, an enquiring jury
Was hard to And bs—bobbles In a brewery.
A jury met. In those barbaric ages
An inquest was attainable frivolity
For suen poor devils as subsist on wages.
And have no ohanoe of more expensive jollity }
Here, for a while, they mixed with turbaued sages.
And held their lips, while mou of proper quality
Amazed them with much recondite remark, as
They jobbed their flsh knives in the subject's carcass.
But, in this jury,as it hapt, some men wore,
Eeousant-mmded, and of wdiul fluro.
Who, quite unmanageable, now and then, were;
And toamed at fable, as Horatius’ Tiber
Foamed at the bridge, and like a lion’s den were.
And one there was (a Bullbtih subscriber)
Who went bald-headed for the leech, a venture
Which moved the ancient local rags bo censure.
For, long ago, so different were the papers
groin our pure organs, that a man with cash
Might cut before the Lord the d—dest capers,
Vet cut before the world a mighty dash ;
Those antique journals were most abject scrapers,
'Neath LUves’ table after scraps for hash—
Had Baalam’s self passed there with lots of brass,
They’d kneel to Baalam—aye, and kiss his ass.
“ 'Twas most illogical and wrong and shameful
To censure our immaculate puysioian,
For oue mad swiper’e death to hold him blameful;
Just think of what a man in his position
Cheeked by a mob, who never hod a wame full
Of aught but spuds, served up a wooden dish on.”
Thus, in effect, the scribes who won their victual
By shedding ink, and by absorbing spittle.
Then went the jury to a long-legged man.
Who lived upon a height they called the Sandhill,
Who, ever when a nose was at the grindstone, ran
With Aiatanta feet, to turn the handle;
Within whose veins the blood of Zenghls Khan
Ran, mixed with that of many a furious Vandal—
A cross ’vwxxt Cain and alaric historic.
Whose heart was blue with nitro and caloric.
He counselled fire, and, as his word was law to
A fiery few, they went their several ways,
And wrought to consummate a paper Auto
Da-Fe (which Spain has bettered since those days)
And, uy much placarding, a crowd did draw to
The Exchange Hall—at Astrakau—to gaze
©u two scrunched scribes, jwho noted with grimaees
( Though not with pencils) themselves sent to biases.
That is the narrative. Long turned to dnst Is
The Asian bard wno ’graved it on a brick j
And greatly changed since then the nppah crust Is
And now no journal butters It too thick ;
And fair and oven are the scales of Justice
Alike to nobleman and lunatic,
So that Heaven’s Kingdom can score but few marks
Above this kingdom of Sir Henry Parkes.


Q UEENSLAND
GRESLEY LUKIN at
Sydney,
PASTORAL, MINING and PLAN
Temporary Offices, 289 Gei
Opposite Hanter-sti
GRESLEY LUKIN and CO. ar
lowing Incorporated Gold-mining C
land: —
Glantnire and Monkland G. A
Hibernian Tribute G. M. Co.
Nicholl’s Lease G M. Co.
North Lady Mary G. M. Co
No. 2 North Lady Miry G. M
North Gian mire G M. Co.
North Monkland G M Co
No. 1 North Phoenix O. M. C
No. 2 North Pbosaix G M 0
United Bt. Patrick G M. Co.
New Zealand Tributors.
Mining Managers’ Reports regale
est information on Queensland n
tatned through special agencies. A
iag journals filled.
m RIVER DARLING
COMPANY
7o be Incorporates bt Act o
CAPITAL, £200,000 IN SHARE
Proyisional Direct
EDWARD QUIN, E q„ M.P., '
THOS. LUKE, Esq., J.P.. Wiloani
T. J. HAYDJN, E q.. J P., do.
Non W A. Bbodribb, M.L
W. C Palmeu, k-<j . J P . W
E. W. I.'oNnh.lt, HJsq , Gnal
C. H. Wheford Eiq , Moora
H. C. AgMS'EONS, Esq , Will
Arthur Woodpall, Esq , W
Walterhs Brown, Eeq , J P
< haslfs G. Lush Esq., Mell
J H Keij>. Etq., Wilcannia.
J. B»«ben, Eeq , Wilcannia.
W. J. Holding, Wentworth.
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx X XXXXXXXXXXXXX X
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXiXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X
J.
L. HOEDEEN ARD
211 PlTi’-BTKEET,
CO.,
THE FASHIONS for WINTER and SPRING
GRAND DISPLAY EVERY DAY of the
LATEST IMPORIaTIONS.
Tbo
CHILDREN’S COSTUMES
m style and price unrivalled,
choice articles in this department are
samples of next winter’s styles. Fresh, fashion-
able, and reatocable in price. We get ihe new.
est goods ont every fortnight, and we invite
your inspection of these our latest arrivals.
LADIES’ MANTLES
we still have iu largo varieiy.
It is not at all certain the winter has done yet;
indeed, it stems wo are now about to get the
severest part of it Snow hvs fallen plentifully
in many parts of iha interior, so don’t think it
extravagant to purolnuo WINTER MANTLES
at this time of year B-side*, they will do well
for next winter. We have a nice assortment,
trom 4s lid to £7 7s.
DRESS DEPARTMENT
Scotch Tweeds, 6d
Angola Tweed*, is lid
Heat borough Serges 101
Cbnddah Tweeds, lid
Wool Homespuns, 10JI
Edamaine*, is 21
Hordern’s Nav, Worsted S.rges, 27 inches wide,
Is 41; 29 inches It lid
The TARTANS of ail tne clans, very choice,
very cheap.
How often a good material has been spoilt by
an unsuitable TRIMMING. Now, we take
great pains in crJir.iii our Trimming, and can
supply Trim rain* and Holtons ; o suit to a nicety
the above DRESS MA TifihlALS, tb <s enabling
ladies to save much time iu running about nil
over the town to get aver t thing to match. We
take a pride in having a well-assorted stock.
Our BLAJK 1 ILK i at 2 1 31 are really tin
nicest g ot* we luivo seen lor the money.
Our fcA TIN 3 at is 6i you can sea in our win-
dows.
Also, our
MOIRE STRIPaD 6A UN, at 2s lid.
COME AND SEE OUR MNDOWS.
SUOti PRETIY GOODS ARE DISPLAYED
IN THEM
The best results of the most skilled designers in
England and the Continent.
OUR HOSIERY DEPARTMENT.
We «rr s-.ow effacing 6Jo dozen good CASH-
MERE HOSE, iu ladies’ and children's sizes,
from Si.
JUST FANCY!
Ladies’ good Cashmere Hose, full-size, for 8d
per pair.
THE ORIENTAL CARPETS,
The Otuioent Goods
we have seen for many a day.
OUR BEDSTEAD and BEDDING DEPART-
MENT is a now feature of our basinets.
Our only address is
J. L. HORDERN and CO.,
21l Pitt-strtet,
Sj dney.
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
I
X
X
X
X
X
X
£
i
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
I
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx X
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY.
WM. JAMESON & CO.’s DUBLIN WHISKY IS
UNSURPASSED.
XT 5a bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, roly that
it has not teen in the bands of “ Whisky Doctors."
When you atk for it, fee that you get it, look for the
trade maik J in diamond on label, cork, and capsnlo.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
1 OLD~MATURED' SCOTCH WHISKY
“ As we Drink it In Scotland."
THOM AND CAMERON,
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate a Mellow OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY as they drink it “ at hame," this spirit will
be a welcome boon.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N S W. and Queensland.
Importers of IRUH and SCOTCH WHISKIES and
G-ipral Merchandise.
309 GEORGE STREET.
riIUE AUSTRALASIAN DIAMOND DRILL
| COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will te undertaken by the above Com-
pany to boro any sizid boles, vertical or horizontal,
up to
3 INCHES OR LARGER,
if required, to any depth, at ». reduction of
25 PERCENT BELOW ANY P EVIOU3 CHARGE.
The Company in all cases will find their own fuel end
water for urilliug purposes, and will make no charge
for loss of diamond* or wear and tear on plant, and
will also provide workmen, engineete, &o.
The nfx duplex barrell lutiudnevd into the colony by
Mr. J. Coghiau will be used free of charge to persons
beatouiag lor minerals.
Mr. Coghiau has every <onlii9nce, from his practical
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that ha will be able to
give genoial satisfaction, as well as quick despatch to
ail orders addressed to the
Temporaly Offl 253 Gaorve-street.
JOHN COQHLAN,
General Manager pro. tem.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Lave your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Re lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Snllivan’a
541 Qeorge-street,
Bricktivld-hill, between
L'verpoo] & Bathurst Streets.
Paras 1« made to match oos-
tames Repairs neatly executed
OOLALTA WINE, BODEGA.
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. 11.
Paling and Cc.’s.
■. ’ -v
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had at
the Bodega. H«t Spiced 'Vines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p m.
Similar wines, by the dozen or in bulk, can be ordered
at, the Bodega, at Cellars adjoining, or from Head
Cellars, 119 Pitt-street.
ANTHONY HORDERI
PALACE EMPOR
HAYMARKET (ONLY
THE ORIGINAL CASH SYSTI
NO BRANCHES.
NO OTHER PLACE OP BU
ANNUAL MID-WINTER STOC
COMMENCED
MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1
GREAT BARGAINS OFFERED IN EVE
GOODS CAREFULLY ARRA
NO TIME NEED BE LOST IN Pi
EVERY FACILITY FOE INSI
Bargains in Costume Cloths.
Bargains in Brt ss Goods.
Bargains in Wool Wraps.
Bargains in Ladies Ulsters.
Bargains in Children’s Ulsters
Bargains in Wool Goods.
Bargains in Wool B'ichus.
Bargains in W»ol Cleuds.
Bargains in Millinery.
Bargains in Fleecy Gloves.
Bargains in Ribbons.
Bargains in Laces?
Bangains in Ties.
Bargains in Parachutes.
BARGAINS EVEEIWHEHE THRO
IMMENSE PALACE
Bargains
argains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
| ANTHONY HORDERN
f | tHE TAILOR FOB THE PUBLIC.
F. H. HAGON,
l »te cutter to E. C. Hagon, of 127 King-street,
havinsr taken
CO I4MODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
at
162 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every facility will be afforded him for
having hie work made under his
PERSONAL SUPERVISION,
is now in a position to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILO RUNG
of a quality and price that cannot be Excelled.
West of England Tweed Suits, to order, 63a.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 635.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16a 6d.
Sfeotoh Tweed Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
N.8.-All Garments HAND-MADE.
P. H. H&CrON.
F. H. AAGON.
JAMES MAC6F
308 GEOKGB STi
*ffa?Sa
SrolcWl]^
S
MANUFACTURER OF THE
SULTANS CUFF
YDNEY 810 Y C J
AMATEUR RACE ME
N.S.W. CRICKET ASSOCIAT
SATURDAY, 3*th A
J\. JF a os=L 8 X a 'LJlSJjcia for Is.
The great “Bonanza '* Consultation on the Melbourne Cup, J. 532
50 000 Shares at Is each. 1,000 Prizes, Value £2,500
- £ *>()
£uo
- jc sw
- <£2, 500
To every Subscriber sending £l. the price of 23 Tickets, we will
forward One Extra Ticket (Free), thus enabling tne getter-up of a
Club of 2G Members a chance of winning £l.OOO without investing
a single penny himself. Drawing tc take place early in October
Shares forwarded by return post. Result of Drawing posted to
Subscribers and advertised in the daily and weekly papers.
Application by letter only, enclosing Oashr t. O. O or Stamps ;
with Stamp tor reply. Address “ BONANZA,” Care of J, Thomas.
20 SWANS lON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Many persons never invest a penny in sweeps. Why is this ?
Is it because they have a moral aversion for such schemes, and
avoid them on principle : or, is it because they regard them as
swindles? No! On t;.e contrary, The majority of these people
abstain from investing tueir spare money in sweeps simply because
they don't understand the working of them For their information
the promoter? cf this consultation wdi endeavor tc explain in as
few words as possible their,method ct management. We offer a
number ot shares tc the public at one shilling each, which, if not
disposed ct up tc the day fixed for the drawing, the prizes will be
divided in proportkn to the number of shares sold. Thus, should
you succeed in drawing the first prize, when only two thirds of the
shares have been sold, you will receive £750 instead of <£l,ooo.
The drawing will be conducted on the most approved and straight-
forward principles, by a committee of gentlemen appointed from
amongst the sharjholde s. The whole amount subscribed will be
divide I amongst those holding the winning numbers, after Cup Day.
71 per cent, commission deducted from the amount disbursed.
Bear in mind, that it is uot often you will have such a golden
opportunity of becoming the possessor of ,£1,033 by the investment
of a paltry shilling. You will stand as good a cban-;e of putting
JEI.OOO in your pocket as anyone else. Some one must Ket it. Why
[ not you? Scmembet, that we give One Extra Ticket (Free) to
►V. ) who dtiu-1 us £l, the price o£ twouty tickets.
THE FAINT FOR IRON WOE K AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAlNT-
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVE®
BLISTER CEACK, OK FLAKE OFF.
15 THE MOST DUEABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDEEED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR
THE TOEBAT PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Marshall season concluded on Friday night
■with “ Betsy,’* the cleverest and wittiest piece in the
compamy's repertoire. Mr. Fred. Marshall played
Dawson, the impecunious tutor. It is hardly necessary
to state that he played it well. Mr. Titheradge’s Cap-
tain M’Manus was the best piece of acting we have
seen for a long time —we won’t say how long, because
this might be a clue to our age, and we hear there is
going to be a tax put upon age as soon as Porkes comes
back. Our readers will remark that we said age, not
honesty. Mr. E. W. Marshall’s Old Birkett is a line
study. This old hogshead is always reading up politics,
and is going to stand for the support of his country-
men at every election. He knows no more of true
politics, by the way, than—-than John Davies. Mr.
J, O B. Grattan is not a howling triumph as Dolly
Bir«ett. Regarding the ladies : Miss Melville as Mrs.
Birkett is exceedingly good. Miss Annie Taylor mates
a very mfahante Betsy, considering that such parts are
not suited to her. Mrs. George Gordon took the part
of Mrs. Captain M’Manus, and Mias Emma Fischer
that of Madame Polenta, indifferently well. Miss Cora
Gwynne and Miss Carrie Wallace had little to do,
but Ladies, our eyes are too full of tears* at
thoughts of your departure to allow us to trifle with
complimest. In truth, it is a pity that the best legiti-
mate comedy eompany we have had here for many a
day should have left us so soon. But we drown our
sorrows in the flowing beer-jug, and pass on to the next
item.
* * * *
All thin is about “ Vanity Fair,” a piece now
running at the Gaiety. We wanted to say something
nice about it if we could, and consequently we waited
till this week, and went to see it twice in order to let
it have the best possible show. And now we judge
that the nicest thing that we can say about it is to say
nothing. Which *e would gladly do, you bet, only
that a howling public wib not allow us to remain silent
Therefore, here sees. “ Vanity Fair ’ is not—(we dare
not commence to define what it is, because wo don’t
care to die in the middle of our definitions; conse-
quently, we sha’l have to content ourselves with stating
what it is not) —is not, we say, the “ noblest specimen of
dramatic art that has ever been put upon the stage.”
But it is the longest, and that is something, as Hans
Andersen says. Not the longest either, for we recollect
hearing about a Chinese play that lays it over for
longevity. The plot of this took four solid months to
unravel, and the audience went to the theatre night
after night to see how the thing was jogging along ad
through that time Suns rose and set, moons waxed
and waned, and yet the plot went on. Certainly, there
were two or three murders every nieht to enliven the
performance, and the joy of aee’ng the murdered ones
go through their part the next nisiht as if nothing had
happened was enough to drag the interest of the spec-
tators aloof. But we don’t call this a healthy excite-
ment, and we don’t consider, to come hack to the
subject, that “Vanity Fair” belonss to the golden era
of dramatic literature. There is too much effort right
through the play to make impossibilities probable—
ruieellant d'inouismee, is the phrase that Balzac uses to
describe this kind of thing. And we think he is right,
though we wouldn’t care to be asked to translate the
expression. Now for the performers.
Mr. Walter Reynolds, as Frank Henderson, is
quite up to the level of his part. But, without such
scenery and situations as his performance is set in, we
hardly believe he could freeze the blood of his audience
in sufficiently fast time to obtain him employment as a
freezing chamber on board one of the Orient steamers.
We believe him to be a better author than actor, and a
better manager than either. And yet he is no bad
actor. Mr. James F. Cathcart (the Earl of Dunbar)
was not noticeable for anything in particular. We
deem it only due to him to say this because he might
be going round injuring himself by excessive inflation
of the chest under the Impression that he was notice-
able for something. Mr. Frank Cates (Viscount Albert
Dunbar) was about as good as he could be in some
situations in the play, and not much better than he
ought to be in others. We can’t imagine he relished
his work. Mr. C. Seagrave’s Israel Moses is just
tolerable after Bland Holt’s Moss Jewell and Johnny
Hall’s Ezra Lazareck. And we think it very creditable
to Mr. Seagrave that his performance is tolerable under
such circumstances. Mr. H. Stoneham was an un-
comfortable Georg© Effingham. It seemed all the time
in the middle of his mosc murderous remarks that ho
would like to have stepped out to the footlights and
asided to the audience 1 hat he was not the villain they
look him for. Now, we shall have to stop or the end of
the world will be upon us, and we shall have no time to
pack up our trunk for Jehosophat if we go through the
rest of the caste. Tbe ladies, of course, we must say
something about. After seeing Miss E. Kella p'ay the
Professional Beauty we shall never more be seen with
our noses glued to the window panes of George-streot
print-shops staring for hours at chromos of Mrs.
Larngtry. The axis of our adoration is altered from
this forth. Miss Kate Douglas, as Edith Cleveland,
was sympathetic and very nearly missed being natural.
As Margaret Johnson, Miss Grace Hathaway, hath
a way about her we don’t much admire, but
her make-up is very good. Mrs. Marion Stammers
is a large pud imposing Mrs. Jones Cleveland. Her
husband stands under her arm, as a Parramatta pump-
kin-boat under the lee of a Macleay River mud-dredge
Miss Nellie Playfair (Clara Henderson) we would like
to say something nice about, but she has not given us
the chance this time. Miss Chapman is too good an
actress for such a small part as Dick Small, we hope
to see her in something better before we shuffle off this
mortal coil. A word about the scenery. The first
tableau, representing an English castle and grounds in
winter, is very pretty. Most of the others are good,
* * * *
” More fire,” cried Walter Reynolds the other
night in the ship conflagration scene at the Gaiety.
“We’ll have to break into another bob’s worth of
squibs,” hissed the property-man from the O.P. side.
“ Never mind, more fire,” shrieked Walter. Then the
property-man tore open the new packet, and the first
one burst right in Walter’s ear-hole. Now the orders
are—“ Play light on the fire, and make it np in
smoke."
* * * *
The Viotoria Hall, under the clever management
of Mr. R.JF. Roper, is rushing into popularity at the
rate of a new plng-hat down the street in a high wind.
All the performances that have taken place there since
this gentleman became manager have been fairly
attended, and at some there has been such a crush
that that bosom friend and court physician of His
Majesty of the Sandwich Islands, Doc. Hughes, had
to keep his finger upon the trigger of |his ( merry-go-
round all the time, in order to thin emt the more objec-
tionable members of the infuriated crowd that howled
at the door for admission. When we write a two-mile
heat sentence like this we usually want to take a
breath. We will take this now, with your permission,
kyind readers—and, at the same time, we will take a
drink.
• * •
So, “ wiping our mouths as one whe has dn?e no
wrong,” we canter gently into a par. about Charley
Lewis’s benefit. As soon as it was announced that this
event was to take place, the excitement grew to fever-
pitch—-in fact, it almost developed into measles. All
other topics grew flat, stale, and unprofitable as the
beer of——but why hurt the feelings of a man who owes
us nothing but our gratuitous custom ? The Egyptian
question, and what old Jewfish or Tewfish.or whatever-
you-oall-him Pasha, was doing, fell dead as a cat slain
by the manuscript of one of Dan O'Connor's impromptu
orations flung from that brilliant statesman s window
in the silent night. The news spread to the winds like
lightning. The dus’ y denizen of Kent-street heard it,
and smiled a smile eleven inches wide as he lurched off
to invito Mnriar lo go the show. It was heard in the
lofty halls of Potts’ Point; it penetrated into the stuffy
parlours of the Q'ebe. And farther still the echo went
until even the stolid Esquimaux paused with his spear
in mid-air, and forgot all about the seal in front of him,
to drop n silout tear over the sorrowful fact that ns
there was no tram-eommunication between the laud of
his fathers and King-street he would be unable to
attend this boss-show of the century. And, now, we
think wa are entitled to another drink.
A • •
So. Ihe entertainment took place sometime
last week—we forget dates just as one of Cobh and
Co.’s camels do s. To begin As the thing has been
seven days dead wa simply exhume it ia order to pick
its eyes out. That’s the kind of truculent epicures we
are Mrs. Cooper’s song, “ In the Gloaming,” was re-
ceived with applause, which is a plausible way of
getting out of criticism by leaving it t > the audience.
“ the Old Sexton” was sung by Mr. Angelo in sepul-
chral style. Mr. Charles M Carthy’s “ Captain Demp-
sey’s Address to the Montgomery Guards” was as comic
os John Davies’ explanation about the “little presents. ’
’Jhe “Flower Girl,” sob* and hornpipe, was very
prettily done by Miss Annie Bead In the second part
of the programme, Mr. Charles Lewis’s stump speech
concerning the bombardment of Alexandria and the
return of Sir Henry Parkes fetched the audience by
the hair, »o to speak, even as did the angel to the
Prophet Habakuk. A number of other items that
were really good we have not space to notice. The
house was filled to such an extent that some members
of the audience had to sit on each others' knees, This
is always a good sign A great deal of the credit for
the success of the affair goes to Mr. Alick Andrews,
the organiser.
* * * *
We have not much to say about “ Youth” this
week, because we have uot much space It is well
attended, as it deserves to he. It deserves to bo,
because it is one of the best things of the k ind that
has ever been put upon the boards of a Sydney theatre.
We don’t think much of the kind, mind ycu, but there
doesn’t seem to be much use in our censuring a c 1 ass of
play that bears the stamp of public patronage. Of
course, the public are wrong, but they are in the
majority. One reason why the play's so successful is
that no expense has been spared over the production.
About two-thirds of the standing army of this colony
are engaged by the management as supers, which is
safer than an engagement with the enemy at any time
But it would be pretty rough on the inhabitants of this
city if, when the enemy fall upon them like a thief in
the night, they were to he told that no soldiers could
be spared for the defence of the city because the
management of the Theatre Eoyal would not cancel
their engagement.
* * * *
The Kellar and Cunard show, at the Opera
House, is a wonderful thing. But it does nob seem to
, be as popular as we should expect. The trick s ore very
cleverly performed, and no fellow can understand how
they are done. Cyril, the ghost-seer, has got to pale
his ineffectual fires after theKellar’s e*po«eof spiritual-
istic hanky.pank The automata are marvellous. Ou
Saturday uight, Mr. Kellar informed tho audience that
the automaton Clio would draw them a correct
portrait of any celebrity living or dead. He then
ran over the names of several, beginning with Moses
and ending with George Washington. But the audi-
snce would have none of them. They yelled out as one
man tor Barrabbas. A very good picture of the Gothic
profile of Sir was drawn accordingly.
The other automata are equally clever. Psyche can do
anything, from a sum of seven million figures to writing
a leading article. But-when we come to think of it,,
the latter performance is not so wonderful. All the
Daily Telesbaph leaders are written by automata.
We shall have more to write of Mr. Kellar in our next
issue.
* * **
1 The closing of the Queen’s Theatre has left us
nothing to say about Mr. Sheridan this week, except
that we deeply sympathise with him and also with Mr.
1 Keogh—though we have laughed at the latter now and
then—in their misfortune. Of the act itself it is now
too late to say anything more than that it was per-
formed at a strangely malapropos time. Mr. Sheridan
had struggled against disadvantages ever since he came
into the city, and was just then by sheer force of talent
overcoming the last of them. 1 Mr. Keogh had been
struggling with scratch companies and bad business,
until he found his pearl of great price in Sheridan.
And when everything looked lovely, down comes
Calamity and puts the crusher upon them. It’s infer,
nally rough. We are glad to see that Mr. Sheridan
has found a hope at the Gaiety, commencing on Satar-
day uight.
* * * *
Walter Beynolda has engaged Mr. Sheridan,
and Miss Davenport for the Gaiety, and will commence
a new season forthwith. This is a good move. Walter
is lucky as well as plucky, and his company, thus re-
inforced, should be able to effect great things.
* * * *
The second social evening given by the Sydney
Liedertafel only resulted, musically, in a succes
d'edirne. Taking the average of Sydney concerts as a
standard, the performance w»s fully up tc the mark
But at fheir first appearance, in the Exchange, the
Liedertafel established a standard of its own. which its
first social evening did not sustain, and this second
social evening even fell short of its predecessor. Tho
part singing, which is the speciality of the Liedertafel
was, in most of the selections, very good indeed, but the
Society has done better than “very good indeed.” The
Rataplan chorus was a failure, a mere confusion of
sound Tho orchestra of the Society—its first per-
formance—played excellently. The executants had
been j udiciously selected, and both the selections
allotted to it were rendered in a style, which, although
not faultless, was superior to most orchestral per-
formances hitherto given in Sydney iu connection with
an amateur Society. Tho accompanied solo and duet
passages were entrusted to Hr. Sebastian Hocge
(clarionet), and to the two cornets, and excel-
lently delivered. Mr. IH. K. Woods had made an
injudicious selection, his pleasant voice lacking
power to give full effect to the sceua, etc., from
Torquati Tasso, which be undertook. Mr. Phillips, the
solo flautist, is an acquisition. He commands a round
and resonant tone, and his digital execution is cashing.
Mr. Phillips suffered from some degree of nervousness,
and, as the flute, of all instruments, revenges itself most
severely upon a nervous performer, the least tremor
of the lip seriously impairing the tone, Mr. Phillips
was not heard iu the full measure of his obvious
ability. His sustained notes were occasionally out of
time and one or two notes he failed altogether to pro-
dues. Mr. M'Qijade’s pianoforte solos were played
with"all that gentleman’s usual finish and grace, but
were somewhat too recondite iu their sentiment to be
enlirely appreciated by the audience. Mr. Edwardes
conducted as usual, and hod his performers, except
the Rataplan chorus, well in hand. The Liedertafel
need not be at all discouraged by tins concert. What-
ever mistakes and shortcomings there were are remedi-
able and, on the whole, the performance had merit ;
amply sufficient to attract audiences again and again.
* * * *
It will be a sad shook to hundreds of tho bald-
headed when they learn that that pretty soubrette.
Miss Erayburn, has, under somewhat romantic circum-
stances, become Mrs. Purves.
* * * *
Many readers will be very sorry to hear that
Miss Ethel Fellowes, late of Mnegrove’s Tambour
Manor Company, died in Melbourne last Thursday
night of rheumatic fever. So far as the stage was con-
cemed, Miss Fellowes may perhaps be said to have
possessed no very special ability, but she had social
qualifications which served to place a wide gap between
herself and most of her colleagues, and which in Sydney
gained for her numerous friends who will sincerely
regret her untimely decease.
** * *
According to the Jesuitical principle that “all
means ate good to a cood end,” the concert at the Vic-
toria Hall on Thursday night last, in aid of the widow
and orphans of (he late Henry George Wood, of the
Volunteers, was a good one. The programme opened
with an “In Memorinm ” by the Headquarters Band.
This was followed by a farce, “ The Artful Dodger,"
then another overture, “ The Azure Lake," and a
musical interlude. This consisted of a ballad by Miss
S. Coombes ; comicsoag by Mr. C. Ha ris; and another
comic song, but Irish this time, by Mr. J. M’Namara.
Miss Coombes’ voice is fair enough in the middle regis-
ter, but whoa she dives down under the castle moat, or
shoots np into the "flies,” she is notin her element.
Her voice certainly reaches the far end of the hall, but
it reaches it in the manner that a telegraph wire might if
it were stretched across. However, in the comic duet,
"May and December,” between her and Mr. C. Harris,
she made up for these defects by her archness. Mr.
Harris was also nroh-bnt of the very early English
order. Perhaps the point of this last sentence is not
particularly apparent. If anyone who finds this to be
the case will call round at our office at, say, between
one rnd two o'clock, he or she will be introduced to the
arch-itect of the joke, who will explain in fall. We
may mention that this handsome personage prefers a
she. This is a sly Wiiy of putting in a good word for
ourselves with the fair. There’s no use in calling at
any other time than that mentioned, because we ore
either engaged in deadly combats with poets and
amateur actors, or in answering correspondents, who
call in person, with a crowbar. Miss Coombes may not
like what wo have said of her. We shall be Berry for
this, but we love the truth better than we love Miss
Coombes, though the truth has no such red lips.
The .entertainment concluded with what was called,
upon the programme, a “ Laughable Farce." We did
not laugh at this, because we did not see it.
Somebody who was nailed up in a little pine-
board case long ago said that from the foot
one could judge of Hercules—or, in the original
Latin, ex pede Herculem. There was a foot resting, so
to speak, yard-arm to yard-arm with our chair, which,
judging by the aforesaid principle, must have belonged
to a skunk. Consequently, we had to fly. It speaks
well for the success of the show that there wore no
other chairs vacant upon which we might rest onr
tottering frame. In the present critical condition of
affairs in Europe, when the Egyptians may come down
upon ns like a wolf on'the fold at any time, it may,
perhaps, be a discreet thing to say that the Head
Quarters Band played very well. Having three-and-
sixpcuce in the left-hand pocket of our pants, and a
bottle of whisky on the buffet, to lose, wo ore not such
fools as to go and wantonly offend our defenders. It
would be unfair to conclude this all-too-tender notice
without saying a word about the scene-painting, which
was one of the most striking things of this amateur
show. We took it at first to represent a section of old
red sandstone stratum with n modern leek-bed slopped
down in the middle. The centemplation of this cheer-
ful anachronism carried ns right through the first part
of the programme without flinching. But, afterwards,
when we discovered that what we had taken for an in-
structive geological diagram was simply a drawing from
life of a billiard-talle variegated with kerosene streaks,
our hearts grew heavy within us and our faces were
turned against indigenous art for ever. We would not
counsel the hanging of this mas'erpiece upon the walls
of the Picture Gallery, but we would urge, with all the
impassioned eloquence we are capable of, the hanging of
the artist.
** ♦ ♦
Thus our Adelaide correspondent:—“ After a
week’s moderate business, “ The Green Lanes of Eng-
land” was withdrawn, giving way to the Vagabond's
“No Mercy.” Adelaide is about satiated with chaotic
sensation dramas, and would thank some person to
come along with a good, sound, wholesome, probable
play, Sensation pure and simple, to succeed here, must
be sugar-coated with an extent of stage-mounting which
was not vouchsafed to “ The Green Lanes.” In
“Youth," as an example, the crowd of volunteers
employed to do duty as soldiers, the blaze of battle,
and the smell of smoke gave an excitement in which all
traces of the drama disappeared, or could easily be for-
gotten. But in "The Green Lanes” we were con-
fronted by many stale and unnatural incidents not
' connected rational plot, and staged in by no
nleans an overpoweringly expensive manner. Then
Miss Adere, after being credited with all the beauty
and talents she possesses, is not an absolute Bistort ;
and Bistort herself might stand helpless to gather fame
from “ The Green Lanes." There is no need to say
anything about Dampier himself, perhaps, because
Richmond Thatcher is confidentially and profusely
eulogistical in his "Travelled Actor" —a pamphlet
which has been freely circulated here. There
is no doubt that, with other opportunities. Dam-
pier will show himself much superior to Gentleman
George. We naturally feel curious as te the Vaga-
bond s effort in dramatic authorship. It is one thing
to write successful sketches and another to write a
successful play. True, the Vagabond is hardly
attempting the latter —contenting himself by building
on another man's foundation Giacomettis “Morte
Civile" is kept olive in Italy by Salvini, who finds
the character of the convict, Corrado, a convenient
vehicle for the expression of intense passion. It
is rather funny to find Corrado masquerading ns
Gerald Eyton, and to see a fanciful reproduc-
tion of the entire South Italian figure in a
cosmopolitan’s Australian mirror. Anjway, we
shall all be pleased if "No Mercy" achieves a distinct
and deserved sneoess. Attention is concentred at
g resent on the advent of Archibald Forbes, who gives
is opening lecture at the Town Hall on Friday. The
immitigable E. S Stay the has already made every shop
in the principal streets look like that of a photographer
photographing one subject only.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The theatrical firmament in Sydney is now
pretty well crowded; with stars. Several in both the
Koyal and the Queen’s supporting the aerolites Rignold
and Sheridan On the 21th, the Dampiem were at the
Boyal, Adelaide, playing in the Vag’s “ No Mercy "...
...Strong company at the Opera House (Melb.), includ-
ing Emilie Melville ; “Gitofle" about tneir latest pro-
duction, C. Van Ohele, conducting Louise Pomeroy
took a farewell benefit at Ballarat, last Friday, when
she appeared, .1 la Rose Evans, as the melancholy Dane
in “Hamlet" At latest, "Patience" In its fourth
week at the Koyal, Melbourne " Whore’s the
Cat?" a new comedy by the author cf the "Two
Roses” is the attraction at the Princess’; Jennie Lee,
Harwood, and Vincent appear in it, and the scenery is
byTrirdon Professor Pepper gave a scientific lecture
at Maryborough (Q ) on Sunday week—Good attendance
Buckley and Holly Combination at Yonng abeut a
week ag0:.... Mascabe, having recovered from his recent
illness at Brisbane, has been doing Ipswich and Too-
woomba, and on 24th was back in Brisbane The in-
imitable Billy Barlow, on 21st, was showing Gympie
the “Blue-tailed Fly,” which he captured whilst
living with the cave-men of the palceolithic age
Johnny Hall and his company were to appear at Napier
last Stturday, play a week, thence to Wellington
and Wanganui Zulu Thompson's Diorama been
having a good run at Auckland, according to last
accounts The Harts at Neweeatle last week. Local
newspaper says “it is impossible to speak too highly
of their Happy Hours entertainment J. B. Howe is
in Christchurch, doing as well as could be expected,
considering that the members of his company are so
*’stocky." The crowd are such very old favourites
that their in Christchurch every now and
again seems to he considered almost too neighbourly
Freeman’s Dramatic and Operatic Company have been
on a hack blocks tour for the past four months, and
, are about to return to Sydney. They reckon to have
’ travorted over 4000 miles in that period. Atone stage,
up Cobar way, they were four days and three nights
without leaving the coach! Sam Howard and Harry
Simmons are in the city, making further arrangements
for the company, which was playing at Forbes last
week..,.,,Jimmy South's Opera Company have been
doing Gonlburn and Tags, and were announced to play at
Cootamnndra, August 2. On the 19th they will com*
mence a short season in the Victoria Hall, Sydney
Pollard's Juveniles at Albert Hall, Brisbane Mon-
tagnc-Turner Company have been doing flrst-olsss biz.
at Brisbane. The company will inaugurate another
season in the Opera House here about September 19
Bland Halt's “ World" (couldn’t very well bo “off it")
is said to have drawn the biggest money on record at
Dunedin. Later bill was ‘‘New Babylon,’’ also a great
success Monte Brown was to leave the eompany at
Christchurch for Melbourne, to arrange business for
J. A. Dunning, who is bringing out fourteen operatic
artists to play some pieces, for which he has secured
the sole right Mrs. Fox has left the Koyal English
(■Raphael’s) Opera Co., and gone to Melbourne. Miss
Leaf, Charles Harding,and others of thecompany have
gone on to Townsville....Harry Stanley, of war diorama
fame, is travelling with a troupe of kids playing “ Pina-
fore” and a pantomime. Some of the juveniles were
members of Mrs. G. B. Lewis’s original company.
Opened at Hay 20th ult E. W. Ciry, of Wellington
(N.Z.), has gone to Melbourne with a view of getting
together a company for his country A meeting wan
to be held at Wellington, last week, to consider the
advisability of erecting an Opera House in that city,
near the site of the one which was burnt down seme
time ago. There is no harm in holding a meeting
The Boyal at Wellington has been swept and garnished,
a little —and not a moment too soon. New scenery and.
proscenium are to be added Johnny Hydes is with
the Mastodon Minstrels, playing at St. George's Hall,
Melbourne A lodge of the I O.Q.T, Order advertised
a concert with 16 numbers in both the first and second
parte—to commence at 8 We wonder when it closed...
Amy Horton, who has lately been residing at Christ,
church, proceeds to ’Frisco by the August mail boat.
Simonseu has eugaged the Christchurch Theatre
Koyal for five weeks, to include Christmas and New
Year holidays Lotti Wilmot is still hanging about
Christchurch (N Z ) Dick Kohler’s waxworks are
bring shown at Auckland (N.Z.), to large crowds. The
“old man" is as clever as ever on the musical instru-
ments, but the figures are entitled to a rest, as most of
them have done long service.... Latest news of Hudson’s
Surprise Party they were at Bundaberg (Q.) Johnny
Hall’s company, after re-appeaiing at Wellington
(N.Z.), for a few nights, proceeded to Wanganui.
Dunedin and Christchurch, to follow, opening
at the latter town about August 28th
Some members of the Singleton Dramatic Club practis-
ing “ School for Scandal" ; public performance shortly.
The popular Dan Briggs has left Eookhampton, and
is now engaged in commerce It is somewhat appall*
ing, .writes our Adelaide correspondent, to find “the
Vagabond" really in eur midst, and to hear that during
Dampier’s season he will “ personally supervise" the
production of “ No Mercy.” Johnny Cowan adver-
tises himself as “ evergreen.” When we have seen him
ho has been over black, but perhaps the mixture of
black atd green suits him to a Tea.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
THE WAR AGAINST EGYPT.
Earl Granville stated in House of Commons on
July 24 that European Powers generally expressed ap-
proval of British policy British fortified Bamleh
Khedive summoned Cherif Pasha to organise new
Ministry Porte agreed to send troops to assist ia
pacification of Egypt London Times urges estab-
lishment of a British protectorate in Egypt Orient
steamers Orient and Lusitania chartered by Govern
ment ns a transport ship for troops M. Losseps
states that Arabi Bey has promised to protect the Suee
Canal German marines landed at Port Said to pro-
tect German Consulate there Earl Kimberley will
for the present hold both offices of Chancellor of Duchy
of Lancaster, and l*ecretary of State for Colonies
Khedive rejected proposal made by Ministry that
superior officers of Arabi’s army should be granted on.
amnesty on condition of delivering up their leader
Arabi’s garrisons at Rosetta and Damictta have sub-
mitted to the Khedive’s authority Arabi threatens
to put to death everybody attempting to pass the
lines, and to courtmartiaT everyone having fn
his possession the Khedive’s proclamation
Arabi has written to Sultan intimating that he will op
pose an armed intervention of Ottoman troops
British ambassador on behalf of England and France
invited Italy to co-operate in protection of Suez Canal.
Aboukir garrison made a ruse of rallying to the
Khedive’s standard, but, when ordered to proceed to
Alexandra, peremptorily refused. The Sultan
of iurkey has been notified to the effect tha;
the British Government will agree to Turkish oo
operation in Egypt only on condition that Arab
Bey is proclaimed a rebel Ihe Forte hoped that, i 1
it sent troops to Egypt, British troops would be with
drawn. Earl Granville has, however, intimated that
nothing would now justify any relaxation of armament
Other Powers also demand that Arabi be proclaimed
a rebel Duke of Teck appointed to Sir Garnet Wol
seley's staff House of Commons passed a bill pro-
viding war credit of £2,800,000 Reported that
Arabi offered to submit, on condition that ha
and nine colleagues bo permitted to retire to a
monastery. Also that such offer was instigated
by the Sultan Arrangements for protection of.Buez
Canal officially announced—French and English men-
of-war to be stationed at Port Said, Ismaila, and Suez;
gunboats to constantly patrol the Canal Governor of
Port Said fled from city and took refnge on board a
steamer in consequence of menacing attitude of
natives; he has resigned bis post British threaten
to bombard Abonkir fortifications Secret corres-
pondence between French officials and the native
leaders of Egypt, show that France, prior to th« bom-
bardment, was pursuing a most equivocal course
Arabi retired, on Jnly 28, to DemanUorn, 46 milea from
Alexandria, leaving only advanced outposts at Kafra-
dowar...Admiral Seymour, has disclaimed in a letter to
the Khedive all intention of conquest on parr, of England.
...Armoured locomotives, carrying Gatling guns, recon-
noitred Arabi’s entrenchments; they advanced to
within two miles cf his position, skirmished with his
outposts and retired A deputation from the rebel
Government at Cairo has waited upon the authorities
at Alexandria; it was defiant and bellicose Turkish
promises of co-operatiou, nud Arabi’s overtures mis-
trusted in England M. Lesseps is endeavouring te
exclude ships of war from the Suez Canal, and serious
disputes are occurring between him and Admiral Hos-
kins French Government asked the Chamber of
Deputies for war credit, of 8,000,000 francs; motion
has been rejected by 450 to 70; ministry resigned
Duke of Connaught, in command of a regiment of th«
Soots Guards, embarked iu the steamship Orient for
Egypt on July 30 Conference suspended its sittings
in consequence of recent change in aspect of affairs;
Russian ambassador awaiting instructions Italy
refuses, without a mandate from Parliament, t*
co-operate in protecting Suez Canal French
Admiral complained that Baron de Lesseps’ meddling
with Suez Canal affairs increases the difficulties of
Port Said Large meeting of influential inhabitants
has resolved to uphold Arabi Bey against the Khedive
and British, and to war with extermination until
honorable peace had been secured Prince of Wales
expressed strong desire to go with army to Egypt; Her
Majesty objected Arabi Bey captured and fortifying
Port Said.... Vacillation of Turkey given great umbrage
to Lord Duffcriu, British ambassador; diplomatic rela-
tions much strained.
* * •
Marshall Wood, the sculptor, is dead E.B. and
A. C. Bank paid dividend of 4 per cent, for the half-year
and carried £lO,OOO to the reserve fund Abortive
attempt to assassinate Senor Hagasta, Premier of
Spain, by means of a postal infernal machine Muu
named O’Brien, surrendered himself at Venezuela,
South America, as being one of the murderers of Lord
Cavrndish and Mr. Burke ; he confessed and disclosed
name* of accomplices. Me states that each assassin
received £2O (or bis services House of Lords passed
second reading of Arrears of Rents' Bill Lusitania
frozen meat arrived in good condition Goodwood
Stakes won by Fortissima, Reveller second, and Sabeau
third; Goodwood Cup, Friday 1, Tristran 2, and Geo-
logist 3 Hanlan has refused a challenge from Wal
lace Ross to row live races during five consecutive days
for 5000 dollars each race Australian E-even cricket
matchesßeit Northumberland by one innings and
)srnßs; Australians scored 193; Nor h imberland, 63
and 36. Beat Gentlemen of Scotland by, one innings
and 18 tuns; Australians scored 159; Scotch 07 and
”4,
We stood beside the bar, dear.
And watched the whisky flow,
As also the three-star, dear,
A little week ago.
We stuck np two-and-ninepence then.
We haven’t paid it yet.
Ah, folly that remembrance is—
'Tis wiser to forget.
Tour voice was very low, dear.
Your eyes were very brown,
There is a smile you know, dear.
Made np of smile and frown.
In such a smile as this, then.
Sweet Bose, your mouth was set.
Ah, folly that remembrance is—
’Tis wiser to forget.
W# said that yon were nice, dear,
Then drank a whisky-skin.
And, “Put it on the ice, dear.
Until our ship comes in,”
Were all the broken words that we
Could speak lest time we met.
Ah, folly that remembrance is—
’Tis wiser to forget.
Band low your little ear, dear,
John Davies roped us in;
We drink no more of beer, dear,
Nor yet »f whisky-skin—
By that, of course, we mean that wa
Have sworn we shall abstain ;
But yet, by thunder, can yqu see—
We're on the drunk again !


PEPPER AND SALT.
The following, which we paraphrase almost
literally from the original, strikes us as being remark-
ably dpi'opoi just now to— -something or other :
M Ls Misanthrope ” ( Moliere ), act i. scene 1.
Alc'ebte (log ) ••
Widely I scorn'; all men share my contempt.
These, because wicked, and because they tempt
Others to evil. Those, because they are
To evil men too complaisant by far,
And that they cherish not the active hate
For rascals which should be the normal state
Of virtuous minds. One sees this blinking tact
Ignore a barefaced scoundrel's every act.
Though,through his mask, one clearly sees what’s writ,
And reads, ’spite upturned eyes, the hypocrite—
So that his oily oantings hoodwink none
Bnt utter strangers—yet, behold, (’tis done!
This wriggling gsebung sinuously creeps
Through reeking, filthy by-ways, up the steeps
Of social fame, till, of distinctions Hush,
The fraud makes merit groan and virtue blush!
Though hundreds join in heaping up his shame,
Not one defends bis miserable name
Stylo him a rogue, an arrant blackguard, or
A blasted scoundrel * —none will ask “ What for ? "
Not one will contradict by words or force,
But take the fiat as a thing of course.
Tot, see I Theworid, with fawning smile and glance,
Obsequious welcomes his sleek countenance.
Ha worms his slimy way with secret gait.
And fastens, leeoh-like, on the passive State;
Gaining distinctions by a servile tout,
Thus putting modest honesty to rout.
By heavens 1 The world’s the humbug’s Paradise I
It wounds me thus to sea man wink at vice.
There ie a shanty up in the back-blocks noted
for the plenitude of its preying insects. A traveller
who had occasion to stay there on a recent night begged
the landlady to give him “a clean bed, free from
verm—." ** bir I ” exclaimed she, angrily. " Put
me up where the mosqwloes will not annoy me,” said he,
correcting himself. Ho was stowed away for the night,
and never before did hs experience so much free blood-
letting. In the morning, he asked for a paper of pins.
These he obtained, and retired again to bis room for a
few minutes. Then he emerged, and paid his score,
mying “I have written a letter recommending this
house to all comers. Ton will find It on my bedroom
wall." The landlady discovered an entomological col-
lection of transfixed bags, so arranged with plus in the
vail as to form a first-class testimonial, signed by her
late lodger. This Is a true bill; and, If you don’t believe
it, ask a certain Inspector of Public Accounts.
XJralla is all agog, in consequence cf the ap-
proaching railway opening. The Mayor has chartered
a clean white shirt from the curate, and all the aider-
men’s wives have invested in new scrubbing-brushes
wherewith to operate on their husbands’ moles. The
Town Clerk has turned himself into a regular Othello
with a quill and a penny ink-bottle in drafting out the
address, and there is a rumour in the township that,
on the occasion of the ceremony, the butcher's wife,
who is turned of sixty and of stout proportions, intends
appearing in pink book-mupliu over green calico, with
a low body and short sleeves. The now chnm knock-
about band at the pub. (popularly supposed to bo heir
to a dukedom), though previously deepised, is now in
mnob demand, aud it is no seoret that all his sober
moments are now oooupiad in teaching the auctioneers’
daughters the value A trois temps. The other night,
when the solitary constable was on bis beat, he passed
the residence of a prominent dealer in colonial produce
and, seeing a light in the parlour window, crossed over.
Just as be reached the verandah he heard souuds of
stamping and struggling. Mounting the steps
cautiously, he peered in. There, by the light of a lamp,
was the master of the house vainly endeavouring to
skin a pair of white kid gloves upon hands which would
have been about four sizes too large for Anak. A mani-
festo has been issued that every householder is to
exhibit his best hearth rug over the verandah rail, and
so the town is certain to present a brilliant appearance.
• •
“The Vagabond” is in Adelaide, and is con-
tributing to the Begister. This is the style of tiling
now:—“ * Jouerez vous a ohickken-hasard ?’ as I re-
member the late Napoleon 111., then simply Prince
Napoleon, a prisoner at Him, remarked one evening
just as Pierre Blaisot, the keeper, brought in some
baoon conveyed in a sausage skin as arranged by me. I,
parbleu I had played ohlckeu-harard before, I had. I
had played it with Bismarck, and Bill Gladstone, and
Margin!, and Bob Lee ; that day we broke through the
Federal lines at Chattanooga; and last, but not least, I
had played it when Cromwell turned to me that lurid
day at Mira ton Moor, and yelled impetuously, * charge
for the Commonwealth, Thomas I the sword of the Lord
and of Julian /’ Ah,these old recollections will crowd even
though I stand on the good ship Liguria bound from the
Phillipine Islands to Adelaide I I could hardly approve
of the low, flat sandy baaoh, which was my first glimpse
of South Australia; still loss could I admire the ocean
thereabout; and I am certain I have seen what I may
term superior lighterage in the old days when I
was staying with King Caoobau at Fiji. But I
am at home wherever I am, and I am
invariably satisfied when I am attended to
oivilfy. I asked the cook for my luggage, but he, after
going below, said he could not find it. Then I recol-
lected that I had vafely stowed it away in the extra
breast pocket ©f my Papuan frock coat, which I had
made one (morning early, after discovering that Mon-
goosia the chief could, with his nails, open the ordinary
valise which I then used. Ah, gli cari memorie!
Quando they vlen a umano whose boots are tight!
Netwithstanding these drawbacks, I am prepared to
look on King William-street as the finest thoroughfare
in the colonies. No, old friend, I do not forget the
plaza, where, with the ill-fated Maximilian, Chibooka,
and poor Walter Montgomery, we stemmed the rebel
tide with our walking-sticks, and beat them off though
a thousand to one. The plaza was fair, but dusty; yet
King William-street surpasses it, I have no hesitation
in saying. I am not * Australian Baggage,’ I! Looking
at your city from the South, that same imposing vista
which King William-street furnishes still dominates
him whose dwelling-place is—os my favourite poet
sings—
• . * Whither, ah whither ?
Where the Mohawk shrieks and the sea-gulls slither —
Where the grizzly sucks the sweet honeycomb—
Where the wild boars burst and the roses wither —
Where the steward reigns, ’tis the Vagabond’s home! ’"
# # •
“ Guard,” said a lady as the train drew up to
the platform at Big Mundoey, “ will you request that
person to take his feet down." The guard glanced at
the vast expanse of leather on the window-sill, and at
their owner. “ Excuse me, ma’am ; that’s Mr. Com-
pensation, the member.”
Many people wonder why it is Sir Henry Parkes’
intention to call at Fauiconbridge before coming on to
Sydney. We don’t mind—being in a good humour, and
being also in the confidence of the great—letting a few
millions Into the secret. The fact is Sir Henry wishes
to be received by his tenantry. Ho got the tip at
Southampton that his reception at his estate would be
of rather a spicy sort, and he, of course, doesn’t want
to disappoint a single soul that has been reared upon
his laud. The programme, so far as we can gather,
will be as follows :—The tenantry will, some days before
the arrival Of the lord of the manor, instruct hi*
missus tq extra scrub hi? last new pair of moles, and
when the day arrives the tenantry will await the arrival
of the train, waving, as it draws up, the red cotton-
handkerchief. Having welcomed the squire, the
tenantry will then lead him through a triumphal arch
composed of two ship's hen-coops and a table-cover,
after which a tasteful offering in the colonial produce
line will be made, and then the tenantry will retire to
his bark humpy, and roast the ox whole in the form of
smoked mutton for breakfast. Voild!
• • •
Those who are About to be Married! We soli-
cit your attention. The other day at Carooar a yonng
oouple appointed a day to get hitched, and the groom,
after making the necessary commissariat arrangements,
buying the ring, se.ing that hia white shirt was boiled,
and buying up all the old kerosene tins in the town,
went off to Blaynoy and chartered a clergyman. The
day of the wedding came round, and in the c-orning all
the guests assembled at Hie house of the bride’s mo-
ther. Hardly had the last invite arrived, when it be-
gan to raiu. Not a moderate burst of cloud tears, bnt
that rain which comes down with a swish and a rattle,
and drenches the old woman even while the is draining
the spuds at the kitchen-door. An hour pas led, and no
clergyman put in an appearance. Conversation of a
genteel nature was indulged in. , The injury to Long
Jim’s grey mare was discussed, and much interest was
evinced in a recital, by the “best man," of how Mother
Huffom’s poley cow had eaten up all Ah Fat’s cabbigi s.
Bnt the parson didn’t arrive yet: and at length the
conversation commenced to languish. One of the com-
pany obliged with a solo on the concertina, but as yon
could hardly heir the low notes for the patter of the
rain on the iron roof, the music had rather a depressing
effect than other wise. Refreshment was provided, and
fully partaken of; the f tir bride, who commenced to feel
rather chilly in her linen costume and white veil, began
taking considerable gulps out of her dad's glass when no-
body was watching her, and simpering very much when
anyone did. Still no parson. TQo hours grew on, and
a dance was The bride then begged to be
excused for a few moments, and went and had a “ good
cry,” beblftd the kitchen door, wiping her eyes on the
jack-towel. Subsequently she roused herself suffl-
ciently to be able to scrape the carrots and fill the kettle-
Still no parson. Ten o’clock arrived, and the bride*
groom, who had grown hi!arise 3, appeared indifferent,but
the bride, who, from oran?e-flowers and white linen,
had come down to tears and brown alpaca, became,
when she heard the chimes of the D atch clock, com-
pletely “ crumpled up.” A council of war was then
held amongst the men, and at length one of them
volunteered to tide away till ho found a parson. A
herse was got and he started out irto the deluge. At
two in the morning he returned, accompanied by some-
thing dark inside a gigantic ulster. It was the parson.
The guests were then roused, the bottles hid away, the
bridegroom pumped on, and the bride, who had been
lying down behind a strong bolt upstairs, was told to
prepare. In, a few moments, she oame down smiling,
looking lovely too, a bit of a saucepan smear over htr
right eyebrow belag scarcely perceptible; and, before
you could say “John Lncas,” they were raarrled-
.... About ten o’clock, a smug parson oame
ambling up to the house, and knocked at the door.
“What do you want?” cried the groom, in a muffle!
voice. “I’mtheKev Mr, So-and-So,” was the reply-
“ Too late," growled the happy man; “ wa’re hitched.
The other cave has jumped your claim.” “But, my dear
friend—.’’ “Oh, bother; we ain’t visible.” “Bat,
really—ah, when do you think you will be visible ?”
inquired the parson. “ Next month," was the gruff
rejoinder, and, as this was followed by a very loud kiss,
the good man tapped his pony with the handle of his
umbrella, and rede thoughtfully away.
* “ Soelerat maudit.”
A UNIVERSITY SECRET.
FOR MATRICULANTS ONLY.
GENTLEMAN-OUT-OF-LUCK (disgusted): "I don’t want none o’ yer soup tickets, they ain’t
no good to me.”
AFFLUENT GENTLEMAN (who has been enabled to buy a public reserve cheap): "It isn’t a
soup ticket, my good fellow. It’s a ticket for Parkes' banquet. Do say you’ll come.”
A LITTLE STOREY.
It was—this item wo got straight
From someone in exalted station—
A few days prior to the late
Big ’Varsity Comomoration :
Assemble all matriculants,"
Quoth Dr. Badham, who obeyed is ,
And'nearly all of ’em wore pants.
But in the crowd were two nice ladies.
“ Now listen,” cried the learned Chawles,
“ The Chancellor’s dire ire it rouses
To see, on stall days, In these halls.
Matriculants in fancy trousers!
No grey, nor check, nor plaids,—’’ but, there.
His discourse suddenly was broken ;
He coughed, gazed on those ladies fair,
And wished to—blank—he hadn’t spoken.
BROWN: “ See here, Jones, I never smoke, and never drink anything stronger than tea, and
ain’t I a much better man—mentally and physically—in consequence ?"
JONES (doubtfully): “Hu-u-n-m!”
“ She could not read nor write. She told the
magistrate she had been sent to church, bat did not
know why or wherefore. She told him she said her
prayers, but did not know to whom she addressed then.*’
—Evening Commissioner.
M ss Storey was a little girl
(Her Christian name was Jane),
And, lo, she helped her mother turn
The mangle in Balmain.
She turned the mangle all day long.
And then took out the clothes;
And so her time was limited
For school, you may suppose.
For, when the handle got a rest.
Her work was far from done:
She had to scrub the flaors, and take
The baby iu the sun.
Just run with “ father’s dinner,” and
Wash up, too, as directed ;
Her schooling, therefore, just became
A little bit neglected.
On Sundays, she was up at six,
(She’d gone to bed at one).
And got the breakfast, peeled the greens,
And put the 'taters o".
Got out her brothers’ Sunday suits,
Made all the beds; to you’ll
Agree with us, she couldn’t waste
Much time on Sunday school.
POPULAR SONGS ILLUSTRATED.
No. I.
“Love not, love not, the thing you love may dye.”
One morn, Jane down the street did peep
(A thing girls should avoid).
When “shaking’’ figs, 10, she beheld
That naughty Charley Boyd !
She over rune, and tells *• the man,”
Who Charley quickly eojis;
Aud, next day, Janey makes her first
Appearance “in the box.”
“ Come, take the book,” the sergeant said —
She took it, nothing loth ;
“ Do yor," the Beak said, “ understand
The nature of an oath ? ’’
Then little Jane looked up and down.
And loudly sobbed—“ Boohoo!
I’m very sorry. Mister, but
I’m blessed, sir, if I do.”
She didn’t know what Heaven was—
Had never heard of Hell—
Knew neither Saul, nor Joseph,'
Whom they lowered down a well;
Had nothing read of David, bnt
At Samuel made a start:
“ I see that one larst Toosday, sir.
He drives a baker’s cart."
The story of the mustard-seed
She didn’t know a jot—
The only mustard that she knew
Was in the mustard-pot
At Fharoah, too, she shakes her heal.
And Aaron, she supposes,
First saw the light in that gay song
Of “ * Eight you are! ’ says Moses.”
The Justice shook his head in grief—
“ Sit down, my child,” he said :
“ How can I swear one who has not
Of gentle Joseph read ?
And as for you, there, prisoner.
Yon stole the flgs, I know;
But as of Saul nor David she
His heird, why—you may go.”


He went up country and shot in an optional
sweepstakes for a silver cup. To the astonishment of
competitors, pigeons, and himself, he managed to win
tho cup, which he took home and gave to the lady he
ought to have loved. Woman-llke, she was not satis-
fled, There was no one thing in the world she hated
more than a silver cup. She intended to send the cup
at once down to the jeweller’s, and exchange it for some
dessert knives and forks. When the post came next day,
he was overjoyed on reading Dear Sir,-We have
received one silver enp from yon, for which wo hare
allowed you £l5, thus leaving the balance of your
account due to us, £2056 lls. ?d., for which a cheque
will greatly oblige yours truly. Silver, Smith and Co."
He only shoots in competitions now when tho words
“ or specie" figure in largo fetters.
England evidently means blood. The Duke o!
Teck has been appointed to Sir Garnet Wolseley’s stall
in Egypt. This gentleman, it will be remembeied, was
fortunate enough to wed Princess Mary of Cambridge,
an alliance which obviated for His Serene Highness the
necessity for devouring the humble Bologna forevei
and for ever. Up to the present time the Duke’t
battle-field experiences have been confined to laying
ihe odds at Epsom and and when Mrs
Kousby was alive, it was rumoured that the PHncess’i
hub. was rather a giddy boy. It might have been only
rumour, of course, but ro sooner did the Duke extend
his patronage to “ ’Twixt Axe and Crown," than Mr
E. retired to a two pair back in Jersey. There is one
thiig certain. The Duke’s appointment can do no
harm. By tho time he gets to the front there’ll be
nothing left to fight, bar skeletons; but doubtless it
will prove a source of amusement to both Prince
Arthur and the Duke to be driven about old battle-
fields skull-collecting in a perambulator.
They were seated
around the fire in the
men’s hut on the out-
station, Murrutnbra.
Old man Wilson was
certainly 70, and called
himself 83 so as to re-
collect Waterloo, and
generally play the old
chronicle. He was
cook, and the last out-
rage was for him to set
up as a judge of wool.
“ Look here old man,”
spake a man who loved
a lie and would have it
fresh; “ we’ve stood
all your talk about
what you saw in Tra-
falgar, and how you
picked np Charles the
First’s head when it
dropped; butdaugham-
mit if we’re goin’ to
have you turn wool
classer. Do you un-
derstand wool ?” “Do
I understand wool?”
lied the old man,
“ should think I did. I
mind the first sheep
over landed in—*
“ That’ll do, Mothusa-
leh. You’re the man
we want. Here’s two
samples ofjwool; which
do you think is the
best ? " (One sample
had been taken from
a pat lamb and the
other from a poodle )
The old man carefully
turned them over while
the boys pretended to
make their bets. Just
then the poodle rushed
in, and the aged man
thought he saw through
the joke. Youth re-
turned, as bis ancient
eye twinkled, and he
laughed till he cried,
and then summed up
the crowd:—“Thought
to floor the old man,
did you ? Ha, ha,
you’re just 50 years too
late. They’re both off
the dog!”
* « *
Mr. Eli Johnson,
the temperance lec
turer (another disinterested vessel —“ prices 3 s., 25., and
Is.") has brought with him a select assortment of
stomachs, which he has bottled up to exhibit the e Asets
of alcohol on the system. Well, prior to lecturing at a
nameless suburb the other day, he left his props, for a
few hours in the dressing-room of the School of Arts,
while he did a friendly muffin-munoh with the Satan
slaughterer. The lecture commenced, and was soon In
full swing, when, bolding up a bottle whoso contents
were of a very dark colour, Eli cried —“I have shown
you the stomach pink and pure of the total abstainer :
see now that of the guzzler cf alcohol." He held the
bottle then to the lamp, and a thrill of horror went
through the audience. “ This'corrupt mass, cried the
lecturer, is to what the use of spirits reduces the human
interior." Jutt then a little boy in the shilling seats
piped out—“lf you please, that ain’t a stomach, sir:
them’s pickled walnuts." And so they were. “Some
fiend in human form," &o. The boy, however, was
frowned down, and, taking up a horse-liver, the eloquent
Eli went on with his illustrations.
* * *
His wife was at a friend’s lawn-tennis party,
and he, Blank, intending to join her, had gone home to
don his flannels. He let himself In by the latch-key >
proceeded upstairs, and saw a sheet-enveloped figure
ruth hurriedly from the bath-room. It was the cook
having a hot bath in the absence of her mistress. He
wished his wife to remonstrate, bnt she put the job
back on him, so he summoned Mary apd wound up
his harangue with : “ Now, Mary, I don’t mind your
having a hot bath, but I do object to your doing
behind my back what you would not do before my
face." Mrs! Blank bene interfered, and says she will
>a future undertak the task of lecturing servants.!
Woodward’s Oyster Saloon, 10 p.m. Place
crowded. Enter a fussy old Government official,
dressed in the costume of the days of George 1., and as
the waiter skips up the fussy old one says : “ Have you
any really good, prime, fresh “Yiessir,”
replies the waiter, “reg’lar bull dogs, sir.” “Ah!
well, I do not require boll dogs, as you term them, but
if you hare the proper kind in the proper condition to
assimilate the gastric juice, please take half a pint—
not too fat mind—neither let them be too thin, but
just in that happy medium of which Virgil sang; care-
fully strain the juice, leaving, however, about enough
to cover the bivalves ; carefully put them in a saucepan
—a now one If you have it—if not, one that has been
carefully scoured and dried, then add a little Wollon-
gong butter, and some real, pure milk; place the whole
over a fire, and be sure to keep the ingredients con-
stantly stirred, so that they will nob burn—be particu-
lar about that —watch the saucepan attentively, so that
you can whip it off at the exaet moment, then have a
nice, deep, warm dish at band, so that, you can pour tho
Savoury meal into it, at once, and then let me have it in
a private parlour. Now, do yon think you can remem-
ber that?” Tho waiter, didn't reply, but merely
slouched down to the spout and called out in sten-
torian tones— “Waa stew,” ,
BRIEF MENTION.
“ Will you have an Eli Johnson r ”
A bribe is a douceur given before the fact; a
present is a donation received after fact.
Alphabet John loq. : “Give poor old Jack a
lift." Sir John : “ Well, so help my," &o. &o.
From our exchanges wo learn that a new
butcher’s shop has been opened in Queanbeyan.
John Davies on the Licensing Bench. From
that fountain of Justice will now proceed nothing
stronger than cold water.
The date of the Czar’s coronation has been
definitely fixed for 7th September. Alexander will
probably be crowned with a percussion cap.
The editor of the Cumberland Independent
tells a correspondent named ‘•Annie" that he keeps a
bull-dog. He is evidently discreet on the subject of the
mangle.
“ Ogle, a defrauding clerk, has denied his iden-
tity," says a telegram. That i«, like Byron’s travesty,
on Berkeley, Mr. Ogle—” Woula wear his head denying
that he wears it."
If you wish to copy a picture you can’t do it in
the Gallery of Art. Yon must apply to the Govern-
ment in 1883, and in lbB2 Government will undertake
to postpone the matter till 1381.
HjThe Campbblltown Hkkat.d considers last
week’s Bulletin n splendid number. And there are
four Good Templars on tho staff of the C. H. O, let us
be joyful. We are understood at last.
Mr. All worth, of the Anglo-Israel Association,
wishes to “ identify" the Ten Lost Tribes. And this iu
face of the fact that most of us dart arouni a corner
when we see the bsard of auy member of a surviving
tribe.
Withers returns with Parkes in the “ John
Elder." Tbit happens well. That outfit will now do tor
the outgoing “ war corrof pendent." The only addition
be will require to his equipment will be “ Heuniker’a
Horse."
A yountr man named Charles Blumo, has been
arrested at Mount Gambia SA, for threatening to
shoot his father because he had married a second time.
Charles should have waited. The old man will soon
shoot himself.
It is rumoured that the oulchawed John Davies
objects to being alluded to as a “ lit and proper person,”
and he will decline to contest auy future election un-
less he is proposed as a “fit and propah gentleman."
Newcastle papers please copy.
And yet it is hardly more than a dozen years
since Mr. (now Sir) Henry Parkes spoke of under-
ground John as “ the man Davieo ’’ who was impudently
accustomed to prowl about the corridors and visitors’
rooms of the Legislative Assembly.
J.P. is at a registry office, transacting some
delicate birth business—" for a friend." Clerk (point-
ting to signature)—“ So that is your name?" J.P.
“Ves." Clerk: “But what were you christened?’’
J.P.: “ Don’t ask impertinent questions 1"
Small Spiritualist: “ Bradlaugh’s committed,
I see.” Small ditto: "Yes. Hearties* persecution of
un, isn’t it. I’m in daily fear of Posbery reading my
transmogrification of the Bingey. Once he does, and
the dungeon’s my lot.” Goes away and posts I. one.
“What’s the price?” enquired a suburban
resident of a Parkes banquet-ticket hawker. " Twenty -
five shillings the banquet and speeches, or five-bob the
orations only," was the reply. “ Then give us a
pound's worth," was the suburbanite’s lightning re-
joinder.
Mr. Copeland, M.L.A., in writing about the
Malays in the Herald, says that smoking opium had
only the effect of making him a little more st mid than
usual. Since reading this a requisition has been for-
warded to him by his constituents entreating him not
to smoke opium.
Artistical Alfred has lately gone into raptures
over that new basso, Herr Obmaun. It would redound
more to Alt’s, credit if he said a good word for the pea-
man, who for years has perched nis can in front of the
Nooze and fed (on the time-payment system) half the
staff of that (esthetic journal.
A very distinguished musician, well known in
Melbourne, but now living down South, once engaged
as Schoolmaster on board aN. Z. emigrant ship. He
used to give them A. B. C. and two-and-two are four,
from 9 to 10, declare the rest of the dav a half-holiday,
and—j Din the ladies I” —that’s whore the fun came in.
Mr. Henry E. Begg advertises thus in the
Abmidale Express : “Dingo Scalp*. —At Tbalgarrah
these will not be received from dogs under 3 months
old. Parties must bring in the whole pups,” &i. This
is chousing the poor dogs, who are In the habit of
bringing in dingo scalps, out of their means cf honest
living.
The reason only 2714 exhibitors received first
prizeo at the Christchurch (N.Z ) Exhibition is, only
2713 exhibited. The odd man died from lockjaw,
brought on by trying for two days to persuade a juror
that his patent self-acting rat-trap* were the best in
the whole world, and always used by her Majesty Queen
Victoria.
In order to make the Sydney University meet
the wants of a young community, it. is proposed to
establish a chair of log-rolling, and it has bsen sug-
gested by a few friends that the first Professorship
should be offered to Mr. , or Mr. , or Mr. ,
or Mr. , or Mr. , or Mr. (Dear niends,
you know).
What a change! His orders (per letter) in
London. “Rite al about the triket match spair no
exoeuse to pntny take the bus both ways.” His oiders
(viva voce) in Sydney. “ Here I You're down for the
leutral, the Council, the Inquest at Parramatta. Public
Meeting at the Temperance Hall, and the lioyal. And
no loitering, you hear ?"
Should the Pockataroo dummying business be
sheeted home to the right quarter ana should it please
Jjck Robertson to set iu motion the pen,,! clauses of
the Land Act, the enterprising fix (and one or two
other peiph) will find that they have exchai g-;d tbo
erysipelas hospital, Parramatta, for the gaol, D irlißg-
hurst. Two years the limit.
A correspondent writes : —“ My batcher (he lives
in Woolloomooloo) charges me sixpence u pound for
chops cut from the ca-cas-es of old stags, which, after
long and useful domestic careers, have been sold for
dogs’-meat. Their bodies arra aromatic with thearoma
of the ancient billy-goat, and tough with tho-fcoughne-s
of the hide of John D ivies. I’ve seen butchers feut
to gaol in other colonies for daring to sell much better
moat.”
From Friday’s
Twaddlegraph we
learn that, at the Ma-
sonic Ball, a “ lady had
on a black bodice, cut
lew, with a wreath of
fl iwers from the shcu'-
der, and a garnet sash,.
the whole combining to
make an elegant cos-
tume." tfice cool cos-
tume.
An old colonist
tells a yarn how he
and three or four
others were cnc#
wrecked off the coat*
of Tasmania, and wore
in an open boat for a
fortnight before being
picked up, their only
“ provisions " being a
bottle cf castnr oil,
and a bar of soap,
which kept them in
lovely health until res-
cued.
The lodgers in a
Sydney hotel w. re
startled one night re-
cently by the most un-
earthly yells proceed-
ing from a bedroom.
Lights were procured,
and they found a man
desperately holding
down Ills pillow on tfco
floor, and yelling for a
knife. i!o was u but-
■•her; his trouble was
jimjiras; and ho
thought ihe pillow was
a sheep.
The Californian
mail steamer arrived
here on Faturday
night. None of the
newspapers brought by
her were delivered at
this office until Tues-
day morning; some of
them did not come to
hand until Tuesday
afternoon. The N S W.
Boat Office, which ap-
pears to be, am oi g
othtr 1 hinge, a den of
thieves, is the most,
wretchedly-m a n a ged
department in the
colonies.
The other day aeon-
stable chanted a res-
pectable publican with
selling liquor to an
aboriginal. It was
proved that the “ abo-
riginal” in question,
is a decent, intelligent
carpenter, who, born
of a half-caste mother,
had a good old Scotch-
man for his father, and
is, in the opinion of his
neighbours, a good deal
better man, both in
education and in man-
ners, than his “ zeal-
ous ” persecutor in
blue. The “foorce"-
are evidently not eth-.
nological adepts.
“ Lend yon twventy poun ?” said a well-know I*’ 1 *’
Hebrew obiiger to a certain prominent citizen, “veil
(loan know—vat security ?’’ " Security I’* exclaimed;
the citizen, “why I’ve been libelled in four ditt’erens
papers." “ Vas de libels true ?" “ Well between our-
selves it was." “Den sthep inside; I loan you dat
money sthraight avay."
The Boyal Society are offering prizes for essays.
The embryology, &o , of marsupials is one. No illus-
tration is to be drawn from political life. It was
thought the enquiry would branch out into one bearing
on the how and why that politicians find themselves
attached to the nipple of offl -e, and, after sticking there
for a time, can hop about unaided for ever after.
“ Aw, what’s the shooting like up heah ?” asked
Mr. Verdant Green of a half-caste stockman on the
Never-Never. •* Oh. blonty shoot now, Masa’r Green,"
replied the salmon-coloured party. “ Indeed," tnid
Verdant, “ wild turkeys, kangaroos, and ducks, I
presume?” “Ducks be 1" returned the stock-
man, with a contemptuous sneer; “ no, but blonty black-
fellows.
This scene is laid in that oockroach-hanntcd
lazarette called the Insolvency Court, Sydney. His
Honor to tie defendant (a poor corporation laborer) :
*' Now, you must pay something, no matter how smi>ll
—can you pay 10s a month ? Insolvent: *• Is it me pay
tin shillins yer Wnrship, begorra I can’t—but I could
pay 5-. a week av* they wouldn’t press me.’* * Soileuce
in th’ coort."
“ I hope he will grow up to be a credit to you,”
said Mrs. Montmorenoi Jones (her husband’s in the
Lands) in a conciliatory tone, as she stroked the curly
head of the merchant’s little son. “ I hope, marra,
he’ll do nothing of the kind," replied the sartorial one
in significant tones; " I'Ve plenty of credits about
already—l should like some of my children to turn into
cash on delivery."
At a public meeting, presided over by Charles
Bright, it was unanimously carried that there is no
Hell—except for persons who borrow the Bulletin,
That was bad enough, but now Dr. Moorhouso says
there’s no Heaven. If this is the “ straight tip," where
in thunder is a fellow to go to ? Joe Hook ought to ..ee
to this, and start a little heaven of his own in “ B»w-
-sting." There’s thousands in it, Joseph—but then
again, if you started a hell, and got a fair and impartial
jury, you’d rake in millions.
“CORNERED!”
“GUR-R-R! I COULD INVOLVE YOU ALL!”
ODE TO JOHN DAVIES.
O John,
Awe-struck we gaze upon
All thy,titles, and on thee,
And wonder
What in and thunder
Men can see
In thine or thee.
That thon shouldst be
L.M., J.P.,
1.0.
And C.M.G.,
O John!
0 John,
Great Chairman, and so on.
Though we don’t think much of thee.
By thunder,
We’d give up —’s plunder,
If that we
Far once could be
As great as thoe—
L.M., J.P.,
1.0.
And C.M.Q.
O John 1
“JUDAS WEPT.”
And dost thou weep, thou slimy thing ?
The rancid unction drips
From out thy upturned eyes this time
As well as from thy lips,
Thon’st wept, and whined, and sworn, and pledged
Thy honour— O what bit
Of verdigris-encrusted brass
Hast thou obtained on it ?
Thy carcase does not hold the tears
Of fire and blood that I
Shed like the life of hope, because
Of thy vile treachery;
So all that may be hoped frem thee.
By him thy baseness tricked.
Is bnt the yelp of sneaking thief
Caught in the act, and kicked.
O, never dove so soft as thee—
So feeling for thyself;
O, never crocodile less soft
When softness brings no pelf.
Yet didst thou weep— Why do I talk ?
Each day, each year, each hour.
Give thee the bribe, and thou wilt give—
How joyfully—the shower 1


SATURDAY, AUG
ROOKWOOD
18 GOOD BUILDING AND B
dcoe to tb» Stati
FRONTING IHR RA
Ann and Paik Str
VINE ELEVATED
on the
NORTH SIDE OF TI
Mills, pile, and gilchi
siructcd tos«ll hr a notion,
On SATURDAY, AU
at 3 o’clock,
1.8 LOTS, close to THE STAI
3 LOTS front CHURCH STB
RAILWAY, 7 LOTS front PAI
LOTH front ANN-STREET, oppos
COTTAGES.
THESE LOTS are the most e
NORTH SIDE OP THE LINE,
healthy building land.
Llthos. at the Rex
Title good. Terms
ARM&TROHI
HYGIENIC & REUABLI
[Registered under the Trade hi
Armstrong’s (Camomile) L
Pills
Stand UNRIVALLED as a GS
APERIENT for INDIESTION
in the Head and Chest, HABITUA
HEARTBURN, Giddiness, Wind S)
of the Eyes They promote a HE
the STOMACH and BOWELS, h
nor sickness, and are confidently re
Is., 2j., and 3s.
Armstrong’s Remedy fo:
Bleeding Pil
Is recognised by MEDICAL MB
EMPIRICAL MEDICINE, being
cues" for this hitherto intraotabh
pain, and arrest of hemorrhage. C
upon in from 24 to 49 hours •t*. 6d
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON 1
Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s Conoentral
Plaid Bssent
Of EXTRACT OF RED JAMAICA
in combination with DANDELION
the removal and permanent cure o;
DISEASE, arising from an impure
the BLOOD, Chronio RHEUMA
DEBILITY, Affections of the C.
Price, 3s. 6d,, 10s. 6d , 21s.
A. A. DEBNEY
13 HUN PER STREET,
PORTMANTEAUX.
TRUNKS OF EVERY DE
A. A. DEBNEY
Hare juot opened a large Sbipm
HOSIERY, MERCERY, £
COLLARS, and EVERY
That hat-trick.
A fruit-seller is “ peaching ” now.
John Davies sick. The public sick too.
“ When thieves fall out,” etc. You know.
What makes meat so dear ? The butchers,
m'beath, garrett, lucas, baker, day, taylor,
dftvies, and
The authorised Victorian bookmakers have to
wear badges. “ Sufferance is the badge of all on
iribe."
Who owns the Twaddlegraph ? Is it Pro-
fessor Stanich, or Professor Hume, or Phrenologist
Simms ?
When a man takes a libel action against a
newspaper, he should reflect that ho never can toll how
soon he may be in gaol himself.
“ Egoist,” was all the Mayor of Plymouth said
when Sir 'Enry stepped on board the outward bound
Orient liner. The pun became popular.
And is’t for this, Old Girl, thy staff
Do burn “ the midnight taper ? "
*• La Tamps 1" This time we mean no chaff,
There’s really no such paper.
The Herald “ Paris, June 29.—An interest-
ing letter from one of the Alexandria, correspondents
<>f La Temps (sic) throws rather a different light on the
events of the Uth of Jane, at Cairo.”
Says a country paper “ Our chiefest pleasure
consists in trying to the utmost of our ability to raise
the moral tone of society." We read this with sorrow.
When we knew him, his ohiefest pleasure consisted in
V ayiug the moral game of three-up for two driuks.
Parkos used to sleep in his JJ400 bed at the
Colonial Secretary's office; but since his departure the
gorgeous couch has, for a variety of reasons, been
unoccupied— officially speaking, of course. The clerks
say that Henry should have had a £500 bath as well.
John Ferguson gravely remarks that “ Senor
Sagasta, Premier oi Spain, has received an infernal
machine. It w as evidently sent for the purpose of
destroying him." Poor old Fergy 1 He little thought
tuat the infernal machine in question was a copy of his
own paper 1
It is said (hat a director of a certain institution
where the obildren never suffer from ophthalmia or
other than the ‘‘primest cuts,” has had pork and
pumpkins ** free, gracious, and for nothing," ever
eince he has attached his name to the list of patriots
who regularly receive tneir nimble eight-pence.
At Rockhampton, J.P. addressing prisoner :
" It >s not so very long ago since yon were bound over
to keep the pence. What did you beat the manlike
that for?” “ Well, plaza yor Honour, 'twas a fortnight
after me pace was tnat I bate him. I thought when the
six months were over I could do what I loiked.”
WHICH IS IT?
Mtsi Southon c ays the small-pox nurse
Was always tight and often worse;
While nurse. Miss 8. does plainly state,
Was oft in a “ degraded state.”
Now, were both neither —let's be right—
Ur always never sometimes tight ?
Judge Josephon retires in December and goes
home; Mr. Dillon, 8.M., will probably succeed him,
thus leaving a vacancy worth £800 a year. Who'll get
(he chairmanship ? Isn't it true that John davies was
designed for it, end that his recent appointment was
made to give him a leg in ? Tnis is worse than
turkey."
When, the other day, blaekfellow Jango escaped
from Kockhaiupton gaol he was caught after a mile or
two's run. It was fortunate for the police that they
were not called on to use their shooting-irons, for on
their return it was discovered that though tier had
taken plenty of ammunition not a round would fit one
of their rifles.
If any man is in want of a religion, he can’t get
it from Joseph Cook and Dr. Eenwiok. The rev.
Bostonian “ replies " to the Agnostics, or know-noth-
ings, and the Doctor to the know-alls. This leaves to
the enquiring mind only the region where nothing is
known or unknown—in other words, he is shut up to
politics and jury procedure.
At—say Waverloy. Tall, aristocratic-looking
new chum .knocks at. the door of swell mansion. It
is opened by the mister of the bouse, who has just re-
turned from a business trip to Europe. “ Ii Mrs Mao-
flirtor in?" enquired the caller. “ Yes, sir; l ut, 1 am
Mr. Maiflrter Whatcm—" " Are you, indeed ?" was
thewapl.v ; “ often heard of you, < Id boy, but Idon'twant
you. I want ih > missis." Walks in
The dogs in the Wimmera district are so hungry
now that th iy chase the mailman and eat his boots and
his bag?. And they ate so cunning also that when the
gentle shepherd planes a let of mutton nlcslv powdered
with arte do on thsir trank, they carry it beck to his
hut, compel his own dog to lick the poison off, and then
go for the mutton with nil ihe vim of a King-street
reporter going for a bar luncheon.
Directly 250 new chums read on the board out-
side the ti krald that O'Brien, in Wnzuela, bad con-
reused to the murder of Loid Cavendish and Mr. Burke,
and was to be forwarded to England, they held a meet-
ing in their common boiler, and unanimously resolved
to emulate O'Brien's example In a few weeks, there-
fore, we may look for ‘‘startling disclosures” outside
Alfred’s board, with ‘‘appalling details" promised in
the “ enckin edishuu."
The artilleryman, Frederick C. A. Thompson,
who got impalea whilst attempting to climb over the
iron-railings in the Sydney Domain, on Wednesday
week, has died in the hospital from the effects of the
shocking wound he received. Poor devil I he is less
fortunate than the other nun (not in the artillery hot
in the underground engineering service) who, though
he has also been impaled ou the “ railings," has not
yet given up the ghost.
Lovely woman’s innocence and virtue in a
Northern town The barmaid " eggs on " the sonorous
swaiu, who seeks to see hor alone. The housemaid is
“ planted" in the rendezvous chamber. The lips of the
amorous youth would fain search for the love dew on
Hebe’s damask cheek, when —“ Uo-oth I Help 1" and the
housemaid apptarelh. Then doth the amorous youth
sing out gruffly: “ Jim, paddle up my mare, and bring
her round," while ho counteth out £20 to *• hush it
up."
There is a litt'e rustic town,
A thady sylvan nook,
We ll call it—well—come 1 Camperdown,
The first name iu the book.
The “fid” there is some com to put
Iu lan >' at two pound odd a (got,
And now boys wn'U explain it: —
Manipulate the local rates,
Put coin upon the estimates.
And drain it.
Ii r. Clarendon Stuart don’t like to soo parsons
straggle into t he Synod with iirper. brgi Ob, indeed.
Thai, tbows the little he luownof clo’gyumn. why,
if llepo gold men didn’t cairy a threa'and-Bixpenny
Hrus-ele, wh« re iu thunder would lh«v put t heir " go-
loshes," Spiritual pisiol, copy of “Motn-.," and the
chartered sermon? A clergyman without Mr hsg!
Pooh ! A Paladin without his sword—a sel-otor with-
out his grievance—“ Cupid " without his wig ! K. dilut-
ions 1 It’s treatoc, besides. So banish, holy Lays, this
Modern Clarendon!
David Buchanan is open to fight anything his
weight up to the whole ot Arani Pasha's army. H s
last opponent was a deid maa bv the name ot Skoba
ioffl David knocked him stiff in two rounds. The
oasus belli was this. Skobelotf married a lady, and, ira-
medUudy the ceremony was over, ho left her for
ever We don't set much harm iu that; in foot it
would bo better for many a married woman here if her
husband had done tne same. David s next tussle will
be with Pontius Pilate, whom he accmes of bribery
and gross corruption.
Police Constable A , while chasing a hut
robber, up Mansro wsv. went into a pun, forrtfresb-
uient and a nap. While sleeping, he dreamt he
caught tie robber at two next day. And it came to
piss that the dream came true Somehow policemen’s
dreams generally do come true. We knew a vonug
crusher onc-i who dreamed that he prs-e.<sed a terrace
of houses. He was in the country then. A few months
afterwards, he was removed to town, aid given a uight
beat somewhere in Georgo-street at Christmas time.
His dream came true also.
A constable, the other day, brought a man to
the station, who was found, on being searched, to have
£IOO on him. Much surprise was openly expressed in
court on this circumstance coming out in evidence and
the Bench were profuse in their encomia on the police-
man's honesty. These magisterial praises appeared to
highly disgust a Behind-the.Rail!te; for on the inebriate
being fined in the usual amount, he gruffly ejaculated—
** Honesty be jammed I Tho cove *ad the bloomin’ coin
inside of *is flannel vesket.’’ He knew. He had “run
the rule’’ over the ** party” himself.
Stdket Mail, please copy.
Truly we have to go abroad to pet news about
ourselves. Ba:is the Colonies and India Muddle:
*' When tho Chinese costermongers and market-gar-
deners of Sydney recently struck work as a protest
against the insults which were showerfd upon them
during the height of the anti-Chinese agitation, the
population had to beg them to resume their services, as
they hsd no one obe to take t-htir place.” And yet onr
Agent-Qe • eral, and Henniker Heaton, ana Sammy
Wilson are in England, and oalmly allow the barbarians
there to talk like this about the finest country in the
whole world.
Certain virtuous Post Office officials frowned
so darkly on the unholy sporting “consultations** lhat
tho operations of the s weepmakers were much retarded.
The frowning was done in this fashion. The consulta-
tion letters usually contained £L, and were for the most
part unregistered Many of them were prevented from
g-ung astray by some light-fingered employees in the
Sydney office. All efforts on the parts of the depart-
ment U chiefs to trace tha money were unsuccessful.
Suspicion, bowerer, fell on toe letter-carriers, and
were taken to trap them. First, all the postmen—
some of whom had been in the service over twenty
yea's-were ordered off their old baats; no discovery,
however. Then tha department took the extravagant
step of putting ten marked sovereigns in as many let-
ters—addressed to certain places Twelve clerks were
appointed to jump iuto twelve cabi, aad pursue twelve
postman, and the mom:nt each postman bad passed
fhe place to which the aforesaid letter was posted, he
was tapped on tho shoulder by th* clerk, and oompel’el
to jump into the cab and harry back aad be searched.
The men awergtd from tha ordeal scatheless, and the
joke otdy came in when it was found that four o' the
sovereigns had been stolen, and that there was still no
trace. 'I he officials row foythat a recent arrest indi-
oat«s where their judgment was at fault. But on this
point the public have yet to bo saUifled. The amounts
ot money stolen in the Sidney office have been so large
of late that—well, bur, »f course there’s the libel law.
Aprepes, •* tho bosies” out out the bottoms of the let-
ter-carriers’ breeches-pookets when the garments are
delivered by the tailors.
The Hon. John Frazer, M L C.
Wk give on our front page this week a portrait of
the Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C. Mr. Frazer is the
founder of one of the moat successful and influ-
ential houses of business in the colonies, and is a
sterling representative of the class of men who
have given to Sydney the mercantile stability she
enjoys te-day. tie has for some tim* now retired
from business, but the spirit of enterprise which
has ever manifested itself throughout his career
keeps him still engaged in works of great benefit
and profit to the community. He has largely
invested capital in building operations in various
parts of th« city ; and, judging from their extent,
it is clear Mr. Frazer’s business judgment leads
him to expect continued mercantile prosperity for
the metropolis And if, as a merchant, Mr. Frazer
has been very successful, he has won no less
prominence ft»r his disinterested and philanthropic
services. He has lent valuable aid to the cause
of education, and in various other ways has mani-
fested a lively interest in the general welfare of
the people. About ten years ago he was
nominated to the Upper House, and, though
not taking a prominent position there, he has
brought to that oranoh of the legislature a large
amount of much-needed practical common sense.
Mr. Frazer was born at Dromore, Ireland, in 1826.
and when sixteen years of age came out to this
colony. Seven years later he began business on his
own account. In 1853 he married a daughter of
Mr. James Fwan. Mr, Frazer has twice visited
Europe since 1868, and on one occasion, in 1876,
prior to his departure he was entertained in the
Sydney Exchange at a large and influential ban-
quet. Just recently Mr. Frazer added to his nu-
merous beneficial donations by forwarding to the
Mayor of Sydney, Mr. John Harris, the sum of
,£lOOO for drinking fountains for the city. (Our
portrait is from an excellent photo, by Freeman,
of Qaorge-street.)
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
A little boy, whoso parents attend the Scots
Chnrch, Charoh Hi I, S.dnoy, asked his Ma: "Does
God live in the Charoh?” Ho was informed that ho
had struck on the very spot Ha pondered a few
moments, and then : ** Does God like dead oats in his
grounds? And the guttering all in holt a ? I wonder
he don’t mote around to a Wynyard Square boarding,
house,{which ’ud be ever so much more comfortable,"
The Sydney Liberal Association has made an
offer, in accord with its name, to one of the moat
gifted secular st lecturers in England, to deliver a
course ot lectures in Australasia.
On May 14, the Rev. Father Murphy was cele-
brating eight o’clock Mass at the K.C. Church, Har-
rington street, Dublin. His tbeme was the Burke and
Cavendish murders. Getting vehement in his utter-
ances, be raised bis hand in warning, and was pro-
ceeding to say that "the blood of the murdered men
would cry for veng* ance," but he had only uttered the
word "blood," when Kis voice faltered and paused.
Again ho attempted to go on with the sermon, and
scarcely had he said “ blood ” the second time than he
fell senseless on the altar, and was dead seven mi autos
after. Heart disease.
The parson of the Presbyterian Church at New
Plymouth, JN Z , has been equal to a dire emergency.
He couldn’t get his stipend piid, so he •• levied " on the
Church, bv putting a bailiff “in possession*’ of that
sacred ed flee Thu origin of all the row was the fact
that the minister had objected to the election as o der
of a church member who had been lined for having in
his possession unstamped and false weights. Quite
right, too.
• • •
Rev. George Napoleon Woodd, 8.A., Oxon,, for
forty yeais a clergyman of the Church of England in
this colony, and for the last twenty-seven years the
Incumbent of the Church of St. Mary the Virgin, Den-
ham Court, has resigned his cure and removed to
Sydney a Coavent is to be established at Cooma at
a coat ot about £3ouo, of which £lOOO was subscribed at
a meeting held the other day The Graphic says,
"Talmsge’s eloquence is grotesque, Beecher's bizarre,
Ingersoll’s skimpy, Newman’s smooth, Hall’s matUr-
of fact, Oohyet’r inborn, and Sierras’solidly ornate."
France contains 65.679 priests ot ail ranks Roman
Catholics of Wagga moving to make provision for the
education of the K.C children of ihe district, upon the
withdrawal ot fetate-aid at the end of the year......
"General” Booth has made an indignant protest in
London a gainst an accusation made that the " soldiers"
of the Saiva,iion Army dance. They only, ho says,
“ leap '* Just so—a pas seul by the whole Army
Proceedings are about to be initiated against Arch-
bishop Goold for alleged perjury in a recent equity
suit,
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A 48 hours’ go-as-you-please came off at Wil-
omnia lately; the distances, coveted by eanh com-
petitor. were—M’Dermott, 134 miles; Steve, 12 < miles
aid 12 laps ; O’Brien, 101 miles j and Deerfoct 111 miles
t 0 lap l ' A snow shoe race took place lately at Ria
dra. The shoe need re'omhlrd a narrow plank, abon
six feat long, slightly turned np and tipped at the toe*
the user's (eat being strapped in the middle
Brisbane paper 'a very rough on the footballers,
says that the promoters of the intercolonial contes
should have arranged for the Melbourne game, and tha
a third-rate Sydney team can beat them at the Hugh
game. There seem to be a lew who understand it, anc
more will in time learn it Thi first Art race
Australia took plaee in Sydney in 1810 on tha old rao
«onrse under the avspioe* of the officers of the 73rd
E!giment„,...N.B W. Coursing CJnbhave completed tl
arrangements for the purchase of New Plnrapton fro
Mr. Walter Lamb Tamworth Athletic Clu
have arrangel a programme for August 91h..
Mace is giving lessons in the noble art in Dunedin...
Burke and O’Connor run for the mile championship o
New Zealand and £lOO at Dunedin on September 12...
Mr B. W. Bennett has been elected captain of th
North Shore Bowing Club Spofforth bowl-d well
the Lancashire match It was the first time dnrini
this trip that he showed anything like his old form....
A match has been arranged between Mr. C. Dougla
Eeynardand Mr. C. Crowley’s Limerick for £2OO asld
t > be run on the Herberton Kaceoonrse on the 2nc
September A greyhound at Warrnambool (Vic
essayed to leap over a cutting about forty feet wide. 1
is needless to say that she did not clear the distance
but the went very tear to it, falling on to the blinc
ing close up to the wall on the opposite side
Mr. E. Stephens, of Pyrmont. has just completed t
the order of Mr. H. Pier, of Woolloomooloo Bay, on
of a brace of clinker outriggers. She is built of rec
cedar with white cedar box, and weighs 451 b. He
dimensions are Length, 30 ft ; beam, 11 in.; dept
amidships, 5 in.; forward, 3} in. j aft, 3 in,; length ol
slide, 2 ft. 3 in. The sister boat to this is on the stock
and win be completed shortly A Gun Club has b«e
formed at Tumut Another pigeon match for £2O
has been arranged at Forbes, between J, Workman anc
T. Strickland. Workman won the former match by lit
i) ..Lawn tennis is in full swing in the bingletondlstric
...Beach challenges Clifford, the Illawarra sculler, fo
a skiff race over the Parramatta Elver champion oonrs
(or £10.) a«ide A skenpowner in the Qselong distric
lus lost4Co lambs through the foxes Young Dutches
the champion light weight of tha universe, tells hi
Tamworth admirers that there is no one in the colon
can “do” him, not even Larry F.,ley. It would be
good spec, to arrange a boxing match under Queens
berry rales in Sydney between these two professors....
Hon. John Fates’ stables at Duokenfleld Park wer
burnt to the ground on 25:h July. The racehora
Comet and a thousand-gninea flllv were rescued wit
great difficulty, uninjured, but Boberto, Sunshine
and another racehorse were burnt to death....
A Wagga man wants to run Mick By an 300 yards....
At, Perth, the chief eity of Western Australia, a pnblioa
and a hairdresser were fined £.20 each fir gambling
They intend to appeal The following players hav
been selected for practice for the forthcoming match o
12th August against the Brisbane footballers : Brodie
Bennett,. Bayliss, Chapman (2), Greer, Cameron Drone
field, H. Pligg, F. Fhgg, Flynn, Graham, Liudeman
M’Manamey, M L'an. Pell, Phillips, Eeadford, Eaper
Kichmond, Haddington, Tango, Thallon, Thallon
Thompson, Vaughan, Wa’ker, Wareham.... ..The Hay
Jockey Club annual mee'ing was well attended. Th
balance sheet showed £lBO to the credit of the Club
after expending £lBO on permanent improvements....
Monday next, 7th August, first forfeits, Metropolita
Stakes and Melbourne Cup Messrs. Strickland anc
Avery, of Perth (W.A) have won in a raffle th
imported thoreugbred stallion, Strike, valued at £5OO .
...The Silver Cap given by the Froemantle (W.A.
Volunteers for prize shooting, was won by Privat
Chamberlain Twenty-five of the newly.formed Rugby
Club of West Maitland played the first twenty of th
Northumberland Club on Saturday, under Association
Bales, and won by five goals to one Mr. Horsfall
owner of the Auckland horse. King Qaail, entered foi
the Melbourne Cup, thinks Mr. Barnard “ slaughtered ’
him The N.Z cross-country horse, Clarence, was no
sent to Melbourne, on account of there not being
sufficient time to give him a fair show. He
will, probably, visit us at the end of the year
Ihe coursing for the Hepburn Trophy, under the
auspices of the Ballarat Coursing Club, was concluded
on Saturday, the stake being won by Mr. Parson’s
Puzzle, the runner-np being Mr. Naples’ Nimb1e........
Ac the Wyndham races at Werribee Paik (Vic.) on
Saturday, Doctor won the Selling Handicap ; Napoleon
won the Handicap Hurdles. Beadsman appropriated
the Wyndham Handicap by half a length. Morgan’s
Mameluke won the Handicap Steeplechase, and the
Werribee Park Handicap was an easy win for Larpent...
By Liberator’s victory in the flat race on Satnrday
week, at Melbourne, he incurs a penalty of Sib for the
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan, and Melbourne
Cap Motea, Darebin’s brother, having had a reason
at the stud, is to be put Into woik attain for racing
Capri, the winner of the Waterloo Coursing Cup, the
property of Mr. Cooper, was originally purchased by
him for £5O. Bather n big price for a dog, but very
small for a Wa’erloo Cup winner People ray thal
Mr. Wright’s Sparrow's time (63 min ) for the homing
from Mittagong (77 miles) is as good as any Europeat
tr American performance The Eaymond C C. held
its annual meeting on Friday last. During the past
season 30 matches were played, o( which 19 were won,
five lost, and six drawn. Following are the trophy
winners First batting, J. Wilson; second batting,
A. W. Baker; highest single Poore, G. Watkins; first
bowling, G. Watkins; second bowling, H. Daproy. A
special trophy for bowling was presented to Q. Harden...
The Toowoomba cricket clubs are arranging for a visit
from the Hon. Ivo Bligb’a team. An offer hae been
made to the Brisbane Cricket Association The East
Sydney and Petersham Clubs played a match on Moore
Park on Saturday, resulting in a victory for the former
by four goals seven behind- to one goal eleven behinds.
Mr. Andrew Town has gone in for a trotting
ntaliion, and has purchased one of the sires lately im-
ported from America to the order of Mr. Wilkin, of
Christchurch, New Zealand Ho i-Jaamed Blackwood
Abdallah, 3y eats o’d, aid is said t-* be a fine trotter
Our Boys played an Eist Sydney 23 on Saturday, on
Moore hark, and defeated them by six goals 15 behinds
to nil Uotbam and South Melbourne Clubs played a
match on the Melbourne Ground, on Saturday, result-
ing in a victory for the former by three goals to one
Geelong r. Melbourne football match was played at Gee-
long, on Saturday, resulting in a victory for Melbourne
by two goals, three behinds, to one goal, sixteen be-
binds In the football match, Bssendon v. East Mel-
bourne, on Saturday, the former obtained seven goals
to nil On Saturday, the South Adelaides beat the
South Parks by three goals to two.
• * •
Among the many huge svyeepstakes for the
Derby, which, despite the keen eyes of the myrmidons
"f the law, are annually got up, is the one which is eon-
fined to the Stock Exchange. The drawer of the Derby
winner netted £l2,oCoin return for £lOO expended in a
ticket. The House of Commons sweep, it is said, al-
lowed a first prize of £BOOO, while other smaller prizes,
which were, nevertheless, small fortunes In themselves,
were known to be in the market is circle' where betting
would, under it s ordinary guise, bo fro wi ed out of court...
A huge shark, weighing upwards of a ton, has
been caught at Marseilles. In its body were feund
three enormous tunny fish and a ham an head At the
Wimbledon Bifle Meeting, July 18, the Queen's Prize was
won by Lieut. Narenee, ot Dumbarton, with 64 points
Mr. E Wade has written to the New York Clipper to
call the attention of American long-distance peds to
the fact that “a few pounds may be picked up in the
Antipodes by anyone who is willing to meet a colonial
who can be backed (or a good round sum.” Walton,
the New York landlord, is said to have lost £BOOO in
England this Spring on American horses The winner
o( the Plate at the Goodwood Races on July 25th was
Fortissima, with Eeveller second, and Sabean third.
The Goodwood Cup, on the 27th, was won by Friday,
Tristan twing seoonr, nnd Geologist third The
annual 100 miles road trial of the London Bicvole Club,
from Bath to London, was rnn in April. H. E. Bey-
aold came in first in 7 hours 26 minutes, after a magni-
ficent race for the last twentv miles with Q. F Beck,
who ran second in 7 hours 27 minute'. Baiher ard
Newman ran a dead head for third place in 7 hours
43 minutes. Twenty-four men started, of whom four-
teen completed the distance within nine hours
A little ooy waa looking at some cricketers practising
Edinburgh in April. The batsman made a hard drive
a )d the ball struck the child in the chest, just over his
aramt and he dropped dead. Mr. W. Greener, the
London gan-maker, has invented a crimper for metal
cartridge-oases. By means of a set of studs fixed in the
h-ad of this machine, ridges of any given length can be
formed on the metal cases which hold the wad flr*ily
fa its place. When the gun has been fired, these ridges
d'sappear, and as the cartridge-case is blown into its
original shape, it can be used over and over agai a
It wa* not the vice-chancellor of Cambridge University
who entertained the Australian cricketers Ha was
simply a gn n st—the University Cricket Club did the
honours To show the interest taken in the Austra.
lian cricketers by the k nglish pubHc, it may be men-
tioned that several correspondents wrote to the Home
papers suggesting that each Australian should have a
number on his back, and a corresponding number be
put on the scoring card opposite his name, *o that the
ipactators might know him when in the field, It is
hardly necessary to ray that the suggestion was not
adopted, Jand indeed it is cot certain that the ticketing
hint was not intended as a bit of satire en the lasd/rom
which they came A decision of the American
Treasurer has been rendered to the effect tlat the
Scotch Yacht Madge, which won so many prises last
year, must pay dutv if sold to sn American. Why
not make an Affidavit that she wss imported
for breeding purposes? The evidence i* ra strong
in her case as in the case of Jumbo
Harry Thatcher, on May 6, attempted at Llllle-brldgo
Grounds, London (Erg,), *o repeal an alleged per-
formance of fairly walking 8 miles 848yds. in one hour,
but failed, giving np the attomp' after walking seven
miles in 52mln. SOsec W. p. Phillips, London
Athletic Club, ran in the 159 yds. handicap In his dab’s
games, April 28, bnt failed io score a victory. He won
his first trial heat from scratch in 16 3-6th sec. ; won by
his second in 18 1-5 h sec. : ran a dead beat for final
with J. P. Mnspratt, 6Jjds , L A.C., in IS 3 sth sec., bnt
was beaten by four yards in the deciding belt la 15
4-sth sec In the match Australians v. Gentlemen of
England, the prices for match tickets were—for the
covered stand, 20i,; for the uncovered stand, 10i...
Her Majesty, who is patroness of the Royal Northern
Yacht Club, has presented i Qi< en's Cup to be sailed
for at the regatta of the Club, ueld at Rothesay ou tho
Ist and 3rd of July. Soma years ago her Majesty pre-
sented a cup, valued at one hundred guineas, for a
contest at the regatta of this club on the Clyde.
BUSHRANGING WIRE.—NEW STYLE.
Three swashbucklers stuck Tom Gupltt up,
As it seemed, with great avidity ;
And they then cleaned poor Tom Capitt out
With the most barefaced Cupittity.
Tol de ri do dum tee idditty.
But the troopers, you may back, sirs,
Ev’ry one are on tho track, sirs.
Tol de ri do dum tee iddity.


CITY COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING* COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and prao
tical experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 2j?ch April, ISRI, we have
snooessfelly catered THE MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONsffiLE undertakings that
have taken plooo here to the present time, viz.
The Consular Dinner, in our now banquet, room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Cloutarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Major’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Hai ri-<, enter,
taincd their R.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE,
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officers of the Detached
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic B&Jl, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinr er n la
Russe. (or 60, in Government Palate Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—re
Queen's Statue Demonstration—under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to be
ready on ih« spot at 12.30 p m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay Picnic luncheon and (refreshment, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiv ng order
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Town Hall.
The (Union Club) 11 Bachelor's Ball,’’ at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windcyer, in oar new
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Russe at St Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Russe to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams,
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first tod of " Hudson
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock Works,’’ at Gran-
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkesbury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshment Bars at Eandwick
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyine, St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, 1 easts, 4c., 40.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let out on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners. 4c. &•.,
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
Tastry, Cokes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, 4c.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
Wo have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting us on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
CHAS. K. SMITH
(Late ef the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co ),
MxNAQKn.
MALT BITTJBBB !
The groat Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Liver
Complaint, Weakness, 40.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
A. Q. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, 4c.,
43 Erskine Street;
AND
W. H. SOUL. Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET.) KOUMISS
WiU at oneo Relieve the ACIDITY, HEAT cf
STOMACH and NAUSEA brought on by
excessive DRINKING.
Registered
fin
“ffmn
TRADE
MARK
A Tumblerfull of KOUMISS in the morning, acts
like a CHARM, it cleanses the PALATE, and INVI-
GORATE* the SYSTEM.
KOUMISS has been used with the most Marked
Success in the severest cases of DELIhJUM TRE-
MENS, and it has been proved that when sufferers
have been unable to retain any other fornf of food
KOUMISS has RESTORED them to HEAL'i H.
In CONSUMPTION, DEBILITY, and the worst
forms of INDIGESTION. KOUMISS has effected moat
Wonderful Cures.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is Prescribed
and used by the most Eminent Physicians,
Price 16s per doz qts.
do 10s do pts.
Send for Pamphlets, Testimonials and all particulars
to the office of ihe
KOUMISS MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
161 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
CALIFORNIA ART STUDIO.
< |IHE only AMERICAN PORTRAIT PAINTER on
1 this coast has removed to No. 3 Bridge-street.
The Best Style of Painting Guaranteed.
CHARLES MERCK, ARTIST.
MRS. T. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitting
Establishment,
121 and 123 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
BABY LINEN, DRESSMAKING, HOSIERY,
UNDERCLOTHING,
DOLMANS. MANTLES, JACKETS.
REAL LACES.
MILLINERY,
MOURNING OUTFITS,
WEDDING OUTFITS.
BALL COSXUMfcS, 4c , 40.
Goods always Marked in Plain Figures.
TRAMCARS pick up and set down passengers at the
door.
Goods purchased to the extent of £5 and upwards
forwarded CARRIAGE FREE to all parts cf i
COLONY.
MRS. T. C. HINCHCLIPFF,
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S OUTFITTING
ESTABLISHMENT,
121 and 123 Oxford-street, Sydney.
To Crown Lessees, Frec-Selectcrs, Minor.-, and Othe
J
AMES CARROL
T AND AGENT, 4c ,
WENTWORTH HOUSE
Chcrch Hild, Stphet,
L ,
RILEY BROTHERS’ SEMI-ANNUAL SALE IS NOW ON ! !
SOME OF THE
BARGAINS
TO BE HAD
EVERY DAY!
Bales of Single Bed Blankets, 3a lid. pair.
Hundreds of Large Super Blankets, 6s. lid. pair.
Cases of India Longcloth, 2£d. yard.
Thousands of yards Grey Calico, 1 |d.
Large Quantity Horrocks’a Long Cloth, 3-id. yard.
581 pieces Costume Dress Cloth, 3£d. yard.]
The Celebrated Guinea Blankets, 14s. 9d. pair.
Thousands of Honeycomb Bed Quilts, 2a. lid.
3 Cases Linen Table Damasks, 8|d. yard.
Cases of Ladies’ Under Garments, la. 3d. each.
200 dozen Ladies’ Night Dresses, Is. lid. each.
Family Mourning Materials, Great Bargains.
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA, RILEY BROTHERS.
Base is the slave who steals a label,
To be original who isn't able.
Our labels are. being closely copied. Our
Calcutta Tea Association's Pure Indian Tea, in the
pictorial black wrapper, is now becoming a standard of
purity, strength, aud good value, and so we find fraudu-
lent impostors, insolvent in reputation and bankrupt of
honour, are seeking to foist their nausaous rubbish ou
the public in packets closely imitating the appearance
of ours. Bo not deceived. We have only one ware-
house in New South Wales, and it is at 28 Charlotte
Place. Look for the words “ Calcutta Tea Association"
on the wrappers, and be prevailed on to take no other.
—A DVT,
The Rockhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring to the widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Rockhampton, says:—“When vidtlug
Rockhampton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz., the Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel,
Kast-street. This Hotel has one of the handsome-;
fitted up bars in town; also, the best furnished sittin ;
rooms in town. The Billiard Room contains a tabh
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Room,
which is large and well ventilated, will be found a
brilliant-toned piano. Ton will flud cool drinks cf
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladies.” The lease, etc., of abov s
flourishing and rapidly improving bar business, to te
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Intel-
colonial Agency Company, 91 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
—Advi.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Momalong station lost over 90,000 sheep this
year We are also told that Mr. Gray bought 90 tons of
hay for his sheep. Yet half of them died.
The Erysipelas dummiers have had to forfeit
their deposits, which amount to £960, and criminal pro-
ceedings are to be taken against all concerned.
Shepherd, a forger who recently bolted from
Timaru, N.Z, has voluntarily returned per mail
steamer, and surrendered himself. Perhaps his “ sugar ’’
is all gone. He was a l«cal preacher.
The Boueke Watchman has been shown two
nuggets from the Albert gold-field, weighing os. and
Si or respectively. They are vary much water-worn,
and give the impression of coming from a strong lead.
The Boilermakers’ Society of Sydney have
notified that a demand for Is. 2d. an hour will be made
after the Ist September. It is probable the demand
will be resisted—and a powerful impetus given to
assisted immigration.
London Times has been again victimised by mis-
ohievons printers on several separate occasions. Other
■journals avow that there is something radically wrong
In the management of the office and that if the Thdn-
dkrer people aren’t more oarefnl, they’ll have to faoe a
prosecution under the Obscene Publications’ Act.
The railway porters look with contempt upon
the guards and conductors on the tram lines, and when
offered positions in the latter capacity, reply that they
•• couldn’t think of falling so low.” This is how it is
that the public doesn’t find that sympathy between the
two departments which leads to pleasure in travelling.
All the economists hold that he who will not
earn should not ha permitted to eat; and J. Wilson,
ngtd 19, Prahran, Is the victim of misapprehension in
receiving a sentence of three months for coming home
drunk and kicking his father out of the house on find-
lug the old man bad only made two shillings by chop-
ping the neighbour’s wood.
The Chinese lottery conductors in Melbourne
are being slated severely. Ah Tiy, previously fined
£lO, was fined £5O, on Monday. Way Ting has to dis-
gorge £lO. Quong Chew and Chung Tup, who did not
aopsar, have to contribute £l5 each to the revenue.
Yet the white scoundrels who poison grog with vitriol
and nicotine get off with £2O flues.
The Palmer river hospital surgeon has just been
dismissed for drunkenness, and wkes the new doctor
took charge he found the dispensary “ perfectly desti-
tute of drugs and instruments." Heaven help the
man who falls seriously ill on the Palmer. Many of
the doctors who practise in the Far North are a dis-
grace to their profession and to civilisation.
The mining revival serves to remind one that
the existence of gold at Ophir has been known since
1841, and that on 16th July, 1851, the fortunate Dr.
Kerr found there a mass of pure gold weighing 106ib.
Of this, he retained 31b. for specimens ; £7O was ob-
tained for the crumbs that fell from its breakage; and
the balance, weighing 12330 z 21wt. was sold for £4160.
A Clinton (N.Z.) pplioe constable and his mate
recently went down to Tuapeka Mouth and took pos-
session, under a writ, of some cattle belonging to one
John Hewitt. They drove the cattle some distance,
when Hewitt and son stuck them up, and covered them
with a gun and a revolver. The son kept ‘‘the drop"
on the bobby for two hours, while the father drove his
cattle off and slaughtered them.
Besidents of Northern Queensland are waiting
impatiently for the decision of the Brisbane Supreme
Court re fnady O’Kine's appeal against that terrible
statute of Edward 1, under which he was bound over to
keep the peace. Tnady is going the whole hog. If the
Brisbane judges are against him, be is going to carry
the matter to the Privy Council. And ha believes the
whole colonial Press will back him up with tha
necessary.
Forsyth, the levanting Insurance conspirator,
wired from Auckland (NZ ), to the Adelaide authorities,
that he was on his way back to S A , to surrender him-
self to the police. He was arrested on Monday at the
Semaphore. Perhaps, by this time, Hicks, the informer,
who said he would do nothing to injure Forsyth, will
have made himself scarce. Forsyth has written a letter
to tbs S.A. Register, saying that the thing he is
sorriest for is being “mixed up with a fellow like
Hicks."
After seven years of hard work and great ex-
pense, the owners of the St. Patrick Extended Charters
Towers (Messrs F H. Stubley, P. Hehir and John
Cooper) have *• struck ile ” A crushing of 130 tons has
just been put through for a yield of 252 ozs 10 dwts.,
'beside* what Is yet to come from the grinding, and this
is the first payable crushing. The work done on it has
cost its spirited owners something like £17.000, and up
to the present has been literally a “ white elephant ”
in their hands.
During the examination into the insolvent estate
of Wright, Payne, and Co., wholesale grocer*, of Mel-
bourne, it transpired that Robert Wright, a member of
the firm, had never inspected the ledger accounts—
representing many thousands of pounds annually—
between him and the Red Cross Jam Co., prior to seques-
tration. He was entirely ignorant of book-keeping, and
could not say what the entiies iu the folitos indua ed.
Eobotham, a partner, kept the factory books, but these
cannot be found.
The very latest from tke Wild Biver paper is
that the local barber has gone mad through a love
afi-ir, and that the patrons, daring the race week, of
the Herberton (Q ) lock-up “complained bitterly to
their host each morning of the very unsatisfactory and
cramped arrangement of the sleeping accommodation
provided, averring that, even though laying ■ heads and
points,’ they were considerably flattened, and threat-
ening never more to patronise him unle a he immedi*
ately effected improvements."
An inquest, hejd at Balranald, recently, on the
body of Mrs. Moran, who died after confinement,, dis-
closed horrible carelessness or ignorance on the part of
the woman by whom she had been attended. The
Police Magistrate notified his intention of urging on
the Attorney-General the necessity of bringing in a
measure to provide that none but duly qualified and
licensed midwives should be allowed to attend at con-
finements. Ho would consult the Crown Law Officers as
to criminally prosecuting the nurse.
In 1868, a would-be selector paid a visit to a
certain run with a view to selection. He was spotted.
On the next businessday at the Lauds-offioe, the selector
was there bright and early. But a son of the lessee was
already at the table, had planked the money and secured
the bit on which the intending cockatoo had set his
eyes. Being the son of a dignitary, he knew the back
entrance, and got the bulge on the visitor before ten
o’clock. This young gentleman is now “in" for rob-
bery, and, it will interest Sir John to hear, dates tha
commencement of bis downfall from the occurrence of
this slippery little transaction.
Mr. James Baker, of South Arm, Tweed Biver,
recently sold 287 acres of rich scrub land, having one
mile frontage to main river, for £2805, W. K Isaacs, man-
a gtr for the Colonial Sugar Co., bein g t he purchaser. At
Gudgeon, which is about seven miles from the Heads,
and three miles back from the river, the Victorian
Sugar Co. bought from Mr. H. Clarke 100 acres of land
for £lOOO, and have ottered him £9OOO for the remainder
of his selection, consisting of about 400 acres of rich-
chocolate scrub soil. The soil on the Tweed iv con-
sidered splendid for cane cultivation, and the climate
is mild, frost being but seldom seen.
Up at Orange, a curious law point has been
demonstrated. One man gave anotner £25 to get
changed, and commissioned him to pay certain
accounts. This was done, but the agent failed to return
the balance. A charge of larceny as a bailee was
brought at the local Police Court, but fell through.
It appears that so long as the form of the monev is
changed, stealing in fact is not stealing in law. For
instance, if A gives B a £5 note to hold temporarily and
B keeps that note—that is theft. If B changes the
note, and carries out one of many petty commissions,
hut keeps the balance—that is not theft, but simply a
debt (we suppose, of honour ?).
Bathurst has been “ Beaumonted ” thus :
Brownstein writes to the leading hotel-topers some-
thing like this sortof thing: "Trusted Sir. My esteemed
friend, Bmithalolf, will call at your admirably kept,widely
known, and justly celebrated hotel, ia a few days. Will
you kindly give him the enclosed letter, which, by the
way, contains a cheque for him. With kindest regards
to your amiable lady and pretty children, whose innocent
prattle it would soothe my seared spirit so much to hear,
I am yours confidingly, B." Bmithaloff arrives same
evening, after banking hours, opens the letter in the
presence of the landlord, orders tea and breakfast,
samples the solution of nicotine, gets his cheque cashed,
goes out to attend to business, and returns no more
for ever. The police are now hunting for Brownstein
alias Bmithaloff.
A serious charge is being instigated in N. Zea-
land by Superintendent Thomson against Sergeant
O'Grady. The latter has been accused by cx-deteotive
Farrell of having attempted to violate a married woman
named Eyre, residing at the Thames. It is alleged that
the husband of the woman wa« “ »quared" for £2O, and
that Farrell was instrumental in hushing up the crime
of his superior officer. Since that time, however, Far-
rel has teen dismissed from the force —for a stand-up
fight in the streets, if we remember rightly—and Ser-
geant O’Grady actively exerted himse’f to procure such
dismissal. The defence in the more serious charge
against O’Grady is that Farrell had fudged up the case
as a means of revenge for his being turned out of the
force. Eyre, the husband, has communicated with the
police, and Court proceedings are likely to reveal the
real facts of the scandal.
Isabella Hogan, a .Scotch woman, between 82
and 88 years of ag«. died at the District Hospital, Par-
ramatta, on the 23rd Inst. She bad been for jesrs
living in a slab hut oh the Sydney road, and had lately
developed symptoms of crankiness. On a recent
occasion she had been lost in the hush for some days.
The police had several times unsuccessfully tried to
indue’ her to enter some asylum, and on Saturday
week, Senior Sergeant Bremner received a note from
Mr. Holhorrow stating that Hogaa was in a dying state.
She was visited, and found to be in the most horrible
condition of filth. She was overrun with vermin.
Being taken by force to the Hospital, it took three-
quarters of an hour to cleanse her. This operation
probably helped to kill her, for she died next day—” of
bronchitis hastened by exposure and filth," as the
medical evidence quaintly puts it.
The murder of Mrs* Eliza Mills, at Dingo, by
hlaokfellow Jango, has caused a sensation in Central
Queensland. The police are blamed for having allowed
Jango to remain free after having committed an as-anit
with a tomahawk upon some children at Bridgewater
All that was then dooe was to offer a reward of £2 to
other blacks to catch Jango, failing which, troopers
wore to be sent after him. When the Pearl Creek
blacks ware subsequently asked if they bad caught
Jango, they replied : “ Bale catch 'im. What for bale
trooper come up, that fellow too much gammon ”
When Jango was committed for trial, he made no at-
tempt to conceal his guilt. All his explanation was
“ That one cross along of me, because I had no shirt.
I then hit her along of tomahawk, that one cross, and
then I hit her with the hack of tomahawk. I don t
want to say anything more, that’s all."
At the trial of Margaret Spillane, Chief Justice
Lill°y summed up directly in support of the crime hav-
Ing been one of murder, and not of manslaughter, and
the jury only took twenty-five minutes to form their
conclusion, which was in favour of that view. They,
however, accompanied their verdict with a recommen-
dation to mercy. The court was thronged with an eager
lot of people, but the most complete silence reigned
whi e his Honor passed the last dread sentence of the
law upon the miserable culprit. The latter had evi-
dently anticipated her doom, os she listened to the
death sentence in the most im perturbed manner, to all
outward appearance, ndt a muscle of her faoe moving,
nor a tremsr being heard in her voice, as she pleaded
with the Judge for time to be allowed, her for repent-
ance. The prisoner walked quietly, but with a firm step
as she was being removed from the dock, and had pre-
viously gazed about her with an unconcerned expree-
■ion of countenance.*
Annual Commemoration of Sydney University
took place on Saturday afternoon, in the great hall of
the institution. The proceedings were more than usually
attractive, in consequence of the new organ being pub-
licly played on for the first time. His Excellency Lord
Loftns arrived at 2pm, accompanied by Sir Alfred
Stephen, Sir John Hay, Sit George Wigram Allen,
Mr. Justice Fancott, Col Christie, and Lieut Leftua.
The audience comprised nearly all the notabilities of
Sydney, and was an unusually brilliant one. After the
formal presentation of candidates by Dr. Bad ham to
the Chancellor (Sir W. Manning), the latter delivered
his fifth annual addrers. Daring the year, 108 candi-
dates bad presented themselves for matriculation ; 174
(including two ladies) had passed. Parliament endow-
ment was £ll.OOO, while Mrs. Uovell’s bequest added a
further £3OO a year. The new School of Melitine
cannot be commenced till March, 1883. Dr. Badhara
uttered his protest against tho proposed change iu the
Univerity oufrioulum, and pleaded for classios-Ukagainst
all modern branches of learning.
A correspondent has noticed our comments upon
the proposed Juvenile Industrial Exhibition, and thinks
that if the parties concerned are silent as to Ihe
question of who pays tha piper, people may presume
that the expenses are being defrayed out of the public
parse, seeing that the circulars aneut the Exhibition
are issued from the Government Printing Office.
Referring to the late Bathurst Exhibition, our corres-
pondent thinks its aim was identical with that of the
recent church fairs—to make money simply. The
Bathurst awards were scanty, a goodly number con-
sisting of pieces of paper, called certificates. The term
“Juvenile" was a misnomer, as seniors were allowed to
compete, and very little precaution was taken to ensure
that the exhibits were the bond fide work of the com-
petitors. An instance of this occurred in Wynyard
(Square—we still quote—in which case it was sought to
be proved that the exhibit had not been executed by the
entrant, and. moreover, that it had teen stolen. Many
Sydney exhibitors appeared dissatisfied with the distri-
bution of the prizes, which fell for the most part to
local competitors.
There haa been a healthy old row between the
Oaks and Burragoug. A lively bushmau and a roving
sailor, after getting outside a cargo of colonial rum,
started to worry a German’s bull pup. Herman remon-
strated; and the attentions of the Bacchanalians we e
at once transferred to him. Whiletbo bushman pounded
Herman into sausage-meat with a sapling, the jolly tar
went for Philip, the son of Herman, with a squaring-
axe having an edge as sharply defined as the tail of
Tebbut’s comet, biit being unsteady on his pins, the
sailor missed Philip, and olovo the palatial humpy of
Herman in two at one fell blow. Then commenced a
second Rorko’s Drift. Slab by slab the hut was taken
to pieces, and the garrison, with a last gallant ruth, was
pm, to flight, while the victorious intruders curled them-
selves up to sleep amid the ruins, with the conscious-
ness of having done a difficult duty nobly and well.
The next battle was fought in Court, Herman bringing
as evidence the ruins of his hut and a sackful of j im-
tins and broken bottles. But be again lost the day, and
the sailor triumphantly wheeled his comrade out of
town|in a barrow. Herman didn’t lose much, however.
Firewood wasscarce, and ho took the market at its best.
The last seen of him in the dark hours of the night was
a prostrate figure curled under the lee of throe upright
sheets of bark, and from whose mouth emanated the
Vaderland’s song ef “ The Watch on the Rhine."


Hotels, fro.
Gr
U N S L E R’S
NORTH TEEI
ADELAIDE.
R
OBERT BUTC]
(Late William Lc
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
534 GEORGE STS
OPPOSITE TOWN HAM
COUHTBT ORDERS RECEIVE PRC
pALLON’S
PRIZE AI
J. T. FALLON in asking pnbl
WINES, and to the awards gaim
intimate that he holds very large e
and the public may rely upon gettl
and in almost any quantity.
CrNTRAL Depot
91 PITT STREET, S'
VineVard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH WA
These Wines were awarded first
following Exhibition' :
London International ...
Paris ~ ...
Vienna ~
Philadelphia ~
Also at the various Intercolonial
toria, New South Wales, Queens
<’LARB, and 2 RECOND-CLAi
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBIT
WHITE.
’ p oißllnsr Auoarot I Sh
Verdeilho Brown Muscat I Ca
1 Tokay I Bu
Champagne, Medium Dry. C!
NOTICE TO_PUBI
'JpHE Sale over the Vnr of infi
I atcd liquor fraudulently
bot'les bearing the registered
u Schnapps has induced legal act
|| three different insfances, and tl
>j been fined up to 810 with £l4* coi
I imprisonment na reported in the
19. May 31, and June loth.
It having been proved that *
bring practiced in this oolonv, T
Formally mVEN that, Leg
irstiiut* d in all instances coming
of tbo Proprietor. wt.o has dstei
of expense, t > protect tbo r<
Schnapps, and truveut the Pnb
and injured. Evidence upon the
addressed to the Sole Agents,
M MOSS &
WYNYARD LANE. S
FOSTER’S Boat
A
iw
Sr
m
fni
:-s=3
I
is
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. WIL
COOLALTA WINE I
119 PITT STREET
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, BB
SOUTH WALE
BED WINES
Coolalta Hrrmifcage, extra quality..
No. 1 Coolalta Bed ...
No. 2 „
Burgundy
Port
Via Ordinaire
WHITE WINE
Muscat
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FR
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebouy-and-gohl, Rosi
Imported by us direct, and mm
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WARE
TEARS. They are of very hands!
are most sensitive, sweet, and powi
LOW PRICES fjr CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYM
Examine and test them before pi
All our PIAN I 'S are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheaj
BEALE and COMP
1, Oxford-street i 612, George-
Buitilings, Sydni
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Hig
Howiok-street, Bathurst j A
burn; Church-street, Parram
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
P L
ATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPERHANOIN
(a really splendid s
ROOM and PICTUEE-FRAMI
KENT'S BRUSH
GOLD LEAF, A
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK,
w
H. A E
PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISS
3 13 and 345 Kent-stkeet, sea
SOLE AGENT for the tmderment
R. WhittingViam and Co.’s Lon
Excelsior Mill's prize Victori
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Coi
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum I
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET. nea
34G GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & fi
‘Business Annoam
Australian “ho?
SEWING MACH!
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
ling* profit—are offering for sal
Machines that will not stand a yea
.^EXPRESS,
SS
MO
&
H
THE HOME SHUTTLE L
Manufactured for us, has that abi
name on flie work j.
PURCHASE NO OTIII
We solicit in'orjuation of the att
forfeits of the above Machine. wL
action in protection of onr rights.
In any district where onrgenni
proenrab’e, we will forward them
Post Office Order
WE HAVE LOW SOLD I
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TBHADLE MACHINE, COMPLI
Do., WITH COVER CoMl
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular pos
M. MOSS ANI
WYNYAED LANE, i
AMD
It*
ND
AIL
CH
ST
AFFI
JKB
U
NION MORTGAGE A
COMPANY;
Head Office : 760 GEORGE-STEE]
To Small FREEHOLD and
PROPRIETOR:
This Company is prepared to g
gaga of freehold cr leafehold- fi
noon t’"« deposit of deeds', on com
on honsrs in course of erection, in
repayable by the smallest weekly
meuts, taken by tbe society in thi
iug table will show
For every £2O h'rrowei
£3O „
.. £4O „
.. £s* „
„ £75
„ £lOO „
and up to any amount at the same i
■——A
For further information np.-lv at
WM P. £
Business Announces
&
A
E
m
o
D
I
u\N®/
339
Wgarlyopi
Oat.
IfiTe or:
Tobacconists
TO SMOKEES WHO PEOFESS TO I
AMEBICAN TOBAO
THE following facts are compih
resources, and, therefore, Bhou
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 188
All the others paid duty in 1880 on ...
DTXSON AND SONs paid duty in 188
All the others paid duty in 1881 on ...
Imported manufactured tobacco paid c
on for the two years was only
DIXSON AND SON’S BRAN!
YANKEE DOODLE. CON
SIB ROGEB. GOLD 3
OUT BUSY, ORIENTAL ]
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are o
genuine “ Tin Tag,” each ping hr
Bound Single Tin Tag, stamp
QUEEOii" or *• Yankee Doc
ALL TOBACCONIS to‘ GOODS,
?oo v .
BEAD THIS! BEAD
A. SALMON
FURNISHING Dll


The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Mp 6 gj ka U be glad to have (hie indea posted up by secretaries
0/ racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
EAcma.
Sydney Turf Club. 85ndwiek...............Augu5t 10.
Sydnev Tattsrssil’s, Randw10k.,,..,, August 12.
Victorian Trotting C1ub...... August 12.
Thttorsatl’s, Randwlok August 12.
Jiawkesbnry Spring August 24, 20.
tteemsland Turf C1ab,..., .... Angus* 29,
4.J.0. Spring Sept. 2. 9, 7, 0.
Nomndera - ......Beptembet 0,7
8. A 9 0. Derby Meeting... September 00,
Geraldine (N.Z ) Spring ...September 08, 29.
Melbourne Hunt Club September SO.
V.E C. Soring Got. 23, SL Nor, 3, 4,
Canterbury J 0. Spring November 7,8,10,
Parramatta J.C,.., ........ * November 9,11
Bendigo ...Norember 15, 18,
Murrurabidgee Turf Club Ner. 22, 23 24.
•anterbury IN Z ) Summer Janury 1.1838.
T.R.C. New Year Meeting January 1, liSB.
Sydney Turf Club January 26,1883.
AQUATICS.
Mercantile E C. Regatta August 26.
Newcastle R G, Regatta August 28,
Gteerdinor Cup, Mercantile .October 28,
N S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October
Jtmv Obampagne Trophy Norember 25
Mr, J’rank Punch's Prises Sept®mber.
Gardiner Cup, Amateur December 16.
PEDESTRLANISM.
Tamworth Athletic Club August 9.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports .«..August 19.
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports, Association
Ground :...August 26
E, Williams r. W. Chaplin, 100 yards, 8400,
N arandera. August 26.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo r- Harwood, Bnrwood August 5.
Qlenbead r. Newington College, Stanmore...... August 5.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bievole Club's Baca Mooting (Association
Ground) . August 26.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Gloucestershire August 3,4, 5.
Kant August 7,8, 9.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
It is vary unlikely that any of the N.Z. horses
entered for the Metropolitan and Melbourne Cup will
eome over.
Mr. E. E. Jones gives a gold trophy, value
100 sova . to be presented to the winner of the next
Tattersall’s Cup.
Trickett is seeking a name for his new hotel.
We oould suggest several—The Soulier’s Best, The
Champion Arms, The Outrigger Inn, The Eowlook
Betel.
The Victorian bookmakers have formed a Trade
Protection Society. We shall next hear of the devil
sending out handbills saying that he has no oonneotioa
with the churches over the road.
The N.8.W. Coursing Club have resolved to
substitute for the Intercolonial Stake the Woollahra
Cup lor 16 dogs of all ages at £10 each- Mr. W. Cooper
presents a cup, value 50 guineas, to be added to the
stake.
An attempt is being made at Temora to get np
a race-meeting, but there was a small attendance at the
public meeting convened by the secretary. A public
masting of subscribers to the late race-meeting is to be
called to consider the matter.
A grand handicap pigeon match is to be shot at
West Maitland on 28th and 29bh August. The first
prize is £50 and a cup, presented by W. 8. Harrison and
Ce. Nominations close on 19th August, to be addressed
to J. D. Young, West Maitland.
A shipment of high-class trotting stock, con-
sisting of seven carefully selected mares and one stal-
lion, arrived by the City of New York. They ere
brought out for breeding purposes, and are intended
for Mr. Roberts’ stud at Melbourne.
The Sydney Bicycle Club have issued a fair pro-
gramme for their sports on August 26th. There is to
be a ten-mile race for the championship of Australia,
the prizes for which (a gold and silver medal) have
been presented by the Surrey Bicycle Club of London,
At a football match at Parramatta on Saturday
ene player received a contusion of the eye and another
was Knocked down insensible and remained so for some
time. They were both unable to continue to play, bob
it is hoped they will be ready next Saturday for fresh
flings and patches new.
The University Club went out to Bnrwood on
Saturday. They saw, but they didn't conquer. There
was nothing done in the shape of tonoh-downs, tries, or
goals, but the Burwoods played well enough to force
’Varsity down three times. Newtown beat Parramatta
Carltons on Saturday at Newtown by three goals six
tries to nil.
At the Gympie Kaces, on July 27 and 28, Moor-
lad won the Annual Handicap; several horses fell
Ooldflador won the All-aged Stakes; Lelaotl fall and
his rider broke his lag. The Queensland Plate was won
by Phcenix. The Town Plate was won by Nabooklish.
Roldfiader won the Ladies’ Purse ; Empress and Stran-
ger fell. The Forced Handicap was won by Czar.
The Australian Coursing Club meeting was con-
cluded on Saturday at Melbourne. P. Tilley’* Timid
Joe won the Stormont Plate, with Wagner’s Proserpine
as runner-up. The Shlfnal Plate was won by Wagner's
Wollaroi, with E. Chirnside’s Wertibee Hope as runner-
up. Q. Whlttingham’s Wherryman won the Ivanhoe
Plate with J. B. White’s Barley Bree as rnnner-up.
The averages of the Australian Eleven, up to and
inclusive of the Derby match, are as follows: —Batting
—Murdoch56 1; Massie,S9 4; Blaokhano, 27.5; Horan,
23 4; Bannerman, 213; Gillen 21.4; Bonnor. 19 2;
Palmer, 14 2; Boyle, 12.5; Jones 12 3|; M'Donnell, 10.2;
JJpofforth. 81; Garret, 8 Bowling—Boyle. 13 21;
Palmer, 15.3; Spotforth, 16.4; Garrett, 18.9; Qiffen, 21.
The Waterloo Coursing Cup, run at Timarn,
drew the largest crowd ever seen at a N.Z. meeting,
Bonnie Scotland was the winner, with Seafield runner-
■P! while Jewish Maid won the Purse, and Psycho the
1 late. £1500 straight out books were open, and some
big wagering was done. The Plate winner was backed
to win £500 by one man, and by several lor smaller
amounts.
Playing at a somewhat ungentle game need not
make the player ungentletnanly. The captains cf the
respective football teams should insist upon playing
with no man who cannot separate his rough play from
profanity and obscenity. A man can be a first-class all-
round athlete and a real good fe'low, yot be withal tem-
perate, modes-t, genial, and gentlemanly. This is meant
lor the footballers in Kamsohatka.
Cricket can be lost by a wicket,
Football lost bv a goal,
A boat-raoe lost by a Trickett,
And a crib match lost by a hole,
A race can be lost by a head,
Eepnta'ion lost by a tale,
So kindly name something instead
To bet on and win without fall.
The South Australian Jockey Club have refused
to insert in t heir calendar an advertisement of the Ade-
«ide hacing Club. There is soma talk of one olnb boy-
netting the horses that ran under the auspices of the
other club. There is a elver lining in the cloud of
enmity butwom tne two clubs, ae arrangements ave
being maria for the appointment of a snb-mramittoe to
•hOeaveur to amicably settle all matters of dispute.
the Charters Towers races, on July 25 and
* • the MUlchester Handicap was wen by Minimbah,
Wr*n«ler being_ second, and Mlrabeau third; and the
wiatrlct Plate by Argus Scandal, Monogram second,
aiensi won the Maiden, Plate, and Hazlewood the
mdies Parse. The Towers Handicap went to Pair
Scandal scored another win in the Mem-
bers Plate, and Wrangler won the Forced Handicap.
• T. h 6 H* 1 ?® f° r the gold medal tinder the auspices
or the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society came «£E o*
, riday last from Mittagong, a distance of 77 miles, or.
Jn a direct line, about 83 miles. Mr J Wright's
Sparrow won in 60 minutes, Mr. IV Freeman’s Pox,
hound was second in 68 minutes. Mr W Freeman’s
victor third in 78 mlnntes, and Mr. Slowgrove’s
Breeches fourth in 81 minutes. The whole of the birds
homed on the day of the race.
Tho American residents in this city have estab-
lished, under favourable auspices, a baseball club. This,
the national game of America, has been but slightly
encouraged here. When the Association Ground was
drat opened, a baseball dab was organised, and dnri' g
wio winter the cricketers played the game, but it soon
died out. The present movement Indicates vltaiitv
Mr. Beauregard has been elected secretary, Mr Fresh-
man treasurer, and a good managing committee h&s
been formed.
At Ashcombe Park, near Leek, Staffordshire, on
J one 29, In a match between Ashcombe Park and Tun-
stall. James Walker (professional cricketer at Ash-
combe Park) accomplished the unparalle’ed feat of
capturing eight wickets in eight consecutive balls—five
dean bowled, two caught, and one Ib. w. The Tnnsfcoll
team scored two runs in the first, and six runs in the
second innings Walker’* bowling average Is well
worthy of notice—two overs and three balls, nine
wickets, no runs.
Tho Brisbane team of tootballera who are to
visit Sydney, played a match at Brisbane on Saturday,
against a team of all-comers, and won easily. If tbov
want to return from Sydney with a win to thoir credit,
they ought to tackle the Qlenheads or tho Arfomas. or
have a match with some elnb under the Association
rales, with which they are well aoquaicted. They
expect to get well beaten, but they have heard of
Sydney hcspltality, and they come with good cheer,
bat with no hope of victory.
By cable we learn that Haitian has refused the
challenge from Kof s to row five raooa daring five conse-
cutive days, for 5000 dollars a race. This looks like an
exhibition of rowing for steamer money, and as onr lat-
est files show that negotiations were pending for these
two cracks to appear at Winnipeg, probably the ar-
rongemants have come to a head, awaiting Banian's
consent Hanlan has always been no ergo to any-
thing but a fair and square race for £SOO aside. He is
certainly not a show champion.
A Sheffield correspondent of the London Spoets-
man has authority for making a statement which
destroys the last) vestige of snapioion relative to the
action of certain of the English cricketers In Australia.
There was, as was suggested in a letter to the Sports-
man, a fight between two members of the team, but it
had its origin solely in a private family qnartel, and
Ulyett took the honourable part of peace-maker. This
explanation would have been frankly made before but
for the delicate issues involved.
The Australians defeated the Gentlemen of
Scotland at Edinburgh in one innings with
eighteen runs to spare. There was a large attend-
ance, bat tho English weather followed “ the
boys” Into Scotland. Tho Australians went first
to the wickets, and scored 158, Mnrdooh 58 M’Uonnell
17, and Horan 15, being the principal scorers. The
Scotch team scored only 67 in the first innings. Palmer
to*k six wickets for 27. They followed on and scored
74 Bojle took six wickets for 14, and Palmer four
for 30.
Of Laycook’s stylo of rowing, tho London
Sportsman says i— •* Those of onr readers who saw him
at work when in England previously will recollect how,
on account of his habit of hurrying forward and missing
the best part of his stroke, a great amount of bis giant
strength was wasted. This pernicious style be has
now oast on one side, and with the modern rig Laycook
does well. His blades work along on the feather with-
out any cause for fanlt-finding, and the water is laid
hold of when the sculls are right forward without any
over-reaching."
John L. Sullivan, the champion pugilist, was on
April 26, at Boston, Mass., sentenced to three months'
imprisonment in the Bouse of Correction for an alleged
assault and battery committed on Charles Bobbins in a
saloon in EMiot-atreet the nl« ht previously. Sullivan,
who denied having assaulted the complainant, appealed
from the decision, and a Common Councilman gave bail
for the champion’s appearance for trial in the Superior
Criminal Court It is reported that Bobbins has
attached Sullivan’s banked money, with a view to Insti-
tuting suit to recover dama<cs for a broken jaw, &o.
The balance sheet of the Victoria Racing Club
shows the number of members to be 821, The liabilities
are £2669 over the assets. The profits of the last Cup
meeting were £8346. The Champion mooting of 1882
resulted in a loss of £4OB. By the Autumn meeting,
£2155 was dropped. Tho Winter Steeplechase meeting
showed a loss of £271 The nett profit of the whole
season was £5612. During the year, £4498 bad been
spent in the maintenance and improvement of the
coarse. Since the date of the balance sheet, over
£2OOO has been received from bookmakers in lie mao
fees.
'The celebrated English jockey, Fred. Archer, is
popularly known as the 41 Tinman.” He was married
recently, and it is a remarkable fact that be has never
ridden a race in anything like hia old form since. In
the lost 44 Ascot Cup," he rode Petronel, and Fangh-a-
Bollagh was started Ito out out the running for him.
The Irishman made the pace so warm that the 44 Tin-
man 44 never got close enough to know whether his
friend had a tail or not. This is the result ot having to
get up at 6a,m. to light the fire, and of staving at homo
to hook the back of a wife’s dress before she waltzes ot!
to church on Sundays.
A good game of football took place on Saturday
between the Wallaroo and Balmain Clubs on the Asso-
ciation Ground, resulting in a victory for the former by
a goal and one try to a goal. It was thought that the
Wallaroos would win easily, bnt the Balmains, who are
a light and t.-t team, and 9x00! in dodging and passing
the ball, made their heavy opponents play right np to
the standard. The Balmain players tackle low, and the
Wallaroo qnarter-backs did not seem to care for this
summary mode of collaring. The umpires rather fa-
voured Wallaroo, and a good deal of off aide play was in-
dulged in. Strange to Bay nobody was hurt.
“Pendragon,” with regard to the cricket
scandal, says ’ 4 The charge is not against Selby and
Ulyett only, brought by someone who has not the
courage to acknowledge himself; it is a charge against
the Australian colonists. I shall be glad to know how
the Utter receive the story, and what they say about
these random offers of big money.’’ Here also is what
he thinka of the Anatralian Eleven : — 14 1 am far from
believing that the Australians axe an indifferent lot; at
the same time, I should be sorry if 1 did not think
there were several very sound beatings lu store for
them.” We haven’t got many sound beatings yet
though.
Mr. J. A. Baines, the well-known oar, scull, and
rowlock maker, of Harlem, U H., has shipped 10 the
Hillsdale crew, now visiting England, his portion of
their outfit, which Included eight nickel-plated swivel
rowlocks and eight oars. The oars were made from
some beautiful timber selected in the lumber yards at
Fort George, N.Y. They are twelve feet fonr inobe i
long, with blades seven Inches wide. The bow-oar U but-
toned at 42 inches, an* ihoottnr at 41 inches. It will
be seen that the Hillsdale oarsmen adhere to tho oid
stylo of long oars, and their rig will contrast with the
11-foot «ai sand nine-inch blades need by many of our
amateur clubs.
Tho Hon. I vo Bligh has succeeded in forming
his team to visit Australia, though tne members are
not 44 amaohaws," as was originally intended. They
leave England in October by the Austral. The follow-
ing are the names of the twelve players and the coun-
ties to they belong:—Hon. Ivo Bligh and B F, H.
Tylcooto (Kent). G. B. Stndd, C. T. Stadd, G. F.
Vernon, and C. F. H. Leslie (Middlesex), A. G. Steel
and Barlow (Lancashire), W. W, Bead (Surrey), Barnes
and Flowers (Nottingham), and Bates (Yorkshire)
This team is strong enough to give a good account of
itself, and tho advent to Australia of 41 the shirt-front ”
(the Studds), the great slow bowler, Steel, and thj
Notts professionals, Barnes and Flowers, will create
addition*! interest in the progress of the team through
the coloni s.
The Australians made short work of the
Fo.-thumberlatd County Eleven at Newcastle. Tho
attendance wu large, but the wickets were not in good
order. The Australians went first to the ore&aea and
made 193. Horan played a not.out Innings for 70, and
Garrett was bowled for 54. M'Donnell who, we are
glad to see, is beginning to show his hitting powers,
was bowled for 20, and Sammy Jones made 12, and was
oanght. The home team made 03 in their first innings,
and bad to follow on. Through the excellent bowling
and fielding of the Australians, the second innings
closed for 35, The match was tons won in one innings
with 95 runs to spare. In the first innings, Palmer
secured six wickets for 21 mns | in the second he was
credited with five wickets for six runs, and Garrett
with five wickets for 20 runs.
Mr. Fred. Ironside has arranged the conditions
for the contests for the Farners* Junior Challenge Cup.
They are similar to those of last season's matches for
the Thompson Cap, with the exception that out of the
first round of contests the winners and the four beet
performing defeated clubs are to play in the second
round, from which the winners and ths three best do-
featnd clubs are to be selected for the third round. We,
thlnh the rule might bo further expanded. Last season
when there were but three clubs left, the Orientals
were defeated by fire runs, and it whs deplored that
they had rot another chance. WTien the competing
clubs are reduced to six. Mr. Ironside might arrange
that each club play two matches. This would bo mere
satisfactory. Disputes are to be doo ded by a com-
mittee of three, and the manager will conduct all
arrangements.
According to the published list of fixtures, the
Australian Eleven play the Gloucestershire team at
Clifton to-day (Thursday), Friday, and Saturday, and
the Kant County Eleven an I Canterbury on Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday. The Australians have a big
programme before them th a month. They have to
meet Gloucestershire twice; their next match after
thee* above-mentioned is at Kensington Oval, against
the Players of England; and on August 28, 29, and 30,
they will have to try conclusions with an All-England
Eleven. The latter will, of course, be the match of
the season, and it is cheering to learn thut each
member of the team is getting into good form. Percy
M'Donnell and Sammy Jones have been off it from the
■tart, but Percy has come up in the last few matches,
and Sammy seems to he coming again. We shall want
our best team to tackle the formidable eleven that will
represent English cricket on the 28th.
Garrett was suffering from a bad heel, and could
not play in the Lancashire and first Yorkshire matches.
Horan did not play in the latter as he had a sore
finger. The Australians against Y orkshlre made a bad
commencement—five wickets down for 30 Jones made
a slight stand with Murdoch, but be shaped wretchedly
at Peats, and n> run out. Boyle and Bonnor came to
the rescue and raised the score la 128—decent enough
on a wot wieket. Ulyett was bowled first hall off his
pads by Spofforth, The Australian fielding was not up
to the mark. Poale was missed by Bosnor and Spof-
forth. Mossle was caught in the second innings before
a run was scored. M'Donnell was grandly oanght by
Grimshaw at deep longon at the third attempt right
on to the ring. Bonnor hit Feate thrice out of the
ground for six, twice from successive balls. Jones was
again run out. Spofforth bowled Ulyett’s middle stamp
in the second innings, and he repeated the same feat
with Bates. Tn the first innings Spofforth took five
wickets far 78 runs, and Boyle five wickets for 30.
In the second Innings, Spofforth took three wickets for
ten rqns.
Having the particulars of the cricketing
squabble at Nottingham, we must confess that we are
surprised at the over sensitiveness of our erioketers.
Asa matter of fact, it is not the custom in England for
a team travelling on speculation, as ours undoubtedly
is, to be provided with lunch by the club which happens
at the time to be engaged with them, especially as the
match is played for the benefit of the Australians. The
only mistake which the Notts, secretary made woe to
have neglected to provide accommodation for the Aus-
tralians at the luncheon table. This was afterwards
done; but where was all this time the ** indefatigable
secretary," Charley Baal, and what was be doing f
Murdoch has certainly made a mountain out of a mole-
hill In this matter. Still, there are other little ciroum-
stances that do not redound to the credit of the
Nottingham Club, and, strange to say, the men that
get their backs up about a free lunch, have been mag-
nanimous enongh to overlook them. The indignity
that Charley Bed suffered through a false accusation of
caricaturing the Notts’ secretary on the hotel window,
and the ponrstent impertinences of the secretary himself,
were causes for quarrelling. But then when honour
and stomach are concerned, who shall say honour must
be respected.
To the Editor of The Bulletin Sir, I read
a paragraph in your issue last week eopied from the
Spirit of the Times, New York, May 30th, in which I
have fallen in for a considerable round of abase for
complaints which, it is alleged, I made about receiving
unfair treatment while in America. I do certainly
acknowledge the very great kindness of Mr. Charles
Reed (of Saratoga), Mr. St. John (of St. Louis), and, I
am prond to say, of many gentlemen in Toronto; and,
in fact, all through the States, and Cnnada. I certainly
was most kindly treatsd everywhere I went, and I defy
the Spirit of (these or any other) Times to say that I
ever complained of unkind treatment. I will now
review the few remark.* I did make, and these I did not
moke until, on the evening before I left Loudon for
home, I wa* asked by the editor of the London Sports-
man how I liked America, and how I was treated there.
I replied that I had been moat kindly treated, but that
I was both disappointed and dissatisfied at not being
able to make a match with any of the American
scullers, although Riley, Hosmer, Hanlan, and Ross
bad, in England, told Layoock and myself that, if we
went over to America, they would pull us for as much
money as we would put down. On my arrival there,
however, I found that none of the American scullers
would make a match and put down their money. Mr.
Charles Reed issued a challenge for me to row any man
in the United States for SIOCO aside, and not one
of the great American scullers even answered it
in any way. I also reviewed to the editor of
the Sportsman the Ottawa regatta, in which 1 had
takes part, and mentioned the unfair treatment
I had received there at the hands of Hanlan, who was
appointed referee. I said that I had not expected to
compote successfully on account of having only been in
the country two weeks; but that I thought I had a
right to a fair start. It is not a rule in England or in
Australia, when a number of soullers are about to
start, for the starter to cross over to one side of
course, and call out to two or three of the competitors
in an undertone, and, without giving the others any
warning, fire |tbe gun (which is the signal to start)
before the latter are in a line at tbeir stake beats. This
is what Hanlan did, and I men ly reviewed that inci-
dent to the editor of the Sportsman. I said then that
it was unfair, and I say the same now. I also spoke of
the steamers at the Toronto regatta, whieh boats
shamefully interfered with the contests. If the
Editor of the Spirit of the Times has a re-
tentive memory, I have no doubt be cau
remember the very stroag articles published in
the Toronto papers condemnatory of this very thing.
The fact of the matter is this: There is no law
in the States, nor la Canada, to restrict the
n mb or of steamboats following a race; and, until
some restrictive law is passed, there is sure to be foul
play to somebody. 1 know, as well ae many other
people, what it used to bo in England before legislation
interfered to limit the number of steamers which
might follow a race I say that the Thames and
Parramatta rivers are the only courses upon which
any and every competing rower can ensure fair play.
We have seen the folly of permitting too many steamers
to follow a race, and we have paired laws which ensure
a clear coarse and fair play I would advise the Spirit
op the Times to advocate that the good example set by
old Father Thames be copied, even as we have imitated
it in Sydney. I deny that lam‘ an ungrateful dog,* or
* ' vagrant; * also that a * number of gentlemen in
Toronto spent much money on mo to keep me4out of
the wortfh -use j * for, thanks to my kina friends, I
always had money enongh to pay my way everywhe a
I went. I am ylid to hear tne Spirit of the Tim is
speak in such high terms of my friends, Mr, B.!?. Thom p-
son and Mr. £. C. Layoock At the same time, it is,
perhaps, well these did not witness what I saw; or,
probably, they would have commented thereupon more
strongly than I did. I would like my friends in Sydney
to know that the Spirit of the Times, of New York, is
not a religions paper; but seeks notoriety by abusing
perple The paragraph copied from it is untn e,
cowardly, and uncalled for,—Yours, &0., E. Trickbit.
fWe are only too glad to hear and to publish Nea’s
side of the story. |
The Australian Colony in London.
Writes our London correspondent, under date
16th Juno:—"At present 'Babylon' is fall to over
flowing, and, go where you will, one falls across
colonials. Teddy Wrench is about, apparently in any-
thing but full bloom, the effects of the climate—or
something else—having left their traces upon him—
not, however upon his handsome better-half. James
White is going in heavily for blood stock purchases ;
ditto Will. Long, who has bought two high-priced
yearlings, the dam of one owning the highly suggestive
name of Botany Bay. Lowe—not of convivial and legall
celebrity—is at the same game. Sir Samuel Wilson 1»
a very big bag Indeed. Besides Haghendeu Manor he
has a huge thing in houses in Qrosvcnor Square, where*
he feeds that portion of the aristocracy which is not-
particular whit company It keeps, so long as a good,
dinner Is Involved. Rich OUrke, of Melbourne, is
much more modest, having taken up hie quarters at the
Alexandra Hotel—bat I would fill up a roam of paper if
I were to enunciate all the Sydney and Melbourne men
who are just now shedding lastre upon London society.
• * i
Tour old friend, Henniker Heaton, is a truly great
man. He is a member of St. Stephen's Club, the head
quarters of the * shoddy ’ section of the Conservative
Party. This, however, is but a stepping stone to the
Tory Paradise—the greit Carlton. Have no fear fer
Henniker I He will find his way there, it not at the
front door, by the back way. Hie great ambition is a
seat In the 'Onse, and I shouldn't be a bit surprised if
he got one before long—that is, if 'someone' will only
* part' liberally. Mamma-in-law, by the way, is on tl e
road to England, and she may help. J.H.H. was, for a
time, trying with the ‘lrish party,' in the hope ct
slipping in for some snug * sate * as a Home Bnler, but
ho either was not 'advanced' enough in his ideas, or
the ‘party* was not sufficiently respectable, or—well,
at all events, ha is now in with the Conservatives. He<
had some connection with the Evening News, a smart-
half-penny 1 Constitutional * organ—but, of course, be-
lt in no wise responsible for the smartness referred to.
The appearance at Court was a very grand success.
Item: He didn’t get his sword between his legs as
Saul Samuel hoped might happen. But, after all (
Henniker is not a bad fellow; I always liked him, and’
he has often done me an inexpensive kindness.
• • •
Sir ’Bnery's triumphal progress has been so fully
chronicled by Withers that I need not say anything
about him. Did you read that characteristic speech
of his to the school children at his native village 'i
‘You cannot all rise to be Prime Ministers of prosper-
ous colonies, but you can all do your dooty.’ It is not
true that be was offered an engagement at the ‘ Zoo.*
Saul Samuel has not been measured since his elevation
to the rank of K.C.M.Q., but the last time I saw
him his trousers were over the tops of his elastic-
sides. Colonel Biohardson was in great form
at the big volunteer show at Portsmouth, and he will
likely be invited at the next big sham-fight to show
them * how we do it oat there.* Roberts is here also.
What do your troops do without a head ? Are they
left to the tender mercies of little Christie P
• • •
Poor Jack Smith (Long’s racing confederate) is dying
—in fact, he may be dead at the present moment—
Bright’s disease and dripsy. Poor old fellow 1 Few
men were more misunderstood than he, for he was brim-
ful of all kinds of good qualities. I fancy Ted Sparko
will benefit by bis death. [Mr. Smith’s deatta-bas been
announced by cable. J
• mm
Pearce’s match with Largan takes place to-day, and
you will have learnt the result by wire. lam afraid
our Sydney representative may be beaten, for he is not
sculling well at all—be seems to be bothered by the
fast-running tide. Besides, Triokett-like, he never
seems to be satisfied with the rig of his boat. He ia
perpetually altering and shifting the stretcher, &o. 1
don't think Laycock has snob a soft thing os be imagi nes
in his match with Boyd, for Bobby is as fast as greased
lightning elf the mark, and I am afraid he will slip
Elias at the start. Triokett knocked us all out of time
in the last match, and strict economy is the order of
the day—hence I haven’t, I am sorry to say, been able
to do as much as I could wish ro Laycock and Peirce.
By the bye. Punch should be induced to alter the date
of the raoe for his prizes, as Layoook cannot possibly
leave before the next trip of the ‘ Sorata,’ which will
arrive in Sydney about the end of August, so that he
would not have time to train. It is only a reasonable
thing to ask, and tho]race would be shorn of much of
its interest if Elias were shut out of the competition.
• • •
Our friend, Henry Bracy, has‘created’a very good
part in a new comic opera, 1 Monteaoz Noire,’ which in
a great success at the Avenue Theatre. The opera will
have a good run, I think, as both the music and the
‘book’ arc good. The second act, especially, is a real
hit. The fortunes of the Aveuue wore at a very low ebb
indeed when the new trump was played. Bracy is a
great public favourite—he is another instance of the
value of a little Colonial training for the English stage.
He acts and sings capitally. I enclose you a cutting
from the Dailt Telegraph's critique cf Herr ElmbladV
Binging. You may recollect how that accomplished
marmaladist ‘Tahite* puffed him up in the Austral
Asian. The lady, by the bye, once upon a time, almost
fell a victim to the wiles of a very much wedded geutle
man who was going to marry her. The day was named
and all was ready, when some ‘d good-naturid
friend* who happened to know the gallant one’s wid,
abroad, * blew the gaff.’
• • #
Loudon is comparatively moral jutt now, but for al
that the engrossing topic is a huge scandal. Al
amorous man was pretty well served out a few days
ago. He had an intrigue with the wife of a doctor,
who, suspecting or knowing something, pretended that
he was off to an urgent case, and would be absent tw.
days. Lotbario was called in by the lady, and the paii
were caught. The husband, accompanied by auothei
medico (a relative), slipped into the house noiselessly,
got into the apartment, applied chloroform to the un-
conscious couple, and administered to the gentleman
the remedy advocated by your Echo in the care of
offender* of a class not ordinarily mentioned in good
society here. This is a foot.
• # #
Our Australian cricketers have not as yet been play,
ing up to their form—their fielding, in particular, has
been most Indifferent. They are working letter now,
and as Spofforth is coming on a bit, I daresay they will
make a good fight against the Gsiitlemon at the Oval
Beal, the secretary, was ‘run iu* for pea-shoot:ng cl
Darby Day.”


Euphorbia. PitntiiTßA. Queensland Core for
Asthma, Bronchitis, and all chest affections. No
case hepeless; relief always obtained. Prepared in
essence, also as an Anti-Asthmatioal Tobacco. See
Advt Apply, J. Hanning, agent for Thos. Ingham,,
130 Elizrbeth-itrcet, Sydney.
BATES DANDELION COCK)A is destined to become
the moot favourite of all household beverages. It com-
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa with
the well-mown curative powers of the Dandelion flowers
consequently is invaluaole for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, Indigestion, debility, Ac Ask for a sample
picket from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
OOULTEE, bole Agent. 107 Sussex Street. —A dv»
,£750 to 2s. 6d., or 6000 to 1. The double on
the Hawkesbury Handicap and Mei’opoitan Stakes.
Speculators of ten shillings get four doubles, £750 to
2s. 6d. about each, apart from chance of second aud
third money. Not less than four tic Sets, i.e., 10s worth
supplied jhreenriv.es: Drawer of Hawkesbury Han-
dicap winner and Metrop. winner, £750; ditto and
Metrop., second, £225;; ditto and Metrop., third, £lOO.
The number of entries for the Handicap are 86, and th*
Metropolitan 100, so that the double can be laid SfWO*
different ways. Would you get such odds anywhere:'
And would you get odds laid to 2a. 6d. ? Early
tion necessary. In event of all tickets not being ai-.
lotted, surplus doubles distributed pro rata amongst
clients The date and place of drawing igill be inti-
mated. Bankers — Mercantile Banc af Sydney. Aa-.
dress by letter, enclosing stamped envelope for reply*
Tokt Lumpkin, care of A L , 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
N.B —As the Post, Office charges 4d. on each letter,,
subscribers must register their letters, or encl ° j
stamps to that amount. Result of drawing announces
in JEveniwo News,—Advt.
SOCIAL.
Several hours had fled sines the finish of the
fight. The Aldermen had dispersed, and railings about
railings had ceased for a time. No sound of aldarmanic
maceration of biscuit and cheese disturbed the still
evening air. The Municipal brandy and whisky bottles,
whose contents weekly repair the exhausted energies of
our civic fathers, had returned to tbe seclusion of the
icj-chest And the empty “ sodas ” under ths table-
mute witnesses of Alphabetical John’s devotion to
principle—no longer chinked against each other.
When, suddenly, the vestibule of the Towu Hall was a
blaze of light, and folk began to flock in to the ball
given undur the auspices of the Australian Social
Masonic Lodge, No. 260, I.C. And a most enjoy-
able ball it was, too. The company was not too
numerous, perhaps 300; the ladies were lovely, the
music was excellent, the floor in splendid condition, the
catering irreproachable ; not a bit ot plaster fell from
the ceiling, and, if we may place any reliance on the
overheard conversation of a Noozt man, “the rum
was O.K.”—he meant O.P. The dazzling whiteness of
the walls was relieved by flags tastefully arranged. On
our first visit to the supper-room, repeated ,v
times during the evening (simply for the pur-
pose of obtaining something to allay the inordinate
thirst of severs! ladies) we noticed a photo, of our old
friend, David M'Beath, surrounded by a host of other
conspi—that is to say, conspicuous patriots. It was
weakness on our part, but we could not help shedding a
tear at the sight of his benevolent old phiz. He was
always so dear to us—and the city. The briny globule
dropped into the tumbler of whisky and water which
wo were, at that moment, holding for a man. He did
not notice it, but drank the mixture, and has gone to
church regularly since. The dancing on the whole was
excellent, and the large number of good waltzers was
remarkable. Certainly, there were a few of those in-
dividuals, all elbows and feet, who are to ha seen at
every ball. The wild gyrations ot these tramway
dancers make one’s toes tremble with apprehension.
If you see a girl, with a dash of rod in her dress, and a
gentleman with several dashes of P.B. in his epigas-
trium, fast in each other’s embrace, plunging along the
floor in a very ziggaggy manner, you instinctively
scramble out of the road of the Waverley tram. Ail
the gentlemen, with two or three exceptions, were
clad in the venerable old claw-hammer, which would
seem to defy the slightest attempt at modification.
There were but few fancy dresses among the ladies, but
these were very pretty. Mrs. Storey and Mias Priestley
eauh detsaed as Folly, were tbe most striking char-
acters in their satin costumes of cream and blue, and
the tuneful j : ngle of their bells male treble music as
they circled eracefully round. In spite of the beautiful
precept we have read somewhere, to ‘’renounce all
follies,” we unblushingly affirm our determination to
cherish such follies on every convenient occasion.
Cigarette came next, with no lack of admirers. And
what a Cigarette, to put to one’s Up® I The wife of a
literary gentleman was a Gipsy ot Paris, in a dress
of scarlet, cream, and black velvet, hung with sequin®,
her tout ensemble being very picturesque*. Miss Harris,
as Pearl, looked her prettiest in a short pink satin and
gauze, satin hat and ropes of pearls. There wan a
dainty little Vivandiero of six whole summers, Miss
Sharp, looking nice, and there was a host of handsome
eveaing toilettes. Mr.-. Minett wore blaok satin, with
weite jet/ leading, and ’t*as a pretty idea to have the
square and compasses worked in pearls on the shoulder?.
Law showed a sweet face in a setting of pink and bine
satin, flowers and pearls. Mrs. Moulton was admirable
in black satis, pink coral bio?soma round the square
corsage, carried over the shoulders to the waist. The
chosen race sent some of its charming daughters, who
were obvious for their good daneing. Spaca will not
allow more than the mere names of a few conspicuous
guests Mrs. and Miss Youne, Misses Gourlay, Kron,
Priestley, Abrahams, H. and M. Wilson, Moore, Mrs.
Herman, ef autrei Mrs. Cool’s costume was pretty, of
cream satin, and gresn satin trimmings, with pearl
beading; and the pure white raiment, with train and a
glimmer of gold gossamer trailing over her shoulder
and hair, was in its simp’ioity suited to the handsome
classical features nf a Phillip-street belle. In saying
it all the ladies’ todettes were elegant, our discretion
is at lei,st equal to our experience; perhaps, even sur-
passe* it lint in saying that the ladies were all good-
looking, we go on our acquired knowledge; wo are
judges on this point At the mystic hour, the male
metulnrs of r,bo craft inverted their partners with the
regalia, while the Masonic Quadrille was danced.
Supper was more crowded than comfortable at first,
but later, all was well. Mr. James Herman’s stringed
orchestraplu e 1 satisfactorily. Some patriotic, but in-
nocent. member of the committee must have hung that
large Union Jack at the entrance of the supper-room.
It was a loyal idea, but not practical. One of Goodlet
and Smith’s deal doors might net have been so orna-
mental, but it would have been a deal more useful, to
keep out the keen westerly wind. Mr. R. A.
Andrew?, the M.C., seemed ambiguous, and was
ever on the alert to attend to the comfort of the
dancers. About sam, the orchestra, through ihe
medium ot their instruments, expressed the wish tha f
God mixht save the Queen. In a moment there was a
rush to the cloak rooms, and in les* than half an hour
the scene of fun and frolio was dark, cold, and
cheerless.
* « «
A ball in connection with the Balmain Bowing
Club is looming.
# * *
Last week, the quarterly social gathering of Mr.
Allen P. West's clap-os at PeCer.-ham took place in the
Town Hall. Abont 70 pupils attended, and fully 50 in-
vited guests, all being parents or friend?, were seated
on tbe platform as spectators. Full dresi was observed,
but the affiiir was quite private, no strangers bting pre-
sent. A score of little maidens and three or four boys,
avt raging some 10 summers, engaged in friendly rivalry,
first dancing in pairs, then singly, all the ordinary cir-
cular dances. Tne test was not, of cour?e, for endur-
ance, but for grace and accuracy of motion in ballroom
dunows One by one tbe leas meritorious fell out, and
little Miss Masters was finally ® warded first place. The
faultless movement of some of the pattering feet was
charming. All pupils, from the beginning, learn to re-
verse. and do it with as muoh felicity as tbe other way,
thereby avoiding that awkwardness so often displayed
by those who leurn only half the art of dmcing. Mid-
dle aged people are equally facile. Altogether, the
evening was a pleasant one, and some of the spectators
who had been troubled with a hazy idea that dancing
was something very sinful, found their forebodings to
be baseless. # # #
Tho Sydney Private Assembly had one of their
finest gatherings last Friday at *’Nithsdale,” and the
rooms were full. I’ho usual sixteen dances were
executed to the mus'c ot Korf’s baud, and the guests
separated at 1 a in.
r * * •
Wednesday’s Garden Concert, despite the
chilling wind, was very well attended; noirly 400
promtnaders helped to keep the grass (rom growing
round the classical band house. Bind-Sergeant Fennel
and his men may look upon themselves as public bene-
fit ■, ors, for all are fully alive to the pleasure provided
for them under such agreeable circumstances by the
musicians Ulsters were very acceptable during the
afternoon, bat many, indeed most of the ladies pre-
t«ned to shiver and let tbe pnblit admire their finery,
so wo were enabled to feast onr eyes upon plump and
slende: ideals of beauty. These latter admit of a fair
sb tre of straining, and dresses remarkably narrow and
skimpy, as well as flounced, draped and puffed till one
wmchred were an extra furbelow could be found room
for, if the wearer so desired it, were alike pronounced
(of course, by competent judges) “ very pretty.” We
do net know liow the ladies’ e-cons manige it, but they
do t 1 j ive 1 auks and offices at tour o’clock, and appear
binding, cool, and calm on the lawn a few minutes
earlier: but whit has not man done ere this for beauty’s
glance ? m m m
Grind Bill at Government House to-night
(Thursday). Very large number of invitations out.
First of tho season.
• • #
The Race Ball at Maryborough, Q,, passed off
on the 20th July, in the Town Hall, ana about 200 were
present, many in fancy dress The Pollard Band sup-
pled music, which was first-class; and the decorations
and gay costumes had a pleasing effect. Noticeable
were: Mrs John Thorn as Lady Teazle, a very com-
plete personification ; Mrs. Dr. Power indicated Sport,
in a dress adorned with birds’ plumage, and a small
gun slung at the back; Mr*. A. H- Bhand, a Lady of
the Last Century s Mrs. Hetley, Lady ot Henry VI.
period ; Mrs. Simpson made a nice Mabel (** Pirates ’*) ;
Mr*. Charles Power was a Neapolitan Orange Girl, the
silk work on the apron being very choice. Mrs Finch
was Miry, Qneenof Soots; Mrs. Sugden, Dolly Vatosn;
Mrs. Missing and Mrs Gray, costumes of Louis XIV ,
Mrs. P. Ramsay, an English Lady of ISth Century;
Mrs. Henry Walker, pretty and effective as a Bulgarian
Peasant. Among the unmarried ladies. Miss Thornloe
Smith appeared as a Girl Graduate; Miss Beck as
Dresden China; M>ss Sly as Little 80-peep, a striking
attraction; Miss Younger, French Sailor Girl; Miss
O’Kane, as Maritana: Miss Ella Ward as an Indian
Princess: an Eastern Princess was tempting, and Miss
Maggie Walker was a precious piece of Folly. Some of
the gentlemen also appeared refulgent in imaginary
characters. Mr. A H. WiUon was a Hielanman; Mr.
Henry Walker, Sir John Falstaff; Dr. Power was
Claude Duval; Mr. John Taomaa a Yankee Consul;
Mr. Sidney Clayton wore a quaint fancy costume. The
majority of gentlemen, however, were in evening dress.
Mr A. O. Jones was successful as the Master of Cere-
monies, and the only regrettable thing about the ball is
—that it is over
• • •
Bangor’s Wangemong Station, near Corowa,
was the scene of pleasant festivities lately, and the
young surveyors, camped in the vicinity, were not loth
to join, with neighboaring pastors.lUt®, in the fan.
Among the dance party were Messrs. Rankin, Whit-
field, and Simpson, from Gaaambit; Messrs. Wilson,
and several ladle*, from New Coraen; and others.
Three daughters of ths house were hearty in their hos-
pitality, and a jolly evening was the reenlt. Next day
was spent in lawn tennis, and a riding party took the
bush the day after. If any weddings fol’ow this sort
ef thing, of course the misfortune can’t be helped.
• • *
A well-known civil servant, having some overtime
work to do, and preferring to doit beside his own win-
ter fireside, brought the necessary documents and papers
home. When the job wss done he returned the “ does.”
to the office, but forgot the Blue Book which he
had been using. Now, that book is brought out every
night by his two daughters for the instruction and edi-
fication of their lady visitors, and they go through
the list of their male acquaintances, and are familiar
with the exact income of each. Jenkins, of the Post
Office, who has been leversly gruelling the tailors and
jewellers for his get-up for the last few years, and who
has been most favoured by the sex, finds himself incon-
tinently snubbed by the fair coterie, who are spreading
the alarming fact that he gets only|£l2s. and net £5OO a
year. Materfamilias when she goes out with her girls,
says : 11 Fannie and Teresa, dears, don’t promenade with
that fellow Smifkins; he gets o ily £75 Cultivate Jones
—ha gets £3OO, and his nude's a membah.”
• • •
There was a grand ball in the Town Hall,
Daniliquin, ou the 10th July, and seme of the guests
travelled very long distances in from the stations to
attend it. Ths band was from Sandhurst, 100 miles off
• • •
Last Thursday, the Bachelors of Randwiok
distinguished themselves by giving a bail At least,
some of them—namely, the survivors of the Football
Club, did so. We don't know how many there are,
but (having seen some of the Randwiok girls) wo
wonder there are any at all. Bichelors, we’re alluding
to, of course. Not survivors of the club: we don’t
suggest for a moment that they would be likely to
either distinguish or extinguish themselves. However,
let that pass. They showed their gallantry by giving a
ball, and all the ladies agreed that is far more sensible
than kiekin g one; it was a good ball, they spared no
trouble, and those that were bidden game, to the
number of 120, abont two-thirds of whom were locals,
and the rest from everywhere. At 9 o’clock, more than
a score arrived from Sydney by tram, and shortly after-
wards the company were ranged in lines for the Parisian
quadrille. Nearly all the ladies wore dresses of com-
fortable length, their only trains being of admirers.
Nothing very gorgeous was displayed; married ladies
mostly wore costly dark fabrics, and single ladies,
dainty light ones, more blue and white than anything
else. The proportion of those who, like Wordsworth’s
little cottage girl, “were fair, and very fair," was quite
striking. Most so wore two tall graceful dancers, wear-
ing exceptionally handsome dresses, daughters of an
cx-mayor, whose lasting gratitude we hope to earn by
not punning on his name. The pre.-ent Mayor’s
daughter was fair; so was a pretty orphan; and so
ware two ladies from “ the institution." of whom one
was as quiet as the other was mercurial in her move-
ments. Next in degree were two pink-olad demoiselles,
admired, less for their dancing abilities—which will, (
doubtless, be more fully developed soma day—than for'
their liberal dower of good looks. Perhaps the Rand-
wiok climate is peculiarly favourable to the production
of blondes; at any rate, they’re very prevalent. A
charming bride, in white and blossoms, was excep-
tional, and a complete contrast to her sisters-in-law.
Two dark sisters were, perhaps unwittingly, uHthotio ;
for they, like their dresses, showed a tendency to oling,
more observable to others than to themselves, pro-
bably. Many of the chief residents were present,
including the Mayer, several aldermen, Messrs. See and
Clarke, M.P.’s, and a cereal merchant who has an
almost gubernatorial fondness for fowls. A witty
auctioneer brought a portion of his family; not tbe
whole of it, as the ball was limited in size. No one
strove more energetically to keep up tha frolio, and
not a bachelor was more attentive to damosels than the
knight of the roitrum, whose rotund partner was also
there, alternately dancing and watching others. Sad was
the fate of a town visitor, of dramatic tastes and ditninn-
tive stature, who came to grief with his partner in
pink. She was pretty enough to make a man lose
his feet as well as his head! And he did so
Solemn was the phonographic young man from
the I Asylum And the Footballers? Well, moss of
them are very young—many ot them very tall-some
of them aro painfully thin; and several of them are so
tall and so thin that it’s hard to imagine them occupy,
ing, with safety, any position on a football field—unless,
perhaps, they served in the useful capacity of goal-
posts. Some of them are pretty dancer* ; but we have
made up our mind to speak to “ Allen P." about the
others. Wo (eel it is a duty we owe to them, and to
society at large, and to the hosts of limping ladies, to
do so. Mr, Herman Milford, the secretary, worked
very hard, acting os M. 0., introducing, and keeping his
eagle eye on everything—especially everything that was
attractive. Separate cloak roo ns were available, and
trouble had bem taken to prepare the floor. Pro-
grammes soon filled; none quicker than that of a young
lady who had “ D.V.” down eight times. This rather
startled us at first; it looked almost like superstition.
The proviso *' weather permitting” is not uncommon,
but “ D V." to the Bulletin polks, or Blue Danube,
seemed to indicate a presentiment of some dreadful,
sudden visitation. “Do you,” we hazarded in a sub-
dued tone of sympathy, "do you, that is, Coes waltxing
—we mean, are you subject to—— ?” *• Oh no,” she
said, archly, “those are initials, yon know; they’re
for but we won’t tell young Lochiavar’s name.
Only their steps suited oxe another so nioely, that's all.
The hall is a spacious and comfortable one, wall venti-
lated, with a gallery at one end and platform at the
other. The floor is even, sufficiently large for about
200 persons, if they have bee > taught darning, or for
100 if they haven’t. Supper was in a large room up-
stairs, on a liberal scale, and capitally served. Da
Qroen's band of four played excellent music, the fine
piano used being lent by Mr. Bradley. All through the
ball, a wallflower was scarcely to be seen; and there
were pretty girls there who occupy more space in our
heart of hearts than we can give them In our social
column. The belle was a blonde, though opinions
differed as to whether she was a Randwiok or Darling-
hurst one. Bat, in either case, she was to be found
among the “B>.” At 4a.m. the bill concluded, and a
special tram sped through tbe moonlight to Sydney.
> • , • •
Dnbbo’s, Masonic Hall held a gay company on
the 25th ult., when a soiree dansante eventuated. Floor,
music, and sefreshmouts ail nice, but nicest ot all was a
lady from Sydney, black, who, with a Governmint
official’s handsome daughter in pink, bad an equal num-
ber of votes for beileship Dawn earns before dancing
ceased.
e « e
The Liedertafel Social Evening last Thursday
drew a brilliant assemblage to the Protestant Hall,
which was decked after the manner of a previous
occasion, with banting, pet plants, eto. One of the
rules is, that all gentlemen attending a concert shall
wear full dress, and the ladies seem decided to follow
the rule too. A rich ruby velvet, trimmed with cream
lace, was acknowledged to be one of the handsomest
dresses. An amber satin, much beoottered and be-
frilled, looked gorgeous; the wearer having white
camoUias la her hair. Mrs. Horry Woods wore black
satin, white chemisette, and pink crush roses, gold
bands round the head. A lady from Glebe Point wore
a tasteful costume of lavender and cream silk. A
young brunette from the same locality wore shaded
blue satin. A few tasteful black dresses were to be
seen here and there which served to set off to the best
advantage those of a more brilliant hue. Guo was a
black silk trimmed with black silk grenadine streaked
with gold. Another was a black velveteen cut square
and relieved by trimmings of corn lace. A beautiful
dress was a pale blue satin with scarf of old gold bro-
caded satin. A fair beauty from Ashfield looked her
bast in a black dress with pale blue flowers at her
throat and in hair. At the termination of the concert
many beautiful opera cloaks were visible.
• • •
A, pretty wedding at Bingara last month. Bride.
Miss Caroline Emily, second daughter of Mr, C. Bull,of
” Cooringoort;" bridegroom, Mr. W. M. Barthwick.of
Invarell. The lady, nice as brides ought to be, in grey
silk, white satin and fringe, orange wreath and tulle
veil; firs bridesmaid*, one in cardinal, two in pink, sad
two in blue, attended on Mr. Barth wick's choiee.
* * *
Quite a unique party gathered at the romantic
“ Lynn,” Bondi, last Saturday afternoon, one the in-
vitation of the Misses Slone; when musical, artistic,
and literary lights all scintillated their share of sparks,
more or less brilliant. Some fifty were present, and
the declining hours of daylight were spent in such
various ways as fancy listed, in social converse, in dual
rambles, and in mating new acquaintances. And, in
the evening, at Mr. Fletcher’s house at the “Glen,’’
dancing was practised by most of the company. A fair
pianiste, once (but not now) known as Miss Kate
Thayer, sang Schubert s Serenade deliciously, with a
zither accompaniment, played by a gentleman equally
known as a linguist and Consul for a European power.
The lady’s husband, Mr. Chapman, recited “Little
Joe,” and some eyes had a suspicious glisten in them
ere he had dons. Mr. Ramsay exhibited some amateur
tragedianism; and an incident was the singing of a
Mendelssohn’s Quartet by a party of choristtrs in the
depths of the fern glen; the effect of the blended
voices and the ceiseless murmuring sea, floating up
through the moonlight air to the lighted cottage
above, the vast expanse of ocean, and the weird outlines
of the big brown hills, being just what Ouida would
have loved for one of her wondrous pictures.
• « t
A high wedding occurred at Yass on the 23th
July at Sc Clement’s Church A great throng gathered
to see Mr. C. L. Hume, of “ Castlesteads,” and Miss C.
Mallby, of “ Durham House,” plight themselves. The
bride wore creme oashm>re and satin, with rich real
Uco ; the maid* donning the various hues of blue, pink,
and white Mr. Thompson, of Tismania, her uncle,
gave the bride away; and the chief groomsmen were
Riwden Hime. of 1 Evri-ton," andC. Hassell, manager
of the Odentii B v k at Young 70 guests as breakfas*.
Mr and Mis Hume left by train f-r Goulburn and
Sydney. ,
It’s a peculiar fact that, to an average young
Dd;, a '• bachelor” is just as attractive, asa’‘spin-
ster” is unattractive to i he average young gentleman.
We don’t pretend to account for it; but will give our
*< word of honour” that it is so. It has been for long
suspected by ns. Tuesday night’s ball proved it. The
Bachelors simply sent their invitations out, and a flood
of beauty poured in. We’re only g mg to say a few
words abdut it; and perhaps had belte dispose of what
Sir Alfred calls “the less meritorious ax” first. For
instance, there were—Mr. Mayor Harrm, His Honor
Judge Faucott, Mr. D. O’Connor, MP. .nr. R. B.
Smith, M.P., Mr. Mavor Butcher. Mr. tx-Mayor
Robert®, Mr Cmsul .Kahlo, &o. Legal men wore
specially thick in the throng and merchants well repre-
sonted. Hermann's string band played regular time,
but decidedly faster iban is usual. Many dresses were
very handsome, and trains in favour. Prominent among
them wtra some of exceptional beauty. Mrs. J. H.
Burns’ costume was black moire with satin trimmings,
long train, coral and pink roses with dead leaves for
contrast- edging of jet passementerie, and cameo jewel-
lery. The Misses Martin (nieces of the Chief Justice),
who were noticeable at the recent Hay ball, were
quietly attired in, one, all black, and the other, pink
grosgrain, gracefully worn. The most showy dress was
certainly the trained yellow satin worn by Miss
O'Sullivan, of Newcastle, with an Elizabethan ruff,
which was “ dressed up to ” by the hair being drawn on
to the top of the head, forming a unique ensemble.
Mrs. Butcher displayed along brocaded satin, all black,
with costly jet trimming and scarlet flowers; while
Miss Edith was a contrast in pure white; and the
snowy wreath and raven hair framed a face that was
bewitohingly nice. Miss Ruby’s speciality was forget-
me-nots Miss Farrell’s blondoness was accompanied
by blue satin raiment, lace, and roses by the yard round
the skirt. The Misses M’Carthy, sisters of the honorary
secretary, in white, also wore flowers, arranged with
taste. Mrs. Despoiotes was in a short dress of rich
claret plush and white satin of brilliant gleam. The
Misses Daltons’ costumes of white satin brochc were
extremely handsome; tha ladies were the same, only
extremelier. One sister wore beetles’ wings, which
seemed very dazzling till you looked at her face —you
forgot them then. Miss Gannon, from Cook's River,
la earn and cardinal satin; Miss Katie Keating in
black, and blue satin and lace; and pretty little Mias
Maloney, with a face like a doll and a friz, like a Zulu,
who fluttered the bachelors in her pink and cardinal,
all arrested attention. Misses Parker were bright and
beautiful dancers. We haven’t the faintest idea how
they were dressed; but will be happy to stale the
precise colour of their eyes, if that's of any public
interest. The next sentence is true. No lady in the
vestibule displayed such grace in dancing as Miss
E.heredgs. Oh, it only a tew more would dance like
taat, tht re would be less hugs and bumps in the ball-
room of to day, and more of the grace and poetry of
the courtly d iys of old. Mrs. Clune wore a rich butter,
cup saiin; and Mrs. Atkinson a white broohfi, and
fl jwer i in her dark tresses which were admirably be-
comii. g. Miss Kenna, from Bathurst, exhibited a
magnificent gilden cream satin, wortby of Worth,
richly fringed and corded with gold. The committee —
Messrs. Q. Curtis, R Ramsden, and F. J. M’Carthy
(hon. sec )—acted energetically to render the ball agree,
able. All the bachelors wore true lovers’ knots of
silver cord on the coat flap This prevented the ladies
making mistakes, and wasting their fascination* on un-
profltaole objects. Gompagnoni catered, to a surfeit,
and W. Hughes supplied wines, &o.
• • •
A very enjoyable dance was given by Mrs’
James Stewait, of Mojro Park, on Thursday night
list, at which some thirty couples danced tne hours
away. The fair eex, represented by •• luscious blondes”
and “ slaughtering brunettes," looked charming. The
costumes were rich and vaiied, and comprised every
colour thato et metadmlriag woman's eye. Amongst
the company the amiable daughters of the hostess
looked hugely nice, and were muoh sought after; also
their married lister who was dressed in a sweetly pretty
dress of which pale pink plush formed a con- piouous
part A lady from Glen more-road, in pink, looked
angelic enough to enter the portals of bliss. The
daughters of the Major of Woollahra were in lull war-
paint; the elder wearing a lavender silk dress with a
train as long as a tramway, her sister in pare white
Two sisters from “ Roseneath,” Woollahra, looked
dashing, one in eern, hand-painted, the other in white
with a dainty little wreath of white flowers in her
raven bait. Miller's Point also sent some guests. A
Melbourne lady in a handsome dress of ecru secured
numerous admirers, and two sisters from Bourke street
south, held their own amongst the festive throng. The
music was < SfCollent, the refreshments superb, and the
company reluctantly parted as morning was opening
its eyes. * * #
Mrs. J. Smith, of “ Shrublanda,” Petersham,
gav* a party to about a hundred, mostly young folks,
on Monday night. There was good music for lovers of
the mazy, and beautiful moonlight for lovers on the
lawn; in fact it was qaite a question whether “ moosia ’
or " moonsick ” was uhe nieer. Miss Smith was chirm,
ingand attentive, and a Newtown star (as a stricken
one said) was Gorr.geously bright. A newly wedded
balie was sighed for and sought as much as ever by
the Petersham ycuth ; and two pretty girls just pre-
vented us from making a lovely jeke about the beauties
of a blue lake and the biushes of a pink rose, by dress-
ing vice versa Girls have ne business to reverse the
order of nature in that way. But the yeung gentlemen
all said the dance was grand, and went iwij happy
when it terminated at 4 o'clock.
• • *
Caperte* Camp ww somewhat enlivened by a
ball given by the bachelors the** on the ?7th July, in
the new goods shed. The place was nicely decorated
with flags *ud ferns, and the bachelors are to be consra-
tulated. The energetic secretary, Mr. Girvair, added
greatly to th« f-uccess of their undertaking. Music was
supplied by Mr. Reuben Woods, of Sydney j about 40
couples danced till 4.30 a.m., and all oujovo-'. a good
night. Refreshments were provided by Mr. M'Dermott,
a local storekeeper, and did credit to him. Several vi-
sitors were from Sydney. The ladies generally were
tastefully dressed, and it was difficult to find the belle,
but a local married lady, beautifully dressed in white
satin, perhaps deserved the honor.
* * *
The belle of Gundagai was married last Monday,
at St. John’s Church there, in the presence of a great
throngof spectators. Mis* Carrie Benton was daughter
of one of the oldest, well known inhabitants of the
little town on the side of the hill; and the happy bride-
froom was Mr. P. J. Gandon, who is president of the
ydcey School of Arts Orating Club, and makes ineom-
parable koamiss. The fair lady was arrayed in plain
brocaded silk of creamy white, and tulle veil worked
with floselle. Two of her sisters. Miss Emily and Miss
Nellie, In ruby cashmere with satin pannier, and ruby
brocaded silk, geld trimming*, respectively, assisted as
bridesmaids Mr. and Mrs. Gandon left for Qoulbnrn,
koumiserated by all.
* * *
The Newtown Volunteer Fire Brigade held a
ball on the Ist August, in Newtown- Town Hall, having
the advantage of good music, and the drawback of a
bad floor. Members of Newtown and Petersham
brigades were in full dress. Grosvenor. Huntborue,
Mepbistophelos, a Forester, Footman, Bobby, soma
Middies, were among the fancy dresses. Two sisters
were the "Orphans.” Miss Lambert, a brunette, a
dashing Turk, tied with Miss Saurbery, a blonde
Highland Lassie, for first place. Mr Saurbsry was
Prince of Castile. "Night” found many admirers.
A Naval Officer lost his reckoning, through
severe indisposition. Many aldermen were present,
the daneing was good, and Callaghan provided good
things, but not enough of them.
• • «
Commemoration day (Saturday) saw the great
hall of Sydney University uncomfortably crowded
by a fashionable throng. The gallery, now occupied by
the new organ, was not available, so, many ladies went
on to the dais, greatly delighting the gentlemen of the
gowns and trenchers, who cheered vociferously as each
detachment was sent up. A company three deep filled
the aisle, spoiling the views of others, who in turn
stood up, and formed an impenetrable wall to
balk the gaze of others. Everyone, of course, was au-
xious to hear the grand organ peal out its powerful har-
mony ; but the said harmony interfered with the stu.
dents’ pet " oommem.” amusement of cheering for half
an hour at a spell, as they are wont to do, but won’t do
any more. An* excuse satisfies these cultivated young
gentlemen; a Sir, a plain Mr., Dr., Chancellor, the
" ladies in pink,” the organ blower, or the messenger—
they’d cheer a coekchafer —so long as they could only
make a uoue
« • *
Events oE more or less importance :—We pre-
dicted one of them would occur after that Bachelors*
social ball at Newtown, and on Tuesday a nice little
pair merged their six syllables into three A prosper-
ous man persuaded a lair widow on the Murray to
remain lone no longer. Their sorrows are Alburyed
now A suburban postmaster engages a permanent
assistant to-day; and a pretty one Miss Angore, of
Auckland, values the affection she inadvertently wasted
on her young man at £2OO. The fickle youth acted on
the Bible precept—" Keep not your asgor for ever,”
and it has got him into trouble Wuen Cupid draws
his bow, he generally makes a miss—into a missis.
Another Archer drew her beau on the 22nd ult., with
the same result, at Paddington. It was not only a
romantic affair, but it was what the illustrious " Pyn ”
would call
An affair that was pike—
Exceedingly pike—
Yes, very pik-u-11-ar.
Last week. Miss Ada Evans, niece of Mr. Evans, the
well-known crio' eter, was united to Mr. Arthur Price,
Emu Plains. Both of old family la the Nepean
district.
** * *
Lawn tennis is becoming fashionable in the Far
West of Queensland. The Hite of Blackall, and the
blue blooct of the Barooo, practise all day on Sundays
now A nice little party in the Mechanics’lnstitute,
Botany, last Friday. The music by two sisters and a
well known gentleman ef Botany was capital. Skating
and dancing till 11 o’clock, when visitors spread... The
Auckland Bachelors’ Bali to Commodore Erskine and
officers of the Nelson was attended by 100 persons.
Decorations superb At Penrith, the Tradesmen’s
Ball comes Off on the 14th August, plain and fancy,
EUm Squires supplies the tarts, and music goes from
Sydney And at Newcastle, a Tradesman's Ball wdl
soon beheld. Clarence Hannell is hon. sec On the
25th July, a Bachelors’ Ball passed off at Coraki,
about 60 present, music g'od, guests satisfied ; belle,
a pretty blonde in white tude and satin, pale green
trimming. Just the sort of girl tul e-ove The
Scandinavian* had a masked ball at Brisbane (Q.) on
Monday night An interesting social event was
toe gathering of Mr. Jarretfs Insurance clerks,
the other day, to celebrate the weddings of four
of them. “ The four Brides ” was a rather over-
whelming’y sort of toast for one man to speak to
Mr. Sub inspector Smith was presented with a gold
keyless watch, tet of studs, and bag of sovs. at Walgett,
last week. They were sent after him from Maitland,
whence he had been promoted. Hubert Dillon, P.M ,
made the presentation At Forbes, on the 24th, a
farewell banquet and ball was given to Mr. W, K.
M Milian, four years captain of the Fire Brigade. The
gallant firemen also gave him, playfully, a butter cooler.
The ball was muoh enioyed. Mac. goes to Bourko
Protestant Alliance Ball took place -’t West Maitland
on Ist August.... Banquet and ball at Urallaon 2adinst.,
at tha opening of the railway A civic picnic, in
connection with a coal mine on the Blue Mountains, is
spoken of Mrs. John Jackson gave a large country
pany lately, at her residence, Boroe Creek, Uralla, to
celebrate her birthday, and there was a grand display of
fireworks....A very enjoyable evening entertainment was
given by Mr*. 8, J. Bull, last Wednesday week,
at "Cliften,” Glebe Point; dancing, singing, &a.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Stanmere G.C. Ball (Petersham) August S.
Bachelors’ Social (Nithsdale) August L
Burwood Assembly Augusts
Victoria House Soiree (Nithsdale) August 11.
Ladies’Return Bink Ball (Petersham),... August IS.
Wallaroo Football Club's Sports August 19.
Gymnastic Sociable August 26.
Sydney Bioyole Club Meeting August 26.
German Fair (Exhibition) Sept. 2
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 6.


T
HEA T R E
ROYAL.
Mr. Sam. Lazar.
Sub-Lessees and Sole managers—
TOUTH,
pignold,
TOUTH.
RIGNOLD.
youth,
rignold.
TOUTH,
RIGNOLD.
YOUTH,
rignold.
YOUTH,
BL+NOLD.
youth.
Box Plan now open daily from 11 to 4. Dress Circle
entrance, Castlereagh-street. Seats can be secured six
days in advance, and Tickets obtained for all parts of
the house at Lloyd’s, next the Theatre.
Treasurer., ......... Mr. G. L QTodtnau.
Mamiger Youth Combination .Mr. H. BlangUter.
Assistant Stage Manager Mr. tt. Bennett.
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and W. Reynolds.
THIS EVENING. THURSDAY
Greatest Production Ever Attempted at this Theatre.
WALTER REYNOLDS’
New Spectacular Society Sensation
VANITY FAIR.
Amongst those engaged for its representation are
Mr. Frank Gates Miss K. K.ller
Mr. Jas. F. Cathoart Miss Kate Douglas
Mr. H. Stoneham Mrs. Marian Stammers
Mr. W. J. Foley Miss Nelly Playfair
Mr. W. Carls Miss Gracj Hathaway
and
MR. WALTER REYNOLDS.
GORGEOUS SCENERY by KINSELLA
Entirely new Limelight, Gas, and Mechanical Effects
by O'Neil, Vincent, and triple staff of Mechanists,
OPERA HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager W. J Wilson.
Manager for Cellar’s Wonders ..A, Lithbri.anb.
THIS and EVERT EVENING until] Farther Notice.
Success and Enthusiastic Reception of
K E L L A E,
THE KING CONJUROR OF THE WORLD,
in his Marvellous Entertainment
A NIGHT IN DREAMLAND,
and the renowned Automata
Admission—ss , 3n. and Is.
Box office now open at A. Hnenerbein’s, George,
street, where seats are now being secured.
gGUTHS OPERA COMPANY.
STILL TO THE FRONT,
The above Favorite and Talented Company are now
on their Southern Tour, and will appear at
TEMOEA
and
WAGQA
EN ROUTE.
“ VICTORIA HALL, CASTLEREAGH STREET,; ’
TO FOLLOW.
NEW AND CHOICE REPERTOIRE.
Address : BULLETIN OFFICE.
H. J. WHITTINGTON, Agent.
TO THEATRICALS AND OTHERS.
THE TOOWOOMBA SCHOOL OF ARTS, having
been now thoroughly renovated, New Stage Fit-
tings, Ac., erected, can be engaged for One Guinea per
night.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIEEOE of the
ZULU WAR.
Public Hall, Greymouth, 24th May.
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
Abbott’s New Theatre, Auckland, July 12th, four
weeks.
Houses packed to suffocation every night.
NEW TOWN HALL, MUDGEE.
MAIN HALL OPEN POE ENGAGEMENT.
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, GAS, SEATS for 650.
Applications for engagements to be orwarded to
EBENEZBR LOVE JOY.
Town Clerk.
tx imsl
CtAgKSON
-v
r-
D. W. CLARKSON, TAILOR,
Removed to 97 Market Street, near Elizabeth Street.
Tweed Suite from £3 3e. Tweed Trousers, Ifli. Od,
F. JANSEN,
TOBACCONIST
A 72 GEOEOB STEHET,
B®GS to inform his customers Sad tho pubHc ib
general, that he bos
REMOTE®
MARKET STREET TO GEORGE STREET
Opposite tli« Markets.
rjpHE JUVENILE PINAFORE COMPANY’
i.essee and Easiness Manager Mr. H Stanlet.
Stage Manager Mr. F. Labbtshire.
Schoolmaster Mr. James.
Schoolmistress Miss Carouse Btaki/bt.
Musical Directress Signora Palomiki.
CROWDED EVERYWHERE,
THE AUSTRALIAN WONDERS.
H. STANLEY,
Late Lecturer and Manager of the American War Pano-
rama, and a witness of the whole of the Crimean War,
1854 5 ; the Maori War of New Zealand; Langerbelie
Rebellion. Zalu Land, Ac ; and traveller of Spain, Italy,
Greece, Ras'la, Turkey, South Africa. Mauritius, Fiji,
Ceylon, India, Bnrmah, Java, Siam, China. Japan, and
the whole of the Australian Colonies, New Zealand, and
Tasmania; now making a visit previous to his Fare-
well Tour round the World with
THE JUVENILE OPERA-BOUFFE
and
PANTOMIME COMPANY,
of
41 PERFORMERS 40
Including the Original and Principal Members of
LEWIS’S JUVENILE PINAFORE COMPANY.
Semejibeh I
THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL TROUPE IN
MELBOURNE,
Who Will appear in Gilbert and Sullivan’s Operatic
Satire,
H. M.S. PINAFORE.
ACT I.—Off Portsmouth (Morning)!
ACT lI,—OH Portsmouth (Evening)!
Having concluded a most successful season of 18
Weeks at the Bijou 1 heatre, Melbourne; 14 Weeks at
the Queen’s Theatre, Sydney; 6 Weeks at Garner’s
Theatre, Adelaida; the firm is now making a Farewell
Tour of the Colonies.
DON’T FAIL TO SEE THIS SPLENDID
ENTERTAINMENT!
Remember 1 Over 40,000 People paid to witness this in
Melbourne.
Appear MURRAMBUREAH August 7th.
do YASS do Bth.
do GOULBUEN do 9th.
(Four nights.)
All Dates filled up to AUGUST 26th
Open to accept terms from MANAGERS of FIRST
CL ass THEATRES after that date. We also play
PANTOMIME, and have one of the BEST TROUPES
in AUSTRALIA, as proved by the Thunders of Ap-
lanse, and the Crowded Houses wherever we perform.
All Applications to be made to
HARRY STANLEY, Business Manager.
N.B,—NO MESSERS TREATED WITH.
CITIZENS ATTEND THE GB.EAT PUBLIC
MEETING on the LAND QUESTION.
The Protection and Political Reform Dengue coll
Colonists together on FRIDAY EVENING, the 4th
instant.
At the TEMPERANCE HALL.
L. F. Heydon, E?q., M L.A , and other gentlemen,
will address the public. N. Melville Esq ,MLA. in
the Chair.
R C. LU3COMBE, Secretary.
TO THE OPERATIC AND THEATRICAL
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA HOUSE,
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCKLAND, N Z.
Sole Proprietor, H. N. ABBOTT.
THIS Magnificent Building is now completed. It is
THE MODEL Opera House of Australasia, and
the Largest and Most Commodious in New Zealand.
Erected on las teat models, it will be found replete with
every Modern Comfort and Luxury (before and behind
the curtain) appertaining to the best appointed
Theatres In the Old and New Worlds. The Ventilation
is perfect. All parts of the House are easy of Ingress
and egress from brood, light, and airy corridors. Every
precaution has been taken to save life and property in
ease of fire, and the Auckland City Counoil have recently
inspected and highly commended the measures adopted
•o that end. Magnificently and Brilliantly Lighted,
its Luxurious Private Baxes, Dress Circle, and Or-
chestra Stall ', together with its unsurpassed Pit and
Stalls Accomodation, are features hitherto unknown in
Colonial Theatres. The Opera House will be opened
by the Williamson Opera Company for one mouth,
commencing from 28rd May next. Theatrical Managers
and Agents’ " ctars,’’ and Combinations are invited to
apply to the Proprietor for terms and further informa-
tion.
SYDNEY GYMNASIUM
LIVERPOOL STREET
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S CLASS DAILY.
ALL BRANCHES OF ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
G. H. d’HAEGOURT, Instructor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo-
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 60 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane
M E -
AND MBS. JAMES CARDEN.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH )
Arrangements completed for ene year, commencing
June Ist, 1882, under the management of
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMSON, & USGEOVB.
The new south wales mont de
PIE PE DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT COM-
PANV, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
TEMPORARY OFFICE,
121 Castlereagh-Bireet, opposite St. James' School.
CAPITAL, £50,000.
Incorporated uniler the Companies’ Act, 1874
(37 Vic . No. 19).
Directors:
Hon. S. H. TERRY, Esq,, M.L.C., Chairman.
A. H. M’CULLOOH, Esq., M.P.
ALEX BOWMAN, Esq, M.P.
T. F THOMPSON, Esq
W. H. PALING, E*q . J.P.
This Company has been formed for the purpose of
advancing money upon collateral or approved personal
security ; also, upon every description of merchandise,
watches, jewellery, musical surgical, and mathematical
instruments; mortgages on land, deposit of deeds,
scrip, bonded certificates, bills of lading, Ac , at a
muou lowor rate of into’Ctt. than now charged by money-
lenders and pawnbrokers. Particular attention is called
to the fact that no money-lending offices or pawn-brok-
ing establishments calling i hcmselves Mont de Piete
have any connection with this Couii.auy. At present
there will only be one head office, and any alteration the
public will be made acquainted with in cue course.
The pledging rates of interest will ha publshed when
sew premises are areo ofi.
Discount and other loans bv arrangement.
Tenders have been accept.d for the election of a suit-
able building on pait of the site purchased, 100,102, 104,
and 106, Caotlereigji-s 1 rect. Business wi l te o.rried
on at the Temporary ufflee, 121. Oastlereagh-streot,
only as regards loan?, scrip, calls, Ac.
The pledging department will be deferred nntil com-
pletion of new premises.
Office hours from 10 to 4.
All communications must be addressed to theseore-
ttxy, Mr. DAVID BARKER.
LEWIS LEVY. Manager,
CROSS
INDIGES
DROP*
Will CUBE Indigestion, Heartbu
Headache, Soar Stomach, and ever
disordered state of the dig<
THESE DROPS WILL CURE
Sold in bottles, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6
and dealers in medii
Sole Proprietor and Pa
Charles Cross. M.P.S. Viet. ;
OAWLER, SOOTH AU.
Sydney Agents
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. H(
SECTION
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAR
FREEHOLD ES TJ
by Subscription
10 ODO SUBSCRIBERS o
120 PRIZES of the fall yah
117 lots guaranteed, cash li
Lot 1. Ist prise £4OOO I Lot 8
Lot 2. 2nd prize £BOOO | Lot 4
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £U
Lot 10,1 Prize of £5O.
Lots '1 to 2h, 10 Prizes <
Lots 21 to 120, 100 Prize
The management is compelled ti
drawing to the first day of Augi
standing this announcement, the
tirely be proceeded with seven di
are subscribed for. All nnsuoces
have their mousy returned per reti
the grandest opportunity ever ofl
stantial prize, if not a large and j
for £l.
Address—SETH R. PERSBE, I
European Chambers ; Box, Post 0
RE4D PROSPEC’
jIHE BLACK GURRA
Acts likea charm ia every k
A Single Dose gives Relief at (
Refreshing Slee
MADE ONLY BY !
Chemist to His Excel
PURNITU.KE! FUJ
MAKE YOUR HOMES CO
H - PALING.
* PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-rtreet.
/V/
PIANOFORTES,
PIANOFORTES.
JUST EECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By the celebrated makers
W, BELL AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
H A R MON I U M S,
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’e, Anchor’s,
Sonfleto’s, Kirkmau’s, and Hundt and Sons Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clongh
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNTARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. F. DeCOURCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
Author of the “ Miners’ Handt Book," &0., &c.,
MINING EXPERT,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS.
126 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY - , & 0 ., &c
A
V
k
'ISIT E. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP,
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
BLACKET AND
119 BATHURST STREET, S
AGENTS POE
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
8 T E
PARTICULARS ON APPLICAT
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE
The Universal Sewin
Haa all tie latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and


MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OP 1
A
N
Q
8
A
F
E
8
T
WHKN PURCHASING YOU!
ask for
PANTER AND P I
NEW EXTRACT O
AND SBK THAT TOD Ql
SUPERIOR TO ALL 0
BE T Washing and Diainf*
tion known, for Clothes,
Crook fry, Paint, Glam, and evi
purpose. Used and rooomm
Laundry at Government Ho
moor (Inspector of Nuisances
(Orient Laundry), and by
judges to be the best article m
REMEMBER I
Washing and cleaning don
time, with half the Labour.
Everyfctung Cleaner, Health
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HA
TO BE HAD OP ALL Q
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-Sl
IN THE WOR
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Lio lit, Delicious
Beverage.
<*-
*
£
❖
o
C'
drm
O
c
liquid yielc
RY
«r SOLD BY ALL G
BLACK AND COLOURED
VELVETEENS, 30 DIPPERS
at
EDWARD HORDERN i
668 BRICKFIELD I
varying in price from Is lid to
" 11/TYRA'S JOURNAL” says
JtJL NIUM’ Velveteen (oallei
name of ihe City of Manchester
Romanr) is superb, soft, and brill
colour, fuller and deeper than OR:
which err on the side of blueness, ai
WITH NO OTHER BLACK MATERIAL.
* The * M ANOUNIUM ’ is so rich i
CAN BE USED WITH ALL CLASSES OF
be of importance to many.”
SEE THEM. BXAMINI
”L\ MODE ILLUSTRE” save:
CUNIUM’ Uno imitation parfai
Velours do Lyon se rencontre dsns
brevets sous le titre de MANCUNI
“Ce Velour* est brillant d’aspec
la durability de la oouleur en sont r«
quo par uue combinaison de plusi
excellentes il est sans rival. La tein
ost garantie solida ; jamais I‘expusit
altorer la oouleur; voila uno raison e
le choisisse pour remplacir le Velou
jp ÜBL I C N
The IMPORTERS of tbe TAEI
MOGUL MIXTURE will proem
endeavours to tltcaive the public
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for tl
BRANDS of FUSE TEAS.
TfcepubHo aw CAUTIONED t
bearing
" THE TABBING MIXTURE
MIXTURE.
Every packet bean the si gnat
thn*—
Clifford Love, &
Those who are desirous of havii
TEA, must be certain that ev«
SIGNATURE of tbe IMPORTEI
to take Inferior teas, which for tl
are offered to the pnhlle.
THE TABBING MIXTURE i
MIXTURE ABE QUA
PURE TEAS
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH
WHOLESALE GROCER Ah
YORK STREET, 81
JOHN D
IMPORTER 01
Plumbers' and Engineers' Brassw
Qajtflttings. Globes, Electric .
Butchers* Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, A
110 LIVERPOOL STREET
JAMES JS«AR,TPI
389 GEORGE STREET, 9YBNEY (Opp
OUR STOCK FOR
; Comprises all the
OUR 1882 RELIABLE
STRING BINDERS-
Our 3 Speed
HORN9HV-MARTIX
PARAGON
MOWERS & REAPERS
TAMES MARTIN & COMPY.. 389
WOOD'S RELIABLE STRING BINDER
THE RELIABLE
1882
FARMERS,
GET THE
BEST.
THE BEST
IS
ALWAYS
THE
CHEAPEST
WE POST ALL PRICES, ILLUSTRATIONS, ANI
PARAGON.
TAILOB
V--'
:SH
>2
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 ss.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 15s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£1
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£4 4s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, M 10s.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suita to Measure on Shortest Notice.
M. GOULSTON’S PIBST-OLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
H. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
MARKET SIREET.
NEW GOOES EVERY MAiL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
&
"Standard" Winter Tweed Suita ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto ixtia Q ality
“Standard” v ery Superior ditto ...
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra Long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Qualify
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
X'EAPBS and SHAW, "
...£l 6 0
... 115 0
...2 2 0
... 15 0
... 1 10 O
... 1 10 O
... 2 2 0
PE APE 8 & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
9
