

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—Np. 124.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 10 ,1882.
Price—3
%\t bulletin,
SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 1832.
Lambing Down.
Tub business of “lambing down” has of late
exhibited a singular briskness. The Press has
been full of reports from the Criminal Courts and
Coroners’ inquests, in which the “ lumber down
has figured with remarkable splendour. It seems
almost as though the great rum interest, dis-
concerted for a moment by the passing of the last
Licensing Act, had pulled itself together, and
determined to make up for lost ground. Glancing
through the contemporary history of Colonial life
from day to day furnished by the newspapers, one
is tempted to exclaim with Grookbaoked Richard,
“ Nothing but songs of death ! Out on ye, owls .
From all parts of the colony come accounts of
plunder, misery, crime, despair, and death, all
attributable to the one cause—the eagerness with
which the licensed grog-seller fastens upon the
weaklings who should be the objects ot every
fellow-man’s tenderness, but who are their easiest
victims. Even the metropolis is not free from the
ravages of the harpies who bring disgrace upon an
occupation which is followed with credit and use-
fulness by the decenter sort of publicans and hotel-
keepers. The Licensed Victuallers Association
should, if it expects to bo regarded with respect
and heard with attention when it pleads collec-
tively, take this matter in hand, and decisively
brand the scamps who disgrace the trade.
There seems no good reason why the
Association should not assume a position
analogous to that of the Law Associa-
tion, and make its membership a sort of
diploma, and expulsion from its fellowship
» recognised disability. If the self-respecting
members of the trade united to formulate definite
qualifications for admission to membership, and
for the expulsion of persons who resorted to dis-
Creditable practices, thej would render a valuable
service to the oommunity. It would become a
distinction for a publican to be able to append to
his sign, “ Member of the L.V. Association, and
the absence of such diploma would serve as a
warning against entering a house run by a man
®ot bo vouched for.
• * *
In Sydney, lately, there hare been several deaths
directly attributable to the readiness of publicans
to barter drink for money without consideration
of the question as to how such wholesale trans-
actions might re-act upon the buyer s mind or
body. As a general rule, it is only when . 0
victim positively dies, or when under the drink
ttadneiß he commits some absolute crime, that
the briskness of the business which a certain
teder of publicans drive is brought into prominent
ftotioe. The number of the unhappy creatures
who “ suffer a recovery,” and who, when so com-
pletely fleeced that they become sober perforce,
gather together the tatters of their shaken minds
«nd debilitated physical powers, and creep away
o renewed labour, can only be surmised. _ A
alee idea, fostered by immunity from punish-
ment even from blame appears to have
possession of some publicans minds. When
ragged into the witness-box, they take
Juite an injured tone, if asked to explain why
ley allowed a fellow man to drench himself with
hitoxioants. They show that they hold the
opinion that it is quite within their rights to sell
a man drink bo long as he has money to pay tor it,
aid is sober enough to stand up and open ms
month. The intermittent drunkard—the unhappy
wretch who slaves for a year, denying himself
every comfort, to accumulate a cheque, and
then seeks some centre of population either tor a
•pell or with the view of availing himselt ot bis
savings to start in some new way of making a
living—seems to have a magical fascination tor
some publicans. No matter on how extensive a
scale their business is conducted, no matter now
decent their ordinary custom —no sooner does the
fated wretch with the money and the craving
present himself, than scruples vanish. The res-
pectable ” publican becomes disreputable just tor
the occasion. He reasons, possibly, that it would
be a sinful turning of his back upon the gifts
which a merciful Providence has placed in ms
way, to neglect the opportunity of lambing
down” a cheque-bearing creature, evidently den-
oient in sense and self-control, who, if spared by
kim, would merely go across the way and seek ms
fiate at the untender hands of the authorities
pf the opposition whisky-mill.
« * •
It does not infrequently happen, [indeed, that
the host has compunctions. He is quick, some-
times, to perceive that his customer is ‘ on the
burst.” But, curiously enough, his solicitude is
k» variably directed to the fate of the cheque,
Hover of the man! He is concerned at the pros-
pect of the afflicted person going about in an
incapable condition with so much money about
him; and, with well-directed thoughtfulness, he
persuades the afflicted one to place his funds in
safety—that is to »ay, in his custody. That
accomplished, it never seems to occur to him to
refuse to supply the means of self-destruction and
degradation ad libitum. At a coroner's inquest
on an unhappy man who died lately in this city by
his own hand, it was stated that the deceased had
been drinking two and three bottles of whisky and
as many as thirty other driuka daily. Again, in
another instance, a bushman put up at a local
hotel, and speedily died of exhaustion consequent
on excessive drinking. His hostess had cashed
cheques for j 65, .£lO, and .£l5 respectively, and,
while his dead body was yet warm, she presented
another for ,£lOO. In another instance, the active
part borne by the hostess was due to the
alleged circumstance that the host himself
had been of a companionable nature, and
had himself never been sober since his ill-starred
guest took up his abode with him.
• • •
One of the most singular circumstances which
successive inquests have brought to light, is the
inherent incapacity of the “lambing down”
publican to tell when a man has had more drink
than is good for him. In this instance all prece-
dents «.re reversed, and the more experience a
person has, the leas becomes his capacity for dis-
tinguishing a sober person from one saturated
with liquor, and hovering on the verge of delirium
induced by excessive drinking. Another remark-
able item is the invariable tendency of persons
who are drinking themselves to destruction, to
get their liquor anywhere except where they are
staying, and from any publican except the one
who holds their money. When it is impossible to
deny that a man has been constantly drank, it is
invariably sworn that he got his liquor, or at any
rate most of it, “ somewhere else.”
• • •
The “ lamber-down,” however, has a code of
propriety peculiarly his, or her, own. His or her
conception of what a person may, without violat-
ing reasonable limits, consume, in the way of
liquor, has a gorgeous magnificence unapproaohed
by the idea# of any other class of people,
except, perhaps, an antique and now nearly
extinct order of 11 old hands.” The lanibor-
down ” lives in a world of his own,
and has no bashfulnesa in propounding his
theories. He is surprised, and even virtuously indig*
ant, waen, on emerging from the charmed retire-
| m v. u bar parlour in which his opinions are
echoed by admiring cronies, he discovers that they
are not only dissented from, but even held in
detestation. The calm arrogance ®f one of these
prophets, who are only honored in bush townships
and bajk-blook circles, is thus aptly recounted by
the D(jbbo Dispatch :
"Up Bourie way-or rather ia|the back blooks away
from the cvpital of the Darling—the men who rna
public house.) have, ou thair own showing, a way of
turning over the nimble sixpences, whick, it known in
these parts, would soon make our hotel-keepers mil-
lionaires. One of these back-block publicans, in a
District Court the otner day, deposed that *£7o in
seven days was not out of the way for a man to drink.
Supposed there was £4O worth of grog in the place, at
any rate there were three oases of whisky, three casks
of beer, and some cordials. He reokoned a cask of beer
was worth £6O or £7O to a publican. Ten gallons of
brandy will stand at least five gallons of water. Plain-
tin and four others used to sleep on the verandah, and
generally took three or four bottlei of grog to last
them till morning.’ That’s the way to do it—£4o
worth of grog in the place, and one man spends £7O in
seven days and scarcely interferes with the stock-in-
tr adei"
• • •
It is in the far interior townships, where con-
ditions of existence are at their roughest, and
where the publican is often the chief manufacturer
public opinion and the wealthiest and most
influential resident of a newly-formed settlement,
that ‘‘lambing down” flourishes in the highest
degree. At Wiicannia, the other day, at the
close of the criminal sessions, Judge Docker
felt impelled to comment upon this condition of
affairs. He (remarked that of 20 oases that
had oeen heard during the sitting, 18 had arisen
from drunkenness. He earnestly exhorted people
to beware of the hot beds of vice known as
shanties which, flourish like mushrooms, destroy-
ing the souls and bodies of thair victims. Why,
ha asked, should men ruin their bodies and souls
for the sake of benefiting a publican P The ques-
tion is not easily answered. It may bo doubted
whether many men realize what they are about
when a geniai host or hostess, with professions of
the tenderest and most conscientious regard,
cajole them to surrender their money, and with it
their freedom of action. Yet, despite a judge’s
exhortations, these harpies hold their heads high,
and, with unblushing effrontery, assert and
practice their assumed “ right ” to “ lamb down ”
any victim that falls in their way, impudently
claiming in some cases that in consideration of
conducting thoir houses respectably, as an ordinary
thing, they establish'a title to diverge into a little
“ lambing-down ” at odd times. A man might as
well claim that, because he is a respectable citizen
and a law-abiding father of a family, he is entitled
now and again to indulge with impunity in an es-
capade of burgling, or an occasional murder.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Triumphal Progress of—Smith!
It appears that the citizens of Sydney have entertained
among them an angel unawares. We allude to Smith.
It has been reserved for the intelligent populations who
have rendered the (Macleay, Nambuccra, and Bellinger
districts famous for —we do not at this moment exactly
remember to what these districts owe their dazzling
celebrity, unless it bo the transcendent merits of the
pumpkins and pigs which shed a splendour on them
—to discover the noble qualities that throw a
lustre upon the name (Smith) of this truly great
and good mau. Amidst the absorbing hut sordid
occupations which distract the dull perceptions of
dwellers in the metropolis, the enormous talents and
vast mental powers of Smith have existed almost un-
noted and undistinguished. There have, indeed, been
occasional crises when true greatness forced its way to
the front, as when Smith, in a cab, averted impending
confusion from a procession. But such opportunities are
few in a lifetime, and the brilliant Smith, the reverbera-
tions ot whose fame come rolling, in the muffled thun-
der of the Macbeat Herald, from the banks of the
Bellinger, has been, alas 1 generally undistinguished
from the herd of ordinary Smiths. But when we
peruse the Macleat Herald and there learn the true
grandeur of the Smith so long unrecognized*
our souls swell within us, and wc feel as
though we could find it in our hearts to clasp him to
oi* 1 bosoms and address the hero by the ennobling
appellation of— Eobinson ! The Macleat Hbrald
appears to have quite as large an interest in Smith as
Smith has in that fine journal. There is a whole page
devoted to Smith and his remarkable talents, with a
few side references thrown in to his distinguished
satellite, Mr. C. J. Egberts, who has the honour to be,
as some old inhabitants may be able to remember, late
Mayor of Sydney, and the talented originator of the £3
case (advt.) It is, perhaps, a trifle disappointing to
discover, on careful perusal of the reports of the
remarkable Smith’s triumphal progress, and of the
orations which the festivities evoked, that the refer-
ences to the particular deeds which furnish testi-
mony of Smith’s enormous abilities are curiously
elusive. The modesty which has operated against
a recognition of the genius of Smith among his
fellow-citizens in the Capital appears to have been con-
tagious. Not only was he self-deuyiugly general in his
references to the great things he has accomplished, but
the other speakers so entered into his spirit that they
emulated his modesty and referred to his vast trans-
actions in a vague and indefinite manner. A solitary
exception is Ifuruished by the worthy residents of the
Bellinger, who refer in terms of particular admiration
to the world-famous action of Smith in the matter of
“the flood-cutting,” and in the no less celebrated affair
of “the road across the swamp.” The latter gigantic
work is not, it appears, yet eomplete. It is still, wo
learn, in the contractor s hands. But if the boy
with the wheelbarrow does his duty—and let him
reflect that the eye of Europe is upon him —there is
reason to believe that this grand engineering triumph
will be completed in advance of the Panama Canal, aud
the Star of De Lessees will pale before the planet which
presides over the fortunes of Smith. The residents of
the town of Belmore and Gladstone Elver have feel-
ings too deep for utterance. They “ feel inadequate to
express ip a full sense the gratification which animates
them at the realization of the fact of seeing Smith
well in health.” We are proud to bo able to master our
own emotions sufficiently to find adequate expression in
which to convey to the people of Belmore Town aud
Gladstone Elver the ecstatic tidings that we saw he
object of our mutual admiration yesterday in the street,
and that he bora the appearance of enjoying
unimpaired digestion. But we can add no more to the
celebrity of one already so famous. When a man, es-
pecially a Smith, aud superlatively a Burdett Smith,
has been met by four (4) buggies, and has been glorified
by the exquisite strains of the Port Macquarie brass
band, to say nothing of having been greeted by quite an
army of admirers, all esquires, aud all Js.P. (of hisowu
manufacture), life has no splendours loft which can sur-
pass those he has experienced : no, not even an appre-
ciative notice in The Bulletin- can add a drop to the
brimming goblet of the distinctions of —— Smith.
That "Ultimatum.”
From (the turn which affairs in Egypt have taken, ft
would appear that the mother-country is likely to drink
the cap of humiliation to the dregs. That the course
MR W. J. LYNE. M.P.
(Sea next page.)


HOP BIT
ABE
THI PUREST 41
MEDICINE EVEI
They are Compounc
Hops, Buehn, Maudr aka
The Oldest, Best, most 1
Yalnable Medicines in tl
ia addition, contain all
most effective curative pi
other Bitters, being the ,
Blood Fvnir
A«k your Druggist o
Do not suffer yourself
mends suffer, but use, an<
use, Hor Bixtsrs.
Remember, Hop Bitth
drugged, drunken nostn
Purest and Best Medioin
and no person or family sh
oat it.
VALUABLE TK
If you are suffering from
® r languishing on abed of i
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will O
If you are simply allini
Weak and Dispirited, wi<
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will B<
It you are a Minister, aj
taxed yoursslf with your pai
or a Mother, .worn out w
work.
Hop Bitters Will Be
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the c
every-day duties, or a m
tolling over your midnight
Hop Bitters Will Stre:
If you are suffering from
©r drinking, any indiaerotio
tion* or are vonng and grov
m is often the case*
Hop Bitters Will Bel
If yen are in the works
farm, at the desk, aaywhe
that your system needs Clo
ing, or Stimulating, witho
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your bl
Impure, pulse feeble, youi
steady, and your faculties v
Hop Bitters Will Give Tot
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elega
and refreshing flavouring fo:
drinks, impure water, &o.
them harmless, and swee
mouth, and cleansing the st<
CLEANSE, PUEIFT, AND ENE!
with
HOP BUTE
and you will hava no sickness
MOHTEFIOBE, METCA
65 PITT STREET, STDNE
General Agents for Ans
WILL SHORTLY R
adopted by Mr. Gladstone’s Government was fraught
disgrace to a nation which claims to regulate its
policy by the teachings of the Bible, and to set an
example to leas favoured peoples, was plain from the
first. Tor Great Britain to join in a plot to stifle
aspirations for Constitutional Government was a sorry
undertaking. Bat a disgraceful action which succeeds
never fails to find smug apologists. The 8. M. Herald
has held with the British Government all through.
The trouble is that the policy adopted is not only dis-
graceful but likely to fail. It is to be, in the language
of the cynic, worse than a crime—a blunder. To coerce
the National and Constitutional party in Egypt, and so
to ensure the constant payment of interest >by the
wretched fellahs to the creditors of their late scoun-
drelly Khedive,! the British and French have sent
squadrons of ironclads. Then they have threatened
force. Next they delivered an “ Ultimatum.” Now,
an Ultimatum is a very desperate resource. Its very
name signifies that it is finality ,so far as diplomacy is
concerned. But the Anglo-French Ultimatum has
proved to be merely a theatrical affair. It has been a
“Last Appearance,” followed by a “Positively Final
Performance,” and succeeded again by “ One More
Performance, by Particular Request.” We are at the
“Positively Final” stage now—a European Conference
proposed by France (plotter No. 1) and “gladly accept-
ed” by England (plotter No. 2). The plain fact seems
to he that Germany has quietly circumvented the
Western Powers. Turkey is her useful tool to-day
—Prance the object of her constant anxiety.
Nothing could better have suited Germany than
for Prance, already considerably embarrassed by
her exertions in Tunis, to enter upon fresh
undertakings in Egypt, and thus to bring upon
herself a complete Mahommedan Holy war, which would
false the entire population of North Africa, from
Morocco to Arabia Felix, while Turkey could lend
either open support or secret countenance to her co-
religionists, with the pleasant prospect of stepping in
when both parties were exhausted and weary, and of
figuring as mediator and Caliph at a convenient time ;
backed by the moral support of the Austro-German
Federation. France has evidently seen the snare
opened for her, and is harking back in a rather humili-
ating hurry—a condition of affairs which imposes upon
Our own Foreign Office the decidedly unpleasant neces-
sity of sneaking away from the Ultimatum, at the heels
Of France. It is quite an extraordinary thing that our
country could not have permitted the Egyptians to
Inaugurate Constitutional Government without inter-
ference. There is now, indeed, much disorder and
excitement in Egypt, and all international relations
With that country are severely strained; but it is quite
apparent that by far the greater part of that disorder
and agitation is duo to the uncalled-for interference by
England and Franco with the internal and domestic
affairs of the Egyptian people; and that for any out-
rages which may occur, the Western Powers will now
bo responsible.
Playing 'Possum.
That most mighty monarch and most distingnished
cnr the Czar, after shivering in his shoes for twelve
months, has abandoned all hope of being able even to
get the ceremony of coronation accomplished, let alone
exercising the authority of absolute rule. To people
in Australia the coronation business appears a small
matter. So long as a man is Czar andean command
the resources of an empire, it seams little matter
whether a golden head-piece which he will never be
able to wear with comfort is formally dumped on his
head, and his hair Is greased by a mystery-man with
holy macassar oil. But to a stupid sort of fallow such
as Alexander 111 appears to be, brad in the purple,
and educated to place the highest importance upon ail
ceremonials which;are supposed to minister to the
divinity that doth beige a king, the Impossibility of
getting crowned appears, doubtless, a matter of tre-
mendons importance. There can bo no mistake about
the reasons which govern Alexander 111 in preparing to
grant, or pretending he is preparing to grant, a Con-
Btitution to his people. He is scared into doing it t
At the time whon he succeeded to the throne the whole
world looked to him for reforms. His ministers advised
them. Ho was expected and counselled to do just
what he is said to be preparing to-day to effect.
At that time, however, he absolutely refused.
Ho dismissed the ministers who recommended
to him a constitutional course of Government, and re-
placed them with counsellors who endorsed his own
ideas of arbitrary and despotic rule. He issued
manifesto which the Liberals of Russia accepted as
challenge, and to which their organs of the secret press
promptly retorted by defiance, and returned threats for
threats. - Since then, Russia has been the scene of
sustained duel between the despot and the cream of his
people. On each side the stake has been the players
lives, but there has been a secondary object in each
ease. If the Czar won, the victory was to minister to
his own gratification; if he lost, it was his own oanse he
had been fighting. If his adversaries won, their
personal gain oonld be bnt slender, the profit would be
that of the people generally. It they lost, their
destruction was a vicarious died, not for
themselves, but for others. The meaner sort, that is
to say "all right-thinking persons" in Russia held
aloof, smugly prepared to lickspittle if the Czar
triumphed, or to take their share of the common ad-
vantages if the desperate workers for liberty succeeded.
It is not “ respectable" to agitate—in Russia it is not
safe to do so. But it is quite proper when an agitation
has succeeded, to benefit by it, and to declare that your
sympathies were always with the cause. The Czar is
just in 1 the position of the celebrated 'possum of
the Yankee story. Ho has cried to his Nihilistic
foes—" Don’t shoot I I’ll come downl" It is a
very nice question, however, whether they won’t fire,
after all. A conversion to constitutional principles
which has been so rapid, and so obviously due to
cowardice, is scarcely worthy of much confidence or
respect. The Liberals of Russia may resolve not to
trust the Imperial sneak, who wants to come down.
There is no being so cruel as a coward, who, after ex-
posure, recovers a position to avenge himself. The in-
sincerity of the Czar is too obvious for much trust to
bo reposed in his professed intentions. His adversaries
may choose to regard his attitude as merely a ruse de
guerre. However, if he be killed now, it will afford the
Habitual apologists of the crimes of monorohs—of per-
sons in authority, some pretence for dabbing Alexander
111. a martyr, and expatiating on the spontaneous
generosity of his intentions towards the people.
Colonial Titles.
A baronetcy for Sir Henry Parkes and a Companion
skip of St, Michael and Georoe for Hennikeb Heaton,
are among the matters of which “ Anglo-Australian"
tattles in the European Mail. We don’t see any
reason why these things should not prove true. They
would be monstrous, we admit, but not more monstrous
than distinctions which ti&vd gone before. Still we
don’t think Sir Hemkt will got the baronetcy. The
very rationale of the Order of Michael and G«orge
forbids the idea. That Order was specially instituted
to serve as a buffer, or preventer, to be interposed be-
twixt the pressure of aspiring vulgarians in the Colonies
and the dignified existing orders, whieh, it was felt,
would be profaned by the intrusion of the sort of men
who elbowed their way to the front in some of the
Colonies. In those elevated circles where the disposi-
tion of titles and distinctions is regarded as a matter
of solemn import, it was felt that to place on the same
footing with a Havelock or a Leighton— that is to
say a heroic general er a fine artist—lum-
bering plebenns, bumptiously conscious of success
in the rough and tumble of Colonial Parliaments or the
blusterous struggle of Colonial enterprise, amounted to
a profanation. To couple with men of pedigree and
distinction, in one order,! plausible rascals who talk
corrupt English, or who, like one Victorian knight,
notoriously do not wash themselves during the whole
voyage homo to air their titles, was almost, nay quite,
an insult to the former. So the Order of Michael and
Ghoroe was invented as a specially honourable sink foe
specially Inferior qualities of distinguished persons.
Since that Order has been instituted not a single
Colonial has been admitted to any of the more prized
distinctions or oreated a baronet. The noble Company
of the Bath have not lately had occasion to wince at
enforced fellowship with persons to whom the bath in
every sense had been obviously a thing undreamed of
till lata in life. The institution of the Order of Michael
and Georoe was in fact an artfully administered leek
for Colonial, literary, and artistic notabilities to eat.
It is worthy of remark, that the two latter classes have
had the more delicate stomachs. The members of the
literary and artistic guilds have not shown the same
relish for the esculent which has set the mouths of the
political gobo-mouches of the colony o-watering. But
even had the order not been, by reason of the thinly
veiled contempt which led to its institution, repugnant
to self-respecting men, the cool indifference evinced as
to who entered it, brought it into the mire at once. In
small communities, where the idiosyucrncies of indivi-
duals and the salient features of their careers and
dispositions are universally known, the association soon
ceased to have any relation to saints. In New South
Wales, for instance, people do not reckon by Michael
and George. The Order is reckoned, like a chain, to
be just so strong in distinction ns the strength of its
weakest link. Here, when a Companion is created, it is
a Companion of John Davies, leading, by an easy
association of ideas, to a fellowship with M'Bbath.
The Fracas In the Victorian Assembly.
The recent scene in the Victorian Parliament re the
Irish address, does not reflect much credit on its
promoters. What hon. members did out of the House
with regard to a x matter quite outside its jurisdiction
should never have been dragged np in debate, and a
discussion upon such a subject, besides being undignj.
fled and unseemly, could lead to no good results.
That the address was conceived and couched in too
warm a spirit will bo oonoeded, but, that the affixing
their signatures to the paper as Irishmen sympathising
with their suffering brethren beyond the seas, should
make Messrs. Dufet, Longmorh, and others, disloyal
subjects, and unfit legislators, is simply absurd. The
most faithful and loyal subjects of Her Gracious
Majesty, both English, Irish, and Scottish, are known
to warmly and heartily condemn the iniquitous treat*
ment of Ireland, but their condemnation of such is no
reflection on Her Majesty the Queen, and no proof of
disaffection to the Government. No one in his senses
would speak of a Chartist as a rebel—more especially
with the luminous example of our own great man
before us. No one would stigmatize the leaders
of the Reform Bill as seditioniste. And why brand the
handful of hot-blooded Victorian legislators as such, for
simply evidencing their sympathy with their fellow
countrymen in their efforts to obtain long-dalayad
justice? It would be a hard case to baptize as
“Socialists” the intelligent subjects of the Czar who
dissent from the ersecutions inflicted upon the Jews
in Southern Russia, or to call them to account for any
expression of feeling in the matter. Sir Bryan O’Lohh-
len acted with much judgment, and more dignity than
his friends usually give him credit for, in refusing to
take any action in the Affair, and Mr. Patterson, in his
attempt to create a row, ignominionsly failed. The
time, wo hope, has gene past when “the religious
cry" could be got up at a moment’s notice, and brother
set against brother at the wild behest of some nn-
principled demagogue who lives aud grows fat by pan-
dering to the national and sectarian prejudices of a {
limited community.
Guiseppe Garibaldi.
Si»ce our last issue appeared, there has passed away
the greatest man of the century. Gdiseppe Garibaldi
alone in this generation had been the Liberator of a
People. Italy is in mourning, and, in its respect for the
memory of the mighty dead, all true lovers of human
liberty throughout the world will join. Garibaldi
lived so long that the rising generation, outside Italy,
scarcely know him as he is remembered by their
seniors. The grinding tyranny of the Bourbons in
Southern Italy, and of the Austrians in the Cisalpine
parts, which once moved the indignation and horror of
all true Englishmen, are to-day almost forgotten The
dungeons, in which « Little Bomba" shut all the men
who dared to evince a spirit of freedom under his rale
are no longer fresh, with all their horrors, in
men’s minds. It was Garibaldi who broke the
thralls of despotism and foreign supremacy for Italy
and restored that country to national life. As, with
advancing years, his powers of mind and body waned
he made mistakes now and again. But ho has been no
less, the modern Cincinnati *, and his poverty* at
Caprera has invested him with nobler splendour than
all the glittering pomp of the voluptuous Prince of the
House of Savoy, who, as King of Italy, garnered the
harvest which Garibaldi had reaped, has conferred
upon the merely hereditary monarch. For Garibaldi
was, in truths a Prince Among men.
Tub virulent hatred which the S.IC. Hbbald hears
against the Irish has broken out afresh. The Herald
styles the liberated suspects the “ ignoble six hundred ”
Why ignoble? Is it ignoble to be arrested by an ar-
bitrary exercise of unconstitutional authority, to be
detained without trial, to have no opportunity of prov-
ing one’s innocence, or even to be guilty of the crime
of loving one's country and resenting the long-endured
wrongs which even the arresting party admits ? Or is
It ignoble, first to so misgovern a people, and so to wink
at their being plundered and oppressed by a class of
alien landlords, as to create a sentiment of irreconcil-
able hostility and distrust; and then, to punish evi-
deuces of that sentiment by substituting for the boasted
constitutional government which is the right of all her
Majesty’s subjects, a system of administration which
can only be paralleled by going to Russia ?
It seems that the Conservative journals reserve a
special vocabulary for Irish affairs. We mentioned,
same weeks ago, that one journal which professed
weekly to publish a list of Irish outrages, swelled that
column by entering as an outrage every case, not only
where threatening notices had been issued by Captain
Moonlight and such like desperadoes, but where this or
that semi, suspect, ’ male or female, had been warned
by the police. This readiness to manufacture “out-
rages ” ceases, however, whenever the tables are turned.
At Camborne, Cornwall, in consequence of a public-
house row, the miners rose against the Irish residents
or men of Irish descent. They stoned prisoners,
kicked and beat with sticks a solitary man until he was
rendered insensible; they gutted and desecrated the
Roman Catholic Chapel, and, finding a lonely Irishman
at work in a mine, shockingly maltreated him. This
was a pretty stiff programme. But, on referring to our
Echo, we discover that it was not "an outrage. 1 * It
was merely *‘a riot."
Mr. W. J. Lyne, M.P.
At the last general election two new members
wore returned for the Hume electorate, and of
these the subject of our sketch, Mr. W. J. Lyne,
was one. The Hume, like other of our Southern
electorates, is ruled mainly by the agricultural or
settlers’ interest, and the population forms one of
our most active inland political constituencies.
We are daily nearing a period of severe conflict on
the question of land-law reform, and it is recog-
nized that the work of the representative, if any
thing like success is to be achieved, must be en-
trusted to honest and capable men. Sweeping
and-law reform will, however, necessarily be pre-
ceded by sweeping changes in the constitution of
the Legislative Assembly. The present Parlia-
ment was not elected to deal with this work, the
greatest that this country has yet had to grapple
with. There is good reason for believing that one
of the men who will see this conflict through is
Mr. Lyne. From an early age he has had practical
( experience of the working of the land laws ot the
1 various colonies, and he brings to the discharge of
his legislative duties large knowledge and ma-
tured convictions on these very points. Mr. Lyne
is a radical land reformer, and a man of
thoroughly staunch character, as little likely to
play the part of a dumb follower as to desert the
liberal programme he sketched to his constituents
at the time of his election. Mr. Lyne was born at
Apslawn, Swanport, Tasmania, in 1844. His father
Mr. John Lyne, now 76 years of age, still represents
Glamorgan, in the Tasmanian Assembly. Ihe
Lynes originally came from Gloucestershire, Eng-
land, settled in Tasmania in 1824, and’ have
proved very successful colonists. Mr. Lyne was
educated at Horton College and at Rostella, under
the Rev. Plow Kane. When twenty years of age
he set out for Queensland; and, with others’
travelled overland from Brisbane to the Gulf!
The hardships of pastoral settlement northward
compelled him, however, to leave Queensland ; and
he returned to Tasmania, where he remained in
official life until 1875. That year found him a
settlor on the banks of the Murray, near Albury
He took an active part in all public movements
from the first day ho became a N.S.W. colonist.
At the last general election he stood for the flume
in the free selectors’ interests, and was returned
at the head of the poll, with a triumphant
majority. Mr. Lyne is a free trader, and favours
the remission of interest on selectors’ balances
He urges the division of the lands of the colony
into pastoral and agricultural areas, the imme-
diate suspension of land sales, and the inaugura-
tion of a national system of water-conservation
Last week, Mr. Lyne met his constituents, and
was banqueted and otherwise well received He
spoke in unmistakable terms of the disgraceful
delay in the assembling of Parliament, and prog-
nosticated a warm session. Our portrait is from
a photo, by Freeman, of Qeorge-street.
Zealand p.o. Gympie, one of the oldest
an 1 richest mines on that fluid, has broken out in a
nf ai « h r« pli r e ; Gre 1 ! ley Lukla and Co. have had a parcel
ff- ® t :+1 P o r j ° 8 ’ part of a Bo,id six-inch lode,
JSfis ?n«5t 6 mint with the following result!
H 1 ihu?* and 8ll J« r per ton. Six tons
of this •• stuff at grass," High jinks for somebody I
Rose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I say it, as one who knows.
How the rose-bud grew to a rose
And died in a deathful day.
Like mist round the haunt of roes,
Like the shroud that our stern year throws
Sound the fair dead form of May)
Bound the garden the great wall goes.
And engirdles the green Tine-rows
With girdle of white and gray.
For there blows the sweet white rose
As the rose on a banner blows,
Till the gray wall glows as gay
As a green isle’s shore-line glows—
In lone seas where no rower rows—
With its bright breast-scarf of spray.
But I lore the red, red rose
For the sake of my Eose—who knows
No more of the roses’ way
In bud or blossom—who chose
On her bosom to wear a rose
As her own heart, red alway.
I said, as the sun arose,
*• I will see hew her gold hair glows
Each thread like a long sun-ray.’*
And so, from the garden-close,
I looked long for the rose and Bose,
Looked long as a lorer may.
And I cried out, " Bose, my Bose,
Will the curtains never unclose
That hide my sweet from the day ?’*
The curtains never unclose;
And long dead are the rose and Bose,
And the lights are out for aye.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Sydney, 2nd Jane, 1882.


[HE FEDERAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA
(Limited),
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Capital, £1,000,000.
Subscribed, £650,000.
Directors!
Hon. J. J, Casey, C.M.G., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq., Vice-President.
John Eobb, Esq.
John Whittingham, Esq.
William M'Lean, Esq.. J.P.
Hon. James Munro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
Temporary Banking House, Sydney:
257 George-street, North.
Francis S. Macdormott, Esq.,
Manager.
John Oocker, Esq , Accountant.
Messrs. Robertson and Fisher, Solicitors.
THI FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA (Limited)
offers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Require
Banking Accommodation.
1. Interestwill be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
rates.
3. Every branch of banking business transacted.
4. Dills will be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS S. MACDEEMOTT, Manager.
aEOEGE F. MURPHY,
REGENT HOUSE,
869. GEORGE STREET,
RAILWAY BRIDGE.
CENTRAL
OIL, COLOUR,
and
PAPERHANGINGS and PLATE GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
The most convenient stores for town and country cus-
tomers, at the junction of the principal tramways.
Trams pass the door every ten minutes.
IMPORTER OP
Glass (all sizes out
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat
and rolled)
Turpentine
Neatsfoot Oil
Kerosene Oil j
MIXED PAINTS READY FOB USE,
any shade required.
ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED
by Bail, Steamer, City or Suburbs.
Shop Fronts and Sashes Glared.
AXLE GREASE for Buggies, Carts, Lorries, Ae. SUL-
PHUR for Vinegrowers and Farmers. GLASS
for Gardeners, Ac.
Warehouse—Bs9 GEORGE STREET.
Side Entrance—Stores and Workshop—HAßßlS-ST.
White and Rod
Lead
Raw and Boiled
Oils
Brushware
Varnishes
Colours for House
and Coach pain-
ters, Plasterers,
As.
Castor oil
Paperhangers'
Canvas
Gold and Silver
Leaf
Faperhangings
Wood - preserv-
ing Oil
Tar
Resin
Black Fish Oil
Cement, Ac.
Rheumatism and Nervous Complaints
Can be CURED by the
MAGNBTOD!
No medicine, no acids, no inconvenience to wear,
WRITE AND STATE CASE TO
JOHN GEE,
17 CHANGE ALLEY,
PITT STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES .
COALCLICF COAL.
11,8 CIraiPEST ' cIEAKEaT -
-18g. PER TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
anflftlLw fl™ IhTl^&^S 1 !! 14 MmdWs kept well free from ash. makes a stronger, more lasting,
iTsplintor and has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, Inor does
: 9 tIG Western, but i u affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
cooking a ui tea n aS th ?^9 u^hl y a,ld cleanly as a chartoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to tho
stoak none of that iaa odour of tho unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas flro
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS?
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
'PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
It
ONE OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
TTN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
>*- a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Trickett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following aa his opinion.
“I have found St, JACOB'S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex.
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sura
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.**
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hoar such high words of praise from one
whe knew what he was talking about; and now ha says
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, or
vtfiat all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST’S SELL IT, PRICE HALF.A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-stroet.
S. HOFPNUNG & Co., Pitt-street,
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George-street,
I. JACOBS & Co., Hunter-street.
H
TERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
rr
TRADE
MARK
'zr
MANUFACTORY:
Qeoeoe-stjreet West, Stdnet.
[Established 30 Ybaks.]
ODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY.
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Qoulburn-street.
IS. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, &c.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
stiiaos
... I
t ■ I
i i
670. H .HIL D E R .1670
- IN ILDE R. 1670
eo Q
H.HIIQER
V H
ll' 'I - 'MI I
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
CENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
571, GEORGE-STREET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of the Best Quality in the Trade.
A TrM respectfully solicited.
Note the Addresf’**
571, GEORGE-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Gonlbnrn Strectc,
<4. •
MANUFACTORY.
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, be. • is
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any IntelUgent lad with perfect safety.
This GASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace':
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. '*
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the QovemmentEailways in perforenoe
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, Ac. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER,
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
'HEN building naa CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your honse, nee CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren*
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
8b
WOODWARD'S OYSTER ROOMS;
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KINO STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
MACHINERY
FOB
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS.
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., &c., &c.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of tbo above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall bo glad to furnish PRICES
and other particulars on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine. *
Sold on easy toms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT TO ’BUS OPFCE,
DR. G. HARVEY’S
OVEE 50 TEAKS.
ESTABLISHED
LINIMENT.
None Genuine Without the Above Trade Mark.
The GEE ATE ST CURE ON EARTH for RHEU-
MATISM, RAW COLDS, SORE THROATS and
LIMBS. ASTHMA, ftc., ftc.
This is the same Liniment as used by the hardy tin
miners of Cornwall, who have to work amidst the damp,
ness of the bowels of the earth, and is now extensively
being used all over the world, and known as the. Cor-
nish Cure.
Price, s*. per bottle.
Those who carry out the directions which are on
every label and wrapper, cannot but acknowledge it is
the greatest remedy ever brought before the public.
Sold by the following chemists and druggists in
Sydney: W. H. Douglas Mitchell, 127 King-street,
Bast; J. Abrahams, 434 George-street; R. B. Armstrong,
466 George-street; W. D. Eames, 14 Oxford-street,
TRY IT AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES. If
your Chemist and Druggist has not got it tell him that
he can have a supply by applying to the
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSES. ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS I
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising bom a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION,
Sold in bottles, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Solo Proprietor and Patentee :
Charles Cfoss* M.P.S. Viet.; M.H.P.5.,Gt.8.,
GAWLEB, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNG ft CO,


Chemists and Dr
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GREAT LIVER
And successful substitute for
Podophyllum, and all N
Famous as a Restorative to He
Famous as an Invigorator of th
Famous for the Cure of all Disc
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Ton
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE I
Invented and Prepar
J. S. A B R .
At the Lahorai
GEORGE STREET
COUGH WHILE YOU C.
taking Dr. Thompson’s Am
Linotus, you will net do able tc
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, L
Punch's Hotel.
Tickle tour appeti
tralian Relish, made by
177 Pitt street, price one shilling
ATLAS FOUNDRY &
COMPAN
HAY-STREET, SI
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, (
and Brass Founders, Cop
Wrights. The above firm are p:
contracts for the manufacture of 1
Engines, Boilers, and Girder W
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining
other descriptions of Machinery,
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with
price given for metal.
8”
Have y
re-i
Parasc
e
J. ;
51
Bricl
Liverpo
Paras
tomes. 1
JOHN R U
182 PITT STRI
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
from
D. JONES *
Respectfully invites an inspect
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTE
BEDSTEA
BE
All of the best quality, and seh
RELIABLE MANUFACTURER!
Furniture re-covered and carpel
charges.
George
(Formerly of Qeoi
IMPORTER 01
CHINA GLASS AND EA
Begs to announce that he ha
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC!
where every article in the above 1:
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERS!
SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a:
at the
SYDNEY AR I
SINGER'S SEWING ]
ABE MADE ONLI
The Singer Manufhctur:
Head Offices;
Si UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eui
39 FOSTER LANE,
DepSt for New South
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HA;
BTDHET.
SINGER’S SEWING B
HAVE
All the Latest Improi
SINGER’S SEWING B
for
Largest Variety of 1
SINGER’S SEWING B
FOR
Strength and Beauty o
SINGER’S SEWING B
FOR
Embroidery, Braiding, ar
SINGER’S SEWING B
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SEWING B
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and
160 FIRST PR]
EAST TERMS—2«T6d.
AGENTS INEVEEY
S
I
N
G
E
R
Office in Sydne
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR i
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., C
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR
NAEANDERA. PARR.
227 QUEEN STREET, BI
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
S
INGEE’S SEWING
TURNER 4 C
ARK THE
RECOGNISED i
OF THK
CELEBRATED SINGER HAND
TIME PAYMEN'
2i, od. per week—2g. 6d. per week
And HO INTEREST ot
10 per cent, off toe (
BEWARE OP IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A
THE ONLY •• SING
TURNER A
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHII
HATMARKE'
Singers Sewing .
Public Compax
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOIN!
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Fun:
Directors s
Edward Lord, Esq,, Chairman; 1
Esq.; W. A. Lem?, Esq.; J
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
Generai, Managi
Vincent Wanostrecht
HEAD OEEICE: GEORGES'!
City and Suburban Branches: B
Glebe, Burwooe
London Office: 18 King Willi
BRANCHES IN NEW SOT
Albury, Armldale, Ballina, £
Bourke, Bundwra, Cassilis, Con
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North
Dubbo, Forces, Glen lanes, Qoull
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kompsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera,
Parkos, Raymond Terrace, Rookh
ton, South Grafton, 'femora, T
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend
Maitland, Wfloaimia, Woodbuni, '
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Alloro, Bowen, Chortei
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Rarenswood, Rockhampton, Stan
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents to til the Australian Colon
the World genera
JIHB
MERCANTILE BAN
ESTABLISHED :
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP :
Paid-up Capital
Reserve F0nd.....
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.O.h
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hob. Philip Oldley King, M.L
AUDITORS
Jaa. Soroggie, Esq.
H. £. Conan, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilso:
SECRETAHY
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brick field
Girilambone; Qosford;
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Bai
London Office: 15) Leader
Director: Edward Chap
Agent: Q, H. Alcxond
iSEThIs hank transacts all asnal Ba
Agency Business on the most favor
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances xna
other produce shipped to England I
F. J. POL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLK
28 GEORGE STREET
A large and well-assorted stock of
direst from the Manufacturers,
Ant Garments Cut in the Most £
PERFECT FIT GUAR.
Note the Addres
728 GEOEGE STREET
NEAR HAT MAE]
THOMAS WEBB
Business Announcements
\Wff
sz
EA
'JLL'JB
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY.
and
FURNITURE WAEi HOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £ICO
T. WRIGHT, 529 Qsorge-strect, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
T EBAL,-Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 236)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evekiho
News Office.
READ THIS U-
TUF BAKING POPPER
MAi<|l.irr.fi rURID BY US ahd W'k ,;g p wiy
• S DOCTOR :
WAUGHS
WAS /• '' ' f> " fi F 0 R
EX GRi li MiWKi4?AI. ITV I
AND vo.
■; 1 i FkN/' i iUiM
HA / ’ 'K' TI f 1| , |VAI •. iv . L i_v
I I.’K PM'»r, i riu'i O
BRffilH i ■ .i- WORLD
B V AVV.ri' tJ|, j; , o J s the
ONI if rm /K ME:DAL
GIVE.N II T I F. IV'. KING l-’OVVDFB SECT lON
FOP r ll’ ?■ J g.; mepjt
sold i/cnr wui in n i r/v'Jackets
- ; :.r • I .\i = :
MANUFAOIORY qtjK E NS PLACE
SYDNEY ,
WILLIAM DAVIES COY.i
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T. WIMBLE m
STEREOTYPE, <
F ° Un^
‘^PRINTERS’
I WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St„ Hunter St,
STruasTK-sr. •
Also at 70 Limi OOLLIMS STSIIT, RILBOU2HB.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & IRONPOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
PISE GIRDERS,
AND STOVES,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF HRmRkM OVENS,
SAFES DEED
and boxes,
doors. mmm *°-» ao.
Workst SUSSEX STREET, A GLEBE
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET,


w.
HOWARD SMITH
STRUTH’S WHARF and N 1
(Foot of King-stree
Offices s 7 SPRING S'
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and PR]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTO
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH i
o
EIB N T
The following Steamships, 1
ORIENT CO., and the PACIFIC
SYDNEY at noon on the underme
LONDON, via Melbourne, Adelaide,
steamer’s option), the Snez Canal, at
and fortnightly tbereai
SALOON PASSENGERS allowec
journey.
ORIENT PARCELS EXPRESS:
or 6d. per lb.
PASSAGES FROM LONDON 01
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDONF. '
and ,ANDEEbON, ANDERSON an
Avenue, E.C.
PASSAGE MONEY, 15 to 70 gi
tioulars on application to
‘ G. 8. YUILL,
General Mana
267 George-streot.
J. MASSEY
10 PARK SIRE
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GRE
The Latest, most Popular Mui
J. MASSEY AND £
10 PARK STREET, SY]
CASH PRICE LIST OF W
AND SPIRIT!
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
Reisling...
Hook
Madeira,
COLONIAL WIN!
.RED.
per doz.
... 10s Od
... lis Od
... lls Od
... 13s 6d
Sweet 8
J. T. Fa
Adelaid
WHITE.
10s OA
lls Od
14s 6d
Bonffler a Pineau.. 16a Od
Brown ]
Inlaid
:ay,
M?
TOk
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Anagram : Willliam Ewart Gladstone—“ A man
will go wild at trees.”
Vanity Fair styles Mr. Forster, late Chief
Seoretary for Ireland, “ a Cromwell made of oalrea-feat
jolly.”
1 lOnly .£l2O had at latest been collected for the
memorial to the Northern Queensland heroine, Mrs.
Watson.
Mr, Carl A. Feilberg, a well-known Queensland
pressman, has accepted a sub -editorship on The Argus,
Melbourne.
Wasn’t it Mr. George Day, M.L. A., who wanted
to present Sir Henry Parkes with £5,000 out of the
Colonial Treasury to defray the expenses of the em-
bassy ?
Longfellow said no young aspirant to literary
fame should marry, unless possessed e£ an independent
income ; the grasping straggle between brain and bread
and batter is sure to produce uneven writing.
Lady Augustus Loftus will not accompany His
Excellency during his Northern visit, which has been
postponed till the end of September, that being re-
garded by local notabilities as a more suitable time than
the present to cram up .Lord Loftus with.informntion re-
specting the country—and its wants. This is “ official.
Leading London papers state that Mr. Maokay,
the American millionaire, has arranged to build an hotel
in Loudon somewhat on the scale of the Palace Hotel in
San Francisco, which is equal in site to about five of! the
biggest English hotels. There will be sixteen hundred
suites of rooms, and the cost of the undertaking will be
two millions.
Mr. Pechey, M.L. A., has met with a fatal
accident at Bathurst. A horso he was driving took
fright at the yelping of a cur, and capsized the vehicle.
The hon. member sustained concussion of the pram,
lay for some time in a hopeless condition, and died on
Tuesday. He was recently elected for East Macquarie,
but bad never taken his seat.
Dr. Morrison, who was the other day convicted
at Adelaide of complicity im the big insurance frauds,
puts it neatly thus in a local paper“ tllenelg—Dr.
B. P. Morrison having arranged with Dr. L. P.
O’Leary to act as Locum Tenems for him during his
temporary absence, that gentleman may bo consulted
at the surgery on and after Monday, 22nd inst.”
Says Paris Figaro of Skobeleff: —“ He is now
37, or thereabouts. He is very tall —so tall that m
campaigning time he cannot stand upright in hia
tent. His face is exceedingly intelligent, his eyes blue
and keen and quiok, his forehead full, and hia beard
brightly blonde ; at the very first glance his parson re-
veals the energetic and loyal soldier, ready to dare all
and sacrifice everything."
Great dissatisfaction is openly expressed by the
members of the Bar in re the appointment ot Mr.
Canadeli as temporary District Court Judge ; and the
lawyers are busily endeavouring to find out how the
milk got into that cocoa-nut. So far, Mr. Canada!! •
appointment is as deep a mystery as Plomer’s reprieve,
which, by the way, will cause the Ministry much
trouble, should Parliament ever re-asaemble.
Mr. Claude T. J. Vautin, well-known in North
Queensland as an assayer, is at Cobar, initiating a pro-
cess patented by himself, which enables him to expel
certain of the minor metals from copper, and to raise
the value of tho latter £4 to £5 per ton. This, it is
expected, will add at least £14,000 per annum to the
value of the Cobar mine. Mr. Vautin, we are told, has
already succeeded with his process at Nymagee.
Dante Gabriel Bossetti’s death was probably
due loss to disease than to the weapons employed
against it. A peculiar form of nervous irritabilfty, tho
most distressing symptom o£ which was continual
sleeplessness, had driven him, like Coleridge and De
Quinoey, to the habital use of opium, and of the equally
fascinating .and even more dangerous hydrate of
chloral—it is now painfully evident that the relief
obtained was dearly purchased.
Twopenny, the aboriginal who went to England
with Mr. Lawrence, was once a fine yonng fellow and a
good cricketer. Many who remember his prowess as a
pedestrian and a bowler will be sorry to see him wander-
ing about Sydney streets with his wife, asking every
passer-by for “ Sixpence, please. Mister.” They will
be still more sorry, but not at all surprised, to hear that
Twopenny, when ho gets his sixpences, can always turn
them into rum at low public-houses.
BDr. Alleyne, the chief medical officer, has re-
tired on a pension, after some thirty years* service. As
health and immigration officer, he received £6OO per
annum; as medical adviser to the Government, he en-
joyed an additional £300; as official visitor to Parra-
matta and Gladeaville, he received £100; and as chair-
man of the Immigration Board, he took his fee pec
sitting. He will be succeeded by Dr. Beattie, his lata
assistant, who at present holds an appointment in the
Parramatta hospital for the insane.
James Tyson, the boas squatter, according to
the Whitehall Review is worth four millions, and
was bora near (Sydney in 1823. He has never smoked nor
tasted a glass of spirits in hia life, never swears or
loses his temper, never goes to church, owes his huge
fortune solely to his own industry, is tall, well made
and by no means bad-looking, has never been married,
but says he’s willing to marry a “fine, well built, homely
English girl"—and means it. Now, it James really
means it, we consider that in patting his case to the
girls, we do him a really good tarn.
We find that in our issue of 20th ult, we were
led by the accidental mutilation in transmission of a
telegraphic message from the south, to connect the
name ot Mr. J. G. Duffy, the well-known Melbourne
solicitor, with a certain iogal quarrel arising eut of the
MVEvoy divorce case. The facts are that it is not Mr.
Duffy, bat a practitioner bearing a somewhat similar
name, who was intended to be referred to, and that Mr.
Duffy has never had anything whatever to do with the
case. Our errorwas shared by a large number of N.S.W.
papers, including some of the metropolitan dailies.
“ Anglo-Australian,” in the European Mail,
recently hazarded a tip that on the next anniversary of
Her Majesty’s Birthday (now past) Sir Henry Parkes
might expect to be made a Right Hen. member of the
Privy Council, or a full-blown Baronet. Also that
King Casey would get a K.C.M.Q.-ship; Sir John
O'Shanassy, the Hon. W. J. Clarke, and Sir C. G.
Dully, a baronetcy a piece. But none of the forecasts
came eff—which only shows what fools the people are
who place any reliance on the statements of the literary
stalactites who live in English gloom and know as much
about Australia as cows know about classics.
Edward Jones, 91 years of age, died on Sunday
week, at Mr. A. Brown’s, Maitland-street, Gunnedah.
This old man was born in Sydney three years after the
colonization of Australia took place by the formation of
a penal settlement at Port Jackson. He was. conse-
quently, one of the oldest natives of tbe colony. He
served his apprenticeship in Sydney to the trade of
shipwright, and assisted to build the first vessel
launched from the stocks in the mother port of our
continent. As a matter of course, the old man’s ex-
periences of early life and settlement were very in-
teresting and extensive. He retained his faculties to
the last.
It must have struck many people as remarkable
that royalty, in tho person of the King of the Belgians,
should have stepped out of its way to personally wel-
come Sir Henry Parkes to Belgium. But when it is
understood that His Majesty is a big partner in the
great Belgian iron-working firm of Cookerill and Co.,
who make steel rails and have a large appetite for
Colonial contracts,—well, then there’s nothing very
remarkable about it. It’s in rather bad taste, our
Prime Minister consorting with contractors There
was a steel-rails scandal when tho Queensland Premier
went home, so the astute Sir Henry should beware
and fight shy of crowned drummers.
There is a certain tragic silliness in the conduct
of the Czar. Brutally stated, the fact is that it he keeps
to his present line of inaction he must inevitably be
killed. He is locked up at Gatschina, and yet the con-
spirators send him written messages whenever they like,
and drive him frantic with terror. Two Siberian wolf-
hounds guard his door, two Cossacks watch at his bed-
foot, and a lino of troops stretches along the corridor.
He takes his exercise with a body of soldiers acting like
sharpshooters around him. And yot, in spite of all yjis,
the conspirators let him know that ho is at their mercy
whenever they ohoose to strike. There is no doubt that
members o( his own Court, his very counsellors, are in
him.
The other afternoon, Mr. Lingen, the equity
barrister, might have been seen lying on his back on
the pavement. There's nothing very remarkable, abont
this, you may say, in that a lawyer can lie jnst as well
in one position as in another. However, it happened
that, while hurrying across from the court to hit cham-
bers, Mr. L. had oome into violent collision with a
laundress who, anxious to get her bundle of clothes
out of the rain, was rushing past. Law knocked the
laundress down and then fell itself. The latter was lor
some minutes as stiff as a starched eollar ; the former
arose and manfully carried its fainting victim into our
Supreme Court to be treated with eau do cologne and a
wet towel. Another instance of the danger of colliding
with lawyers.
George Collins Levey, who was over hero the
other day trying to float a £lOO,OOO company with a
view to establishing another big morning daily in
Sydney, haa for the fourth time obtained a commission
to go to Europe under the most agreeable circum-
stances which can possibly happen to a pressman in
search of odventnre. Mr. Levey represents Victoria at
Amsterdam in 1883, at a cost to the colony of some
£3OOO, Verily the lives of some of these Aon men are
oast in pleasant places. Q P. Smith, one of its editors,
became Attorney-Qeneral, O. C. Levey is a perpetual
secretary of exhibitions under the same fostering in-
fluence, and who knows what plums there are yet m the
pudding for Dow, Deakin, and Pearson, the able repre-
sentatives of the Aei; and Liader in the Legislative
Assembly ?
Mrs. Garland (handsome is as handsome does) is
the best woman in Australia for running papers, bnta
the plucky lady has trouble with one Lionel Pottinger,
who went up from Sydney to edit the Carcoar Chron-
icle, and subsequently turned his attention to £2O
11s. 6d. of Mrs. Garland’s money. He is out on bail, to
appear at Bathurst Quarter Sessions, and clear np
what Mrs. Garland deems embezzlement. When the
lady was married recently, the staff presented her with
a bracelet, and we have no hesitation in saying that it
was placed on an arm like Hebe’s. Little did the fair
recipient imagine that in a few short months it would
be her painful dnty to present Lionel Pottinger with a
pair of bracelets, of somewhat commoner metal.
Lionel is a son of that distinguished officer of police,
Sir Frederick Pottinger.
At Brisbane, on the Ist instant, Algernon S. M.
Herbert was “sent up” for three and a half years for
forgery. Several charges of false pretences were with-
drawn. Algernon was one of a batch of " new chums *
who first honoured Dunedin (N.Z.) with their presence,
about two and a hall years ago. At first he put up at
the best hotel, and lived like a real duke j soon came
the inevitable time when the landlord had to await
“remittances from home.” Then he instructed the
yonth of Dnnedin in the art of playing cards. A little
later, he appeared in print as an authority on racing
matters, concerning which he wrote fluently and well
in the leading weekly of N.Z. Next, he fell in love with
a barmaid, who jilted him and ran away with a jockey.
Algernon thereupon swore eternal revenge against all
barmaids; so, assisted by an individual who is at present
trying hard to “ charm ” the Sydney public, he brought
out a villainous little book entitled “ Australian Bar-
maids and their Doings," which gained him neither
coin nor glory. A woman was at the bottom of it when
hn horsewhipped a miserable little rival, and was fined
£5. Algernon is a very gentlemanly-looking fellow, was
for a time the idol of the women and the envy of the
men in Maoriland, and is related to no end of Lords and
Countesses.
The dailies commented on Archbishop Vaughan’s
absence from the Queen's Birthday levee, bat they
evidently were unaware of the circumstances to which
it was attributable. Many years ago, according to
Frank Fowler’s ” Southern Lights and Shadows,' a
great hubbub arose out of a dispute between Bishop
Barker and Archbishop Folding on the subject of pre-
cedence at a Sydney University commemoration—the
end of the matter being that the latter gentleman and
his followers left the hall. Something of the kind
happened again the other evening, when, at a Govern-
ment House dinner, Dean Cowper was given by Lord
Augustus Loftus precedence at table over Archbishop
Vaughan. After dinner the Archbishop complained to
His Excellency, saying that ho had given way to Bishop
Barker because the latter happened to be the older
prelate j he was not, however, prepared to acknowledge
the Dean’s claim to precedence. In default of an
understanding on the subject he could not see his way
to attend the levee on the following da?. Lord Augustus
Loftus replied that the Archbishop, the greatest man in
Australia, could well afford to overlook the matter and
refrain from raising awkward questions of the kind.
But Dr. Vaughan didn't attend the levs©. And that's
how the ajg stood on end.
Everyone will recollect Marvin, who, while en-
gaged in the British Foreign Office a year or two ago,
transcribed some important confidential documents,
handed them to a London paper—and was as a con-
sequence charged with theft. Well, Mr. Marvin, from
being a supernumerary writer at 10d. per hour, has be-
come a very big gun indeed. The latest about him is
that he was sent across Europe by the Nbwcabtls
Chronicle for the simple purpose of obtaining
Skobeloff’s views as to the Central Asian Question. On
his arrival at St. Petersburg, Mr- Marvin extended his
mission by interviewing every authority on the subject,
and the dozen letters he has published in the Chronicle
embody the best account we have of the Russian ad-
vance towards India. We often hear of the enterprise
of London journalism, but the provincial press cannot
be far behind when a newspaper like the Newcastle
Chronicle spends several hundred pounds in order
that it may publish a single conversation m its columns.
Although his “ Merv” and other works on Central Asia
stamp him as a Russophobe, Mr. Marvin received a
wartn welcome at the hands of all he met, from Ignatieff
to Professor Martens, aad every effort was naturally
made to disabuse him of any belief in the future ad-
vances of Russia towards India. Skobeloif made a great
impression upon Mr. Marvin, and presented him on his
departure with the cap he had worn throughout the
last Turcoman campaign and on the day of the assault
ef Geok Tep<s. The relic will be of value some day,
should the hero of Plevna fulfil the expectation ef his
admirers and become the greatest general of the age.
Accor dinar to Stephen Fiske, the richest man in
the world is Mr. W. H. Vanderbilt, of New York. That
lucky gentleman has £13.000,00# in United States
bonds, and is reported to held some £lo,ooo,oooin New
York Central and Hudson River stock,£lo,ooo,ooo more
in ether railroads in N.Y. and other States, and a vast
amount of valuable real estate “ Hls , P ro *
perty cannot amount to less than £40,00#,000, and pro-
bably is nearer £60,000,000 than the former. He is,
therefore, without question, “ the richest man on the
globe” to-day. He conld bay any of the Rothschilds,
and still be the richest man in the world. And, unlike
the rich men of England-the Dukes of Bedford, WesU
min b tor, Argyll* a.nd Buoolgiicli* who inherit©d their
great estates—Mr. Vanderbilt’s property has been accu-
mulated in two generations, the most of it within
thirty years. The case stands without parallel in his-
tory. It is a singular list of names
Vanderbilt in this catalogue. Jay Gould $100,000,000;
Mackay, $50,000,000; Crocker, $60,000,000; John Rooka-
feller, of the Standard Oil Qompany,
Huntingdon, $20,000,000 j D. O. Mills. $2O 000 000;
Senator Fair, $30,000,000; ex-Qovernor Stanford,
$40.000.000; and so on. By the way, Mr. Mackay, the
silver millionaire, and his wife have been so annoyed by
persistent sailors for their daughter's hand that they
have decided not to give her any dot whatsoever I This
young lady's name is Bryan, and she w Mr. Mackay s
step-daughter. Not much farther back than 1»70, Mr.
Mackay hardly owned " a brass cent." He was one of
the few investors in a Nevada mine which turned out
well just as they were thinking of abandoning it. Mrs.
Mackay is one of the most charming women in the
world and an assured success in Paris Society. But
never was a mother so pestered by fortune-hunters.
Miss Bryan might have married any number of the
“old nobility" of the Continent, men of high lineage,
but low fortunes.
Thady O’Kano, of the Northern Miner,
Charters Towers, has been put upon his “ good beha-
viour '* by a recent Bench decision, but intends testing
the issue in the Queensland Supreme Court. The usual
result of an attempt to gag any outspoken paper has
followed. Public indignation is aroused, and a fund is
being raised by subscription to defray the cost of testing
the decision. At a " crowded public meeting held m
the Charters Towers School of Arts, sympathetic
resolutions were passed, and a fund committee formed.
The neigh boating towns are also being canvassed.
This is how Mr. W. H. Dooaaa, the mover of the first
of a series of resolutions, lot himself out s— 1 A legal
gentleman could not find any law new in force to bring
against Mr. O'Kane, he could net find a law in the
British Statute book for the last 200 years, so he went
back to the blood-stained archives of England's tyrants,
to their bloody statutes, to find one to put O'Kane on
his good behaviour; that was the last stage they had
arrived at in this enlightened age." The feeling of
the meeting was evidently against the section of the
community headed by Cooper, Deane, Hamilton,
Morgan, and Bnckland, whose followers were classed by
Mr. Pauli, another speaker, as “ snobs and jobbers,
Thady himself came oat in full war paint, and showed
plenty of fight. This is his gentle murmur when on
his “ good behaviour "s —“ As they were all aware, he
was in hobbles at present (laughter); they had never
seen a horse in hobbles jump a three-rail fence, or a
I man in his coffin gat up, or a man with a gag in his
mouth make a speech (laughter). Well, he hoped be-
fore many days, notwithstanding the hobbles, the
coffin, and the gag, that he would be able to stand be-
fore them as before, and to maintain the same prin-
ciples he had ever advocated (Cheers) Though he was
gagged, he could even now give a squeak occasionally
(laughter), and his heels were free, and it was not quite
safe to come too near him. Let those who got him
down beware that they did not fall with a greater erash
and more permanent injury (Cheers). He was on his
* good behaviour,' as they all knew, but be was not afraid
to say, and did say, that the decision of the Chartei s
Towers Bench was unjust (Cheers). He would not
venture to say more, for be might be colled on to pay
£100; for himself he did not care, but he regarded the
money of his sureties, Mr. O’Donnell and Mr. Lamond,
who were responsible for bis good behaviour (Cheers).
He would conclude by saying he hoped to live and help
to sweep sooundcelism from the community (great
cheering)."
J. W. Bull, of Adelaide, S.A., is perhaps tihe
best example of the unsuccessful colonist extant. Born
and bred such an English gentlemen as Czar Nicholas
aspired to be, Mr. Bull came |to South Australia some
forty years ago, bringing a considerable sam of money
with him. He had been originally intended for an en-
gineer, having strong tastes in that direction. When,
during the administration of Colonel Oawler and Gover-
nor Grey, the bUls drawn on the Imperial Treasury
were repudiated in the old country, Mr. Bull became
involved in the common financial distress, and lost his
money. From that day to this, bis life has been that of
the honest, hard-working, intelligent, valuable, but as
above stated, unsuccessful colonist. His only faults
were a certain hastiness of temper, and independence of
mind, which, abhorring colonial toadyism, rarely do
their possessor any good. Mr. Bull brought more than
bis share of prosperity to the land of bis adoption. He
claims to be the original inventor of the Bidley reaping
machine, for which boon Mr. Bidley was testimonialised
as early as 1845 by the S.A. Agricultural Society
through Governor Grey ; since which time ho was also
thanked by special vote of the Legislature, besides be-
ing banqueted both in Adelaide and London. It is
certain that Mr. Bidley used the stripper in the sum-
mer of 1843-4, but Mr. Bull claims to have invented it
prior to the date of Mr. Bidley’s patent, and one or two
old colonists also avouch his claims, which, however,
have been generally ignored. Mr. Ball tells bis story
in this wise Standing disheartened one morning in a
field of over-ripe wheat, and mourning the dearth of har-
vest laborers, be mechanically thrust his extended
Augers among the stalks just under the ears,
and noticed how the grain dropped out. Hence flashed
upon his mind a great idea. Ho rushed to the barn,
procured a flat piece of wood, fashioned into a rude
rake, returned to the crop, repeated his operation, and,
as the ears were thus held up, struck them smartly
with the piece of wood. Of course, the grain became
dislodged, and the principle of the comb-and-beaters
was established. Mr. Bull claims to have exhibited a
model embodying his ideas pro bono publico, before
Bidley manufactured his reaping-machines. His claims
met with private and official neglect and Insult; and
Bidley obtained all the credit of the invention. Mr.
Bull onoe forgave a poor widow, named Fisher, the price
of a pig. This widow’s son, growing up, entered
the Bbqisteb office, and eventually gained a
partnership in the concern—a small inheritance of
bis having been invested in the paper, which
grew into a colossal money-making machine. His
happygo-luoky soubriquet in those days was " Fluffy
Joe,” and irreverent people who don’t bow down to
mammon don’t forget it. By and bye, he was ap-
pointed agent for Bidley, now a wealthy absentee, and.
having sold his share in the Eeoibtbb to John Howard
Clarke for £15,000, soon came to possess no small in-
fluence among the looal plutocracy. “ Fluffy Joe,"
developed into the Honourable Joseph Fisher, and
helped considerably to snnff out Bull as an inventor.
Now, however, James Allen, an early pioneer and
whilom editor and S.A. newspaper proprietor, has
revisited Adelaide from Melbourne, and has gallantly
jumped to the rescue by publishing a letter which fully
corroborates everything advanced by Bull with respect
to his alleged invention. The Hon. ii. D. Bess, speaker
of the S A Legislative Assembly and President of the
Agricultural Society headed a deputation to the Cam-
missioner of Crown Lands, Mr. Catt, who is himself
an ex-farmer, and has promised to consider the
case. The honorable Joseph still disputes Bull’s title.
Mr. Ball has ail along acknowledged that Bidley was
the first practical machinist who constructed the reap-
ing machine; therefere, if he can prove that ho origin,
ated the idea, it would be unjust not to admit that
without his model, ths machine must have remained
in nuhibus. Should an unexpected fit of generosity
seize the Cabinet, not much benefit would accrue to
Mr. Bull personally. He is a shattered, aged, and dis-
appointed mas, while the honorable Joseph’s cheque is
good for six figures. Joseph has forgotten all about his
press days, and has Sir Arthur Palmer’s contempt for
"newspaper fellahs." He onoe asked publicly from
his seat in the " councils of the nation" the question,
« What is a reporter P " and proceeded scornfully to
answer it himself: “ A poor devil who never has a £5-
note in bis pocket I’’ But Joseph was mad at the time,
because the Ekoistbe— the cause of his own fortune-
had been ourryoombing him iu a leading article.
•
One day a packet, in terra-cotta paper, tied with
peacock-blue ribbon, was handed to Oscar Wilde. It
contained a penny trumpet, with the inscription, “ Blow
me, and I’ll toot too." Oscar was Wilde J, G.
Whittier is 75, and says he will write no mote peetry
An old gentleman, named Charles H. Steedman,
aged 81, a member of the N.S.W. and Queensland bar,
died suddenly at Parramatta the other day, of paralysis.
A Chicago clothing house has engaged Sergeant
Mason, who shot at Gniteau, as clerk, at a salary of
1 500 dollars a year—probably as an advertisement
Mr. Dwyer, the governor of the Geelong Gaol, who cap-
tured his assailant, Johnson, .so pluokily, had received
a training in the noble science of self-defence. He was
Jem Ward’s favourite pupil, and in his time, the crack
amateur “ light weight" of England. Johnson pre-
tended that ho was the only survivor of the wreck of
the Dunbar The somewhat celebrated Captain
Jackson Barry (of N.Z.) intends visiting N.S.W. while
en route for the Old Country Oscar Wilde has
lengthened his breeches and shortened his lectures
Sir Archibald Miobie is the Australiau correspondent of
the Times, and receives £2OO annually for 13 letters
Heuniker Heaton scarifies David Blair in a London
periodical, for prigging the “ Dates.” The banquet
Slven by the Yoriok Club, Melbourne, to Archibald
'orbee, was a two-guinea affair They say now in
Melbourne that Lord Charles Scott, as a naval officer,
ehines in engagements, but is obstinately wedded to his
profession Mr. E. Jamieson, the well-known New.
castle (N.B W.) bookseller, has died in England Mr
Christopher Newton, of Sydney, who failed in London-
-15 years ago,has returned to London and paid all his old
creditors 20s. in the £ Admiral Wilson, it is thought,
will either be given a command in the channel squadron
or be asked to go to the Admiralty as one of the Sea
Lords. He has had a long conversation on Australiau
affairs in general with Mr. Gladstone Mr. James
Palmer, a Far Northern pioneer, hae died at Townsville.
He was an enthusiastic sportsman Bruce Oaunson
potted the Victorian Government for the Jolimontary
■am of £2500. He is a brother of the only David, like-
wise of William the Unique, and is a lucky young dog
who got a good billet in the Crown Lands Office
through the Blaok Wednesday dismissals
The Glasgow University has conferred the degree of
L.L.D. on Professor Strong, of Melbourne University.
Bailey, of Temora, still endeavours to get Warden
de Boos to prosecute the local Stab for libel, but we are
glad to see that the Warden and the defendant news-
paper are likely to arrive at an amicable settlement.
“ Crawl into soma rat-hole of everlasting nothing-
ness," is the advice that Talmage gives to Infidels.
But then he gets £5OOO a year (or talking like this.
What we are curious to know is what ha would say to
the Christians if the Infidel went a •• thou." better.


ANTHONY HORDEHN
PALACE E M PORI
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
I.N order to meet the ever-increasing requirements of the N
have this year Imported
FROM ENGLAND AND THE CONTINEN
2422 PACKAGES OP GOOE
BOUGHT DIRECT FROM THE MANC
And are now prepared to offer our Stock of WINTER GOODS
the Inhabitants of Sydney and surrounding districts. VISITO
specially invited to inspect the FINEST DISPLAY of Goods ev
of the VERY LARGEST DEAPFRY ESTABLISHMENTS in i
Be sure of the Exact Nam© and Address. We have only one !
with others of the same name.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
PALACE EMPOEIUM.
HATMAEKET (Only),
Where any of the following Goods may bo purchased Under One
Latest Novelties in Brocaded Velvets.
Brecaded Silks. Brocho Silks and Batins,
Lyons Velvets. Genoa’Velvets.
Louis and Muncunium Velveteens.
Plushes and Plushettos.
For all Shades and Colours.
Cashmeres, Sublime, Brittany, &o.
Eeversible French Cashmeres.
Terra Cotta and Bective Cloths.
Ladies* Kid Gloves, latent Fasteners.
All Light Shades and Colours.
Laces—Now Patterns. Evening Dress.
Ribbons—Plush, Moire, Satin, &c.
Choicest Delicate Shades.
Millinery—Latest Parisian Fashions.
Ladies and Childrens’ Boots and Shoes for Walking,
Fancy',Kid Boots amd slippers for Evening Wear.
Workboxes, Toys, &0., &o.
Ladies’ Jac
rellas i
GE
Overcoats,
Hats and C
Boots and £
Curtains, T
Table Linei
White and
Blankets, C
sizes.
Calicoes, Pi
Bedsteads t
Furniture <
Drawing an
Carpets, Hi
China, Qlas
Stationery,
The Largest stock in the Colonies, of Fancy, Berlin, and SI
shade, Collarettes, Fichus, Shawls, Capes, Opera Cloaks. Ladic
Wool Skirts. Dresses and Jackets comprising every latest novel
Every requirement for Dress either for Girls, Boys, Ladies or
ANTHONY HORDERN J
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” I
MOLESKIN TR
WHITE AND PRINI
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINAI
ARE TO BE OBTAINED F
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPEI
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH
THESE GOODS Wll
CHEAPEST AND BES
THE BRAND IS RECISTE
DR. STANICH desires to an
persons suffering from Eye, Ear, Nc
eases will receive his valuable service
Gratis, ovary THURSDAY in the w
square, Sydney. To prevent disapi
applicants must be provided with
mendation under seal from sou
municipal authority, otherwise thej
—Advt.
“ What are the wild waves
well-known song. It has been answ
by many persons in different mood
may plug your profoundest dollar
waves are now saying at the North]
want a good investment, ootno and 1
of land at Balgowlah Heights, A
next.” Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist w
the wavelets' wail.
Il you want a really palatal)
tea, of acknowledged purity, streu
ask your grocer for The Calcutta
Pure Indian Tea. Our only Wholi
New South Wales, is nt 28 Charlol
no retail establish incut whatovu
hawkers. All the loading tea dea
town and country keep the teas, I
“Calcutta Tea Association" on i
different places. The teas of the.
knowledged superior to any packet 1
Colonies. — Advt.
It is necessary, during hot t
beverages likely to beat or stin
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous
absolutely pure, is a most soothii
refreshing beverage. Be sure th
BURT'S COCOA ESSENCE when
imitations are often pushed by si
sake of extra profit. Makers by s
to the Queer.— (Advt.)
Hannah keeps a boot shop at.
and though he has not been ustahl
flmw.iiii AM. Vift knnwa nhrmf. n.a mnnh
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
By latest wire we learn that the Full Court has
granted Thady a rule nisi for a prohibition. Thus he
lias (tot one hobble off, so far......A Fijian convert to
Christianity, who died recently, related to the mission-
aries that in an encounter with a shark he plunged his
arm down the throat, drugged out his tongue, and
pulled him ashore. He’s paying for that yarn n0w......
The compositor of the Burrow a Times has been tangle-
fcoting again. About a quarter of a column of errata
is acknowledged in one issue as having appeared in the
leading article of the issue preceding. The editor is
made to call “his friends" “his fiends.” If yon
want to send a newspaper from Sydney to Mount
Browne, you must entrust it to a special messenger.
The post won’t carry it. Several hundredweights of
newspapers addressed to the Albert goldfield are now
lying at Wiloannia The Union S.S. Co.'s new
steamer, Manapouri, has arrived from Scotland
Likely that 2000 men will be employed by the two
Kiandra gold-mining companies next Spring At
Blaekwater, near Rockhampton, a black boy named
Jumbo met a white boy carrying his father’s dinner up
the line. Jumbo (who is only 14 years old, and has
already been under committal for attempted rape)
attacked the pale face with a nulla-nnllah and nearly
killed him The Tttmut and Adelono Times records
bow a goose in its flight struck against a telegraph
wire, “ and fell on Mr. Smith’s verandah roof, whence
it essayed to enter Ah Nam’s place, hoping, perhaps,
to find friends and relatives there." _ Probably, the
Times editor was out what time the bird called at his
office A footballer at Nnrraooorte (S.A.) has this
season had his nose broken for the fourth time. He is
in consequence, disqualified, for the billet of inspector
of common lodging-houses The Maoleay correspon-
dent of the Manninw Kiver Times ventured to prog-
nosticate that, “if the weather continues fine, wo
expect a good day on Wednesday next.” The pre-
raises would seem to justify the conclusion....
A parson edits the N.Z Times, and here is the wind-up
of one of his leaders Yes, that is thy becoming
attitude, O Prophet of Old Nick, alias Metropolis!
and speedily may the light rise upon thee, that the
people may thereby be fully initiated, and no longer
abide in their darkness 1" An lloz. lump of water-
worn gold has been found at Cania, near Maryborough,
Q One Forbes |itockowner lost £15,000 during the
recent drought New gold reef discovered at Wagonga
Eivor, Moray a district; Bodalla labourers rushing it.
R, Baird and party returned to Cooktown from
prospecting between the Annan and JDaintree rivers;
found floury gold in small quantities, and stanniferous
indications ; plenty of grand pine country 3000
eheep out of a flock of 6000 at camp on Guraly Common
suddenly took a stampede and swam the river into the
Eunonyahreenyba paddocks. Wo would sooner swim
the river than spell that name again. Mr. Shelley, the
drover, hud to pay trespass fees on the lot, and then
pay bridge fees to get them across the river. The
sheep had heard the name and wouldn’t swim back
Cooktown editorß”times are getting rosy. The Herald
man last year received a snake, a tomahawk, and a
wallaby, from grateful clients. Already this year, he
has been donated a 151 b. pumpkin and a 9oz. corn-
cob. He evolves the most of his ideas out of the
pumpkin Strikes on Rockhampton way. Corpora-
tion labourers at the new reservoir sinking for Bs.
instead of 7s. per day; Council keeping a stiff upper
iip. Miners at Galawa reef, Mount Wheeler, want *3
instead of £2 10s. per week Bathurst people con-
vulsed with the excitement of geting up a testimonial
to a retired letter-carrier, Hoolahan, upon whose broad
brow fame’s laurels now gracefully rest. The old man
has for 31 years trudged round the city of the plains......
An Adelaide paper recently gave this quotation in its
•• share purchases ” for a. single day: “ 2000 Balhannah
fin one line) at Bs. and 20 at £1 os. 3d." This has a
creamy flavour about it, especially seeing that the Bol*
hannah is young and undeveloped. What has honest
old Ned Lougson been thinking about P A Moonta
(S.A.) magnate was recently testimonialised previous to
his departure for another shore. Of course everybody
showered the departing guest with adulation. When
the roll-call of his virtues was about exhausted, a Ger-
man was the only one left to speak. He was called on.
He glared around in despair, and at last ho said :
“Vrends, ho vas a vine Teller: he vas der teufel too
shmoak, und be van shust grand mit der lagsr beer.
Yahl” Barque Don Guillermo foundered at Vavau.
Captain Johnson, all the officers, and 500 tons copift
wore lost: five men only were saved Prince Alfred
Hospital, Sydney, to be opened about the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s birthday The Mudgeeites went mad, the
other week, over a silver discovery near Denman town :
they have now found that the only silver there is a
battered 3d.-bit dropped by a shepherd 20 years ago
At East Maitland, a nobbier of whisky is only 3d., and
a man can kick in his wife’s bend for 40s. And yet
East Maitland wants a railway workshop. Ingratitude,
thy name is Mailand! It takes a whole inch of a
morning contemporary to t»ll us that “ tinned
Sardinds (are quiet." Wo are glad to hear it, because
wo have long been labouring under the impression that
“tinned sardines" were worse than dynamite
Information collected by the detectives tends to connect
Byrne, accused of the Deep Lead murder, with another
terrible crime “We regret,” says the Mackat
Mercury, “ to have to record another case of suicide
on the part of the late Mr. Fallap." A most felo-de-se-
oions party must have been ho who sucoeded in more
than once putting an end to hisexistenoe It is stated
that the squatters on the Bogan have lost over a
million of money through the drought Boiler explo-
sion at Apollo Stearine Works, Footscray, Melbourne,
blew off twenty-six square feet of roofing. Half the
boiler was hurled in the air. An overseer named William
Paul was carried sky-high and then precipitated into a
vat of boiling fat At Dunedin, an “ ex-lunatio,"
named Kitts, shot dead his son-in-law through a win-
dow, without warning. He also shot his brother-in-law
in the wrist, and then gave himself up to the police
At Townsville, 373 aboriginals assembled on Queen’s
Birthday to receive blankets A blackboy sent to the
paddock to bring up the white horse returned with a
creamy and this explanation. “Baal white fellow
horse sit down. Only this one—half caste.” The
Girilambone “ gang ’’ of bushrangers appear to con-
sist of an escaped prisoner and and a boy he has pressed
into the service It is reported that a Mudgeo miller
had indented 10,000 bushels of wheat from California....
It is alleged that a country publican, who on a recent
Sunday threw to the birds wheat soaked in rum, has
been charged by the police with supplying liquor to the
aborigines A ream of pure meerschaum, 8 fnehos
thick, is said to have been discovered on Mr. Cbiruside’s
estate at Werribee (Vic)....Latest Day Dawn (Towers)
crushing; 276 tons for 4920z5. lldwts : 1006 tons in the
paddock and at the mill. Dividend of Is. per share de-
cl„r«d A digger named Boiliirdier has shot himself
in Onamatulu Valley, NZ, with a gun. The shot en-
terod his chest, and death must have been instantane-
ous The following letter was found in his pocket-
b«ok“ My dear friends, I am heartsick of this
world; I cannot live in it, any longer. My energy is
exhausted—l cannot work; I cannot rest. There is
one that knows whv. Good-bye, all!—S.B." Now
•payable reefs found near Byerstown, Palmer
River, by white and yellow miners An-
other fratricide in a Melbourne suburb. Owen and
Frank Dunn quarrelled about a medal belonging to
their father, and Frank chid his brother Owen with a
gun-barrel. Ho died next day Ogles, the Melbourne
lawyer’s clerk, who defalcated i!2000 and then disap-
peared, leaving his clothes on St. Kilda beach, has been
traced to London Ah Hong, the Inglewood (Vie.)
Mongolian who, while burgling, lost his character and
leg, has been sent up for twelve months At Gyropie,
two miners fell down a 16J feet thaft, and were blown
to pieces by a shot they had just fired A man
named E. P. Gibbins, lately commission agent at Auck-
land, shot himself in the head with a revolver, and
afterwards wandered abAut. An operation was per-
formed, and several pieces of lead were extracted irom
his head. He is in a dangerous state. People who
mean suicide shouldn’t flro at so little an object ns their
1 rains. They’re apt to miss the mark.... The Brisbane
Advertiskr, founded on the defunct Queensland
Bulletin, is a paper started in the publicans’ interest,
and is readable The Girildmboue correspondent of
the Dubbo Dispatch says “ A fearful epidemic is
raging in the vicinity of Daily’s Hotel, twenty miles
from Girilambone on tho Bonrko Road. Six people
have already died. It is a sort of English cholera.
Ssveral people (have gone to Bourke for t-eatmeat.”
Probablyltyphoid The first cnlo of gold from Nana
Crook has arrived at Grafton. 100 ions from the Lady
Matilda gave 195 oz., or over 16 lb Tho French Bank
at tho corner of Pitt and Bond streets was burglarised
cn Tuesday night. Thieves tried to burst open a
Milner’s safe; failed, and had to decamp without any
* *wog" at all. Housekeeper on premises heard no
noise. Hooray for Milmt's safe!
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Sir Henry Parkes banqueted at Birmingham
Public Library ; visited Belgium } to 1 50
several European cities) afterwards visits Berhn ana
Paris, returns te England on 20th instant, and starts
lor Canada early in July The Egyptian to
still on; Turkey sent commission to E<ypt} Arab.
B«y finessing; England and France ii^emeive......
Moscow Exhibition opened bv Grand Duke Vladimir,
brother of the Czar New Public Library. Birming-
ham, opened by John Bright, M.P Vice-Chancellor
Sir Charles Hall attacked with paralysis, and has
resigned Signor Dicesara, Maltese Councillor, loav-
Ing for Australia in order to promote Maltese
emigration Princess Lomse back in Canada.......
New Spanish tariff somewhat protective ..Aulus
threatening rebellion; John Dunn active f omen ter......
Mr. William Anderson Otrg, Sheriff of London,
knighted James Dawson, M.P., moved a resolution
In the. House of Commons that Secretary of State tor
the Colonies should interfere against massacre ol
aborigines N.Z. frozen meat averaged 6J. per 1b......
Moffatt, the S.A. postmaster who recently levanted,
arrested on board the Pekin N.S.W. four per cent.
inscribed stock of £2,060.000 placed in London market;
minimum 102 Bordeaux wine exhibition postponed
for fortnight.... General Garibaldi has died of bronchitis
at Caprera, Italv ; his will directs cremation; all Italy
in mourning 200,000 Pittsburg (U. 8.) ironworkers on
strike....Ulyett, in a letter to London sporting journal,
repudiates allegations made against members of bhaw s
team of collusion with bookmakers.... Australian Eleven
cricket matches Cambridge University bent Aus-
tralia by six wickets, Australians beat Lancashire
Eighteen by four wickets; against Yorkshire, Aus-
tralians made 128 in first innings, Yorkshire 100 with
four wickets down Land Leaguers of US. renewing
subscription movements Gun explosion on board
ship Swiftsure at Madeira killed one seaman and
seriously injured several others GrandPnxof lans
race—Bruce 1, Fenolon 2, Alhambra 3 Abdul Ban-
man, Aw ocr of Cahul, asks Shah of Persia to expel
Ayoub Khan from Persia Fifty vessels ice-bound in
Gulf of St. Lawrence, British North America.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, Juno G, 1882.
On the wharvos during' the poet few days, wo have to
note a decline of 5 s per ton in the price of Income hay,
owing to increased supplies eoming forward. rrim s
green lucerne is selling at £9 10s to £J 15s >
other samples, £8 to £9 per ton: maize, 5s 93 per
bushel; oats, seed and feed, 4s. although at auction
several samples were quitted at from Sfi T.dto 4* ,
per bushel, the latter price being obtained tor small lots
of extra quality. Warrnambool potatoes £3 15s to £4
per ton; N.Z , ditto, £3 15s t® £4; Circular Head, ditto,
£4 12s 6d to £4 15s per ton ; Victorian omens, £4 to
£4 10s ; ditto chaff, prime, £8 to £8 15s per ton, bags
inclusive ; best butter, in keg is, 2s to „s6d ib.j
Tasmanian ditto, prime, Is 6d to Is 10J ; New Zealand
ditto, Is to Is 6d ; eggs are 2s to 2s3dper doze ® P;
8d to 9d per lb. ; cheese, 8d to lOd ; honey, 4d to ,
lard, 8d to 9d ; beeswax, 9d to lOd.
Poultry.—At the various auction marts, poultry was
in short supply, and sold at fair rates. Fowls realised
from 2s to 5s per pair ; ducks, 3s 9d to os Id ; geese, 5s
to 7s 6d; turkeys—cooks 8s to 13s, hens 5s to 6s .)d,
pigeons. Is 6d per pair. , . ,
Fresh Meat.—At the Riverstone Moat Co. s sheds,
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country-
killed beef take place daily, a good supply “riving and
selling freely. Prices are: For prime bodies of beet.
21d to 2id per ft.; medium quality, lid to 2d per ft. all
round. Prime mutton scarce, and selling at 2d per lb.;
inferior and medium quality plentiful at Id to lid poi
Owing to large arrivals of Now Zealand
wheat during the week, the market is easier for that
description of (Train. A great deal to hand is of inferior
quality. Adelaide wheat 6s 6d to 6s 9d pcr hmfficl;
New South Wales, Gs to Gs 9d; Victorian, 5s 9d to 6s;
New Zealand, 5s to 5s 3d. ,
Flour —The market continues well stocked with the
various descriptions of flour. Holders of first-class
brands are firm. Sydney mill flour, superfine, is selling
at £l5 per ton; household, £l4; seconds, at £l3 per
ton; New South Wales country brands, £l4 10s to 15;
Victorian, £l4 to £l5; Adelaide, £l4 Ss. to£lsper ton;
bran and pollard. Is 8d to Is 9d per bushel.
Only one blackfellow claimed his blanket this
year at Glen Innes ! ...
We are sorry to hear that Dr. Garran, editor
of the S.M. Herald, is very unwell.
ACROSTIC.
0 one to liis rest! Till the lifeless shall quicken.
A 11 the world honours the patriot dead !
R ing out his requiem; sorrow has stricken
1 nto the ranks of the armies he led.
B raver and truer heart never had leader,
All for his country! till Freedom was won;
L ong shall the tale of the deeds he has done
D ear to his country be; while, with each reader,
I taly mourns for her patriot son.
A. F.
Sydney, June, 1882.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Once more the Royal. The Colonel has
been drawing good audiences. But it has, neverthe-
less, hardly come up to the expectations of most people.
There is little of the broad fun of English comedy
about it, nor, on the other hand, is there much of the
biting satire or brilliant repartee which we look for m
comedies of the French school. It lacks the sauce
nuiuante. Having said thus much, it is but fair toaad
that the play is well put on and well acted. Mrs.
Willoughby Blyth (Miss Blanche Stammers) is a very
agreeable lady—such a one as might be found after a
day’s knowledge of English Society. But she is noth-
ing more. Perhaps this was the playwright s intention.
Perhaps he deliberately chose for a ms- <Ut* to the super-
soulful monomaniacs who have split up Society at home
so much of late years, an ordinary figure from the rank,
of that society. If so, wo do not doubt that he had
good reasons for so doing. But we doubt whether they
were good enough. A commonplace character le
material for neither poet nor per* ijleur. There are no
salient points to hang beauties or eccentricities upon.
We don’t want ordinary people in a book or •n th*
stage. We see enough of them in every-day life. It is
a mistake, we modestly opine, to copy life, kne by line
and stroke for stroke, as the Dutch pamters copied
cabbages. Miss Stammers has, therefore, little chance
for aeting. The wonder is that she makes so much of
what she has. Another thing. She has the voice of
Jacob all the time. In whatsoever part we have seen
her, there was always a pretty strong wupeon of the
Stommeresque. But she is very graceful and self-pos-
sessed at all times. We think much of Miss Stammers.
• • •
Hardly so much of her mamma—in the part of
Lady Tompkins, we mean. An aesthetic aldermoness
stranger creature than a sober journalist. And not
so possible either, for there are seasons when all the
forces of the universe conspire together to prevent the
Inttpr from srettincr drunk. The south-west winds blow
Ihe m/n eTouds ovor the city, so that thereby the streets
should be wet, and the wet soaks through the broken-
soled boots of the slush-navigating reporter, ihe law
of gravitation which drags the little to the much, and
the magnetic law which bring together like and unlike,
both take sides against him. The one throws him into
company with a Son of Temperance who doesn t drink,
and consequently won’t shout j the other prevents the
coin of commerce from flowing into pockets where
pawn-tickets hold their soUtary reign.. Which is a
clear proof that the part of Lady Tompkins is not suit-
able to Mrs. Stammers.
• • •
We have said before that Miss Lena Ellis is a
success in Olive. We hare seen her several times
since, and don’t go back on this statement. But we
modify it just & little. She strikes a high note in the
beginning of the piece, and has to keep it up till very
near the end, which is a trifle tiresome. The intensity
and the yearning are considerably above proof, and
might be diluted without injuring the effect intended
to be produced. Even sham (esthetes don t always talk
in such a high-strung style as Olive is supposed to do.
With this reservation. Lady Lena, wo kiss your lily
hand in token of submission.
• • •
Miss Playfair’s Nellie is the prettiest picture
in the gallery of “ The Colonel"—if perhaps, we except
that afforded by the pretty son brette. Miss Braybarn.
Here and there, however. Miss Playfair forgets her
naVoeU and is a vary wise child indeed.
• * •
Mr Wybert Reeve has a most ungrateful w-rfc
« Streyke. There is no humonr in it. The
“ mouAas all to come from the other
thev haven’t more than they can spar*. Lambert is
if net in an absurd position. The whole play
this absurd position. And it isn’t very ab-
when it does come off -(You will see, children, that
bother much about exact writing. We scrawl
in contradistinction to our daily paper
friers who writ© idiotically). The Grand Master of
JEsHurticism has only one string to his violin, and he
S h s toe audience on this till they grow as weary of it
as we are ef that other “ stringing on” which the bar
odaUsaue at & certain King-street corner has Practised
on us so long. We are not going to deny that Mr.
Wvbert Reeve’s personation is a study. But it is a
study in frost-work on an antique oriel-pane, altogether
too «3old for these warm-blooded times. •
* * *
Mr Harkins is, we are prepared to believe, no
slouch as an American Colonel. But, as we don b know
sioucn s colonels except seventeen who are now
tovetltag the country districts with patent medicines,
j riine who are running dioramas and billiard-marking,
we* have to take Mr. Harkins’ conception for granted.
is a very military looking personage how-
w«r!° We should say there is more of the long-beered
thpn the vicUle moustache about him.
• • *
Mr. Frank Cates's Forrester is about the
i l. f -f n rvf.ory and least Aubitus chax&cter 1b tli©
gentlemanly always, and awkward never
6nt Edward Langton (Mr. A J token
is the most astounding acrobat we ever saw out of a
twopenny trapexo-ahow.
* * * *
The “ Grand Duchess ” was produced at the
Gaietv on Friday night. As one of the earlier produc-
tions of a special school this opera will always hold its
own in public estimation, and people, on its announce-
ment, cannot help looking back
Tieriod not so long since when operas of this class were
mr new revelation. The houses have, therefore, been
pretty good ones, bad weather notwithstanding.
• * •
Madame Simonsen was the veritable Grand
Duehees of Gerolstein. She acted the part M if she
enioyed the humour of the thing, and whether in t
music or dialogue, never missed a point where one was
to bo made 'flio dash with which she sang I doat on
the Military,’’ and led the chorus of the song of the
Xsf was superb. And all done with such apparently
“Say to him” was sung m a
deliciously smooth and charming manner, and Madame
delivered a graceful portamento in its proper place, as
f»w others can A.s an actress, as well as a singer,
she has festivals in this part. The coquetting
scene between the Grand Duchess and Fritz is delight-
fully, wickedly, piquant.
# * *
The part ©f Wanda was taken by Miss Seville.
She sang sweetly enough, but in a still, small voice,
what little fell to her share. She lacks dramatic power,
however, and consequently her performance was some-
what tame. The Letter Song of the Maids of Honour
gave an opportunity to some of the less distinguished
lady members of the company t. display their abilities.
Aitor hearing it, we concluded that they make a bigger
success iu displaying their ankles.
* * *
Mr. Brennir, as Fritz, appeared to better ad-
vantage than he has yet done; his voice was in
better trim, and, if he would take a little more pains,
when singing, to render the words more, clearly he
would banish from all bosoms the chilling suspicion
that he is singing in the language of the late King Billy ■
tribe. Mr. St. Clair, as General Boom, was chiefly
noticeable for his weird and wondrous make-up. His
complexion is of a terra-cotta hue; his face, which he
kept in a continual shiver of passion from beginning to
end of the opera, looked like a jelly that had been
dropped in mud and had not got over the shock. In
the matter of voice, however, he roared like a very
sueking-dove. Mr. Fitzgerald was clearly overweighted
in his attempt to play the lackadaisical Prince Paul.
We have noticed this rising operatic artist in a good
many things of late, and always knew him by his voice.
This was not so much on account of the voice itself as
on account of the channel through which it was Altered.
This channel was the nose. In “ Norma,” in the part
of Claudio, his intonation seemed to be partly an address
to his companion, partly a soothing aside to the
audience—Bottom-fashion—such as “Don’t you make
any mistake now ; you keep yer seats ; never you mind
these Homan togs ; I’m R. Fitzgerald and so on.
The “Hamburg Journal” and other songs had a ceremo-
nious ring about them, os if Mr. Fitzgerald were sing-
ing from the far end of a funnel. Perhaps this is his way.
It is a dambad way, anyhow.
• • •
Tho orchestral accompaniments vrere in places
played a trifle forte— or the choruses were a little weak.
The result, at any rate, was the same. Speaking gene-
rally, we may say that having no desire to be hyper-
critical, whatever shortcomings there were, they were
more than compensated for by the exceptionally ex-
cellent performance of Madame Simonsen. Gounod’s
“ Faust” is announced as in active preparation.
* * * *
At the Opera House. “ The Professor ” is one
of the saddest comedies we have ever seen. Those
who have seen it and don’t understand this statement
might just as well have turned the backs of their heads
to the stage, and watched the development of the plot
with the lobes of their ears. Sadness is the shadow of
all things, but joy has a deeper shadow than any. In
whatsoever pomp of purple and gold the sun sets, he
sets in sorrow withal. So, after great happiness, follows
satiety that is sick of tho sight of its own face. Hast
thou, reader, ever made one of a merry group around
the blazing hearth in the long nights of Winter—nights
when the song and the jest and the story, ten times
told but odorous of old times as Autumn apples hoarded
in the loft—went round, and fresh young faces, than
which none have ever seemed so fair to thee since,
were lit up into laughter by the Arelight ? If so, thou
hast haply noticed, when the last echoes of the song had
died among the rafters and the end of the pleasant
story had passed away with the smoke of the chimney,
that a silence fell upon the older folk, and tho young
ones gathered together and spoke in whispers, as if they
heard the footstep of Death outside falling softly upon
the withered leaves in the garden walks ? This was
the quiet of content, thou saidst ? Thou wert wrong;
it was the shadow of human loneliness that had fallen
upon them, it was the hopelessness of desire that knows
not what it desires, that had closed tho laughing lips.
• • •
Pass up another handkerchief. If we had known
in time that we had such a fund of sentiment, we
should now have been Poet Laureate of Parramatta,
instead of writing dramatic critiques on sugar-bags
with a stump-pencil. But it was ever thus. Genius
never discovers itself until it is run into the gaol for
vagrancy, or into the Lunatic Asylum for casting a slur
upon the mental procedure of the Lawgivers of the
Land by thinking with its brains instead of its bowels.
• • •
Which takes ua gently back to *‘ The Professor.”
“ The Professor " is in this plight, or near it. Let us
take a lightning view of the plot. Mrs. Elliott, a lady
living in the country, has a nephew, Arthur Hinsdale,
A.M., Ph. D., whom she is very desirous to marry to a
good wife who will take care of him. He is a genius,
and geniuses, you will observe, are never able to take
care of themselves. Therefore, as a wife is—some-
times—better than the warder of a cell or the keeper of
a mad-house, Mrs. Elliott sends out for as much wife as
she can get for the money—or its equivalent, the Pro-
fessor’s position. He comes down to see his aunt, and
falls into a hornet’s nest of girls who are mad for a
husband. His aunt points out the right one to him,
but being short-sighted, he mixes them up, proposes to
each one of them separately, and so manages to involve
himself in a maze, to which the Cretan labyrinth was
a Sussex-street right-of-way. The end of all is
that he chooses none of the hushand-hunting houris,
but marries Daisy Brown, a fawn-eyed “ child of the
woods.”
* * •
The first act closes wkh a scene of Titanic
drollery. The Professor is standing upon a table pro-
tecting himself with his umbrella against his enemies—
the fair Aendesses who seem determined to marry him
whether he will or no. In the remaining aets the cur-
tain drops upon a scene either of similar drollery or of
dramatic force. Im some parts the dialogue fairly
flames with brilliancy, ilu few places is it tedious. But
the shadow falls all the darker hero and there at those
times where the Professor, like the last tree iu a
desert-regained oasis, is forsaken by all the noise and
laughter of life and is left alone with the dead leaves
and “the brook an’ the frog.” Not a sound in the
house. Stillness and a mist before the eyes that might
be the dazzle of tho gaslight, or might be—tears.
• • •
Miss Melville (Mrs. Elliott) does not look the
Professor’s aunt. Half a dozen lustra more must be
added to her age before she will. Nevertheless, we
wish we had such an aunt. We might then succeed in
making better terms with our respected uncle than we
can do at present. Miss Emma Fischer (Daisy Brown)
is an actress of a class of which we have seen but few
in our Lara-like career. She is both realistic and ideal
—true to nature and to art. At least, refreshingly so,
after what we have been accustomed to for some time.
Here and there, however, she misses the mark. An un-
sophisticated child’s talk is half conversation and half
soliloquy. Miss Fischer does not always distinguish
between the fuH notes of the one and the broken tones
of the other. All we have to say of Miss Annie Taylor
(Estelle) is that she has a catching laugh, whieh makes
everybody that hears it laugh also. Grace Gay (Mrs.
Fred. R. Marshall), Annie Timms (Miss Cora Gwynne)
Susy Sundown (Miss Carrie Wallace), and the rest of
the ladies are what Beauregard would call “fine
studies iu half tints." Fotld Uut.
* »
Mr. P. Marshall is the Professor. Mr. G. S.
Titheradge (Beauregard, the artist-dctectivo) is perfect.
That is all we have to say of him. Mr. D’Arcy Stan-
field (Gustavns) is great fun. Moses Brown (Mr.
Sterling Whyte), Heury Marston (Mr. J. O’B. Grattan),
Fred Bangs (Mr. Fred. Dank), Jack Topley (Mr. Frank
Forbes), and the rest make up a very complete cast.
At least—but we will not spoil our previous remarks by
curmudgeonism.
* * •
A word for the scenery. It is very beautiful.
The artist (Mr. George Gordon) was called before the
curtain twice on Monday night, when we made the
dress-circle glad with our presence. The snatches of
song interspersed through the piece were prettily ren-
dered. “ The Professor ’’ deserves a long run.
***•*•
The Queen’s Theatre is now the focus of more
talent than it has been for a considerable time past.
The Vivians are there. Mr. Arthur Vivian is lately
from America. The play produced is “ Neck and Neck,”
a sensation after which the Crash of Doom will appear
as a Chinese cracker. We haven’t space to soy more
this week, but next will let us out. By that time we
hope to be able to walk abroad without fear of kinky,
haired Issaehar and hook-nosed Napthali. Till then,
i t is desirable to keep dark. In the meantime, we advise
everybody to go to the Queen’s. The play is advertised
in a very cheerful manner. Pictures of gibbets adorn
t he hoardings all over the city, and the heart of Nosey
Bob is glad within him.
* * * *
That vivacious little woman, Emilie Melville,
whom everyone remembers as tho most charming opera-
bouffe actress we have yet had on these shores, is once
more amongst us, rooming at the Oxford, which she
leaves this (Thursday) evening cn route to Melbourne.
Miss Melville has been working very hard in America
for the past two years, and, feeling that she needed a
few weeks’ rest, decided to slip over from California,
which is her home, to “ her other home," Australia.
“Perhaps,” she remarked the other evening, “if I
hadn't made so much money during my last visit, I
mightn’t have seen so many points of.loveliness in your
beautiful harbour. But, really, I do enjoy a
drive along tbe South Head Road —it is far and
away the most enchanting ” here, however,
we interposed that the promptness of her reference
to our beautiful harbour bad been duly noted and would
amply suffice to establish her in the good graces of
those few and obscure persons who were so unfortunate
as to lack the ineffable happiness of her personal
acquaintance. Then the fair-haired prima donna, who,
by the way, has not lost one of those dimples which
have brought gray hairs to even the bald-headed, and
sent so many tender-hearted, distracted young
men to early graves at Haslem’s Creek and Hotham,
went on to say that she was at present under engage-
ment to nobody; that all the managers had already
made her oilers, but she intended doing nothing definite
for a few days, when she would probably come to terms
with whomever could give her the best show. Need we
add that it was plain only one man had a show —'that
man being the fellow to whose order this world was made
—J. C. WilliamsonP "You see,” continued Emilie,
“ Mr. Williamson and his people have all their proper-
ties in Melbourne, so if I appear at all I suppose I shall
have to open in the South. If I don’t make a satis-
factory arrangement I shall go on to London, where I
have good offers. However, I have many happy
memories of Australia, and have troops of friends in
this oity, so I’d like to play here. I never dreamt I had
so many, until letters, telegrams, and cards came
pouring in frem all sides, and the people in every shop
I visited recognised me instantly, and said they were
glad to see me back I have had lots of experience, and
have learnt a great deal since last I saw Sydney. In
fact, I think I shall be able to please people bettor
now. I have a big repertoire—all tho old operas-
bouffe, and many new ones, including ‘ Boccaccio,'
* Prince Methusalem,’ ‘ Nisida,’ and* La Mascotte.’
which would be a great success here, and is
one of the most popular things I know. I’ll perhaps
open in the older operas in Melbourne, and rehearse the
company in new pieces, which I’ll bring to Sydney.
Mr. Williamson had no idea I was coming over. His
company were playing ‘ Patience' in Auckland when
the boat arrived, and I sent up a card to my friend
Armes Beaumont, who was delighted to see me. Per-
haps I shall produce * The Royal Middy.’ I see Miss
Annis Montague has already hadit on here, she playing
Faachette. When with me in the States, she played
the Queen. I’m pleased to find that the operas, when
produced, will be seen to better advantage than before.
Williamson and Co. are going to do up the Royal and
make a great place of it." Then the dear little woman
informed us that she really hadn’t an idea how it was
all going to end —she might ultimately drift into man-
agement and become a fixture ; she had brought with
her a young English baritone comedian of the Lionel
Brongh order, Mr. Cassilis, who was handsome and
clever, and would, she was sure, be popular. After we
had further learnt that Emilie still doated on boats
and revelled in football, and that she really thought
she ought to have been a boy, we sorrowfully paid our
adieux. Mr. Williamson, who arrived per Arawata, on
Monday night, and whose company are doing splendid
business at Auckland Opera House, will accompany the
fair Emilie to Cabbagegardenopolis.
** * *
The Montagu-Turaer opera troupe appear at
Maitland and Newcastle in August.
** * *
Farley, the well-known baritone, is in town.
He ought to be in Emilie Melville’s now opera boulle
company.
** * *
Those mysterious camarades, the Masons, give
a grand complimentary concert to Vittorini, at the
Masonic Hall, on Monday next. The compliment to
this talented baritone is well deserved. His popularity,
and the fact that the movement is being thoroughly
organized by an influential committee, must ensure
success. Lovers of classical music may expect a rare
treat, as Signor Vittorini is to be assisted by such
talented artistes as Mdllc. Charbonnet, Miss Pedley,
Signora Fabric, Mr. W, Smith, and Herr Hugo Alpen.
* * **
During a certain representation of “ The
World," some mw hands were engaged ns “ waves ” in
the raft scene. That is to say, they were to get under
the painted canvas that served for sea, and just toss
that raft for all it was worth. Owing to inexperience
in tho mechanical billow business, one honest fellow
accidentally landed his elbow in his companion’s face.
A gory riot in the cavernous depths of the sea was the
result, the swearing was fearful, and the "waves"
twisted that old raft about till the shipwrecked waifs
had to leave oil praying and fighting, and cling to tho
mast. With great presence of mind. Sir Clement
Huntingford dropped one foot over the side, and
fetched tho raging billows such a kick that a dead calm
at once ensued. Then the “waves” were dragged off
by the stage carpenter. But nothing would convince a
sentimental lady iu the dress circle that the calming
of the elements was not the result of little Ned s
prayer.
I ** * *
“ The Telephone,” a farce written by the Parra-
matta statiOn-master, will be heard in Sydney—i.e., if
they play it in Parramatta and lay on its namesake.
** * *
“The present topic of conversation and criti-
cism here," writes our lady correspondent “ Loduski,"
from New York under date 26th April, “is the appear-
ance of Anna Dickinson iu the character of Hamlet.
Anna, though a brilliant writer and star in her own
particular sphere, the lecture platform, fails in attempt-
ing the pourtrayal of such r<3l«s as the above. Hastily
donning my street attire after my own performance at
the Walnut-street Theatre, Philadelphia, on a recent
night, I drove to a rival theatre (we hope ‘ Loduski ’ is
never spiteful), where Miss Dickinson was struggling
withl the text of Shakespeare. When I entered the
lobby, silence was upon the multitude, as the melan-
choly Dane, in a Mephisto costume, gravely and with a
becoming dignity contemplated ‘ poor Yonck s skull.
I had scarcely settled myself comfortably iu my seat,
when I was startled by the remark from Anna that
‘ Awl-ex-awn-der died, Awl-ex-awn-der was buried,
Awl-ex-awn-der returned to dust.* The ultimate
fate of • Awl-ex-aw-der ’ (as related by this
aspirant for histrionic honours), will ever re-
main a mystery to me, for when I recovered con-
sciousness Hamlet was raving at Laertes like an escaped
lunatic. Tho lesser lights were so dimmed by the bril-
lianey of this star that they attracted but little of my
attention, save to note how excellently well Ho-rasho
(according to Miss D’s vocabulary) served ns a set-
upon which Anna leaned and posed iu most grace-
ful and (wo)manly attitude. Long before the Prince
o| Denmark breathed his last, tho audience rose cn
iiuisse, and made for the doors. I thought there was a.
panic, and expected momentarily to hear the alarming
cry of ‘ fire.’ But no! I calmed my ruffled spirits, and
grasping a convenient pillar, I bravely awaited the end,
mentally exclaiming with Fitz-James of Scotland,
< This rock shall fly from its firm base ns soon as 1!’
Ah, the green curtain hid fair Anna from my view. I
wandered to the outer portals, where, beueath the
blaze of the electric light, the cool spring breezes
fanned the fevered brow of tortured, long-suffering,
soul-racked —Loduski"
** * *
With “ Youth” at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide,
Allison and King George, writes our correspondent, are
coining money. Its chief effects are spectacular, and
there is only one real dramatic scene—that at the end of
tho third act, where Frank Darlington declares Eve de
Malvoisie to be his wife. In this scene W. G. Carey
carries away the laurels. To say truth, George does not
impress by reason ©f any acting he does. Iu striving
to be easily conversational he becomes somewhat unin-
telligible, and looks throughout more like a flourishing
bookmaker than the son of a wealthy English vicar.
His wife (Miss Henderson) makes a pretty Willie
Spmtley, a soft-spoken, lion-hearted youth who is
equally at home among women or among Afghans.
There are the best part of a hundred military supers on
the stage during the sixth and seventh tableaux, and
however Allison brings his mind into a fit condition for
parting with so many nightly half-crowns is a problem
which may not be readily solved. Harry Emmett
manages to disguise himself famously as a gallant
middle-aged Colonel, while Marian Melrose endeavours
to play the port of a pure and blameless maiden yclept
Alice Wenlock Bout and Batchelder’s Minstrels
gather in audiences from the highways and byways at
the Academy Wilhelmj tho Great will give one
more concert in Adelaide and then hies away to coun-
tries over the sea Vogrich the “ Flying Dutch-
man,” Miss Conron, and Jim Duff still accompany the
Maestro—especially Vogrich, whose accompanying is
always delicious.
Observe the tram rules. The penalty is—
death!
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Donald M‘Donald is likely to acuept Robert
Edwards' challenge Battye, the well-known steeple-
chase horseman, had a leg and three ribs broken at the
Birthday races at Adelaide, the result of a fall from
Stag A grand 160 yards' handicap (or a watch, value
25 gnineas, is to be run at Tam worth on 17th Juso
The four-oared crew to represent Messrs. Boss, Morgan,
and Bebertson for the Gardiner Cup for warehouse-
men, will be chosen from the following:—S. Eu«8«ll»
H. E. Cox, 8. E. Corderoy, H. White, B. Grace, P. M.
Kelly, and E. Fossett A big wallaby drive is being
get up by the Bulli Mountain men A foot-race, 125
yards, for £5O a-side, is to come off at Wallsend on 17th
Jane, between Amos Spruce and James Gibson.... ..
At Adelaide on June 1. First Water was sold to Mr.
J. E. Sa*ill for 575 guineas The Kapunda races
were held on June 1, at Bagotville (S.A.) j there was
a good attendance, and the racing pat sod off with
suecess. Mesalliance won the Light Stakes, Struck Oil
the Handicap Hurdles, Triplet the Kapunda Handicap,
Taraxacum the Steeple, and Triplet theTown'Plate
In consequence of the moist state of the Association
Ground, on Saturday, the football match between the
East Sydney and Sydney Clubs did not come off.
Matches however were played on the Park
Mr. W. B. Benson resigned the captaincy of the Met-
oantile Bowing Club on May 31 owing to pressure of
business The nominations for the Clarence Eiver
J.C. meeting on July 12,13, are :—Maiden Plate 8, City
Handicap 28, Clarence Kiver J.C. Handicap 24 At
Hay, on May 22 and 23, Edwards, the well-known
pedestrian, covered 115 miles in 24 hours Hewitt and
Farrell’s race comes off on Saturday at 4 p.m. on the
Agricultural Society’s grounds The club that wins
mest matches this season under thoN.S.W. Football
Association rules wiH be entitled to the Eoyal Bl^d
Whisky Trophy, value £25 The Hon. E. K. Cex bftS
suffered a loss by the sudden death on May 30 of tto
imported stallion, Chandoa. The horse was by Oxford,
from a Van Tromp nr are, and was only 12 years of aP r .
He was awarded 2nd prize at the late Agricultural Show*
...The Rockhampton and Maryborough rowing clubs are
to have a tussle in August A Northerner puts r-
thus: Triokett is on his ‘rowed-out* by the Garonne.
Saber Bros., of Bockhampton, imported from
Sydney a piece of silver plate for a present for tto
Corinthian Bace. The Customs officers went to their
establishment and seized it, but they were euchred, as,
since the smuggling affair, Messrs. Saber got their
goods cleared in Brisbane, and then sent them on to
Bockhampton in the same steamer The Legislature
of South Australia has constituted the racecourses of
the colony “public places within the meaning of the
Act,’’ and thus dealt the most direct blow at the
ruffianism that disgraces Adelaide in common with all
Australian towns. We are behind hand as usual
W. S. Fagan, the N.Z. pedestrian, professes his willing-
ness to run any man in Auckland from a quarter of a
mile up to 10 miles for from £5O and upwards; he. will
also wrestle any man in Auckland province for £25 and
upwards Miller announces in the N.Z. papers that
he will wrestle any man, European or Maori,
for from £lOO to £2OO aside. If anyone accepts
this challenge, Miller will return to Auckland
at anytime—the winner to receive the whole
of the gate money, after deducting
At Candelo sports, J. Brindle appears to have run 200
yards in 2lseo At Hughendeu races (Q ) the 25th
and 26th instant, a £lOO handicap is on the programme
Two interesting football matches took place on
Saturday at Melbourne, both being very largely pat-
ronized. Essendou against South Melbourne resulted
in a draw, two goals each, the former exhibiting by far
the best play. In the match Carlton against Mel-
bourne the former secured an easy victory by six goals
to two A race for trial fours in string test gigs,
under the auspices of the North Shore Bowing Club
came off on Saturday at Careening Cove, resulting in
win for East St. Leonards, —Aldertou, bowj H Bligh,
No. 2; B. W. Bennett, No. 3: H. A. Fitzpatrick (stroke).
At the Ladies’ Plate Meeting of the Victoria Coursing
Club, held on Saturday, the Ladies’ Plate was won by
Mrs. W. M’Culloch’s nomination. Miss Clara, which,
in the final course, beat Mrs. Lempriore’s nomination,
Lamazore. The Ladies’ Bracelet was won by Mrs. H.
Fraser’s nomination. Chesterfield, who beat, in the
final course, Mrs. J. Wolstenholme’s nomination, Wee
Bessie. The Vigorlno Cup was wen by D. Jones*
Magpie, which beat Chhrnside’s Werribee Gem, which
was runner up Triokett’s colours iu his late race
with Hanlan were handkerchiefs of fine twilled silk
bordered with blue lines, the centre containing a por-
trait of Triokett seated in his shell A very rough
football match took place on Saturday on Moore Park
between the Kedfernaud the Parramatta Carlton Clubs,
resulting in a win for Bed fern by three goals and two
tries to nil J. M. O’Connor, the champion miler,
runs C. Scrimshaw, of Christchurch, N.Z , 880 yards
for £5O a-side at Lancaster Park, Christchurch, on Juno
24. The first deposit has been lodged Al 2 hours'
go-as-you-please takes place at Dunedin N.Z, latter
end of June £3363 was put through the totalisator
at the N.Z. Grand National Meeting Little
Heathoote (N.Z.), Birthday Cup fell to Supple
Jack, and the Steeplechase to Canard, who is
by Anteros. £1 617 went through the totalisator
Owing to a dicky leg, the veteran N Z. steeplechaser.
Agent, did not run at the Grand National meeting
Joe Devlin and Blewitt run at Queanbeyan for £2O
aside, Juno 26 A double-scull race took place
at Woolloomooloo Bay on Monday between three orews
of Lands Office elerks. The course was from Fort Deni-
son to Ireland’s jetty. There was a good race to Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair, where Brama and Huslem, whose
pulling was admirable, went away and won easily.
• • •
The Grand Prix de Paris, of .£4OOO for three-
year-olds, was run for at Pans on June 4, and resulted
as follows:—M. H. Eymill’s Bruce 1, Baron Eaymond
Selliero’s Fenelon 2,JCount F. de Lagrange’s Alhambra
3 At the last Asoot meeting in England the stakes
alone for the feur days amounted to the large sum of
£27,657 Lord Manners has ridden his own horsr.
Seaman, to victory in the Great Liverpool Steeplechase
ef 1882. He gave 2000 guineas for the herse, on purpose
for this race... . From India comes the news that Lord
W. Beresford has sold moat of bis racing stud to the
Maharajah of Jondpere, the lot disposed of including
Camballo, Kate Coventry, South Hamilton, and other
Australnn-hred horses. The Fawn (a daughter of Panic),
who was sent to India some years ago, broke her back a
short time since, and died almost instantaneously
Passaic’s time in winning the City and Suburban
Handicap, on April 19, as taken by Benson’s chrono-
graph, was 2miu. 11 2-sth sec., Bend Or’s record last
year being 2miu. 7sec. In 1880, Master Kildare won in
2min. 14500., and in the previous year Parole’s time was
2miu. 43sec....Wallace Boss, when he heard of Hanlau’s
victory over Boyd, smiled and said, “I knew ho
would win." Wo wonder whit he knows about
the result of his own race with Hanlan P.........
An American exchanago says that Bonita and Wild-
flower will bo the two fastest mares ever harnessed, and
that either can now trot a i-mile at a 2-minute pace—-
i c., at a rate that would make them do a mile in 2
minutes When will this record-cutting cease P A
bicycle race for the 100 miles professional championship
of the world came off on April 8, on the Lieoestershiro
Ground. Fourteen started, and the race was won by F.
Lees of Sheffield in 6 hours 49mms. 20 secs At Llllii .
bridge on April 10, George Steadman, of Drybeok,
won the Catch-hold Wrestling Championship Belt
for the third time in succession. It will bo n-
memberod that the trophy was given by Sir. J. 1).
Astley two years ago, and Steadman’s victory on
this occasion makes him its absolute possessor
The two defeats ot the Slmwmut Club scalier, Sylvie
Gookia, have had adishcartening effect upon his friencs
in Boston (U.S ), who confidently expected him to make
a reputation by his success abroad Whilst praetisiig
at Portland, Me., lately, Wallace Boas struck his boat
upon a piece of floating ice, and had great difficulty in
getting ashore ere she sank In the race between
Charles Gibson and W. Driver, on 17th April, over the
Thames Championship Course, for £6O, the former wen
on a foul. Driver led past Hammersmith, and looked
like winning easily, but ho collapsed when rough water
was encountered.
Punch’s new Albion Hotel, corner of Market
and Elizabeth streets, occupies the site of the first
grand-stand erected in Australia.
“ Do you plead guilty to the charge of drunken
ness ?” said the stem Dillon to Toby Tosspot. “ I
whine not," was the evasive reply. “That’s right.
Tosspot, wine not—you are discharged—stay I Wire
not, but if yon do wine, take my advice and pay a
visit to the establishment ofT. Vivian Bauch and Co ,
of t>3, Pitt-street." And his Worship handed the
grateful Toby a copy of the cash price list of wine .
ales, and spirits, sold by the firm named.
This is the city of Captain Cook,
Here is his statue, cast in bronze,
Hawk eyes set in a seaward look,
Pose as proud as the proudest Don s ;
One hand pointing as who should say,
Boys come out, come over the way,
I’m the party that’s gon to shout —
Boys, coma over, come on, come out.
We came here at the Captain’s eall,
Came here clad in the robes of Tyre ;
Thought we had come to a carnival,
And could get blind drunk to our hearts desire.
Vain thought! Disaster has trumped our tricks.
And the robes are ticketed ten-and-six;
So we sit in bed with a pallid nose.
And drown ear cares in the “ Sundry Shows.


PEPPER AND SALT.
On Queen’s Birthday, fifty-seven thousand five
hundred and three boys were letting off “crackers” all
over the city. But the lynx-eyed policeman was
around. Two offenders were caught red-handed and
marched off to the lock-up. One was a Chinaman, the
other a South-Sea Islander. The arresting constables
are a glory to the force, and a loss to the circus.
• • •
It was at a late VevSe down South. Beauty was
there, and chivalry thereabouts. Claw-hammer-coated
swells sailed up to the dais in a procession that looked
like an embodiment of the Dead March. Suddenly His
Excellency gave a convulsive start, and dropped the fat
hand of an ex-butcher, which he had been nursing in
his own aristocratic palm. A deadly pallor spread
over the lordly features. “Take me out,” ho
gasped to the chief-slab in waiting. The chief-slab took
him out. After an interval of about ten minutes,
during which the toad-eaters stared at each other with
faces as blank as that which was behind them, His
Excellency returned. His face, which had been pallid
before, was ghastly now. But the pride of race bore
him up, and he reared his haughty height like a nine-
pin that only falls to rise again. “ Gentlemen—
ex-onse-me” —he gargled out painfully—“ but a ter-i-blo
calamity has taken place in my front yard. The Master
of the Hen-coops went out for a jug of beer, and left the
gate open behind him. A mongrel belonging to
got in and killed two of the loveliest Brahmas that were
ever hatched. Under the circumstances, you will see
that it is impossible for me to continue the reception.
But if you like to come to the funeral to-morrow we will
mingle oar tears together," When His Excellency had
concluded that there was not a dry eye in the room, nor a
month that the owner thereof hadn’t to keep wedged
together with a front-tooth to prevent it from splitting
away round to the back of the head. Mourning to be
worn at all levees until further notice.
Sir John Robertson was among those who went
on board the Californian mail steamer to pay their
adieux to Mr. “Ted” Leo. It happened that just as
tfae boat containing the Knight of Clovelly and his
friends got alongside the steamer, another crowded
launch approached the vessel. “ Hulloa!” ejaculated
Free-eeleotion John, recognising several members of
the Hkrald staff, “what are you up to hero ?” “Oh,
we come to say good bye to a friend of ours—that’s
all." “Indeed,” quoth the acting Premier—“if your
friend’s not any bettor than you are it’o just as well
he’s leaving the country." Presently, one of The
Herald’s leader-writers enquired of the game-bird of
the Upper House “ why ho had such a down” on “ the
leading daily.” Replied the old gentleman, with a
w ink —“ You sec, my dear fellow, I’m getting to be a
(blank) old man now, and I’ll swear yon never met an
(adjective) old man who liked a (dashed) old woman.”
# # *
This is a true fable. We read in the Pbjssby.
tkkian the other day a goody-goody little yarn about
two boys, one a seller of melons and honest, the other
a vendor of fish and dishonest. Of course the honest
boy is accosted one day by a good old gentleman who
pats him on the head for telling the truth, and, finally,
with a sublime indifference to the logic of every-day-life,
takes bim into his office and ends by making him an
■i honoured partner of the firm." Equally of course the
dishonest boy is tapped on the shoulder one day ky a
policeman and yanked oflf to gaol. He goes from one
•rime to another till at last he ends his life upon the
gal lews. Now we are about tired of this Tommy and
Harry twaddle. Here is a true story of two boys whom
we knew ourselves. Both sold Evening Nkwsbs. One
never told a lie, the other lied all the time. When a
stranger would pass irresolutely upon a [crossing, f urn-
bling in his pocket for a penny, the honest boy would
come up to him and say, ** Here is the Evening News
sir. I deem it my duty, in deference to the lessons that
were taught to mo at my mother’s knee, to inform yon
that it is a very sorrily written and painfully unreliable
paper. The price is one penny.” The stranger would
invariably enquire whom ho thought he was ” chuokin
borak at," and, without waiting for a reply, would kick
him over the crossing. Then, the disingenons boy would
sail up and say: "Even’ Nooze, sir, suck-in edeeshnn.”
And when the stranger would ask what kind
of a paper it was, that boy would patter out,
«« Leedin' journal. Best oerkTation any paper
in the colonies. First-class littery staff employed.
There’s one on em goin into a pub now.’ ” And so ha
would soli a copy where the other boy couldn’t. There
is a deep psychological reason for this. Honesty is so
unusual in these days that it (looks dishonesty. So it
came to pass that the mendacious youth was taken in
hand by the manager of an insurance company one day
and was made a Life Insurance agent. From this he
rose to canvassing for the Holt Howl and patent
medicines. To one class of clients ho need to promise
life everlasting upon the golden shoak ; to the other,
perpetual existence upon this sinful earth. And so he
prospered and waxed exceeding big pumpkins in all
men’s eyes. And it came to pass that the sons of men
thought a deuce of a lot of him. The apex of earthly
felicity was reached when he was made a C.M.G. Now
an admiring public point him out as he passes down
the street and whisper softly; "There is a man
who was never known to play a square game or
make a single statement that wasn’t a lie. Virtue is its
own reward. Hallelujah I" The honest boy is now a
broken-down hodman humping bricks up a sixty-foot
ladder. Thij.is a true bill, gentlemen. Pass up the
revised edition.
* • *
Hers is a religions item . the authorship of which
is by, an irreverent, attributed to Archbishop Vaughan;
but as we see no mention of it in the Express, we in-
cline to the opinion that either Pastor Allen, Pastor
Chiniquy, or the editor of the Holt Howl must be re-
sponsible. Once upon a time there was a hole in the
floor of Heaven, so bt. Peter, who in Paradise acts as
I nspeotor of Pavements, went to the Devil with “ Bay
Satan, old man, you’ll have to mend this hole; your
sulphur fumes are coming through and turning the
wings of all our angels quite yellow." “ Mend it your-
self, and bed to you," replied the Evil One, lighting
his pipe with the end of his tail, and blowing away
the ashes of the tract which Peter had just
handed him. The result was a law-suit. The saint en-
tered an action against the old gentleman, who, on
the day that the case was set down for trial appeared
with all his attorneys and Q.C.'s, some of them reading
their own •• wholesome fun" contributions to Stdnet
Punch. The plaintiff, after a long delay, entered the
Court alone, evidently very tired and dejected. Satan
and his crew began to jibe and jeer. *• Are yon going
to conduct your own case ?” cynically [enquired Bed*
silk, Q.C., (who. being a relative of the judge, thought
he held the verdict safe). " No," replied Bt. Peter,
•it’s not that; but I've hunted all through Heaven ter
a month and I can’t find a lawyer.” Case postponed
until the Day of Judgment.
* * *
The Manning Eiver Times suggests that, as
there is no nightman at Taree, one of its readers should
go into the business. The Times puts it delicately
thus " A Little Fortune fob an Industrious Man 1
—Among the many occupations which mankind engage
in for the purpose of making an honest living, there is
one which hitherto has not engaged the attention of
those in this district who are looking ont for the means
of earning a livelihood. The one we allude to, that
of a nightman, is certainly not ot a very attractive
nature, but for all that it is very necessary for the
health of our towns and district that some ohe should
undertake to remove the accumulations of feted (sic)
matter, from the back premises ot our homes, which
renders the air pestiferous and very offensive. Should
some person bo induced to undertake this unpleasant
occupation, we are sure he would find it highly re-
munerative, as he could almost command his own price
for doing for others what very few would like to do
themselves." Wo can only account for the absence of
public spirit and enterprise in this direction by the fact
that most of those residents of Burdett's kingdom who
would have adorned theposition have been elevated to
beakdom, and are too drunk with glory to attend to the
prosaic concerns of life. By the way, we don’t under-
stand bow there can well be a lack of nightman in a
town which boasts of such a paper as the Tims. Here
is another gem from the provincial press—the Tass
Courier this time: —" The Fruit Garden.—ln parts
of the Yass district the plumb and cherry trees are now
in fall blossom. This is a most extraordinary circum-
stance, as they have never been known to blossom in
this district until August or September. This shows
how genial the temperature of the soil must be in which
these orchards are in which these trees are grown in.
We may also state that the native flowers are out, and
the fields present, even at present, a handsome appear,
anoe from them,” However, we don't want to hurt
the feelings of the Courier editor, who was evidently
born a dumb poet. " Koment is needles."
• • *
Thoso who now take two wives in a weak—
moment, will hereafter find 'their action known aa
Clarsony.
• « •
The foundation stone cf a manse was laid in
Campbelltown the other day. Copies of the Campbell-
town Herald and Stdnet Morning Herald were
buried beneath. They never bury The Bulletin on
these occasions. One reason is that it isn’t dead; the
other very probably that the Minister would get up in
the night and undermine the house in trying to dig up
the paper with a view to reading *• Woman Items.”
• • •
A correspondent writing of Professional Beauties,
gives us some reminiscences of the time when the First
Gentleman in Europe was flinging a loose leg. We
don’t remember this time ourselves, hut wo rise to the
occasion nevertheless. We are always doing this. Pto-
bably this will occur for the last time at the resurrec-
tion. However, here is the Horatian lyric wo have
made out of our correspondent’s hint: —
When Sir Henry Parkes visited the home ®f hia
sires an affecting scene occurred. He and the party
accompanying him stopped at a little waterhole and
Sir Henry, mastering his emotion, sobbed out, " There
is the moat wherein as a child I floated my boats of
paper.” And then everybedy leant on everybody else’s
shoulder and wept. This is a scene that mast not go
unsung. Ho I troubadour, thy harp !
The London Times informs its readers that in
the interior of the Australian continent “ a man can
eat as much earth as he likes for fis. or 10s. a square
mile." We know scores of Uuee-loafers who do it for
nothin?. Eating dirt is the name we bare fer it out
here.
• * *
The evil that men do lires after them. A wittol
on the Palmer has got the Northern Queensland
Chronicle to publish what he calls a “Kelly Followers*
War Song." This "song” is the best contribution te
the literature of Lunatic (Asylums we have ever seen
in these lands. The crack-brained bard after each
stanza rings in the following harrowing chorus ;—
" Farewell Dan and Ned Kelly,
Farewell Bjrue and Steve Hart too ;
With the poor your memory liveth,
Those who blame you are but few."
And further down he intimates that there will be a free
fight among the “ loved in heaven," who will bash each
other’s crowns in, and smash each other's harps in the
souffle for the first shake of the Kelly paws. " Heaven"
is distinctly mentioned. Bnt then to a man who lives
in Northern Queensland the other place has no terrors,
and therefore no existence. A vertebral column of
fact backs up the heroic sentiment of this Doric ode.
The same weird glamour of Palmer poetry hovers ar .und
it. Eeoutcz: —
" Thirty policemen did besiege you
In the hotel owned by Jones.
Taken was your gallant leader.
Nothing left of you but bones."
Here new is a man with the divine afflatus strong upon
him. We don’t know what the divine afflatus means, bnt
if it is anything like the horrors supervening a
“ drunk" on Queensland naphtha rum, he has it the
worst we ever saw.
Copy of a letter found on secretary of an
agricultural show when picked up in the gutter, at 1
a.ns.—'“ Bur,—Please putt ms down on youre list of
cattle for a bull."
OUR MORAL CODE.
It’s very hard for some to say
What constitutes a sin—
The lino that severs right from wrong’s
So very faint and thin.
But, with the Bible in our hands,
We’re always certain quite
To get the bulge on heathen coves
Who don't know wrong from right.
Though scores of sins yon can commit,
And scathless sneak away,
Alas I no glue on earth can mend
A broken Sabbath day.
It fractured Sabbaths you’d avoid,
And with the saints have part
Be sure you don’t on Sundays go
To look at works of art.
It is not wrong on Sunday morn
To mount the snorting tram
For such offence no power Supreme
Thy sinless soul will damn.
It isn’t wrong to take a trip
By boat to Manly pier
In search of liquors which in vain
Thy spirit oraveth here.
It is not wrong with spirits strong
To hold a damp seance.
But pictures are tabooed, each school—
Old, new, and * renaissance.”
For holy men, like Balaam’s ass,
Unclose their jaws and bray,
*' Thou shalt not look on works of art
ITpon the Sawbath day 1"
To wend thy way to Coegee Bay,
By 'bus or waggonette.
Need not to tenderest conscience cause
One pang of sad regret';
Our moral code lets people do,
On Sunday, what they like.
Except to gaze on paintings by
Velasquez or Vandyke.
It is not wrong to join the throng,
When reverend sots ordain
Themselves, and from a gin-case split
The air of the Domain:
Your conscience won’t inflict on you
A solitary prod,
For listening while fanatics take
In vain the name of God.
But, if you go, on Sabbath morn,
To look at works of art,
With liars in the Burning Lake
You’ll surely have yo«r part.—Amen.
THE LATE MR. J. A. FAIRFAX
(See page 10.)
MR. NATHAN COHEN, OF TAMWORTH.
(See page 10.)
The standard of beauty is altered,
The measure of loveliness changed
And the bellb of last season has faltered
And fall’n, and her friends are estranged.
If such changes come in n season,
What changes have come in the years
Since Plancus—no George—saw more reason
In the legs of the ladies of peers.
Than in all the gray heads of the college.
With their wisdom-cup drained to the dregs ;
And preferred to their classical knowledge.
To gaze on sweet Vestris’s legs!
We’ve changed the extremities this time.
And things in their right places put.
B This is less of a kick than a kiss-time.
Bo we love more the face than the foot.
Take your beauties round-armed, sluggish-passionod.
For their arms precious little we reek ;
While we can get two that are fashioned
Just the size to encircle our neck.
Parkes played at floating paper beats
And all such childish sleights
One time. And ever since as man
He’s lived on flying Kites.
Water for air is changed, that’s all.
One may dry up you know
But he need never lack a wind
As long as he can “ blow.”
Amen.


BRIEF MENTION.
A great di-stink-shun—O.M.C.
We Cantab victory always with ua.
The Foebeb Times says the Queen has been
presented to Parkes.
“ Mangling done here.” The tram has now
Scored 20 killed and 40 wonnded.
<■ £ rom a P a P or on the Queensland border r
Wanted a woman to wash iron and milk a cow."
The Forbes brass band played the Dead March
at a funeral. The corpse turned over and tried to get
Out.
The proprietor of the Moruya Examiner has
seen ill. Ho informs his readers that "we are be-
tween the sheets."
At the Quarter Sessions a constable swore to the
prisoner having used “ obs-eu ” language. It must
have been Hobson's choice !
The day fixed by the Impounding Act for sale
Of stock in pounds is Thursday, “ unless Christmas Day
or Good Friday fall upon a Thursday." See Gazette.
Scores of sly grog-shops are springing up all
°7 e V be Clty an “ Bul >nrbs. A drink, if not obtainable
at after 11 p.m., can be readily procured next
door.
The Cooma Express chronicles “one swell
drunk at the ball on Tuesday night." This shows a
great falling off when compared with the statistics of
previous balls in Cooma.
w You never knows when them rheumatics comes
on,’ said the head of cue of our first families last Sun-
day, as he ducked to rub his ankle while the collection-
plate was passing along the pew.
Thousands of bona-fide travellers go to Botany
and Coogee by the Government trams every Sunday in
quest of fresh air and—whisky. Thus revenue and the
grog-trade walk peacefully hand-in-hand.
« a Sydney religious paper is headed
A Thought for the Pews." We should have thought
that a coir-hair broom and three-pen’orth of vermin-
killer would have been more to the point.
There are a good many peo-
ple suffering from “ecchy-
mosis ” in Charters Towers.
Here civil servants are the
chief sufferers. " Ikey Moses "
Is the way they pronounce it,
however.
“ Ballen. May 25, at
Mount Nikelsgullen, Queens-
land, tho lady of F. T. Ballen,
Esq., of a daughter.” The lady 1
ahem I We wonder what’s be-
tome of his wife F
The Forbes and Parkes
Gazette speaks of a “ Mr.
Newuham, now in gaol." The
courtesy of the vieille regime pales
before this. We thank you for
that word, good Shy lock. In
halcyon years te ceme when we
have occasion to speak of a
deceased jurymen, we shall refer
to him as *' So-and-So, esquire,
now in Hell."
The death of Queen Anne
has oast a gloom over the entire
district of Kiama. At least, we
f resume it has, for the Kiama
kbbpendent mast have got
hold of the mournful intelligence
by this time. That enterprising
journal is always abreast of the
times. It devotes a column and
a half of space in its issue of 30th
May to a leader upon the case of
the murderer Lamson, which
winds up with the information
that “a respite was granted"
but that •’ wo shall have to wait
the arrival of the next mail be-
fore,” etc. And Lamson was
only hanged on the 28th of April.
The frog who wrote this leader—
author, also, of tho Queen Vie-
toria-and-whisky drivel—has not
had access to the papers of late
in consequence ef the floods
washing nim from his usna
haunt in the Botany dam.
A N.Z. man borrowed some
money from a friend, and got
married, and next week went
through the Court on money
borrowed from another friend.
A Townsville editor regrets
that “ we cannot boast of having
any aboriginals on our list of
subscribers." Presumably,then,
all the blaokfellows about Towns-
ville have been used up on the
literary staff of the paper.
A writer says: “ The abori-
ginals believe in a Great Spirit
and a Spiritual world." Nobody
ever doubted this. His name in
blaokfellow lingo is “ Wee
Gollee.” White men call him
James Hermessy.
It took four bishops, besides
the Archbishop of Canterbury,
to perform the marriage cere-
mony for Prince Leopold. It
would have taken forty to pre-
vent tho marriage, but they
would have been better occupied
than the four.
The “ honest pitch” is the euphuistio title by
which the most advanced stylo of swindling known on
’femora is designated. Here we apply the phrase to
hypocritical sermons and election speeches.
Sheriff Ogg knighted. Ogg, Gog, and Magog !
Knights are entitled to wear armour; therefore, by
logical association of ideas, we reach the conception of
an Ogg in armour. In fact a species of armadillo.
Magistrate (in a Cathedral city) : “ What’s the
charge, constable ?” Magistrate writes down, “ Stalin
a twelv fnt lather," and adds, " I must cummit ye. for
I’m ear to uu my dooty without feer, favir, or in-
flexion !’*
Sir ’Enery, inculcating the lessons of worthi-
ness upon the children of his native place, is reported
to have impressed upon the u that duty is the great
secret of success in life. 11 Duty-stamps " is probably
what ha said.
Badly wanted — A scale of remuneration for wit-
nesses who are summoned and kept day after day at the
Criminal Court until their oases come on; or, better
still, messengers to fetch witnesses just when they are
wanted. Some reform is absolutely necessary.
At Artnidale there is a man who couldn’t swallow
a pill, so used to get a friend to “ Are" them down his
throat a la marble play. A. opened his mouth, B. took
aim and one stuck in the throat. A. rose in wrath
and knuckled down on B’s nose, and there is te be law.
A paste-and-soissors article in the Presby-
terian states that ** when the artistic efforts of the
choir, or the cunning skill of the organist, divert the
mind from thoughts of God, the music becomes a
snare." There are no snares in the churches of this
city.
A self-satisfied daily contemporary contained
the following, lately—" In our issue this morning, will
be found all the intelligence"—then, after startling ns
with this seeming assertion, went on—respecting the
muffin and crumpet worry at Ashfleld, yesterday.
Tahl
Poetry is beginning to flourish in the out dis-
tricts. The humble shingle-splitter, as he plies bis art
in the depths of the forest primeval, catches a ray of
the divine afflatus from the roseate hues of the setting
sun ; the industrious cockatoo, as he wanders at early
morn in search ef his cows, hears a sort of runic rhyme
in the tinkling of the bells; and the soul of the sawyer
. is stirred within him with mysterious dmotions by the
whirr of tho break-down, and the play of tho sawdust in
the sunlight. By-and-bye we shall be able to supply 1
all Europe with poets.
A a the fowls are not laying, the lessee of a cer-
tain refreshment-room on the Western line has bought
np all spare egg-onpi. In which he dispenses coffee to
his unfortunate guests. Tho loan of these cups, half
full, with a miniature sandwich, can bo obtained for the
email sum of one shilling.
At Ballina, Erudite J.P. : ” What are you?”
Witness: " A taxidermist.” Hie worship, anxious to
air bis learning before the assembled yokels—" Ah, yea,
I see—you’re a collector of shells" Witness: "No,
indeed. I’m a stutter of birds." Beak: " Hum—yes—
ah —I see—call the next witness’ please."
It is a fact that prisoners under committal, and
presumedly innocent, are as badly treated as convicted
felons in our gaols. The nicest distinction drawn is
that which allows a oonfinee to smoke tobacco in a
pipe, but resolutely forbids bis consuming the con-
solatory weed in the shape of a cigar or cigarette.
One judge at Quarter Sessions asked a female
witness if she could read and write. She said she
could. His Honor then queried " Do you believe in
'eaven an’ 'ell P" The witness said she thought so,
but she had both read and written them differently
spelt 1 Now, gentle public, what’s His Honor’s name ?
It has just struck the scientific department of
the EvunNooze that “a man wearing dark clothes is
more liable to infection from oentagious disease ihnn
one who wears light-coloured garments." This, pro-
bably, accounts for the fact that the most sensible
portlen of tho staff use white drill pants all through the
winter,
A certain constable up north, who wanted to
secure a place for business purposes, said to the present
holder, a poor but respectable widow, “ You will not
be able to live here, you will be robbed and murdered
at night.” _ Replied she, " Why, what are you paid
for P" Exit constable, who, however, swears he’ll have
tho place somehow.
A majority of one at the Synod of Grafton de-
cided that " the pecuniary success of fayres and bazaars 1
was largely due to the use of means of excitement
which are tinged with evil.” That is the clerical way
of saying “ We’ve scooped the pool, thanks to Provi-
dence and the pretty girls with dimpled chins and white
wigs and nice arms and sloping shoulders and so on,
but we don’t believe in pool I ” Three members didn’t
vote—which is their way of saying, “ Let ua have the
dollars—hang the means! *'
From the Australasian.—” Constant Sub-
scriber : The nationality ef the child of .English parents
born in China is English." Undoubtedly this answer
disappointed the querist. He had evidently wagered
that when an English mother had a child ia China, it
tumbled iuto the world a pig-tailed, almond-eyed, and
yellow-hided cbiuky.
When, tho other evening, the police in a
Northern township rooted out au infamous den, one of
the persons assembled therein happened to bo a very
pious churchwarden, who has been lecturing lately on
religions subjects. Whereupon there was a flutter
among the great unpaid, only two of whom could be
found to sit on the Bench to try the case.
Our own Jenkins of the Echo authoritatively
states :• “ At the Court of Her Majesty Queen Victoria
there is a scrupulous and very proper exclusion of all
parties, male or female, of ‘damaged reputation.’’*
Considering the reputation of some who have lately
been presented there, it would seem as if the character
examiner were either dead or in want of money.
The cemetery business is played out up at
Blackall, and tho treasurer advertises that subscribers
to the fund can have their money back on application.
Nobody in that delightful spot now appears to care for
dying, and the irreverent grandson calmly watches
the sleek cow as she complacently chews the cud ou
the grave of his grandfather in the weed-grown city of
the dead.
The Herald remarks that it is difficult to see
how ignorant and unthinking people can be impressed
with a proper respect for oar Courts, when they are
so small and inconvenient. Oh, Granny, Granny 1
make clean the inside of the platter. Remove from the
land|those infamous mockeries of justice which you pass
by unheeded ere you polish up tho walls of tho whited
sepulchre.
Here is another instance of the ways that are
dark practised by tho back-block squatter. He had
unfortunately mistaken a neighbour's bullock for his
own, and in his subsequent little ‘‘trouble," the hide
was the most damning evidence. But the “ office ’’ was
given to the faithful half-caste in black's lingo, and
while the constable was kindly invited to have some
refreshment over the way, the hide was changed. Con-
viotion was thought certain, when, to the surprise of
all, the prisoner boldly asked for the hide to be pro-
id need. It bore his own brand! Acquitted; and thus
0 ® lns °f the father averted by the children, even
the first generation of half-breds.
Wlien a Chinese bank fails, all the officers have
their heads cut off and flung into a corner with the
assets; and it is 500 years since there was a bank failure
i“ that There it is a matter of heads or
tails ; here it is a question of cash or smash. We
don t cut off the heads of defaulting bankers in this
country, because it would be of no use# Their vitality
doesn’t centre in that region. .
Turnut was the birth-place of Tom O’Mara, and
therefore a country editor is proud to learn Tom is get-
ting on at the bar. “ His legal acumen is very acute."
You must say something about your fellow-townsmen.
We gladly add our might towards making Tom’s for-
tune, and state here that his back-bone is very vertebral
hi* brain has a cranial peculiarity, and his vision com-
mensurates with his eyesight.
We regret to learn that science is not progress-
ing among the aboriginals. On Queen’s Birthday (or
as the niggers call it “ Blangey day,") a rural scientist
endeavoured to indnee some dusky C.M.G’s. to talk
through a telephone, but without success. One ’possum-
rugged knight, exclaimed in the liquid (rum) idiom ef
his native woods : —" Baal like it. Pello jump out of
him hole—oatebum ear—knooknm out teeth."
In Victoria, when a man is very dry and penni-
less, he goes into a railway refreshment reom and says
he is an inspector, and has a nip all round. One of
these gentlemen recently tasted toe well, for the caterer
saw his little game, and had a bottle ready for him.
The caterer didn’t prosecute; he was amply repaid by
chasing him up the street and saying, " I say, you’d
better take this wick. Kerosene’s no good without a
wick.”
At a recent election in Tasmania the writ as per
usual, was made returnable to the Speaker by a certain
date. It has not been returned, but the member has.
It seems that the returning officer had a young pet
goat, which was accidentally locked up in his study.
It came to pass that after a day’s seclusion nanny
hungered, and at nightfall when the returning officer
came home he found oaprioomus getting outside the
writ, after having literally devoured a lot of miscel-
laneous correspondence. As the document had to be
returned, according to law, the unhappy official tele-
graphed to the authorities asking if ho would forward
tho goat, or would hs have a post-mortem examination
held on the spot. Further particulars on application.
A Land-office clerk started off one morning last
week for his office with a light heart and a heavy lunoh
in his coat pocket. At eleven o’clock it was discovered
at home that his sister had buttered his bread with
some rat-poison paste. The time that the uncle took to
got to the office to apprise the boy is not given, but it
is said to be the fastest on record for the distance.
Moral to Government clerks : Don’t eat your lunch till
one o’clock. There’s the very devil in this joke.
The enorgetio Matthew Burnett once ” con-
verted" the notorious William Hicks. The scene is
described by an eye-witness as having been " awfully
solemn.” Hicks got down on his knees, wept, sobbed,
clenched his hands, wailed that he was a sinner, but
had now found peace, while simple Matthew blessed
him effusively and a young lacy sang a hymn in a
pathetic voice. We are hereby tempted to ask what
is the value of " conversion "—if it has any value ?
A Townsville editor published a story about an
alligator having bitten off a horse’s jaw. Concerning
this, a rival contemporary says :—“ The owner of the
horse should endeavour to persuade the editor of tho
Standard to go out and bathe in the lagoon. The alli-
gator might then foolishly attempt to bite off the
editor’s head. In that case the editor would suffer
little or no injury, and the alligator’s ponderous jaws
would be sufficiently smashed to render him thoroughly
harmless.”
Parramatta was bound to have him. We have
no show those times. It’s no use our keeping goiug
this rag once a week ; we must primt daily. Everybody
knows we have struggled hard to make our paper read-
able, and have followed up that in siokuess and in
prison; and now, to be forestalled in Parramatta I Is
there no Providence? Is Justice a dream? They’ve
got a ghost up there in a haunted cottage at the corner
of Farrell and Grose streets. What’s the good of him
in a one-horse town like that F And we’ve been hunger-
ing for him, and would have done him justice. It was
not to be.
When the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery fell in
on the occasion of the last levde, a certain major was
seated on a rather frisky four-year-old chestnut, which,
unfortunately, proved too much for the gallant officer,
and speedily threw him, whereat there was of course
much consternation amongst the rank and file. However,
one rather amusing customer who bails fiom near Bow
BeUs, remarked: “ Glad, Fred, tho dear old majaw
isn’t hurt j but say, old man, why was he like the
winner of the Derby two year?" (” Stop that talking
in the ranks 1") (Sotfo voce): " Give it up." " Because
he was Shotover."
When the wet season set in in tho Never Never
country this year, a wondrous multitude of mosquitos a
infested the district, and grew to an enormous size,
giving rise to many wondrous yarns. Talking tho
matter over around the camp-fire one night, a Warrego
native of tweuty-four summers narrated the following
true story : “I was returning from the Pitury country
three weeks ago, and one night, after we had been
asUep about twe hours, the mosquitos got very vicious.
All of a sadden we heard a row like the tooting of tho
last trump, when up comes a mosquito as big as a
kangaroo-dog, and fastens on to Bogan Jack, and before
we could take in the situation and give Jack a help, ho
was a perfect bag of bones, and falls out of his clothes
through the small end of his pants. The ekeetur tries
to folio* him, bnfc was too biy, and only gets jammed
in the suit. It fitted him ttrst-rate, so after ho had
given ns an elegant solo on his trumpet, he picked up
Bogan’s revolver, politely thanked him for the delicate
and (plentiful repast, said he was going to look up
Sknthorpe and the relies, nhd cleared.
“ iEatheticism,” writes a correspondent, “is
spreading alarmingly In Melbourne. It is now, for
instance, the lingo of the newspaper-vending Arabs.
They are becoming * too too; * and no wonder, when ono
considers how the insipid mania was introduced into
Victoria, and by whom. To trace back to the first
appearance of tho mental infirmity in our midst, wo
have to seek entree to a house in a fashionable suburb.
Tho dwellers therein were once a ballet-girl and the
descendant of a long line of Hebraic pawnbrokers. Now
she is the centre of attraction to all who lisp with their
lips, ogle with their eyes, wash their hands imagina-
tively, and last, but not least, can flatter and fawn for
tho sake of a good dinner and old wine. He, on tho
other hand, is the slave who waits mpon the fair goddess
who, by exercising a large variety of captivating arts,
has raised him and herself into a social sphere which
she, in her wildest dreams of ballet-dancing days, and
ho, in tho moments of his sublimoat ambition behind
the usurious counter, could never have anticipated.
From this circle the craze was not long in spreading
towards the street arab, as any who know that water mutt
find its level can imagine. " Sic transit gloria mundi ”
Butfmore of this anon.
Tho local thatjpapor says a
codfish caught lately in the Mao-
intyre River at Goondiwindi had
two opossums in its stomach.
We are glad to learn that
Jehovah is still providing for
the editor. The information
that a codfish is amphibious,
and climbs trees, is also very
pleasing to us, and a valuable
contribution to Natural His-
torv.
Tho Sydney Morning
Herald informed its readers,
the other day, in its law reports,
that a defaulting dentist's assis-
tant was charged with stealing
“17 cwt. of gold filings which
were found secreted in his vest
pocket.” We wouldn’t mind
walking right inside that vest
pocket, and filing oat with as
much dust as we could carry.
And we can't help wondering
what sized stays that dentist’s
assistant would require if ho
masqueraded in female attire.
A ratepayer in a Southern
town recently asked a candidate
for municipal honours: “If
elected, will jou use your best
endeavours to get a good road
constructed past your own
door ? ” "I should strongly
support such a measure," re-
plied the ambitious spontor;
“ and if I could not command
sufficient influence in the Conn-
oil to secure that, there would
be little hope of my doing any
good for your part of the town,
gentlemen.” Head of the poll.
Irishman (loq.): ” Plaze
your Honor, what time does the
train go to Gympie ? ” Station
Master 11 Oh, at 6.65, from
yonder platform." *‘ Thank
your Honor very much, but
plaze what toime’s that ?|"
"Why, five minutes to seven."
" And what toimo is it now ? "
"It is 5 30.” “And excuse me
sorr, what toime is that f “
" Half-past five, of course."
Exit Irishman. In a short time
he returns, and, with a more
insinuating air than ever, again
addresses the Station Master:
“ Plaze your Honor, what toimo
does the train go for Gympie ?"
" Why, I told yen only ten
minutes ago." ” Ah, yes. sorr,
bwt then, I axed for my brother."
At an inquest lately held in
Bathurst ou a man accidentally
shot, the jury added a rider to
their verdict, recommending
that the gun he forthwith de-
stroyed I A bull or'horse which
kills a man is allowed to live,
but this rabid shooting iron,
which any humanitarian might
have tamed, is doomed to de-
struction. Isn’t it high time
that the educational and intell-
ectual standard of jurymen of
all kinds was relaxed and
lowered a little ?
Isn t it just about time our statutes wore re-
vised or boiled down ? Last Thursday “ Patrick
Byrnss, Arthur Jennings, Charles Kelly, unci Edward
™ B or were charged with that they did, at Ea»d-
W t ’ i , rau( h shift, oosenage, circumvention, deceit;,
unlawful device, a»d ill-praotioe in playing with coins,
pieces of metal, and instruments of gaming, to wit. at a
certain game called ‘headingthem,' with John 'Jhotras
Lees unlawfully did win, obtain, and acquire to them-
selves a large sum of money, to wit, the turn of £2O, of
the moneys of the said John Thomas Lee?, to the groat
damage of the said John Thomas Lees, t® the evil
example of all others in the like ca-e offending, ai d
the peace of Our lady the Quten, her crown,
and dignity ’ That rigmarole would be much simp i-
if Messrs. Byrnes and Co. wore inertly charged
wl ’h "heading ’em." John Thomas Lnts wasn't dam-
aged in tho least, Our Lady the Qiem was no more
upset by the transaction than Pontius Pilate was, and
» e? the charge was read over to the prisoners, tome
of them had a vague idea that they woo arre.ti d tor
the murders of Burke i nd Lord Caver dish in Ireland.
However, Levten pulled them through, but that fright-
ful charge still haunts them.
Henniker Heaton, at a recent meeting of the
Colonial Institute, alluded to that fossilized organ of
The Colonies and India, as “ an excellent
little journal." Each is ueof The Coloniss and India
contains 16 ptges, chiefly devoted to reporting tho im.
beetle utterances of dough-heaaed absentees (lite Heu-
niker himself) at that corrobhoree of idiocrac;, the
Colonial Instituts’s monthly meeting. In last iseu,, for
instance, we And half-a-column of drivel, which Houni-
ker, with his nose turned towards a C.M.G .shij, had
written — or got somebody else to write out for ai.-a.
Henniker is reported, among other things, to have
frothed off the following majestic period ;—• I rise, sir,
with all due regard for the force of words, to express my
conviction that there is no hope of Federation in my
lifetime." Whereupon his fellow-idiots appear to
have chorused “Hear, hear," All this is shriukingly
many. The Colonies and such rage, which purport to
represent us in London, are the means by whidh dis-
gusting toadies and political nightmen, with the educa-
tion of cobblers and the breeding of chimney-sweeps,
crane and wriggle their slimy carcases iuto coats with
stars and bands and ribbons. Perhaps Henniker is
right after all. It isn’t likely that any colony would
federate with N.B.W. so long as the man whose “ con.
victiou it is that there ie no hope of federation in his
lifetime " hails from . . ,
“DECORATED;" OR, “THE SAME GAME!"
HE WON and HE LOST!


It is announced that a commissioner has left
Malta bound for Australia, with a view to arranging
for the promotion of Maltese emigration to these
colonies. Of course the swelling of the population by
the addition of Malt-ese will be distinctly in the
Brewers' interest.
How different! That great statesman’s (Lord
Beaconsfield) favourite flower was a humble primrose.
However, that other groat statesman. Sir ’Enry, has
mor© bulky pretensions: bis favourit© flower la tho
cauliflower “an’ gimme It well done with tomato
sauce hand tripe, please." This par. came from a
waiter at the “ club,” who know* his way about when
’Enry *9 “wolfing.” Apropos to the fact that people
have been wearing primroses to commem,orate the death
of poor Dizzy, the “ Language of Flowers” saye that
the primrose is the floral representative of incon-
stancy. Lord Beaconsfield was undoubtedly a man of
genius, and the floral representative of genius is a plane-
tree. If, therefore, his admirers wish to pay a floral
compliment to him, they should each wear a plane-tree
in their button-holes.
Looking at the critique of that happily-chris-
tened paper, the D.T., on Madame Simonsen’s Nonna,
the wild enthusiasm of the writer appears to be the
outcome of something more than terrestial; the
spiritual is suggested. Madame had "ovation after
ovation ” when she came on 1 The solution appears to
come in when the scribe climaxes about “her liquid
notes.” For our own part, we’ve never yet managed
to get bevond the liquid sixpence. The utter denseness
of tho D.T. people was never so forcibly illustrated
than by tho paper’s somewhat Rabelaisian double cii-
tendre respecting tho manner in which a certain letter
is habitually accentuated by a member ot tho company.
At this double the city yelled—or, rather, it would have
yelled had it seen the D.T.
Old Squarotoes is a squatter not fifty miles from
Junes, and is up to a trick or two. Ho made his appear-
ance recently at tho head station in attire that made his
hired girl and better-half both shriek with alarm. He
had his legs shoved through the sleeves of his shirt, and
his body bare but (or his coat, while an awkward-looking
bundle bulged out on each side of tho saddle in front of
him. His mis'ress gazed uponhtr lofd with some alarm,
but he soon put matters right “ Eli, wuman, but 1 raw
twa pair lambs fit to dee i’ the paddock; and I nidna
ken hoo to breng ’em alang, so I juist pulled aff ma
breeks, and adjuisted them as a pack-saddle, while I
made the shirt do duty lor the troosers. There's twa
mair lambs saved this season.” He had tied the trouser
bottoms, and dumped a lamb in each leg. Gospel.
Anyone who has been reckless enough to doubt
that this is an ago of progress and enlightenment will
regret hi j want of knowledge when he reads that la a
certain Victorian township the following scene oc-
ccured ufc the Jait municipal electionsA.ffor the
XcmalitjroC electing a Mvror had been gone throu* h
in due form t*y the o unoil’ort* it was resolved, on the
motion of ono of their body, who ror Teneas the
memory of a certain custom which once obtained in his
native town, tint a Mayor to preside at convivial
gatherings should b 1 elected us wod as the ordinary
chief. The test of this election was to oens'st srlely of
a trial of tho drinking powers of the individual. and In
order to arrive at i lair decision tha festive representa-
tives met iu solemn conclave and dr nk gl-*> lor (lass,
till at last ene vlone was loft to fill kh. flowing bowl
and sing a seductive refrain ou his way homewards.
Two years before ho died, Bari Beaconsfield re-
ceived the following application ths hsngmsnship;
_"Rt. Hon hie Mr. Disraeli Baaeonsßeld, Premier,
Dowling-stroet, Most reverent bir,—Hearin as aw Mr.
Marwood is a goin to giv np his appointment. I wri'os
asking for tho job. I believes X shall give eatiirfaoii m
to the queen and all theroyle Family. I believes In
the long drop, also in exclnrii'g of tho pres?, and the
black fl <g oiattng. I stands 6 feet?, and am a local
preacher in the now Connexion which chows I am of an
excellent character. I attended exactions end!
late years. Lord Wilton and hiv missus knows me for
I lived near;his stables at Leister. I leal sure Ich 11
give satisfaction to your oneiable ouse, likewise svve
much money to thenation.by r.otchargn g aifso much,
and remain your umble and ohdeed servant, Patric
Mahoni." It will be observed that Mr. Mahony, Use
Sir Jumis Marlin and fir Arthur Paimor, believes in
the “excluding of the provs ’’
The far northern editors are still “at if.”
Borne agricultural admirer of the editor of tho Cook-
town H krai,d has sent buna 15in pumpkin, which, a
rival soribe asserts, will enable him to ** brew a browst
ot that neoonriouH pumpklnado whicb we suggest ns
the Cooktown editor's mont approermta beverage. If
some other thonghiful subscrincr will now forward him
a big bundle ot thistles, he will have a really good
supply pf fold,” &!,&0., and again; “ There wav a
whirlwind at Cooktown th< olh r day which blew «a/
several roofs, audals > oairiol oil thoCooktowu Hkralu
editor’s solitary shirt. He Pad hung this useful
garment out to dry, nu 1 ro 1i el to b<id unconscious of
any atmospheric diatureauce* In the morning it wn
gone, ana the untort mat" journalist i J now sitting
dressed in ft paper collar preparing his quarterly
accounts so ns to replace tho lost garment. I his shows
the danger of relying upon one shirt."
Dear old Sir William Manning has been again on
the war-path. In * recent case, ho sagely observed
(according to tfco Herald) that “hi* ixperionce had
shown that it was a very common thing for people who
had selections to try and put them, out of the reach of
justice when judgnie.it was, pronounced against them,
and when such transactions wore brought under the
notice of the Court, it was his duty to put a, stop to
them.” Now, this worthy judge is Chancellor of that
learned body, the Sydney University, and one may pre-
same that ho speaks English when he speaks at all. It
this presumption ba not libellous, perhaps the learned
gentleman will inform us to what antecedent the word
them (italicised above) refers. Or. Bidham would hive
flogged him to a certainty if he had made such a muddle
of syntax But then, with equal certainty, Mir William
would have c.rtlfUd for co-ts against th-; ur. Iu - erne
cases it's a wise relative that knows its own antecedent.
Apropos to tho above decision, what does the judge
imply by putting selections “ out ot the reach of justice”
(if that bo his meaning) “when judgmo. ts have been
obtained ? ” It is delightful to know that this can bo
done, though we strongly suspect that Mr. Co m mb-
sioncr Delfell would take a diffr rent view of the situation.
Perhaps, however, bif William was referring to Sir
'Enery.
The Scientific American says if a bottle of
the oil of pennyroyal is Ml unoon-ed in a room at;
night, not a mosquito or blood-sucker will be found
there in the morning.
To what purpose has a man road Plato, and
imbibed ihn morals of Socrates, or acquired t <> grand
sermiity of Goethe, if the ha >y will porrist inputting
sausage and soap and oggJ into his boots ?
The support given to genuine music in Sydney
is so hollow and ephemeral that the loSetH on the thr,e
last subscription contorts aiveu by one • f our societies
were £5O, £lO, and £6O. No wonder that musical en-
thusiasts become disheartened, and societies dissolve
or “ go into recess.’*
It is told as a wonderful fact that Piron, the
French dramatist, once wrote the shortest latter ou
record. A friend wrote; "Eo rut:”—" I go into the
oountr* j” and Pirou replied ; “ I ” —Latin for " Go."
Why, Plain's uiaiiteric .pi, tie has been vied by one
litterateur sad one politician in Sydney (the latter par-
ticularly) ad nauseam.
A Queensland plant, known as Didims pilosus,
or “ native parsnip,” has been forwarded to Baron yon
Mueller charged wit h poisoning three cows and 100 pigs
in one night. Tim poisonous pi inoiple in it is supposed
to be a volatile alkaloid, and Baron von Mueller, with
he assistance of the Victorian Government analyst,
intends ascertaining its therapeutic value.
The late Mr. John A. Fairfax.
Tub untimely decease, after an exceedingly short
ness, of the promising young man whoso portrait T
give in this issue, has struck sorrow into the hearts
many persons outside his family circle. ‘‘Jack’’
Fairfax was a favourite with all who knew him. His
winning ways, the earnest interest with which he
addressed himself to whatsvar subject attracted his
attention, hfs pleasant manners, and enterprising it
all contributed to attract to him the affacti. and
esteem of his acquaintance. Mr. John A. Fairfax was
the head of the family of which the late John Fairfax,
of the Stdret Mornino Hxrald, wbr the founder. He
was the only son of Mr Oharies Fairfax, eldest sou of
tbe late Mr. John Fairfax The late Mr. Charles Fair-
fax wri, like his son the subject of this slight memoir,
snatched away bffore his race seemed halt rnn, being
killed by a fall from his horse in the prime of hia man-
hood, a misfortune which not only deprived hla young
son erf paternal guidance, tut resulted in his oxmnsion
from the succession to that share in tbs Stdnet
Morn ino Herald which would otherwise have
been his. Mr. John A. Fairfax inherited the energetic
disposition which characterised his grandfather
and father. Whatever he touched, ho entered upon
with vigour and determination. He was an ardent,
oarsman and yaohter, an accomplished musician, and
had artistic tastes which found expression in a fine
collection accumulated during the European tour from
which he had just returned when he fell a victim to
typhoid. But "Jack” Fairfax had the higher merits
of being a young man of refined character and sterling
self-respect. While he scorned the trammels of conven-
tionality, his course of life was such that his friends
had never'oocasion to seek excuses, as so often happens
with regard to young men, in such terms as “ a little
wild," or “ will steady down." Mr. Fairfax was a son
of whom any mother might have felt proud, svd for
whom no sister ever had occasion to blush. Frank,
cordial, independent, he wa* too manly to associate with
coarse or vicious companions. Tho remembrance of
his excellent qualities may, during the first pain re-
sultant from his decease, seem to sharpen the sorrow;
but as time softens tho wound, such recollections
cannot, but afford a mebmcholy balm to the hearts of
those he leaves behind him.
Mr. Nathan Cohen, Mayor of Tamworth.
There is a large, wealthy, and prosperous business
township away northward on the Liverpool Plains,
which but a few years ago was a rude settlement. '1 am-
worth, the capital of those rich pastoral and agricul-
tural plains, ranks next to Newcastle, Maitland, and
Bathurst, though it has ever had the heaviest handicap
of all o«r inland towns. It stands on the P«el River, SI
miles of the frontage towhieh isstill heldlocked against
the plough, by tbe Peal Eiter Company, to the serious
Injury of agricultural enterprise. In many other wars
also has this Imperial company retarded the progress of
the place, so that to speak of Tamworth as populous
and prosperous is to tell of rare energy and stability
on the part of the people. And what is here briefly
written of Mr. Nathan Cohen. Mayor of Tamworth,
may be written of fully a hundred other business men.
Mr Cohen, who is a brot her of Mr Henry Cohen, till
recently Judge of the Metropolitan District Court, was
born at Port Macquarie in 1842. After completing his
education at Gonlbnrn, under the Rev. Mr. Patterson,
he adopted mercantile pursuits and remained in Sydney
for a time. Twenty-four years ago he went to Tara-
worth, and soon became a partner in one of the
largest general businesses in the town. He
retired from Jthe firm in 1871, and starts d a
Urge stoek and station agency, which has done nm ih
good to the district. Previously, Maitland and Sydrev
were the only markets, but Messrs Nathan Cohen and
Co. brought about a change, and their business has
been tho moans of a very Isrge circulation of money to
the aupport of settlors whose history was but a con-
tinnous strugvle for existence. Four years ago, Mr.
Cohen wns msde a magistrate, and about the same time
he was elected an alderman. Ho is now mayor—a
yesition cf eorae honour at Tamworth, one of the best
regulated pr-vnoial municipalities in the colony. Mr,
Cohen has t-ken an active interest, in all pcbiic move-
ments, and has been frequently asked to stand for the
electorate. A few works ago, Mr. Oohrn wen the chief
prize in the Bag*t Art Uunion, valued at £2500. Our
photo is by Boske, of th* Arcade.
Mr. Arthur W. Fittes.
Mr Arthur W. Fittes, the Victorian rowing man,
lint appeared In public at tho Geelong Regatta of 1879,
when he polled in the Hawthorne Eight, his crew
being twice unsuccessful. On the following Saturday,
however, they won the Melnou-ne Junior Eight-owed
race. Tbe following year, Mr Fittes rowed second for
the Albert Park maidsn scalls at Ballarat; but, at
Melbourne, afterwards beat bis opponent, Mr. Bennett,
for n £4O trophy. In 1881, Mr. Fittes won the Junior
Sculls and the Challenge Sculling race, at Melbourn
but. in 1882, hud to submit to defeat ngain in tir
Challenge Sculls. Mr Fittes is a swimmer
especially in clothes—and has carried off many swi j.
ming prizes. His latest rowing victory is tho K -• 1 g
Champagne Cup.
Mr. Lawrence Foley.
Mn. Lawrence Folet, the champion mu.-;cular Chris-
tian —or pugilist, as he i» termed in the religious
p tpers—is a native of New South Wales, and was born
at the Turon River in 1852 He ha« proved himself to
be a prodigy of muscle, courage, and physical science,
and has to-day an unbeaten reiord of over fifty battles.
L-iriy came ou this planet at the time of the gold rush,
aud tho experiences of his earliest dajs, added to the
birthright of a splendid physique, no doubt innurod
him to tho many struggles he ban since govie through
with such success. At the time of his first ring encounter,
Foley wae foreman for Mr. Rhode.’, at tho Redferp
Railway Bridge, in which capacity he proved hloieeH
both capable and rallayie. Hl* Dr** imp or teat on-
counter, jnst referred to, was with Sandy Ross, eleven
roars ago, when a hatt’e of 140 rounds ensued, lasting
2h ours 40 minutes, Fcley being the winner. The
result was not satisfactory to Ross’s backers, and
another match wns made for £2OO. It came off at Port
Hacking, in the presence of numerous spectators ; but
Foley, now being in trim, defeated Ross in twenty,
e'ght minutes and four fiercely fought rounds. Larry's
principal record is ns follows : —Ho defeated Corny,
Campbell, Hughes, Bon Woods, Hogan, Bill John-
ion, Tho Coriheaver, Briefly, Sandy Ross, F. Jack-
son, Chur ey Kelly, Sandy Ross, and Abo Hmk* n. Fred.
Jackson was a. heavy weighty 14 stone, but
Foliy deflated b m in twenty four ruinu es Tho t ffair
took place at Gulgong, and was for £1(0. Larry’s
greatest and last battle was with Abo Hickmi, the
champion light-weight of England—a man who had been
the hero of over a hundred batth s is t he three isles, and
who was never beaten till he met Foley. The match
was for £lOOO and the Championship of Australia, and
deve'opod into an Intercolonial atfai’ - , as well aa a
National one, over £20,0G0 being staked on the event—
several well known bishops even had hi id more than n
trifle. The utmost difficulty waa thrown iu the way of
the combatants, and they wme bound over to keep the
peace in Victoria in a total sum of £BOJO. Tbe border
line proved convenient, aud the Kittle came off on the
N.H W. side eleven miles from Ecbuca. It was Ihe
bast met era English battle, and far and away snr' rior
to anything previously witnessed in Australia. Fol y
was backed by that, genuine sportsman, IVIr. George Ki.i,
aud other well-known Hydney gentlemen, and bo wus
trained by Jem Maoa and ‘I hompson Hicken bad the
a tention.s of Perry, nu b ujiisb colourid scientist. T 1 a
conflict lasted lb. 10ra , during which time sixteeu
rounds were fought. Hicken showed well for six or
seven rounds, bnt he appeared to bo at all times at the
mercy o( his antagonist, and eventually succumbed, a
thoroughly beaten man. Foley came out of the ring
v i'.hout tbe i-lightest physiognomical discolouration
Hickea’s gameuess earned for him a punishment which
nearly proved fa al. After this affair, Foley, whose
fighting weight is a trifle over frit., was matched against
any light-weight in the world up to £3OOO aside, but
there was never any response from eituer Enyiaud or
America Foley is a married man, and has a family.
He has retired altogether from tho ring, and now con-
ducts n first-oKaa hotel in York-street. having in the
landlord, Mr. Goo’ga Hill, a staunch friend. Foley is a
m*n of a ohverfal and quiet disposition, atd nss many
friends oven among people who dislike prize fighting,
on principle. He now instructs daily in the art of box-
ing, practised as the most healthful exercise, and is
prepared, we believe, to enter into a eontract to instruct
recjgiiiztd Synodical representatives at a very reason-
able discount on ruling flgurea. Photo, by Biiefeldt.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Evening News says that “ Gunpowder is
the true liberator of the masses: its discovery was the
dawn of theirfreodom and the death-knell of aristocratic
pretention and extortion." This reminds us that we
nave long had in our heads an article on “ Dynamite as
a Civlliser.” Dynamite will in Europe overthrow one
tyrannous despotism, and give Russia a Parliament.
Th, S.A. Government refused to make any
money grant for the purchase of seed-wheat to dis-
tressed selectors, bat nave just managed to spend the
amount asked for in champagne, at the opening Of the
Great Northern Railway We are assured that the
Loan Fund has been debited with some thousands to
cover the cost of this champagne. There will be “flze
gratis how that Parliament has met.
Sir Arthur Gordon’s opening of the N.Z. Par-
liament was just as funny as last year. When the doors
were opened, he entered, with slow and stately step,
his train borne by a page, bowing right and left. To
add bo the ridiculousness of the scene, there was a loud
and persistent knocking at the door, which some
Irreverent Individual audibly attributed to a cabby
wanting his (are, while another suggested that it was
tho gubernatorial washerwoman, anxious on account of
tho rumour that Sir Arthur was about to proceed to
Fiji.
Mr. Berry can jump “ Jina Crow ” with any
Colonial politician going. He finds great difficulty in
depreeiating the roacate budget delivered by Sir Bryan
O’Leghlen, so he coolly appropriates the blnshmg
honours of “peace, progress, and prosperity, to his
ewn Governm9.it of “broken heads and houses in
flames." These are Mr. Graham Berry’* sentiments i
—“ I claim that the prosperous condition of the colony
is a proof, not simply of wise Government now, but of
wise Government in the past, and is a Justification of
the policy pursued by the Liberal Party during the past
four years."
The East Bonrke (V.) election will probably be
a clean run (or Mr. Robert Harper, who receives the
support of tho Francis party as suooe-sor t* Ramsay,
and also the Ministerial shoulder. W. J. LoUb has
decided to return to his oheeee-vats, and Mr. M Gregor
has agreed that commission agency is better than run-
ning for Parliament just now. Mr. M’Oregor was once
a schoolmaster, but forsook tuition (or politics, and
subsequently went In for land and com mission agency.
Sir Archibald Miohle has announced that professional
business In Tasmania atpreaent debars him from con-
testing Bast Boutke. The candidates nominated were
W. Gray, manufacturer, Flbrroy s R- Harper, merchant,
Melbourne; R. Bennett, gentleman. Melbourne; and
George Hill, licensed victualler, Melbourne. Xhe last
n&mad has since retired in favour of Harper.
Judging by the tenor of the cablegrams, the
following Imaginary conversation would pretty accu-
rately represent the tone of Franca and England with
reference to Egypt. The Western Powers (loq.)
“These Egyptians are going in for Coustntional
Government 1 Hang it, they may refuse to pay the
money we lent that old scamp, the ex-Khedive, on the
understanding that he could tqueeae it out of them.
Let’s protest 1" Tho Egyptians: “Mind jour own
bntiness, will you. Nice aposUo ef Constitutionalism
you are, Johnny Bull A pretty specimen ot Republican
spirit you furnish, J ohnny Crapaud 1 W e only want to
secure national needom.” Western Powers i ohnt
np, and stop it, or we’ll make yon. Hi 1 scad along
seme ironclads. That’s the style. These Egyptians
are small potatoes." (A little later) : “Han* it, those
Egyptian fellows have commenced to throw np earth-
works facing our ironclads. Here, yen Sultan fellow,
order them to leave off. D’ye think wo are going to
rltk,a fight with a fellow who puts his hands up P Ton
tie his hands, snd then we’ll show J ott b°w we «an
box" Tho Sultan (blandly) i “Ail right. (Winks at
tho Egyptians, and pretends to tie ’em np.)
Mr. Longraore, Victorian M.P., delights im
aething more than balanoing himself ea the apex of a
popular tumult. As Victoria le pretty q«iet now, he
wants to import the Irish trouble Into local politics.
He has recently made a remarkable speech m
defence of the celebrated address Kp and other* signed
on behalf ef the Grattan Memorial Committee. He
denounced the Honee of Lords as a landlord 8 House,
which had seized tho people’s territory, and divided it
amongst themselves. Referring to Her Majesty, the
throne, he said, ought to be founded on righteousness,
a remark which the Speaker, who, during the speech,
was several times appealed to by members indignant at
Mr. Longmore’s vigorous language, ruled out of •f“ 8r -
Mr. Longmore then characterized the Chnreh of Eng-
land In Ireland as a band of robbers, and then added,
“ God forgive ma for calling snoh a body a Church at
all." The other M.P.’s who signed the address were
M-ssrs. J, Q. Daily, O’Callaghan, Brophy, and Toohoy.
Sir John O’Shanassy took a sensible and temperate
stand. He said he had urged tho Grattan Memorial
Committee to confine themselves to the demonstration,
and leave the address alone. Mis advice to his fellow.
Irishmen was to do their duty as colonists, and to stand
aloof from matters in which they could exorcise no
practical power. The whole oratorical emeute arose
from the action of Mr. Patterson, in asking Sir Bryan
O’Loghlen what action he intended to take in the mat-
ter. Sir Bryan’s reply was indifferently evasive. Mr.
Bent accused Mr. Patterson of trying to trap Sir Bryan
into a Protestant pitfall, and urged that Sir John
O’Shanassy—of course frem the opposite party motive
—was guilty of aiding and abetting in this plot with an
eye to political eventualities. It is well-known that
Mr. Pait«rson thinks he could play a powerful trump
by working up a Protestant cry, while the Catholic
party, heaoed by the Melbourne Advocate, also appears
anger for a burning religions shivoo. Patterson, not
to lose any ohanoo he bad made for himself, placed a
definite resolution before the House, the adoption of
which would have been tantamount to an opinion that
Parliament considered some of its members guilty of
high treason. Mia Francis, recovered from his Illness,
set Get wte maiper by boßomble compromise. He
pointed out that the signers had afflred their sftgnaimras
to the document In question as Citizens and not as
Ms.P. Ho moved tho previous question, and gave
notice of a motion covering his views. Ho defeated
Patterson by a large majority.
Mr. Joseph Cowan, tho distinguished English
Radical who represents Newcastle in the House of
Commons, thus replied to an invitation to attend a
meeting called to thank the Government for the release
of Mr. Parnell, and to ask for the discharge of all the
Irtsn political prisoners :—“ 26 Onslow-square, South
Kensington, S W., April 13, 1882. Dear tiir, —I have
no time and little taste t er the work you invite me to
engage in. The Irish Executive deserve no thanks for
allowing Mr. Parnell to attend his nephew’s funeral.
The Government deserve more censnre than they will
receive for imprisoning an honourable political oppo-
nent, not only without trial, but without permitting
him an opportunity either of defence or explanation.
You tell me yours is to be a meeting of ‘genuine’
Radicals. I am glad to hear it. I thought that poli-
tical genus was extinct. Tho original English Radicals
were a school of politicians who went to the root of
things and (ought for principle irrespective of faction.
They were in general sympathy with tho Liberals,
but they were in advance of and independent of
the n. The old Radical's, too, were eole stlo They
supported the Conservatives when they thought they
were right, and they opposed the Liberals when they
behaved them to be wrong. The orthodox latter-day
Radicals are thorough-paced partisans, and often il-
liberal and intolerant men. No ono draws with
more docility iu party traces than the men who have
unjustifiably appropriated the name that Cartwright,
Cochrane, Gobbott, Biirdett, Grote, Duncombo, and
their confreres made an honour and a power in the
laud. The present Government entered office with the
most profuse professions of liberality. They claimed to
be the especial champions of nationality and indepen-
dence. Yet they nave, with the cordial approval of
their supporters, set np in Ireland as uncontrolled and
oentromad adespotismas exists!in Europe. Hundreds
of respected and pnbiio-spirlted men have been im-
prisoned, without charge; or Inquiry, upon lettres d»
cachet issued at the suggestion of spies, and often at the
prompting of vindictiveness. What would the cau-
cuses ha ve done, had the Tories held such a number
ot untried men in gaol Y What would they have said if
the Tories had attempted to stifle free speoeh t Open-
ing JUazzini’e letters ruined Sir James Graham politi-
cally. Opening Mr. Dillon’s letters by our modern
Granamisers has only added another claim to party
confidence. I cannot reconcile Radicalism, as I have
always understood it, with such detestable doings. If
this is Radicalism, I will have neither art uor part with
it.—Yours truly,
JOSEPH COWAK."
WOMAN ITEMS.
Prinoe Leopold wat’married to Princess Helena
of Waldeok in Bt. George’s Chapel. Windsor, cm April
27. The spectacle was very magnificent; so was the
banquet afterwards, tbe gold tahle-plate being valued
at two millions sterling. The bride was dignified; the
Prince nervous.
A distinguished litterateur, many years after
his election to the London Reform Club, received the
following naive confidence from a fellow member: —
“ When yon were np for election here, I came down
especially to vote against you. I was sent to do eo by
my wife, who was dissatisfied with the ending of your
novel."
According to the S, A. Register, a highly pro-
per paper bo it noted, “ the normal waist of a woman
ha* a circumference ef 28 to 29 inches. Tight lacing
will reduce the circumference to 20 inches The
measurement of dress-makers’ lay figures now varies
from Slto 21 inches." Somebody muit have told the
editor this.
A Gawler (S.A.) eompo. recently made his
editor report the opening of a new line of railway
thus t “ The scenery was beautiful, and there was not
much ‘osculation;' what little there was being the
reverse of unpleasant.” Before that editor oonld ex-
plain to the enraged wife of his bosom that he wrote
“ oscillation," he had lost a tuft of red hair.
A lady from the country was trying on a
pair of boots in a George street shop, the other day.
After she had vainly experimented with all the place
contained, including a largo case of No. It’#, tbe shop-
man remarked, with an injured air—“ Well, madam,
I’d advise job to go home, put on a pair of thin stock-
ings, and then eome back and try on the eese.”
More love and jealousy up Wiloannia way.
John Dickinson committed for trial for shooting at
Mrs. Carswell. She was a girl on a station, and, ns
often happens, had two lovers. One was good-looking,
the other not. She (and this alto often happens)
accepted a lot of valuable present* from the plain ‘Over,
and married the good-looking one. Hence, the shoot-
ing business. If John Dickinson had been less fond and
mere philosophic, he would not be in trouble now; but
when a young woman's good-looking and plump, philo-
sophy don’t work, somehow.
When P. T. Barnum (who is coming to Australia
retired from the menagerie business for the tenth time,
he sold out his stock. One of tho lots was a ferocious
tiger. A grave and melanoholy-looking stranger, clad
in deep mourning, want on steadily bidding for this
terrible ereatnro. After the sale, Barnum went up to
the stranger, and asked him if he wore “in the mena-
Serle line " The purchaser heaved a sigh, and replied ;
Well, I’ll tell yen right here how that thing stand*.
You see, I was a married man. And my wife, she died
last week. And I miss her. So I’ve bought that there
tiger.” This is a very poor story, after all. Out here,
when a man is in a similar fix, he doesn’t go around
buying up the Zoological Gardens. He simp)y_ invites
his mother-in-law to come and stay with him. An
average mother-in-law Is to an average tiger as naphtha
whisky is to teaflght tonio-wator.
The other night, about 10 o’clock, says a home
write*, the Princess of Wales wanted Albert Edward
for something or other. He wasn't to be found. So
she sent an equerry over to tho Marlborough Club for
him. After a fruitless search there, as well as at the
“Guards,” and two or three other of the swellest clubs,
his Royal Highness was discovered quietly smoking a
cigarette with a friend or two in Mrs. Langtry’s dress-
ing-room at the Haymarket Theatre. Of course, the
most essential changes ot toilette for the third act of
“Ours” had been made before the men were lot in. The
third act of the ptav Is in the Crimea during the war.
It so happened that the faces ef the equerry and the
eall-boy appeared at the together. “ Prom this
moment, ulr,’’ exclaimed Mrs. Langtry, assuming a
tragle air, “ enr paths lie in opposite directions 1 lam
going te the war, while yon are ‘ ordered home
There isn’t raaeh in it. It’s true, but It’s as good as
867£8-6iffbthß of thosB on© hears, fttid it shows th© free-
dom of speech the lady is allowed with her future
sovofeign.
Some might imagine that the marriage of the
great Sarah would be romantic. Nothing could be
mere presale. M. Aristide Damala is a fine-looking
young man of about $0; but if any special act capti-
vated the divine Sarah, it was ono which, with mo«t
women, would have made him ridiculous—being thrown
from his horse In public. One morning, at Rome,
where she wan acting, Mdlle. Bernhardt went to s fox-
hunt, and was observed to talk with great) animation
te one of the hunters mounted on a hired horse. A
few n-inutes afterwards be was unseated in Jumping
the first fence. It was Aristide Damala, and Mdlle,
Bernhardt picked him up and took him in her Carriage
back to Rome. On the 30th March she telegraphed
from Naples to her solicitor in London to arrange for
her marriage. At first he bethought him of All Fools'
Day, as well he might, but telegrams worded with
unmistakable earnestness poured in, and soon con-
vinced him that the groat Sarah was not joking. She
soon followed her telegrams, and before 12 o’clock one
fine Spring morning, Miss Bernhardt became Mrs.
Damala in St. Andrew’s Church, London. What is
remarkable is the fact that M. Damala who, four days
previously, had been acting at Naples, managed to
make tho clergyman believe ho had been resident iu
the parish of St. Andrew’s (or a fortnight, as required
by the license.
In a London paper Phoebe writes to Flo on the
Hygienic Dress Exhibition, on which no profane mala
eye was allowed to gaze. The rooms were crushed, and
more than half the display was of stays, “ the wickedest
waist-pinohing little black silk corsets; tho sliffest
long white stays, with gores of elastic, to let you pull
in tight and get breath now and then ; a whole counter
of absurd things called Qirton stay*, nttarly un*haped,
without a gore or gusset, and pulled In by a thick belt
(a good five inches on to yonr waist, yon know), and
tfee funniest thing was that the oiri who made them
was proud ef them I" Theu stortings are deserlbed,
with a place lor every toe, and dresses made like the
old Greek ones, whoso special fsatnre was that “ the
larger your waist the better yon look in them." Tho
advocates, or “ missionaries ” of the hygienic dress
were handsome Lady Harberton and stylish Mrs.
Taylor, who donned the divided drosses for visitors to
see how they looked. Phoebe next unbosoms her mind
to Flo in this delicious little outbreak : “My dear, a
divided dress is nothing else but —oh, ray love !
actually secret trousers! I blush to write it, but it’s the
troth, and there’s no harm in them, for they can’t be
seen. ‘ What harm if they could be seen ?’ says Lady
Harberton. * Why shouldn’t women have logs ?’ How.
ever, I should prefer to look line other people, all in one
piece ; and so I told her."
• • •
Fanny Parnell, poetess and land leaguer, is a
brunette, with a dignified carriage, and a grnyo noble
faee Miss Wedde, of Prussia, is 16 years old, 8 feet
high, and weighs 280 lbs. What a splendid mother-in-
law she’ll make I Queen Victoria has 308 millions of
subjects, rules over an area of nine millions of square
miles, and bar kingdom has a revenue ef 18ir millions
sterling London has been remarkable lately f©r a
baby-naming mania. It has been tho fashion to name
children Jumbo, in honour of the great elephant lately
at th' g Zoo ..Marriages of native widows are
becoming quite common in India. Hitherto
the unwritten social code required that a widow
should remain in seclusion all her life
Mrs Parnell (the mother of 0. 8. P.) speculates largely
ou the New York Stock Exchange. She appears to have
the purse ot a Rothschild Eighty seamstresses
struck work in a Paris establishment, and a policeman
had to ba stationed outside the premises to prevent tbe
girls on strike from scratching the other girls as they
went to work A German story reaches us. Fiau
Homebody used to have a man visit her almost daily
when her husband was out. Suspecting intrigue, tbe
servant listened at the keyhole. “ Kiss me, dear,” said
a voice, and another responded “Ohl you Don Juan."
Next time tho visitor came, the servant carefully
managed that the husband should know. He burst iu
and found —a bird-fancier I His pretty wife had pur-
chased a parrot, and wns teaching it a few amorous
phrases, as a pleasant birthday surprise for him. It's
very German, isn’t It P Cruelty t« animals—pshaw !
What can exceed the barbarity of compelling very
young girls to go to the piano at six these cold mom-
lags, aud practice the scales with their benumbed
fingers in flrolesß schoolrooms ? Yet it is done every
day in fashionable seminaries Another three-wived
New Zealander has been bowled out—... The proprietor
of a Wellington (N.Z j hotel has been fined SOs. tor
employing a barmaid alter 11 o’clock at night.
VI ET ARMIS.
There’s a charming young lassie in Wagga,
(No soft road I’m certain could bog her,)
Thirteen inches in sand
Is the length of the brand
Of the foot of this damsel in Wagga.
Tall is this maiden in Wagga ;
(Her dad it is said was a ‘‘slogger. )
Six feet I declare
Is this Lassie so fair,
This long-logged lily of Wagga.
When she marries, no husband will flog her,
(This “ chip of tho old block ” in Wagga ;)
If she “ lets out her right"
He’ll be knocked out of sight
By this long-limbed young lady in Wagga.


CITY CATERING COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET. S '
A NEW CATE KING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and prao
tioal experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B. —Since opening, on 27th April, IRBI, wo have
sncoessfelly catered THE LARGEST, MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE undertakings that
have taken place here to the present time, viz.:—
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor's Rail, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT nnd GEORGE,
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officers of the Detached
Squadron.
Masonic Rail, English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Constitution, ’at Town Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgew Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinner d la
Russe, for 60, in Government Palace Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—re
Queen's Statue Demonstration—under VERT SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to bo
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR K.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay Picnic luncheon and|refrtshmeut, for
100, under VERY SHOUT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Town Hall.
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Ball," at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windoyer, in our now
Banquet Boom,
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Boom.
Dinner d la Russe at St. Paul's College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Russe to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams,
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 600 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of 11 Hudson
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock Works,’’ at Gran,
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkesbury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons' and Eosreshment Bars at Randwick
Races, in Grandstand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary's Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palaoe.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, I easts, &c„ &o.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let sut on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, &#. A 9.,
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
x'ustry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, &*.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting ut on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
CHAS. K. SMITH
(Lute of the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co.},
IIiXAMB.
THE NEWSLETTER.
1238 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon !
Stoll they corns j
Four tons of cotton hare been produced and
shipped at Oooktown, by Hop, Wah, & Co.
Bryant, alias Comte de Beaumont, forged David
name to a cheque; the Count arrested.
Arthur Sieber, who shot at a Melbourne bar-
CasM and then tried to kill himself, is now a raving
Watio.
There seems still to bo some gold about the old
Mountains. One Grenfell storekeeper bought
1010 oz. last quarter.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
month of May. 1882. Week days (22), 6,384; Sundays
(3), 3,799. Total. 10,183.
It is something to speak about when six pican-
®>nies in one aboriginal family can be found. Such
0. family- presented themselves before the police mngis-
fccate at Singleton to receive the annual gilt of blankets.
’The Times entirely ignores Sir Henry Parkes.
."bo Echo thereupon calls the Times “that sleepy
journal.” What name would our spitfire little con-
temporary call the S. M. Herald, if it let itself out,
after this ?
At Rillington, England, recently, a girl of nine
years and eight months old gave birth to a male child,
The child weighed at birth seven and a half pounds,
und the doctor who attended the girl says her infant is
apparently healthy.
Jemmy, the Kanaka who clove the skull of
Jerry Worth, the Bundaborg bailiff, and his wife, has
been hanged. Jemmy didn't like it, so he marred the
solemnity of the ceremony by getting up a prize-fight
with the executioner. However, ho didn’t know the
ropes, and Jack Ketch won, in two minutes.
That certain outrages should be committed by
very old ineu on very young children is horrible, but it
Is true. In some of these oases, however, as recent
records show, the juries recommend the offenders to
mercy. Tet for a public journal to give'utteramce of the
facts simply means Darlinghurst—to those who tell the
truth.
Memorial obelisk to John Batman unveiled at
the old Melbourne cemetery on Saturday. Committee
intend asking Government for grants of land to Bat-
man’s descendants as compensation for the loss of land
bought by him from the niggers. 01d|John purchased
nearly all Port Phillip from the aboriginal kings for a
mere song.
We see that the Union reef, Cape River, is to
be taken in hand by a £lOO,OOO company. From the
reef, which at 100 ft. is 3ft. thick, have been taken a
couple of bags of the richest specimens ever seen in
Towttsville. some residents whereof took the claim up
ns abandoned ground, and spent £2OOO or £3OOO in
developing it.
A great deal of capital is being invested—
apparently—in the gold-bearing reefs of Temora and its
neighbourhood. It would be Interesting to learn whether
the profits ara to derived from Che shares or the develop-
ment of the reefs themselves. Failing the latter, which
does not appear to he very vigorously prosoouted, there
j a third kind of sale open—but we axe not purchasers.
On the Clarence River, 25,000 acres are under
cultivation, 9000 being under sugar-cane. Last year,
15,000 gallons wine were made, and 60001 b. arrowroot
grown. The Eamornie Meat Preserving Company
exports annually over 40,000 oases, 1081 b. each, of pre-
served meat. There are over 40 sugar mills (of which
3 belong to the Colonial Sugar Company) on the river.
There are folly one hundred cases for trial at
the current Sydney Quarter Sessions, many of them
such that a fine of five shillings and a scowl from John
Dillon would bo ample punishment; yet the law permits
these people to put the country to extraordinary
expense, and work Crown Prosecutor, Judge and
Clerk of the Peace almost to death in worrying up
(rules,
. Henry Stroombandt, a German sailor, recently
discovered he was a prophet, but he seems to have bean
slightly misinformed as to the mode of carrying on the
business. His first act was to murder the first mate of
the brigantine Eachol Cohen, because he had once read
in “Britain’s Bulwark” that a previous prophet had onee
killed a man for an insult. That Book has had a deal
to answer for of late.
A feeble attempt was lately made by the shop
assistants of Forbes to institute the early closing
system. After the first week, some of the storekeepers
got sick of seeing their ready-money customers sail
about in delightful peace, and thereupon magnanim-
ously flung open their doors regardless of their pledgee
to the movement. The others are gradually following
suit. Advance Forbes !
Twenty-five Lizard Island darkies (the gentle-
men who caused the death of Mrs. Watson), started in
four eanoes to raid Fuller and Watson’s station. The
kanakas in charge saw them coming, and palled out to
sea. The aboriginals, thinking that fight, not flight,
was meant, turned tail, and made as good time as
Hanlan’s best record. Other mainland aboriginals stole
one boat and cut another adrift from the Peveril.
The Inverell mail robber is having high times of
it, and apparently defying the police. He Waited Tory-
burn station, and soldiered one of Mr. Blaxland’s
thoroughbred horses. He next stuck up a Chinaman's
hut near Tingha, and walked off with more plunder.
He gives his name as Eiley. A few days ago Constable
Lundi’s party came upon his camp, and captured two
horses and some rations, but he has again vanished.
He is well armed.
This picture and that. The Chief Justice of
New Zealand has sentenced a man to two years’ im-
Srisonmont lor ripping his wife’s abdomen open with a
utcher’s knife; medical skill alone saved the woman’s
life. At about the same time, Judge Gillies tried a
Maori on a charge of having, in o drunken brawl, killed
another man. The Maori was found guilty of man-
slaughter and strongly recommended to mercy. Judge
Gillies sentenced him to penal servitude for life.
A supposed lunatic was recently sent in from
Raveusbourne station to the lock-up at Blaokall, the
capital of the Barooo country. Ho wasn’t • ■ mad,” how-
ever, but delirious with brain fever. Dr. Webb, the
only local medico, was absent froth Blaokall, and the
unfortunote man died under the luxurious protection
of the Queensland Government. Wo could do without
a good many of the kill-or-nure profession in Sydney,
but the country districts ate evidently under-stocked.
The Horberton Tin Co., Wild River N.Q., have
sold their mining interests at the Great Western to a
Melbourne syndicate, for the splendid sum of £30,000
“cash,” and, we understand, one-half, in fully paid-up
shares, of the capital of the new company, which is
said to bo £150,000. In that case the H. T. Co. will
have sold for £105,000, represented by cash and paid up
scrip, as stated above. A Melbourne company, repre-
sented by Mr. Stnbley have bought O’Hra and party’s
new claim at Thompson’s Creek for £lO,OOO.
John William Alexander, licensee of the Illa-
warca Hotel, Shelley-street, summoned Constables
Harford and Henderson, for obtaining drinks from him
on Sunday. April 16, under the pretence of being bona
fide travellers. ’Che complainant's tale was that tbe
men knocked him up, were disguised as civilians,
affirmed they were travellers, were supplied with liquor,
drank it and paid for it. Defendants admitted entering
the hotel, bnt denied the remaining statements. The
Bench refused to give credence to plaintiff’s story, but
dismissed the case.
It will soon be possible to convey quite a signifi-
cant meaning by saying a man is a schoolmaster. Those
high-toned gentlemen, Hayes, Flomer, and Co., ought
certainly to be introduced to Mr. Phillips, of Eangi-
tiki, N.Z., whom they would find a kindred spirit.
Phillips is also a schoolmaster, and bis proclivities
show him to be a kind of cross between Plomer and
Brigham Young. Some years ago, ha married in Auck-
land, a lady, having at the time a wife in England. He
was in charge of throe schools successively, and while
master at Mangare, seduced a young lady of good
family, and afterwards discarded her with two children.
Then came his fourth victim, one of his own pupils, 14
years of age. This unfortunate girl he married, but as
he had already either one or two wives, the ceremony
c mid scarcely make much difference. Arrest has now
stopped his career.
The D.N. Akgus advocates the shooting of
marauding kanakas, and urges that henceforth no black
labour should be allowed in Queensland. This is'sheer
bunkum. South Sea niggers, when in the is'ands, are
a unless lot, and are fast being made hypocrites of by
proselytising parsons who neglect their work of con-
verting the white heathen. Par better that Xongans
and Samoa boys should be cutting cane and hoeing
rews up North, than that they should be murdering
‘traders,** and paalm-sisging among oocoa-nnt
trees. The whites who employ these woolly-headed
black larrikins should be made to look after them.
What public opinion is in the Far North must
be gauged by the fact that the Palmer Chronicle pub-
lishes "A Kelly Follower’s War Song,” in which the
late Mr. Edward Kelly, C.M Q., Byrne, Hart, and Co.
figure as heroes who have died in pursuit of some noble
purpose. The talented poet, who hopes that Kelly’s
old companions will “meet him with the loved in
Heaven,** mast be told that the meeting will take place
in an entirely opposite direction, in a region where
melted iron tastes like ice cream, and where the ther-
mometor, when two hundred million degrees above
boiling point, Fahrenheit, is still below zero.
A cranky Chinaman In Ballarat recently slipped
unobserved Into a Masonic lodge-room, took up his
seat in the Master’s chair, and went to sleep serenely
blissful, leaving his bamboo pole and trade-baskets on
the floor. When the lodge assembled he was discovered.
His baskets and polo reached ground through the
upper-floor window, while his “bread-basket" kissed
the stairs coming down owing to a sudden propulsion
from behind and a letting go of the queue. He took
the cue and left. He is the only Chinaman in the
world who knows exactly where a man has to be
branded when he becomes a Freemason.
A correspondent writes that at Tinpha (where,
by the way, a testimonial was the other day presented
by the local Mongolians to an officer of police),
Chinese gambling has long been rampant, and the
celestials encourage European yonths to participate in
it. For ten days, very recently, the putrid carcase of a
horse sickened the inhabitants and wayfarers of the
township as it lay emitting pestilential vapors but a
yards from the police barracks. The bed of Cope’s
Creek, whence -the inhabitants obtain water for
domestic uses, is polluted by the deposits from Chinese
stables, piggeries, &o. Our correspondent enquires
“ Of what use is the Towns Police Act
Professor Wezzerkoff, a celebrated Russian
chemist, has informed a meeting of Irishmen in New
York that he knows a secret in the manufacture of ex-
plosives that would enable him at a cost of 150 dollars
to annihilate an English war vessel that had cost
11,000,000 dollars, and was coated with armour 22 inches
in thickness. He conld go into .London, Paris, Berlin,
Constantinople, or St. Petersburg with 20 men, none of
them burdened with anything more bulky than an
ordinary satchel, and in 21 hours would destroy the city.
He could for a few thousand dollars stretch a double
line of dynamite torpedoes before every harbour in
Ireland, and so make a worse than impossible barrier
for every English ship. He could stand in an ontskirt
of Constantinople, in a space one-fourth the size of the
room In which he was speaking, and with means now at
his command destroy the entire city. The Professor
insisted that the means he had named were legitimate
weapons for Irishmen against their English tyrants.
The meeting, being composed of Irishmen, at once re-
solved to subscribe towards the cost of the proposed
friendly suggestion for the “ burning of London." This
is tall talk.
Mrs. Ah Yow, the free-loving white maiden,
whose wandering princess adventures we recently
chronicled, and who has now sent her yellow-skinned
husband to glory with the contents of a shot-gun, is
generally regarded up Hargraves way as a half-witted
girl. She told senior-constable O’Brien that Ah Vow
had been very good to her before marriage, but very
cross since. This statement, every married
woman will admit, bears the impress of truth.
She also stated that the Chinaman threatened
to knife her mother, and it was to save the
latter’s life that she took up the gun and shot her hus-
band dead. This was the first time she had ever fired
olf a gun in her life, and she avows that she doesn’t
care how long she is kept in gaol as long as she is not
hanged. The blood-vessels of the neck wore severed by
the shot. Mrs. Davis, the mother, also accuses the
deceased of having threatened to stab her, but no knife
was found near the spot where he fell. Mrs. Ah Yow
stands committed for wilful murder. At Avisford
Bridge, on the way to Mudgee gaol, a crowd of women
hooted the prisoner, who retorted by shaking her fist
and grinning defiance. The Chinese at Meroo subse-
quently burnt down a hut old man Davis was erecting.
A brother of the deceased Celestial has applied for
letters of administration in the estate.
There are now 1500 men at the Wild Eiyer tin
mines, whicn were discovered by Mr J. V. Mulligan on
6th June, 1875. Gold was first found on the Palmer by
Mp. Warner, of Hann’s “Princess Charlotte Biy Ex-
ploring Expedition," and hi s reward was a pound of
tobaooo from the hands of his leader, presented on the
spot. Hann’s stock of tobaooo was very low just then,
and a whole pound of the article was esteemed, under
the circumstances, more than the decoration by the
Great Emperor, in person, of the Cross of the Legion
of Honour, would have been. Mulligan’s reward for
the discovery of the Wild River tin country was much
.on a par with Warner's. In the case of the Palmer, a
short narrow yellow streak on Hanu’s map, and the
words “ gold found here," brought Mulligan and party
from the Etheridge to that river, following the very lino
taken by Hann, camp by camp—to open a field, which
in one year produced 350,000 ounces of gold, of the
value of £1,400,000 sterling. It was, however, not
until four years after the discovery of tin on the Wild
River that Newell and party, after a lot of hard work,
eventually traced the surface ore to the outcrop of the
present great Northern lode, pieces from which, on
assay, gave 71 per cent, tin, and which has since yielded
at least £lOOO worth of ore monthly. The quantity of
ore that can be raised from the claim by putting on
additional hands is almost illimitable.
At last Dubbo Sessions, Sammy Peacock, an
aboriginal whose physical peculiarities are as remark-
able as his adventures, took a seat in the dock. Sammy
is a mountain of sable-flesh, being fat enough to be
Lord Mayor of London, black enoagh to be capable of
being whitened by being streaked with charcoal, and
ugly enough to give King Cetewayo five points in fifty.
Peacock is, notwithstanding his ugliness, or perhaps on
that account, a heroic personage in pugilistic circles,
and in his own estimation is as great a man as Jem
Mace. This gigantic black, who is said to bo capable of
foiling an ox with a blow and of pulverizing a Drome-
dary with a back-hander, has fought many a good white
man and come off victorious. In fact, his career has
been a motley mixture of prize-fights and penal servi-
tude. Years ago, when he was little better than a
pioaninny, he received five years on Cockatoo for
sharing in a cattle-stealing exploit. There he became
the pupil of black Perry, who taught him how to
grind stones better with his knuckles than an amateur
navvy does with his hammer. When Peacock emerged
from Cookatoo,|he heard that an old gaol-pal of his was
in trouble for horse-stealing, and that the stolen
animals were in the police paudock. Peacock re-stole
them, and the man was acquitted through the absence
of the horses; but soon afterwards Peacock was
captured with them, and again sent up. On his release
he fought a few battles for money, lived like a fighting-
cook, and then stole a horse, for which he again
received three years’ seclusion. On his release, in 1879,
he induced a respectable female-help at a six-penny
cook-shop to elope )vith him to Dubbo. where he
claimed the title of King of Dubbo, and made the
blacks on the Macquarie pay homage to his Queen.
The royal couple got six months each under the Vag.,
and then their common lot in life was sundered. Since
then Peacock has been living like an ordinary black-
fellow, but last week he got nine months at Dubbo for
being on a white man’s premises with intent to commit
a felony, and for committing an aggravated assault on
a woman. Such is an abridged history of the career of
on Australian blackfellow.
If it were possible for China, the most lightly
taxed country in the world (4a. per head per year) to
acquire a military system as complete a* tha, of the
Germans the available forces would numbsr 2)-m : Uions
of fighting men. A similar calculation would (five .'ndia
15-nullions. Should the two countries in that cat ego
to war what a time for army contractors 1
This is what Sir Henry would call a hon dit.
« They say ” that the Government is paying the wh. -le
of the expenses of Mies Parlies* journey to England
with the Premier, in consideration of services reudere 1.
Miss Partes is a good linguist. She acts as interpret) ir
to the Great Mogul, and tolls the minor European
kings what sort of an Emperor hex father is.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Mr. Tait, is ill.
Bronchial affection, aggravated by the poisonous at-
mosphere whieh pervades Lambeth Palase.
Dr. Dunne, Roman Catholic Bishop of Brisbane,
to he consecrated at Bt. Stephen’s Cathedral in that
city, on June 18th. Archbishop Vaughan, assisted by
the Bishops of Bathurst, Maitland, Goulburn, Ami-
dale and Rockhampton, will officiate.
There are now four bishoprics vacant in Aus-
tralasia. These are not the sort of pricks Saul was
cautioned about kicking against. Instances where
labourers in the vineyard have kicked against bishoprics
have been, fo quote the gifted Ooolagong correspondent
of tho Cowea Fee* Peebs. about os rare as“aagelio
peregrinations to our mundane sphere.”
Rev. Mr. Savage, of Petersham, says that in
ten years tho populations of Rfdfern, Balmain, and
Newtown have each increased 10.000, and in that time
no increase of churoh accommodation has been pro-
vided, and, it anything, the attendance at the churches
is worse than ever I And yet he argues we are more
religious than men were two years ago. —Q E.D.
A pious journal in this city says of a suicide by
a Chinese Jeper that that act damns his soul to ail
eternity. We lean to tho opinion that the ocoupant of
the groat White Throne has a method not dictated by
mud-headed semi-clerical journalism, and at tho last
day would rather stand up to receive tho sentence for
suicide than meet tho reward of blasphemous presump-
tion.
Bishop Pearson, of Newcastle, declare that ho
will not marry either a “divorce" or a “divorces."
How he purposes discovering whether a client has been
through the “ fiery ordeal" is not mentioned. In some
oases, the “bakedmeats" (as Hamlet would say, if he
were not dead) for the marriage are re-warmed for the
divorce festivities, and Buchanan treads swift on the
heels of Venus,
A touchingly sad case is that lately reported
from Tasmania. The Anglican Bishop there recently
threw over his flock (with the customary blessing) for
the purpose of accepting a desirable incumbency in the
old country; bat his ecclesiastical boss, the late Dr.
Barker, died before receiving tho resignation which was
en route. A difficulty is consequently being experienced
in filling tho episcopal throne in the tight little island.
The Rev. Mr. Benvie has been pitching into the
Bishop of Newcastle in the Maitland Mercury for
seeming to justify tha Moorhouse party r« Prayer for
rain. We take a sentence or two from Mr. Beuvie’s
letter. Thus :—“ If we knew as accurately the day and
the hour when showers should descend as we know (or
rather believe) the moment when the sun shall rise to-
morrow, we would never pray for rain. We know—
from past experience—the mind of tho Divine Being
with regard to tho sun. Our experience of the times
and seasons of rain is wholly different. When our ex-
perience of both is equal, then we may compare tho
other." Mr. Benvie furnishes in tne above the
happiest illustration wo have met with of the aphorism
that “Ignorance is tho parent of superstition.” Again,
he continues: —“No one will deny ’that the rain is re-
gulated b,y law. Will anyone tell me what is not regu-
lated by law P Law reigns everywhere—in heaven
above, and on earth beneath. Even in tho region of
human will we find law. To say that we should not
pray for rain because it is regulated by law (said law
being the expression of the Divine mind), is tanta-
mount to saying that we shall never bujjt. I know not
on what principle we can exclude jrr%er for rain, be-
cause it is regulated by law, and Ist exclude prayer
wherever law reigns, and that is in every direction.
Why should a man pray for success in any undertak-
ing P It is all a matter of antecedents and consequents,
as firmly knit together as is possible to the inseparable.
Why should a man pray for any deliverance whatever f
It is all a question of cause and effects. On the same
principle, we should never pray for anyone, mor. indeed,
for anything whatever." This is thoroughly luotd and
logical. More clergymen like Mr. Benvie are sadly
wanted.
Thomas Walker, the spiritualist and “ trance
speaker," lectures every Sunday night in the Opera
House, Melbourne. The Melbourne papers umformily
ignore these leetures, but they are significant events.
The theatre, which seats from 2000 to 3000 people, is,
as a rule, crowded, and the audience shew unmistak-
ably their agreement with the lecturer. The following
is one of the poems, which, set to music* is sung by
those assemblies: —
The Adelaide Band of Hope League have de-
cided to request the clergy to discontinue the use of
fermented wines at the celebration of the Sacrament.
This simply moms that the Band arc so hopeful of
things in general that they cannot trust their members
to participate in a religious ceremonial, lest they should
run the risk of getting seven days “ without the
“ hoption." Never was the world in so pagan a state as
at present In the Loddon district, Vic , a Jew mas-
querading as a German Presbyterian minister has been
diddling squatters and others under the pretence that
ho has been authorised by the Persian Government to
collect money for the distressed Kurds; he travelled in
a buggy in the company of a woman and a boy.
These were the Kurds, and they’ve got awhey
The belligerent Roman Catholic of Central Queensland
would seem to have wanted a policeman ever so much
more than a bishop We ought, to be in a fair way
now, considering that the Lord Bishop of Goulburn
reported in Gundagai, a few days ago, that in the eight
days previous he had “ addressed four tea-meetings,
consecrated throe churches and the Jugiong cemetery,
and confirmed one hundred and forty persons."
It was a deplorable spectacle, says a correspondent, to
see tha manner in which the corporal who sold the
hymn-books at the Salvation Army’s concert contrived
to divide his attention fairly between his secular and
sacred duties. His discourse ran in this style:
“ Hymn-book for you, sir P—Yea verily /—only twopence
—Glory I glory .'—Git yer change in’arf a minnit— Bless
His 'oly namo'l— One for you, m’m ?— Hallelujah! I'll be
there!” —and so on Bishop Thornton was at latest
dates at Jerusalem. He was doing the Holy Laud and
expected to arrive in England by the Potosi about
April 20 Jane Johnson, who is over 83 years old, and
has been convicted 200 k|moB for drunkenness, has
joined the Salvation Army at Leeds. She is residing
with the local captain and laia wife at Wortley, and has
already addressed several crowded audieacei, to whom
she related her experience of prison a»d workhouse life.
Scheme mooted to build a church in affectionate r»-
mombrauoe of the late Dr. Lang; site suggested is that
of the old Soots' Church, Sydney; estimated cost is
£4O COO Dean Russel), C.E. Vicar-General of tho
vacant See of Adelaide, wants the next Bishop to be
clipped of tho title of “His Lordship.” The minor
dignitaries of the See don’t boo it, however In
America, an elderly man wanted to join the Baptists’*
but couldn’t stand the baptismal plunge bath. When
about to die, the Baptist discipline prevented his
minister from allowing him to partake of the Lord's
Supper.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
Cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Hon. Sec. Hunter’s Hill A.A.C.”: Our re-
porter is sent to sports meetings for the purpose of re-
cording his own opinions, and not those of the com-
mittee; consequently, there was no need of availing
ourselves of yrrmc feted offer. As a matter of tact, the
times of the different events were not recorded on the
black-board, and In many cases the numbers of the
winners on the telegraph board were obscured by the
committee standing in front of it. However, we wrote,
as yon will see, generally of athletic meetings, not
particularly of yours. You must have seen that we
are greatly interested in amateur athletic meetings;
we look to them for good and honsst sport, and we are
sorry that limited space at present compels us to write
very brief reports. To give a particular account of a
programme of something like twenty events, is Just
now an impossibility “D S," (Kempser): We note
your remarks " H.D.S." (Woollahra): Thanks. We
were not aware that Mr. Evans had “ gone down," and
he was mentioned in the previous cablegrams as one of
the team to meet the Australians, “Waddy Mun-
dooy '*: First-rate. Glad to hear from you agaiu
“Dido": Yes, write again; your style is promising.
But your item is of no interest to the public, who are
not in the secret, so we don’t print it “E.A.8.":
Thanks; like to hear of good parties “Subscriber”
(Shoalhaven): Received ** Slow Young Man”; Next
week “J.J.A.": Yes, you were too late. Tuesdays
always “ E.J.": Your friend is -over-sensitiva. It
was at most a harmless pleasantry.., “Bicycle"
(Denman): It doesn’t raise our hair that the O.P.S.
can’t ride a bicycle. It is of no interest to us that he
employs an old couple to guard each side of his machine
when at practice. It might interest the old couple,
though, or the bicycle, or even the C.P.S.—at times.
Try another kind of screamer “Monster": Glad to
have them; some held over “0.H.M.": Very ac-
ceptable “Dog”: Please send year address
“Frances": We thoroughly endorse the sentiment
that Tennyson did wall in deferring publication of his
“Charge of the Heavy Brigade" until the brigade was
dead *■ M.N.G.": Shall be very glad indeed to have
them “ Orion”: When yon send us a clipping from
a police court report you should send ns the whole case,
not a single fragment of the evidence of an individual.
Had you given us a fair chance in this instance, we
might have dealt with the matter “ Q.C.": Will say
something on the subject next week “ W.A D.”:
Tour acrostic is only fair; and we have not room to
publish lovers’ acrostics to their sweethearts. Put it
in the girl’s album. If she hasn't such an article, buy
her one “H.B "(Wollongong): Sorry your item was
overlooked “ Maudie": It won’t do, Mandie Some-
body has imitated your poetry beforehand. Besides,
such a line as “ Sweet rose, whoso, hue is angry and
brave” would be too sublime for the readers ,of The
Bulletin “R. Grills": Not of public interest,
•* Prince Wood”: Perhaps work it in
Passepartout”: A good j0ke..,...“P0t”: Thanks
“E.C.B ": An excellent point “F.Q.P.”: Thankr,
“W.J.B.": Many thanks “ W.D.H." : We
printed it, or something very like it, some time since-
“A Bush Whisper": Wo may yet do something
with it “Sulorac" : A good rhyme “ Protection" :
We don’t agree with yon. The United Labourers’
Protective Society are probably the best judges of how
many bricks may be safely carried in a hod at one time,
and so long as they don’t err on the side of absolute
laziness, there is every reason why th-y should fix a
maximum “Alice” (Young): (1) Wo don’t know
how many missionaries tbore are in the South Seas.
(!) No. As some one remarked the other day, we aro
the most sentimental and sympathetic people in the
world. Wa have always got a nice clean handkerchief
to woep for anything or anyeue “0.P.": A very
ordinary romance, unromantically narratad. However,
we really don’t think any girl would marry the man
who had the least money. We’ve tried it several times,
so our opinion is based on experience "Octopus”:
Would be worth Insertion if ft had point; but black,
gnardiem in trains wants some Indication of personality
to be given before auy real exposure could be made ; a
driftless general censure would only suit the Heuald
or the railway authorities, and spare the blackguards.
If we gave names, we’d be “had up” for libel, and
when we’d proved our ease, we’d be seat to gaol. Please
write again, after the decease of throe or four people in
high places “Alpha”: We’re rather tired of near-
ing about St. Michael’s Church and its organists. [Many
replies deferred.]
Has God revealed his will to man
In words of human speech ?
And written after human plan
His works and will to teach P
Or has ho filled the brains of men
With his celestial fire,
And held in guidance every pen
Man thinks he should inspire ?
Ask Brahmin, Buddhist, Greek, or Jew,
And each will scripture show,
Inspired by God to save the few,
And guide his sons below.
Each nation has its sacred lore
Exclusive of the rest;
God gave them their'a—he gave no more,
And their’s alone is best.
In ages dark, when knowledge beamed
But feebly on mankind.
The wildest dreams to mortals seemed
God's workings in the mind.
Then incoherent fables took
Tho place to knowledge owed.
And men unto a man-made book
Knelt prostrate, over-awed.


Tobacconist*
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OV
AMBRICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are compiled from offldSaf
resources, and, therefore, should be read wffl)
special intorpst:— _
DlXSOfr AND SONS pnid duty in 1880 on 968,803 %-
All the others paid duty in 1660 on ... 580,6C9».
DIXSON ABiD SONS pirid duty In 1881 On 478,985 Bf.
All the others paid duty tn 1681 on ... ... 680,992 lb.
Imported manufactured toboeeo paid duty
on for the two years was only, „ ... .* 307,1001 b,
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARB—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “TinTas," each plug branded with A
Rottkd Sjnole Tin Tag, stamped “ 0o»-
qobeor ’’ or “ Yankee Dsomb.”
ALT* TOBACCONIST” GOODS, PIPS®, *•.
&
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
AND the enormous eueoess of the CAN*T B BEAT
baa not escaped the nsual penalties of merit. Ira
universal popularity has excited the envy ef that olasa
of speculators who trade upon the dtsoreditablo capitfflt
of a borrowed name. My Tobacco haa been imitated
and counterfeited, and although I have used all avarij*
able means to guard the publie against imposilion, and
te punish fraud, both Foreign and Home-made Inried,
toons bearing my brand, but looking all theT*
the ever popular and well-known CAN T B FJC AT*
have been imposed upon tb« public as the QKNBINB
AMERICAN WEBI'. Now, to further guard ng
numerous Customer* 1 , in both town and country, as well
as the Smoking Public from all I hnjja
arranged with the American Manttt'actpbbr that each
ping of nr Tebaeso be branded with a Silver To*,
bearing the device thus :
without which none is genuine. The qualities of the
genuine Can't B Beat are too well known to need any
comment. But in justice to the public, as well ag
my self, I urgently request, my customers to assure them,
selves that the article they purebase be genuine, and
that each plug knar the above device, te be known at
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B BEAT BRAND
Heartily thanking the public for their liberal
and determined to deserve a continuance of the same
by keeping a first-class article at the lowest pMtibJa
price.
MICK SUMMONS*
Sole Wholesale Agent in the Colonies for the
Can’t B Beat Tobacco,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS, •
CORNER OF GEORGE snd CAMPBELL STREETS,
HAYMABKLT.
N.B—NO BRANCH SHOPS.
READ THIS! READ '1 HIS ! 1
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET.
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELEOT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Cbests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, ftc.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES,
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO.. Limited, beg
to inform the public that tbev have now eom*
pleted arrangements which will enable them to keep an
a REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
and are in a position to take on fresh custom ere. Orders
may be given to men on carta, or seat to office,
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
113 OXFORD STREET.
Hotels, bo.
G
UNSLER’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
R
OBERT BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
JpALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J, T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely npon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Those Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibition :
London International 1P62
Paris ~ 1864
Vienna ~ 1*73
Philadelphia. ~ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vie-
toria, Now South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
GLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisllng Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
VerJeilho trowu Muscat Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. WILKINSON’S
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No. 2 „ „
Burgundy
Tin Ordinaire
WHITE WINES.
Muscat
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Via Ordinaire
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
onw,
(uJ
It i« o( the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into Now South Wales in ,small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per coat. in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
Si 16 Spring Street.
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for BALI
to the TRAD® and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
lEONMONGEET, and
GENERAL HAEDWAEE,
GLASS, CHINA,
Atm
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BE EES, akd SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. OATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
nx-
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold,
Imported by ns direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
TEAKS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TERMS of TIME PATMENT.
Examine and teat them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are lateat styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rubbish.
BEALE and COMPANT,
1, Oxford-street j 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newrust.le; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goul-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PATMENT.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGING
(a really splendid stock )
BOOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BOBTHWICK. 281, OEORGE-BT.
H. A R I E L L,
* V * PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Kent-stbeht, near Kino-street.
BOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
B. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill's prise Victorian Oatmeal (late Q.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Tread j,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son's Victoria Toilet and MottledSoip
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.'s Qoulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King.stroet.
[Business Announcements
Australia*
BEWINC
“HOME”
MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a few erfflra shfl.
ling:# profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
£
£
*
3/v
o^s:
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the shore design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicitAfonmation of the attempted sale of coun-
terfeits of tfli above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
Post Office Order,
WE HAVE I.OW SOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLETE
Do., WITH COVEK COMPLETE ...
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
£4 0 0
6 0 0
7 0 0
M. MOSS AND Co|
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
Ingham’s
£u d HO^BIA
“Bed
£lOO case tha
Chloride of Oold Cure
-will he paid for any
it the Double
for
DRUNKENNESS
will not permanently cure.
It is recommended toy the
leading Physicians. Hope-
less cases invited. Send
stamp for book and testi-
monials from people you
know.
LESLIE E. KEELEY, M.D.
>. FRESHMAN,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE,
359 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
The painless corn reliever,
Pare* 2s 6d.
A Certain Belief, and in numberless instances, a com-
plete sure for corns.
9 Stanloy-streot, Wooloomoolee.
Mr. Clowes,—Sir,—l was favoured soma time ago at
the office of the Sydney Bnims, with a bottle of year
Painless Cera Believer, which I hog to state I used
with the following results . —As aa application I found
it simple, painless, and as far as I knew hanalees j it
speedily removed the soreness and tenderness, and en-
abled mo to walk with perfect ease, which I bad not
been able Vo do f»r many years. Also, lam of opinion
that, if 1 had used another bottle, it would have proved
a complete cure. Sir, I have much pleasure, and ne
hesitation in stating the above, which yen are at liberty
to use as you think fit. Tours truly,
(Signed) William Saul Mob-tow.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Otoemist, Oympie,
Queensland. SolejProprietor of " Clowes’Concordia "
Remedies.
CLOWES’ UNFAILING RING-WORM CUBE will
completely cure the most obstinate Ring-worm. Abun-
dant personal references.—Price, 2s 6d. The proprietor
will guarantee a cure.
CLOWES* ’’RED QUM OINTMENT," 2s 6d, for
Healing Wounds.
CLOWES’ "COMPOUND LINIMENT Of ARNICA
and CAJUPUT,” combined with an lodide, prepared
from the formula of the late William Clowes, M.R.C.S.,
kn. For Sore Throats, Bruises, Sprains, Swellings,
Rheumatism, and Pains in the Joints.—Price 2s. 6i.
CLOWES’ “BTTPTIC COLLOID." Most valu-
able for Stopping Bleeding and Protecting and Healing
Small Wounds —Price 2s 6d.
ELLIOT BROS. & Co,, Sydney Agents.
C. H. GLARKE AND CO.
ELECTRICIANS.
CEOSSLEY’S TELEPHONE DEPOT.
MANUFACTURERS and Importers of Lightning
Conductors, Copper Wire, Rope and Bands,
E octric Bells, Billiard Markers, Thief and Fire Alarms.
?lining Signals, Apparatus and Batteries, Blasting by
Electricity. ’ Estimates given for fixing same
79 ARCADE, KINO STRIBT, SYDNEY,
DEAFNESS ! — I have au Infallible Remedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chlef of the London Royal
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100). Send six stomps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B, HANNAFORD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
The Celebrated
IIUfimfSTSTINIIUANT
Ih« Him of VL MO6B ft CO.
erery Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
•3TY aiYd s.ssve
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE’
MERCHANTS.
VI&GOE, sonTTni) chapman,
AGENTS.
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
”0' T AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES,
BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[_We shall he glad t« have this index posted up hy secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
Brewarrina J.G June «, 9.
S.A.J.C. Morphotville June 20.
Hawke's Bay (N.Z.) Steeplechase June 28.
Hay... Jnly «, 7.
Dentliqain July 19.
Beckbceawtea.... „..,July 6, 7.
Clarence R.J.#, July 13,13,
V.R.C. •rand National July 22.
Hawkesbary Spring August;,
Geelong August 5,
MarrumbidgbeTurf Club Nov. 22, 23. 24.
£•£•9,- ® prin * Sept. 2,5, 7, 9.
V.R.C. Spring Oct. 28, 31, Nov, 2, 4.
AQUATICS.
Largan ▼. Pearce. £206 aside, Thames Juno 17.
I ■ *•**!. J;.... June 20.
0.E.C.. Senior SeulUr in skiffs Jane 24.
Layeoek v. Boyd, £2OO aside. Tees July 3/
PBDISTEIANIBM.
Lithgew Athletic Sports June 8.
Frank Hewitt v. Farrell, £lOO, Agricultural
Society's Ground SO yards June 10.
Spruce v. Gibson. 125 yards. £5O, Wallssnd Juno 17.
Edwards v. Clifford, six days, at Geelong, £200... July 3.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports. July 21.
FtOTlAL®*.
Glenhead v. Newtown June 10.
Roiforn v. University, Moor# Park Juno 10.
Oarlten v. Motham. Association Ground. Juno 10,14,17.
Geelong Club Matches July 8.11,13.
Geelong v. Sydney, Association Ground July 15.
BYCTCLING.
Six days’ tournament fer championship of Austra-
lia at Adelaide, concludes...,. June 16
SPORTIER AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Cambridge Stadda collared the Australian
bowling.
At Christchurch (N.Z.) Exhibition sperta, on
aith May, the 5-mlle bicycle race waa run in 17min.
15sec.
On June 8, 9,10, the Australian Eleven play at
Nottingham against the invincible Notts, and on the
l£th, 10th and 14th, against Derbyshire.
Some Tamworth sports are anxious t« back W.
B. Freeman to run P. Callaghan, o( Maitland, for any
sum up to £2OO, and distance up to 200 yards.
We are very sorry indeed to hear that O’Brien,
the champion professional miler, has sprained himself
se badly that he cannot run again tor some time.
The man who wins a “ Whisky,” of a “ Cham-
pagne," or a " Bitters ” trophy, puts himself on a level
with the solemn " sandwich man " who marches along
with an advertising board in front and rear of his worn-
eut anatomy.
After his defeat by Hahlan, Boyd stated it was
his intention to retire from the aquatic world, and, as
an earnest, ha declined to enter into the Cbinnery com-
petition on May 3 and 4. However, Layoook has
managed to draw him out for “positively the last
time.”
The batting averages of the Australian team,
including the match against Lancashire, are as follow:
—Murdoch 70 7-8, Massie 50 8-9, Giffen 29*, Blackham
28 2-3, Binuarman .26 5-9, Horan 23 4-9, Bonnor 15),
Palmer 14 1-7, Jones 13 6-7, Boyle 12 1-5, M'Donnell
117-10, Garrett 10 6-7, Spolforth 6 2-7.
The two horses, Pitzroy and Booyung, who ran
a dead heat for the Ulmarra Handicap, two miles, on
Queen's Birthday, ran it off on 31st May. Booyung led
tor the first mile, Pitzroy then got up inside through
the other running wide. Booyung again came up, and
an exciting race home took place, resulting in favour of
Booyung by a short neck.
Balranald Races, May 24, 25. First day s
Maiden Plate: Bellona 1. Hurdles: Tlmberool. Bal-
ranald Handicap; Terminus 1. Sailing Haek Race:
Royal Oak 1. Ladies' Purse: Coquette 1. Second
day:—Selling Race: Amy 1. District Plate t Yarree 1.
Steeplechase: Timberoo 1. Consolation Stakes: Evi-
dence 1. Pinal Flutter: 1.
At Dunedin (N.Z.) Jockey Club races, On 24th
May, the Birthday Handicap was a grand race between
the two first horses. Sir Modred and Envy filly, the
former getting first past the winning post by a short
neck. The Poet third. Sir H. Robinson's Legerde-
main appropriated the Maiden, and Luna the Trades-
man’s Handicap, Envy filly second.
New Zealand Grand Steeplechase meeting was
very largely attended. Eight went to the post for the
big event, and after a fast-run race, it was worn by
Katerfelto (trained by Dan O’Brien), Clarouoo beaten
by a short head, second, Quamby third. Old Mousetrap
Fourth. Canard appropriated the Maiden, Clarence
the Hunt Club Cup, and Koaoiusoo the Consolation.
The Murrumbidgee Turf Club Spring Meeting
is to eventuate en November 22, 23, and 24. The
nominations close on September 12. Weights are to
be declared on November 7. Mr. Soarr is the handi-
eapper. The added money to the Wagga Gold Cup
(this year the gift of Mr. A. G. Jones) is 300 sovs;
the Grand Stand Handicap is for 100 sovs. Town Plats.
ISO sovn.; and Steeplechase, 100 sovs.
A correspondent states that it would be good
tor rowing if more attention were paid to the definition
of an amateur. He states that “there is very little
question as to such avocations as carpenter, bootmaker,
and so on, coming under the classification of manual
labour, yet there are full and active members of the
Mercantile Rowing Clmb who are also active members
of the above trades.” He alleges that “ the reason for
the Mercs, failing to send a crew for the Holdsworth-
Qardyne Cup was that two brothers well known in the
aquatic world refused to row with <*no of the aforesaid
gentlemen amateurs."
Speaking of the Victorian sculling trophy, of
which Layoook is (he holder, “ Oloanthus" of the
Absthausiah says“ It might, perhaps, be considered
as taking a rather mean advantage of the absence of
Layoook to challenge the Shark Islander now t but the
rules under which the onp is held provide for the con-
tingenoy of the holder not being here to defend his
right in the event of being challenged. Of course, the
V.E.A. have nothing to set them in motion till a chal-
lenge la received j and really, under all circumstances,
I don’t see why the trophy should not be held by one
of our own scullers.” Well, that’s one way of winning
a trophy.
The “ consideration given” trick has again been
tried on in Melbourne Timothy Twomey recently gave
a bookmaker named Saqui a cheque for £9O for a gam-
bling debt, but. afterwards stopped it, Saqui passed the
cheque on to a tailor named Benjamin, who sued
Twomey lor the money, alleging that he gave Saqui
£6O change and credited him against a running account
of £3O. Twomey’s defence was that he was moapable of
transacting business when he signed the cheque, and
that he had fallen amongst a gang of thieves. Judge
Williams summed up in favour of the plaintiff, but the
Jniy’s sympathies were dead against the bookmaker
and his tailor, and a verdict was returned for the
defendant.
On Slat May, Mr. Fittes waa preaented, at the
office of Messrs. Curoier and Adet, with a silver medal
commemorative ef his first win ot the Champagne Cup.
The Hon. G. Thornton did the honours, and congratu-
lated Mr. Fittes upon hie success. He stated that who-
ever won the second event would get a medal, and ne
matter how many times it was won each winner would. •
woelve a medal. Mr. Fittes suitably respendsd. Mr. 1
P. J. Clark stated that great credit was duo to the firm
represented by Messrs. Curoier and Adet for having
brought together the finest field of amateurs in out
riggers which aver assembled in the harbour. It was
intimated that the next contest for the Cup woald take
place on or about Saturday, 9th December.
On June 1,2, and 3, the Australian Eleven met
and defeated the County of Lancashire Eleven by four
wickets. Last season, Lancashire was the invincible
county, and this victory will retrieve the laurels lost in
the Cambridge matoh. The Australian Eleven went
first to the wickets, and made 259—Murdoch 68, Massie
47, Bannerman 39, Blackham 32, Bonnor (not out) 2 L,
Horan 15, Boyle 7, M'Donnell, Giffen, and Boyle 5 each.
Palmer 1. Lancashire 118—Hornby 24, Barlow 23, D.
Q. Steel 19, Watson (not out) 15, Beyle 14 Following
on, they made 269—Barlow (not out) 66, Steel ,50,
Boyle 30, Pilling 27, D. Q. Steel 19, Watson 18, Briggs
17. Tho Australians scored the 129 runs required, with
the lose ef six wickets—Massie 31, Murdoch 27, Banner,
man 20, Blackham (not out) 20, Horan 12, Giffen 9,
Bonnor (not out) 4, M'Donnell 1. Jones and Garrett
were the absentees.
The Victorian Attorney - General gives his
opinion that the totaliaator is an instrument of gaming
within the meaning ot the Aet, but that if used in a
reserve where only members of a club are admitted, the
totalisator being the property of snob club, the polioo
are not justified in interfering; however, if the club
have not a bona-fide reserve, the totalisator will
become a comm on gaming-house in a legal sense. The
establishment of the instrument at Rand wick and
Flemington will be a great blow to the ring. It will not
seriously hurt the big books, but the small fry, who
subsist on short odds and dry hashes, will find their
occupation gone. It will require twe machines in the
reserve to accommodate the numerous small backers.
A jumping match—three standing jumps—for
£5O aside same off on Moore Park on Saturday after-
noon. Both the competitors were named Wade— one
hailed from Queensland and the other from Campbell-
town. The latter was made the favourite in the betting,
hi, party including the “ dry hashes” who are generally
found on the right side in a pedestrian contest in
Sydney. But innocence prevailed this time, for the
Qneenalaßd naan ltd off and covered 39 feet 2 incnes ia
his first try, and the other man with three tries could
not reach that -distance. The gent, who had been
snapping all the fivers on behalf of the Queensland man
effers to back 'him for £5O against any man for throe
standing jumps, or choosing his own jnmp, for £lOO.
In physique, Hanlan beats Triokett hollow about
the legs. Ids here (calves especially) that Triokett
seems, when stripped, to be deficient. His thighs are
well enough, but of solves he has little. Now, Han-
lan’e oalfle almost a deformity with muscle. It seems
to stand cut-in layers, roll over roll, with sinews like
whipcord. Hence the legs are made to do such an m-
mense lot of the work, as they do i> modern sowlliag.
This extraordinary leg development has much to do
with Hanlau's many victories. Hanlan, in fact, is “ all
quality," as for as physique is oonoerned. In his
clothes he looks nothing, but once stripped he is a
regular little nugget, and his shcslders are something
to be remembered, having an immense mass of muscle
at the baok.
The McDonald Brothers’ challenge has been
accepted by Power and Beach, and the event will be
rowed on the Parramatta. Meanwhile, tho Edwards
Brothers, of Victoria, are anxious to meet the Grafton
twain in best and best boats for £lO3 aside, distance
three miles, the race to taka place In Victoria. Robert
Edwards, in the Melbourne Sportsman, of May 31,
ehallenges any man bar Rush in the colonies for three
mile* for £lOO aside. We think one or two of our
Sydney men. Beach for Instance, ought to Bee their
way clear to an acceptance of this challenge. By the
way James Edwards, the father of the scullers, who
himself was once champion professional oars min of
Victoria, h as lately been on a visit to Sydney, whither
he came with Mr. Fittes.
The Grand Handicap at the Rivorina sports at
Hay on Queen’s Birthday resulted in Cox and Smith
each obtaining 11 points, and they agreed to divide.
Taylor, with 10 points, obtained second prize, and
MoDarra with 4 points third. Smith won the 250,
with 5 yards start, in 27 sees., was second in the 300,
with 7 yards start, in 32} secs, and was second in the
440, with 10 yards start in 57 sees. J. Cox, who started
from s cratch in each event, waa second in the 250,
first in the 3io, and second in the 150. This per-
formance speaks well for the Riverina pads., and makes
ua still more deeply deplore that we have no import,
ant g athering in Sydney of professional runners.
Isaac Taylor with 27 yards start, won the 440 in 57
sees Our Grammar School boy did better than that,
and he did it from scratch. The best performance in
these handicaps was J. Cox’s win from scratch of the
300 1 yards in 32J secs. This stamps him as a pedes-
triau. ,
Writing to the Wbst Coast Timks, Dr. Bake-
well «ayB teat more than three ye&re age he predicted
that Triokett, afkar the loss ef his ring-finger, weald
never again win a race against anyone who wae nil
equal, or nearly his eqnal, before the amputation. He
grounded his prediction, ha says, upon the lose of gnp
inevitably reenltantonthe injury. " If anyone will bend
the ring finger iato the palm of the hand and then try
to ffrip an oar or any object of similar shape and size
with the remaining fingers and thumb, he will at once
see what I mean. The loss of power in one hand would
require that in rowing with a pair of sculls, the force
used by the other hand must he correspondingly dimin-
ished, or the beat would not keep the true course.
Thus there must be a considerable loss of speed. Ido
not say that the two men would have been equal before
Trickott’s accident, but I am sure that this alone
would have ensured his defeat.” Hew does the Dr.
account for Trickett’s easy victory over Laycock after
the accident P
A football club has been started in Qucanbeyan
under the title of the “ Gang Forward Clnu." Follow-
ing are the officers:—President, Rev. J. A. Ross; vice-
presidents, Messrs. F. Campbell. T. C. M’Cord; hon.
secretary and treasurer, H. S. Gannon; committee:
Messrs. Huxham, J. Hodgson, Byrne, P. Pooley, A. M.
Dalhunty. The club plays under Rugby rules, and the
first match will be against Cooma on June 10. At their
first practice two of the membsrs got to fisticuffs.
They shut their eyes and slogged away—without any
damage whatever being done-until they were separated,
much to their own satisfaction. Since the Cooma
fellows heard this they have ordered half a dozen
pairs of boxing gloves at the expense of their club,
and have been considerably practising for the coming
match.
The Carlton Cricket Club’a averages are pub
liehed. A. C. Bannerman, with an average of 511-10
runs per innings, is the winner of the elub budge • A
Geary comes next, with 26 6-11 runs; then J. Da’vis
20 7-13; G. Bannerman, 20 13; T. Nunn, 16 5-11- w!
Webster, 16 5-12; J. Callachor, 14 1-13; J. Tooher,’ 13 •
J. H. Clayton, 12; M. Lynch, 11. It is worthy of note
that ten ef the first eleven players have secured double-
figure averages. In tho bowling department, A. Geary
■eoures tho badge, with an average of 14 6-35 rune per
wicket; W. S. Wearne is close to him, with 14 20-43-
then T. Nunn, with 16 3-13. Alick’s “ cook-a-doodle
stuff" has gained the questionable average of 331.
Wisdom and Tooher, who have not bowled in enough
matches to qualify them for the club badge, have
gained averages of 12 1-8 and 12* respectively.
A few nights after his race with Boyd, the
Champion was present at the Theatre Royal, Newcastle,
and in response to hearty calls went on to the stage
He was loudly cheered. On silence being obtained he
thanked the audience for their reception of him. He
had come many thousands of miles to row Robert Wat-
son Boyd, and he was proud to say he had beaten him
He and Boyd had always been great friends, and he had
found Boyd a gentleman. (Loud cheers.) He had two
other matches on hand, viz,, with Triokett and Ross,
and if he were fortunate enough to win them, he would
retire from aquatics, and leave the waters for the other
men to fight their battles there. (Loud cheers.) At a
congratulatory meeting at Putney, he said that al-
though ho won the race with Canadian arms, he was
hacked by an Englishman, trained by an Englishman,
and he rowed in an English boat, and he considered it a
victory for Thames over Tyne. This is where tho Irish
part of his composition omes in.
The Australian Eleven were defeated by six
wickets by the Cambridge University. The match
excited considerable interest, the ground at Cambridge
boln s „ cr ° wded on the three days. The Australians
went first to the wickets, and were disposed of for 139,
Bannerman 50, Massie 37, Boyle 14, and Palmer, not
out, 12, being the only performers. Murdoch was
caught for 1, and the absentees were Blackham and
Bonnor. The Cambridge made 266, C. T. Studd being
scorer with 118 runs; G. B. fftudd made
42, Bather 24, and Henry 21. The Australians did better
•n tne second innings, and made 291, the scorers being—
Giffen 59, Horan 51, Boyle, not out, 39, Palmer 35.
Bannerman 24, Hassle 20, Murdoch 18, Garrett 16,
Bpofforth 10. Cambridge, having 165 to get to win, ob-
tamed them with the loss of four wickets, the scoies
■tndd 66, G. B. Studd 48, C. T. Studd, not
out, 17, vv right, not out, 15. This was an unmistakable
beating—the comparative collapse in the first innings
of the Australians destroyed their chance. Giffen and
Boyle came In this match when wanted, and it is
notable that Bpofforth got 10 runs and no wickets.
The English cricketing scandal is coming to a
head. The Scotsman of April 22 is responsible for the
following“ The English Eleven were about to play in
Melbourne an important match against the Australians,
when two members of the English team agreed, it is
alleged, with some Australian betting men to ‘sell’
the match. The two tried to prevail on another mem-
ber of the English team to jein them, but he declined,
and then exposed the affair to Shaw and Shrewsbury,
the English managers. Next came a serious upshot.
Shaw and Shrewsbury threatened to report the conduct
of the two men to the Marylebone Club and to the
commlttevs of their respective counties (Notts and
Yorkshire). One of the two thereupon assaulted tho
third man, and himself got beaten in tho fight. Then
the second man set upon the third man and seriously
maltreated him. Shaw and Shrewsbury will report to
the cricket authorities on their arrival home. Tho
fight took place, as wo colonials know, at Cootamundra.
We learn, by cablegram, that the Marvlebone G.C. ex.
amined Ulyott, and, on the strength of his evidence, repu-
diated the imputations cast upon the bona fide play of
the team. Ulyett was detained here for some time on
the eve of his departure for Melbourne to satisfy a debt
of £65 to a well-known Sydney man. Somebody went
security for him and he was allowed to go. Selby had a
race on with Stevens, and Uiyett gob tho money from
the Sydney man to back but no matter, wo know
who won the race and Ulyett lost the money. Doubt-
less if a committee examined Ulyett on this point,
these cowardly imputations would also be repudiated.
In the Hanlan-Boyd race Hanlan rowed lOst.
121b5., Boyd list. 31bs.—only 51bs. difference. Hanlan
cannot be said to be a little man as compared with
Boyd. The latter in his preparation had taken off more
than 201b5., and though on tho day of tho race be
showed plenty of muscle his face looked somewhat
drawn and careworn, Boyd won tho toss and both
started on splendidly even terms, Boyd pulling 39 and
Hanlan 37. The Englishman assumed a slight lend
which he quickly increased to nearly a third of a length,
putting in a smart bit ot rowing. The Canadian then
put on a spurt, quickening up to 40, and went up
hand over hand. A splendid struggle ensued, the work
of both men being excellent, Hanlan finished in beauti-
ful style, whipping out his sculls like lightning and rr.
covering with all the dash and vigour for which ho is
celebrated. He got half a length ahead, and then having
apparently got the measure of his man, ho eased dowr.
Still he had the better pace, for Boyd was rapidly going
to pieces, and in another twenty strokes daylight oould
be seen between the boats. Boyd was now played out;
his head lolled over his left shoulder, his strokes were
irregular, he hung at the finish, and his boat for scarcely
five seconds consecutively kept on under even keel.
Hanlan then shot three lengths ahead, stopped rowing,
and had a good look around. Then he rowed hand over
hand. A little liter he stepped and repeatedly bowed
to the spectators. A dozen strokes more ho stopped
again, drew out his handkerchief wiped his forehead
and waved the blue trophy to the spectators. He
sculled along in leisurely style, waving his handker-
chief occasionally and eventually won by about four
lengths in 21 min. 25 secs. On finishing he waited for
Boyd and the pair heartily shook hands amidst vocifer-
ous cheers. There was little or no wind during the
race and the water was very smooth. The London
Sportsman says that Boyd was egregiously over-
trained.
An awkward waiter, m attempting to place on
the table a soup tureen filled with fat chicken broth,
spilled its contents on a lady’s white satin dress. The
lady screamed, and was seized with hysterics. The
waiter stooped and shouted in her ear: "Don’t fret
about the accident, madam; there’s plenty of broth yll
left in the kitchen. lam going for it now."
Young George D. haying mportnnod his father
for a horse, the indulgent parent presented him with
the aneient steed which for years hud earned him about
the city streets. A few days afterwards the affectionate
son interviewed his father and renewed his request,
sayisg, “ Father, can’t you give me a hon e a little
nearer my own age—one that would be more of a 00m
panion for me ?"
The English courts have over and over again
dooided that a man cannot dispose by will of his de -d
body, ard that "there is no property in the dead body
of a human being." It was for this reason that th«
notorious disciples of Burke were always to careful to
leave the shroud when they abstracted the corpse fn m
the grave. To take the former was theft, while tot ik
the naked body transgressed no law It was on this as-
count, and owing to the increasing prevalence of
“Burking," that body-anatching was made a special
offence by statute, but the enactment made no eltera-
tion in the dogma that thtre can be no rights of prc.
petty in a dead body. The executors of the deceased
have a right of custody and possession of the body
until interment, and that is all. Possossionland owner,
ship are widely d'fferent, as every schoolboy knows.
MR. LAWRENCE FOLEY, CHAMPION MUSCULAR CHRISTIAN OF AUSTRALIA.
(See page 10)
MR, A. W. FITTES, THE VICTORIAN AMATEUR OARSMAN.
(See page 10.)


RILEY BROTI
SBC GEORGE STREET, - )
€OO GEORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET, )
BATHURST,
QOULBURN,
NEWCAI
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET
THE CHEAPEST ]
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN CO]
THE 081 QIKATOE
NOTED £5 Hi
JES Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
6 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wineey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
ShirUng
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Soaks
1 pair o£ White er Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
Et yards Gambroon for
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Corer
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
idoz. Pocket’kerehiefs
Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &o.
Ho
2 La<
2 Lac
2 pai:
1 Lac
1 par
1 Lac
2 pai
1 Lac
4 Infi
2 Infi
2 Infi
1 Infi
Jt
2 Infi
1 Inf;
i doz
s
Puff 1
1 Fla
2 Bib
1 pah
1 Infi
1 In
8
i 8
H
£1
1 pai
1 lar
10 yai
20 yai
12 Sti
20 Wi
10 go<
6 yai
A
"wear!;
JBS Men’s Clothing £5
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
JBS Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Pettieoata
The above are made of
good longcleth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead ef any of the above.
1 pai
1 wh
5 yai
10 wi
Ci
6 wh
13 yai
12 yai
4 pai
1 pai
1 Da
6 str
6 Bn
4 lari
3 yai
T
T 1
£5 1
25 ydl
3 yar
1 doz
1 Bla
1 Lac
1 Tri
1 pai:
RILEY BROT
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 1
4 Infants’ Shirts el
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Ham
2 Infants’ Long Flannels Lonj
1 Haireord Monthly Gown rich]
2 Infants’ Boilers 1 Infai
i dozen Diaper Squares Squ«
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infat
2 Bibs Silk
1 Pair of Wool Boots Car
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman's £2
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trc eers 2 Nigh
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chen
A UEEESLAND AGENCY.
™ GEESLET LUKIN and CO.,
Sydney,
PASTORAL, MINING and PLANTATION AGENTS.
Temporary Offices, 289 Qeorge-street.
Mr. GEESLET LUKIN has mnch pleasure in in-
forming his friends that he has now completed
arrangements with a view of thoroughly representing
in Sydney the PASTOEAL, MINING, and PLANTA-
TION INTERESTS of Queensland. With Mr. Lukin
will be associated experienced gentlemen, long identified
with the great producing interests of the colony, and
thoroughly capable of transacting to the best adrau
tags the business that may be entrusted to their care.
it will bo the aim of the new firm to introduce to the
notice of southern investors any legitimate and sound
enterprise that any member of the firm may be in a
position from personal knowledge to recommend.
NEW COURSECIF LECTURES.
DE. SIMMS will LECTURE at Temperance Hall
Pitt-strcet, NEXT (MONDAY EVENING as
follows Faces and Noses. June 12; Forms and Fea
tures, June 13; Hand-shaking, Walking, Laughing"
June 16, Lecture commences at 8. Admission 3 S and
2s. Written and Oral Descriptions and Charts of
Health and Character given daily in the ante-room of
toe Lecture Hall. The gallery of portraits in the Hall
is open, free, to visitors daily. The eminent Phv-
siognomist. “Dr. Simms, reads characters and diseases
from faces as thengh they were open books.’’ Tikes
London. •* The author is a true Physiognomist, and la
known as one of .the most interesting popular lecturers
we have.''—Human Nature, London.
MESSES. FITS GEE ALD BEOS , of Launceston,
Tasmania, are no longer authorised to act as
Age«ts for the Sydney Bulletin.
MESSES. WALCH BROTHERS and BIECHALL
are appointed onr Agents, and will receive subscriptions
and advertisements, F
W, H. TRAILL & COJ j
SOCIAL.
Undeterred by the dreadful Moabitish contro-
versy, the ladies of Wagga have almost universally
signified their willingness to run a Fancy Fayre during
the next Spring Meeting in aid of the Murrutnbidgee
Turf Club. No doubt the race business will draw as
well as the religions. The proper way to reward the
disinterested damsels will, of course, bo to inscribe all
their names on a tablet and put it up in the Cathedral
—no, grandstand.
• • •
The Hon. W. M. and Mrs. Alderson, of “ The
Grange,’* Bourke-street, gave a ball at Nithsdale last
Friday, in celebration of the marriage of their youngest
daughter, Alice, to Frederick, sou of the Rev. W
Curnow, of the S.M. Heeald. About 120 guest
were present, and on the programme, whiol
contained twenty-two dances, were the mono
grams of the host and the happy couple, in
silver. The bride was dressed in white satin, trimmec
with brouhti and lace. Four bridesmaids : two in pale
blue satinette, trimmed with cream lace, pink rosea in
hair; and two little girls were prettily dressed in blue
cashmere, trimmed with satinette. and wore corn
flower wreaths. Three other brides were present in
bridal attire of white satin, broch6 and lace: Mrs. M
Dymook, Mrs. H. Francis, and Mrs. Bird. The hostess
wore black velvet, honiton lace and pearls. Same
beautiful dresses were displayed; for instance, a brown
satin da Lyon, trimmed with broclui, splendidly made
a pale pink cashmere with full gathered body and show
skirt, on a tall fair lady, which looked exceedingly nice
and a combination of pink and gold on the charmiDj
daughter of a George-street music man. A black silk
trimmed, with blue velvet leaves, and several pink cos-
tumes were handsome. Mrs. Roberts wore black silk
out square and very low, trimmed with pink velvet
leaves and a profusion of large pink roses. The
daughter of a Randwiok resident, who buys, and sells
and gets gain from that noble animal, tbe horse, was
dressed in greenery-yallery surah satin with pink roses
A young lady from William-street wore a rich cream
cardinal plush trimming and a breac
, . > fmoire antique; Mrs. R. Teeoe, shaded
, mmed with shaded cerise satin; Miss
Morruiiau, luuey-green velvet body, silk skirt, velvet
sash and cream lace; Mrs. John Davies, a rich dress oi
cardinal plush, train trimmed with old gold plush; and
her slender daughter, cream satin, trimmed with
crewel work. The music was very good, Mr. Needs,
junior, being pianist, assisted by a cornet and violin.
Compagnoni’s catering would have pleased an epioure.
* • •
"“The complimentary ball to Mrs. Martin at the
Academy, Pitt-street, last Thursday, was attended by
Rbcut 80 dancers, who whirled and twirled till four on
Friday morning. The number j ust allowed ample space
for dancing, the supper tables, spread by Cripps, being
arranged downstairs. A good proportion of fancy
dresses varied the assembly; and among the characters
must be noted: Miss Hayes as Mabel, Miss Day as Car-
men, Mrs. Lawrence as Patchwork, Miss Wallace, a
Swiss Peasant, Miss Sweeney as Pearl, Mr. Lawry as
Capt. Corcoran, Mr. Day as Bambiui, Mr. Perdru as
Antifat, Miss Davis as Josephine, Miss Glashoen as a
Chocolate Girl, Miss Thornman as Starry Wave, and
Miss Brown as Starlight. Tbe music by Ingham was
first-class. Mrs. Martin appreciated the compliment
paid to her, and hod there not been several other enter-
tainments on the same night, the room would have
been crowded. # w
The Tamworth Athletic Club pave their first
ball on Queen’s Birthnight, in the Oddfellows’ Hall,
which was well decorated. Good costumes, colours, and
pretty faces helped to enliven the scenes, when some
60 couples took their places for the first dance. All
went along merrily rill 5 a.m. Mr. Goodwin provided
refreshments, and the Maswellbrook Brass Band sup-
plied music. The honors of the evening were divided
between a married lady, in white muslin trimmed with
blue, and artificial flowers; and a tall, fair young lady
from Darling street. All wore pleased at the success
of the T. A. Club’s maiden boll.
• * •
The Frisky Frogs had splendid weather for their
ball; that is, it rained. By nine o’clock there was a
good attendance in the pond, and the Frogs, their
friends, and a few stray Owls had a good time right
through till well on in the morning. They had twenty,
four dances on a unique programme, interspersed with
songs and refreshments. Professor Cadogan gave a
sweet little hymn—“ Mother, put a plaster on my
cheat;” Mr. Chapman gave a comic song, called
“ There is a flower that bloometh; and Mr. Lewis
Scott sang 11 The parson and the clerk " with an Amen
chorus, and a composition entitled •• It’s here in the
Evening News,” both being received with roars of
laughter. He also made jokes; cruel macerations of
the English language. We can never frog-et them.
The Oddfellows’ Hall was beautifully decorated: large
pot plants ranged in rows, flags on the wall, and so bus-
pended from the ceiling as to shade the glare of the gas.
Other decorators might take a hint. The Professor
“ bossed ” the proceedings from his arm-chair on the
platform. He missed some of the fun through his self-
denial but he said so long as the ball was a success he
didn’t care a croak. The collection of ladies was
enough to make ns want to be a frog and go a-woomg
straight off. There was a beautiful little dancer in
maroon velvet and bine satin puffing; and a tall black-
haired girl from Blacktown, wbo’d be an ornament any-
where. Which just shows, you mustn’t judge people
bv the plaoa they come from. The richest dress was a
heavy grenat velvet and satin, with blue satin trimmings
and splendid silver bullion fringe, worn by a dark lady.
In a blue and maize satin, cut low and lace trimmed,
was a pretty little brunette: perhaps the belle. The
nortlv form of Alderman Gibbs, president, seemed to
Lid an air of dignity to the assemblage, as he
strode round, ahead taller than his fellows. Maseio's
baud of four was faultless in time, and played some of
the prettiest music anyone could want. Callaghan s
catering was also of the best quality; in fact, tho ar-
rangements must have been most carefully studied, for
not a thing was left undone that would minuter to the
comfort of the guests. It was about as pice a swim as
H frog could want in any pond.
• * *
EM. glorious night and a gay gathering of youth
and beauty befell the Glebe Bowing Club on the occasion
of its third annual ball. A cold, char night it was,
Irivht and braoingl; and the fascination* of the giddy
whirl, of bright-eyed loveliness, and tiny white satin
Shoes, combined to wake the first ball of the season a
delightful event. But there is no need to describe what
everyone knows—
About 200 guests wore present. From the corridor
windows, high up in the white carved walls, the scene
was pretty, and there were a few spectators, but the
dancers were not allowed up there, for it was feared
some of them might whip off the Town Clerk s umbrella
or cast covetous eyes upon Harris s purple dolman that
he puts on when he visits Government House. So
everyone was on a level—except when vice-president
Tate mounted a chair to make a speech, which he made
very well. There was a little of the Trollopian tinge
about it. though, when he talked about the Glebe
becoming the leading club. It may : probably it won t.
And thero was some vagueness about bis assertion tnat
the Glebe would tackle any other club, in the water or
out ef it. What the special performances of the Glebe
Rowing Club would be oaf of the water he did not
explain. His chief object jn getting on the chair was
to present Mr. S. J. Bull, secretary, with a silver service.
The recipient looked happy, and got on the chan and
said he felt so. He also said it gave him great pleasure
to accept tho silver things. Then the ball rolled on
Local ladies looked lovely. A graceful comphmept
was paid to tho Club by Mrs Walford, in a
trained white satin, much kilted, who wore the Club
colours, and on her bosom a small G. B. C. nag worked
in coloured satin. Another person also appeared much
kilted. He is a gentleman engaged in a manufacturing
industry at the Glebe, and ha dressed as a W ild Man
of the Woods. At least, that’s what he seemed.
Miss L. A. Haslingdean was a bright little Follow.
the-drum, in black, scarlet and maize, with jaunty hat
and feather : Miss M. T. Haslingdean being a Castilian
maid. The costume of America was no doubt well
meant: it was not well made. From Woolloomooloo
came a little Patience, with a gracious smile; and
from Bourke-street, two sisters, one in pale blue and
cerise satin, the y lunger in black velvet, gold broohd
and trimmings, who both looked wall and were admired
for quiet graceful dancing. Miss C. Kenyon was Hebe,
and Miss E. Kenyon a waiting-maid. Mr. George
Robertson's physique was wall displayed in a character
from Olivette. A nice-looking young lady as Queen of
Night, in all black, and silver stars, danced frequently
with a Spanish Cavalier. A tall fair young lady, Miss
Bull, wore satin bands of black and cardinal, the colours
ef another club, on her white skirt: and Miss Josephine
Bull looked charming in white satin. Mias E. Jones
wore a pretty old gold dress, and Miss Harriet Jones a
yachting dress and sailor hat of white and scarlet, with
small gilt anchors. The general effect of Miss Hattie’s
costume was deadly. Very tasteful was the cream
plush dress, with long silken fringe, worn by a tall
brunette. Generally, the belle of a ball is the lady pre-
eminent for beauty, grace, and dress. The subject of
pre-eminence is always a delicate ons when there is “ a
lady in the case;’’ but when there ars two belles, it
becomes distracting. In light blue satin and cardinal,
with splendid hair and figure. Miss Hannah Smith was
very beautifiul, us was also Miss Hodgkinson in black
velvet and pearls.—
If there wore any wallflowers at the Glebe ball, they
were males. A considerable number of ornamental
young bachelors crowded round the door in the early
part of the evening: later, they found solace at the
supper table. Compagaoni’s catering was good ; the
room rather small. The German Band played prettily,
but they dwelt on a note sometimes aad drew dancers
out a trifle. Messrs. K. Fairweather and F. J. Bull
were M.’sC., and were as polite and attentive as
possible.
« « «
The picnic to Botany on Saturday afternoon
was rather a dreary affair. A mere handful of visitors,
in place of the hnndreds expected, put in an appearance.
They, however, made the best of thing*, and after
hiding the excellent repast provided, and listening to
speeches which were not quite so excellent, adjourned
to the dancing pavilion to forget the dull skies and
general cheorlessness without by keeping time to the
merry measure blown by energetic “ Toung Aus-
tralians.”
• • •
On 3rd inst., Miss Grace Fearon and ¥r.
William Wheelerj(of G. Stephens and C 0.,) were married
by the Dean of Sydney, .at St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
The bridal party came by steam launch from Five Dook
to the wharf, where carriages were in waiting to
convey them to the Cathedral. The bride’s dress, a
very handsome one of ivory satin and cashmere, was
furnished with ivory plush bodice ; tulle veil, orange
wreath, bridal bouquet all en regie. No less than eight
bridesmaids (a royal number), followed ; Mias Fearon,
Mias M. Foster, Miss C. Blanche, little Miss Sherlock
a pretty little girl of two summers. Miss Hough and
three others wore charming cestumes of pale-
blue cashmere trimmed with white lace and
steel buckles; mob caps of blue satin and
white lace, bine stockings and bronze shoes
The two tiny attendants wore dresses similar
in every respect, but of a paler shade. Mr. Augustus
Fearon (the bride's brother) acted in a most fatherly
manner, and gave her away, while that popular and
pretty young solicitor (Mr. Charles Bead) supported
her recipient. Mrs. Fearon wore a dress of garnet satin
with velvet bonnet te match. A guest’s costume of
black and white flowered satin; a pretty girl in navy
blue velvet and cashmere, with becoming velvet hat,
much admired. Mr. and Mrs. Wheeler returned to the
residence of the bride’s mother by road, the rest of the
party by water; there the dejeuner was partaken of, and
later in the afternoon the causes of all the exoitement
left by train for Biohmond, where the honeymoon is u>
be spent.
# # •
Events of more or less importance:—The
wealthy and pretty little daughter of a deceased Vic-
torian squatter, lately residing at Newtown, engaged to
a gentleman connected with aa engineering establish-
ment over the water, j net as mother and daughter were
leaving the cslony. Wedding expected in London
The son of a medico has succeeded in fascinating a
petite brunette of Bourke-street, Darlinghurst.
» # *
On the 24th May, an Oddfellows’ Ball took
plaoeat Ballina; about thirty couples. Belle—a brunette
in cardinal and black silk, soon to be a bride
Governor at Brisbane gives his annual ball in honour
of Her Majesty’s Birthday, June 8 On the 21th, a
social party was held at Bedfern Town Hall, in connec-
tion with the Bailway Cricket Club. Dancing, songs,
&c., till 2 o’clock At Adelaide on the Queen’s Birth-
day, there were a review, a levee, and a large ball in the
Town Hall At Townsville, German Glee Club bad a
ball, and sang glees throughout the night Same day
300 people attended hospital ball at Armidale, tor
which the local ladies provided the supper
free of cost. £l3O net was the result... The two
Old English Fairs at Brisbane were very small tubers
indeed, and very moderately successful A bazaar
was hold at Candelo in aid of the parsonage;
nearly £lOO taken first day Bockhampton had* ba,.,
too, to shew its lojalty, and give the ladies a chance....
Thirty members have started a skating rink in Hay-
don’s Hall, Temora. At that pl&c?, the hospital ball
netted £4O Newcastle will bo all on the light fan-
tastic on the 13th July; the Bowing Club Bil event-
uates The annual Freemasons' Bail at Wagga is
fl?*d for the 27bh Juna, St. John’s Day A Lieder-
tafel has been formed at Newcastle, and is soon to be in
Working order Last Friday, Mr. J. K Clouting,
head master of the Public school, Dqhbo, was presented
with the usual (jlectro tea aervice and an addrsss. This
shows what it is to be good at clouting the kids.
* # #
A most enjeyablo evening was spent at Glammis
Hall, Paddington, last Thursday, when ssa.ing and
dancing (under the auspices of the Woullahra Kinking
Club) were carried on lor several hours ; the dancing
being meat appreciated by the fair sex, who don’t like
falls, except falLvin-love. Walking costumes were
worn, but a few were in evening dross. About 40 ( o ipiea
present, from al. points of the compass. Two joung
ladies were so distressingly as.thetic that they couldn’t
dance, ’the social evenings will be continued each fort-
night through the season, and a party will he held next
Thursday.
• • •
Bast Thursday, at St. Paul’s, Bedfern, that ex-
perienced joiner, the Bov. Canon Stephen (whoaverages
about a hundred couples a year), united Dr. A. Burne,
the welLknown dentist, to Miss Euphemia Dangar,
daughter of Mr. W. T. Dangar, and niece of Mr. O. O.
Dangar, of Kempsey. The wedding arrangements were
complete and costly. Three bridesmaides. the elder in
white and pale blue, the two little girls in pink, attended
the bride, whose handsome figure and faci were set off
by a beautiful costume of white satin. At 2 o’clock
some 50 guests sat down to the sumptuous dejeuner at
Sandringham, where rounds ot toasts were disposed of
in due conrse, Mr. H. Sadler proposing the health of
the happy ones. The party returned to town in the
evening in various vehicles, and the two-made-one went
for the honeymoon to the capital of tke cabbage
garden.
• • •
The Mercantile Bowing Club’s seventh annual
ball, nnder the patronage of the Mayor and merchants
of Sydney, promises to be one of the grandest fixture*
of the season. The locale is the Exhibition Building,
Prince Alfred Park, and the date is July 6th. The
stewardship includes many influential names, and an
energetic committee i* keeping the ball rolling, with
D. Murray as hon. secretary and A, P. Bros as hon.
treasurer.
* • *
Last Tuesday evening, a few friends of Mr.
Harry Teece, who recently adopted the stage tor his
profession, entertained him at the Post Office Hotel,
prior to Lis departure for New Zealand. A very enjoy-
able evening was passed, Mr. Teeoe’s account of his
stage experience being highly interesting. Towards
the close of the evening, Mr. J. L. Hall, the veteran
comedian, related in his amusing style the “ History of
his Life," and brought the evening to a termination by
telling in an inimitable manner the story of the “ Whis-
pering Irishman,” which sent every one home in the
best of humour.
** * *
In a town out West, a well-known individual
invited a number of friends to a quadrille party and
supper on Her Majesty’s Birthday. It was a regular
hang-the-expense affair, everything lovely and done
liberally, and the guests were envied by all who were
not guests. The little bill for 8/4 each, sent round after-
wards to the gentlemen, was what seemed to spoil the
affair Chin Pack and Jen Sin, both Chinese, were
married at Cooktown by a Registrar in regular orthodox
fashion last week Mrs. Goodrich, of Somerville,
Hunter’s Hill, gave a most enjoyable dance on Friday
evening, 2nd instant. About thirty couples present.
Capital music and excellent floor. A programme of
twenty-nine dances was concluded by4a.m An event
not on the programme occurred at the Beaney ball in
Melbourne. A lusty athlete and a gallant major quar-
relled, and a challenge to combat was given and accepted.
Pistols were named, and all is arranged now except the
locality and the size of the coffin. One of the pair
suggests New Caledonia as the scene The ladies of
an Emerald Hill (Vio.) Chnrch are showing their esteem
for the organist by giving him a ball 1 Terrible com-
motion in a ladies’ college. Handsome writing-master
—sweet seventeen—rope-ladder—shades of night—Ex-
celsior—exeunt A nice party was held at Mr. John
Williamson’s “Denham House," Redfern, on Thursday
last, when between three and four score guests were
present. The supper was elaborate, and the music
provided was good. Some of the dresses were nice;
a lady in black satin, with gold-dust in her hair, was
noticed, as were also a young lady from Newcastle, in
Sink and roses, and the dark daughter of a Beurke-st.
1.P., in white satin crewelled. No one “ sported a
toe” with more vigour than the host himself. Break-
up early A young Sydney fireman “hooked it”
from Melbourne with the daughter of a wealthy
southerner. They are now in Sydney enjoying the
honeymoon, and her father swears he won’t forgive.
However, the old gentleman is now in Sydney.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Complimentary Ball to Miss Deane. June 9-
Owl Clnb Ball ...... June I*.
St. Kilda College A. A. Club Sports June 21.
Scandinavian Ball June 23.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution June 28.
Sunflower Ball June 30.
U.S. Independence Pay Ball July 4.
Mercantile RC. Ball July 6.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports July 29.
THE KOOKABURRA.
The revisers have knocked Hell out of the new
Bible.
This is the rock of ages, said the father after
recking two hoars, and the baby still awake.
We hereby caution four cats that are continu-
ally serenading in our back-shed that there is a sausage
shop two doors to the right.
A Canadian court has decided that “audible
respiration through the nostrils in sleep involves no
presumption of malice, and is an inalienable right of
pewholders.”
“ Wash your menth out brother, ere you enter
here again," said a Keristian to a talk-anyhow. All
right, old boy; I’ll wash it out now at your expense ’*
mouthed he of escapades.
Another antique was dug up in Pompei a short
time ago. It was a fountain. Venus is represented as
rising on a shell. This is the first time we have heard
of the Queen of Love on the half-shell.
| JFried Soles: Take a chair opposite a blazing
lire. Place your feet on the top bar, or, if wanted
quickly, across all the bars together. In a few moments
the soles will be done thoroughly. (H)eels may also
be cooked in like manner.
“ Now,” in a Coolie tone she said,
" I will be Prank. ‘Tis true.
Although yon Arab brilliant catch
I do not CaSre you 1”
“ Oh 1 lady, Dane to hear my suit,
This heart is Scott by thee."
•* N ay, sir, I cannot heed thy words.
For you Arnaut to me."
“ ’Tis Welsh,” she added freezingly,
•‘Since Siam pressed so far,
To Hindoo you no longer here;
And so, good sir, Tartar 1”
“ What Ottoman like me to do ?’*
Bewailed the stricken man,
11 I’ll Finnish up my mad career.
And wed the Gallioan.”
A CAT’S TALE.
Bt Little Johnht.
Cats are usually divided into two classes Tom
oats and Gats, we don’t ourselves divide them this way
we generally use a chunk of road-metal the meat-axe or
some such delicate instrument.
We don’t keep a Cat we did once but our Neighbour
has a Bull Pup; our cat is Dead now
Cats have many Uses they try onr Patience they
also bring into Use Words wnich would otherwise never
be given to the World.
You never saw any Man bring so many words into a
language as an ordinary domestic Tom Cat in the middle
of the night when he gets to arguing with a friend on
the house top ; no man ever did
But even the Cat drawback, ns the one over
the way said when his tail got jamed in the door; his
language is apt to be Coarse at times, and is such as no
Bunday School scholar should hear unless he were deaf
Yes the Gat is a gloryous bird bgt our ink runs short.
No need to tell how every blazing star
From out the flrmamentlits glory shad j
No need to tell how .harming Glebe girls are,
How beauty’s lustre haloed many a head :
While night’s brow, diadem’d with twinkling
Hast pure pale gleams athwart the evening air.
Fair women —graced with all that charms and cheers,
Earth’s brightest ornaments, beyond compare—
Came gaily garbed, and trod the polished floor
With airy footfalls to the rhythmic tune,
Whose music floated through the open door
And merged in moonshine, on the first of June.
In velvet raiment, black aa night,
A queenly form of noble height
And lines of undulating grace.
That well accord with such a face—
A face where beauty seems te meet
With all that'a good, and all that’s sweet.
There, lightly placed upon her breast.
Pure lilies of the valley rest,
While love-lit eyes of hazel gray
Seem made to smile one’s soul away;
A fair head decked with gleaming pearlp,
In sooth, a very queen of girls.


fjl H E A T R E
ManasorB.lir//.V//.!!!!'VMessrB.'Xlli
Manager for Mr. Reeve
Treasurer
INTENSELY SUCCE
“UTTERLY PRECI
SUPERBLY “CONBU
under the management of
MR. WYBERT RE
Burnand’a great iEstheti
THE CO LONE]
recently played by special cc
HER MAJESTY THE
EVERY EVENING the celobrate<
EVERY EVENING American
EVERY EVENING Aotor
EVERY EVENING HARKINS
The favanrite Comedian, WYI
The Charming Actress, Miss BLAI
and the
PREMIER COMEDY C(
The performance will conclude ea
Beautiful Comedi*
UNCLE’S WIL
Prices as usual. Tickets for all t
Lloyd’s, next the theatre. Child]
mittod.
O
I* E R A
Lessee and Manager
SIXTH WEEK PROP!
of PROFE
Mr. Frederick PRO FEE
Marshall profess
and his PROFEBSI
Comedy PBOFRSBO
Company PROPER >*ol
Every PROFESSOR
Evening PROFESSOR
until PROFESSOR
farther PROFESSOR
Notice. PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR Hn<
Acting-Manager for Mr. Marshall,
TO THE OPERATIC ANI
PROFESSION
NEW OPERA H(
WELLESLEY STREET, AVI
Sole Proprietor, H. N. J
THIS Macnifieent Building is m
THE MODEL Op»'* House
the Largest aud Moat Cetnmoilioi
Eraated on Res to at model*, it will h
every Modern Comfort and Luxum
the ourbsln) appertaining to i
Theatres In the Old and Now Worii
Is norfeot. AU ports of the Houa
aid egress from trend, light, aud ai
pro«m«on has beoa takes to save
ease ef Are, and the Auoklaud City f
Inspected and highly commended W
to that end. Magnificently and
Its Luxurious Private Bowes, Dr
ehertra Stalls, together with Its «
StaAki aro features 1
Colonial Theatres. The Opera Hi
by the Williamson Opera Compa
commencing from 2Srd May next,
ana Agents* “ dtars," and Comhim
to the Proprietor for terms t
M
R.
AND MRS, JAI
(MIS# MARBTON L!
Arrangements completed for sne
ME»«R^ n *ittN^^^'LLlAMB<
rfIHBATR® ROYAL
■*- OPEN FOR ENGAGE
Will seat seven er eight hnndr<
with Gas j lately patronised by the !
Terms moderate. Apply to
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, ei
dating 1300 people, is now av
and other perform anees. The staj
depth, and has a neat presceninm
DAVID
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAR.
Public Hall, Groyraonth, 21th Mi
Wanganui and Napier to follow,
Abbott’s New Theatre, Anokla:
weeks.
Houses packed to suffocatioi
ASO N I C
MONDAY EVENING, ]
GRAND COMPLIMEMTAP
to
SIGNOR VITTGB
Under the distinguished
His Excellency the Lieutenant-Got
Alfred Stephen, C P ,
Sir John Robertson, K.C M G.
Sir John Hay, K.C.M G
Sir G. Wigrnm Allen, Knight
Sir Patrick Jennings, K O.M.Q
His Worship the Mayor of S.rdn
Esq., &c., &o.
COMMITTEE
R. Bnrdott Smith, Eeq., MLA.-
ML.A.; W. W. Neill, Esq.,’
Laq , J.P,, Under-Seorotarv ft
o Connor; Dr. Brady; Dr. J. P
Dr Philip* C A. Benbow, Eg
SIGNER VITTORINi B the ! oeiebn
tone, of the world-renowned I
Singing, Milan ; and also lata j
famoua Tenor Singer, Stecchi,
the following Artiatea
MDLLE. OHARBONNET (Cor
MISS PBDLKT. Contralto an
Royal academy of Music, 1881;
(Conservatory, Milan). Mr. V
HERR HUOd ALPHN, Acoon
Reset re, sa; Centra Ss;
Box plan at Paling’s. Tickets,
warehouses#
M BE CANTILB
SEVENTH ANNEAL
Under the patronage
MAYOR and MERCHANTS
The M. E. C. Seventh ANNUAL B
the EXHIBITION BUI
Prince Alfred Pa
«th JULY Nl
DRESS. PLAIN AND
Tickets, double, 30s; Gentleman'
Single ISD Bd, may now ha obtains
er aommittee.
Stxwabds :
John Harris, Esq. (Mayor John
•f Sydney) J. S,
Hos, James Watson Wm.
Hon. J.B. Watt O. K.
Sir P. Jennings, KO.M.Q. John
Wm. Aldarnon, Heq, Char:
J. R. Allt, Esq. Chas
Henry Ball- Esq. Carl
Tbomaa Datton, Esq. John
John Gardyna, Esq. R, Sa
J. G. Hanks, Boq. Thon
John Hardia, Heq. John
CeMimaatß e
Messrs. If. R, Benson, Jahn Blai
Brindley, L. a Birekali, F. O. Ba
A. i liras, A. W. Blaekatona. W. P
IX Dennis. D. Platohop, W. J. f
Gittnan, B. Hansen, P. G Herd*
A. Neddie, W. Lea. N. Leokyer,
Playfair, N. Shelley, T, G- W
0.6. Williams.
u
NDEB SECTION
ARTUNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAB
FREEHOLD EST,
by Subaeription
10,030 SUBSCRIBERS o
120 PRIZES af the fall yah
117 lots guaranteed, oaah i
Lot I.lst prise £4009 f Lot S,
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £1
Lot 10. 1 Prize of £5O,
Lots 11 to 28,10 Prizes (
Lota 21 to 120,100 Prize
The management is compelled t<
drawing to the first day of Aug
standing this announcement, the
tively he proceeded with seven di
are subscribed for. All nnsuoces
have their money returned per reti
the grandest opportunity ever oS
stantial prize, if not a large and i
for £l.
Address —SETH R. FERSSE, E
European Chambers; Box, Post O
■DTE A Tk DDAfIOEDf
TTISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILOETNG
* ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
(or
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP,
Diagrams (or self.measnring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
PUENITUEB!
FUENITUEE !
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the sarions badness of For-
mailing_a New Heine or aiding to the comforts of
your present Home, yoa will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON. M'CREERY & CO.
who will furnish houses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
*SF Note the Addhers—
WILLIAMSON, & CO.
Exoelaiar Furniture Warehouse,
306 3EORQE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
T LAWLER, 608, Qeorge-street, Beddiug Mannfac-
• turer, importer of Braes and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Fleck- Established 1890.
H. PALI
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
&i'-k/S‘''srsfe
N. Q,
£
•e
PIANOFOETES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA
A spb-ndid stock to select from bv *
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By the celebrated makers
W , BELL AND CO
Which pH*.
at the
NTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
MONIUMS,
LATE SYDN
H A
BI
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS
in all the parlous models. ’
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. m PALING, agent for Erard’s, PJeyel’s, AucWs,
Sonfleto a, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Sons Pianol
torfcei,
W. Bell »nd Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Cloueh
and Warren s, and Smith and Company's Organs.
W. H. P A L I w o,
352 GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE WYNYARD BTREET
SYDNEY. '
Mr. T. P. DeCODRCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of Now
South Wales).
Author op th* ** Minnns' Hahdt Book,’’ &0., &c..
mining expert,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
128 PITT STREET,
(Near Klag-alreet.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN.
_ Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &0., &o.
A v -D DAYY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS POE
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
4 02 ~«484 GFIORCE STREET
WM
> Q THE
> riTWUAi i
C >
R R 0 5 1 n
' “ THE- W 4(,
fo."A tf&RKFT CLOTH HALL, ' V <’A,|_y
OPPOSITE THE FRUITMARKTrs, V
IST Dl.l>!l' IM 'T'. o.
A I. ARi: F -.t WE I I SEI ECTED vl
* -3 v .
WOOLL£NS,new pattcrns,
niPPCT rcyfc*. " r HE MANUFACTURERS
lr ASH lON ABLE
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
L TWEED TROUSERS, TO OROE
1
Tr
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels. In white. War
and colours.)
SEWING
tADE MARK
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS man.'/«dtnred bv
them }—Gold Medal, Parife, 1878. Only Prise Medal ( London, 1861. Only Pirst-class Prize Medal, Paris, 18S8. Prise 1 Modal
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The 1 Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South Africa, 1877
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for Tariety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, 189 f.
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND sEould be addressed to their TV arehonee
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.


JAMES MARTIN ANI
LATE MARTIN and PAH
389 GEORGE STREET, OPPOSITE I
■
THE HORNSBYMARTIN SINGLE
Th flse iesof SINGLE PLOUGHS is nowoffored for thofl.at time,
of the most popu’ar ploughs in New South Wales, wo shall be please
particulars. We fit our ploughs so our customers have choice of ever
as different distiiots demand different patterns, and wo are certain of
Our Sizes range from 2 to 4-Horse, and Prici
m eh
M'IVL V
SILVER
f c «) V T 4.10
■ i; ri„i K 0
3 & 11 HUNTER S
r t
SYDNEY
SEMI 1 rOR .
CATALOGUE
mHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE
None batter than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sj
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE.
c. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY
TA
And
On
*
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPING MIXTURE and
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours to deceive the public by SUBSTITUTING
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS Of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
beating'
« THE TAEPING MIXTURE.”—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Importers,
thus—
Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PURE
TEA, must bo certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ARE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCHER.
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sftnitary Ware
Qasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMT.ERFIELO,
♦ *
235 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THF PFOPI F’S TAILOR!
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER. 16.. 61.
H. Li SUMMERFIELD!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, A 3 9a-.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
GUARANTBBS A PERFECT FIT I
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Sends Self-measurement forms free by post 1
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by post I
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the. BEST CITY CUTTERSI
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
Speciality Suits to measure, £3 3*.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
Speciality Trousers to measure, 16s. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
235 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
E W PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
■o favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVE!* to hie Eloeant and Splendid
SHOP,No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET,ore door from
tbe corner of Qoulburn-ttreet, where ho will be pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN'S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up In First-ohuu Style.
A Visit is requested.
The Tmms ef subscription for Thu Bullbtiu are—in
advaaee, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly,
3a.; hoeksd, 64. psr quarter extra. Remittances say
be made by stamps of any Australian colour or N. 2
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H. Tuaxli & Co., at
Thu Bulletin office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.
Wales.
MOST PLEAS/
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OP T!
A
N
D
S
A
F
E
8
I
WHEN PURCHASING TOUB
ask for
PANTER AND PA
NEW EXTRACT Ol
AND SEB THAT TOD OE'
SUPERIOR TO ALL O'
BE 'T Washing and Diainfei
tiou known, for Clothes, I
Crockery, Paint, Glass, and eve
purpose. Used and reconnnt
Laundry at Government Hoi
mour (Inspector of Nuisances)
(Orient Laundry), and by a
judges to be the best article ma
REMEMBERI
Washing and cleaning done
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Heal tin
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAI
TO BE HAD OP ALL G:
WORKS, 700 QBORGE-S1
IN THE WQRI
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Li*Rt, Delicious
Beverage.
*
V
*
o
C
drill’
O
CJ
yiek
liquid
RY
SOLD BT ALL C
11 ’Tis cheerful by the cheerful
Our daughters nicely clad."
EDWARD HORDERN ,
663 BRICKFIELD 1
■ J LIU D „
J- that pertains to drees and
Studied with such care and pen one
EDWARD HORDERN 1
One of the most recent example
modern skill has brought to such i
"SELKIRK TWB
which iu texture, appearance, dural
of value, has never before been att
material.
TRIMMINGS TO M.
Also, every colourings in the folb
STANDARD
READY MADESUIVS
JO :
ißusmess
PRO menade
Trsvellin.^
QUALITY yachting
vurl&hty Picmcinf)
unsurpassed Cricketing
“Standard” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“St«ndard” Very Superior ditto ...
Winter Overoeatu, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra I ong
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
FEAPE3 and SHAW,
PE APES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
