

THE BULLETIN
Vol, B.—No. 103.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 1882.
Price—3d.
W[\t §ul(etiiL
SATURDAY. JANUARY 14, 1882.
Horrible Holidays.
It is just a year since we ventured in these columns
to apprise the public of the fashion in which the
Christmas season was celebrated by that section
of the population which we designated the “ Larri-
kin Residuum.” The account which we gave of
the proceedings at Clontarf was productive at first
of no particular effect. A considerable number of
readers regarded it, probably, as overdrawn or
incredible. It was not until the proprietors of
Clontarf, irritated at our interference, dragged us
into a court of law, as defamers and libellers, that
the attention of the public was fairly attracted to
our representations. The corroboration which our
description of occurrences then received from a
crowd of witnesses convinced the public that,
instead of exaggerating or inventing facts, our
description had fallen far short of the actual
iniquities perpetrated under the very nose of the
police, and within cooey of the Houses of Parlia-
ment.
* * •
I
That the public should at the outset have been
incredulous was not at all remarkable. The
Bulletin had been in existence barely twelve
months, —whereas for half a century there had
flourished in Sydney a powerful journal, which
had at all times made a pretence, almost phariasaio
in its demonstrativeness, of being devoted to the
cause of respectability and morality. It must
have appeared nearly incredible to most people
that, side by side with a newspaper the profess-
ing purism of which was carried to the verge of
prudery, there could grow up a condition of
immorality which was as displayed as if
the community were pagan, and which flaunted
itself, unchecked and without apprehension, in the
most public places and gatherings. Perhaps it is
even now incomprehensible to many people how it
has been possible that in Sydney there has existed
simultaneously, and grown into flourishing condi-
tion, the most “ serious” of newspapers and the
most flagitious of immorality—the most preten-
tiously strait-laced of journals and a condition of
corruption in parliamentary and municipal life
which has become so scandalous that the rotten-
ness breaks into open sores.
• • •
We believe we will carry conviction when we
declare our unqualified belief that had the proprie-
tors of the Sydney Morning Herald been really
imbued with a proper sense of their responsibilities,
and gifted with the ability to discharge the func-
tions which had grown upon them, all the con-
ditions of life in Sydney would to-day have been
vastly superior to what they now are. In New
York, the Press make no pharisaio pretensions
to being “ serious ” organs. But, in that city, no
sooner had the growth of corruption attained
such proportions as to come within the scope of
journalistic cognisance, than the Press began and
carried on a tremendous conflict with the evil and
its promotors. There was there no timid calcula-
tion of cost, no regard for the social standing or
political eminence of those who wore sapping the
foundations of public institutions and polluting
the springs of public morality. The daily papers
grappled with the evil, and, in the most powerful
terms which language afforded, denounced alike
iniquity and its devotees. Thus they effected for
their community an inestimable service. Con-
spiracies against the pockets of the people were
foiled and shattered ; the growing faith that the
only avenue to prosperity was through the paths
of corruption, was checked ; and by the freest
and most uncompromising employment of a jour-
nalist’s weapons—satire, exposure, denunciation—
rascaldom was pilloried and made to feel that,
whore a free and fearless Press existed, imposture,
immorality, and plunder could not flourish with
impunity.
• * •
Prudery is not modesty, nor is it an aid to
virtue. The man who terms it “ word painting ”
when another calls a spado a spado, instead of
designating it “ an agricultural implement,” can
only regarded as having become confused in
his mind as to the sense and meaning of concrete
ideas. We are informed, and believe, that the
proprietors of the Sydney Morning Herald
have, for years back, derived from the public who
buy that journal and advertise in it, profits which
each year amounted to a considerable fortune.
We have no difficulty in crediting thatjat the
present time, each year gives to them a net income
exceeding fifty thousand pounds sterling. And
what return have they made to the public ? Dur-
ing the whole career of the paper we know not
of a single occasion on which it has fought a
downright battle on behalf of the public interest.
It has never yet brought a powerful delinquent to
bay. It cannot be alleged that there have been no ■
battles to fight—no abuses to combat —no plun-
derers to take by the throat. The very instance
of picnic orgies, which everyone now knows have
been going on year after year, makes such a plea
impossible. While rascality has made its
profit, _ and obtained prominence—sometimes
predominance—in public affairs, and immorality
has grown up, the Herald has pursued one
sober, steady policy of safe moderation. Palter-
ing and studiously tempered utterances, or gene-
ralisations safely severe, have preserved it from
collision with vice-militant. Corruption has
learned that from the leading journal, although it
could not hope for support, it need fear no down-
right exposure or uncompromising antagonism.
* * *
The Herald has let a grand opportunity slip
through its nerveless fingers. It lay within its
power to achieve what The Bulletin is, finan-
cially, too weak to accomplish. Had it, this year,
taken up the task which it had been our misfor-
tune to be compelled to relinquish, as beyond our
pecuniary strength had it poured its special
reporters into every harbour picnic ground,
charged with the mission of giving a full, un-
qualified, and graphic account of the actual
occurrences which might come under their obser-
vation— had it published these, giving names and
localities in detail—and had it boldly challenged the
responsible persons to try, in the Supreme Court,
whether truth or turpitude should prevail—it
would have snatched away such credit as
we have thus far won. The country would
have risen to cheer its enterprise and ap-
plaud its devotion in thus stepping forward
to stem the triumph of immorality. Had its pro-
prietors suffered as wo have suffered, it would
have been no real loss to thorn. A fraction of their
annual profits would have sufficed to fight the
battle, and. by removing it from a field so favour-
able to the larrikin as that which witnessed their
victory over us, to win, if not the first fight, the
general campaign. But the spirit has been lack-
ing. Witness their own testimony. Only last
Saturday their sporting writer, “Nemo,” gave
utterance to a guarded expression of his senti-
ments respecting the corruption and rascality
prevailing in connection with racing matters. He
could, he declared, expose this, that, and the other
iniquity, were it not that our wretched libel laws
restrain him.
* « *
Why should these be a restraint to the Herald ?
Why should not “ Nemo ” have been encouraged
to speak out without reserve all that ia on his
mind ? He is a writer whom any journal might be
proud to number among its contributors—straight-
forward, fearless, inaccessible alike to the bland-
ishments of flattery or the menaces of irritated
fraud; a man to be trusted to make good his
words, whatever they might be. The exposure
would not be the less complete and effectual al-
though it should involve the loss of a few thou-
sands. There would bo no loss of character, none
of prestige. On the contrary, there would have
been in those respects an enormous gain. The
day the Herald was wrongfully cast in damages
for bravely advocating the public interest, and
stepping forward as the champion of honesty and
the combatant of swindlers and rogues, it would
soar to a height in the public esteem which it has
never yet approached. At the cost of a tithe of
tbe’gains which its proprietors yearly absorb from
the public, it could crush —absolutely crush —
flagrant and notorious abuses, in the field, the
Parliament, and the speculative rings.
* # *
We envy its opportunities. It occupies a posi-
tion which would enable it to pluck the apple of
prosperity where wo, for lack of money, can only
receive pricks from the thorns which surround
the prize. Alas, that so grand an enterprise
should fall to the lot of so poor-spirited a knight!
* * *
But one need not look back to learn ia what
degree the leading journal of the colony falls
short of discharging its obligations to the commu-
nity, and performing the true functions of a capa-
ble and fearless press. The holidays just termi-
nated have conclusively exposed its deficiencies.
It might have been reasonably expected that after
the extraordinary awakening which the disclosures
by The Bulletin, respecting last year’s orgies,
effected, the leading journal would have employed
those great resources which it perpetually boasts
of, to supply to the public a comprehensive and ex-
haustive account of the condition of affairs this
year. Now, anyone who has read the accounts of
the holiday-making by the picnic people on Boxing
Day and New Year’s Day at the various harbour
resorts, as published in the Herald, could have
come to no other conclusion than that order had
been restored, and that the evil condition of last
year had been cured. From each resort the same
old stereotyped sort of report was published—
Pleasant day, nothing to interfere with enjoyment.
The sole exception recorded has been in the case
of Manly, where disturbances were followed by
proceedings at the Police Court, whence, appar-
ently, all the information the Herald had to
offer was derived. This was the case last year also,
in reference to the Clontarf excesses. All the lead-
ing journal had then to tell was gathered at second
hand from the police and the records of the court;
and even these materials, as embodied in the para-
graphs of the reporters, wore admittedly minimized
and “toned down” before publication.
« * »
One might surely have expected that the great
and wealthy journal would have been specially
represented this year wherever pleasure-seekers
were gathered together. It is certainly of im-
portance that the public should be accurately in-
formed as to what has been the real influence of
the exposures due to The Bulletin. It will,
nevertheless, probably be a surprise to the publie
to learn that, taken all round, there has
this year been no abatement in the iniquities of
last year. The riot at Manly Beach was of a
character which altogether transcends description.
The hotel at the pier had, at one time, to close its'-r
doors to keep out the riotous throng which seemed .
disposed to take possession by storm. The con-
duct of individual women attained a height of
indecency which nothing testified to as having
occurred last year at Clontarf exceeded. The few
Erisoners whom the police seized as examples were
ut casuals —mild samples of the quality of a crowd
of others. But even these were trifling excesses
when compared with those which decent pleasure-
seekers were compelled, disgusted and horrified,
to witness at other resorts on the shores of the
harbour.
* * *
We lament exceedingly that by the decision of
Judge Manning, in casting The Bulletin in
probably more than =£2ooo costs for speaking out
without reserve last year, we are under the neces-
sity of doing injustice to innocent people to-day.
We would willingly specify at what places
the atrocities we have to report occurred. But
were we to do so, it might be our misfortune to find
ourselves the sport ef a perverse jury and an
adverse judge. Those proprietors of harbour
pleasure grounds who maintained order and pre-
vented indecency among visitors must not blame
us if wo do not particularise. At one place, on
Boxing Day, men bathed naked from the beach in
full view of the crowds of people present. At
another-^wo will let an eye-witness describe: —
“ Young men and women, regardless alike of all
shame or respect to the feelings of others beside
themselves, were disporting in the water in a
state of complete nudity, without any regard to
the distinction of sex or any attempt at conceal-
ment. ■ Indeed, the females seemed rather to
court publicity than otherwise, some of them
coming out of the water and running along the
beach without any covering on their bodies, while
their male companions were disporting themselves
clothed in the underclothing of the nymphs; and,
in some instances, tearing the garments up so that
they might divide them. Others wore indulging in
that horse-play so dear to all larrikins, and
throwing the girls about like so many ninepins,
which latter, in their turn, seemed rather to enjoy
the fan than otherwise. It is high time ” (writes
this eye-witness) “ that the authorities stepped in
and put a stop to such disgraceful proceedings, or
respectable citizens will no longer be able to take
their wives and families down the harbour,
but the prettiest watering places must be given
up entirely to the larrikin element.”
# # #
Wo could enter any Court of Justice to-morrow
and bring testimony—hosts of it —which would
establish every statement in this article beyond
all contradiction. We not only could, but wo
would do so, had we any confidence in obtaining
fair play and the benefit of British laws as ad-
ministered in every other part of Her Majesty’s
dominions. But we decline to enter a court which
is neither a court of justice nor a court of law.
* • *
By giving publicity to these occurrences —or
rather recurrences — wo have discharged one duty
of public journalists. The people of Sydney will
now understand that the “ Larrikin Residuum ” is
not quelled nor abashed, but that on the contrary it
fully realizes and is determined to make the most
of the encouragement afforded it by a supine press,
a friendly jury, and a pedantic court. _ But
this ia not now sufficient. It becomes requisite to
THE HON. W. J. FOSTER, M L A., MINISTER OF JUSTICE.


HOP BI T T
ABE
THE PUREST AND
MEDICINE EVER M.
They are Compounded J
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake a
The Oldest, Beat, most Bern
Valuable Medicines in the 1
in addition, contain all tin
most effective curative prop«
other Bitters, being the grej
Regulator, Blood Purifier
and Health Restoring Agent
Ask your Druggist or ]
Do not suffer yourself, o
friends suffer, but use, and ui
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters
drugged, drunken nostrum
Purest and Best Medicine i
and no person or family shou
out it.
VALUABLE TEU
If you are suffering from p
or languishing on abed of sic
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cm
If you are simply ailing,
Weak and Dispirited, with
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Ret
If yon are a Minister, and
taxed yourself with your past
or a Mother, worn out wit
work.
Hop Bitters Will Hes'
If you are a man of b
labourer, weakened by thest
every-day duties, or a man
toiling over your midnight v
Hop Bitters Will Stren
If you are suffering from
or drinking, any indiscretioi
tion, or are young and growi
as is often the case,
Hop Bitters Will Bel:
If you are in the worksl
farm, at the desk, anywher
that your system needs Clea
ing, or Stimulating, withoi
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your bh
impure, pulse feeble, your
steady, and your faculties v
Hop Bitters Will Give Tot
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elega
and refreshing flavouring fo
drinks, impure water, &c.
them harmless, and swee
mouth, and cleansing the st
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENB
with
HOP BITTI
and you will have no sioknesi
MONTBPIORB. STUA
65 PITT STREET, STDNI
General Agents for An
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA
MOST DELICIOUS FJ
FREE FROM ALL ADUI
suggest a remedy. As it now seems hopeless to ex-
pect anything from the wealthier and consequently
more powerful section of the press and as it
would be contrary to recent experience to reckon
upon either the vigilance and activity of the ponce,
or the operation of the higher legal courts the
influences to which recourse may be had are
limited in number.
* * *
The first of these is, undoubtedly, parental con-
trol. There is but too much reason to believe
that tho young larrikins, male and female, are the
offspring 1 of degraded parents. 13ut if such hops-
less cases were compelled to do as Bismarck
said the besieged Parisians should, “ stew in their
own gravy,” the injury to society would be in-
finitely less than it is to day. A recognised haunt
could be left to them entirely, as the police wink
at certain public-houses, tho permitted rendez-
vous of habitual criminals. In such ease, decent
parents would know what spot would be tabooed
to their young folks when bent on holiday-
making. Tho real mischief is in the for-
tuitous mixing up of thoughtless and innocent
young with tho determinedly vicious, and the
insidious influence so obtained by peraicioua
example. Young people are very impressionable,
highly imitative, and easily excited. Given a lot
of ringleaders to show the way to alternate drink-
ing with romping, and make romping merge into
indecency, and a certain proportion of quite well-
meaning young people, commencing the day witn
no thought of harm, are certain to end it by being
reckless. It is clear, after all that has transpired,
that no parent who has any regard for the
future of an adolescent son or daughter should
permit such to go pleasuring without some com-
panion of mature years and ascertained character.
# # *
But it would not bo sufficient that individual
precaution be thus taken. The evil has been
proved to have attained such induration that the
Government of the colony ia called upon to inter-
fere. There ia evidently a formidable body of
young people, who are either uncared for or past
parental control, who force their presence upon
out-door gatherings wherever accessible, and are
fast rendeiing the pleasure of open-air excursions
too much tainted with indecorum to be available
for decent people. One great stimulus to the
outrageousnoss of the larrikin contingent at public
pleasure grounds ia undoubtedly the facilities
which are afforded for obtaining intoxicating
drinks. More lads have been brutalized—more
girls undone-by this cause than by any other.
When a simple lad sees others drinking # hard
stuff,” and making a sort of bravado of doing so,
ho is very ready to emulate the example set; while
innocent girls, seeing others of their own sex andage
unconcernedly quaffing beer a»d spirits as a matter
of course, are easily led to believe that it is the
usual thing, customary at the place—especially as
tho precise quality of the girls who are setting the
example is not likely lo be comprehended by their
simple inexperience. A great deal would be
attained wore the Government, which has just
passed a Licensing Bill in the teeth of the lower
sort of publicans, to enact next session that on
public holidays the licenses of liquor shops within
a certain radius of recreation grounds should be
suspended. This would, n« doubt, be felt
as a severe blow by the proprietors of such
places,—one of whom, but a tunc
before the great Clontarf libel action
shamed all such persons into pretences of
anxiety for orderly conduct, openly stated, when
rallied for not so embellishing his grounds as to
attract respectable visitors, ‘‘Oh! I don t care
about that sort; they don’t pay mo half so well
as the other kind.” There can be no doubt that
this reasoning is sound, and that the larrikin
crowd and their imitators are a source of profit
to the publican managers of pleasure grounds
far transcending the gain derivable from quieter
folks. The larrikin saves every shilling he can
master for one or two grand carnivals during the
year, and on these occasions flings it about
unsparingly in drink. Let tho Government
knock out a stave from the keg that stirs
up the latent devilry, and a great advance will
have been made.
The Hon. W. J. Foster, Minister of
Justice.
An accomplished scholar and a gentleman by
birth, Mr. W. J. Poster has long enjoyed the
esteem of tho community in which he to-day
occupies one of the highest positions of trust.
Educated at Cheltenham School and Trinity Col-
lege, Dublin, ho distinguished himself by his
aptitude for what the Scotch term “ the human-
ities” at both stages of his pupilage, taking
honours at each University term examination.
After a period of Continental travel, Mr. Foster
definitely decided upon an Australian career, and
arrived at Sydney in the year 1854, entering at
once upon farming pursuits. The bent of his
genius did not, however, lie in this direction.
Tho promptings of an active _ mind made
him impatient of merely bucolic occupation,
and tho influence of hia early training dis-
posed him towards some pursuit in which his
former studies and successes would bo of avail.
Accordingly, after a few years, he entered upon
the study of the law, and in May, 1858, having
passed the requisite examinations, was admitted
to the Bar of this colony. A year later he was
appointed Crown Prosecutor, a post which he
retained, except during an interval from 1862 to
1864. In 1870, he succeeded the late Mr. Butler,
Q. 0., as Crown Prosecutor for the metropolitan
district, a position which he held with credit to
himself, and satisfaction to the colonists, up to
1877, when ho was invited to accept a portfolio as
Attorney-General in the Farnell Administration,
with a seat in the Legislative Council. On the
fall of that “ Ministry of Good Intentions,” Mr.
Foster, in compliance with precedent, took his
seat upon tho front Opposition benches, and was
regarded as one of the best planks in the Opposi-
tion ship. Tho Premier evidently agreed with
this estimate, for he seized tho first opportunity
that offered to transfer Mr. Foster to his own
vessel. A good deal of exasperation was felt by
Mr Foster’s Opposition associates at this defec-
tion, but the new Minister for Justice, having
obtained a seat in the Assembly as representative
of Newtown, seemed to pay very slight attention
to the outcry. As a matter of fact, tho Opposition
had become as heterogeneous as the Ministry. The
coalition of the two old parties had thrown
political organization into a condition of chaos.
The Opposition was reduced to complete impo-
tence, and as Mr. Foster was connected with the
various members who composed it by the slenderest
of ties, it is not possible justly to blame him if he
considered that he could more usefully serve the
country by having a voice potential in the guidance
of its affaiis thin in futilely biting his thumbs at
proceedings which ho could not prevent or control.
It is certain that what the Opposition lost the
country gained. Mr. Foster is an Irishman,
having been born at Rathiscar, County Louth, the
residence of his uncle, John Leslie Foster, Baron
of the Irish Court of Exchequer. On hie mother’s
side he ia descended from the same stock as that
which produced the great Duke of Wellington.
Our engraving is from an excellent photo, by h ree-
man, of George-street.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The University we’ve got in Town.”
The University folk having got the increased endow,
ment, they have been so long quietly but assiduously
aiming for, have shown no hesitation in setting about
spending it. But we think most people will rather ap-
prove tho giving of tho £5OOO extra, than tho soheme
put forth, ostensibly authoritatively, in the S.M.H. of
Monday last. Tho first thing that will strike the in-
quirer will be, whether it ia intended to appoint in
classics, mathematics, and chemistry, Professors addi-
tional to Professors Badham, Gurnet, and Liversidge,
or give each of them an increased salary and a few more
assistants. The proposed Medical School will be a great
boon. It would be a disgrace, if with facilities for study
shortly to be presented at the Sydney Hospital and P.
A. Hospital, no advantage were to be taken of
them. The law and history lecture* are not so encourag-
ing—though a law lecturer is better than a law school.
It is to be feared that there will not bo enough money
to engage other than a “Magnall’s Questions ’ man,
for the teachership in Modem History, who would be
worse than nobody. Let us hope, in the Classical
School, German language and literature will not bo
shunted into a subordinate position by being entrusted
to “ Dummkspfe." But surely it is a wrong thing to
make no provision in the only University in N.S.W.
(veritably the Wales of Australia in respect of its
Mines) for a School of Miaes and a School of Civil
Engineering I One can hardly regard the Ballarat ;n“
stitutionas a model, but yet, it is more creditable to
have made a poor attempt at supplying our own wants
in these respects, than to have mac 1 e none at all. It
is to be feared the management of tho University is not
what it should be. There has never been any interest
taken in the higher education of the masses. The
policy of giving professors very good salaries, whether
they teach tea or one hundred students, is evidently a
failure —there intervenes an inertia which is asphyxiat-
iug to zeal. The Scotch policy would appear to work
best, viz., to pay the Professor a small salary, and let
him make up the rest from his students’ fees. By this
means the incapable Professor goes to the wall—sur-
vival of the fittest. By our method, a Professor may
bo an ass, yet there is nothing to be done with him.
His classes may dwindle, yet he retains his full income.
It is the same with tho heads of the Affiliated Colleges
they get the Government assistance whether tho col-
lege holds ten or one hundred scholars. If a man of
business said to his workmen, “ I’ll pay you as much
for one day's work as for one week’s," could be wonder
if he were left to do five days’ work himself ? Yet,
that is our policy with the University and Affiliated
Colleges. And it appears to bo a failure.
Descent made Easy.
The common hangman is paid £ll4 a year. The Dis-
charged Prisoners’ Aid Society receives annually a
grant of £5O. There seems something anomalous about
those figures when contrasted. The straight deduction
from them would be that the State reckons that it
costs less to cure than to kill prisoners. This is
obviously a fallacy. Were every offender on oonvio-
tion hanged right away, there would be a great
economy to society. Batin civilized communities snob
peremptory methods have fallen into disfavour.X Tho
recognised theory now is that the worst use one can
put a man to is to hang him. The object of punish-
ment is new declared to be deterrent and reformatory.
The theory is admirable, The practice, unluckily, is
deplorable. We have already pointed out the defects
of our prison system ; how, by the imperfections of the
inner management of gaols, prisons continue to be, not
reformatory institutions, but colleges for the inculoa-
tion of criminal habits. The Discharged Prisoners’
Aid Society has come into existence in consequence of
a recognition that the State does not complete its work.
After the criminal’s period of detention has expired,
the Government bands him over any gratuity which
ho may have become entitled to during his incarcera-
tion, and washes its hands of him. It has long been
known that a frequent result of this plan is that the
unlucky wretch, tainted and conscious, unable
to give any satisfactory account of himself,
fails to find employment. His sensibilities are
wounded by the rebuffs which he inevitably
meets with. He becomes discouraged, callous,
resentful against society ; and either seeks oblivion in
drink, or turns his mind to the lessons he has learned
in gaol from) experienced criminals respecting easy
methods of getting a livelihood. He falls again, never
to recover himself. The Prisoners* Aid Society, insti-
tuted to take the discharged criminal where the State
leaves him, does its best. Put, dependent on voluntary
contributions, not readily given towards an object which
affords no distinction, and is invested with no romance,
its resources are straitened and its opportunities
circumscribed. On the whole, it fails to work any ap-
preciable benefit. But, ia fact, it has no business to
exist. The functions it attempts are beyond the per-
formance of voluntary effort. The State is allowed to
shake off its responsibilities too soon. Either the
funds of the Society should be liberally supplemented—
supplemented by sums equal to the salaries of a wilder-
ness of hangmen—or the State should do the work
itself. At present the very gaol officials often provide
out of their own pockets pecuniary succour which saves
many a reoently.disoharged criminal from blacksliding.
There are in the present Assembly some seventy
members who have never yet done one thing to signalize
their possession of intellectual faculties. Let but one
of them concentrate his attention on this one subject,
and good results would follow. Follow-my-leader is
not statesmanship. A representative man should do
something, however small, to assert his individuality,
and to benefit the community which has trusted him.
“Unbecoming.”
We are pleased to see that, since our leader was printed,
the Heeall has, at last, spoken almost plainly about
a larrikin performance. Tho Journeymen Tailors had
a pionic, at Chowder, last Monday. We didn’t go, of
course. Exiursions at £2OOO each for tho double
journey are now beyond our means. But it appears the
Herald actually either sent a man there and allowed
him to describe what ho saw, or else permitted the
account gathered from the police to appear without
much “toning down.” Tho larrikins who intruded
upo a the tailors’ pleasuring, it appears “ did not conduet
themselves in a becoming manner.” Judging by the
details, most people would agree, and ‘'word-painters"
might be impetuous enough even to put it, that the
rowdies behaved in an infamous and disgusting manner.
We wonder what a larrikin mob would have to do, be-
fore the Herald would drop pulpit gags and use tho
dictionary of “ worldlings.” In this instance, the larri-
kins scoured the visitors’ football and kept it: they
kicked it among the people in the pavilion ; they took
possession of the aforesaid pavilion and jostled the
dancers, shoving one another against them ; they then
tried dancing themselves, gliding round the floor cud-
died in one another’s arms, in that affectionate and
elegant manner peculiar to the craft, and which can
only he nourished into full perfection under tho
sheltering patronage of a discriminating legal
dignitary. Tho women got intoxicated and
fought, and fell on their backs drunk.
These proceedings wore certainly “unbecoming”—
quite as unbecoming, in fact, as a faded ribbon or an
ugly bonnet, or non-attendance at a tea-meeting. Per-
haps more so. Other interesting incidents happened,
and no arrests were made. Hooray 1 for the Inspector-
General of Police, the Supreme Court, square juries,
and harbour-side picnic grounds ! But, Great Cassar !
if we had written that account 1 Why, we would have
had to pay the National Debt, or go to prison till tho end
of next century. The penetrating legal mind would
discover that we wrote it to damage the saintly char-
acter of the proprietor or to excite prurient sensation,
and a lot of truthful witnesses would swear it never
happened. And this would be easy* to prove. They
would only have to torn to the Daily Telegraph, and
there can be read this immortal record: “ A pleasant
day was spent: not a single incident occurring through-
out the day to mar its harmony! ’’ Has Granny’s
cast-off mantle descended upon the D.T. ? That report
is quite in her former style.
Pious William.
Thi rapid extension of liberal ideas and progressionist
principles among the Gorman people has already dealt
a staggering blow to the autocratic system, of which
the Emperor William is, in the Federal Empire, the
Divas, and Prince Bismarck the High Priest. Ever
since the cessation of the war with France, the Kaiser
and his able minion have been engaged in a resentful
struggle to obtain the mastery over the only organi-
zation within the Empire which refused to acknowledge
the supremacy of the Monarch. The close of the war
with the French placed not only that nation, but the
German nation also, at the feet of the triumphal
Kaiser. The attention of the ordinarily philosophical
Teutons had been for a space diverted from political
and social considerations, by the f urore of combat and
the excitement of triumph. The war-devil had set
their blood afire, and their Chief Murderers were as
Gods in their eyes. For awhile. By degrees they
recognized that these gods of their making were
“jealous gods ; ” gods greedy of power and deference ;
arbitrary and vain-glorious gods, whom nothing short
of complete submission and humility would satisfy.
The war-born deity, Kaiser William, would allow the
Gorman people to have “no other God but me," and
entered upon a contest with the rival man-god, the
Pope. Plenty of people were ready to take up this
warfare, but all the while the spirit of liberty was
silently replacing the fighting fury. The German
people, falling back into their accustomed grooves of
thought, perceived that they had been helping to rivet
chains upon themselves which before they had been
endeavouring with infinite pains to loosen. The
impulse for political freedom and human pro-
gress has proved so strong, that the venerated
hero has lost his factitious hold upon his
subjects’ imagination. Democratic principles have
grown with startling rapidity. The last elections have
exposed to the Government the fact that if could no
longer hoodwink the people and secure as representative
men, a dlerie of humble tools and obsequious courtiers.
The position has become so critical that Pious William
has had to acknowledge a check, and sacrifice one of his
beat pieces. He has found himself under the necessity
of abandoning the pretence he has hitherto found so
efficacious, of being the Protestant champion. Bather
than permit the principles of modern liberalism to gain
additional headway, he prefer* to patch up a compact
with his rival Divus, the Superstition God, the Pope of
Borne. Combined, the two may hope to cajole and
coerce humanity, and divide the plunder. Pious Pro-
testant William figuring as the friend and adherent of
the Pope of Borne, furnishes a spectacle to make the
world stare, ponder, and laugh. The conspiracy against
freedom and progress may produce much suffering, but
in the end it will surely fail.
Remorse and Hallelujah.
That tho population of N.S.W. has a heavy reckoning
to discharge with respect to tho unhappy aborigines
whom they have displaced, is admitted on all hands.
Any attempt, therefore, at making reparation should be
looked upon with a sort of approbation. At tho same
time, even the most complacent must confess that, in a
caso like this, although responsibility may be inherited,
amends cannot he vicariously made. There are
sprinkled over the colonies, Aboriginal Missions, under
divers names, at which establishments the machinery,
of compensation is supposed to grind out atonement
for all hands at a very low rate per head. Almost
without exception these places are cruel blunders. The
wretched relics of the aboriginal tribes are gathered
into these folds, and forthwith stuffed with dogma and
swaddled in discipline utterly repugnant to their
natural bent. The children of tho forest and plain,
with tho wild nomadic blood yet coursing in their veins,
are not proper subjects tor the school room bench.
The intentions of those who so coop them, and try to fit
npon them the customs of an artificial civilisation, ar e
mo doubt good. But.their kindness is cruel, and their
proselytizing is folly. The blacks, subdued by starva-
tion, are as tame as other wild creatures similarly
disciplined. But submission and docility, under such
circumstances, are not wholesome or natural. The
poor wretches, naturally imitative, will readily enough
conform to whatever is expected of them. Tboy will
oray and string out godly gags with all good will, so
long as that is what ihey find expected
of them as a quid pro quo tor their meals.
But they would just as readily do solemn
swearing, if they were offered equal inducements ; aud,
as a matter of fact, a mission black, let loose and
giavitited towards a bush shanty, enters upon a brutal
carouse without tbe faintest hesitation, and speedily
shows that all the lasting results of his teacher's wc.'ll-
meaut labours have beau to enlarge his vocabulary and
endow him with a wider choice of profanity. The
aborigines are, indeed, a puzz’o, and it is difficult to
determine whether it is really better that the charge of
them should bo entrusted to poor rautiug folks, sincere
in their ridiculous way, and near on a level iu intelli-
gence with their charges, or given to superior men who
would treat them iu a plain, practical, common-sense
fashion, by preserving as much as may bo of the habits
and customs which, at least, permitted them to exist
before the white man brought rum, bullets, and Cant
to blast them like a stricken tree.


VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERCEi
COALCLIFF C(
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplie
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered witlu:
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and fears kept well freef
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky fl
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic desid
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoa
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the xmwholesome fumes given o
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED tfO WHOLES^
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W 1
482 1.t.484 GEORGE S'
THE
if > MARKET CLOTH H
OPPOSITE THE FRUIT MARI'
' T. > ■ .
ESTABLISHED IBG4- .
A LARGE and WELL SELE
w66lLENS,_new patt
D I RFC T FROM THE MANUFA
.■ FASHIONABLE
AND ,
FIRST-CLASS CAR
TO ORDE R.
ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitum
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
DAMP RESISTING SOL
[f yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER
dcrs them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be £
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chan
n i N EW DA
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham.
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against any persons copying or
uniting same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any
way infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, Waltham Mass.—Adv.
Our Black Brudder.
It will probably surprise—and most assuredly amuse —
our readers to learn that The Bulletin has started an
Aboriginal Mission School in its commodious 7x6 back-
yard, and that the results so far are hopeful. Up to
the present date, the mission simply consists of a sore-
eyed, salmon-coloured girl and a bottle of Day and
Martin’s blacking, but the Looard will provide ; and i
ho don’t, we’ll ready up a couple of black trackers. As
we must give an exact account of our stewardship, just
to let people see we are not skinning the noble savage
alive, we have much pleasure in issuing our
ADDRESS TO THE YOUNG OP AUSTRALIA.
Dear Young Friends— (pass up the syrup)—Many
of you, I know, love the dear Black children you read
about in the Report each year, and will bo glad to hear
more about them in this Report. You will be pleased
to hear hownicely some of them are getting on at School
and in their work, and that more of them have
given themselves to the Looard; and you will
also rejoice to know that, as far as the giving is con-
cerned, the Looard has got all the worst of a bad
bargain. You will furthermore be glad to hear that
little Tommy Tarpot staked himself badly whilst
attempting to shin over a Chinaman’s face and prig his
watermelons. Verily, the wages of sin is debt and tram
tickets.
Those who loved dear Annie, and helped to support
her will feel sad to hear that she is gone; but their
sadness will be mixed with joy as they read of her happy
departure to be tor ever with the Looard,
But His ’oly will be done. Annie took long 15's in
boots; and when the corned beef and cabbage was passed
along, she had the carnivorous appetite of a shipwrecked
emu. She has soared with angel wings on high, and the
price of pickled beef has dropped tuppence.
It has cheered us much, in our loving care for the
little dark ones, to find that the contributions still roll
in, and a single glance at our new necktie, or at the
empty -bottle heap in our back-yard, will prove to the
most sceptical living man that we are earnest workers,
and the new Licensing Act is simply dam rubbish.
Many of you, dear children, have missionary boxes in
your own homes (or, if not, you can take this as a
gentle hint that you ought to); and doubtless when
your aged sire goes out to * see a man, or vote for
Charley Roberts, you dip into the till, and make the
soul of the dark ones glad by your generous offering of
eighteen-pence, which will enable us to half sole and
heel our boots, and perhaps rake in a ticket for one of
Hardie and Gorman’s land sale luncheons.
Do you always remember, dear young friends, to
nrav for your special little boy or girl—especially girl/
But. oh! how terrible it will be for you to pray for your
black friends, and try to keep them into the fold, and
yet stay outside in the rain yourselves.
The little heathen will then make merry within him-
self and cry out with a loud voice ‘ Va ! va ! twig her
seven-pence ha’penny stockings,’ and if you attempt to
creep under the canvas ard enter the fold, ha will sit on
your head, and the hired assistants will boot your form
into everlasting darkness. . .
You would like to see how happy the little abor gmes
are up our way (and so would the abonginet). They
enjoy a game of play as much as you do, and Smudowu
Paddy has the most mysterious way of holding four
aces when playing euchre that you can well imagine.
He mucks your loving pastor about seven times a day.
Please pray for Paddy that he may see the error of his
ways, and that yours truly may ‘ flvsh his (Paddy s)
shirt at the next sitting. We want you all to go on
praying— but, above all things, to go on collecting.
Only last week a circus was in the neighbourhood,
and yet we had not the wherewithal to buy the tickets
for ourselves and our neighbour s wife, one Mrs John-
son. Our case of schnapps is also out (read Paul to the
Californians, touching win© for the stomach-ache); and
our cellar in general is about as empty as a burst
balloon or the head of a Northern politician.
Charcoal Jimmy is "tall” at prayers. He can give
any man his weight in this camp fifty yards, and pray
him a hundred straight without turning a single hair.
Last Christmas Eve, Jimmy had a special fit. und it
would have warmed the pious cockles of your >*earts to
hear him sling the Scriptures. . .
He was endeavouring to entice the finny denizens of
the deep by means of a piece of lodging-house hash
and a bent pin, and as he banged his heels into the
bank he lifted up his silvery baritone voice and said :
«■ Oh Looard ! give us a bite. Thou knowest I have had
nothing but dry bread and butter and postage-stamp
gum for the past six days. So send us a rock cod a
big fat ’un, Looard—one that’ll go 14ft. before he s ready
for frying—but none of them darned little squids that
Missus cooks on wash days ” Jimmy was so earnest
It would have done you good, my dear children, to hear
him But he didn’t catch even a wall-eyed prawn, and
the way he cursed as he oame home was enough to raise
the scalp off Captain Cook's old statue.
Pray that the Looard may pour out his holy spirit
upon our mission. Since this accursed Licensing Act
came into force, we can’t get a single tot on Sundays.
Particularly pray for Walker’s whisky. We hear it
is good to reform our erring friends, and doesn t make
your head ache half as bad as shandies. _
There are still many Black people living in this wild,
heathen camp, but we will bring them into the fold as
soon as God sends grace, and soup meat becomes a little
° h The?e are several children amongst this crowd ,; and
oh ! will it not be nice when they are all brought to the
Looard. You bet your boots it will; and then we 11
educate them further still, until they are able to drink,
and curse, and swear, and thieve, just the same as the
most enlightened white man amongst After this
they will go to gaol for seven years, and in course of
time be haugecj-while white men. who have done things
just as bad, and worse, are let off:. [North Shore case
to May ] the Looard give you all a great blessing, dear
young friends. Your little Black friends pray for you
night and day, and often longer.
And now. my dear kyiad Ker-ristian friends, let me,
before I leave ofi writing, draw your attention to the
scofflugs of a worldly newspaper, published in this dis-
trict, which tries to divert us from the Good Work.
In my last report. I told you of the numerous happy
deaths which have occurred among my dark children
daring the past year. You will particularly remember
my affecting description of death-bed No. 145—that of
cross-eyed Eilen.the soulful giu who was always praying,
when she wasn’t drinking tanglefoot. Well, the news-
paper, which I may ted you is the Bugaboo Brass
B “ N lt death-bed wedding. The bride, a
lovely aboriginal of seventeen, in the last stage of con-
sumption. lay patiently awaiting the end. The groom,
whose malady was phthisis, had the regulation rattle
in his throat, and was in a township 14 miles away. But
the telephone connected these moribund hearts, and
through it the minister of the Bugaboo New Jerusalem
Zion Jasper Church whispered : * Kitty, dost thou take
Billy for thy wedded husband ?’ and over the te ephote
floated the soft answer: * Baal gammon. Billy, wilt
thou take Ellen until death do thee part ? Yowi,
said Billy * Then gimme the fees, and I pronounce ye
on-.' said the minister. There was a slight noise heard
at the telephone—a little crick. The electric angel of
mercy had done its work, hut it had broken its heart.
And as the sun went down, and with its dying ghory
coruscated the evanescent shadows with its wealth of
ruby gold”—[but here we stop the engine. We love
and believe in the Aboriginal Mission biz.— Ed. B J
Be virtuous and you will he sappy. Rally up for the
good cause —rally up for the lamb —rally up for your un-
worthy agent—rally up for your agent’s present wife and
family—rally up for Local Option-rally up for the saddle
coloured girl who says she wants to be an angel, and
with the angels sing, and who can bake dampers with
anything her size in Christendom. Rally up for
Deuteronomy, Bar-Jona-Sim, Peter Campbell, and
all the other bush prophets—rally up for trial by
jury, and the discreetest forms of smallpox—rally up
for bigger slates at the wayside inns-rally up for the
woman whositteth ‘strad legs' on thescarlet-coloured
jackass—rally up for Balaam's ass, and Piddington
rally up for the nigger straight and plain, with, his feet
washed —rally up for everybody and for everything, but
above all things, send in the good old greed to
Your
LOVING PASTR.
830 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
We learn that Mr. F. E. C. Hopkins, author of
"All for Gold,” has published, not in London, but at
Echuca, a little book of 100 pages entitled “ Confessions
of a Cynic: Social, Moral, and Philosophical.” We
have not even seen the brochure, but hope F.B. C.H. will
shortly send it along.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Creawick mines are expected to pay a quar-
ter of a million in dividends daring the present year.
So the Balmoral reefs are not all moonshine, as
stated in the Melbourne papers. Bennett cleaned up
1290 z. 9dwt. 12gr. smelted gold from 65 ions stone
Adelaide men have bought Bourke’s and the Fanny
Parnell reefs, Tomora, for £24,000 There were no
prisoners for trial at last Cooktown assizes. And yet
all the Cooktown men aren’t in gaol Four Sandhurst
larrikins, said to have broken into the house of a
woman of indifferent character named Meadows, and
assaulted her, have been committed for trial A
£25,000 Are last week at Invercargill (N.Z.), It broke
out on the premises of Mr. Hanna, Dee-street......lt is
said to be dreadful punishment to have to live on
Maryborough (N.Q.) bread and water In a recently-
published illustrated journal for children, issued by an
eminent London firm, appears an engraving under
which is printed “ Adelaide, a large town of Australia.”
About a dozen houses situated on the sea-beach, an
immense round tower in the centra of them, two or
three nondescript trees, and one man with a small dog,
complete the picture A man arrested at Milton
(Queensland), on Saturday, for using threatening
language, fall down in an epileptic fit while being taken
to the lock-up, and died shortly afterwards .We
notice from the local paper that a party of Wild Liver
miners “ have effectually wiped out a goodly number of
the black devils,” by whom a couple of diggers were
speared at the Great Western At Bourke, two men
named Hunt and O’Qrady, fought the latter starting
the row. O’Grady fell, smashed his skull, and died.
Verdict: manslaughter Several ladies have had
their pockets picked while travelling recently between
Wellington and Sydney. It is thought the robberies
were committed at a refreshment station Mr. T. A.
Jones, the Town Clerk of Coouamble, has resigned.
The relations between him and the aldermen have
been rather strained of late Oie, found on the
surface eight miles from Dubbo, assays 16dwts. gold
and soz. silver to the ton Some nigger troopiers,
who lately deserted from the “foorce" at Cooktown,
have been giving the Wild Kiver folks much trouble....
The celebrated Tyrconucl and Lizzie Redmond reefs,
Hudgkiuson River, have bien bought by a company for
£24,000 That splendid mining property, the Ida p.c.,
Maytowu, Palmer, is to be floated here On the Tato
river there are over 5000 loads tin washdirt, stacked.
Tee population of the field is very small. Beef 4d to
5d per lb; population, GO to 70; ‘‘no deaths, no
marriages; but we shortly expect some births, and so
ng for rain.” Creswiok mints la-.t year paid
£140,630 dividends, treble the previous year’s yield. Gold
raised, 73,979 ox; value £3o4,oso...TbeNeardie, (Q ) Anti-
mony Co. have at last managed to get a balance at tho
right side of the ledger. They hope to declare a dividend
next year J. B. Fenn, clerk of Adelaide police court,
while climbing a ladder, placed some nails in his mouth.
The ladder slipped, and he fell to the ground, tho nails
being rammed against the roof of his mouth, one of them
cutting through to the nostrils. The in j nries were very
severe Near Aramac, (Q) some ruffians led a goat up to
a post in the main street, and after drenching it with
kerosene, set fire to it. This was done as “ a lark.”
An old gaol-bird with half-a-dozen aliases, cleverly gave
the police the slip near Rockhampton. Ho broke out
of an hotel where his custodian had put up, and next
morning was missing, as was the constable’s uniform
and revolver At Kinchella, Kempsey, a boy of 10,
named Saunders, didn’t know it was loaded, and shot
his youngest brother, aged 8, in tho beau. Part of the
child's skull was blown away, and death was instanta-
neous. The second accident under precisely the same
circumstances that has occurred within twelvemonths,
in that locality Tho overdrafts at the Bank of New
Zealand owing by Draper, Charters and Co., at the time
Charters bolted, amounted to between £21,000 and
£25,000 on the firm’s account and that of the individual
partners. People in N.Z. want to know why the bank
was so kind ? At Ballarat, a cook boiled the puddings
and cabbages together, and also managed to destroy 10
geese, at one of the hotels. Employer objected, and
cook got throe months’ gaol The new South Head
light, was being shipped by the s.s. Khedive in
November Telegrams say that the closing ceremony
of Joabert and Twopeay’s show at Perth, W.A., was
“ a brilliant affair.” However, it rather detracts from
the impression formed from those words to read, a little
lower down, that “1000 persons were present.” Since
the opening day the West Australian Customs and rail-
way receipts have increased fifty per cent. The
“Austrian Band” is on the spot. By tho way, there
seem to be as many “Austrian Bands” as there are,
“Mastodon Minstrels" or “Victoria Loftus”
troupes A sudden death under strange circnm-
jtauces is related by the Fielding (N.Z ) Guardian.
A married woman, named Streeter, saw a funeral pass,
Shejasked whose it was, and the cause of death ; and on
being informed it was heart disease, she dropped dead.
She had been suffering from a cardiac affection, and
the shock is supposed to have caused her death The
Campbblltown Herald says:—“We have some old
residents in this district. Mr. Thomas Herbert, of
Narellan, has been sixty-eight years on the one farm,
and looks as hearty as a man of fifty. May he live
many more years” The accumulated funds of the
Order of Oddfellows, in Victoria, amount to £185,000.
Mr. S. M'Caughey.of Coonong, has purchased Rock-
wood Station, on the Landsborough Kiver, (Q ), with
5000 head of cattle for £49,000 A 15-inch centipede
killed at Yass Andrew Timbrell, aged 61, one of the
oldest of Victorian pressmen, died last week in Mel-
bourne hospital, from Bright’s disease. He arrived in
1841 Mr. David Jolly, of Curriwiddi, is sending 1000
young cows by way of Blackall, Hughenden, and New
Flinders, to stock new country at the Gulf of Carpen-
taria Of the Europa’s cargo of Australian frozen.
meat, 20001 b. realised sjd. per lb., portions of the
balance since submitted fetching 6d. per lb
Wright, Heaton and Co.’s “ Wool Bill," to the
Railway Department at Dubbo, last month, was £lO,OOO.
At Hotham, Victoria, John Gorman, a larrikin,
arrested for insulting behaviour, stabbed the constable
six times in the leg with a pocket knife Robert Coyle
has been committed for trial, at Mndgee, for »n attempt
to blow up Fishburn and Morton’s sawmills, at Flat-
lands, by placing powder in the boiler. Coyle was
unsuccessful in a recent action at law against prosecu-
tors The Queensland Government are in possession
of evidence such as proves the final end of poor Mrs.
Watson to have been too horrid for civilised imagina-
tion. The reticence which veils details revolting
to surviving friends and to sympathising humanity
can only be commended Terrible outbreak of diph-
theria at Merino, Vic. Six members of one family
attacked. Two already dead 10,500 children vacci-
nated in Victoria during the September quarter of last
year Four kanakas are supposed to have murdered a
bailiff named Jeremiah Wortt, in Queensland.... Tin dis-
covered atMount Wells district, S.A , but not sufficient
to justify statements published at Adelade.
* * •
Tho new Koh-i-noor diamond, lately picked np
on the Kimberley diamond-field, is perfectly white and
flawless, weighs 150 carats, and is worth £lOO,OOO, and is
being shown in England to the public at so much a head.
It is doubtful whether it will ever find a purchaser in
Europe.,..The London Graphic this year issued 550,000
of its splendid Christmas number, and sold out.
The members of the Glen Innes Lodge of Free-
masons celebrated the annual festival of St. John on
Tuesday week, when the Worshipful Master and officers
for the ensuing year were installed.
There was a camel race at Wilcannia last meet-
ing, five starting, once round the course. W. Bond rode
the winner. One lay down at tho back of tho course,
and could not be persuaded to “ gee-up.”
A son and heir has been bom to Mr. Salmond,
the handsome and enterprising oarsman who quietly
got married while he was supposed to be training for
the last intercolonial eights, in which ho had a seat iu
the N.S.W. boat.
There was an aesthetic of Peru,
Of a greenery-yallery hue.
His mien was divine.
His morals supine,
And I is languor too truly “ too too.”


Business Announ
S
ILegal.J
HORTEE, FITZGERALI
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEE!
and
MACQUAEIE STEEEI
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal. —Mr. t. m.
SOLICIT©E, has cc
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
Cl H A R L E S
J (from Messrs. P. N. Eusi
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoi
Mountings, Ac. Off No. 517 Ge
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), !
N
OTI C E OF R
THOMAS WEBB i
GLASS MANUFA
and
IMPOETEES of EYEEY DESCi
and EAETHENW
Beg to announce that they have
EEM O V E
to
269 GEOEGE ;ST;
Next but One to the Mer
A magnificent selection of New
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
S. HEBBLET
416 GEOEGE STI
F.T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE ’
-AND-
DRI
X v
2 Hamilton S
SYX33ST
Public Comps
|IHE AUSTEALIAN JOIN
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with ;
£1,000,000. Eeserve Fu:
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman;
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; ,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wal
General Mana(
Vincent Wanostroeh
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE S
City and Suburban Branches: ’
Glebe, Bur woe
London Office: 18 King Will
BRANCHES IN NEW SO
Albury, Armidale, Ballina,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Co:
bran, Coonamble, Copeland Nort
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goul
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End ;
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rock
ton, South Grafton, Temora, 1
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallseii'
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn,
BRANCHES IN QUE
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Chart*
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mi
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Sta
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian C©l<
the World gener
I
HE MEECANTILE BAI
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP
Paid-up Capital,
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.l
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esc
H. E. Cohen, Esq,
MANAGER
F. A, A. Wih
SECRETARY
Hector Alios
BRANCHES
687 Georgs-street Brickfield 1
LONDON BANK
The National Provincial Baj
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Cha
Agent—G. H, Alexar
This Bank transacts all usual 1
Agency Business on the mostfavo
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances r
other nroduoe shipped to Englanc
SCOTTISH IMPERIL
•J COMPANY
CAPITAL ... ,
FIRE RISKS AT LOW!
NIXON & C
Chief Agents for F
7 BRIDGE STREET C
Sub-Agents wanted in Tow
READ TH
the baking
manufactured by US
AS DOCTOR
WAUG
Chemists and Dr
CAUTION.— In onr style (
sudden changes of temp<
and sunshine often intermingle
it is no wonder that our chi
relatives are so frequently tal
lected colds, half the death?
from this cause. A bottle of B
Syrup kept about your horn
will prevent serious sickness, s
and perhaps death, by the u
doses For curing Conaump
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, C:
of the Throat or Lungs, its su«
derful, as your druggist w
Syrup is now sold in every
this continent. Sample boti
regular size, 3s. Wholesale
BROTHERS.
STEER’S RE
AND
GINGER I
FOE
INDIGEST
AND
STOMACH COMFI
_ They are also much recomn
tive for Females, being safe, get
their operation, leaving no dispo
and being free from any tenden
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacture!
F. E. SLO
DISPENSING ESTABLISHME.
OXFORD STREET
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GREAT LIVER
And successful substitute for (
Podophyllum, and all Nc
Famous as a Restorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of tin
Famous for the Cure of all Diso
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Toni
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
BOXES, ONE £
Invented and Prepan
' J. S. A B R 1
At the Lahorat
434 [GEORGE STREET
COUGH WHILE YOU Cl
taking Dr. Thompson’s Ame
Linctns, you will not be able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 17
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appeti
tralian Relish, made by 1
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
Gr B
OE G E
(Formerly of Geor
IMPORTER 01
CHINA GLASS AND EA]
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY AECi
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERS!.
Tfc TTSTWOOVCI
SINGER’S SEWING
ARE MADE ONI
The Singer Manufactn
Head Offices
34 UNION SQUARE, NE'V
Chief Office in Ei
39 FOSTER LANE,
Depot for New Sout
No. 1 DARLING STORES, H.
SYDNEY.
EAST TEBMS—2a. 6d
AGENTS IN ETERI
LOCAL DEPO
BOLTON STREET, NE'V
WILLIAM STREET, B.
AUBURN STREET N.,
PEEL STREET, TAMW
VICTORIA STREET, GI
No. I DARLING STORE
HARBOUR S’]
JgINGER’S SEWING
TURNER &(
ARE THE
RECOGNISED
or THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANI
TIME PAYMEN
2s, 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per weel
And NO INTEREST cl
, 10 per cent, off for
BEWARE OF IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY " SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHIJ
HAYMARKE'
Singsrs bins


TO PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re-
cover your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
WANTED, SUBSCRIBERS to the Std-
ne? Bulletin. W. Eownkt, Bookselkr,
News Agent, and Stationer, Queensland, Brisbane.
OVERS OF GOOD PURE TEA!
We beg to draw your
PARTICULAR ATTENTION
. to the
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’S
PACKET TEAS,
Paoked|in pounds and hall.pounds
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
_ 2s. and 2s. 6d. per lb,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
___ 2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb,
PURE CEYLON TEA, ,
, 2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 PITT STREET (next School of Arts),
SYDNEY.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Em
AWAKW
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SOBIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Genova.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pals Ale.
NEW BUILDINGS. New Buildings. New
Buildings, 29, 31, 33 Park-street. CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LEVY kCO beg to
draw the attention of the Public generally, to the large
stock of English Furniture just opened, and now ready
for sale at their large and beautifully stocked Show
Booms, comprising Drawing and Dining Room Suites,
Plate glass door and other Wardrobes in Cedar, Walnut,
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all descriptions. Loo
and Square Tables, Bedsteads aud Bedding. Crockery,
Glassware, Holloware, and every requisite for parties
about to furnish. CENTRAL FURNISHING AB-
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
A GREAT Variety of Pianos by the best
makers just opened at the CENTRAL FUR-
NISHING ARCADE, and are to be sold on Time Pay-
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 31 Park-street.
NOW is your time for Bargains, as we have a
very large shipment of Austrian Furniture to
open, and must clear some of our large stock to make
room for now goods. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 33
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Time Payments from
£l5 up to £lOOO at the CENTRAL FURNISH-
ING ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-street,
H. LEVY & CO.
H ’ PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 Goorge-street.
G.
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLAED aud COLLAED
SOUPLETO,
BERDEN and
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and 00.,
And other First-class ;Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnnt cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO„
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs, ALEXANDRE PE EE et FILS, and othet
First-Class Makers.
O,
W. H. PAL I W
362 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYABD STEE
SYDNEY*
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Archbishop Vaughan proposes the holding of a
monster Fancy Fair in aid of the Building Fund of St.
Mary’s E.C. Cathedral. He expects to clear by it
£5OOO or £6OOO. At present the amount of indebtedness
on the Cathedral is £32,000.
The Eev. Dr. Talmage has been trying for eight
Sundays to pray for Quiteau, but “he can’t de it.”
His flock received his failure with “ great applause."
The rev. gentleman leaves the duty to the old ministers,
who are so good that they can do anything. He thinks
that two Presidents assassinated in one generation ought
to be sufficient. Ho proves Guitean’s sanity by the
fact that he put “ five bullets in his revolver j” and
he wants a law declaring “death in three days to any.
one shooting a President." A wonderful combination
of piety and pleasantry.
Dr. Cani, the first Bishop of the new E.C.
diocese of Eockhampton (Q.) was born at Imola, in fhe
Papal States, in 1831. Though a brilliant ecclesiastical
career opened up before him in the Eternal City he
preferred to devote himself to a missionary life, and
offered himself for that purpose to the late Bishop
O'Quinn on the occasion of the latter’s first visit to
Home after his appointment. I)r. Cani laboured as a
missionary on the Darling Downs for six or seven years,
and was subsequently appointed to the position of Ad-
ministrator of the Brisbane mission. His diocese con-
tains a population of 20,000 Catholics. Full of energy,
cordial in address, courteous to all classes, and abound-
ing in Christian charity, he is not only the friend of the
Eoman Catholic, but all sects hold him in the warmest
esteem.
Occasionally we get a peep behind the scenes.
Mr. Greenwood gave us one last Sunday when he said :
“ I used to be ou good terms with the clergymen of
Sydney (and am still), and they have told me many
things they never tell their congregations. They get
very confidential sometimes in their private gatherings :
and they no more believe in these orthodox dogmas as
written in their books, without some secret interpreta-
tion, or mental reservation, than I do." He added that
if they had been as free and honest in their investiga-
tions as ho had been, they would just as surely have
reached the very same conclusions. "Belore many
years,” said Mr. Greenwood, “ I believe the dogmas
now held by the Church will be repudiated by the civi-
lized world; clergymen will discard the white hand-
kerchief and black gown, and take their places he-
side schoolmasters and (newspaper men, as dissemi-
nators of knowledge." There were several newspaper-
men in the dress circle, and they shuddered.
Mr. Greenwood told his audience at the Royal,
last Sunday night, why he no longer believes in Chris-
tian dogmas. As it is not often a Baptist minister
turns politician, and then from Parliament steps on to
the Freethought platform, this was just what many
people wanted to know, and the building was crammed.
It was, be said, almost impossible to define exactly
what are the orthodox Christian dogmas, because all
churches differed about them, although they all said they
got their ideas from the one infallible source, the Bible.
This book was supposed to be a revelation from God, to
show men the way to salvation. But if God had any-
thing to tell men concerning their eternal welfare. He
would tell them in a way all could understand, and not
merely confide his plan of salvation to a few favourites,
upon whose efforts in spreading the information the fate
of the bulk of mankind would depend. The imper-
fections of the Bible indicated that it could not have
come from a perfect God, for as well as contradictions
of facts, it contained passages he never dared to read
ta wife or daughter. He, therefore, eould not regard
the Bible as either divine or infallible. If it was to be
commonly used, it should be made decent by expurga-
tion, as Shakespeare had been. Then, he could not
accept the doctrine of the Atonement. There was no
forgiveness, no blotting out an act, no atoning in
Nature. A man might repent an act and make repara-
tion, but could not avert the consequences by any
atonement. The idea of atonement came from animal
sacrifices offered by savages from the earliest ages, and
we could not believe that a God of love required such
offerings, especially the sacrifice of his own Son. Next,
he could not assent to the doctrine of eternal rewards
and punishments, as preached. Clergymen did not,
he believed, really credit the existence of
hell, although they preached it. Purgatory was
a far more rational idea. An earthly mother
would not consign her child to endless misery,
and was God’s love less than hers 1 Even the orthodox
idea of heaven seemed to him an idle and ignoble one.
The heaven he hoped for would be one more worthy of
God and of man; further than that, no man could say.
People asked : “ If you take away our religion, what do
you give m its place ?’* If a man thinks a thing is
wrong, he should let it go at once, without calculating
what he got in its place; but in answer to the question
he would say, "We offer you the whole universe of fact;
our religion ia the religion of fact; trust all that your
faculties tell you is true. Eeligion could not be taken
away, only false dogmas could; the truth would always
stand.” Mr. Greenwood then invited any one to ask
questions. Mr. E. A. Jones asked whether the lecturer
did net find equal difficulties in believing in the God of
Nature that he found in believing in the God of Christian-
ity. Mr. Greenwood said no; he could find no similar
cruelties ascribed to him. Mr. Jones asked : How was it,
then, that the God of Nature allowed small-pox and
other pestilences to take off thousands, including
children, who had never done wrong ? The lecturer
replied that, in his view, small-pox was not the work of
God so much as a result of the folly of man. As
regards pain and evil, he admitted he could not explain
their existence. The usual musical selections were
given.
The Brisbane Australian places over a para-
graph relative to the appointment of Mr. John Dillon
as a stipendiary magistrate the heading: “ Apostasy
Eewarded.”
“Is it wrong to cheat a lawyer ? ” was recently
very ably discussed by members of a debating society.
The conclusion arrived at was, that it was not wrong,
but impossible.
Complaints aro made in the States that wire
fenoes attract lightning. This often results in the
killing of stock, which imagine that the fence affords
protection from the storm, and huddle up close to it.
Great activity amongst the sewing machine
companies. It appears that the Australian maret has
been flooded with counterfeit imitations of the world-
renowned “ Singer,” of inferior construction and manu-
facture, under various names, which, by the way, were
very pointedly referred to in the judges’ report on the
Sydney Exhibition. And so the Singer Co. have gone
on the war-path, and have opened sub-depots in New-
castle, Bathurst, Goulburn, Tamworth and Grafton.
The chief dc.p6t for New South Wales is at No. 1 Dar-
ing Sydney. Mtest betting
1,000,000 to l, t on “ Signer." •
WAS SHE GUILTY?
A LEAP FROM THE JOURNAL OF AN OLD
PHYSICIAN.
[CONCLUDED FROM OUR LAST.]
"You think, Elder, this saint ”
He laughed bitterly. "So have I, too, once, lain in
the dost, praying, before her. Woe is to we that I did
it i Yes, yes, I think —I wish it was I—it is past. She
has undone me with her Madonna-like face. Women
with purchasable favours inspired me with aversion
after I had once looked in Melitta’s innocent child-eyes.
I lived onlv in her smile, I dreamed of heaven in possess-
ing her. Between us there stood an old, morose man —
one who had shown me great kindness, had loved
me like a sou, who, if ho had not been a peevish
invalid, would have been called a loveable, noble man.
He had married her from pity—a very young, poor,
forsaken thing, of noble birth—and for the princely
fortune he laid at her feet, asked her to keep his proud
old name stainless. They had lived here for years,
quiet friends. Envy itself could not say that Melitta
had, by look or word, broken the contract. In our
frivolous circles they called her by the name you gave
her —that must come involuntarily to any one who
looks in her wonderfully pure face. I do not know
what demon awoke the devilish longing to tempt the
virtue of this woman, of whom the greatest rakes
spoke with shy respect —to be the Pygmalion of this
living marble statue, whom I had only admired from
afar, in fleeting glimpses ah the opera. I installed
myself in the house of my relative, whose whimsicality
made me avoid him. I did everything—l confess it to
you with shame, Bernhard —to steal into the unsus-
pecting heart of this ohi'd in years and experience. I
succeeded in winning Melitta’s love. Yet I give you
my word of honour as a gentleman, it had never gone
beyond a wholly spiritual union between us. The world
naturally thought otherwise. Mocking congratulations
from my friends —that nearly led to duals —showed that.
Meanwhile, my last resources were exhausted. What
was left of honourable feeling revolted from calling for
assistance from the man whose wife’s love I had stolen.
Melitta’s fame suffered from my stay, vet I could not
voluntarily break the bond between us. How long could
such relations continue undiscovered by her husband ?
And after the innmasking, what would become of the
unfortunate woman? In point of honour I knew the
count was inflexible; for this he had spurned his only
child. What, then, had his wife to expect from his
Spartan heart ? To deliver myself from all these
troubles by one energetic act, I came, after long
struggles, to despairing resolution. A rich banker, my
chief creditor, had intimated to me the way in which
I could rescue myself from my financial dilemma. His
only daughter was pretty and loveable, and wanted
position: I needed money—we were even. I tried to
persuade Melitta of the necessity of this step. Her
threatened honour and my financial embarrassment
absolutely required it. She behaved like a child, with
true woman’s logic, that recognizes no iron ‘ must,’
heeds no argument of reason. The more I assured her
that I should make the sacrifice chiefly for her peace,
that we should in no way be separated, I should put
only a seeming barrier between ns to rest secure in her
love —the more sensibly I spoke to her, the more
violently she aoonsed me of faithlessness, the more
passionately she sobbed. In despair I gave up bringing
the excited woman to reason.
“ * Very well then, Melitta, there is one alternative,’
said I; • your selfish love will not allow me the rest
another woman might secure me. I will seek one your
jealous doubts cannot touch; you drive me to a peace
nothing can disturb.’
" She was beside herself. ‘ There mart be a way of
escape. Oh, patience I patience 1 ’ she implored, wring,
ing her hands. ‘For God’s sake, have but a little
patience. I must, I will find deliverance, or go with
you the road that leads to eternal peace.’
“ Lost in love and anguish, she lay upon my
breast. Approaching steps startled us from this
sweet dream. A shadow fell over the floor. I
looked hastily up. The count’s tall, somewhat
bent figure stood by Melitta. He laid his hand upon
her head. A string in the piano broke with a clang.
We looked at each other, and grew pale. Melitta’s head
bad sank under the count’s hand as under a heavy
weight. I knew it was the guilty conscience. My
heart beat as if it would burst. The count greeted me
with the courtesy that had become second nature to
him as diplomat at various European courts. It took
the place of the frank cordiality he had shown
me. To-day there was some reserve in his bearing
as he challenged me to the usual game of chess.
Melitta sat bent over her work while we placed the
chessmen. I saw heavy tears drop over pale face. The
count played abstractedly.
"‘Gardez la reine,’ he said, too earnestly for the
occasion, startling me, but quietly continued: ‘ You
have the advantage; no wonder you have won. I give
up measuring my power against yours. You go from
the battle conqueror; the vanquished must withdraw
at the right time with dignity.’
"With a singular smile he rose, bowed politely to me,
went up to Melitta, and locked her in his arms. I saw
the slight figure shudder and tremble, her lips press
convulsively together, and I had to stand by, gnashing
my teeth in powerless rage, not daring to tear the be-
loved woman from the old man’s icy breast. I believe
the extreme pain wrung from me a low groan. With a
sigh the count let her glide from his arms, after his
lips lightly touched her hair.
“ ‘ God keep you, my child. You have made the even-
ing of my life beautiful,’said ho, caressing her hand.
‘ Good night, my child. I have a headache, and will
retire. Please send me by Veronica some laudanum.
It may give me rest.’
" I could never fathom what happened to Melitta
then. She appeared terribly moved, her eyes staring
wide open, her pallor ghostly. She hade me a brusque
‘ Good-night,’ in which there struggled a suppressed
sob. I could not hold her little hand more than a
second; she tore it wildly from me, and rushed away.
To-day I cannot think without shuddering of the
puzzling event of that evening. Melitta’s singular be-
haviour has had a frightful explanation.
“ As I was passing the count’s room, in the same
storey as mine, and nonnested by secret stairs with
Melitta’s on the first floor, he called me in for a
moment.
" ‘ I am an old man, and you, Eldor, are my next and
only heir, whether I die soon or late. In that case,
give this deed of gift to my daughter. May she find in
Maryscourt an asylum for old age and peace that such
a course of life cannot give. Tell her this, Eldor,
when I am no more; and be a true friend and protector
to Melitta.’
" He pressed my hand. I was so deeply moved that I
might have been led to avow our guilt, but an imperious
look dismissed mo. An inward tumult kept me tossing
restlessly ou my bed. It must have been four o'clock,
when a loud outcry roused me. I was on my feet in a
moment, in my clothes, and listening in the corridor.
I cautiously opened every door in the row. Deathlike
stillness everywhere; grey dawn stealing through the
curtains. I came at last to my uncle’s bedroom, and
opened it with a beating heart. My foot hit a body,
that lay stretched motionless on the floor.
"My eyes roved instinotivelv to the window, from
which a strong breeze came. Veronica stood bending
9 U “ with extended arm, and as she drew her hand back
u “ e *d an empty vial. To rush at her, grasp her arm,
and thunder: ‘ Unhappy woman, what are you about ?’
nappened, almost unoonciously. She looked with
are suit al earnestness at me, from an ashen-grey face
~,o nly horror could have so whitened.
1 B are your honour, baron. Ask me nothing. Let
me go, that I may remove all evidence of crime before
any one comes. Take the young widow. I will come
presently.’
m V Vhon * oame to my senses from a nervous fever, all
tuat was known was the count was found dead in bed.
ine physicians declared it apoplexy. The ink was yet
rresh in a codicil which forbade an autopsy, and the
earnest wish of the widow (was respected despite the
protests of physicians. So Melitta was free—a widow
? oa y is > whose deep dejection was attributed to
a grier tor the departed which no one had looked for.
rrow m »<ie her beauty greater. My passion was
Kinaiod anew, but she shunned me. When I one day
spoke of our union, she burst into convulsive weeping:
We wrong him in his grave,’ she sobbed. ‘Release me,
~ v that I may atone for my crime towards him.'
T , . Veronica interrupted the disclosure of her heart,
xms taciturn person with gloomy eyes was unpleasant
xo me. alter that night whose events were confused
witn my fever-fantasies whenever I tried to recall
nem. The woman—quiet, well-bred, and reserved—
Melitta’s shadow. I have never found
dismissing her, glad as I would have been to
uwaisn one whose presence burdened us like an Alp, for
she is the model of a discreet servant; yet I can
never lose the feeling that this submission is a
mask under which she governs Melitta’s pliant nature
as a despotic mother rules an adored child.
She wished Melitta to marry me—she married
me. bhe wished it to happen before we
considered or grew cool —it happened. What means of
persuasion Veronica used I did not know, but I found
Melitta yielding to my ardent desire. After five months
she privately became my wife. Veronica made her
consent. I was persuaded that love for her mistress
was the only cause of Veronica’s secret management,
and so endured a person for whom I had a strong
antipathy. Later I came to feel a certain gratitude
toward her. No one knows as she does how to manage
Melitta in her dark hours, nor have I found anyone
else to whom I could confide the unhappy woman with
her dark secret.
"The first days passed in ravishing bliss. I was
happy enough to shout to the world, ‘ She is mine-
mine 1’ Such intoxicating bliss, that held soul and
senses in delirium, I had never found in any other
woman. Madonna and Venus combined, she was one
the gods might envy me. We had flown through Italy
as in a dream, only glancing at the treasures of nature
and art, and reached Naples; one evening I had ob-
served a strange nervous restlessness in Melitta since
the previous night, when she started from my arms in
her sleep, looked wildly about her, trembled all over,
and was bathed in cold perspiration. I asked Veronica
if my wife frequently had such nervous fits. She said
she had, and attributed this partly to the fatigue of
the rapid journey, partly to the moon, which was nearly
full, and which always affected her nerves.
" ‘ Perhaps she is a somnambulist ?’ I said, jokingly,
next day to the woman whose respectful tact had
gained my confidence. She remained grave; her dark
face clouded with apprehension. ‘I have a request to
make of you, sir,’ she said hesitating, with down-cast
eyes, and submissive tone; ‘to let me sleep with my
lady to-night; if the light strikes her the first night of
the full moon, she has nervous attacks that would
frighten you.'
“ I yielded to her wishes, and left all to her judicious
care. Would to God I had submitted to her prayers
that I would not trouble the baroness, but leave her
entirely in her hands, since absolute quiet subdued the
threatening foe. The room Veronica assigned me was
separated by some others from my wife's sleeping-room,
but a gallery ran along the front of the house, and
united them outside. From this we had a fine view of
the incomparable panorama at the foot of Vesuvius,
We revelled in the delightful scene. I held my sweet
wife on my knees. The summer twilight that ia the
south changes so suddenly at night was beginning to
veil the burning colours, when Veronica came out of
the balcony door, with her impenetrable sybilline face,
and with quiet authority declared it was time for the
baronness to go in. With a sigh of resignation,
Melitta rose like an obedient child from my clasping
arms, that playfully tried to hold her fast.
‘“Herr Baron 1 ’ Veronica implored. There was
almost fright in her usually passionless voice, and in
her black eyes.
"I let my wife go with one last kiss—the last she
has received of my free will, Bernard. Veronica drew
her hastily in. Light flamed in the room; the curtains
were rolled over the panes of the balcony door, her-
metically shutting them from outsiders. I sat some
hours lost in the charming prospect, and the sweet
visions my happiness brought; then weariness over-
came me. Yet with the thought of seeking my bed I
was seized with the desire that drove our first parents
from Paradise, the sad inheritance from generation to
generation. Curiosity moved me to see Melitta in her
fit of somnambulism. I have had to fearfully atone.
I threw some garments over me, and made a pretext to
go back to my wife’s chamber. The connecting doors
were locked on the other side. I got no answer to my
knock, which might well be unheard. Displeasure at
what I took to bo Veronica’s presumption made my
idle wish an important matter. I strode through the
gallery, and tore open the balcony door. The
moonlight flooded the room with its silver light.
Veronica lay on the sofa, all dressed, I might say ready
to spring; my wife, half hidden in the middle of the
room, at length got up excitedly, and struggled with
Veronica, who tried to drag her back to bed.
“ ‘ The doors I For God’s sake, the doors, Herr
Baron ! ’ she anxiously cried to me,
" I did not understand her. My mind was paralyzed
by terror. Melitta was on her knees, tearing her tangled
hair amid awful self-accusations, her drawn lips stam-
mering awful avowals. Suddenly, as from a picture,
rolled away the curtain before the events of that fatal
night in my troubled recollection. To save me for her-
self, she had cemmitted murder.
“ Madman 1" I cried, as the baron sank back ex-
hausted, and dried the great beads of perspiration on
his brow, "do you base that frightful accusation on
that evidence ialone —a sleep-walker’s morbid excite-
ment ?”
‘ • What was Melitta doing in the grey morning, in the
room of her dead —I say, murdered—husband?” he
hotly whispered. ‘‘Why did Veronica empty the vial
I saw in her hands out of the window, if not to screen
Melitta ? "
“ Have you never asked her—Veronica ? ”
“ I cannot, I dare not. It touches the honour of my
name. It is only while I ignore it that I can bo sure to
leave the crime unexpiated. I lost my wife that night.
As I once lovei Melitta, so to-day I hate, I despise her
who has undone me, condemned me to drag through life
with the consciousness of being a passive participant of
crime. Next day I sought to end my life in a way that
could arouse no suspicion. Melitta, who must have
divined my intentions, fought them courageously; she
nearly made a spectacle for the sensation-seeking English
people who climbed Vesuvius with us. I had to give up
my purpose. For two years past I have lied from the
touch of the murderess as from that of the most poison-
ous reptile. The miserable actress would fall at my feet,
feigning that she did not know what had changed my
love to aversion, with tears imploring me to tell her
what had changed me so. But, thank heaven, she has
given np repeating this torturing comedy,”
“ Because she thinks you ara crazy," I answered
sharply.
“Has'she already bewitched you, that you will not
see, despite proof, what a child must discover ? ”
“ Or a prejudiced person imagine.”
He looked at me a moment, doubtfully; then sadly
shook his head: "Poor friend, you are irretrievably
under the spoil with which she blinds the oleareatljndg-
ment. When, O my God I wilt Thou at last free me
from this demon ? "
As if his despairing question found answer, there was
a stir above us ; then came a heavy dull fall, a loud
outcry, a rush down the stairs. The door was torn
open, and Veronica stood with a face full of ill tidings.
She beckoned us with both hands, and flew again up
stairs.
Heart-disease had suddenly ended the poor wife’s
martyrdom. There she lay, the dainty flower-face
turned to the bright moon, that made a halo of her
golden hair, her faithful servant, wild with grief, kneel-
ing by her, the ,baron, shaking and stupefied, leaning
against a pillar.
" She has ended the struggle,” said ho, after a long
pause, broken only by Veronica’s convulsive sobs. The
woman suddenly sprang up, and stood erect in her
majeotio height, an inexorable accuser, before the
baron. With blazing eyes, and menacing hand, she
spoke to him with fury :
"You have murdered her, the tender flower that
could bear no roujh blast—murdered her with your icy
coldness. You have slowly killed this angel 1”
“ Angel? Murderess I" he stammered, perplexed.
Veronica burst in a loud laugh. “ So you, too, fell
into that error. Because an old man could not bear to
see his young wife's heart the property of another, and
preferred death, therefore you accuse the poor girl. If
any one murdered, it was you, Herr Baron, not this
poor angel, that I never should have confided to you.
0 God 1 my God 1 I would have given my life to see
the poor child happy; and yet I plunged her in misery
through this man !”
" Woman, are you speaking the truth?—how did the
count die?" stammered Eldor with feverishly glowing
eyes, beside himself.
She looked at him'wonderingly. ‘‘Have you not
suspected, Herr Baron? Don’t you remember he
ordered some laudanum that night ? I brought him
the vial. Ho gave me a note for the countess, that I
was to give her next morning. The singular conduct of
the countess, who walked her room in great excitement,
the solemn earnestness with which the count gave me
his commission, made me anxious. The countess, who
saw in me more friend than servant, threw herself sud-
denly sobbing in my arms, and wept despairingly. ‘ He
is so good, so noble, and I so thoroughly bad, Veronica,
do you believe he would forgive me if I threw myself
repenting at his feet, and he knew everything P I will,
1 must, learn to forget Eldor 1’
“ I blessed this resolution; I urged her to go, for an
inexplicable anxiety almost choked me. To end her
hesitation, I gave her the note. She turned all colours
while reading in. ‘He knows all,’ said she, dis-
heartened. ‘The letter is from his outcast daughter,
who will revenge herself—she horribly accuses Eldor
and me. Oh, Veronica, she slanders us disgracefully,
and the count knows that, too. He wrote on the edge
of the letter : I forgive you, my poor child, for your
young heart’s straying, I know you are pure—you shall
remain so and be happy!
"A frightful suspicion dawned on my soul. With
trembling hand I dragged her with me to the count’s
room. You know what awaited us there. The despair
of the countess was heart-rending. She called herself
murderess. She was nearly crazed. Those attacks on
moonlight nights were the last remnant of the nervous
state in which she accused herself. I emptied the vial.
At the countess’s wish I destroyed the letter. You
should never guess its existence and suffer self-accusa-
tion and stings of conscience as she did. I could move
the unfortunate girl to a union only by persuading her
it had been the dead man’s express wish. Could I have
foreseen that your love was but a caprice, a fire of straw,
quickly flickering out, I should never have made the
sacrifice. I would have flown with my poor child to
the end of the world first," she cried with renewed
bitterness.
Eldor stood as if turned to stone—annihilated. The
face of the dead seemed to smile in the reflection of
light. He flung himself on his knees. Veronica mur-
mured: "They must both die—they have loved too
much 1”
Deeply moved, I turned away—a physician who wept
tears of sorrow for the dead.


JHEA T E E
Lessee
Treasurer jjj
Stage Manager ".ft
EVERY EVEN
GRAND CHRISTMAS ]
SINBAD, THE S.
Doors open at 7.15 p m.; comm
TTICT O R I A
’ CASTLERKAGfI
(NearKmg-street ; dose to Trai
TO LET NIGHTLV, ON TERI
CONCERTS or OTHER
The above Hall has Seating- J
people is WELL VENTILATJ
Stage 28ft. by 30ft.
« v B, j and is in all reaped
the School of Arts, which it now i
Half-price charged for Char
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLI
lO7 C
theatre eoya
OPEN FOR ENGAG
sea * f e y en or eight hund
with Gas; lately patronised by th<
lerms moderate. Apply to
A LBERT HALL, Brisbane,
dating 1300 people, is now
and other performances. The st
depth, and has a neat prosceniu
DAYI
I\TR. EDWIN PALMEI
iH- OLD “
MRS. EDWIN PALMER I
J'.f-ADTNG OLD WOMAN, AT J
Crown-street, Snrry Hills.
rjIHOMPSON’S COLO!
ofthe
ZULU WAI
Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, Dece
Christchurch to f
8
IGN 0 R BO
MUSICAL DU
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of
Theatre, Du:
PJON BUCKI
CORNET.
Thompson’s Colossal tl
Theatre, Duned
I" L O Y D ' S
HO WICK STREET, B
Offers Superior Accomodation f (
lers. Visitors, and Profess)
PRANK LLO
Comique and Buffo \
PbOPEIETOE.
M. 1 H
IMPORT
WORKS 0]
GERMAN AND SWISS
ARCADE BUI
SYDNE
AND S. P
SAW MILLS AND Tl
16 Eeskine S’
Every description of Foreigx
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palin!
Mouldings. Cases, Turnery, &c..
JgURKE, COULSON,
AUCTIONEERS, WOOL
STOCK. RTATrr
ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPORI
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
fJIHE GOOD TIME OP CHRISTMAS is coming and with it i
In no part of Australia will they be found in su
II A Y M A K K El
We enumerate a few, but, for the want of space, cannot mei
EXHIBITION.
A Beautiful Assortment of Antique Lace in Crea;
JOUBEET AND Cie. BLACK GEOS GEAIN SILKS,
OF 16 YAEDS PEE DEESS, 325., Els , 365., 40s.
COLOUEED DITTO, SAME AS BLACK (these are
GOLD ANI
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
for Christmas presents)
KID GLOVES FOE CHEISTMAS PEESENTS
LADIES’ STEAW HATS FOE PICNICS
LADIES’ DEESSES FOE PICNICS
LADIES’ PAEACHUTES FOE PICNICS
LADIES’ BOOTS AND SHOES FOE PICNICS
WOEKBOXES FOE CHEISTMAS PEESENTS
DESKS FOE Do. Do.
PEETTY BAGS FOE Do. Do.
DOLLS DEESSED FOE Do. Do.
TOYS FOE Do. Do.
CEOCKEEYWAEE FOE Do. Do.
THE jESTHE
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
EVEBY E
WAY!
gentlem:
gentlem:
GENTLEM
A SAVING
CHEISTMA
CEOSSLEY
MAKING I
TIC FA
COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO, AN!
ADDRESS IN FULL T(
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EN
HATMAEE
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME”
MOLESKIN TR
li/IIITS? Aim DDIil
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co/g
“ PYEAMID HAIE PEODUCEE.”
A great scientific discovery,”——
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESSEg
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
faiTw Z e^l 6 plication stops the Hair
tailing off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received
—Adv.
Modern high school,
MOOEE PAEK.
The Education is thoroughly Practical. A sound
English Course constitutes the basis of instruction given,
but pupils are prepared for Commercial Pursuits and the
various Professions and Examinations. Vacancies for
a few Boarders. Copies of Examiners’ Eeport, and
Prospectus on application,
F. LYON-WEISS,
Headmaster,
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. E. B. L. Dickens, son of the great Charles,
will probably stand for Wentworth. If he gets in, let
ns hope that, remembering the stock from which he
came, he’ll direct his attention to the libel law.
Of Mr. Lee, who has just been elevated to the
Legislative Council, the Dubbo Dispatch remarks ;
“ Not that the mm is clever or rare, but people wonder
how the devil he got there. But this is an age of
surprises.’'
Four candidates for the Victorian Agent-
Generalship—Sir Charles M’Mahon, and Messrs. Peter
Lalor, Duncan Gillies, and J. Macpherson Grant. Ihe
flat has gone forth that there shall be an acting appoint-
ment made in order to float the loan, &o.
Compiling the Returns.—Mr. Greenwood’s ad-
dress to the Mudgoe electors contained the following :
—“ The return of Sir J. to the Assembly is an act of
convenience, consequent upon Sir Henry Parkes ab-
sence from the colony. The return of the latter means
the probable return,” This savours sacrilegious
segment of “ with contrite hearts return.”
The Hon. F. B. Suttoris, politically speaking,
the veritable “ Flying Dutchman.” He is tossed from
inlet to inlet of the portfolioed ocean according as the
master-mariner, Parkes, decrees. When the recent
Ministerial vacancies were being discussed by the
Cabinet, it was suggested to relegate Suttor to the
Lands Department. Sir Henry vetoed the suggestion
by observing, ”Ne Sutor ultra crepidam let Suttor
stick to his last.
After all, Mr. Heydon defeated Dr. Campbell
for Yass Plains. Polling: 628 and 568 respectively.
The return from Gundaroo, not yet given, cannot
alter the result. At the chief polling place, Yass, the
numbers were-Hoydon, 201; Campbell 212. There are
now two firms of attorneys in Sydney each of the
partners in which is in the Assembly—Messrs. Slattery
and Heydon, and Messrs Pigott and Trickett.
The Evening Mail (Melb.) has written
and taken statistics on the “ cabbage-garden” question.
It remarks that it has been said that somehow
Victoria must be increased in size—whether by the
ao .inurement of Riverinaor the annexation of Tasmania,
It will he the fault of Victoria if she doesn’t obtain
the central Australian trade. Huge colonies exist only
in the early days of settlement. “Pour colonies have
been formed out of this territory, and in all human pro-
h Ability four more will be created as the country grows.
For instance, the separation of Northern Queensland
from Southern Queensland is a mere question of growth
and time, and so is the division of South Australia.
The size of Victoria contrasts well, not enly with
counties, but with countries. The following list speaks
for itself
Square roues.
mSS“ ;;; ||
Holland ... ... •••
Scotland ... ... ... 30,685
Portugal ... ... ••• 36,510
England and Wales ... ... 58,320
Victoria ... ... ... ••• 83,000
Vio. is practically identical with England, Wales, and
Scotland lumped together, and a territory of that
dimension should content any State. If we turn to the
American Union, we obtain the following figures : •
Square miles.
Massachussets ... ... LBOO
Pennsylvania ... ... • - 46,000
New York... ... ... ••• 47,000
There are smaller States, but these are the three most
powerful in the Union. Yet their dimensions are in-
ferior to onr own. And the large States, such as Alaska
(577,000 square miles), are composed—as are the big
Australian colonies —of wilds and deserts.”
Mr. C. J. Roberts’s election affairs in the East
Macquarie electorate, are being managed in an exceed-
ingly lively manner —his advertisements in the papers
being effusions which recall to our minds the most
florid efforts of the immortal Pott. “ Charley Roberts"
in these announcements, is described as being not only
“Ex-mayor” (O eternal frayed-out thread of faded
glory!) “ but the most popular, generous, and influential
man in the city.” The composer of this 3-barrel, three-
star, or XXX compliment, probably had in his mind the
favour with which the| XX-ex-Mayor is regarded by all
patriots who like their beer drawn with a head on, the
generosity with which the mustard is slopped on to the
free lunch sandwiches, and the potent influence of his
bar whisky. Mr. Roberts’s opponents are dismissed off-
hand with contemptuous reference as "miserable
starvelings.” If they were “miserable thirstlings,”
now, Charley couldn’t afford to let them be insulted in
that fashion. Further on Mr. Roberts is described as u
public man (the scribe’s intention having been, no
doubt, to write “ Public House man,”) who will bo
only too proud to see his constituents—presumably, at
his pub., for he would mosr, certainly be a great deal
•’ too proud” to see them at Chatsworth. Mr. Roberts
is also, we learn, the Miners’ friend, which is probably
tru3 as regards his attitude towards every miner who
has threepence left, or such as are “no man’s enemy but
their own.” The candidate is also announced to
be “A NATIVE,” which, it must be allowed, is
equally creditable to him and to a blackfellow.
“A man of proved ability, a liberal, generous,
enlightened man, yearning to win distinction as
your representative." Well, to do Charley justice, he
did, as Mayor, chuck the accumulated threepences
about with more liberality than most of his kind do;
and as all he got by the trade was an entree on off-days
at Government House, where Gussy studies him for the
forthcoming immortal work, “ Colonial celebrities: or.
Men I have Mat against my Will,” he can’t he charged
with having dealt out his gilt in a very greedy spirit of
calculation. However, all things considered, he may be
said to have moled himself into such society as there is
here on remarkably reasonable terms. But, come!
Bring hither our mandolin. The biggest one. Thanks.
Twang, twang, bom, bom —let us do somethlngairy and
gentle with a double-rhyme.
If rum and gin can put you in.
Why in you’ll go, you know;
If pipes and beer, and gratis cheer.
And tall newspaper “blow,”
Can do the trick, why, Chawles avick.
You'll do it in a trot;
Bnt if they won’t (come ! frown now don’t!)
Why Charley, you will not.
Your trump you blow quite loud, you know.
Till wide its notes resound :
Yet when your brow you tap, somehow.
There comes a hollow sound I
By nature’s freak you cannot speak.
Why then “ stand on a tub ?"
No, take our tip—let 'lections rip.
And go bach to the pub!
Whether the Sawbath really falls on Saturday
or Sunday is a question which has exercised many
theologians. The Rev. W. Pritchard has been so exer-
cised on the subject that he has resolved not to have
any worldly dealings with Wentworthville on either
day ; hut, to give publicans and sinners, whose business
prevents their getting away on Saturday, a show for the
pick of the estate, he will sell on Tuesday next. Terms
only ten per cent, deposit, which one is expected to
take out in free pickles and cheese and railway rides.
The balance of the purchase money will be paid to
buyers in instalments during the next seven years—
and, as a further slight encouragement, every visitor is
at liberty to take a small allotment home with him in
his pocket as a sample.


Many a lover of tlie “ cup that cheers ” is dis-
suaded from trying the “ Pure Indian Teas ” of “The
Calcutta Tea Association,” by reason of misrepre-
sentations that are industriously circulated by those
adverse to the movement. Our “ Pure Indian Teair"*!
are strong; therefore, at least one-third less than the
usual quantity should be used. Their absolute,purity’
is guaranteed, and their delightful flavor j ip .testified,
to by numerous testimonials from all oil tno 1
country. Kept by all leading grocers, i* toyra and*
'"untry. Wholesale warehouse, 28 O-ffUottp-place.
M mager, James Inqlis. No whatever with
*■/ other packet teas. No hawkers Any,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The colonies are not to lose the Turner-
Montague song-birds after all. The company baa not
been broken up, nor have the splendid Charles and
the melodious Annis embarked upon the high C’s any
more than usual. They are, as it turns out, doing too
well to sing “ Good-bye, sweetheart,” and mean to
change their notes for gold in these colonies a good while
longer. Somebody who ought to have krown, and no
doubt did know, told us the contrary last week, so this
week, smelling a rat, we cabled Charles, and got the
straight tip. “No foundation for rumour. Business
good.”
* * * *
It will be rather difficult for us to coruscate this
week, for not a single novelty has been produced since
the last number of The Bulletin burst upon an
enraptured universe. Theonly approach to anything new
has taken place at the Royal, Mr. Gamer having ordered
of the illustrious poet he subsidises a few ounces of new
locals wherewith to liven np the dialogue. Some of
these are splendid samples of rhythmic humour, one
couplet which is spoken by the Princess being deserving
of special mention as a glittering gem in the way of
colonial couplets. Here it is:—
“ As much as the Vagabond loves Judge Gorrie,
As much as Pastor Allen loves purgatory.” (I /1)
Here is another shriek:—
“ While others stayed to shoot, and slay and stab,
With R. B. Smith I ran off in a cab I”
There is nothing to lead up to the introduction of
E.B.’s name, and no explanation is afterwards vouch-
safed to justify it. That, of course, is a small matter.
The author has probably modelled his verse upon the
lines laid down by Mr. Barley, in his masterly disser-
tation on the abstract principles of “ wholesome fun."
That is why he is so eminently successful.
* • •
On Saturday night, Lena Edwin and Maggie
Stewart came out in new costumes. This was rather
rough on the poor Princess, as, owing to the frequency
with which she is embraced by Wangdoodle, the body-
part of her costme looked as though it had been used
for polishing the family saucepans. For some reason
or other. Miss Horan has now discarded her little blue-
and-silver vest. This is a mistake, as witheut it the
young lady's figure runs decidedly too much to waist.
Maggie Oliver's voice has improved a good deal since
the first night, and she now gives the first number,
“ Little Mary Kelly,” with a good deal of spirit, though
it is hard to say why that particular ditty was ever
introduced. The best vocal things in “Sinbad the
Sailor ” are the concerted pieces, which are very tuney,
and are sung with fair precision. A line should be
given to Mr. Little-Dick-Stewart Daly for the manner
in which he impersonates the Ogre, and Miss Lena
Edwin is entitled to the admiration of the public for her
humane forbearance innot having slain the author, who,
without rhyme or reason, dabbed her an “ art critic and
Punch cartoonist.” It is anticipated that the Pantomime
will run at least another month. It was originally in-
tended by the management to send it in its entirety to
Adelaide at the expiration of its rnn here, but we
understand from Mr. Garner, that he has abandoned
that intention—at any rate for the present. Possibly,
however, Jthe complications which have arisen between
Mr. Allison and Miss Ada Ward will Have the effect of
considerably modifying Mr. Garner’s arrangements
with regard to the Adelaide theatre.
* * *
We cannot close this notice of “ Sinbad ” with-
out giving some kudos to the elephant. He is a wonder-
ful comedian, and the manner in which he flirts with
Johnny Hall is to the last degree ludicrous. We don't
know how many people .ire inside him, but whoever
tney are, their pantomimic powers are undoubted. The
first time we saw this eccentric beast we came to the
immediate conclusion that Johnny had put all his
family inside, in order that he could keep his eye on the
olive branches during the performance. Perhaps, he
does. The Elephant must have a very clever inside,
anyhow.
{■****
Many, who have, with us, regarded “ Patience,”
asache/d’cßUure both in music and in satire, will be sorry
ta hear that it will be withdrawn on Friday night, in
order to allow the Sydney people an opportunity of
hearing Miss Alice Rees in “La Sonnambula.”
“ Patience” is apiece which, by reason of its diversified
attractions, grows upon one with all the insidiousness
of 11 Pinafore." That it is superior to the latter opvra
from a literary point of view is unquestionable, and as
the music has, after a run of six weeks, been almost
painfully popular, we suppose we shall be justified in
surmising that the score is also an improvement upon
that of the famous satire on the Admiralty, But
although the piece is to be withdrawn, it will live long in
our memories as the best all-round production in comic
opera that Australia has ever seen.
* *
Mr. Howard Vernon’s Bunthorne is an imperso-
nation of which he may well bo proud. A consummate
study, even as regards the minutest detail, It stands
out by itself as the success of the theatrical year. No
better lesson could be taken by young comedians than
a frequent contemplation of Mr. Yemen’s inimitable
by-play. You never, for one ins ant, see Vernon during
the performance. It is toujours Bunthorne; and toujours
Bunthorne, unlike toujours perdrix, never becomes
monotonous. Riccardi’s Calverly, too, is a splendid
performance, and ranks in artistic excellence next to
that of Mr. Vernon. Mr. Armes Beaumont, though
always an artist, gives a rendering of the Duke of Dun-
stable, which, effective as it is, is open to criticism
with regard to its correetness. The drawl, in our
opinion, should be more pronounced, and Mr. Beau-
mont most certainly does not assume the utterly used-
up air which the text of the libretto would lead one
to expect. It is necessary to travel to England, how-
ever for the model of a thoroughly blast! guardsman.
Mr.Forde, too, is excellent in the little part of the Major,
and has not lately allowed himself to be led into bur-
lesque for the sake of extracting a guffaw from these of
the groundlings whose idea of true humour is the
crockery-and-baud-box business of the old two-act
farces. # * *
Miss Alice Eeea, though not yet a great artiste,
is very nice, and possesses sufficient vocal power to en-
able her to always “yearn her living,” and a lot more, as a
prima donna in light opera. As an actress, however, she
has nearly everything to learn, and should study, as Patti
and Nillsson have done, the arts vocal and histrionic
side by side. She is very young, very slim, and has only
just begun to rake in the bullion at present. We wonder
now whether in thirty or forty years hence she will
turn out like so many other prime donne have—very
rich, very fat, wedded to a foreign count, and awfully
fond of maccaroni. Qui salt? Miss Andrde Navaro
must have worked very hard of late, for the improve-
ment in her Lady Jane was, when we last saw the pioce,
abundantly manifest. Acting under advice, Mdlle.
Andrea has taken all those hideous lines off her face
(which is a nice face in its natural state), and now, with
the aid of the bizarre chevelure she adopts, she is suffi-
ciently plain to carry out the author’s idea without
being repulsive.
* * »
The minor parts — notably that of Lady Angela,
by Miss Fanny Liddiard—are played with commendable
care and finish, and the choruses, both male and female,
speak volumes for the unwearying patience lavished
upon them by that “ eminent musico ” and most excel-
lent conductor, Giorza. “Patience” has drawn grand
business all the week, and wo consider that the manage-
ment would bo wise to hesitate before withdrawing it
in favour of English opera—the more especially as the
pieces announced to be played are identical with those
in which that sweetest of warblers. Miss Annis Mon-
tague, made her dobfit in Sydney.
* * * *
“ The Green Lanes ” has turned out the success
which we predicted, and the Gaiety is nightly thronged
with audiences who applaud the virtuous and hoot the
wicked. The play is in five acts, but the intervals are
not long; and when the people are tired of admiring
the pretty little interior, tbey are furnished with food
for reflection as to how Mr. A. Boothman manages to
get into those emaciated pantaloons. One of the great
attractions of the play is a recitation of “ The charge
of the Light Brigade,” given ia the first act by Mr.
Dampier—a piece of elocution which is as bold in its
originality as it is masterly in its delivery. The ap-
plause which greets
" Into the jaws of hell
Bode the six hundred,”
is deafeninghut, indeed, all through the piece, the
enthusiasm for Mr. Dampier knows no bounds. " Tne
Green Lanes ” is, undoubtedly, the most successful
piece produced by Mr. Bay less this season. The
smoothness with which it goes is only equalled by an
election oration of the great temperance apostle.
** * *
From Grafton we havo received a letter, signed
by J. W. Tyrell, Grace Follande, Katie Leslie, G. H.
Lewis, H. Jackson, and others of the “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin Company,” who bitterly complain of the manner
in which they have been treated by the Sydney entre-
preneurs who took them up there. We, of course,
cannot touch upon what appears to be a dispute
between the company and tho management, but we
sympathize with the ladies and gentlemen left there,
if, as they say, "they find themselves without the
money, perhaps, even to provide themselves with the
necessaries of this life, to say nothing of helping
thorn dependent oh them—and this after hav-
ing. in a frenzy of despair, squandered their
last few shillings in legal proceedings.” Grafton seems
to he prolific of theatrical disputes.
*** * %
The Williamsons havo made a tremendous hi
at Dunedin (N.Z ) The papers state that people are
turned away from the doors nightly, and that J. C.’s
John Stotel and Maggie Moore’s Lizzie are the topics
of conversation in the court, the grove, the camp, and
the attic. De Lias offered Williamson £2OO per week
for himself and wife, offering to find theatres and com-
pany, but Mr. W. declined, saying that if he couldn’t
make more than that it would not have been worth his
while to go to New Zealand at all. This so staggered
the Canterbury Times that it came out with a feeble
par. to the effect that if the Williamsons made £2O a
weeklin New Zealand, instead of £2OO, they might think
themselves lucky, as “ Struck OU ” was played out.
The result will make the Times look small—smaller
that it did when we caught it cribbing through the
medium of “ Mrs. Jarley.” We wish the Williamsons
all sorts of good times, both in this and their other
ventures; indeed, to quote from Lewis Scott’s im.
mortal pantomime, we say :
" Good luck to Garner, who’s our present boss.
May he and Musgrove never suffer loss;
And Williamson be rewarded for his toil,
A*d all the jolly three find they’ve * Struck Oil.’ ”
Oh, for inspiration ! Oh, for a white tie and spectacles!
** * *
Mr. Garner is, apparently a great man at home
as well as in Australia. Mark, now, how the London
Figaro chronicles his movements.- —“ Mr. Arthur
Garner is gradually working his way home again. For
the moment his address is San Francisco. Let ns hope
his garner will be full by the time he arrives.” It’s
rather feeble for a London paper to make this joke
about the "garner." We wonder who’s tho Arthur?
Whoop I
** * *
This is the last week of the Dwarf, as he goes
to Grafton on Saturday, so an intelligent and discrimi-
nating public had better roU up to the Victoria Theatre
vestibule " while there is yet time ” Ikey has cleared
about £6O a week this trip, and Dominic displays more
jewellery now than a loan office proprietor at a Syna-
gogue christening. A rustic and his wife went there
the other day hungry for goose, and the lady drew a
gorgeous charm with the legend “ Keep your temper”
on it, and the gentleman a small-tooth comb. On this
the lady made a sarcastic remark, having reference to
the usefulness of the article her husband had won, and
he retaliated by adjuring her to neglect to " keep her
temper,” as advised by the article of jewellery, as if
the specimens she had shown him of it were samples of
the whole, the sooner she loit it the better. The lady
then " landed” the gentleman on the “ kisser," and the
gentleman then hit the lady under the ear-hole; peace
only being restored by Ikey presenting the combatants
with a goose a piece. As this is the last week of the
show, we believe that the presents will consist—the
goose factory having cried " a go”—of diamond-rings,
railway locomotives, and medical diplomas. Here’s a
fine chance for some one who wants to be a " duly quali-
fied medical practitioner." In these days it pays better
to be a doctor than to run a wax-works. We were told
this by a man who is now a doctor, but who formerly
ran a wax-works. So it’s honest 1
** * *
Ada Ward and Allison have had a row. Ada
said he did, and Allison said she didn’t. So the dra-
matic season at the theatre has incontinently bust
np, and Tommy Hudson has migrated there with his
Surprise Party. There is a good deal of gunpowder in
the air just at present, but it will clear before "The
World" is put on at the Royal here. By the way—
Whv is Ada like a floral tribute ? Because she is a nice
A. Ward. But this i* frivolous.
** * *
Jimmy South has, we hear, made a big hit in
Brisbane with “ Hero and LBander,” a burlesque open,
ing, written by Miss Anna King. To this is tacked a
harlequinade, and the whole is called a pantomime.
We are glad that they are doing well, as an old friend,
Duncan M'Cullnm, is the lessee of the theatre—a house
upon which misfortunes have, of late, fallen thick and
fast. When Cates came back, he told us that on two
occasions he opened to “forty-five bob." But then, of
course, they were only playing high-olass comedy 1
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
Signor and Signora Coy shortly leave Melbourne
on a brief visit to Naples When they tried to swear
Lotti Wilmot at Papanui, N.Z., the other day, she
objected, on the ground, among others, that it wasn’t
pleasant to kiss the Bible, or any other book, that had
been slobbered over by hundreds of coarse and vulgar
men, women, and children Haselmayer a big success
at Maryborough (Q ) Professor Lorenzsli writes
from Herberton, N.Q., apropos of his wars with Thady
O’Kane, that Thadens should not have wantonly slated
him, seeing that the Professor paid all advertisements
in advance. Conjuring is the Professor’s line, but he
claims that the great vanishing trick is not in his
repertoire. The professor is doing well at the Herberton
Hall, Wild Eiver. N Q., but is bitten with the prevail-
ing mania there for tin. He is off to see whether he
can’t conjure a lode for himself. The following is his
advice to brother pros “ Though this is a fine place,
plenty of people, plenty of money, and a very good
School of Arts (fully equal to that in Bowen), I would
advi*e no pros, to come until there are better regula-
tions than they have at present made for it. Two
quadrille parties occupy it twice a week, a,s also do two
Good Templar Lodges, so that there are only two
nights left. The nights occupied are the best, viz.,
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. The Good
Templars here, ‘ M’Lean’s Brigade,’ are red hot, and
will not postpone their nights for anyone—not even for
Maggie Oliver, should she come." Now, we don’t
believe this latter statement, for we’d gladly postpone
anything for Maggie 01iver...... Walter Reynolds is doing
well in Hobart. Bertie Willison is his agents and is
decorating the pub. mirrors with his usual success
Simmons’s crowd were at Bega recently. They are
doing bad biz., and go to Ceoma shortly. W hen there
last, they bossed the paper The Adelaide jag which
has taken our name s*ys that “ Professor Anderson,
who was running a magic show here tho other day, re-
ports that he met with a bit of bad luck in a township
which shall be nameless. He wasdoingthe money-find-
ing business, and suddenly asked his some what scanty
audience: • Will any gentleman please len d me a sever-
eign ? ’ The audience rose en masse, and in "two minutes
the hall was empty." This is probably an editorial flash
Haselmayer and Madame are at Gympie. We don’t
know who is piloting him this time—Montague
or Capulet.. Pepper has been doing good bis.
at Charters Towers. He will stay there for
a while A Melbourne paper says that Mr
Al. Hay man has arranged for the production of
“ Youth ” and “ The Lights o’ London,” in Melbourne
and Adelaide, next Spring. George Kignold will play
the leading part in each play. Joy 1 But then Messrs.
G. W. and M. are to have a say in it <i ce qu’iJs disent?
lf the following, clipped from the Liberty (Christ-
church), doesn’t mean that our very own Lotti has
“ been and gone and got married,” then We don’t know
what it does mean:—“Lotti has joined the great
majority, and small blame to her. She has taken the
example of a pious gentleman who performed the same
operation years a*o, but in a very different manner.
He, however, is a saint, and she, by his account of her,
is a sinner. She has not as yet come to the coach-house
biz , nor has she any family plate, carriage, &c, to
settle comfortably.” Mr. W. J. Wilson, ot the Opera
House, gave a picnic on New Year’s Day at Fern Bay.
A large party of his friends were present and several
photos were taken by Eiisfeldt Mr. Eiisfeldt has
succeeded in photographing several scenes from Sydney
theatres by gaslight; with great clearness, and hopes to
do even better. If this industry prosper, it will be an
easy thing in the future to know how great actors have
represented characters, or posed in particular scenes of
a play The Salisbury Troubadours, were playing
lately at Leland’s Opera House, Albany Buckley,
Holly, Miss Vivian, and others, have seceded from the
Nightingale Minstrels, and have organized themselves
with a “ Pleasure Party." They were to leave Mel-
bourne, for the country districts Chapman’s
Operetta Company has done a good business at Geelong,
and by last advices were at Warrnambool J. W.
Dodge’s Dramatic Cempany, Sandhurst, Wybert Eeeve
starring, is doing well Barton’s Circus, is on the war
path now in Hobart Kohler’s Waxwork and Com-
Kaiapoi, N.Z , doing well “ Nightingale Serenaders ”
—Proprietors: Gardiner, Gibbons, and La Feuil-
lade—are now on tour in the North Eastern
District; Joe O’Brien is the Agent.
D’Arcy Stanfield, who is now appearing at the Mel-
bourne Academy of Music, is grandson of the celebrated
Stanfield, E.A., who was a convert to Roman Catholic-
ism, and a friend of the late Cardinal Wiseman. Mr.
Stanfield is now under engagement to the coming
lessees of Melbourne Theatre Eoyal, Messrs. William-
son, Garner, and Musgravo, for a year, in the course of
which he may visit Sydney A company of “Japs"
at Charters Towers Lynch Bellringers at latest
were at Shoalhaven. Biz. good The immortal
William Hoskins will shortly appear at the Academy of
Music, Ballarat, in a series ot old English comedies
The Holloway Company, including Miss Annie Mayor,
are now doing capital business at the theatre named
An English paper says Jenny Lind is 60 years
old. When Bamum engaged her to appear in America,
he advertised her in every possible way. One act of his
was to oiler a handsome prize for the best poetical wel-
come to the great cantatrice, and this was one which,
though it affected Baruum almost to tears, did not get
the prize:—
"So come along then, Jenny, come along with mo.
And leave those kings and queens for the country of
the free.
We’ll welcome you with speeches, and with serenades,
and rockets,
And you will touch their hearts, while I drop on their
pockets;
And if, between the two of us, the public isn’t
skinned —
Why my name isn’t Barnum, nor your name Jenny
Lind."
Mr. George Sims’s (“ Dagonet”) play of the
“ Lights of London ” is now creating more genuine
sensation than almost any play has hitherto excited,
and it is praised in the most eulogistic language. Yet
two years ago no manager in London would take it.
Mr. Sims offered the play to the Princess, the Adelphi,
the Duke’s, and the Olympic theatres, without
success. When the play was accepted by Mr. Wilson
Barrett, "Dagonet” set to work and polished some
portions up a bit, but no material alterations have been
made in the play, at which, for two years, no manager
would look, and most of them declined even to listen to.
It is no wonder genius starves when its fate depends on
such chances as this At a recent representation of
" Robert le Diable” in Paris, one of the nuns in the
churchyard scene saw and picked up a garter. It be-
longed to Mdlle. Dufrane, who was playing the part of
Alice. An admirer of the lady offered to purchase it at
its weight in gold, but the nun religiously returned it
to its fair owner Arrranaements have been com-
pleted for the appearance of Miss Louisa Pomeroy, in
London, early next year Mr. Edwin Booth, the
American actor, has written to Berlin that he will
appear in Germany next year, after having completed
his unfulfilled contracts in England during next Spring
and Summer Ou the 22nd October, Mr. William
Creswick was performing “Ingomar," at the Alexan-
dria Theatre, London Baker and Farron have been
playing in a piece called “ Chris and Lena,” in Boston
(U.S ) to indifferent business Madame Janausohek
is playing in a dramatic version of Bleak House, and
"Mary Stuart," at the Union Square, New York.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Zealandia arrived at Auckland with passengers,
small-pox, and ’Frisco mails.
Terrific dust-storm at Deniliquin, causing total
darkness for ten minutes.
Byrne, a brother of the late lamented Mr. Joe
Byrne, of the Kelly gang, is in gaol at Gundagai.
Three Bathurst publicans have been fined 20s.
each, with costs, under the new Licensing Act, for
Sunday-trading.
Hooray! Almost a split in the Victorian Cabi-
net over the question of running Sunday trains to
Mordialloc. La jour viendra.
Dr. Percy, of Gisborne, N.Z., while suffering
from a severe cough, took by mistake during the night,
chloroform instead of the proper cough mixture. He
died shortly afterwards.
Doctors Girdlestone and Jamieson support, to a
considerable extent, the statements made by Dr. Yonl,
as to the pycemlo condition of Melbourne hospital.
Other doctors join issue with Dr. Youl.
Miners other than the original prospector, the
lucky Ruzicka, have been getting good gold at Hanging
Bock. During Christmas week Henry and party struck
a pocket containing a pound weight of gold.
BThrosby Park, Mossvale, formerly rented as a
summer residence for the Earl of Belmore, has now been
purchased by the State as a country residence for the
Governors of N.S.W. The price was £6OOO.
During the last five years, 108,000 tons of Ame-
rican meat have passed through the London markets
alone, and much of this must have been sold to the
consumer for and at the price of British produce.
“ At Mudgee, on New Tear’s Eve, the fine peal
of bells, presented to St. John’s Church by Mr. K. H.
D. White, was rung for the first time." Those who
know the genial B. H. D., asserts that belles were
always uppermost in his thoughts.
The small-pox epidemic among the passengers
by the Garonne, now quarantined at Melcourne, has
assumed alarming proportions. Several more cases
have appeared. There is also small-pox on board the
R.M.S.S. Zealandia, which arrived at Auckland on
Tuesday.
Thomas Taylor, a Melbourne furniture dealer,
missing since Jlst Dec., has been found in a deserted
hut in tho scrub at Cheltenham, where years ago he was
a buahman. He was in low spirits from illness, and
says he remained in the hut because he felt a desire for
a return to his old life.
The St. Kilda chemist who supplied poison to
the Eev. F. H. Harding, 8.A., who committed suicide,
has been prosecuted under the Sale of Poisons Act.
His defence was that the medicine sold was a medical
preparation and not poison. Afterwards he pleac-ed
ijuilty, but vras acquitted.
Nothing can be clearer than the story told by
the Nelson witnesses that the Julia Percy got in the
way and caused the collision, except the story of the
Julia Percy witnesses, that the Nelson chased the Julia
Percy and would run her down. The two steamers, it
So3ffls, were bobbing about like men at a corner.
The test cases under the new Licensing Act
have been postponed for a week. By the way, now that
the “pubs." close at eleven, the regulation mode of
procedure in Sydney appears to be to buy brandy at an
hotel aud convey it after the hour named to the nearest
fruit-sellers, whore it may be mixed with soda and
drunk at leisure.
The Bourke family, of Lonadale-street, Melb.,
had (on Christmas night) an orgie, resulting in a free
fight. Catherine of that ilk cut her father’s head with
a stone, and the coroner’s jury have now found that
Mr. Bonrke died of erysipelas, the coroner adding that
Melbourne Hospital reeked with the germs of that
disease and ought to be pulled down.
The Adelaide police have investigated the story
of a man who gave himself up as escaped from the
steamer Garonne. His tale proved inaccurate in several
points. The police believe that ho is an impostor, who,
for some reason, wishes to be sent to Torrens Island.
“ For some reason," indeed! Who wouldn’t eat turkey
in quarantine rather than hominy in gaol, the impostors’
club.
At Wentworth Falla, a locomotive was taking in
water at the tank, when its boiler burst, driving the
whole side and top of the engine away, and crushing
the adjacent scrub like wheat stubble. The dome dis-
appeared in the “ Ewigkeit," and has not yet been dis-
covered. Strange to relate, the driver and fireman,
who were on the tender at the time, escaped without
injury.
A dray pin, supposed to bo that with which Pil-
linger was murdered at Broadwater, Queensland, a few
months ago, was found on Sunday morning, halt buried
in sand and leaves on the roadside, a short distance
from the scene of the murder. Minnis, the school-
master, charged with this most brutal murder, about
whose guilt, it will be remembered, a jury failed to
agree, will again be tried shortly.
Mr. R. Rider, foreman at the Wxlcannia Times
office, had a narrow escape from perishing by thirst, the
other day. He was out turkey-shooting, missed his
way, was overcome for want of waver, and lay down.
Happily, he was found by a carrier, who, however, had
only sufficient water to moisten his mouth. Mr. Elder
was then in a very exhausted condition, and through the
parched state of his tongue incapable of speaking.
Cannibalism exists amongst the blacks in the
Natal Downs (N.Q.) vicinity. A gentleman can e across
a party «f ebons, the other day, who were sitting in
front of a fire on which there was a human arm. In
reply to questions, the “ nigs." informed him that one
of their number had died on the previous day, and they
had roasted him and eaten the “ tit-bits ’’ of his body—
thigh, breast, and part of the head. Behold how these
darkies love one another 1
Victorian gold return for 1881 shows an increase.
During the year past, 398.641 oz. Victorian gold, value
£1,588,738, and 4948 oz. of foreign gold (principally from
N.Z.), value £58,192, were exported, with gold specie
valued at £3,089,429 : total value of gold and specie
exported, £4,736,429. The value for the preceding year
was £3,887,534. During the last year, 519,884 oz. of
Victorian gold, and 172,329 oz. of foreign gold were
received at the Mint for coinage. Issue of coin last
year, 602,451 oz.
At Wellington N,Z., a chemist, named Anthony,
took into his back yard some blno-flre mixture, made to
the order of a theatrical manager, in which it was found
that too much chlorate of potash had been used. His
intention was to destroy it by slow combustion, and ho
lighted it accordingly. However, he had occasion to
leave for an instant, and before he could return his
wife happened to go into the yard. Seeing chemicals
on fire, she threw a bucket of water on the burning
mass, and was instantly reduced to a mass of
palpitating]pulp by an explosion which shook the whole
city. Both her arms were torn oil, also one leg, the
lower jaw, and the scalp.
Some years ago, a Sydney dealer abandoned his
wife and took up with another woman. The other day
he died, whereupon his wife and family entered While the
woman in charge was away at the undertaker’s, and
took possession, not only of the corpse, but also of some
of the dead man’s effects. The mistress went to law over
the matter, and instituted a charge of forcible entry,
etc., but the Bench dismissed the case. Plain-
tiff produced in court a scrap of paper pur-
porting to be the will of the deceased man, and which
read as follows: —“ Hereby give to Cecilia Knight my
furniture, cetra.” Poor devil! He was not only a
bad man, but, unless the D.T., from which we copy
the “will,” libels his memory, a bad speller.
Respecting the Wild River, N.Q., a correspon-
dent, who has seen a good deal of the world, writes: —
" This is a grand place, and will, before long, be one of
the richest districts in Queensland. There seems no
lack of money. Splendid tin lodes are found every day.
Poor men I knew down South some months ago, are
now worth thousands of pounds. Every one has a
chance here. There is great excitement over Mulli-
gan’s new rush, for which a great many miners are
leaving daily. To see them mounted on their horses,
armed to the teeth with rifles and revolvers, you would
fancy that yon were in some military town on the eve
of a great battle. Every one is armed here. The
blacks are bad, and it is not safe to go a mile outside
the town without some weapon for protection. Two
men were speared within sight of the town a short time
back, by the niggers."
An enormous pnketca tree, probably many
hundreds of years old, was recently blown down near
Opotiki, which locality will be remembered as having
been the scene of some of the most ghastly deeds of the
Han-bans. The whole of the hollow interior of the tree
in question, extending from the roots to the first fork,
about 40 feet, had been filled with human bodies, and
since it fell these have burst out the butt of the tree,
in the form of a confused heap of skeletons. A more
extraordinary sight than this monarch of the forest,
lying prone and discharging a perfect hecatomb of
human skeletons, can scarcely be conceived. Some
are nearly perfect, while others are mixed up in a
chaotic mass of heads, hands, feet, arms, and legs
indiscriminately. All the Maoris here seemed to hare
been unaware of this natural charnel-house, and declare
that it must have happened long before their or their
fathers’ time. Indeed, the appearance of the tree, fully
justified the supposition that it must have been same
hundred of years since this novel family vault was filled
with its ghastly occupants.
Ten little niggers couldn’t do better before
calamity diminishes their numbers than buy fifteen big
villa sites next Saturday from the inevitable Mills,
Pile, and Gilchrist, close to Burwood Station.
“ Adjoining Gelding nursery.” Ha! ha! Ho!
ho! Adjoining whatf Anyway, that’s how they de-
scribe Burton’s Hill, Petersham. If Mills, Pile, and
Gilchrist keep on like this, they will he the life of the
community and the death of us. Saturday, 21st. —Anv.
The gem of “ Patience” is, unquestionably, the
song Willow, Willow Vale —we mean Willow Willow
Waly; but that forthcoming sale of Willow Yale, by
Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist, has got mixed with it. The
accompaniments are with cymbals and mit a gong.
Anyway, its near Mittagong. Confound “ Patience; ”
but keep yours till Saturday, the 28th.
It would appear difficult to beat the attractions
of a freelunch and a distribution of soup-kitchen tickets
as inducements for people to buy land. Bat ingenuity
is inexhaustible. Besides these delights, and a fourteen-
bob railway ride for nothing at all, Hardie and Gorman
now supply all visitors of the Qneensolilf Estate,
Bondi, on Saturday next—they humorously describe it
as the first sale of the season—with a pickled lithe-
graph and a lock of Mr. Gorman’s hair. Intending
purchasers are advised to have a look at the Brighton
Boulevard—and to pronounce it Bnllyyardy, so that
there may be no mistake about their having visited the
“ Continong.”
ADA LE[?]STER.
(Lost in the Clan Macduff, October, 1881.)
We who have seen her—modest, fair, and gifted.
Play ou the stage some half-pathetic part.
Feel that too sadly soon the veil is lifted,
Know Death has beggar’d Art,
A gentlewoman first, an artist after,
Where few, alas, are either of these;
Vain tearful eyes and sympathetic laughter—
O, cruel Irish seas !
So the bright promise of her life’s past danger.
Called by the Prompter from the stage of Time,
This be her epitaph, writ by a stranger.
In an Australian clime.
—GODFREY EGREMONT.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A little while ago, some young ladies and
gentlemen connected with the Pitt-street choir went a
moonlight excursion, and serenaded the men-of-war in
the harbour. The Russians were treated to their own
National Anthem, and as a recognition of the compli-
ment they let down two boats and escorted the singers
to the wharf The singers again were so overcome by
the honour that they could not do less than give three
cheers for the Czar. If it had not bean that the last
tram was just starting there’s no saying where these
effusive expressions of mutual admiration would have
ended. Giving three cheers for the Czar was an act,
however, that indicated more enthusiasm than dia-
crimination on the part of the serenaders. We
would suggest that next time those young men and
maidens paddle around the Muscovite fleet they try a
cheer or two for Sophie Perovsky, and three good ones,
with a “ hip, hip,” for the late lamented Mr. Roussakoff.
« • •
Mr. Adolpbus Caphippa, of the “ Circumlocu-
tion,” having skipped a day’s toil, walks up to his boss,
and what he says is this : “ Frightful attack yesserday,
eir. Bilious—awful bilious—doctors never thought
I’d see the daylight.” And, ns he perches himself on
Bis official roost, a brother slave looks up and says:
•‘Hello, Shirty—how many did you catch?” “Four
dozen bream, seven cod, two sharks, a shad, and a cat-
fish,” replies the bilious Adolphus, and for the next
hour the whole chat in that office runs on the superior-
ity of green prawns over fried bread as fish bait.
• • *
“ I want an ad., please Give us a lift.”
“What for ?” enquired the merchant. “Punch,”
was the reply. Lifted.
* * *
The halo-headed glorifiera of theT.M.C.A. are
making desperate efforts to attract people to their show
in Pitt-street, but their present programme, for some
reason oc oth.6r, does not seesn to have exactly hit the
popular taste. Even voung men who do like their
religion strongly flavoured, are beginning to tire of
“There is a fountain filled with blood,” and “ Pull for
the shore, sailah!’’ and people don’t care about hearing
the pitch of missionaries when yon read so much of
them in the morning paper. The Y.M.C.A. seems to be
alive to all this, for, on Sunday night, now, it issues
“ dogers,” each ono containing a short story complete
in one chapter. We got one of these documents given
to us last Sunday evening, by a young gentleman who
smelt of muffins, and find that it is entitled “ The
Cragsman.” This thrilling narrative commences as
follows“ Descending by a rope he reached a ledge of
rock, overhung by a higher portion of the cliff. He for-
got to secure the rope.” Being such a dull cragsman,
we lost all sympathy with him from the commence-
ment, so wo were rather disappointed,to find that instead
of coming down with a thud and being cleared away by
the corporation dustman, he goes np with a Hash, and
when last heard of was playing variations in “ Over
there ” upon a pair of celestial recorders. On the back
of this exciting narrative is an invitation to visit the
Association Rooms at 7.30. Wo were not able to go
last Sunday, having an engagement to pray elsewhere,
but before long we shall accept the courteous invite of
the “young men,” and do our little best towards
clutching a pair of wings and something neat in the
halo and nimbus lino.
• * *
She was a beautiful young creature—quite in-
tense and utter, and all that—on her way “ to fulfil a
professional engagement ” in the West, and as the
train rattled along, she remarked to the inevitable
swell, who sticks to travelling companies like a limpet
to a naif-tide rock, that railway travelling was “all very
well and all that, but it destroyed the poetry of the
thing, and gave one no chance to snatch the beauties of
scenery on the way,” when the leading “oldman”
broke in. “ and don’t give poor ‘ pros.’ no chance
neither to grab any linen off the hedges and clothes
lines.” And sadness stole over the little party as the
shades of evening fell upon a village graveyard.
* * •
Lefroy’s defence cost his sister the savings of a
life-time—£4oo. She was a nurse in the Richmond
Hospital. Perhaps if she had given her brother an
occasional fiver when he was hard np, Lefroy might
have been still writing for, but not in, the papers,land
-Mr. Gold collecting his rents. Or, if Lefroy had not
cultivated a liking for the society of star members ot
the perfesh, but had rested content to lunch on save-
loys, wear fourpenny socks, and change his shirt once a
fortnight, as so many of his brother pressmen do, his
neck might have yet been untwisted, and his sister s
four hundred intact. The murder itself is prima facie
evidence of gross extravagance. Why, who ever heard
of any one prospering who threw gold out of a window ?
* * *
Wo have it on the undoubted authority of a
horse-auctioneer, who occasionally writes for our daily
journals, that as soon as King Kalakua strikes his
native heath again, he intends to introduce ice-cream,
football, three card monte, and down-the-harbour
picnics. There ought to bo some high old fun when all
the festivities got into full swing.
* * •
They say: “ We do things better in Melbourne.”
All right. But, is it not an historic fact that when a
thunderstorm bursts over that city at 6 p.m. the
average young man has to take his latest hear‘.’a-adored
to the theatre in a sort of punt, or mud-dredge ? We
all know it is; and wo furthermore know that when
punts are scarce the maid takes off her boots ; the
loving pair take a seat therein, and off they paddle by
way of the nearest open sewer. And in Melbourne all
the sewers are open.
« * •
Thanks to those amateur detectives of the
1.0. G T.’s, our publicans and sinners have now rather
a lively time of it daring the lovely “ Saw bath mawn.”
The sentinel stars have scarce sunk to rest in the
western sky when God’s glorious sun rises in splendour
bright, and gazes sorrowfully down on the sad spectacle
ot fourteen able-bodied electors hammering willow-
pattern jugs on public-house doors, whilst from the top
storey window a pur ole-coloured, bald-headed man
waves the graceful folds of a brown Holland rohe-denuit,
and savagely yells, “Now git out—l won’t serve yer—
don’t yer see one of John Davies’s men a toutin’ at the
corner opposite ? ”
* * «
A correspondent writes to the Sydney Morn-
ing Ker-ristian saying:—“Tne Wesleyan camp,
recently broken up at Oueensclifl, Victoria, may be re-
garded as the beginning of anew departure in our moral
life, from which large results may be expected.” Now,
though our contemporary has lately commenced to
shape itself upon our lines in certain little matters, we
must admit that wo never anticipated that it would go
the “whole animal” to the extent it has in this in-
stance. Now the Herald has proclaimed that, “ large
results may be expected," we should advise the vendors
of “layettes” to hold back for a rush. Should there
be a meeting of a similar kind held in Sydney, we should
immediately give up journalism, and take to peddling
babies’ rattles.
# # #
We see from the S. M. Herald that Mr. Heber
Donaldson, a lawyer of Emlenton, Pennsylvania, was
recently expelled from the Presbyterian Church to
which he belonged for dancing. It happened thuswise.
Mr. Donaldson was formerly a very Saul amongst the
trippers of the light fantastic; his voice was one
continuous scream of reproof against what Byron called
the—
“ Muse of the many twinkling feet! whose charms
Are now extended np from legs to arms;”
but, in an evil hour, brother Heber consented to give the
concern a fair, impartial trial. A young widow being
introduced to him in the dazzling halls one night he
asked, “ What am I to do first ?” Place your arm round
the lady’s waist, and clasp her towards you,” said the
gay M.G. “ Oh ! but look hero, you know, that’s some-
thing awful; however, here goes—what’s next. ? ” “ The
lady now grasps as much of your saintly portliness as
offers to the touch,” replied his chaperon. “ Oh 1
goodness me; I’ll faint, sure,” exclrimed the horror-
stricken elder—but he didn’t. In point of fact, the
farther he went, the more he liked it; and when it came
to the final galop, the way that elder kicked, and the
way he plunged, and the way ho squoze that widow was
something to make the angels, or even Captain Cook’s
old statue, weep their eyes out. When he had finished
his 15th quadrille, he turned to the umpire, and said-
“ Where do those go who spend their lives in this un-
godly revelry?” “To hell,” replied the umpire.
‘‘Then put me down for 47 throws” said the lithe-
limbed lawyer, “ for to hell will I go with them —go
on mit der moosic—chassey crosse—tarra-ran-ta-ta-tan —
here, that’s my pardner”—and so the elder skipped,
and skipped until he skipped clean out of his clerical
billet. And now the one sleeping apartment is enough
and more for those two loving hearts who beat as one—
and wolf pork sausages for their Sunday breakfast.
« • •
White, of the Bathurst Free (?) Press, has
gone black in the face over a muffin struggle, recently
held at Mill town Not only did the tables groan
beneath the viands, not only was the home-brewed tea
exceptionally good, and not only were the reporters
placid within easy reach by land of the corned beef;
but, as the Free Press man says in a burst of inspira-
tion that would shame Isaiah or Lotti Wilmot in their
best days, “ Just fancy, strawberries and cream at a
tea meeting. It almost seems extravagant, but there
was none of it wasted, as might well be supposed, after
fully 400 hungry mortals made themselves feel better.”
Just fancy that, now ! On the self-same spot, where,
but a few years before, the lurking savage crept upon
his sleeping foe, and the amorous pademelon cooed to
his tender mate above, the local reporters should sit
down to ice cream and strawberries. And what a sad
reflection on our boasted civilization, is it not, when we
subsequently learn that when the Free Press thun-
derer took his first bite of the cream, he pushed it
indignantly from him, and told the Hebe in charge
that she had “ let that pudding get quite cold ” and to
“take the dam thing down to the stove and warm
it I”
* * «
There is a venerable man who, when he travels
with his daughters by rail, puts them in the second-
class and goes first-class himself. Which is he in, we
wonder— the drapery or the Church ?
• • •
The Herald publishes an account of a Hindoo
wedding, from which we gather that on the nuptial
evening, " at midnight the bride was taken to her hus-
band’s house, but immediately brought away again, and
this ceremony is, we are told, repeated for three nights
before she is left there for good.” Well, we know
something about being married, and all we can say is
that we think they manage these thintrs better here.
Why, we saw a wedding out Miller’s Point way last
week, and behold the couple were married at 11 o’clock,
were off in a van to Coogee by half-past, and the loving
couple and their supporters were all “ tight ” on the
beach by 1. That’s something like a wedding, that is 1
No taking of the bride away with this lot —unless to
the lock-up. Ptre Sydney!
• • •
London Truth has it that the soldiers in Lon-
don charge the nnrsegirls there so much a night for
escorting them about. “A private,” says Mr. Labeu-
chere, “ charges one shilling for an evening ora Sunday
walk, a corporal eighteeqpence, and a sergeant two
shillings. A busby, however, raises the charge very
much, and a private in a busby is not to be secured
under half-a-crown. The price of a sergeant thus
adorned, my informant was not able to give me, such a
costly luxury as that being beyond the horizon of her
imagination. The gallant escorts exact a certain
standard of toilette in their companions, and it is
understood that gloves are de rigueur on these occa-
sions.” Here would be a fine chance, now, for our
splendid Paddington heroes to raise the wind ! But,
after all, we don’t see why these Bayards should have
it all their own way. If any chubby youig person
desires a platonic escort of distinguished appearance-
warranted to appear with a clean pocket-handkerchief
and level heels—she can give us a look-up, and we will
exhibit on the sergeant’s scale. For the half-crown,
however, we will wear a flower and waive the gloves.
The higher the price the more we’ll —but there's
the hired girl come for the candle for the other lodger.
• • •
The intelligent compositor has had too much
goose this Christmas. One D.P. kept his heart’s adored
sitting on the damp grass one night until eleven o’clock,
and when she rose up, she went home and died. That
was bad enough in its way, but to make it worse D.P.
sent 17 verses of a funeral ode to one of our leading
iodmals, and in the trouble went. There is no need,
however, to wade through all the misery; suffice it to
say, the 11th verse hobbles along thus
“ And so to-day as we recall dear Eva’s youthful form.
Just stepping forth to womanhood, overtaken by the
storm.
We wonder why that flat stem from Heaven’s court was
sent,
That she so soon must pass away, whom Heaven to us
had lent.”
D.P., being a rising solicitior, of course wrote it “ fiat
stern,” but the “stamp picker” happened to be iii a
happy mood, and so dear Eva’s youthful form was trans-
formed into the unshapely rig of a Dutchman’s coal
barge. It doesn’t take much to change the weird into
the funny.
tt « «
From a Darling Point slave to her love: “ Dear
bil meet me at the demane gait at sivin. Melia.”
This was written on Parliament House paper, and
sealed with her master’s seal. Australian Club letter-
paper is also popular with ladies in service, though, of
course, where they get the superfine note is enveloped
in mystery. A peculiarity about the Club paper is, that
it is not always cream laid, but frequently mis-laid.
* • «
A complaint reaches us from an hotel-keeper at
Manly, that although a young rough amused himse'f by
insulting every one in the billiard-room of his hotel,
and behaving disgracefully, the policeman, despite the
fact that his attention was called to the matter, refused
to interfere, as his mate was then in Sydney. The
landlord asks us to ventilate this matter, and we do it
gladly. The policeman will be promoted, of course,
and then we shall be happy in the consciousness of
having contributed to the happiness of his small but
affectionate family.
* * *
CHAP 1.
Some thirteen moons ago a soul full-eyed young
man was stepping out of the Theatre Royal vestibule
when a timid, blushing, little maid tripped up and
lisped, “Oh, sir—could yon tell me the exact time—Pa
was to have met me here but he hasnt’ come, and I’m
so afraid I’ll miss the North Shore ferry.” Then there
came the graceful uplifting of the young man’s head
gear; the noisy rattle of a passing (cab ; the faintest
flash of a barber’s pole as the agile maid skipped in ;
and the young man followed and then—(to he continued
in our next).
CHAP 11.
It was the first night of the Christmas pantomime, and
as a youthful, manly form strode silently out in the
direction of Eastway’s private bar, a ravishing little
fay came slowly up, and said, “Oh! sir—could you tell
me the exact time—Pa was to have met me here, but
he hasn’t come, and I’m so afraid I’ll miss the North
Shore ferry.” “That’s all right,” replied the neat
young man, but if I remember right, you missed your
Pa and the ferry boat, too, about this very hour three
months ago, and on the same date I missed my watch,
a set of studs, and 275. fid. in silver. If you find
your Pa send him round in a cab, asd I’ll put a head
on him.” Slow music—curtain.
# # #
“ All Adelaide combined to testimonialise Bishop
Short.” — Herald .
We’d like to see a thirsty hound
Refuse a drink of water;
And could a loafer e’er be found
To scorn a pint of porter ?
Were “tips ’’ on guaiffis upon the line,
Now, ever known to pall,
And did a parson e’er decline
A testimonial P
The gods forbid—decline ! “ not much!”
Not one has ever thought of it;
The motto of the parson’s " clutch!“
And that, sirs, is the Short of it.
* * *
“Yon will go home as our special commis-
sioner,” said a newspaper proprietor to one of his staff.
“But how about the outfit, sir; I am not prepared.”
“ Always at me for something,” said the managing
editor; “ but, however, here you are.” And seizing a
copy slip, he wrote: " One enamelled-iron shirt front,
one pair block-tin cuffs, one painted steel nectie.”
“ But you’ve forgotten ” murmured the special
commissioner. “ So I have 1” exclaimed the boss.
Then he added to the list: “ one pair pigskin socks—
copper-fastened." And the outfit was complete.
• * #
Writing of the wreck of the Wotonga, the
Morning Pbayeh saith“ The schoolmaster and hi a
wife afforded them all assistance possible, bat not
another aonl at Port Macquarie made an attempt to
relieve their wants, or furnish them with the clothing
which they so much needed."
We’ve read of hearts as hard as stone,
But ne'er from out a quarry,
Was hewn the stone hard as the hearts
You find in Port Macquarie I
• • •
It is now generally known that the Duke of
Westminster proposed to the Empress Eugenie, and
was refused. The exact terms in which he mode his
offer have not j et been made public, but the interview
is believed to have been as follows : —The Duke came to
the Empress at Chiselhurst as her Malesty was ootint-
ing the family jam-jars. " Voolez-vous marier moa P ”
enquired his Grace. "Jamais," replied the Empress.
“Jammy P” repeated the Duke; "ah, she doesn't
understand. If you say pas, Madam," he went on, “ it
won't bo jammy, but plnmmy. I have got," he added
as an inducement, “ plenty arjong." “ Cela ne pent
pas so faire," said Eugenie. "Non compronny," mur-
mured the Duke. Then sang the Empress, clicking
two jam-pots together as she used to do the castanets in
Andalusia—
*• Not for Jo—you must know—
Duke, you are a ninny;
Not for Jo—oh, no, no!
And also not for ’Genie.”
The Dnke then retired, and the Empress went on count*
ing her jam-pots; and, for aught we know to the con*
trary, she may be counting them still.
• • •
Tho editor of the Parramatta Evening
Times, accuses us of reprinting an original poem
called “ Words of Choer," from the oolumnß of his
journal without acknowledgment. Every poem must
have been original at one time, aud " Words of Cheer ”
is, of course, no exception. When the piece appeared
iu the Parramatta Times, it was announced as being
" an unpublished piece by Burns,” and poor Alfred,
swallowing this statement, reprinted it in the Evenihg
News. Directly we saw the poem, we recognized it as
an oid friend, and turning over some papers, discovered
it printed in handbill form, with this heading—
« WORDS O’ CHEER.
“ [The following verses, which have been re-
prmtted in Melbourne and Sydney, are a portion
of those under tho above title, appearing in
‘ Poems from the Inner Life ,' as delivered by Miss
E. A. Doten (a spirit medium), under the
influence of Robert Burns.]"
The little sheet is about four years old, so therefore it
is plain to see that some/arccur has been poking fun at
the gifted editor of our brilliant contemporary. Put
these little stanzas, therefore, in your album, journal-
istic John:—
It really seems a deal too bad
To see an editor thus “ had,"
A man whose most peculiar " fad "
Is bookish fame—
A journalist who's made, egad 1
A splendid name!
But grieve not, doughtiest of men,
Por this false splutter of thy pen;
For we were smiling gaily, when
We penn’d this rhyme.
We saw those “ samples" in thy don,
At Christmas-time.
« * •
T)r. Sly, (which he was christened George James)
in retiring amidst the tears and anguish of his aunts
and uncles from the Kedfern election, says in his
address (2 inches—three insertions)As I do not
wish to pnt my committee to any farther trouble in
oonneotiou with the election, when I do sot see a
reasonable certainty (sic) of success, I have deemed it
my duty to retire." Now what’s a “reasonable
certainty ?" As the Herald remarked recently in a
leader, we have plenty of law lately bnt vory queer
justice. Perhaps now, “a reasonable certainty" is a
legal phrase. If so, that does not prevent it from being
very queer English ? But then you know we—thank
heaven!—aren’t a Doctor of Laws of Stdnkt Un-
iversity, nor do we write for The Half-Crown Wilkins.
During one of Dr. Sly’s meetings, there was a slight
disturbance. “ What are you giving ns ?" Shouted a
free and independent elector. "It’s the truth," re-
lated the Doctor. “ It ain’t the truth,” cried an
elevated voter—“it’s Sly.”
« * «
The Evangelical Alliance, so the S. M. Herald,
which is quite an authority on such things, tells us,
prayed on the sth inst. There was " Supplication for
the young and their institutions; for Christian parents
—and that they may be quickened in the desire to
teach and mould their children f>r Christ; for the
raising up of men nnd women endued with gifts from
above for the leading of children and young persons to
the knowledge of God." As the Alliance is casting
about whom next to pray for. we will beg leave to offer
them a few suggestions iu a jingle, que void: —
Pray for hypocrites, who "on the spout,"
Are " wrestling," eighing. sobbing;
But who, when in the world without,
Are plundering and robbing.
Pray for the canting rascals—those
Smug sniv’lling prayer-producers,
Who bide beneath their cleric clothos
The black hearts of seducers.
Pray for the starving, whom your wealth
Could render happy—joyous ;
But when ye pray—why, pray by stealth—
This bellowing does cloy us 1
Pray for yourselves—our counsel heed,
You dear “ Ker-ristian brothers,” ;
For it may come one day you'll need
Those prayers you yowl for others.
« * *
A Melbourne paper is singularly indiscreet. It
wants to know, you Snow, who are the ladies for whom
unmarried members of Parliament get free passes for
country excursions. Last time we travelled on a
Victorian railway we were in the same carriage with a
member of Parliament and a pretty girl, whose hand
be held tightly in bis owu during the whole journey to
Wodonga. Probablv, he got her ticket “ for press
purposes.”
# # #
If it be true that poets must be born (a fact
which midwives and registrars of biitliß, deaths, and
marriages scarcely impugn), it is equally true that
politicians must be made —i.e.,manufactured. Here is a
recipe for the manufacture of a modern M.P. :
Take of Buehauau whatever is usable,
Subtract from Nin Melville all that is loseahle;
Borrow from Hoskins his grumpy demeanour.
And Baker's humility now he’s sub pama.
Take the polish of Burdett. the mildness of Reid,
The geDins of Piddington. long run to seed.
Take a modest degree of Parkesian astuteness,
And a proper proportion of Slattery’s ’cuteness ;
An inordinate share of Sir John’s inconsistency,
And just the least trifle of David’s persistency.
Take of Ezekiel whate’er’s incorruptible.
And flavour with M'Elhone, always eruptible.
Add a little sublime and a lot of grotesque,
One-eighth Watsonian, and one-tenth Garvanesque,
Strain off from Forster whatever is cynical,
And set up the whole on a very high pinnacle.
Then consolidate the particles oarfullee,
And label the mass “ A modern M.P,”
* * *
There is a very pious and exemplary member of
the Supreme Court Bench, who shed copious tears
when called upon to pass his maiden sentence of death.
It was neither the novelty nor the solemnity of the
situation which had the effect of unmanning him, hut a
passing thought of what an enviable slice of functions
congenial to himself the hangman would usurp.
# # *
Pa and Ma, and tho little sisters and brothers,
sat on the verandah awaiting Fanny’s return from the
Hard-Bliell picuic. The orb of day was dipping upon an
horizon of crimson and gold as the young lady came
tripping up the street. “ Ah, hero she is!" cried all
the children; “let’s see what Pan has brought home
for us ! ” And, eager with anticipatory visions of pris-
matic shells and wild flowers, they took the bag from
her and opened it. Then came a general exclamation
of surprise. It contained half a cake of tobacco, a knife
with the blade broken, a gore-stained handkerchief, a
ginger-beer-bottle half full of rum, a tom enff, a muti.
lated collar, three smashed biscuits, and a solitaire. In
the hurry of departure, she had forgotten to load up
with the usual botanical and conchological cargo.
Tableau 1
* • m
Just arrived in Hay from Adelaide. Prominent
citizen : Is Judge So-and-so in town ? “No, he’s gone
yachting.” They go and have a drink. Prominent
citizen in pub.: “ Hull® ! Where’s little Minnie gone ? ”
“ Oh; poor thing, she gone for a sea-trip for the benefit
of her health.” Prominent citizen, exit whistling;
and doesn’t revisit that hotel till the end of the
vacation,
* * *
The long roll of magisterial impostors, who
darkened the annals and stained the records of Sydney
jurisprudence, have fallen a victim to the new Act.
They died hard, and stuck to their nefarious colours to
the last. In life they were worse than worthless, and
in death they are not divided. Here are a few lines to
their memory:—
The Assembly came down like a wolf on the fold,
Led by Johnny the jaunty and Harry the bold ;
And the screams of the victims went forth on the
breeze.
When the blue wave of danger assailed the J.P.’s,
Like the sleek Civil servants, when Premiers are
“ green,”
The licensing frauds in full blossom were seen ;
Like the full-jaded hearers when David has blown.
The justice-burlesquers lay withered and strewn.
At the Angel of Death how they and and they “blast,”
Now ambition is strangled and glory is past;
And the “ ayes " of the creepers waxed deadly and chill
In upholding a cafe, or starting a “ still."
To the Court struts the justice; unchanged is his
stride—
But a mildew has tainted the breath of his pride.
No longer (as blatant as dogs of the Turf)
His words carry orders from tyrant to serf.
From the Rostrum he slinks, so distorted and pale.
Now jeered at by tipplers his frown once could quail.
The “ Unpaid” are all silent, the P.M.’s alone.
Their brightness is rusted, their dignity blown.
And the justice-purveyors are loud in thejr wail.
And the idlers are “ broke ” in the temple of Bail;
And the might ot the magistrates, onco so adored.
Has melted like snow at the Parliament’s word.
• « •
Mother Shipton predicted sempiternal smash
for the world in 1881. The falsity of the prediction is
a melancholy proof that there is nothing new under the
sun—not even Skuthorpe.
• • m
The Daily Telegraph observes, that in the
event of Mudgee returning Mr. Greenwood, he will
take his seat—politically speaking—for Bedlam. Now,
in anticipation of an establishment of a representative
for Bedlam, would it not be an act of grace to extend
the franchise to the staff of the D.T. ?
* • »
Judge W ■, like the only, and the only con-
ceivable, M‘Elhone, perpetrated but one pun in his
lifetime. On the occasion of his translation to the per-
manent judgeship, a friend remarked: “ The Bulletin
dare not dub you temporary judge any longer. You
are now the extra judge.” “D The Bulletin,”
said his Honor, and then ho added, “ Excuse the extra,
judicial oath.”
A man landed Mr. Carroll, the eminent
solicitor, in King-street, and only got fined ft—while,
the other day, another man was fined £5 for abusing a
magistrate. Mr. Carroll, strangely enough, appears to
be surprised at this, and in writing to the Lyre of
Monday, says" For the future, if I am assaulted, I
shall put up with the injury rather than seek redress in
a police court. Truly may I say police courts are of
great uncertainty.”
Now, thrue for yez, ould Jim, they are,
Av that, bedad, there is no doubt;
But, whirra, don’t it seem ye’ve took
A moighty toime to foind it out P
That’s all the Irish we can ready up at such short
notice. We must have a talk with Signor Verdi before
we launch out again.
• * »
Drinkwater, a local preacher, has been sent to
gaol, at Melbourne, for one year, on conviction of em-
bezzlement. He often wearied his auditors with ex-
hortations to fast and pray. His lines are now cast in
a province where the prayers are optional and the
fasting is compulsory. Even in religious matters it
would seem that “ familiarity begets despisery,” judg-
ing from the plethora of local preachers who know the
law and despise the commandments. “ Prey without
ceasing ” is the only text which finds a hallowed re-
sponse from their mercantile souls.
• • •
Queenslanders in the Never Never districts have
a jolly happy-go-lucky style which is infinitely pleasing
A young fellow was brought up before a worthy police
magistrate in the very Par North, lately, charged with
having gained an illicit point on some mates. They
seem to have been all at sea, as he had taken the first
watch—he could lay his hands on. His worship had
just committed the man to take his trial at the nearest
District Court—only 450 miles distant,—and the con-
stable was about to march off his prisoner, and put him
on the chain, as the lockup was occupied by the ser.
geant’s black gin, who was in the straw, when an old
chum of the police magistrate’s rode up, and, dismount-
ing, marched into the temple of j ustice. Now, the season
had been dry, and the teams which were bringing up to
Joe the Lamber, proprietor of the only pub. in the town-
ship, his regular supplies of firewater and bluestone,
had been delayed. There hadn’t been a drop of poison
in the place for three weeks, although Joe had zealously
tried to distil some kind of spirit from pumpkins and
ration-sugar with the help of a camp-oven and the barrel
of one of the troopers’ carbines. The new arrival pre-
sented himself with a bottle in his hand—a real “ reputed
quart ”of Queensland rum; and hailing the worshipful
bench as “ old man," asked him what he said to “ a nip.”
His worship clutched the bottle without a word, poured
out an honest four fingers for himself, and, being a man
of feeling, passed the grog to the constable. The court
didn’t adjourn till magistrate, bobby, prisoner, and new
arrival had worked their passage through the tonic, and
got on the most affectionate terms. When all was over,
the little party quietly dispersed—the prisoner trotting
off in the highest spirits to the chain, saluting the
“ beak " with a friendly “ Good-bye, ole fella. I’ll da
the same for you another time,”
BOB THE BOBBY.
At the Central Police Court yesterday, before
Messrs. Alexander and Bull, Robert Heville, a member
of the city police force, was convicted of a violent as-
sault upon a young man named James Struck, early on
Christmas morning ” The Bench fined him
one guinea, with professional costs and costs of Court.
Mr. Bull, jun,, conducted the prosecution,"—Tel l ’’
GRAPH.
Bob Heville is a constable.
And in the city force.
Both “ active " and “ intelligent,”
“ Respected," too, av coorse.
Persuasive pow’rs he does possess
You’d better bet his nibs.
For when a man will not “ move on,”
He boots him in the ribs.
For this gay Bob was fined a pound
“ You’ll see it up there quoted ;
So next week it is ten to one
That Bob will be promoted.
An incident in the constable Heville assault case
“You’re sure’t was me,” the peeler sez:
“ How is it me you knows ?”
Then ups and sez that witness..." Yes—
I knows yer by yer nose.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Melbourne Punch says that larrikinism is, in
its essence, simply a sublimate of Loyal Liberalism.
Says Holtermann: “If a fellow hasn’t got but a
stilling in his pocket, and wears a black hat, so help
me, gracious, it’s a half-crown."
A Melbourne paper unblushingly says: “ The
first photo, of Sir Henry, taken in 1854, would make a
capital likeness of Bland Holt, the comedian."
A burglar broke into the house of a Victorian
inemb >r the other day, and stole a currant cake. The
M.P.’s overcoat was lying beside it, but the burglar
man preferred the cake.
In the North Gundagai Public School the ques-
tion was asked, "Who is the Governor of the
colony?” A little boy replied “Please sir. Father
Finnigan is the Governor of N.S.W.”
“ Can I give any one a drive home ?” asked Joe
Eckford, after the Parliamentary dinner. "Thanks,
I’ll trouble you,” said Lucas. “ All right, then I’ll go
and fetch the horse.” He is still gone.
First Police catch under new Licensing Act.—
Last Sunday, at Mittagong, constable 8. caught an old
woman with bottle of tea, clandestinely leaving back
door of D.’s Hotel. Promotion expected.
At a Far Northern township, on 25th December,
a lady familiarly known as the “One Stamper Battery ”
knocked a man senseless with a bottle after missing him
with two tumblers. She said it was Xmas Day.
At the Forest Lodge ’bus terminus, there is a
small shed, with an inscription to the effect that “ this
is the office of the Transit Commissioner’s Ass.” We
believe, however, that the creature is kept elsewhere.
“ How do you like * Patience?’” enquired Joe
Goodman of the man fram Mudgee. “Oh, you can’t
see enough of it," was the reply. " Enough of what ”
asked Goody. “Enough of the chorus," was the
reply.
“ The cabbage-garden ” is not sufficiently well-
watered to allow of H.M.S. Nelson visiting it. How.
ever, the Melbourne people are going to dredge their
beautiful harbour, and when they’ve managed to get
40ft. of the briny into Hobson’s Bay and reclaimed the
land now covered by Bass’ Straits, they’ll invade and
annex Tasmania—and then you’ll see what a fine conn-
try Victoria is for the working man.
Saya G. E. Bibbs : “ If
any of Tbe Bulletin peo-
ple go to gaol. I’ll come np
and show them the ropes.”
Offer declined—in that lo-
cality.
Referring to the means
adopted by the N.S.W.
Customs authorities to
guard against evasion of the
Chinese poll-tax, the Argus
says we can’t forget our old
ways, and have taken np
with the “ ticket of leave "
system again.
Sir Henry said he was
“ considering ” the cases of
M’Beath and Co., JJ.P.,
before he left. We wonder
whether Mr. Wisdom has
the papers in the case—and
whether Sir Henry wrote
anything on them prior to
steaming away in the Aus-
tralia. Eh ?
Prom a feminine Mil-
ton, who signs “ Australie,”
we have received two feet
seven inches of a wild,
hilarious poem, entitled
“ Her Dark Desponding
Soul." The funeral of the
two compositors, and one
proof reader, who had to
wrestle with this aesthetic
agony, will move from the
deceased parties’ residences
at 3 p.m., and any little help
“Australie" would like to
send their widows will be
thankfully received.
A tall yarn is told to a
Bathurst paper by “ a reli-
able and trustworthy infor-
mant.” At George’s Plains,
as Mr. Joseph Sergeant was
driving a load of hay across
his field to the stack, he
noticed a whirlwind ad-
vancing and told the little
boy who was on top of the
load to lie down. The boy
did as he was bid, but the
whirlwind gained speed as
it travelled, and when it
reached the waggon, carried
the hoy off for a distance of
18 yards, and turned the
load completely over.
Thirty-four years ago
a bullet-headed youth, draw-
ing the princely salary of
£75 per annum, might he
seen reckoning seven times
seven on his finger tips in a
grocery store in Dublin.
Satiated with wealth and
honours, this bullet-headed
clerk set sail for Australia
—struck it rich at the dig.
giugs; then bought sheep
—then land. And now—
“ What can I do for you
sir” —Sir Samuel Wilson —
Lord of Disraeli’s Manor.
And, don’t-you-forget-it—
until Sir Sammy does.
“Over three hundred people, says the M.R.
Times, “were present at the funeral of the late Mr.
, This shows the respect in which ho was held by
all classes of the community.” Now, we’ve seen a
hundred people or more present at the funeral of a man
whom no one respected. P.S. —He was hanged.
Joe Thompson gave <£l to the C. of E. Cathe-
dral in Melbourne, the other day. The clergyman took
the note, but hearing soon afterwards that Joe had
given a tenner, on the same day, to a man who ftt©
of pork and drank three gallons of spruce-beer is fifteen
minutes, the rev. gentleman sent the Leviathan his
money back.
She enjoyed herself this Christmas went to
three harbour picnics, a temperance gala, a moonlight
prayer meeting, and threo choir rehearsals. She is now
being attended by the lodge doctor, and her sister has
to do her share of the tobacco-twisting. The doctor
is undecided what is the matter with her—too much
ram, or too much religion.
From the Macleat Herald “ The
•Gloria’ of this holy and happy season should ascend
from the Macleay and all our beautiful Northern Rivers,
in a full and joyous chorus.” After this beautiful
hurst we were afraid to look lower down the column.
We had a presentiment we should come upon onr old
friend the pianoforte tuner.
At Balmoral the piper plays under Her Majesty’s
window at eight o’clock in the morning. The
Queen likes this, but the ladies in waiting dont.
Her Majesty has, therefore, substituted india-rubber
for all the crockery in their rooms, as when they had
delf articles it was found that about every three weeks
there was wanted a new piper.
If anyone thinks the Milburn Creek matter
Kleenetb. he makes a big mistake. Evidence is still
coming in by the bushel, and the general heft of it goes
to urove that Tom Garrett is a second Simon Peter, and
that Milburn Creek has no existence even on the largest
Government map yet printed. Now, who 11 take an-
other throw at the Treasury coffer ?
The Evening News has come out in new type.
This being an important era in the annals of the paper,
the principal item that day was from the pen of Alfred.
It consisted of this eloquent passage : The Evenusg
News to-day is printed with entirely new type. There
is a thrilling intensity about this which the ordinary
journalist cannot compass. It is sublime.
The Wesleyan school held its anniversary at
Kiama the other day, and the KI am a Independent
says:—“The tea was remarkably well got np by the
lady teachers and friends.” The editor probably means
“ got down."
The other day, Gas. Wangenheim made a pencil
caricature of a well-known limb of-the-law, and showed
it to the original. “ You are wrong,” said the land-
shark; “I carry my papers in my light and hold my
beer-glass in my left hand."
Sir ’Enry does not consider himself the greatest
man that has ever trod this earth. He is not quite
such a fool as that, but humbly puts himself next to
Julius Cmsar. This gives J.C. a show, and must be
fearfully consoling to his widow and all the family.
“ I don’t know what they want them stipende-
ries for,” growled a city J.P.; “ Toug as I take the wool
out of my ears, and there arn’t no ’bus passin', I cau
most alius make out what a trial’s about- And as for
readin’, give me my new specs, and I can give you
change for most any word you could mention that s
printed plain. The good old times is all a goin*. **
During the wind-storm, on Saturday, many
casualties occurred—but the most surprising one is re-
ported as having happened at Hunter’s Hill. A corru-
gated iron verandah was carried away, and so was a
man of about 14 stone weight, who was at work thereon.
The verandah was recovered and the man blown back to
his work. This is tall blowing. Where’s Anthony ?
The Sydney publicans, at a public meeting,
estimated their takings between 11 and 12 o’clock at £5
per night for some houses, or an average of £2 10s. per
house, and it was stated that the takings of the 882
Sydney houses for this hour before midnight would
amount to £350,000 per annum. And all that from three-
penny doses of what, on the average, is undoubtedly
rank poison 1
Some chorus-masters here have a most prosaic,
matter-of-fact style of calling out tbeir Sunday pro-
grammes, and this occasionally leads to some awkward
situations. For instance, at the Christmas practice in
one of our leading churches, the conductor took a strong
steady look at the full chorus, and coolly observed:
“All we like sheep have gone astray for unto us a child
is bom.” Then every Mother Hubbard and May Queen
hat in the place bent down to allow the little rosy lips
to snicker. Each chorister blushingly asked “Is it I,”
and that old stick-in-the-mud of a baton-wielder has
been wondering ever since what in thunder the girls
had seen to giggle about.
He started to sing “My Per-ritty Jee-ane,”
the other evening in the private bar, when he
stopped suddenly, and said to the barmaid, “ Oh, I
forgot; singing is forbidden by the new Act. Then,
we’re quite safe,” rejoined the young lady ; “please go
on " He never saw it till next morning, when he was
fumbling in all his pockets for the threepence he
thought he had saved for a “ straightener."
How unreasonable some young fellows are!
Why, in Melbourne the other day, a promising youth,
who was engaged to a very pretty girl, called to take
her out. When he was told that she had gone to stay the
rest of the week at the Queeuscliff Wesleyan Camp
Meeting, he burst into a torrent of indignation and
renounced her altogether. And the strangest part of the
affair is that he is a Wesleyan himself. ‘ Hold the fort!
Mr. Trevelyan’s teetotal drink for the stokers of
the fleet is as follows: —Oatmeal, to be mixed with
water in such proportions as may be considered
desirable. We hear that the effect of this on the
stokers has been such that they all talk English now
with a Scottish accent, and never see a milestone with-
out rubbing against it and calling down a bemson upon
the Marquis of Lome’s papa. This is a naval item in
honour of the Nelson.
“ A tradesman at Temora refused to observe the
general holiday on Tuesday, and the town band sere-
naded him with the * Dead March in Saul. This course
was decided on by a committee of leading citizens as
one which would administer the utmost possible torture
without risking a shattering of the statute. It is said
that before the tune was half-over the culprit called out
hoarsely—“ Bring thumbscrews and the rack, but in
mercy’s sake, kill that cornet.”
The Sydney correspondent of the Brisbane
Courier, referring to the new trial decision in our
case, says“ What the public have special cause to
complain of is that Sir William Manning, whose de-
cision was called in question, should have sat and
delivered judgment on his own opinion. He was
professionally, if not personally, interested in the
issue, and therefore it was as unfair for him to have
sat on the appeal as it would have been for either of the
parties to the suit to have done so—”
We’re awfully afraid.
And this we do in fear—
Lie full-length in the shade.
And softly murmur “ hear I”
There ia a newspaper office in this city where,
on one of the staff presenting himself in a new rig. ho
is immediately called aside by ten different people, who
all propound the self-same query: “ Who’s the con-
fiding snip ?” When one man, last winter, appeared on
two occasions in different ulsters, an adjournment was
made by the proprietary to the top of the house to see
if he had been stealing tha lead off the roof. He only
escaped summary dismissal by explaining that he had
got it in exchange for three essays on cheesemakiug and
a 5-act tragedy.
The Newcastle paper reprints a par. from the
Geelong .Advertiser, which begins as follows: “A
remarkable fossil was picked up on Monday on the
ocean beach, between Qaeenscliff and Bar won Heads.
Now, we are opeu to wager a bottle of claret against
Lucas’s hat that the genius who clipped this item was
no less a personage than that gorgeous journalist
“ Cave Adullum.” By the way, Cave, old boy, how s
the “ August Lady ” getting on, eh ? and all the rest
of those staggering old dummies which dance ia every
Saturday’s paper ? We haven’t seeu any of your copy
lately. We have lost the run of it ever since we
changed onr bait shop.
He ia a man of our day, a selector, and lives
somewhere between Croagingolong andMurrumburrah-
moonambel. He follows the occupation of storekeeper,
poundkeeper, postmaster, political agent, and local
agitator. He is also butcher, baker, land-jobber, and
grazier. He runs 1000 sheep on the travelling stock
reserve that he got Howler, M.L.A., to have docked
from a squatter’s lease, and he is now building an oppo-
sition pub. to shut rp the man over the road. He is a
member cf the L.0.L,, but hongs a full-length por-
trait of “ Roger Bede ” in his store to “ draw,” as ha
says, one section of his customers. He is an emigrant
and an ex-policeman. Now these are just the sort of
colonists we want.
Saya the Ballarat Courier, whilst speaking
of a struck-by-lightning case : —“The destruction done to
the boots worn by Miss Andrews can be better imagined
than described, when it is said that the major portion
of one is rent into shreds, and the other damaged to a
great extent." Nothing whatever is said about Miss
Andrews herself, and we are therefore left in painful
suspense as to whether the boots were on duty during
the time of the sad occurence, or merely down the hall
waiting for the hired girl to give them a coat of Day and
Martin. It may not be out of place to mention here,
that two of the Rum reporters are now spending their
Christmas time in the golden'city. Can it be but
no —of course it couldn’t.
At Rand wick, one John Williams lately killed a
large black snake five feet six inches long, on the Long
Bay Road, and npon opening the reptile he found it
contained another snake, four feet ten inches long.
The old ’nn bad just eight inches left for pudding. It s
a pity Mr. W. didn’t preserve the specimens for the
Museum, since it is not often the public can see a snake
five feet six inches, and a Jonah from its “bread-basket
of four feet ten. P.S.—We get this yarn from one of
the religious papers,
A “ prominent butcher,” of Cooktown, the
other day received a unique communication from
his Chinese servant, intimating that he (the Chinkie)
had purchased from a fruiterer his Chinese nursemaid
for £6O, and wanted his master’s permission to marry
her We are (says a local paper) graduating into Sir
Arthur’s Celestial morality. What will be the tariff for
Ayrshire or Tipperary girls ? and how far does inter-
national law justify an alien in trafficking in flesh and
blood under the protection of the British flag ?
Truth saya that the Prince of Wales was the
inventor of lemon squash. This will be a crusher for
the Radical papers, which have been all along affirming
that the Prince has only one idea, and half that he
borrowed from Lord Charles Beresford, one night when
“ Charley ” was half-on at Cremome. Now the Prince
of Wales has given such startling proof of his inven-
tive genius, nothing we should hear about the family
would surprise us. We shall expect to hear next of
Leopold patenting a box-mangle or Louise mending a
clock.
Manly Beach is going it. Not content with
getting up an orgie that would shame the palmy days
of the licentious Nero—an orgie, which even the very
policemen felt scandalised to look upon—Manly has
now gone one step farther, and started a Moody and
Sankey concert company. All the elite of the Beach,
from the village blacksmith up to the Post-office clerks,
are engaged, and we may shortly expect to hear of the
star company being billed to do * * Madame Favart or the
“ Tambour Major.” These concert practices are noble
institutions; but when each male musician is compelled
to see a soprano home by the longest route, and when
he is furthermore compelled to hitch one arm round
her waist to prevent her fainting at the sight of ghosts
or native bears, the fun becomes something heavenly.
Not that we know, of course; but a Manly corres-
pondent, who writes a very unmanly letter, and has
been there himself, writes up to tell ns so.
A paper called the Melbourne Dramatic
News has a writer on its staff called “Noz. E..Nu11,”
who exhibits a portrait of himself above his column of
galimatias, which leads one to the immediate conclusion
that his beauty is just on a par. with the brilliance of
his literary style. Here is a sample of what he adorns
the Dramatic News with: —“ The fair-haired little lady
was much admired on the course on Monday. ■ • • *
Teerly is a noted shaver "A glance at which
inclines us to the belief that though the writer possibly
knows enough to be footman in a shoe-shop, he requires
a little educating before he will be destined to shine in
“ the writing.’*
On tho editor of the Auckland Observer being
for a short time absent from his post, an opportunity
was taken by some persons to send in numerous
scandals, false accounts, and libellous stories, with a
view of getting the paper into trouble. These are tho
kind of people whom you hear crying out about society
papers “meddling in private allairs,’* “scandalising
respectable people,” etc. There are some very nice
people in the world ; we know a few of them ourselves.
But they must be singularly innocent if they think we
publish anything that is sent to us at haphazard.
Where a writer of a personal item is not known to us,
full name and address must in all cases be furnished.
When these are given, a writer, if honest, has nothing
to fear, as communications to us are strictly confidential.
When names are not given, the contribution is put in,
without fail—but not in The Bulletin.
After all, human nature is' the same in every
clime, exdept Cloatarf, and down there it runs to the
height of the thermometer and the cash price for
vigorino. The other night, Ivan von Schiftyonrblastid-
earoff, a Russian A.B , slung himself on the outside of
four whiskeys hot. seven long sleevers, two pale brandies,
and a bottle of Holland gin, after which he wanted to
go down to tho “ Rocks” on horseback, and court thirty-
seven maidens fair, and fight every white man within a
radius of fifteen miles, and rip up all the policemen’s
pants from Dan to Bersheba, just the same as the
most intelligent tar in the British navy would act on a
like occasion. One touch of nature (out of a square
bottle) makes tho whole world kin; and if you don’t
believe this, try it yourself, and report progress. How-
ever, even in face of the abovementioued facts a
correspondent writes: “The Russians are evidently
uncivilised. I saw two of them the other day. They
were drunk, and were being led off by one policemanil
They went quietly, and didn’t attempt to brain th#j
boboy or chew his fingers off, as a civilised person wouhL
have done. Piddington has been wrongly informed op .
the Russian question.”
The Gnndagai Times' '
oVserves: “Mr. J. Maddison,
the author of ‘ Box and
Cox,’ recently played by
the Gnndagai amateurs, is
90 years of age, and still in
good health.” And we ob-
serve that Mr. Maddison
Morton’s retention of good
health has something to do
with the fact that he hasn’t
seen “Box and Cox” ac-
cording to the Gnndagai
version. > '
Some Parisian savans,
experimenting in eating
crocodile’s flesh, report that
they found it “ tender, deli-
cate, and appetising, par-
taking of the flavour ot
salmon and lobster." This
reminds us that the “ Gal-
loping Prospector,” who
averred that curiosity had
once prompted him to taste
the flesh of a Chinaman
whom the Far Northern
niggers had killed and
cooked with a view to an
orgie, used to say that
Mongolian flesh made quite
a delicate dish, and remind-
ed him strongly ot corned
pork, first cooked with cab-
bage and then exposed to to-
bacco smoke. We may now
anticipate a big export from
North Queensland of pre-
served alligator.
The report of the hon.
secretary of the Metropoli-
tan Liedertafel, regretfully
states that, owing to the in-
adequate support rendered
by the Sydney public, there
was no balance to hand over
to the charitable institui
tions. Now, considering j
that the receipts for the.
five concerts given amount-
ed to £738, an average of
£147 per concert, which
would almost pay a big
opera company, we must
look elsewhere for the rea-
son. The expenses amount-
ed to £792. Leaving out
the £lOO for railway
fares in Victoria, and the
£Bl for hire of chairs, £6ll
is left to pay other expenses.
The impression was that
these gentlemen were tak-
ing the opportunity of a
visit to show us what they
could do, and were defray-
ing their personal expenses.
The veriest tyro in show
business knows that a
troupe of 60 members can-
not clear big ventures by
five performances. It is
satisfactory, despite the in-
adequate support of the
public, that the hon. sec.
has no complaint to make
of the cost of onr first-class
hotel accommodation, and
of our Christmas fare.
A party of gentlemen were in ’s private bar
the other evening enjoying a social glass, and amongst
them one of onr popular legislators. That gentleman
had just been laying down the law to the company on
the subject of the licensing Act. “lamaman, said he,
“o£ ensrgy and detsmiiiiatioii, One© my mind, is mado
np, you may just as well try and move a rock. It has
been my motto all my life ‘ fear no one,’ and I do wot
fear anyone." .... At this moment, a little girl
opened the bar door, and said “ Father, Ma s waiting
for you at Uncle’s ; and she said if you don’t come quick
yon’ll catch it.”
In a Spitzbergen ’bus : “ Sir, kindly put out
your pipe. I object to smoking.” “Go to blazes, sir.
“ But there is a by-law, which—” “ Blow the by-law.’*
“ I shall report you to the driver, sir.” “ Report away s
I’ll do what I like here.” “ What do you mean by
that, sir?” “Why, I mean,” slid the smoker, wiping
his feet on the cushions, and spitting against the door,
“ that it’s my bloomin’ ’bus.” [The actual words used
in the last sentence were—" Djdikzopk vilkgj galdotzi-
karilj”—which is the language of the country. Our
readers will, therefore, perceive that we have given a
free rendering of the original phrase.— Ed. B.]
Time — Midnight. Scene—Middle house of a
fashionable terrace. A greenery-yallery young man
drawing melodious murmurs out of a 15-shilling
pawn-office flute, whilst on the verandahs on both sides
of the warbler’s house weird figures, clad in calico bags,
and having their hraius bound up in red handkerchiefs,
dauce frantically about, and curse the man who in-
vented flutes hack as far as the 47th generation. Sud-
dculy a happy thought strikes one of the shirt proprie-
tors; he rushes down to the musician’s door, tugs at
the hell as if he were working the pumps on board a
leaky ship ; all his accomplices roar “ fire! murder !
bigamy! arson !” and every other crime in the Newgate
Calendar, at the top of their loudest yell, and then the
Wynyard Square Orpheus throws himself straight out
on his head on the pavement stones below. Verdict —
Died by the visitation of God—and fifteen infuriated
boarders.
The War Crt, the organ of the Salvation
Army, is a sweet thing in journalism, which has no
rival south of the line, save, perhaps, the Parramatta
Ferguson. A Yorkshire correspondent writes:—“Wo
found it was past eleven o’clock when we closed with
some ot the Lynn folk Revelling on the Floor in Glory,
One man. going out of the hall three timer, had to come
back a' .r 11 o’clock, and got gloriously saved,” Then
LOWERING HIS SPIRITS: A SUGGESTION.


RILEY BR
386 GEORGE STREET, - )
000 GEORGE STREET, [
165 OXFORD STREET, J
BATHURST,
GOULBUEN,
HEW
AND
10 COLEMAN STREI
THE CHEAPEST
IH THE
AUSTRALIAN C(
THE OEIGINATO
NOTED £5 £
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
0 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2J yards Gambroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. &c.
M
2 L
2 I
IL
}£
1L
4 Ii
2 It
2 It
1
2 It
lie
i d
f
Puf
1 F
2 B
1 pe
1 In
1 I
f
<
i ;
i
£.
iC
10 ya
20 ya
12 St
20 W
10 go
6 ya
A
wear
£5 Men’s Clothing'
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 beat Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Bracea
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5
1 pa
1 wl
5 ya
10 wl
C
6 w!
12 ya
12 ya
4 pe
1 pa
1 Di
6 stl
6 Bi
4 lai
3 ya
T
T
£5
25 yd
3 ya
1 do
1 Bl
1 La
1 Tr
1 pa
RILEY BROT
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Pull, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2
<
1 Hai
LOi
riel
Unfa
Sqn
silk
1 luft
Silt
Ca
£2 Stockman’s «2
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nig
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Che:
1 Best Cotton Shirt 9. Pair
’in aTrocssslon (which it appears that the devil, taking
\he foil'll of hoys throwing potatoes, interrupted)., we
'JeaVt; that—“ Intermingled with their martiftl music
'vva'8 Captain Fielder’s new song—• Ton’d better coipe to
Jesus.’ To which he danced before tho Lord ft sailor’s
jig, and rliyed his fiddlo like a banjo.’’” Now, oah this,
we wonder, be the religion of the future ? If so, before
many years have flown pver our heads, We shall, proba-
bly, find most of the circus ‘iloWnfc and nigger corner-
men in holy orders.
An hotel ftfe-open on Monday. Closed
by A ct of Parliam'eftl. Vi
: “ Barmaid wanted, one
Pol accustomed to the business preferred.” This is
euggV 1 stive—it is possible to know too much,
'Vifch reference to a recent fatal accident, a
lady writes to the News snPing that a fence should he
erected round Botany dam. “ We drink that water,”
she observes.
There’S a Woollahra woman who, directly she
loses her unrse-girl, buys a bottle of soothing syrup,
ihen, wwjh the bottle is gone, the sets about to look
vor •s.aOUicr —or else buries the baby.
. ** Will you take some caviare ?” inquired a
Russian officer to a popular member of the Legislature
on the day of the naval regatta. “ No, thanks," was
the reply, “ Krug’s my favourite brand."
‘’Are you a Christian?" asked a stout rtian in
black to what he conceived to be a beggars on the Cir-
ular Qu&v. "No, I aint.” “And WhV are you not a
Christian ?” “ ’Cause I don’t iVfthl hothiug."
It is reported that limongst the Sydney curios
the officers of tfc'b Afrika take away with them, are to
be found numberless articles in Russia leather. They i
(regard these things with the greatest curiosity.
England and Wales there are 44(* persons to
the square mile. In view of the rsCent bribery at
elections disclosures, it would be an instructive rtudy
to ascertain how many “square” persor s there are to the
mile.
The summing Up of Lord Coleridge in the Lefroy
trial, is one of the most remarkable judicial summaries
of modern limes. It is singularly clear and lucid, and
might with ad vantage be perused by the Supreme Court
JTuagas of Borneo.
JEstheticism — that dangerous decoction of
diluted dandyism—is quite too uniquely universal.
The last profession one would expect to find tainted
with it is that of the law ; and yet a solicitor’s charge
for drawing a lease is proverbially 2.2.
4 ™ em b 0r of the ‘‘ .Fourth Estate” has been
told off to “ do the Cohtinong ’’ with Sir Henry. Ob-
serve the infernal fitness of things. At the ceremonies
in honour of the distinguished travellers, Parkes will
pose as the and the pressman as the demy-god.
HOW IT’S DONE.
Heydon got in by his pitch,
Melvule crept in by his water;
"Wrivbf will go in through his Church,
And Roberts through his porter.
It is rumoured in authentic circles that the
position of analyst of the liquor seized for testing
purposes, under the new Act, will be conferred upon a
well-known Parliamentary swiper, in whom the senses
of ” and taste have been perfected by life-long
experience.
Melbourne papers are indignant at Sir “Jocu-
lar” Robertson's remark that Victoria is only "a cab-
bage garden." The Press of the Southern capital
could retaliate by insinuating that Sydney alone can
supply the necessary nourishment for the agricultural
area referred to.
The case of the Melbourne public notary, I
Edward Uriap, committed for stealing £275 from one
Miry BoweU, has created great interest in Victoria.
Not because there is any peculiar circumstances sur-
t mndtng the affair, however; but because Crisp doesn’t
b ippen to be a local preacher.
Many publicans have come to regard alcoholisa-
tion as a man's normal condition. Thus, at the inquest
on poor Dr. Hastio, James Either, licensed publican of
Lithgow, is reported as having said " Had seen
deceased ou several recent occasions the worse for
liquor, bat not drinking to excess."
during the hearing of a deputation by Mr.
Young. Victorian Minister for Lands, on Monday, he
intimated to Mr. M'Coll, M P., that if he continued to
haunt the Government offices so much, he would
seriously consider the propriety of providing bleeping
ccommodation for him in the building.
Mr. Gaud, a well-known resident of Orange,
once acted as hon. sec. to a claritnble entertainment.
The reportorial Dickens of the village observed that
Mr. Gaud was assiduous and ubiquitous in his
efforts,” &c. Announcing Gaud's ubiquity is only a re-
iteration of the sentiment that “ Gaud is everywhere."
“A man has been arrested for attempting to set
fire to ttie Mudcee Independent office." We are very
8 Try to hear of any danger having befallen the premises
o r such a national institution as the Independent.
S ill. how comforting it is to think that if the conflal
gcaticn had fastened on to the clock, the occupants of
the aflioining houses would have used the Giraffe as a
re-escape.
“ Kindly tell me the name of a good English
preacher, as I want to visit one of the ohurcbes'next
Sunday." wrote the Russian Admiral in French to a
very distinguished young party, who resides in the
luner Domain. "Le Monsieur est Mort,” was the
"Then, of course, we can’t go," chorused
the Russians.
Here’s a curious circumstance. A prayer-
moating was called the other night in a suburban school-
poim. It was a drizzly night, and when the hour had
arrived for the wrestling to begin, it was discovered
that while there were present about 24 brethren, onlv
one female brother had turned up. Clootie was let off
oesily that night. He was only bombarded with texts
for eight minutes.
We are striving to get for the public something
of interest. We have written to the authorises for the
names of the applicants for the positions of Stipendiary
Magistrates. When they are sent, we shall publish
them—in successive issues. Wilson, the circus man, will
then have a chance of keeping his supernumerary staff
up to its full strength.
A great scandal has occurred at Gordons, near
Ballarat, and of course, " there’s a lady in the case.”
It seems a leading resident had left his home on a trip
and returned rather sooner than expected. In the house
he found his wife in company with a local commercial
man, under suspicious circumstances. A revolver was
brought into use, and the consequence ie, that doctors
and lawyers are again to the front.
It is said that Pentridge, within the last few
diys, has turned out 2.500 yards of cloth, besides large
numbers of blankets. Nothing is said, however, of how
rainy hopeless ruffians that prison turns out yearly
Not long sir-en all the Melbourne papers were aglow
with admiration at the splendid quality of the Pentridge
bread. It was good enough to blow about the Pent-
idge loaf, but not about the Pentridge loafers.
A farceur, calling himself “ Jaques Le Gouver-
nail, Ancien Capitaine de Vaisseau,” hat been poking
fun at the Echo by pretending that the Hornby Light-
house has changed its name because the Hop Bitters
advt. appears on the rock beneath. The joke is not a
bad one; but singularly enough the ex-captain’s letters
are taken seriously by our little contemporary, and
there is even a missionary memorandum made* con-
cerning it.
The Granville correspondent of the Penny
Fkrgt says:—“I am pleased to find that there is a
general feeling here of satisfaction at the increased size
of the Evening Times.”
You’re “pleased"! Oh, why this "guiver ” sling ?
But there ! —we will not tease you;
We’ll just remark, it seems to take
But little, sir, to please you.
The Turkey lollie-men in Melbourne are indignant.
A fellow sentenced for assault, the other day. said he
was one of the guild in question, and that ha lived at a
certain address in Victoria-street. It now appears
that the real occupier of the premises, and the genuine
Turkey lollie man, is J. Fernandez, and ihat he had
given Sim a few days’ shelter as an ad of charity. The
vendors of the substance known aa Turkey-lollie aver
that Sim is “ only an ico-croam man,” and, moreover,
that he is a “Madras man.” while they are “Persian
men,” Truly, there are grades in all classes of society.
© Shades ot HelUSdn ftnd Bhnoow ! British tars
jicked at their own game by the sons of the Polar Bear!
Russian!) Hirst, second, and third, at the men-of-war’s
regatta, in Sydney harbour, on Tuesday. Nelson nsed
to say—“ Clap yourself alongside a Frenchman, hut
out-maneeuvre a Eussian.” The Russians, taken on the
average, are the finest and neatest-looking set of men
we have had in Port Jackson for years.
The Great Dalveen is np again,
He swears he won’t be beat,
Bqt he each nerve will once more strain
Td get the fdtlght-fdr seat I
in Bathurst, fesblesslee
H« does the usual yell j
Though, when he cries oat “ Vote for me ! ”
They answer, “ Go to Dubbo.”
The heaven-born genius, who writes agricul-
tural auapieatics for a North-western paper, observes ;
“The crops at Colli look very promising, and farmers
are jubilant at the prospect of a favourable yield of
wheat." We commend this to the favourable notice of
Sir John Robertson, so that when next he compares
Victoria to a “ cabbage-garden" (to the disparagement
of the 1 1 tier), he may bestow a passing thought on onr
own Colli Hour.
A tailor, named Bunting, plitnged headforemost
into a with a big goose (his own) round his
neck and was killed. Perhaps, if he had gone in with a
little goose round his neck the consequences would not
have been so serious. We have often been in the
position of having a little goose round our necks* and
no harm has come of it. But we have never been into
a water-butt with one, although we babe frequently
gone into transport".
Says a Southern journal i “The departure of
Sir Henry Parkes has cast a complete gloom over the
whole of the world of politics." Now, hold on. South-
erner : didn’t you mean to tpell it glue-'em ? You know
that old originalglue-pot now on view in the Museum ?
It is tastefully entombed in a glass case, and bears the
well-known political and legal legend, “You sticks to
me, and I sticks to you." Qlue’em is good. What'll
you try, Mr. Southern ?
Said Tom to Bill; “la it butter, or ia it iron,
eh ? (They were endeavouring to analyze Sir 'Bnery’s
eUlogiutti of the Land Bill at tne last big feed in Mac-
quarie-street.) “ ’Tis one or other, you bet your boots,"
said Bill; “but, hold on, here comes jack. Stand
away from it, and hear what he thinks of it. See, he
smells it, twists it, smells it again, tastes it. Heavens 1
he swallows it. 'Twas a bait after all, and a con-
foundedly well-made one, too.’’
We read that at the sale of the household goods
of the late Mr. E. de Brnce-Johnstone, M P., at Gee-
long, the “ deceased gentleman’s well-known kilts were
knocked down to Mr. Sol. Jacobs, for 375. 63., and Mr.
Sjdders bought the dirk, skein—dhu, and pistol fsr
£9. ' Mr. Sidders’ purchase—well, w« won’t say any-
thing just now. But Mr. Sol. Jacobs! “ Oh I my
prophetic soul, mine uncle I” Or, does Mr. “Sol.”
intend dressing up and trying to pass otf as a Scotch-
man i*
The jury at the trial of the Hon. Mr. Pharazyn,
of N.Z., charged with double Voting, returned a special
verdict tbat the accused voted twice in mistake, be-
neving that he whs voting in two districts. In other
words, they have found that Mr. Pharazyn did vote
twice, but that as he was not a poor man, to whom twelve
months “without the option" could be conveniently
given, he should be treated exceptionally. The ques-
tion of the effect of the verdict will bo reserved for the
Court of Appeal.
Sunday Trains. —The Government Gazette
states that no train on the Great Southern and Western
lines, will run beyond Parramatta on the Western, and
Liverpool on the Southern, on Sundays, except the up
mails, which leave Albury and Dubto every day, Satur-
days excepted. It is a well known fact that a train
leaves Campbelltown every Sunday morning and re-
*? rn . B ,^^ e same evening. The Government arc evidently
r "’d o' “ Stiowirs and Cos.” Otherwise, why all this
•anting deception ?
your references appear to he excellent,” said
the York-street merchant to an applicant for the post of
accountant, " and your certificates satisfactory. Ithink,
therefore, .*’ “ One moment, sir,” interrupted
the beaming applicant, “ I forgot to tell you that I have
been a Sunday-school teacher for five years, and a local
preacher for two. 1 am also a member of the Young
Men s Crumpet Crunching Association, and .’’ Next
minute he was sitting on tho kerbstone, and 745 people
were handing hinj his hat.
We have anew invention, which we are confident
will prove a great boon to the progressive tramconductor
The new notion is nothing more than a patent bv means
of which any respectable tramconductor can safelv cal-
Mmn 6 UP ° H £ otiri ?S> iQ course of about a year, on
£3OOO m cash and two three-storey houses. We are
confident, in fact, that the new patent will enable the
tram-men to completely distance all policemen in
the matter of house-building. Now, we say to tram-
conductors the secret is yours. But call, and have
the patent ready. However, if you don’t, we shall next
? CiflCat,onß ’ aD^the daj Bof terraco-
- says: “When I held
only a five-mile block under lease, and owned only four
pet sheep, two cows, and five bullocks, and had to borrow
a bull, the Department of Lands styled me “ Evouire ’’
But since I have succeeded in making these 16 400aorn H
all my own, and shearing my 10,000 sheep, the same shop
persists m M stering me. Is itoneof the regulations
of the Land Act that freeholders are to be regarded as
smaller pumpkins’ than leaseholders? Let me know
at once, for I am a bit sore on the subject.” We are
Rntwv t 0 “ 8 "? r, tbl s question, but would advise Mr
ss;- t ° Bttj » b » *>“«
A dust contractor of London recently died
Street £111,00 ,?’ it dowag ? r countess died in the next
street, a week after, worth £llBO. Yet the countess
always nearly fainted when she heard the name of
dustman, and the dustman would have given half bis
sugar, with an eye ball thrown in, for a little notice
from the countess. Now their vaults are side by side
rLs 6D V aDd it 18 corpses that ennpot
rest that the dustman keeps all his vault awake half the
time blowing at being so nealry located to one of tho
aristocracy. This has been written to burst np the
aphorism that death levels all. What really does level
all is Sussex-street beer and Queensland rum.
The lynx-eyed officer of the Custom-house was
one too many for the adventurous Celestial who at-
ptod to *? va £ e * he *?£ b 7 sneaking (with his boots
otf) across the border. The Chinaman, when he bared
his feet, keenly remembered that there was a tax on his
wo^ and 3e ® m easier, however, for a double-
thron«b the eye of a needle
than for a barefooted Chinaman to pass the eye of a
Custom-house officer. It the musky Mongolians
wlw ly d r ir6 t0 * s “ uggle themselves across tho
Sf™ not . abo j: e » friendly hint, they should
either wash themselves before attempting the feat, or
delay the journey till the appointment of a sentinel
whose nasal organ has lost its cunning.
DAqS W T C i aledol,i s’Ta re^ eiltly > 80mo men named
Da Gimel, Laloue, and De Rios were charged with the
following trifling offences Poisoning a black
woman s child, assassination of a young black woman
ill-treatment and torture of native labourers, cattle.
steahng and robbery of one of his native’s boxes ’’
When the evidence had been heard the Judge acquitted
Laloue, and found the other two guilty, whereupon he
passed upon them the following terrific sentences
10 francs (Bs.) fine for De Gimel, 15 francs (12s ) fine
for De Rios. We wonder whether that Judge and Da
Gimel were interested in a land spec together, or if his
Honors son bad married De Gimel’s wife’s niece
Perhaps Da Gimel had a paper, and used to insert—not
that we would for a moment-at the same time it seems
a little peculiar that—however, we’ll drop it here.
« • It should be in every household
Mary, said the master of the house, when he got out
into the passage, after gnawing a bit off the loaf, and
now k T Dg a 1 the , m . l . lk m tbe j u k- “breakfast is so late
now. I never get time to have any. Caa’t you tret it
earlier ? “ No, sir ; it’s missus’s orders. The captain
the new lodger that came last Friday week—don’t
T-li fofi tUII0 ’, s ? M and missus has it together. But
111 tell you what 111 do. I’ll tell missus the captain
r? “Oh s^ lldo r T , thin * ?orhim. aP blesß
s^e will, will she? said the landlord
re C flectiv £ W lv Bl °T, ly *° the tram rubbin * chfn
reflectively. . There was an auction sale two days
later, and own there is a chance for a quiet and musical
family, having no olhef tenders, who will take in a
military man of agreeable mannefa Upon reasonable
terms.
It would eeom by the Edinburgh Evening Ex-
press that Mias Brad don has, at length, come to grief
over her adaptations (what sacrilege !) of Scott’s novels.
Says the Express : “ It has been left for a corrcspon-
dent of tne London Echo to unearth the parentage of
at least one of Miss Braddon’s Waverley Novels. This
is “ Eoh Boy,’ which he proves by quotations in
parallel columns, has been ‘conveyed’ bodily from
Lacey’s edition of Pocock’s dramatic version of the
‘nat ; onal play.”’ Supposing any of our authors here
stole a p'ay, and called it an adaptation, wonld we dare
write ont straight like this under the existing state of
affairs? We are afraid not. Anyhow, if we do brave
something stringent in the review line, wo will employ
somebody with influence to do the work and get him or
her to sign it. Wo should thus avoid responsibility in
a double serse.
The Christchurch Liberty, in a recent issue,
gave a portrait of Mr. W. H. Wynn-Williams, M.H R ,
member for Heathcote. That gentleman, as depicted,
looks as though he had eaten a bushel of green goose-
berries, drank six bottles of new gingerbeer, and wound
up with a raw turnip. We don’t pretend to know how
Mr. Williams could have offended the editor of the
LifiEßxf, but he must certainly have given that gentle-
man cause for much isdignation to work him up into
perpetrating such a fearful oictorlal insult. We have.
When wrestling. With difficulties, given one or two Sydney
celebrities a nasty pictorial jar, but it is in evidence by
one still liting, and carefully hiding three meals per
diem, that we were always nearer the subject than this.
We should advise the Libert* man, however, not to
get any nearer this particular subject, unless he should
happen to be a very small man with an incurable cough,
who goes about all day in green spectacles and list
slippers.
Nineteenth century civilization finds expression
occasionally in extraordinary fashion. One of its
peculiar developments was witnessed the other day in
the picturesque town of Qosford, when a girl, who had
always borne an excellent character, but who, rumour
said, led an unhappy life at home, was subjected to four
days’ solitary confinement (bail being refused by the
sapient representatives of the immortal Dogberry), for
saying that she would drown herself. Pour days in a
close cell, eight feet square, with the bare walls lighted
by the few rays that could struggle through an eighteen
inch grating, ten feet from the floor ; four nights of
solitude and darkness as intense as that which any
modern or ancient Bastille could afford, with a blanket
thrown upon the hare floor as the sole proof to the
weary sufferer that she wns not, as imagination might
well picture it, the inhabitant of a tomb. Surely,
Howard needs a successor, and there is room in New
South Wales for a prosecution of the mission of the
Martyr of Kherson ?
“ Yes,” he said, as he knelt on the doorstep and
sharpened his knife, prior to returning to his work;
‘‘it was pretty hard luck. Yersee, we’d been married
about three year when Ben Buggins came to board
here, and after three weeks of him, why, he cuts off to
Newcastle with the Missus—leavin’ me to mind the
two kids. Two months wns past and gone, when one
afternoon, as I was a bilin* the kettle, she came back
with her right eye bulging fut half-a-foot and all her
front teeth broke.’’ “ And what did yon do P ” enquired
a Bulletin man. “I told her to wash the children,”
was the reply. Just then the door opened, and a small
tin-billy came crashing down upon the philosopher’s
head, and a voice which sounded like a mad dog growl-
ing in a saw-mill, said, “Get to yer work, you lazy
vaggerbone, or I’ll give you a taste of the copper-
stick.” And, just dipping his bed to avoid a tin
pannikin, ho walked away to his labour. As he often
remarks, “he will held to his marriage lines or bust.”
He will probably bust.
Mr. Thomas Buckland, writing to the Herald,
says, that by a report of the trial in the Cooma Express
of the 2Ut ultimo, it appears that at Quean bey au, on
the 14th December, two men wore indicted for feloni-
ously killing and slaying Yon Chow, a Chinaman, acd
found not guilty, notwithstanding that the address and
reply of the Grown Prosecutor, and the summing up of
Mr. Justice M’Earland, showed clearly that they had
no doubt about the guilt of the prisoners. “The evi.
dence of two witnesses is clear and explicit as to the
actions of the prisoners, and bears npon the face of it
the impress of truth; and from this evidence no sane
man can come to any other conclusion than that the
actions of the prisoners caused the death of the China-
man. The verdict of not guilty must therefore be based
upon the evidence for the defence, the quality of which
evidence no one dare publicly discuss." Mr. Buckland
wants to know what the people who raised a howl
about Judge Docker’s covert comparison of a certain
juryman to Judas Iscariot have now got to say.
Hero is an original ode to a gamester :
I am the very medel of a very moral spieler, oh.
And love to play my little games secure from every
peeler, oh.
I know the numismatic worth of “threes” of every
kind.
And what it costs to “straddle" and to “raddle”
every blind.
I toss the beggar for his pence, or p’r’aps play with a
nob,
And use the same diplomacy for a sov’reign or a
“ bob.”
By study and by practice I have surely learned to
know
Both when to “ rise ” and when to “ call ” and when to
cry a-go.
I know the unction of a “ crab,” the chances of a
“ nick,”
And work the dext’roua penny concealed beneath the
" stick.”
By daylight or by candlelight I love a little play;
I bet my money on a “ bob tail-flush,” and sometimes
on a grey.
We are not the only people who run foul of
Clontarf. The Duke of Edinburgh once got mixed np
therein a little plugging match. Now, a certain legal
luminary got between Royalty and danger, but on his
hands and knees, so that he wonld not obstruct the
enemy’s fire with his poor body. A worthy citizen
(since gathered to his fathers) named Vial, stepped
forward in an off-hand, manly way, and was material in
saving the Dnke’s life. Of course. Royalty presented
him with a patent-baek-action-never-stop-going-ohrono-
raetrical-tnrnip, some such gewgaw, and some appoint-
ments to nothing with no salary. Royalty and Mrs.
Vial are both widows, and, of course, one sympathises
with the other, —the former to the extent of granting
the latter a pension of £ls per annum for the valuable
services rendered by Mr. V., in saving her son from
death. Fortunately Mrs. V. does not depend solely
upon this truly regal pension. The people of New
South Wales are spending some tens of thousands in
building an hospital in commemoration of the Duke’s
escape. A problem might he given for the House of
Commons to consider when next going into Regal
screws something like this: If £3OO at 5 per cent,
represents the price of a Royal life, how much of the
nation’s capital should be invested to give him a yearly
income in proportion to his value to his relations ?
In last issue, the editor of the Charters Towers
Herald refers to his local rival as the hoary Libsller of
the North. . . The biggest of shams and humbugs
. . who runs a paper that is an ooze of dirt . . the
pertinacious and ulcer-souled O’Kane . , whose
p iper is read from tho same motive that a quarrel be-
twe* n two abandoned fishwives is listened to . . The
Miner, the fllth-hosa of the literary cess pool.” Thadeus
thus replies“ The verv scam of society has been al-
lowed to ooze its filth for months and years through
the columns of the Towers Herald against the proprie-
tor of the Northern Miner. The whole force of the
hoodlum rascality of the town has operated through
that papier. Every attempt initiated for the public
good has been derided and scoffed by a literary mer-
cenary. We have set up a standard here, too high we
know, for this community, and it is not admired by the
knaves and rogues who abound here.” Again;—
“ The Towers Herald of the 24th presents a remark-
able instance of Christianity as taught by modern
‘ snnffiebusters.’ There is a column of weak twaddle
about Christmas and Christianity, highly suggestive of
and Little Bethel, and then a column of
abuse of the proprietor of the Northern Miner. Were
tbe two articles by tho same hand ? There is no mis-
taking the boosy bathos, the sniffling psalm-singing
twang of the Hallelujah Praise-God Barebones .
We recognise his sanctimonious mug, and bow to it
The cursirg article is by tho Great , who wielded
the ferule here so successfully that every child in the
town has him at his or her finger-ends. Mr. writes
two paragraphs, one sounding his own praises, the other
abusing the editor of the Northern Miner.”


Dr. Anderson, Esq. ; J, Johnson,
Esq.; K. Kennedy, Esq.; James
East wav, Esq.; Q. E. Eastway, :
Esq.; John Clark, Esq.; J. M
Smith, Esq.; T. H. Dent, Esq.; T
E. H. Jennings. Esu.; N. Bundga
wood. Esq.; John Shand, Esq.;
Henry Perdriau, Esq.; D. S. B
Esq,; J. D. Cronin, Esq.; Kezia S
Esqs.; Bernard Byrnes, Esq.; ’
C. Evans, Esq.
N.B.—PORTIONS of this estat
of SYDNEY, the TOWN of PAE
BUSH, BUEWOOD, and the sun
The PUBLIC are at liberty to
their outings until the day of snl
that arrangements can be made wi
for SPECIAL TEAINS, to land pi
of the estate: or visitors can rea
PARRAMATTA hv a delightful
through the GOVERNMENT I
WESTERN EOAD; or pedestriar
perty in the same time by walkinj
REMEMBER the EAST TEEIS
deposit upon all purchases, and
chase-money in 84 equal monthly
ing over 7 years, bearing interest
cent, per annum, payable quarter
FEEE PARSES for the speci
leave the EEDPEEN TEEMINU
on day of sale, and calling at the
take up buyers :—Newtown, Pete:
wood, Homebush, Granville, and
LITHOGEAPHIC POCI
can be obtained at the Booms of
Qeorge-street.
JADMINTON
CEOYDON.
GREAT SUB-DIVISK
SATURDAY, 14th .
At 3.30 o’clool
BY
HARDIE &_GO
LARGE and COMMODIOUS
DENCE,
at present occupii
E. G. V A L L A C
together witl
1 ACRE 1 ROOD 22
laid ont inte
PRETTY FLOWER GARDEN
LAWN, Ac.
AND
89 VILLA SIT:
THE ESTATE adjoins thi
Eater, and close to the property
Moriarty, Mullins, Adam, and oth
the highest parts of Croydon, tl
being elevated land.
And contains in i
17 ACRES.
and has Just been sn
by
Mr. Licensed Surveyor .
TITLE, FEEEHi
Messrs. J. Dawson and Son, Ve
SECTION 1.
19 ALLOTMENTS, havinj
GOEDON-STEEE
B E AU F O RT-STB
MARGARET-STE
varying from 40 to 85 FEET, by
SECTION 2.
16 ALLOTMENTS, havim
GORDO N-STREEI
BEAUFORT-STEI
CHESTER-STEEE
BADMINTON-STI
varying from 40 to 54 FEET, by
BADMINTON COTTAGE has
FEET 1o Beaufort-street, 203 feet
street by a depth of 334 feet; is i
brick on stone foundations, and
and drawing rooms, 6 bedrooms,
servant's room, laundry, larder,
stables, coach-house, Ac. With
the area of land can be increased
suit purchasers.
V SECTION
iT.T.n r riM"B’MTS V.o,n'n«
SATURDAY
FIRST SALE OF THI
QUEENSCLIFF EST 4
GREAT UNRESERVED SALE o
296 ALLO'
FIRST SALE OF THI
QUEENSCLIFF E3TA
GREAT UNRESERVED SALE o
296 ALLO'
FIRST SALE OP THI
QUEENSCLIFF ESI
GREAT UNRESERVED SALE o
296 ALLO'
Subdivided as folic
SECTION I.
TWENTT-FOUR (21) ALLOT
_ fronting
RAMSGATE STREET. RAtt
SECTION 2 —SIXTY-THREE (
situate frontir
BRIGHTON BOULEVARD,
RAMSGATE AVI
SCARBOR
SECTION 3.—SIXTY-EIGHT (i
fronting
HASTINGS PAR
s ection 3—sixty-eight (
fronting
HASTINGS PaR
BRIGHTON BOULEVARD.
SCARBORO
SECTION 4.—TWENTY-THREE
fronting
HASTINGS PARADE. HAS
SECTION S.—NINETEEN (19
fronting
RAMSGATE AVENUE. RA)
SECTION 6.—SIXTEEN (16)
fronting
BRIGHTON BOULEVARD,
BRIGHTON
RAMSGATE AVENUE,
EAMSGATI
SECTION 7.—THIRTY-TWO (:
fronting
HASTINGS PARADE, BRIGH
BAY STREET, BAT
SECTION B.—TWENTY-SIX (:
fronting
HASTINGS PARADE, HAS
SECTION 9.—TEN (10) ALLO
BAS’ STREET, HASTII
BRIGHTON BOULJ
SECTION 10—NINE (9) ALL(
BRIGHTON BOULEVAI
RAMS
**• EACH ALLOTMENT
40 feet frontage by depths varyi
250 feet.
03- NOTE THE EASY
ONLY ES DEPOSIT, BALANCE
PAYMENTS
ter FREE TEAMS. F]
•3- FREE LUNCHEON.
«* FREE ’BUSES,
FREE LUNCHEON,
FREE
V LITHOGRAPHS AT 1
HARDIE AND G
HAVE received instructions
auction,
ON THE GROU
on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
at 3.30 o’clocl
THE QUEENSCLIFF ESTA'
TiSE QUEEN!
SATURDAY, JAM
B URWOO
CLOSE TO THE &
FIFTEEN SPLENDID V
FRONTING DRIVE!
and
STATION STE;
LOT 1. —At the corner, has a fi
DBIVEE’S ROAD, by a di
STATION STREET to a lan
wide.
LOT 2 to 4.—Fronting l DRTVI
frontages of 33 feet, by depth
at rear.
LOTS 5 to 15.—Fronting STAT
frontages of 34 feet 6 inches ea
170 feet 8 inches to 194 feet 8 i
rear.
MILLS, PILE, ~AND
H
AYE received instructions
ON THE GROT
SATURDAY, JANU
at 3.30 o’clock
The above splendid villa sites,
ROAD and STATION STREET,
the residence and grounds of C.
M.P.
TITLE GUARANI
TERMS AT SAI
*** Plans can be obtained oi
Booms, 114 Pitt-street.
SATURDAY, JANUARY
WILLOW Y
ON THE SOUTHERN EAI
ADJOINING THE THRIVING
MITTAGON
RAILWAY PASSES THROUG
PLATFORM ADJOI
PRELIMINAB
MILLS, PILE, AND
WILL sell by auction on
SATUEDA’
ON THE GROUI
THE ABOVE GRAND SUBDI
ACRES.
FINE ELEVATED LAND,
COOL, TEMPI
FURTHER PARTICULARS IN
SATURDAY, JANU
THE
TORRENS' ACT
BURTON HII
PJ
AmomiMa
A bride met a sad death at 1
married in the morning, and the grc
went upstairs drunk. Coming dc
covered, in the evening, he found
Thinking she slept, ho propped he
her, and went out to drink again,
he returned, and found her still on
woke from that sleep.
Mr. Major Grant, of Bodmi
years of age; Mrs. Major Grant
armfull. Her coachman's arm si
exact size, and so while the gallan’
day's fox hunting, Mrs. G. plaj
coachy now leads the fair he used
we do the same out here ? How
behind this prosperous golden age
It was in the early days of (
expectant pulse beat high and the
low, and when stalwart miners i
transit in one day from the “ crad
J.P. was superseded for accepting
known as “Tom the Greek." I
intimation ot his erasure from t
superseded magistrate stoically sai
dona ferentes.”
The cocoas commonly sold an
which renders them thick, heavy, a
bcry’s Cocoa Essence is genuine
lig ntand refreshing beverage like
“ HEALTH, WEALTH, ANI
WENTWORTHVILLI
PARR
MAGNIFICENT SUBDIVISIOI
SECOND
UNRESERVE
of this
CELEBRATED
will be held
ON THE GROI
ON TUESDAY, JAI
At Two o’Cloc
Including A BLOCK! OF LAND
1 rood 24 perches, upon which
V!TT BUT A HTT I T. CCTT A n.l?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
"CM.G”: Will keep “E.A.T.”: Thanks,
write again “G.F.”; Send ns either a ready-made
joke or the makings thereof “D.D.”: Please call,
wvy on Friday.. Novice ” > Thanks,.,...” A.T.” i
Dangerous, unless wa know the fants 11 Never
never 1 * : You lose. There ate several relations of the
late Marcus Clarke out here. His uncle, Mr. Lindsay
Clarke, is, or Was, District Surveyor at Hamilton (Vic ),
and his coUsin, Mr. James tiring-stone ClarkC f now
resides in Sydney, “Cdsmdpo’itan”: Pleads Ca 11.,,..,
“ Stella”': W 8 only know df one Mr. Vincent Dowling
tn Ailst?«H)fV The Mr. Vincent Dosrling of whom you
Bo9ik was formerly editor of Bell’s Life in' London.
You will notice in John Forster’s “Life of Dickens”
a very friendly reference to him. We don’t know
whether the two Vincent Dowlings are related, but
wa should say they were, judging from the style in
which the Australian V.D. polished off a man who was
impudent to him the other day “Henry G. ”: (1)
Our advice is—consult no advertising “doctor.” The
odds are 1000 to 1 he’s an infamous quack. Go to a
respectable surgeon, one whose name Is on the Meuical
Rwiists-r, and who has a character to lose. (2) The
fellow to whom you refer is certs inly qualified, but
that’s all. He is a mere Licentiate of the Society of
Apothecaries, London, One of the very lowest of qualifi-
cations recognised. (9) Moat certainly not, he is not
cntitled to be addressed as “doctor,” and if you take
our straight tip you won’t let him dose a pig belonging
to you “Valetta”: Whom do you exoeot has time
to make out your pot-hooks and hangers ? Write only
in one person even if there are half-a»dozen of you
*‘Criti6*’ (Wagga): Tout items are merely petty per-
sonalities. How many do you tbink Would ha interested
In thomP.....“Paterson flail”: Thanks for the account.
Of course We ffiel flattered by your copying some of our
own jokes about the Nithsdale ball, bat we can hardly
publish them a second time. We shall be glad of items
from you any time “Holiday” (Wollongong):
Bather too vague “Litbgow”; Too long; we have
condensed “ Tangent”: For reasons, which you will
understand, we can’t use all yon send, although it is
first-rate. However, we use what we can, and shall he
glad to hear from yon often “Dick Deadeye”:
Obliged Send along ...“JBoz.”: Keep it up “Menip-
ptts’*: (1) Yes. (2) Certainly, (3) Yes, when regular,
und considerable enough to reckon “ A.G.” (Tam-
Worth) : Thanks “ E S.’’: What you send is not “ a
joke,” it is merely a spiteful slap at a blonde rival
“ Kraken ”: Thanks for your appreciation. Let us hear
from you often. Anything “E. 8.": Thanks
“A.M.”: Your item is obscure; names are necessary
in such a case. Besides, is there anything specially
interesting about the matter? “ Richard ”: We
can’t see why a poet should not imitate a good model.
It every one had to invent a rhyme of his own, it would
be hard on—say, yourself, judging from the sample
you send. Von say you have mislaid something you
wrote for us. Don’t bother looking for it, sonny
“ E. 8.”: Your information would, no doubt, be valu-
able to any one who very badly wanted it. It is rather
too indigestible, though, to offer to the people who
explore their front garden every Thursday before
breakfast for their Bulletin, and can’t eat a mouthful
till they find it “A Sufferer”: We know nothing
which would justify us in endorsing your description of
the fellow as “ a great scoundrel," although the mys-
tery in which he wraps his antecedents is suspicious.
We have been content to regard him as a rather clever,
but immoderately vain, fool. As for the mud-flinging he
indulged in, perhaps some of it stuck. But the party
assailed laughs at it, rather proud that even malignancy
could discover nothing disgraceful in a long colonial
career, always under observation...” D.C.J.” : Why do
you ask us ? Enquire of the washerwoman...” Gossip" :
Thanks for your good wishes “S.J.C.”: You lose.
Not only the principals of the P.E., but all those who
attend at a prize-fight as spectators, are liable to have
to A E.P. before a magistrate.


Hotels, &o
KOBINSON’S fitz
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOO
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF j
Is PEE BOTT
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKI
all round.
N.B, —Cockburn’s Grape (FOB
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Ami
Thurston’s Best Billiard Tabli
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY E\
The compagnoni cati
OF PITT-STREET have r
nouncing to the public, that to re
want of space to accommodate th(
Luncheon hour, they have com
Banqueting Hall into an additioi
which is now open, and where e
directed to visitors patronising th
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a supei
is under the management of a first
branch of Catering undertaken, a
staff of experienced and polite wai
Through continued misrepresent
beg to mention that they are not i
with any other person, or persona,
SAMUEL PA
NOW OPEN
THE
£Jitt (Catering
315 GEORGE ST. 1
(late Harris’ Caffi, opposite Pe
A superior CAFE and EESTAUB
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
and for
Gentlemen accompanied
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE
Birthday Cakes, Christening Ci
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest
GUARANTEED that no danger
or ingredient of anv kind iniuriouf
Hotels.
Hotels, &i
K
I A M A HOTE
G. TORY, Pec
Commercial Travellers. Exo
seekers, and persons travelling gi
hotel the best and cheapest on tl
splendid table kept, and every coi
travelling shows, &c. Sample r
Travellers.
The “ haycock” Coach meets tl
passengers, luggage, &c..toand fr
part of the country. Buggies a
hit e. Billiards.
ICE
ICE
E
rjIHE CITY ICE COMPANI
ADDITION to their WORK
Manufacture upwards of TEN TC
are prepared to Supply the LUX
PROACHING SUMMER, at a 1
For prices, &c..
Apply to
3 WYNYARD ST
OB TO TAJ
K
OBERT BUTC
(Late William I
- WINE AND SPIRIT M
534 GEORGE STI
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL
Country Oedees Receive Pb
Australian “ho
SEWING MACH]
Unprincipled Dealers—to mak
lings profit—are offering for sa
Machines that will not stand a ye:
express
OSS
'p
</
3a i
THE HOME SHUTTLE ]
Manufactured for us, has the al
name on the work
PURCHASE NO OTH
We solicit information of the at
terfeits of the above Machine, w
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our gem
procurable, we will forward thei
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE KOW SOLD
HAND MACHINEf. COMPLETI
TREADLE MACHINE. COMFI
Do., WITH COVER COM
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular po
M. MOSS~AN
WYNYARD LANE,
w
H. A R
PROVISION MER(
AND GENERAL COMMIS
343 and 345 Kent-steeet, ne.
SOLE AGENT for the undermen
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lo:
■Rlvoolui.-vr. ATilTo
Tobacco ni
TIN TAG!
T JJY 1
Caution to Store!
ANYONE selling Tobacco witl
other than those bearing or
“CONQUEEER" or “TAN]
is infringing our rights, and will
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notii
facturer has been sending out one
of Tobacco with a Sound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPI
DIXSON AND :
155 YOEK STR
TO B A C COSMO
Note the Abo\
J.EVE . TOBACCOI
JAMES ET
No. 149 KING S'!
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and amb(
149 KING STREI
Loans granted witi
moderate rates, on all kinds c
ments to suit convenience of bom
LOAN OFFICE. 96 Castlereagh-f
King-street. Established 1859.
jp LATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPEEHANGINi
(a really splendid st
KOOM and PICT CEE-FRAME
KENT’S BEUSHI
GOLD LEAF, &c
i vnPD DnDrnTTrrrnrr
-si;.'
SI
as
RK
mm
1%
e>
m
fi-fng
ESfei
re
6^2
HS
iw
?*
■r-
«p
&
m
u
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOL
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEI
MEECHANTI
VIRGOE, SON7AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE E
ORKe
It is of the utmost importance
bottle shonld bo carefully compor
are being imported into New Si
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve:
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKI
other brands, when they will fin
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,“AND
AGENTS.
MARTIN
AUSTRALIAN WINE A
AND BEER BOT
105 PITT STEE
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IE
Prices from 12s to 42s
ALBUEY WIN
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbec
HUNTER RIVER 1
Claret
Lambrusoat
POET MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
COOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
The Celebrated
The Purest Stimulant
Th« Kama of M. MOSS & 00,
Is on erer j Genuine Bottle.
JJAY OE NIGHT
The elegant Stndi
THE ELECTEIC POETEi
205 OXFORD STR
(Opposite to the Court House
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the 1
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY AE r
Architectural, Mechanical, and La:
in the highest style of a
The Autotype process also pract
ful varieties.


£JHEISTMAS H(
EXCURSION FAR
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUBS]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCK H AMP
TUESDAY
For all particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
STEAM TO LONDON—O
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steami
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIGA'
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC f
TION COMPANY, will leave SYD
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, A
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, callii
And the service will be maiuta
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards ma
3/t Suoz, Port Said, and Naples, goii
steamer within a mouth; but failing
subsequent steamer having room.
Bares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be grai
For plans and full particulars, a
and CO., and ANDERSON. AND
Joint Managers of the line; or to tl
General Manager in Am
G.
QEIENT LINE OF
PARCEL EXPRE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small packag
Steamers to London at reduced ratt
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a fc
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior i
sailing. All freights payable in Si
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON TUILL,
_ Manager of Orient
267 George-street, Sydney.
c
Claret
Hermitage
Shiraz
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz ..
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bouffier’s Pineau.
Hennessy’s • Case
Brandy
Hennessy’s
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
ASH PEICE LIST OP WIK
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
per doz.
.. 9s Od J. T. F
.. 10s Od Adelaii
.. 11s Gd (rich
.. 12s 6d type]
„ 13s Od Adelaii
WHITE,
i.. 9s Od Brown
.. 10s Od Musca
11s Od Adelaii
15s Od Tokay,
FOREIGN WINI
Good Port ... 21s to 3Gs Od I Good 5
Champagne from... 60s Od | Frencl
SPIRITS.
Imperi
S9s Od ditto
Imperi
71s Od Whh
Burke’
45s Od Whii
D’Arcy
45s Od Whii
Rum
“ Cast Ton Swim ?” —Professor Cavill, the world
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and be back within the hour. Return boat fare
including bath, 6d. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5.
Adtt.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[Tf’o shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Wyndham E. C January 14'
Geelong January 26, 28-
Broulee January 26 and 27-
New England J.C January 26, 27-
Parramatta January 26, 23*
Wellington (N.Z.) E.C. Summer Meeting,..Feb. 2 and 3-
Newcastle January 26, 27-
Northern J.C February 7, 8-
Vegetable Creek February 9, 10-
Ararat (Vic.) February 9,10-
Victoria A.T.C February 11-
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 15, and 16-
Inverell February 17,18-
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23-
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24,25-
Wentworth March 3, 4-
V.R.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12-
Albury March 16,17-
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club March 16 and 17.
Gundagui March 16, 17.
Wagga March 23.
Corowa March 23.
V.AT.C March 25.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
A. J.C. Autumn Easter Week.
AQUATICS.
Stockton Regatta January 26.
National Regatta January 26.
Hanlan v. Boyd, on the Tyne April
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven January 12,13,14, against 22 of Otago at Dune-
din; January 16 and 17, against Oamaru or Timaru;
Jannary 20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January 26, 27, 28, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2,3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park ; February 17, 18, 20, against
Combined Australian Team at Sydney.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Albury Racing Club annual meeting ia fixed
for 16th and 17th March.
The well-known trainer, Tom Brown, has pur-
chased Hesperian for 700 guineas.
Bourke New Year’s Day Races. —Maiden Plate:
Swallow 1. New Year’s Day Handicap: Kildare 1.
The Parramatta J.C. give >£6oo added money to
be ran for at their meeting on 26th and 28th January.
Eighty entries for the Sydney Cup—Sydney 48,
Melbourne 32—66 for the Hawkesbury Autumn Han-
dicap.
The committee for the National Regatta are
untiring in their efforts to make the event worthy of
the colony.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club will hold the
first matches of the season at Foley’s Baths, on January
28. Ten events on the programme.
Coriolanus, who won the Champion Race at tho
V.E.C. meeting on New Tear’s Day, is said to be one of
the worst horses in private ever seen.
The Muswellbrook Handicap, 150 yards, comes
off on the 26th January. The prise is £l5. A local man
(Mr. W. E. Keetley) is rather fancied.
The nominations for the Gunning J.C. meeting,
on January 26, are as follow : —Members’ Purse 7, Gun-
ning J.C. Handicap 11, Ladies’ Purse 8,
Only three boats competed on Saturday for the
prize presented by Mr. J. M. Qeddes for a sailing match
for 21 footers —Snowdrop, Victor, and Lizzie. Victor
won easily by 10 minutes.
Mr. F. H. Dangar, of Messrs. Dangar, Qedye,
and Co., has offered a cup, valued at £2O, to be com-
peted for at the National Regatta, on Anniversary Day.
He subscribes £5 ss. in addition.
Mr. Gardiner was the highest winner at the
V.R.C. Champion meeting, with £1215, the Champion
Stakes. Mr. E. De Mestre received £855, including
£7BO first money for the Normanby Stakes.
That Richmond River outrigger challenge is
likely to lead to something. Ballina replies to Casino,
and man and money can be found during the next three
months at Britton’s Hotel, Ballina.
It was the general impression in Melbourne,
alter the Intereolonial, that the better team had lost.
Davis’s innings was ithe feature of the match: it was
one grand exhibition of scientific batting.
Tattersall’s Club intend to raise the added
money for the next Cap to 1000 sovereigns, and Mr.
E. E. Jones offers to supplement the stakes by giving a
gold cup, value 100 sovereigns, to the winner.
Mr. Weston, the New Zealand bookmaker, feel-
ing himself aggrieved at a paragraph in the Auckland
Observer, pulled the nose of the editor when he met
him. The case was fixed for the 23rd December.
Massie was unable, in the second innings of the
match Combined Team v. All-England, to go in first —
his usual place—owing to an injury to his right arm
received throwing a ball from deep square-leg.
All the principal prizes at the late Adelong
race meeting were won by one man—the sporting
butcher of the town. It proves that he is as good a
judge of cattle as he ought to be considering his occu-
pation.
Hesperian and Socundus are among the nomi-
nations for the Sydney Cup, The disqualification was
for twelve months, so that the committee of the A. J.C.
will have to decide whether these entries can bo ac-
cepted.
Three members of the Sydney Bicycle Club
rode from Petersham to the Hawkesbury River, two
miles past Richmond, and back, in one day, a ride of
about 80 miles—not a bad trip on a hot day and rather
bad roads.
The old school game of “ hare-and-hounds” has
been revived by the bicyclists. The first hunt took
place at Adelaide on Saturday, when the “fox” got
12 minutes start, and eluded his pursuers for the two
hours specified.
Hay Races, New Year’s Day:—Maiden Plate:
Contraband 1. Christmas Cup : Robin 1. New Year’s
Gift Handicap: Coquette 1. Two-year-old Stakes :
Leo 1. Midsummer Handicap: Guy Fawkes 1, Mounted
Harness Prize: Lurlino 1.
Jack, the hurdle racer who ran so well at Rand-
wick lately, has been purchased for 260 guineas by Mr.
Wilson, of Circus renown. Jack is a noble animal, and
was “the cynosure of neighbouring eyes ’’ as he paraded
the saddling paddock on New Year’s Day.
Glen Innes Races, January 2 and 3 —'first day.
Maiden Plate: Recovery 1. Glen Innes J.C. Handi-
cap : Barber 1. Second day. Hurdle Race: Ixion 1.
Glen Innes Cup: Barber 1. Railway Handicap:
Lemonade 1. Farewell Handicap: Royal Blend 1.
When the Australian Eleven were in England
they were railed at as gate-money hunters. Now, we
have not been anxious to know how much money the
Eaglish Eleven have made, but wa think they should
play their matches out. As yet we do not know their
real strength.
At the National Regatta, the race for All-
comers who have not won an out-rigger race for a
stake of £5O or oyer, should bring out a number of
aspirants for aquatic fame. The race for men-of-wars’
men in copper punts, to be propelled by shovels, should
create a deal of amusement.
Darebin was rather easily beaten by Respite in
the Yarraville Stakes at Flemington, on New Year’s
Day; but, though defeated, he was not disgraced, for
he had been suffering from rheumatism a few days
before the race, and was not quite so free in his move-
ments as when he ran in the Spring.
Adelong Races, Jannary 2 and 3.—First day.
Maiden Plate: Love Not 1. £3O Handicap: Robin 1.
Mile Handicap; Favour 1. Publicans’ Purse: Love
Net 1. Hurry Scurry: Yanilla 1. Second day.
Stewards’ Purse: Love Not 1. Prince of Wales’
Selling Stakes : Solomon 1. Town Plate: First Love 1.
Ladies’ Purse: Parton 1. Hurry Scurry : Fair Maiden
1. Forced Handicap: Messenger 1.
At Mr. T. S. Clibbom’s sale, Sportsman was
purchased by Mr. T. Shaw, for 110 guineas; Silver
Arrow, by Mr. W. Kelso, for 150 guineas; Trump
Glenelg, full brother to Trump Voss, by Mr. Rowe, for
64 guineas; Sepoy, by Mr. Gough, for 38 guineas;
Coolamudgin, by Mr. A. Dempsey, for 39 guineas;
Clancarty, by Mr. Garland, for 41 guineas; King’s
Head, by Mr. J. White, for 159 guineas.
In the Intercolonial, Horan was out l.b.w. when
he had scored enly 5. The umpire (Elliott, of Victoria)
gave him “not out,” when appealed to, thinking that
he played the ball on his pad. Horan scored 95. It
sometimes seems that the umpire is the best man in
the team. There are a few over here we could suggest
to stand for us in the next Intercolonial. We should
certainly win if one of them got the umpireship.
The match for the Holds worth-Gardyne Cup
between the Warwick and Carlton Clubs was continued
on Saturday. The Warwicks made 226 —Downes 69,
Scanlon 50, Eigg JJI, Hiddlcstono 21, Ogilvie 15, E.
Gregory 14, Nettle 10, Oatley 10. Second innings, 175
Scanlon 38, Rigg 27, M’Donald 18, Riley ( not out) 17,
Oatley 17, Downes 16, Ogilvie 12, Hiddilstone 10. E.
Gregory was bowled first ball by deary. The Carlton’s
requiring 81 runs to win, lost one wicket —Geary 13—for
42, the not out men being A. Bannerman 2i, Davis 6.
Mr. Walton, the American plunger as he is
called in England, got the inside running of most of
the owners, and used to have his money on before they
had a chance to back their horses. He paid liberally
for his information. On one occasion he won £4OOO on
Sir J. Astley’a horse Medicus, when Sir John could not
get any odds. There was a scene between them after
the race. Sir John told him to take himself and his
condemned book off to his own country or to Gehenna.
Mr. Walton afterwards said that he would have had a
bit out of that Sir John Astley’s ear if it hadn’t been
in business hours. We wonder if he could forestal the
owners in this country ?
Athletic Sports, Junee Junction, January 2,
Maiden Plate, 100 yards : Burgess Douglas 1, G. Willis
2. Donnelly 3. Six started. AU-comers’ Handicap,
150 yards: Ledwidge, 10 yards, 1; F. Orme, 12 yarns,
2; B. Douglas, scratch, 3. Splendid race. Hop, step,
and jump : Q. Willis, 42ft., 1; B. Douglas, 41ft. 9Hn., 2.
Sack race, 50 yards ;M. Leary 1, S. Douglas 2. Seven
started, but only two came in. Ail-comera’ Handicap,
100 yards: Regan, scratch, 1; Robinson, scratch, 2;
Goldspink, 5 yards, 3. 150 yards handicap: Regan,
scratch,!; Robinson, 5 yards, 2; B. Uouglas, 5 yards,
3. Youths under 18,: A. Wright, 5 yards, 1; O'Donnell,
scratch, 2. Mr. E. W. Crawley, of tha Railway Hotel,
provided a free luncheon for the occasion, and a splen-
did treat was given to the children by Mrs. and Miss
Crawley. A dance in the evening brought a very en-
joyable meeting to a close.
Mr. Boyle, who ia sole selector for the Victorian
Cricket Association, can afford to la U gh at those who
derided him for choosing Horan in the Intercolonial
Team and Cooper in the Combined Team. Horan had
not come off in the previous matches, his scores in the
match Victoria v. Ad-England being 0 and 1. He won
the Intercolonial match for Victoria, and Cooper broke
the spell in the second innings of the Englishmen in
the Combined match. He secured six wickets, but had
the pleasure of being yelled at by a certain portion of
tho crowd who thought Edwards should have got his
place in the team. A Sydney crowd is never so un-
patriotic as to yell at its own men; any little ebullitions
of that sort are usually reserved for opposing players, es-
pecially umpires who give erratic decisions. Intereolonial
matches, however, have produced such good cricket
lately that the crowd has lost sight of its partisanship
in its admiration of the play.
Following the example of our Tatters all'a Club,
the kindred betting institution in Melbourne, the Vic-
torian Club, held its first race meeting at Flemington
on Saturday. The Governor and suite were present, but
the attendance was moderate. Hurdle race: Red Rover
1, Monitor 2, Geneva 3; Red Rover took the lead from
the start, and won by two lengths. Hew Year’s Gift ;
Courtenay 1, Josephine 2, Don Quixote 3; a splendid
race, won by a bare length. Hopeful Stases: Bassanio
1, Allander 2, Transferred 3; won by half a length.
Selling Race : Verdure 1, Cora 2, Bruno 3; won easily.
Verdure, who was entered to be sold for £lO, was
bought by Mr. Cowell for 250 guineas. Bookmakers’
Purse: Pell Mell 1, Petrel 2, Dougalstou 3. Steeple-
chase : Lucy 1, Himalaya 2, Skylark 3. Prima Donna,
the favourite, fell and broke her leg, and had to be shot.
Poor Prima Donna! She was a game little mare.
Victorian Club Cup: Napper Tandy 1, Sir Peter 2,
Swiveller 3; won by half a length.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
On New Year’s Day, the Windsor (Hawkesbury)
Club beat tho National Club at cricket in one innings
with ten wickets to spare. On Boxing Day, tho Cam-
bridge Club defeated the Windsor Club, the latter hav-
ing a bad team. The defeat of such a strong club as the
National (with Duncan, Nunn, Evers, Collins, and
Adamson playing,) proves that our Hawkesbury friends
are worthy foes for most of the metropolitan crack
c lubs Mr. de Mestre, who declared to win tho Nor-
manby Stakes at the V.R.C. Champion meeting with
Solitude, being dissatisfied with the explanation given
by the jockey, Riley, regarding his riding of Navigator,
has discharged him On Moore Park, on Friday, the
clowns of Wilson’s Circus engaged in a orioket match
with a miscellaneous team. The clowns were defeated
by three wickets The racehorse Larry has been
stolen from the Sportsman’s Arms hotel Rockhamp-
ton The alleged Araboe “pulling” affair is to come
before the Monaro Jockey Club shortly. Tho jockey
declares that a horse was ou the course. We are glad
it is a horse, not a dog, this time Hero of Waterloo
v Granville, at Eveleigh, on Saturday : H.W.C., 81—
A. Pople 23, Dibly 15, Avis 11. G.C., 12. Dib ey, for
the H.W.C., secured 5 wickets for 5 runs, and Hopkins
4 wickets for 3 runs Alexandria v. Woollahra, at
Double Bay, on Saturday: A.C, 75—Ferguson 17,
Ridley 13, Ellis 13. W.C., 46—Gale 12, Wailes (notout)
10 Alexandria v. Elsinore, at Double Bay, on January
2 :' E.C., 45 and 45 —C. M'Shane 10, A. M'Shane 21,
Smitliers (not out) 20. A.C., 67 and 2 wickets for 26-
Macintosh 37, Ellis (not out) 20 Windsor v. Croydon,
January 7; C.C., 26—M. Carroll 11. W.C., 135 for 7
wickets—H. Dunn 32, Greenwood 29, M’Gregor (not
out) 24, Holdsworth 22, Grant 13. Mallarky, for W.C.,
obtained 8 wickets for 13 runs Our Boys defeated
the Stanmore Club in a one innings match, on Saturday,
by 43 runs The East Melbourne and South Mel-
bourne Clubs commenced a match on Saturday, for the
Cleelaud Challenge Cup. South Melbourne scored 248
for 2 wickets, Baker being (not out) 101, and Slight 78.
ln the recentcnp match in Victoria, in the Western
District, Johnny Mullagh, the aboriginal cricketer,
made the fine score of 110 out of a total of 243 Mr.
Ironside has made application to the Mayor for per-
mission to put down a concrete wicket on Moore Park,
on Which to play the junior cup matches An old
“member of tho M.C.C.” declares that “ W. H.
Cooper is simply the famous old Clarke, of N ottingham,
redivivus, but W. H is not so reliable a bowler as the
old man, with his white hat, black baud, and bow-legs,
was.” National v. Pyrmont Excelsior: N.C.C.,
88—Duncan 26, Baxter 15, Dobson 12. P.E.C.C., 50—
M'Donald 16 Cambridge v. Kingston, at Camper-
down: C.C.C., 40 and 120; Kingston, 37 Balmain
Collinewoou v. Pyrmcnt Lome at Balmain : 8.C.C., 112
—Taylor weni. in first and carried his bat out for the
fine score of J O. L.C., 63 Rugby v. Glebe Strath-
more: Rugby C., 70—Tamer (not out) 16, Boreland 11,
M'Connell 10. Glebe Strathmore C., 63—Brown 34 f
Stanmore v, Our Boys, Stanmore ground, last
Saturday; won by the Boys. Our Boys, 70—J. Mo yea
19, Varley 17. Stanmore, 27—M‘Kern 21. Dennis and
Varley bowled splendidly for Our Boys—s wickets for
7 runs, and 4 wickets for 1 run. Brown, for the losers,
7 wickets for 25 runs.
The other evening, in the N Z. House of Eepre"
sentatives, Mr Reeves told the Colonial Treasurer that
he was “an vEolian harp struck by lightning.” Al-
though the joke is old, it was a long while before the
House saw it. The Treasurer was, in Mr, Beeves’
opinion a blasted lyre.
“ Mamie Eicliards,” says an American paper,
“a Wisconsin schoolmistress, is to have a medal be-
cause she walked daily to and from her school, through
five miles of dense forest, in which were prowling
wolves." This is too thin, Mamie. How about the
usher with the long fair goatee, who used to go the
same way ? And that big scholar you used to teach
poetry to when the moon was up and the cayottes were
barking, is there no medal for him ? That was the boy,
we suppose, who, when he pursed up his lips and said
“ Ma-mie," always got yes for an answer. We’re rather
riled because we were the usher.
An old man, who was arrested the other day,
completely cleaned out Western Australia by repre-
senting himself as Alexander Gibson, Esq , a NS.
Wales squatter. “ This is," says the Enquirer, “ the
way he filled up the cheques to one person—pay • the
som o| too pounds;’ to another, ‘the sum of eaght
pounds, forteen days arfter sight; ’ and still the trades-
men bowed ‘ Alexander Gibson, Esq.’ out of their shops,
and rubbed their hands and asked, ‘ Did the gentleman
require anything more?’” Well, after all, people are
“ had hero almost as stupidly, Beta smart new-chum
arrive in Sydney with a coronet on his hat-box, a fiver
in his pocket, and give out that he is Lord Mug’s
nephew, and he would be able to buy £5OO worth of
stuff without so much as jingling a couple of half-
crowns together, and would probably be shaded by a
courteous M.P's umbrella during his stroll upon the
block whilst making his purchases.
Christmas isn’t more than half over yet Last
Tuesday night a Miller’s Point citizen was trudging into
town when a gentleman respectably dressed in a navy
blue suit, tastefully embroidered with junks of mud,
bits of hay, and orange peel, suddenly staggered over,
and said;—“l shay Misser—D’you know has Cap’n
Clarke come on board yet ?" “On board what ?” asked
the first man. “On board here," replied the second
joker; “ Ishu’t this th’ Rodondo, an’ ishu’t that ole
darkey’s cabin ? I’eh goiu’ giv’ ’im game whisht to-
night, an I muck his bottom dollar; you bet on that
now.” “Friend,” said the Miller’s Point man, who
was of a religious turn of mind—“ Friend, thou hadst
better soak thy head, or go show thyself to the priests
—this is not the Eodondo—this is the “ Argylo cut, and
that’s Trinity Church, not Captain darkey’s cabin.”
“Oh, I’sh knew that alter time,” stammered the
» 0.T., ~ ouly havin ’ bit ov lark—Qoo’ day." Next morn
—first offence —ss.—seven daj s.
The other day, a certain District Court judge,
in sentencing to six months’ imprisonment a man who
had attempted to commit suicide, remarked that the
unusually heavy penalty inflicted was designed rather
as a warning to others than as a punishment to the
prisoner at the bar. This, at last, is tho reductio ad
ahsurdum of judicial logic. If a man had really made
up his mind to commit suicide, a knowledge of the act
that he, if unsuccessful in killing himself, would get
“ six months without the option” would, if it had any
influence on him at all, only tend to make him take a
bigger dose of strychnine, or use a bigger razor, or
jump into deeper water, or kick away a taller stool; in
tact, it would, cause him to tako additional precautions
against a possible failure. The heavy sentence meted
out by the sapient and amiable judge may, however,
have some little effect on the objectionable young man
who, after being rejected by his girl, is prompted by
calf-love to make a feigned attempt at self-destruction.
At the Garden Palace concert, on New Year’s
Day, Mr. W. F. Baker, the well-known tenor, was asked
to sing an extra song. Singers generally have another
song with them for encores, and William had the
“ Queen’s Letter," which is, perhaps, the best thing he
sings. The subject of the song relates to the Queen’s
message to the suffering soldiers in the Crimean War
and tho enthusiasm of the audience is worked up by a
reference (on the top G, or thereabouts) to Alma
Inkermann, and Balaclava, and the music winds up
with the refrain of “God save the Queen 1” The con.
cert was under the patronage and in the presence of tbe
Russian officers, and it was only in the middle of the
song that the little mistake was discovered. The com-
mittee shivered in their boots, the audience glanced at
the “Booshuns,” and the singer looked about for a small
hole to crawl into; but the gallant visitors, not being
thoroughly acquainted with the language, mistook it
for a ballad in praise of the friendly accord of the two
great nations, and applauded most vociferously.
It came to the ears of the Eev. J. Maitland
Ware, of Young, that tho Public School in that pushing
town had leave to “ Dreak-up” on the 16th ultimo On
the 18th, Mr. Ware considerately telegraphed to the
Under-Secretary, asking for similar leave for the
Denominational School, on the grounds “that the
master was in the hospital, the mistress knocking up
and sickness prevalent among the children." Receiving
no reply before 4 p m. on Tuesday, he wrote to the
Minister for Public Instruction, calling his attention
to the telegram and the facts therein mentioned. Five
days after he received the welcome intelligence that
the school might be closed. Mr. Ware, therefore
grumbles, and says that in this enlightened, go-a-head
age, five days is just a shade too long to have to wait to
save a fellow-creature’s life, even although that creature
has the misfortune to be a ground-down, hard-worked
teacher. Mr. Ware had better apply to the Lands
office for copies of a Jingaloo survey. After he has
waited fifteen years for a reply, we will then be glad to
hear him. What’s a teacher’s life here or there, when
we have to attend to suburban land sales and Premier’s
parting banquets ?
Another Eeview has been issued in Mel-
bourne, and a casual glance at it reveals to us the
fact that it is a literary staggerer of the most pronounced
description. The book is demy-octavo size, and the
whole contents are about as long as Jack-the-Giant-
Killer. Yet, in its 80 pp. of long primer are embodied
no less than 19 articles! the majority of which appear
to have been written either for children under 12 or
adults over 120. There is a long string of little pars.,
labelled “ An Australian Panorama j " another chain ot
“briefs” humorously entitled “The Police Board”—
a singularly appropriate heading, by the way, if tho
police should happen to road it; half-a-dozen pages on
London Theatres. They begin .—'‘The principal theatre
in London is the Lyceum, financed by Baronees Burdett-
Contts, and managed by Mr. Irving, The Lyceum is in
the Strand, and has the unique advantage of being
bounded by a street on each of the four sides." Now,
as a matter of fact, tbe Lyceum is not the principal
theatre in London, nor is it—since Mr. Irving has openly
denied tbe fact—financed by the Baroness Burdett-
Coutts, nor is it bounded by a street on each of the'four
sides—the only entrances being from the Strand* and
Wellington-street. We are afterwards calmly told that
“ The most elaborate set scene could be taken t« pieces,
and another, equally elaborate, put on, all in the space
of less than a minute"—information which we strongly
recommend the writer to impart, at his earliest con-
venience, to the marines. The rest of the information
embodied in the article is culled holus-bolus from the
Eea Almanac. Another article is “ The Journalist ’’
which tells us that “The late T. Holt-White was
certainly the most distinguished journalist, pure and
simple, ever seen in Melbourne. His * Celebrities I
have Met,’ in tho Hekald, ranged over such people as
the Emperor of Germany, Bismarck, Moltke, Gambetta,
Gladstone, Sara Bernhardt, General Sheridan, Roche-
fort, Edmund Yates, Sala, and Forbes, and the entire
series was treated with the perfection of journalistic
vraisemblance." And yet, tho poor fellow seldom got more
than 10s. a column from the people he wrote for, and
died’ penniless in the hospital 1 The Imperial Review
is either a joke or a mistake. It is not, however, a good
joke, though for the publishers it will, probably, tarn
out a serious mistake.


SOCIAL.
A pretty story of a pair of runaways comes
f rom femora. Ho is well educated and connected, and
had to leave Germany in consequence of killing his
antagonist in a duel. She is the daughter of an affluent
squatter in the Upper Murray district, and bolted
because Pa married a second wife, and gave his daughter
a step-mother younger than herself. She left the
paternal roof in boy’s clothes, and was engaged as
housemaid by a wine-seller at Temora, where her hand-
some lover came, saw, and was conquered. It will be
all tight soon.
• • •
Amongst the prettiest dresses at Rand wick, at
New Year’s races, was one worn by a brunette
from Woolloomooloo. The dress was black satin
brocade with a jet embroidery, showing a floral design
on the body. The chapeau was quite a new shape
(from one of Kate Greenaway’s books), of
black Barcelona lace powdered over with fine cut
spangles, which glittered with every movement of the
wearer’s head. The only colour worn was a double
pink carnation on the left shoulder. Black gloves and
p iraaol en suite.
• • •
Though there is a sound of vague mystery about
the title La Coterie de Dt.c, the society itself is not a
dangerous one. It has no immediate intention of blow-
ing up Parliament, neither has it any special desire to
disturb the supremacy of Her Most Gracious Majesty
the Queen. Its members are for the most part harm-
less young men, whose most sinister design is nothing
worse than a desire to kill off a few particularly pre-
possessing young ladies ; and in order to do this eliec-
tually, they give a ball every year. Their second annual
corroboree came off on Friday last, the Oddfellows
Hall having been decorated by Mrs. Walker with silken
banners, flowers, flags, shields, and other devices.
There was a comfortable number of dancers on the
floor all night, who negotiated some thirty dances
before they could feel satisfied, and even then only
went homo because the gas did not harmonise well
with the daylight in its effects on the paling cheeks of
tired beauty. The members are young, and as their
guests are also ’’in that first budding spring of youth,
when all its prospects please,” joy reigned a good deal.
Fancy dresses were in the minority, the chief ones
being Patience, two Americas of different designs, Grace
Darling, a Gipsy, Folly (with delicate blue under-pinning
that made the young men’s eyes glisten), and Ruth (a
pretty girl from Pyrmont, whose dress did her great
credit.) A pretty brunette, all in white, also came from
Pyrmont. Two fair sisters, in pink and blue, were
from Cook’s River, and two from Marrickville—one in
pink and pale*blue satin, and the other in a well-made
dress of pale-blue satin, elaborately puffed, which was
much admired. One of the three sisters from Crown-
street, who all dance so beautifully, wore a delicate
light-yellow satin, with a large breadth of pink on the
right side of the skirt, and adorned with flowers, which
was one of the richest in the room. Three young ladies
were from Manly, and one from Kiama. The supper was
provided by Cripps in good style, and several toasts
were given. The Queen took precedence, followed by
La Coterie and the Quests, the Ladies bringing up the
rear. The gentleman who proposed La Coterie laboured
under disadvantages, inasmuch as his audience helped
him too much by putting in little paragraphs of their
own wherever they thought his speech wanted im-
proving. When the health of the ladies was proposed,
the speaker wished the speech had been put in an abler
mouth to deliver. It might easily have been put in an
abler mouth, but could scarcely have been confided to
a bigger one. All the toasts were finished off with
musical honours. To the last one, some tried to sing
Hero’s a health,” while the super-msthetical young
men, with more modern views, endeavoured to squeeze
in with "Twenty love-sick maidens wo,” so that alto-
gether the singing was variegated. Dancing was then
resumed, by way of relief, and continued, to the
splendid music of Hermann and Simpler, till daylight,
when everyone travelled home, quite satisfied that La
Coterie de L)ix is an excellent institution, and that its
ball this year was even better than the mice one given
last.
• • •
A gentleman, who had moat probably suffered at
the hands of ladies whose habits of sweet dalliance
and indecision cause such a lot of trouble, " wrote his
love a letter," which he closed with " Please reply at
once —somebody else in view." Nothing on earth
will fetch a lady to a decision sooner than to learn
thv.t there is somebody else in view—if she hoars it
indirectly; but when it is put in that way, we would be
inclined to give long odds on a negative.
# * *
In Pennsylvania, Mr. Donaldson was expelled
from the Presbyterian Church because (at a private
party) he walked through a quadrille. His case before
the Synod lasted all day, and he closed his speech in
defence with an eloquent peroration, contending that
the Bible did not prohibit dancing, nor, indeed, was
there any explicit Church law a gainst it. The prosecutor
said that conscience wav not a safe guide—that dancing
was an offence calculated to bring discredit upon the
Church—and that the example might lead young people
to the depths of vice. So Donaldson had to go forth.
Every clergyman adduced some reason for his vote, and
the expulsion was determined by 73 to 20 votes.
• ♦ *
Twelfth Day (Russian Christmas) was celebrated
on board the Russian war-vessels in Sydney harbour with
festivities. Religious services came first in order, then
the Admiral from the Afrika visited the other vessels of
the fleet, being saluted on his arrival and departure.
The ships were freely decorated with flags, and a salute
of 31 guns was fired in honour of the day. Leave was
granted to the men, who spent their time as they listed.
It is a coincidence that the day was the anniversary of
Bonaparte’s expulsion from Moscow. In the evening,
there was a Christmas tree and supper provided and a
comic play (written by an officer) was performed. Rcar-
-4 dmiral Wilson entertained Admiral Aslanbegoff and
the Russian officers at dinner on board the Wolverene.
* * *
Wedding festivities next week at Edgecliffe
House, Edgecliffe Road, the residence of Mr. T. H.
Browse. Miss Beattie, daughter of Dr. Beattie, is to
be married to Mr. F. M'Dcrmott, brother of the well-
known bank manager, Haymarket.
* * #
Mr, John Pearce, of Seven Hills, gives a
dance on Friday, 13th instant. A large number of
invitations issued. About thirty persons going from
Sydney. #
Kiama is gay, regardless of the thermometer.
Last week, dances at Melrose and Hart well; and on
We-nesdav, the 4th, there was a plain and fancy ball,
largely attended. Creditable display of fancy dresses,
including French Waitress, two Bed Riding Hoods,
Night, Snow, Gipsy, Queen of Hearts, Mephistophele-,
&c The daughters of the hostess were prettily attired
as French and German peasants. A young lady from
the Commercial Bank, who was elaborately prepared
to represent a Fortune-teller, was voted belle. The
daughter of an auctioneer was becoming as Nancy
Lee. Two gentlemen from Sydney were in cool raiment
as a Sailor and a Militaire respectively. A youth from
the ’Varsity—known for his excessive politeness, and
who is cultivating the aesthetic—came as Grosvenor in
"Patience.” The supper was excellent, and dancing
was kept up till 5 o’clock.
# * *
An Old English Fair is to be held at the Garden
Palace during Easter. It will be under good manage-
ment and distinguished patronage. And the building,
which is really fit for so few purposes, will be eminently
adapted for such a show.
* * *
The marriage of the Rev. J. Campbell and Miss
Holt took place at St. Michael’s Church last Saturday
afternoon, at four o’clock. The church was nicely
decorated with wreaths and arches of flowers. The
bride and hrideimaids we e also nicely decorated—l ride
in white silk trimmed with white satin and lace ; brides-
maids ; n white cashmere, two trimmed with blue satin
and lace, two trimmed with cardinal satin and lace.
The church was crowded with friends, and after the
ceremony a« adjournment was made to the house of
the bride’s mother, where a merry evening was spent.
Honeymoon to Picton and other places, “ The Camp-
bells are coming.”
# # *
P-siness is steadily improving in the matrimo-
Wollongoug, an! the market shows a rising
tendency. Good parcels go off readily, and several
transactions are reported. The youthful and accom-
plished daughter of a.well-known Civil servant stood
before the hymeneal altar last week, when negotiations
were completed. It is rumoured ihat a local journalist
intends to go in for a good item shortly, provided
matters can be satisfactorily arranged.
« * *
Everyone must have noticed at balls, persona
whom it would be hard to distinctly define. 1 hey
ought to have seen the last of their dancing days ; they
have not vet risen to the matronly dignity of chape-
rones ; they are quite out of place, and yet they come ;
you cannot get rid of them. Good-natured hostesses
sometimes secure for them, at some trouble, the one-
sided pleasure of what men call a duty dance, and &
painful dance it is. Most gills, even if not extremely
pretty, have charms of some kin-1 in a ball-room, while
the dignitv of a married woman generally commands
respect But the faded bloom of these indescribables
repels admiration, whi’e their incongruous attire kills
any feeling of respect. They wear colours and fabrics
that might have suited them two decades ago, but are
now only a satire on the past; while the manners of
these passi spinsters are as girlish and airily coquettish
as their clothes. If they had taste enough to refrain
from dancing, they would save themselves from many
an ill-natured and contemptuous remark. If they clad
themselves in suitable garb, they might occupy a
dignified place between young maidens and mothers,
when they have neither the grace of the one nor the
dignity of the other. But when affecting ridiculous
juvenility, and clothed in muslins, gauzes, and float-
ing ribbons, they are painful parodies on youth and
beauty. Why will not these ’’ pay a little
attention to common sense and good taste ?
• * *
On dit, that a marriage will soon take place
between the prospective heir to an English baronetcy
and a squatter’s daughter, whose pretty face, peeping
from under a pink bonnet, attracted admiring glances
towards a drag at the late Eandwick meeting.
* * *
A most enjoyable ball was given by the bachelors
of the Upper Paterson, on the 30th December, Mr.
Cooper, of Trevallyn, kindly lending his mansion for
the purpose during the evening. The attendance was
large—about ninety guests—and many of the dresses
exceptionally brilliant. Seme of the fair wearers were
excellent dancers, and their economic skirts prevented
that fact from being overlooked. To choose a belle
would not only be difficult, but exceedingly dangerous ;
but, it a blind man had stretched out his hand, he could
hardly have ‘ grabbed’’ a girl that wasn’t one, seeing
that the ladies of the Upper Paterson (married ones
included! have few, if any, equals in the Southern
hemisphere. The gentlemen, on the whole, were not
such a brilliant galaxy as the ladies (they never are);
some could not dance, others would not, while many
really nice-looking young fellows had come to that dis-
tressingly bashful age when a pretty girl is a more
fearsome thing to grapple with in close quarters than
an angry hedgehog or a young torpedo. If these nioe
young men only knew how little they had to be
frightened of and they will find it out some
day, after they get married—they would wonder
how on earth they could ever have felt
that way. But it’s very bad while it lasts. One
gentleman was too heavy a swell to throw himself away
on the poor maidens at all. He waited for them to
come to him: he is waiting yet. The snpper was every-
thing that could be desired, and was well patronised by
the junior bachelors. That’s quite as it should be.
There’s something wrong with a boy when he can’t eat.
Those who peered into quiet corners during the evening
would have discovered that there is an average amount
of human nature in the y ung men and women of the
Paterson. They are all afraid of the dark; so they go
in pairs, just for protection, that’s all. Music was
supplied by local talent, and was pleasant—to say more
might tend towards flattery. It was not till daylight
that dancing ceased, and then “ there was bridling in
hurry and saddling in haste”—great competition among
the grooms, as each tried to get his own party first on
the road. The scene was lively, and quite novel to the
Sydney visitors; and 'twas " merry in tne glowing morn,
amid the gleaming grass,” to ride home through the
cool fresh air, and enjoy the magnificent scenery of the
Paterson Eiver, seen to its fullest advantages when the
sunstreaks shot out and made the “ dim, dewy uplands
all dreamy with light,” and fresh and fair and fragrant.
Sydney ballgoers don’t get these things. The bachelors
intend to make the affair an anmal one; and, if carued
out always as satisfactorily as this one, even the mosf
bashful can make sure of ladies’ smiles.
• • •
Rear-Admiral Wilson will be banqueted at the
Exchange on the evening of the 19th instant.
VANITY FAIR.
At the first Paris Exposition, nearly 30 years ago,
the first prize for dress making: was taken by the house
of Qagelin, for a dress made by a young: Englishman in
its employ. It was a robe of white silk wrought with
gold, of most novel and artistic design, and may be seen
in the Museum at South Kensington now. Shortly after-
wards, the young Englishman asked for increased wages
and was refused. He left England, and entered into
business on his own account in Paris The Princess
Metternich discovered his genius, and her patronage and
praise were followed by the patronage of others of
eminence in society. The young milliner soon rose, and
became famous in the world of fashion, and upon the
stone staircase of his mansion in the Hue de la Paiz
feminine notabilities from all over the world are seen.
His name is Worth. Queens have come to him, and
princesses, and famous singers, and leaders of fashion
thirsting for new sensations; dressmakers desiring new
models, the wives of Continental, American, and Aus-
tralian millionaires, and the daughters of a hundred
kings. Queens of society hold their tongues in his pre-
sence for fear they might destroy a creation, and peer-
e-sos wait patiently in his ante-rooms. Stout, elderly,
dark-eyed, with languid voice and nonchalant manner,
fingers flashing with gems, and two spaniels at his heels,
this man, draping a skirt, fitting a bodice, or creating
some wonderful harmony of colour that will bo the talk
of a continent, is the soul and mainspring of the greatest
palace of fashion in the world Definitions of a Kiss:
Child and mother’s fond delight;
Lovers’ draught of sweetest bliss;
Woman’s veil of keenest spite:
A kiss.
If material for a kiss yon seek,
Yon need but two lips and a little cheek.
Two pairs of lips and a couple of fools.—A touch of
positive rapture, comparative indifference, or superla-
tive disgust.—A deed of partnership.—A custom duty.—
A free press.—A popular abridgment of an old story,
which, while judiciously curtailing the more involved
passages of tbenarrative, robs it of none of its eloquence,
and manages to preserve the author’s meaning
Silver bangles are no longer worn in Paris now, f o most
likely they won't be seen in Sydney for more than ten
or twelve years. We keep so close to the
fashions, you know Ladies’ hats are increas-
ing in size, and how on earth they are stuck
on is a mystery to male idiots. At front view they
appear like exaggerated halos about the head of a saint
—although the catalogue of the canonized does not give
any information of saints who banged and scalloped
their hair. Some are so big that you do not look at a
girl with a hat on—it’s a hat with a girl under it that
comes sailing along A great many ladies who are
economical and possess taste make use of old-fashioned
India or Paisley shawls by turning them into Mother
Hubbard cloaks. They can be trimmed and bordered
with fur so as to look exceedingly nice. If there is a
large pattern, it should, of course, be made to come
just between or below tbe shirred shoulders, and when
the wide sleeves are made from the ends of the shawl
the metamorphose will be found highly satisfactory.
Paralunes are covered with thin silk gauze; pink
being generally ohosen, on account of its giving a soft,
natural tint to the complexion. They can be made vary
light, as wind has not the same effect on gauze as on
close silk fabric, and the handles are delicately made.
Necklaces of amber or coral suit well with aesthetic
robes, such as ficUy greens, dowdy reds, an intense pur-
ple, or a philosopher blue There’s a change coming,
but the question is, which is it to be—crinoline or trou-
sers P Velours ottoman silk is a novel dress fabric,
which promises to be very popular for bridal and evening
costumes. It comes only in white and very delicately,
tinted shades of colour The aesthetic style of dress,
as seen on the stage, certainly does not appeal to the
“ lust of the eye " The dress worn by May Galhgher,
one of the prettiest young American actresses, in the
play of “ Esmeralda,” would make Clespatra ugly.
The skirt commences just under the arms, and is
gathered on the breast and shoulder blades, so that
when she sits down the beholder is astonished to see
the right-angled bend occur about half-way down the
skirt, and a bright, pretty girl looks perfectly ridicul-
ous. If we were May, we just wouldn’t do it, there I
lndian muslin has taken the place left vacant by the
once universal tarlatan, and fills it much more effi-
ciently than was ever accomplished by that harsh,
unsympathetic, but highly-lauded fabric. Tarlatan is
like the love that lasts for a day, but Indian muslin
resembles the more uncommon variety that lasts alway.
Tarlatan is inartistic. It can be teased and tortured
into pretty folds, rounded puffs, and graceful flounces,
but after the first waltz the folds are flat, the pulls mere
pretences, and the flounces a fallacy. The whole dress
wears the air of a detected sham. But Indian muslin
falls into delicious folds if you only give it two or three
skilful shakes of the hand At a recent wed-
ding at St. George’s, Hanover-square, five out
of the six bridesmaids wore different colours.
This novelty was not ineffective in the rather
gloomy old church, though it might have been slightly
suggestive of a rainbow. One wore blue, another red,
a third violet, and a fourth bronze. The two others,
who were children, wore cream-colour Most of the
maids of honor about the English Courts are said to be
well on in their forties, 'ihe stock of maids at
that age is decreasing of late years.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
James Payn’a new novel is entitled “ A Grape
from a Thorn.”
Quiteau’s sister is in a madhouse. She has
been insane for some time.
At latest, Henniker Heaton was at Amsterdam,
“ looking up early Australian records.”
Mr. Julian Salomons, Q.C., got 1000 guineas
from Government for hia Mil burn Creek report.
The statement that Mr. R. Murray Smith is to
be the new Agent-General for Victoria, has been con-
tradicted.
Dick Thatcher is in his old district, Bathurst,
pulling the electoral strings of East Macquarie for
C. J. Roberta.
Messrs. Dillon and Parnell are in gaol. Yet
the “freedom of the City of Dublin has just been con-
ferred upon them.
Mr. Kahl, who arrived from America by last
Pacific mail, succeeds the late Mr. Hartwell Williams
as U.S. Consul in this city.
According to the North Eastern Ensign,
David Gaunaon is to be made a County Court Judge.
" Saul amongst the prophets!”
John Plummer has started a new story in
Castneb’s Monthly, in his own name, instead of as
heretofore under a non-de-plume,
Charles Mirfin, editor of the Inangahna (N.Z.)
Herald, stands committed on a charge of having
forged five electioneering telegrams, for the alleged
purpose of damaging a political opponent.
Mr. Julian Windeyer’s right eye was so badly
injured by hia late accident that his medical advisers
have considered it necessary to remove it, as it was
totally endangering the sight of the sound eye.
The finest head of hair in Australia is owned
hy a Sydney barmaid. And there’s not a woman be-
tween the Palmer river and Cape Otway, who wouldn’t
serve lager beer for five years, to own that
splendid chevelure.
Frederick Sauvage, the discoverer of the prin-
ciple on which the great screw-propeller is built, is to
have a monument to hia memory, at Bonlogne-sur-Mer.
It is calculated that this will afford him much pleasure.
He has been dead fifteen years.
Alice Rees is but nineteen. This is a fact.
And now that we are aware of it, we moan to fix our
eye on the fact aforesaid, because in the sweet by-and-
bye of twenty years hence Alice will be asking ua to
congratulate her on her twenty-first birthday.
Mr. R. Lormer succeeds Mr. James Munro as
secretary of that big Melbourne institution, the Vic-
torian Permanent Building and Investment Society.
Mr. Munro has successfully floated hia new venture,
the Federal Bank, 100,000 shares having been allotted.
The author of “The Peerybingle Papers,” in
the Weekly Times, says that “ a member of a cricket-
ing team, which has lately been upon a visit to Victoria,
and who made a couple of ducks' eggs, wept at his
discomfiture.” Surely the Times man doesn’t refer
to Massie.
Master J. Monash, a pupil of the Scotch College,
Melbourne, and the eldest son of Mr. Monash, of
Narandera, gained first place for mathematics at the
Melbourne University examinations, in December, 1881.
In Colonial University competitions, the Jews carry all
before them.
Poor John Strachan, the once wealthy Victorian
brewer, whose superabundance of wit and humour pre-
vented him from plodding, is dead. He wrote many a
humorous sketch for Melbourne Punch in the days
when humour was occasionally met with in the pages of
that periodical.
Thus the Evening Mail “ A Sydney paper
announces with modest exultation that * Mr. Jeremiah
Dwyer, late member for Villiera and Heytesbnry, is so
struck with the beauty of our city that he may settle
amongst us.' And Mr. Mason, M.L.A.. may follow.
Can we bear these partings P”
Miss Ada Ward has lost her husband, Mr.
Hugh Fisher; at least, we mean that news has been
received of the death of Mr. Fisher at the Cape of
Good Hope, from fever and pleurisy. He was an
accomplished artist, and was married to Miss Ward a
year or two ago at “ the little church at Brown’s River,”
Hobart.
Professor Pepper is likely to settle at Charters
Towers to work a patent process, by which he claims
that fifty per cent, more gold will be saved than is
saved at present. If the Professor can get another 50
per cent, at the same ex -'ease as that at which the first
50 per cent, is obtained, his income will be at least
£250,000 yearly.
Once more the rumour of the approaching mar-
riage of Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, is revived;
and it has gained more credence than is usually ac-
corded to these reports from the fact that the Prince
was, when the mail left, in Paris, en route tor Ger-
many. It is conjectured that H.R.H. has gone to have
a look at the article.
Th« Evening Fekgt— which, by the way, has
been enlarged—says that neither Nero, Caligula, Henry
the Eighth, Louis the Fourteenth, Frederick the Great,
James the Second—not one of them had the power in
his dominions of Rome, England, Prance, or Germany
that Mr. C. J. Byrnes has in his dominions of the
Borough Council of Parramatta.
The Wilsons, the Austins, the Ormonds, and
others of that ilk, writes the Hamilton Spectator,
have all drawn their wealth from Western Victoria,
but not one of them has thought of building a college,
a church, or anything else in the district to which they
owe their rise on the wheel of fortune. They give all
their money to Melbourne institutions, and get glory
and knighthoods, &o.
As nsnal, at the bottom of it all was a woman.
Mr. Lafrey was paying his addreaies, whatever that
may msan, to an heiress, whose parents refused to have
anything to say to him until he proved that he was
something more than a needy fortune-hunter. Lefroy
tried to surround himself with a halo of glory by
inventing a fortune in Australia, but aa funds didn’t
flow in rapidly from his far-off possessions.he went forth,
revolver in band, and paid his addresses to Mr. Gold.
Mr. Villenenve Smith, of Adelaide, and Mr. H.
E. Downer, b irrister-at-law of the same city, had a
“ muss ” in court the other day, when Mr. Stuart, the
S.M., told Mr. Smith not to say things in Court that
he would not dare to repeat outside; whereupon Ville-
neuve replied, “ What! I can assure your Worship
that such a thing I never do. I haven’t the remotest
objection to meet my learned friend, and I will gi/e
him six months for his arm to get better—twelve
months if he likes—and then meet him.” Next day
1 Mr. Smith apologised, saying that he had something
the matter with hia liver. It seems a wonder, under
the circumstances, that he did not have something the
matter with his eye.
When it got rumoured in New Zealand that a
Bill would be proposed to abolish pensions. Judge
Fenton sent in his resignation, thus securing his pension
of £OOO a year, before the bill could prevent him. On
being pressed, he accepted his position agdn at £BOO,
but of course, as he gave up the pension by request, the
Government had to acknowledge his claim to it when-
ever he might retire. He has been a Civil Servant for
30 years. There’s nothing like an old horse for a hard
road.
Mr. C. H. Lay, inspector of Eailway Telegraphs,
died at Murrurundi on Tuesday morning. He was a
Canadian by birth, and had had very varied experiences
—one year he was the holder of p responsible mercantile
position, the next, landlord of a country hotel j one day
a public lecturer, the next an inspector of telegraphs.
He was “a fellow of infinite jest,” a splendid mimic,
was with his tongue what Gus. Wangenheim is with bis
pencil, and leaves behind him many who will be sorry to
hear he is no more.
Mr. Frank Antill Pockley, of North Shore,
Sydney, has just passed his first professional examine,
tion at the Edinburgh University, where ha is studying
for the medical profession. It is pleasing for us to
record from time to time the successes of Australians
in the old country, and, considering that Mr. Pockley
passed with distinction out of two hundred and sixty
candidates, it is saying a good deal for his ability. He
was for many years a clerk in the head office of the
Commercial Bank, Sydney, and all his old confreres will
be pleased to hear of his success.
Makatu, who murdered a whole white family,
was the first Maori who was hanged. His father ap-
pealed to Heki, throwing a mere at the feet of the
chief, and exclaiming, “ Take that up ” —an unpardon-
able insult under other circumstances. Heki placed
the weapon in his belt, accepting the challenge to make
war upon the English. The rope which hanged
Makatu was purchased and distributed amongst his
relatives, in scraps. The sorrowing ones smoked the
pieces in their pipes—that being the nearest approach
they could make to eating the executioner of their
kinsman.
A miner named Swanson, who had drunk about
seven inches of whisky, was found dead in eight inches
of water at Leroy reef, Inglewood (Vic.), the other day.
He was well connected, his grandfather being Mayor of
Manchester, and his father a merchant in Liverpool.
Some six years ago he was the recipient of a handsome
legacy, and amongst his papers was a copy of his
mother’s will, by which it appeared that be was at the
time of his death entitled to a share of £6OOO and some
personal property left by her. He was addicted to
drinking to excess at intervals, and the value of his
personal effects will not exceed 30s.
Some time ago, one of the “aristocracy,” a
Lieutenant Ponsonby, seduced a barmaid employed at
that favourite resort of Australians in London, Spiers
and Pond’s Criterion Hotel. The unfortunate girl has
since committed suicide, and Lieutenant Ponsonby has
been court-martialled and dismissed the navy. It would
appear, then, that in the navy there exists a somewhat
different feeling from that which rules in the Army and
Navy Club, where it was recently decided by a majority
that the indecent assault committed on Miss Dickenson
by Colonel Valmtiae Baker was not derogatory to that
distinguished cavalryman’s character “as an officer and
gentleman.”
“ lanthe ” (the soubriquet by which Jane Eliza-
beth, wife of Admiral Sir John Digby, was known) was
probably one of the most remarkable of women. Bora in
1807, she married Lord Ellen borough when 17, was
d vorced in 1830, and two years later married a Bavarian
Baron. NfXt she was united in the holy bonds to a
Greek General, who left her. In 1855 she left Athens
for Palmyra, and on the way was attacked by Arabs.
Her live was saved by thech ef, Mioljonel, to whom as a
reward she gave—her beautiful self. She adhered to the
pagan for 25 years, a fair period for a volatile young
woman. A French visitor to Damascus, where she
recently died, found lanthe at the age of 72 still ele-
gant and charming, a remarkable rider ; she had onher
table all the newspapers and reviews of the West, and
smoking her cigarette, she questioned the Parisian
about the theatres he had left, the authors in vogue,
and about her old friends. If such a character were in
a novel, people would say that an English noblewoman
could never lead such a life.
William Harrison Ainsworth is dead. He
passed away, after a busy literary life, at the age of
77. The first of Mr. Ainsworth’s novels were of extra-
ordinary excellence —“The Tower of London ’’ more
especially. This may be judged from the fact that the
Laureate was largely indebted to that work in his
tragedy of" Queen Mary” much of the dialogue being
mere Ainsworth blank-versed into Tennyson. * St.
James’s : or the Court of Queen Anne,” is a beautifully
written book, as are “ Old St. Panl’s,” the" Spend-
thrift,” and “ Windsor Castle.” “ The Star Chamber
and “ The Flitch of Bacon ’’ are inferior in dramatic
force, but the literary work of these is equally polished.
The late Mr. Andrew Halliday dramatized “The
Miser’s Daughter,” which was played with great suc-
cess at the London Adelphi j but all his books are
eminently adapted for dramatization. His later works,
chiefly contributed to “ Bow Bells,” are mere painful
evidences of a writer sinking into second childhood,
and lisping in psnny numbers. All the works we have
queted, however, will amply repay perusal.
A Melbourne paper says : —That a member
of the ring made repeated attempts to "square the
International Cricket Match for the bookmakers. The
figure offered to the Englishmen was £3OOO, and it was
principally owing to the intervention of Conway that
the attempt was nipped in the bud, and the conspirators
wire not allowed to pursue their nefarious game.
Ag>iin;—When the Eleven finished their match
with the Victorians, there were two downcast faces in the
visiting team, and the English captain looked wrathful,
Lillywhito, it is said, was talking about making a com-
plaint at home, and inquisitive persons are beginning to
hear hints about two of the players having been
" squared ” by the Melbourne King. There are many
who think that the Englishmen are doing a go-as-you.
please trip, winning when it suits them. This is a libel
upon them, and the match referred to proves that, even
if two of their men were fixed, they played for victory.
It is sad that these reports arise about a game of cricket,
but when hundreds to five are laid, where is rumour to
stop ? We never cared for the gentlemen players, but
we must admit that they, like the professionals, were
above suspicion.
Dr. T. Hastie, of Lithgow, poisoned himself
with chloroform, on Monday. He hod been drinking
heavily, and left the following note: —
" Litligow, 9th January, 1852.-9 30 a.m,
««I find myself dying from syncope, conse-
quent upon excessive drinking. I have had a
gr»at amount of night work of late, and have
taken drink. On r< o ivering from the effects c f
the alcohol, I have been afflicted with the
greatest disgust with myself, and have taken
more drink. Doubtless my poor parents will
mourn over the end of their only son, whom
they have brought up so well, but I hope no
one will take too much to heart the death of
one so worthless and weakmiuded.
"T. HASTIE.”
The unfortunate gentleman, who was but 26 years of
age, received his professional training at Melbourne
Medical School, was for some time a resident at Mel-
bonrne Hospital, and afterwards at Sydney Infirmary.
He was a native of Buninyong, Victoria, where his
family reside, and to which place his body will be taken
or interment,
Mr. J. T. Thurlow. the Deputy-Sheriff, has
been appointed Clerk of Petty Sessions at the Central
Police Court, vice Mr. Crane, P.M., appointed under
the new Metropolitan Magistrates’ Act. Mr. May-
bury, C.P.S. at Bathurst, will probably succeed Mr.
Thurlow as Deputy-Sheriff. If Mr. Thnrlow makes as
good a C.P.S. as he did a Sheriff—and no one doubts
that he will do so —the Government will have to be
congratulated on their choice. We have seen Mr.
Tourlow hang—or rather we have seen those accom-
plished artists, his two assistants, hang—a great many
people, and can conscientiously say that the plevsantest
thing in the world, barriig a glimpse of our beautiful
harbour, is to shake hands with Mr. Thurlow in his
offic : al capacity at a gaol requiem. In none of these
little seances was there ever a hitch, except the one at
the end of the rope. Bv the way, this reminds us that
we haven't seen our dear old friend, the hangman,
lately. We wonder where’s he got to? Perhaps now that
the hanging is slack, he bap taken to bush-missionising.
We’re sorry to commence a paragraph by felicitating


Tailors, Drapers, J
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PIT'!
for
CHEAPNESS. ITT, and WOE]
Diagrams for self-measuring forward
the Goiony.
H
AYE YOU
TO
R. MORPH I
233 Pitt Strei
E
B LISE’S PAPER CUT
All communications to bo ad
“ ELISE,”
484 GEORGE STR
DOLLS WAEEUOU!
Orders for Pattern?, cannot be ox
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns
style, cut, and finish, being modelled fi
Fashions, and are always sent per
receipt of stamps or money order.
Ohf KING STREET,
O 4 (two doors from Geo
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke—s
MADAME DEMOEEST’S
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PAT
styles every mail from Paris and New
Pull directions and illustrations with
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publical
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to w
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HA
1611
(Near
madam;
| Paper Patte
Mantles, et
sizes for I
ren fumisl
tions and d
ing up. Sc
—„ .. .. ing from 6
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by pof
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the o
of price and measure. Postage Si
Address s
MADAME WEI
161 King-street, Sydn
“ Tucker ” very short at Melbourne Quarantine
Station. The catering is done by tender, and these
tenders were not opened until after the passengers had
landed, consequently they had nothing to eat except a
crust of dry bread on the day of landing, and that lata
at night.
“Imitation is the sincereat form of flattery.”
W. Pritchard, the originator of Saturday afternoon
land sales on the grounds, has made a new departure.
As will bo seen by advertisement, the balance of that
magnificent estate, “ Wentworthville," Parramatta,
will be sold without reserve, on the ground, on Tues-
day next, 17th inst. —Anvr.
BROOK’S SEWING COTTON.
THE following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
manufactured by them :
THE ONLY PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1851.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS PRIZE MEDAL. PARIS EXIBITION. 1855.
PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL. PARIS EXHIBITION, 1867.
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OF HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873.
MEDAL AND AWARD, PHILADELPHIA, 1876.
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA. 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYDNEY, 1880.
ASK FOR BROOK'S SEWING COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND GO’S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
I
ft—“ f
gm
ii
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCOS
WORKS,
9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
STD SET,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, wnen properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the fnrnace ;
in some cases almost nil Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
T*LLOW GAS made with this APPAEA I’LTS is ujed for lighting the Government Railways in perference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &3. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
Mr. Tharlow, and wind it up by inquiring aftar Mon-
sieur de Sydney, but we really always think of the two
gentlemen together.
Lefroy was singularly unmoved during his long
trial. It was when the jury had retired, that for the
first time during the erdeal, says the Scotsman, the pale
young man, whose life now hung in the balance, gave
indications of nervousness. His hand came mechani-
cally up to his face, his fingers twitched, as he tugged
at his moustache, he moved uneasily about in the chair,
and was evidently unable quite to control his emotion.
Meanwhile, tke people in Court munched sandwiches,
chatted, laughed, turned over newspapers, gaped at the
prisoner, and Iwere discussing what they should do if
called upon to tarry long, when, to the astonishment of
most persons, a bustle at the door behind the jury box
showed that the twelve men, in who«a hands lay the
verdict, were coming back. A minute or two afterwards
the clerk was heard to demnnd the verdict, “ how say
you, guilty or not guilty P" The foreman rose, his face
crimson with emotion, and while one or two of his
colleagues showed signs of almost breaking down under
the excitement of the moment, replied “guilty.” Up
rose Lefroy at a touch from the gaolers, who now
gathered around him, and placing his hands behind him,
advanced to the rails. After sentence h»d been pro-
nounced, Lefroy called out to the jury—“You will find
•at when it is too late, that you have murdered me. ”
This was his last theatrical coup in public.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne city coroner, generally
makes a remark of interest at each of bis numerous
seances. For instance, at the inquest held by him the
other day on the body of that unfortunate love sick
young clergyman, the Eev. A. P. Harding, he said that
the number of chloral drinkers in the community was
steadily increasing. At another recent inquest the
doctor drew public attention to the fact that the chief
infirmary of Melbourne was in a condition of what is
technically known as “hospitalism”— i.e., it was satu-
rated with the seeds of hospital gangrene. Most people
will remember the veteran coroner’s pointed allusion
to defunct drunkards and colonial beer, and his oracular
statement that many a would-be suicide had been
diverted from his purpose by a dose of Epsom salts—
that many a man had been plucked from the arms of
Beelzebub and placed in the bosom of Abraham by a
bluvpill and a black-draught. In the hypochondriac’s
malady there is, to quote Mr. Scrooge, generally “ a
great deal more of gravy than of grave,” and the
experience of the late Mr. Marley’s partner would also
seem to indicate that the ghost which stands at the
elbow of the intending suicide and prompts him to
"go” for the hydrocyanic or the is, if not
the spirit of James Hennrssy the well-beloved, “ a
fragment of underdone beef, a blot of mustard, or a
piece of undigested potato."
This is what the Melbourne correspondent of
the S. M. Herald has to say about the cricket down
there: —“ There is a good deal of interest in cricket
just now, and I believe several thousand perse ns have
been to see the match now playing. lam sure I trust
they have enjoyed themselves. As for me, I confers
honestly that I never can discover any enjoyment in a
cricket match. I vary seldom go to one, and when Ido
lam weary beyond description. I think it is what they
call the ‘overs’ that chiefly cause the weariness. I
do not know what they do when they over, but they
seam to do little else than to over. If they would play
right on, and be always bitting or running, I should
not mind, hut they do not, and so I marvel greatly at
the enthusiasm some people show over a cricket match,
I suppose they have bets upon it, and I never bet."
Well, now all this reads as though it were the pro-
duction ot a smart woman. But it;isn’t. It comes
from the facile pen ot the cynical, dapper, little doctor,
who always gushes so in the Australasian over 1h«
pretty actresses. Dr. Neild is celebrated equally lor
his good evening narties and his good post-mortems.
The doctor’s “Melbourne Letters” are really the
smartest, most readable, least g idly, and most popu'ar
articles that appear in the 8. M. Herald ; and have,
somehow or other, oonveyel the impression that the
Melbourne literarv man is the cleverest and funniest
fellow, and that Melbourne itself is the gayest and
richest and loveliest city, in the universe. What a pity
they don’t let Dr. Neild get into the leaders occasion-
ally !
Now Lefroy is dead, it appears that he was “ an
ou -ind-outer." Here is one of his dodges for raisirg
money:—“A registered letter, which was sent from
London to a bogns address at Wallington, was returned
I I due course to London, and, being opened, was found
ti come from Lefroy, at Cathcart-villas, Wallington,
and to contain one of those Hanoverian medals which
have played such a part in the case. Lefroy wrote to
the postmaster at Sutton two or three days after the
registration of the letter, stating that it had not
reached its destination, and threatening, if the money
ti contained were not returned, that heshould place the
matter in his solicitor’s hands. Lefroy was referred to
the secretary of the post-office, and had an interview
with that gentleman, in which he demanded that the
sovereign should be returned to him. The letter
having been opened, however, at the General Post
Oflioe, the fact of the sovereign being a * flash ’ one was
known, and, of course, Lefroy wag turned out of the
office. It is suggested that Lefrov’s idea was to obtain
a good sovereign from the post-office authorities for the
Hanoverian medal." It would seem, however, that his
appearance, in spite of his poverty, was by no means
unpresentable, since he would haunt at night-time
restaurants frequented by good people, viz , the Gaiety,
the Criterion, and others. His great "dart ’’ was at pro-
fessionals who had visited Australia, and that is how
he oame across Braoy, and how the yarn of the post-
burnous opera of Offenbach, said to have been in the
possession of the late Fred. Coppin, got about. Dam-
pier deseribes Lefroy as having possessed a singularly
wild and agreeable oast of features.
Messrs. Dillon, James Bnchanan, G. O’Malley
Clarke, J. M. Marsh, Q. W. F. Addison, and Crane
have been gazetted ns stipendiary magistrates for the
city of Sydney. Mr. Dillon being senior. Mr. Archibald
Frazer, the Clerk of the Peace, to whom one of the
**»pointments was offered, declined the honour, on
the gjrpund, it is said, that he objected to Mr. Dillon’s
proposed seniority. However, the Government, in invest-
ing Mr. Dillon with his present position, are understood
to have taken into consideration the fact of his being a
barrister of gom* years’ standing, while the political
support they have received from him on several very
important occasions was doubtless not overlooked.
Hr. J, Mjlbourne Marsh, who, since August, 1874, lias
discharged the duties of Water Police Magistrate, has
received a congratulatory addre-s from 17 of the J’s P.
with whom he has been associated, and he has stated
that it will often he a matter of rsgret to "find himself
deprived of their timely oounsels and advioe. Mr.
Marsh, in saying this, deemed it necessary to add
(probably lest the “amaohures” should imagine be was
“taking a rise out of them’’): “this is no figure of
speech, hut a conviction, the result of long experience."
Of course, there are good and bad—-especially bad—
J.’s P., hut on the whole, we shouldn’t he surprised to
find that Mr. Marsh and other P.M’s are, on the whole,
Leakily glad to find themselves dissociated from the
•frewt unpaid. By the way, a correspondent writes—
fot’s see, where is it ? Ah, yes, here we have it, in the
pigeon-hole. ,f 4-n elaborate farewell address to the
vV.P.M., costing tlje sum of fifteen shillings, was pre-
pared on the occasion of the nagsing of the Stipendiary
Magistrates Act, since which two energetic J’s.P. have
him making strenuous eft >rts to raise‘that sum by ob-
taining a subscription of one shilling for ea?h signature,
tins at the ‘ beaks ’ aforesaid has, it is said, threatened
the messenger of the sigu-writer, who appears to have
presented the account several times.”
One of the sad Jest cases of suicide is that of
t ns Eev. it.. F. Harding, in Melbourne, last week. He
was a young man of great ability and promise, aB.A.
of Cambridge, ordained deaoon at Melbourne in 1878,
made curate at Bt. Peter’s the s&me year, appointed to
Dhriat Church, St. Hilda, next master in the Chut oh
*■ f>( England Grammar School, and, finally, at 28 yens
,)14, mathematical lecturer at Christ College, Hobart,
jft was while on a visit from Tasmania to his old
friends that he renewed his addresses to the lady, a
clergyman's daughter, whose rejection ot him resulted
in the sad act. He threatened, before committing the
deed, that be would do It, if the lady gave him no hope,
and on Christmas Da/ h« took poiton; but his fr ends
finding him unconsoioas, he was brought round. It
was thought he had given up the idea of ssif-dostruc.
tlon, but on the 2nd January he again took poison, his
mind apparently being overbalanced by the intensity
of his passion. He was said to possess indomitable
p uck and energy, and to hold broad, liberal views. He
yt .a qualified to take orders, but refused to do so as he
juld not subscribe tojthe necessary formulas; and it is
stated that the Bishop, who was present at the last
aarmon he preachsd, expressed himself very much dis-
satisfied at the heterodox views he enunciated. In the
rmonin question, Mr. Harding said that there was no
ilccassity for churches j that people might band them-
selves together if they liked for religious purposes, put
that there was no absolute necessity for their doing so
as long as they worshipped the Almighty God. Indeed,
it is alleged that he left St. Peter’s on account of his
heterodoxy being too pronounced for some of the
ecclesiastics; though others say, on account ol
retrenchment in the expenses of the church. He often
expressed himself nnsatislled with clerical limits,
ridiculed the Old Testament miracles, to the great
horror of his friends, and once remarked that he would
have to leave the Church it he were to remain a man.
The officers and crew of the Wolverene leave
for England by the Lusitania, on the 20th instant.
Lady Ferguson, wife of Sir James Ferguson,
late Governor of South Australia and of N.Z., and now
Governor of the Bombay Presidency, has just died.
She was daughter of Mr. J. W. Richmond, solicitor,
of Adelaide, and a niece of Sir W. Hughes.
Louise Michel has been arrested in Paris, for
inciting people to revolution on the occasion of a cele-
bration in honour of the late M. Blanqui. Strange to
say, just about the same time her bosom friend, “ The
| Vagabond,” was being “run in” in Sydney—for declin-
ing to pay a fine inflicted on him for having been, in the
opinion of the 11 Binch,” rude to a cabman.
We have to record the death of a “ Man of the
Time,” Henry Samuel Chapman, late judge of the
Supreme Court of N.Z., who breathed his last at his
residence, Woodside, Dnaedin, a few days since. Mr.
Chapman, who was an English barrister of undoubted
abilities, arrived in Victoria early in 1860, when the late
Mr. Richard Davies Ireland, then Attorney-General of
the O’Shanassy Government, gave up that post to the
Judge, contenting himself with the position of Solicitor.
General. For s»me years Mr. Chapman successfully
practised his profession at the Victorian bar; after-
wards he wont to Tasmania, and thence to N Z , where
he was elevated to the Bench, which he graced by his
presence up to within five years of his death. Judge
Chapman was twice married—his first wife was a sister
to Judge Brewer, of Victoria; she, it may ba remem-
bered, perished with two of her sons and her only
daughter on that ever-memorable and disastrous day
when the London went down. Some eight years ago
the Judge married Miss Selina Carr, sister to Mr. War-
burton Carr, P M.,of Avoca, and to the wife of the late
B. D. Ireland, QC. Mrs. Chapman, who still lives, anc’
is much younger than was her late husband, recently
succeeded to a fortune of £30,001 by the death of a
a relative at home. _ Judge Chapman leaves four sons—
all well known and in good positions—C harles, a leading
sharebroker of Sandhurst; Frederick, of Messrs.
Chapman and Strode, Dnuedin; Martin, of Wellington,
barrister; and Ernest, who holds a station property at
Tokomairiro, near Dunedin. Judge Chapman was 79
when he died. Pew more generous and noble-hearted
men than he have lived in Australasia. During the
bitter adversity of his old friend and colleague, the
brilliant E. D. Ireland, Mr. Chapman was one of the
few who stood by him, and in N Z. ho earned for him-
self the honourable nick-name of “ Gentleman Chap-
man.” Some time since, tho late Judge, who, by the
way, was for many years Chancellor of the University
of Otago, had to undergo a severe operation, which it
was feared would, in his then feeble state of health,
prove fatal. Mr. Macassey, tho well-known N.Z. bar-
rister, was employed by Judge Chapman to write a brief
biographical account of his long and active life, but
while the venerable subject of the biography tem-
porarily regained his nenlth, poor Macassey died
suddenly at the Adelaide Club, not many months after-
wards, at the early age of 38.
LATE SPORTING.
Nineteen Melbourne entries for the Hawkesbury
Amateur Handicap.
y oung Franks, of Woolloomooloo, and young
Murphy, of Melbourne, walk for £5O a-side, Fab. 4.
The Krug Champion Trophy, for bona fide
amateur scullers, is to be rowed tor in May and Nov.
The crew for the Intercolonial Eight-oar raccjis
to be selected by the captains cf (ha Rowing Clubs,
Messrs Ickerson, Benson, F. J. Clark, and Wetherill.
The impromptu sailing and rowing races for
man-of warsmen, on Tuesday, attracted a large number
of spectators, who were impressed, by the results of the
contests, with the sad fact that thu British sailor is not
any man’s equal. In the sailing, the Russians won the
races for cutters and launches, and the French ship,
D’Estrees, carried off the whalers’ race. In the row-
ing, the representative boats from the Russian ship,
Afrika, won the four events. The British Lion’s tail is
fearfully trodden upon.
The contest between Edward Hanlan and
Wallace Ross is at last fixed and will take place on 20th
Juno next on the Thames. Hanlan has left New York
for England. Trickett will probably follow him. Why
do the Americans go to the Thames to pnll P They
couldn’t settle on a river in America on account of the
steamer money—perhaps the Thames suits all parties.
If Hanlan wanted §lOOO to go to Sc. Louis to meet
Trickett, how much has he agreed to take to go to
London to pell Rosa ? The thing is very thin, but we
hope it’ll pay them.
Following are the representative club crews for
the race for senior fours in string-tost gigs for the
Challenge Cup, at present hold by the M.R C.: S.B.C.
—Johnson, Kloster, Brodie, and Thomson. M.R.C. —
Williams, A. Bros, Brett, and C. Bros. For the junior
fours in clinker outriggers : M.R.C. —Blackstone, Rush,
Corbett, and Coker. S.R.C:—Devlin, Caswell, Middle-
ton, and E Simpson. G.B.C. —Haslingden, Robertson,
Ickerson, and Shute. For maiden fours in string-tost
gigs: M.R.C.—Johnson, Birchall, Pickering, and A.
Bros; and a crew from North Shore Club. Messrs.
Brett, Lord, Qaden, Ives, and Lee will probably start
for the Laidley sculls, for which the committee intend
offering a prize for second placs. It is to be hoped this
important event will not result in the usual walk-
over.
A paragraph appeared in our last issue, pur-
porting to be an account of the Campbelltown races,
and, in the absence of tho gentleman who ordinarily
attends to the sporting department, was published
under the misapprehension that it came from our own
trusty correspondent. Unfortunately, it turns out to
have been by another hand altogether—an anonymous
writer —and conveyed a covert attack upon our friend
Mr. Archer, a gentleman whom we know to ba incapable
of anything discreditable. Mr. Archer will, we are
sure, readily believe that the annoyance which such an
occurrence must give him does not exceed the regret it
occasions us.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, Jan. 10,1882,
On the wharves to-day prime green lucerne is
scarce, and in demand at .£3 ss. to £3 10s. per
ton; medium quality selling from £2 ss. to £2 15s.
per ton ; inferior samples, dull of sale, at 30a. to
40s. per ton ; maize, 5s 3d. to 5s 6d.; oats, 2s. 9d.
to 3s. per bushel. Hunter Eiver onions, 6s. 3d. to
6s. lOd. per bushel; ditto potatoes, 4s. Bd. per cwt.
Victorian onions, scarce at 7s. to 7s. 6d. ; ditto
potatoes, 4s. Bd. Victorian chaff, £5 per ton—
bags inclusive. Butter, in keg, 9d. to lOd. per lb.
Eggs, Is. 3d. to Is Gd. per dozen. Bacon, 6d. to
Bd. per lb. Cheese, 4d. to Bd. per lb. Ham, lid.
to Is. per lb. Honey, 4d to 4£d. per lb. Bees-
wax, 9d. to lOd. per lb. Lard, 4d. to sd. per lb.
Millet brooms, 7s. 6d. to Bs. 6d. per dozen.
Poultry. —Fowls, 3s. 6d. to 4s. ; ducks, 3s. Gd.
to 4s. ; turkeys, 12s. to 20s. : geese, Bs. per pair.
Fat Cattle. —At the Homebush fat stock
sales, 700 were yarded, mostly in small lots, and
of prime quality ; the best lots averaged from £3
19s. to £9 la. 8d. —equal to 255. per 100 ft.
Fat Sheep. —7loo were penned, the best of
which realised an average from 10a. sd. to 10s. 7d.
Fresh Meat. —At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s
sheds, Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh
country killed beef takes place daily, a fair supply
arriving and selling readily. Prices are for prime
bodies of beef, 2£d. to 2£-d.; medium, 2d. to 2jd. ;
inferior, IJd. per lb. all round.
Wheat. —Our quotations to-day are nominal,
as there is no quantity of wheat of any kind
1 coming to hand. We notice the Adelaide and
Victorian prices have improved during the week.
Prices are, for New South Wales wheat, 4s Gd. to
5s ; Adelaide, 5s ; Victorian, 4s. 9d. ; New Zea-
land, 4s. 3d.; Launceston, 4s. 4d. per bushel.
Flour. —As good brands of old flour are be-
coming scarce, holders remain firm ; new flour is
offering from £ll to £l2 10s. per ton, according
to quality; the market quiet. Sydney mill flour
(superfine) is selling at £l3; household, £l2 ;
seconds, £ll per ton ; N.S. Wales country brands,
£l2 10s. per ton; Victorian, £ll to £l3 ; Ade-
laide, £ll 15s. to £l3 per ton ; bran and pollard,
Is Id. per bushel.


c
LIFFOED, LOVE,
TEA IMPOETEEI
EASTERN and COMMISSION
Eeceive regular Consignments, and
TEAS—INDIAN, all Qualities ;
from EA1 ION to the E
CONGOUS.
It has always been their aim to im
TTEST CEOP PUEE
and their thorough knowledge of the
them to guard their constituents f
being purveyors of what is in Ch:
" LIE TEA."
The wisdom of their policy of imp
EIEST CEOP PUEE
although at the disadvantage of sm
selves, has been most gratifyingly
large trade in New South Wales,
Australia, Tasmania, &o., where t
aware of the many advantages which
combined with the highest skill, is e
CLIPEOED, LOVE, A
are the importers of
CELEBEATED TABBING
and
MOGUL MIXTUE
CLIFFORD, LOVE,
79 YOBK STBEET, SY
JOHN D
IMPOETEE 01
Plumbers* and Engineers' Brassw:
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric 1
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET
C
H. L. SUMIKER
E
ECONOMY IN CL01
—o—
L
E
B
B
A
T
E
D
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUE GOODS EEOl
DIEECT IMPOET
THE PEOPLE’S 1
PATTEENS
and
GUIDE TO 8ELF-MEA
sent to any part of the
•r The particular attention c
dents is requested to th
Any style of Garment made 1
SUMMEEFIEL1
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
8
16
■
MARTIN &Fj
THE HORNSBY NEW COLONIAL STL
All our 1881 Threshers an? specially built by Messrs. HORNSBY and SC
bine all the best points that practical experience has sugge
LARGEST RIDDLING AND SIRVI
In the Trade, and Threshermen will find every detail on the HORNSI
attention.
WE INVITE CORRESPONDENCE AND I
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE
S'*-
rjTHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE.
None batter than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy
mTT 77 IT A TO XV TT\T T? TTTT Z) V TIT J TT
MOST PLEA
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO B
that the best cleans
TANT and Deodoriser fort
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DIS
can be found by v
PANTEE AND PARRY’S hi
OP SOAP,
which not only contains th
dients for the greatest clea
ever yet introduced to th<
composed in its xnauufactur
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY PROM
' PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all
throughout the globe. Comb
it is free from all injuriot
pie ng smell, will not injui
:a .e hands, is the greatest
labour, Tendering any artich
with o th purest whiten
marvellous short space of tin
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed f
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crocki
Paint, Floors
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which n
from all Greeers and Store!
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEOKG1
S Y D N E 1
IN THE WOI
m
in
r \
Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English pr
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponi
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS*
Send for a Price List. Country
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Yon cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s New B
W. KER
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOC1
664 GEOEGE STEEE1
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description. Mas
sentation Trowels designed (
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT
A how and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, fron
118
IKING STREET S
\l
W\d
STANDARD
i£<UTA IvlftPE-SUITS
FOR \
iusinesys
pftOM F.ruifE
TVisvelli ng
QUALITY yachting
ic T, in e
UNSURPASSED CriCRetlllg
“ Standard” Summer Tweed Suits 5 u
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 6
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 O
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
" Standard ” Superior ditto I 15 0
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PE APES and SHAW, PE APES ai
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH
The Universal Sewii
Has all the latest Improvements. Highly finished. Has the Ne;
