

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 110.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1882.
Price—3d
§ul(ctk
SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1882.
The Milburn Fizzle.
A s we predictedlthroughout that it would, the trial of
the Milburn Creek directors has resulted in a flash-
in-the-pan. The prosecution was competently and
uncompromisingly conducted. The indictments
were drawn with skill, and wore sufficiently com-
prehensive for all purposes. The Government
cannot bo charged with collusion in the matter of
the trial, so far as the technical details are con-
cerned. But there can be no question that the
attitude assumed, from the first ventilation of the
subject, by the present effective Head of the Gov-
ernment, Sir John Robertson, has had con-
siderable influence on the whole case. When a
loading man in a community so comports himself
as to impress the public with the conviction that
he views an alleged crime as either quite a justifi-
able proceeding, or as merely existing in some
people’s diseased imaginations, it inevitably follows
that public opinion is, in some degree, swept in
the same direction.
• • •
When the legal technicalities and inessential
surroundings are peeled off the case against the
Milburn Creek Directors, it becomes simple and
plain enough. A trial in a court of law is designed
to elicit the facts of a case, and unquestionably it
serves to bring out many which could not be
otherwise arrived at. But the process is a
cumbrous one. It is generally the aim of the
counsel on one side, if they cannot prevent the
actual facts from transpiring, to use every art to
obscure these amidst a crowd of inessentials, to
make insignificant features appear important, and
to distort the relative proportions of incidents.
The report of a ease tried in the courts is conse-
quently, in many instances, a complete maze, pur-
posely made bewildering. Those who endeavour
to reach the centre are perpetually enticed away
by side issues, which exports have expended
their utmost skill to make appear larger and more
direct than the true opening. The speeches of
counsel on either side are scarcely expositions of
their case at all. They are ingenious essays
designed to match and counteract each other.
Even the Judge’s summing up is not often a clear
and lucid explanation. Judges generally consider
it requisite to follow the sinuosities of counsel’s
addresses, and to advise the jury how to regard
this and that sophistry. Ordinarily the Judge’s
summing-up bewilders jurymen quite as much as
it enlightens them.
* * *
Chief Justice Martin’s summing was certainly
as lucid as such deliverances ever are, and does
not seem to contain a word which was not called
for by some twist or device practised by the
counsel when addressing the jury. But admitting
this, even when perusing the report of the speech
at leisure, and with the advantage of turning back
to refer again and again from passage to passage,
some study is required to separate the kernel from
the husk, and to comprehend justly what the
essence is. However, with a little pains, we find
the gist of the whole affair explicitly put to the jury
in the following terms “In fact, the turning
point in this case” was, “ did the trustees when
they made the statement to the meeting at Blay-
ney, in July, 1881, conceal the real facts of the ex-
penditure by misrepresenting, or withholding the
truth from the shareholders?” We may add, or
from any shareholder, as several of the counts in
the indictment charged defendants with mal-
feasance towards one shareholder, Halls.
* * *
It is quite plain to anyone who comprehends the
principles of justice and honest dealing, that the
case could not be affected, although all the other
shareholders in the company had come forward to
prove that they had been cognizant of the inten-
tion of the directors to appropriate large sums to
themselves. Subject to the terms of articles of
ssociation, shareholders can ordinarily by a
majority, at a regularly-constituted m r eting, appor-
tion the funds of a company as they think fit. But
if a majority of shareholders in a company were to
concert among themselves to have a private allot-
ment of tho company’s moneys or properties, and
to keep that appropriation from the knowledge of
the minority by playing tricks with tho statements
of accounts, such as entering the amount in the
form of a legitimate and ordinary lump disburse-
ment, that would be swindling. Tho root of the
case was therefore, whether Halls had been hood-
winked and kept in the dark ; and according as evi-
dence to the fact that:he had been so treated was
true or false, the defendants were guilty or
innocent of fraud and conspiracy.
* * *
The twelve members of the jury have disagreed,
and no verdict has been returned. Wo conceive
that tho public do not greatly care. The fact
appears to us to be that this trial has been a
mere red herring, skilfully dragged across the
track at the time when the people and Press were
on a very hot scent of political iniquity and cor-
ruption. No one greatly cares whether tho
directors of the Milburn Creek Company diddled
those of the shareholders who were not in their
particular swim, or whether they did not. In this
aspect the case, even had it been brought home to
the defendants, would have been commonplace
enough. Frauds of such a nature are no longer capa-
ble of creating surprise, let alone a popular commo -
tion. What had moved the public was quito 3-d;i--tf/--
ent affair. It was a suspicion that a Minister of the
Crown had betrayed his trust, and that members
of Parliament had permitted themselves to be
corrupted by opportunities afforded them of shar-
i u plunder which they wore themselves to
hand over for division. The supreme powers of
the law are surely mocked when they are only
invoked to settle the disputes over the distribu-
tion of alleged plunder, and are permitted to sleep
on the question as to whether there has been
robbery in the first instance.
* *
This is as though the police should invite a
police magistrate to decide whether Mr. Fagin
had taken improper advantage of Mr. Sykes in
the partition of sundry spoons, and had, never-
theless, neglected to take any action relative to
representations made to them that the spoons had
not been honestly acquired by the contending
parties. The public, we assert, care comparatively
little how the compensation money was divided
among tho shareholders. What they are con-
cerned is to know whether it be really true that
there were Representatives of the People who
acted like rascally butlers, and handed the plate
out of the window to confederates, on condition of
sharing. It had been publicly stated that this
had been the case. If the statement were true
that such explanation had been offered of the
destination of the moneys not specially accounted
for in the Milburn Creek balance-sheets, it would
follow either that corruption is eating away the
heart of our Assembly, or that there have
men base enough to cloak their own greed by
slandering our representative institutions.
* * *
Either of these would be a crime, in comparison
with which, any cheating of associates sinks into
insignificance. A corrupt legislature strikes at
the heart of public welfare ; and, to ascribe cor-
ruption to a legislature, is to bring it into con-
tempt, and to surround it with an atmosphere and
flavour of sooundrelism which themselves would
inevitably operate to create the very diseased con-
ditiou ascribed, even although it were ascribed
without justification.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Spring, Gentle pring.
Europe might ba imagined as lame ting, in the words
of Jean Ingelow,
“When sparrows build, and the leaves break forth.
My old sorrow wakes and cries.”
When the Spring-time oomos, the Old World, in lieu of
listening to the chants of mating birds, bends its ear to
watch for the murmur from barracks and the roverbo
rating tramp of armed men. The compliments of tho
season among tho Powers of Europe usually take tho
form of menaces, more or less distinct. The French
have an epigram which represents the British squire as
saying, " What a beautiful morning 1 Bet us go out
and kill something.” The rulers of the Continent may,
without exaggeration, be similarly represented as say-
ing “ What a charming Spring 1 Let us march forth
and commence slaughtering people.” The "old sorrow”
of Europe seems this year destined to awake completely.
War has been apprehended each Spring for years past—
in fact, annually since peace was effected between Eussla
and Turkey. But, this season, it is not merely appre.
bended—it is expected. This fact furnishes a sarcastic
commentary upon that "Queen’s Speech,” to tho
hollowness of which wo lately adverted, and upon
which our contemporaries discoursed with rospeotfu
credulity. “ Between the Groat Powers of Europe
complete harmony prevails.” So tho Speech. " War
is expected." So the bulletins one month later. Thera
s, however, bo far, the consolation of believing that the
Government of Great Britain have no purpose of ming.
ling in the mdltie. The impending trouble appears to
be the absolute result of the machinations of the sar-
donic Minister of the pious William of Germany. Bis-
marck plays MephistDpheles to William’s Faust, and,
for tho mere consideration of the Emperor’s immortal
soul, undertakes to guarantee him enjoyment of tho
Marguerite he desires—power, pride, territory, and to
his race a perpetual renewal of Imperial domination
over the Germanic peoples. This modern Mephisto-
pheles employs all the resources of the blaok art—
Diplomacy—without ruth or scruple, to serve his
employer’s vain desires. Blood and tears—he laughs
at these. Ho embroils nations, and jests at the agonies
of whole populations. He pats Austria on the back,
while she strives to strangle the people of her adoption
in the Balkan provinces. He taunts Eussia into pre.
mature action, in order to thwart views of common
action with Prance, which he knows that Power to
cherish. He plays Turkey against France, and Austria
against Eussia, while such pawns as Egypt, Eoumauia,
and Morocco he deals with as he pleases. Thus far
Italy and England have no direct participation in the
quarrels on hand. Italy is scarcely likely either to
assist Austria to aggrandize herself in the Adriatic
regions, or to help Prance, while that Power holds
fast to Nice and Savoy, and grasps at the Mediterranean
parts of Africa. England desires peace above all
things; but whether she will be ablo to avoid being
dragged in, should war begin, seems more than doubt,
fol. The pieces which Bismarck sets in motion are so
many, and his board so large, that it seems almost
impossible that British interests shall not be seriously
nvaded at one point or another.
Bradlaugh’s Latest Move.
From the accounts which have been cabled, it is very
evident that the ox-membar for Northampton, Mr. Brad,
laugh has forced the hand of his numerous adversaries.
It had been obviously the design of the majority in
the House of Commons to keep the man whom they
regarded with so much repugnance, dangling, like
Mahomet’s coffin, between heaven and earth. Thoy
would not permit him to take his seat, nor woW they
again declare it vacant. That recourse they had tried
once before with the unsatisfactory result that the
electors of Northampton promptly ro-afflrmed their
choice, and sent back Mr. Bradlaugh with a better
title—as a twice elected representative—to sit in the
House of Commons, than any member then in the
Chamber. When the majority still persisted in refus-
ing to permit Mr. Bradlaugh to perform his duty to
his constituents, and when he had vainly tried all
reasonable methods to assort his constitutional rights,
his colleague for Northampton, Mr. Laboucheei,
moved that the seat be declared vacant. To have
assented to this motion, would have been in strict
conformity with the course previously adopted by the
House. But, obviously apprehensive lest Mr. Brad
laugh would simply come back, re-elected for the
third time, his antagonists refused to face the issue.
The moderate sections of the Press applauded this
course, and sought to soothe the great Eadical leader
with sops of praise for his endurance and patience
Had Bradlaugh been a weak mao, ho might have'
fallen into the trap set far him, and been content to
accept homage as an unjustly treated martyr. But
MR FREDERICK H. DANGAR.


Mr, Bridlahoh happens to be a very strong and very
resolute man. He has broken through the mesh, in
his own rough and ready way, and will, probably,
before long, present himself anew at the doors of the
House of Commons, the thrice-chosen representative
of the electors of Northampton. The situation is
assuredly a most anomalous one—an assembly of
Christian men, professing the code laid down by Him,
who, iu His Sermon on the Mount, said: “ Swear not
at all,” insisting that an unbeliever is debarred from
the exercise of civil rights because he had practically
evinced his repugnance to neglecting that injunction.
Bishop Moorhouse and Rain.
The refusal of Dr. Moobhohse, Bishop of Melbourne,
to pray for rain will, no doubt, communicate a painful
shock to many persons. To some devout members of
the Church of England, the Bishop’s backsliding can-
not but be productive of serious mental disturbance.
To other members of the same community, however,
the blow will be softened by the fact that it comes
from a Bishop, and that a Bishop can do no wrong, in
their opinion. Among the “Evangelical ” sects, again,
there will be consolation in the reflection that a
Bishop, for all his grand airs, is, theologically, no
better than the consecrated son of a small trades-
man who ministers to the spiritual wants
of dissent. Bat, when all consolations have
bean summed up, there is no donbt that the deser-
tion of a Bishop is more galling than would be the
defection of a less prominent minister. Even the
socially humble pastors of unaristocratic churchlets
are not insensible to the station and dignity of the
•'swells "of the Establishment, and betray their secret
hankerings by their treatment of their necker-
chiefs. The spiritual director of Little Bethel has, of
late years, abandoned the voluminous white bow which
used to adorn his neck, and now dresses as the
Anglican, adopting the plain band; so that it
becomes really difficult to distinguish between a
priest and a minister, a Jesuit and a Wesleyan-
Dc. Moobhjuse has taken a serious step. He
has either declined to make suggestions to the
Almightt about tho management of the weather,
or else ha has confessed practically that he abandons
the wizard part of tho theological profession. If a
clergyman, having tho power to get rain, refuses to
exercise his art at a season when mankind suffers for
lack of showers, it certainly seems that the people would
he justified in shutting him np in a yard, without water,
till his thirst compelled him to order a shower for his
own relief. It is really not so much the refusal to pray
for rain, which disturbs the profession: it is the stir to
the public mind which the circumstance will occasion.
If it be really doubtful, to a Bishop, whether there be
any use in prayers for rain, people will begin to compare
probabilities, and inquire what are the practical limita-
tions of effectual prayer.
Mr. Frederick Holkam Dangar.
There are few men better known throughout this
country than the subject of this sketch, Mr
Frederick Holkam Dangar, whose portrait appears
on our front page this week. The history of the
Dangar family for over forty years been closely
identified with the progress of this colony. In
mercantile and pastoral pursuits, the Dangars
kave occupied the first rank, proving them,
selves to be men of great enterprise and business
capacity. And having amassed large fortunes they
have demonstrated in the moat beneficial way the
proper uses of capital. Mr. Frederick H. Dangar,
who is the head of the firm of Dangar,
Gedye, and Company, of this city, has
been regarded as one of the best represen-
tatives of his family. He has actively occupied
himself during the past twenty-five yekrs in assist-
ing every work tending to the development of the
trade of the colony, or the moral advancement
of its people. But the characteristic feature
f his life has been its unobtrusiveness. Many
undertakings have had his assistance without
knowing the source whence assistance came. He
has lent aid to charitable movement in the most
liberal manner, while his name has not been known
in the matter. He has been a staunch and con-
sistent friend of the Church of England in this
colony ; and in this work has had the hearty co-
operation of his estimable wife. The establish-
ment of the New South Wales Shipwreck Relief
Society, of which he is President, is, in a great
measure, owing to his exertions. Nor have any
national sports and pastimes been overlooked by
him. His purse has been open for years for their
advancement. In this sense he is thoroughly Aus-
tralian in his sentiments. Wh-n the first Australian
Eleven went home, Mr. Dangar, who is the Presi-
dent of the Cricketing Association of this colony,had
the particulars of their matches cabled specially to
him, and it was not till the news was thus received
that the principal daily journals got anything like
satisfactory accounts, In November, 1879. Mr.
Dangar and his family left Sydney for England.
Prior to his departure Mr. Dangar received a
public banquet, thoroughly representative in
character, and the highest testimony to his
usefulness as a citizen was given by all speakers
on that occasion. Though in England, Mr.
Dangar has not forgotten the colonies. He still
contributes to all our principal charities, and
cricket, aquatics, rifle-shooting, and other manly
sports still have the advantage of his liberal
support. Mr. Dangar is now in his fifty-second
year, and in the enjoyment of good health.
John Loneragan—referred to elsewhere —has
been committed for trial by the Coroner, on a charge of
the wilful murder of James Buckley.
Bliss. Auctioneer, Melbourne, sufferer by the
recent Jolimont railway accident, and who claimed
£5,000 damages, has been allowed £2500 by a Supreme
Court jury.
The half-yearly meeting of the No. 1. East
Mountain Maid, Copeland, was held on Wednesday,
and the reports adopted. Capital news from the mine.
Roef rich and good; nearly 100 tons wanting to be
crushed —expected to go from 6jz. to Boz. to the ton.
It is believed now that the ship Sobraon is safe.
With reference to the floating lid of a box, it is known
that the owner, Mr. Proctor, left the chest on the ship
and asked the steward to throw it overboard.
Constable J. Mahood, of Sydney, has been com-
mitted for trial on a charge «f having suborned a
witness to commit perjury. The case for the prosecu-
tisn is that the constable illegally arrested a man on the
Manly steamer, and then '.tied to bribe two sailors to
corns and swear they were present and to corroborate
his version of the circumstances.
Messrs. Dowling, Crough, and Geoghegan, the
Kilmora (Victoria) magistrates who adjudicated upon
tue case of flayeß.the sch oolmaster, who is nowtervmg
two years’ imprisonment for an indecent assault upon a
girl pupil, refused to r s:g« the Commission of Ihe
Peace. The Victorian Government has therefore sub-
jected them to the ignominy of dismissal, and should
certainly never have given them any choice in the
matter.
Signor Giammona.
Ix has boon the misfortune of Sydney for tho last twenty
years to play second fiddle to Melbourne as a centre for
the cultivation of the Fine Arts. The sister capital man-
aged to attraet and to hold almost every great artist who
elected to reside in Australia. Melbourne has been the
chosen city of Horsley, of Herz, Cutolo, Bnddea, Tasoa,
of David Lee, Lucy Chamber?, and of Sieda. Daring
all that time Sydney has scarcely been able to boast a
great artist. While N Chevalier was in Australia.
Melbourne was his head quarters. Von Guavard painted
his best works in that capital also. It is not very
difficult to explain this curious preference. In Mel-
bourne the Press has during all those years striven to
give erpreaion to artistic appreciation. The dramatic,
musical,and artistic oriticismsin the aolumns of thelead- ■
mg papers there were on all notable occasions the work
l of cultivated cognoscenti. Discrimination and appre-
ciation were tho rule there during long years, while in
Sydney the puritanic prejudices of the conductors of
the principal section of the Press judged all expenditure
on critical notices of public performers money ill-spent,
and artists who, in the capitals of Europe, had won the
courtesies of princes, in Sydney were “ noticed” by the
parliamentary, the police court, or the shipping or
commercial reporter, as it chanofd to be convenient and
detail one or other of those young men for the duty.
This prevailed until a very recent date, and the conse-
quence was that “ criticism ” was lost in unmeaning
complaint or senseless cavil which depended, not upon
the merits of a performance, but upon the temper of
the reporter, or the opinions of some one to whom,
conscious of his own ignorance, ha appealed for advice.
The true artist naturally fled, disgusted and dis-
heartened, from a place where he was treated on equal
terms with the merest pretender. The treatment dealt
out not only hurt his self-esteem, but militated against
his business. Mr. Jones was quite as highly spoken
of by the Sydney press when he performed or was
mentioned on other occasions, as was M. Boulanger;
and if a musician happened to ba a Calviuist, and to at-
tend a dipsenting chapel, subtle charms wore discovered
in his renditions,unapproachable elegance in his bowing,
and unequalled accuracy iu his double-stopping. Of
late, however, this has been to some extent remedied.
Already the effect of juster and more discriminative
press notices, due in part to the appearance of new
journals, begins to appear. The public commences to
recognise the comj)arative merits of those artists wbo
have been hero all the time, depresfed by undistin-
guishing neglect. And, simultaneously, the city begins
to attract from its heretofore triumphant rival some
of its very best professors. Mdlle. Charbonnet has re-
turned to us. Julius Herz had. perhaps still has, serious
thoughts of shitting his camp hither. And, there has
just arrived, to take his quarters among us, the distin-
guished musician whose portrait we give. Signor
Giammona will be remembered as having arrived in
this eolony from America, iu company with
tho world-renowned diva, lima de Murska, in
whose concerts he, in Sydney, took part
with his truly magical flute, proving himself, on that
instrument, a soloist of rare accomplishments. This,
however, was but one, and that a subordinate phase
of his musical attainments. Throughout America,
Signor Giammona had supported Ilmade Murska as a
vocalist, both in tho concert-room and in opera. He
possesses a baritone voice of immense volume and
admirable cultivation, and is as much a master
at the pianoforte as with the flute. Signor Giammona
is a thorough musician, n natural talent having
received the advantage of a thorough cultiva-
j tion. He is a native of Catania, in Sicily, and
I his passion for music being encouraged by his
parents, he was early placed under the tuition
of the great Mercadanto, at the Naples Conservatory,
of which institution he ultimately became a member.
To enlarge his musical knowledge and extend his
acquaintance with different styles. Signor Giammona
proceeded to Paris, and there pursued his studies, and
of the Conservatoire of the French Capital he was
speedily elected a member. It was in Paris that he j
met lima de Markka, and thence he started on the pro-
longed tour through America, which preceded his
appearance in this continent. On establishing himself '
as a teacher of singing in Melbourne, his talents were I
quickly recognised, and his services became in great i
request at the mansions of Toorak and Sb. Kilda. Sir
George Bowen, then Governor of Victoria, entrusted tho
great artist with the musical education of the Miss as \
Bowen, which position he held for two years, np to the i
time of his Excellency’s departure for Mauritius. 1
Signor Giammona is not only a masterly performer,
but, a composer of high rank and great fertility. In
addition to a host of compositions for pianoforte, and of
songs, he has produced a grand mass which has been
repeatedly'performed in Me 1 bourne with grand orchestral
and full chorus, under the composer’s own baton,
such artists as Signora Coy, Signora Venosta, Signor
Paladini, and Mr. Furlong singing the solos and con-
certed music. Signor Giammona will be a great gain to
the musical circles of this c ty, where competent ex-
ponents of tho Italian mithod of cultivating the voice
are not too numerous.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
50,000 acres on the Southern shore of Late
Eoterua (N Z.) have been reserved as a thermal dis-
triet for the benefit of health-seeking invalids. A
Government medical officer has been appointed there,
and a private company is about to construct a railway
thither from a point on the Auckland—Waikato line. ..
The N.Z. Fruit Preserving Factory at Dunedin now
turns out ten tons—or twenty-two thousand pound
tins —of jam per week Last year the Creswick (Vic.)
mines paid £140,630 in dividends ; the total yield of
gold for the year was 73,979 oz. of the value of £304,050
A shark, 10} feet long, and five feet in girth, was
captured at Williamstown breakwater-pier on the 22nd
February Kio mania again rampant in N.Z
Typhoid and scarlet fevers prevalent in N.Z
The expedition for the observation of the transit of
Venus in N.Z , which is to be sent out from Home, is
expected to arrive at Auckland some time in July
A new dock is to be built at Auckland, N.Z. Size—
Floor, 500 ft; width between copings, 90ft; depth on
sill, at ordinary spring tide*, not less than 30ft
Mr. and Mrs. Smith and daughter, of Boundary-street,
Brisbane, partook of tinned salmon for lunch, and soon
afterwards were in convulsions. Dr. Mark brought
them round, and expressed an opinion that improperly.
cured fish generated poison when tinned An old
identity of Charters Towera, Ben Cry y, shot his brains
out on February 3rd. His funeral, wmoh took place the
same day, was largely attended by freemasons and other
residents of the Towers. Poor old Ben Cavey has caved
in at last. He was a friend to everybody but himself
The half fare passes issued to the Victorian pressmen
“on strictly commercial principles” are said to be
more greatly abused than were the original free passes
......The friends of the youths Punch and Curtis, whoso
sentences of death, for criminally [assaulting a young
girl, were commuted to ten years, are moving the
authorities for a still further reduction of punishment
Dr. Bond, according to the Cumberland Mercury,
has commenced an action for libel against that journal
in respect to a paragraph which appeared on sth October
last.... Mr. T. B. Boyce, late of the Murrurundi Times
and other country papers, has bought the &üburban
Telegraph An Auburn coroner’s juryman, who had
been compelled to serve against his will, tried to
prolong the agony out of spile, and vexatiously de-
clined to agree with his brethren. Unfortunately
ho bragged about his intention not to see the case
as others saw it, and the coroner then threatened
him with legal pains and penalties. The Auburn
man was bluffed, and caved iu. Ha now thinks it
true that “a still tongue makes a wise head ”
The Sunday closing law is a dead letter in Dunedin
(N.Z.). Public-houses gape flauntingly open till mid-
night In Melbourne, “ a lady, young, age twelve,”
advertises herself as “an accomplished musician," and
wants an engagement at concerts, &o.” The Canter-
bury (N.Z.) Exhibition—Jonbert and Twopeny’s last
twist —is going to be a grand success. English and
American manufacturers monopolise the most of the
space. The North Island and Otago are, however,
jealously holding aloof .....■The P.M.of a township on
tbe Richmond has a sign stuck up in a paddock enc.oseii
with an ordinary two-railed fence. The sign warns
fowls from trespassing upon his enclosed grass.
Ktranrely onougu the fowls have taken the hint, but the
darned magpies go and oat the grass now; and the
worthy P M, is about to have hi i sign altered, to read—
“ All feathered birds, &c."......1n the west of Westeip
Australia they have a tree—a kind of acacia— whiiih
“ goes to roost ” every night, that is to say, climbs up
one of its own branches, folds up its right leg, and
slumbers on as peacefully as a Herald leader. This
tree, when disturbed, folds np its leaves after the
manner in which a sleek stye-pig coils np its tail; and
the quivering branches give forth an offensive
and sickening odour similar to that exhibited
by rattlesnakes and other venomous reptiles
Australia has over 10,000 species of flowering plants
At Tumut, a six-feet lead-coloured snake went for one
of Mr. J Carr’s fillies. The Ally kicked the backbone
out of the snake, and out of the s'able door. The back-
bone has been unsuccessfully looking for the snake ever
since The blackfellow, Harry, who was arrested
some dai s since, for attempting a criminal assault upon
Mrs. Mulway, of Northcote, near Melbourne, is the
same aboriginal who has been wanted for committing a
rape on a young woman named Norah Ann Price, of
Mount Moriac Dr. Gosse, chairmanof the Cen-
tral Board of Health, Adelaide, advises his
brethren of the lancet and bolus to postpone
vaccination until the hot weather has passed
away The Silesian Botanical Society has exhibited
an apparatus which enabled people to hear plants grow,
ing. We shall bo able to wash ourselves with sound-
waves next An assistant in a cordial manufactory, at
Adelaide, had his eyesight completely destroyed by the
bursting of a lemonade bottle he was handling......A
lake on the Woogoolga run, Clarence District, which
lake for years has contained salt water, has lately
become fresh Summonses are being issued by the
hundred against defaulting parents having children 'n
the Victorian Industrial Schools, some of the amounts
being over £lOO C. B. Birch, E.A., has been
commissioned to execute a colossal statue of the
late Earl of Beaconsfleld. The monument is to be
placed in front St. George’s Hall, Liverpool......
A spi rt has been given to sugarcane-growing in the
Grafton district in consequence of the Colonial Sugar
Co. having threatened to remove their mill from South-
gate, and at the same time having offered a bigger price
if the quantity of cane is increased Storm in the
teapot of the Bulgong Birough Council. Aldermen
said to be Boycotting each other Newcastle Alder-
men have barked the Corporation Baths question. Up
in the c ial country people never bathe —especially
Aldermen .....Tom Eyan, a cranky railway employe at
the Burdekin (Q), has been missing in the bush for
three weeks John Wells, alias George Thomas Brown,
an ex-policoman, has b on committed for trial at
Treutbam (Victoria) for bigamy. Ha had a daughter
aged 23 years by his first wife, whom he had deserted
not 12 months ago An insolvent named Thomson,
charged in Melbourne with obtaining money under
false pretences, has issued notices to produce files of all
daily papers published in Victoria which contain a
report of his insolvency case. This will prolong the
trial to an indefinite length Australian Economic
Bank, Melbourne, made a profit during the last half-
year of £2968 9s. 6d. It amalgamates with the Federal
Bank Eow at the Yorick Club, Melbourne, owing to
a member, Mr. Williams, who is secretary to the Police
Commission, having, in a statement to the Commission
in reference to an Argus article, coupled the name of
the Club with some of his remarks Brisbane City
Council has voted a salary of £5OO to its Mayor A
Fitzroy woman severed her jugular with a pair of scis-
sors Adelaide Co-ooorative Store’s last half-yearly
p-ofits amounted to £l6BO Wallaroo Copper Mines
(S A.) made a profit last year of £36,253 Brisbane to
Sandgate line all completed except one tunnel; it will
be opened in ab out six weeks. Sxndgate is the watering
place for the ene r vated fashionables of Brisbane
Mr Franc Sadleir Falkioer has purchased at auction, in
Melbourne, the Bonooke Station for £122,000. The run
comprises, besides blocks on the Old Man Plains, North
Bonooke, and Cauargo, in the Murrumbidgee district,
40,400 acres of freehold land, and has upon it 27,400
sheep, 130 cattle, and 30 horses Eonald M'Donald
(s.A.), station-owner, claimed £5OOO for managing the
estate (valued at £100,000) of the late Mrs. Eleanor
Cameron, station-owner, near Hamilton (Vic ). The
jury reduced the figure to £7O0 —...Bunyip township
(Vie.) is reported to have been completely destroyed
by fire In Western Victoria, the trains carrying
water to the relief of the selectors, are coating the
railway department £5OO per week The Transvaal
Government has- granted an absolute monopoly of its
goldfields to Davit Benjamin, of Capetown. The
object of this is to Boycott English traders and miners.
Matthew Burnett once more inflicts himself upon
Victoria In parts of the Northern Territory the
gra°s growi as high as the telegraph posts Exten-
sive system of smuggling tobacco in Melbourne.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
The anti-rent movement is spreading in Wales.
An explosion of fire-damp in a Styriau coalmine
killed 150 men Great destruction has resulted in the
States through Cnvco frozen meat
sold at an average of 6jd. per lb. ; Orient, at 6d
Electrical exhibition opened bv the Duke of Edinburgh
at the Crystal Palace, Sydenham Seventy-three
lives were lost at colliery explosions near Hartlepool,
England Bank of England minimum rate of dis-
count reduced from 6to 5 per cent.; Bank of Prance
minimum is 4 per cent Fifty amendments have been
tabled to the new rules for the regulation of Pariia-
mentary business proposed by Mr. Gladstone Dis-
satisfaction is becoming apparent in consequence of the
weak and vacillating foreign and colonial policy of the
Gladstone Government Commander Selby, ef H.M S.
Falcon, has died of the wounds he received from
the Turks of Artaki, on the Saa of Marmora
M. Eoustan, formerly French representative at Tunis,
has been appointed French minister at Washington,
U.S The U.S. Government has decided to add eleven
men-of-war ot its navy Congress has voted 60,000
dollars to defray the cost of medical attend-
ance upon the late President Garfield The Egyptian
quarantine regulations have been abolished, cholera
at Aden having abated An infernal machine
exploded at a Berlin railway station, and did con-
siderable damage to property. The criminal arrested
Agrarian outrages in Ireland increasing. The
man who recently gave information which led to the dis-
covery of cone Baled arms in Dublin has been murdered .
Sir K. E. Torrens, author ot the South Australian
Eeal Property Act, urges Great Britain to adopt his
system, claiming for it speed of execution and sim-
plicity A London league, formed to combat British
aggression on barbarous or semi-civilised people, has
protested against the issue of a British Charter in
Northern Borneo A ransom of £6OOO has been de-
manded for the body of the Earl of Crawford and Balcar-
res, stolen from the Duuecht Mausoleum. The body-
snatching scheme was organised at Aberdeen, and throe
suspects ara in custody Complications in Basuto-
land owing to the failure of the natives to pay tin war
indemnity fixed by Sir Hercules Eobinson. They are
required to fulfil all stipulation* by March 15th In
relation to Commercial Treaty, the
French Government has introduced a Bill providing that
after May 16, English goods imported shall pay duties
chargeable under the terms of tne most favored nation-
but colonial goods will be subject to the general tariff ..’
The Controllers General of Egypt assert that the
Khedive’s authority is being undermined. M, de
Freycinet thinks that the European agreement" has
diminished the danger of armed meddling with the
internal affairs of Egypt; and he has given M. Bligni-
eres instructions to maintain over financial questions
French preponderance as against nationalistic...
General Ignatieif assures the Eussian Government that
the enti-Jewish agitation in Southern Eussia has been
smothered. Nevertheless, Jewish emigration from
Russia, on a large scale, continues. Over 50,000 Jaws
have left Russia for the United States and other
countries. The U.S. Government are giving the Jewish
refugee settlers free grant* ot land Michael Davitt,
Land Leaguer, lately released from prison on account
of ill health, has been elected M. P. for Meath unop-
posed, vice Mr. Sullivan retired. Gladstone intends to
move that Davit*, having been convicted of treason,
felony, cannot take his seat. A similar point
was previously decided against O’Donovan Eossa
General Skobelotf’s warlike speech was received with
enthusiasm by the P«n-siavio agitators of Eussia. The
Russian Press deliberately incited the Slavs to rebel
against Austria Germany and Austria at once de-
manded that the Eussian Government should dismiss
Skobeloff, or cause him to retire; otherwise they would
declare war. Skobeloff was then recalled to St. Peters-
burg... ..Priuce Bismarck has further asked the Eus-
sian Goveramsnt to explain Skobeloff's speech The
Russian Government have given pacific assurances,
notwithstanding *<hich it is asserted on good authority
that General Ignatieif, the head of the Russian Ad-
ministration, strongly advocates a warlike policy
Austria strongly resents Eussian interference with the
Pan-»Uv movement, and both there and in Germany
war is regarded as inevitable, and needful preparations
ate being made Turkey is preparing tor war, and
has entered into a contract for the supply of a large
number of Nordenfelt guns, to be delivered within a
limited period Russia also fears a Turcoman in
vasion, and has sent additional t oops to Bokhara in
consequence As a friendly action to Austria, Turkey
has sent a force to the Bosnian frontier to prevent the
Albanians from joining the insurgents of the adjacent
province At latest news, war is declared to bn
almost inevitable. Turkey is mobilising her army
and sends 150,000 men to the Balkans The Ausl
trians and Herzegovinians are fighting; and the
latter have met with ouo or two defeats Sir
Henry Parkas has failed to induce the U.S. Govern-
ment to reduce the tariff on Australian wools, hub
thinks he may succeed in obtaining a subsidy towards
the San Francisco mail service .Prince Leopold and
Princess Helena of Waldeck-Pyrraont, have arrived at
Windsor Castle for their approaching marriage The
question of the wedding expanses has been made i
lever of by the Government supporters in the Commons.
These assert that it the House of Lords insists on the
appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the
working of the Irish Laud Act, thev will obstruct the.
vote to defray the expenses of the Royal Marriage, a»
well as refuse to grant supplies to meet the expense®
of such Select Committee. Nevertheless, the.
Lcrds are determined npon having their Select
Committee, which consists of nine Tories and three
Whigs. According to the London Daily Teleobaph,
Gladstone has resolved to resign in consequence of
this action on the part of the House of Lords
Mr. Henry Labouchere, the co’league of Mr Bradlaugii
in the representation of Northampton, moved that
Bradlaugh’s seat be declared vacant, and that a writ for
afresh election b? issued. The m it,ion was rejected.
Bradlaugh then entered the chamber,- took the oath,
with such deviations from the customary form as led to
bis being ordered to withdraw. Lord Randolph Church-
hill, the Conservative member for Woodstock, then
brought forward a new motion, that a writ 'or a fresh
election for Northampton should be issued. Daring the
debate which ensued, Gladstone pronounced Brad-
laugh’s conduct to be scandalous. The debate would,
probably, have proved abortive had not Bradlaugh reck,
lessly entered the chamber. The Speaker immediately
ordered him to withdraw, and he retired. Thereupon,
Sir Stafford Northcote moved, that Bradlaugh be ex-
polled, and the motion, receiving the support of the
Government, was carried by a large majority. The
Speaker issued a now writ for Northampton, and Brad.
laugh is again a candidate Corbit, the Irish
agitator, opposes Bradlaugh The Court of Appeal
has confirmed the original verdict against the defend-
ant in the cause celehre, Clarke v. Bradlaugh Mr.
Conkliog appointed Judge of the US. Hirh Court o
Judicature Gladstone determined to fight Tory ob.
struction to the death Parnell sentenced to a week’s
solitary confinement for trying to bribe a gaol warder
to carry a letter Hon. Saul Samuel presented Her
Majesty with album of N.S.W. views The son of a
farmer killed in County Clare because his father paid
his rent. A cradled infant also had its brains dashed
0ut,...U S Congress voted pension of S'o,ooo to General
Grant Officials of Bing Theatre, Vienna, to be pro-
secuted.
LATE SPORTING.
Declarations for Sydney Gold Cap on March
14.
Lady Emma won the principal events at the
Dunedin meeting.
The gates, booths. &e., for the Burrahgong
races realised about £l2O,
Balmain Colling wood v. Kensington.—Colling-
wood,4B; Kensington, 38.
Blayney defeated Molong, on Saturday, in one
innings with 70 runs to spare.
“ Augur,” of the Australasian, tips Eojal
Maid to win the Y.E.C. Bt. Leger.
The veteran brood mare, Mermaid, dam of
Lurliue and Le Loup, has been shot.
The race for boats of twenty feet and upwards
resulted in a victory for the E hel, beating the Thisbo
by 48 seconds of her handicap time allowance.
It is probable that Beach will try conclusions
with. Elias Laycock. EHas is willing to make a, match
and will consequently delay b'S departure for England.
Now, what does all this mean P
Hearn, the champion sculler of New Zealand,
has accepted Messenger’s challenge to row a match foe
£loos-side and the championship; the distance to bo
three and a-half miles, tho race to take place in March.
A match was played on Saturday, on the Cam-
bridge Oval, between the Cambridge Club, Maitland,
and Lillywhite Clubs, Newcastle. Scores: Lillywbuo,
first innings, 23; second innings, 95 Cambridge, first
innings, 49; second innings, five wickets for 57. In the
first innings of the Lillywhites, T. Cronin bowled
seven wickets for one rnn.
At Homebnsh, on Saturday, the 130 yards’ race,
for £25 a side, between J. Collins and W. Farrell,
resulted in favour of Farrell by a yard and a half, in
131 sec. Collins led np to 70 yards, when Farrell put on
a brilliant spurt. A great race ensued. Immediately
afterwards, Penhoo and Gayon ran 125 yards for £2O,
Fenhoe winning by a yard.
The race for Mr. G. C. Elliott’s trophies, under
the auspices of the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club, came
off on Saturday. The Adelpbi was ahead in the Ar t
race, but the Doronda won by her time allowance by 9
seconds. The second race was won by the Ethel by
46 seconds of her time allowance, the Thisbe, which
came in first, having to allow the winner 3 minutes.
The orioket match betwen the Glebe and Mer-
cantile Clubs came off on Saturday, at Corry’s Ground.
The GK C. scared 150; M.R.C , 50. The cricket gene-
rally, was of a primitive description, one of the field
objecting to so many cross overs, and another b its in an
objecting to go out when the umpire so decided. Our
only Bob made top-score. The dinner was recherche.
The match for the Thomson Junior Cup be-
tween the Oriental and Clio Clubs terminated, on
Saturday, in favour of the Oriental Club by four
wickets. The match—for the same tronhv—between
the North Shore Belmore and Liimorc Clubs resulted
in favour of the latter club by two wioke’r. There are
now ten clubs left in the contest, and the matches for
the remainder of the season may be expected to be close
and exciting.
The general handicap yacht race for Commodore
Want’s trophy, and a second prize presented by the
Prince Alfred Yacht Club, was sailvd for on Saturday,
the following boats competing;—Writangi, scratch ;
Sirocco, 3 min. ; Guinevere. 7 min.; Pleiades. 14 min.;
Pert, 15 min.; Daohne, 16 min.; Doris, 18 min. The
Sirocco won the first prize, through time allowance,
the Waitang-', wli h came in first, and which takes
first prize, having a lead of only 1 min. 10 sec.
The match between the All-England Eleven
and Eleven of Victoria, terminated on Tuesday in
a victory for the Englishmen by eight wickets. Vic-
toria, first innings, 249 ; second innings, 92. All-
England, first innings, 285 ; second ‘nnings. 2 wickets
for 57. Peate distinguished himself by obtaining 33
rnne, not out. It was adding insult to injury, not only
to give the Victorians such a beating, bnt also to allow
Peate, for probably the first time, to make top score.
A match for the Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup,
between the Carlton and University clubs, terminated
on Saturday in a victory for (he Utter by Un wickets.
The Carltons increased their second innings’ score to
170, leaving 34 runs to be obt lined by the University
Club, which was done by Jones and Allen withont the
loss of a wicket. Geary who run out, through a
splendid bit of fielding by Jones, The Carltons have a
new uniform—white shirts, tweed trousers—but only
four members sported it on Saturday afternoon.
The race in light skill's, between G. Solomon and
W. Beach, over the champion course, f >r £5O a side, on
Saturday, resulted in an easy victory for Beach by two
lengths, in 2Gmin. 16seo. Solomon led to Putney Point;
after thatißeach passed him.and w m asheliked, The race
letwoeu ,1. C. Laycock aud o Edwards, in watermen’s
boats, for £25 aside, resulted ia a victory for Laycock.
Both ineu kept well together to Putney Point, when
Laycock forged ahead, aud gradually increased his
distance, winning by several lengths, ia 33 minute®.
Another match is arranged for £2O a side on March 11.
Beach is evidently the coming man.


IJ H E A T E E
Lessee
Manager Mr.
Stage Manager Mi
THIS (Thursday) EV
ANTONY AND CLEC
In active preparation, Shakespher
“TWELFTH NIG
Doors open at half-past 7, comm
QPE R A I
Lessee and Manager M
Business Manager Mr. 1
Stage Manager Mr. 1
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS I CEO
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS |
The Most Sparkling Entertain
by
BENT and BATCHE
BENT and BATCHE
UHRiItT'II ANGLO. 1
CHRISTY'S j
Veritable Exponer
REFINED MINSTI
with a repertoire of tl
AMERICAN MINSTREL 1
B-«x office at A. Hnncrbein’s mnsi
street. Admission, 55., 35,, 2i., an
Overture at 8 sharp. Terminate
N.B.—The Pianos used in the enl
the firm of A. Hunerfeein.
WANTED, immediately,
DANCE LADY, one prel
parts—six months' engagement g
fat once, stating salary, to—Manag
folk Hotel, Tamwonh.
VICTORIA
CASTLEEEAGH-l
(Near King-street; close to Tram
TO LET NIGHTLIT. ON TEEM
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENT]
The above Hall has Seating At
people, is WELL VENTILATE
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft , n
WINGS, &0., and is in all respects
the School of Arts, which it now si
Half-price charged for Charit
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLE]
107 Cc
miIEATRE ROYAI
OPEN FOR ENGAGI
Will seat seven or eight huudr
with Gas; lately patronised by the
Terms moderate. Apply to
V
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, c
dating 1300 people, is now av
and other performances. The staf
depth, and has a neat proscenium
DAVID
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAR.
Just finishing Brilliant Season o
the QUEEN’S THEATRE,
OPEN AT THE GAIETY. CH
FEBRUARY 2(
THEATRE ROYAL, WELLIN
MONDAY.
I‘ L 0 Y D ’ S
J HOWICK STREET, Bi
Oilers Superior Accomodation to
lers. Visitors, and Professh
FRANK LLO’
Comique and Buffo V'
Proprietor.
Department of 1
Sydney, Ist
REGULATIONS FOR THE M
THE FISH RIVER C
NO person will be allowed to e
less accompanied by the kee
Visitors will he conducted throu
keeper or his assistant, wbo are
from receiving any fee or gratuit;
Any person f«und breaking, deb
injuring the Caves or their imj
prosecuted.
Tl,o 4.,
HARNLEIGH.
Hi
THE PICK OF MARE
GREAT CLEIEA:
OF
THE WHOLE OF THE UJ
Frontages to the
ILLAWAEEA
LIVINGSTONE STREET,
VIEW STE]
and
HAENETT AVEI
BAIT, ROOD, ANC
JTAYE received peremptory
the
HARNLEIGH STNI
TO CLEAR OFF T:
BALANCE OP THE ABOVE VA
ON
SATURDAY, 4th ]
at 3 p.m.,
ON THE GEOU:
SITUATE on the HEIGHTS of MA
commanding UNRIVALLED Vl]
and its suburbs. BOTANY BAY.t
RIVER, the BLUE MOUNTAI
■within five minutes of the IR»M
minute shortly), three minutes
station of the ILL A WAR RA Lib
to MAIN STREETS none of wh
feet wide, surrounded by flrst-ola
the best part on MARRICKVIL
Improving suburbs. BAHNLEI
very short time GREATLY INCI
THE TITLE IS TORRE
TEEMS, LIBERAL, AS BEFORE
AND TEAM ON DAY C
ASHFIELD. ASH
NORTON,
VICTORIA,
and CR.
«3T 19 SPLENDID VILLA SIT
frontages of 40 feet each by IMM
from 240 to 222 feet.
The PROPERTY is close to the
HALL on one side, and im
FLYNLIMMON, the residence
Esq., on the other, and is SITU
«P FOUR MINUTES’ EASY 1
STATION.
BAIT, ROOD, AND
JTAVE been instructed to
VERY VALUABLE B
ON THE GEOUN
on
SATURDAY, 11th
at 3 p.m.
THE LAND has baen sub-dividi
Surveyor BINSTED into 19 QEAI
as follows, viz.:—
LOTS 1,2, and 3 each have 4
Victoria-street, by depth
4 inches to 160 feet 10 inch
LOT has 49 feet 5 inches front
It la necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the supeifluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
BURT'cS COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by special appointment
to the Queen.—(Advt.)
SOCIAL.
Anyone who jagged the upper classes of England
what the New York Times says, would not have a
high opinion of them. Thus: “ With all the advantages
of hirth. fortune, and education, their only labour seems
to he to kill time and to abandon themselves to selfish
indulgence. They are, in fact, similar to the class which
largely brought anont the first French Revolution, and
they have of late years given the fashionable society of
England that intensely low tone which it unquestion-
ably has to day. Those who have returned after ten
years' absence are utterly amazed at the change since
the death of the Prices Consort and the Queen’s retire-
ment. Anything may be done now with impunity, and
almost anything may be talked about. It has some-
times happened that a society has been yery vicious and
yet very brilliant, but the modern fast and fashionable
set in London is as brainless as it is debauched." And
the writer adds that, bad as George IV. was, he some-
times sought clever people ; but, with the present
Prince of Wales, intellect is not in request at Marl-
borough House, and the greatest genius has to give way
to dull or merely “smart" women, if they are only
beauties.
• * *
A young squatter in the Casino district asked
the fair daughter of a local merchant a pleasing question.
She whispered “ yes." The squatter has called at the
parsonage since.
• • «
There were several hundreds of people assembled
in the Hotauic. Gardens last Saturday, to listen to the
music of the Naval Brigade Band. This open-air music
is popular; and, with flue weather, a pleasant afternoon
may he spent. Saturday’s programme included the
grand “ Bine Dinuba,” “Patience” pieces, and other
selections. The cool, shady seats were all full of lis-
teners, quiet groups trod the winding gravel paths, and
well-dressed parties walked with noiseless footsteps on
the clean, green sward. A fine rich claret silk drew its
long train over the grassy carpet, showing to advantage ;
and two young ladies in Pompeian red underskirt and
cream lane polonaise, with red sash and bow, looked
nice. Sj did two summery costumes of airy white fabric,
puffed. A brown silk, trimmed with fnrof silver brochfi,
was peculiar; but a deep blue pompadour was the gayest
and most noticeable dress displayed. Tho dresses were
quite varied, no speciality being prominent. These
garden parties attract many people regularly every week,
and are well appreciated by those who attend them.
* • •
A new craze in Europe is “ a uniform toilet ”
for ladies at a ball, and many invites now bear the
notice “pink toilet” or "blue toilet.". The custom
was started by a “ white toilet ” hall being given to the
Queen of Italy when on a visit to Vienna, out of com-
pliment to her name (Margherita or Daisy); and at the
return ball given by her at Rome, she herself notified
“white toilet.” As, however, special colours do not
suit all ladies alike, the sex will probably rebel against
such a fashion.
# # #
Tho banquet given to tho citizens of Mudgec,
the other evuniug, by the newly elected Mayor, Mr. G.
Davidson, wis a splendid affair. N ithiug was stinted,
and the champagne was more plentiful than water
is this dry season. Mrs. Victoria, and our
own dear Augustus having been decently dis-
posed of, the rest of the evening was devoted
t J toasts congratulatory, laudatory, explanatory,
and rotatory. Everybody was pleased with everybody
else, and especially with the Mayor for his liberality.
• * •
A bail was given in tho School of Arts Con-
doholia, b? Mr. Richards, storekeeper, on St. Valen-
tino’s night. About ICO present, a good supper pro-
vided, and the Forbes Hand was in attendance. Dancing
continue I till 6 a.m. A married lady •* tall, and most
divinely fair,” was host dressed, in white satin and old
gold; while a young lady in black ana old gold looked
charming.
• mm
A Christchurch (N.Z.) lady writes to a contem-
porary “ Ouo of our assembly balls was hold.it was
supposed, to entertain the English cricketers. I hear,
on very good authority, that, the ladies’ committee sat
on the merits of the team individually, with a view of find
i«(/ outlaw many of them they could condescend to invite I
lae result Was that only two (I dou’t, know which two)
were adjudged fit to meet the Hite of Canterbury
society. Need I say that those two declined the invi-
tation, and have contemptuously remarked that in no
other place during their tour (has the team been
treated to such a display of snobbish impertinence?"
* . * *
On Friday last, at Compagnoni’s, Mr. Thomas
Atkinson, who is chief salesman in the eminent firm of
D. and W. Robertson, wholesale iron and steel mer-
chants and importers of machinery, Sydney and
Loudon, was the recipient of a costly gold watch and
chain, with a locket set with diamonds appended, pre-
se ited to him on behalf of friends who had many
opportunities of forming a correct appreciation of his
sterling merits, great business tact and acumen, and
never failing perseverance. Mr. Alderman Playfair
made the presentation, accompanying the gift with a
few well-cheson words. Mr. Atkinson replied in brief
but eloquent terms, saying that he was not conscious
of the merits which the many friends who had assisted
towards the handsome testimonial he had received
attributed to him. That which he considered to be
Ms duty he did with all his power and ability. Mr.
J ames Ste wart Robertson, resident partner of the Sydney
firm, spoke in vtrv high terms of their employe-
The presentation, it should be understood, imme-
diately followed the excursion around the har.
hour, and the banquet to the Victorian members who
recentiv visited the colonies. All the management of
this had been confided to Mr. Atkinson, and the details
had been so carried out by him as to affard the many
distinguished visitors who were invited the fullest en-
joyment, and to give to Mr. Robertson the liveliest
satisfaction. After the presentation, at whioh several
representatives of the head firms in Melbourne and
Sydney were present, several toasts were given, duly
honored, and responded to.
• • •
A Castle Hill belle who is the admiration of
everybody within a radius of fifty miles, enters the
ko'y bonds of wedlock on Thursday next with a hand-
some young Parramatta man, formerly a Forbes
Paper pr prietor. Castle Hi 1 ladies plying the needle
industriously. Bridesmaid’s costume, blue and white.
Honeymoon at Moss Vale.
« • •
Miss Lucy Caroline, second daughter of the
Governor of South Australia (Major-General Sir
william Jorvois, G.C M Q., C B , R E ), was married
? a Valentine’s D iy, to the Rev. VV. Puray-Cust, M.A ,
in St. Peter's Cathedral, Adelaide. The building was
crowded. The bride’s father and mother were of
couno present; herbrid stnaids were Miss Alice Jervois,
MUs Sf -rryaifc, and Miss F. Price. The bridegroom’s
Jmpporwrs were Mr. J Jorvois. Captain Haggard, and
"be. p. w. Penuofatlvsr. The regular Church of
Ragland service was read, and op f,he organ were
played the Wedding M irch and Batiste’s; Offartoire.
ibe bride was in rich cream satin and bEocado. point
•ace and or mge blossoms and jesianjine, longtulle vet!,
and jewellery of gold, pearls, and diamonds. The brides-
maicU were in pale blue foulard, trimmed with cream
Afghan muslin an 1 Uce; hats of cream lace with
•‘ ,r tP> t '; t ne-nots of pearls, and gold lockets, donate! by
ins bridegroom. Lady Jorvois wore dark green satin
•ch rich brocade bonnet to match. Ninety guests to
use oreakfastat. G ivorument House. The newly married
pur went to Norton -Summit, the residence of Mr.
stokes, for tho honeymoon, and go to England this
month.
• • •
St. Matthias Church, Paddington, was the scone
a faslli onable wedding on Saturday, the bride being
thu- d a,l ? tlter °f A. Btnnger-Loathos, E q., and
r>e bridegroom, the son of H. M’Lean, Esq., of Double
*£• The bride looked exceedingly well, dressed in a
r-on white satin, trimmed with Honiton lace flouuser,
reath of orange bio sons, myrtle and mistletoe;
naurtaome diamond necklet and bracelets. The brides-
>aids wore Mias Agnes Macarthnr, Misses Emma and
uce, sisters of the bride, and Misses M’Lean; they
ore beautiful sitiu dresses of a maize shade, and
“onnets of pmk (lowers ; 1 1 charming, especially Miss
ice and Miss Macarthnr. The groomsmen were
zi« 'n 8 ’ o har “' a and Art.hur Stanger-Leathee, R. M'Ken-
• B lutliu-uu, and Lougbnan, The ceremony was
conducted by tho Rev. Dr. Barry, assisted by tho choir
and organist, and the whole performance was well
engineered by the chief groomsman, who, wonderful to
relate, had the ring ready at the right moment.
* * #
Theßourke-street Congregational Church Choir
ga.vo a complimentary concert to about 500 of their
friends in the church last week. Both Houses of the
Legislature were well represented among the audience.
Some tasteful dresses were visible amongst the guests,
but the principal interest was centred in the costumes
worn by the lady members of the choir, who, in the
cantata, *• The Advent of S lora,” represented twelve of
the most popular flowers, and apparelled themselves in
as near an approach to those they depicted, as cirenm-
stances would permit. Two sisters from Crown-street
looked very nice, as the Snowdrop and Forget-me-not
respectively, the latter being generally considered the
belle of the evening. The Lily and Primrose also
achieved a Success. Some of the vocalists suffered
from nervousness, the occasion being their debut as
soloists The singing of the Rose was really excellent,
and entitled her to first honours, while the Snowdrop,
Lily, Primrose, and Forget-me-not followed in order.
Evergreens adorned the platform; the conductor and
accompanist proved fully equal to their tasks, and the
entertainment was most successful.
LATE THEATRICAL.
The Victoneral will re-open on Saturday, with
Mr. M. J Abrahams’s Company, who modestly entitle
themselves “ The Acmd of Minstrelsy.” The company
includes Messrs Sam Keenan, Macdonald, and Kuster;
the Perman Kids (who are very clevah). Miss Hetty
Croucher (late Hetty Lee), Mrs. Hinchy, and, perhaps.
Miss Jennie Horan.
# # #
Mr. Beaumont Read, the alto of ten centuries,
complains of a par. in last week’s “Poor Player,”
which wo copied from a contemporary. Mr. Read says
the whole thing is a fabrication, and hopes we will
emphatically contradict it. We, therefore contradict
it emphatically. And this reminds ns that Billy Bent
produces at the Opera H mse, on Saturday, an
absurdity called, “ What is Art,” which has been
localised by Dick Thatcher. Could a greater attraction
be wanted than this ? By the way, we hear that
Thatcher and Harry Lcston don’t sp.ak. This is truly
a caselof Dick-shun-Harry. Whoop!
* * #
Mr. W. J. Wilson has completed arrangements
with Mr. Frederick Marshall, and opens with his
Comedy Company, at the Opera House, in April next.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Some amateurs performing 1 “ The Chimney
Corner,” iu a New Z»aland township, had to give the
sober part of John Probity to their funny man, tho
“loading gent” being absent. The light-hearted
comedian had alwa\ s a warm colour, and, during a long
wait, he went round the corner and indulged in a couple
of extra “ Bishop Barkers.” All went wall until Patty
Probity turned to her husband with yearning pathos,
and exclaimed, “Oh! Peter, Peter, have pity on jour
son ; look at his poor pals face!” A shriek of laughter
stopped her, and, turning again, she gazed on John
Probity. . . . His face, which he had forgotten to
“makeup.” was the colour of a red blotting-pad!
Miss Murielle (Miss Grey), late of Carey’s (N.Z.)
Opera Co., is now in Melbourne. She intends to under-
go a course of operatic study under Madame Lucy
Chambers.
* * #
Salvini had a funny experience at Fumosa,' in
Italy. He took, under an assumed name, some lodgings
in an out-of-the-way street, for the purpose of studying
a new rtfle. The day after he moved in, he began to
rehearse his part. The part was a tragic one, and some
passages were exceptionally thundering. The landlord
was out, and his wife and daughter became alarmed at
the noise the new lodger was making. They listened at
the door and heard him howling something to this
effect" Miserable coward! Thy hand is, then, strong
enough only to plunge the steel into the bosom of an
innocent victim ! Thou hast not the courage to kill
thyself. Will’st thou, then, await the hatchet of the
executioner ? ” The two women became terrified,
rushed to the police office, and in a few moments
the great tragedian was put in a straight-jacket
and locked up as a lunatic. It took him several
hours, with the aid of the local magistrate and
the local physician, to clear tie matter up.,,...
Mrs. Langtry's performance at the Brighton Theatre
realised £l6O. The Era and Punch, says a London
writer, are charit ihly engaged in seeing which paper
can say the silliest things of Mrs. Langtry. Up to the
present, the Era takes the palm for idiocy, and Punch
for coarse and brutal vulgarity The man who turned
out the gas as he was leaving the Theatre Royal, Leeds,
and caused serious injury to several persons, will have
nine months wherein to repent himself of his folly
“ Dagonet” (George E. Sims) lately met with an acci-
dent that threatened at one time to put out one of the
Lights o’ London It was the head of a wax match
that flew into the peeper of Jeearez—so of course his
great following will henceforth decline to strike a
light Madame Taglioni, the danseuse, who fasci-
nated our fathers by her graceful pirouettes, has died
at Berlin A wedding took place on the stage at
Indianopolis, during an intermission in the perform-
ance When Sara Bernhardt performed at Odessa,
the Mayor of the town had a private box given to him
officially. As he could not use it, he decided to sell it
for a charity. A guardsman gave him £lO5 for it
Mr. Morris Moere, English professor at the Roman
University, has done that which he and his countrymen
may be proud of. He has written a comedy in Italian,
which has been accepted by Madame Marino for her
dramatic company, audit is shortly to be performed. It
is no easy feat to write a comedy (and to get it accepted)
even in cue’s own language; to do so in a foreign one is
still more clever Madame Marino is considered by
many of her compatriots to be the bast actress iu Italy,
not even excepting the great Ristori. The latter lady
is a great admirer ot English actresses, but
she looks with unmitigated scorn on all her
continental sisters in art, from whom she,
however, invariably excepts Madame Marino
Harry Rickards seems to hare lost his temper and to
have over-stepped tho bgunds of discretion at tho Lon-
don Pavilion. Ho met the hisses of some portion of
his audience by the utterance of what could only bo
interpreted as a threat. The example is one which we
cannot recommend for general adoption, and wo shall
be sorry to hear that it has been followed by any other
artist Clara Louise Kellogg, now in the U.S., wears
a profusion of blonde hi iria yard long, as Marguerite, i t
a cost of §7OO The curly brown wig worn by Jefferssm
as Rip Van Winkle weighs less than an ounce, ami is
considered a marvel of good workmanship, while the
gray one cost, with the beard, §l6O. Rose Wood lately
paid §2O for a bloudo wig, A.da Gilman, §125; Marian
Booth, §100; and fanny Davenport, §23>.... An
American paper spy 3i “A correspondent asks us whether
Salvini will ccmo to this country again. We do not
think he will, unless he oan have an india-rubber
Dosdemona for the last act of ‘ Othello ’ Live Desde-
monas cannot stand enough banging aronnd to make
the scene realistic ” This reminds ns of the shock
Harry Lestou’s dead body felt as Imogen threw herself
upon him on the Hist night of •• Cymbelino ”
When Anna Dickinson, as Hamlet, stoops to plank a
posy from the grave of Ophelia, and her back
suspender buttons snap off, it will be worth the price
of admission to se<) her grab the waistband of her
trousers with one hand and ram the fingers of her
other hand into her mouth in search of pins Mrs
S ithern’s illness has now assumed a shape which
precludes all hope or chance of recovery.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Antony and Cleopatra” which superseded
“ Cymbeline” at the Koyal on Saturday last, is another
tragedy by the Swan of Avon, and, all things considered,
its Swan of the most attractive plays that Shakespeare
has ever written. The moral of it is, to our mind,
somewhat akin to that of most of Sardou’s pieces,
though we wish it to be understood that we have no in-
tention of accusing our friend William of deliberate
plagiarism. Anyhow Cleopatra is decidedly giddy;
and if Antony lived in our times, his “ missis" would
have fetched him back twenty-four hours after the in-
telligence reached her that he was “ carrying on with
another woman.” Usually the sympathies of the world
in these cases, are|with the wife; see the piece at the
Eoyal, however, and your whole heart will be with
Antony. Being family people ourselves, we, in a
general way are willing to heave the biggest rocks at
the “ wretch” who leads even the worrukin man astray,
but directly we set eyes on Cleopatra, as she stepped
from the ferry, we felt that we were enly mortal after
all, and to our shame be it said, we should not have
required much pressing on her part to have slipped into
Antony’s sandals, and gone back in the boat with her
to Parramatta.
« * *
Miss Pomeroy’s Cleopatra is so good, that it
only just escapes being great. That it is not great is
less owing to a histrionic fault than to a peculiar in-
flection of voice, which is natural to all American
artistes, and which, with Miss Pomeroy, as with Mr.
Leake —though in a lesser degree with the lady—mili-
tates in some degree against success in the delivery of
heavy blank verse. Miss Pomeroy, however, was not
only highly effective in a general way; but, at times,
her impersonation attained to such a pitch of excell-
ence, that it caused one to seriously consider what she
may ono day do when she has forgotten a little of what
she knows, and learned a little of what she ignores.
Miss Pomeroy put her heart into Cleopatra, and, in
that part, we see her at her best in tragedy. With a
splendid physique, and costumes—the magnificence of
which, it is no flattery to their fair owners to say, have
never been equalled in Sydney—the picture she makes
may well be imagined. It is a beautiful picture—daz-
zling, poetic, and, above all, regal. We have seen a few
real Queens in our time; but, so far as majesty of
appearance and beauty go, Louise can give nine-tenths
of her Koyal “ cousins” twenty-five out of fifty and a
beating, with the spot stroke barred and an honest
marker.
# • •
Mr. J. B. Steele plays up to his old form as
Antony, and to those who know what his old form was,
this will be recommendation enough. To those who do
not know, we may say that his performance is ono full of
light and shade, pregnant with fire and pathos. It is a
pleasant thing to see this fine actor performing in a
theatre which is not a cross between a ruined fowl-
house and a deserted lime-kiln. Mr. Steel has made a
success; and we are glad of it. He and Miss Pomeroy
make a fine pair, and, this being so, we have only to
echo the words of the " heavy uncle ” and exclaim,
“ Ber-less you, my children 1”
• • •
There are only three ladies, besides Miss Pome-
roy, in the cast—Miss Maggie Stewart, who played
Charmian, Miss Lena Ellis, who enacted the deserted
Ootavia, and Miss Teresa Horan, who sustained the
arduous role of Iras. Miss Maggie was a very nice con-
fidante, indeed, and sang a song, “ Maid of Egypt ”
rather a distorted compliment to Cleopatra—“ excellent
well,” and really was all through the evening (in a double
sense) Charmian. Miss Lena Ellis was cool at first, but
warmed up as the play proceeded. So did the theatre,
which, at the conclusion of the piece, was as hot as
Ellis. Teresa—bless her I—in a brown jersey, and her
face stained, looked so intensely Oriental that wo are
sure the whole resources of Egypt would be unable to
produce a young lady so intensely Egyptian as she was.
When the pantomime was playing, Theresa used to come
on the stage with attendants just like Cleopatra does in
the tragedy; but now she has to enter in attendance on
the Queen herself. This is too bad. Quite enough fo
make Iras —Iras-cible. Miss Horan made a capital
attendant. Indeed, we quite envied Cleopatra her luck
in possessing such a domestic treasure. When our
hired girl bombards us with the tea-pot and leaves (as
the last did), we will be happy to give Theresa a show.
And she needn’t bother about any references from Chop.
We shouldn’t regard them as of any value at all.
# # #
For the rest Mr. Jordan was rather thin sonp
as Oxtailius Caesar, and Mr. Henry Leston (though
it wasn’t his fault) couldn’t get a laugh out of Marcus
CEmelius Lepidus ; however, Joe Tolano (who was—O,
eternal fitness of things!—a clown) could have brought
down the house if he had only asked Mr. M. (E. L, how
many boarding-houses he was stopping at once. Mr.
Theodore Hamilton was sufficiently pom perns—we mean
pompous as Pompeius, and Mr. Fleming “ got the girls ”
as Eros, a character in which he —like the hero in the
song, has “ ’is ’elmet on 'is ’ed,” and battles for Antony
with’ great f-Eros-ity. Mr. Stuart Bolton was very
effective as Philo, and Mr. Musgrave displayed great
elocutionary power as Enobarbus. The Mardian of Mr.
H. A. Douglas was a part that allows but a small
Mardian for criticism, but he was good, as was also Mr.
Hasker as the Soothsayer. Mr. B. Daly did great
things with the prompt-book as Procu-something, and
Mr. Hugh Power as Canidius (possibly a Scotchman)
was satisfactory. Mr. Mowry as Scarus didn’t, and Mr.
J. Davy did—Agrippa.
• • •
The mounting of the piece was superb, and Mr.
Allison has done more, in thus clothing the poet in so
rich a garb, to deserve the thanks of the community
than any manager who has catered for us for a long
while. “Cleopatra,” as played at the Eoyal, is not
only a sublime tragedy, but a gorgeous pageant, and we
trust to see it draw for many a long day. By the way,
if ever Jim should get hard up (which is confoundedly
improbable 1), and wishes to negociate a loan upon the
carpet, spread for Cleopatra to land on, if his uncle is
at all diffident, James can assure him that he has had
a sovereign on it.
** * *
Mr. Fred. Mervin had a crowded matinee on
Saturday afternoon, and the people were very enthusi-
astic. In connection with this, we have received a
letter from Mr. Herbert Arrowsmith, in which he tells
us that we were in error in saying that “ Tears, Idle
Tears” is an adaptation of “La Joie Fait Poeur,” it
being “ Marcelle ” faked into English by Mr. Clement
Scott. We are much obliged to Mr. Herbert Arrow-
smith for the correction. If ho catches us tripping
again, wo will present him with a service of plate—in
tripe.
** * *
The Opera House opened with Bent and
Batchelder's Christy s, on Saturday, to a jammed house,
and the fun was so fast and furious, that a gentleman
in the pit coughed up, through laughing, a five-shilling
piece that he had swallowed a quarter of a century ago.
When the performance was over, he went to Billy
Bent, and wringing his hand feelingly, said: “Bless
you, bless yon, my benefactor. I have long yearned to
purchase a newspaper, and .” But here his feelings
got the batter of him, and he hurried away at the top
of his speed in the direction of King-street.
• • •
The show is a capital one, the “ Salon d’
Ethiope,” as they call their first part, being a delight-
ful entertainment, while all their farces are yells. The
big event of the chair portion ef the entertainment
was a song, “ Dolly May,” by Mr. Beaumont Bead. As
we didn’t catch the words, we shall possibly go down
to our graves without knowing what Dolly May, but,
go to a dancing saloon, we should say is what Dolly
Mayn’t. Mr. Bead’s voice is in wonderful preserva-
tion, and his ballad was rapturously encored. Miss
Amy Eowe, the dual-voiced nightingale, who, in her
youth, is said to have swallowed a soprano and a bari-
tone, emits from her ruby lips the pleasantest Eowe we
have heard for many a day. Mr. Fredericks looked
delightful, and made an interlocutor of suitable gravity.
He never laughed, even at the wildest of Billy’s jokes
—the reason for this being, perhaps, that he has heard
them so much oftener than we have. Billy, himself, is
inimitable, and was the life and soul of the entertain-
ment. He has got together a good stock of wheezes,
many of which are really delightfully novel. And,
what more can be said than that ? The Brothers Hugo
scored a viotor-y (oh!) in their song and dance, and
Ball took a roll as Dr. Brown, and another as Mr.
Aspen Timid, in the farces “Who’s Dead?” and the
•‘ Midnight Intruder,” with immense spirit. In short,
it is not saying too much to state that Ball was a great
throw in.
• * •
We hope the season will be a long and prosper-
ous one, and that all concerned will “ acoop ’em in.”
They are certainly the funniest lot of people that have
been here for many a day.
• « •
Just one little par. for “ W.J.” lest in leaving
the King of the show out in the cold we should be ac-
cused of lessee majesU. Mr. Wilson has a wonderful
American tell-tale machine, which he sets at night,
placing inside it a printed disc. Well, in the morning
this tells him what parts of the theatre the fireman
has visited, how many times he has been to sleep, and
every word he said out ef the window to his girl. It is
kept in the office, and both it and “ W.J.” are on view
to a discriminating public nightly from 8 till 11.
** * *
“ Jean Yaljean,” with Alfred the Great as the
Convict, the Mayor, and Mr. Leblanc, was revived at
the Gaiety, on Saturday, and had a fine reception.
Alfred says it is “licensed by the Lord Chamberlain,"
which we are glad to hear. This piece is sc familiar to
Sydney playgoers, that a detailed criticism would be
unnecessary. Suffice it to say that “ Jean" is a play of
the intensest description, and being “a great moral les-
son,” should be under the immediate patronage of the
Municipal Council. On Saturday next will be produced
“No Mercy,” a play by Dr. Julian; the title of which re-
minds us of what we used to say to the French nurse-
girl, when we didn’t want any more bread-and-dripping.
The Vag’s. piece is certain to be well put on by the om-
nipotent L.M , and should be capitally acted. It will
be fully noticed next week.
** * *
Here is an astounding scandal about a “ star”
tragedienne. It will cost ns a thousand or two; but we
don’t care; we’ll publish it. If the worst comes to the
worst, and wc lose our all, we can’t starve. Wo can
always obtain employment on the Express. Here it
is—Ladies, look another way. Well, when leaving
Melbourne for Sydney, Miss Pomeroy decided suddenly I
she would travel alone, so she set ont by herself, leaving
her maid, the courier, and the phalanx of footmen to
follow. Louise was very melancholy until she got to
near Albury, hut as the train approached her eyes
brightened, the colour came rushing into her cheeks,
and her heart beat like a tower drnmmer. Once arrived
there was that waiting for her which made the rest of
the ride short and sweet. You can guess what “ that”
was, yon gay young men with the centre-” partings”
and low foreheads, can you not ? Well, it was “ The
Bulletin.” Sold again I
** * *
Winter and Summer. Turn the mangle while
we sing, Joolier :
We heard the other day “ Old Billy"
Did a thing most awful silly;
And didn’t we cry out “ O lord 1”
When they all said he’d married Maud.
Now of Miss Douglas’s example.
We just have had another sample.
For J. P. Hydes has done the brick.
And wedded with Miss Petherick.
If this don’t lick ns we’ll be hung—
Go it, old uns— while you’re young.
** * *
The Excelsior Company (of dramatic artists !)
wanted to go by coach from Casino to Tenterfield the
other day, but Cobb and Co. didn’t. So being stuck they
gave a miscellaneous entertainment and a dance. The
ladies of the company were in much demand amongst the
local clods, and the actresses were very gracious, a loeal
jeweller was well patronised by those charmers during
their stay at Casino, and it is rumoured that he has
made so much by their custom that he is shortly about
to extend his operations to another metal besides gold
and silver —road metal. And while on soft things let
us tell the world that ** Bill ” Leake got married the
other day to Miss Lambretti of Christchurch. Could
Leake have been off his onion ? no, never. During his
honeymoon it would not bo a bad line it William were
to write an opera. Mrs. L. could do the Lambretti.
** * *
Sam Howard has come back, and we may men-
tion, casually, that he has a hole in his shoe. We hope
he will play in Sydney. We can stand Sam. The in.
trepid Simmons is also de retour. Court Journal, please
copy. We may also mention, in a cheerful way, that
Tommy Hudson is back at his theatre in Melbourne.
Marshall has put on an American success called “ The
Professor." Whether it is an Australian success or not
we don’t know. One of the Franks of the company
might drop us a line. Mendchsahn Quictatte Club, the
best small musical company which has visited Australia
for many years, a frost at the Opera House. J. B. Howe
playing Othello to Cathcart’s lago at the Bijou, and a
Miss Lydia Hastings, elocutionist, about to appear at
St. George’s Hall, with a complete company of two.
The Melbourne Dramatic News says she rivals
Siddons; but then Mrs, Melbourne Dramatic News
forms one of the company, which consists of Madame
Weippert Patey, and Mr. E. Amory. And what do you
think ? “ Foggarty’s Fairy," Gilbert’s new play, was a
dead failure at the London Criterion, but Petitt has
scored a hit with a molodrama at the Adelphi. The
revival of ‘‘Two Eoses," at the Lyceum, with Irving
and David James, is a splendid triumph; and this
recalls to our minds the burning fact that Mr. Leader
Williams is about—so he tells us—to commence build-
ing up a gigantic fortune by travelling a Variety Com-
pany—advertised for elsewhere. His troupe will be the
only one in the world in which there will be two leaders.
And, just to close this par., we will tell our readers that
we hear from Brisbane South has gone North. Gympie.
** * *
It was announced that Mr. and Mrs. Garner and
Nellie Playfair would leave by the Ly-ee-Moon, on Mon-
day, so 25,000 fellows want down to see her off. They
shouted any amount of fizz while awaiting her arrival,
and it was only at the last moment that Arthur recol-
lected to tell them she wasn’t coming. When the
steamer steamed away, 25,000 cabs rushed off to “ hear
the news from Goodie. That night Miss Nellie went to
the theatre in white satin, and all was sunshine again.
Heighol See what it is to be lovely.
** * *
“ This has been a good week,” said the manager
of a “ Variety Combination” te a friend after they had
concluded their season in a country town. “ How’s
4hat ? ” said the friend, who had seen nobody in the
hall all the time except the Small Debts’ Court bailiff.
“First time this three months we’ve made the gas
money.” N. B. —There is a fine opening now for a choice
combination to travel the Coast district —opening at
Wollongong.
** * *
Sara Bernhardt, at Odessa, was pelted with
cucumbers. “ 'Ang it! ” ejaculated a star actor of the
Eoyal Dusthole Theatre, while discussing a wedge of
cheese and a block of onion with a soubrette, between
the acts, “I don’t see what she’s got to complain of.
’Wish to gord you and me was unpopular, ’Melia.
What a time the kids ’ud’ 'ave I’’ Coriolanus was then
called.
** * *
Here is the worst joke we ever heard. Cut it
out, therefore, you with the blue eyes and golden hair,
and paste in the scrap-book in which our autograph
gleams. Clara Thompson and her hubby, Henry Bracy,
were playing at the Opera House of which Mr. Dawhurst
Kitts was the treasurer; Kitts being then a terror to
dead-heads, Harwood (how we oould lap his gore!)
dropped in ono night, and button-holing the present
entrepreneur of the groat tor-radgodian, said, “ Why is
the free list here like the Bracys ? K. gave it up with
contumely. Then came the degraded answer, “ Because
it is suspended.” Pass the kerosene.
** * *
This must go in, even if the quotation of Warr-
nambool potatoes is crowded out. A man named
William B. Henry, has been writing about theatrical
matters in Australia in the, S. F. Dramatic “ Brevi-
ties,” From what we have read of W.8.H., we should
think that he is the most accomplished liar on record,
and is, therefore, certain to soon attain a competency
in the States. Hear him :—“ Dampier, with his two
little danghlers, Eose and Lily, barely made a living.
.... Mrs. Ballis (sic) nee (sic) Miry Gladstane, are
deep in debt. . . . Theo. Hamilton has barely bat
the necessaries of life, and is considered one of onr
leading heavy men in America. . . . J. J. Wallace
is but just living, and, as his health has failed him,
divides his time between theatrical business and selling
pop-corn. . . . Frank and Mrs. Bates were hardly
able to live. . , . Little Nell ‘the California dia-
mond,’ escaped bv night. ‘Bill’ Leak is never heard
of, while Louise Pomeroy keeps her name from utter
oblivion by flaming advertisements in the American
journals. . . . John Hall, the comedian, but barely
lives. Bland Holt has an engagement only from time
to time.” These are, of course, simply the inventions
of a disappointed man. A», however, he has drawn
upon his imagination it is a pity he oould not do it a
little more brilliantly. If Mr. Henry returns to this
country (which he is pretty sure to) he may rest
assured that his relations will hear of him. They will
receive bits of him by mail until the corpse is com-
plete. Then they can articulate his bones,
** * *
Here’s a curious thing. On Monday, the
papers came out with more gush about “Antony and
Cleopatra than we recollect ever having seen given
to anything. Even the Evunooze quite squeaked with
poetry. Yet, on Monday night, th ire was a wretchedly
bad house. Mr Allison said he was lager-biered if he
could make it out, and Josh talked Amourettes ct
Chiffons. We can explain the mystery. There was a
time when people read the criticisms in the dailies.
Now they don’t. We will leave it at that, and note the
fact that St. Leon’s circus has been doing well at New-
castle. A panic nearly occurred however, one night.
One of the clowns same out with a new joke. So far as
we can learn, no one was killed. Not even a policeman
or a Chinaman.
** * *
Weep! Another troupe of Bell Eingers has
arrived. It is “direct from America.’’ So there
fore naturally opened at Tamworth. And, while deal-
ing with foreigners, we may state that Patti employ s a
man to write all her notices. His name is Wheeler,
Now, Louise, there’s a hint for you. Dan’t forget
the address—24 Pitt-street.
* * **
They are going to have a “ band contest” in
Auckland; and, talking of this, Mr. John E. Fulton
has arrived in 'Frisco, and the papers are clawing him
properly. They say they don’t know who he is! Im-
possible 1 Well, if they don’t we do! John E. is to
travel with a Mdlle. Eochelle, a tremendous star of
the Imogen school. Like her, as with others, as long
as her money lasts she will travel. When it’s all gone,
Fulton will travel Another big man 1 A loud chord
here, Mr. Conductor. Thanks. George Eignold is in
Melbourne. He is to produce “ Youth,” and “ The
Lights." In this piece are several footmen, so the
Lights will certain to bo livery. Oh, and fancy 1 Clara
Hamilton, whom yon all remember distinguishing her-
self by not playing for the Highland Society, is at the
Temperance Hail, Melbourne. The title of her Italian
entertainment is “ Twa Oors at Hama.”
** * »
Ned and Chawles have been playing the two
Dromios at Ballarat. Holloway ! Holiowa-a-a-y 1 Come
bout agin! And we have just learned that the “ very
much travelled" is in New York arranging with Forbes
again. What are the odds the little man doesn’t return
once more bear-leader to the Eev. Charles p Eh ?
** * *
Dalziel has got a paper in Chicago called the
Newsletter. There is a portrait in it of Emilie Mel-
ville, which is as much like her as she is like a plate of
soup. Dal. is her local agent now. He used to ho
Dickie’s local agent once. Oh, and by the way, Mr.
Fred. Meredith is sending ns, from “ Murker," a lot of
marked papers, in which he is always “ convulsing the
audience " Who in thunder is this comic gentleman ?
And what fun this was. All through the pantomime
Theresa Horan said:—
“ I love him as much . , ,
As the Sydney Bulletin loves Clontarf;
As Dr. Brereton loves lymphatic calf.”
Now we didn’t like to be rnde before; but now as
Teasyresa is going to star in Adelaide, we mildly
whisper in her shell-like ear, that there is no such word
as lymphatic. It’s not onr fault that there isn’t, hut—
there ain’t,
** * *
Mr. George Forbes writes to tell ns that ho will
bo in Sydney with Wybert Eeeve in May, and he also
calls our attention to an unkind notice of him which
recently appeared in our personal columns. We can
assure Mr. Forbes that the item in question was an
oversight, and beg him to believe that, so far from
wishing to throw cold water upon his efforts, we take
the liveliest interest in his caroer, and are quite sure that
he will ultimately be successful. And as a relief after all
this square stuff let us chronicle the fact that Miss
Jennie Horan is not going to Adelaide with Teresa and
“ Siubad,” as was arranged, but is resting on crumpled
rose-leaves after her recent exertions at the Victorieral.
Jennie received an offer to go to Now Zealand with a
drawing room entertainment, but she told the manager
she didn’t want, at her tender age (18), to begin accu-
mulating millions. And while chatting of real talent
let ns chronicle that Mr. M. J. Abrahams |has returned
from Wollongong, and has seceded from the “ Acmii of
Novelties” Company. They are still on the coast, and
from what has reached ns, we should imagine that they
are getting gradually and deliberately wealthy,
** ♦ *
Mr. Fred. Mervin goes away by the Potoai on
Fiiday.
** * *
A full notice of the performance of the Mer-
cantile Dramatic Club, at the Opera House on Tuesday,
will appear next week. More joy 1
There is a city cabman, living in the
midst of rather a “tall" bit of people, who returns
home at about half-past twelve every night and com.
mences to beat his wife. That lady responds with a
menagerie full of shrieks and a volley of saucepan lids,
both making night hideous until they have fallen into
a drunken slumber. While the combat rages, about
25,000 windows are thrown up, and weird forms of both
sexes, driven to desperation, hurl anathemas in the
direction of the cabman’s residence. The police never
interfere in this matter. They appear to have a delicacy
in intruding upon the threshold of such chaste domes-
ticity. Some people account for this by saying that
the cabman has an aunt in the force; while others even
go so far is to hint that the lady herself is a senior
sergeant of the A. division. Qui expliquera ce my store.
St. Michael’s Society had another meeting
recently. Ono gentleman tabled a motion to engage a
lecturer at £3 3s. per quarter, t® instruct members in
geology, history, and “kimistry,” and another motion
was to break up the society, sell the books and effects,
and divide the greed. On this an athlrtio office-bearer
gently turning up bis shirt-cuffs, said he would like a
little conversation with the genthmen supporting the
resolution, on which the society commenced to exp- r .
ence a passing feeling of uneasiness. The meeting,
therefoie, broke up in confusion, the principal advocate
for dissolving the society evincing in his voyage home
pedestrian powers of a very high order. It is nntioi-
pated that if this hilarity at the meetings of the society
continues, there will be some difficulty at the expiration
of fifty years or so in forming a quorum. The funds of
the society are in such a flourishing condition, that it
is contemplated, we understand, to half-sole and heel
the President’s boots next Michaelmas.
Now that Pepper has failed to delight the
hearts of the Queenslanders with the sweet savour of
robust rain, other “ medicine men ” are in the field
endeavouring to coerce Jupiter Pin vine, who is too
knowing to be cajoled even by the Wesleyan Confer-
ence. One of these has hit on the following plan;
Take a dozen divines, a score of attorneys, a jury of
four, and a team of an average eleven from any Young
Men’s Christian Association. Select a young maiden of
the rarest purity—say one of Dr. Ellis’s vestal virgins
—and give her a basket of apples. Eain will assuredly
fall within twenty hours if she throws any of the apples
and strikes a divine without hitting a bigoted wor-
shipper of Mammon; or an attorney without hitting
one who is a league off the highroad of truth; or a
member of th,e Y.M.C. A., who thinks more of his belly
than he does of God; or one of the juridical quartette,
without—but here let us hide our abashed heads, and
silence our erratic tongues. One Clontarf affair is
enough in one geuerati m.
The Eev. Mr. Talmage and Professor Pepper
seem to own twin souls which move as one. As recently
as December last, Talmage declared that prayer has
less effect upon the weather than upon anything else
and his scheme for getting rain is to bombard the
heavens with cannon. Pepper seems merely to have
added kites and dynamite and a tame mule to this pro-
gramme. By the way the professor’s original idea has
not yet been tested. This kite which was to adjust the
electric condition of the clouds by establishing
communication with the earth, by means of a wire
“string” was badly made and wouldn’t go up at all,
while all the “cannon ” he had for bombarding were a
row of little ships’ signalling barkers, which Mr. George
Harris has for years had on his lawn at Newstead, and
which were not shotted. Even if they had been they
would not have carried more than about 300 yards,
and their calibre is equal to about 1| pounders.
Pepper’s plan was to have 9 pounder field-pieces and
explode shells among the clouds.
of the market. Dealers in hardware never
found things so hard as they are now ; they complain
that tin plates are flat—lead, heavy—iron, dnll—spades,
not trumps—and too many rakes in the market. Brass,
however, is in demand for politicians. Nails won’t go
by pushing, and have to be driven. In paints, things
look bine. The limber trade is planely pining, and
holders have a deal of trouble to stave off pressure.
Shippers of ashes have to add sackcloth to them.
There is no spirit in the rum trade, and holders of
vinegar look sour. Champagne, however, is brisk.
Ehubarb and senna are quite drug.-, but there is a con-
sumption of brimstone, many matches having lately
been made. Holders of indigo look blue, and don’t care
about touching it, bnt this does not indicate that the
trade is dying. Starch is stiffening, and paper is sta-
tionery. In the meal market, things are flowery, but
millers say the high price of wheat goes against
their grain. There is no life in hoggs, but old cheese
is animated. Good horses go off rapidly, and fat
bullocks are heavy.
If e’er the brain is torpid, and
The mnse of fancy Bits afar.
For Inspiration’s magic wand
Just read the simple word —“ cigar.”
Lie hack and watch, with half-closed eyes.
The thin smoke-circlets upwards curling,
And yen’ll mark as those blue rings rise
The scroll of fancy fast unfurling.
One long and lazy puff—no more ;
Your mouth with claret slightly wet it;
Just think of someone you adore,
And in a flash, by George, you get it 1
PROFESSOR A. GIAMMONA, MEMBER OF THE ACADAMIES OF NAPLES AND PARIS.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
SW« shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
racing clubs and managers of sporting e vents in general,]
RACING.
Wentworth March 3, 4.
‘Lweoar 8j 9 .
V.R.O March. 4. 9. 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12,
9, railge March 16, 17.
Albnry.... 16> 17-
Oamaru (N.Z.) March 16, 17.
Gundagai March 16, 17.
p l oton March 18, 20.
Wagga March 22, 23.
£°]i 0 £ a p March 23.
Y-AT.C March 25.
Adelong. . March 28.
Great Northern R.C. (8.A.) March 29, 30.
bale Turf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
Victoria Trotting Club April 1
Canterbury. J.C. (N.Z ) '.’.'.’.'.April 10. ll!
Auckland E C., Autumn April 10, 11
A.J.G. Autumn April 10, 12, 14, is!
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22-
Wilcannia April 20, 21.
Eohuca April 20, 21.
Sydney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Deniliquin April 27. 28.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton May 2,4.
Lachlan R.C May 4, 5.
Adelaide Racing Club May 6,11,13.
S.A. J.C Mav 24,
Queensland J.C May 24, 25.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting,,,June 7,9,
„ AQUATICS.
Woolloomooloo Bay Amateur Regatta March 11.
Portland Regatta March 16.
Hanlan v. Boyd, on the Tyne April 3
Rocky Month Regatta Easter Monday.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race April 29,
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Ross, on the Thames June 20.
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven;—Australian Eleven, Sydney, March 3,4, 6;
Australian Eleven, Melbourne, March 9,10, 11.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
‘W T* lB es tate drawing is fixed for March
Jem Mace, who went to N.Z. by last trip of the
Wakatipu, was quarantined at Wellington,
Eleven nominations for the Wagga Autumn
Handicap, fourteen for the Publicans’ Purse.
Watson, who made top score against the Eng-
lish Eleven, at Christchurch, is a Tasmanian.
The Marlborough (N.Z.) Cup was appropriated
by the Slander filly, 7st. 71b.; Magnolia, 2; Rose, 3.
At Dunedin, N.Z., athletic sports, O’Brien won
tho mile race with the greatest ease in 4 min. 40 J secs.
Tho cricket match between the Melbourne club
and Hobart eleven was won by the former by 177 runs.
The Adelaide Racing Club has accepted a
tender for building a new grand stand at a cost of
£4675.
The Port Adelaide Rowing Club has decided
to institute a series of monthly races for challenge
honours,
H. Hutchens, tho champion English sprinter,
offers any man in the world four yards start in 150, for
£2OO up to £5OO aside.
Puller has received an order from the N.S.W.
Rowing Association to build an eight-oared boat for
the intercolonial race.
Dewdrop. 6st. 121ba., won tho Waikato (N.Z.)
Turf Club Handicap, Randwick, Ost., second, Kenil-
worth, 7st. 71b., third.
Mr. Barnard, of Melbourne, has been appointed
to make the priueipal handicaps for tho Albury meet-
ing on March 16 and 17.
Robert Edwards, the well-known Victorian
light-weight sculler, intends visiting England, with
a view to the coming season’s fixtures.
Camballo won the Governor-General’s Cup at
Calcutta, beating Blnehght, Caspian, and other cracks.
Camballo is by The Friar, from Belhari.
Miss Wallace, tho winner of the six days’ tour-
nament, is willing to meet any woman in a 24 hours’ or
six days’ go-as-you-please for £5O or £2OO.
Chantilly, a promising colt in Mr. F. Long’s
training stable at Caulfltdd, had to be destroyed lately,
through having beoome hopelessly paralytic.
Aspen, who was one of the favourites for tho
Newmarket Handicap, broke down last week in her
training, and she had to be scratched for that event.
The Dunedin Cup, run lor at Wellington (N. Z.)
on the 23rd Fob., was won by Lady E.uma, Libellor
being second, Chancellor third. Time 3 mins. 55J
secs.
Walter MTndoe, Victorian champion swimmer,
contemplates a trip to the old country if Beckwith, tho
champion of England, would like to try conclusions
with him.
Picton Races on March 18 and 20. The prin-
cipal event will bo tho Picton Cup, value 10 guineas, to
which is added 30 sovs. The general entry takes place
on March 11.
Mermaid, the dam of Lurline, Le Loup, M alice,
Waterwitch, Castaway, Lure, and La Mode, has had to
be destroyed at Christchurch, N.Z. Mermaid was
foaled in 1860.
Tho eight-oared race between tho American
Universities, Harvard and Yale, takes place on June
29,1383, over the nsual course ou tho Thames River, at
New London, Conn.
A subscription list is open at the office of tho
Australian Jockey Club for the benefit of the mother
o( the unfortunate steeplechase rider, Carey, who met
his death while riding at Hobart.
At the Barrackpore (India) races in November,
Mr. Weekes’ Australian mare. Country Girl, by Country,
man, won the Criterion Stakes. Most of tho other
races were won by Australian horses.
Three Cambridge University men, getting im-
pecunious in New Zealand, and unable to flud more
suitable employment, took to rabbit shooting, and in
two months shot halt a million conies, making good
wages.
Orange J.G. meeting. Nominations : Stewards’
Purse 21, Chnuqiagne Stakes 13, Town Plate 15, Two-
year-old Handicap 7, Pony Handicap 7, Three-year-old
Handicap 7, Flying Handicap 26, Jockey Club Handi-
cap 17.
A game of football has been invented for blind
players. Inside the ball a bell is suspended, which
risgs all the time the ball is in motion, and the sense
of hearing being very acute in blind persons, they play
quite skilfully.
A 100-yards foot-race, for £lO, came off in the
Domain, last week, between Carmodv and Williams
The latter was the favourite, but, though ho got off
with the lead, Carmody soon caught him, and won
cleverly by about two yards.
Tho Auckland (N.Z.) Stud Co. have purchased
Raapo, dam of Mata. Raupo was bred by Mr. Red-
wood in 1860, and was got by Diomedes, her dam
Pine be, by Sir Hercules— Woodstock by Theorem. Tho
mare is now in foal to Musket.
Barber, Bathurst, and Twilight are backed for tho
Hawkesbury Handicap. Double event betting on the
Handicap and Sydney Cup is brisk. Since the with-
f»r^T ral # 0f £ sp ® n * Surry a * d Amelia have oomo into
favour for the Newmarket Handicap.
pw rin & the ? ew Z , ealand tour of the All-England
I rt?.’n! hr^ Bburyobtaiued hi^heBt hatting average,
°?T S " e£t with 31.1. Barlow 21.
uiyett lo 6. Shaw takes the bowling average with 2 17
runs per wicket. Bates 2 21, Midwmtlr 2.C9. &
nnS°rlS de Racil ? g Club ’ 8 Birthday Cup ia a
purse of 1000 sova., with a sweep of 20 sovs added •
tw n Aa f T b ° ? oufch Australian J.C. have raised
eold tf'nni aide Cup }°a I S°° SOV8 ’ bosides a handsome
fteal P^:?. ated by Sir Thomas Elder. The
rival embs are hitting from the shoulder over there.
r ‘ Gr. Stead, of Canterbury, N.Z., who
tv. Ur s od f . rPm a c continental tour, has written
fnwhlehI th ' edl « ct ow of the Auckland Stud Company
oh he speaks of Musket’s son, Petronel, in high
t®™ B -, Mr. Stead considers Petronel one of the most
tour 6Ct racahorses that he saw during the whole of his
.. P at °* 3G applicants for the post of starter for
ihoin Tt a p| J h- k f y P lub > Mr. Bichard Bouse was
the service C ih- b 18 to ., be con S ra tulated upon securing
f of , thl9 gentleman, who has invariably given
tewHh t wbon officiating In this capacity. Of course
Clubs. 1 b Btarter ,or the Amateur Turf and Tatteisail’s
Tasmanian Turf Club Meeting. Maiden Plato
Btake3 ’ HoMrt : Launceston
mius ti X * Nappor Tandy 2. Queen 3 Time
IWv n n iJf?“ ian Turf Club Cn P. Napper
iandy, 0 st. 6 lb. 1, Sunset, 2, Stockwoll 3 Time 2
MlaydayTs.' Bteeplechase * Paul . U st. 5 lb, l. Tapman,
•At Birch’s Crook, on the Smoaton Plains (Vic.),
the anglers choose a quiet and deep spot, asd throw in
flaHick nP C 1 0m “ oa tabla salt, which makes the
rf'SXSSttSS£ J * n ‘ ot ” h »“
tinfe« C «!n nd ’ w \° has deceived his backers more
f ™ouritefnr n t b nPM m A . us 7 t , ralia . was an immense
th ?,o.; IC ; ins Purse at the Helensville
eas'ifP I,P v^° n 28 , th January, but was beaten very
T ® dy b * V t^ P 'i.°’ former ly the property of Mr. T.
v Gr 7: Auckland s name has been changed to Maori,
but his luck did not change with him. ’
During the shooting for the Cup Sweep under
the Tre P DaraHen the f oym P ie G“ n Club, the boy P who had
friction P w “! f the Bn i? ke balls caused too much
£ IG .V° n b 7 Pressing on the covers; the glycerine
the others V/fT- th °, into a caso containing
donet lthoK P . lo r followed, but no harm was
none beyond the boy s fingers being scorched.
Lo“rt»dt'.^-” sMer by A
p.*', 1 hea s of vary good sport ia Sussex. The Duke of
Richmond has had a great drive of partridges over the
Goodwood farms; while the Duke of Norfolk and «
kufte£teff v ! ry lar !Te bags on the Arundel estate,
ilimg 515 pheasants in one day in a very small covert ”
savs-- o »Re a^ n ’fi’ .° n i he Hanlan-Boyd match,
Hanlan bdlli endeavour was to make out that
rianian nod challenged him, but it his been miffi
Mud y Norw D n °u la v tbat Han * an did nothing of the
kind. Nor was Boyd s supposition at all well founded
in - tho r ;°l! tion of undoubted
traha I bn? h eb mPlOa ° f , B T n K land and America and Aus-
MadaeLearn“ ° JerUBalem . the Isle of Man, and
anybody ” well—was not in a position to challenge
y Another fatal laccidont at cricket. At Middle,
brook, near Scone, last week, a little boy, named
Murray, 7 years of age, whilst looking on at a game of
enckot was struck in the stomach by a ball? and the
l^T 8 ° a T d WOr , e of B l lch a nature that the poor boy
died soon afterwards. We often wonder that there are
stend 1 ™ 0 acc 1 1 . dent8 - p eople watching cricket-practioo
8 l*“ d g ®“ e ™ lly ab ° ut B hort-leg, the most dangerous
P i, c ®' At Moore Paris:, where balls are flying about in
3<ll directions, this is especially noticeable.
The one-day match at Windsor, between the
English Eleven and the Hawkesbury Twenty-two
resulted in an easy victory for the former. Fibre
wickets were used, but Player’s bumpy ones found some
soft places on the Englishmen’s bodiesl Blackham!
m Bates’s place, was so injured that
ho had to retire after making 25. Barlow took his
knocks cheerfully, and played a not-out innings for 50
Ihe scores were Hawkesbury Twentv-two 61 W
Bead 10. W. Hull 10. All England Eleven, five wickete
Tvr d _R f r °7 0t ??9o 50 * Shrewsbury 30, Blackham
25, Midwinter (not out) 18.
Miller is anxious to meet either Mace or
Thompson in a boxing contest, with small or ordinary
sized gloves, for £lOO aside, either in Melbourne or
bydney. Xhis is what he thinks about it. Speaking of
a previous glove encounter, he says“ The little ap-
plause Mace got, if any, was when he deliberately
asked me to lead on the stage, Mace ducking at the
same time, and making several feints with his left and
right. 1 can assure Mr. Mace, when we are on our
merits ho will not be able to resort to these little
artifices. I have met most of the best boxers of the
present day on their merits, and the general opinion of
the Press in America is that I am equal to anyone
with the gloves. I have had quite enough of experi-
ence to show Mr. Mace that he can teach me nothing
in a boxing contest.”
A resident of Toronto has issued the following
challenges He will wager five hundred or a thousand
dollars that no man living l , in a running long jump, can
cover 21 feet without artificial aid on level ground ; ho
will wager five hundred or a thousand dollars that no
man living can accomplish six feet in a running high
jump on level ground; he will wager five hundred or a
thousand dollars that no man living can sling the 561 b.
weight 35 feet on level ground; and lastly, ho will
wager five hundred or a thousand dollars that no man
living can go a hundred yards as fast on a bicycle, or on
skates, as a man he will produce to go on foot, the man
on bicycle, or on skates, to have a flying start, This
gentleman would have had a splendid chance of losing
one at least of his bets at the College sports three years
ago, when Westerns covered 21 feet 8 inches in the
long jump.
A Mr. Cornea sued tho Thames Jockey Club for
his dividend on four tickets on Totara in the totalisator
sweep on the Hurdle Race at Parawai. Uncle Tom was
the first past the winning-post, but being protested
against, Totara was declared winner. Tho totalisator
paid on Uncle Tom. Tbo EM. gave judgement and
held that a transaction with tho totalisator constituted
betting and gambling according to tho Act, and any
disputed transaction could not be recovered in a court
of law. Ho therefore nonsuited the plaintiff. In giving
judgement, ho said that in absence ©f any recognised
rule for the disposal of totalisator stakes tho recognised
laws of betting awarding the money to the winning
horse must be considered. The owners of any machine
could work according to any regulations they choose to
make, provided sueh regulation were posted up for the
information of investors.
A singular accident has befallen one of tho most
prominent candidates for Wanganui (N.Z ) Blue Ribbon,
borne weeks ago Mr. Heslop’s bay throe-year-old geldiug
Logic (by Papapa out of Mishap), which was in training,
strayed out of a paddock, and no trace of the animal
could be found. One day Mr. Heslop came to town, and
when crossing the street in order to hand in an advertise,
ment offering a reward for any information regarding tho
horse, he happened to glance over at tho cab-stand, when
ho saw his thoroughbred gelding standing quietly
harnessed to a cab in tho ranks. On making inquiries
he found tbat the gelding bad bieu found wandering in
the streets and impounded. Ho was advertised in tho
papers, but one distinguishing brand on tho cheek wa
not mentioned. As tbo horso was not claimed ho was
sold in the usual course, and purchased by the cab-
driver for £7. As the sale was a perfectly legal one,
and the purchaser declines to part with tho animal, Mr.
Heslop is a heavy loser.
Referring to the coming billiard match between
John Roberts, jun., and Cook, the latter to get 500
points in 5003, for £5OO a side, Pendragou, of the London
Eeeekeb, says'“ An analysis of Eoberts’s best games
will show that few of his breaks are exceptionally large,
and few of them exceptionally small. His averages,
and not his single breaks, carry him to the forefront.
When giving away points he continues steadily to draw
on his man at an almost unvarying pace ; when starting
on level terms, ho travels in much tho same manner,
making the best of his way, and generally managing to
secure something every time his turn comes. If Cook
could maintain his test form in tho same manner as
Roberts maintains his, the idea of Roberts giving him
a start would be ridiculous; but, then, in matters mun-
dane, a yery brilliant show ia mostly given at tho
expense of staying power. Cook has not of late been
m any way the Cook of old. His uncertainties have
become more marked, and his displays of quality have
become scarcer.”
Our query who was John Carter, the Sydney scul-
ler, has been answered, the person taming out to be
Messenger, the Victorian sculler. His identity came
out, at Wellington, in this way. Mr. Taylor, a boat-
builder there, received a telegram from Auckland that
Messenger was a passenger to Wellington, accompanied
by kloyd. On his arrival, a member of the Star Boat-
, v’ ? aT ® Messenger leave to put his boat in the
club s shed. Shortly afterwards, it struck some Of the
committee that Messenger was the man who had rowed
u i n j de fj arL aBsumed name, and a meeting was
2,®*' d . t 0 decldo n P° n what steps should be taken,
u lo 7r Messenger’s trainer and companion, was asked
by Mr. Knapp, the captain of the Wareka, s s., if Mes-
senger had rowed in Auckland under the name of
Carter. Floyd admitted that he had done so, and in
answer to further queries, stated that White was not
aware that he was rowing Messenger, nor was the
regatta committee aware that Messenger was taking
part m the events. The committee then informed
* yd bbat . Messenger’s conduct was not reputable,
and that unless he could give a satisfactory explanation
hs must remove his boat from the shed forthwith. No
explanation being given, the boat was ordered to be
taken away at once, and this was dona. Several other
facte also came to light. Messenger has since issued a
challenge to row anyone in N.Z, 3* miles, which has
fiveweek* 11 UP by Hearu- The m atch takes place in
fhe first annual contest for prizes took place
between Members of tho Sydney Gymnasium last
1 liursday. There ware five senior and five junior com.
Tii- rB, Tr PesBrs . Lritaon and Dovers being referees,
and Mr. Ee«s judge. Although most of tho exercises
were well performed, the number of blunders showed
some of the young men tried for the medals too hard.
The youths were chastely clothed; some neat, others
gaudy, but all good-looking. There was a good atten-
dance, ladies graced tho scats, and the German band
played. Cansdoll and Haege exhibited splendid gym-
nastics, and received the gold and silver medals in the
senior c'ass. Fry bungled assiduously, and was in bad
hut ho was strong in Ihe costume line, being
like the Bulletiu, very much red. The gorgeousness of
his get up was unequalled by anything, except by the
clumsiness of his get-down—from the bar. Muir’s per-
fqrmances were brilliant, but all his tricks were finished
with such impetuosity tbat he had to bo carefully
watched to prevent his knocking down the building
Nothing less than a stone wall or a front seat full of
girls could stop him. Ball quitted tho horizontal bar
rather nastily, and alighted on the ground in a horizon-
tal attitude; that put him out of it at once. Clement se-
cured the special gold medal for Ilf ting weights, putting
two dumb-bells above his head »t once, each about the
weight of an average girl. Kellermau took the gold
medal m the j unior division, and thoroughly deserved it,
every exercise being performed in splendid style.
Brindley and Bowerman were very close together, but
a slip or two on the part of the latter, in his daring
tricks, gave Nuggetty Bob the advantage. It is not
considered good gyn. nasties to reach the ground in a
sitting position, but this feat was successfully accom-
plished several times. Tho affair was well conducted
by Mr. D’Harconrt, and would have been better if
half-an.honr shorter The proud winners took their
medals home in furniture vans daring the night, and
the rest of the athletes, who didn’t go to the infirmary
dodged round to the Cambridge Club, and did some
tricks on the bar.
Otto, the boy chief of the Nez Perce Indians,
who lately challenged Dr. Carver, gave an exhibition of
rifle shooting at San Francisco. A framework was
built upon the stage, within which were a number of
swinging glass balls. Upon tho rear plankment was
suspended the figure of a man, life size. A five cent
piece was placed upon the top of the head of thi» figure
Otto’s back being to the object the word “about" was
given, and the coin was pierced through the centre.
He then put down his rifle 6ft. from where he stood,
turned a somersault, caught his rifle again, fired and
cut the string of the suspended figure at which
he had previously fired. A pistol barrel was then
placed in a small steel frame; behind this was fixed a
razor, with its edge facing the andienoe. On each side
of this razor was a glass ball securely placed. The
p : stol-barrel, razor, and balls were masked with a cover-
ing ot white cloth. 'I he boy was then blindfolded, and
his back turned to tho object. The “ about face " was
given, when ho fired down through the pistol-barrel,
split his single rifle ball upon the razor’s edge, and
broke both glass bads on tho right and left. This
remarkable feat was performed by the boy’s sense of
location. Then a loaded pistol was placed diagonally
from where Otto stood. Three halls were set swinging
in contrary directions. Otto fired, hit the trigger ot
the pistol, and broke tho three balls. Eight metal balls
were then screwed on the 10ft. frame. On the sides,
below and above, balls wore set swinging in every
direction. Macdonald stood in front of the boy, who
then fired over his head, and at each side of him, and
between his knees, breaking the balls from any and
every part whore thev wore suspended behind Mao.
donald’s back. A target was then put up behind
Macdonald’s back. ’lhe boy went through the same
performance, standing opposite Macdonald, and rung
fie t ell (which is placed at the extreme rear) at every
shot, by caroming on the metal balls. Six smalllighted
tapers were then arranged upon a slender perpendicular
pole; then, while in the various postures of vaulting
and tumbling, Otto extinguished each respective light
with his rifle. Glass balls were thrown up in the air in
every conceivable direction. These Otto broke pro-
miscuously without any sight at all, for a large business
card was fastened over the point of the rifle. This
description of shooting he considers the most simple,
and. though wonderful to the spectator, scarcely
worthy of his own prowess Otto’s average in this
class ot shooting is 68 out of a 100. Otto placed his
weapon at a point distant 6ft. from him ; then, at the
word “ready.” two glass balls were thrown into the
air He tumbled, caught his rifle, fired, and broke both
of these glass balls with one shot. Twelve glass balls
were placed upon a perpendicular pole in exact rota-
tion. Otto loaded, fired, and broke every one of them
in 12-iec. This was a wonderful feat, and has never
accomplished before by any living marksman.
Otto’s favourite weapon is the Winchester rifle, one of
which, in token of admiration, was presented to him by
the Winchester Rifle Company, through its accredited
agent in San Francisco. To close the performance,
Otto, while bis left arm was securely tied to bis side!
loaded, aimed, fired and broke a large quantity of glass
balls with his right arm.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A rifle contest took place on Saturday week, at
Bathurst, between the Engineers and Bathurst Corps
resulting in a victory for the latter, tho scores being
—Engineers 415, Bathurst Corps 147 At the Heath-
cote (N.Z.) regatta, in the first race, senior double-sculls,
a Lyttelton boat was swamped. Tho Kaiapoi and Can-
terbury Club boats wont to its assistance, and the latter
also was swamped. The Union Club (Christchurch) boat
went on, aod claimed the race. Tho crows of the
swamped boats wero picked up without difficulty. They
claim another race A gentleman who invested £1 on
Hilda for the Wellington (N.Z.) Cup, in one of the
totalisators, is repenting at leisure a hasty action. He
had a number of old tickets in his pocket, and thinking
they were useless ho destroyed them. When he found
that £2l stood to his credit through the perform-
ances of his favourite, he discovered that among the
papers which he had tom was the one which he
had received on account of the Cup race
Tho Norwo)d Bowing Club, Adelaide, have been trying
members of the club and young oarsmen in trial fours
with satisfactory results A boat race took place at
Lake Macquarie, ou Feb. 20, between J. Goldie and T
Hopkins, the latter staking £l5O to the former’s £lOO.
Goldie won, Hopkins’ paddle having been broken... A
cricket match was played at Wamberall, on Jan. 26
between the Wamberall and Erina Wharf teams.resulting
in a victory for the former by 38 runs Townsville
Carroll v. Puller, 100 yards, £2 a-side. Won by Carroll.
Chandler v. Worboys, 50 yards. Won by Chandler
Sweet Cicely, one of Mr Stead’s recent importations
from England to Christchurch, N.Z , has foaled a filly
to Wild Oats A Wellington paper says that under
tho most favourable circumstances Monaghan, tho
jockey, who was hurt on the eve of the AVellington races,
will not be able to ride for twelve mouths. His injuries
consist of a comminuted fracture of both bones of the
leg below the knee joint, injury to the joint itself, and
severe contusions—iu fact, a dreadful smash. Thera is
just a possibility that the leg may be saved without
amputation of the lower joint.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Guiteau, recounting his'esperiencos as a mis-
sionary lecturer, says he found people were very ready
to pay 50 per cent, to hear there was no hell, but
wouldn’t pay a cent, to hear there was a hell.
Mias Fanny Stenhouse, who visited Australia
some years ago as leeturess, on the evils of Mormonism,
is about to start for a tour round the world, with the
same object in view.
One Sunday towards the end of last year, the
congregation of tho Roman Catholic Church of the
Immaculate Conception, in response to an appeal to
subscribe toward* schools in the diocese, shelled out
$OOO0 —about £l2OOl
It is reported that a majority of the Glasgow
ministers declined to sign a call for Moody and Sankey’a
services on the grounds that their ministrations hither,
to have been of no permanent service to the cause of
religion or morality.
Tom Paine's “ Age of Reason ” has been trans
lated into Japanese, and with a numbar of other free,
thought publications, introduced by European and
American travellers, is being eagerly read by the
people. The missionaries say that the newly-adopted
philosophy is far harder to combat than tho old
Paganism.
As a sample of the vile and debased thoughts
common to Rationalists, wo quote the following by
Tom Paine;-—“Reputation Is what men and women
think of bs. Character is what God and angels kaow
of ns." By the way, there seems some mistake here.
All the parsons declare Paine was aa Infidel and didn’t
believe in God.
A “ child of many prayers,” to wit, Captain
Adams, son of the late Kev. Dr # Nehemiah Adams,
Congregationaliflt Minister of Boston (U. 8.), according
to the local HEnaim, not only has abandoned the
entire religions faith of his father, but makes open
warfare against it, in the aggressive and sweeping
manner of another lagersoll.
According to the N.Y. Herald, Dr. M‘Cosh
observes with deep regret that, of the young men who
go out from the colleges of America, fewer every year
accept the clerical office. The Herald thinks that
“ piety fe not fostered by the clergymen as a class,”
and that “ they fail to answer the eloquent and specious
philosophy of men like Ingersoll.”
The minister of the Congregational Church at
Stratford, Con. (U.S ), used the revised New Testa-
ment. The Church officers sent him a written order to
return to the old version. Tho minister responded
thus: “The ignorance thus shown by a people to
whose enlightenment I have devoted myself, so dis-
gusts me, that I will no longer read any Scripture for
their benefit. I have resigned ”
In the parish of St. George’s Camberwell,
London, there is a minister who lately celebrated his
seventy-eighth birthday, and who is in the fiftieth year
of his ministry at the same church. Half a century
ago, the revenue of the church, derived solely from
pew-rents, amounted to something like £5OO per
annum. Gradually, however, they have decreased,
and, at nearly fourscore years, the Eav. Mr. Smith
finds hi* sole income at £9O per annum.
A Dunedin correspondent lately quoted, in one
of the papers there, a statement to the effect that the
theatre “rouses within ns, more than all preaching
can, an inextinguishable loyalty to do good.” This
brought forth a heap of replies, one writer wishing to
be informed “where it isjrecorded that the actors in
the theatres of England, or any other country, have
produced better moral effects that have followed th*
preaching of Elijah. Isaiah, John the Baptist, Jesus
Christ, Paul in Corinth, Luther, Calvin, Knox, Wesley
Whitfield, and Johnathan Edwards, Nettleton, Kirk!
Farley, and Moody, of America
Things were different m our grandfathers’
days from what they are now. Then the draw-
ing of a prize in a lottery was looked upon
as a blessing from God. In 1763, the lottery was
highly commended. One Samuel Seabury invested a
little of his spare change in a ticket, and after drawing
a prize thu« wrote “ The ticket number 5866, by the
blessing of God, in tho Lighthouse and Public Lottery
of New York, appointed by law, Anno Domini. 1763.
drew in my favour £5OO, of which I received £125, with
the deduction of 15 per cent., makes £5OO for which I
how. record in m Y prosperity my thanks and praise to
Almighty God, the giver of all gifts. Amen ?”
Bret Harte has recently been taken to task for
irreverence in selecting a Scripture subject to do duty in
his last published tale. But the jealous hyper-religious
carpers have had their revenge, for a clergyman preach,
ing in Bradford (Eng.), recently,! departed from the
orthodox usage by introducing into his sermonising an
extract from Bret Harte’s powerfully pathetic “ Luck
of Roaring Camp,” pointing out how the babe who was
bom in the shanty at the gold diggings held silent sway
over a rough settlement of diggers, and likening tho
little orphan child of the camp to the Infant of Bethle-
hem, who was to have such an influence over the world.
The parallel was not altogether mal apropos, but some
of the congregation wore a little shocked by the mixture
of Scriptural exhortation and romance
The Mormon Missionaries, now in N. Z. have
had a much gayer time at Masterton than ever Paul
had at Ephesus. At a meeting the catechumens needed
a lot of satisfying. What about the Mountain
Meadow Massacre?” yelled a well-known butcher.
“ Wall, you see, I was rather young than, ” replied the
Elder, “ but I guess it arose in this way,” and he pro-
ceeded to describe how certain marauders laid waste
the Mormon hen-roosts, and were finally laid waste
themselves by some wild Indians, among whom were
a few white people that were alleged to be Mormons
“ Do you deny that Elder Lee, who was executed for
murder, was not a Mormon ?’’ indignantly exclaimed
the landlord of the Royal Hotel in stentorian tones.
“Yes, I do. He was called a Mormon, but a man that
takes life is no longer a saint ” was thejanswer “ Why
d ,ojOT practice polygamy ?" was the next question.
Wall, you see, thar is calculated to be som*whar
about two and a half millions of young women in the
United States more than thar is men, and if we didn’t
have them, I reckon they’d be old maids or something
worse 1” Laughter and uproar followed this ingenious
defence of the much married Salt Lakists. “Is it
true that you are here trying to seduce men’s wives
away?’ asked another. “Has she left you?”
quaintly asked the lessee of the hall, amidst yells of
merriment. A florid baker, who turns the scale at six-
toen stone, next said: “ I want to ask you a question.
How many wives did your father have ? ” “ Sufficient
to keep him from interfering with the wives of other
people! ” was the reply, and the hall resounded with
merriment. “That’s a very old ’nn, a very stale joke.
You’ve hawked it all over the country. Some of your
trashy stock property, but I’ll put the question another
way. How many husbands did your mother have ? "
Hisses and interruptions ensued, and the baker indig.
uantly contended that if a Mormon was entitled to as
many wives as he liked, a Monnoness had an equal
right to go in for a plurality of husbands." This
excited roars of laughter. Other questions ensued, and
the noise and confusion grew apace. Finally, the
Elders began to betray uneasiness as the crowd closed
around them, and an elderly contractor moved, “ That
the Elders from Salt Lake City be tarred, feathered
and earned out on hurdles." Gradually they slid
towards the platform, and amidst howls, yells, cat-calls
and a Babel of voices, the two pale-faced missionaries
vanished through the wings.
Boj: “Mother’s sent this physic back it
ain’t hers.”—Chemist: “ Why is it not for her
‘V 3 ® 8 iPB *L ofc the wron K name on it” Chemist;
Oh # is that all; that is soon altered,**
At a not distant Yuletide, says Figaro, some
such advertisement as this will be seen in the daily
papers:— “The Hygeiah Christmas Hamper—The
attention of Dyspeptics, Bilious Subjects, Possessors
of Sluggish Livers, and others, is specially directed to
Messrs. So-and.So’s Guinea Hygeian Hamper (packed
under the direction of Dr. Richardson, of Saint villa
Utopia), and comprising 1 dozen Assorted Teetotal*
Beverages, 1 Patent Charcoal Filter (warranted). 1 larea
box Anti-bilious Pills, 1 gallon jar Finest Carbolic Acid.
i lb. Best Charcoal Biscuits, 1 bottle Rare Old Pepsine
1 packet Digestive Lozenges, 1 pair Dumb Bells, 1 tin
Richardson's Prepared Dinner Food, 1 oz, Electric
Christmas Capsules (effervescing), and 1 Dietary Table
N.8.-All purchasers of two or more of those Hampeia
will be presented with a full-sized Teetotal Medal and a
copy of Sir Wilfrid Lawson’s Teetotal Joe Miller .*•


L
OVEES OF GOOD
We bog to draw y(
PARTICULAR ATTE;
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEA
Packed in pounds and h-ilf-
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. and 2i
2s. 6d. ar
2s. 6<L ai
2s. od. ai
Special Quotations given to Whi
Country Orders promptly I
ASIATIC TEA COI
279 PITT STREET (next S<
SYDNEY.
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FE.
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Eoe(
Imported by us direct, and mar
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WARR.
YEARS. They are of very Imndsc
are most sensitive, sweet, and pow<
LOW PRICES for CASH,
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYM
Examine and test them before pi
All our PIANOS are latest stylos
second-hand instruments nor cheai
BEALE and COMP
1, Oxford-stroet; 612, George-
Buildings, Sydm
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Hig
Howick-street, Bathurst; £
burn; Church-street, Parram
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we wi
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
*
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILOEING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.
MASON BROTHERS,
AWAR
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
SALK BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
BAETHBNWAEE.
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
NEW BUILDINGS. New Buildings. New
Buildings, 29, 31, 33 Park-street. CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LEVY & CO. beg to
draw the attention of the Public generally, to the lareo
stock of English Furniture jnst opened, and now ready
for sale at their large and beautifully stocked Show
Booms, comprising Drawing and Dining Room Suites,
Plate glass door and other Wardrobes in Cedar, Walnut,
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all descriptions. Loo
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and Bedding. Crockery,
Glassware, Holloware, and every requisite for parties
about to furnish. CENTRAL FURNISHING AR-
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
A GEE AT Variety of Pianos by tbe best
makers just opened at the CENTRAL FUR-
NISHING ARCADE, and are to be sold on Time Pay.
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 81 Park-street.
NOW is your time for Bargains, as we have a
very large shipment of Austrian Furniture to
open, and must clear some of our large stock to make
room for now goods. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 81, 33
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Time Payments from
£l5 up to £lOOO at the CENTRAL FURNISH-
ING ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY & CO.
H - PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
O,
wmseßmi
m
in
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS. by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO,
BERDEN and
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class JMakers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PBRE et FILS, and other
FirstrClass Makers.
W. H. PALING,
362 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYAED STEE
SYDNEY.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prices Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
hereby five notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will ho taken against any persons copying or
imiting same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any
way infringing our rights. - —AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, Waltham Mass.—Adv.
BROOK’S SEWING COTTON.
[HE following list of EXHIBITION PHIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
manufactured by them :
THE ONLY PRIZE MEDAL. LONDON EXHIBITION, 1851.
THE ONLY EIRS C-CLASS PRIZE MEDAL, PAKIS EXIBITION, 1855.
PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1867.
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OF HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873,
MEDAL AND AWARD, PHILADELPHIA, 1876.
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA. 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYDNEY, 1880.
ASK FOR BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
MANUFACTORY,
BON -ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute fer kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores &c. • is
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This QASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga-, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace'*
in some cases almost »ul. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. ”
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the GovernmcntEailways in porference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &c. Shipments Received monthly
Medalists and Special Prize holders. y *
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER,
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and sue this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KING STSJ3BT, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE,
THE KOOKABURRA.
The Moaning Tied —Some married people.
Oscar Wilde, the new English poet, speaks of
•• nnkissed kisses.” The trouble with Oscar is that his
poems are made of unthunk thoughts.
He was a candid clergyman who informed his
congregation, “ a young woman had died while he was
preaching in a beastly state of intoxication. *
Two youths in the Southern states being
impecunious, one blocked nn and the other sold him
as a slave for 600 dollars. Next day the slave washed
and walked. A decided case of “ black-male.
“ Bnt Jim my boy, yon shouldn’t have stood by
and watched your little friend being hammered by a
bi»ger boy—it was cowardly," (seven-year-old
indignantly) ‘‘l didn’t stand by—l wouldn’t do such a
thing—l 'walked on."
An editor mildly alludes to his rival as a
•• reservoir of falsehood and an aqueduct of mendacity,
whereupon his rival retorts by referring to his con-
temporary bs a “ bottomless pit of infamy and an
earthquake of blasphemy."
What a large dog. He is going swiftly up the
street. So is a Tin Can. I* is tied to the Dog s Tail.
Will the Dog win the race? I should smile, it is
wrong to tie a Can on a Dog’s tail if the Owner of the
Dog catches you. See the Man. He is holding on to
the Lamp-Post. How the wind whistles and blaws.
It is very celd. The Man is full as a boiled owl. If he
goes home will his Wife greet him with a Kiss ? JNO,
but she will search his clothes for loose change and
appear at the Matinee next Saturday. The Man knows
this and does not go home. Ho prefers the society o
a Lamp Post to that of his wife. This man has a great
head. This man is a School Teacher. He is K°’ n g
Sit Down in the Chair. There is a Bent Pm intho
Chair and it will Bite the School Teacher The School
Teacher is a very Able Man, and ho will Audit out as
soon as the Bent Pin tackles him. Will the School
Teacher rise again? We should Smile. But the
School Teacher will not Smile. He will play a Sonata
with the Ferule on the Boy’s Back. The Boy put the
Bout Pin in the Chair. He is trying to be a Humorist.
When the School Teacher gets Through with him the
Boy will eat his meals from the Mautel-Pieoe for a
Week,
Dr Girdlestone, of Melbourne, says barmaids
are the hardest- worked claaa in the community. But
theu Dr. Girdleatono never ran a paper.
A boat, about 18 by feet, designed to be pro-
nelled solelv by electricity, ia owned by a Frenchman
Earned M. Tellier, who proposes to cross the English
Channel in it as a test.
Recently, at “The Champion’s Rest” 922 Ridge-
avenue, Philadelphia, Peter Johnson is said to have de-
oared with keen relish two dozen raw oysters, a pound
Of sugar, a bar of yellow soap, and a gallon of beer.
The Newcastle girls have found a new cause for
admiration in the son of one of the Consuls. Theyeung
gentleman is developing a decided talent for portrait-
punting, and the fair ones esteem it a high privilege to
ba chosen as his subjects.
Teacher, select school: “ Next week I shall
take you into vulgar fractions. Scholar; Oh I Miss
rolenso. Papa won’t like that. I heard him say, yester-
day that all the larrikins spring from the vulgar
fractions, and they’re ruining the country.
A voung woman obtained a verdict for .£2O
against the Melbourne City Council, she having sprained
her ankle through tripping on the asphalt pavement.
S«fline the defective condition of many of the Sydney
fmTtpaths. a fragile-boned young woman ought to make
a nila here. Good chance tor an enterprising man to
enrol a company of weak-kneed people, pay them a
regular ** screw.” and absorb the damages obtained.
Where’s Frank Weston ?
On a recent passage of the Rotomahana to
Auckland, a gentleman in high position,who has recently
taken unto himself a wife, suffered a gross indignity at
the hands of a woman, with whom, it is said he was at
one time on terms of intimacy, who spat m his face and
threw in his face a valuable diamond, which she alleged
Kd given her as proof of his love and affection. The
cause of this ebullition of feeling was his marriage
with another and more favoured creature.
This is what a Woollahra kid did on his birth-
dav He went out and ate a dozen peaches, half a
dozen tomatoes, seventeen tarts, four sour apples, and
a pUket-full of hard peas Then he was taken to the
pantomime, during which performance he wrestled
with and conquered the best part of a pound packet of
lollies And yet, when be got borne, he crept down in
the middle of the night, stole out of the larder,
and devoured half a cold applc-puddiug. Still he is
alive I . ..
Ouonw Tart, the Chinese importer, is the per-
notrdor"’ of a brilliant hon mot. When he
started business hero ho took as his trade
mark a heart, with the letters QT inside. This
ham. mod to be the initial trade mark of a merchant
Love. who served Quong with an mj unc-
tion to prevent him from using it. He might use the
letters but not the heart. Quong sorrowfully com-
plied, and was hoard to exclaim. “No savoe ; all same
sweetheart i losee heart through love.
There was recently a born genius among the
men engaged dressing stones on the Globe Point tram-
wav There is generally a whistler among men at work,
but soloists upon the lips mostly are satisfied with
simple melody. In this instance, however, as sure as
one man started whistling an air in the vicinity of our
.rniins the latter whistled a recrular accompaniment, as
harmonious as if written by Mendelssohn, as graceful
and ingenious as though composed by Mozart, and as
brilliantly varied as a first-rate flute obligato to a song.
The total average effective strength of the
valvular British array durintr 1880 was 188,986. composed
as follows Cavalry, 17,516 ; artillery. 33,613; en-
gineers, 5551; other anus, 132.276. By ranks, the
average strength was—officerj, 7817; non-commissioned
officers trumpeters, Ac., and rank and file, 181,169.
The dfstribntion was :-In England and Wales. 67,297 ;
Scotland, WO6; Ireland. 20.584; abroad, 97.099 The
vnserve and auxiliary forces enrolled were Army
Reserve class 1. 20.126; ohms 2. 19,835; militiv,
130 331 •' yeomanry, 11,598; volunteers, 206,537 ; total,
SSS taV.’ The militia reserve, included with the militia,
numbered 28,6b0.
Respecting the big daily newspapers, a writer
in Vanity Fair remarks“ They profess to sell news ;
but what they do. in fact, sell, is publicity for trade
announcements. No daily newspaper can even supply
the mere paper oh which it is printed for the price it
irets for the copy of the newspaper; much less can it
pav out of that price for the collection, the editing,
and the printing of that news. The fund out of which
all these expenses are paid is the advertisement fund ;
and if that does not suffice, the paper caunot live.
When I pay a penny for the Standabp or the Daily
Nkws 1 do not even pay for the paper on which it is
printed; the person who pays for that and tor all the
rest is the advertiser, who does so because bo knows
that it is probable I shall lead his advertisement, and
because he knows from experience that that will
certainly increase his trade. The effectual customer
and grpporter of a daily paper is not the reader
at all, hut the advertiser; and the proprietor of such a
newspaper Is, In effect, a bill-sticker on a largo scale,
who, if you will only look at the bills he sticks, will
throw in for you a certain amount of news and of
opinions. He is a Trader’s Tout, professing to be a
Newsman and a Sage. He sells his touting to the
Trader, and gives his news and his advice to the Header
for nothing.” This is Gospel-truth. There are big
daily papers which would be extinct in a month if they
had to depend upon the merits of their literary style,
or the attractiveness of the manner in which they
collate their news, but which exist on the profits derived
from advertisements, and sell because these advertise-
ments constitute a synopsis of the business of the
place where they are published, so that people must
buy the sheet, no matter how contemptible they may
consider its other reading matter.
Dr. Stanioh desires to announce that poor per-
sons, suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat His-
eases, will recGivs liis valiiubl© services towards tlieir
cure gratis, every Thursday in the week, at 50 Wyn-
■ yard-square, Sydney.
Poulinier, an ex-Government clerk at Paris, is
a rabid enthusiast about the collection of antiquities,
albeit he knows nought of scientific pursuits. A wag
recently sent him a box containing a collection of the
remains of prc-bistoric animals, carefully numbered
and labelled as follow:—“Yctyosaurus, plesiosaurus,
maulins, rasibus, olibrius, pompilicus, stradivasius.
qnibus, Britannicus, nostradamus and habeas corpus.”
Ha happened to show his butchor his “ stradiyasns,”
and the batcher exclaimed, “ Why, bless me, it’s the
bladebone of a shoulder of pork 1 " Whereupon Pou-
linior smote the butcher even as Samson smote the
Philistines with the jawbone of an ass. The butcher
brought him to court, and the antiquarian had to pay
a fine of 100 francs. M. Poulinier says he has in his
oolleetion of curiosities the following relice : —Pontius
Pilate’s watch-key i Tarquin the Superb’s roasting
spit; the Wandering Jew’s snuffers j Mary Queen of
Soots’ warming-pan; Julius Cioaar’s toothpick; aud
David Buchanan’s last effort at BiUinsgate.
“ Let there be light 1 ” writes a correspondet;
The finance committee of the Sydney Municipal
Council had an interesting communication read
to them on February 2. It was from Mr. B.
C. Want, now in London. The sender contemplated
Illumining Australian Cimmerian darkness with
the electric light from on high, by a process
familiary known to scientific men. Quoth the Herald’s
Summary:—“This light, Mr. Want said, was suitable
for flighting] streets and public buildings, and could
also be used in coal mines, and other deep sinkings,"—
[with safety, of course.] Then, “ electricity is stored
in large portable ‘reserves,’ and cannot go to waste (I) as
it does in some other [sublunary] systems (!).” “The
current passes into a glass sealed globe, and” —listen!
—“ light is evolved from an incandescent carbon filament in
a nominal vacuum, and may be turned off or on at
pleasure.” So far sublime, as we would understand it,
and as the pedagogical Vilikins would teach it; and,
oh ! behold it, ye shades of Michael Faraday!—bitu-
minous, anthracitic material must cease to be of service
for the production of mere carburetted hydrogen
“ gas,” now so universally diffused (or our dark hours'
enlightening, and must henceforth become subservient
to the block-paving of our streetways (on the principle
now being carried out so elaborately on the Sydney
highways), and we shall have lightning for our en-
lightenment, at a problematical nett cost of “ 25 per
cent, less than the price charged by contract here for
• gas,’ and possessing an illumining power double that
of gas." One remark, however, referring to the
quoted essay; the description of tho “ new light ”to
the City Solons was rather “hifalntin,” and a little out
of place. “We abominate these quisqniliary deblater-
ations of philoso-phunculi" (quoting tho Edinburgh
Eevibw). It would have been in better taste to have
slid: “ Light is given out from the intense glow of burning
charcoal fibre in a so-called empty space
Venus Callipyge.
(IN THE MUSEUM AT NAPLES).
vkNus I as some fond old-time dreamer lined
Each marvel of corporeal grace, each ray
New-cast!—in dreams of beauty rapt away.
Unveiling a now goddess, fair and kind.
Some fair white temple by the sunlit sea.
Catching faint balms from fair Levantine isms.
Athwart whose strands perennial summer smiles,
Lightened of old, perchance, at sight of tnee.
Lingered, mayhap, by thy tapestriedshnne
In the fair far-off days,—when Youth and Love
Played guileless on the early sands of I » me >
Youthful lovers twain; with enwreathing vine
Garlanding thine altars, while soft sighs wove
Entrancing love-dreams in thy soft south clime.
FEAS. J. D.
FRAS. J. D.
Sydney, Feb. 14r, 1882.


w
Howard smite
STEUTH’S WHARF and N
(Foot of Ki»g-stre
Offices : 7 SPRING f
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FB
Steam to BRISBANE jrROKOTJQH<
and
EOCKHAMPT'
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH
S'
TEAM TO LONDON—C
J 1882.
The following Royal Moil Steam
the ORIENT ST^AMNAVIGA
Ship.
Liguria...
Garonne .
Potosi ....
Chimbo-
razo
John j-lder.
And the service will he mainta
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards ma
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, gon
steamer within a month ; but failing
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching fit
can proceed to Suez and the Con
Ports included) without fear ot
Quarantine regulations. .
Pares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea?
8a iu addition.
Passages from Loudon can be grai
For plans and full particulars, »
and oi., and ANDBfcSON. AND
Joint Managers of the line ;i ot' to t
General Manager in Am
o
rient line of
PARCEL EXPRE
eoial Arrangements have been
nee of Parcels and small packag
mors to London at reduced rate
i. 6d. per foot, or fraction of n tc
• 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Lokages will be received at this
3d. up to Noon of the day priori
ag. All freights payable in Sj
iculars.a^ytO LToN TUILLi
Manager of Orient
7 George-street, Sydney.
C!
ASH PRICE LIST OF WIN
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
per doz.
et
mitnga ..
az
{imdy
at Shiraz
9s Od
10a Od
11s Od
12s 6d
13s Od
J.T. F
Adelaic
(rich
type)
Adelaii
ling...
s ...
eira...
WHITE.
9s Od Brown
10s Od Musca’
lls Od Adelaii
lOT’s 'Plnean..' 15s Od Tokay.
foreign WINI
Port ... 24s to 36s Od I Good £
pagne from... 60s Od 1 Frenct
SPIRITS.
Case I Imperi
. 59s Od I ditto
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGE
T
COALCLIFF C<
|HIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY suppll
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Goal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered withi
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free!
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky f
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desid
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcos
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given c
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLES!
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W:
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
w
HEN buildilß use CALLENDER and SONS’ Para Bitun
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than £
DAMP RESISTING SOI
II you have DAMP WALLS in jonr how aw CALLENDER
dors them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be i
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Char
,11 N EW Di
Neuralgia, Sciatica, L
Backache, Soreness of the
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Sm
Sprains, Burns and i
General Bodily Pa
Tooth, Ear and Headache, I
and Ears, and all othe
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals S
ft safe,sure, simple and cheap K:
A trial entails hut the comparative
of 50 Onto, and every one soil
can have cheap and positive proof
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS ANI
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pit
S. HOPPNUNG & Co., Pitt-str
C. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-stieet
MYERS and SOLOMON, G. ora
I, JACOBS & Co., Hunter-streel
.eonnn consultati
SYDNEY Cl
Subscription, 20s.
Ist, £800; 2nd, £3OO ; 3rd, £l5O.
Starter
Non-starters (divided)
No. 1 now on.
Early application invited, with :
£20.000.
LEVIATHAN CONSUL
on the
MELBOURNE Cl
Subscription, 20s.
Ist—£Booo. 2nd—£3ooo. 3:
Starters (divided), £4OOO.
Non-star bers (c
Early application invited, with i
BANKERS—CITY Bi
Those Consultations are advertised
California, Honolulu, Fiji, ai
Address—“ OCCIDENTAL.”
care of
EDWARI
Royal Exchang*
P.S.—All names and results strict!


PEPPER AND SALT.
Mr. Parley is to be Commissioner at Bordeaux.
.He will, therefore, have to taste the wines. He ought
,tp have good fun. And let us hope it will be wholesome
fun.
• • •
Bravo, Bottle ! Bpon lifting the foundation
Stonh laid for a temperance hall at Ballarat, to make
way for win© collars being constructed to the order of
Mr. Irwin, President of the Ballarat L .V. Association,
the bottle in which the ustial coins, &c., were deposited,
waa found to be broken 1 No wonder. Any self-re-
specting bottle could not but burst and end its career
of usefulness at being treated so ignominiously.
• • •
A well-known Woolloomooloo citizen, celebrated
for his presence of mind, in trying to get out of the
tramway the other day. was knocked down and had his
shoulder dislocated. Straightway he hied him to the
tram superintendent, exhibited his dislocated limb, and
said, off-handedly“ I don’t want to go to law, so I’ll
take £2OO and say no more about it.” Mr. Eoberts
smiled freezingly, remarked that the claim was a mode-
rate one, and promised to see the Commissioner,” The
story goes on to say, that the Commissioner sent the
in inrod passenger a note, saying that ha would like to
see him at the railway office, at 11.30 a.m. The patient
went with a beaming face, and was met by a man in
blue who handed him a summons for illegally attempt-
ing to got out of a tram while In motion. They fined
him £2, and he hasn’t yet got compensation.
* • •
«< Doctor,” said a man who for many years had
suffered from a fatally diseased conscience, “ I wish to
die Can you give me something which, without com-
promising yourself, will do the trick.” “ I can, and I
will ” said the doctor j and away he went. An hour
afterwards a parcel was delivered to the patient, which
contained—l quart Sussex-street ale, the B.M. Herald,
and a Sydney cigar. He died in great agony.
* • •
The editor of the Pall Mall Gazette has
credited Victoria with the Milbura Creek business.
He allowed, in this instance, his knowledge of human
nature to get the better of his geography. We forgive
,lim - » • •
Those gentle Muscovites who think to “pot”
Alexauder as he is being crowned may save themselves
their trouble, and their powder, too. On that occasion
Hi* Majesty will be a man inside an iron-clad suit, with
n boy standing on his hips to hold his head on.
• • •
A Canadian lawyer, while, by the judge’s in-
structions. advising a prisoner on his defence for a
capital offence of stealing a horse, told him the best
thing he could do was to clear out. Swanwick, at Bris-
bane, recently gave a similar tip to the French escapees.
The police, however, were too much for the Frenchmen,
and there was some talk of proceeding against the
lawyer. It all, however, had a Milbnrn Creek ending.
• • •
In one of the Vag’s, brilliant letters, he says
that, “there are unkind people who say that their
‘special’ is none other than Miss Parkos, whoso des-
patches will, of course, bo revised by papa.” Mr
Thomas is great, aud he should be merciful. It is too
hard on Withers, who really went away with an extent
of band-box and shoe-trunk, which he had never
dreamed, in his wildest visions, of possessing. What-
ever has, will, or may become of Alfred’s commissioner,
he has undoubtedly gone. Though whether ho will
make such a splash in the other world ns Mr. Thomas
did. Is a point we would rather not discuss. Perhaps
he doesn’t want to.
• # *
We grieve to hear that another attempt has
been made upon the life of the Emperor of Russia, and
this —as will bo seen by cable—has, for the present, pre-
vented him from being crowned at Moscow. Having
proved Impervious to the effects of nitro-glycerine,
gunpowder, swords, aud daggers, Aleck was beginning
to keep his pecker up. Well, one morning, Just as he
was going to tell the master of the horse to have the
chaise brought round, his eye lighted on a bottle, tak-
ing it up gingerly, he smelt it. Then his face turned
deadly palo. He touched a bell; and in a moment a
cloud of attendants filled the apartment. “ What is
this ?’’ cried the gaping monarch. Fi»o hundred fin-
gers clutched the bottle, and a century of noses sniffed
at the contents. "It is Queensland rum,” they cried.
“’Tis the only thing I dreaded,” wailed the Em-
peror. "lama doomed man.” Then, uttering a yell
of despair, he flung himself down with such force, that
his head falling inside the fender, he broke the fire
irons.
• * *
A well-known J. P. went to Weber’s the other
day, and spelling down the bill of fare after he had
broken the landlord’s heart through his attacks on the
ioint, ordered maccaroni au gratin. The girl brought
dm lemon-pudding. He was perfectly satisfied.
* * •
The Telegraph said that “ there is nothing so
easy as lying.” It evidently requires more than lies to
make a success ©f a newspaper. A-hem !
* * *
It is said that a juryman on the Bulletin libel
case was rejected candidate for a seat at an aldermanic
hoard recently. We are very sorry to hear it. From
the experience we have had of Municipal matters in
Sydney, we should thinks that a Clontarf case juryman
would be In his right place as an Alderman. If one of
those gentlemen think of trying it on for our ward, let
him look us up. We can promise him the support of onr
—— crutch.
• • *
The annual picnic of the Lyttelton Times
takes place every four years. We suppose that the
annual picnic of Sydney Punch will take place every
quarter, now that journal is such on as-tonishing
success.
* * •
The engagement between Prince Leopold and
the Princess of Harris-Pyrmont was brought about by
the Prince of Hesse without the Queen's consent.
When her Majesty heard of it there wss a pretty hulla-
baloo, and she teld the Prince in so many words that
he had better look out for a girl who could do some-
thing in the way of furnishing some port of the detached
villa. Prince Hesse, however, came on the scene, and,
after hearing what he had to say, permitted Leo to
have a lien on Helene, after a little Hesse-tation.
* * *
At a mining hamlet, that might be called Black
Sand, but isn’t, dwells a French lady who is a direct
descendant of Brian Boru. She is fat, fifty, and of
forbidding aspect, but still all heart; and as she keeps
a boarding-house tacked on to a grog shanty, she has
many chancae of lavishing her tender affection on the
objects of her choice. And they generally call her the
•‘Blaring Stump.” That’s the shell of the story; now
for the kernal. One bright, sunny morning a moon-
face Mongolian trotted up to the portals of the lady’s
mansion, and dumped down his baskets. He knocked
and it was opened unto him. “Youwanteenicee, fency
ben?” said John, with the sweet smile of his race.
The “Stump” gasped, and then paused a moment in
doubt | and then John again observed, insinuatingly,
“ You likee fency bon ?” Then the French lady’s face
blazed into crimson wrath, and seizing the “ spook”
with one powerful fist and a broom with the other she
went for him. ” I’ll give you ‘ fancy man,’ yon yaller son
of a Chinese monkey ” —thump I thump 1—“ you
mahogany fnrriner”—swish I whiz!—“ you blessed
Japanese matchbox-oolonred heap of dirt”—thud I
bash I thump I and, with a final Bonnor-like drive, she
sent the writhing victim aoross the path. John picked
himself up, and spluttering out Chinese oaths of dire
import, rushed to his basket, and holding up a French
bean,screamed “fency ben.hoilee fency ben j yon savee ?”
Then it dawned on the “ Stump” that she had made a
mistake. But this is the true story of how the daughter
of Brian Born beat off the leprous invader.
• • •
We are sorry to see that the poor Eockarapton
Jackass is in a bad way. It has come out this week
with four “ pictures,” printed on both sides of a com-
mon sheet of ordinary paper, and not a line of letter-
press. The drawings are completely undecipherable,
and seem to have been done by the paws of a sheep-dog
who had previously been in a coal yard. There is a
long notice, from which wo gather that the subscribers
havn’t paid up, and that the noble Jackass is in rather
a bad way. The notice ominously says:—“ Pending
the result of arrangements regarding our type, etc., wo
have decided to issue only a supplement this week.
We are sorry from this to see that the decease of our
little friend appears imminent. Asa specimen of jour-
nalism it was unique; but at the same time wo are
sure that the artist will feel more himself when he again
finds that he is a knight of the paiut-pot and ladder,
and the soul of the engraver will expand with joy as ho
once more splits the congenial paling.
# # *
Saturday’s News lias a poem commencing—
“ Old relic of dep horjetedar.” Wo wonder what this
means. We expect our bard, Baum, has been giving
Alfred some of his poetry. Lot’s see if wo can make a
stanza of it: —
“ Old relic of dep horsetedar,”
Which long we have all foster’d ah.
Hot rum with sugar moisty, dar 1
And baby give an oyiter, da.
This looks feeble at first sight, but there is really a
good deal in it. We don’t say, though, what of. For
the author himself, let us now cast Baum upon his
wounded feelings :
Of poetry there iv in you Baum,
Now really quite a lot.
Come, tell us, now, where you come fraum,
Wt think you’re Lewis Scott,
• • •
Hoard in a newspaper office: Ist member of
the4th estate: “Oh, hang it! here I’ve got to goto
Eedfern, and can’t got home to dinner. Lend us a bob.
old fellow.” 2ad M. 4th E (derisively) :“ A shilling !
Go, visionary 1” Ist M. 4th E. i “ Well, then, if you
can’t lend mo a shilling, lend me your saveloy.”
# # *
In the Auckland Observer Office.—Clerk
popping his head in at the door of the editor’s room) :
“Gentleman to see you, sir?” Editor .—“Wait a
moment. Give me my spiked vizard, my steel-llned-
pants, tell the Game Chicken I want him, and let
three of the boys take notes ontsido the door. Stay,
I must drink some brandy. (Drinks.) Now, admit
him.
We have a copy of a book purporting to contain
“The Surprising Adventures of the Premier,” and
written by “Octopus." We have not been told who
“ Octopus” i', but should judge from his stylo that he
was Secretary to a tripe-shop. There is not in the letter-
press one grain of humour, or one gleam of fancy, and
the illustrations—with a few exceptions-are excellently
in keeping with the reading-matter The hrochxwe which
is apparently intended as an advertisement for a patent,
medicine, is published by Mr. Grattan. Later on it will
be “ dispensed" by less distinguished individuals. The
lollyshop-keepers yearn for it.
* * *
The Eedfern Times states that its new
machinery is not quite ready. If, dear Editor, you
catch him playing marbles again when the first forme’s
on, tell his mother.
# # *
NEW OBITUARY.
His earthly mantle he did doff.
And quit this world of strife and toil;
Yes; lo, behold, poor SchouvaloS
Has SchouvaloSed this mortal coiL
* * *
“ What’s your policy ?” said a man |to a Parra-
matta editor. “Cheap drinks,” was the immediate
reply.
« * *
It is stated that there is shortly to be such a
revolution in ladies’ dress, that about next Christmas
the most suitable present to make a lady will be a pair
of—suspenders.
• » «
“If a blackfellow is in trouble and you want to
ease his agonized conscience, tell him he will be
defended by Frank Smyth. But before you say so, see
that there are bars between you and the imprisoned
aboriginal. The other day “ King Charlie,” who is now
under sentence for killing a dusky Lovelace who ran
away with his gin. Vinegar, was visited by the chief
warder and informed that Mr. Smyth would appear for
him. On hearing this Charlie said; “ Want urn parson-
feller sing um hymn ”; and subsequently he asked for
some tobacco and the Sacrament. Charlie won’t bo
hanged this trip, only imprisened for life. This is quite
a victory for Mr. Smyth. Wo congratulate him upon
it.
* * *
A swindler has been victimising schoolmistresses
by pretending that he had two girls and a fine Erard to
send. On this pitch a schoolmistress gave the fellow a
pound for “ a widow lady in distress." If the girls had
turned up, however, and Papa cleared out “to travel ”
as he intended, why then the Erard could be Collard to
pay for their Bord. It often happens in the District
Court that the Judge makes people sell their pianos for
what they Aucher.
* # »
At Penrith—or near there—a young schoolmaster
takes the “skooimarm” out riding pillion fashion.
They are going to be married soon. Then the hubby
will ride alone, and the pillion will be used as a cushion
for the dining-room sofa. Copy this, country con-
freres. “ There’s pillions in it.”
Christchurch Society, likeltho lady in the play,
doth protest too much. It says: —Especially grati-
fying is it to learn that the straightforward course we
propose to follow in regard to the delicate difficulty of
the ladies social and personal columns, meets with
general approval." What is the “ delicate difficulty of
the ladies.” that they allude to? We think that the
difficulty is on the side of the paper, and that the pre-
sent editor is very strong in discretion. The editor of
Liberty, the paper which preceded this, was Mr. Mon-
tague Molseley, and from what we can hear, he had
rather a poor time of it. When the paper came out, the
public used to thump him, and when it didn’t, the pro-
prietors reproached him. If it was a spicy number, he
Bad to take his walks with three bulldogs and a bxud-
geon, and if the paper wag quiet nobody woul buy it.
He edited half the Liberty hid in a cupboard with the
Dutch cheese and captain’s biicuits, and the other half
wrapped up entirely in vinegar and brown paper. Not
content with up-setting him, they up-set his office, and
pie-ed his type to that extent that it took the foreman
three weeks to find stamps enough for a 14 line
“notice” in “pica italic." Mr. Moseley, we consider,
is well out of it. It remains to be seen how long the
editor of Society with all his “guiver’’-about “the
delicate difficulty of the ladies,” will be be ore he gives
the cupboard a turn. We can, however, assure him,
upon the word of a Parramatta editor, that under cer-
tain circumstances, hot bran, with fine salt intermixed
is a capital thing to sit down on.
At York-street Wesleyan Church, on Sunday,
we are told, the Rev. Joseph Oram bewailed the fact
that the theatres were full and the churches empty.
There is an obvious and easy remedy for this sad state
of things. Put the average parson in tho theatre and
the artist in the church.
Lotti Wilmot —or her agent : lucky agent !
has forwarded ns a prospectus in which
public is informed that the fair leotnress is abont to
ssuo from the press a monthly pamphlet entitled—
Beds I have slept in,” “all rights,” of which are
reserved." “ If," says Lotti, “ different descriptions
it some guilty consciences, why the people must
(irrin and bear it,” a remark which leads us to congratu-
late ourselves upon never having fallen a victim to
Madame WUmot’s many fascinations. Then she re-
marks—“ The authoress of this series of monthly has
been through adventures which will startle, grieve, and
amuse many people." We quite believe this, and are
ready to be startled, grieved, or amused as soon as ever
Lotti pleases. This is a nice little ad. for her and wo
give it with pleasure. Lotti is a lady of stern principle,
and that is why wo support her. We have long felt an
interest in this principle, and had a good word for Lr (tj
even when she took half a shoe-shop and sold cigar in
King-street, Sydney.
Who wouldn’t be a cricketer to have one’s
arrival royally chronicled in the News “ Q iff an, the
South Australian cricketer, arrived to-day from Ade>
laide. He took up his quarters at the Metropolitan
Hotel, and was practising' this morning on the Associa-
tion Ground.” Oh, Alfred I what are yon Giffien us H
• * *
“ A Gentleman, 28, wants to marry.
Respondents must be in possession of at least
£IOO. Reply under ‘ Confidential,’ care Even-
ing News Office.”
Y« cooks and scull’ry maids who’ve got
A tidy little hoard;
Just take our tip, now, keep the lot.
And euchre this low fraud,
• • •
He was a little sneak, who wanted good value!
for his guinea. So he called at the office of a man, and
—“ Dear sir, hearing that you were about to proceed to
Europe, I have veutured to mention to a few friends
that, in view of the great rcsp .” His hat was.
sent later on, in a cab, after him to the Infirmary.
* * •
A star actress sent a Russian Prince (so
story goes) a diamond brooch he gave her; whereupon
she got a note from him next day with the diamonds in
powder sprinkled over the ink. Well, at the Bathurst
election, an elector sent one of the candidates a small
bag of flour. The candidate told his secretary to send
it back with a brick in it; which he did. On this, the
elector returned it promptly—and nearly killed his
brother. Eact. Ask Andrew Allen.
• • «
Here’s a Townsville summons for wilful dam-
age :
(Copy.)
“ Mrs. G., of Ross Island,
“ Dr. to Mary P., of Ross Island.
“ 9bh February. To damage done by your cutting a
clothes line, whereby a number of clothes wore dirtied
or otherwise damaged. £2."
The " sargimt” in charge, who issued this document
deserves promotion. He should without ;dolay be put
in sole charge—of a cofloe-tta.il.
* • •
Alderman Douglas Young at the Council the
other day, proposed that a certain sum bo voted for the
purchase of suitable pictures for the Town Hall Gallery.
This proposition appeared to meet with much favour,
bat when, on being asked what portraits he proposed
should be purchased, Mr. Young replied the most fitting
figures would he the “ Kelly Gang.” A solemn gloom fell
like the pall of night upon the Connell.
* * *
From Newington College we have received a
communication of a marrow-freezing nature. It ap-
pears that if the boys at “on take” think they can do
another plate of that scholastic Joke, bread-and-butter
and ask for it, the extra plate for the table is supplied’
but they have either to finish it all, or be kept in upon
a half-holiday. This rule comes rather hard on those
who have already gone in a “tightener” before the
new supply arrives, and their efforts to ram down a',
double charge of bread-and-butter, are, we should say,,
of a very distressing nature. The “ broad-and-scrape
itself is reported to be food of a weird and wondrousi
nature. Learned men hold converse daily, and bjv
abstruse and scientific experiments, essay to discover"
the smallest quantity of butter that can, by any pro-
cess, be spread over one slice of bread. Foreign articles
have, it is whispered, found their way into the bread,
one boy having come upon an embossed button and tho
head of a tin soldier in his slices. His spirits, indeed,
have so risen by the discovery of these treasures, that
he is one of the most persistent in *• asking for more.”
It is rumoured that he has confident hopes before long-
of coming upon a locomotive-engine or a few dead
aunts.
* • »
The French gentleman who recently declared
that this was not a free country because he could nob
get a drink on Sunday, has applied to the Colonial
Secretary to have his passage paid back to his native
land, (alleging that he has been inveigled here under
false pretences. Critchett replied as follows :
[B2-601] Colonial Secretary’s Office,
Sydney, Ist February, ISB2.
Sir,—ln reply to your letter of the 20th ultimo,
requiring that, under the circumstances there-
in represented, yon may be reimbursed the
amount paid for your passage to this colony, I
am directed by the Colonial Secretary to inform
you that your request cannot be entertained.
I am, sir, your obedient servant.
CRITCHETT WALKER.
The applicant ia now to ba seen at the Ice Works—a
fitting residence for snch a cool customer. We believe,
however, that his application was made only in order
to get Critchett’s signature, which is well known to bo
worth millions as an autograph. Perhaps, if he put
the letter up at Bradley’s his passao'o-monoy might bo
realised, notwithstanding that the tone of Mr. Walker’s
letter is just the least bit Critchetty.
• « •
“ Growler” writes as follows :
Is it proper for a gentleman holding the high
and honourable position of Police Magistrate,
such as Mr. Abbott has recently beenappeinted
to, to play in cricket matches, and so mix up
with people he may perhaps have before him
for breaches of the peace P In my opinion, a
P.M. is a person holding an office of dignity,
and I fail to see that that reap set can be main-
tained by such person playing in indiscriminate
cricket matches. Not, I wish you to under-
stand, that I think cricket is by any means an
ignoble game, bat one of the grandest pastimes
a person can (save as above) be employed in.”
We quite agree with you, “ Growler,” and are glad to
find you are spirited enough to lash with your pungent
pen this flagrant abuse. We are ashamed of Mr Abbott
What does he mean by it ? Why, occupying a position
of dignity, he should speak to no one. If he picks up
with a J.P„ mayhap he might have that magistrate in
the dock before him for swindling in Municipal con-
tracts. Squatters he should avoid, as many of the
fraternity have, of late years, dropped into it. The
society of publicans he should eschew for obvious
reasons. Clergymen he should avoid for fear of being
called priest-ridden; and lawyers he should flee from,
for how many are accused of cheating their clients ?
Ha should, in short, associate with no one. As for
playing cricket, why, the mere hint of it is blood-
curdling. We are very much obliged to “ Growler,”
indeed, for calling our attention to these heinous
irregularities; and we should be more obliged still did
we not harbour a slight suspicion that ho is smart-
ing under a decision of the P. M’s in which were involved
the mystic words : “ Tenth time I three months withou
the option.”
» * •
John Pergy, of Parramatta, is nothing if not.
original. A short while since he printed an “original
poem by Burns,” which wo proved to be some spiritual-
stic stuff which had been hawked about in hand-billa
THE LAST OF THE PAROOS.
Last of a royal race sho stood
Upon the village street.
Her black head hidden in her hood’
And bare her broad black feet.
Yet wore she as became a Queen,
Her old and tattered bombazine.
A Dryad of the mourning woods
Was sho. The years went by
And left her as a wreck the floods
Leave stranded high and dry
In fact the woods, give her her due.
No dryer Dryad ever knew.
Not all her kindred’s kingly dust.
Her sires’ residuum
Would in the township get her trust
For one poor pint of rum.
So have the mighty fallen. So
Has fled the faith of long ago.
Time was when, waddy-wcaponed, they.
The naked chiefs of old.
Would never mention trust or pay,
Or talk of bought or sold.
But simply seize their beef and bread,
And leave the station-cook for dead.
Alas I those good old days are gone.
As all good things go here.
Where is the head that sat upon
Our Sydney brewers’ beer ?
You lift your glass, that white head sinks—
The same law levels days and drinks.
And so like a squat silhouette
Etched out against the sky.
She stoed until the sun had set.
As sober and as dry—
Thinking how former suns had sunk.
And left her noble fathers drunk.
Till with her musings mixed a sound
Of music deftly made.
By him who kept the village pound
And Lydian measures played.
The instrument he thundered on
Was the sublime accordion.
It was a wild, unearthly air.
With a most fiendish fall—■
A mixture of the “Over There’’
And the “ Dead March in Saul.”
We wonder it did not exhume
The maestro from his mouldy tomb.
The way he handled Handel’s art
Was a grim sight to see,
It fetched the simple savage heart
Of her Black Majesty,
For in that very time and place
She heard the Dead March of her race.
And saw the dark procession pass—
Prophet and sage and seer—
As who sees darkly thitrtl h a glass
Of brandy or of beer.
Each brandished in his hand full free
A bottle as in mockery.
Her head dropped lower on her breast.
Her pipe dropped from her jaws.
The ghosts filed by. The last one pressed
Upon his fellow. Pause,
O reader, here, for here she died
To swell that grim procession’s prido.
What more ? They buried her full deep
Out where the wild-dog cries.
And kangaroos come there to weep.
And ’possums pipe their eves.
In torrid thirst she passed away.
She had to die to wet her clay.
THE MORPETH TRAGEDY.
’Tis twelve o’clock, the light burns dim.
And I sit alone in my dreary room.
Thinking of her amd thinking of him.
Till my thoughts out-darken the hideous gloom.
Thinking of him, and thinking of her
Who filled my life with its one bright beam ;
Who was all to me, so young and fair.
And is now before me, as if in a dream.
And in that vision, sent from above —
Or, from the devil ?—I cannot tell,
I see his arms about my love ;
And my seething soul grows dark as hell.
Laws may rule men, but never the heart.
The law is not made that love will keep;
And the wouaded breast must carry its dart.
Till the wound is healed in the last long sleep.
She shall die, I swear, ere to-morrow’s sun
Shall see her by him to the altar led;
A cold dead heart shall be all he’s won.
And a hearse shall be her bridal bed.
Then I write—because I love her so—
On papers two, the Fates’ decree,
■“Kill her, yes,’’ or “Kill her, no;’’
Life or death for her and me.
The paper I draw is “ Kill her, yes,”
So into the room I slowly creep.
Where the moonbeams play, as in sweet caress.
On the face of my love, who lies asleep.
I raise the pistol towards her head.
And pull the trigger, and turn, and flee;
For I fear to look on the face of the dead —
The dead so dear, so dead to me 1
I turn and flee, through the morning air.
Till into my room I am come again,
With a load of guilt and dread despair,
And a brand on my brow like the brand of Gaia !
Is there a heaven ? If so, she’s there,
Before the angels, my guilt to tell.
And I have this horrible sin to boar —
Sin—through loving her all too well I
Perhaps there’s neither glory nor shame
In the other world beyond the grave!
Or, perhaps my love may lessen my blame.
And she my soul may haply save ?
Heaven or hell, pleasure or pain ;
If in Heaven she haply dwell;
Still may I gaze on her face again.
And happy be, though bound in hell.
THE SQUINTESSENCE OF ROMANCE.
HE.
“ The love that I do bear for thee,
Read but my heart, and you will see,
Gaze in my eyes with thine orbs fair.
And darling yon will read it there."
Her lips were parted with surprise;
Of flattery she was a seorner;
Said she : •* When I gaze in vour eyes
They’re always looking round the corner.”
THE PINK OF PERFECTION.
Amid all the hues that a lady can choose,
Tor midsummer dress to-day,
Tho popular pink is the sweetest, I think.
That a pretty young girl can display.
When it’s yoked on the shoulders and drawn at the
waist,
And shirred on the tight-fitting arms.
It's the very perfection of feminine taste—
In fact, a whole bundle of charms 1
To be the right sort, the dress should be short.
To keep clear of dust and of dirt.
And the least bit of white should just flash on the sight
Prom under the hem of the skirt.
A body loose-fitting, so cool and so free.
Is best when the weather is warm j
Bnt the skirt gathered back just as tight as can be.
To show off the pretty girl’s form.
When it’s trimmed with white lace, and worn with a
grace.
And caught with a band at the knee;
When it’s prettily shaped, and properly draped
It’s as dainty as dress can be.
And when under the brim of the Cherry Ripe hat
There’s a tangle of sheeny brown hair, ’
Would you wish for a prettier picture than that—
Could you point to another so fair ?
Ah I me, bnt you know, there’s many a beau
Has by pink had his heart set aflame;
It’s all very well to get fond of a belle,
Bnt, oh I it's a dangerous game.
For a dear maiden’s smile is too often but guile—
There’s a sort of mysterious link
'Twi it snake-kind and human, ’twixt serpent and woman.
And the devil’s sometimes in the pink.
A TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
There was a boy named Sammy James
(A. silly little spooney).
Who called another urchin “ mures,”
And spanked was by John Booney.
Sam’s pa “ pulled ” Booney, and he said,
“ His boy’s condition such is.
He cannot sit upon his bed
Without a pair of crutches.”
“Oh, bosh,” theP.M. cried; “dismissed.
This case my fancy tickles;
No, bring up, sergeant, quick,” he hissed,
“ The gal who stole the pickles."


for the last throe yearn. Now, Fergy has got n story
which ho calls 11 A Dive for Hnlf-a-Million,” and which
Js a reprint of " The Hidden Treasure,” some claptrap
oosh appearing in Our Boys Papke. It John goes on
bomgso original as this in his paper, we shall expect to
see him, by-and-bye, come out in “an original” pair of
trowsers, or something *• entirely novel" in the hat lino.
I But these articles, like those of the most refined gold,
mast come out of a fire.—Ed. B.]
• • •
The avidity with which Alfred* swallows the
snake stories of the country papers is surprising. Ho
reprinted one last week fromjthe Maitland Mercury
about one snake swallowing another six inches longer
than itself._ Why this is nothing. Not long ago a
Lonndary-ridor belonging to Cbirnside’s station, re-
turned to his hut after a long day’s ride, and on pro-
ceeding to get his tea, missed a whole damper that he
had baked that morning. A further search revealed to
him the fact that his camp-oven had disappeared, and
also a new pair of three crown moles, and a pound
and a half of tobacco. Looking about to see
what else was gone, he saw under the bed, coiled up
comfortably, a small whip-snako, about two feet long
and 3 inches in diameter. Killing the reptile with a
blow of a stick, he proceeded for curiosity’s sake to
skin him. Cutting the snake open, he uttered an ex-
clamatxon of surprise. There carefully folded up so as
to bring the crease down the front, were the moleskin
pants, and evenly divided into three-quarter cakes in
either pocket, he discovered the tobacco. A further
search brought to light the camp-oven, inside which
reposed, untouched, the damper. Slicing the loaf opon
with his knife, the boundary-rider discovered, coiled
up, and fast asleep, a snake four times the size of the
one which had swallowed the property. If any sceptics
disbelieve this story, they can bo convinced of its com-
plete truth by a visit to Ghirusides, where the camp-
oven and the moleskins remain direct evidence as to
the authenticity of the evidence.
* * «
.Up in Bathurst a smart constable caught a man
coming out of a hotel last Sunday with a bottle umder
ms arm. The majesty of the law and the Licensing Bill
wore satisfied when it turned out to be a bottle of fresh
milk. So goes the story amongst the righteous people
of Bathurst, and the Independent assures us that the
man was not summoned. Is that constable a fair judge
of how much rum can be safely mixed with one quart of
milk, and a man still keep within the Act ? if he is
not, he should be dismissed ; and wo could send up one
who patrols Pitt-street on Sunday mornings, and whose
views are sound. He maintains that it the oork is
dipped in milk, the rest of it, for his part, is a matter of
taste.
• • •
Now, this is a solid, sober, fact. A few days
ago one Brown, met an old friend named Jones, whom
ho hod not seen for the past three years. Mutual
greetings were exchanged, and then Brown inquired
how things wore getting along with Jones; upon which
Jones lot out an Iliad of woes, half of which were
enough to drive even a rod-headed Scotchman into a
suicide's grave. His child was drowned, his house
burnt, the bailiffs wore then in his front room, and his
wife lay dying in the back one. Job was an overrated
man when placed by the side of Jones. His friend was
grieved to the heart, and, not having any other conso-
lation on baud at the time, observed: “Poor fellow;
comp into than. * Glasgow ’ and do a nip.” “ No,
thaiiks,” replied Joues 5 “ but, if you wouldn’t mind,
I’ll 'take the money, and bring some cooling drink to
my wife to ease her raging fever. I must got homo
boou, as there’s no one with her now but an old lodger
wa onoo had, named Robinson.” Brown gave Jonas a
shilling. Jones spent every eent on his wife, and went
on his way rejoicing.
A xieriod of three days is supposed to have elapsed
since the last chapter. Brown again met Jones, and,
in the most compassionate tones, inquired, “ Well, old
friend, and how’s the missis, now?” “Her!” ex-
claimed Jones, as his eyes (lashed with rage, and he
kicked an innocent dog in the ribs, “ Her 1 why the
Idauky blank bolted that day with that blanker
Robinson.”
m m m
“ You boo, darling,” said a Government official
(whose principal fortune is a clean shirt and a buck-rat
moustache) to the daughter of ouo of our first families,
•• you see, darling, as soon as we’re married we’ll go
home in the Orient, and do the Continong, and—we’ll
cross tho Rialto hand-in-hand, we’ll have a top-seat at
the biggest bull-light in Madrid, and we’ll go four
nights a week to hoar the Patti and Nioolinij we will
drive in tho Boia, and climb Mont Blano together; wo
will throw coins on tho Neapolitan wharves, and watch
tho Masaniollos light for them, and then we will return
and live a life of one unbroken stream of happiness—a life
of sunshine and delight, and of one eternal sound of
celestial bliss and lovewill it not be so, my heart’s
adored?” “How delicions; —what a poet’s soul you
have,” exclaimed the enraptured maid. “ But Charles,
dear, do you think yon can afford to do all that with
your present salary ?—pa said last night I’d never have
a cent, from him as long as ho breathed the breath of
life.” Charlie squirmed so much on receiving this
information that Lanra asked if he felt sick. “No
love,” replied the disappointed suitor, “ but I was only
thinking how long we’d have to wait till pa had got
through with all his breathiug." When they meat now
it is as strangers; and when innocent third parties
introduce him she smiles doubtfully, and “ thinks she
has mot Mr. C. Lingwax before."
• * *
Policemen always tell tho truth. Up Orange
way, a butcher boy was summoned for furious riding.
After the aonior-oonstablo had stated his case, defend-
ant’s attorney commenced his examination thus
“ You swear defendant was riding furiously ? ” “ I do,
Birl ” “Was he not calling from house to house for
orders ? ” “Ha was. but he was galloping furiously
betwixt them ! ” “Now, what pace was ho going at ? "
“I can’t say; I’m no judge!” “Will you swear he
was going at the rate of sixty miles an hour ? ” “I
would not like to swear it, but I think ho was ? ”
“ Will you swear ha was going fifty miles an hour ? ’’
“About that!” “Well, will you swear ho was travel-
ling forty miles an howr?” “Oh, will thin, he was
going that at the laste.” Strange to say there was no
conviction.
* * •
At a police-court, up North Queensland, a
native of the Green Isle was charged before the P.M.
with larceny of a watch. After a great lot of hard swoarl
ing. tho guilt of tho prisoner seemed to be established,
and it appeared probable in the extreme that ho would
bo sent for a six months’ recess in one of her Majesty’s
gaols. All hope was just ebbing away, when he ejaou-
bated wildly—“ I’m innocent yonr worship, I call the
Lord to witness I'm innocent.” “ Put Him in tho box-
put Him in the box " instantly said the P M., “ can’t
take your word for it." Tho dramatic youth got
eighteen months to recruit his health.
• * •
Ha! ha! we have a navy now. Says London
Society “ Although in presenting H.M 8. Wolverene
to the Government of New South Wales, tho action of
the Admiralty has been somewhat freely eulogised, it
may interest my readers to know that this old hulk is
now hardly worth the wood of which she is constructed.
This is making a virtue of necessity in its true spirit."
Wo can vouohflfor |tho truth of this story:—
On a station near Qneanbeyan, one of the bauds made
two slap-jacks, which he intended for his supper. He
was engaged frying one of them, when, looking round,
he observed a large brown snake making off with the
uncooked one he left on the table. He immediately
gave chase, bnt failed to recover the fritter, and
returned, very much “down in the mouth” at his loss.
But what was his surprise, on entering the hut, to see
two snakes fighting in the pan for the red hot slap-jack
he was frying. He didn’t wait to see the issue of the
battle, but started for the head station, told his tale,
and left the following morning for Dubbo.
A Northern contemporary complains that every
alternate week it misses copies of The Sydney Boxlb-
tin, and suggests that, if we placed some of the sorters
ia the Sydney and Brisbane offices on our free list, the
evil might be remedied. The conviction ia dawning
upon us that we shall have to register our papers if we
wish to ensure their correct delivery. This is what
comes of running a popular paper. It's quite true that
we could always obtain delivery by putting up The
Bulubtin in wrappers marked wivh the names of other
papers; but, then, it our subscribers who, as a rule,
know what's good for them, saw a. sheep jn wolfs
clothing, they might decline to accept their paper.
BRIEF MENTION.
Says tho B.T. : — “ There’s nothing so easy as
lying." Is this the voice of experience ?
Now-a-days, ‘ cherry-cases ” are so expensive
and the undertakers “ pile it on so,” that a poor man
cannot afford to die, even although he is unable to
live.
. Sydney, a barber has his shop
right alongside a butcher’s. The pair have got mixed
somehow, for the harbor butchers, and the batcher
shaves.
It is satisfactory to know that onr Government
and that of Melbourne have proclaimed Sydney a clean
port. This is, however, only from a quarantine point
of view.
A man from Wanaaring writes and says he
likes our style. It quite brims over our cup of bliss
forourstvle to be liked at Wanaaring, By the wav.
whore is Wauaaring ?
In tho bar at the Metrop. Bulletin man (to
a crowd of forty-flve): «Do any of you fellows do any.
thing in tho writing line.” Chorus (as one voice):
I’m a contributor to Punch ”
When Sir Henry Parkos arrived at New York
he got a cablegram announcing that small-pox had
abated in Sydney. And thou he lifted up his voice and
remarked : "Lo I my people his clean 1”
Apropos of tho Maloga mission, “ Are wo doing
our duty by tho heathen?" We think we are:—at
least, wo are going to hang a couple for doing what
they considered a simple act of retributive justice.
Robbins is going away for a tour round tho
world. Dis voyage will, of course bo executed with
much rap-idity—whichever world ho tickles. Wo are,
so far as we’re concerned, "Jack” about E’e 2 bob fee-
nomena.
The fact that Mrs. Francis E. Oscott, of Bal-
larat, claims as her husband a man who swears ho
never married her, goes to prove that when a man
marries ha should chalk it on tho wall, so as not to
forgot it.
A ’Frisco physician has offered 1000 dol. for
Guiteau’s body after tho gaol folks arc through with
it. That gentleman being informed of the fact coolly
replied ; “SoovUle—don’t you take it. Hangout for
another 50/*
Thirsty “ wall-flower ” outside Punch's, to
‘ Good mark* who is passing i “ I say ; come and have
a drink. Good-mark ’’ (sarcastically): ” No. thanks.
i. 7? t i ,omewhe, ' # t 0 livB at Present. When I haven't
1 11 drink with you."
The Vice-President of the Moruya Agricultural
Society has officially stated that " the Society is not
responsible for the opinions of the Press.” Well, it’s
generally the other way. Tho Press is responsible for
tho opinions of the people.
At Messrs. D. and W. Robertson’s picnio last
weok.’the Hon. John Woods of Victoria got off a bon mot.
To a Bulletin man ho said : “I see you’ve boon getting
punished for telling the truth. I wish to goodness the
Aitaus could bo punished for tolling lies.”
This is a dead secret. To understand it a man
must wear a crimson sash and a blue nose and be able
to grip yo-r hand with seven different expressions. We
trnst the 1.0 O.T. will persevere and prosper for tho
uoxt throe months. Now then Carmel, pass out 1
The municipality of Bourko has decided in
favour of tho increase of public-houses. When the
result was made known, a congratulatory banquvt was
inaugurated by tho coroner, the doctor, the under-
taker, the sergeant of police, and tho two local re-
porters.
It may explain why University men can seldom
write English when it is remembered that their know-
ledge of English literature is limited to a knowledge of
text-books on literature. So a man may bo master of
arta* aud know loss of the writings of his countrymen
tnan an apprentice boy.
A correspondent of the Collingwoud (Vic.)
Mekcurt does not consider that a married man w£
seduced a girl fourteen years aud nine months old. ai, .
made her his mistress, besides ineffectually trying do
nuu an orphan girl eleven years old, should be made a
justice of tho poaej. Yet he was.
At Bathurst, ono alderman dubbed another a
liar, and the latter retorted by calling bis adversary “a
confounded liar.” The general impression among the
Bathurst ratepayers seems to be that when aldermen
convey truthful impressions of one another, they
should do so in less forcible terms.
It was only the other day that the partner of
our joys started for Brisbane, yet already we have re-
ceived a circular from tho leading drapers of that
capital, Finney, Isles, and Co., announcing that tho
increase in their business has necessitated an enlarge-
meut of their premises. Woa, Emma I
A Gundagai man, who was had up for drinking
after 11 p.m., astounded tho bobby by swearing it was
only ginger ale he had in his glass. Both the ginger
alo and the tale wont down. Case dismissed. As the
aefondaut was au ii'uitour actor, wq arc sorryh.) v
not mulcted in millions. But no matter.
Is that insult offered to the British rag (Punch)
by the burly Bismarck to bo wiped out ? Well, you boo
it is a matter for deep consideration. Wo received
such a very decided licking from the Beers, it is not at
all unreasonable to suppose that if we dared to cope
with tho German hordes wo would be annihilated
If you want to have a bit of fun wifti a Mudtree
in an, when he tells you “this is Cox’s station.” ask
him "which Cox,” and then lie back and watch his
howdderment. One man could recite tho Chronicles
of Nohomiah but it is a pity ho tried to enumerate
tho Coxes, as Gladesvillo is now his place of abode.
, Ho ™ did you get so drunk, you rascal?—
Whore did you get your liquor ?” thundered a Sydney
clergyman, finding his pew-oponer in an elevated con-
dition one Sunday afternoon. "Where did you get
your drink, sir ?” “ Ves’ry currani," was the thick
reply. Ho had drunk the whole of the rev. gentleman’s
“ pulpit-powdor."
t They have a now tost for intoxication in
Canada. When a man can pronounce "reciprocity”
without tripping, the police let him go. In Maine the
testis * Erantus Richardson,” and "rass*s risson ” is
doomed conclusive. In Sydney, tho police might try
the shibboleth of "cement plastering” aud “shiuon
blashtin” should be fatal.
A “dramatic combination” was in tho town,
and as the editor of tho Burriuagorgery Staijobber nut
down on the inverted gin cafe to commence his work h
told his staff that he was at home that day to nokod /
but the leading lady. Whereupon the staff grinned,
aud went out to tho back garden to re mine his occu-
pation of digging potatoes.
The Auckland editor, who is accused by tho
News’ travelling reporter of stealing two brevities
from a lato issue of the latter paper, h.is retorted that
he did so to gratify the literary likings of his staff of
fubsoribers, which had just been doubled by the addi.
tion of two escaped lunatics, who had glorified his
heart by paying in advance.
Australia seems to bo a sort of limbo. In every
paper one meets this announcement: " The Mary Jane,
with 380 souls, arrived hero this morning." Thepiiy
of it is that those 380 souls bring thdv bodies, many of
which, after a little while, are stowed away in Uenevo-
lent Asylums and gaols—especially in gaols, as so much
useless and dangerous trash.
Ever sinoo the King of Italy conferred those
gew-tiaws upon Parkes, Marsh, and Co., the member
for the has been haunting tho Immigration < 'flic*
to ascertain when the next shipload of distressed im-
migrants is expected from Spitzbergen. Bide jour
time, old man. All things come to those who learn to
labour and wait—on Premiers.
01 Two lawyers, at Mudgeo, are at daggers drawn
as to who shall bo Mayor. The successful solicitor
published, iu one of th« local papers, that his opponent
should take the name of Judas Isoriot. Ws mention
this fact iu order that the boss of Holy Howl may take
legal notion agaiuat tho pseudo Judas for au infringe-
ment of the Act relating to patents.
When a rod-headed tourist was introduced to
Parihaka, tho Maori chief covered his head up in a mat
and became vouri. He afterwards explained that many
years ago, after a shipwreck, he and his hapu had eaten
a Bailor with hair •• jnst like that Pak^ha’s,*'and had
neon ill for three day«. He added, “ When I eaw the
Pakoha's hair it made my stomach eore.' #
Dr. Ahearno, of Townsville, was called upon the
othor day to (five evidence in a Court of Justice in
reference to wounds inflicted upon a horse. The doctor
declined to tell anatomical secrets about vu ins, arteries,
tissues, &c., and now spiteful people are saying that he
took this stand because he did not want to spoil his
reputation and be known as a “ horse doctor."
“Sub Rosa,” in the ‘VYhitkiiall Eeview,
says of a certain gallant Major who moves in London
society, that "he would not ho seen shaking hands
with the editor of the Half World —even at a dog.
fight." This is the " most nnkindest out of all."
Perhaps the gallant Major might forget his highness
and mightiness—say, at a Are panic in a Vienna theatre.
Emilio Caatelar, the groat Spanish orator, made
a speech lately, which is regarded as one of his grandest
efforts. Science and learning, ho said, must be free
from State and Church tyranny. The professional
man in the pursuit of truth must be beyond the roach
of fanaticism and despotism. Is it possible, then, that
Siirnor Csstellar has heard of Parkes, Proctor and
"Dr. M'Guveru?"
Respecting a regular attendant and as regular
slanderer at a Little Bethel in York-street, the senior
pastor remarked that ho feared he had “ no share in the
glorious salvation which"—in short, which he dispensed
.Pxt i 0 uf pfc tlle . ir earß °P° n aud their mouths shut.
No share 1 exclaimed the irreverent person to whom
the complaint was made, “ surely you wouldn’t deny
him a sleeping partnership 1"
Since Guitean never swore or scoffed at revealed
religion, but has always been pious, and in fact has had
a revelation of his own, it has become necessary to hit
, , a no? f departure in tracts. The modern stylo of
leaflet will now always represent ths dying saint ns
having onoo been a champion swearer, and deeply inter-
ested m Town-hall contracts, but converted by a lump
of defective plaster falling on his head. J 1
In a Queensland town during the past dry
weather, whtn every one was looking at'tho sky every
morning in Jhe hope of seeing a black cloud, a
tion waited on the Church of England clergyman, one
evening, to ask him to pray for rain the
following Sunday. His reverence replied, “ I will pray
h■ rj lk ,?’ bufc 1 can apSHre you it’s not a
bit of good while the wind is in the North ”
The Kansas (XT.S.) Legislature has ruled that
no person in that State may marry until six months
after procuring & divorce. This enactment has spread
universal consternation. Marri.d people don’t like it.
Btanf la i ly when j h ?ls “ ed i cal man has prescribed con-
?l ld tho baobe lors and maidens complain
that It blocks them entirely, because they have no one
to get divorced from, and can’t make a start.
When people’s lives hang in the balance, medical
itflf Q d Af DO ko (ll v gni (T tho d r Profession by mounting the
stilts of absorb etiquette, and orating about what is
professional and what is unprofessional. While doctors
l^ n V atlon 8 a 1 - B , ut that doesn’t matter to soma
” fd' ca | niell, At a place, say, a hundred and ninety
miles duo east of Sydney, Christianity, charity, and
courtesy, must all give way to professional etiquette.
Imagine Lamartine foreseeing that Tins Bulls-
TtN would be established. This is what ho says:—
There are epochs in the history of the human race
when institutions, grown old and sxkaustod, sink and
leave space for fresh institutions full of san, which
renew the youth and recast the Ideas of a people." We
ha 7.* K, r , oa * confidence in Lamartine, still we don’t
notice that the Herald's advertisements have fallen
Dan Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel, says
Sir Henry has gone away “owing £3 16s. for advertis-
ing his address to the electors. We billed him every
quarter, but he always cooked a deaf *nn. We did not
get the order to advertise his address from an agent,
but direct from himaelf. They gave him a banquet
before ho left. We arc not surprised, because there
rha’uquot I '* ydney wU ° would givo tllQ publio hangman
.. Th .° . h hfhost ffra.io a candidate for the teaching
. Ijcrfesh can got is 3A. Well, a fellow by way of
'"'s* his girl a turn, told the clergyman of thc-purish
i Hi?*' she was going up for 6 A’s, and was sure to pass.
When the young lady hoard this she wrote and told
him that he d tried for and got the only grade he’d ever
attain to. and that was Ass. When they pass now on
their way to and from the butcher’s, he whistles and
SII6 COUgilS#
He was in a country town—we will call it
Dubbo; the name is short, and will not necessitate our
referring: to the time-paymeut dictionary— and he met
m his walks an individual whoso mournful aspect
bordered on the sepulchral. “ Good morning, sexton."
said the visitor. "I’m not the sexton,” said the sor-
rowfnl individual mournfully; " but you only fall into
a natural error. lam the correopondout of the Sydney
Morning Sndfflebuster.
An illustrious visitor writes ns his opinion of
Australian political institutions thus “ They form a
social seo-saw. A man may be the political autocrat of
a colony one day, and worshipped as a demi-god by
sycophants and deluded thousands; and the next day
he may be clad in a suit of sober grey, decorated in
choice spots with the broad arrow, he, meanwhile,
•toiling, rejoicing, sorrowing’ in the elegant pastime
of cracking stones. Such is Colonial Ufa."
The gaudy artilleryman of Sydney is an object
of envy to meaner civilians, and the admiration of per-
ambulating nursegirls. Yet the gaudy artilleryman
was a fly in his treacle.” Ha revels in the luxurious
pay of Us. a week, and his accoutrements, rations, and
pipeclay all found; but he has to pay foi his own-
blacking ! A paternal Government draws the lino at
blacking. Admiring baby-tenders could not send their
"milingtary" lovers a more suitable present than a few
slabs of Day and Martin’s. ,
The Telegraph and the News have been
quarrelling about how many people welcomed Tom
yiattery up country, and have been calling each other
liars generally. This doesn’t interest the public, be-
cause it doesn’t surprise them. No one is going to
accuse either journal of the crime of truthfulness d
oeiU heure. However, much wo may sometimes grin at
both of them, wo most certainly should not offend the
gaze of a civilized community by writing in these
pages anything so brutal.
Asoheman of the “ Globe” Hotel, Albury,
Aschomanagod to make his fortune, and sold out to
Moses, formerly of the “ Great Northern," Newcastle.
Overland travellers will now have a chance of tasting
real salad, as Mrs. M, is champion salad maker of
N.3.W. The first night of their reign the place was so
full that it took tills a.m. to ceunt the money, and then
Mores had to imitate his ancestors and sleep in a cradle
—only the cradle was a clothes basket. What became
of Pharaoh’s danghter is not known.
Perhaps the hospital authorities won’t “ buck”
when they grasp the Breezy Bennett and read—A boy 6
years of age named Arthur Thompson, living in Kent,
fell from a building last night a distance of about 20 ft.,
and received concussion of the brain. Ho was taken to
the hospital and admitted.” Alfred’s gradually becom-
inga most “ sarcastic cuss," bur, when ho tells us a boy
was carried from Kent to bo treated by our physickers
here, it looks as if his patriotic pride had got his love
of truth on its back, sud was beginning to kick its ribs
in. i
At a draper’s where they sell only for prompt
cash. Eaters a pretty girl, who purchases about £lO
worth of stuff, and tells the shopman to "put it down"
to bar. Shopman: “Wo don’t give no credit here,
Mis-J.” A silvery laugh. Then to shopman: “ Toll
your r> as tor it is for me. It will be all right." Shop-
man geos to draper, and explains case. Draper : “ You
can make &u exception in this case." Shopman :J“ Why,
sir?” Draper (sharply): “Never mind why, sir."
There is material enough for a three-volume novel in
this.
judges in their decision on the Land Law
technicality in Moore v. Bernholdt have reversed the
decision given by three jodgo* in Cape v. Minnows, a
few years ago. To have done otkcrwls* would have been
to give simplicity and uniformity to the law, and this
would he a daath-Mow to tk* trade and calling of tho
Mincowsaud the Tritons—lawyeraand judge*. In such
events some of the high judicial magnates would not
enjoy the luxury of perambulating the country and
dint-ending thoir paunches with mal-appropriatcd
turkeys.
This is apropos of the practice of filling large
establishments with schoolboy clerks. A mercantile
grandee, who was putting an applicant for employment
through a catechism of petty and annoying Questions,
and enlarging on the importance of the position,
finished by naming an absurdly small salary, “Shall
*> 1 8n u 1 l 'i the applicant calmly, " have to keep the petty
cash r “No, sir—at least, not until wo have proved
to our satisfaction your honesty." “Ahl" rejoined
the young man, backing out, “ then I couldn’t live on
that salary."
Mr. Forster once more to the fore with poetry.
Wo regret our space dees not permit of more than a
short extract. The subject is “ Tripe.”—
“ Limp ox’s membrane tendril round a stick,
it w« take too much of thee we get sick!
Ho who thy uncooked folds too much has tried.
Boon finds, alas, he'd bettor had it fried 1"
We have had a fearful season on the Rich-
mond. Yes sir -a fearful season for fleaV’ — so spake
an aged man, a man of years,” and like some old meu
his wit outran his discretion. “Would you believe it,
I have seen them early of a dry sultry morning, when
the sun registered 100 in the shade, at six o’clock in
morning-—-wit l a a pewter in their hand, scuttering
oft to the pub. for their colonial—l have seen them at
n< ?°° diy, sitting on the window-sill fanning themselves
with a clover leaf, and I have seen myself cracking
them with a flat iron. "
For the nice blending of piety, impiety, and the
comic, the Hibernian is unique. A Northern Mick
gets glorious ’’ occasionally, and, when in that state,
he s much given to prayer. The middle of the street, no
matter how mucky, is the place he selects for his dovo-
tmns. Here he is to bo found in most humble posture on
bended knees, pouring forth, &o. The wife floats down.
Bhe s disgusted with his “ Andramartins," and shows it
°y lie a Ting’ road-metal on his pious head. He only wails
L, Boys, look on me—sthouod and marthrod, iuiko
the blessed St. Staveinl (Stephen.)"
i-vA S o a P oo Plo have asked us, what is a
libel r and ■ com to think that It is saying something
about a person that isn’t true, we give a few definitions
from.tho highest authorities. A libel is “ Plain Eng.
:1 s **■ ‘That which annoys those who most deserve
*“• ~ LJenoirvlly the truth; frequently the whole
truth: occasionally nothing but the truth."—“ Telling
unpleasant truths."—“A patent for the protection of
tnin skins.’ “Tho truth said about someone who
does not like it.”—"The legal term applied when a
newspaper describes a man as he really is.”
T h , e Phantom ship sails for Fiji on the Ist of
March. This is what they tell us. But we don’t
believe it. For some days past a beetle-browed man
ot mysterious aspect, wearing a slouched hat, and
having about three feet of dagger sticking out of his
coat-tail pocket has been mouohing about the Sailors'
Home on the look out for pirates out of work. T his is
the JU-arptm. His complement of filibusters being
now complete, ho will sweep the South seas, and after
sweeping them he will return to Sydney, join the Con.
grogatioual Church, and keep a broom. That’s tho wav
Mrs. Langtry pronounces brougham.
In a Southern town, the other day, a constable
was dismissed from the inspectorship of nuisances for
applying contumelious epithets to tho Council. The
alderman, who moved for tho I. O. N.’a expulsion, is a
publican. This happened three weeks ago, and now tho
said publican is tho first and only one summoned by tho
aforesaid policeman for selling after hours, while tho
publican s sister-in-law is one of tho four summoned bv
the ex-inspector for raffling articles at a church bazaar
The policeman, of course, is only doing what ho con-
siders his duty, but still it is a little remarkable how
soon the whirligig of time sometimes brings its revenge.
Tho Czar,” says a contemporary, “ia a
regular church-goer and very fond of saored
music That's so. It's a teaching spectacle to see
His Majesty walking to the House of Prayer hand in
hand with his wife and 270 guards, with their rifles at
full sock. And it woidd move the heart of a stone to
sec him look under tho seat of the pew for assassins,
and hand out his hassock to bo examined for dynamite
He never “ smells his hat” on taking his place in
church, like other people. For fear some of his loving
subjects may have sprinkled the lining with deadly
smoil’for bim Wa,yB handS ifc t 0 a bulovod rutaiuer to
It is becoming—nay, it has become—an epi-
demic. Ned Gregory, the party wot attends to the
OTicket ground, has had tho hat passed round foi him
Good again I There is nothing like being a cricketer:
Only the people who go to tho matches are rather full
of bemff bctfgcd from. Why can't each noblo Hitorttu
man _ each “wiolder of the willow'*—have a little
box with his name marked on hitched up to the fence
and let the people drop their coppers into the one the v
fancy ? A dog with a bowl, now, for the next criokcl
who requires largesse would be suggestive without being
expensive. We would bo happy to loud the dog and
tain b ° Wl COnld ba borrowed—from a drinking foun-
There’s no rose without a thotm, and a gallant
captain found the thorn a very sharp one recently
Just coming oil a soa voyage, it’s not wonderful that"
the facmatnms of the Palace He bos affected him Zi
not content with a little quiet sparking over* the
counter, ho invited achaming girl to visit, the Theatre
They had scarcely taken their seats in the front of the
dross circle, when criclbf “mutton chops] one*”
“Custard pudding, two!" greeted them from the mt
and gallery. The maiden looked uncomfortable and
the captain felt he had been indiscreet. Next time hi,
takes her out in the evening they’ll take the i.obulnr
sands G ° Ogoe by 8 °’ oloi!k trfttn * and. a stroll on tko
Suburban councillors may be genii of a hid,
order, but some of them don’t understand metaphor
The question of tolls formed a subject of discussion
in a suburban corporation, when or,c orator, more flower v
than the rest, after assorting that he did not believe in
tolls, qualified his statement by making use of the well
known saying, “ When in Romo one must do as Roma
does. A hard-hoiulod, serious •councillor took , i,„
statement literally, and retorted, “ Well. I haiul ”
°v tbo Contmong, and consokcntly I dunuo uoUdng
about the Eumuns ; stall, if tho Rumuns had tolls the v
were darned fools, and I don’t zackly see we’re forced t o
foller ’em blind I go dead ngen tolls." That settled
it. and the company adjourned for a laryngeal ombro.
cation. ° u
One of the cases tried at tho recent Assizes hero
clearly proves that all onroudeavours to civilize and
educate our “ black brudders" are merely waste of
time, and money. A dusky Tarqniu mimcfDickie took
liberties with the wife ot a friend named Kina- C’haHi
The latter followed Dickie up. and Tim
Honor carefully explained that oveu had tho error,t o
chief caught tho guilty ruffian in llagraVcdelici^luu
he had no right whatever to take into hii owu
hands. What are our missionaries about that they do
not explain to those benighted >■ niggers" twin
proper 19th century course to pursue in a case like this
is to enter an action against the offender for ono „„,i
then invest part in some lucrative spec, which is bossed
by a few good churchmen. ° uussea
At a Queensland port, a certain “water” offioia
whenever he hears there is a big bug coming, makes a
point of inspecting the lights on tho river. When ho
meets the steamer goes on board, and chums iu with
the big man. Well, the Premier was expected one dav
and our hero pottered about tho river all night in
ral »> waiting for the Government boat. She hove in
sight at the cold grey of dawn, and wet, shivorhig and
wretched, the olhoial pulled otf to her Ho
board, ready to do the amiable, wheu/lo andVriiold h!
discovered that the Premier had not he, 511 able to /eava
bu thad seat up four South Soa Islanders for a friend’ s
plantation. So he travelled up, wot and cold, n their
company. He hasn t been to meet any big bugs since
He may when ho gets over the rheumatism, is cured of
the influenza, and regains tho use of big right ear d *
The Eastern difficulty was finally settled a few
Sundays ago, by a suburban clergyman, who confided
tially informed his congregation that the Loord wouM
shortly cause an immense gold-field to lie discovered
Turkey, and then the “sick man of tho Bast" would
go to grass mno time. It was furthermore expired
that it was a custom of tho Deity’s whenever£ d
wanted to completely rum a nation, to open up a ph£
nomenal “diggings" The people then acq,fired
colossal wealth, and took to Kghting.whi.sk v
ove, and then the avenger came llong and sw
them off tho face of tho earth, oven as a country school
master sweeps tho sandwich plate at a land
s& ?!&s
E&SJ&S& JMuo SSft* *SS s
(Continued on Page 15.)


Hotels, tn
I
ice ICE
E
riIHE CITY ICE COMPANY
ADDITION to their WORK
Manufacture upwards of TEN TO
are prepared to Supply the LUX
PRO ACHING SUMMER, at a h
For prices, &0.,
Apply to
3 WTNYARD ST]
OB 10 VAE
B
OBEET BUTO
(Lato William L
WINE AND SPIRIT M]
634 GEORGE STB
OPPOSITE TOWN HALi
Country Orders Receive Pe<
A
USTKALIAN “HOI
SEWING MACHI
Unprincipled Dealers—to mak<
ling* profit—are offering for sal
Machines that will not stand a yea
express
OSS.
w»
*
<■/
6i\i
/H
THE HOME SHUTTLE L
Manufactured for us, has the ab<
name on the work p
PURCHASE NO OTH]
We solicit In'o’vnation of the ntt
terfeits of the above Machine, wh
act ion in protection of onr rights.
In any district where our genui
procurab’e, wo will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE NOW SOLD <
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLI
Do., WITH COVER OOMI
No charge for oases or peeking.
Circular posi
* M. MOSS ANI
* WYNYABD LANE, S
W H. A R
* T * PROVISION MERC:
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 315 Kbnt-stbebt, nea:
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lorn
Excelsior Mill’s prize Viotori
Beucraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell'a Victoria;
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Tol
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Cor
A. M. Hunt & Oo.’s Goulbum I
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, neai
Deafness i—i have an ;
for this distressing complain
Hotels, fro.
R
OBINSON’S FITZ
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOO]
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP A
Is PER BOTTI
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHIBKE
all round.
N.B.—Cookburn’s Grape (POE
BoAls, especially lor invalids.
English, Intoraolonial, and Ame
Thurston'S Bast Billiard Table
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EY
niHE OOMPAGNONI CATE
JL OP PITT-BTREET have ir
Bouncing to the public, that to ror
want of space to accommodate the
Luncheon hoar, they have conn
Banqueting Hall Into an addition
wblon in new open, and where e’
directed bo visitor* patronising thl
premises.
The Bflllardepooni, with a super 1
is under the management ef a first-
branch of Catering under taken, ai
staff of ezpeilonoed and polite wail
Through continued misroprosuu
beg to mention that they are not li
with-any other person, er persons,
SAMUEL PA(
NOW OPEN,
THE
£JITY OATEEING
315 GEORGE STI
(1 Harris’ Caf A, opposite Pea
A superior CAFE and RESTAUR.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
and (or
Gentleman accompanied
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE 1
Birthday Cakes, Christening Ca
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest
GUARANTEED that no dangerc
OK ingredient of any kind injurious
Hotels, tea.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Tobaooonis
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS '
AMERICAN TOE
THE following facts arc con
resources, and, therefore, a
special interest: —
HIXSON AND SONS paid duty ii
All the others paid duty in 1880 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty ir
All the others paid duty iu 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco pi
on for the two years was 0n1y.,.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRj
YANKEE DOODLE, C
SIR ROGER, GOLI
out ruby, oribnta:
Van bee Doodle and Conqueror or
genuine "Tin Tag," each pluj
Eoond Siwona Tin Tag, stt
QDBBoa" or “ Yankae 1
AXIj TOBACCONISTS' GOOI
J.BVB . TOBACCOP
JAMES B V
No. 14D KING SI
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stal
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambo
149 KING STEEE
r NDIA AND CHINA TE
703 GEORGE ST
Hatmarkkt.
OUR "STAR OF IND]
Have been proved tc
SUPERIOR TO ANY
FOR
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND El
Sold only at our Establisl
705 GEORGE SI
HAYMARKET,
OPPOSITE HORDERN'S
EMPORIUM.
m
fr
MiM
l?d
m
ifiiiin
ML
fIWBPS
U
*V.
m
•nnm
<T.ir»
'Li
M
\
■i;: 1
iii"
M
WtfP
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEP
MERCHANTS
VIRGOB, SOnTInD
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
m
OR M§
ORNf
V*
It is of the utmost importance t
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New So
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bever
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L<
WHISKY.
VIRGOB, SON, AND
AGENTS.
Jjl MARTIN i
AUSTRALIAN WINE M
AND BEER BOTI
105 PITT STREI
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s p
ALBURY WINE
RED,
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
M&lbeo
HUNTER RIVER Vi
Claret
Lambruscat
PORT MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET.
Tho Bum of K. MOSS ft 00.
every Genuine Bottle.
p.
R. LARKIN*
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPB STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darllnghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley. Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
WROlbsal* a»d Rkxail Wink and Spirit Mbeohaht,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Deportment is replete with a well-assorted
■took of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
H.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at HaymarkeU
IJNDER SECTION Y„ ACT 532.
ART-UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGABEE JUNCTION
ESTATE
by Subscription.
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each,
120 PRIZES of the full value of £lO,OOO.
Ilf lots guaranteed cash if preferred.
Lot I. Ist prise R4OOO I Lot 3. 3rd prise £IMO
Lot A 2nd prise £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize £4OO
l>et 6 to a, 5 Frizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10,1 Prize of £66.
Lot II to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lot 21 te 180 ( 100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management have increased the number of prizes,
and therebyluoreosed the ohanees to nearly a certainty
to win a substantial prize, if not a large and independent
fortune, for £l. Drawing o* the 28tn and 20th March.
Unsuoooesful applicants will have their money returned
per return post. No oommissio* will be paid to agents
after this date.
Address—SETH R. PEESSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.


SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
See the Medals, Cups, and Trophies
at the
SYDNEY ARCADE.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ABB MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing Company*
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Chief Office in Europe :
39 FOSTER LANE. LONDON,
Depot for New South Wales
NO. I DARLING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
s
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
HATS
All the Latest Improvements.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
YOB
Largest Variety of Woefc
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE
Strength and Beauty of Btltob.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE
Embroidery, Braiding, and Quilting*
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and Prilling.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Silting, Cording, and' Ruffling,
160 FIRST PRIZES.
EASY TEEMS—2a. 6d. WEEKLY.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
8
I
N
G
E
R
Offices in Sydney:
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and No. 1 DARLING
STORES, HARBOUR STREET.
LOCAL DEPOTS;
BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N., GOULBURN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWORTH.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
NARANDERA. PARRAMATTA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ARE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2b. 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. per week—2s, 6d. per week.
And ho interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS
Agents for th 6 ONLY GENUINE “SINGER"—
TURNER & COMPANY,
853 Qeorge-atreet.
THE ONLY “SINGER"—
TURNER k COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
*
o
HOME COMPANION.
HOME SHUTTLE. /
WERT HEIM, /
HOWE. / J.
Ac.. Ac. / \
AS.
The
v
O
a:
Light
Running
•C
STANDARD.
4
V
o
V
A
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
EMachines.
IHE “OTTO” SILENT GAS ENGINJ
No BOILEI
full POWE
AT A M(
MENT’S N(
TICK.
No Troub
1 with C• a
I Ashes, Smok
'insuranc
Water, o
Attendance.
Cost of Ga
Hd per hers
Sower pi
o«r, with gi
at (Is M p
GIBBS. BRIGHT, and CO.. 93Pit&treet.
gMI T B. AND YBALE
PROPERTY SALESMEN, LAND and ESTAT]
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Properties placed in our hands for positive sale, we
advertise free.
Chemists and Druggists
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOB
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
• • They are also much recommended as a mild laxa*
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costivoness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate Of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be Careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABEA H A M,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotns, you will not be able to eough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Pouch's Hotel.
miCKLE YOUE APPETITE with the Ana-
JL tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
JOHN BUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, &c.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets Ye-laid at moderate
charges.
wW'
G E
0 E Q E LAN
(Formerly of Qeorge-street,)
IMPORTER OP
E ,
CHINA GLASS AND EAETHENWAEE,
Begs to announce that he has RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will bo sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
H
AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
Pitt Street f
LISE’S PAPEE CUT PATTEENS,
All communications to bo addressed to
“ KLISE,"
484 GEORGE STREET,
DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Pattern* cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled i a
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stomps or money order.
Oh? KING STEEET, SYDNEY
O 4 (two doors from George-street),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-streot, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Polios of
fashions, 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
I JUNE AET DECOEATIONS IN HALLS AND
- |PRIVATE HOUSES.,
BALFOUR AND PATERSON,
ARTISTIC HOUSE PAINTERS, 97, ELIZABETH
STREET.
Interiors treated iu all stylos. Modern and Antique,
Early English. Pompeiian and Renaissance. Original
Designs submitted.
TO PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re-
cover your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the .Secretary, 65 Pitt-atreet, Sydney.
Easiness Announcements
[Legal.)
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-BTREET, opposite the Bynums
News Office.
CIHARLES GIETZ,
) (from Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bakers’ Ovens,
Mountings, &o. Off No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sydney.
N
OTICE OF REMOVAL.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
GLASS MANUFACTURERS,
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCRIPTION'of CHINA
and EARTHENWARE,
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVED
to
269 GEORGE
Next but One to the Mercantile Bank.
A magnificent selection of New Goods now opening.
ILLCOX
W
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac.i Ac., ho*
S. HEBBLEWHITB*
416 GEORGE STREET,
STEREOTYPE/^^
-AN D
Foundry
Also
—AND—
PRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
SYDIsrEY.
at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEAKNE,
ENGINEER & IRONFO UNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE GIRDERS,
AND STOVES.
BURGLAR COLON IAL
PROOF OVENS,
SAFES DEED
AND (BOXES,
DOORS.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STREET.
J MASSEY AND SON, 10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards,
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
T
HE PAINLESS CORN RELIEVER.
A Sure Relief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Gympie (sola
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros. & Co. Syd-
ney aaid Brisbane; and sold by all patent medicine
vendors.
ASS FOR HANDBILLS.
Public Companies
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,(WO,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Rundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager :
Vincent Wauostrooht Qiblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Redfern,
Globe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.O«
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Demliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inues, Goulburn, Grafton, G»n.
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillstou, Invercll,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Molong,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkos, Raymond Terraco, Rockley, Rylstoue, SingU-
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Tentemeld, Ulnmns,
Urann, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, W cai
Maitland, Wilcaunia, Woodbnrn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
I
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital... £300,000
Reserve Fund £116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, E.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARYj
Heotor Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Ooorge-street Brickfield Hill, Redfern, and
Qiralambone.
LONDON BANKERS t
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 158 Loadenhall-ftroot.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other nrodnce shipped to England for sale.
J GRAHAM NIXON,
• IMPORTER AND GENERAL AGENT.
17 BRIDGE STREET.
Chief Agent for
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBATED GLENLIVET
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBRATED OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
AITCHISON’S PALE ALE.
READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
manufactured bv us and KNOWN
AS DOCTOR
WAUGHS
has a wide Reputation for
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
AND the chemical judges ofthe
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST AND
BEST IN THE WORLD
Bv AWARDING TO US THE
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
G'VEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECTION
FOR FI R ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR -SQUARE TINS-
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
WILLIAnTdAVMES So COY.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes he Visits, 7s. 6d. per Dozen.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the Qeorge-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites au early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
Au experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges strictly
moderate.
CHAF.LES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street,


HOP BITTERSI
ABE
THE PUEEST 4liJ) BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Bucliu, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and 1
Valnable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifies, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine over made,
and no person or family should be with,
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, .worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If yon are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If yon are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system need* Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What You Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yoa will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTBPIORB, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUE.
FEEE FEOM ALL ADULTEEATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOB
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
MONTEFIOEE, STUART & CO
B ENJAMIN BEOOKES’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware 'Glass
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels, ’
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no eqnal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great .saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIOEF, STUAET, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,'
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
FIRST SHIPMENT OF 600 PACKAGES, CONTAINING THE LATEST
EUROPEAN NOVELTIES.
WE have just received fer the Autumn and Winter seasons, and have now succeeded in displaying
them in such a manner throughout our EXTENSIVE SHOW ROOMS, that we have every
•Confidence in respectfully soliciting the inspection of the LADIES OP SYDNEY, who will find that
tfae greatest care ard judgment have been exercised in selecting the choicest and most beautiful
MATERIALS, DESIGNS, and SHADES, being also anxious, at the same time, to secure everything
of the MOST FASHIONABLE and LATEST NOVELTIES.
DRESS PLUSHES, in all colours
BBOCHE VELVETS, LYON’S SILK VELVETS
COLOURED VELVETS, in all shades
REAL GENOA SILK VELVETS
SILKS and SATINS, newest shades and patterns
DEESS CLOTHS in great variety
MOST FASHIONABLE “BECTIVE"
•• EOULE RAY,” “ SHETLAND,” and “ TAM
O’SHANTEE ”
COSTUME CLOTHS •• SARATOGA”
Our French and English buyers have procured some
CHARMING COSTUME CLOTHS, soft in texture,
very serviceable and well adapted for the present
style of dress
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S HOSIERY
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S SILK HOSE, in all the
new colours and light tints
LADIES and CHILDREN’S LISLE-THREAD HOSE,
in every size. Black, white, and new shades
LADIES’ SPUN SILK HOSE, in black, pink, sky, and
cream. Richly embroidered fronts
LADIES’ UNDER VESTS, in Gauze, Merino, China,
and Spun Silk. In every make.
LADIES’, CHILDREN’S, and GENT’S BOOTS and
SHOES, by all the best makers. Newest styles,
best materials
CARPETS, RUGS. FLOOR CLOTHS, AND CHINA
MATTING of choice materials, colours, and designs.
NEW EDELUCISS in white, cream, and
black
SILK, SPANISH and CASHMERE, in black and cream.
BLACK CHANTILLY. MIRECOURT LACES. The
above are the new laces fir Autumn
RIBBONS. REVERSIBLE SATIN and MOIRE,
plain and shaded
Moire and PLUSH, plain and shaded. Also, PLUSH
UPREME RIBBON. I hese are the latest novel-
(es in ribbons
OH* NILLE, FLOSS and CHENILLE. BRAID and
FLOSS, FICHUS, CAPES, VISITES, SCARVES,
& all new goods for Autumn wear
IBS. The »«w LANGTRY EDGING,
and INSERTIONS to match
KID GLOVES. The “ HAYMARKET GLOVE ” is
made frem the most reliable Brussels kid. 2
buttons Is. 9d., 4 buttons 2s. 6d.
THE “PALACE a LOVE ” is the best FRENCH KID
GLOVE. Always in stock, 2to 10 buttons
THE “ SWEDE GLOVE ” is the latest introduction in
gloves, 2 to 8 buttons, black and coloured
FABRIC GLOVES. Splendid assortment in THREAD
TAFFETA, and CASHMERE GLOVES, PLAIN
and FLEECY-LINED, for children and ladies.
PARACHUTES and UMBRELLAS, for ladies, chil-
dren, and gents, in great variety of makes and
shades
HATS and CAPS. Men’s youths’, and boys’ HARD
and SOFT FE LTS, all shapes and sizes
CLOTHING for men, youths, and boys. SUITS or
SINGLE GARMENTS, new patterns, good shapes.
Fresh direct from the manufacturers
LINEN SHEETING and TOWELLING, and TABLE
LINEN, unequalled in variety and price.
CAREFUL AND PROMPT ATTENTION GIVEN TO ANY ORDERS RECEIVED FROM THE
COUNTRY. PLEASE TO SPECIALLY NOTE OUR ADDRESS IN FULL, AS
WE HAVE ONLY ONE PLACE OF BUSINESS—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
[(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
1
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
are to be obtained from
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A %
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150* TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OB SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
sa
Trade
Mark
A
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOR IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Covering Qualities.)
“ AN¥ CL “ ATE 11 w,THS SL TH c E E^| 0 pL H K\ iT o^ D ColD ' A ™
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
33 CLAEENCE-STBEET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Tho papers announce the coming return of the
fashions of the Elizabethan era. This is ruif on the
ladies.
Mormonism has some redeeming features. For
instance, it doesn’t throw the burden of supporting a
husband on one woman.
An abduction case was compromised at Ash-
burton (N.Z.), by the man marrying tho girl, who was
only fourteen years of age.
William H Vanderbilt gave his daughter Leila
on her wedding day U.S. bonds representing half a
million dollars, just as a little souvenir.
A woman may not be able to sharpen a pencil
or throw a stone at a hen, but she can pack more
articles into a trunk than a man can into a one-horse
wagon.
How is it that when a young lady runs off and
marries a coachman, everybody generally, and her
parents in particular, raise old Cain about it, and
nothing at all is ever said when a bride marries a
groom.
A minister was called upon to marry three couples
at once. The parties were standing round promiscu-
ously, waiting for the arrival of the minister, and when
ho came in he marched up to them, exclaiming, “ Sort
yourselves! ”
The rule now is for every lady to have her age
indicated on her hat brim. Every inch of width repre-
sents three years. A ten-inch brim means that the lady
j* three years old j a twenty-inch brim shows that she
js sixty, and so on. It is a charming conceit.
There is, occasionally, a youth who is not green.
Said Symonds : “ Old Ragbag has refused me his house,
and has ordered me not to speak to his daughter; but
if he thinks, by that racket, he can rouse my obstinacy,
and get me to make love to the girl and marry her, he is
mistaken."
Miss Seligman, who was recently married in
Paris, is the daughter of the Hebrew banker who was
refused admittance, with his family, to the Grand Union
Hotel, at Saratoga, sn account of the hooked nose—
Jews being regarded by the “ swell” hotel-keepers in
the U.S. in the light of a plague.
A charwoman has been sentenced to six months’
imprisonment at Halifax, England, for trying to burnout
—or char—her own daughter’s tongue with a rod-hot
poker. The girl, aged 13, was held by the face, and
ordered to put her tongue out, her young brother apply-
ing the red-hot iron to her face and neck to emphasize
the persuasion.
A London writer says that “ Stonewall” Jack-
son's daughter is the loveliest girl in the South, and
her magnificent eyes mow down the “ Yanks” as did her
father’s brigade at Bull’s Run. “ She received a perfect
ovation on Monday night last, at a ball given at Atlanta,
Georgia, and during the evening danced with a repre-
sentative of every State in the Union—3B."
“ Bertha, my darling,” she said, in soft tow
tones, ” would it be too touch trouble for you to go to
the matinee this afternoon, instead of ironing your
father’s shirts ?” Rising from the fauteuil, Bertha
kissed her mother fondly. “My own, sweet mamma,"
she said, “ you know I would do anything for your dear
sake,” and with a proud smile on her face started for
tho kitchen to heat her crimping irons.
A lady at Long Branch died recently from the
effects of eighteen bottles of “ anti-fat" medicine which
she had taken in ten months. This is one case that has
been brought to light. Probably hundreds of others
have commited suicide in a similar manner, and there
are thousands to day who are shortening their lives by
taking similar compounds. All attemps to reduce cor-
pulency, in this way, are in opposition to the laws of
nature, and are therefore, dangerous to human exist-
ence.
From a London paper : —“ Whilst assisting at
a game of 1 snapdragon,’ a few evenings since, at Sand-
ringham, the Princess of Wales had the misfortune to
overturn the vessel of burning spirit. Her dress was
ignited by the lambent flame, her eyebrows were
singed, and one arm was injured. Happily, these
wounds were slight, though my informant states that
the incident caused no little excitement in the royal
salon. The Princess behaved with great coolness,
indeed, was the coolest of the group, for while the tire
to the sleeve of her dress was being extinguished, she
herself tore away the burning tdblier ."
Some French “ Alexander Boss ” has found
out a way of supplying a thick and long fringe lash to
any eye which may be lacking in that picturesque
accessory. A fine needle, threaded with dark hair, is
actually drawn through the skin of the eyelid, forming
long loops which are subsequently cut. The operation,
strange to say, is said to be a painless one—a fact,
which, if correct, will certainly lead to its frequent use.
Even if it did hurt, the lashless coquette would not be
prevented by any ordinary pain from undergoing it.
For, as it is, there is quite a large trade being carried
on in England in "nose machines,” an apparatus,
which, if worn persistently, and adjusted skilfully, will
produce an actual nasal transformation for the wearer.
Thus the caustic Referee: —‘‘A Lady Land
Leaguer has been sent to prison. When a female in
Russia is accused of political crime and punished, a
halo of romance is always flung about her by our
writers, and the tyranny of an autocrat who wars upon
women is trotted out in tho bluest of blue periodicals—
I use tho cerulean designation, by the by, in its political
sense. When the lady conspirator happens to be Irish,
the political aspect of the case vanishes at once, i Dis-
tance lends enchantment to the view. If you have a
quiet half-hour to spare, think out how our sympathy
has been showered on all sorts and conditions of
European revolutionists. Abroad we call such people
patriots. It is only at home the harsher name comes
in."
Mudgee infant ( loq .); “ Father, is there any
chimney in hell ?" Parent: " Why, my boy ?" Infant :
Because, if there ain’t, how does the smoke get out p"
KM parent, to have a think.
A frequent accusation against professing
pietists is, that they don’t carry their religion into
daily business. This lias always t roubled us, and we
have regarded it as an evidence of something wrong.
We have now, however, come to believe that “ whatever
is, is best;” for we have come across a person who
does carry her religion into business life. Heaven
save us from meeting any more. A shopkeeper desired
to rent premises on North Shore, and incidentally
mentioned that ho intended to vend fruit, summer
drinks, &c., to weary wayfarers on Sundays. To him,
next day, wrote she “ Dear sir. We shall not be able
to let the shop to you, on account of the Sunday trad-
ing. One of our Blessed Saviour’s commands is, remem-
ber the Sabbath Day to keep it holy, and I believe that
this, with all the other commandments, came right
down from Heaven, amidst the thunderings of Mount
Sinia (sic) from God, not man, who is from everlasting
to everlasting, without beginning and without end.”
Thi sis part of the first page only; there are three
other pages of this "business religion," or "reli-
gio us business,” in exactly the same style, which
commences at the ** Fall of our First Parents,” and
come down to the “ only begotten Son who died for us,"
embracing the ten commandments, the apostles’ creed,
tbo mystery of tho Trinity, the atonement, and the
judgment day, just lightly touching on a few other
matters, and setting forth in unctuous and threadbare
phrases everything the writer believes and everything
she doesn’t believe; concluding with the startling,
though somewhat stale announcement, that we shall all
have to come to judgment—“they that have done good
to the resurrection of life, they that have done evil to
the resurrection of damnation " The inference is that
the misguided man who sells a bottle of ginger beer to a
thirsty traveller on Sunday, will meet the latter lively
fate. This letter was written to a stranger! Far from
us be it to invite contempt on religion, but this letter
does it. If anything could discredit religion, it would
be “ business ’’ epistles of such a kind; and we say this
because of theevident geniuenessof tho letter; there is
no fun in it, it does not indicate hypocrisy. But it does
indicate a deplorable fanaticism, scarcely surpassed by
that of the most ignorant savages, and it makes us
regret that religion seems, in so many oases, to cause
j>eoplc to forget ordinary courtesy, and to deprive them [
alike of tact, good taste, and common sense.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lieutenant Ponsonby’s name has been removed
rom the Navy list.
The Alpine explorers are in N.Z., and at latest,
were ascending Mount Cook.
Mr. Bryant Waymouth, for 21 years accountant
at the G.P.0., Melbourne, is dead, aged 67.
Not a single literary man of any note was
present at Harrison Ainsworth’s funeral.
Rosa Bonheur’s health begins to fail, and her
hand to lose its cunning. Well, she has lived.
Herr Habbe, the well-known scenic artist, has
been,engaged for St. Mary’s “ Olde Englyshe Fayre.”
A cousin of Canon Farrar, the author of the
eloquent "Life of Christ," keeps a pub., in Rylstene.
It is thought that President Arthur will ask the
daughter of Secretary Freyliughuysen to become his
wife.
G. W. Rusden, late clerk of the Victorian
Parliament, goes on a visit to Enropo by the Mirza-
pore.
The Empress Eugenie is quite restored to health,
although she occasionally suffers from a bronchial
affection.
M. Meaty, Inspector-General of New Caledonia
died on Feb. 15th, and was buried on the following day
with military honors.
Louisa Alcott, the authoress of “ Little Women,”
and other charming books for young and old, is 49 years
of age, and unmarried.
George Francis Train has announced that he has
made his last speech and written his last letter. His
announcement to this effect was published in an Ameri-
can journal, and George promptly sent an epistle con-
taining corrections, to the extent of two columns and
three-quarters, of the speech as reported.
Sir C. McMahon, Sir John O’Shaunassy, and
other Melbourne shareholders, are visiting the Gisborne
(N.Z) petroleum fields.
There are two young men, at Narrandera, who
attend church with commendable regularity, and when
there can’t behave themselves.
Sir Arthur Gordon and family are at Christ-
church, N.Z., where they intend to remain three months.
Great disgust among Wellington residents.
The Maori King Tawhiao, that lately visited
Auckland, intends holding a big meeting on Ist May, to
which he has extended an invitation to the people of
The visit of Graham Berry (Knight of the
House of Humbert) is part of a large plan to play old
Harry with the Government during the absence of old
A son and heir has been born to Lord Rosebery,
w ,oo> it will be remembered, married Miss de Roths-
child. The youngster is certain to be nicknamed
* Nosebnry,"
Mrs. A. F. Remmington, sister to Sir Alfred
“tophen, and long resident in the Yasa district, died
last. We mention this merely for Sir
Alfred a information.
The American papers announce the arrival of
He declared the Atlantic “disappointing,”
uncouth, devoid of repose, and as Wild(e) as himself."
Hot even water-lilies there 1
On his last birthday, Oliver Wendell Phillips
* n ® o3 t° n to make purchases. None of tne
» men W9u j ( t take his money, but reminded him of
hponh't was k* B birthday, and showered gifts
One Bathurst editor uses Dryden’s lines, in
of another—
* two leffc an <l Judas-coloured hair,
And frowsy pores that taint the ambient air
wid swears the description is exact.
Remarks a writer who saw Mark Twain recently:
"Below his neck-tie Mark Twain is as personable a man
as any. The terror is all above his neck. And such a
head! A little wav off he has the appearance of having
on the shako of a Hungarian grenadier, and reminds one
of a thistle in bloom,
A Welshman lately wrote a letter in the verna-
cular to Mr. Gladstone, inquiring if a certain Non-
conformist church could be rated, as was the wish of
some hostile local critics. The Welshman not only
received the wished-for reply, but it was actually written
in the Welsh language.
The Prince of Wales was to dine with the
Savage Club on 11th Peb. Who would have dreamt
that the Bohemian club, in which at one time, and
that its best, a la mode beef was the staple table
d’hote fare, and beer was served round in a quart pot,
would ever entertain Eoyalty P
All Tasmania is convulsed over the jocose awards
of the Melbourne Exhibition jurors, who gave the onlv
three local gold medals to the Premier (who opposed
the vote to provide representation at the affair) and two
other magnates, who had as much to do with Tasmanian
interests in connection with it as a bush publican has
with the Sermon on the Mount.
Mr. Henry Coles, secretary of the N.S.W. Row-
ing Association, is, we ate glad to see, gradually recover-
ing from the effect of the severe injury sustained by him
at the Anniversary Day Regatta, when his left hand was
crushed between a boat and a steamer. Mr. Coles’
medical attendant has, however, found it necessary to
remove a portion of one of the wounded fingers.
Thus the Whitehall Review :—“ Mr. F. G.
Dalgety, who seems to be almost worshipped bvhis
tenants in Hampshire, returned, a few days ago, from
Australia, via Southampton. Prom Dunbridga Station
he drove to Lookorley Hall, passing under several
triumphal arches and between crowds of people, and, at
the park gates, two congratulatory addresses were pre-
sented to him. Mr. Dalgety, who was accompanied by
his wife and Viscount Trafalgar, looked wonderfully
well, and everyone in the country is glad to see him
home again.”
Dion Boucicault recently went to see Mr.O’Kelly,
a suspect in Kilmaiuham Gaol. He says :—"Mr.
O'Kelly snarled, and pointed to the prison fare; it was
his dinner. It consisted of a mug of grease and water,
intended to represent soup, a bad potatoe, and a lump
of boiled beef. ‘ That’s the kind of " fat of the land ” I
get,’ Mr. O’Kelly said, * and I stick to prison fare on
principle.'"
An exchange saya that Sir George Grey, erst-
while the Parkes of N.Z , is a pensioner of the English
crown, but that “ he generally declines to receive his
£2OOO per annum I’’ We are giad to see that a simple-
minded country editor exists in New Zealand. For our
part, we are willing to immortalise Sir George Grey (at
so much a column) directly we hear of his refusing 2000
pence per annum.
A well-known horsey man, noted as a “gentle-
man rider " in steeplechases, rode up to a country hotel,
and throw the reins of his thoroughbred to a boy. He
then went into the bar, and asked the barmaid to give
him change for sixpence. After a refresher, he mounted,
threw the boy 3d., and rode gallantly away. He has
plenty of horses and carriages, 10,000 acres of land, and
an income of £4OOO a-veor.
A letter has been received in New York
announcing the death in Australia of William W.
Chambers, who deserted his wife 31 years ago at Syra-
cuse, New York. In 1*64, a Life Insurance Co. refused,
upon insufficient proofs of the supposed death of the
missing man, to pay his brother-in-law the amount of a
policy of £2OOO. Some years afterwards, Mrs. Chambers
married a Mr. Travis, of Detroit.
This of the late Bernal Osborne’s is now handed
down to posterity as something peculiarly brilliant s—
“The right honorable gentleman has alluded to a
certain ABC scheme, to which he says the corn-
missisoners have been D E F." At this the Commons
roared for two minutes. It is astonishing when you
have the reputation of being a wit, how easy it is to
make people laugh. Sydney Smith used to say if he
only opened his month and said nothing, people roared.
But, on consideration, M’Elhono might, with justice,
say the same thing.
Mr. G, Sickles, aged 82, the father of Major-
General Daniel E. Sickles, has married, at New York,
Mrs. Sawyer, widow of Sergeant-Major Sawyer, one of
the heroes of Inkermann. General Sickles was once
U.S. Minister to Spain, and is also noted for having
shot Philip Barton Key, the composer of "The Star-
spangled Banner," in the streets of Washington, for
seducing his wife. The invitations to the wedding con-
tained this postscript: “No presents are expected, and
none will be received, if sent."
The will of the late Mr. Archibald Johnson, of
Toorak, squatter, has been proved under £l5B 000. Mr.
Johnson, who had for many years paralyzed, owned
several fine stations in the Western District of Victoria.
One of his daughters is the wife of Mr. David Les, the
well-known Melbourne organist; the other was Miss
Kate Johnson, who died very suddenly some years since,
and who, by her extraordinary costume, as well as by
her musical talents, made herself known beyond the
limits of the colony in which she lived.
The following may interest the curious student
of colonial political life. The SA, Northern Territory
Expedition is composed as follows The Hon. J. L.
Parsons, Minister of Education, is an ex-parson of the
Baptist sect; Mr. L. L. Turner was once a Moonta
draper, and is now a land agent and auctioneer; Mr. J.
H. Bagster is the literary genius of the crew, being a
retired compositor; Mr. H. E. Bright was a butcher;
and Professor Tate is a geologist. With such a
talented Variety Troupe at her beck and call. South
Australia has nought to fear. Her “ white elephant"
will come in useful yet.
Aldermen J. D. Young, Meeks, and G.L. Carter,
recently mails a big hit in New England, tin-mining.
They divided £21,000 between them, and Mr. Young
now proposes retiring from business. The latter
gentleman will also contest West Sydney at the next
general election, and his chances of defeat are already
reduced to a minimum. We believe that at the next
meeting of the Council, “J. D." will propose to have
erected in the gallery a plaster cast of M’B 'ath, stand,
ing on a pedestal comjiosed of a portion of the Town
Hall foundations. The design to be executed by Uriah
Heep.
The Melbourne Argus is much exercised
over a charge of plagiarism laid at the door of it’s
“ ablest contributor," Mr. James Smith. Mr. Smith,
it appears, discovered corroborative proof of the
authenticity of Shakspeare’s plays in the fact that the
poems, which are more incontostibly his, contain pas-
sages conclusively showing identical authorship. This
was all very well, but the Aoe has made another dis-
covery, viz., that an American author, Dr. Steam, had
long ago advanced a similar theory, and adduced simi-
lar evidence, to that put forward by the Akgtjs’ ablest
contributor. Mr. Smith is afloat en route for England.
The Argus “is not prepared to say whether the serious
charge is wqll or ill-founded,” and the Age cried “ boo
boo to yon ” in triumph.
Insulted Landlord: “Want the rest of yer money! What d’ye mean ? Can’t
’ave spent .£9O in a week P Oh, can’t yer P Why, ye had 147 nobblors on the 3rd ;
didn’t he, Lizzy? And 95 on tho 4th ; and Oh, come, that’ll do. You must bo
drunk ! Clear out.
Among the new Chevaliers of the Legion of
Honour is M. Camille Barrore, the French representa-
tive on the Danube Commission. M. Barrore began
life ten years ago as an English journalist. He wrote
in the Pall Mall Gazette, the Athenaeum, the Morning
Post; and he represented the Manchester Guardian
during the Turko-Russian war. Diplomacy is a rather
more direct cherain de la croix than journalism.
Jack Woods, of railway-brake renown, is now
sarcastically spoken of as Tom Bent's valet. David and
Jonathan, in point of harmony aad friendship, were
not fi circumstance to Tom Bent and Jack Woods.
Jack is said to have a profound admiration of Tom’s
“ management of the Victorian railways on sound eom-
meroial principles,” yet, strange to say, thinks that
Tom ought to “put the break on.”
John W. Guiteau, brother of the assassin, de-
clares that his brother is possessed of a devil or demon,
and supports his position by a theological or demono-
logical theory that there are two forces in the universe
—one under Satan, and the other under Christ. Wo
don’t know about Guiteau being possessed of a devil,
but there seems every likelihood that by the beginning
of next half-year, the Devil will be possessed of a
Guiteau.
Oscar Wilde’s first lecture at New York at-
tracted a large and fashionable audience. The
hall was crowded by persons who evidently
went to be amused. When the lecturer appeared
in a drers coat, white waistcoat, knee-breeches, and
silk stockings, and seated himself on the stage, there
was an audible titter in all parts of the house, which
grew in volume, aad showed signs of becoming a general
laugh. When Mr, Wilde rose to begin his lecture there
was another titter, which quickly subsided when ha
began to speak. His delivery was a droning monotone,
not once varied for two hours. The audience listened
quietly for a short time, and then began to show signs
of weariness, and during the last hour talked among
themselves, paying little attention to him. Many went
out. At the close there was considerable applause.
The general verdict was, that while the lecture showed
that the man was no fool, it also showed that he had
nothing to say that people oared to hear.
Everyone has heard about that giddy youth
the Premier Earl of England, Lord Shrewsbury*
who recently ran _ away with a pretty woman
much older than himself, whose husband has since
obtained a divorce. Well, here is the latest about his
lordship:—“The Earl of Shrewsbury will presently
join his yacht, which has been sent to Toulon, for a
lengthened cruise. He will he accompanied, I hear, not
only by the lady upon whom, at the termination of the
cruise, he intends to confer a distinguished title, bat
by that lady’s four merry brothers, who are just’ now
urgently wanted by the Derbyshire police."
The amorous poet who wished “that woman-
kind had but one rosy mouth,” that he might include
them all in one vast, comprehensive kiss, was harmless
compared with the young legal gentleman who dodges
around No. 1 Coffee Palace seven days a week and then
frets because a week’s so short. All the girls in the
establishment have been invited to accompany this
ardent young man to a picnic, and he has not yet
decided whether any other gentlemen shall go. This
is a sober fact; every piece of black merino and white
cap on the premises is included. As it will, of course
necessitate the closing of the Palace for the day. this
picnic will be duly advertised.
Last Sunday evening, the Rev. James Jefferis.
L.L.8., re-appeared in the pulpit of the Pitt-street
Congregational Church, after an absence of more than
a year. The large church was fall in every part. Mr
Jefferis said his long trip had benefited him exceed-
ingly, and as far as ordinary health went, he felt as
strong as any. He had not spent the months so
generously given him in the mere pleasures of travel
or dreamful ease, but had sought to gain, with all the
honest impartiality at his command, j aster notions of
his fellow-men in this strange, chaotic, and jarring
world. Especially had he studied the tendency of re-
ligious thought in various countries, the prevailing sys-
tems of religion, and the attitudes of the sects towards
one another; and endeavoured to understand the secret
influences of each. It was only by thus placing oneself
in contact and sympathy with other sects that a just
estimate could be won, Ha had endeavoured to free
THE CURSE OF THE COLONIES.
HIS CHEQUE and HIS CHECH.
GENIAL LANDLORD: “ Smile, Lizzy; He’s a good ’un.”
BY A Q.C.
The Queen may make a belted knight,
A marquis, duke, or lord, oh :
Such dignities are very slight
Beside a comm, of Bordeaux,
Some win their knighthood by their pen.
And others by their sword, oh;
But mine, unlike such puny man.
Shall come through wines of Bordeaux.
A trip by ship to foreign climes
Some great men can’t afford, oh ;
But a grateful country finds the dimes
To pay my way to Bordeaux.
When Parkes and Co. displayed this bait.
They touched a tender chord, oh.
And once aboard the ship of Stated
I turned her head to Bordeaux.
Among the chevaliers and dames.
I’ll be a little god, oh;
Leaving Jack and Co. at crooked games.
While I’m away at Bordeaux.
Exult, ye Judge and Jury Club,
And let the Press applaud, oh I
Sir Matthew, eh ? Ah, there’s the rub—
That’s why I’m off to Bordeaux,]


10 THE PUBLIC
and
NEW SOUTH Y
We hesr to inform vou that oui
ANNUAL DRAPERY SALE hi
These REGULAR PEKIODK
become so well and favourably
appear superfluous for us to say i
them ; but seeing that there h(
cession of population both ii
throughout the colony since th
EXCELLENT SYSTEM (now
published fully the details of it
now to state briefly that these SE
occurring in February and Jul
NOT the ordinary Drapers' “Cl
Sacrifice Sales." generally of
accumulations, bit SPECIAL El
at the close of the Summer ai
reduce a surplusage of BRAN h
ing principally of HOT'SEHOLD
GOODS, &0., &0., which, irom
left on hand in our built storei
NETS, as an instance : Last ye
sto <k before Christmas, but this i
summer pests have been troubl
suburbs, the towns have been co
them, and very little protectioi
hence we have a surplus stock of I
could multiply instances bearing
items, showing how LARGE
GOODS cannot help being ove
articles. The course usually ad
over to the next summer. WE p
into CASH at once, and order PI
to be made for future requirement
Of course, we have to submit
SEMI-ANNUAL SALES, but w
not having to pay heavy expenses
(say) six months. As a rule, we i
STOCK at these sales a trifle abov
FACTURERS’ COST PRICE, jc
charges, and have hitherto had t
ready buyers to clear the whole
night.
RILEY BROTHERS, 386 GE
RILEY BROTHERS, 600 BR
RtI.EY BROTHERS, OXPOI
RILEY BROTHERS, GUULI
RILEY BROTHERS, NEWC
RILEY BROTHERS, BATH
also LONDON, GLASGOW, and
The Surplus Stock this year i
12th GREAT SEMI-ANN
consists principal
12 esses Mosquito Nets, commenci
23,300 yards Cambric Prints, 2)d p«
480 dozen Linen Huckaback Towel
10 cases flue brown Hollands, conn
1215 pieces ladies’ Longcloth, 2|4 p
11 bales yard-wide grey Calico, 3fd
A lot of Oddments grey Calico, at;
Another lot of Oddments, to go at
14 bales double width grey Sheetim
123 pieces white Twill Sheeting, n
to be sold at 8-Jd per yard
A lot of Horrocks’ Longcloth, very
A lot of Colonial Tweeds, to be sold
5 cases White Honeycomb Quilts, <
ing. 3a lid each, worth 8s 6d.
About 450 Marc dla Quilts, doubled
of them worth a guinea
Also a few of the old handmade Te
ever), to go nt 17s 6d each, regu
There are Lace Curtains at 2a lid, I
wonderfully cheap
And some hundreds of Curtains, 2!
about half-price
The remainder of the Summer Bis
pair
Nearly a hundred of the Guinea Bli
pair
A few real Witney Blankets, 40s go<
LOCAL OPTION and the NEW
will no doubt greatly lessen the
hoiises, so we must sell out about
140 PIECES BAR TO WELLINI
yard, usual price f
But we have largo quantities of d
the bedrooms which will have to b
the requirements of the new Act, st
Strong Cotton Ticking, at 3Jd per
Good Linen Ticking, at llsd per y
China Matting, faucy patterns, 1
worth Is
Toilet Table Covers, largest size. J
White Towels, for bedrooms, 2s 6d
The largest Bath Towels. each
White Twill Sheeting, BJd per yar
The largest Honeycomb Quilts, 3s
Really good White Blankets, 3s lit
Felt Carpet, for bedside, ll)d per ;
New Vallance Nets, 6id per yard
AJso,|
Unbleached Linen Damask,
White Linen Table Damask, Is 6d
Crash and Kitchen Towellings, &c.
In DRESS MATERIALS we wil
ASTONISHING BARGAINS. We
heavy quantity to sell this time, bul
be found worth while coming to see.
THE TWELFTH SEMI-ANN
SURPLUS STOnir
him«elf frofn that domination of thought necessarily
implied in adhesion to a certain church or creed, and to
become for a while not a teacher b’nt a scholar. Never,
at any day, had the spirit of revolt against ancient
teachings and faiths been so widespread and serious as
at present, and though ho would net decry this habit of
modern minds, to investigate and personally decide, he
warned all—but especially ymiig men—against self-
contldence and intellectual pride, “ -Descend to learn;
if J-oii would ascend to knowledge. The way to the
heights of truth is through the valley of humiliation.
Tot," said he, "strike an ample path; never allow
your intelligence to be ignored, nor yonr vVill to he
uttOrly debased; think, inquire, use your reascia
reason is never opposed to faith. If any comO to you;
nd matter who, with a 4 thus saith the Church,' or even
with a ‘ thus saith the Lord," remember that, after all,
the tesponsibility of deciding rests with yourself."
The text, or motto, of Mr. Jefferis’ address was in
Ecclesiastes, VIII 8. “ There is uo discharge in that
war," and the application was made plain by very
pointed allusion to the work which is not done among
our own immediate neighbours, who surround us, un-
taught, untrained, at our very doors.
The Russian Admiral and officers have been
cordially received at Adelaide (S.A.). Lunch with the
Governor, last Monday ; picnic at Mount Lofty on
Wednesday ; and ball to-night (Thursday), at Glenelg.
OH to Batavia, Friday.
The Rev. Mr. Mazy, of Liverpool, was presented
with a pnrso of sovereigns one evening last week, prior
to bis departure for Moss Va e. The rev gentleman
has endeared himself to the inhabitants of the town,
and members of all denominations at Liverpool have a
kind word for him. That this good feelim? should exist
is scarcely to be wondered at, since Mr. Muzy possesses
the happy knack of being zealons without being officio**,
and charitable without ostentation.
Mr. Francis Wise, the great Cork distiller, has
died, it is believed, intestate. It is said that the capital
estate is worth £3,000,000, that he had an investment of
£BOO,OOO in the Government funds, a bank credit of
£IOO.OOO, and held American securities worth £200,000.
If it be really a ease of intestacy, the property will
devolve in equal shares to Mr Francis Wise Low, of
Tipperary, and the Oubbins family, as the
issue ef Mr. Wise’s deceased sisters. Mesdames Low and
Gabbing.
Says London Figaeo Sir Arthur Kennedy,
learn frem Brisbane, will shortly resign his post as
Governor of Queensland. It serins that, in spite of
his well-deserved popularity with the educated section
of the community in the colonv, his Excellency has
given oHence to what is called the moneyed element—
the wealthy financiers, and butchers, and other "new
rich men.” He is, therefore, it is stated, willirg to
return to England. It is scarcely likely that, should
Sir Arthur Kennedy not be prevailed upon to remain at
Queensland, he will be succeeded by Sir J. Pope Hen-
nas sy, who followed him at Hongkong.
A London Tory paper says:—“The irony of
destiny has never made itself more apparent than in the
career of John Bright. One illustration may suffice to
substantiate this statement. No man has so energeti-
cally denounced the existence of sinecure offices He
denounced them as jobs, founded for the sole purpose of
affording out-door relief to the aristocracy. This, how-
ever, was before he had attained his fiftieth year, or
worn the Queen’s livery. Since then we find him hold-
ing onq of the most lucrative sinecure offices under the
Crown —that of Chancellor to the Duchy of Lancaster.
Beyond tSfe signing of tickets giving admission to
fashionable marriages at the Savoy Chapel. Mr. Bright
has really nothing else to do than to draw his salary of
£2OOO.
Only to think that gubernatorial flesh and blood
have their litcle weaknesses. .Sir Arthur Kennedy’s
hobby is clean Cbiukies; Lord Loftus’s is Cochin-
China’s, and Sir Arthur Gordon has other, nud, in otie
sense,' more Celestial aims. Miss Kennedy, though her
heart is impregnable to many of the commoner allure-
ments whiou fascinate the female breast, is impressible
to bows. Here is a poetic rendition of her aldress t®
the students of the Brisbane Grammar School
Pkponees of Sydney Hospital last year were
£33,154 3s. 7d.; balance in bank at end of year, was
i&90. 15s 10ii ; the assets showed a credit over liabilities
of £2.905 3s. 2d.
Mine host ef the Bulletin Hotel, Diek Thatcher,
desires ns to cowect a widely-spread error, viz., that be
bos given up the business. Although not addicted to
advertising individual publicans, wc do so in this case
cheerfully; and, in addition, explain the misappre-
hension, viz., the diminution of deaths by poisoning
recorded in the Vital Statistics. But then, Dick has
been away, it must be remembered.
Two well-known Adelaide insurance agents,
named Hicks and Barker, stand charged with conspiracy
to cheat and defraud the Australian Mutual Provident
Society. A man named Weatherbead, who was dying
from consumption, was insured in the above Society
for £5,000, and 'in the Australian Alliance Assurance
Society for £3,000; it is alleged that Hicks and
Barker obtained a sound, healthy man to impersonate
Weatherhead. This impersonate dodge is a well-
known American swindle, i’rom information conveyed
tors in the past, we may add that there ham been
previous rumours as.ninst one of the accused, as to his
c d usion with a medical man who scamped his examin-
ing work. A third insurance agent will also he
called upon to answer a criminal charge, iu connec-
tion with this alleged fraud.
One of the largest eastings yet executed in this
city from a wood pattern, was carried oat. atthe foundry
of Messrs. Triggs and Marr, Clarenca-atreet Ti e
casting was a cylinder for a 45 h p. engine, now being
constructed bv Hosking Brothers, for the Gore Hill
Steam Brick Works, North Shore. Several ladies and
gentlemen were present to witness the operation.
About 2i tons of metal were required, and this molten
mass was removed from the fnrnace and placed in the
mould with the greatest ease and in the most successful
manner. After the casting had been made, the company
adjourned to the Post-Office Hotel, and champagne in-
dulged in. Prosperity to Messrs. Triggs and Marr, to
Messrs. Hosking Bros., and to the Gore Hill Brick
Works was drunk enthusiastically. Special reference
was made to the fact of Messrs. Whiting, Hob on, and
Co. getting their important work done in the coionv.
Prosperity to the wool interest was drunk, and Mr J.
•Goddes replied. “ The Press,” &o, followed.
SEEING A STAR.
There is a sylvan stillness about Wynyard-
square which sheds a glow of gladness upon the heart
of the aesthetic traveller. Its precincts are sweet to
the soul of the lingering nurse-girl, and oft, in the cool
shade of tlie foliage, is to bo seen the peripatetic
artilleryman chewing tobacco and the cud of reflexion.
Prolific of boarding-houses; the generous flavour of soup
which assails the pedestrian as he passes every third
door must strike pleasantly Upon the olfadtory nerves
of the destitute outcast ; and the occasional shriek
With the accompanying “ scraunoh,” which float from
the open casements of the dentists, pleasantly vary the
solemn silence of that classic region.
# * #
About three short hours after Sol had quivered
upon the meridian one day last week, a chariot, licensed
by the Transit Commissioners to carry any two people
that could be got in at the doors, might have been seen
ta drive up to Pfahlert’s hotel, and therefrom issue a two
persons of graceful bearing and distinguished mien.
These were ourselves and one of the numerous staff in
managerial attendance upon Miss Lionise Pomeroy,
the star performer, who is vnghtly scintillating at the
Theatre Roval. Our road in the hall was barred by the
charwoman’s nephow feebly disguised as a page. This
youthful retainer held us in conversation for some
moments, until, as wo thought at the time, Cleopatra,
upstairs, should signify that it was her pleasure to see
us: but we afterwards discovered that tbo delay had
bron artfully contrived by Miss P„ in order to allow her
butler to clear away all the spoons and forks, and sub-
stitute German silver.
* * *
On being shown in we found ourselves in a
lofty room, the windows of which commanded an un-
interrupted view of Joo Eokford’n hostehie onposite.
So plain was the view, in fact, that during the first few
minutes our eagle eye detected one of the servant
girls in a bedroom over there, doing her hair with a brush
and oomb belonging to one of the boarders. Miss
Pomeroy’s quarters are very comfortable indeed.
Besid-s the sitting-room in question, Miss Louise has
a keeping apartment (always say “sleeping apartment ”
when speaking of a “star”) about twice as big as
Pastor Allen’s chapel, and about four times as clean.
Her maid sleeps on a shelf in the cupboard, with her
head on the jewel-box, and her feet resting on the gem-
encrusted casket which contains the Pomeroy laces.
We expect she was sleeping there at the time of our
visit, as she was not visible to the—excuse the impro-
prietv—naked eye. We may hero mention, en passant,
that Miss Pomeroy travels with £5000 of jewellery, and
£1000 of laces. With am thing less than this, she
couldn’t travel at all. And it’s the same thing with
her standard number of managers.
* # #
As we entered Mias Pomeroy was seated at table
just waiting to commence lunch —converts being laid for
six—-a precaution Miss P. told us with a smile that she
was obliged to take, since she never knew how many of the
management might happendropin. Oneday.in Dunedin
she said, she had just settled down to some carried
prawns and a pint of Amontillado, when a tap came at
the door. It was her Secretary. He came in, and she
whistled down the pipe for more curry. Then another
tap came; it was josh accompanied by the Agent-in-
advance and the Acting-manager. Hardly had she time
to frantically summon the waiter and order everything
cold in the house, than Theodore Hamilton appeared
leading in J. J. Wa lace . ..... An hour later a
message was brought in, that the hotel butcher had put
up his shutters and taken the “Missis” for a drive.
The management, and their friends had cleared out the
shop. “ I used,” she said sweetly, “to extend my hospi-
tality to oven the subordinate members of the company;
but I had to give it up. Why, fancy,” she continued,
with a smile whose brightness yet pierces the caverns of
our soul: —“ One day I had asked five of them to
luncheon, and as I was passing down the next street in
my earriage on the way to the hotel, I came upon the
whole five seatoi in a row on a door step sharpening
their teeth with a file.”
• * •
Having previously been entertained at a banquet
which a boniface of this city provides for such ot the
public as are intellectual and distinguished enough to
call for a glass of ale, we declined the lady’s hospitality;
but seating onrselves in an arm-chair watched her with
much interest commence to operate upon some sweet-
breads and tomatoes. And now, children of both sexes
and all ages, prick up your ears, and yon shall know
what she is like :—
Oh, let our fingers once again,
Dear harp, be wand’ring o’er each string;
And, in a soft and gentle strain
Of melody, O let us sing!
There are no words within our ken
With which to paint this vision fair;
There is no power giv’n to men
To sketch such budding beauty rare.
No smile ot Muse, no power of dram.
Will tune our harp to thee, sweet rose;
So —as we must “ lay on the jam,”
We’d better dwindle into prose.
# # «
Miss Louise Pomeroy, as we beheld her hiding
away the sweetbreads, is a tall lady, with a fail face,
the expression of which betokened great strength of
mind and determination of character. It was a face, we
should judge, that; the man it belonged to would be
chary of looking straight at while he told her of impor-
tant business which would, in all probability, keep him
at the ofiioe until next morning. It is a pretty face
undoubtedly—and, above all, a healthy face. Her teeth
are strong, white, and even—and her own ; and, about
the corners of her r.-outh, there are certain lines that
lead you at once to the conclusion that, if she said “I
won’t,” when yon told her to go out for the sapper-
beer, no amount of box-iron and hearth-broom would
make her do it. The chief charm about Miss Pomeroy
lies 1* her eyes. They are wonderful eyes, fall of life
and light—and, above all, intelligence. It is no secret)
at the present time, that there are myriads of men in
this city hopelessly gone on the fair Louise, and more
sighs are sighed into drinking-glasses nightly in the
neighbourhood of the Theatre Royal than any time
since Musgrove’s maidens gave their brilliantly success
fnl anatomical exhibition. And that this should be so
does inot surprise us in the least. We were mere driv-
ellers b fore we had been there ten minutes, and the
acting-manager looked rapt admiration at her through
the bottom of his champagne-glass.
• * »
Miss Pomeroy was attired in an (esthetic robe of
a most elaborate description. It was one of those gar-
ments that look as if they ha i been just .slipped on
whan your step was on tho stairs, but which) in reality
take about twice as long fixing as a ball-dress. The
robo was of black silk, and elaborately embroidered
down the front with flowers and birds, and (for
all we know) fish and artillery. The robe was superb •
the wearer —bewildering. Bat the dress wasn’t
all. There was a vision of Cinderella shoes and
embroidered silk stockings ; of an admirably drestel
ChevSlure ; and of jewelled fingers and little pink ears
winking with diamond ornaments Then there was the
ensemble, that was supremely artistic; and the voice that
was pleasantly peculiar. Her style of speaking is’that
which jon might imagine, not so much in an English
Duchess who was trying to pass for an American Udv
as in an American lady who is trving to pass for an
English Duchess. It had the same charm is it, how-
ever, that the rest of her was invested with,’ being
singularly pleasant to listen to. In a word MissLouise
Pomeroy is the kind of woman that many enterprising
men wiould die rather than not possess. So far as we
are concerned, not being very euterpri-ing in that line
we think we are likely to lire; not hut that during the
interview wo could have shed the gore of the Acting-
Mauager with feelings of very lively satisfaction
* * *
Shortly after our advent, Miss Louise com-
menced her history in these terms :—“I am twenty-five
years of age, and I come of rich but honest parents ”
At this moment a waiter entered with Rcederer While
he was administering this refreshment to ourselves and
j that section of the general management order whose
i particular wing we were, Miss Louise changed the sub-
ject and went on with her lunch. Byron avowed that he
could not bear to see a woman oat. but that is said to
; to. because when he treated tho Countess Guicciolli
(how do you spell it ? we have mislaid the time-payment
dictionary) to maccaroni and cheese, she had a way of
picking out the long pieces with hey fingers and playing
at bob-cherty with them during the repast. If, how-
ever, the author of Childe Harold could only have
behe'd the graceful manner Mies P. packed away her
lunch, so far from being disillusioned with the sex, he
would have subsidised Allison to put on pieces with
banquet scene", and taken a comer seat in the dress
Circle every night.
* « *
When the attendant slave had departed, out
came our note book like a flash, and toying with a
three-quartersofapoundbunchofmuscatelgrape*, Miss
Louise recommenced her biography. “I am American
born, and my parents are rich, but—” Boom, boom,
ralaplan, the German band onside playing a tune which
is a cross betwjen the overture to “ Norma,” and the
Lewis Scott Lancers. All to the window; and the
history once more interrupted. Back again to the
table, and once more to “ lend the listening ear.”
“ When I have newspaper men to see me,” said she,
“ I always like to tell them who I am, straight out.
Let me see. Where was I ? I didn’t tell you, did I,
that I was raised in the United States?” “No,
madam,” we replied, “ but we are delighted to hear it."
“ Oh, well," she said, “ I was, you know ; and my pa-
rents—did I mention to yon anything about my parents? '*
“ Not a word." “ Well, T just thought I did. Any-
way, they were rich, but honest." “Go on, madam,"
we murmured, “this is becoming exciting.” “I
always like to tell people I’m American, because I’m
proud of my country ; and with regard to my parents—
but perhaps yon wouldn’t care to hear anything about
them ” “On the contrary, madam ; proceed ” “ Then
I must tell you in a word,” she ejaculated proudly,
" that they are rich, but honest withal.” At this
moment a crowd of visitors, including several church
dignitaries, entered, and a few moments later we filed
sorrowfully out, convinced that it would never be our
lot to hear the end of this enthralling history.
* * *
In conclusion, we may remark that Miss
Pomeroy is not only an actress of very great histrionic
abilities, but she is a literary lady of acknowledged
attainments also. The following trifle in verse, by
Louisa, will set all doubts as to her skill as a poetess at
rest for ever and ever :
Joking apart. Miss Louise, who is now doing
Cleopatra at the Royal, is a very clever actress, and our
reader.-, by going to see her many time?, will not only
please themselves, but please us and Louise into the
bargain. And what a sweet thing that will be. We could
say .note on this subject, but the major-domo of our
establishment has just come in to cook ji herring for
the new lodger. We must, therefore, dissemble.
POLITICAL POINTS.
In ten years the shipping trade of N.S. Wales
has increased by 932,300 tons, while the tonnage enter-
ing and leaving Victorian porta has increased 834,871
tons.
It is estimated that .£100,000,000 (four hundred
millions sterling) would sntlioe to bny out all English
landlords, and make Great Britain the property of the
British.
Political ■wire-pullers in Melbourne are matin g
strenuous efforts to inflame .Protestants and Homan
Catholics against each other. Tuis, it is conceived, is
the only way of putting the present Government out.
The spectacles of the Hon. Lavington Clyde
Treasurer of bouth Australia, have been seen beaming
around the streets of Bydney. Lavvy is here, of course
on official biz. Ho wants to understand tho N S Wales
system of Usance, and to take back to S. Australia a
bushel or two of new ideas.
A few enthusiastic Irishmen of Auckland (N Z )
met to form a branch oft he Irish Land League, but’the
Herald s reporter was ejected. Some of the Irish resi-
dents. including, itisbelieved. the clergy, were opposed
to the formation of a league, and refused to go into the
room where the meeting was held.
Lord George Hamilton puts it neatly thus
When the Land Bill was passed, it was found that the
Land League had as little respect for it as for the
general law. Mr. Gladstone then, instead of suppress-
mg a seditious agitation, chose to put himself in com.
petition with Mr Parnell Mr, Parnell outbid him,
and then Mr. Gladstone put Mr, Parnell in prison."
The ploughing of Mr. Parnell’s land at Garrv-
moT,e W , a o B , I do , ne h l volun teer help while he remained in
gaol. 183 J ploughs were in the ground at once, and 500
carts were carrying manure to the land, two and a-half
mi ej. No arrests were made, and the black-hearted
villiauß who . t “ UB displayed their infamous natures were
h to disperse without the encouragement of buck*
The Emperor of Japan has announced that in
1890 he will establish a Parliament and inaugurate
responsible government. But be is only a pagan If
he were a Pious Wijliam or a Holy Czar, he would
demand political servitude from every official paid by
tho taxpayers, or send every man who talked about
constituUona l Government into exile. It is clear that
the Mikado will go to the grave without gaining the
esteem of Piddingtonsky. s
Our Government in India derives £7,000 000
sterling revenue from the opium trade with China The
Chinese Government vainly struggles against the mis-
chief wrought by the introduction of the cursi, and
has issued proclamations appealing to the people to
have nothing to do with the pernicious stuff. They
would prohibit the importation, at once, were it not that
were they to do si England would declare war, as she
did before; and against a nation which finds its rule of
life in the Bible, the pagans are conscious that they
could not hope to contend successfully, especially ns
that nation has also a lot of torpedos and Gatling
guns. 5
Tw° thousand delegates, represents forty
thousand Scotch farmers, were pieseut lately at a
demonstration held at Aberdeen, at which resolutions
wore adopted demanding reduction of rent, compen-
sation for improvements, and other abatements in the
evils due to landlordism. There have, as yet, been no
arrests, but it is thought that wbi e the Highlavd troops
remain m Ireland, the Irish regiments in the British
service will shortly be ordered to the north of Scotland •
and if necessary Aberdeen, Sutherland, and Caithness’
Shires may be proclaimed disturbed dis r.cts, the looil
press seized, the Habtas Corpus Act suspended, and a
few lassies clapped into gaol.
874 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon
The Bishop of Maitland is to be accorded a
formal reception on his return from England.
I v e f fc n ha 2r , i? quested the leBHee of rail-
way bookstall. Melbourne, to withdraw from sale
"n<l Bssaijt 8 pamphlet •• The Fruits of
An old gentleman, James William Thomson who
mnehT ‘Ti* at *f elbour ? e for fal *e pretences, is can-dug
™ ! He has g ',l en noMoe produce goodness-
only-knows how many Victor! ,n newspapers, and baa
subpoentd about forty witnesses, including, it is said
the Chief Jugtice, before whom the case is heard. '
Clarence-street is fast becoming an avenue of
handsome warehouses and stores, amongst which may
to a v ? r y exoelle nt production of what seems
l?rioV Tr' Zt r adaptation of simple Italian features
m bnck The introduction of this pleasing, tasteful
design which is admirably blended with red. white, and
monf ß b h. IC i k H lU i Co ? janctl ° n wit h Terra Cotta enrich-
monts is indeed a happy hit, and dees great eredit to
the aichitectg, Blackman and Parkas of Garden Palace
tn n( iw?'t iT b i 8 y° un K Arm is evidently fast coming to
the front by dmt of hard work and study. S
Hark now to me, ye stndeuts dear,
While I record a row ;
It ever I enter the marriage sphere.
I’ll wed a beau that can bow.
With a how, wow, wow,
A flg for the Latin they force yon to learn.
Which wrinkles too early the juvenile brow ;
Can Sallust the prosy, or Caesar the stern
Compare with a beau that can bow ?
W ith a bow, wow, wow.
Greek with its grimness dismiss from your thoughts,
Who cares for Euripides now ?
Be sure there's a round of pleasanter sports
Fbr the beau that can make a good bow.
With a bow, wow, wow.
Arithmetic’s all very well in its way,
And figures are fine I’ll allow ;
But give me the figure that always is gay.
And that is the beau that can bow,
With a bow, wow, wow.
Algebraic absurdities, too, are all rot.
With ox the co-etficient of cow.
Be sure that efficient the scholar is not.
Unless he’s a beau that can bow.
With a bow, wow, wow.
Sling Dutch to the dogs, and French to the deuce,
Parisian felines can but “ myow,’’
Let foreign absurdities pass to disuse.
And learn to be beaux that can bow.
With a bow, wow, wow.
Give Euclid the go-by, nor squander your time
In angles and carves that extend to your brow;
Can anyone point to a curve so sublime
As that made by the bean that can bow P
With a bow, wow, wow.
H your masters insist on these studies absurd.
Revolt, and they’ll quail at the row;
And though distance divide us, yet say I preferred
A beau (though bow-legged) that can bow.
With a bow, wow, wow.
MADRIGAL.
I stood and saw the summer orb
Par westward shed his fading light;
And this thought did my soul absorb—
“ How much will there be in to-night?”
I watched the moonbeam’s silver sheen
O’er the translucent waters flit;
And marvelled then if Cymbeline—
My well-loved play !—“ would draw the pit.”
It was a dream of beauty bright.
As I o’er that sweet landscape looked;
And thon I pondered with delight,
*‘Oh, every circle seat is booked.”


Notwithstanding the keen competition existing
in the sewing-maehiue trade, the “ Singers" are aoknow-
ledgod to be the sewiug-maohines of the day. Buyers of
sewing-machines should visit the Sydney Arcade, and
see the numerous first-class prizes (over 160 in number)
awarded them at the leading competitions of the world
— Adv,
During the past year you have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good cop of tea
You have heard that the last season’s China crop was*
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association's Pure Indian
Teas ?—a blend of the most famous and purest teas in
the world ; kept by all thelleading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place.— Advt.
The belief that there’s a woman at the bottom
of every mischief is distinctly derivable from that
Garden of Eden apple episode, which is the lirst case of
orchard-robbing on record. Man is never tired of pic-
turing to bin self how happy all his species would havo
been “had not Eve stolen that apple." Yet there is
some consolation to Sydneyites to know that, since by
the first Eve came all our desolation and woe, so by tho
second Eve— whoso address, by the way, is 149 King,
street, opposite the Theatre lioyal stall-entrance—
comes sweet reactionary joy to the lover of the narcotic
weed. Eve, the woman, got us turned out of Eden ;
Eve, the tobacconist, lets the desirous re-enter Paradise’.
Even so.— Advt,
(Continued from Page 9.)
A private-public—a club.
The Auckland Evening Star has the sublime
audacity to head a telegram referring to the Milburn
Creek trial, thus—" Copper mining swindle.”
The Western Independent, in a leading
nrtiole, gravely advocates the vivisection of criminals
found guilty of murder. Who’s getting at old A.B. P
There is a Government* tank care-taker up
Bourke way, who is doing well. Ho informs you,
casually, if you are in quest of water for your slock,
that he sells hop-beer and sardines.
Our aborigines are mighty hunters, and care
not for the peaceful arts of agriculture. Will not some
philanthropist break to their benighted minds the
joyful tidings that whisky is made from com ?
A man writes a long letter to London Vanity
Fate, and commences—“ Sir, —I am, I believe, an
honest man." As if one could write for that piper.
Why, all the honest men write for the Express,
What ia the dignity of the Caesars compared to
that of the big six foot official who ha* been stalking
through public-houses of la’e, aud seeing by tape
whether the Licensing Aot dimensions are there ?
In Melbourne, if a person is very anxious to get
a par. in the papers, he doesn’t go to the editor. He
goes to Aaron Waxman, Esq., J.P.—a “financier.’’
It’s not only tha shorter, but the surer way. “ S’help
us I"
“ God bless pa and ma and uncles and aunts,
and all kind friends (and relations, aud all tha world
except the bailiff," is now the nightly prayer of a child
of religious parents iu Darlinghnrst. He bad taken
away the piano.
An Ulmarra squatter recently pieked up, in the
road, an uurevised edition of the Testament, and took
it straightway to the police office. When chaffed by
his friends for his honesty he explained that he had
never read the old edition.
Beware of over-exertion. A man named Smith
was picked up dead in Hvda Park last Saturday. He
had in his hand a copy of Sydney Punch, and had, ia
the opinion of the jury, died in trying to get out of it
either religious consolation or fun.
At a fashionable olub the other night a high
official was very positive as to who took a certain trick
at whist. ••I’ll bet you four drinks ’’said —-“that
you’re wrong." “ No.” replied the other, “ I’m not so
certain as that, but I'll take my solemn oath of it,"
There was an old man of Yass,
Many guineas did slyly amass.
In a leaky enclosure
He died of exposure,
And the people adjudged him an ass.
“ What are you sending sister Cissy away for,
farler?” enquired that young lady’s brother, ae he
saw his sister, driven away, under escort to the station,
“ Because she’s become a Daughter of Temperance,
sir. That’s all yon need know about it at your age."
Saturday’s Herald contains the following ad. :
—“Nurse wanted; assist in horsexuork ; children over
3 years. Shorbourne, Nelson-street, Woollahra.” It
would bo a funny thing, now, if tbis situation wore at
the local Mayor’s. No emphasis, please* dear printer.
The gushing lover, who kissed the stamp on a
letter received from his sweetheart, because ic muit
have touched her d«ar little mouth, was rather dis-
gusted when ho found the kanaka “ boy" was chief
clerk of the letter-posting and stamp-licking depart-
ment.
A great English authority, Dr. Mortimer
Granville, declares it to be his firm belief “ that a very
considerable proportion of the inmates of asylums,
both public and private, are no more mad, iu any
medical sense, than the majority of those who put
them there."
Says the “ Alf of the Evening, beautiful
Alf ” :—“ Why ia an angel the nearest approach to in.
fallibility ?—Because, though it may not bo always
“ right,” it is never wrong.” Why is an angel ?—why
is—Oh I blow it—Eh ? For angel read angle. Oh Igo
to Clontarf.
In the census of the religions in Victoria, we
have “five Nothing Particular, three Saved Sinner*,
one Silent Admirer.” We are glad that there are so
many Saved Sinners in the “ Cabbage Garden,” but we
doubt the return of a Silent Admirer. How many Saved
Sinners are there in Sydney ?
They leaned baok in a Hyde Park seat, their
cheeks touching and their eyes mutually angled towards
each other. “How 1 love thus to rest against your
dear head," cooed she. “Do you, dovay; and why ?’*
“ Because it’s so nice and soft, my ownest." Then they
both lapsed into a long reverie.
This is a yell. A particularly well-known mem-
ber of Parliament recently called ou a lady in Mao-
quarie-street. “Mrs. So-and-So in?" said the M.P,
“ Yes, sir, but she’s dressing," replied the servant.
“Oh, tell her not to mind dressing,” rejoined the
member. “ Let us now join the ladies."
A ooantry paper in Illinois says, among its local
items: “No word has yet been hoard from Abraham
Lever, who went off two weeks ago with his wife's red-
headed hired girl. Until his return the Sabbath school
class will be in charge of the Rev. Mr. Perkins.” (Poor
wife, how could you Lever, Abraham ?)
Last week, at Melbourne, a prosecutor in a
robbery case accounted for his intoxicated condition at
the time of the commission of the offence by saying
that ho had that day received his lawyer’s bill of costs.
No further apology was necessary. Even the lawyers
were heard to mumar, “ Poor fellow 1"
An Irishman, who was no mean hand at foraging
for a drink, says that he got about thirty out of ayouug
man ou the strength ot their mothers’ maiden names
having beau Monaghan, and that they wore both Irish-
men together. But the other fellow’s father was a
Mongolian and not a Monaghan all the time.
It rained, and a civil servant remarked to
Rroughtstruok, of Riveriua, “if there’s any of this up
your way, it will be bully for you, old man” “it will
make the young grass spring to kill all the blooming
stock that’s left," cheerfully replied D. “ Let us liqui-
date a couple of wethers, give it a name round."
Writes a correspondent:—“ Can you inform me
how it is that the gas at the Palmer-street church has
hesn cut off ? We have noticed that for several weeks
past, the choir have had to practise in the dark. Could
they not raise a collection in aid of the Gas Company ?
Pardon me for the trouble this important question is
likely to give you."
Victoria has a navy, too. It consists of the
Cerberus. Despite tha condition of the boilers, they
seem to be able to get up steam very well. For there
has been a good deal of smoke between Lieut. Collins
aud Brennan the steward. Suspension of the latter—a
Board demanded —“You’re another," &c. Altogether
a good time promised.
The host paying thing in London now is to bo a
city auditor. Tne oest paying thing in Sydney is to be
a city contractor. Odd, isn’t it? Wo are evidently
getting civilized. Yet, curious enough to say, only a
few years ago Holloway used to advertise that his
pills and ointment were on sale “in all civilized coun-
tries, and in Australia."
“ Haul in the gangway,” cried the captain of a
political pio-nio boat at the Circular Quay, one day last
week, “ Not nearly full yet sir," said the mate. “No,"
responded the captain, “ I know,but the Evening Yell
contingent has’nt come along yet. They’re jumping
down their last food at leap-frog round the corner. This
is an ad libitum tuck out aud they want to be “fit."
A well-known gambler, in the Maitland dis-
trict, indulged himself, the other day, with the luxury
of a wife, whose captivating characteristics ha had
often whistfully gazed upon. Some wag of a printer
appended the announcement “No cards ” to his mar-
riage ad.; and his brother spielers sighed as they
thought how soon his matrimonial martyrdom had
begun.
The latest “bit of kid,” as the unregenerate
have it, is a woman in the principal streets of Sydney,
who turns the handle of one of those spasmodic in-
ducements to stomach-ache, a bastard barrel-organ,
wfch one baud, aud with the other clutches two children
of tender years. Surely these unfortunate Utile animals
though not luoky enough to have been born horses or
goats, have some claim to protection from torture.
Allow me, Madam, to congratulate you upon
your son’s election as Mayor of G , said a store-
keeper to an irascible old lady, who was in his shop the
other day.” “Never mind yer congraterlunhuns," wa*
the reply; “but just give me a bar o’mottled soap,
and half-a-pound o’ ten-penny candles." How in-
sensible some people are to family glory I
When the Russians wish to feel the international
pulsa, they put up a fellow like Skoboleff or Melikotf to
make a violent speejh, and then “ recall" him. This
opinion differs from that of the Campbelltown paper,
which says that the fiscal c implications of strained
relations tend towards the belligerent arbitration of
contemporary dilemma. Thera may be something in
that view.
Sydney Puncw charges a number of provin-
cial papers with stealing its paragraphs by printing
them without acknowledgment. Now, to constitute
the crime of stealing, the law exacts that the appro-
priation shall i>e lucri causa, and none but a maniao
would contend that any journalist could gain by pillag.
ing Punch paragraphs. Nonsuited; with costs on the
higher scale.
There is a “ commercial’’ jp Grafton way who
has invented the art of blushing. It a girl will give
him a kiss, or a pair of suspenders, or something, he
wijl place her in a chair, and lav “ blushing” on with a
paint brush out of a bottle. One day ho laid it on too
thick to a landlady on the Clarence, and she, in return,
treated him to some of her “ blushing.” She laid it
on with a millet-broom.
Every day brings Victorians fresh cause for
delight in their honorary Justices. Sandhurst glories
in an honorary “ beak ” who boldly exclaimed, daring a
trial, “ The case is of a most frivolous nature, and 1
heard all about it this morning.’’ If over we are un-
kindly accused of doing something which we "didn’t
ought to,’’ we shall make it our business to interview
tbis J.P. beforehand.
At Melbourne, Epple (a German) has been sum-
moned for maintenance of two children in the Industrial
School. It appeared that when ho married the mother,
he was unaware of bar having had these interesting
pledges of affection. TUe father was a black man.
Bather rough on a man to have to pay for two little
niggers, not his own. Lot him ba consoled, for he's not
the first by several mile i.
A wealthy, but ignorant woman, whose old man
struck a patch on Bendigo in the heyday of the diggings,
was recently stopping at a Brighton (Vic ) Hotel. One
morning she was observed to frequently run to the front
doer, and look anxiously down the road. “ Are you ex-
pecting friends,’* enquired the bowing landlord. “ No,
but I m waiting for my phantom." A costly phaeton
presently drew up before the door.
Some enthusiastic sympathisers propose
to erect a monument in honor of the three perse-
outea men who have been submitted to a criminal
trial for dung what it has been the privilege of
groat men to do from immemorial. They are
only prevented from carrying their design into exeou-
tmn through a presonrimeut that the uninitiated would
dub the monument “ the Sbatu(t)o of Frauds."
, Blighted Watchman, at Coonabara-
bran, refers to Cannon (sic) Smith four times in one
paragraph with the same carelessness of orthographi-
oal obligations. Wheu Murchison was twitted with it
n!L talr an d, P asM m* home, discharged a
neavy artillery of curses and boot propulsions at the
devil, in short, he depicted that indispensable nuis-
ance as worthy of anything except can(n)onizing.
In consequence of the drought tha country
everywhere looks as if sulphuric acid had been poured
over it. But the Mudgee correspondent of the Twi-
light George Washington said that splendid rain had
fallen in his district, and that grass was plentiful. Of
ooursr, stock was hurried along to the pastures grsen.
Some shepherds and stockmen are now looking for tne
scribe with shot guns. They call him “ the grsen-eyed
monster.”
The Lower Clarence Advocate is evi-
dently “ possessed of a devil." Hare is some of his
handiwork : —" Mrs. Harrison, wife of a warder in ‘.he
gaol, met with a horrible death last night. Ji-f'-rud-
ently lighting a fire with keroaone, she was b’uihit to
death through tha explosion q! tae vessel confining
the oil. acre. This simply proves what New Sag-
land is capable of producing, even in a season like the
present one."
We have to be careful. A brother editor is
just now suffering for an aot of indiscretion. It
happened thus. A correspondent wrote asking him
how he contrived to flirt without being caught by his
jealous wife. He explained the whole racket in a
private letter. And when he went home he found that
his unknown correspondent was his own jeilous wife.
His next editorial had for its text, “ Hell has no fury
like a woman scorned."
He was a young man with a bullet head and
hair on it so short that it looked like a skittle ball
sprinkled with cayenne pepper, and, as ho was con-
ducted to Black Maria, he remarked to his “hart,"
outside the Central, “I shall be out, Foil, yet in time
to escort yon to Clontarf decked in tha sweetest
flowers that bloom on the gorgeous graves of the
rorty dead of Darling Point.” She concluded that her
” josser” had got only three months.
An English cricketer was being shaved, when,
without warning, the barber suddenly slipped his
fingers from his patron’s nose, and hit him a regular
rouud-armer under the ear. “ Hullo I what’s up P
are you mad?" “ Beg-pardon, sir, ” said the shaver, a
little confused, “it was a fly, you know. I’m n demon
on flies—likes to kill ’em first shot. ’’ “Oh 1” rejoined
the all-England one, surlily, “ well, next time you want
to kill a fly, sing out * play !’ and bowl slower."
At Melbourne, recently, a square young man
who never told a lie, and attended chapel regularly, hud
an ardent longing for a marine excursion. So he wrote
to his employer that he was too unwell to attend busi-
noss that day. It so happened that the little daughter
of the “ boss joined in that excursion, and journeyed
to Queensoliffi under the charge of some friends. By
some unlucky chance she slipped into Ihe water, and
the young man who hid deviated from the paths of
virtue npon this single occasion, was enabled to save
her life. The father was fond of his child, but he was
an elder of the church, and couldn’t countenance back-
sliding under any circumstinces. He also had a great
objection to carelessness, and ho t hrashed that child for
falling into the w.ater, and sacked that clerk for pre-
ferring pleasure-seeking to business, A fact. Such ia
life I
Goulburn possessas an unrecognised Byron, and
these are some of the sonorous gurglings of his over-
charged soul:—
“ Ye mountains stern, within whose rugged breast
Majestically rise like ocean's waves
Huge and vast pillars, cliffs with wond’roua crest I
For artist’s pen and poet’s skill their craves
Kesound like trumpet’s echo in the vale.
Translucent visage, dire like Clio’s tale.”
An assemblage of “ stern mountains,” possessing only
one “rugged breast’’ in common, and a number of
pillars aud cliffs with only one “ wondrona crest" sur-
mounting the lot must produce sufficiently startling
scenic effects, They evidently belong to the pauper
order of scenery, and have not been fitted out with that
“lavish hand of Nature” of which we hear so much.
Whatever may ba the faults of Dame Nature, economy
i*, certainly, not one of them, aud we feel quite
sure that she would sooner have given those mountains
two or three breasts apiece than have pat them on such
a disgracefully short allowance of bosom as this Gout-
burn poet insinuates she has done. In criticising this
kind of poetry wa don’t take grammar into considera-
tion at all, for a man can’t be expected to lie fluently
about scenery, and bo poetical aud grammatical all at
fie sanio time.
“Alderman John Lee has given a prize to be
awarded to the best-looking ploughman at the Gulgong
ploughing matches, the selection to be made by a com-
mittee of young girls." The prize will, of course, be a
handsome one, and each competitor pretty sure, in his
own mind, of achieving victory. Unfortunately, R. B.
Smith aud G. H. Reid can’t plough, and Parkes is away
iu America, aud so Zimmier, Satf, and Rouse, three
Gulgong magnates, will have tha field all to themselves.
We don’t know Alderman Lee personally, and so can’t
say whether ho has himself got to leeward of ugliness,
but we know that the Mudgee electors set a high pre-
mium on good looks. At least, w« judge so, by their
enthusiastic preference for Buchanan. At the plough-
ing match iu question the judges will have to scrutinise
the furrowed field, and the Ladies’ Committee the
furrowed cheeks.
The N.Z. doctor who has succeeded in graft-
ing the front portion of a rabbit upon another animal’s
eye hopes that the time will come when the operation
could be extended to human eyes.” It is not known
what any man would do with “the front portion of a
rabbit" grafeed on his eyel Many a man has got the
front portion of a rotten egg or a dead cat grafted on
his eye at a political meeting; but none of them seemed
to like the operation. Perhaps the rabbit is an im-
provement.
“ This Providence seems—patchy,” exclaimed
Jones on the receipt of a telegram announcing that
fifteen hundred of his sheep had died from want of
watm- on the Barcoo. “ I bought that flock from
Saufflebust, just after the last fbower, th* only one
we’ve had for throe years; and Suufflubusk laid cut tha
coin in an allotment, which he sold to the Redeemed
Rams of Woolville, as a chapel site, for double the
money, aud now pays weekly sums towards tha support
of Miehap’s two ewes of the flock.
The editor of the Cooktown Herald has
donned his war paint. We havn’t noticed anything
particularly gingery about the paper lately, but we
suppose the warmth of tha Cooktown climate makes
the residents there thin-skinned. At any rate, the
editor in question has found it necessary to give his
clients the following information : —“ We may notify
that wa have a * bit of a stick,’ a tomahawk, a big dog,
and a fighting man in tha establishment, aud propose
to add an infernal machine, and a suit of Kelly
armour."
At Sandhurst (V.), a man calling himself Pro-
fessor Fisher, " Bauuscheidist,” is to be prosecuted for
pricking a dying child with needles and rubbing croton
oil into the wounds. She is said to have died in fearful
agony, and to have exclaimed, while in the throes of
death, “Ohl I’m frying." This is a powerful argument
in favour of the encouragement of quack doctors. How-
ever, the patients of some of the Sydney quacks don’t
know that they are frying until they reach the next
world, where wicked people are supposed to be cooked
in their own gravy.
“ A very quiet unostentatious work is, and has
been carried on in this town. That work is the eduoa-
tion of the young aristocrats of Cobar, conducted by Mrs.
Blakey, most ably and efficiently assisted by her intelli-
gent sister, Miss Martin. We have seen displays of
children got up for examination." This par. enlightens
our unsophisticated innocence ou two points. It
apprises us first that there is an aristocracy in Cobar,
and secondly that a man need not possess even the
rudimentary education of a kangaroo-rat or a Jackass-
rabbit in order to edit a paper.
A city newspaper man was rudely aroused from
his slumbers, last week, by one of the staff, who, after
fortifying himself with a premonitory b.te off the
hebdomlnal end of the standard saveloy, announced
that a party by the name of Brown had limited the
Press privileges on telegraphic messages t* 500 words.
“ Five hundred ?” queried the newspaper man, and
then he dreamily added, “ Thauk ’Eviug, there’s no
limitation to the publication of telegraphic messages
that are neither received nor despatched." Thus ex-
ulting, he returned to his snooze.
Quite a commotion was excited in the usually
quiet town of Heaven, wheu ic became known that
Bishop Moorhouse wouldn’t pray for rain, whilst the
Catholic Bishop wis lobbying with great fury. The
contest is expected to be keen, and cautions shipping
agents of the Catholic persuasion have telegraphed to
all ports to look out for a change iu the wind. Moor-
heuse is confident, has mounted a hair-shirt, and now
flogs himself at three o’clock every morning to upset
the Popish plot; but as the Catholic Bishop flogs at
two o'clock, the odds are all in his favour.
How the scribes who were invited to the
cricketing banquet wrote : —“ Cricket is not only the
premier pastime of the world, but it has done more to
bring the colony into the notioe of the world than fifty
Agents-General." How the scribes wrote who were
not invited Enough of cricket! Wo are satiated
with it; and it seems to have the effect of rendering
those that are its votaries not only unfit to transact
any kind of business demanding moderate intelligence,
but causing them to become to all intents and purposes,
social outcasts.” Oh, you little people 1
A member of one of our wealthiest city firms
suffered a shook when the Russians were in harbour,
Driving round Darling Point, he spied a Russian sailor
In the company of two suspicious character*, and as ha
watched, one of them furtively attempted to get his
hand into tha Russian’s pocket. Up drove the leviathan
draper, touched tha sailor with his whip, and said,
“Jump up.” Ha then kindly drove him round to the
Circular Quay, with the intention of seeing him safely
on board hi* ship, when the srateful Russian stepped
out and handed him 2s. fid. He took him for a cabby!
“ I ought to be able to lay claim to your hand by
this time,’’ said a thrifty housewife to Billy Nickom the
incoiruplible Cootamatta butcher, who obdurately re-
fuses to accept £5O or £5OO from his rival knights of the
oleavar to keep up the price of beef. “ How ia that,
Madame?” gallantly demanded the flattered flasher.
“ Because" responded the dame, " I pay for about a
quarter of a pound of your fist every time you weigh me
a steak,” Billy boat the toughness out of tha good
lady’s bit of sirloin with a vigor born of a wish that
the process could bo made applicable to tha purchaser
herself.
Three merchants of Grafton set out, having
missed the steame 1- , to walk from Almarra to Grafton,
which is 9, although they only thought it 5, miles.
When about “ busted,” and under tke impression that
they were close to their destination, the spokesman of
the party, seeing a respectable young woman at the
door of a house, led the way up, and, saying that they
were throe preachers, enquired how far it was. “ Five
miles and a half.” “Oh, —!’’ was the chorus of
the sore-footed ones. Then said the woman, “I know
ye be gude men, noo. Bide a wee, and take a drappee
whusky. The ither parsons a’ ken me weel." They
stopped.
It is the practical turn of the mind that gives
the Yankee his prominence, aud renders him equal to
all emergencies. There’s not the slightest doubt that
had Adam been a Yank., he’d have got a lease of the
Garden of Eden after being turned out. His point
would have bean “ what’s the tarnation use of leaving
this orcharl unoccupied.” In the hotel business now
tha American is all there. In this colony the honest
pub. has to prosecute the bar loafer who victimises
him. But at St. Louis, on November 15, four men
entered a drinking saloon and called for drinks. Upon
their refusing to pay, the landlord drew his revolver
aud shot two of them dead.
The most aesthetic person we have tumbled
across lately was the balking stranger who slipped into
the water last Sunday while endeavouring to jump from
the Fairlight on to the wharf at Manly. Ho knew
rather less about swimming than a pound of pig-iron,
and evinced an ungovernable tendency to cling to any.
thing aud everything, embracing the oyster-covered
piles of the pier with the energy and affection usually
lavished on other fellah’s wives aud long-lost brothers.
He had all the stiffening taken out of him in about
nineteen seconds, and testified with bleeding fingers and
gashed physiognomy to the important fact that a modest
and wall connected oyster is no mote to be embraced
sacrilegiously aud wiihout due ceremony, than a Darling
Point belle. When hauled by a friendly arm on to one
of the steamer’s sponsous, ho was scared enongh to
have fallen an easy prey to any enterprising gospel sharp,
limp enough to furnish a poem for Oscar Wylde.
Everybody who is tolerably well versed in
topography knows all about the town of Mudgee, a
constituency which elects a Beyers one year and a Sir
John Robertson the next—by way, probably, of causing
extremes to meet. At this same Mudgee the Good
Templars are making things lively. Two years ago,
when the community had all been drinking so ardently
that supplies ran out, a few of the most inveterate old
topers formed an 1.0.G.T. lodge, which they called the
“Hannibal,” probably in reverence for the squattage
whoso jiroprietor became famous for wool-gathering.
The first rock they stranded ou was the unanimity with
which the members fought for the honours of office-
bearers, but that) little hitch was obviated by electing
their chiefs from tho ranks of those who had the most
experience of the ills of intemperance, and so on pro
rata. This dissatisfied some, who seceded, aud formed
lodge No. 2, which they called the “Yokel Option."
Now, there has been another secession, mid No. 3 has
been formed under the title of the “Mudgee Inde-
pendent Order of Total Abstinence,"
There was a law suit at Mudgee the other day,
about a turkey which Sir James Martin had at dinner
when ou Circuit. Thus a local writer“ The turkey,
which the Chief Justice illegally used some months
ago. had a history of its own. The egg from which it
was incubated was laid in Noah’s ark the first day that
the historic rain d( soeuded, and it was a plump and
tempting bird long before the dove brought back the
olive branch. It was in Egvpt when Moses worried
Pharoah, and itself passed through all the plagues of
boils, &0., which the prophet inflicted on that Prince.
Potiphar kept it in his household to gobble onlv when
his wife was furnishing the basis of a suit for divorce,
history records that the bird wav seldom silent.
When Samson wore out the ass’s jawbone in slaying
the Philistines, he renewed the attack with oue of the
bird s forefingers, and s'ew scores where erstwhile ha
slaughtered by units. It was the oracle which Solo-
mon always consult d before proceeding to the charge
of the seven hundred. It was the left wing of the army
Of geese that saved the Roman Capitol, and it remained
alive in Londonderry through all tho famous si«i<o.
Governor Phillips brought it with him to Botany Bay
to astonish the natives, and it was one of those mys-
terious copulations of Nature which Parkes heard
murmur by the stream. It came to Mudgee when
Buchanan did, aud was as hard to got rid of; but at
length it was murdered in a mill machinery at full
blast, and being run through Daly’s fausage-machina
apparatus for a month, it was fli for boiling. On the
eighth day it proved to bo nutritious enough for masti,
cation, and although his Honor pronounced it rather
tough when it was brought before him under a habeas
corpus, yet fhe much-worried bird now forms a chapter
in Jemmy Martin's ‘ Digests.’ ’’
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give wither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expeot to have their communications noticed.]
“ Zero” : Yes, it must have been remarkable to
sea the individual mentioned standing in front of tho
Town Hall with his hands in his own pockets “ G.C.”
(Wollorabi): Wo dare not publish your story, even did
we of our own knowledge know it to be true We can’t
afford to bo universal benefactors. According to your
own showing yon committed an indiscretion by “ar-
ranging to put” a big sum embezzled from you “into
the form of a debt.” Too sent us a statement of jour
ease on a previous occasion “H.C.8.": Thanks
** . 9 a P^ wr ite again Johnny Moran has
called at this office. His address, which was asked for
by a correspondent last week, is Q.P.0.. Sydney
“ Denueigh” : We can’t make out your initials, aud you
do not state in what colonial paper the stories
plagiarised appeared. Send us a line again «‘A
C’town Resident”: In our next “ Campbeiltown
Resident’ : You are a very funny fellow. You must
have lain on a oirous-clowu’s door-mat in your time.
Never mind, keep it up. Let’s have, next week, another
waggon-load of wheezes. We like to welcome old
friends..,. ” Ajax”: Thanks. But we’ve about done
with tho old craft now. If we write about it any more
all the North Shore girls will think wo have a share in
it. And you know we don't want to walk home from
choir-praotioe all by ourselves “ Anchor’’: Much
obliged. We anchor after information of this desorip-
tion. We do not know who laid the first stone of the
Lying in-Hospital “Alpha”: You oau tip us some-
thing new now—your recent experiences say ot the
effects of a South Head Road cigar on the top of fifteen
square yards of unripe water-melon “ Anti-Hum-
b««f" (Lismore): You say “The sunsets on bis wor-
ship the Mayor." It ought then to hatch him That
would then point to the existence of the first authentic
Mayor’s nest iu history. Write in prose next time.
You have a tarn for verse it is true, but it is the wrong
turn......** J.C." (Gympie): Your letter is a puzzle.
What a it about ? Green wounds, flat-irons, or tea.
loaves. Be a little more explicit next time “S.
N n ” : Erom your item we should say that
you re anorton with revenge. But no matter . ,
“ Morton" (Penrith): We suppose the Owl Club or any
club has a perfect right to make a regulation a I to its
members wearing dross coats on meeting nights. Dress
coats are the right garments to wear on festive oooa-
sions. As they don’t button in front, they give a
fellow a fair ohanoe to swell. “ R.D.” : A corner is at
your disposal “Alicia”: “How do we clean tin-
ware? What are you giving us, darling? We don’t
clean tinware at all. We don’t do anything but write
pretty things “Parramatta"; Wo differ from yen.
“A mirror which reflects every object without being
sullied by any." “Sinai”: Yes; search warrants on
“tracing-paper"; wedding notices in “foolscap."
“D. F. Morley”: Wo quite agree with you when you
say it would bo better if waggonettes capable of carryinsf
(say) sir people were available for hire in Sydney as iu
Melbourne. The fact that so many hansoms get a good
living here is a striking proof ot tho prosperity of Sydney.
“ Q-" (Melbourne): Your article is not in our style.
We want crisp writing. Will send tho MS. to the
address you give “Queanbeyau" : The only argu-
ment which can be used in favour of your proposal
that public-houses be closed from 9 a.m. to 3 pm. on
Sundays, is that it would give liquor and religion an
equal chance “Nemo” (Charters Towers)- Yours
received. Glad to hear from you often. The matter
shall have attention, if not this, next week....” Charley
Smellfungns” : Your nose must be out of order
“ M.H.H. : Thanks. Next week. Glad to hear from J
you often. Send down a nom de plume “ R.T.M." .-
The intention of the verses is better than the exeou!
tion. We are obliged in two senses, one being, obliged
to “basket" them “ Omnicom": Next week
“E A J." : Very welcome. We hope to hear from yo 3
after similar occasions “ D." : Goodly matter.....;
“Johnny Newoome " : Yonr acrostic is confounded
bosh. If you imagine that The Bulletin will lend
itself to spiteful reference to a young lady on the mere
grounds that her figure is thin, you are a stupid and
offensive ass. Bo to you 1 “Eeeree": Verses need-
touching up. Metre defective “Jus. W ” Have'
inserted your par “ZY.X.": Received.’ Ga 11...
“Madge": Not suitable “ K.C.D.": Noted
“Tamworth”; Next week “Geebuug”; Very good!
Will attend......" Prank Simmons”: Thanks for the
story, bat it is old, although you might uot have hoard
it before “ Geurge” : You dou’t spell well, anyhew,
but we have known other poets who couldn’t spell.
Will give “our candid opinion" on your verses next
week “Mrs. L J.": Your sentiments are creditable
but tho poetry is scarcely suitable “ Lunal
tin" : Good boy ; it ought to bo true, it it isn’t
“ Snip”: Send when you can, but condense, please
“T.A.P." : We are tired of saying that we don’t insert
paragraphs merely to please tho senders, no matter
how “extremely obliged” they may feel. Start a
paper yourself, and try it, chummy “Stockwhip " •
Small items welcome “D.D.” : Thanks • don’t
understand last sentence “ Fred. B." : Not re-
markable enough for speoial mention. .. .“Aristotle”-
Next week “Hoi. Sec. Cleveland C.C.”: Match
reports should be sent on Tuesday “H D.”- Next
issue “A Former Member”; Will read and eon-
sidor “ Lynceus ”: Held over for a week .
“W. 8.”: Thunks “Novice”: Thanks.


MOST PLEASANT
8
N
WANTED TO BE KNOWN.
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
gMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTEE AND PARE IT'S NEW EXTRACT
OP SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is tree from all injurious colour, has a
pie ng smell, will not injure the most deli-
la.e l ands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering rny article cleansed there-
with o th purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grocers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
IN THE WORLD.
'Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than arV.
I other House in Sydnev. All kinds of Patent
M vlloines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fanoy Soaps, Sponges, Ac.
ALL KINDS or DRUGGISTS* BUNDRIVB.
Se id for a Price List. Country orders rnnotn-
lly attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
wa cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings.
Uk
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
•Is of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
»ntation Trowels designed and made on the
Promisee.
DIAMOND SETTER I
A now and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mall and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
*
STREET
KING
m
&
]°*gV
5#
m
\!P\
h
SYDNE
TA! LOR
°0
J 'or *<4s
MpUcZ
AND POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
-3ST TO
PIT GUARANTEED!
/VIV HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY-
ESTABLISHED 1837.
"Cl O W L B R’ S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
QAMPERDQWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
MAETIN&Pj
INFORM
FOR THE PLOUGIN6 SEASON OF 1882.
Wo are ] !e ised to be advising' our customers and th<
Farmers of N.S.W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition toall the well known ENGLISH and AM3EL
CAN Makirs wo now notify that we are
AGE UTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF Parramatta.
And request all intending purchasers to favour us witl
their orders early, os
William Richie’s ICB2 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANY OTHEE SYDNEY
HOUSE,
FAEMEES NOTE THIS YEHY CABEPULLY.—
READ
OJJRBi
Before Ordc
send foi
Our Price I
AND
All Particul
MARTIN
-»AND P£.
389 Georgi
SYCNE
Intending Pure
Cutters offered tl
INE BUNGLE.
John Bnncle, o
his Chaff Cutters
east on tly-wheel
faoture.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE S
r£IHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REA
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syd:
rm-r-ntr i nrt tut ul/nT> xr TXT A"V UTB T T?rn?
pITB LI C N
The IMPORTERS of the TAEP
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosec
endeavours to deceive the public 1
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for th
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED t<
bearing
“ THE TAEPING MIXTURE.
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signatt
thus—
Clifford, Love, &
These who are desirous of havin
TEA, must bo certain that evei
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTER
to take inferior teas, which for th
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A
MIXTURE ARE GUAI
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH
WHOLESALE GROCER AN
YORK STREET, SY
14
JOHN D
IMPORTER O]
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brassw
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers' Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, £
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L SUMMER
E
ECONOMY IN CLOI
—o—
L
£
B
R
A
T
E
D
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS FRO!
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE'S 7
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEA
sent to any part of the <
•a* The particular attention o
dents is requested to thi
Any style of Garment made t
SUMMEEFIELI
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
8
1C
loQ* DITT fiT
I
STAN
UITS
MAD
EADY
usinesvs
E
O
E
N
A
M
P
T
jsvellin
UAMT
YA
Pic
ici
bxl
Du
Cnc
eting
ASSE
UNSU
“ Standard ” Summer Tweed Suits JBI 5 O
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 0
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
“ Standard ” Superior ditto 115 O
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES an
H
DRUNK?
"enness
Cure
Book free by post.
