

THE BULLETIN
VoL 10.—No. 130
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1882.
Price —3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1882.
The Lawyers’ Privilege.
Towards the close of his “ summing up ” in the
Lucas Compensation Case in the Supremo Court,
his Honor the Chief Justice took occasion to
exhort the jury to dismiss from their minds any-
thing which they might have heard or read relat-
ing to the case, during its progress, beyond what
had transpired within the Court itself. His
Honor further intimated that had certain refer-
ences to the case which had appeared in news-
papers, by illustration or otherwise, been formally
brought under his notice, he would have “ dealt
promptly with the matter.” There is no
mistaking the significance of that utterance,
oracular as were its terms. The Chief
Justice would have punished by fine or im-
Eisonment any journalist who could have
an shewn to have commented_ on the case,
one way or another, during the time that it was
E ending or current. In so dealing with journalists,
is Honor would have been doing no more than he
is entitled to do by virtue of his office. In fact, it
would have been his duty to inflict upon the
“ intruding, rash, presuming ” journalists such
penalties as would have operated equally as a
punishment to them and a deterrent to any who
might feel tempted to imitate their offence. Un-
luekily, his Honor was not called upon to take
action, and thus the chance of public attention
being specially drawn to a very interesting and
important pretension of the legal gang was lost
for the time. *
•., * •
It must be understood that this pretension,
although not, like our infamous libel law, peculiar
to' the courts of New South Wales, and not, like
that enactment, a survival from the legal regula-
tions regarded as necessary for the discipline of a
community of ticket-of-leave men, is nevertheless
a modern invention. There are principles of
jurisprudence which have been common to all
systems, and prohibitions which may be followed
back through the codes of Justinian, and traced
in the system of SjJouoN. But it is quite plain
that the special application of any principle to the
Press, cannot possibly date back further than the
Press Itself. The newspaper, as it now exists, is
the creation of scarcely a century, The right or
a court of Ifltw to insist that a jury, once seized ot
a ease shall be guarded against all exterior in-
fluences, and so isolated that their verdict shall
be derived exclusively from what is submitted to
them in Court, is as much more antique, as the
institution of trial by jury is senior to the institu-
tion of the Press. At the root of thematuer lies
the idea that jurymen mast not be ‘ got at,
and improperly influenced. With this, every-
on® will agree without any reservation at all.
It is of the utmost importance that a jury
should arrive at their verdict by calm and dispas-
sionate consideration ot the evidence submitted to
them, and with their minds unaffected by any
partial representations or passionate appeals. It,
by sternly prohibiting comments by the Press
from the moment when proceedings are initiated,
until they have been entirely concluded, this were
attained, the existing practice would be tully
justified. There are, indeed, disadvantages attend-
ant on such a course. In the aggregate, the Press
represents a considerable force of intelligence,
generally dispassionate with respect to matters
under investigation, and certainly trained to
discuss them with acumen, in very young com-
munities, where a single journal exists alone, its
leaning one way or another might have a mis-
chievous effect. But in a metropolis, where
numerous papers are issued, generally taking
different views of subjects of current interest,
collusion would be practically impossible, and a
ease would either be argued by some for, and by
ethers against, the hypotheses set up in court, or,
if there were a concurrence of opinion, it would
merely .serve to indicate that the true jury, the
public at large, were similarly unanimous. Theo-
retically, the perfection ot the jury system would
be that every case should be decided by the entire
community, of whose views the aggregate voice of
the press is undoubtedly the surest index.
Without abolishing the actual jury, who have
opportunities of observing the demeanour of
witnesses and others, for which no mere report of
the evidence oan be an efficient substitute, it
would be a great relief and assistance to jurymen
were they enabled to gather what lookers-on
thought of the “ game” in which they were
participating
* # *
There would no doubt be some risk—however
slight—of the privilege of comment being'abused,
and of journalists prostituting their functions,
and becoming the partdzana of one side or another.
There might be even cases in which a journalist
would stoop to the degradation of distorting facte
and suggesting 'false inferences, for hirer. It
would, o£ course, be monstrous that any jury
should be exposed to have their judgment dis-
torted, and their decision affected, by corrupt and
calculated influences of this kind. Better, deci-
dedly, that they should be protected from all
representations save those which are licensed
under the elevated and unchallengeable super-
vision of a Judge in a Court of Jnstioo.
• • •
But what nrthe limit of this carefully regulated
license ? There is no abuse of journalistic com-
ment which can reasonably bo conceived, which
could equal in abominations the influences which
are brought, in the very presence of the judges,
and with their complacent sanction, to bear upon
jurors, A hireling Press, taking a side for pay,
would be an exception almost unheard of. A
hireling lawyer, employing his arts under the very
nose of the judge, is so recognised an institution
that no one thinks anything of it. To what dis-
torting influence would jurymen be exposed were
the Press absolutely free to comment as it chose,
to which they are not, as matters stand, exposed in
an unsurpassable degree. Hired advocates exert
every device, and exhaust every expedient to
bewilder and hoodwink juries, and the presiding
judges blink serenely on the spectacle, till the
time arrives for him to sum up his own impres-
sions. Trained distorters of truth set them-
selves deliberately to play upon the weak-
nesses, ignorance, prejudices, or susceptibilities
of the jury; to obscure plain facts, suggest
false inferences, to make innocence bear the
aspect of imposture, and crime to resemble
purity. Let us suppose a Press more cor-
rupt Hi an ever yet existed on the face of this
earth—what could it add to this ? There are few
cases which would net be all the better considered
and weighed, wore the opportunities for comment
and reflections by presumably impartial persons
enlarged. As matters stand, a good case and just
claim may be lost and destroyed bv a single aom-
dent—the accident of the counsel engaged having
been too lazy or too busy to study it properly, or
even by his chancing to be languid or out or
form” at trial. Wore free comment per-
mitted, then the basis cf discussion would be
widened, and the risks of such mischances propor-
tionately lessened, while there could be no objec-
tion to the Press being, iu common with counsel,
required to hold their peace and abide the issue,
from the moment that the Judge commenced to
sum up.
Milburn-Creeky.
The mysteries of compensation are so wonderful
that the more they are studied the queerer aspect
do they bear. There’s a little matter in connec-
tion with the Milburn Creek affair which does not
appear to have received all the notice it merits.
In the evidence (.par. 687 of report) of Mr. R. Halls,
one of the shareholders who wouldn’t keep things
dark, there’s a exeat deal about the explana-
tions Mr. Waddell offered to convince him that
the money had been spent, and that the Trustees
had done the shareholders good service. And
really it seems as though the trustees had. Mr.
Waddell told Halls and others “of two mem-
bers of Parliament he had interviewed—Sir Henry
Parkes and Sir John Robertson,— and how
well they had treated him, and that ho had
dined with Sir John Robertson. ... He
said he had interviewed those gentlemen about
the appointment of arbitrators; that ho had
proposed some person as arbitrator, a person that
he knew, and Sir John Robertson would not
agree to him ; and then he proposed a friend of
his (Waddell’s), and Sir John agreed to
his friend. Then he said that was a good thing
for the Company.” We should rather say it was.
We quite agree with the views ascribed to the
well-deserving Waddell, who evidently knew he
had scored a big point in this matter of arranging
who should arbitrate, for again we find (par. 065)
that he returned to this particular vomit and told
Halls that “ but for their influence (meaning the
trustees) they could never have got these arbi-
trators appointed, and then the Company would
not have got half the money they did get!"
• • •
The principles upon which arbitrations are con-
ducted are ordinarily these: —One party to a
dispute nominates an arbitrator, and the other
party nominates another arbitrator. It is ex-
pected that, as humane nature goes, eaeh party
will choose a man well-disposed towards them,
pud that each will make every effort to place hia
base before the arbitrator in the most favourable
light possible. In practice, in fact, an arbitrator
is generally regarded somewhat in the light of an
advocate —a moderate advocate —for the party by
whom he haa been nominated. It appears, how*
ever, that the Milburn Creek Trustees bad the
great merit bioengineering a special arrangement
peculiarly suited to their peculiar requirements.
And Mr. Wad*mll’B candour, when trying to shut
the mouth of an uneasy shareholder, was truly
striking, and cannot but be gratifying to the
gentleman appointed, on the private nomination
of the claimants, to decide between them and
the State. But for Mr. Waddell’s success in
procuring the consent of Sir John Robertson to
this nomination by the claimants of an arbitrator
to suit the opposite interest, the Company
would not have got half the money they did get.
tn the name ©f honesty, why not ? Is it to be
understood that any other—nay. every other-
man would inevitably have valued the Company a
claim at half the amount which this friend of
Mr. Waddell’s, acting nominally as a check
upon any imposition he and his co-trustees might
attempt, allowed P If this were inevitable, then
we can only infer that Mr. Wadjdell himself
valued the claim at half what was actually
awarded, and knew that no unbiassed man could
fail to see that it was worth no more. Really, Mr.
Waddell seems to have paid the arbitrator
agreed to by the Government, on his own private
solicitations, an extremely sinister compliment.
• • •
The process of arbitration was, altogether, com-
fortably arranged. The usual plan was noh
adopted, but an amicable understanding was
come to, whereby three gentlemen were mutually
agreed to, by the Government and by the trustees,
not to arbitrate according to the general accept-
ance of the term, but just to investigate the
chums and to “give It a name.” Tlwm three
gentlemen were Mr. John Pope, of Ashfleld ; Mr.
Edward Combes, C.M.Q., and Mr. Jambs
Sutherland Mitchell. It does not appear on
what principle of special fitness this choice was
made, and there is no means of ascertaining which
of these gentlemen is the individual who, accord-
ing to Mr. Trustee Waddell, was instrumental
in securing an award double what would have
have been given had he not participated in the
“ arbitration.” Mr. Waddell’s remark is, for
look of definite information to identity m»
“ friend,” comprehensive and applies ail round.
If the award was twice as much as it would
have been had not Sir John Kobertson,
with after-dinner geniality, consented that Mr.
Waddell’s friend should officiate, it plainly
follows that the result arrived at, so agreeable to
the Trustees, was due to the largeness of mind
exhibited by one Arbitrator, and either to an
equally generous defect of judgment on tho part
of the other two, or to their having been more
puppets in the hands of their colleague, the friend
of Waddell. This is a matter whioh they may
settle among themselves, or with Mr. Waddell,
as they think preper. But it certainly seems to
require some elucidation.
Arabi Bey.
We gave a short biography of the Egyptian
leader, last week, which comprehended pretty
nearly all that was then known about him m
Australia. It will be superfluous, therefore, ter
repeat. But papers by the mail since arrived
furnish some additional, and contradictory, ‘tamer
of information. Thus, one journalArabi
Pasha, a gentleman of very low origin, has got
the entire control of a handful of soldiers of the
Khedive of Egypt, who look iipon him as their
natural leader. Added to this, the populace im*
mediately around him look upon him as their
saviour, directly inspired by the Prophet upon
their.behalf.” Next, the World, as follows
“ Arabi was at one time a clerk with a Hebrew
firm at Cairo, named Cattanei, and before de-
voting himself to war, politics, and religion, he
was exceedingly clever in Stock Exchange opera-
tions, particularly in ‘options.’ The story goes
that when the last Ultimatum roach Cairo, he was
a heavy ‘ bear ’ in Egyptian Stocks, and that his
resistance on Sunday was mainly with the object
of hindering a rise in them. When he has covered
his ‘ bear ’ and made ‘ bull ’ purchases, it is
not unlikely that he will prove amenable, and re-
tire upon the financial results of the operations.
Then, again, Mr. Wilfred Blunt, described as an
enthusiast who passes his time in riding about the
East on an Arab horse or a camel, and who,
even judged by that satirical description, seems to
have had unusually good opportunities ot learning
what the natives thought, wrote to an English
paper several long letters in which he referred to
Arabi as altogether a remarkable character, and a
man imbued with the purest and most fervid sen-
timents of patriotism. On the other hand, we
find Truth Shying:—“ Surely the fact that he
has had to bring up recruits in chains to swell
the ranks of his troops "ought to open
our eyes to the absurdity of this adventurer
being the representative of any * national party.
But then again Kir William Gregory, who recently
passed a few weeks in Egypt, described Arab! as
the incarnation of the National party. This, again
is from a French sonroe •. —“ I have been in Egypt,
and 1 sympathise with the fellah. I know that the
fellah does not thank me for my sympathy. He is
ARABI PASHA.—(See next page )


IOUaH 8 AN D
The Best Care for the above is I
and taken at bed-tin
PURE EC
Extra Strong,
6b. Per Imperial Qui
C. W. KOB
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPAI
MARKET STEER
WHEN TOU VISIT BY
go to
C. W. EOBEETI
NEW BAE,
GEORGE STREET, NEAE MAI
where you can obtaii
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEANI
SHERRY, UK RBI
of aaeh a Quality that eannot be
other establishment in tl
C. W. EOBEETI
COLONIAL WINE DEPA
is now open in
MARKET STB
BED OB WHIT]
only
3d. per Half-Pin
Quality Superlatlt
NONE BUT WD
the
PRODUCT OF AUST
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPA
THE MOST WHOLESOME~OP A
MADE HOT IP BEQ
Please Call and San
C. W. EGBERTS’ BPECIAI
at is. 6d. per bottle, is u
VERDEILHO,
a lovely White Wine, Is. fl
POET MACQUARIE EE
Is. 6d. per bottli
MUEEUMBIDQEE
2a. per bottle.
C. W. HO I
MARKET STEE
FURNITURE! FUR
FURNITURE 1
•• tTMTHEBE is the best place 1
j j This question is being at
is Of as much interest to anyone :
tide, as to the “ Happy Conple" it
keeping, and who want everyth!
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
;htde fa
FURNISHING E)
OXFORD STREET, 8
Just opened b:
f beeped to the lips in fatalism, and he wallows
jjyously in his mire of servitude. But I prefer
him to the thieving contractors who devour
Egyptian loans, and the hideous eunuchs, who
are still so influential, like Khalil Aga of old. On
the other hand, I am convinced that any man
wearing a fez can cheat the stock exchanges of
Europe and allure small investors. If, therefore,
Arabi Pasha represents the fellah, he deserves a
little consideration. But, frankly, I think that
he is the porta-parole of one of the wily and
intriguing groups that make interference in
Egyptian affairs so difficult.” Time only
will tell what Arabi really is. Probably it may
bo a long time, too, since now that Great Britain
has got the Khedive Tewfik into her hands, and is
utilizing him to declare all his late subjects rebels,
Arabi is sure to be painted officially as a sort of
cross between a bandit and the devil. The best
way in which any independent and high-spirited
man can arrive at a judgment as to what sort
Arabi is, will be to consider what one would have
done had one been an Egyptian, circumstanced as
Arabi has been, and with a spirit to resent and a
heart to feel for the wrongs of his countrymen,
plundered to pay foreign usurers, who employ a
swarm of native bum-bailiffs disguised Beys,
headed by a miserable “man in possession” with
the title of Khedive.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
4
Wanted —A Boot.
Is the Honorable gentleman t® continue a legislator for
the remainder of his life ? The question is one of
extreme importance. The nomination of gentlemen to
sit-in the Legislative Council is a delicate responsibility
exercised by Ministers. It is, of course, understood
that only such citizens shall be appointed as have by a
long course of straightforward rectitude, either in pub-
lic capacities or in a private station, given a guarantee
that their abilities are equal to the discharge of legisla-
tive functions, and that there is a reasonable assurance
that they will, while they live, do credit to the station
they are placed in. The confidence reposed in gentle-
men so distinguished is of quite an exceptional kind.
Even a Judge is only appointed “ during good beha-
viour.” But a member of the Upper House is
presumed to be, before appointment, of such ascer-
tained and tried virtue that such a proviso
would bo unnecessary and insulting. Upon the
Ministry which nominates to the Council a
person who afterwards proves to be unfitted for the
trust, devolves the responsibility of devising means
for relieving the country from the injury thus inflicted.
To many a person the fact that a position of elevation
has been by his own acts converted into a loftier and
more prominent pillory than is usual, would bo suffi-
cient to cause him to voluntarily vacate the situation,
and seek a refuge from the dead cats and rotten eggs of
popular scorn and indignation, in the most private
seclusion attainable. But, unluckily, effrontery is fre-
quently joined to other disqualifications, and there are
men who will cling to positions of influence, no matter
how great the indignities they are exposed to. Such
men require to l>c kicked out, and that’s the plain
English of it.
Wha Pays the Piper?
From Sydney, as the centre of operations, is being
organized an undertaking of considerable magnitude.
No less a thing than a Grand International Juvenile
Industrial Exhibition. Exhibitions, as a rule, are ex-
pensive luxuries, and, once fairly before the public,
assume a Character which, to a greater or less degree,
commits that public to seeing them successfully carried
out at whatever cost. That is why we have felt com-
polled to make some enquiries as to the manner in
which this proposed Juvenile Exhibition, with the long
name, came to be announced. From what we can
gather, the movements of the projectors, at first of
the size of a man’s hand, have, in about three months,
swelled to very distinct proportions. From n prize
schedule now before us, we are able to glean some par-
ticulars, but not quite enough. Wo can learn, for
instance, the names of the Committee and others who
have identified themselves with the scheme, but it yet
remains to be explained how the undertaking came into
existence at all. At| present, it seems to partake of a
semi-official character; but who elected this Com-
mittee ? We have no recollection of any resolution of
Parliament, or even vote of a public meeting, that it
was desirable to inaugurate an Industrial Juvenile
Exhibition; how comes it then that the promoters are
able to announce that such a comprehensive show will
take place in our Garden Palace ? How comes it that
a large quantity of printed circulars of one kind and
another bear the Government Printer’s imprint ?
Who provides the funds for a paid secretary and
his staff and other expenses F The gentlemen
whose names appear oa the Committee may be
very estimible persons in their way, but it does not yet
.appear that they represent anybody but themselves.
John Davies, C.M.G., is the Chairman, and doubtless
he can throw as much light upon the subject mi any-
body. There can be no doubt that Mr. R. D. Bannister,
“ Secretary aud Superintendent," entertains the high-
est opinion of his Committee’s powers, for, addressing
a pubi c meeting at Yass a short time ago, he confl
dcntly stated that the Committee had such influence
with the Government that largj concessions were
assured. Indeed ! It is something to learn that much.
But the affair has not only a Committee. It is under
the patronage of His Excellency the Governor and of
Lady Augustus Loftus. Sir Alfred Stephen is Vice-
President, while the members of the N.S. W. Ministry
are associated with the Premiers of all the other
colonies, and all the members of our Legislative Council
aud Assembly, as Vice-Patrons. The names of a number
of prominent citizens, of the Mayor and Aldermen of
Sydney, and the Mayors of every municipality in the
colony,appear as a list of Vice-Presidents. All this gives
an aspect of bona fide responsibility to th# affair.
But there is reason to believe that this is a
mere sham. We are in possession of a copy of a printed
circular signed by Mr. Bannister— the projector of the
affair—on behalf of his committee, asking the honoured
recipient to allow his name to appear as one of the
Vice-Presidents, and intimating that “in the event of
receiving no intimation of objection, your name will
appear as desired." Really, Mr. Bannister has been
too modest. By the plan adopted he could have
acquired equal title to place the names of Queen Vic-
toria and the other monarchs of Europe in his list of
patrons. Let this Exhibition be placed before the
public for what it really is. Next to nothing has been
done outside this colony to ensure its being what its
name implies—intercolonial, and it might with equal
justice have been dubbed international at once. Either
his Exhibition has to be seen through by the State or
It has not. If by the State, it should at once be taken
in hand by a responsible Commission. We are not
aware that Parliament has voted a single copper to be
devoted to this enterprise, and we are quite sure that
there has been no sum voted as a salary for Mr. Ban-
nister.
Deaf and Dummy.
The design of Sir John Robertson’s Tree-Selection
laws appears nearer accomplishment than erer hereto-
fore. Although his agrarian legislature has hopelessly
failed to settle a body of people on the soil, it appears
now destined—with the assistance of Mr. Tailor, ex-
legislator—to settle];s«veral bodies of selectors under
the soil. Not content with driving the proverbial
coach and four through Sir John’s law, which has been
for years quite a recognized highway for such illicit
traffic, the bloated squatter who owes so much to Sir
John— and to the banks—prepares to march brigades of
decrepid paupers through its provisions, and to carry
its most formidable barricades by storm with “ forlorn
hopes ”of rheumatic veterans. The inmates of our Be-
nevolent Asylums cost about £24 per head to maintain,
and it might be a p easing, though unforseen, result of
Sir John’s legis'ation, were those receptacles emptied
of their inmates and there planted on, or in, the
soil, thus relieving the tax-payers of some
part of their burdens. But, om the other hand, at the
rate of 640 acres of choice lands per head, the account
would not balance cermfortably. At £1 per acre, £640
would be the capitalised value of a senile pauper. And
at 5 per cent., which is about what the State pays for
moneys, this sum would represent £32 per annum,
showing a loss on each free selector of this desirable
class, amounting to £8 per annum, without reckoning
funeral expenses, which would have to be averaged
liberally. There is only one recommendation which
the new plan seems to have —namely, that perhaps some
enterprising squatter might induce Sir John himself to
bury himself somewhere on 640 acres. That accom-
plished, there might be some chance of reform in the
land laws.
The Age of Unreason.
It is astonishing how ignorant a thoroughly well-
educated and accomplished person may be under the
existing systems of education. A man may bo stuffed
with facts, fuller than his capacity really permits, and
may be able to repeat a word or a sentence in five or six
different languages. Yet, notwithstanding this, he
may be utterly incapable of reasoning, and, ns for a
spontaneous or original idea, such a thing would almost
throw him into convulsions did it occur to him. The
sensation would be so strange that he would think
something was the matter with him. The rising
generation ore taught to do anything and everything
except to think for themselves. The “ hard
fact" or “ Gradgrind" school reigns supreme. Students
from the age of five, are “ crammed” without any refer-
ence to the digestive powers of their minds. The whole
energies of the teaehing guild are devoted to making
the learners “know" things. This is obviously and
radically wrong from a philesophic point of view, con-
sidering how little the profoundest thinkers themselves
pretend to absolutely know. The existing system is
evidently a mischievous and deplorable inheritance
from time gone by—when the education of the young was
monopolizedby the clerical guild—when youngsters were
made to bolt “ knowledge ” in churches, and particular
pains ware taken against their arguing about what was
presented to them for absorption, on the broad prin-
ciple that if they were taught how to think they were
almost certain to think the wrong way. So long as
doctrinal theology continues to be regarded as the
necessary woof upon which the warp of general infor-
mation must be woven, so long will the art of
reasoning be discouraged. The moment it becomes the
practice to educate the logical and reflective faculties,
that moment it ceases to be possible to persuade the
young idea to swallow the whale which swallowed
Jonah, and similar vitally necessary information.
But until the art of reasoning is allowed its
proper—that is to say, the principal—place in the
course of instruction for the young, we shall continue
to suffer from the same crass inability to draw the
simplest inferences which to-day renders it possible for
impostors, pelitical and social, to bamboozle the general
run of citizens. There is, to-day, no su ggestio falsi so
glaring that hosts of people will not applaud it as a
lucid demonstration. There is no degree of impudence
in the way of “ bogging tho question " that has not a
good chance—almost a certainty—of passing undetected-
Nay, the most glaring fallacies, even when exposed, are
still complacently endorsed and adhered to by multi-
tudes who, if they had been taught to take pride in
accuracy of reasoning and to value themselves on the
basis of their intelligence, would be ashamed to appeal-
deluded by a sophistry, even when their passions were
enlisted on the side of tho demonstration sought to be
supported by it. Instead of planting in the minds of
our young people a wholesome crop of reason, it is the
esteemed practice to sow broadcast dogma, and to cul-
tivato that till it blossoms into a harvest of prejudice.
The consequence is that, instead of wheat, which is
sustenance for men, we have human fields of thistles,
and asses in good condition browse and kick up their
heels where nobler creatures should be. If men could
reason better, it would be impossible for plausible hum-
bugs and corrupt jackanapes to monopolise as they do
positions of distinction and responsibility in the com-
munity.
T iK resignation of John Bright accentuates tho views
held by the more thoughtful class of Englishmen with
respect to* the action of the British Government in
Egypt. •• Unjustifiable and immoral " is John
Bright's dictum, and, holding those views, he quits a
Cabinet responsible for committing the nation to a
course of action diametrically antagonistic to Liberal
principles and humanitarian tenets. There are always
a lot of addle-pated Jingoa, wheso blood rushes into
their heads when any war is undertaken by the nation,
and who try to satisfy their imaginations and solace their
consciences by inventing justifications after the mis-
chief is done. Much is effected in this way, by a bandy
use of epithets. When we fonght the Afghan l -, we
collared first one and then another native Chief, dubbed
them Ameer in turn, and straightway spoke, wrote,
and telegraphed of the Afghans as *' rebels." Appa-
rently the same plan—with which the conquest of
Hindustan has rendered British statesmen familiar—is
to be adopted with respect to Egypt. The Ehbditb,
whom his subjects spun, is taken under our protec-
tion, and all Egyptians who do not immediately cringe
before the proclamations of our puppet wdl be "rebels"
forthwith. The trick is as old as the time of Edward
I. Tbwxik is merely a modern reincarnation of John
Baliol, wno did homage to Edward for Soetland, wis
proclaimed King in recognition of bis complaisance ,-
and, having a small party of his own, assisted to hand
over Scotland to English garrisons, while the best and
.bravest of the mtion loathed alike him and his
Dickers, died on the scaffold, fled into exile, or larked
la remote wilds,
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
THE WAR AGAINST EGYPT.
Sultan of Turkey protested against bombard-
ment of Alexandria as an infraction of his Suzerain
rights Said Pasha accepted Grand Viziership vacant
by resignation of Abdurrahman Pasha At sundown
of first day (Tuesday) British firing ceased; casualties
were then 5 killed, 27 wounded. All the forts fronting
the sea had been silenced ; one magazine and four forts
exploded under fire. H.M.S. Temeraire went ashore,
but was assisted off undamaged by H.M.S. Condor.
Khedive’s palace ruined by fire At 930 am. on
second day, bombardment recommenced, and ended at
Bpm Egyptians hoisted a flog of truce, but continued
to repair their damaged forts Muslims Pasha, the
Turkish ambassador in London, made formal repre-
sentations against hostilities The majority of the
Powers expressed approval of England’s action The
truce proved fruitless After much parley, Arabi
Bey refused to surrender the forts, and com-
menced to evacuate the city with his troops
Convicts were released from local prisons, when bom-
bardment commenced, and they, together with Be-
douins and lower class of Arabs, started to pillage the
city On Thursday, Alexandria was in flames, many
fires* in addition to those due to the bombardment,
having been started by incendiaries Europeans who
had remained in Alexandria had to flee for their lives ;
numbers of them took refuge in the Ottoman Bank,
from which they were driven by the rabble. Some
fought their way to the sea shore, where a large number
were rescued by the fleet, but 100 were massacred before
they could attain safety Duke of Connaught, who is
a Major-General of the British Army, applied for an
Egyptian command The Grand Square, in the
European quarter, and which includes the Exchange
and Telegraph Office, completely destroyed by fire
The Khedive and Dervish Pasha, being threatened by
the rebels, fled to the protection of the British fleet,
and got safely on board one of the ironclads On Fri-
day, 600 marines and seamen were landed for the
purpose of staying the flames, rescuing refugees, and
dispersing pillagers It is estimated that 2000
Egyptians were killed during the bombardment
Two regiments of troops detailed from Malta, under
command of Sir Archibald Alison, to Port Said, to
protect the Suez Canal At 2p.m., two miles of houses
were burning in Alexandria 500 soldiers remained
faithful to the Khedive and assisted marines to restore
order The Khedive summoned Cherif and the leading
Pashas to stop rebellion, but Arabi Bey retreated with
4000 troops towards Cairo.......lnformation reached Ad-
miral Seymour that, previous to evacuation, the Egyp-
tian troops had mined the forts Imperial Government
instructed the Admiral not to dismantle the forts,but to
iuvite the Khedive to take possess! en, in,concert with
Dervish Pasha, the Sultan's special commissioner
Should T irkey decline tp intervene,England and Prance
will unite to restore quiet, but England prefers to act
alone On Friday morning, the Khedive was re-
esoorted ashore, and installed in Easeltin Palace,
being provided with a guard of seven hundred
marines It is stated that before leaving Alexandria,
Arabi Bey gave positive instructions’for the murder of
the Khedive, and told his followers to loot the city
The Khedive summoned Cherif Pasha to form a new
Ministry Eight Hon. John Bright, Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster, has resigned his position in
the British Cabinet, on the ground that the bombard-
ment was a violation of international and moral law
I The British steamer Glenlyon, engaged in the China
trade, went aground in the Suez Canal, and was at-
tacked by Arabs, who were, however, beaten off..On
Saturday, the Khedive proclaimed Arabi Bey a rebel,
and issued orders to the Egyptian soldiers to disband.
Admiral Host ins took charge of the Canal; mail sor-
vices resumed Governor of Woolwich Arsenal
received orders to prepare arms, equipments, and
general stores for an army of 21.000 men and
5500 horses All the gates of Alexandria are
ooeuplad by English ; Germans protecting the hos-
pitals and Americans the consulates Transpired that
Arabi Bey had carried off a considerable booty from the
exchequer On Sunday 2500 British infantry landed
inAUxandria; French and Greeks assisting in patrol-
ling the city On Monday, Arab! Bey was at Kafr-
dowar, seventeen miles from Alexandria, and hod
summoned the troops to proceed to Cairo Six
European Powers addressed an identical note to the
Sultan, inviting him to occupy Egypt with Turkish
troops. It la understood that the Powers are willing
to provide funds, and to assist at arrangements for re-
payment by Egypt One thousand more marines
ordered from Malta; several British ironclads and
transports, with 4000 men, nearing Alexandria ; trans-
ports also engaged to convey troops from London and
Bombay... Conservatives in England censnre Govt for
neglecting to land a sufficient force of troops in time to
prevent atrocities committed in Alexandria Her
Majesty congratulated by message Admiral Seymour
upon the success which attended the operations of the
fleet, and thanked officers and men for their bravery and
skill Now stated that over 2000 persons have been
massacred by the native population since the commence-
ment of the bombardment On Tuesday the soldiers
at Cairo held a demonstration In favour of Ismail
Pasha Admiral Seymour issued a manifesto to the
inhabitants intimating that he had been charged with
the restoration of order, and that he acts with the full
assent of the Khedive This, with the orders given to
despatch an Indian force, seems to indicate ,hat
Turkey .will decline to send troops I to
occupy Egypt, though later news states that
the Sultan is disposed to reply favourably to the
identical note of the Powers M. Freycinet has esti-
mated that, in cose of the refusal of Turkey, France
will act jointly with England Sir Archibald Alison,
with 6000 British troops, now protecting the Suez
Canal Arabi Bey entrenching his position at Kafr-
dowar Eagheb Pasha, in a letter to Admiral Sey-
mour, disavows Arabi.
* * *
Imperial Parliament will hold an Autumn session to
pass the Parliamentary Procedure Bill Eepression
of Crime in Ireland Bill passed House of Lords with-
out amendment Seventeen Irish counties already
proclaimed under the now measure Signs of
potato disease in Ireland Maori ambassadors were
introduced to Lord Kimberley by the Bishop of Nelson.
Lord Kimberley promised to transmit their memorial
to the New Zealand Government, and ask for a report.
Cetewayo has started from the Cape for England
Orient Company protested against Poet Office authori-
ties' action iu snipping mails on board the Sorato
without notice Sorrento’ frozen meat cargo arrived
iu splendid condition ; some of that of the Orient was
found to be mildewed New steamer, built for Deane
and Co., of Melbourne, for Port Phillip, launched at
Loudon Horrible railway accident on Moscow Kursk
railway, Eussia; 200 officials and passengers killed;
train completely wrecked Laycook challenged
Wallace Boss to row on Parramatta Elver Australian
Eleven cricket: Draw with Morylebone, owing to bad
weather ; one innings, scores—Marylebone 302; Aus-
tralians, 138. Another draw with United North of
England; scores of first innings, Australians, 141;
United North, 129.
N.Z. Insurance Company usual dividend again
—l5 per cent., with & Lucas-like lump of coin carried
forward.
It is stated that Mr. John Davies has as good
as promised Sir John Robertson the acquiescence of the
City Council in giving an official reception to Sir
Henry Paries.
Messrs. E. Goldsbrough and Co., who are
putting up at Darling Harbour, not airy fabrics but
real wool stores, have taken over the whole wool busi-
ness of Mort and Co.
According to admissions in the Victorian As-
sembly, Mr. Commissioner Goodchap has completely
cornered the Victorian railway authorities in their
struggle to retain the Riverina wool trade.
The fire at Hooking's wine cellars, Pitt-street,
opposite the City Bank, caused (but trifling dannge. Tbe
stock of old wines is, therefore, at the command of the
public. Increased business will be the compensation is
this case.
The Commercial Building and Invtst aent Com-
pany are erecting Messrs. HawkesandCo.'o New Sydney
Tattersall’s Buildings. This company have in hand
some of .the most important of new architectural
works.
Mr. Anthony Hordern, ot Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Haymarket, has returned from Europe. His
business arrangements with the manufacturing capitals
of the Old World point to an extraordinary trade at
the Haymarket Emporium.


w
WALKER AMD S'
FURNITURE MAN
Upholsterers and i
SYDNEY gTEEEI
NOW OPEN
inspection op large sro(
102 clae;
EUR
KA
EUREKA
MOKE
the paragon op per
FINER THAN THE I
T gE tobacco of
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE ANI
ALL OTHER BRAIi
THE ONLY TOBACCO COMBINIi
OP QUALITY WITH ECONO!
Each Pin? is stamped with the wc
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU
Take no other.
MANUFACTURE
SAYWELL’S TOBACCO C
AT THE EAGLE ’W
KENT AND CLARENCE
And can be obtained wholesale at I
Park-street, Sydne
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be
as soon as its merits becoa
EUREKA TOBACI
Eegishered according to Aot of Pai
the public against spurious and wo
MADDOCK’S SELECT
381 GEORGE STRE
THIS Library is supplied regnla
Steamer with the latest Pabl
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Poi
the higher class of Fiction; also, al.
tines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway
mnnication with Sydney, every faoil
BICYCLES ANO TB
SOCIABLE TRIG
THE LIGHT RUNNING
The Lightest Running and Stronf
THE BEST INVESTMENT OP TP
The Latest Novelty is the Sooi
Cushioned Seats for two persons,
know what real enjoyment is, shoul
TRICYCLES FOR I
The Latest Design. Cannot Upse
arms o r collar bones.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUB!
RENNICK, KEMSLEI
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERCES,
COALCLIFF CO
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18b. FEB, TON NET, delivered within
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well (roe fro
and cleaner Are thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flar
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desidert
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a ohar real c
■teak none of that disagreeable odour of tha unwholesome fumes given off
▲ LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLEBAL
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WH;
trade mark
THEGREAT
ONE OP THE WORLD'S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
•'I have fonnd St. JACOB’S OIL a sure and certain
care, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex-
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble/*
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about; and now he says
that St. JACOB'S OIL and good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PRICE HALF. A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BT-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
8. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MTERS and SOLOMON, George-street.
I. JACOBS A Co., Hunter-street.
ALLAN A. MAESHALL
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD,
8 and 9 MACQUAEIB PLACE,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, B 1
DIVING GEAR, &o.
91
%7fS
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,;
STOCKINGS. BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH.
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES. 4c.
THE MA
WINDOW
THE CB
«i
MOST JNE
PASTENE
Prevents all rot
the window a
No weights, pu
« qi
FEEEIEE’S BAKING POWDEE,
MARK
h- TRADL
&
MANUFACTORY :
Geobgb-strebt West, Sydney.
SELF EAT ING FLOUE
YEAST POWDER.
I
f Established 30 Teak
HODGSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Qoulburn-streot
B. HODGSG
Wholesale and Beta!
WHIP THONG MANUPACT
Every Description of Kangaroo and Oi
Made to Order.
■ g l ..nun
—i i ~i
H_T
zr
in
i
JL
rH
HIIWI**"'"
116701 H Hi L D
M
' Hllot
Hl,'
□lr
«OQ>
MPM 1
DAMP COURSE! DAMP I
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumer
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slai


Chemists and Dw
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILL!
THE GREAT LIYBE I
And suefes«fnl substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all No;
F«rnona as a Restorative to Hea]
Pm ■ ous as an Invigorator of the
Fai-ong for the Cure of all Disci
B’i«a-b.
Most famous as the only Tonic
five* cold, and
be most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare
J. S. A B R A
At the Laboratc
434 GEORGE STREET,
C'IOUGH WHILE YOU Cd
J taking Dr. Thompson's Ame
Llnotus, you will not ne able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 17!
Punch's Hotel.
f BUCKLE TOUR APPETI
JL tralian Relish, made by 1
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
ATLAS FOUNDRY &
COMPAN
HAY-STREET, SY
"■37 NGTNERRS, Boilermakers, a
C*a and Brats Pounders, Ccpi
wrights. The above firm are pr
contracts lor the manufacture of W
Emilies, Boilers, and Girder Wu
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining,
other descriptions of Machinery,
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with
price givep for metal.
T D
Have yo
re-c
Parasol
J. t
Brich
Llverpoi
Parasi
tumes. I
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
JOHN E U
181 PITT STRE
from
D. JONES * i
Respectfully invites an inspect!
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH
bedstea:
BE
All of the best quality, and sale
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS
Furniture re-covered and oarpeti
chargee.
George
(Formerly of Geor*
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAI
Bogs to announce that he baa
BUSINESS In the
SYDNEY ARCA
where every article in the above lii
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
SINGERS SEWING
See the Medals, Caps, at
at the
SYDNEY ARC
SINGER’S SEWING I
ABB MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacturi
Head Offices •
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Euri
39 POSTER LANE, ]
Dep6t for New South
No. 1 DAB UN O STORES, HAI
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING W
HAVE
All the Latest Improv
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Largest Variety of "V
SINGER’S SEWING It
FOR
Strength and Beauty oi
SINGER’S SEWING K
FOR
Embroidery, Bra-idlng, an
SINGER’S SEWING It
FOB
Plaiting, Binding, and !
SINGER’S SEWING It
FOE
Kilting, Cording, and 3
160 FIRST PRI
EAST TEB MS—2«~6d.
AGENTS IN EVERY
Offices in sydne:
THE SYDNEY ARCADE j and
STORES, HARBOUR I
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., €
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR.
NARANDERA. PARRi
227 QUEEN STREET, BI
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE 8
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ABE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2s. od. per week-
And no interest oh
10 per cent, off for o
BEWARE OF IMIT.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A i
THE ONLY " SIN®
TURNER *
Opposite
JOHNSTOt
SEWING MAOHIK
HAYMABKEI
s
I
N
G
E
R
Singers Sewing ,
Madilnu /
Public Compan
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with po
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman) U
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Je
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt*
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE BTJ
City and Suburban Branches: Hi
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willis
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B(
Bourke, Bnndarra, Cassilis, Cond
bran, Coon amble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbi
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Maeleay, !
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Porkes, Raymond Terrace, Rookie,
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wall send,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Wood hum, i
BRANCHES IN yUEE]
Brisbane, AQora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gymnie, Ipswich, Mad
Ravenswood, lijßrhamptoa, Staut
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
The mercantile banj
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Coird, Esq.
Hon. ffm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Giddey King. M.L.
AUDITORS |
Jas. Soroggie, Esq
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilson
SECRETARY :
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield i
Qirilambone; Gosford;
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Ban
London Office: 158 Leaden
: Edward Cbapc
Agent: Q, H. Altxandi
This bank transacts all nsnal Bai
Agency Business cm the moot lavuu
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances nai
other produce shipped to England f
F. J. POL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLI9
28 GEORGE STREET,
A large and well assorted stock of 1
direct from the Manufacturers,
All Garments Cut n the Most F
PERFECT FIT GUARA
Note the Address
728 GEORGE STREET,
NEAR HAYMARK
THOMAS WFRR
Business Announce
HEAD THIS ! BBAI
■■■, i
A. SALMON
FURNISHING D!
57 7 GEOBGE
BRICKFIELD HII
A LA E aF| A SSOETMENT OF GO
FEOM, Consletirg c
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Cliests of Drawc
Pier Cli
T
ALL GOODS MASKED IN FL
Note the Address
577 GEORGE S
BEICKFIELD Hi:
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite t
News Office.
READ TH
THE BAKING
TV A NUFACTURED B> L !
(Qse
BBS®* ,
BY tIAWARDIfySISo
ONLY PRIZE'
GIVEN IN THE BAKING, R'
FOR FIRSTDEGRE
SOLDEVERYWHERE IN.PA
OR SQUARE TT
MANUFACTORY QUE
.■SYONSy;
WILLIAM DAV!
w
ILLCOX
AM'
■"T
OlbBS
Automatic
Sl'ent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and


w.
HOWARD SMITH
SXEUTH’S WHARF and NE
(Foot of King-street
Offices : 7 SPRINGES!
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRI
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
EOCKUAMPTO
On TUESDAY
* 1 1 ■■
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH i
FA ENT PORTABLE GA
(Limited),
25 YORK STREET, S 7
A 1
Q COMPA
“issued AF
BEA
THAI
TRADE MARK Bl
The Company is now prepared
suitable for Hon fob, Mines, Stores, i
quire no trimming, aiford a brillivi
coal gas or kerosene, at lees cost, ai
the hand. Samples may bo Fean
Office, and the Lamps obtained frctr
mongers nud country Btort keeper*.
A
July 15th. 1882.
PG
C H ARLES YWEMLOW desi
friends and the public that h
centrally-situated Promises, ne.t t
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, wi
and specially selected stock of J
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical (
fully invites an early visit, which
goods, which are all marked in plait
moderate in price And of the best q'
An experienced s - nR of wm-kiuoi
Presentation and other jewellery an
1 Watches accurately repaired, oj
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Si I vnrwmi
Q
UEENSLAND
GRESLEY LUKIN ai
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLAN
Temporary Offices ; 289 Oei
Opposite Huuter-nti
HAVE FOR SAL;
Choice SUGAR PLANTATION-
SUGAR LANDS on the tyllowug
Queensland
The Pioneer River (M
Herbert ttiv r
Burdekln Rivtr
Mary River
Burnett River
Stone River
Logan Rivec
Albert River.
Full particulars on applio.Uku.
CASH PRICE LIST OF \
AND SPiRII
COLONIAL Wl>
RED.
per doz. I
Claret 10s Od | Sw>et
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Archibald Forbes has been invited to lecture at
the principal mining towns of Torke’s Peninsula
(S.A).
Rev. Dr. Steel says that’Mr. Eli Johnson, the
American temperance lecturer, comes here recom-
mended by many eminent “ philanthropists,” amongst
whom he numbers Mr. Henry Ward Beecher !
The latest notable accession to the ranks of
teetotallers in South Australia is the volatile and ver-
satile Ebenezer Ward, M.P., who once before under
well-known circumstances promised to “forswear sack
and live cleanly.”
Major j. A. Fergnsson will shortly sever his
connection with the S A. local military force, he haring
accepted a majority in the antagonistic Rifle Brigade,
which has a constitution of its own, and has hitherto
failed in obtaining Government aid.
Dr. John Quick, the latest young Victorian
LL.D., is lecturing on “ Young Victorians.” Quick
graduated as a country and metropolitan pressman,
succeeded in passing for the Bar, and immediately
forsook law for polities, throwing his luck in with the
Berry party.
Thady O’Kano says that the solicitors, Morgan
and Wilford, seek to crash the Northern Miner, aad
winds up with this small piece of advice:—“ That journal
takes a big crushing, and little Morgan may break both
his legs again in the effort to crush the Northern
Miner. We shall fight him with his own weapons,
him and his mate, to the bitter end, and sell the rot f
over our heads before we are beaten by such foei.”
“I am not a clergyman.” This is what Mri
Joseph Cook said in one of his lectures. Well, then,
Joseph, how comes It that yon style yourself “the
Bev. Joseph Cook" in the posters which announce your
show, on every hoarding P The fact appears to bo that
theologically regarded, you resemble a travelling quack,
who is not a regular physician, but bills himself by the
style of *' Dr.” and announces that he makes extra-
ordinary cures of scepticism in oases in which the
regular physicians have failed to do any good.
Michael Davitt, the released Fenian, was not, if
the Tory society papers may be believed, merely a leader
of the general Fenian policy, but was a chief in the
private assassination department. This, it is said, was
proved to the entire satisfaction of Chief Justice Cock-
burn, who tried Davitt. These papers fling Davitfe
very powerful, feeling, and temperate letter back into
his face. They say it is bad enough to pat up with
grotesque evangelists, converted cobblers, and penitent
publicans, but Fraternal Fenians would be preposter-
ous.
The Eight Honourable John Bright ia a great—
what’s this the penny-a-liners call it P—Disciple of Izaak
Walton. Anyhow he tries to delude salmon and trout.
One time ho was vigoroialy pursuing his pet amuse-
ment In the middle of a burn near the borders of Scot-
land. He was standing om two stones at the edge of a
hole about seven feet deep, and capsized in, ker-swosh.
His attendant Qillio gaffiad him by the seat of his *• fla-
for-shames" and landed him, saying, “Eh, Johnny
Brioht, ye went vara neardroonin that time.” John
Bright dossn’t tell this yarn himself, nor the following
either. Once, while making a vigorous cast with a fly,
he hooked an unsuspecting cow that had approached
from behind, and he played her for 40 minutes and then
broke his rod.
Swanwiok —not the irrepressible Queensland
barrister, but his brother,—the little pale-featnrod
creature, who was deposition clerk in the Brisbane
Police Court, but who got the sack because he threa-
tened to present a pistol at the Hon. S. W. Griffith, is
now doing a labour agency in Bundaberg, and seems to
be as cantankerous as ever. He summoned a baker the
other day for 17s. 6d., and was highly indignant because
the Star reporter did not devote a column to the report
et the case, but dismissed it in a dozen lines. The
editor of the Mail was on the Bench, and that paper
gave nearlv half a column to the case, while it dis-
missed an action for £25 in two lines. Swanwick wrote
a letter to the Mail, scorching the Star reporter, who,
by the way, returned the compliment in the ensuing
number of the Star in a very ironical paragraph, whiou
hit home. That reporter carries a six-chambered Colt
with him now wherover he goes, ia order to return the
compliment in case he should meet Swanwiok.
Mtr. St. Just Maokay, editor of the Oooktown
Courier, says he has been “speaking and writing
Tamil and Sanskrit for thirty years,” and that he is not
indebted to Max Muller, or any other Oriental scholar
tor his knowledge of those languages. Considering
that St. Just Maokay, the aforesaid editor, always
represents himself to the girls as about twenty-eight
years of age, ho must have been diving into Oriental
lore about two years before he was born. The natural
supposition would be that he is, at least, sixty years of
age, or must have been an exceptionally precocious
genius, with a talent for acquiring languages that
throws Ellhu Burritt in the shade. A man of such
profound erudition that he has written and spoken
Tamil and Sanskrit for thirty years, and must, there-
fore, be intimately acquainted with the mysteries of
the Vedas, the Parana?, the Areata, and all other
sacred books of the East, seems to be shedding his
dazzling scholastic effulgence in vain in such an un-
appreciative sphere as Cooktown.
Walter Adams, Mayor of Bundaberg (Q ), is in
most) respects a remarkable man. When ii© landed in
Queensland some years ago, he followed the profession
of a blacksmith, and turned from that to be a publican.
He became an alderman of Maryborough, and wai
known as one of the moat pushing men there. Getting
tired of Maryborough, he castinhis lot with Bnndabert,
where he started another pub., and flung himself into
local politics; so that in the space of two years there
was not a committee or an association in the district
Ibut he was boss of. An ardent supporter of M'llwraith,
he tell foul of the local Star, which gave hi™ the
greatest cut he ever experienced, that was by publish-
ing a letter he wrote to it verbatim. Possessed of no
education, bis orthography is not perfect, and the letter
read like a production of Artemas Ward’s. Ha get
•ver that, however, and, at the last municipal election,
he was returned at the head of the poll. He is egotis-
tical In the superlative degree, and nothing can be done
unless Walter has a finger in the pie, bat still he is a
man who, if he was educated, has enough of requisite
brains to make his way in the world Something like
Sirearee—no education, but unlimited cheek, —ml, yat
these are the persons who make their way in the
world.
“ O’Donovan of Merv ” is a special correspon-
dent little, if at all, inferior to Forbes. His expedition
to Merv was the sensation of the day, and the book he
is now preparing for publication will be one of the
season. Edmond O'Donovan studied medicine at
Trinity College, Dublin. Abandoning medicine for a
more exciting life, he enlisted in the French army in
the Franco-Prussian war, was wounded and _ made
prisoner, and first wrote as war correspondent in the
Carlist war. He was taken prisoner by both sides, and
narrowly escaped death as a spy. Ho was “ there all
the while ” in the Russo-Tnrkish war, writing for the
Dailt News, Then he started to explore Central Asia
and Thibet. He joined the Russian army when going
against the Turkomans, but was ordered to quit. As-
terabad and Teheran next saw him, and then came his
wonderful feat of penetrating into Merv, the sacred
elty of the Turkomans. There, on suspicion of being a
Russian spy, he was at once oast into prison, but on bis
identity being established, he was, Joseph-like, taken
from the dungeon and exalted to one of the highest
positions in the land, being one of the triumvirate
which governed it. When he tired of this honour, and
of the Mervian ladies (for Edmond was gay and dehon-
imir), he found it almost as difficult to get away from
Merv as it was to get in; but he got away under the
plea of “ plenipotentiary from the Turkomans to the
European Courts.” Ho took care not to return. A
•lever and brilliant writer, like Forbes, he is a more
eloquent speaker.
With reference to a paragraph in a recent issue
•f The Bhllhtin, to the effect that the late Herr
Doehlar kat not even a tombstone to mark whore his
Esmaiai are deposited, a oerrespendent writes:— ** This
strange to me. Surely the person who kis now
*ts violin should at least place a stone on hie grave,
when Herr Doehler left Sydney it was from my house,
where ha had resided twelve months. He took with
him two strong boxes full of music which, to public
Performers, must have been valuable, as there was a
forge number of orchestral scores. And hie violin, he
often told me, was worth £5OO. He may have over-
estimated its value; yet it must, at any rate, have been a
valuable instrument. During Iho time I resided in the
■city (three jears), not including the twelve months ho
dwelt at my house, he told me mine was the
only plaoe he could trust to leave hte violin in
when not in his own possession. My daughter
was his pupil (or more than two years, and ho often
said to her (as she supposed in a joke) that when
ho died she was te have his violin. The very last thing
on leaving my house, he said, ‘ I am going to turn over
a new leaf; but remember, if I die before I see you
again, Miss Eda is to have my violin.’ I said ‘Very
well, Herr Doehler. If you should die, and leave it to
her, we shall send it on to your father.' I never could
hear any particulars of his death, having left Sydney
almost immediately after his departure to Tasmania;
but, as his death occurred so soon after, he muss have
had sufficient property to pay, not only his debts, but
for decent interment. I am told the inxtrnment
(violin) was made a present to a gentleman keeping a
musical warehouse in Sydney—but I do not know if it
is correct. His (Herr Doehler’s) father, at the time ho
resided with me, kept a pianoforte warehouse in San
Francisco. Surely he would, if he knew the circum-
stances of where and how his son’s body lies, place a
stone to his memory. If you were kindly to ask, through
the columns of your paper, what has become of his
little property, it may be productive of good. You are
quite at liberty to make any use you like of this *ote.
1 believe Signor Pompei is somewhere in Tasmania; if
you know where he is, he will corroborate all I have
said, and I should also be glad of his address."
A. brother of Chief Justice Cookburn has long
resided in Queensland. He was for years an auctioneer
in Ipswich, when that town was at ** the head of the
navigation" of the Brisbane River, and before rail-
ways burst up the business of the town as the entrepot
of all the paitoral business and produce of the West
Moreten, Burnett and Darling Downs Districts. H.
M- Cookburn was a big man then, and by no means
oblivious of the dignity proper to ene who had a
brother Lord Chief Justice? Ho used to sell a sofa,
and expatiate on the facility with which the missing
leg could be replaced, or he would dilate on the supe-
riority for milking purposes of a poloy oow, with a
judicial gravity and weighty impressiveness which was
nighlv delightful to all beholders. When bids began to
langniih, Cookburn used to urge the wisdom of not
missing opportunities, with an emotion which was
strictly analogous to the dodge of Judges who pretend
that their feelings are touched, when in reality they are
fretting because the fish for dinner will be over-cooked.
And when Henry Cookburn knocked down an article
there was a stately solemnity about his gesture and
expression which reminded one involuntarily of sen-
tence being passed, aid suggested the idea that H. M.
had inadvertently lorgotten to assume the black cap.
Mr. Cookburn is a man of considerable ability,
but not of a practical sort. He is a first-class
uooenntant, indeed, but that is hardly to be
regarded as great ability. Whore he really shows
that his rather handsome, and decidedly capacious, head
contains more than the average allowance of brains
badly assorted—la in relation to scriptural topics. Mr.
Cookburn has published several wonderful pamphlets
—good (at volumes—on Prophecy, or the Revelations—
we forget exactly which ; we've seen and dipped into the
volumes at odd times, but they were either above our
comprehension, or outside of it. To ns they seemed
just a wonderful tangle of weird presumptions and of
logic turned wrong-end foremost. When Ipswich col-
lapsed, uot to recover for years, and then on qnite a
different basis as the centre of a district of selectors
resident on their farms, H. M. Cookburn and Co., Auo-
tieneers. Stock and Station Agents, &0., went with the
rest. Mr. Cookburn after a sharp struggle with adver-
sity found a haven in the Queensland Civil Service as
Collector of Customs at the " flourishing city of Eden
—we mean St. Lawrence, in the Broadaoond district.
The Queensland Civil Service, we believe, still retains
him, and it couldn’t produce an honester, or, in his way,
a more capable officer.
« * •
Old Edward Jones pegged ©ut at Gunnedah the
other day. Edward wasn’t called old Ned, but he was
91 years of age. He wasn’t a Waterloo veteran, and he
didn’t fight in the Battle of the Nile. However, he was
91 "Katie King," the woman who gained such
notoriety in England as a bogus spiritualist, died the
other day of cancer, at the home of Clara Lotus*
Kellogg, under the name ofJMrs. Almond Shepard......
The oldest member of the House of Commons is W. B.
Hughes, aged 84 years; the youngest is James Dickson,
2S years.,....Signor Otto Hug, who his been doing the
Milner Stephen business in Dunedin, calls himself a
•* Suisse clairvoyant and phisoopathist.” “ Civis," or
the Otaao Withess, is puzzled thereat, and has ruined
himself buying up foreign dictionaries to get at the
derivation of the word, but without success. We
expect Hug tried to invent a Hugly word, and meant—
Psychopathy P By the way, Hug is known in Brisbane...
It is rumoured that M. Gambotta is going completely
blind. It is a fact that he has recently suffered
from great weakness in his remaining eye....... Mr.
Isaac Holden, the new Liberal member (or the West
Riding, is a very wealthy man. Some time ago he built
himself a new house at a cost of £lOO,OOO. He gave a
feast to his family on one ®( his recent birthdays, and
when they came to the table his four daughters found
in each of their napkins a cheque (or £50,000.......
G. 8y arson, of the Royal University, Dublin, is only
M.D, M.C.H , Q.U.J., L.C.P.J.F.L S Judge Bill-
ing’s will proved at £25,000. He was evidently a good
judge-—of investments Mr. Baokland elected with-
out opposition (or Bulimba, Q ; Mr. Isambert Grey
returned (or Rosewood. Mr Pilliett, journalist, re-
elected M P. for Stanmore, N.Z.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
How will Cyril Haviland take this ? The
Attorney. General and an “ intelligent jury ” of South
Australia hare decided that belief in apirituallem is
prirnd facie evidence of insanity.
" Matter does not plan and choose,” says the
Eer, Jo. Cook. Wo beg to differ. The affinities of
matter are remarkable. The lode-stone “chooses
Iron ; atoms have attractions and repulsions.
Dr. Moorhouae holds with Herbert Spencer that
“religion and science are necessary correlatives.' That
is to say. Dr. Hoorhouso’s religion battles with the
science that agrees with Dr. Moorhouso a religion.
The Presbyterian announces that the Rev.
Joseph Cook “ can tackle men like Huxley, Tyndall,
Professor Bain, and Virchow. We understand now
why the Presbyterian Is registered as a newspaper.
The Presbyterians in Rockhampton have a queer
wav of managing their ohuroh affairs. The parson is
provided with a house fit tor the residence of a prince,
while the ohuroh is not np to the standard of
cow sheds ; in fact, it is a disgrace to any Christian
congregation.
In some American Presbyterian churches, in-
stead of passing round a plate, collection boxes arc
affixed to the back of each pew. Just before the scr,
mon, the pastor steps to the desk, and rep o^ 3 a
text. Then is hoard all over the house the dropping oi
bad dimes into the boxes. It requires but a minute of
time.
At a cremation ceremony in Gotha, net long
ago, the Catholic clergyman refused peremptorily to
lend his assistance, although the deceased had been a
member of the Catholic Church. The oiMgy of the
denomination have no interest in the burning bodies.
Their time is too much taken up with the calcining
of souls. .
A contemporary quotes thus;— Professional
infidels always had the same antipathy to « ®
professional burglars had t* a pohoemaa.-Gsorge IKend
ling" Let’s try it the other way round iftoteesional
ministers always had the same antipathy to an infidel
as professional burglars had to a policeman. It reads
jußt as well* doesn't it P Ask Jo. Cook.
The Ban PranoUco Jbwish World say* of the
recent death, of George BLiot. Georee
Darwin. Emerson, Longfellow, and Carly le, that they
aU outgrew the Christian creeds. It does
they grew book to an acceptance of the
ef the time of Moses. The modern Jewish w a*
far removed from the original one as modern science is
beyond witoh-oraft.
St. Mary’s Cathedral to be opened by ft
days' ceremony, commencing on September Bth, t
feast of the Nativity of the virgin Mary. There is t
be a Pontifical High Mass, with a bishop s sermon eaon
day; also daily evening services and sermons, mo
Archbishops and Bishops get-at-able in all these lati-
tudes) have been invited. And the stock cry still—
“ Wanted more money for the Oatholio Fund.’’
At Wollongong, the Very Reverend Dean
Flanagan was, on tne 4th Jnly, entertained by a largo
company at a complimentary dinner, in the Temper-
ance Hall. The rev. gentleman lately returned from a
Enropean trip, after 18 years work at Wollongong, and
the speakers eulogised him freely. A handsome testi-
monial, and a purse of 100 sovs. were presented to the
Dean, who is now changing his residence to Sydney.
This is how a Praist up country exhorted hia
congregation, on finding that the offerings consisted
chiefly of horn-buttons and gun-wads wrapped in paper
to look like half-sovereigns:—“Ye come lookin lolko
payceoks and payhans. Instid av giving money to the
Obnroh, ye putt it an yer backs.” It was the same rev.
gentleman who threatened a Roman Catholic lady
married to a Protestant that if she did not withdraw
hir children from “ that damnable Public School, he
would, ” read her aff the althar."
In one of his sermons Dr. Cani refers to the
animus borne against him by many persons in these
feeling terms : “ A number of my parishioners have von
grave fault vit me. I admit, tls a fault of much grave*
ness. It is this, I vas born beneath the shadows of
St. Peter’s. I should have been born von Irishman, un-
derneath the shadows of Ireland’s national church St.
Patrick’s, on the Pottle, near the Coombe, in Dublin.
The next time I be born, I’ll have this fault remedied.
Can a faithful pastor do mora for a loving flock P”
At the celebration of the Orange lodges of
Shoalhaven, on the 12th July, a rev. gentleman said
that [John Roseby, Esq., was the truest and the best
msn he ever met. Ho (the reverend) did not estimate
a man by what ha said, bat by what h© did. Mr. Roaaby
had stood alone in Parliament in advocating the open-
ing of Convents to public inspection, and tnat was the
reason why he held this representative in such esteem.
At another stage of his speech, the rev. gentleman said
that, were the Convents thrown open to public inspection,
the whole of the murders in Ireland would be discovered,
for he had no doubt it was from these dark places the
murderers issued.
The Pall Mall Gazette, the other day, had
an article on the decay of preaching. It was urged that
onr clergy aro centuries behind their audiences, and
utterly ignore the march of intellect and the progress
of science, and that they still expound old and exploded
notions in the “ patois of Palestine." Patois of Pales-
tine is good. It opens the door to further alliteration. |
The pulpit Btill resounds, one might say, with the
jargon ot Jerusalem. A slight fear of being irreverent
acts as a check on a further developement of the idea—
but there is a world of truth in the contention that the
ordinary sermon is as old-fashioned a remedy for moral
diseases as cupping and ground glass powders would bo
for physical ones.
It is rather humiliating, says the London
World, that our English Bishops should have to learn
sense from their Colonial brethren, upon whom they
are apt to look down. Hero is Dr. Maolagan, the
Bishop of Lichfield, muttering exorcisms over a few
graves at Burslem, whilst Bishop Moorhonso has the
courage to resist the superstitions request ot some
people in Melbourne to pray for rain. Indeed, to the
secular mind this kind of dictation to the Almighty
savours more of profanity than religion. But whenever
the mediceval tendency to revert to charms and con-
luting of this description appears, the really en-
lightened religions teacher should do as Moorhonso
does, and not as Maolagan has done. He sheuid clear
all religious functions in the Protestant Church as
much as possible from the charge of any attempt to
tinker up the universe as at present constituted, or
subvert the laws of Nature for private or party pur-
poses.
In the new Sydney Freethought organ, the
Dbbater, Mr. George Laoy comes down tremendously
on ” the, rev.” Joseph Cook. Mr. Laoy alleges that
Professor Fisk devoted an article in the North
American .Review entirely to Mr. Cook, under the
rather uncomplimentary heading of “ Theological
Charlatanism," and ending in the following rather
pungent terms: —“ If we go through Mr. Cook s
volumes in detail, we should And little else but misre-
presentation of facte, misconception of principles, and
floods of tawdry rhetoric. I have not treated him
seriously, or with courtesy, because there is nothing in
his manner or matter that would justify, or ev en ex-
cuse, a serious treatment. Mr. Laoy further affirms that
Mr. Cook, although he now denounces spiritualism,
used to lecture in favour of its phenomena. Also that,
after issuing in London a general challenge to discuss
orthodoxy, he funked when Bradlaugh responded, and
a few other little matters of a similar kind which seem
to need clearing up.
If Rev. Joseph Cook is the champion of Chris-
tianity in the States then Christianity is to be pitied.
He is ungainly, his platform attitudes are awkward and
constrained, his voice is harsh and his pronunciation
execrable, and when he intends to be very impressive,
be has a fashion ot shaking his head from side to side
violently, which may be the sign of an inward, spiritual
grace, but looks very much like the sign of an inward,
spiritual grace, but looks very much like the sign of an
inward, material stomach-ache. He pronounces thus :
“Gord,” ‘ jooties,” " ejercashun," ” amoosing," “at-
titood," “ hooman," “ oonstitootion,” &o. Infidelity,
he sad, defends adultery, lying, and theft. He did not
know a prominent infidel he oould go to for help in any
charitable object. Every infidel had a skeleton in his
closet, and he should be afraid to pry into the private
lives ot unbelievers. Well, Joseph, if you have come
all the way from the States to utter these mildewed
old calumnies, we are afraid yon will not win many
sou’s for the Kingdom. It would have been wiser for
yon* to have remained in “ Bawsting," unless, of
coarse, you are travelling to recruit your health, and—
pay expenses.
Our dear old friend the Rev. John Alexander
Dowie is running a tabernacle at Collingwood, Mel-
bourne, and crowds regularly rush to boar him froth.
His especial red rag at present is ” Spiritualism. ’ and
he accuses Tom Walker, the “ trance lecturer,” and
Bishop Moorhouee (I) of being the main supporters of
that creed. At a recent meeting, ho mixed up Spiritu-
alism and the liquor traffic, in a “ blood and fire ad-
dress. He called all publicans ** Jezebels,” and, when
the audience tittered, flared up and said ; “ Oh, you
may laugh. Ton can laugh yourself into hell; but I
reckon you can’t laugh yourself out of hell. Walker,"
continued Mr. Dowie, “calls himself an Atheist,
Deist, Materialist, and Rationalist; but I will tell yon
what he is—he is a child of the devil." The latter
word is a great favourite with Mr. Dowie. So is the
word ” hell," which figured at least fifty times through,
out the preacher’s ” discourse.” Referring to the recent
trial of Dowie v. Walker, Mr. Dowie said: “I have
sometimes at the midnight hour reeled with the intel-
tectual fumes proceeding from that miasma of hell.
Spiritualism;” his meaning being that he had become
stupefied by reading so much Spiritualistic literature.
He told a yarn about a man in Canada who died from
the effects of one of Walker’s spiritualistic experiments,
and prophesied that “ Walker’s career would end in
darkness, perhaps in blood." Again reuniting to the
recent trial, Mr. Dowie, who at this poikt had become
I ntensely excited, said: “If the judge who tried the
I eteoase is an atheist, then he is a defender of Spiritu-
alism ; if the barrister who defended It is a legal
larrikin, then ho is a defender of Spiritualism ; end If
the solicitor in it is a disgrace to politics, then he is a
defender of Spiritualism.” Mr. Dowie then spoke
fiercely concerning Mr. Purves, the barrister, by name.
He accused him of lying at the trial, and defended
himself (Dowie) against the alleged repeated charges
of falsehood brought against him in the course of Mr.
Purves’ remarks in the County Court. Dowie claims
to have been ” called by the. Lord ” from trade to the
Ministry.
• • •
The Pope — the poor prisoner of the Vatican—
has just bought the largest topa* in the world. His
Holiness is consequently shorter of funds than ever.
The faithful are besought to stamp up....... The Bsv«
Mr. Ullmann, of Enmore, proved last Sunday that the
prophets agreed on the coming war in Egypt. He
called n» Daniel out of his dan to provelt New
Protestant Church (oost £8000) opened at I^eemsntle,
W.A., by Bishop Parry, on Tuesday last.. The Dean
of a certain city has been paying np, at the solicitation
of his lawyers The Bishop of Tasmania leaves for
England in September Canon Farrar .preaching at
Westminster Abbey, eulogised the late Danrin.
He said there was reason to believe that the attacks
made upon religion In his name were oantrary to hls
solemn convictions. He maintained thatreUgiois
faith rests upon foundations which no physical dis-
coveries can impair.


ANTHONY HORDPRN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
THE ORIGINAL CASH SYSTEM FIRM.
NO BRANCHES.
NO OTHER PLACE OF BUSINESS.
ANNUAL MID-WINTER STOCK TAKING.
COMMENCED
MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1882.
GREAT BARGAINS OFFERED IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.
GOODS CAREFULLY ARRANGED.
NO TIME NEED BE LOST IN PURCHASING.
EVERY FACILITY FOR INSPECTION.
Bargains in Costume Cloths.
Bargains in Dress Goods.
Bargains in Wool Wraps.
Bargains in Ladies Ulsters.
Bargains in Children’s Ulsters.
Bargains in Wool Goods.
Bargains in Wool Fichus.
Bargains in Wool Cleuds.
Bargains in Millinery.
Bargains in Fleecy Gloves.
Bargains in Bibbons.
Bargains in Laces.
Bargains in Ties.
Bargains in Parachutes.
Bargains in Men’s Hats.
argains in Men’s Overcoats.
Bargains in Men’s Trousers.
Bargains in Youths’ Overcoats.
Bargains in Youths’ Suits.
Bargains in Little Boys’ Suits.
Bargains in Ties and Scarves.
Bargains in Men’s Shirts.
Bargains in Hosiery.
Bargains in Boots and Shoes.
Bargains in Flannels.
Bargains in Blankets.
Bargains in Carpeis.
Bargains in Umbrellas.
BARGAINS EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT THE
IMMENSE PALACE EMPORIUM,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET
(ONLY).
A Trams stop at GIPPS STREET close to the PALACE EMPORIUM.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERT SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy In Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Fancet
Nosrales, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
P. LASBETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Trade
Mark
THE FAINT FOR IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVER
BLISTER CRACK, OB FLAKE OFF.
IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST,'.EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
H m all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFICE
|
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS,!
85 CASTLEBEAGH STREET. NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KINO STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.’
-AN, 4jo
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FAByggffi
CUSTOMERS GET POLI
at HORDERN’S, in Pit
Politeness and Attention to c
has helped to ma
HORDERN S in Pitt
what it is—
THE FAVOURITE S
HORDERN and CO , For Dresses
For Millinery
For Gloves
For Ribbons
For Hosiery
For Manches
For Boys’ Sui
For Carpets
For Corsets
For Ladies’ I
For Mantles
For Flowers i
For Silks, Sa
And the main Reasi
BECAUSE WE SELL
and we are able to s<
THE VERT LOWEST MARG
Because we get the Goods
Straight, Straight PROM THE M
gaining thereby
Intermediate and eubsidi
OUR STOCK INVITES
Both Town and Country (
We select our GOODS (GOO!
bo that they may wei
and look well
and bring people back
OUR LATEST ADDITIONS an
The Bedstead Depar
The Bedding Depart
and
The Pillow Departm
COME and SEE T
Country orders for Bedding
J. L. HORDERN a
211 P
Jjl I N B A
"The FINE ART PUBLISHIN
GALLERY', at the George-stree
ARCADE, is NOW OPEN, and
baautiful co’lection of ART TRi
hibitod in the colonies.
The Gallery is under the manage
THOMaS, oldest son of the late G
special artist to Her Majesty the Q
the “ Marriage of the Prince and
and other important works now in '
Windsor Castle.
Arrangements have been made fo
ply of PICTURES and OTHER V
a HIGH CLASS from Europe, wh
the New South Wales public at tl
advance on the cost prices.
No charge is made for admission
inspection is respectfully invited.
To Crown Lessees, Pree-Selectors,
AMES C A :
I AND AGENT
WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sri
[aLVEETISEIIEK'
W HOWARD SMITI
• offer a Premium of TH
the nest Essay upon
The Growth of AU3TR4LIAI
SHIPPING, together will
the INCREASE in POl
AUSTRALIAN COLONI
tablishmeut to the present
The last date for receiving Essay
her, 18*2: and competitors are req
ef the following points
1. The MS.S to be written on
to be distinguished by a •
first instance.
2. The length to be 100 pages,:
to those of the “ Conte mpo
3. The successful essay to beco
Messrs. Howard Smith and
4. Essays will be returned to
p at i tors.
ALL Description of Old Art!
Replaced Equal to new by
J. MTEiN AND
Eleotroplaters, Showrooms 21
SYDNEY,
!
NORTHERN
AGRICULTURAL AS3<
THE HARWC
FIBRE CHAIR SI
Possessing ail the qualities of a ]
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beau
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made
known fibres and a perfectly
by a patented process, and after fifl
use, we can speak positively as to
of one thickness, it cannot split oi
exposure to sun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the lal
Massachusetts Charitable Mechani
FOR RE-SEATING, it is un
house, store, and office, are Chair*
these can be made as good as nev
Make a paper pattern f inch large
the material with shears, and secur
head nails 1J inches apart.
Any person can thus re-seat an
new a chair that is is otherwise
trifling expense.
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be mat
or boy in his own neighbourhood,
tunity. Permanent business. Lar
For Further Particulars
NICHOLS &
GENERAL A9ENT3 FOE
82 CLARENCE STI
TURKISH B.
OPEN DAILY (Sundays exeepte
from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.: for Ladies, I
Bathers not admitted later than one
THESE BATHS have been proi
beneficial to all persons sufferii
gout, neuralgia, dsypepsia, intligei
and all conjplaints of this nature
healthy, invigorating, renewing o
persons obliged to lead sedentary li
Try it, and experience its wonder
Prices of Admission—Single bath,
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gontlem
ticket, £5. Family tickets as ]
C A. SHI
Bligh-street.
Wear only Smith, and M:
" They have stood the test of pi
years, and still retain (as thouaanc
superiority over all others.”
We are now sellinf
CELEBRATED MARE of SHIR T
at 305., 40a., and 50s. the fl
MADE TO MEASURE OR I
GUARANTEEI
SOa., 635, and 765. the HA
SMITH ANDIIA
SHIRT MAKERS. HOSIERS
MERCERS,
298 George Street,
Near Hunter Str
fr>HE TAILOR FOR THE PUBLIC.
**■ F. H. HA OON,
late cutter to R. C. Hagon, of 127 King-aireet,
having taken
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
at
162 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni's,
where every facility will be afforded him for
having his work cade under his
PERSONAL SUPERVISION,
is now in a position to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILORING
of a quality and price that cannot be Excelled.
West of England Tweed Suits, to order, 635.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 635.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
N.B.—All Garments HAND-MADE.
F. H. H&QON.
HAG ON.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEOKGE STBEET.
o^2cottWd^
WHOLESALE
GRuCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENTS
for
BEOOM FIELDS
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LIT MOAN r AV
MAGIU RITTERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
OB
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
“ Jeames *’ keeps the boards of the Opera House.
Certainly it is very (umny, in a light, frothy way. And
t-eila tout. The dialogue here and there woaldbe none
the «one for a sprinkling of hair restorer. Which is
u ranch as to say that it is tocsewhat bald. But the
wbeeses are not: they are only a bit grey-headed.
Mr Fred. Marshall’s success in Jeames, and similar
characters, consists, to a great extent, in the contrast
between the Sphinx-like gravity of his face and the
rrepesteronsness of the absurdities that ripple out of
his month as fluently as lies from the lips of a lawyer—
a lawyer in Kamsohatka, of course.
• • •
We were round at the Opera House the other
night, more, it is needless to say, with a view to giro
to n to the affair than to gratify our curiosity, as we had
seen the performance before. Just about the middle of
the second act a man got up and walked omt of the dress
circle in disgust. The doorkeeper noticing this, asked
him what was the matter. « Matter f” he snarled, "why
Tre paid my money to see a play that has got neither a
massacre nor explosion, nor even as much as one miser-
able murder, all through two acts. I’m going to stick
to the Queen's in future."
• • •
Miss Annie Tayler, as Mary Anne Hoggins, is
what one might call buxom. But, more than that, she
i* T ery true to the ethies of serTantgaliem, and very
etaglly natural all through the play. Miee 0. Wallace
(Countess Bareacres) is a little atiff and precise in her
manner of speech. Sie is not altogether hapny in the
character of an elderly lady. Miss Samt Fischer (Lady
Angelina) we admire and lore, and could die in blisaful
ease if she would only talk more through her mouth
and less through her nose. Miss Cora (Iwynne (Emily
Aldgate) and Miss Mel vide (Mrs. Blodder) ars rery fair.
Of course we are now speaking of their noting : the
other meshing ef the phrase goes witheut saying.
• • e
Jeames (Mr. F. Marshall) you know, before he
'opens his mouth, to be a remarkable person He wears
his ealves all around the leg. They swell out into
their most voluptuous curve just over the ahm-bone.
Mr. Harry Smile (Screw) is an ideal butler. We nave
seen euoh butlers in pictures—fat men with red noses
and a regenerated snigger about the corners of their
months. Perhaps it is bscause we ourselves are bony
as the first Napoleon, or a cart-horse; perhaps it is In
envy of John Luoss; any how, wo had rather he a fat
beggar than a lean. Archbishop. And that is why ws
like Mr. Harry Baville. As the Earl of Bareacres, Mr.
Sterling Whyte has not much opportunity for the dis-
play of his res! dramatic power. Mr. Frank Forbes
inakes a first-class Sir John Aldgate. And Mr. Fred.
Dark (Warren), although always himself in any part,
always makes that part unique and agreeable. Ut
coarse, Mr. B. W. Marshall plays Hunole Bill. There
isn’t as much fun in it as one would expect, but that la
no fault ef Mr. Marshall. Finally, Mr. Gordon s
scenery is as flue a* usual. The scene in the thud act,
where the white English cliffs, crested with, green, ns#
up en the edge of the blue bay, is very beautiful.
* * * ♦
Mr. W. E. Sheridan opens in “ King Lear,” at
the Queen’s Theatre, on Saturday night. There isn’t
a leer all through this paragraph, however, much as we
have gibed at the Queen’s when it was given over to
bats and owls. Now, notw areas change tout cela. Mr.
Sheridan comes here with a great reputation as a tra-
gedian. We have nothing to say about this until we
see him. But, as ho has been compelled—through want
of accomodation, not of money—to take the worst
theatre in the olty to play in, we judge it is only fair to
say that, even discounting his reputation at a ruinous
rate, he is another kind of man than those who have
been solemnly shunting themselves up and down the
boards of the Morgue for some time past. Mr. Seller,
Mr. Sheridan’s agent, has had some important Improve-
ments made in the interior of this theatre. And, dur-
ing the Sheridan season ladies will bo expected to oo ne
comme il faut to the play. Bonnets or hats are not to bo
worn in the dress-oirole. It will no longer be considered
good form for parties from the suburbs to bring their
■ripper with them when they come to the * theayter.
The sandwich-munching Mariars, and the saveloy-
wolfing Sallys are to be exiled to the pit until the
legitimate ouoe more gives place to the gory and
horrible, and the oi polloi are again triumphant.
* * * *
The Simonson Opera Company conclude their
season on Saturday night next. We do not imagine
there will be any boom in the crane market for their
loss—we mean by this, of course, the loss that the city
will sustain by their departure, net the other loss.
"Die Frelschutz” was performed several nights this
week. It was well put on and better sung than most of
the things that Martin has so far yanked out of his
somewhat ragged repertoire. Mibb Martina and Miss
Leonora Simonsen both sang in it. So did Brennir,
which is too much joy in one burst to admit of calm
criticism. Speaking fairly, however, the performance
was worth more patronage than it had which, by the
way, is not speaking volumes. " Man tana willl bo
performed on Friday night. On Saturday night Martin
takes a benefit. We shall be there to hear the Simonsen
swan-song. * * * *
Hart’s Happy Hours Company have done splen-
did business at Grafton. They open in Newcastle on
Saturday night next, and from thence play overland to
Brisbane.
* * * *
There has been little novelty this week in the
matter of plays. At the Victoria Hall, the pupils of a
well-known singer have been playing "II
The performance was a success. The oreneetra wa»
efficient-a thing so seldom seen in arntour perform-
ances—that it should be written of in letters of gold
when It does occur. The " star was Mis* Elisa
Sherwin. As Leonora, she achieved a complete triumph
Her voice is clear and sweet, aud her action all that
could be wished. We do not care to write anything
more enthnsiaetlo than this, lose people *honld be
enabled to perceive that wo love her. But as this is
inevitable to ns with our susceptible candid construe-
tion. perhaps it doesn't matter. .Aanceaa was glorio ll *-
Inez (Miss A. Do Fontaine), looked like the maiden of
♦he Swiss legend, and sang like a seraph. Mr. D. E.
Kelly made on excellent Manrico. In fact, if tbe mythi-
cal Manrico had seen the representation of himself
given by this gentleman ho would be too proud to ask
us to take a drink with him. And wo would rather
lie down upon our little bod and die than
that this should happen. The ’ Si la
Btonohezza ’* duet, Mr. Kelly sang magnificently.
Mr, E. Bussell (Count di Luna) has a light voice but
sweet withal. He has to get rid of a good deal of
nervousness before he can do himself justice Mr. J.
Farron (Fernando) has a good round venae, but looks
too much, with hi* funereal plume dangling on top of
his paste-board morion, like the off-leader in a hearse,
or the snb-leader of a Hkaatn. Mr. A. T- Peate may
re.peate Bulz as long as ha likev, If he doe b it in the
fashion in which wo saw him perform it on Monday
night. We are too billions just now to go through the
remainder of the bill. The chorus has not been
enohornsed as yet# but there is an immense amount of
seope for enthusiasm in the sweet bye and bye.
* * * *
The Montague-Turner Opera Company made a
"glorious re-entry" into Brisbane on last Monday
week. They opened with the “ Bohemian .Girl, and
received a splendid reception. This is the kind of news
that lightens up the gloom of our existence and makes
life endurable.
* * * *
This story concerns —no matter, it doesn’t con-
cern our readers whom it concerns. This is a safe
sentence, anyhow. Not long ago, in a certain city—
which city, we may mention, is not boilt upon the
aborts el the sea of Okotsk—a new tenor cams and
effaced hi* aervioes to an opera company. The manager,
thinking hy the ships of tbs min'i iom that hs sught
to he a good singer, handed his* over to the pianist.
Ths Bold Fisherman was the »oug chosen by which to
test the range «»f his voice. "In what key do you sing
it?" asked the pianist. “It doesn’t matter a hang,
old man," was the prompt reply; "my voice is always
the same." "But. sir." yelled the musician, “you
don’t understand—l want to know in what key I am to
play it upon the piano." “Oh, if that’s what you
mean,** said ths new tenor, with a reassured look, * you
can make yourself easy; if you gouge it out anywhere
about the middle of the instrument, I reckon it 11 fit
me like a glove." He never sang even that first song
over. A voice in iUndwiok is now heard by the passing
tram-oondactor, crying oat in the stilly night for that
young man, because he is not. It is the voice of his
mourning mother.
** * *
A Townsville paper complains that the clown in
St. Leon’s Circus, now performing there, ” was not dis-
tinguished by any specially brilliant wit or eminent
originality.” We are sorry (or this, because we had
alwajs until now cherished the belief that a circus-
clown invariably manufiotured his own jokes and never
said the same one twice. St. Leon’s man, anyhow, if
he does not make a noloisal fortune out of sawdust, can
at any time turn to spectacular play-writing with a
certainty of success if he answers the description given
of him by the Townsville critic.
*♦ k k
“ I don’t know what in thunder we’ll do to-
night,” groaned a leading singer in an opera once upon
a time. ” I've caught a cold and I’m afraid almost to
eall a eab lest I should break down.” “Never mind,
old fellow.” said a sympathising super, who sings three-
word cavatinas and is as vain as a weathercock, " I’ll
pull you throngh. I was nevsr in bettor voice in n«y
life ” And the names of these were—but, hark I the
voice of one we do not love sounds below. It is the
voice of our laundress 1 We hear her complain. Alas
that, genius should have to pay for such paltry things
as the washing of shirts.
** * *
A correspondent sends us a long account of a
concert given by the Bundaborg (Q.) Musical Union.
The information we eon aider somewhat far-fetched; but
as our correspondent has screwed out some passable
lines in regard to the affair, wo give him a show. Thne:
—The concert was brillianter than patent knife-polish t
it was fully as brilliant as briok-diist. A little old bald-
headed man, who edits one of the local trunk-liners,
sang a song in a manner that convinced the audience he
thonld have chosen the operatic stage instead of the
editorial gin-oase, and a hawker’s cart instead of either
for a platform upon which to show bis abilities. Only
one lady singer was worth listening to. And^—but
rhyme is as plentiful In Queensland as ram.
Her voice was what you woald have called gold-
flnohy,
But, ah I—groat heaven I—her name was Miss
M'Slinchy.
If rhyme of this kind is what our correspondent refers
to, we can see a splendid opening for a Necropolis Com-
pany up North just about this time.
** * *
Mr. Walter Eeynolds opens at the Gaiety in
“Vanity Fair.” on Monday night next The play is
sensational and spectacular. Walter is the author. As
the taste of the public just now seems to be in favour of
this class of play, we presume it will bo a success. And
onr joy to find this presumption correct will only he lese
than that of one man. And that man is the talented
author.
** * *
Herr Tutaohka, a prominent member of the
Austrian Band, and for some time stnnded in Bunda-
bsrg (Q ). has started on his return Journey to Vienna.
He doesn’t think much of “ Owsdhralia.”
** * *
Tom King is the prince of “ bon.” organizers,
and after “benefiting” almost every charity and
hospital in the colony, is about to take a night at the
Queen’* Friday evening (2lst) will see Tom in his war
paint, with something like forty friends assisting in
making the affair successful. It is on record that
Thomas originated the baby shows bore; but, as it’s
probable Lucas was a prise winner when a voungster,
it is as well to be silent on this point His Exc'dlency
the Governor has extended his patronage “ Green
Bushes” is the piece, an olio will follow, and an
effort will be made to get John Lucas to do a break-
down.
m 0 * *
Mr. George Co ppm took hi* “ first final leave ”
of the stage on the night after the assassination of
Julius Caeiar. Julius and George—or rather George
and Julias, wore chums, and the envious rent that
Cason made hurt George as much as it did Julias. Pay-
ing £7O a week for a theatre was nothing then to the
rent that Caeca drew. Mr. Gs»rge Coppin has recently
taken one more final leave of the and, of ooura© t
has alluded to the fact that two nights of Shakespeare
make one insolvency Let us pause. Brooke, Kean,
Montgomery. Rignold, Dampier, Croswiok, Mrs, Sid-
dons. Miss Pomeroy, Klstori—all these wore failures P
The plain fact is they drew better than an opera bouffe.
and, in saying this, we say all we can. Shakespeare is
0.K., but managerism swamped him. A 'star is
engaged to play the hero. The man from Avon didn t
know what a hero woe. Othello or lago—whmhUth*
best character for a good actor to shine in ? The bait
actor does not know. Bat the “ star actor must
draw at least ten times more salary from the treasury
than the “ next best ’* in the company and so all
centres in one man. That’s what kills Shakespeare in
the first act.
«• ♦ *
At the Petersham Town Hall, Miss Carey,
vocalist, and Mr. E. Croft, pianist and ventriloquist,
will take a benefit on Friday, 21st instant.
** * *
The ** Capital of the Downs,” Toowoomba,
Queensland, wants amusing. Since the oase
tne people have been wrapped in gloom, and they now
want companies to show at the local School of Arts,
and teach them how to smile again.
** * *
Mr. Trevor Jones, at the request of Dr. Simms,
is going to redeliver his paper on the expression of the
emotions in the human face, illustrated by drawings
executed daring the discourse, in the Tempera'ice Uail.
on the 27th July. Proceeds to be equaUydlvided be-
tween the Bt. Vincent’s and Children s Hospitals.
THE POOR PLAYER
[Correspvndence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Pitti received .£32,000 during her American
tout Of this sum she paid Nioolini *(160 for each
performance, hr £S4IO in «H. *• >had to pay her
manager £3ouo, leaving her about After
fWlnotimr her own expense?, it is thought she will have
oltreraC/surof |22,000... r 8 oo«
latest, was at the Glasgow Theatre Royal. Liittie
Jimmy M‘Mahon still managing Legrond
is having her revenge on that pretty Jeune
or-u,while Australian colonist, Mr Kyrle Bellew, wno is
or Uto be Mr«. Langtry’s leading man. Eugenio
who’ at let a d’ates, was appearing at Union Square
Theatre, CvVork. in 6.orge Darrell’s new play
“ Solanno ’’ announced herself there as the wife
, °V r J* ■' VT.rlft Rellew." Sir Michael Costa
his redacted the London Sacred Harmonic concerts
for 51 years, Madame Saint on-Dolby has sung at them
lor oi years, iixau - 23 years At the anni-
-40 years, and Sims iteeyes ror Thant™
vorsarr night of “Patience, at the Savoy Theatre,
Ssfffea CUJ 2W^S»a2t
london, for* the 31 nights’ season is
Ked f 2d«lmgh\°a n atth e pifncese there It will shortly
RBBO a
ru?n^and r the
ckarwal-rfout to sK'her (Übuta. an equestrienne
SrtSuit SfS£ fn-sSS hw SXtSSH ha*
Carncrots Minstrels in the States...... *
b"Sw““Ki*“«• -« 50 “
the Academy of Music inj America, for the startling
amount of £50,000. And, although no one doubts that
‘Mapleson is a " good mark,” Patti has the additional
security of a guarantee from August, Belmont, the great
New fork banker, for the money The Duke of Edin-
burgh has composed an operetta, but he has also had
the good sense to let Arthur Sullivan compose it a little
for him also. Sir Henry Parkes didn’t write the libretto.
...Troth says that Kate Vaughan is the most graceful
dancer now on the stage Those who patronise the
'Frisco Bella Union are being treated to what is called
pleasnreable delicacies, and a comedy 41 Upside Down,”
stated in the ads- to be full of delightful naughtiness,
winding up with the Tloklish Terpslohorean Noveltylen-
titled ” Spring Chickens,” in which the dear darlings
will kick up some high old pranks in a wild enchanting
quadrille. How would this Ido for Sydney ? We
read that E. P. Rae, the only living member of the
original Christy Minstrels, has been elected a Justice
of the Peace in Now Jersey. What a falling OH is
there 1
SPORTING GLEANINGS
Arnot Francisoo, proprietor of the Freemasons’
Hotel, Perth, has been fined £l2O for allowing a barber
named Taylor to gamble with marked cards in his hotel.
Taylor was abo fined a similar amount. The proceed-
ings in these oases revealed names in connection with
gambling operations among the larrikin fraternity
At Perth (W.A.).on July 11, George Parker, a solicitor,
broke his arm whilst playing at football The South
Australian volunteers are practising daily preparatory
to competing for the trophy to be fired for on the 12th
August. On July 11, the following scores were made at
200, 300, 500, and 6jo yards, five rounds at each Out
of a possible 80 Lieut. Sholl scored 67, Sergeant Dean 71,
Sergeant Sholl 56, Corporal Hymns 75, and Private
Edwin Mahon 70 A potato-digging match for £5O a
side, against time, took place in a New Zealand country
district. The wager was that a certain man could not
dig half an aere in eight hours. Ho won, with 4mi». to
spare, digging 73 bags in 7hr. 56min. They weighed
6 tons 2 owt A valusble bread mare, belonging to
Mr. Hubbard, of the Yacht Club Hotel, Newcastle, was
killed on 13th July through collision with a runaway
horse and cart A raid was made on some gamblers at
Narrabri last Friday night, £l7 had been stake 1, and a
box of dice was also found on the table. Several well-
known business residents were amongst the surprised
parties Mr. Charles Collins has been appointed
secretary of iho Namoi Jockey Club in the place of
Mr. D. M‘Rae, who has left the district
Pride of the Hills, the well known Adelah- e race horse
is dead The midwinter meeting of the Dcniliquin
Jockey Club takes place the day preceding the Agri-
cultural Show Mr. Clarence Haunell has given a
valuable cup for competition nmongat the cricket clubs
of the Newcastle District daring tee next two seasons.
Ad Valorem, the winnerof the two Produce Stakes
at Grafton was said on 14th July lor 200 guineas, and
Young Australian, the winner of the Clarence Rivvr
Jockey Club Handicap, for 150 guineas “ How to take
ca»e of the eyes" is the title of a work now in
the Press. The author’s name is Jam Mace
Elias Layoook has challenged Wallace Ross, the race
to take place in Sydney. Ross's reply has not Jet been
received ....According to the published list of fixtures,
to day (Thursday). Friday, and Saturday, the Aus-
tralians play at Mlddlesborongh against Yorkshire, or
United North, and on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes-
day at (Newcastle against Northumberland A large
number of fish resembling Murray perch have been caught
in the river Warhurton, 600 miles in the interior of
South Australia Midwinter in his first match in
England since his return, made 137 (not out) for the
M.C C. against Derbyshire, and in bowling ho was
credited with nine wickets throughout the match for a
very small average It was M'Donnell, not Murdoch,
who retired hurt in the first innings against the Or-
leans Club Bonnor made a hit for six in the Orleans
match In Nottingham, the first rumour with regard
to tbe bribery of the English cricketers was started.
It was as follows:—“Ulyett and Selby were each to
receive £5OO, and were authorised to offer Sootton £250,
to be non-tryers. The latter daolined the offer, and
told Shaw. Selby and Sootton afterwards fought, and
Scotton was victorious, but was then tackled, with a
different result, by Ulyett." Ulyett denied that any
offer was made lo him or any member of the team
The Surrey United Club took part last season in 21
matches, 15 of which were won, six lost, and twodrawu.
The trophy winners are as follow: —J. Saarle, first
batting average ; R. Crober, second batting average : J.
Beveridge, third batting average; F. Searle, wicket-
keeping; J. Thomson, first bowling average, (Associa-
tion Cup) ; E. GOswell, second howling average ; W.
Newland, fielding. The balance-sheet shows a credit of
£2?, so that the club is as prosperous as it deserves to
be At Adelade, on July 13, the whole of Mr.
Walker’s racing stud was sold by auction. An Emula-
tion filly realised 255 guineas, and the rest
brought various prices from 105 to 150 ffumaas......
Rainbow will be an absentee from the forthcoming
Rockhampton J.C. meeting. He has caught a severe
cold with inflammation in the throat, and, as it is quite
impossible to briny bim to the post, Mr. Abrahams baa
decided to scratch him for all engagements The
ground at New Plumpton, Rooty Hill, is to be ploughed
and sown A programme is arranged for seven classes
of plonghinglmatches to take place at Tamworth on
August 9. The prize money amounts to £lOO.
There will also be athletic sports... ........A cor-
respondent informs us that a football club has
lately been formed at Maitland, and it is on a
good *'footing." This is as it should be A rowing
olub is being formed at West Maitland Mr. Brinsley
Hall, of Wee Was, is about introducing the celebrated
Barb into the Namoi district as a stud horse, and has
promised a prise of 25 guineas for the progeny of the
“od demon ’ to be run for in 1880. ......At Adelaide
on Saturday the Norwoodi scored 3 goals 17 behind* to
the Porta 2 behinda. South Adelaides obtained 6 goals
16 behind* to the Victorians 1 goal 4 behlnds......lt Is
reported that Amethvst dropped a magnificent colt foal
last week to Grand Flaneur Tbe Carltons and Glen-
beads played a return match at Parramatta on Satur-
day, resultiug in a victory for the Carltons by 1 goal 8
tries to nil Four kangaroo dogs have been forwarded
by Mr. B irker, of Adelaide, to the Ring of Holland per
the Mnlwa 3000 people were present at the football
match in Melbourne last Saturday, between Melbourne
and South Melbourne. South won by 5 goals to 3
Foxes are becoming a great nuisance in the Geelong
district A movement is on foot to re-establish the
Bathurst annual race meeting. A large amount has been
subscribe!, and the nex' meeting will take place after
the Metropolitan.......A 251 b. silmon was lately seen to
lamp beneath a bridge over Red Jack s Greek, Qrey-
month (N.Z ); he jumped 5 ft. clear of the water .......
Last week a youth named Murray, 13 years old. residing
in Pelioan-street, off Oxford-street, died from cancer of
the liver, originating in a blow from a cricket ba11....,.,
Mr W. 8 Crawford appeared at the gallops one morn-
ing with his mouth covered with an enormous respi-
rator. This was in order that he might keep his
mouth shut, and thereby avoid letting out any stable
secrets Glen Innes athletic sports on sfch July. The
arrangements were bad, and the starter gave great
dissatisfaction. The Grand Handicap was decided by
points:—Booth 11. Skinner 8, Gillespie 7. High Jurap :
Corcoran, sft. 4in.; Hop, Stop, and Jump: Clarke, 40ft.
Bin • Maiden Piato: Booth Jones, the Surrey
bowler, who did bo well against the Australians, is a
good, fast bowler, but his bad fielding will prevent his
getting into first-class oorapany. His analysis against
Nottingham is as fellow : 54 overs, 36 maidens, 32 rani,
7 wickets. This is. so far, the greatest bowling feat of
the present season in England The proposed race
for Prank Punch’s trophy lor unsuccessful competitors
for the Krug Cue, has lapsed, there being, as we
anticipated, insufficient entries The Newcastle Foot
ball Club play the Carltons at Parramatta, on next
Saturday Second Carlton beat second St Leonards
on Saturday week by six goals one try to nil.
* • •
Advertising tradesmen have laid hold of Har-
lan. You oan now buy Hanlan hats, Hanlan tie?, Han-
lan collars, Hanlau studs, Man'.au umbrellas, Hanlan
shirts, Hanlan gloves, and oven Hanlau whisky. Jumbo
is clean out of it Up to and inclusive ef the Cam-
bridge match. Palmer had secured the best towlmif
average, Boyle, Glffen. Garrett, Spoil .rth, and Joies,
coming next in ardor Maryleboue O.ub (Loics
Ground, Loudon), in whose favour the recent maten,
M.C.C. v. Australians waa drawn, consists of w
members, and last season played 117 matches, at a c
of £3115, of whlou numbar the club won 55. drew 51,
and lost 11 only They call the n?r "
of the Oxford team *• the Ancient Mann ,
because •• he stoppeth one of throe. -
over and Nellie both got loose previous to the r* «
for the One Thousand Guineas, but fortunately Jitter
was injured. Shotover broke away from her custodian.
but did not go far, and Nellie, after showing a strong
disinclination to enter the Ditch stables, whore she
was saddled, eventually reared bolt upright, and over-
balancing herself, fell backwards “Boys will to
boys I" A writer in London Truth says:—"l hear
that the Australian cricketers got into trouble on their
return from the Derby, for indulging in pea-shooting ”...
a young cricketer, named W. W, Pullin, not yet
sixteen years of age, but of great promise, w a ,
according to a paper received bv last mail, to bo tried
for Gloucestershire against Surrey and Middlesex.
Two nephews of W. Q. Grace were to play in the
Colts’ match, one being Alfred Grace, aged 15
years, and the other George Grace, son of
Henry Grace, and ft Marlborongh bov
Cook and Mitchell played a billiard match, 301 0 up, in
May, for £4OO, resulting in a victory for Cook bv 7/8
points According to Benson’s chronograph, Shot-
over won the Derby in 2 min. 45 3-5 sec. The following
is a record of some previous years :— lroquois, in 1881,
won in 2 min. 50 sec. j 1880, Bend Or, 2 min. 46 sec.;
1879, Sir Bevyg, 3 min, 2 sec.; 1878, Sefton, 2 min.
56 sec.; 1877, Silvio, 2 min. 60 sec.; 1876, Kisbor, 2 min.
44 sec.; 1875, Galopin, 2 min. 47 see.; 1874,
Frederick, 2 min. 46 sec.; 1873, Doncaster, 2 min. 50 sec.;
in 1872. Cremorne, 2 min. 45£ sec.; 1871, Favonius,
2 min. 50 sec.; 1870, Kingsoraft, 2 min. 45 sec. The host
on record is 2 min. 43 sec., the time credited to Kettle-
drum and Blair Athol in 1861 and 1884 respectively
Captain'Bogard us, while giving an exhibition shoot at
Amsterdam, N.Y., on Friday, May 12, met with a serious
and painful accident. While holding glass balls for his
little son, aged five years, to shoot at, a bullet struck
his thumb, and he was threatened with lock-jaw from
tht effect. Ho is now out of danger, but the loss of his
thumb is a serious one The constant repetition uf
the word “ little " when speaking of Hanlan is simply
ludicrous. Hanlan is a good deal bigger than Mom.
Savers was. At flve-and-twonty Tom stood the same
height, and was in weight about a stone less thai Hau-
lan. It may be as well to put this on record
At Cincinnati (U. 8. A ) en the stn April, Captain
Bogardus was to have performed the feat of breaking
500 pigeons in 30 minutes, loading his guns, one bird to
be sprung at a time from one of six or more traps placed
three yards apart, the birds to be thrown fair from three
to ton feet from the ground and at least ten yards dis-
tant from the trap. He failed, but managed to break
501 in 34 min. 7 sec , having shot at 543 and
missed 42 He broke 444 birds in the half-h0ur......
Pearce forfeited to Largan for the race which wav to
come off last Monday. This means the loss of the first
deposit of £5O, Perhaps Laycock and Fcaroc
have got their eyes on the Winnipeg Regntta this
mouth, at which au all comers* contest for $.‘5000 is to
take place The Livk Stock Journal of 21st April
sais: “ The'Rev. H, C, Pritchard is about to sail for
Australia and is taking with bim several prize dogs.”
Bells London is to have a Sunday edition
containing features of a novel character. A dally
Bell’s LikA is also in contemplation The Marquis
of Alloa built two three-ton yachts, the Snarley low
and the Masootte, at hie private shipbuilding yard at
Crdvofth Castle. They were first and second respec-
tively in their first race with the Junior Thames xaohb
Club,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Victorian Excise officers assert that Melbourne
publicans manufacture “ chain lightning ’* by adultera-
ting spirits with tobacco Juice or vitnol The per-
forming donkey which has amused Bookhamptou for so
long was sold the other day. " What in tbundtr shall
we do of an evenin' now ?” cried an ix-Mayor in Easl-
street last Friday. “Celling oor only amusement.
Why it’s enough to make a man join the school of
Arts,’’...The Nepean Hivar was discovered by Governor
Fhillip in July, 1788, and named by him alter Sir
Evan Nepean, the then Secretary to the Admiralty.. ...u
As the ‘‘free and easy country’’ Contra! Queensland
weare the bolt. Individuals not bring " duly qualified
chemists” sell “drugs ’’ and “phsom” with impunity.
And yet people wonder why the deathrato theieabout
is continually increasing at such an nlinning pace......
£l5O is offered in Wagga for the conviction of a dog-
poisoner. Since this everybody beany has been afraid
to go oat. A blind fl Idler, who has been bed-ndden for
seven years, is mnch envied. And it is worthy of remark
that yon can’t see a man in any part of the town who
hasn't had a dog poisoned The trustees of the Qua-
dagai cemetery announce that they’re about turning
10u0 sheep into the local cemetery.* and caution the
owners of onfenced graves to protect them. That
mau would indeed be mean who would turn the
grave of his grandfather into a station property
Charles Kellond tola the Bombala Bombast ho heard a
ohe-enake whistle “Whistle ami I’ll come to you my
lad,” and 44 young ones crawled up to tkeir mamma.
The editor's braces having given out, Mr. K. tinned tho
mother’s skin, and presented it t® him as a belt. Whoa
anything venomous appears in the Bombast lead ere,
Kellond smiles grimly, and says ” the old chap girded
up his loins.” The .hare held in the Lubgow Valh-y
Colliery Company, by the Hon. Patrick Higgins, M.L.C.,
has been sold for £20,000t« the remaining shareholders.
Down at Wiuohelaea (Vic.), a bank matager (one of
those lucky people who have to* k< ep up apposition
on £3 10s. a week), has emb»zzlod £4UO loungmen
of Charters Towers have takea to going home before
sunrise since the new policeman has gone* u night duty
and showed them the true game of poker .Seiioul-
ture is receiving sonsiderablo attention in New Zealand.
Mr J Fry, of “Sanoyholt," Blaoktown, who sent
trees last year to the N Z. Government, recently sent,
per Arawata, another thousand silkworm mulberry trees
to that colony. They were ordered through Mr. Holloran,
CM G for the Thames Soricultnral Association A
crazy fellow at Donald, named William M’Tingly. who
had threatened another man’s life, attempted to evade
arrest, and was shot by constable D0y1e.........Erne5t
Giles, explorer, organising a camel expedition int»
Northery Territory and Western Australia.,.......That
onterprli-iugr flr-*i of phipowners, W. Howard
and Sons applied to the Koofchatuptou corporation for
permission enclose a portion of their whart for the
protection of cargo and passengers’ luggage. Notwith-
standing the fact that the firm spends £7O weekly for
labour in disob urging tht ir ships, thns affording em-
ployment to 30 or 40 lumpers, th< application was
refused Lord Loftm proposed the health of the
Mayor of Sydney at the Hay banquet. * Ay, sug-
gested an AI.T. “Eh P ” quori.d the Governor.
Mayor of ’Ay ” was again suggested. Of course,
said Lord Aug-stus A shepherd named Chapman
first discovered gold in Victoria, in 1819 A Ballarat
cabman was prosecuted by his wife for assault# Iho
Bench adjourned the proceedings. “ God bless ye. yer
Honors,” quoth Jehu, “ wmnivor jez want my cab. I'll
alwavs take an 1.0 U and no bother 1” At Cannibal
Creek, N Q , four feet lode of tin stone struck : assayed
from 72 to 80 per cent, all -nund A Townsville aldsr-
man happens to keep o. w*. The local editor, there-
fore, oahs h*m a “boviuu alderman. *' The Central
Queensland Newspaper Co. are going to build a weekly
paper upon the ashes of the stone-dead Rockhampton
Lauotunu Jackass. The idea is to compote with
the Capricornian under Mr. Mouahnn’s editorship
The only M'Blhono calls toadying “ cow-cowing '
Two old Camerons died in Otago, he 100, shoUt
Melbourne publicans have been selling brandy pur-
chased at *29. 6d per doz„ duty paid, as good
liquor. Water of Gehenna I Tbo distinguished
Arc Critin of the Brisbane Courier describes a
choice exhTbir, as “ a oiiina bowl of auciout Chinese
porcelain.” Esthetic, tnatl A Northern paper
regrets that the post of bailiff of the Petty Debts Court
at Herberton is still vacant, no one being found willing
to accept it. Australia Felix is at the other end of the
eoutinent after all I On the way to a recent railway
opening, the carriages we e so crammed that to leave
yonr seat a moment wai to lose it. A bookmaker
temporarily vacated his at one of the stations, and it
was appropriated by a preacher. The
demanded hie seat, which w»s refused. High words
arose, coats were puled elf, and the man of God
and the man of olds had a stand up tight...
Alderman Duffy, of Queen laui, is reported by the local
rae to have moved a resolution for revisiting the
byn-laws A crushing machine on the Mount Briton
(N Q ) goldfield has been ofcnstantd iho Sabbath
Ca m "......An employ in a N.Z. brewery, who had
been fifteen year, in iho s#rvio«, -as weighed before
leaving, and turned the scale at 2o stone. Colonial
“tangle” did it A full-sized alligator has found its
wav past the big and rapid falls of the Lower and Upper
Herbert, Qu«eniland, into the Dry River. An explor-
ing party peppered the saurian with rifie bullets, but net
didn’t seem to mind it, and is still in first-class health.
.Edward Tate, a at irekeiper at Robertson, has been
committed for trial on a charge of sticking up the Moss
Vale Mail Coach, lie declares ho was tiding an awk-
ward horse, and only stopped the coach horsea by acci«
dent. The driver swear* that Tate
a revolver tmd demanded tbe mail from him.


PEPPER AND SALT.
What a beautiful thing political affection is.
Here we see gentlemen offering to take respective y
£2OO and £BOO worth of tickets for the Premier’s ban-
qnet. Such enthusiasm is truly touching. But so far
anyway, as Mr. Jamieson’s munificence goes, it do
not stop there. Why it was—but verse —though rugged
—ls safer
It is stated that the earnings of a housemaid in
a big hotel, and those of a second-class clerk in the
Lands Office arc as nearly as possible the same. The
amount expended by them weekly only varies with the
quotations of silk stockings and seal-skin jackets.
• • •
It’s an extraordinary thing that the papers
never can leave Alfred alone. Wishing to send Wil-
oannia sleng, he dispatched one of those weird and
wondrons artists (the entire breed of whom he seems to
have secured) there the other day, and this gifted
designer perpetrated a sketch which he considered to
be the counterfeit presentment of a camel race. There
is also some letter-press in which we read that “ several
camels were started in the race, one of which sat down
in the track, and refused to be in the sport at any price.
The performance of the camel caused great merriment.”
All this would be very capital indeed, except for one or
two trifling particulars. There was no race, no track,
no merriment, and not a solitary camel. The local
paper also complains that in the sketch the artis t has
depicted their best hotels like pianoforte cases, and
that their river resembles nothing ss much as it does a
plate of soup. The next T. and C. artist who trave
Wiloonniaway had better providehimself with a cuirass
to put on behind. It would also be advisable for him
(an easy matter I) to make his sketch before he get
there.
• • •
The editor of the Louth Herald (the paper,
we understand, is owned by a gentleman who used to
keep a “ pub.”) has a grudge against a contemporary,
and delivers himself thus: —“ Now that wo have started
a paper in Louth, he has commenced to breathe his
Incestuous breath upon this journal’s projector. And
what is all this for, think ye ? Merely for his own
aggrandisement and probably more whisky in the com-
pany of a handful of libertines, ignoramuses, and swag-
gerers like himself, who only revel in dirt being thrown
at all honest and successful men. Such writers are a
scab on the social body of civilisation, and ware the law
of libel made more to reach * literary scavengers ’ like
him, there would be little to complain of.” What the
world is now standing still for is to hear what the editor
of the Central Australian has to say about his Nibbs
of the Louth Liberal.
• * •
Mr. William Charlton, 0.M.G., felt a trifle
peckish the other day, so he strode into a York-street
restaurant with the air of a pirate king, throw down his
hat, and called out in stentorian tones, “Waitar—
gimme all you’ve got in the shanty.” “Yessir," re-
plied the feeder; and for 53 minutes William Charlton
surrounded every possible dish one could think of, after
Which hs prepared to "skip” without paying. The
ranch proprietor, however, stopped the way, and
demanded 91., upon which Mr. Charlton let out his
left, and the victual man went to grass. Mr. Charlton
will miss the Parkes banquet, as he is now in gaol.
Something similar occurred in another caf<s, but as the
guest, who had dined like n lord, was waltzing out, the
proprietor drew a revolver and presented it at him.
“ Great’eavens,” exclaimed the customer in affright,
“what’s that?” “That’s a six-shooter,” replied the
boss; “and if you don’t ante np I’ll blow your brains
out.’"’ “Oh, is that all,” said the other; “well, fire
away; you gave me an awful scare—l thought it was a
stovnmh pump.”
There is on the Darling a Bachelors’ Club that
did not go to church. The energetic parson called upon
the president and obtained his promise of attendance
for the next evening. “ Boys, you must come,” said
the boss as he stood before them 6 ft. 2 in., and the best
amateur of the district. So they went, though not
without a sigh and a forlorn look at the whisky bottle.
Who prayers came there was a parched, droughty look
about them as they bowed their heads upon the seat in
front but like an old ewo after a summer shower was
the expression on their faces as Ted passed around a
baby’s feeding bottle with a long indiarubber tube.
That milk was whisky.
• • •
“ Mr. D. C. F. Hoodie has formally applied to
Government for permission to form an irregular corps,
to be called * The Guerillas.’ ”
The ignorance of bush hands is something phe-
nomenal. One has to speak the plainest English to
them. Figurative language they comprehend as little
as they do Greek. Even the commonest cant they in-
terpret with absolute literalness. And thus it happened
that when the reverend gentleman, arriving at sundown
at the slip-panel leading to the Budgerybung head
station just as the stockman had ridden up and let the
rails down, said: “Thanks, friend; for verily I have
journeyed far, and my steed is weary. lam a follower
of the Loard,” Galloping Harry merely replied with
a contemptuous glance at the leg-weary nag, “ Oh, are
you P Thonblowed if I b’lieve youTl catch him on that
moke.”.
» • •
The remarks of Mr. Buchanan, at the Water
Police Court, on Friday, that the police would be better
employed in trying to “move on” the mobs of loafers
and larrikins at the street corners than hunting female
“loiterers” in College-street, are worthy of the con-
sideration of the force. Strange to say, the girls
prosecuted are always the same.
Guiteau died game, as he said he would. He
even sang on the drop, and he had the good taste to
substitute “ Let me like a soldier fall,” for ” Hands all
round.” There was something in the man after all, and
if ha had only been a Premier in—fill it up yourself; we
can’t afford it.
• * «
Says the Auckland Observer “ Every week
we are obliged to exclude or hold over as much original
matter of an interesting character as would fill two
papers the size of the Observer.” Friend, Observer,
a word in your ear. Print all copy that you think
should be rejected, and reject all you imagine is worth
printing. By doing this you will lead people to believe
there is something in your staff especially after they
come out of a sixpenny 11 full and plenty.”
* e •
The Express— which is always poking sly fun
at it’s correspondents—tells “J.D.C." that “Irish”
is not a very difficult language to learn,” Oh, isn't it I
We heard Mickey, of the Fb*em4n, and another
Andalusian, speaking it onoe. It was like five dogs
barking at a railway whistle, and a madman encoura-
ging them with a fog horn. A man who speaks Irish
twice a week wants anew set of teeth every quarter,
and if he spoke it in a public place he would be instantly
slaughtered by a justly infuriated populace. When
M. M. feels like soliloquising in Irish, ho puts his
head up Tom Butler’s chimney, and there ho hardly
ever gets any farther than *• Crulsqueen begorra Kohri*
mee juoolla," before the lawyer next door shuts up his
office and gives his clerks a holiday. Dontpay any
attention to the ExpRESS-man “J.D.C.,” or, if yon
attempt to learn Irish you may find out he is a J. D.
Oeiver. After this we shall want police-protection.
* *
A party who uses the first person plural (pos-
sibly to give weight to his “ screed’’—which is quite
unnecessary) wrote in last Saturday’s News about
Waverley. Some of his copy is poetry, and some is
prose. Here are three lines of the former •
“ The sparkling stream like living truth,
The tros resembling age and youth.
And there the wicket gate."
Just so. It’s not very clear what it’s all about, but wo
used to write this sort of thing ourselves when wo were
young. We gave it up, however, after an interview
with a parent, whose remarks were accentuated with a
stirrup-leather. We commend this little par. to the
above bard’s nearest and most muscular relation.
• • *
A few days ago, the Mayor of CampbelltoWn,
and the reporter of the local Enlightener were out
walking together, when they met a cow. This sight so
exasperated the animal that he charged his worships
and butted him clean through an iron-bark paling fence.
Regardless of his personal safety, the reporter scoured
away as hard as ever he could —for assistance. But it
was a long lane that had no turning, and in a few
moments, a human firework consisting of coat-tails,
boot-laces, a cubic foot of lunota, and a busted piper
collar, was seen hurtling through the air. Now, the
Mayor goes about with his body encased in home-made
splinters, supporting himself with a borrowed crutch
and the reporter is led about with a tin-plate oyer his
left eye-ball, and a circular patch In his pants. And
whenever the subject is alluded to, the Mayor says
“ This is what comes of being in such confoundedly low
companyand the reporter has expressed a vow in
forcible terms that, as long as a cow is left on earth, he
will never go within smell of a Mayor.
• • •
The tyranny of the Sydney “ missuses ” is
getting abominable. It was only last week that the
landlady of a well-known hotel in Wynyard Square
remonstrated with a lady-broomer in her employ for
going about her work with long earrings, a diamond
ring, and her hair parted upon one side. The insulted
young person very properly gave notice, and appeared
to great advantage that same night, tripping up the
dress-circle stairs of the Theatre Royal, leaning grace*
fully on the arm of a gentleman-boarder.
w • •
« NO TRUSTEE, TRUSTEE."
—Confucius.
Resigned 'cause in thine explanation
Peculiar things the trustees picked out 5
•* Resigned," of course—no reservation—
But oh, most certainly not—kicked out.
• «
A deputation of some two dozen able-bodied oH
women waited on Mrs. Hicks at the King-street Asyls*
and said they had come to wish her geod-bys. *' Why*
where oh earth are you going P” enquired that buxom
matron Qeueral chorus : “ We’re a goin' dummyln .
• « •
“ What an infernal lot of luggage yon take,
said a friend at the station to a member who was going
to address his constituents; ** why, what have yon got
in al those cases ?" " Oh, a couple of hundred wine.
If we can eredit but the tala
Brought in by scandal-rakers.
Some time ago there was a sale
Of twenty-thousand acres.
That land was bought by Mister—(not
The lavishest of men, tool)
Yet now he owns but half the lot
For Somebody’s got ten, too.
LISTEN.
A little bird has whispered that
Amongst Cathedral circles windy,
There’s been—if we most put it pat—
The very devil of a shindy.
“ You’re too theatrical," said one;
“ Are no more godly than a steeple.”
“ But then,” was the reply, “ Old Sam,
You see that my pitch draws the people.
Now, your drone gives them all the blues,
While mine to admiration rouses;
I sermonise to crowded pews.
While you fill all the public-houses.”
And one was civil as long-iced jellies.
And one —oh, ho was hot as ;
But there I we won’t pursue the subject.
WAIL OF THE WAIF.
I may be an unfortuet, and
I don’t deny I’m so.
Yet there’s no terror in the land
For him that brought me low.
There’s only misery for me.
And gaunt starvation pale;
Or else it is, sir, don’t yon see,
“ Life,” brandy, and the gaol.
Gaze on me 1 Say, is not my face
The picture of despair ?
Look well on it—speak I can you trace
One single dimple there P
Yet there were smiles and dimples when
I bore an honest name; —
Oh, happy times, sir, they were then . . .
And note—but sin, and shame.
"Why haunt the streets “ Why herd with scamps ?”
With whom else would we dare ?
The streets! Those vistas of pale lamps—
We find some comfort there.
BOMBARDMENT OF ALEXANDRIA.
FORT PHAROS FIGHTING THE FLEET.
From a sketch made by our artist on the spot—the right spot—his studio.) —(See page 10.)
What! Can it be P—No 1 ’tis a dream!
Thou liv’st, 0 Duncan Francis Campbell,
And on a much-tried earth dost seem
Once more alas, to grimly gambol ?
’Tis so !—we can but sob and cry,
” Oh, will this Moodie never die ?”
Why further tempt thy fickle fate
When thou art known in song and story.
And crowned with bays is thy grey pate;
Enveloped is thy form with glory ?
Why onithy laurels not recline —
And start—well—in the groo’ry line P
But have thy way—thou great of soul I
In thee true martial fire’s imbedded }
Thy spirit's vast—beyond control—
How true 1 for thou hast often said it!
Out faulehions!—Go, gain fame and siller—
TheuTt make an exquisite—Guerilla..
Not much j and in the stars above
We comfort find as well ;
Oft but a glimpse at what we love.
Then comes the dreary cell.
The parsons talk of heaven, and
Its love and charity 5
But I can never understand
It can have love for me !
Without the pale, beneath a ban,
A creature of no worth,
I am alike aoeurst of man
And woman upon earth!


NOTICE,
mr We desire to notify to our subscribers at
Alexandria, that Tewflk Pasha is no longer authorised
to collect moneys on our account, and that, after this
date, his receipt for payments will not be recognised
We take the same opportunity of notifying to Tewflk
that if he does not forthwith settle np for three back
quarters, we will put his account for collection in the
handset Arabl Bey.:
Bulletin Office, July 19th. i--'
glasses, some prepared poultry, and some champagne
and things.” “But what the "My dear fellow,’’
was the soft rejeinder, " It Is not improbable that, fol-
Ibwing my reception, I shall be banqueted. I econo-
misc by bringing np those things.” Ha was in the
trade. Fact. #
The Treasurer of N.Z. having learnt that Mr.
Gale, of the Qukanbetan Aoe, and Mr. O’Neill, of the
Times, disagree about the probable npshot of the
Egyptian war, has decided to postpone the floating of a
£3,000,000 loon on the London market.
• • •
A well-known patriot, and a great admirer of
the greatest mania the greatest country in the world
has two caricatures side by side in a shop on Brickfield
—one representing Garibaldi, the other onr own Sir
’Bury. Under the Italian Liberator’s photo is "The
man who bled for his country”; and wider the
Premier’s “The man who tied his country.” We
believe they are to be copied on a banner and carried
by R. B. Smith (in a cab) in Iront of the procession
that Is to welcome the Knight of Stoneleigh’s arrival.
• • •
A grisly advonturo hap-
pened to a member of a certain
club in this city, the other night.
It appears the club had been
celebrating tho taking of the
Bastile in the usual fashion.
The cemetery is right opposite
the club room. This lays over
the Egyptian style of introduc-
ing a skeleton into a banquet.
It is an exhilarating thing to
stand by the olub-reom window
with tho right arm bent In the
old way, and tho hand thereof
grasping a goblet of coolalta,
while the moon shines down
npon an armbone silted up out
of the mould, and then to
solemnly drink to the dead, and
imagine that yon can see that
old flesbless elbow jibbing up in
response. Anyhow, such were
the thoughts of the clubman we
referred to in the beginning of
this paragraph. When the
revelry was at its highest liquor-
mark, this person stole ont of
the room, and groped his way
over to the graveyard, where he
thought ho saw a bony finger
beckoning him. In the grey
and chilly dawn, a milkman
driving by, heard a great noise
among tho tombstones. His
horse took fright, and he drove
nto town like mad, yelling, ent
that the end of the world was
eome, and the dead were rising
up out of their graves. This
information gave a shook to the
land-sale business such as it has
never since recovered from.
And a fat man on hearing it
foil down prone upon his sto-
mach in the street, and tried to
keep the sinful ghost within him
from escaping. But when it
was found that all the alarm
woe caused by a man who was
hunting up and down the grave-
yard after the dead, to get them
to drink with him, things set-
tled down to their ordinary
level, and the price of house-
rent in the vicinity rose once
more to its original Himalayan
altitude. But the person who
caused this disturbance swears
that a man never knows what
inn is until he is dead. He says
that a good mixed graveyard can
knock the stuffing out of any
circus for regular howling high
jinks, five times out of seven.
The only thing that prevents it
being as payable, is that there
are too many dead-heads ad-
mitted.
• • •
There was an explosion in
a country newspaper office the
oth> r day. The whole township
was immediately a scene of tho
wildest confusion. In the last
issue of the paper, a leading
article had appeared comment,
lug very severely npon the con
duet of the Nihilists. Every-
body at once jumped to to the
conclusion that an emissary of
this dreadfnl society had been
despatched to blow up the news-
paper office in revenge. But
when it was discovered that it
was only the new editor who
had spontaneously combusted,
the town subsided into sicken-
ing torpor, and now an earth-
quake wouldn’t fetch one of
those people ont of their houses.
When lord Frederiok Cavendish and
were shot, all the English journals started
eenlng” over the “two young men out off In the
o°m cf their youth." And one was over fifty, and
ibe other was within four years of It. If the view of
* papers as to what constitutes youth be
opted, it appears that the assassins can only be
charged with infanticide. Which suggests to us the
very probable theory that Methusaleh was on Irish
landlord.
* * •
8HAKESPEAEE LOCALISED.
SiB John Falstaff : “Dost thou hear, Hal?
fcO* knowest in the state of innooeney Adam fell; and
»hat should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of
? Thou seeat I have more flesh than another
BltLU * therefore, more frailty." "Henry IV,”
111., scene lii., as played at the Theatre Boyal,
MBaghurst, by the Hon. J— L—s with unbounded
a PPauso.
• • •
We would like to ask Mr. Goodohap why there
I Bo rule for keeping the trams running at a apse
a least thirty miles an hour. Weaek th in the
interest of those respectable citizens whose chief object ■'
in this life seems to bo jumping on and off the rn nning
oars. At the rate of fifteen miles an hour a man wh o
jumps off simply breaks his leg, bends both his elbows
backwards, loses one ear, his nose, twists his spine into i
a boomerang shape, and partly scalps himself—and s°
he is carted off to the Infirmary and gives the doctors
trouble. Now, jumping off when the motor is doing a
mile in 2.40 is quite another matter. Yon simply strike
the ground or the side of a stone wall with your head,
and then you stay there as utterly regardless of the
future movements of Arab! Bey as a bob-tailed oyster
Is, So far, of course, the death rate reflects great
credit on the management, bnt still there is room for
much improvement, and this can only be managed by a
simple increase of speed. We know of one case where .
a Waverloy lady insured her husband’s life when the ;
line was first opened, and yet, although he jumps four
times a day, his wife has not yet raked in a single shil-
ling. This would dishearten even Mrs. Potiphar.
• • •
It ia related of Mozart that upon one occasion
a soprano would not do the scream note in Don Qio-
vanni loud enough to please him, upon which be rushed
at her, caught her by the throat and swore that he’d
shoot her through the window. The consequence was
the lady let out a yell that nearly unroofed the theatre.
The Rockhampton Abods, however, has improved on
Mozart, and we are sure directors of opera companies,
concert gangs, choral services, will love ns dearly when
we inform them that, according to the Argus, the proper
way to make a veoalist sing out is the judicious appli-
cation of a pin to that port of the body most remote
from the audience. Komment on the above is need-
less. One trial will be more than quite sufficient.
BRIEF MENTION.
This means progress—imports in excess of ex-
' ports," said a thief as he crawled up stairs with a sack
of fowls.
Four publicans among the week’s insolvents.
We thought there were enough already in King-street.
Compensation is their dart I
“ The respected deceased had been ailing for
some time” says a country funeral notice referring to
his having been three months " on the beer."
Sir Henry Parkes, we read, has sent an essay to
Truth. It is to be hoped the critics will not be hard on
him as it is bis first essay in that direction.
Provisions are scarce in Cobar. The other day
a man drove a bullock-team to the baker’s, and came
away with three loaves. He left the hnllock-team.
“When I can’t get a fair price per 100 for
shearing, I roll up my blooming dram,” said a tramp
who had sponged on the hut w within two days of
the shearing.
In the West, there is a Methodist parson who
scowls at his weekly prayer-meetings at all but those
who belong to his own congregation. The strangers are
happy then. It’s when he smiles they feel uncom-
fortable.
When they had amputated his two arms at the
Infirmary, they tried to put work in his way, and handed
him this advertisementWanted—Eight carpenters
for Fiji, No handy men need apply.”
Sir ’Envy will, of course, return with his trunk,
Otherwiro, what will the artists do. The great feature
of the coming banquet will, of course, be Sir ’Enry’s
nose. Air for the toast at the banquet, “ See the conk-
ering ’ero”’
Mr. Zox, M.L.A., is a Jew. The Warrambool
paper has a telegram from Melbourne to say that Mr.
Z’s “attention has been called to the crmlty practised
on pigs under shipment.” The telegram was not signed
Deuteronomy.
The other day, one of our judges was fined ten
shillings for knocking off the polish of a k»rbstone
while going at the rate of fifteen miles an h ar round
a oornpr But this was in Parramatta ; they daren’t
do it in Sydney.
Scene: a late banqnot to a prominent Parra-
matta paety. The healtn of His Exoolleaco is proposed.
“ Cook a doodle do,” echoes the ghost of Titmareo from
the bottom of the hall. The health was drunk In a
general chuckle.
A man in Queenbeyan said to the oourt that it
was well known he could neither read nor write, and
therefore the jury ought to make a little allowance for
discrepancies in his evidence. They allowed him a
verdict of guilty.
Anti-shouting in Brisbane a failure. Publicans
oppose because it spoils trade. Never-Tonoh-It’s object
because it decreases the muster roll of their “ frightful
example.” Between two stools—but “nuifsed.”
The Ravenswood Journal recently called
Lieut. Rose an excellent trickster.” The Lieutenant
was so much struck with this remark, that though
half-way to Charters Towers, he cut a sapling, and
thoughtfully turned back.
A man passing through the Roobwoocl Cemetery
was revolving the rev. Cook’s lecture, and muttered
" Does death end all ?” A voice from a grave came up
‘ Alas, no. See what is on my grave." A Punch
cartoon had floated there.
Some unpublished correspondence. To
“Kosmos” Esquire, World newspaper. ‘‘Sir, —T sea
you have been publishing a series of excellent Letters
to Eminent Persons. I have been in Europe sometime.
I hope I need say no more.— Henry Parkes.”
Beyond all doubt the greatest enemy of New
South Wales is Dr. Rutter, of Parramatta. Many
»f°. when practising in Stoneleigh, Devonshire, a
little boy called Henry Parkes was brought to him,
tongue-tied, and the doctor set the lingual organ free.
IV r. Bauloh, an old colonist, has died at Warr-
nambool. He was the father of 16 children, 160 grand,
children, and 20 great grandchildren. It will not bo
perhaps rash on onr parte to hazard the statement that
the name of Banloh is “ well known in the district.”
The Grafton bank clerks
crying out “ burglary ” finds an
analogy in patriotic M.P.’s
raising tha alarm about foreign
plunderers.
Ii It is now definitely an-
nounced or the authority of the
Forbes Gazette that “Garibaldi
and M‘Gibbon, both champions
of the cause, are sone.” Do abb-
if B ,® . , We are quite sure Gari-
baldi has gone to Paradise-
hut—
Rev. Joseph Cook’s led
ture—” No change given at tha
doer.” Wait till the Rev. Joe
is passing into Paradise, the
angel Gabriel may tell him “no
change.” when Joseph, with a
host of the ••perfesh,” will ex-
vlrSnS.^ e ' V ° nothing but so-
People can t understand
how it was that when the
steamer with the Bov. Josonh
Cook and his Committee of Rr.
“Oftly parsons, and ah
good church-goers, got stuck in
Bosebay the united force was
not employed to pray her oft.
“The B K n? th9 f Im P GF ™
™ a v, 4 ? 0 f 1 *" 168 ef Australia,’’
T Hornet ln .r Heaton ’ a,ins Mr -
L“Tl ker V eato . n ’ before the
Royal Society of Literature
London, the Wurr> hall Re-
tiun' V |u aya lfc was * a ver T attrac-
should hurry home with his
poems. Fame awaits him.
There is a vocalist in Bur-
rowa who has made a great reou-
At t°ea n\* E l“" fi:elic al circles.
At tea-fights ho is the champion
psalm-sniffler. He will bo backed
cy the parson to sing the Old
Hundredth and eat six buns be-
Iwo roBt bivo got through
two verses. Man and money at
the parsonage. * *
am Sjad,” writes a lick-
spittle in tne Whitehall Re-
ycßw, to “respectfully congratu-
hr T on the possess-
IS roLli n e * <^® din fi 1 7 vood lot
of yearlings this season.” This
is the correct time, is it ? Then
here goes :—We ore pleased to
bly felicitate His
Excellency the Governor on th*
posscesion of an exceedingly
fine clutch of Brahma chickens.
How’s this for low? ITd
to lately, the Tenterfleld store-
keepers used to give their em-
p/Oj.M a holiday on tlio first
Thursday in the month, but thu
otber day one merchant, who
was watching another through a
coast guardsman’s telescope,
saw him sell at the back of his
shop sixpoanvworth of pea-nuts
to the pound keeper’s grandson,
f 1 the* 1 called a meeting, and
docked the holiday. And so the
only merchants" now who
close upon the ft stive Thursday,
are the Chinese starekeepere.
A Brisbane auctioneer, ad-
vertieing a land sale, uses this
style of language :— •■ Tho waves,
of the old Faciflc waft tho pure-
sea air across the estate, andi
mingles with the perfumed ex-
udations emitted from the glori-
ous foliage and wild flowers that
flourish on the hillside, in the
pretty valley, the dense ravine,
or the open timbered park.” We
happen to know this enchanting
region. The “glorious foliage
and wild flowers " consist prin-
cipally of teatree and Sidens
Retusa.
A local preacher attended
an Adelaide race-moeting a week
or two since. His theme was
the evil of lotteries. He in-
veighed severely against the
totahsator, sweeps, and all kinds
of gambling. Then he passed
round the hat, and the audience
planked between them a couple
of sovs. When the totalisator
drawing for the Parkside Flying
Handicap came off, our clerical
friend pouched a dividend of
£2l 165.; and, as he made for
the refreshment booth, was
heard to hum the first lines of
the hymn :—“ God moves in a
mysterious way, his wonders to
perform."
A peripatetic Italian prince at present residing
in Sydney, recently payed £lOO for a barrel-organ.
Directly this became known forty-flve unmnrried
maidens residing in the neighbourhood of his Highness’s
shade, went out and bought a sixpenny Italian gram,
mar.
When the Minister of Mines wanted 16 clerks
the Under-Secretary objected. He said it was bad
enough to have ten fooling around, but if six more
were added the public would get too cocky, and want
letters answered within twelve months, or write to the
papers.
The Forbes and Parkes Gazette has been
telling its feminine readers that John Tyson, the
squatting millionaire, is pining for a wife. The result
has been—an immediate rise in the retail price of white
Pee collars. Canning storekeepers set that snowball
rolling.
For morality Louth “ takes the oak®.” When
two persons of opposite sexes enter Louth they are
boarded as it were by an offloions gentleman who has a
penchant for reading ”marriage lines,’ and making
young people feel as happy as he can under tha circum-
stances.
Down South — to put it mildly—two Sisters of
Charity called on a storekeeper’s lady and asked for
help to erect a hospital for the aged. They received no
pecuniary assistance—but they got four camellias.
And for what we have received, etc. Charity is a grand
thing— to read about. ~ ~~ - '* ~~ -
ANOTHER GLORIOUS WAR!


Cooktown people want Separation with a big 8.
The Standard and Mercury at Maokay are
at war. Consols 109|.
Lucas is an artist of course. He did a break*
down at Darlinghurst.
Our cedar fleet, the Wolverene, has put to sea.
3reat demand for nux vomica*
Arabi Bey has fled, and confidence is once more
restored —amongst the Parramatta volunteer*.
It is more than likely that the next time the
Geelong footballers play in Sydney, they’ll wear their
shirts.
The appointment of John Davies, C.M.G., to
the Licensing Bench has given the greatest satisfaction
bo —John Davies,
The Egyptian soldiers are said to bo very alow
in manoeuvring. They take such a time robbing their
dead comrades—of tram tickets.
Garrett, after all, has a keener sense of honour
than Lucas. The latter tried to drag in the Attorney.
General. Garrett didn’t go back on the Postmaster-
General.
Who doubts the millennium ? At Wentworth,
the furthermost town on the Darling, 700 inhabitants,
there are only three pubs, and tour parse ns. Bat then
—ah! well, never mind.
'Tis said that the traps are going to strike,
We think this most exoesdiog like j
For that, if what we read is true.
Those men in bine, so often do 1
The Forbbs Gazette says We always
thought Hanlau could give Trickett a mile in four.
Just so; and we have often thought some Forbes
scribes could give the world three pints In six.
“ I don’t subscribe to religious purposes,” said
a wealthy sceptic. But the dear little witch <•£ the
bazaar was ready. “ Give it mo,” she looked, ” for the
spread of sound opinion " Cheque—and possible mate.
The Salvation Army doesn’t believe in Maltha*.
A Ballarat “captain” thus addressed a crowd :
•• Friends, three months ago I was not married. I was
a drunkard. But, now, thanks to the Army, I have a
nice little wife, and three children. Friends, join the
Army."
Sydney telegram to Bathurst Free Press
“Mr. Lucas is so disgusted witu the action of the
truwtoGM of the Na.Mona.l Purk that h 6 h.iB resigned hia
seat on the Board.” We hear tho same gentleman
has thrown up a front seat in Paradise on similar
grounds.
The best way to become a bloated squatter is to
purchase a two-penny stamp and a sheet of foolscap,
and apply for a mineral selection of (say) .5000 acres.
The Act requires nothing to be spent on improve-
ments, and one can always sell out at a hundred per
cent, profit.
At Forbes, on the glorious 12th, an Orangeman
stated, as an indication of absence of malice, that “ ho
would not raise his little finger to make a Homam
Catholic a Protestant.” Just so ; hut won I dn’t he raise
a club to make him a cori se P “ Falx, bedid he womd;
an' so would I."
The Maryborough (Q.) editors are at it hammor
and tongs. One say* thar Perkins and Maoroasau are
the weakest link* in the Q leeosl.md ministerial chain.
The other tays Well, i.e says thar, Queensland rum,
a slice of lemon, and a lump of sugar make tin most
seductive drink obtaiuablem those parts.
Tho Lire courteously states that “the little
girl mantully kept ho d of the child ” This is all very
well ; but when it is further stated that the girl and
the baby were “Instantly mipped up and passed
through the threshing machine, without tho slightest
injury " —people may fairly begin to doubt.
This happened in Petropaulovsky. Distin-
guished To * a Hail architect: “Aw! I—er—must
condemn this. 1 don’t—er—approve of tha manner la
which this plaster is—et —being o.instructed.” Hood-
lum: “ ihe H ides you don't ? And how the clotted-
gore do you expeJt to earn your C M.G. ribbon, then ?
A kerosene spring has been discovered at Suva.
The enterprising discoverer will have his head knocked
off on the 25th instant, and the re*t of his carcase will
be hawked round the town on & rail amidst a brilliant
display of flroworki. Old Caoobau says kerosene is only
fit for women to drink,—the spring he wants is a spring
of whisky.
This is straight. It is headed ‘ 1 A Hint to the
Butchers,” and it comes from a rural editor. “ Eigh-
teen tons of donkey flesh was consumed in Pans last
year." The figure* are correct, we admit, but, mppose
our butcher* take the hint, who will run the Govern-
ment of tho country, and where should we get our libel
case jurors.
“ It is rumoured that a Japanese banking firm
will, within a lew weeks, establish a branch offl-'o in
Melbourne.” says a Victorian paoer “Joy I” shrieked
25 000 commission agents when they heard it. “ And a
Scotchman will manage it." remarks another paper.
“ Oh, h. . . Confusion 1" shrieked the 25,000, when
they read tho addendum.
Here’s a sad, sad wail from the boss of the
Mackay Eiveh 1 imes :—” Mr. Thomas Walker, of
Uralla, left £lO,OOO to be divided among tho Sydney
Hospitals. I wish I was a hospital." Cheer up, old
triend; If you oi.u*t be a hoapifcil 5011 bo «• patient,
and yen’ll meet a few of your readers iujnearly everyone
of these rollicking institution*.
The rev. Dr. Geikie, of Bathurst, has drawn
attention to the burial of paupers tueio in unpviutel
coffins. A Mr. Paul said it was “according 10 con-
tract,” and the matter dropped The ooffbis ware of
plain deal. The paint, varnish, lead, and trappings
lavished on the dear wnito-ohoken departed every year,
would, if sold, keep those paupers alive.
It is stated that there is a Dubbo lawyer who
drops so mauy h's in the court-houae daily, that a
suggestion is about to be wade to him by tne care-
taker, to provide bim with a wheel-barrow to shovel
them into of a morning. ft is hardly needfnl for' u»
to statu that this par. was sent in by the lawyer in the
next town, and of whom we have a par. from tho bless
attorney.
Dr. Hughes has been up at Newcastle. And
the result is not satibfaotory. Where Hughes broke
down was in tho attempt to prove that Noah, with the
aidjof the Queen of Sheba, couldn't get tho ploiotaurus
megatherium through tho flfet floor window of tbe Ark.
Every student of history know that ihe animal in ques-
tion was boosted into his allotted stall by means of tha
hydraulic lift.
Now that the Minister for Mines has started as
a lecturer, we suggest, a subject lor him '• The Lit*
and Works of Juno Lucas—tn example for Christian
young men.” We promise tho Miuistir a thumping
audience, guarantee that if he tackles the
theme as it ought to be handled by a memoer of the
Government, his lecture will do more practical good
than a score on the “ Realms of Faith.”
Let the enemy come. We are ready now.
Directly a gallant Lout count of the volunteers read
about the bombardment, he took a cab and was madly
driven to “bhave nil but my moustache,”
he said, i-adly. And then, when the dread deed w«e
done—” Let the guns of Staraboul thunder; let, tha
fiats of Russia wave I am prepared." And with a
martial step bestrode back to tne shoe-shop.
“A poor old fellow sent to gaol for seven days
for vaguincy at Parramatta, begged hard that the
bench would not allow his whiskers to be cus ;> Hi*
joy on getting a favourable answer was immense.
“Oh, do not cut my hair,” he cried,
My crime that will not warrant;
If I grow rich it may betide »
I’ll want some heir apparent.
Speaking of a recent public jollification, Alfred
the Awful deliberately informs ai* 250,000 readers tha*
• one of toe best represented characters-was that of a
Oitaiia by Mr. Baker’s lady.” Now, ws have heard of
taker*’ carls, bukais’ boys, bikers’ ligbt-weignt-two-
pounders, and b.kers’ bills, bn- we hope we may be
painted pea-green if we over saw a Giturii poartrayod
bv a baker’s indy. Anyway, what in thunder is a baker s
lady ? •
iSir John Robertson has joined tho Aesthetics,
aid considers the commonplace name of Boggaori
should be changed to Nainoi. Whilst he is doing the
•• revised edition" he might also improve Woolloomoo-
loo. Muidoring Swamp, Parkes, Robertson, Wantabad-
gorv, and Cockindinah. Sir John is probably the
awful utter young man who walked into a oertai* olnb
the ot her day, and asked far a plate of “ fly-dispsrser
(ox-tail) soup."
Our Licensing Act is the best in all the world.
What we object to, however, is this. _ In a certain N. W.
township in the tin region there is a fence. Oa this
fence la posted a legend written in choice Chinese,
which informs the heathens how and where to get a
"nip" on Sundays. To the police a passing Celestial
explains, " Welly goo’—him say nanay gotta no walk**
streets or getee shot." And the "fooroe saya, lis
well—tarantara."
In consequence of the widely-increasing sale of
the Parramatta Etikuo Times, an important change
was last Friday decided on by Fergy in the mode of
publishing that journal. Instead of appearing on
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and
Saturday, it will now appear on Saturday oaly. Shoe Id
the circulation increase much more. It naay possibly
net appssr at all And that would alaaost amemnt to a
national calamity I
Last week the Hkeald mentioned that a relume
of Pcyron'e Voyaff6B in tha Public Library contained a
plan of Sydney ia the old days, showing the situation
of the gallows, the stocks, and so forth. Within three
days that plan was stolen. The hereditary thief who
took it is recommended to return It. His social stand-
ing will not save him from prosecution. One may
carry a passion for hoarding up documents illustrative
of family history to too great lengths.
A correspondent asks is it true that two of the
witnesses "who figured so discreditable —atlesst, so
sensibly—in the late Lucas compensation ease are mem-
bers of a certain club which recently black-balled
several really honest respectable gentlemen." Fnstly
we say—no it is not true. Secondly, we say—yes it Is
true. Thirdly, we ndvise " A Correspondent to write
to a "respectable" journal that has already acknow-
ledged to having "equarod’’ seven libele.
Two swindlers, contracture, or compensation
grabbers, named M‘B —no M'Shsef,—and, look as we
may, we cm only make PrioroS of_ the oth»r name,
have been condemned to have all their ill-acquired pos-
sessions confiicated, and to he themselves exile, to
Siberia. Let s see,—it was £lOOO that the other Rus-
sian clansman surrendered in Court, wasn’t it f And
how would the dolomon Islands do instead of Siberia.
Fat exiles receive every welcome from the Solomon
Islanders, we hear.
A Bockhampton publican recently, in reply to a
tramp's query as to whether he would draw him a pint
of beer for fourpence, replied that 61. was the price, but
he would give him one for nothing. He then drew the
beer, and handed it to the traveller. That werthy blew
the froth off and handed it back saying—" Oh, hang it.
mister, you might All it up ’* Then, when the landlord
clenched his fi t. ho drank < If, and shambled oat
muttering that he was not goin to bo ground to the
dust in a free country.
Persons wishing to " temporarily appropriate ”
clothing, horses, Ac , and to be “lot down easy, after-
wards should visit Ccoma. One, Hiss Flynn, abicnt-
mindedly removed 30s. worth of finery the other day,
and the Banoh, after lecturing the yonng girl for getting
into such a tight position observed, it Mies
Flynn’s first offence, they would “deal leniently with
her, and sentence her to three months hard labour in
Cooma gaol.” Down here a man can j ump on his wife a
head for half the price.
Our readers up Torres Straits way will bs
interested " Stoila,’’ the old lady who clips from
Qalionasi for the a.M. Herald, says "an agreeable
piece of news is that Herr Carl Ghenna, of Berne, has
succeeded in producing artificial mother of un-
distinguishable from the natural article and much
cheaper." The inventor’s name and residence will flow
naturally from the lips of the Pearlers no Aorth.
Nothing can bo simpler than to hope that Ghenna ot
Berne may speedily Berne in Gehenna.
This we clip because it is too good to be
original. No hr.in but that of a Western editor could
conceive it:—“The Oveua and Murray Epvebtishe
,ays that a certain Catholic priest ia travelling about
tha' part of the country stating publicly th.t ha never
knew a good Protestant bat one, and he becimo a
Catholic, and that the Catholic who married a Protes-
tant went to bed with a devil.’ Must be warm pat tners
-ought to suit the Lithgow climate We would
cheerfully enlarge on the above* but there U only ont
man who really could—and he a dead.
Professor Armand seems to be doing a stroke at
Cooma. The Distress of that locality says— Pro-
feisor Armand is enjoying the patrenage of all the
medical men in town, who. he Worms ni. wi wmie.
commending him cares ! We understand that i hito*
cases under treatment nrn (etc) accompanied by n ost
singular phenomena." This is very singular. But
there is of oonrs* a rea«on for everything. Perhaps,
therefore, as the Express has given ns so much of ns
Armand* it will now give us some of its reasons. By
way of dessert, you know. Armands and raisins.
Some people object to die. This is the fault of
the "respectable portion" of onr press, because fancy
any one dying happily when they knew a respectable
scribe had alriady written, " She wn in perfect posses-
sion of her senses, but. even as the end dre* nigh, and
the setting sm was reflected in glittering golden beams
upon the cloudless azure firmament, she sank into an-
other and a better world.’ That s how they put the
case, but observe she sank (as one of our respectables
really said) into a better world. This is strange—but
it’s consoling to quite a crowd of us.
“We the inhabitant* of Australia, intend to
do our ntmokt to oirry out the betterobservance of the
Sib bath liny." Snch is the spirit of the petitions lately
iigved by the faithful of the Wesleyan Church,
Bathurst. This will, of coarse, do away with Govern-
mant trams, Museum openings, Cirour-oarryingtrtlns.
Down-the-harbour trips 'ordrinks, Cock-aghts, Church-
collections, Printing office work. aud it will aUo.pTe-
vent the clergy and toe police from following their
daily avocationa cu the Looard a Dry. This is what
we like, and we expect great things from the Bathurst
Salvation Squad—if it is not cut eft by the present
heavy frosts.
The Campbelltown Hersi-d "As a report
has been circulat'd that this office is antagonistic to
the cause of > firmer, we beg to give it i most
emphatic denial. Wo shall always be glad to support
temperance although we do not agree with those who
hold extreme views.” This comes «f infusing plenty of
spirit into a paper. Why. the D.T. has been accused of
the same thing. We sympathise wuh our Campbell-
town friend, end respect him vastly for not holding
extrema views, this is more than can be said of the
rep esentatives of au evening contemporary when they
stand before Punch’s bar and ask for the
thing.” And, by the way, such is their affection f or
the malt at the comer, that they evidently consider it
•a long beer that has no turning. But there 1—
For the very model of a truthful editor com-
mend us to the party who runs the Uerberton Adver-
tiser. One Mr. Stubley, it seems, “gif a barty- in
Hernerton the other night, and instead of the usual
"reflected greatest credit on our respected townsmen,
"tables groaned under the viands," ” most enjoyable
evening •* notice which generally fpllowe theee
voos ” when the “ respectable portion of our press
are invited, there was no account in the Advertiser of
how the battle raged at all, but the editor to p*iy said ;
"If Messrs. Hide* and M'Coll had not provided such
flr»t«l»s» trands of ehampsgne and other wines, tks
report referred to would nave duly appeared,
Messrs. Hide* and M-Coll are partly responsible.
Secondly; it the miners sud others had not .hown so
much good fellowiblp and the genial conviviality been
Jess, last Saturday's paper would have contained tne
whole proceedings. Moral: Reporters, like other
mortals, reergoise flrst-class and know how to
enjoy themselves in good company.”
Laycook was hors de combat in the race for the
Sportsman Cup, wuioh was won by Largan. He was
suffering from a tremendous bell—result, boil over.
The Bombardment of Alexandria.
The Bombardment of Alexandria, as depicted i«
this page, is drawn from a picture of Fort Pharos
in a magnificent series of plates in the Pnblis
Library, whence, also, we copy the map of Alex-
andria whieh we present as a Supplement to this
issue. The vessels of the squadron are repre-
sented as they appear in an engraving in the
London Graphic, sketched as they wore starting
for Alexandria. The smoke is by our own artist.
We went to enormous expense in cigars so that he
might study his smoke effect* from nature. As is
customary in the case of engraving* of battles,
this last operation was done on the spot.
THE NEWSLETTER.
1144 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
At 3d. eaon, this represent* a loss ef £l4 6*. to tie
collection plates at church.
Henry Leman, a contributor on the colonial
press, and said to be a son of the great Mark, died in a
cab at Melbourne on the 18tb,
Dr. Maokellar has been offered and has accepted
the position e( health officer of the port. A* energetic
naan has been long wanted (or the'post.
A company of energetic capitalists who met at
the Royal Hotel, Springwood, ea the 18th, decided t*
sink a bore for coal la the locality. Almeet eertala
success is anticipated.
There’ll be a row over these eld-world “ hatred
societies" yet. While the great Orange celebration was
proceeding at Gonlburn, there w.ere a let of Catholic
Xrieh settlers in town, with revolver* in their pockets,
“ just to bo ready, loike 1"
In the Western district of N.S.W, there is one
pascoralist who has in his employ a dozen 640-sore*
dummies, whose ages average 70 years. Their wills are
all made, and as each septuagenarian pegs out, the
squatter becomes the owner of the land.
A number of members of the Friendly Societies
Commission, headed by John Davies, G.M.G , are new
engaged in taking evidence upon the working of benefit
institutions in the Hunter River district. The right of
free tram-tirkets te officers is not expected te be
insisted upon.
At recent trials, the machinery of the iron screw
corvette Rover indicated 4983 h.p., and a speed of 14 61
knots was obtained. This is a large excess of both
spued and power compared with what haa ever been
attained before nor maohimry was recently overhauled.
The Rover is to relieve tfre Bmerald en the Australian
station.
Mr. Watson, the widower of the heroio Mrs.
Watson, of Liz»rd Island, has just had anetber brush
with the blacks. Fourteen myalls landed on the island
from their canoes and attaoksd the station. Wataon
and his boys gave them such hot pepper that the my-
alls rushed into the sea, and swam throe miles to an
island. They were starved to death there.
The Licensing Act is in force in Armidale, and
the local papers breathe Maboodary. Mrs. Mary Duok-
wortn naa been fined 20s. on a charge of purchasing a
drink on unlicensed premises. A couple of police con-
stables swero they saw the liquor purchased. The
defence denied the allegation, for the simple reason that
there was bo beer in the place. 5 The Bench elected to
believe the police.
Up at Yass an enlightened chemist is making
hil pile. Ho has pot the police up to the litmus paper
dodge. The traps carry a few blotting pads of litmus
around with thorn, call for a drink, and then test.
Tueir paper turns red, no matter what the drink is.
the vendors of chain-llghtnlng were ail aghast with
fear, till ouo of their uumoer offered a crusading con-
stable some pump-water to test. Aid the paper turned
red as usual 1
A Russian gaoler has jnst come to grief. He
was the beloved of all his pi 1 loners, who used to call
him "father" If & Ruasiau felon wae condemned to
the Insgatt gaol, ha always ovlnoed feelings of joy. The
reason therefore, has only now bean revealed.. The
gaoler had trained a band of prieou desperadoes, and
used to Ist them ont at nights, “laying them on" to
anything particularly good In one dtnng burglary,
the telons were foiled, and tracked to tneir lair. The
s aoler Is now dead.
Elizabeth Qreensleeve, of Hotham, kept a little
nicotine in her licensed bouse and cheered the soul of
thi thirsty Bacchanal therewith, and the P.M. made
her pay £25 lor her missionary effort. William Rowe
sail, "else how it sparkles," and "II Segreto," put
vitriol into his Anacreontic, and had to submit to a little
expense on that account. John Doe, of Sydney, has
not yet been caught. Stern Huuior-strect says it’e
" improper," and wants the strong arm of the law. So
we think, only it ought to bo tnat arm which deals
with hemps.
The Victorian prisoner Burns, supposed to be
the murderer in the Seawall headless trunk mystery,
ha* just been detected in an attempt to throw suspicion
off tue trail A publican named Fergus, residing at
Stawtll, some time ago received a letter purporting to
come from Forbes, the murdered man, and stating that
the latter would shortly remit some cash duo. It has
now eo*n discoveioil that Michael Carriok, of Mlnyip,
wrote this letter at the instigation of Bums, the latter
being afraid that bii oaligraphy would be recognised.
Sir. A. H. Palmer, is credited with being the
founder of Cooktowu, because whm n-mier, ho oom-
misf-iontd Mr. St. George, now P. M, to open up a
track from ttie mouihof the Rndenvour river, to the
then newly-discovered Palmer gold-field. The first real
Cooktown tettleu.eiit was founded by the passengers
per the Leiohardt, whom Mr. Bt. George supervised,
although other pioneers—among whom was Mr. Bebort-
son, boatbuilder, formerly of North Shore, Sydney-
had sailed into and anchored at what now is Cook-
town.
Two engine-drivers, working for Amos Brothers
between Moonbi and Uralla, have succeeded in making
45 and 43 days’ "overtime" intone mouth of tweuty-
four days, or respective totals of 49 and 50 days. It it
not so long ago since a Government engine-driver, who
was accused of being drunk on duty, stated that he had
undergone an uninterrupted spell of 29 hours’ work,
and was thoroughly worn ont. This custom of over-
fagging may be highly remunerative to workmen, bat
isn’t the best guarantee of safety a travelling public
can have.
Mr. Johnson, the Government Analytical
Chemist of Victoria, says that it w a popular delusion
that the presence of a good bead on spirits is indicative
of a good qualif y of liquor. Oil of vitriol, he added,
was laifeli used b/djuboneat liquor-vendors for adul.
ter&ting spirits, and produced a f,rand bead when
shaken up. In the prosecution against William Riwe,
of the Princess Hotel, Melbourne, the evidence dit-
closed that an acid solution, used for hoonasing, con-
tained lOtiO grains of vitriol to the piut, and wae a most
atrocious poison.
Mr. Lackey says the tramway system is a new
one. There is a lamentable want of historical know-
ledge about the members of Australian Ministries. If
Mr. Lackey knew anything of classics he would remem-
ber that there was once an iron man called Talus, who
ran around Crete, ibis was only the poetical Greek
fashion of ptrsonifjiog a tramway. It is not men-
tioned, however, by any ancient author whom we can
recollect that tickets to travdoa this Talus were in the
habit of being purchased tor the G.M.Q-.'s of the day by
the Cretan Destitute Asylum.
A Victorian squatter has put'his foot in it. His
station is situated near the South Australian border.
He went recently to attend a wedding at Moant
Gambler, and, wills he was sway, a bailiff took posse*,
sion of tbs station. His first impulse made him reach
for his shot-gun, and the bailiff vamoosed. The squatter
—Mr, Jamas Bryften—was sntsequently arrested. He
is in no wise in a worse position than a Mount Gambler
resident, to wit. Charles Blame. Charles is the *®n of
a farmer, who recently determined to take unto himself
a second wife. Chines welcomed the joyful pair home
with a bluederbnae, end bow finds himself in quod.
The ’Ebald airily informs its readers that
•■the Morgue built by the Government in the old
Church of England ceniOtery, South Sydney, during the
latter portion of the last j ear, has been so well designed
and constructed, that now, when t otnnletoly furnished,
It is undoubtedly one of the boat buildings for the pur-
pose for which it is intended in the solonies.” This Is
soothing to persons about to give up the Can
anyone hesitate to at once gracefully, expire, when it
becomes known that a slate slab is provided for post-
mortem examinations, and a polished oedar desk holds
the books. Sydney can go right ahead now. A few
Nihilists as emigrants would be all that the institution
requires in order to be sure of a highly prosperous
career.
Mr. Hugh M'Coll, M.L.A., Victoria, has been
figuring before Judge Higiubotham, under the
Imprisonment for Debt Statute, fo#the non-payment of
a judgment given against him for £30145., on 2nd Jone,
last. M'Coll said that his salary as secretary to the
Grand North-Western Canal Co., was nine 3 ears in
arrears, though the amount had not been fixed yet, as
the Company had not been floated. It might be formed
any day. Hie Honor said that M’Coll* salary as a
Member of Parliament could not >e claimed in an ap-
plication of the kind, and M'Coll triumphantly
obtained the dismissal of the summons. Perhaps, the
money-lenders of Melbourne won’t be so fond in the
futnre as thsy have been in the past of giving bon.
member* advances on their “screws,” seeing that, if
a patriot ohooees to repudiate any such responsibility,
there ie no leg*l machinery available to carve out the
pound of flesh.
The Grafton bank swindle is the latest sensation.
The accountant, Angus Alpin M'Bnde, and a friend—
William Wilcox, a solicitor's clerk, —wanted to make a
“ rise,” and planned a scheme by which it should
appear that the bank was stuck up and looted by Riley,
the Inverell mall rebher. M’Btide was found clumsily
tied to his bed and gagged, and told a very transparent
tissue of lies about how a bushranger covered him with
a revolver, and compelled him to give up the key of the
safe. The amount ef cash taken was £3877, but with
the exception of about £123, this has been recovered.
It was found secreted near Wilcox’s residence. The
conspirators were immediately arrested, and Wil-
cox, having been frightened into the belief that
all was known, consented to turn Queen’s evidence.
The prisoners have enjoyed, up to this date, a clean
reputation. George Sivage, a stoiekoeper’s aisUtaot,
was *l«o arres'ed in connection with the crime j but in
hue been shown that he had nothing to do with it.
We notice that a bushranger has been operating at
Petersham railway station, “looting’’ the tafe of £ll7.
The bushranger iu this instance did not Dave his card.
This happened in N. S. Wales under ouc free
and enlightened laws. A station-owner raided a sum
on mortgage somewhere about the roign of Governor
Phillip. Twelve years ago the mortgagee foreclosed,
but the equity of redemption remained. Eight years
ago the original owner wanted to pay up the mortgage,
with all charges consequent upon foreclosure, and enter
into possession again. But the mortgagee had a good
thing, and know It. 80 be didn't entertain the proposi-
tion. Onr Supreme Court deo*ded that the squatter had
forfeited his right, but the Privy Connell upset that
decision. Which brings us to 1875, when our own
Supreme Court, acting upon the Privy Council decision,
ordered aeoount* to be rendered “forthwith ” The
accounts ore still undergoing examination, and but
Master in Eqnity finds thov have increased from £30,000
to £200,000. The original owner is no nearer re-possession
than ho was in 1875 But he lives in hope. By the
time a railway is made to the North Pole, and a few
thousands of tourists have carved their tames in
imperishable ioe, he will be rounding up his cattle ob
his run and swearing classically at his stockmen.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Mayoress ef Melbourne, Mrs. Ham, presented
with a silver cradle, weighing TOoz., iu honour of haring
given birth to a daughter. Aham 1
Miss Helen Gladstone has aooepted the vice-
principal-ship of Newman College, Cambridge, which
will be vacant in October next upon the resignation of
Mrs. Henry Ssdgewick.
A Northern lady thought she knew the person
who was standing with her back to her, so tapping her
on the shoulders she said “How do you do?'" Horrorl
’Twae Mrs. Blank’s slavey dressed np in Mrs, Blink's
fxyonrite drese and hat,
Why shouldn’t women parsons have all the
powers of book parsons ? It’s coming. Mrs. blather
A Cooley, cf Bingham, Maine ((J.8.), has received a
commission from the Governor of the State to solem-
nise marriares, administer oaths, and take acknow-
ledgements of deeds. The reverend lady will, of course,
kiss the bridegrooms.
Here’s one for Jo. Cook to chew. Agnosticism
is so fashionable now that a writer in the Whitehall
Review says :— “ I was talking t he other djiy to a young
lady, who has taste ns w»-ll as culture, and, oa my
makihv some remark about creeds and faiths, she ex-
claimed: ‘Ah I I used to believe something once; I
wonder what it was; 1 really can t remember !’ ”
A curious incident occurred at a Paris Mairie.
A couple had come to be married, and the mayor, having
pat on his official tricolour sash, and completed the
ceremony, was proceeding to read the regulations from
the Code on Civil Marriage, when ’the bridegroom,
interrupting, said: “ Pardon, M, le Maire, but I think,
now that we are really wedded, it is needless to read us
about the law of marriage. Pray let tu hear the details
of the new divorce bill; that will be much more
practical.”
An esteemed young lady correspondent delights
us in this styleßrnoe your short article on the
literary tastes of the School of Arts' ladies, a gratify-
ing improvement is visible. That delirious fascinator,
The l onus Ladies’ Journal, Is not spread out with
the confidence of former times ; still used, but held on
the knee hidden by the friendly table, while the Nine-
teenth Centurt, Knowledge, or some other respect-
ably solid magazine is ostensibly the object of perusal.
And the latest style ot frizzing, or sweetest thing in
pnllbaoks no longer forms the topic of loud and
animated discussions.” We're so glad: and have just
given onr staff permission to visit the institution again.
We had to keep him away for a lime for tear he'd get
giddy.
The subscriptions for the monument to Mrs.
Watf on, the heroine of the Lizards, are now all in. The
result is, Cooktown £101; all the rest of Australasia,
about £53. The Cooetowh Herald thus: " When the
diary was brought to ns, we wrote with a stirred heart,
and with moist eyes, of onr Australian heroine, whose
bravery and devotion shed a lustre on hsr sex through-
out the world. Nsikhsr a Minister nor Priest of any
denomination, so far as we know, took the slightest
interest, subscribed one sixpence, or spoke one word,
in favour of a monument necessary alike for the honour
of the living and of the dead. The time will come
when Australia will blush for ths neglect of a memory
wbleh will be preserved in poetry, song and history."
*Tis trne. What do yon plead—yon, Reverend sir,
clothed In blandness and broadcloth, who eqieeze
peuuins from children to toad fonrpenny bibles to the
heathen ? Yon, Master of a MUU n Golden Fleeces,
who know not how to spend lavishly enough the wealth
that rolls into yonr hands ? Ton, Blatant Honourable
Member in the Parliament Hal’, who gush about this
glorious land? Yes. 'tis true, Australia will blush
some day for her neglect.
Lady Florence Dixie thus writes to Vanitt
Fair on the Irish Question; —“Sir, England annexed
Ireland, acd thereby enriched herself; but what in
return did she do, or has she done, for this country f
She haa plundered it of hundreds of millions, and when
the people starve, she sends them back a'ew millions
ent of the vast sums she takes away from that country,
and then yon say that she performs an act ot generosity.
For eighteen years fro'and tnjovad a great prosperity,
and those years we e ’tom 1782 to 1800. Since then
what haa England doa., tor Ireland f Poverty, famine,
Coereion Ante without end—this has been the state to
which her poliey has reduced ths country; a state
which, te use the words of Mr Forster in his speech to
the people of Bradford the othar day, ‘may well m
■aid to be a disgrace to England after governing Irslanu
for so many centuries to have that island in ns presort
e mdition.' And because England ji»s brought It to
this condition yon say that Martial Law is the only »
tkak Irishmen will respect. In Ireland’s name, ,B tn ®
name of the Irish nation, I assort that MarfculLfl ■
will be in earn. Away with the Coercion, and Coercion,
and Coereion cry of every year; let Englishmen aa>
the plain truth and digest it, that only by giving ir®*
land- her legislative independence will permanent pea
and tranquillity ever again visit that country.
JOHN ’S LAMENT.
Because, my friend!
I did intend,
To give each son a store ;
That would have cost
(Had 1 not loi-t),
Twelve thousand pounds or more.
Bui now ray hopes!
Also "soft soaps 1"
Have all been solely bruised,
1 never thought,
Not. e’en in sport.
My claim would be refused.


CITY CATERING COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of Ion? and prnc
tical experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 22th April, ISSI, we have
saccessfelly catered THE LafeGEST, MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE undertakings that
have taken place here to the present time, viz.:—
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
teined their E. H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE,
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officers of the Detached
Sqnadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic Bad, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgew Valley Mures and Zigzag. Dimmer a La
Basse, for 60, in Government Palase Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—r«
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 80 p.m., to be
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon andlrefreshment, for
100, nnder VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiv ng order
at 9 30 p.m., to he ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow,
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception. Town Hall.
The (Union Clnb) “ Bachelor’s Ball,” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windoyer, in our new
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in onr new
Banquet Boom
Dinner d la Busts at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d lo Basse to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams.
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of ’• Hudson
Bros.' New Railway Bolling Stock Works,” at Gran-
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkesbury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Eandwick
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, 1 easts, &c., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let cut on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, &c. &
and will be glad to send out the smallest order lor
i'astry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, &c.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting us ou the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
CHAS. K. SMITH
tLate of the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co.),
Manaoee.
MALT BITTERS !
The great Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Liver
Complaint, Weakness, &c.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
A. G. K.EBBLEW HiiE, Chemist, &c. t
43 Erskine Street;
AND
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET.) KOUMISS!
Will at onee Relieve the ACIDITY, HEAT if
STOMACH and NAUSEA brought on by
excessive DRINKING.
Registered
ouvi
TRADE
MARK
A Tnmhlerfull of KOUMISS in the morning, acts
like a CHARM, it cimmes the PALaTE, and IN Vi-
HAD Arnffl it. O VCTI’ AY
QORaTES the SYSTEM.
KOUMISS has been used with the most Marked
Success in the severest cases of DELI til UM TEE-
MENs, and it has been proved that when sufferers
have been unable to retain any other form of food
KOUMISS has RESTORED them to HEALTH.
in Consumption, debility, and the worst
forms of INDIGESTION. KOUMISS has effected most
Wonderful Cures.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is Prescribed
and used by the most Eminent Physicians.
Price 16* per doz qts.
do 10s do ptg.
Send for Pamphlets, Testimonials and all particulars
to the office of the
KOUMISS MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
161 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
CALIFORNIA ART STUDIO.
THE only AMERICAN PORTRAIT PAINTER on
this coast has removed to No. 3 Bridge-street.
The Best Style of Painting Gaaianteed.
CHARLES MERCK, ARTIST.
MRS. T. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
Ladies’ and Children's Outfitting
Establishment,
121 and 123 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
BABY LINEN, DRESSMAKING, HOSIERY.
UNDERCLOTHING,
dolmans, mantles, jackets,
keai. laces.
MILLINERY,
MOURNING OUTFITS,
WEDDING OUT FIT 3,
Ball COSTUMES. Ac, &o.
Goods always Marked in Plain Figures.
TKAMCAKS pick up and eet down passengers at the
door.
Goods purchased to the extent of £5 and upwards
forwarded CARRIAGE FREE to all parts of the
COLONS'.
MBS. T. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S OUTFITTING
ESTABLISHMENT,
121 and 123 Oxford-street, Sydney.
GU. O. O, F.
« ANNIVERSARY BALL.
PRIDE OP WATERLOO BRANCH.
PLAIN AND FANCY DKKSS.
Will be held THURSDAY, 20th July, at Failej’j
Assembly Booms, Hay-street.
Single Tickets sa. Doable 7s. 6i.
DANCING TO COMMENCE AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Messrs. Howard Smith and Sons offer a prize of
£3O for the best essay on the progress of N S Wales.
This steam-hip Arm is making the A.fc.N. Co. snort
Burwood beat Redfern, on Saturday, by two
goals and two tries to nil. The game was exciting, and
considerable interest was taken in the match, which
had been looked on as a good thing for Eedfern.
BATES DANDELION COCOA is destined to become
the most favourite of all household beverages. It com-
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa with
the well-mown eurative powers of the Dandelion flower;
consequently is mvaluuule for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, indigestien, debility, Ac Ask for a sample
packet from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
OOULTEB, bole Agent. 107 Bust ex Street.— Advt
It ia necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, ia a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
BUEY'ei COCOA ESSENCE when you ask fur it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by special appointment
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 Georgo-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 4h», he knows about as muck as those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this upper-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If yon want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten ta a dancing-
pump, you had better call at 581, and “ see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be in great demand
now, if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Parliament will be asked to dram him out. His
line is, “ Who’ll oast the first stone ?”
A few special cablegrams from native Egyptian
sources wotitd be interesting just now.
The Khedive has proclaimed Arabi Bey a rebel.
Arab!, no doubt, had previously proclaimed the Khedive
a scoundrel. •
Chief Secretary of S.A., Mr. John Bray, carried
a motion that a war vessel to cost £70,000 bo imme-
diately purchased by that colony; annual cost of main-
tenance of ship and artillery estimated at £15,000.
This is the way the Cooma Express puts it;—
•i The recent attempt to rob—it is the only konest way
to put it—the treasury of the colony, by the " Metro-
politan Political Trickery and Gigantic Swindling As-
sociation.” By this, we see that the Cooma Express
has never endured a libel action.
In certain political circles of Queensland it is
rumoured that a Minister of the Crown is to be ap-
pointed Collector of Customs, while Mr. Tully, the
present holder of that position, is to be detailed to
make a trigonometrical survey of Baoanaland. A
trigonometrical survey is an old fad of Tally’s.
It was the first of the month in Melbourne —
three minutes past 10 a.m.—when two men might have
been seen tearing madly in the direction of Collins-
Btreet. “ Hi, where’s the fire ?*’ shouted a thousand
by-standers. "Fire be Mowed," gasped the man;
•• we’re ofi to the bank.” They were two Victorian
members who had just received their cheques.
At New York on May 7th, Henry Ward Beecher
while preaching on the murders in Ireland, said : *• The
eot was but trying to chmge the destinies of a nation
by pistol and dagger. It was a bloody murder, but the
work was not tnat of the Irish people, or even of any
Irish party. It appeared to be a burst of blind un-
governable fnry of a few against the Government.”
Sir John Robertson has said that he and his
colleagues are prepared to go on with Parliamentary
business with or without dir Henry Parkes. One
simple fact has to be considered concurrently with the
foregoing, and that is—that not a shilling can be spent
on the altars of patriotism ( vidt John Lucas, Esq )
without the signature of the man who first formed the
Cabinet.
The Hon. the Minister for Mines, Dr. Eenwiek,
chose a very good title for his lecture, “ The Saalm of
Faith, and the Eealm of Knowledge. We are jnstpass-
ing from the first into the seoond. Some of the most
interesting districts in the Eealm of Knowledge are
named Milburn Creek and Political Compensation
Grabs. Give us another leeture. Dr., with special ap-
plications, and then we’ll know that your religion hai
practical uses.
The political situation at Vegetable Creek is
thickening. The Government has offered the township
a new name, and the local editor thunders out his pro-
test. It used;to be Gum Tree Flat; then an aesthetic old
explorer changed the name to Vegetable Creek. Now,
the Poatmaster-General has awakened to the fact that
the locality has no creek and never grew any vegetables.
So he decided to change the name. Me was incident-
ally reminded —anyway, he calls it Emmftville.
Remarks a writer in Truth “ I think that if
I [had committed an agrarian murder, I would sooner
be tried by three average Irish Judges than by twel\a
average Irish jurymen. These latter, so far as I can
observe, usually do convict when there is anything like
decent evidence to go on. Bat whether three Irish
Judges, in all likelihood, fl ibby, fat men of sixfcv-flve or
seventy years of age, would often make up their minds
unanimously to take a fellow-creaturo’s life, and tte
ohanoe of a shot from his sorrowing friends, I venture
respectfully to doubt.”
Two members of Parliament lately asked the
permanent head of ose of the public departments to
give an acquaintance of theirs, who is a good penman,
a billet as clerk. " I cannot do it, gentlemen, ns there
are mor<a clerks already in the department than there is
work for. I have two clerks now in the deportment
who are receiving each £250 per annum, and there is
positively nothing for them to do.” “ Then, why are
they not discharged ? " said one of the M.’sP. "Oh !
■why,” said the official; "because they were pnt here
by strong political influence, and the present Govern-
ment would find it dangerous to dismiss them." Now,
Sir John, look about you.
The Lucas family ia the service of their bleeding
country numbered, inDB) three. Via.:—Percy Charles
Lucas, C.P.b. Water Police Court. Salary, £5OO per
annum. The Honorable Honorable Honorable Johu
Lucas became Secretary of Mines, in the Eobertson-
Forster Ministry, on the 9th February, 1875; and Percy
Charles received the above (at appointment on the 17th
February of the same year. Next boy 1 J. H Lnoae,
Mining Surveyor. Paid by fees. Appointed 2Vh Feb-
ruary, 1876, while his father was Minister at the head
of his department. Good again. Now, next. J. A.
Lucas, First Clerk, District Court Office; £350 per
annum. This appointment dates from Ist January, 1875,
fire weeks before the advent of the Hon. John to office.
It is not unnsual for appointments to be made, to take
effect from a date precedent to the actual time when
they were made.
It is stated that the Irish detective police have
discovered some papers and letters which prove con-
clusively that the assassination of Lord Frederick
Cavendish and Mr. Burke is the fulfilment of a plot
deliberately planned hy the Head Centres of American
Fenianism in New York, and that the four missing
murderers are members of a gong of seven specially
selected desperadoes who were sent over from New
York to kill Mr. Forster. Finding that the latter had
unexpectedly resigned, these batchers, upon their own
authority, determined to murder whoever should be
appointed his successor. Should this be true, it tho-
roughly disposes of the suggestion that it was Mr
Burke who was the real object of attack, and that Lord
Frederick Cavendish only lost his life because he hap.
pened at the time to be in the company of the lata
Under-Secretary.
The St. Petersburg correspondent of the S.M.
Herald has branched off from advocating Protection
to Native Despots, which his Sydney employers approve
and endorse, to preaching up Protection to Native In-
dustry There is internal evidence that he favoured
the Herald with a pretty full exposition of his views
on the latter point, and that the Herald people, true
to their invariable policy of suppressing any onnions
they don’t like, out it out. Just read the following
extract from the letter, and say whether there is not a
hiatus in the thread of the argument just where we
have introduced stars i—" Not only the Slavonophiles.
but true Eussian patriots of all sbadts of opinion,
agree in this protest against the importing from abroad
so many articles that conld be fabricated in Eussia,
thus paralysing and continually discouraging Eussian
'lndustry. This idea is perfaetly just and legitimate.
. As soon as a child can walk alone it is not
only useless but baneful to continue supporting it "
The celebrated John Dunn, ruler of a strip of
land between the rivers Tugela and Umblatuzi, in Zulu-
land and against whom the native chief* are now
uniting, has a wonderful reputation as a hunter and
rifle-shot To this day, Zola warriors grow excited
ovsr the tale of Dnnn's plucky conduct when, as an
Allv of Umbolazi daring the war between that prince
and his brother Cetewayo. he, with a handful of men
armed with guns, covered Umbnlazi s retreat; and he
wields— apd has wielded for neatly 30 years—an
-enormous influence. Dunnsland was thrown open to
uaden shortly after the withdrawal of Bntish troops
from ZulnUnd, and laws were framed on the old Zulu
flvefcem with the rightof appeal to the British resident.
The local Licensing Act is a caution. It restricts the
aale of spirits to white residents, positively forbids the
budblv of them to natives, and deals severely with
drunkenness in the case of either white or black. Dunn
alone ean sentence more flagrant criminals to death.
At the time the mail left England, the Egyptian
ouostion was in one of its mod puzzling phases,
France and E-glnd ware supp sed to be working
Wether, and Turk, y, althonifh »u. fluently begged to
leii troops ti Egypt, was being warned that, if she
-thought of sa b a thing, foice would be employed to
tfe.ist her Expecting tic Sovoieign authority of
Ou.kev Mr. Glacatcu) at that time explained that
,< sower, ignty ought to be re .pected when it is not
-hn-nd Anv attempt to disturb it in a case of this
Iriud would not be wise.” Whereut on Mr Healy, Iri-h
member, remarked that the Czar of hues a had jm the
-1 a right to say hat ot the affairs o» I eland. If the
1* (were to send a message to tbeJLord Lieutea at
of Ireland, backed by a Russo-German squadron, and
to intimate that he would employ force if Irish matters
were not put on a footing satisfactory to Russia, he
would be only dealing with England and Ireland as Mr.
Gladstone proposed to deal with Turkey and Egypt.
There is a story that the late Prii.ce Suwaroff,
who was a great favourite of the Russian Court, had »t
one period of his early life Nihilistic tendencies, which
same to the knowledge of the Czar Nicholas, who sent
for him and said, " Prince Alexander, I have here a
complete list of the conspirators. In it I find a name
which I can scarcely bring myself to believe could ever
be found among a band of rebels—the name of Suwar.
off. I cannot believe it now; it cannot —mustnotbel"
So saying, the Emperor tore tbe list and threw the
pieces into the paper-basket. Overcome by the
Emperor’s magnanimity, Suwaroff threw himself at his
feet and made a full confession. “ Prom that moment
I was eured I ” he told a friend. That’s how the story
reaches ns. But now listen to this. The “ friend "
Suwaroff told he was cured wag the man he suspeated
of having betrayed him. When he next met a brother,
conspirator, what he said was “Look here. Sonny, I’m
not in this any more, if I know it. Old Nr k can’t
gammon me by burning a copy. I’ll hold off, till I
know more about where he keeps the original list, bless
him."
The Council of the Fenian Brotherhood, in a
manifesto to Irish-Americane, chide Irishmen for
speaking of the Cavendish and Burke “murders."
The manifesto says“ Call it rather the wrath of
God following in the footsteps of the oppressor. Let
ns clothe ourselves in sables, aye, in sackcloth and
ashes, for our own dead, not for the enemy’s. Caven-
dish, Burke, and others had better have been born
dogs than answer our wrath.” It continues: —“ Awake,
arise, in solemn secret, conclave, continue with Aug-
mented force, give emphasis, dagger, fire, sword, and
other available resources of civilisation to our im-
port-liable hatred, our ancient, merciless, unrelenting
enemy, to destroy whom wo shall use, while life
enanres, every means within reach of human effort.
We proclaim our unswerving fidelity with ancient
Gospel force; we authoritatively declare yon are to
regard recent events merely as a cloud the size of a
man’s hand on the horizon, clearly indicating what will
infallibly follow in the near future. To our brethren of
every Irish secret revolutionary organisation we now
solemnly declare that the watchword of the hour has
gone forth; wa pledge ourselves to apply all our
resources with redoubled energy and devotion, and with
even a ferocity equal to that of our arch-enemy, to the
great work confronting us—the destruction and anni-
nßation of,British power in Ireland.” These gentlemen
are evidently very hot capsicums.
Prince Krapotkin, the well-known Prussian
revolutionist, has written a deeply-interesting article
in the Fortnightly Review on the genesis and aims of
Nihilism. He contends that it is a last resort, adopted
when all law-abiding attempts at reform have failed. It
is impelled by the noblest altruism and heroism, and
never has the world seen more whole-souled earnestness
than is shown by those who now "do or d e" in their
war against the despotism of the Czar. Hundreds of
thousands of men and women, some the flower of
Russia’s nobility, break with all their past and present,
with rank, education, family, customs —to go lorth as
artisans and peasants, live the life of tbe poorest, suffer
and feel with them, teach and help them, in their
crusade against the long-born* tyranny of the
Eomanoffs. The peaceful propaganda of reform was
suppressed by the Government, by the most cruel
measures; arbitrary arrest, imprisonment for months
and years without trial, and when trial resulted in
acquittal, exile without appeal; until, goaded to des-
peration, Vera Sassulitch tired the first shot. Then
began the era of militant Nihilism. Deads of heroism
have been countless, sufferings almost incredible.
High-born and wealthy ladies betook themselves to the
fact ries, worked fifteen and sixteen hours a day at the
machine, slept in dog-holes with peasants, went bare-
foot as working women go, bringing water for the house.
Vulgar souls, says Ki apotkln, may sneer at this; but
fifty years hence the mothers of Russia will animate
and inspire their children with the story of these lives.
Vanity Fair thus summarises the Egyptian
affair as it stood in June last:—“Oa the exile of the
fort)-two officers by the military influence of Arabi
Bey, England and France address the President of the
Council of Ministers and advise the exile of Arabi
Pasha, the internment of Ali Fehmy and Abdullah
Pashas, and the resignation of the present Ministry.
Of these demands agents of England and France declare
that they will exact the due fulfilment. The Council of
Ministers prepared a reply which declared that the
matters treated of in the Note wore of an internal
character. It ended as follows :—* The Government of
the Khedive will always be happy to follow the friendly
counsels which the representatives of France and Eng-
land may give, but regrets in the present case its
inability to comply with its nsnal eagerness with the
de-ires expressed in the above Note. If the Govern-
ments of France and England are of opinion that the
question raised by their diplomatic agents in Cairo is
not of an exclusively internal character, but affects
general politics, they must submit it to the great Power
under whose sovereignty Egypt is placed.’ But when the
Ministers presented this reply to the Khedive for his ap-
probation, they found he had accepted the Note of the
England and French agents. They immediately resigned.
Thus the Khedive is made the Viceroy of England and
France, and is placed in hostility to His people and in
leballiou to the Saltan. The Khedive very soon found
it necessary to restore Arabi Pasha. The Europeans
have been seized with a panic fear, and are leaving
Egypt in great numbers. Reinforcements have been
despatched to the British Squadron sent to protect
British subjects from the ne-danger at which they are
so alarmed. Lord Granville, we believe, does know
enough of international law to ba aware that if the
Squadron ware to do anything more than protect the
life and property ot foreigners it would be acti.-g
piratioally, the Egyptians not being subjects of the
Queen of England and having committed no hostility
against her. What is going on in Constantinople has
not been declared exactly, but it seems that the Saltan,
though willing to deal with Egypt as Sultan and as
Caliph, declines to act as the exeentive < ffioer of the
European Concert. It is earnestly to be hoped that the
Saltan may persevere in this patriotic determination.
Yet, British ships and British sailors are engaged, not
in protecting British subjects, for these are declared
to be in no danger; not in a war, for we have no
enemies in Egypt—but in doing nobody knows exactly
what, except protecting the usurers who have been
encouraged to ruin Egypt by lending money to the
Government which England has placed thi re.”
• • •
It is said that Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, (he Victo-
rian Piemier, has appointed more Roman Catholics to
Civil Service billets than any previous Chief Sec-
retary The preliminaries of a contract have been
signed for the construction of two torpedo batteries in
tbe Dardanelles and two in the month of the Bosphorus.
....Brisbane money-lenders are agitating for payment of
members The Chinese Exclusion Aet, passed by
U.S. Congress, is a very incomplete measure, and John
Chinaman has lost no time in walking through it. The
Act only prohibits the entry ot Celestials by sea.
Chinese steamers from Hongkong are taking emigrants
to British Columbia, and these cross overland into the
States, thus evading duty George Copniu, the
veteran actor, will be a candidate for tbe Vic-
torian Legislative Council upon the first opportunity.
With reference to Mr. Gladstone’s latest Irish
appointments, Mr. Cowen, M P. for Newcastle, re-
marked that they were farcical, because “ every one of
those situations nad been given to Englishmen, and in
two instances the persons had never before been in Ire-
land," As lately as June last Sir Charles Dilke de-
clared in the House of Commons that the Europeans
in Egypt were in no danger, and Mr. Gladstone said
that there was "not the slightest belief in his own mind
that there is any probability of an occasion arising for
the employment of force."
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name ner nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Pyn”: It seems to us that the comment was
fair. No one would conceive that " O’Shane" (a very
common name) was misprinted for “ O’Shame,” a name
which we think has no actual existence. Besides, the
very fact that the feeblest journal in Sydney went out
of its way to take the unusual (almost extraordinaty)
coarse of giving a lengthy review of a volume which has
not been published, and which, judging by the specimens
quoted with an approval whicn seems to be flavoured
either with hysteria or delirium tremens, is—excuse us —
of anything but first-rate quality, invited particular
notice. We observe that tne Dailt Telegraph says
your work will be published in abont two months.
Couldn’t you manage t® make it two years?"
“ Subscriber" (Adelong): Thanks; but wants manipu-
lating " Divorced Respectability” (Forbes): Your
par. hasn’t even the merit of being funny, while it is
undoubtedly malicious. When we begin to print items
like that we will quit journalism and set up a lunatic
asylum. We should not in that case have to look
further than Forbes far a lunatic to start with
“ Tenterfleld”: All right..." Colonel Jack’’(Brisbane):
Capital yarn. Noticed elsewhere “Viking": Your
stories are rather too highly coloured. Besides, al-
though yon taik a tremendous lot about kissing, you
only epetl it with one “ 8." Your copy, too, reminds us
of Lysan£er s epigram on Bottom’s prologue—" It
knows not the stop." “T. L—s”: Most acceptable.
Elsewheie ‘’Quiz'’: It you read this paper care-
fully, you would see that we don’t print prurient
trasb. Keep the filth yon sand us to amuse
jour cot-psnions witkin the shoe-shop
“G. 8." (Wellington): Yes, welcome.,J.S.D." : True,
but if the proper style of men were to take the place of
the Domain bawlers on Sundays, they would carry more
weight than oil the termon droners in Sydney. The
parables were spoken in sunshine, and amidst contra-
diction “ Orpheus ’’ : These forced accents spoil the
thing “ Wag ’’; Send u« soma more lies. You seem
quito talented that way. We have used one, intensified.
Professor Armand” : Your tensible and courteous
letter merits a corresponding reply. The joke was a
trifle rough. We are aware that small birds can
readily be mesmerized. At least wo have frequently
seen it stated i* books describing tricks, &r.
“Jack": 1 We haven’t a barrister on our stall, but
still we think our legal opinion is good. A defaulting
sweepholder could be prosecuted, but only by the indi-
vidual purchaser of a ticket for the amount of money
he had invested. Thus the levanter of a £lOOO sweep
would be liable to 1000 prosecutions for £l. 2. The
pipers ace not liable for prosecution “T. Arnott"
(Dubbo): Too much like an advertisement
...“A. M'G." (Charters Towers): It has bean
printed before My “ Grit ’*: I cculd have
losed.” “ Stale Cake ’’ (Dubbo): Inserted,
We generally “insert" cake “80. S the
” (Kiama): Your joke is very good, but very old,
though perhaps you didn’t know it. Elsewhere
you will see another "Judge” story, which any-
way has the merit of novelty. Try again “Brief
Mention ": If you want to know whether you can get
a drink when a s earner is alongside the wharf, you had
better ask the steward If he likes you, you will pro-
bably got it; and if he doesn’t like you, you will pro-
bably get it. Come and show us the result of the ex-
periment, anyhow. There’s iots of brown paper at our
officer, and vinegar is cheap.
GOING DUMMYING—FULL MARCHING ORDER.


Hotels, fee.
UNSLEE’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
R
OBERT BUTCHER A
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, BTDNET,
CO.,
Coumtrt Orders Receive Prompt Attirtior.
■pALLON’S PRIZE ALBERT WINE.
J. T. FALLON In asking pnblio attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the pnblie may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Cestral Depotj
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VIRETard:
'■jartTEEAY EIVER VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded flrst-olass Prises at the
following Exhibition'
London International i®°“
Paris ~ 18S4
Vienna ~
Philadelphia „ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions Vic-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Enisling Auoarot. I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Lrown Muscat Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay ’ Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Business Annouacem=
ffl
i
M
EP
7
y^ohoup.
ST9J
NGAPJiYOPPI
latc or 2<
Tobacconists
TO BMOKEBS WHO PROFESS,TO B 1
AMERICAN TOBACO
fTRHE following facts are compiled
I resources, and, therefore, should
special iaterest: —
DIISOA AND SONS paid dntv in 1880
All the ethers paid duty in 1880 on ...
DIX9ON AND St*HB paid dnty in 1881
AH the ether* paid duty in 1881 on ...
Imported manufactured tobacco paid dn
on for the two years was only
DIXSON AND SON’» BRAND
YANKEE DOODLE, COK<;
SIR ROGER. GOLD FI
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL M
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are ori
genuine “Tin Tie,” each ping brai
Bound Single Tin Tag, Btapnpe<
queror" or *• Yankee Dood
ALL TOBACCONIv . UOODB, I
5*S
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE
AND the enormous sucoess of the C
has not escaped the usual penaltit
universal popularity baa excited the on,v
of speculators who trade upon the di««r«
of a borrowed name. My Tobacco has
ard counterfeited and although I have
able means to guard th« public against i
to punish fraud, both Foreign and Hor
tions bearing my brand, but lacking all
♦he ever popular and well-known OH
have been imposed upon the public ss i
'Buaineca Annoanc
IST
KALIAN “ HOW
SEWING MACHH
Unpnncipled Dealers—to make
ling 1 * profit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
JbQsg&S&J)
/^express*
6n
THE HOME SHUTTLE LC
Manufactured for us, has the abo
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHH
We solicit information of the atte
forfeits of the above Machine, wh«
action m protection of our rights.
In any district where our genub
? room-able, wo will forward them
oat Office Order.
WE HAVE HOW,SOLD C
HAND MACHINE, COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLE
Do., WITH COYER CoMP
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
M. MOSS AND
WYNYARD LANE, S
'AND,
frm
■JJNION
MORTGAGE AI
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEOBGE-STEEE
To Small FREEHOLD and I
PROPRIETORS
This Company is prepared to g>
gaga of freehold cr leasehold j n
unen tVe depoalr of deeds, on com]
on houses in course of (rsotien, in 1
repayable by the suin'lest weekly
meet*, taken by the society* in-this
ing table will show
For every £2O h rrowed
„ £3O
■ > 440 t,,
.. 450 ' „
„ £75 „
4100 „
and up to any amount at the a >mo r
For further information »ti.-lv at
wm p. s:
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. Will
COOLALTA WINE G
119 PITT STREET,
YINETAED—COOLALTA, BE.
SOUTH WALE!
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No. 2 „
Burgundy ...
Port
Yin Ordinaire
WHITE WINEE
Muscat ...
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta ...
No. 2
Yin Ordinaire ...
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRi
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Eosei
Imported by ns direct, and mam
for this climate to the order of our I
Every instrument is WARE A
TEARS. They are of very handsoi
ore most sensitive, sweet, and powei
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TERMS-of TIME PATMi
Examine and tost them before pu:
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMPi
1, Oxford-street j 612, George-s'
Buildings, Sydne;
Hunter-street, Newc*sUa; High
Howiok-street, Bathurst At
burn; Church-street, Parrama
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
J 3L ATE
AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPERHANGINI
(a really splendid st
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME
KENT’S BEUSHI
GOLD LEAF. &<
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 2
■W H. A E
T T • PROVISION MERCI
AND GENERAL COMMISB
343 and 345 Kent-strket, neai
SOLE AGENT for the medermenti.
R. Whittingbam and Co.’s Lon<3
Excelsior Mill’s prize Viotoru
Bencraft A Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoriat
and Cakes
J. Kitchen A Son’s Victoria Toil
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Com
A. M. Hunt A Co.’s Goulburn B
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near
3-16 GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & S
The Celebrated
>£4* v>.-
THErURES T ST!i<!lliaHT
woß^
Tht Hama of M. MOSS & CO,
erery Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER'S Bugle Br>jo).
J vr-~. : r.:
A
A ■
;t
. ft **»"•>
U'
--'T,
'me-Z
5-r-X
:r-.-
OUTNNKB? S KXI BA STOUT.
?ale ale.
The BEST AXE and STOUT in the Market.
JBOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE)
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
s
r .yanay,
H'V6R in STOCK, for SAL.
to t-h3s( RADE and WHOLE-
SALE «UYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BESR3, and SPIRITS,
arid general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps an’ Genera.
A. MELVIN and RONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ala.
ihi
T LAWLER, 608, George-streat, Bedding Manufac.
• tnrer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
tand Cotton Flock. Established 1860.


SPOTTING FIXTURE'S.
rwe shall he glad to have this inde* posted np hy mveiarUs
0/ racing clubs and managers of sporting event « in jensroi.]
racing.
V.E C. Grand National... „..July22.
..-.....—....Augu5t5.
Victorian Trotting Club If
Tatterroll’s, Band wick M
Hawtesbury Spring ? »
A-J.C. Spring " ,M ~
NaTanflerWi « Septembers.^
S.A J.G. Derby Meeting -....-...Suptemrwras,
Melbourne Hunt Club
V.RC. Spring .......... .........Oct- 28, 3L, Not. 2, 4.
Sitta J.C -.——..NevemW 9.
..November IS, 18.
liidgeeTorf C1ub........................Nev. 22, ® 84.
V. 8.0. New Tear Meeting January!, Wk
Sydney Turf Club ~ January 28,18 W.
AQUATICS.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta .....—.August 26.
Gardiner Cup, Mereantile, October 28.
Krue Champagne Trophy November *».
Gardiner Cup. Amateur „Deoember I®
PEDEBTEIANTSM.
Bathurst Football (Bub Sports——July &
Wallaroo Football Club's Sports a.
POOTBAWL.
Wallaroo v. University. Association Ground.... July *2.
Glenbeaa v. Bodferu, Moore Park...** —r..... July 82.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bieyole Club’s Kao* Meeting (Association
y Ground) August 28-
AUBTRALIAN BLRVBN.
Yorkshire, or United North. ...... July 21, 22.
Northumberland *••■••• -July 21, 25, 28.
SPOUTING AND ATHLETIC MUMS.
Punch outrigger trophy race collapsed—insuffi-
cient ennries.
An endeavour is shortly to be made to establish
an annual eight-oar race between erews representing tne
New South Wales and Victorian Civil Service*.
A match in skiffs for .£2O aside is to oomo off on
the Nepean in a fortnight’s time between Messrs.
M'Kay and Aokroyd, and Messrs Sayers and Peisley.
We hear from New Zealand that O’Brien, the
celebrated pedestrian, has met with a mishap that will
prevent him from running for some considerable time.
Wilson, the captain of the Geelong footballers,
was presented on Monday evening with a bandxome
gold locket in recognition of Ins excellent play in the
match on Saturday.
Kingsworth is still first favourite for the
Hawkesbnry. Creswiok for the Metropolitan, whilst the
Melbourne Derby and Cup are looked npon as good
things tor Segenhoe.
The matches arranged at Parramatta, between
E. Hicks and Farrell, and W.
£lOO each, have been postponed to the 19th and 29ta
August respectively.
J. Muldoon and H. Parkinson are to do an
hour’s race for £«0 at Botany in a few weeks time. A
further matoh between H. Parkinson and E. Dallon for
two hours ge-as-yon-please is spoken of.
A great game took place on the Newtown
ground, on (Saturday, between , th ° and
Arforna clubs, resulting in a win for the Newtown* by
1 goal (and 1 goal and 1 try under protest) to nil.
Truth says, in connection with the cricket
scandal :—"lb is now evident that umething hat taken
place which Shaw’s team have been trying to hush up.
The cricketing public have a right to know what that
s»mething was.”
I IThe football matoh, Geelong ▼, Sydney Club, on
the Association Ground, on Tuesday, resulted in a
victory for Geelong by 15 goals 23 behind* to one goal
one behind. There was no question about which was
the better team.
Petersham played a great game against the
Geelong footballers, the result being when time was
called : Geelong 5 goals 17 behinds. PetershamJ behinds
This compares well with the wipmg-out the Sydney Club
received in the earlier part of the week.
The Balmain and Wallaroo football match, on
Moore Park, on Saturday, resulted in a win for Wal-
latoo by 1 goal 3 tries to 1 try. The ground was roped
in, and two constables kept the crowd behind the fine
and out of danger. Nobody was hurt; a little blood,
however, was spilt.
Last Monday week a 300 yards’ race took place
at Randwick for £lO aside, between M. Eyan and an-
other ped. A great race for 200 yards, when Evan drew
away and eventually won easily in 34 see. Eyan has
been running for ten years, and is open to run any man
in the colonies 300 yards.
Five crews are assiduously preparing for the
Junior Eight-Oar Eace in connection with tee b E.G.
Kegatta. Messrs. Caswell and C. Donovan are the res-
pective strokes. The former’s crew, whieh is the
lighter, is being ooaehed by Mr. J. Oatley, and that of
the latter by Mr. E. P. Simpson.
“Centaur’s Index for 1882” is published. It
contains, as usual, the entries for the principal forth-
coming events, as well as the performance* during the
past season of all horses entered. Now that backers
indulge in fancy doubles, this ” bob s*worth of infor-
mation may guide them to a proper selection of faroor*
The friends of Mr. J. S. Smith, of Sydney, will
regret to hear that a telegram ha* been received from
London, announcing that he died on the 6ch July. Mr.
Smith, who was a genial, good-natuwd sportsman, was
partner with Mr. Long in Grand Flaneur and other
horses, and he owned Speculation when he won the
Sydney Cap.
It appears that some mistake has been made in
fixing the date of the rice for Gardiner’s Mercantile
Gup as on Oct. 28. The representatives of the soft-
goods wanted the date to be 19th August, so as not to
iaterefero with business. The date was fixed without
consultation with the parties concerned. Doubtless
it will be altered.
Land and Water of May 27, referring to
Murdoch’s 107 against the Orleans Clnb, says : —" Mur-
doch’s previous exploits have been so brilliant that any
comparison of his batting records is difficulty but, tak-
ing everything into account, it may fairly be argued
that his 107 (not out) on this occasion was quite the
equal of anything he has previously done.”
The London Sportsman of May 30, in noticing
the Australian-Cambridge matoh, makes the following
oxtraorduwrv blunder “The attendance was not only
numerous, but possessed a fashionable element, and on
the pavilion were many University officials, a number of
old blues, and also a distinguished visitor in Sir Henry
Parke (sie), Governor of New South Wales.”
In a snb-leader recently, writing respecting the
Australian cricketers, the Herxld perorates— *' Aus-
tralians will unite to wish them joy of their victory,
and will be thankful that though our flag has been
decidedly sunk on the river it is still upheld in the
field.’’ We beg leave to differ ; as far as the Baglish-
m*n ore concerned onr flag waves as proudly as ever os
th* river, and long may it wave.
Oonrtney, the American sculler, is reply te the
allegations that he had made diehonourabl* overture*
Crlokett when in America, say* " Wouldn’t it ha
wall for him, to win a race before ho do** nnv more
talking about himself or others ? If I didn’t do any-
olve last summer, I certainly did beat Triokett
falr’y in *be Toronto Reeattn. in September. There was
no need of my asking him to sell a race*, as it would ba
wily for me to buy fruit wmch hung within arm's length
ready t} plucV, I wonder if he sold his last race with
Hunion ? ” This la both bluff and bosh, con sidering that
Triokett issnsd a challenge to row any man in Ameriea,
including Courtney, and could get no answer.
The Queensland footballers hare decided bo
Tlslt Sydney and play under Eugby ruler. The follow-
ing matches for them hare been arranged to be played
on the Association Ground! —August 12. against Com-
bined N.S, Wales; 15th, University; 17th, Combined
Suburban; 19th, Wallaroo. There is no doubt about
the popularity of the Rugby game, whatever be its de-
merits, and the matches are snre to be largely and
fashionably attended.
The Triokett testimonial committee report that
the fund will reaeh £450, and the presentation is to
take place next Monday evening, at Punch’s hetel.
Boyd, whose stake against Hanfan was made up by
guineas and orewns, slowly accumulating, will wonder
what sort of people these Australians are who will find
the money at once to plank down for their man, and
then, when he is beaten, give him nearly the same
amount as the stakes lost.
The Geelong footballers had a good time in
Sydney, Prank Punch took them for a trip outside
the Heads. The “Owls” invited them to the monthly
‘‘beet,” at which some of the Geelongeese ouaoked,
and Larry Poley gave them an exhibition of the noble
art at his athletic hall. Tot, one of them waa heard to
say last week, in the Association Pavilion that" Sydney
waa too slow, and there waa nothing nice in it,” to which
name the courteous inquiry, " Haven’t you looked into a
Sydney mirror yet P"
A kangaroo drive on a most extensive scale was
started at Gonrnatna (Bloxoma's) Station, near Wari-
alda, on Tuesday week, and finished on the following
Saturday. Some hundreds et kangaroos, wallaroos,
paddymelons, and every conceivable thing with two
hind legs were yarded. Some of the mighty hunters
gallantly and fearlessly challenged and alew many of
the largest and moat vlcions of “ old men,'’ whila others,
who knew a thing or two, confined business to the
slaughter of *' joeys.”
Glebe and Redfom (2nd) clubs played a football
matsh, on Moore Park, on Saturday, resulting in a deal
of quarrelling. Glebe secured a questionable touch-
down, which, after some wrangling, was admitted.
Later on, the Glebe Captain got the ball across the line,
but failed to tonch down, and the umpire gave it as n
Bedferu ball, causing another quarrel. Bedfern then
got a touch from which a goal was scoured. It waa a
splendid game. Jones of the Bedfern Club broke his
collar-bone. This is sport.
Wheatear and Sir Oliver were both severely hurt
while working at Randwiok on Mondav morning. They
collided and fell. Wheatear waa hurt on the stifle. Sir
Oliver about the arm and shoulder. Gordon, Wheat-
ear's jockey, had his leg broken below the knee; and
the lad who rode Sir Oliver had his left foot crushed.
Wheatear was well baeked for the Melbourne Oup, and
Sir Oliver was considered to have a good outside show
for our Derby, but it is doubtful whether either horse
ean now bo got ready for the campaign approaching.
The writer of football gossip in the Austra-
lasian states that he has received a communication
from Nottingham requesting co-operation in getting an
Australian football team together to visit England
under Rugby rules, and expresses an opinion that it
will be many years before the project will succeed,
owing to the Rugby game having made little headway
In the colonies. Not so; the Bogby game is making a
deal of headway in suoh little oorners as New South
Wales, Queensland, and New Zs&land. Toe much
headway, in fact, as we expect the next generation of
middle-aged men to be broken-kneod, padded, or
generally disfigured through the noble game of their
youth.
Mr. W. R. Benson has resigned the captaincy of
the Mercantile Bowing Club, which he has held for the
past two years and a half. At the quarterly meeting
of the olub last week, he was ths recipient of a very
handsome gold watch with an appropriate inscription,
as a memento ef the olub’s appreciation of his valuable
serriees. Thsre were three candidates for the vacant
office, and the ballot resulted as follow: N. Lockyer,
88; W. Wilkinson, 20; C A. Bros, 6 Mr, Lockyer was
once secretary to the club, and was most attentive to
his duties. Doubtless in his new position he will give
the olub the benefit of his knowledge and experience,
cud tb&t which & rowing olob wants mosir, tho assuring
presence of the captain at all times.
Hants played against Sussex a week after the
Australians, and scored 860. Truth says That
shows what the Sussex bowling must be like, and the
performance of the Australians at once oea,s«B to be
phenomenal. The Colonieto are undoubtedly a very
powerful team, and the pluck with which they play up
In their second innings whan all the odds are against
them is splendid. But how is it they allow so many
extras ? Murdoch is, no doubt, nothing like so much
at home • behind the sticks ’ as Blaokham, who, by the
way, is still indisposed; still, they might back him up
better, and stop the byes. But, on the whole, they
teach a wholesome lesson to our cricketers Of the value
et sustained excellence in fielding.”
Referring to the defeat of the Australian Eleven
by the Cambridge University team, the Standard
gays : —•• The scores made against them have shown
that their bowling has been rather less deadly than we
wore led to expect. Where their scores have been high,
they have been more the werk of single batsmen than
it was supposed they would be; and where their great
batsmen have failed to ‘come off,’ tho total score has
net been redeemed by others. In fielding, and in work-
ing together, they could, probably give lessons to
almost any opponents they are likely to meet. * sty
possibly wo have not yet seen all that they can do, but
It is a distinct satisfaction to know that wa have at
least prowess and skill sufficient left amongst us to
give them full employment."
London papers are teeming with general remarks
on Australian cricket, end all are unanimous as to the
excellence of our boys’ play. Tho Times published
an article, in which the following remarks are made
« But we have found out, to our cost, that it is never
sate to oall the Australians beaten until their last man
is ont, ®r the winning hit is made. By the stand they
made in the second innlnge against the Orleans Club,
they so prolenged the oentest that the oraok English
eleven had not time to wipe off the balance, as it can
hardly be doubted that they would have done. The
sane thing happened at the Oval last year- They were
alaoplaying on a ground familiar to their opponents,
although this is a disadvantage which in the nature of
things must ever attend them In England.
The match between the Australians and United
North, at Dewsbury, Yorkshire, resulted in a. draw.
The rain prevented play on the first day, bat on the
second the weather was fine and the attendance large.
The United North went in first and scored 129-Look-
wood 61, and Grimslmw 20, being the: only double figure
scorers The Australians concluded their innings on
the second day. when ths weather waa inclement, and
put a stop to the game. They scored Ul—Banncrman
84, Murdoch 30, Horan (not out 22, M Donnell 14,
Garrett 12, Jones 6. Boyle (notout) 3 ; MasSie, Brnnor,
Palmer, Spoflorth, duck-eggs; sundries2l. The United
North commenced the second innings, and succeeded
in obtaining 64 with the loss of one wicket—Cljett 34,
Hawke (not out) 26, when tho rain stopped play.
Young Dutohy, the “ light weight champion of
taookedoutth^n 0^ The champion tf
Singleton also cried ‘•enough’’ after
appearing to do as he liked with him. 1 wo locals then
alii acme heavy slogging for three rounds, and Dutohy
«ve f fxWbitl<,n. of hi. skill with some
amateurs The wind-up was between Young Dutohy
and Dave Perkins, whose fighting weight is seventeen
stone and a half. Dutohy caused great amusement by
performance on the rotund body of his opponent,
i gymnasium is now in full swing m the Town; and
Dutohy'* hands are kept going teaching the noble art.
The Clarence River J.C. meeting was •nooess-
fnllv held on July 12th and Uth. The outsider, Ad
Valorem?won the Mares’ Produce Stakes. Rosemary
wan the Maiden Plate by a length. Lady Yandah won
the City Handicap rather easily after a good race. She
,ii„pp p ori«i «» £
had beea doing acme good werk. Cedric won in
I Prinee of Wales Stakes by two lengthe. Arrowflight
wen the Derby Stakee, hart held, bj two jeugthr
the Hurdle Race, Chester* 11 waa the o" 1 *
toek all tho jumps, winning easily. Ad ™erom, wit*
51bs. penalty, won the Sires Produce Stakes. A grest
race took place for the C B. J C. Hao'i.oap. won by
Young Australian by two length -. . La .
waa favourite, was nowhere. Warlock w°n tu
Race easily. Yately won the Flying Handicap by three
lengths, Booyung being second. There was a good at-
tendance on each day, bnt the course wa* rather slow.
The settling passed off successfully on Friday evening.
The Clarence Tatters all’s J.C. held an im-
promptu meeting at Grafton on Saturday. The Zlcgara
filly won the Two-and-Three-Year-Old Handicap by half
a length. Cedric won the Gift Handicap by two lengths,
Booyung being second. Only two started for the Novel
Race, Cyclops and Shearer, both being the property of
one party, who declared to win with Shearer. Cyclops
won, and the committee were considering the matter
with a yiew to disqualify, but the owner said he must
have named the horse accidentally, and brought wit-
nesses who stated that they had heard him name
Cyclops. The committee gave him the beneflt of the
doubt. Eoyal Blend and Dolly Varden started for the
Plying Handicap, the former winning by two Imgthß.
A protest was lodged that the rider of Dolly Varden
was jostled between the half-mile and the straight; h
showed a mark on the face, out by the whip of Royal
Blend's jockey, who said the jostle was the other way,
and he had to strike to keen Dolly Varden out. The
committee, after taking evidence, disqualified Royal
Blend, and declared Dolly Varden the winner.
Spsaking of the preliminary practices of the
Australians, the Lokdon Spoetsmak says Grand
expectations hare been formed of Massie some o
bis performances at home, bnt he is not a batsman
suited to sticky wickets, and the AustJaliana-at least
some of them-are net quite sanguine that ho will be
very successful on English ground. He i« 26 rear
age, 6ft. 11 in. high, and weighs about list 81b. He
plays further out than most of the team, and his style
some respect reminds one of the Hem. E. Lyttelton.
Jones, the youngster of the party. Is but 20 years old,
stands 6ft. 11 in. in height, and weighs about list. 2lb.
He plays well back, more than the others, and oomea
down very hard on the ball in his back play. His bowl-
ing is medium pace, breaks back with an occasional one
from leg, and he undoubtedly gets a lot of twist outhe
ball. Qiffea is 23 years old, stands about 5 ft. 8 in. high,
and is now IS st. 4 lb., though a little above his usual
weight. He plays very hard back on the balU in some-
thing of the same form as Mr. Lucas ; and though his
pitch is at times a little faulty, he succeeds in getting a
great amount of work on the bowling. He is a splendid
told, teo, beyond a doubt.*
A wrestling match took place lately at Otago
(N.Z ) between Professor Hiller and Slade of Timarn.
The articles of agreement were that the match should
be “ oatoh-as-oatoh-oan’* above the waist, that the use
of the legs for tripping should be allowed, and that 15
minutes’ rest should be granted between each fall.
Throe throws out of five were to decide the match.
Miller secured the first—an exceedingly '
throwing his antagonist clean from his feet with onlya
shoulder grip, and without any attempt at tripping, in
1 the second fall, Slade baokheeled the Professor very
prettily in the nick of time, earning loud applause from
;he audience. Pall number three was a sensational one.
The men closed and went down several times witheut
an actual throw, until Miller at length by somemeans
got hi* opponent's head “in Jeopardy, and
him round the back oftheehouldars- Inthispoii tion
he treated him to what is known as the flying mare,
throwing him clean over his head a complete somer-
sault, and falling on him. Miller secured the final
throw by a very neat cross-buttock, winning the match
by three throws to one, after having proved himself in-
oontestably the superior man.
The match, Australian Eleven v. Marylebone
Club, resulted in a draw very much in favour ef the
home team, who may be said to be *be cream of
English cricketers, as it consisted of the following
cracks A. G. Steel, C. T. Stndd, GB. Studd, W. G.
Grace, Lord Harris. A. W. Hornby, A. P. Lucas. E. J.
R Tyleootte, W. Barnes. W. Flowers, and F. Morley.
The weather as usual was inclement, but the attendance
was very large. Murdoch, with his proverbial luck.
Tost the^tos.f and the Marylebone went test to the
wickets and succeeded in scoring 302—0. T. Studd, 114,
Grace, 46; Hornby, 45, Loom, 45, G. B. Studd 25;
Tylecote. not out, 8; Lord Harris, 4_;tteele. 6,
Morley. 3; Barnes, 0 , Flowers, 0 , sundries (which
speak* well for the Australian fielding) 6. The Acs.
tralians were disposed of for 188 runs—Horan, 42;
Spofforth, 28, Bonnor. 25; M'Donnell. 16 , Qlffon. not
out, 14; Massie, 6; Murdoch. 8; Palmer, 1; Banner-
man, 0: Blaokham, 0; Garrett, 0 ;sundnes, 4 iGwrett
took 7 wickets for 89. For the M.C.C.. C. T. Studd
took 4 wickets foe 26 ; Grace, 1 for 1; Barnes, 1 for U.
Seven of the Australians were caught out.
The football match on the Association Ground,
between Geelong and the combined team, attracted a
goodly number of spectators, and the game waa perhaps
the best ever played here under the Association rales,
although the Victorians showed their superiority from
the start. There were soma, “passengers .in the
Sydney team, but there were others who did their work
equally as well as their opponents; conaeqnently.not-
withstanding that the Victorians hod all the best of the
game, they had to submit to two goals bslng credited to
N S Wales. The result of the game was as follows:
Geelong, 6 gaols 21 behinds; Combined Team, 2 goal si
behind. At half-time lockets were presented to T. H.
Wedd for the best all-round play in the match East
Sydney v. Geelong, and to A. Collins, a Qcelong man.
for excellent play on the same occasion; a gold shield
was also handed to W. Butler. Contrasticgthls game
with that played under Rugby rules, we must admit
that there is a little science and skill developed in the
former, although the elements of danger to limb are in
both 1 ; We do not see where rivalry comes in between
the exponents of each game. They are so ditferent
that a new name should be given to each in place of the
present misnomer football. There is only one game
played which should take that name, and that is the
game played under the English Association rules.
The World thus sums up the conquerors of the
a«tiHemen of England Our visitors are very de-
cidedly mortal. Indeed, with the exception of Murdoch,
they are none of them in the first-class: a notablojex-
caution let it be granted, for Murdoch as a batsman
may certainly staiS on a’level with A. P Lucas and
Grace. Blaokham, too, has nothing to Iwa as a
wicket keeper from either Alfred Lyttelton or Billing.
But Spofforth's bowling seems to have loHfc i ts terrors,
as, indeed, will generally happen, utter »i
with bowling of that fenons nature; and though many
of the Eleven can * bowl a bit,' Palmer is the only one
who seems to do much harm, and it is doubted whether
he will ever prove very deadly against batting
on a Mod wicket. The mighty Massie, who did so much
at Oxford , W (Tld very little Weed at fwlskenham. In
the first innings he was bowled nook-and-hoels without
scoring; and, in the aeoond, though he hit wonderfully
hard aUhe &11. h. did not hit l itj very much which is
quite a different thing. The fielding, too, is certainly
human It is wonderfully sure at times, as well as
showy • but, like the best of ns. they oan make mistakes
sometimes, and do, as was shown both at Twickenham
and the Oval. They are a strong Eleven, no doubt, and
foemen well worthy of tke best English ateel: but to
talk of them as the greatest wonders the world has ever
~cn. and able to give odds to any English Eleven, i. as
ridiculous as humiliating.’’
In the m&toh, Australians v. Surrey, Blaokham
and Bonnor were left out of the team, the former sutler,
ing from a bad cold, which kept him to his room. It
rained very hard in the mornmg of. the^ first day. and
the match was not commenced until 3 pm. A wicket
had been covered with tarpaulin for some days pre-
vious to the mat*h, but Murdoch declined to plty on
it. observing that it would bo like tossing up for the
match. Another wicket, which had been exposed, was
then selected, and the oaptsins t:s oi f>r choice of
innings. Murdoch losing. The wlaketap yed badly.
Spofforth was well punished by the Surrey batsmen;
Boyle came off with the honours, taking seven wlcksts
tot 52 runs. On tho second day the weather was tine,
and tho attendance amounted to 10,000. Bam Jones
waa splendidly caught at point, low dowa, with tho left
hand. Bannerman was let off twice before ho was run
out. Murdoch played a ball hard on his wioket.
Massie was grandly caught at third man, the fieldsman
taking the ball at arm’s length with the left haul. In
the second innings, Boyle ana Garrett disposed of the
furrey eleven for the paltry total of 48. Boyle d.s-
missed Lucas by a marvellous catch off his own bowl-
ing. Throughout the mateh he took eleven wickets at
an average cost of six runs each. In the second toJungs,
Murdoch was clean bowled for 0. Homn gave a difficult
chance, which waa miss«d, an* then
Massie was twice nearly bowled for hisi 9. Th «
match was won by tho Australians by six wickets.
In the match against Cambridge,
loft out, as he wasntlll suffering from cold. The Cam-
bridge team was supposed to be mnoh waaker the
ashs: afsws fidsKSSSrS
waa caught at the wicket for a single; and Horan, after
scoring 8, was caught in the same manner. M Donnell!
was caught at mid-on from a hard drive, and Qiffen felli
to a well-judged catch at mid-off. Jones was well-caught'
at slip high up. Bannerman was clean bowled, after am
excellent innings, for 50. C- T. Studd, who made 118.
should have been caught by Garrett at loug-on when be*
had scored 28. His innings was a mageifloent display of
batting. In a Edition to the chance to Garrett, Stnddi
should have been caught at the wicket, but nevertheless'
his performance was a great one, and deserved the'
highest possible praise. His defence was perfect, and
his driving to the off particularly clean and brilliant.
His chief hits were eleven fours, seven threes, ana thir-
teen twos. After Studd’s departure, there was nothing
remarkable In the innings, whieh eventually closed at
366, or 127 to the good. Calmer bowled extremely well.
The Australians played up well in the second innings,
though some of them ware got rid of rather unluckily.
Horan and Qiffen knocked the bowling about. Jones
was given out Lb.w., after seoring a single—the decision
being doubtful. The innings closed for 291, giving the
Cantabs 165 runs to win. Garrett could not play the
second innings, owing to a bad heel. The two Studds
put up 100 without leaving a wicket. Giffen bowled
J. K. K. Studd for When only five runs were wanted
Murdoch missed an easy chance of stumping C.T. atndo.
Cambridge won by six wicket’. Although no one could
imagine that the better side won, it would be most un-
fair io take the slightest credit away from Cambridge.
They had bad luck in losing thetoss, and played through -
out with energy and spirit. Of course the success was
due to five men—the three Studies, Bather, and Ramsay.
The chief cause of the Auatrali.vns’ failure was their
poor batting exhibition on the first day, when they won
the toes on a batsman's wioket. On the Tuesday of
the match the Australians dined with the Cambridge
University Eleven in the hall of Peterhonse College, the
Vice-Chancellor taking the chair.
** The editor of the Wesleyan Advocate re-
joices that * bell and damnation ’ are still left in the
Bible.”
There is nothing new under the sun. A short
Mm* *(0, a mao delving uadar Lake Constance for an*
tedlluvian relic# discovered a collection-plate. So that
there wer* saints in those days who knew how to ieoop
the faithfal. Excavating further, he found a quantity
Ml small horn coins, answering probably to oar
•‘thrums,".two of which were evidently had. So that
thrre were a'so sin* ers in those days whoso delight it
was to bluff the saints. We have not| changed much
•inoe then.
THE RUGBY FOOTBALLER.
When he first put his uniform on,
And looked at himself in the glass,
He thought of the park and the larrikins’ lark
When he'd make his ddbfit on the grass.
Bnt he nervously passed the ordeal.
Which is say.ng a lot for his pluck.
For his legs they were thin, and his toes they turned in„
Like a park-preacher down on his luck.
I might mention ’twas Eugby he played
(The scrimmages numl ered some score),
Bnt our hero played through, tho* with shins black and
Bine,
And a back most confoundedly sore.
First his zebra-striped shirt came to grief.
Then his skull got a terrible crack.
While a friend (?) in thick boots pulled his hair cnh in,
I roots,
1 And playfully handed it baek.
Then’he struggled to run with the ball,
When a friend collared hold of “his nibs,"
And while three held him down, two sat on his crown,.
And one danced a sohottisohe on his ribs.
Till at last, gaining breath, ho called ** held,"
When they scrolled him up on to bis pins.
Then they squeezed him up flat like a patent crush hat,
And played a tattoo on his shins.
Still he manfully stuck to his task.
And at last got a start fair and level,
When with trembling and fear (tho’ no foemeu weru
near)
Tow’rds the goal-posts he flew like the devil.
And he thought he’d secured a ’* touch down";
'Twas for that he had panted and tried.
When, to his disgust, said the umpire, “ Yon must
Bring it back, sir 1 for you were * off-side.’ ”
All then o’er, limped he homeward his way,
Venting feelings in audible damns.
While a stout old female rolled her eyes and turned
pale,
Saying “ shocking results of them trams."
THE SAINTS' PRAYER.
(Respectfully dedicated to the Editor of the
Wesleyan Advocate.)
Oh I tell us not, in numbers sad.
That Hell is but a myth;
Oh. take not from our simple creed
The marrow and the pith.
Say not that there’s no dreadful place
The Earth’s thin crust beneath.
Where sinners play the castanets
For ever with their teeth.
Say not that, when in white we stand
Beneath the Heavenly Arch-
ie robes “ grot up " with heavenly blue.
Celestial soap, and starch—
And with our golden harps " chip in **
The Anthem loud to swell,
We shall not hear a shriek or two.
Sometimes, ascend from Hell.
What makes salvation such a boon.
What makes it, oh I so sweet
To own half acre “ lots " which front
Upon the Golden street ?
What makes the cheek of many a saint
With eager rapture glow 'i
Why, just comparing his safe bliss
With come one else’s woe I
Would Abram’s breast for Lazarus such
Luxurious quarters make
Were Dives’ tongue unblistered in
The pyrotechnic Lake ?
Would sheep have each a bully time.
In heavenly folds—h’m, well—
Unless the goats were feeding on
Chain-lightning down in Hell ?
If there’s no sulphur-reeking pit.
Upon onr word, it aint
Worth while to be a spotless-robed.
Certificated saint.
And Heaven itself would merely be
A grand celestial sell.
If all might share its joys alike
And no one go to Hell.
Take all that makes life dear to us,
Each creditor, each friend;
Bid us our solitary way
Along Life’s pathway wend.
Take every comfort, every joy;
Our wife, our eldest son;
Take all our poor relations from
Our circle one by one.
Take all our hopes of earthly bliss.
Our chance of Heaven as well,
But spare, oh I spare onr simple creed
Of griddles, flames, and Hell 1
We care not if all other creeds
To tattered shreds are torn;
Leave us but this and we can face
Heav’n’s wrath, and Earth's proud scorn.
And Gabriel’s blast will sound as sweet
As any dinner-bell
If it but call the/eu> above,
The multitude to Hell.
IRONBARK.


RILEY BROI
386 GEORGE STREET,")
600 GEORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET, 3
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWO
AND
10 COLEMAN STREI
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN CC
THE ORIGINAT'D
NOTED £5 B
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting’
10 vards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
8 pairs Ken’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
St yards Gombroon for
strapping
,3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trouser*
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Balt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pookst’kerohiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &o.
£5 Men’s Clothing 1
Bate.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Pelt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Sooks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
E 5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies' Carnivoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats „ _ .
3 Children’s Chemises *'3 J
3 pairs Drawers 25 ydi
3 Night-gowns 3 yar
3 Petticoats 1 doz
The above are made of 1 Bla
good longoloth and nicely 1 Lac
trimmed. If desired, other 1 Trli
articles may be ordered in- 1 paii
stead of any of the above. Ca
RILEY bToT
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 1
4 Infanta* Shirts 61
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hanc
8 Infants’ Long Flannels Lon*
1 Halrcord Monthly Gown riohl
2 Infants’ Rollers 1 Infan
i dozen Diaper Squares Squa
Puff Box, Puff, Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infan
2 Bibs gilk
1 Pair of Wool Boots Can
Carriage free by Rail
Or Steamer
M
2 Li
2 Lc
!E
1 pa
1 La
1 La
4 In:
2 Ini
2 In:
1 Ini
]
2 In:
1 Ini
i do
I
Puff
1 Fli
2 Bil
1 pai
I Ini
1 Ii
£
C
1 1
I
£
iC
10 ya
20 ya
12 St
20 W
10 go
6 ya
weari
£5
1 pa
1 wt
5 yai
10 wl
0
6 wh
12 yai
12 yai
4 pai
1 pai
1 Da
6 str
6 Bn
4 lari
3 yai
T
T 1
£2
Stockman'i £2 ]
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Tro' sera
I Crimean Shirt!
2 Nigh'
S niton.
Henry Kendall is very ill, anc
to Sydney fiom the back blocks. Lai
is in the doctor’s hands, and likely
time.
Ingham's Extphosbia Piujlifi
land (jure for Asthma, Bronohiu
easej. Prepared in Psesnoa and
Advt. Apply, J. Manning, agent
130 Elinooth-rtreet, Sydney.
Mining investments in Syd
looke I ap oonsidembly, Mr. Mai
well-known firm of Bayley and Pei
new line of business—likely to bo c
Mr. Bayley will make cash advanc
mining stock. The business will
for dealing in mining stock.
On the 25th April, 1882, the e
John Brinsmead and Sous, of L(
Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany,
of W aldcok, a grand oblique piano:
some eboniaed case, uecorated in ,
7 1-3 octaves in compass, and con
improvements of the firm, inoludii
produces most melodious effects, tl
twined to an almost indefinite reugi
Post,
Base is tho slave who ste
To be original who isn’t t
Our labels are being clos
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure
pictorial black wrapper, is now be<
purity, strength, and good value, ai
lent impostors, insolvent in repnta
honour, are seeking to foist their
the public in packets closely imit
of ours. Be not deceived. Wa
SOCIAL.
The ball in connection with the opening of the
railway to Hay, held on the sth instant, in the railway
Roods shed, was a great success. The presence of His
Excellency and the vice-regal party gave atone, and, as
many ladies (and their dresses) came from Sydney and
Melb»urae, the scene was the gayest Hay ever saw.
The Governor opened the ball with Mrs. Lakeman, wife
of the Ms vor. dressed in a magnificent black moire and
p'ush. Fts d-vis were the Mayor, and Mrs. H. Bent-
witch in white silk, with ruby velvet scarf, pointed
train decorated with ruby flowers, gold and diamond
ornaments. Lady Hay wore a dark claret silk, with
figured scarf and cap. The following were among the
prominent figures in the ballroom : Miss Nellie Blount,
pale blue satin brocade, profusely trimmed with
French embroidered lace, pink and silver flowers. Mrs.
M. Blonnt, a neat costume cf white silk, slashed with
>at.in, and pale blue sash, Mrs, Davis, an elaborate
toilette of pale pink brocaded silk and cardinal satin
trimmed with pearls, one of the richest dresses in the
room. Two sisters were remarkable for the novelty of
their dresses, one being black tarletan, ornamented
with silver stars and spangles; the other, white
tarletan and sun-flower trimmings. A very tasteful
costume was that worn by Miss Turnbull—material,
white satin, puffed and flounced, trimmed with gold
bullion fringe, and ornaments to match. Mrs. Allison,
black princess robe with train, shirred withblaok satin,
bib of old gold plush and lace, cuffs and cap to match.
Miss Allison, white satin body and tarletan skirt
trimmed with swansdown. Miss Alice Allison, white
sarsenet and satin, wreath of fish scales made
into a variety of leaves and flowers mounted in
silver—unique and uncommon. Miss Field, black
tarletan, c-trdinal ribbons and water lilies. Miss U.
Lindsay was elegantly attired in black satin, with hand-
some scarf of 4oru satin and chenille fringe, a pointed
plastron of ecru lace, cap to match, with feathsrs.
Mrs. Simon Moss, rich blue silk, and very handseme
diamonds. Mrs. Tartakover, 4oru silk, trimmed with
brocaded ruby velvet and lace. One of the most con.
spicuous, as well as becoming, costumes in the reom
consisted of a very deep cardinal satin dress, with
flounce of Spanish lace; head-dress to match Miss
King, rale blue, with polonaise out in points and
trimmed with silver. Mias Freeman, pale blue silk,
very elaborately designed, trimmed with chenille.
Mrs. Dr. Harvey wore pale blue satin, blonde laoe
trimmings, very long fantail train. Mrs. Gillingham,
of Kaglehtiwk (Yio.), black silk princess robe, trimmed
with black satin and edged with cream lace. A pretty
dress of bine velvet was much admired. Mrs. A. P.
Stewart, looked charming in a very handsome black
satin toilette. The neck was cut square, and trimmed
with white French lace. Mrs. Halbish was richly
dressed in black velvet, made “ three quarter” body,
with bertha of tulle and cerise sateen, bands of gold
on throat and arms, handsome peacock train. The
Governor left about 11 o'clock, but moat of the guests
remained until the programme of 24danoes was finished.
The Gjrman Band of Sydney provided the music and
Cripps furnished excellent refreshments. The cloak-
room arrangements were very deficient, and several
gentlemen lost their coats and hats; otherwise no fault
could be found. Over 600 persons were present.
• • •
Sir ’Enry 5a to be “ feeded ” both at Sydney and
Melbourne upon his return. Sir John Bobertson is to
sound the Premier upon the date that will be most
convenient to his stomach, and the price of tickets has
been fixed at 255. Captain Broomfield and Mr. John
Pone are hou. treasurers, and Misers, Thoa. Bobertson
and Geo. Munro, hon. secretaries of the movement.
« • •
Following out a plan they started last year of
having agreeable social evenings during the winter, a
party of gentlemen gave their first soirie dansante of
this year in the Newtown Oddfellows’ Hall, on Friday.
The entertainers are, as vet, gentlemen living in a state
©f pitiable—if not actually reprehensible—misery. For
they are single. But there is reason to believe that,
although the entertainments are ostensibly given for
the purpose of hoalthy gentle exercise, they really
cloak a deep and subtle design, by which these young
wen hope to ameliorate their sad condition. The hall
was decorated in a manner distinctly Australian, and
looked cosiiy w*rm under the heavy euoalypt foliage.
Which foliage had been fixed at the cost of one good
man disabled, who hurriedly stepped from the ceiling
to the floor, while decorating, the previous night, and
was consequently hors de danse, or, in classic colonial,
was “ out of it.” Owing to this accident, the attend-
ance was less than it might have been. Twenty-four
dances kept all busy till 4in the morning. Among the
nioc dancers were : A pretty daughter of a Pitt-stroet
importer in a dull black sleeveless dress with pink
bows; a petite in ruby and blue; and a blonde armful of
jov in black velvet. Two Blncktown girls and a hand-
pome cousin of theirs from St. Peter’s were nice, in
white llama—or something. Callaghan, of George-
sireet, catered with civility and care; and a trio of
musicians (Mr. F. Eamsay, presiding) played operatic
and other dance airs in excellent time. Mr. Samuel
M’Cauley was first engineer of the soirde, and his brisk
efforts are almost sure to result, at any pate in some
quarters, in ‘'events of more or less importance."
# * *
“Indeed,” she said; severely, tossing her spin-
ster ringlets, “I think TpE Bulletin might do better
than meddle with othes people's business, dragging
every good-looking girl into public notice." Then they
went on talking, and he found she had read every par.
on 11 other people’s business" that has appeared in Tub
Bulletin for two years, but she had never been
dragged into public notice.
• m •
It is an affecting thing. We have received —of
course not from Henniker Heaton I—the Court
Circular of May 13th, in which a description of Mrs.
Heaton's drawing-room dress appears, the par. in which
it is embodied being exactly four lines longer than that
containing the costume of the Princess of Wales I ’1 he
item must certainly have either been written by Hen-
niker or a pawnbroker, since every ornament the lady
wore is set down seriatim. Anyhow, Mrs. Heaton is
favoured. For instance, while the other ladies appear
to he content with “ ornaments—diamonds, ‘ —or
“pearls and diamonds,” as the ease may be —Mrs. H.’s
par contains a list of jewellery that reads like a
quotation from Dunn and Co.’s advertisements. Mark
this:—“Ornaments, large diamond necklet and pend-
ant ; diamond half hoops and diamond star in hair;
diamond pendant earrings; and on arm a ruby, dia-
mond. sapphire, and emerald triple hoop bracelet."
Can all this be accidental, now: or is Henniker intro-
ducing side-of-baoon and oaso-of-orangas journalism
jnto the world’s metropolis? It looks confoundedly
Jf ke it |
r- • w
On Friday week, Mr. and Mrs. of “ Holly-
thorpe," Sutton Forest, gave a very enjoyable evening
party, and a number of ladles apd gentlemen from
Svdney were present. Tho hostess apd hep talented
little daughters? fostered enjoyment by their pleasing
attentions to all. The dresses of tho ladipi were mostly
of a quiet description. Two dark green velvet dresses
with sliver ornaments wore admired. A dark young
lady from |D trlinghurst, with large brown eyes, looked
nice, though a trifle pensive, perhaps.
« • •
The fortnightly rink and danoo at Glammia Hall
is very popular. Last Thursday, about 90 visitors were
present, but not many skated. Prominent was a jovial
old gent, in the Customs. Though many winters had
given him a “ frosty pow," he is as good as the youngest
yet. Skating is demoralising. When a man sits pro-
miscuously on the floor with a jar that makes his spinal
column creak, he is a shallow hypocrite to smile and
pretend he thinks it fun. The skates were put away at
nine o’clock, and programmes appeared. They were
little gluographs, and contained a dozen dances, which
good music and a smooth floor made easy work. Ladies
came from all parts; and beauty must have been scarce
in those parts till some of the girls got home again.
Two blondes from Waverley were attractive ; and two
ftleugpore Boad sisters were so too, in velvet and silk,
ptli brown : a little brunette and a lovely blonde. From
bfoore Park Boad a trio of Hebrew maidens came in
Kaok, two spatera and a cousin, and the cousin was a
belle of the very fpnegt tinkle.
f
A young lady of Tumut sends ps this ejeiting
yarn Wbon four Tumut girls were visiting a station
on the Murrumbidgee, and having a week of gaiety, a
young roan, crossing the river one night to a dance,
capsized and lost h*s hat. We believe all this; it is
feasible. But next day, the four Tumut girls and the
gentleman got into a boat, rowed five miles, ran on a
snag, and there was a frantic straggle between all
hands to prevent one girl from jumping overboard j yet
all they wanted was —to get his hat. This hat business
oap-sizos us a bit.
• • #
The long-expected Rowing Club Ball eventuated
at Newcastle on Thursday last, and was a pronounced
success. 'lhc City Hall was tastefully decorated with
flags and evergreens, appropriate trophies of sculls and
the usual aquatic implements, conspicuous being a
splendid wager skiff. Hardy's Q. N. Band provided ex-
cellent music, and Lashmore the needful wherewith to
refresh the inner man and woman. The cestnmss were
goodly, and displayed evidences of great ingenuity as
well as taste. Miss Cloudy, Shepherdess dla Watteau
(Louis XVI.), was prettily and appropriately attired; as
was also Miss Amy Cross as Claudine. Miss A. Bewick,
a Brigand's Daughter, made one wish to be a traveller
bailed up by her—if such a charming girl could Be-
wiok-ed enough to do it. Mrs Knaggs wag magnificently
attired as Lady Jane Grey; and a very neat dress was
worn by Miss Burks, namely, Red-Wbite-and-Blua.
Strauss Girl and Star Girl, by the Misses Fletcher, were
capital, and full of interest, too. Mrs. J.|M. Sweet was
America, and Miss Cnandace neatly represented Red
Riding Hood. So much for the ladies. Amongst the
sterner sex, the following gentlemen wore creditable
dresses and disguises Mr. W. D. Bingle, as King John,
splendidly pourtrayed the character. Mr. Carlton was
an Irishman, and Messrs. Bendy and St. George also
impersonated Boys from the Quid Dart. The secretary
(Mr. R. *. King) wag a good King—Richard 111.
Messrs. Dobie, M'Diarmid, and Wilkinson, as the
Three Musketeers, and Mr. LeNevn, as the Dauphin
of Prance, were also good. But the character which un-
doubtedly carried the palm amongst the gents, was Sir
Peter Teazle, represented by Mr. Dawson, who both
looked and acted the personage. Honours as " belle ”
wore very equally divided; some awarding the prize to
Fiametta (Miss Boss), others to the Shepherdess d la
Watteau (Miss Cloudy). Dancing commenced at nine,
aud at four the band played “ God save the Queen.’*
• « •
A Children’s Fancy Dress Party was given in
the Mechanics’ Institute, East Maitland, on the 11th
July, and a number of ladies and gentlemen were also
invited, to help the juveniles to enjoy themselves. Mias
Clare Caop, as Snow, and Miss Salomon ns a Waitress,
looked exceedingly wall, honours of belle being divided.
The character of a Gipsy suited a young lady who is
noted for wearing unusually short dresses Paul Pry
was a failure, as also was a Spanish lady. A Joint Stock
Bank gentleman made up well as a Neapolitan fisher-
man. A very small, but pretty young lady, as Frost,
was admired. The children, generally, looked well.
Twelve young ladies (from fifteen up to thirty years
old) acted as waitresses, and a few looked pretty (the
young ones of course). It was facetiously remarked
that some of those present might well have attended ns
“ ladies,” to have rendered their disguises perfect. The
■upper was good : so were the wines, at least, so say a
few gentlemen who were principal tasters ou the
occasion.
• # #
We have received several letters from Brown,
Jones, and Robinson, asking us to notice their “ girls ”
at the Mercantile. Now, we are glad at any time to be
furnished with items of information which may interest
our readers, and will publish particulars of any con-
spicuous or fancy costumes that deserve notice; but
we d© not, in our " Social ’’ column, insert private
advertisements about the charms of Smith's sweet-
heart, or Jones’ inamorata, which are of no interest to
anyone except to those inestimable young people them-
selves. Correspondents, therefore, will edeavonr to
grasp the fact that it is no nse asking us to say that
“Miss Dash was enchantingly lovely, and was besieged
with partners,” or that “Miss Blank was quite too-too
in her home-made costume of sujee skirt and brown
paper polonaise.” We respectfully decline. By taking
this hint. Brown, Jones, and Robinson will save them-
selves much poignant grief, and our office boy will have
more leisure to think over the next week’s cartoon.
• • •
Mr. Alexander Qeddes’s private rink and danoe
at the Mechanics’ Institute, Botany, was attended by a
good many invites last Friday. Some ladies skated,
and others made themselves valuable by contributing
the necessary music, while the company danced and
“rank” alternately. Sociability prevailed.
• • •
The Masons of Casino had a ball on St. John’s
Day. Invitations were very inclusive, and ranged from
the dlite to the man who hawks fish on Fridays. A concert
passed off fairly, fun commencing with the dancing
As there were no placards of each dance, the silvertails
had the advantage, as they always had half the dance
through before the coppertails knew what it was going
to be. The square dance had a levelling effect, which
disgusted the “ uppers” as muoh as it delighted the
“ lowers”; they were obliged to mix then, and the
butcher hoy found himself for the first time “in
society. ” It was all great fun to people of a broad
grasp of mind.
• • *
At Eaipford’s Cambridge Club Hotel, on Friday
evening, the Oppoesum Club held their usual monthly
sociable i large attendance of members and friends,
many being unable to find seats. About 0 o’clock, Mr.
W. j]. Sheridan, the tragedian, entered by invitation,
and the president gave hirh a formal welcome. During
the evening he recited ■’ The Dream of Eugene Aram”
with splendid effect, and then remarking that it was
but a step from the sublime to the ridiculous, responded
to tho “ encore” by giving imitations of a timid boy and
a bold boy struggling through a recitation, which caused
roars of laughter. Mr. Doyle gave a solo on the mouth
organ, and Mr. H. W. Chapman, secretary, recited
“ The Raven” very effectively. Comicisms were sup-
plied by Mr. Harris, Mr. Mannix, and a Victorian
gentleman who is equally clever as a footballer or a
veoalist—in fact, as good at one bawl as another. Mr.
Walton executed a violin solo, Mr. De Groeu selections
on tke piano, and a number of songs and recitations
came from other members. It was ons of the best
nights the Opossums have had.
• • *
At the Association Ground on Saturday, only
about threescore ladies occupied the grand-stand, weich
looked dreary ; though on the lawn rich and handsome
toilettes of Judah’s daughters made bright flecks of
colour. The game itself was brisk enough to keep
spectators in excitement; still, a band of music would
have come in acceptably. A well-known Hebrew mtr-
chant rejoiced in the possession of three ladies, whose
toilettes were remarkably handsome; one was of pea-
cock blue silk and broche velvet, furnish* d with a grace-
ful train, velvet bonnet prettily relieve! with delicate
pink blossoms; number two very tioo in rich violet
moire short dress, Louis Qualorze jacket fattened with
gold buttons, and princess bonnet of the same hue;
tho third, a very youthful demoiselle’s costume, con-
stated of maroon cashmere, across the front of which a
showy scarf of lavender and black silk was draped. A
lady of redundant f jrm was clad in a quiet but e'egant
toilette of black pekiu velvet, with a train of
lengthy grandeur. Her less ample companion wore a
pretty combination of black velvet and brown moi p,
with a velvet poke bonnet. One qf the nicest and most
becoming dresses was that rv u rn by the “Nun” of the
M.R C. Ball, whose pretty little f* rnt looked its best in
peacock green velvet broohd, brightened with gilt
buttons and carmine ribbon; velvet poke hat, with a
deep pink rose resting on ihe sunny brown fringe.
Very tasteful was a small Israeiitess' costume of black
velvet, draped |with golden bronze surah ; hat embel-
lished with a paon vert wiiag. The same may be said of
a greuat velvet; and satin robe, which, with a handsome
Cavalier hat of velvet, was relieved with pale pink ; as
also of a diess of violet eatin, brocaded with white—hat,
corresponding.
• # «
The City of Sydney took away, amongst other
valuables, en the 13t,h, irfr. CyrusJMason aud his pretty
little bride (nde Soroggie), who have gone by way of
America lor a two years’ visit to the Old and New
Worlds.
• • •
The Native Rose Lodge of Oddfellows held their
Anniversary Ball, in the Protestant Hall, on Tuesday
night, some thirty-five couples attending. Proceedings
were to commence at 8.3), but np to 9 o’clock, the
string band, which had been engaged, did not appear.
It was very annoying; ladies shivered, and gentlemen
used words of quite an anti-Joseph-Cook character
expressive of their feelings towards the absent musi-
cians. A curly-haired hero stept into the breach as
emergency man, and played two or three waltzes ; and
about half-past 9 soma musicians kindly sent by Mr.
Bailey arrived. Dresses were simple, the prettiest one 1
« tasteful blue and maize satin, being worn by Mias
Manning', who was fairly belle of the hall. We notice
that Oddfellows daaca very much on their toes, at
least those of the Native Eobb Branch, Q U 0.0. F. do.
Mr. C. Brown was an active M. 0., and Messrs. Q. Tay-
J, Eitchie helped things along. A few more
ladies would have improved the aspect of things—of
course, they always do but on this occasion especially
—for, owing to their scarcity, [the part taken by some
of the “odd” fellows was merely a spectacular one.
Ministering mutes from Cripps’s establishment pro-
vided liquids and solids at a healthy looking table under
the gallery. A capital programme of sixteen dances
was concluded by about 1 a.m,
** * *
Instead of a ball from the bachelors and a
return one by the benedicts, the blest and the uablest
of West Maitland intend to unite this year, and give
three dance parties during the Winter, subsoiiption,
SvrVv. ,A ' moll,r the P rct ty dresses at the Newcastle
E.C. ball was that of Mrs. Oates as Marie Stuart, in
pale blue satin, ruffles, and headdress of pearls. Mrs.
Orr, in white satin and pearls, was an excellent Lady
Teazle; and Messrs. Longwell and Hyde got up as the
Corsican Brothers This evening, Thursday, the
Pride of Waterloo Lodge of Oddfellows hold their
Anniversary Ball in Bailey’s Assembly Booms
Next Thursday, the annual ball at the Australian Social
Lodge of Freemasons will pass off in the Town Hall
* buls. Last year, it was one of the most agreeable
aliairs of the dance season On Friday, an enjoyable
party was given hr a well-known good fellow of Stan-
more......On the 27th instant, the bachelors of Band-
wlok give a fashionable ball in the local Town Hall. All
balls are “ foot ’* balls, of course, but this is more so
than most.... There will be a Masonic Ball at the Osborne
Hall, Forbes, on Tuesday. Ist August Last night
a large number of “Owls" met for a
—yyinx in the Masonic Hall, concert and dance
The Young Mechanics’ Dance Club of Newcastle will
hold a plain and fancy dress ball in the Warwick Hall,
shortly.... .A number of old Gladstone House students
entertained Mr. William Smairl at a dinner on Friday,
/th July. After the formal toasts, Mr. Arthur Moore
proposed the health of the guest, who replied. Songs,
recitations, etc., brought the reunion to a close about
eleven o’clock The fourtl Bachelors’ Assembly
(Deeper, sec) took place on Friday, at Needs’s,
when a handred and twenty dancers occupied the floor
and had a pleasant time till “the hour when chnrch-
yardsyawu.’’ Then they yawned, and went home
Xhe Geelong footballers went round a good deal. They
were taken a trip outside the Hoads and round the
harbour; they spent a night at D'Harcourt’s gymna-
sium ; they spent a night attbeOwls ; some visited the
Foasnm*; and they had a night at Foley’s Athletic
Hall Last night (Wednesday), Mrs. W. Pritchard
gave a large party at "Lithgow,” North Annandale
At the recent Pace Ball, at Herberton (N Q ), one well-
Known merchant was in the habit of engaging three
ladies for oaoh dance. He says he believes in wholesale
business........ Among the presentations at the last
Oneen s Drawing Boom were Mrs. J. Henniker Heaton
(by the Yucountess Folkestone). Sir Henry Parkes (by
the Secretary of State), and Mies Parkes (by the
Countess of Kimberley) A Masonic hall will be given
~ ■£ A « str alian Social Lodge, No. 263, in t'-e Town
Hall Vestibule, on Tuesday, the 27th. Good band and
refreshments by the City Company Grafton Free-
masons celebrated their anniversary by a ball on the
frd In commemoration of the taking of the Bastille.
Monii. De Court, French Consul, gave a banquet to a
?u of f? on tlomen, at the Australian Club On
the 11th, a ball took place at Boggabri. the day the rail-
way was opened; and on the 12th the Orangeman had a
ball ax Queanbeyan The Drapers’ Association held
their first conversazione last Thursday. Only members
wore present, and they passed the evening in what the
IATTI.K man- calls “impromptu” songs and recitations.
... ..In connection with the Bourke Pastoral Show, a
ball was held on the 7ch July,
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Oddfellows’ Ball, Q U. (Waterloo) July 20.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)... July 21.
Burwoed Private Assembly . . j„iy gl
Hercules Dramatic Club Ball (Nithsdale).',, July 2s!
Masonic Ball, I C. (Town Hall) July 27.
Bandwick Bachelors' Ball July 27
Newtown Volunteer Fire Brigade Ball
(Newtosn) July 27.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) July 28.
Wallaroo Football Club's Sports July 29.
University Annual Commemoration July 29
E.C. Bachelori'Ball (Town Hall) August 1.
Sydney Bicycle Club Meeting August 26.
Myrrh.
(FoR The Bulletin.
A dream as black as is the heart of night.
Spread over me the shadow of vast wings.
And, as a dying man, X saw all things
Laid bare in one swift lightning-flash of sight.
There was not any light like God’s sweet light
In Heaven; round the sun were purple rings,
Like those Death sets around the eyes of kings,
To warn them they have done with all delight.
But one great gem hung in the heavy air.
Beneath whose light a feeble folk did seem
To struggle for a cup marked sweet life, where 53
Blood-hued rose-leaves around the rim did gleam,
And underneath in lurid letters Myrrh -
O Qon! was this a waking or a dream ?
VICTOR J. DALEY.


CROSS'S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CUBE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from »•
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DEOPS WILL CUBE INDIGESTION.
Sold in bottles, 2*. 6d. and 4s. 61., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and
Okarles Cross. M.P.S. Yiot.; M.H P.5.,Gt.8.,
QAWLEB, SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOPPNUNG & CO.
u NDER SECTION V., ACT 532.
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
M «00 SUD«CRIBBR# of £1 each.
12# PKIZB 4 of the foil value of £10,060.
117 lots guaranteed, o.sh if preferred.
Loti, let prise £4OOO I JLot S 3rd prize... £1350
Lot 2. 2nd prise £#ooo | Lot 4 4th prize £4OO
Lota 5 to 8. Prizes of £l5O each.
Let It, 1 Prize uf £5O.
Lobe 1 1 to Sn, 10 Prices of £lt oath.
Lots at to IJO, 100 Prizes ef £4 eaefa.
The management is compelled te extend the time of
drawing to the Irst day of August, 1832. Not with,
etanding this nnnenneoraent, the drawing will posi-
tively bo proceeded with seven days after the shores
are subscribed for. All unsuccessful applicants will
have their money returned per ret.nru of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, it not a large and independent fortune,
for £l.
Address B. PERB9E, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers ; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
fTHHE BLACK CURRANT BALSAM
Acts likea charm in every kind ef Cough.
A Single Dose gives Belief at once, and procures
Refreshing Sleep.
MADE ONLY BY SENIOR,
Chemist to His Excellency.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur-
nishing a New Heme or adding to the onmforts of
your present Home, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, CO.
who will furnish houses on Ihe
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
ear n#tb the Addrxss—
WILLIAMSON, M’CEBEEY, A CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
J. THOMAS.
BILLIAR DTABLE MAKER.
153 HATHUEST STREET.
CUBS, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS. Ac.
T
HBA T E E
* &
Sub-Lessees and Sole ms
Messrs. vVilliamion, Garner, i
YOUTH,
HGNOLD.
YOUTH.
bignold.
youth.
bignold.
youth.
bignol-d.
youth.
BIGNOLD.
youth,
bignold.
touth,
Merrit and Harris
Great Drama,
EVERY EVEN IN
Great Oast
o(
Characters.
Immense
Segoaes.
Sesßary
Jelsa nSnaings
•artel* rite*
at 7.45.
Box Plan now open dally from 11
« itrauoe, Castlereagh-streat. Seats
days in advance, and Tickets oPba
ibe kouso at Lloyd's, next the Thea
Treasurer Mi
Manager Youth Combination... Mi
Aval -tans Stage Manager Hr
o
PER A B
Lessee and Manager
LAST WEEK BUT
ef
MR. .FREDERICK MAi
ai d his
COMEDY COMPAI
LAST NIGHT BUT
of
the great London am
JEAMES JEAMEd JJ
SCENERY BY
GEORGE GORDO
SATURDAY EVENING. BLOI
Wednesday Evening, for the last thi
Prices a* nsnaL
Box Plan at A. Hueneraelu's, G#<
Acting Manager for Mr. Marshall,
G
AIE X T
T I
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayleas
MONDAY NEXT, JUL
Greatest Production Ever Attempt
WALTER BKTNOI
New Spectacular Society
VANITY PAIR
Amongst thsse engaged for its re
Mr. Prank Cates Miss
Mr. Jas. P. Cathcart Mies
Mr. H. Stoneham Mrs.
Mr. W. J. Foley Miss
Mr. W. Carle Hits 1
and
MB. WALTER EETN
GORGEOUS SCENERY by
Entirely new Limelight, Gas, and
by O'Neil, Vincent, and triple stall i
JJ-AET’S HAPn
Will Open in NEWCi
SATURDAY JULY i
For Seven Nigbte O
Thence Northward, Overlanc
-r
SOUTHS OPERA
STILL TO THE FB
The above Favorite and Talented
on their Southern Tour, and
OULBURN,
YASS,
MURRUMBUREAH,
COOTAMUN
EN ROUTE.
NEW AND CHOICE REP
Address: BULLETIN C
. WHITTINGTON
E. AND MRS. JAM
- OMTSS MARSTON LI
T
OWN HALL, PE
FRIDAY, JULY S
A GRAND COMPLIMENTA]
tendered to
MISS KATE CASEY,
and
MR, R, CROFT, Pianist and
who will hare the pleasure of intr
Blockhead Famil
Tbbekce O’Hihxt, Miss Saha
AOKBT SKCOXES.
Admission;
Chairs, 3a.: Second Seats, 25.)
Doors open at 7.30, overturi
Carriages msy ha ordered foi
jyj A S 0 N I c
AUSTRALIAN SOCIAL LODI
Under the Patroni
of the
R.W.P.G. Master, J. W. Gull
R.W.D.G. Master, Or. W. Q.
Right Worshipful the Mayer <
The ANNUAL BALL in ennnoe
Lodge will he held In the Yestih
HALL on THURSDAY Evening, 2
IfFirst-elaee String Band engaged.
Refreshments provided bp the Cil
PrSee of Tickets;
Douhls, 255.; Ladies’, 10s.; S
to be obtained from
B. A. ANDREWI
J. D. STEPHEN
J. H. YOUNG, Hon. Treasurer,
TO THE OPERATIC AND
PROFESSION,
NEW OPERA HC
WELLESLEY STREET, AU(
Sole Proprietor, H. N. J
nriHIS Magnificent' Building is n<
I THE MODEL Opera House
the Largest and Meat Commodiot
Erected on Ksteat models,.it will b<
every Modern Comfort and Luxury
the curtain) appertaining te t
Theatres hi the OM aud New WerU
fa perfect. AH parte ef the Hsua
and egress from broad, light, and ai
precaution hftc been taken to save
ease of fire, and the Auckland dtp I
Inspected and MgWv commended tfl
to that end. Magnificently and
Its Luxurious Private Bonos, Dri
ehestra Stall 3, together with its a
Stalls Aooomodatien, are feature.* I
Colonial Theatres. The Opera He
hp the Wllnamsea Opera Oompai
commencing from 23rd Mag next. '
and Agents’ 0 ► tiers," and Combine
apply to the Proprietor tor terms a
won.
N
EW TOWN HAL]
MAIN HALL OPEN FOB H
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, QAf
Applications for engagements t
EBEAE2
TO THEATRICALS ANC
T
THE TOOWOOMBA SCHOOL
been now thoroughly renovi
tings, erected, can be engaged
night.
IHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAR.
Public Hall, Oreymoukh, 21th Ml
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
Abbott’s Now Theatre, Auttda:
weeks.
Houses packed to snffoeatioi
rEeTtricit X IS
Yes I When properly applied
THE MAGS
The only Care for RHEUMATI
A -
All Nervous Affect
«
pAi«n{sae wa A ns AfetatiMnn. n
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
///
■ i/.
WiZW’i
! :
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER,
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL AND CO.,
Wliioh gained first and special prize
YVEIi '
LATH BTDN
ALL OTHER*
at the
NTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS,
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the Various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Sonfieto’s, Kirkman’s, and Huudt and Sons Piano-
forte*. . „ .
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clongh
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
W. H. P A LINO,
362 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WTNTABD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. P. DeCOURCY BROWNE.
(Late Depnty-Chairman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
Asthob or thk “ Miners’ Handt Book,” &0., &0.,
MINING EXPERT,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBER*,
126 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &0., &0
*
R BURCIS
TAILOR. .
E
R E 3 LJ R 3 Cr
"ISIT E. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, ITO PITT STREET,
(or
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams (or seK-measnring (orworded to any part o(
the Coiony.
BIACKET AND DAYY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS POE
GARRET AND SON'S
COMPOUND POETABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE m PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A A
A A
A AA
A A A A
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.


p
u B L I C NO
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPIK
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecnt
endeavours to deceive the public by
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for then
BRANDS «t PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to a
bearing
<• THE TAEPINO MIXTURE.”.
MIXTURE.
Every packet be are the signatur*
thus—
Clifford, Love, & I
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, must be certain that everj
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS,
to take inferior teas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPINO MIXTURE AB
MIXTURE ARE GUAR
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH]
WHOLESALE GROCER ANI
TO EX STREET, BTI
JOHN
W IMPORTER 0
Plumbers* and Engineers* Brass*
Qasflttinge, Globes, Electric
Batchers* Brine I
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe, <
119 LIVERPOOL STREE r
MOST PLEASi
HOUSEHOLD!
TAKE NOTE OP T]
WHEN PURCHASING YOUB
ask for
PANTER AND PA
NEW EXTRACT 03
AND SEE THAT TOP OEI
SUPERIOR TO ALL 01
S| TttE'T Washing and Disinfei
* s® tion known, for Clothes, 1
A , Crockery, Paint, Glass, and eve
* nurpose. Used and recomnn
F Laundry at Government Hoi
; twonr (Inspector of Nuisances]
E’ (Orient Laundry), and by I
j udges to be the best article mi
REMEMBERI
i Washing and cleaning doni
lime, with half the Labour.
• Everything Cleaner, Health]
, loasant attar using.
HOMES MADE HAI
TO BE HAD OP ALL G
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-S 1
IN THE WORI
fii E TU R E CO
A
N
D
With superfluoua fat
extracted,
produces
Delicious
?e.
rage
V
❖
o
c
drinl
O
liquid yield
RY
SOLD BT ALL G
BLACK AND COLOURED
VELVETEENS, 20 DIPPEEE
at
EDWARD HORDERN i
668 BRICKFIELD I
v.irjing in price from la lid to
YRA’S JOURNAL” sava
i NIUM * Velveteen (calle
name of ’be City of Manchester
Eonu'i-I 'B "uperb, soft, and bril
colour roii.Bß and DBirsnthanoa
which er-‘ o ' the side of blooness, a
WITH NO OTH Ein ULACK MATERIAL.
“•The is so rich
CAN RE us. 1> WITH ALL CLASSES OF
bo of important to many."
SEE THEM, bxamin:
"LA MODEILLUSTRE” says:
CUNIUM* Uno imitation parfai
Velours de Lyon e« rencontre dsns
brevetd sous lo titre ue M ANCUNI
"Co Velours ost brillnut d’aspec
la durability de la couleur en sent ri
quo par wne eombinai“<>n de plusi
excellentes il cst aanari»i '. La teis
ost garahtie eolide ; ja <n il l oxpesit
la couleur; voila. i ie raison I
/Lnlsiosa nnnr roirmln r 1; Volot
JiMEsiIIARTIN & Com
Late 1
The Leading
A
We invite c
Purchasers of
Machinery, ar
logues with cl
everything req
Our stock is th
the
Corn Shellei
Corn Huskei
Maize Drills
Corn Cracke
Chaff Cutler
Horse Powei
Steam Engin
AND EV
\ FARM, I
Wr
James MAI
c H;rino
SUITE
ME AS 1
£3 I
ALL V*
&B(
THOEOl
SHE'D
TEOUI
T(
ORDER,
Fron
BEST B
TWBJ
SUITS
MEASUR
H.
L.
8
U
M
M
E
B
E
I
E
L
D.
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOE,
235
PITT STREET
(Only.)
THE PEOPLE'S
TAILOR,
235
PITT STREET
(Only.)
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOE,
235
PITT STREET
(Only.)
*
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOR,
235
PITT STREET
(Only.)
H. L.
Summer field,
235
PITT STREET,
SUBNET.
TAIIOR,
m
X
1
M. QOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOE . M
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
1L GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £ 3 15a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. .£4
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 4a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 10s.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
market street.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
n
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
E W
MR.
CONFECTIONEE AN]
so favourably known to the Goners
Aldermen of various mnnioipaUti
bodies, ha* SBMOVBD to M® ®
SHOP, No. 607 * T12 GBOEOB ST
the corner of Goulbum-street, wn
to boo his old customers, and to wh
for their liberal support, and hot
There is a private room and 1(
requisite much needed in Sydney,
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDBEMBN'S D1N1
WEDDING BEBAKI
MINISTBKIAL BAN
n/\f ti« n TiHltf .ffls M Itvlfl.
