

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 128.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 27. 1882.
Price—3d
§ullctin.
SATURDAY, MAY 27 1882.
One Remedy for Corruption.
Evert friend of New South Wales must wish, ot
all things, for the establishment of local self-
government. The Bill bashfully put forward last
session by Sir Henet Parkes, to bo quietly with-
drawn from a House pre-occupied with private
jobs, is, howevsr, not exactly the measure wanted.
If carried into law as printed, it would prove a
monstrosity, equally unintelligible and unwork-
able —except as a new shackle to rivet the monopoly
of centralisation, and as opening a fresh field of
Ministerial patronage for the dispensing of billets
and contracts. The law that we need is such as
those that our neighbours have enjoyed—some of
them for many years. In Victoria, since 1861,
various Local Government Acts have been passed,
all these being incorporated in the Act of 1874.
Accordingly, the interior life of that colony goes
on under the daily supervision of local bodies
appointed by the inhabitants. Roads, bridges,
markets, gardens, parks, waterworks, are all con*
strnoted, repaired, and managed without reference
to the party in power in the Assembly. The yells
of the patriots engaged in “ taking capital by the
throat,” and making “ Victoria a fine country for
the workingman,” pass harmlessly over the heads
of the inland residents, who, like their forefathers
in the old country, are engaged, under those time-
honoured institutions which they have had the
sense to adopt, in managing their own business at
their own doors. In this way, the true spirit of
liberal institutions is realized in a most beneficial
and conservative form; and it is in this self-
government that Victoria has the pull of New
South Wales. South Australia and Tasmania have
also had their Local Government Acts for years—
the latter commencing so long ago as 1865
and both have benefited equally with Victoria.
They have created local bodies through which the
people of each District govern themselves and tax
themselves; and, in the working of these, they
learn daily lessons of public probity, economy,
and duty. Where each district pays for itself,
a different principle is brought to life
from that which we uphold. In our colony,
wasteful, reckless, prodigal expenditure is the
best card for any Ministry—and the Treasury is
always open to them to provide for their sup-
porters. The youngest colony of all, Queensland,
passed her Divisional Boards Act in 1880, with
much subsequent benefit. An official report says:—
** The effect of this Act is briefly to remove the
control of all the roads and bridges of the colony
from the Public Works Department to local bodies
elected by the people. The significance of this
change in our system of Government is very great.
The evils resulting from the political influence
hitherto brought to bear upon the management of
road and bridge works have been long admitted,
and deplored by public men of all shades of
opinion. The only material difference revealed by
the discussions of the lost session, was, as to
whether or not the eolony was ripe for the general
adoption of a system of local government. Local
government is a privilege which all English-
speaking races have held in high esteem. It has
proved the foundation and safe-guard of repre-
sentative institutions, and it is an insult to men
who have inherited the privilege of managing
their own affairs to tell them that, because they
have made their homes in a now country, they are
no longer capable of exorcising their time-honoured
right.” The Queensland people have proved
themselves so capable of self-government that their
Works Department has been absolutely abolished
within two years after the passing of the
Divisional Boards Act.
• • •
It seems a strange thing that the mother colony
of the group should have failed so completely to
develop as her offspring have done, after the
custom of all free communities of our race. Every-
where else, the people who speak our language
manage their own matters at their own doors But
New South Wales still smacks strongly of
the stockade and the barracks, and though we
have adopted popular institutions, it is in but a
bastard fashion. Our Central Government re-
tains the same grasp on the community as in the
days when no man could cross the Nepean without
showing his pass, and when any man who wanted
a pint of rum or a pound of tobacco had to pull
off his hat to the Commissariat Storekeeper. The
patronage now-a-days is shifted from the nominee
of Downing-street to the leader of the ruling
majority in Maoquarie-street: but we have only
to read Parkes and Robertson for Blioh and
Darling, and allowing for the change of the
times, the way in whish Government is carried on
is much the same. From the mending of a culvert
to the whitewashing of a look-up, every thing
affecting any part of the colony has to be nego-
tiated through special interest, carried through
Public Departments in Sydney, and made the
subjeotof a twaddling red tape ritual as meaning-
less, useless and wasteful as any other Mutnbo-
Jumbo ever was. The loss and jobbery resulting
from this centralised expenditure are well known,
but these are by no means the chief reasons for
advocating local institutions. If we desire to
raise the tone of the Legislature, to make public
life respectable, and to lift our electors to the high
position of free men, ready to accept the rights
and responsibilities of their race, we can only do
so by adopting self-government, and getting rid of
every relic of the centralisation and half-turnkey,
half-bureau-orat, officialism of the old times. To
numbers among us, though, from their antece-
dents and political training, the privilege which
they now enjoy of gutting the Treasury is sure to
be infinitely more palatable than the barren and
unprofitable honours of oivio independence.
Such tendencies, however, may not be uni-
versal. Perhaps, there may be a strong
minority who see that liberty divorced from duty
is not true freedom. It is only the license and
ribaldry of the escaped galley-slave—the flashness
of the tioket-of-leave man. If our people can be
gradually brought to accept such duties as their
kinsmen have undertaken in other colonies, then
there may bo some prospect of a change for the
better in our public relations.
• • #
But powerful motives are certain to resist any
such improvement. Every year the grasp of the
Government on the life of the colony has stretched
farther and strained tighter. Whoever has
watched our Parliament lately and has been much
up the country, must have had evidence to satiety,
that the engrossing patronage of the Executive
has kept pace, step by step, with the degradation
of our politics and the signal decay of self-help
and honourable independence among the people.
The Ministry absolutely commands the votes of
all the “ practical, local ” men in the House—the
men sent in to get cash for their constituents.
Snoh members form three-fourths of the whole.
It can be no affront to say of those that they know
absolutely nothing of political topics. Indeed,
they pretend to no such knowledge. They would
scorn the charge as an imputation of soft-headed
gaby-ism, if they were accused of cherishing any
theories or principles that would prevent their
selling their votes for road and bridge money to
be spent among their clients. As is tie represen-
tative, so are the electors. Consequently, that
candidate at the hustings has the Ibest chance,
who rates the lowest in brains and honesty. The
successful man is sent in simply as a commission-
agent, and the fewer scruples he has and the less
he knows about large questions, the bettor.
* * •
All this is too obvious and too well-known to be
worth comment, and, indeed, our diseased Parlia-
mentary life is in perfect conformity with other blem-
ishes that are marring the healthful growth of our
youthful state. The “ Lands,” again, in their
Bedlam-like chaos, “run true” with the profli-
gate waste of the “Works”—both Departments
being “ buzzed” for political profit. The huge
revenue now coming in, which is literally “ black
mail,” being money paid by flock-owners for pro-
tection against ruin, supplies each Ministry with
the means ot buying up constituencies: and the
shekels are dispensed through the “ Works,” one
half being spent on operations which are useless, and
the other in jobs that cost twice as much as they
should. Those who “ collar ” the swag, no doubt
recognise ajmanifest design, fitness, and symmetry
in all this —like the growth of a cancer.
• * •
Political fraud fattens on the war between
selection and squatting—between spoliation and
monopoly—produced by the wisdom of our states-
men. And, while this feud goes on, honest work,
neighbourly feeling, and independent manly enter-
prise are becoming things of the past. The
venom of class hatred, sedulously stirred by every
mountebank orator who wants a vote, has been-
for years festering the body politic, while the
electors, befooled a”d be-slobhered by their repre-
sentatives, are, under their dishonoured institu-
tions, assuming many of the characteristics of
pettifoggers paupers, and pimps. Local Govern-
ment, such as that of Queensland, would free our
Legislature from many corrupting influences,
and it would teach our electors a much wanted
lesson in public duty, economy and self-help; but
we fear if Sir Henry’s Bill, or any other local
Government Bill, is again pressed on the House,
it may end in a count-out, or a want of confidence
motion. Probably, tho purpose for which the mea-
sure was laid on the table has already been served.
Well-informed people said from the first that the
colony did not want a Local Government Bill,
that the House would never pass one, and that
the Premier never really meant it.
Liberal Disintegration.
The Liberal party in Great Britain has commenced
the process of internal disintegration, which we
long ago pointed out to be inevitable. The
ejection of Mr. Eorstkb from the Cabinet, and
Earl Cowpik from the Lord-Lieutenancy of Ire-
land, and the declaration that the Government, as
thus purged, did not propose to renew the Coercion
Act, are evidences that not merely personal dis-
sensions have distracted the Cabinet, but that a
serious disruption has at last taken place in the
party. _ The recent changes may be regarded as
signifying that the death-knell of Whiggism has
been sounded. The so-called Liberal party in
Great Britain —especially in the House of Commons
—has been a most anomalous league for years.
The tenets of Liberalism have been rapidly pro-
gressive, and have of lata years included many
doctrines which cannot but have been detestable
to territorial magnates, members of a privileged
caste, and representatives of “ county families.”
The agrarian doctrines of John Bright have
won their way, from being wildly revolutionary,
and not to be spoken of without such scornfully
lofty emphasis as is to-day applied when the
epithets ' communistic ” or *' socialistic ” are
mentioned, to being the seriously-declared prin-
ciples of a considerable section in Parliament, and
a very large body of the people of Great Britain.
The Ministry of Mr. Gladstone, when first con-
structed, was “the very model of a modern”
Liberal Administration ; that is to tay, a
Cabinet chiefly constituted of Wnig leaders,
with a certam infusion of Radical chiefs.
Those who can carry their memories back to the
time when the Cabinet was formed will remember
that H.M. the Queen did not call in Mr. Glad-
stone until she had vainly invited Lord Hart-
in qton, the leader of the old Whig party, to
oinstruct a Government. It may be remembered
that when Mr. Gladstone was forming his Cabinet
he nearly failed, owing to a disposition to leave
the duets of the Radicals out in the cold. By
admitting them in a subordinate digree, Mr.
Gladstone succeeded. Now, however, that
arrangement has been reversed. The Radical
members of the Administration have prevailed
over the Whig members. The agrarian dogmas
of the Irish agitation, which have always com-
mended themselves to radical thinkers, and have
recently made obvious progress both in England
and Scotland among the tenant classes —the artizan
orders have long entertained them—have found
sympathisers in the Cabinet itself, and the idea of
employing brutal and unconstitutional violence to
bolster up the claims of a class to batten upon the
earnings of a people has been discredited by men
like Chamberlain, Bright, and Dilke.
# # •
The disruption in the Cabinet is likely to bebnt
a prelude to very fundamental political changes.
It indicates the shattering of old associations,
and will probably render necessary a re-arrange-
ment of the particles in the political kaleidoscope.
So long as “ the Liberal party” meant a main.
body of solid old-fashioned Whigs, backed by
a contingent of Radicals not always in
sympathy with it, its predominance in the
State was fairly assured. The Conservatives
might get a spell of office from time to time, but
the Liberals could reckon upon longer and more
frequent tenure. The Radicals, however little
they might relish the main features of Whiggish
rule, could not but infinitely prefer these to Con-
servative theories. The Whigs could generally
carry a Conservative measure, in defiance of their
Radical allies, by patching up a temporary com-
pact with their T ory opponents. And tno Radicals,
however incensed, wore powerless to institute
reprisals. Detached, they were impotent; »md
when the Whigs chose to undertake some really
Liberal measure, they were compelled by their
principles to support these with their utmost
energies. The case wid be very different however,
yhen we arrive at a Radical Government sup-
rtsrted by a malcontent body of Whigs. Thera
has been no real line of political separation
between high Whigs and Conservatives for a
considerable time. The distinction has been alto-
gether fanciful. A Liberal duke or baron, a
Liberal member of an old county-family, or man
of property, has bean a contradiction of ideas since
Liberal principles began to comprise ideas hostile
to the parpetuanoe of hereditary distinctions, and
theories favouring the distribution of the land.
These and kindred conceptions are rapidly becom-
ing the Liberal stock-in-trade, and sooner or later
the grands seigneurs and petits seigneurs who
ranged themselves on the Liberal aide from mere
impulse of family-pride, inasmuch as their great-
great-grand-sircs wore Whigs in the reign cf
Queen Anne, were certain to go over to their
friends and neighbours in the Tory ranks, and join
forces in protecting their pockets and privileges
from the attacks ot democrats and levellers. The
Radicals, if slighted and snubbed, could not de-
sert. The enemy ot Whiggism was tenfold their
foe. But the Whigs can desert witn perfect con-
MR. JOHN M'ELHONE, M.P.-(See next page)


HOP BITTERSI
ABE
THE PUREST AWjO BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are CmnpovmdeifrorH
Sops, Buohn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Beat, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and,
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Pdriiter, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask year Drug-gist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medioine ever made,
and no person or family should he with.
Ontit.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
®r languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive Too.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties s
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Ton.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Ton.
If yon are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the ease.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve Ton.
If yon are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton.
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What Ton Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give Ton New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &0., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yon will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTEPIORB. METCALFE, ft CO.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
OHIO FORCE IS LIFE FORCE,
H. 6. WHITING’S
PATENT PERFORATED
MAGNETOD!
RHEUMATISM can positively be Cured
by the use of the above appliance.
The MAGNETOD can ho worn without inconvenience.
The MAGNETOD is manufactured in various forma for
all parts.
The MAGNETOD will for years emit into the body
its recuperating forces, and should be worn for
General Debility.
The MAGNETOD cures complaints of 20 years' stand-
iug.
The MAGNETOD is the result of 20 years’ investiga-
tion by the patentee.
The MAGNETOD Cnres RHEUMATICS, Gout, Ner-
vons Diseases, Heart, Liver, and Throat Complaints,
and has been specially made for this climate.
The MAGNETOD requires no aeids, no attention, only
to be worn to core, gives no shocks, does not
destroy the underclothing, and is always ready.
Can be left off, when not required, without danger.
Can be worn by the most delicate man, woman, or
babe, without risk.
Full particulars can ha had by letter, or by applica-
tion on TUESDAYS and FRIDAYS,from 10 to 12 a.m.,
at the
SOLE AGENT FOB THE COLONIES:
JOHN GEE,
17 CHANGE ALLEY,
PITT STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
(Opposite No. 2 Coffee Palace.)
and with probably a gain to their personal
qjiitiafaotion. Tories at heart, they would be more
ait ease when brigaded with the Tories to fight for
their hearths and homes —splendid hearths and
palatial homes. The first real Radical Ministry
will probably be shortlived. By a coalition —os-
tensibly temporary-*between their Whig wing
and the Conservatives, they will most likely receive
a speedy overturn. When that shall have hap-
Sened, the real constitutional struggle in Qreat
Iritain will have been inaugurated. Conservatism
will, reinforced and concentrated, show a revival
which will astonish many people, and will also, by
its arrogance and intolerance, hasten the inevitable
day of ultimate Radical supremacy and social and
agrarian revolution.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
This Picture, and That!
Let the N.S.W. public, who still are—and for
years past have been—as dumb, driven cattle, in the
presence of the bombastic Farkes and his flunkies, not
forget that the Ministry who have just spared the life
of that sane, polished forger, and infamous, well-
educated ravisbor of little children, the school-
master Flomer, are the same men, the same
Ministry, who three years ago hanged an ignorant,
dirty, drunken Queensland blaokfellow for violating an
old woman. Let them not forget that this Ministry are
the men who, a day after they had handed tho aboriginal
to the executioner, and after they had, in Executive
Council assembled, twice over decided to hang the
Sodwalls criminals, commuted the sentence of those
scoundrels for no other apparent reason than that tbsy
were afraid to face a popular agitation. Parkes’ only
oesuse for robbing the hangman and the devil of their
own on that occasion was concluded in these words
(vvrixMm ct litter at ini): “They (the criminals) have
always maintained the honour of the girl 11!" How long,
O public of a “free colony,” are you going to
endure such things as these? Hew long will yon
*• toil onward as toils the dull bullock—unreasoning,
brutish and blind," while men, some of whom, judged
by the ordinary standards of honesty, would not
be trusted by you privately with a fourpenny-
pieoe, belabour you with whips and make
fortunes out of your sleepy, mud-headedness ?
Does there yet live in New South Wales
that Justice which “never" dies? No. Has New
Sonth Wales a Parliament ? No. Has she a Press P
No. Has she a Public Opinion P No. A record of the
infamies which dnring the past few years have in Sydney
been perpetrated in the name of Justice should be
written outside the courts and Houses of Parliament
in letters of blood by the finger of an honest man. If
death is the legal consequence of hia crime, then
should Plomer have been hanged, and then have the
Ministry betrayed the trust confided to them by the
densest populace which ever applauded an inflated
tyrant, or was cozened by a political fraud.
Babble.
The Duke of Edinburgh's reminiscences of this colony
do not appear to bo of a character which indicates any
very great reflective capacity. The reference which His
Royal Highness made to the impressions remaining
from his visit, when speaking at tho annual dinner of
the Institute of Civil Engineers, with special reference
to tho presenes of Sir Henry Parkes, is termed
“graceful" by the S.M. Herald’s own Jenkins. Did
wo not know that Prince Alfred was considerably
more than six years of ago when he visited this eolony,
and that consequently he can scarcely be quite a child
now, we might ascribe tho singular baldness of his
essay on New South Wales to the immaturity of his
intellect. It aoems excoedingly doubtful whether there
bo any intelligent child of (say) 10 years of age who
could not have done better after such a visit as Prince
Alfred made, than to summarise his ideas by speaking
of the colony as a place where (we quote his words
verbatim) he “went up the country and saw a lino of
railway running zig-zag up a high mountain.” Not aword
about “our beautiful harbour,” or our own Clontarf,
or the heroic deportment of Sir William Manning!
This is disappointing indeed.
Fudge.
To spout bunkum at a banquet is, we believe, regarded
as the right and privilege of every true-born Briton.
Granting that every man has a right to make a fool of
himself if he please—which is granting a good deal—it
may still be questioned whether any representative
man has a right to make the people he speaks for ap-
pear as ridiculous and bombastic as himself. Speaking at
one of the dinners at which he was on show in London,
Sis Hbkry Parkbs declared that certainly there ore no
braver, no truer, no more loyal subjects of the Queen
than Australian colonists. Now, what is this but
brnnkum? Such vapid talk might win applause from
complaisant diners, tuued up to tho pitch of agreeing
with everybody, and anxious to throw iu their “hear 1
hoars I’’ at proper intervals: but it could awaken no
true echo in their hearts, and could arouse no vibra-
tions of memory. In what way has our courage, onr
truth, or our loyalty been pat to the test t We have
had no wans. Perhaps, however, as the Duke op
Edinburgh was present, Sir Henry’s mind had reverted
to tho reckless daring already referred to as having
been on a notable occasion displayed by Sir William
Manning. Our good failh has been altogether a com-
mercial commodity, and modesty might have held Sir
Henry sileat on such a topic. As for onr loyalty, the
Imperial authorities have been so cautious never to
thwart epr interests, that a monotonous condition of
contest with existing connections can scarcely be
claimed as redennding to our credit. Whether the
sentiment sf loyalty weuld be proof against any act of
Imperial authority whieh might tap the pockets or
affect the prejudices of our people, remain to bo dis-
•Ovsred. When one recalls tho peculiarly forcible
independence ef language employed by Victorian
Dfbccmls within the past twenty years, at different times,
one might be disposed to be a little Isss positive in
tonus than the distinguished creator of the Kiama
Ghcst. Loyalty should, not centre in a phantom,
Crashed Again.
In the miserable Egyptain business to which, for no
appreciable honest reasons, the Governments of Great
Britain and Franco have committed themselves, they
have for the second time exposed themselves to an
unmistakable snub. Turkey, now adroitly handled
and prompted by Bismarck, is not so forgetful of the
evil offices she has suffered at the hands of Mr. Glad-
stone, as to relish playing the part of catspaw for the
tenefit of hia schemes. Tho “ unspeakable Turks,"
whom the English Premier reckoned upon to out
the throats of the unlucky Egyptoins, are not
to be forthcoming after all; so that the groat
anti-atrooity statesman will have to provide his
own bashi-bazonks, and to get the throat-
cutting done by a more direct process. As a
matter of fact, however, it seems probable that the
assassination of the Egyptaiu people, and the smother-
ing of their aspirations for freedom from oppression
and plundering may not be managed at all. It was a
very ingenious and sly plan to call in foreign cut-
throats to bear the odium of the dirty work, and it in
fact exactly parallels the worst presumptions used
against, the Irish Land League in reference to the
assassinations of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr.
Burke. Of course there is a dignity in doing things on
a large scale, and a man can hold np his head who
employs drilled desperadoes under the decent designa*
tion of gendarmerie—which sounds better than Bashi-
bazonks—to slaughter the representatives of a reviving
spirit of national liberty, and trample upon a nation ;
while the scoundrel who hires Yankee bravos to murder
a couple of individuals, is orushed nndor(tho detestation
of all humanity.
+
Among the most horrible traditions which exist,
is the deep-rooted sentiment, cherished by Royal
families, that no career is so honourable as a military
one. Eoyal boys have for centuries past been dressed
up in uniform almost as soon as they were out of their
swaddling clothes. Frederic 11. of Prussia pronounced
the army the only career fit for a Prince, and trained
up his son to develop into Frederick the Great-
slaughterer, a wretch who signalised the open-
ing of his kingly career by assault and robbery,
perpetrated upon a defenceless woman whom he
thought to be helpless. He invaded Siles be-
cause he reckoned Maria Theresa too weak to
resist. The heir to a Crown is invariably brought
up to the same business. The late Prince Imperial
of France was at drill almost as soon as he could toddle.
The Prince of Wales was a colonel at twelve years of
age. And now, so virulent is the tradition, that oven
that poor object, Prince Leopold, the sufferer from a
complaint which debars him from active exertion,
and renders his marriage an almost unnatural act,
had to bo appointed a colonel, because, forsooth, it
would not be etiquette for a Prince to be married in
plain clothes. It is etiquette for a Prinee to be a pen-
sioner on the unwilling bounty of other people, all his
life. It is etiquette for him to set an example of irre-
sponsible idleness; hut it is not etiquette for him to
stand beside his bride at God’s altar, unless he he
habited in the dress of a butcher—a butcher of men.
The libel action brought by the proprietor of the
Maryborough (Q.) Chronicle against the Wide Bay
News, published in the same town, resulted in a curious
contretemps. The jury asked Judge Hardino what
would be the smallest amount which would carry costs.
The Judge refused to “ name a figure," and the jury
brought in a verdict for the plaintiff—damages one
shilling; whereupon Judge Hardino refused costs.
This was tantamount to a slap in the face to our own
Manning for granting costs with a verdict for one
farthing. Now that the affair is over, the Wide Bat
News people are squaring matters very handsomely
with the proprietor of the Chronicle, and volunteer
an expression of regret that the letter, which was the
cause of action, ever appeared. The News says, with
reference to the suit:—“ It was commenced in a
momentary fit of irritation. Preliminary proceedings
were hurried on. We were both good marks for the
lawyers, and we have both had to pay smartly for
giving credence to the random statements of an inno-
cent cause. The door of conciliation or explanation
was closed with all possible haste. The writ was issued
on the Tuesday following the day of publication. The
annoyance and bitterness of the affair are now over,
and the lawyers and barristers alone have been the
gainers."
+
lx won’t do to get saucy respecting the sensational ease
with which the Australian cricketers have disposed of
their antagonists in their opening matches in England.
One or two circumstances have to be home in mind.
The voyage from Australia to England occupies so little
time now-a-day that our boys land with their hands in,
or, at least, very little the worse for the brief interval
which has elapsed since they wielded the willow on this
side of the water. They enter the field in England
with the practice gained by an Australian season to the
good, and encounter teams which have just come into
the field after lying by during a six months’ winter. In
a month or two, the Australians will be getting stale
just when the English elevens will be reaching their
best form, and it is then that the real struggle' for
supremacy will happen.
H.M. the Queen.
Victoria, by the grace of God (inamuoh more effective
sense than any other monarch of the age) Queen of
Great Britain aud Ireland and Empress of India, yoster-
day entered into tho 61th year of her age, and the 15th
of her roign. Her Majesty’s birthday has,been cele-
brated all over the world by subjects who honestly
respect her, alike as a woman and as a sovereign.
Mr. John M.L.A.
'F“ E^ r a , ro fe 7 occupying a public station in
N.b. Wales whose names are better known to the
public than is the cognomen of plain Jack
M'Elhone. The rugged earnestness of the man
has stamped him with an individuality which the
people have been prompt to recognise. He has
distinguished himself unmistakably from the
ruck of feeble legislators who have sought in a
parliamentary position gratification to their
vanity, or facilities for forwarding their private
interests. Among the host of insignificant coun-
tenances and nodding heads which have but too
often made our Legislative Assembly an object of
dension to the ipeople at large, Air. M'Blhone’s
figure-head has at all times been instinct with
vitality and purpose. There has been nothing of
the slumberer about him. He never speaks for
tbs sake of drivelling out unmeaning phrases
designed merely to remind the public that he is in
existence. Although devoid of oratorical graces
and, in fact, handicapped by an address
which is rather repeilant, hia deliverances
never fail to receive attention, for tho sufficient
reason that there is always something in them
tangible and to the point. (Mr. M'Elhone has
beon repeatedly betrayed by hia natural impetu-
ousness into grave mistakes, and even into serious
violations of fairness and propriety. But fcp has
earned a distinct niche as the exposer of many
real public wrongs, and as the fearless and reso-
lute dnemy of secret cabals and plots against the
interests of the community. He has a sledge-
hammer style, and although he sometimes hits the
anvil instead of the iron, and occasionally bruises
his own fingers, when he has hit tho mark his
blow has invariably been a crushing one. There
is no man in the Legislature of this colony who
is so much dreaded by humbugs and schemers as
John M'Elhone, and, in recognition of that fact,
the public willingly make allowances for his
occasional lapses of judgment and his frequent
violations of good taste. There is, perhaps, no
man at present in the Assembly whom the public
would be less willing to see out of it than
Mr. M'Elhone, because, amidst a crowd of in-
vertebrate, jelly-fish sort of creatures, he main-
tains the attitude of a man with a backbone.
Certainly, every man is born with a backbone; but,
in the case of the average member of Parliament,
the backbone is concealed somewhere in the
region of the stomach or of the pocket. Mr.
M'Elhone is a native of Sydney, having been born
in Castlereagh-street 49 years ago. He attended
various metropolitan schools, and there acquired a
plain commercial education, prior to entering
early in life into active industry. His career has
been one of tho ordinary vicissitudes which have
to be overcome by a man who has had his own
way to make in the world. At the present time
he has*built up a business as exporter of colonial
produce, having always been associated with
stock dealing. In that occupation Mr. M‘El-
- was brought into intimate contact with
the real settlers of the colony, and the
opportuniies thus opened to him of learning
the inner workings of onr land legislation
fired him with indignation at the iniquities of
land administration as perverted by political
jobbers and parliamentary or lobby-haunting
agents. Mr. M'Elhone was not the man
to hide hia light under a bushel. The vigor-
ous and uncompromising expression of hia
opinions relative to the fashion in which
selectors were bamboozled attracted attention
to him as a fit champion for their interests in
Parliament; and, seven years ago, he made his
debut, by contesting the election for Upper
Hunter. At the outset he was defeated by
Mr. Hungerford, but he unseated that gentleman
on petition, and on a fresh election occurring
shortly afterwards, Mr. M'Elhone was elected by
a majority of 200 votes. At the next election
Sir John Robertson personally took the field
against Mr. M'Elhone, but the latter triumphed
over the Great Panjandrum, beating him by a
clinching majority of 700 votes. At the last
general election Mr. M'Elhone was not only
himself returned, but brought in under his wing,
as second member, Mr. John M'Laughlin. Among
the services Mr. M'Elhone has rendered to the
country, his instrumentality in throwing open the
Yanko Reserve to selectors will not soon be
forgotten by the bona fide selectors. Mr.
M'Elhone has been three years an alderman of the
city of Sydney, and it is to his spirit of investiga-
tion, and downrightness in declaring his con-
clusions, that the citizens owe the detection of the
frauds in connection with tho Town Hall founda-
tions and other contract iobs.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correepondente Who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed .]
“Darlinghurat”: Yea; we are strongly of opinion
that, bo as to enable girls who wear tight dresses to
step up, Mr. Goodchap should have a reduction made in
the height of tihe tram-steps “W.N.": Let us know
all about the matter when it comes to trial 11 X. Y.":
We think it was at Warwick, Queensland, that on the
occasion of the civic banquet to Sir George Bowen, the
Mayor swallowed the roue-colored water in his finger
glass under the impreesion that it was a hind of sherry
and bitters. All the councillors followed his example...
'* Domns ": Bight you are. Send it along “ A.B. W."
Of no general interest “ Sydney": Tes, Marie Laye,
who was insane, was sentenced to death for killing her
child; Mr. Buckley, C.M.G., only got a month for beat-
ing his wite to death. Mr. Buckley was drunk. Welch
only shows how much better it is to be drunk than to
be insane. If you don’t get drunk you miss lots of fun.
“C. Denton": Canada, of course. Latest returns
gave her population as 4,324,810 “Balaam": We
can’t help what the Ebcobd says. That no class of
fairly-educated persons are so thoroughly endowed
with what is called “cheek" as clergymen, shows the
care “a mysterious Providence" takes to furnish
every creature with the faculty it most needs
“Manning Biver": He was the son of Stephen Long-
] fellow, an eminent lawyer “Youth from Dundee":
! Doubtless interesting to your little citerie ; but not of
general concern “Fred F.": Yes, but there's a
paunch of the mind ss well as of the body—some people
are menially fat. Nearly all the big wealthy newspapers
become ponderous in direct ratio to their dividends
“Chandos": Many thank 5........“ Mnfilngs," “ Kram
Snmtra," “Spectator”: Beceived ‘‘Tripe-man " :
Dustbole “Oula”: Will read, but they don't look
original “Squibo”: To hand “Injured One":
We (Jbn't deal in such things. You carefully suppress
* your own name “C.W." (Queensland): The consul-
tation referred to is square so far as we know. Any-
how, the man who runs it has a good reputation
“Victoria": Not up to the mark; “J.N.L.”: To
\ hand "274 Long Beers": Next issue “ Gon-
I doU” : The story is old, but we may tell it apropos to
j something or other ’*Patriot” ; We’ve already had
( the par. re the holy rag referred to. Will read and
consider the other...." Adelaide ’’: The salary is small;
hut then a poet-laureate has often to do menial work...,
“ A. 8.” i Sir Charles Gavan Duffy was never a convict.
......“Chandos”: Many thanks. We had no repre-
sentative present " Gehenna" : Your name will
signify your fate, if the maidens get hold of you. But
s*nd us more about them “ Melbourne Bulletin
Man": Never mind sending us items, old man. it’s
dreadful to contemplate your own valuable journal
going bung, while you are filling our wustepaper
russet “8.Q.C.": Will see what can be done with
it “ Lantern" (Toobooburra): Hope to hear from
you again “Sciolist": In all such enses must have
name and address “Young Curate": Their time
was chiefly occupied in discussing fancy fairs, “ Box
and Cox," and the pig-with-the-greasy-tail question.
Wo don't know what is the sacred animal of the
church. To the greasy-pig another communion has per-
haps a better right; however,you can’t expect an mathetio
curate to pin his faith to Balaam's ass. A policeman
will in future be an ex-officio member of the Synod
“ Dog ": Welcome “ Passe partout ”: Most interest-
ing “E.A.J.":Hay-street. Thanks for par. Verses
very good. If sent some weeks back, would have been
inserted, but the subject is dying out of mind now
“Frqplanoe": Thanks, send along fancy ball, if it
coach off “C.C.”; Whether or not Mr. Heydon or
any other Protectionist member takes a musical
box to roost with him when he's on an
electioneering tour does net matter to us
“Hands All Bound” (Grafton): We know no “temper-
aaco song" of any literary merit, but there are hun-
dreds of such drinking songs. The linos to which you
allude are from the Giraldus Combrensis collection—
“ If I must die, let me die drinking at an inn.
Hold the wine-onp to my lips, sparkling from the bin •
Then, while angels flutter down to take me from mv
sin,
*0 Lord, have mercy on this Isot I' the cherubs will
begin."
As wo have somewhere seen it remarked, the cup—the
loving cup—has been in all ages a symbol of unity
and a pledge of friendship between man and
woman. Did not Vulcan, at, narrated in the “Iliad,"
carry the cup between Jupiter and Juno, when
his father and mother quarrelled, as they very
frequently did, about the Greeks and Trojans I
“ Solon ": No ; we have not yet hoard anything about
Parkes having been appointed Chief Secretary for
Ireland. Henry, it is stated, was asked to raise a
Kiama ghost about lunatlo Macleau; the idiotio
sbootist was, however, of 11 the wrong color," as they
say in Tipperary “Zigzag": Ho needn’t have said
he could drink mors whisky than Mj. Forbes, who
drinks none at all.


mm
-
&
n
- *
mz
VIBTUTIB GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
rjT=;
IS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. FEB, TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This now Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner Are than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, Inor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOGMOOLOO WHAEP.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
n?BADE MAjU
THEGREAT
ONE OP THE WORLD’S
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kings
a representative of one of the for
the United States, Mr. Edward Triok(
oarsman, who is at present open to ro
+>.» a. Vita Aninir
a 01X79
MANUF ACT ORT,
BON -ACCORD
WORKS.
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
FEERIER’S BAKING POWDER,
r^-
ARK
TRAD
4 J
MANUFACTORY:
Qeoboe-street West, Sydney.
SELF BAILING FLOUR
YEAST POWDER.
This is the most effectual substitute fer kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, too. ; is
simnle. clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. ....
This QASts much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga«, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
>ll small and smoko. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace!)
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALL®W GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the GovemmentEailways in perforenoo
to C °lmnortBrs and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &o. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If von have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which re®.
J dors them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any erdinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS,!
86 CASTIiBREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
187 KINO STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
MACHINERY
FOR
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS.
S-QUATTEES, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, &c., &c., &c.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in onr Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other particular on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working'at the Dep6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OPFOE.
H
fESXABLISHED 30 TeAI
OD as ON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Qoulbum-strec
E. H O D O S C
"Wholesale and Beta
WHIP THONG MANUPACT
Every Description of Kangaroo and G
Made to Order.
nrnrmruxm
i 'r y SBBBiLijaa
T
mm
670 H.HILD
&70VTT
H.HI.LOER
Boar-,
MjcoT
v ii
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
There are in England 73 retired colonial
Bishops 111 1 ! 1!!! The vintage is gathered in the
colonies. Anyhow,the grapes are squeezed.
It is freely stated among Anglican churchmen
in South Australia that theß'shop of Ballarat resigned
his office in order to obtain the vacant see of Adelaide.
Father Vaughan, chief of the Eedemptorist
Fathers now in Singleton, gave an eloquent exposition
of the mysteries of his faith to a large audience, in-
eluding a very great number of Protestants, who
expressed groat satisfaction at the remarks of the
preacher having reference to thair own belief.
Fearing that his moribund utterances should be
garbled into the old Tom-Paine-Voltaire ghastliness
for the further horrifloation of old women, Ingersoll
has instructed his private secretary to take down in
shorthand his dying remarks. Bob’s “ last testimony"
will be interesting, and so terrible a power is he that
bis enemies don’t care how soon it comes.
In San Francisco they recently passed a Sunday-
trading repression law. This was aimed chiefly at
saloon keepers and cigar sellers, who openly set the
law at defiance on the very first Sunday upon which it
was supposed to come into operation. On that day, 588
arrests were made under the Act, and the secretary
and principal men of an organisation known as the
League of Freedom ’’ had their hands full filling up
bail-bonds.
At Bendigo (Y.), the incumbent of All Saints’
Church (Rev, Mr. Croxton) was admonishing some of
his congregation for their habit of leaving the church
during the sermon, when a State-school teacher jumped
np and commenced to abuse the preacher in violent
language. Every one lost their presence of mind,
except a young lady—the parson’s daughter. She
started the organ and snuffed out the disturber, who
was just threatening to come and pull her father out of
his pulpit.
Matthew Burnett, the temperance reformer,
who, it is said, claims to work in the cause for pure
philanthropy and without pay, has been shown np at
Wallaroo, B.A. His services cannot be scoured under
£7 per week, and the reason why his Wallaroo call
hang fire for a long time was that his inviters were
doubtful whether they could *' find the sugar." Mat-
thew has publicly told the world more than once that
he gets nothing for his temperance work, but is paid
for his Sunday evangelisation. This is very thin.
Oratorically, Mat’s Sunday powers are not worth the
amount, and whoever gives it pays too dearly for kis
whistle.
A correspondent of the Eockhampton Bulle-
tin writes to warn his brother Boman Catholics that
there is a deep and widespread anti-Irish Anglo-Italian
conspiracy, whose ramifications extend from Sydney to
London, and thence to Rome. The Imperial Govern-
ment, having failed in its attempt to convert the Irish
hierarchy and clergy by the Pope's agency into a sort
of spiritual constabulary to carry out Gladstone’s
policy in Ireland, and having in view the power exer-
cised on behalf of Ireland by the Irish-Americau ele-
ment in the United btates, taking time by the forelook,
are bent on stamping out, if practicable, Irish national-
ism here, and for this purpose have recourse as in
times past to “ Roman Agents.”
There is something quite inexplicable about the
attitude of the Holy See in relation to the charges
levelled against the late Bishop O’Quinn, of Brisbane,
and his Irish priests. Cardinal Simeon! has just re-
plied, by the Pope’s orders, to a petition far investiga-
tion forwarded by the Irish clergy to Rome, and has
stated that “ the charges made were manifestly false.”
Yet, the letter goes on to hope that the Roman
Catholics of Rockhampton will cling to their new
bishop, Dr. Cani—whom Archbishop Vaughan con-
secrated at St. Mary’s this week—with the same affeo-
tion and veneration as they had manifested towards
Bishop O’Quinn. The curious part of the business is
that the Rookhamptonites had clearly intimated that
they regarded Dr. Cani as having been mixed up with
the promotion of the charges against Bishop O’Qninn.
• • •
“ Wrecker ” says that the “ mysterious Pro-
vidence" paragraph in the synodical deliverance
respecting the death of Bishop Barker reminds him of
the mixture of vexation and respect in Lord Macaulay’s
sentence: “ Here I learned that Almighty God, for
reasons best know to Himself, had been pleased to
bum down my house in the County of Durham."
A prominent member of a Northern church makes use
of his position to advertise his groceries, etc,, to the
congregation as they leave the building The Russian
clergy are going in more than ever for preaching, in lieu
of the ordinary Joss-house foolery which obtains in
most churches. The spoken word, however droned,
sounds as a living man’s voice. The mechanical maun-
dering through old formal® has no more weight with a
congregation than the sounds from a galvanised iron
fence when a boy draws a stick along the corrugations.
The Rev. Mr. Williams says that canvassing, ear-
wigging, and wirepulling are used as much among the
clergy as the wicked laity Rev. Father Moore, Dean
of Ballarat, has been elevated by the Pope to the dig-
nity of Monsignor The Rev. George Miln, Unitarian
minister in Chicago, preached his last sermon. He
said he didn’t believe that man was immortal, and ho
wouldn’t again enter a pulpit Bishop Colenso’s
name has been struck from the list of English clergy,
and therefore he is not officially recognised as Bishop
of Natal. Bat he draws his " screw ” still, and doesn’t
fret over it.
Widower, who has just married a widow, thus
accounts for his large family; “ kou see, there's her’n,
and mine, and our’n.”
Equitable Permanent Benefit, Building, Land,
and Savings Institution of Sydney out-put last year,
£50,393, and executed mortgages to the amount of
£5725 • actual income was £140,657 7s, 5d.; net accu-
mulated profit amounts to ££1340 135.; bonus of 4 per
cent, declared.
It is necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you gat CAD-
BBRY'B COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by special appointment
to the Queen.—(Advt.)
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though ha has not been established since Hannah
Domini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
We trust onr readers will not neglect this nppor-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If you want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a danoing-
tmmp. you had better call at 584, and “see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be in great demand
now, U only for the kicking of libel-casa jurymen.—
Advt.
If you want a really palatable pleasant cup of
tea. of acknowledged purity, strength, and excellence,
ask yont grocer for The Calcutta Tea Association's
Pure Indian Tea. Onr only Wholesale Warehouse in
New South Wales, is at 28 Charlotte Place. Wejhave
no retail establishment whatever, and employ no
hawkers. All the leading ten dealers and grocers a*
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
ii Calcutta Tea Association” on the labels in three
different places. The teas of the Association are ao-
knowledgad superior to any packet teas ever sold in the
Colonies.
The Eookhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring to the widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Eookhampton, says : —“ When visiting
Rockhampton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz., the Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel,
East-street. This Hotel has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars in town; also, the best furnished sitting
rooms in town. The Billiard Room contains a table
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Room,
which Is large and well ventilated, will bo found a
brilliant-toned piano. Ton will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladies." The lease, etc., of above
nourishing and rapidly improving bat business, to be
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, 81. Elizaboth-atroot, Sydney,
—Advt,


Public Compai
T
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN!
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Fun;
Directors s
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; "V
Esq. i W. A. Long, Esq.; J<
Eaq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE; GEORGE ST
City and Suburban Branches; H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office: 18 King Willi;
BRANCHES IN NEW SOL
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Qoulb
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, ]
Parkes, Eaymond Terrace, Kockle
ton, South Grafton, Temora, T»
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburu, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Alloro, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Rayenswood, Rockhampton, Stani
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Celoi
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP 1
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L
AUDITORS
Jaa. Soroggxe, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A Wdaoi
SECRETARY
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorge-street, Brickfield .
Girilambone; Goaf
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bar
Loudon Office: 151 Lender
Director: Edward Chapi
Agent: G. H. Alnind
This bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favor
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England I
F. J. P L
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLIS
28 GEORGE STREET
A large and well-assorted stock of 1
direst from the Manufacturers,
All Garments Cut in thb Most F
PERFECT FIT GUAR;
Note the Addresi
728 GEORGE STREET
NEAR HAYMARi
THOMAS WEBB
SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals. Cups, ai
at the
SYDNEY AEI
SINGER’S SEWING 1
ABB MADE ONLY
The Singer Mauufacturi
Head Office* t
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eon
39 POSTER LANE, !
Depot for New Sc nth
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAI
SYDNEY,
s
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING M
HAVE
All the Latest Improv
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Largest Variety of \
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Strength and Beauty ol
SINGER’S SEWING Jt
FOR
Embroidery, Braiding, an
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Plaiting, Binding, and ]
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and 1
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TERMS —2a. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERY
Offio r b in Sydnej
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR S
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW>
WILLIAM STREET, BA'
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWO
VICTORIA STREET, ORi
NARANDERA. PARRA
227 QUEEN STREET, BR
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S'
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & O'
ABE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week —2s, 6d. per week-
And HO INTEBEST Oh
10 per cent, of! for c
BEWARE OP IMIT.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A
THE ONLY •' SING:
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOt
SEWING MACHII>
HATMAKKE
Singers Sewing >
Maid) mm /
Business Annouuci
m.
\WN
MANU
EDDI
STEAM BEDDING F
and
FLENITUEE WAEIB
Houses furnished for £'.4, £l9, £25,
T. WEIGHT, 529 George-street,
SIDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite I
Ni’.wa Office,
READ TH
THE BAKING
manufactured by us
AS DOCTOR
▼
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Chemists and Dra;
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GREAT LIVEE E
And successful substitute for Ca
Podophyllum, and all Nox
Famous as a Eestorative to Healt
Famous as an Invigorator of the I
Famous for the Cure of all Disord
Stomaeh. .
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, it
take them.
Bo careful not to get I
IN BOXES, ONE SI
Invented and Prepared
J. S. A B R A
At the Laboratoi
431 GEOEQE STEEET,
COUGH WHILE YOU CAI
taking Dr. Thompson’s Imtri
Linctus, you will not he able t y c
WASHINGTON M. SOUL'S, 177
Punch’s Hotel.
rrUCKLE YOUR APPETIT
_J*_ tralian Relish, made by W
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
VERS OP GOOD
Wo bog to draw y
PABTICULAE ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEA
Packed In pounds and half
ASIATIC MIXTUKE,
2s. and 2
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
2a. 6d. ox
PUEE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d. at
PUEE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. at
Special Quotations given to Whi
Country Orders promptly i
ASIATIC TEA COB
279 PITT STEEET (next Sc
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U S
182 PITT STEEB
from
D. JONES & Ck
Bespeotfully invites an inspeetio
CAEPETB,
FLOOE CLOTH,
BEDSTEAD
BED
All of the best quality, and soled
EELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture ro-oovered and carpets
charges.
♦
pi E 0 R G B
Or (Formerly of George
IMPOBUBE OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAR 1
Bogs to announce thot he has
BUSINESS I.tb. rDNET ARC^
where every article in the above lin
nEITBMI) i


w.
HOWARD SMITH
STRCJTH'S WHARF and NE
(Foot of King-stree
Offices : 7 SPRING S’!
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FBI
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
EOCKHAMPTO
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH i
o
1
EIE N T
The following Steamships,
ORIENT CO., an 1 the PACIFIC
SYDNEY at noon on the undermi
LONDON, via Melbourne, Adelaide
steamer’s option), the Sues Canal, a
and fortnightly thereai
SALOON PASSENGERS allowot
journey.
OUIsINT PARCELS EXPRESS:
or 6i. per lb.
PASSAGES FROM LONDON o
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDON :-F,
and iANDERoON, ANDERSON an
Avenue, E.C.
PASSAGE MONEY, 15 to 70 g
ticulors on application to
O. S. YUILL,
General Mann
207 Qoorgo-stroot.
J. MASSEY,
10 PARK SIRE
AMERICAN ORGANS IN 081
The Latest, most Popular Mt
J. MASSEY AND
10 PARK STREET, SY
CASH PRICE LIST OF W
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. S. T. Knaggs, of Newcastle, has been
prostrated by rheumatic fever, but i» now, we are glad
to hear, recovering.
Dr. Clone, having had his ease properly repre-
rented, i. to get sotnothing like £3OOO compensation for
loss of prac ice, owing to forcible detention in Quaran-
tine.
The Maoris Te Whiti and Tohn, awaiting trial
at Christchurch (N Z ,) Ailed in their time by visiting
the Exhibition, manufactories, <fco. Judge Qilles dis-
charged Titokowaru and Rangi, Maori prisoners, await-
ing trial, which caused some comment.
Mr. George Wallace was on Friday last at New-
castle, presented with a purse of sovereigns and an ilia-
minated address in recognition of his valuable public
services while resident in the town. Mr Wallace comes
to Sydney. Ha ia one of the gentlemen we have to
thank lor arduous exertion on behalf of Messrs. Haynes
and Archibald.
Mr. Joseph Paxton died last week at hia real-
denoe, Pyrraont Bridge Road, GUbo. H# wa§ a colonist
of thirty years* standing, aad noted for his success in
mining ventures in the Western district. He was a
member of the Council of St. Andrew’s College. He
leaves a widow and on« daughter—-the wife of the Rev*
A. Gardiner, Glebe.
It is stated that Mr. George Day, M.L.A., will
proceed against the Herald for libel, in re its com-
ments on his nephew’s selection case. If Mr. Day can
persuade a jury te give him one hundred pounds
damages against every newspaper that commented
severely upon bis connection with his nephew s case he
will reap a comfortable fortune.
Mr. J. B. Dungan, editor of the Manawatu
(N.Z ) Times, ia dead. He was a clever and incisive
writer He commenced life as a practical punter, and
graduated in alitenry capacity under Sir Charles Gavan
Dully, on a Sandhurst (Vie.) paper. He afterwards
successively edited the Otago Tablet, the Oamaru
Mail, and the Manawatu Times.
Sir Henry Parkes claims to be descended from
Coour-de-Liou, and says that his mother’s maiden name
was Paulcon bridge. When reminded that the family
name was Paulconbrig*. and that Shokspoare alone
called it Panloon bridge, the author of the Incens-
ing Act retorted: “Yon surely would not allow
the change of several letters to interfere with the pure
strain of family descent I’’ Fact.
The warrant issued against Lord Huntly was
made out at the instance of a bill-discounter, who
alleged that he had bean defrauded out of £2OOO by mis-
representation in a statutory declaration. The matter
has been squared, and no one except the parties them-
selves can say whether or not a fraud has been de-
liberately sheltered by the noble lord a rank. Either
the bill-discounter was an impudent villain, or Lora
Hautly perjured himself.
The first poem Longfellow over wrote contained
this verse
“ Mr. Pinny and his wife
Both sat down to sup,
And they ate, and they ate.
Until they ate the turnip up.’
In a poetic competition, Longfellow’s first poem would,
for first place, run the poet laureate s last very hard,
and probably win “hands down, ’
When Richard Healea died, about fifty copies of
his bust were struck off and sent round to all the Vic-
torian departments, &e. One is lodged in the Bruns-
wick Town Hall. Mr. Graham Berry went to look at it
Tome time ago. The bust had been inexplicably polished
up with a kind of lampblack. Berry inquired of the
Mayor why the bust was black ? A sharp-witted reporter
interposed the remark that it was by a Conservative
artist and executed on Black Wodnesday•
Gus Waugenhcim once drove a bad tenant out
of a house by simply getting Parley to go in and wish
him “ good morning:" They now tell a story of Gordon
and Farley. They were introduced, and Gordon led off
with a compliment in a low Q. Parley went one better
with a reply in P. Gordon then played his E flat, and
Parley got out D natural. Gordon headed that with a
clear of and by the time it came to “ What will yon
have te drink ? ” the tones were like rumbling under
the paving-stones.
A correspondent of the Chicago Reliqio-
Philosophical Journal, says of Sir Henry Parkes that
“he is credited with being a free-thinker. The
Journal incorrectly states the case. Parkes, as many
people who have done business with him will admit, is
in private life guided by freethought of so astonishingly
broad a character as to be unique ; in pubho, ho poses ( is i a
snuffling evangelical, who prevented Professor Proctor
from lecturing on Sunday, while he (Parkes) was
running tramcars in the next street.
Ouida’s latest novel is “In Maremma.” These
remarks are made of it by a Loudon critic: It is the
best story, in literary style and general treatment, yet
written by this prolific author. It is as unlike any of
her previous works as it can be, and yet there is a
strange fascination about it. The whole tale is pitched
in a very sober and low key, but this last production
shows that Miss de la Ramde has lost none ef her old
skill - has rather gained in power and pathos. There
are in it soma of the most beautiful word-pictures over
penned by this accomplished writer; and ’ ln Maremma
proves that Ouida remains what she long has been—
the Queen of story-tellers.
One of Archibald Forbes’ anecdotes ia about a
sergeant- in the Zulu war, who wosspeoially commended
after the battle of Gambula, for having nobly taved the
life of a wounded officer by standing over his body,
protecting him with his bayonet against the Zulus, and
floallv carrying him to a place of safety. When Forbes
came to Sydnly, a waiter at the Union Club said to
him “ The lost time I saw you, sir, none of us were
thinking much about luncheon." That waiter was the
identical brave sergeant! Does it not seem a shame
that Time should have no other reward for courage of
the highest and most chivalrous order P
However, everything comes to him who waits
A peerage sensation ia occupying Scottish
Rooietv Mr. Fraser, a Dublin architect, lays claim to
the title of Lord Lovat, and to part of the Fraser es-
tates. He says that the Frasers of Strichan and Lovat
are descended from the Lord Lovat who suffered de-
capitation on Tower Hill in 1717 for rebellion ; and that
this Lovat was really no lord at all, as he had an elder
brother who was forced, in consequence of having killed
a man, to take refuge abroad. It is alleged that the
peer lived for a time in Now South Wales. The
claimant professes to have in his possession proofs of
his direct descent from the ancient Lords Lovat, whose
title was revived in 1857 in favour of the father of the
present lord.
Lieutenant Claude S. Fuller, R.N., recently an
officer in the Adelaide Post Office, has just died. Mr.
Fuller had seen plenty of colonial service. He was a
middy on board the Cur#?ou, and served in the Maori
wars at the head of a body of marines. Ha was after-
wards appointed to H.M.S. Torch, being one of the
officers who placed the captain-afterwards court-
martialled and dismissed-of that vessel under arrest.
Mr. Puller next served in the Minotaur, of the Channel
fleet. Upon resigning, he joined the army in the Zulu
war and was present at the recovery of the Prince
Imnerial’s body, and at the battle of Isandula. On the
termination of that war he became a South Australian
civil servant.
The new Earl of Lonsdale (Mr. Hugh Lowthor)
has received an early jar. Rumour says that the
widow of the late Earl is in an interesting condition.
Should this be true, and the newcomer be a boy, the
courts will have some racy work cut out f or them, for
the present Earl’s wife, who is a sister of the Marquis
of Huntly, is just the sort of woman to keep him u,
to th. scratch in disputing the little stranger«
genuineness. The late Earl and Countess were sepa-
rated. and the reputation of the latter is already too
Questionable ; still, it would be difficult to disprove the
right of the new claimant. .A case mvolying to*oh an
issue was a little while ago decided by the N-S.W, Full
Court. The Earldom carries with it, a town house m
Carlton House Terrace, London, two castles, with
other country places, a steam yacht, and £150.000 a
year. . .
“ Bill Nyo ” interviewed Oscar Wilde, and gives
an all-but description of the groat msthete. He says
Mr. Wilde is very tall, he smiles hke a y° un S
aiid has a f-.ee like a broad-axe. He wore a soft hat,
and a soft look; also a Byron collar, and a neck-tie the
colour of potted bloaters. He wore a silk handkerchief
the hue of butter, and a large quantity of hair that fell
in festoons on his shoulders like a horse’s tail over a
green dashboard. He also wore his hands in his
pockets. Mr. Wilde’s teeth are his own; they are
broad, with a tendency to come out and look for air.
Ho spoke on various topics with a seductive drawl,
wriggling his legs, and posing like a giraffe in a football
match. He blows his nose in a languid, yet soulful
way, that makes yon wish he would do it again. Mr.
Wilde’s complexion is too-1 oof ally pallid, and he is just
as full of soul as one man can be; and walks, talks, and
breathes like a two-year-old cow in a garden. He
smiles like a baby asleep, and puts himself in statuesque
positions, as though something had got loose, and ho
was trying to keep on his ethereal pantaloons till people
looked the other way.
Edwin Thomas Smith, M.P., thepopnlai Mayor
of Adelaide, was presented at the Queen’s Birthday
levde in that city with a massive gold mayoral chain,
all past Mayors or their representatives subscribing one
link apiece. This is the third and last year of Smith’s
mayoralty, as ho intends to retire from civic honours
next December. Mr, Smith has made the position a
very warm one for his successor. Never did previous
Mayor of Adelaide bleed so freely and with such good
grace. It was Mr. Smith’s fortune to entertain the
Royal Princes, to inaugurate the Torrens dam, and to
assist at the opening of the Adelaide Exhibition; be*
sides which, he is the flret Mayor who hue succeeded in
arousing Councillors from their chronic apathy, and
has surrounded himself with a better class of civic
helpers than retired publicans, butchers, and under-
takers. Daring his term of office, gas has been re-
substituted for kerosene, asphalt pavement has b«wn
introduced, ohe city squares have been environed with
ornamental fences, and a squad of aldermen has been
created, besides many necessary improvements having
been carried out to markets, public baths, Ac. A
baronetcy has been predicted for Edwin.
Apropos to the Duke of Edinburgh’s feeble
remarks relative to this colony at the Civil Engineers’
banquet, a story is told respecting an onting ho had
taken in Queensland, which would seem to indicate
that he is not such an ntter noodle as his latest speech
might induce people to believe. At that time Arthur
Hodgson, lord of one of the biggest sqnattages on
the Darling Downs—a pompous, good-natured,
sort of creature —was a member of the Ministry, and
ran the Duke with a big party out to the middle of a
plain, where the railway was in coarse of construction.
Arrived there —an “awful pause’’ ensued. Banquet
not ready, and nothing to do. The surroundings, out-
side the marquee, a sea of waving grass. Aithnrwas
rooting round to unpack a damper, which he subse-
quently presented to the Duke as an accompaniment to
what he regarded os a humorous and happy speech.
The Duke was bored, and turning to Lord Newry,
inquired with a twang which would have delighted a
synod, “And what went we forth for to see ? A reed
shaken by the wind P’* Poor old Hodgson. He went
home some time later, but not until "Count Von
Attems," the valet, had “ had” him grievously. Arthur
had travelled a bit, and onee sat at table somehow
when Francis Joseph of Austria was present. Von
Attems claimed to be related to the House of Hapsburg.
Ho it befei that poor pompous Hodgson, genially toast-
ing Von Attsms, in Brisbane, made a rapturous refer-
ence to the family resemblanoe the scamp bore to his
Imperial townsman. Von Attems is now in a Batavian
gaol, a lifer, poor wretch. As for Hodgson, his fate was
even mors deplorable. Shortly after settling at home
he was made a C M 0.1
Quite a commotion is being caused, if rumour
speaks truly, by the Marcus Clarke Memorial
Volume. According to report, the committee of the
back hare agreed to differ as to what should be pub-
lished in the work. It appears that the hitch has taken
place over the unfinished novel of 11 Felix and
Felioitas," which poor Marcus was writing at the time
of his death. This tale is supposed to be so severe a
satire upon a certain wonld-be fashionable section of
society in Melbourne that the Hawhaws who, after the
manner of the scriptural Pharisee, thank God that they
are not as other men, are mightily exercised in spirit,
and apparently tremble to let the light of Public
Opinion ehine upon the Whited Sepulchres. Macaulay
states somewhere that the British race is prone to a
desperately strong tit of morality every seven years.
Perhaps it is one of those historical fits that has taken
possession—as did the devil of certain pigs we wot of—
of the objectors to the interesting narrative. It is said
that the love of money is the root of all evil, and it may be
this potent motor has been at work to gag “ye truthful
tale.” Alter all, there is a mighty heap of fact in the
old saying that to him that hath shall more be given,
and from him that hath not shall be taken even that
which he hath—though it is difficult to understand how
you can take anything from one that has nothing. Bnt
be this as it may, there is no doubt in the present ease
that if coin can secure its object, which is hush 1 it
will. In Other werds, the question at issue is simply a
ease of “pull baker, puli Devil," and the chances are
that the Monarch of Darkness will triumph in the end.
Still, the struggle will be interesting to watch, as the
role of morality is being played by some whe have
never been accused of possessing that virtue before.
A marriage is arranged between the Duke of
Westminister, K.Q., and the Honourable Katherine-
Caroline Cavendish, the third daughter of Lord and
Lady Chesham. The Duke’s proposal was made
in the first instance to Lady Chesham, and having
been accepted, the marriage has been arranged
to take place almost immediately, and in a com-
paratively private manner. MBs Cavendish is a
very charming and pretty young lady, who is ]ast over
twenty-four years of age The Luke, on the other
hand, is over fifty-seven years of age, and is in fact
thirty-two years and two months older than his bride.
He has been a widower over fifteen months. What
makes this marriage somewhat remarkable is that, al-
though there is no blood relationship between the bride
and the bridegroom, there is already between them a
connection by marriage. Miss Cavendish’s eldest
brother, Captain Cavendish, married the Duke s
daughter. Lady Beatrice Grosvenor, upwards of four
years ago, and has a son, Charles William Hugh, by
her, now three years and a-halt old. Captain Caven-
dish will therefore become the brother-in-law of his
lather-in-law; his son, Charles William Hugh, will be-
come the nephew of his own grandfather ; and any son
born of the Duke’s seoond marriage will be at once the
brother and the nephew of Lady Beatrice Cavendish.
The Duka will become the uncle of his grandson, and
the brother-in-law of his own daughter, and thv.a in a
sense he will be his own son. His Grace is not what
can be called an old man. Ha looks as hale and hearty
as most men of forty—nay, a great deal more so than
many of that age. The Duke is not by any means the
first, nor will he be the last, man of his age who has
married a lady of four and-twenty. The Duke is the
wealthiest nobleman in England.
The. high-toned Vanity Fair says that Mr. Glad-
stone’s grandfather was a hawker of flah at Dundee,
and that, as he used to shout “ Bma Abbs, when vend-
ing his fish, he acquired this nickname. This is not
true. One reason why Mr. Gladstone s grandfather
never could have cried fish about the streets of Dundee,
as stated by our contemporary, may perhaps bo
sufficient. It is this: his grandfather never lived
there at all. It is not the first time, though, that the
Tory journalist has gone to Billingsgate in his eagerness
to vilify the Premier. The last of the ancestors of the
Premier who resided in Dundee was Gilbert Qladstane.
He was a merchant, and never was either a huckster or
a shopkeeper. He sent his son, when the latter was
twenty years of age, to a mercantile firm in Liverpool,
to learn what was, in those days, a very prosperous
line of business—that of commission agent to planters
in the West ladies. The son got on very well indeed,
and by the time he was forty years old had made a
fair fortune for himself. He bought an estate m
Scotland, called Fasque, which now belongs to his
eldest son. He was made a baronet by the Tory
Government in 1810. One of the secrets of the
Premier’s success in political life—a fact which even
those most opposed to him must admit is that he
was, from the outset of his career, independent in
money matters. In 1832 he took his degree at Oxford.
He was returned for Newark the same year, and in
1834 was made a Junior Lord of the Treasury, being
then only twenty-ttve years of age. Partly in order to
avoid legacy duty, but chiefly for the purpose of re-
lieving him from all pecuniary anxiety, his father made
him a present of a sum of £lOO,OOO, and upon the
interest of his money he was able to live in a manner
becoming his position.
Whitelaw Reid, the talented editor of the N.Y.
Tribune, is 43 years old, and has occupied his position
for twelve years. When he took it, ha was, perhaps,
the youngest editor living, of so great apaper.He
succeeded Horace Greeley, and not only did so credit-
ably, but improved the Tribune beyond even the
dreams of its founder. As with Forbes, bis perfervid
Scottish industry and dash have driven him ahead of
average men, and one of his proudest remarks is : '• I
never had anything but what I worked for." While at
college, he contributed leading articles to papers in
Ohio, and at twenty bought the Xenia News, which he
edited for two years, tie was city editor of the Cincin-
nati! Gazette at the time the Civil War broke out,
when he went to the front as war correspondent, writ-
ing a famous series of army articles over the signature
of '* Agate," which stamped him os a descriptive writer
of the first rank. At Gettysburg!), he not only distin-
guished himself by writing a superb account of the
f’eat three days' fight, but, by a dashing ride, d la
orb-s, to despatch it to his paper. Only recently
Whitelaw Reid enjoyed his wedding tour in Europe.
His appearance is that of a long-limbed Western man,
with heavy moustache, and dark hair showing traces of
silver; pleasant voice, hearty manner, cultured con-
versation. Formerly, ho visited the Tribune office
every day, but now private wires, pneumatic tubes, and
telephones enable him to be in constant communication
with his staff and to edit the paper while three miles
distant in his residence. Mr. Reid takes great pride in
the new Tribune office, which is, when completed, to
throw all other newspaper offices into the shade. It is
to cost a million dollars, to have pneumatic tubes, tele-
phones and telegraphs in all directions, and to be lit by
electricity.
The London World publishes a polished satiri-
cal sketch on "Colonial Magnates," the personified
entity being dnbbed " The 'Onorable Mister Jinking,"
whose " clothes sit upon him as an evening coat might
Bit on a man who had been in the habit of dressing in
his shirt-sleeves, and impress the experienced voyager
with the idea tbat they have lain in a sea-chest for an
Indefinite period." His talk is wool, and his card reads
" The Hon. J. Jinkins, Imperial Club." “No one seems
to know Mr. Jinkins, and London seems equally strange
to him," but next day one meets him in a desperately
new hat, and very fresh garments generally, near the
Colonial Office, and he hastens to introduce “ Sir Peter
Quackemboss, our Pram’er,” "Hon’ble J. T. (smith,
M.L C„" sna "Mister Goater, of Darling Downs.”
Then comes a satire against shoddy nobbary: "Mr,
Jinkins, you now learn, is an eminent colonial politician,
and hie prefix of ‘honorable* is simply a temporary
perquisite of office. He was Minister of Public
Works for three days, and, had he not lost
his seat for Chucklehead Flats might have
been the thirl Premier that South Australia was
blessed with in eighteen months." His prefix puzzles
match-making mammas who search the Peerage in vain
for his lineage, un i wonder whether he is a younger
member of the Do Jenkiunys house, or a scion of the
stock of Jenks do la Jenkins ; whereas the ‘onorable
Mister J. is a sheep-farmer who graduated as a butcher
and publican. Continues the World ; —“ Every other
morning the paper announces how the Hou. Wilkins
Mioawber, Colonial Treasurer of ths Oocoanut Is-
landers, or Sir John Smith, Premier of Botany Ba»,
has reached town Many—we should
be inclined to say the majority—of those magnates are
remarkably clever. Lord Sherbrooke and Mr. Chil-
ders learned their business in the colonies, though, even
in those easy times of Crown Government, they were
not reckoned smart enough to set Port Jackson on fire.
In the dependencies ruled by a responsible
Cabinet and a Legislature with rarely more
than a dozen majority to coma and go on,
it demands tact, and trimming unknown in
St. Stephen’s, for a colonial Minister to drive his
skittish team. It is natural, therefore, to find the
* honourable' gentleman opinionated; and, when he
settles in London, inclined to flourish his money a
little over-ostentatiously A little fond of
getting into clubs finer than select, they are useful as
decoy ducks on the committees of new ones, and prove
a providence to City Dinners and the seedier members
of the Irish peerage. Lord Kimberley's receptions are
their earliest glimpses of Paradise; and if they have
been assiduous in entertaining roving Englishmen, they
have their reward in introductions to bouses shut to
the untravelled nouveaux riches’ The onlv trouble is
that the female of the spoiies is rarely so presentable
as the male. He is always shrewd and often eminent.
She is frequently quite the contrary; and if her
daughters are educated, they are not refined ....
They are apt to forgot that pa and his money are much
less importaat factors here, and that Anstro-Amerioan
slang and impudence go by plainer names in Belgravia
than in Ballarat."
* • •
Jimmy Lambert, king of the Dabee blacks,
about whom we had a paragraph recently, died a fort-
night since at Cudgegong. It was said that another
black poisoned him, but that wasn't true. It was fight-
ing rum and exposure that pegged poor Jimmy out.
Mrs Watsford, mother of the Rev. James
Watsford, died the other day at Parramatta,
where she had resided for 78 years. She was 86
gears of age and a native of the colony
wanwiok. the Brisbane barrister, has oaten the leok,
apologised to the Supreme Court, and been re-
admitted to practice. Swanwick is perfectly levely
in appearance. He has a face like a benediction, and
is the most forensic-looking person in Australia.
Until lately he was a schoolmaster... Old George
Marshall, of Noble Farm, Sorell, Tasmania, has
just died, aged 90 years. He arrived in Van Die-
man’s land la the brig Thalis, in 1821, and made the
tight little island his home for the lest of his life. He
was for a time M.H.A. for Sorell district; and wns
noted for his untiring industry, his domestic habits,
and gigantic physical strength C. E. Jones' fee for
lecturing is £lO Bradlaugh has published a pamphlet
with the curious title “ God||X." Horace W. Harris,
now of the Tamworth Independent, intends running a
paper at Moree John B Gough is suffering from
neuralgia of the stomach. This is a terrible warning to
people who fill themselves with cold water in the
winter time Internal troubles in Cape Colony prevent
Sir Hercules Robinson from applying for a transfer to
N Z The mother of the well-known Victorian politi-
cian,’Mr. C. E. Jones, is still alive, aged 92 years, and
resides near Horsham, at the selection of her youngest
son , ..Lieutenant Dick Jervois, son of and aide-de-
camp t« Sir. W. F. D. Jervois, Governor of South Aus-
tralia, ia about to return to England to rejoin his regl-
ment. Major Ecoles, of the Prince Consort's Own
Rifle Brigade, comes out to take his place John
Whiteman, the "harmonious blacksmith,-* and ex-
M.L A. for Emerald Hill, V., is leaving Melbourne to
come and reside in Sydney. He has to undergo the
usual testimonialising agony Mr. Cole,
of the firm of Davey, Cole, and Flao*. accountants,
Melbourne, is suing the Melbourne Board of Land
and Works for £BOOO damages for injuries bus-
tained in the Jolimont railway accident. Mr. Cole
had a rib broken and a lung lacerated Mrs.
Thorpe Talbot is at Waiwera Hot Springs (Auok-
land, N.Z.) engaged in writing a tourists' guide
Mr. Matthew Hoggs, who died Inst week near
Brisbane, was an old colonist. He arrived in
Tasmania in 1831, became connected in pastoral
pursuits in N*w South Wales with Mr. Charles
Wentworth, subsequently took up Chinchilla station
on the Darling Downs, Queensland, and lastly sold out
and retired to a suburb of Brisbane. He was buried in
a private mausoleum ereoted on his own property. He
was 72 years of age A number of Mr. Sam Rickards,
(Queensland National Bank), friends recently assembled
in Ipswioh to bid him good-bye, on his promotion to
Dalby. A convivial evening was spent, speeches
humorous and numerous being given, barn's admiring
friends put the usual half hundredweight of testimonial
jewellery into his hands; and no doubt the "'ip'ip
Tps-which ’’ they also treated him to sank fathoms
deep into his agitated heart Governor Kennedy, of
Queensland, retires at the end of twelve months into
private life. Ho has been fifty-four years in the
Queen*B service An Auckland constable has, through
the de»th ef a cousin, come into an Irish estate
nominally worth £2OOO a year. Ho has, however, in no
hurry to go and receive his rents The action for
libel against Mr. Hawkins, formerly proprietor of the
Temora Srar, has not been abandoned by Mr. Warden
De Boos, as some newspapers have stated
Michael Donaghy, large rope-manufacturer in Victoria
and N.Z., died last Monday, aged 61; he was a colonist
of 30 years The " Lordly " Fitzgibbon has been in-
duced to withdraw his resignation of Melbourme tewn-
olerkship Mr. C. H. Barlee, a well-known journalist,
law reporter, and shorthand writer, is dead. He was
for some time engaged on the Brisbane Hansard, and
of late had acted as secretary to one or two high
N.S.W. commissions Dr. Robert Falder, an old
resident of the Southern district died last week, aged
77 vears, at Qundagai " April 3rd, visited this school,
which, as a child, I myself attended," is what Sir Henry
Parkes wrote in the log-book at Stoneleigh, school
Warwick-shire. Mr. Calvert, clerk of Parliaments,
has succeeded to coin, and Is going homo for a year.


ANTHONY HORDEHN
PALACE E M PORI 11
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
mEE NUMEROUS AND WELL STOCKED DEPARTME*
J- contain almost Every Article Required, either by Lady or G
or Household Requisites, all under one roof; and are kept up by i
England and the European continent, where our Mr A. HOED!
mined to procure, at the Earliest Moment, any of the varied ni
staptly being placed on the London, Paris, Berlin, and Continental
case, we say, with confidence, that no other Establishment in A
thing like the advantages to be derived in purchasing at THE PAL
(only), where all goods are NEW, because of the quick turn over fc
LATEST STY LES, owing to the constant supervision in buying
BEST MANUFACTURERS, and where goods are from 30 to 40 p
cause of our OLD. and WELL-ESTABLISHED CASH SYSTEM
LADIES HATS and BONNETS.—Latest Novelties
and Newest Styles, comprising hats in Plush,
Velvet, and Beaver. Hats and Bonnets in batin
and Plush, Chenille, Beal Sealskin, Imitation
Sealskin, Russian Seal, Ac. dec.
MILLINERY.—Choicest and Best Selected Assortment
of French and English Millinery in the
Colonies. .Ladies Bonnets, trimmed Flush and
Feathers, from 15s 6i. Ladies* Bonnets, trim,
mod Satin and Plush with tips, from 21s. Also
a large variety of Children’s trimmed Hats, from
5j 6d- each.
FEATHERS, &c. —A Largo and Well-assorted Stock of
White 0.8. Flats, 2s lid to 30s. Coloured O.S.
Flats, 2i 63 to 255. Shaded O.S. Flats 3s lid to
25 1. Coloured O.S, Plumes, Hackle-Coque
Ostrich Plumes, Janoer Ends. Aigrette Tufts,
Princess Tufts, Marabout, Coqne Chenille,
Birds. &c, Ac.
ORNAMENTS, &c.-Silver, Steel, Gold, Jet, &o. Hat
and Bonnet Ornaments in great variety of the
latest novelties.
PARACHUTES, Ac.—Ladies’ Black Satin Sunshades,
Trimmed Black Lace, Ladies Lustrine Sun-
shades, and Black Satin Sunshades, frilled,
Twill Silk and Levantine Parachutes.
MANTLES AND JACKETS.—Ladies’ Jackets, Man.
ties, &0., in unequalled variety, from 5s lid to
8 guineas. Beautiful goods for style and quality
—creations of English, French, and German
artists. The beautiful Military Jacket, the
perfect Velvet Brocade Jacket, Silk Brocade
Paletots, Satin de Lyon Mantle, Merveilloux de
Soi Mantle, Rich Corded Silk Mantle.
CHILDREN’S JACKETS,—In all sizes, materials, and
shapes.
COSTUMES.—The Leading Novelties, as worn in Lon-
don, Paris, and Berlin, in French Cord, Cash-
mere, Baotive, Tweed, &o , &c., from 21a to 50a.
Also, a splendid stock of choice Costumes,
from U to 16 guineas.
SILKS AND
Stock (
large p
tary pf
public i
purchai
new shi
Ac., in
which 1
VELVETEENI
great fi
in fact,
style, i
stock t
HOSIERY.—A
raaterii
Cashmi
Cardim
Merino
makes.
Childr«
RIBBONS.—T
Ribbon
vet, Te
All th<
inches
LACES.—Anti
Black ]
firm in
Floren
Bead C
GLOVES. —Th
sizes.
Is 9d, 4
all sizt
Cashm
and La
SPLENDID A
Linen,
tonnes
PLEASE CAREFULLY NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM!
HAYMAEKI
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” E
MOLESKIN TR(
WHITE AND PRINT
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINAR
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FI
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPER
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT
COLONY OP NEW SOUTH \
THESE GOODS Will
CHEAPEST AND BES*
TUB RDAMFI IS RFCISTE
Notice.
MESSES. FITZGERA.L BEOS, of Launceston, Tar.
mania, are no.longer authorised to act os Agents
(ortho Sydney Bulletin.
MESSES. WALCH BEOTHEES and BIECHALL
are appointed our Agents, and will receive subscriptions
and advertisements,
W. H. TEAILL & CO.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
A membah,a bankah and a poundkeGpah.poae be-
fore the Singleton folks an the taree graces—Faith, blopo,
and Charity The meaitmh represents shin j Jn
N.Z., the clerk of the District Court, happening to
drop into a bank, noticed a bankrupt drawing a cheque
for £22, and immediately pat an estoppel upon the pro-
ceedings, much to the chagrin of the uncerti floatod
one In New Zealand there are (exclusive. f Maori?
and Chinese) 30,112 persons above 5 years of age wb-
can neither read nor write; and 26,0-12 "ho can read
only N.Z. statistics 1 73,261 husbands, but only
72.801 wifes (I); 4961 widowsra, and 7290 widows 5
185,951 unmarried males; 140,181 unmarried females;
441 males and 35 females decline to state their conjugal
condition... A poet lately started business at Townsville.
Ho has left an aged mother totally unprovided (0r...0n
Taldora Station, near Saxby River, Q , there is a i*roon
of fresh water seven miles long, and an average widtli
of nearly an eighth of a mile. The oldest blackfeUow
never saw it dry; the lagoon, however, has seen many •
blaaktellow turn very crisp,. ..Out of 34 prisoners triad at
the recent Bourke Sessions, there were only 11 con-
victed “Ferruginous equine” is what the Mudsee
Independent calls a locomotive On the Wild River,
all the “foorce” have joined the Good Templars......
The politest man in the Far North is ho who postei a
placard: “ Please do not tumble dewn the shaft. ......
At Morinish (Q.) diggings, Frederick Franks, who had
been drinking heavily, swallowed a bottle of painkiller
*’ to put him straight.” It straightened him. Usual
verdict The only birds not protected bv the Game
Law are gaolbirds and policemen. Constable Long was
accidentally shot, the other day, at Norlh 5h0re......
There wero four libel cn«es down for hearing at lasq
Maryborough (Q.) sessions a. man who gave his
name ns John Thompson, bat whose real name is
believed to have been Hans Olsen, died nt a contractor s
camp, Cnltown run, Wilcannia, the other day, of con-
gestion of the lungs. Ho had no property hut a
purse, pocket - hook, and 2d The Woolgar
is looking up. Last packers brought 5500 z. gold.,
A correspondent who visited Tihooburra (Mount
Browne) cemetery, ou Wednesday, counted 32 graves
vopreseuting the mortality of the place for 11 months.
lt is stated that at the hundred feet level in the
Union mine, Mount Davenport, Cape River, no less
than one hundred ounces of gold to the ton have been
obtained from a reef five feet wide A £25,090 com-
pany has been floated in Sydney, to work a 100-acre
silver selection adjoining the well-known Venture
claim. Star River silver mines. Mollatt and party s
ground, adjoining the Colorado claim, promises to run
out just as much as the earlier At tho noble, near
Townsville, while a valuable mare was in the
water eating water-lilies, a large alligator seized her
by the lower jaw, biting it clean off, bone aid all
Forty-eight aboriginals, the pitiful and degraded rem-
uant of the stalwart men and women who in days gone
by trod the verdant vallev of the Burnett, assembled nt
Bnndaberg the other day to received their annual
blankets. At Charters Towers, 180 darkies put in an
appearance. After all had got their blankets, they
stood up, took off their hata-all those who
had any—and gave three cheers tor tho Queen
Mourilyan Harbour is once more to the front. A direct
line from Herberton has been discovered, making the
distance a little over 40 miles. Every port north of
Townsville mnst now give way, as Mourilyan is nearer
the tin-mines, and cannot be excelled in any way as a
deep-water port Sydney capitalists are going to
work the Explorer mine, Hodgkinsou River, also the
Pioneer claim on the celebrated Big Hill. 6«8 tons
of stone taken from the Explorer returned 30380 z. lOdwt,
of smelted gold, or an average of 4oz. 7dwt. Work has
of late been suspended for want of machinery....;.At tile
Prospectors’ (reward) claim, Tato tin-mines, N.Q , over
140 tons stream tin were at latest awaiting canvas for
bagging. When this claim is properly opened out, and
Ootramway l&id to permanent waton it will give
employment to a hundred men. The ground in
the upper end of the claim teems with tin,
Adelaide Punch is now printed at Port Adelaide, at
tho P.A. NKWsJoffloe Great complaints of ‘ touting
at N.Z. Exhibition Henry Robertson, editor of the
Nepean Times, has been committed for trial for ob-
taining money under false pretences John Clark tell
out of a boat off Millet’s Point, Bvdney, and before he
was rescued three or font ground sharks had a taste of
one of his calves; he was not seriously hurt....,..At
Woodend, near Kaiapoi, N.Z., the magistrates had to
prohibit the sale of all intoxicating liquors because
certain residents were drinking themselves to death.
From Mt. Piddington down into the Kenimbia
Valiev is one of the most lovely tracks in N. o. Wales.
In two miles the road descends 1000 feet; springs,
waterfalls, ferns and rooks make a rare scene of
beauty A laughing jack ass rammed his bill
Into the eye of a fireman on one of the New
castle locomotives. The head of the Depart-
ment fortunately had his oye e15ewhere.............
The Maiwborouoh (Q.) Chronicle will shortly be
issued as a daily paper Colling wood (Melbourne)
larrikins raided a hotel on Saturday night last, and,
being refused drinks, maltreated landlord, his wife,
and daughter The Palmer blacks are giving trouble
again At King’s Plain Station they have speared a
valuable brood mare in foal, a yearling foal, and tbree
imported Devon bulls; loss, £l7O in all A Northern
P M reverses the usual court practice. He and his
colleagues first settle the case, decide upon the penalty;
then, and not till then, ask tho prisoner how he pleads,
and whether he will be dealt with summarily or other-
wise . ..It i* great fun travelling by coach the six
miles between Te Awamutu railway station and Alex-
andra, N.Z. White folk and Maoris rush belter
ekelter at the vehicles, tho former generally being
triumphant. But, nothing daunted, the dusky belles,
each weighing 12 stone or so, crowd in, and take their
seats on the white folks’ laps. This brings elysiam
Tvpnoid fever in the capitals of each of tho colonies...
On the Burrawang station, 50,000 sheep perished during
the recent drought Ou the Bogan, out of 7030 lamb-
in* [owes, tho increase saved throughout the drought
wfs only one lamb. Instead of 1,400,000 sheep being
shorn next season in the Dubbo sheop district, there
wUU be only 200,060... Victorian Govern-
ment will have to shell out for the last Windsor railway
collision. J. H. Kuipo’s claim » *2OOO. and other
nafferers are wading in fairly well...... Proprietors of
Melbourne Allans offer 100-guinea silver cup to the
rrowar of the best collective exhibit of Australian
Wines nt Bordeau Exhibition John Wallace, mate of
schooner, Rachel Cohen, etibbod by man recently
wicked up from barque. Glimpse, and whose sufferings
are believed to have unhinged his mind.
During the voyage of the barque Campsie Glen, from
Timaru (N.Z.) to Newcastle, the captain out his throat
with a broken bottle At Francis (8.A.) four men
were attacked bv fourteen emna. The leader of the
birds scuttled off after the first onset; one emu was
killed and a second made prisoner, before the rest
followed tho leader A second big nugget—this time
87* oz —found at the lower lead, Tomora A widow
named Bridget M’Garrick, of Maryborough (Q.), when
discharged from service as a domestic, deliberately
drowned herself in the Mary River The Austrian
Sieber, who recently caused such a sensation in Mel-
bourne by shooting a barmaid and trying to commit
suicide, is recovering. Miss Maher is also doing well.
At Manning Eivor, some fishermen caught 8 tons
fish in one day Flour, Is. 4d. per lb. at Blaokall, and
nation scarce at that Melbourne Government Print-
ing Office burnt to the ground.
# # #
A London paper says Munkacay’a picture of
Christ before Pilate ’’ is the finest picture painted for
many years. It causes much sensation A Gorman
butcher has murdered and robte 1 of considerable savings
a young working girl. He told her to keep her money
in her hair fur safety, and then lay in wait and deliber-
ately out off her head. He was arrested Hicks,
Barker and Co. ore not original geniuses In Hungary a
discovery has been made that a joint-stock company whs
inexistence to insure poor people’s live s, and then to
gradually “doctor" them to death Two Londoners
coming in a train from Monte Carto played haxard
with strangers. Remarking on one of the dice, the
Londoner thought it was not quite square. The
Stranger at once threw it through the window and
produced another in its place. Soon afterwards, the
Londoner picked up a second dice, remarking, “ Hallo I
there are two sixes on this chap I’’ His companion
reached over, and coolly saying, “ How unfortunate;
another misprint!” threw it out of the window. There
was no more play Two Kansas ((United States)
butchers quarrelled over the Ryan-Snllivan prize-fight.
One broke the other’s neck by throwing him over a
beak-keg. The jury returned a verdict that any man
who quarrelled over so well-settled a dispute deserved
t> have his neek broken.
VANITY FAIR.
Truth calls the singing quadrille the
west complete effort of social Idiocy yet achieved.
It is such idiocy that It never really was
achieved An English Divorce Court Judge
recently ordered the Postmaster-General to produce the
e igitrnl of a telegram on the ground that it was a
" evirate document,” and hence was not privileged by
the law On the Duchess of Norfolk issuing invitations
u r a ball at Arundel Castle, all the local clergy were
included. Four Catholic priests declined the invitation,
eight Church of England clergymen accepted...... The
Crown Prince of Prussia possesses 79 Crosses or Orders.
Ho can’t wear them all at once, or remember them,
•‘thrr. At a family gathering a prize was given to the
person who could name the most. A young Imperial
Princess correctly named 65; while the Prince s wife
oonld onlv call to mind 27 emblems of her husband s
glory The great (and he is great) English Postmaster-
General, when he has to answer Questions in the House,
only has them read over to him, occasionally twice, by
his private secretary, and no matter how long or elabo-
rate, the answer is always given correctly. There’s our
own Brown, now but we don’t know of anything
remarkable about him worth mentioning There were
60.000 sleighs in Central Park, N Y., in one day......A
Birmingham bookseller owns the manuscript of Charles
uickens's “ Christmas Carol.” It consists of 66 pages of
cost paper, and is full of corrections and alterations.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, by the puerile arguments he has
advanced against the Channel Tunnel between England
and France, has made himself a langhing-stock
Catholic bazaar at Germanton realised £2OO .At a
grand Swan Dinner at Delmonico’s, a lake was built on
the centre of the table, in which five live swans swam.
Mr. Christie, M.P. for Sussex, married Lady Rosa-
mond Wallop—
Miss Wallop no longer uncared-for is steering
Her shallop alone o’er the buffeting wave,
A dollop of young ones will soon be appearing.
To galop through life with her down to the grave.
Hindoo girls are taught to get prepared for mar.
riage as soon as they can talk; they are betrothed at
six, and married often at twelve. Their views of
marital responsibilities are very correct. Yet strange
to say, the special idol to whom they pay adoration,
Krishna, was a gay old party who kicked over the
girls’ milkpans, ran away with their clothes when
they were bathing, carried on with other gods’
wives, and played “ green grow the rushes,
oh ! ” with any number of beautiful women
Rumour whispers of the revival of black silk, that use-
f i*l material that for almost any purpose under the sun
is never out of place At a Queen’s drawing-room
enormous flowers were worn—sunflowers and lilies
large as plates A jewelled frog is not a pretty orna-
ment for a lady to wear; but it she’s single, the animal
suggests to her maiden mind a very agreeable senti-
ment If gentlemen at a ball hadn’t gloves to keep
buttoning and unbuttoning, what would they do with
their hands Y An Auckland gentleman potsesses the
secret of a plant that will turn any hair a beautiful and
permanent black, no matter what its original shade.
Hope rises again in the ginger-headed man’s breast 1,...
At an English ball, a lady went iu the character of a
“Bottle of Champagne.’’ The neck (her waist) was
rather short in proportion, but was c ivered with an
imitation capsule, and the skirt was symmetrically
round, and boro a large label " Heidsieok and Co., Dry
Monople.” Other costumes were, Grace Darling, and
Dick Turpin In New York, a lady with white com-
plexion and flaxen hair, adopted the character “A
White Cat An entire band was composed of man-
dolin players Auckland was last week the scene of
a “ Bread and Butter Ball.” What is that ? The
most beautiful iwoman at the late Queen’s reception
was Lady Kllmorey, in white Venetian velvet, ostrich
feathers and diamonds Gambling runs high in
private London houses, so high that at one house each
player (ladies included) had to place £5O in the pool
before poker commenced After her Glasgow trip,
Mrs. Langtry returns to the Haymarket Theatre
There are 214,309 John Smiths in the United Kingdom.
A witness in London recently swore that ho had
hundreds of labels of celebrated piano-makers, and
when a warehouseman bought a plane from him, he
put on whichever maker's name he chose. Which reminds
us, Hennessy’s three star brandy is sometimes made in
Sydney A Bishop in Cincinnati has issued a circular
prohibiting round dancing in his diocese Ex-Preti-
dont Hayes declined to contribute towards Garfield's
monument, on the ground of poverty The latest
la-de dah idiocy is called the “front teeth smile.”
An English photographer has taken a swallow on the
wing, by the Instantaneous process,and photographed the
bird’s shadow on the water distinctly... £4OOO has been
reserved for Garfield’s monument, and the comer stone
will be laid on the 4th July Tennyson’s salary as
Poet Laureate is £lOO per annum and a fat buck. When
he saw Farkes he thought Henry was the fat buck
At a Life Guards’ Ball (non-commissioned officers) the
Prince of Wales said ho had come on purpose “ to dimes
with the wives and sweethearts of the corporals,” and
he did it, too The Crown jewels of France just sold,
or to be sold, are valued at £630,000. The first inven-
tory of , them was taken in 1691; they were then worth
£60,000. One firm have had the custody of thorn for
200 years The latest idea of a Fancy Ball in London
is a Bird Ball, all the guests to represent some bird.
A piqued belle might go as a “ pouter pigeon,” or a
vivacious tomboy go as “ a lark. ' There is now a
hunting mania among fashionable ladies at home.
Not that they hunt, yon know; but they dress
in riding habits and sit on a horse. The habits
are made extremely close-fitting London dress-
makers are endeavouring to introduce huge patterns en
figured sateens and cretonnes. The figures include
such things as full-sized dinner plates, dogs, cats catch-
ing mice, and foxes’ heads. But the greatest horror to en-
counter will be people who could never wear such things.
...The Jersey Lily and her husband lately gave a party
on a Sunday night 1 The guests included the Prince of
Wales, eminent actors, actresses, authors, and artists,
as well as many titled people, who were all wicked
enough to listen to music and recitations The
Princess of Wales and Princess Hilena are both pro-
ficient performers on the zither The drama of
** Moths," founded on Onida’s novel, is to be produced
at the Court Theatre, with Kyrle Bellew as Correze,
the hero There is a furore in Loudon and Paris (or
a new shade of golden brown—a combination of copper
and gold tints Embroidery is extremely f ashionable,
chiefly in analogous colours; such as mauve or violet
on heliotrope, myrtle green on sage green, amber on
brown, oopper-colonr on maize, and so on At a late
reception, the Queen’s dress was of black moire an-
tique, trimmed with ostrich foathews and jet: white
tulle veil, with diadem of diamonds.
• * *
Children’s dresses are more expensive and rich
than ever before; and many are made to slip on
altogether. Terra cotta and dork green are favour-
ite odours Among the French Crown jewels
is a diamond girdle (made for Eugenie at a cost
of £40,000), which she wore only ince The
King and Queen of Sweden will celebrate their silver
wedding this year, with great pomp. The anniversary
is in June. Another royal silver wedding will bo that
of the Grand Duke Michael of Enssia and Princess
Olga, in August A new character lately taken at a
fancy hall was the "Blacksmith of Gretna Green,”
The wearer’s idea was an ordinary clerical suit of
blaek with a leather apron, and a pair of tongs bolding
a red horseshoe The Ladies’ Suffrage Society hold a
ball in January at Kensington. Costumes were mostly
those of the Ration* 1 Dress Association, loose robes
aud shoes without heels. Some were fOithetically
clothed. Ladies are determined io have the franchise
if they have to dance themselves into it
The newest feature in evening dress are jewelled epaiil
lattes on ladies’ shoulders, fixed ou with very slender
hands Ladies’ balldresses are often made without
pockets, and embarrassment is caused by the numerous
articles which have to be carried—fan, bouquet, pro-
gramme, handkerchief, &c. A pocket for these small
can sometimes be arranged under a
bouquet of flowers, when floral trimming is used


CITY CATERING COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET.
▲ NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and prac-
tical experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnonl and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th April, 1881, wo have
snooessfelly catered THE LARGEST, MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE undertakings that
have taken place here to the present time, viz.,—
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet ri*om.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 430, at Glontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1600. Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE,
Earl Clanwiiliam, and the Officers of the Detached
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi*
tion Building.
Masonio Ball, N.S.W. Constitution, r at Town Hall.
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgew Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinner A Id
Russo, for 60, in Government Palace Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—r«
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under VERT SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 80 p.m., to be
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refreshment, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow,
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Town HalL
The (Union Club) " Bachelor’s BalL” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windoyer, in Our new
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Inals, in our new
Banquet Boom.
Dinner d lo Russe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Russe to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams.
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of “ Hudson
Bros.' New Railway Bolling Stock Works,” at Gran-
viile.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkesbnry
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshment Borg at Bandwiok
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary a Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englysho Fayre. Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls.
Dinners, I easts, &0., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY latent on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, &e. &i.,
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
Pastry, Cakes, Jollies, Ices, Confectionary, &o.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services req[tured.
Wo have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting us on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to ns.
CHAS. K. SMITH
(Late ef the firm of the original Compagnonl and Co.),
Makaoee.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY.BTEBET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
weights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marino and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep-waahing, Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, witn latest improve-
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and host
price given for metal.
The federal bank op Australia
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Capital, £1,000,000.
Subscribed, £660,000.
Directors:
Hon, J. J. Casey, C.M.Q., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq , Vice-President.
John Robb, Esq.
John Whittingham, Esq.
William M’Lean, Esq., J.P.
Hon. James Munro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
Temporary Banking House, Sydney j
257 Qeorge-street, North.
Francis S. Macdermott, Esq.,
Manager.
John Docker, Esq., Accountant.
Messrs. Robertson and Fisher, Solicitors.
THE FEDERAL BANE OF AUSTRALIA (Limited)
offers several
fecial Facilities
to those
Who Require
Banking Accommodation.
1. Interestwill be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
rates.
3. Every branch of banking business transacted.
4. Bills will be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
6. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
When the Emperor Tiberius was in the horrors
at Capri he wrote to the Roman Senate after this
fashion: “ What to write to you, or how to write, I
know not; and what not to write at this time may all
the gods and goddesses torment me more than I daily
feel that I do suffer if I do know.” This antique con-
fession exactly fetches our position at the present time.
*• There is nothing new under the son”—as an Evening
News man’s eldest boy said when he looked at his
boots. All the old jokers have had the bulge on us.
Our jokes, at the best, are ns bald as the last of a line
of lords. In other words, they are heirless. We have
seriously thought of sub-letting the writing of the
lively section of the “ Show# ” to an undertaker. If it
is impossible to be real funny, let us at least be funereal.
m # *
There is no doubt whatever that “ the times are
out Of joint.” Which reminds us that the same re-
mark was made by a Parramatta printer’s devil when
he prowled through his editor’s pantry in search of the
mummy of the morning meal, and found only two
empty rum-bottles and a copy of the current issue with
a greasy streak running right across the leader, show-
ing where the joint of yore had been and was no more.
This is the way our gibes are scooped at every point.
We can stand being anticipated, bub to be anticix>ated
in Parramatta I
* # *
We have struck the right lead now. What we
are going to tell you, children, is our own particular
experienoo--all right# reserved, burial rite# included.
We were brokers—deadbrokors —at ene time. This i#
not meant |to imply that we ever had anything to do
with the body-snatching industry. But we were very
poon—poorer than a 'bus-horse —for all that. And so
one fine morning we packed up the whole ef our pro-
perty in two pill-boxes, and started out into the bush.
You will please observe that “we" means the present
writer all the time. We joined company with a Strong
Man, who for a while did all the “ jobs of work ” that
were to lie had upon the way. The only offer of em-
ployment we ourselves had fer the first month or two
w# refused to accept. It was a contract to sit round the
edge of a tin dish in a grocer s window and scare flies
out of treacle. But the Strong Man went back on us
after a time. He declined to go up to stations any more
with the story that he had had “ nothing to eat for three
day#,” and that “his mate was down with spasms, and
couldn’t go any farther that night." He oven objected
te interview the butchers in each township we passed
through, with a view to ascertaining how much meat
Its eould have for the “ last threepence.” He remarked
that the “ last threepence " dodge was becoming a bit
toe thin. Wo notieed that it had been getting thin for
some days, and that wo had been keeping such exact
time with it that, on the morning when it got too thin
altogether, a small boy, seeing us entering the town-
ship, ran home to his mother and yelled out, “ O mar,
there's a man cornin’ up the street with a cross-cut sor
waukln’ along beside him." We were hurt at this re-
mark. If we were thin, that was no reason why the
fact should be thrown in our teeth. But boys have no
gumption, anyhow.
« • •
After a while we got bo used to being hungry
that we could pass a bakehouse with no more sign of
feeling than w« would show iu passing a coffin-factory.
We never snaffled a loaf—when the baker was about.
Habit is a strange thing. Profound reflection upon
this point has convinced us that in time—or rather in
eternity—a man may get used to being damned. At the
lost township we arrived in, they took the writer for
the advance agent of a living-skeleton show, and a man
from the hotel over the way came up to us, and after
explaining to the Strong Man that the boys across the
road were playing Tankeo grab for drinks and had lost
oa« ef the “ bones,” asked him how much an hour he
would take to let his mate out to be shaken in the box
as a substitute. We judged it better to stop at that
township. If we had gone any further they might have
taken us for the canvasser ef the Town anb Codwtet,
or'a new species of potato-bug.
• • •
A leading resident of the town noticing, after a
brief conversation with us, our pronounced literary
ability, offered to procure ns employment in the local
taantry. The temptation to hide ourselves from the
world was great, but we resisted it.
« * «
Finally we were installed as sub-editor, reporter,
canvasser, collector, whisky-carrier, and Paris corres-
pondent to one of the local papers. Before our engage-
ment was ratified, the proprietor compelled us to swear
q solemn and gory oath that we would never have any
“ trnek" with the editor of the rival rag, and never
allude to him without introducing a statement te the
effect that in our opinion he was a horse thief and
parricide, and that the chances were his father before
him had been hanged for church robbery and murder.
This was because he used to take advertisements at two
pence per inch less than our “ boss.” The first thing
we wrote was a thrilling report of a circus perform-
ance. The circus had just come to town. It consisted
of two performing goats, a drunken contortionist, and
a bill-sticker. We gave them a coruscating critique
that ran to about a column and a half. This was in
consideration of a half-crown advertisement, which
they didn’t pay for. The goats were seized in conse-
quence, and the show was “ busted." The bill-sticker
took to log-splitting and the contortionist to grave-
digging. This was our first essay at dramatic criticism.
• • •
For several months we filled the columns of the
Dingo Plat Possicker with magnificent prose to which
the stately periods of Gibbon, the pellucid sentences of
Mneaulay, and the graceful diction of Addison were but
as |the literature of Laplanders. There was nothing
between eeuith and nadir that wo couldn’t be eloquent
about. We were groat on the insufflcient-accommoda-
tion-in-the-looal-pound-question: we were sublime upon
the new-fence-for-the-courthouse agitation. But it was
when we got upon the stray-pig.m-tho-street subject
that we swelled up into jEschylean grandeur. The
editor was also a man of mighty intellect. He could if
yon gave him time and did not crowd him, write a
leading artielo which should contain more imbecility
and drunken drivel aed less English than anything that
ever appeared out of Bedlam. He had been a black-
smith once and used to edit the paper with his sledge-
hammer. His sen* and daughters set up the type.
There were about seventeen of these, and ho included
in his conscription for the mechanical staff even the
baby in arms. He was a devil of a man.
• * «
This was our induction to the journalism of
New South Wales. Now, as we watch the delicate
smoke-wreaths ascending from the cigar of Sybaritish
luxary and sip the whisky-nnd-water of fabulous wealth,
we look back with a stony awe to the time when wo
•enld only afford to got drunk on kerosene and smoke
dessieated gum-leaves except upon the rare occasions
whoa a Chinese hawker called round and gave us a
plug of tobooco for writing a leader denouncing Anti-
Uhinoso agitation, and alluding to the heathens as
“ those peaceful and industrious citizens.”
# • •
Before we left the township we pot the pro-
prietor of the Bingo Plat Possicker six months for
libel. We had, according to his instructions, attacked
the other editor. We called him a nightmare. This
was bo distinguish him from our own editor, who was a
horse. We slow four of the sons before leaving and
broke the head of the infant prodigy. Then wo went
round to rob the parson but found only five threepenny-
bits, three of which were bad, remaining from the pre-
vious Sunday's collection, two celluloid stocks and a
shovel-hat. Tho parson was in bed waiting till his
shirt eame back from the wash. We ironed him out
with a cross-bar and left. Our progress since then has
been rapidly downwards. We are now dramatic critics.
Yesterday we were called to serve upon a jury. We
hart ntTor boon able te get rid of the affoctation of
correct spelling, or we might be made a C.M.G. to-
morrow. This is our history. Our portraits may be
found in any police-station.
• * *
All of which lets us down naturally to the con-
sideration of this week’s “shows.” And now seriatim
as we saw them.
* * * *
Hart’s “ Happy Hours,” at the Victoria Hall,
is a performance as amusing as it is alliterative. We
noticed that several improvements had been mad© in
tho interior of the building since we were there last.
Perhaps they were needed; perliaps they were only
required. This is a delicate question, and we must he
cautious. Mr. Hart uses his own scenery, which is
pretty and appropriate. The programme opens with
“ Diamond cut Diamond," an original musical comedy.
Mr. Edward Laurence (Mr. Hart) is in love with Miss
Kate Lacy (Mrs. Hartl. There is a convenient cousin
(Miss Louise Hart), who is made the confidant of both.
Mr. Laurence, wishing to try the strength of Miss
Lacy’s affection for him, assumes various disguises, and
declares his love for her in each; but she sees through
the plot*—as Bishop Moorhouse might have said when
they offered him the See of Sydney. And so she her-
self assumes disguises; and whenever he plays the
right bower, (scoops it in with the joker. Of course
each situation is an excuse for a song, and the song in
every case is more than an excuse for the situation.
Mr. Laurence’s first character is the “ Hon. Mont-
morency de Courcy.” The Hon. Montmorency looks
like a canvasser for Eugene Eimmel. He lets himself
out tremendously on cosmetiqned moustache. For one
brief moment we thought he might be the great comic
artist of these lands. The “ Ha, ha," song was a success.
Mrs. Hart’s hunting ditty, “ Over hedge and ditch we
ge,” we did not like; not because it was not well sung,
but because it reminded us too forcibly of an adventure
of long ago, when we had put on our canary-coloured
waistcoat and striped pants to go up to Polly Jones’s to
offer our hand and heart, and her old man had happened
to be out in the garden hoeing turnips. He hunted us
for four miles over hedge and ditch with the hoe in his
hand. This was a kind of “Tally. Hoe” we can never
forget.
• • •
We' have not space this week to analyse the
performance in detail. We are compelled to jam things
together. “My Wife’s Relations,” a 'sparkling little
burletta, followed “ Diamond cut Diamond.” The
mechanism of both pieces is much the same, and the
songs in each are bright and lively. Mr. and Mrs. Hart,
to use a new figure of speech, are a host in themsevles.
Miss Hart is a good ally. Mr. Kirby, the pianist, lias
not much to do, but does that little well. And as for
Mr. E. P. Eoper, the indefatigable agent, he is as good
a fellow as he is a smart one, and as handsome —demme,
he is almost as handsom _ as we are
* ** * *
“ The Guv'nor ” still occupies the boards of the
Opera House. Mr. Fred. Marshall is getting almost as
rich as a Government contractor. The only enemies he
has in this.city are the undertakers.
* * * *
“ New Babylon ” is drawing large audiences to
the Eoyal. Monte Brown’s Thor heard shines at the
dress circle door every night like a comet of devastation
and bale. And Bland Holt lets his long love-looks
stream in the breeze like the oriflamme of Navarre.
All is revelry and threepenny drinks. A little duet
of this kind —after De Musset—occurs between Monte
and Goodie, outside of Eostway’s, every evening—
Monte : Lea liqueurs me font mat. Je n’aime q ire la
biire. Qu’as-tn sur toi ?
Goodie : Trois sous.
Monte i Enirons au cabaret.
Goodie : A pres vans.
Monte : Aprils voua.
Goomu: Aprd s rows, s'il vous plait.
For the benefit of the WooHoomooloous who read this,
we add the information that they can get it translated
by applying to any of the French laundresses who reside
in Crown-street. And while they are there, they might
ns wall call upon our washerwoman, and say that she
needn't send her shockheaded boy round any more.
Wo never pay any hill now that doesn’t amount to a
cheque—and we don’t pay it then if the Banks know it.
Our washerwoman is a foreigner also. Her name is
Murphy—Bridget Murphy. That’s what makes her so
unreasonable.
* * * *
Simonson’s English and Italian Opera Company
opened a season, intended to cover about ten weeks, at
the Gaiety on Saturday night. The house was a very
good one, as might have been expected when the cater-
ing was in the experienced hands of the Simonsens.
Special interest attached to the opening programme,
from the fact that Miss Martina Simonsen undertook
the leading rffle.
« « •
The part of Satanella —va sans dire—it a most
arduous one, and creates a heavy tax upon the artiste’s
sustaining powers, as well as calling for a considerable
amount of dramatic force; and it is not too much to
say that Miss Simonsen displayed a possession of these
qualities in a very satisfactory degree. All that were
disposed to he critical were, of course, on the qui vive
when Satanella sang the “ Power of Love.” The young
prima donna was evidently on her mettle, and gave the
song in the most expressive and finished manner. Miss
Simonsen’s voice is a full and clear soprano, and her
vocalisation disclosed great study and cultivation. In
the middle register her voice is pure and sweat, but in
the higher notes, when forced, a trifle wiry. In fact,
on one or two occasions one might have sent a telegram
to Heaven by it. She has a habit of introducing a close
shake too often, which has a certain untunefulness
about it, and more than once caused the final note to be
perceptibly flat. We don’t care for close shakes. We
prefer a shake in the hat—“ shilling in, winner shouts ’’
—any day. In the duet in the third act with Arimanes,
Martina showeci how artistically she could blend her
voice with others, and, as both she and Mr. St. Clair had
evidently bestowed careful study on that number, the
duet was delightfully sung, and highly appreciated by
the audience. Besides, she has such a deliciously funny
way of pronouncing English, and is so pretty and
graceful, that—that unless she will smile at us now and
then, we are a lost critic. Altogether, Martin Simon-
sen must be congratulated for having given ns such a
lovely and clever addition to our operatic stage.
• • •
Next amongst the ladies for notice comes Miss
Francos Saville, who played Leila. Throughout the
performance this lady excellently supported the prima
donna. In singing “ Our hearts are not our own to
give ” in the first act, she at once made herself a
favourite with the audience. Miss Saville possesses a
good soprano voice of fair range, and is particularly
good in her enunciation—a quality the value of which
is often too lightly esteemed. For instance, when a
man asks you what you’ll drink, and you understand
him to enquire what you think about the political
situation, and he goes away under the impression that
you are either doaf or a total abstainer, you begin, after
the meaning of his speech flashes upon vou, to wish that,
when your forefathers were framing the English lan-
guage, they had coined more epithets for the expression
of the nuances of malice and bitterness of spirit. When
Miss Saville sang, one could understand every word.
The part of Stella was very nicely played by Miss Alice
Stanley.
ouaxi j 9 9 9
Mr. Bronnir was rather disappointing. We
had expected much from him, wo hardly know why,
hut suppose because his name rhymes to “ tenor." In
“ Here’sto Gold” and “ The Glorious Vintage of Cham-
pagne," he failed to infuse that fire and excite that
enthusiasm which the character of those songs in their
essence demand. He was also liable to adopt falsetto
(and net the best of falsetto at that) when the higher
notes reached above a high baritone register. In tact,
be cannot truthfully he called a high-toned tenor.
This was conspicuously exemplified in “Beloved by
Thee ” We heard an uncultured person in the seat
behind us say that “ if Mr. Brennir hadn’t got much
timber in his voice, he made up for it in his calves.”
Timbre was what the joker meant to say, and he was
hinting at sawdust, hut then some people would say
this about the Apollo Belvidere.
• * •
Mr. Ernest St. Clair as Arimanes was excellent.
But then we have never seen Arimanes, and don’t know
what he looks like. If Mr. St. Clair’s personation is
anything like the original, Arimanes can “ come on at
any time he likes. We’ll back our scullery-maid to
grin the head off him for a hot. Speaking soberly (O
sorrowful confession 1) as Mr. St. Clair sings in time and
possesses a good resonant bass organ, we may expect to
hear better things of him when ho has gained more
experience on the operatic stage. It was in the duet
with Satanella in the third act that he more par-
ticularly distinguished himself.
* * •
Mr. J. E. Kitts, as the chief of the “ Pirates,”
was hardly in his old form—though he was all there in
substance. When we say he was all there, do not mistake
us. We mean that there was as much of him there as
could appear on the stage at once. If Mr. Kitts would
only consent to play in sections, be could appear in
three or four theatres at the same time, and then have
enough of himself remaining to travel the country in a
“Fat man" or “Highland Giant" show. By this
means he might become fabulously wealthy, and at
length—and breadth—retire gracefully from the stage,
after accepting from an adoring public a brass-pin and
a testimonial. Kitts is the operatic veteran of the
Colonial stage, and if his big bass be a shade wem, it
has been expended in the service of the public.
• * •
The choruses were a little “ lumpy” in parts,
but on the whole were very creditably got through. This
is the place to say that more rehearsal would certainly
have made the entire performance go more smoothly.
When the company settles down to work, many of the
defects pointed out will probably disappear. There is
also a little disguise necessary in the matter of that
Barmecide feast which the demon-page “ readies up”
for Count Rupert. The noble Count is too evidently
s “Cing away at the pattern on the cheese-plate. The
maddening Malvoisie also is not of the kind grown on
the sunny slopes of southern France. There is a pal-
pable pump-vintage appearance about it which east a
cloud of sorrow upon our hearts.
• • *
The orchestra was decidedly pood, and well
under the command of Simon’s baton. A very
. e ,. tenor solo (played, however, by the leader on his
violin) was greatly applauded. The dialogue of the
opera is weak. That, of course, is not the fault of the
artistes. Mr. Wentworth, as Hortensius, got what
amusement out of it that could be got, with the assist,
ance of Carl (Mr. Fitzgerald) and the Pasha (Mr. F.
Darbyshire). “ Nerma “ is in preparation.
* * * *
“After Dark” was played at the Queen’s
several nights this week. Wo advise the management
to keep t dark.
* * * *
It was feared the Wilhelmj farewell would bo a
farewell to Australian taste. It was not so. The
Masonic Hall was filled to hear the maestro on Monday
night. Fully three-fourths of the seats were occupied
by musicians, amateur and professional, when the
l?J I Sjr ia:ire d master lifted his how level with his chin.
Of Herr Vognch and Miss Conron enough has been
ar ® very good, but not unique. But of the
Wilhelmj, feeling the farewell to a venture to “ the end
the world," we cannot say much.
• • •
It’s idle to say he “ interpreted” Wienawiaki, or
that his “ memory ’’ of Yienxlemps smacked of old-time
triumphs beyond the ken of this generation. Had he
given “Souvenirs de Paganini,” it would have been
the same thing to an Australian audience. All we see
and hear in Wilhelmj, when the old German head of
him is thrown back, and the left hand becomes a spirit
sweeping a harp. Is —no trickery or monkey pranks, but
ious gliding waves of delicious harmony.
• • *
And his harmony. Behold him up amongst the
bird-notes. What to the amateur Is torturing exercise
and scale practice, ripples from his fingers ns a shower
of diamonds.
• * •
Every full-blooded Australian on his way homo
that night brandished a cudgel over the head of the
poor Italian devil whe tortured his cat-gut staccatissimo
all the time.
• • •
Also germane to the issue. Whilst his hands
played upon the instrument, the man played upon the
Time, but also the Time on him. Not so much
Wilhelmj discoursing the works of the masters, as the
traditions of the masters working on him, and through
him on us.
• • •
Dabblers admired his “up-stroke,” his “ down-
stroke," his “bowing"—true musical souls knew only
that there was a world outside them, unstateable in
words j hut that what painting and sculpture are to
some, and poetry to others. Music includes in outline
to all.
• • •
The arts are one; the manners various; but
whatever of great and beautiful is in any, on them all
music descends, and. Aphrodite-like, steals their varied
beauties, and incorporates them in that Ariel style
which gives for a time a “local habitation and a
name " to them—sound stealing sight.
• • •
If, as the German writer says, “ Deutschland is
Hamlet,” so to the true hearer has Wilhelmj become
from now to us “Deutschland”—i. «., Force, Romance,
Art.
Bartlemy Fair opened with its thousand and one
attractions on Wednesday (Queen’s Birthday). Al-
though the sky was overcast and rain threatened,
crowds attended this revivification of the celebrated
fair of Smithfleld. In connection with the fair, John
Sands, of Sydney, has published an elegantly got-
up brochure, entitled “Ye Booke of Olde Bart-
leniy Fairs," which has been quaintly illustrated
by Charles Turner, James Naylor, and G. E. Ashton.
The reading matter, founded on old records of the
doings of this annual fete, is from facile and graceful
pens. We reserve a critical notice of the Fayro till
next week.
* * * *
W. J, Holloway sends a Ballarat Cotjriee
of 13th May, containing a column-and-a-half descrip-
tion of a presentation to him by the local Mayor of a
gold watch and a set of books, in the Theatre Royal the
night before. From the Courier it would really appear
that W. J.H. owns Ballarat as well as Tasmania. W.J.
always scoops at Ballarat, where, too, by the way,
Annie Mayor is now adored There are six Hebrew
gentlemen in the chorus of an opera company lately
performing in Melbourne, and they had to be judiciously
distributed, because their noses threw such a shadow
in the lime-light .scenes that the effect was ridiculous.
Fact Allison and Hiscocks have come together
again, and are partners in the “ Colonel ” spee. Some
folks say that Allison has had the kernel of the season.
Leake goes home by the Lusitania. He goes to
London by that vessel, and on to New York There
is an epidemic just now amongst agents, which takes
the form of running away with, the bosses’ daughters
and marrying them. The old man fancies the business
manager is out at Woollahra with a bundle of gutter-
snipes, but he turns up with his daughter (the boss’s
daughter), haughtily demanding the usual “ bless you,
my children !" There is a demand for double-soled
crab-shells amongst show proprietors just now, in view
of further developments.
* it k k
Mathers’ dramatic company, writes onr corres-
pondent under date 15th May, are somewhat lively at
Adelaide now. Miss Pomeroy has appeared in “Led
Astray," “Pygmalion and Galatea,” ana “East Lynne."
Very soon, it is hoped that the production of this last
abortion will be rendered penal. Frank Weston,
determined to cram as much money into the house as
possible, this week puts a fresh piece on the boards
every night. They do “Ingomar" Monday, “ Lady of
Lyons" Tuesday, “Twelfth Night” Wednesday, “A#
You Like It” Thursday, “ School for Scandal” Friday,
“Borneo and,Juliet” Saturday, W. G. Carey com-
plains, in these circumstances, of being taken to task
for textual imperfection, and we are disposed to agree
with him that he is worked beyond the point where
textual perfection is possible. Emmett has not struck
fire out of his audiences, who do not consider him a
genius. Marion Melrose is likely to become a favourite,
having played Mathilde nicely, and Cynisoa tolerably.
Business is good. George Bionold and company are
also in Adelaide, and amuse people hy repeating a very
worn managerial joke, and advertising:—“Theatre
Eoyal.—For ‘youth.’—Wanted, 100 young men as
supernumeraries. Apply Stage Door, Monday “
* * * *
SimoDsen was talking to a fellow at the back of
the dress circle of the Royal the other night, asking
him whether the missus had got on engagement, how
long he’d left Montague-Turner, &c. Suddenly the
fellow said, “ Whom do yeu think you’re talking to P ”
“ Wilson LeCouteur," he replied. “ Well," says the
other fellow, “ I’m Dick Thatcher. Come over to my
pub. and get tight.” “The World" goes to New-
castle next week. Bland Holt’s world, that is the girls,
are ironing out their tights, and the charming creature
with the one leg white aud the other pink has wagered
the other c.c. with the one leg cerise and the other
blue, that she’ll own a coal-mine first. Is it “ pom,
pom," or “whoop?" Kellar has struck another gold
mine in Melbourne, and Theresa Horan has returned
from Adelaide. A procession of cabs, full of mashqd
ones, following at a respestful distance, escorted lifer
tl !° w barf De Lias was a passenger by the
Californian mail. He looked deadly sick, but the voyage
to Auckland may revive him. He has been under the
care of Dr. Sydney Jones. We hope we shall not for a
long while lose the company of the old man, who is a
humourist. He was once going down from Auckland
to Gisborne (N.Z.), taking a company of twenty-four to
support Joe Emmet. Seated on a plank outside
the saloon door of the steamer—which he had
specially chartered—he was mistaken by the mate for
some fellow wonting to loaf a passage. “Here! * says
the mate, “do you belong to the troupe ?” “No " re-
plied the old man with one of his glances in italics,
“ this troupe belongs to me." The arrangements on
board and the mail steamer were by no means up to the
mark, and if they don’t want to continue these popular
valedictions, the agents ®r officers should adopt some
other means of showing it. Such pushing and crowd-
ing will someday lead to a serious accident On dit
that when Mr. Bay less gsts to 'Frisco, he will hear
from somebody else—through the advertising columns
of the local papers Botten eggs and other demon-
strations in honour of an entrepreneur who lately took
a troupe Banana-Land ward. Bough and tumble
with his partner, mutual black eyes. Pom, pom I I
Lots of arrivals of distinguished "pros,” from the
North:—Jemmy South, who has had a most triumph-
ant tour, and intends for three weeks to rest on his
laurels, not a few of which were gained by the fair
editor Next, Fred. Hiscocks, pink as a rose and brim
full of news about the glories and successes of Mac-
oabe, who, himself, turned up on Monday, as polished
as ever. The pair are now at Newcastle; Llddy, one
of the three agents, has coma too, from N.Z, Maocnbo
goes North to Brisbane, probably overland—before
crossing the “ Paflsick" to N.Z...David Navarro, the fat
boy, weight, 700 pounds, died at Pittsburgh (Pa), 7th
March; and how well he looked in 11 Patience " hare.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The collection of Egyptian mummy skulls at the
Australian Museum forms the most extraordinary sight
seen in Sydney for a loag while. The skulls, some of
them, are green, though more than 2000 years old, and
the hair and skin are still on the crania. Others are
perfectly bare, showing that there were married msn
among the early Egyptians. It will, however, interest
the nation to learn that Our Seer, being a physiogno-
mist in his way, has read these skulls, and we now
know to whom they belonged. One with a very
receding forehead, just protruding cheek bones, and a
cavernous gash for a mouth, was a patriotic M.P., who
shoved all his sous into Government billets, and
scooped about £lO,OOO a year for himself. Another
with a smirky smile—a face all over as bland
as a frying pan—one inch of forehead and tan inches
of ear, was a well-known political trimmer, and a
Government whip at the tine of the Premier Sphynx,
A third with a two-foot-faoo, six inches of jaw-bone,
small ears and a forked tongue, was a well-known
evangelist, who got 70 years for forging a pass to
Paradise, valuejof £2O. A fourth, with shatk-like mouth
wrenched upon one side, ears half way down his neck,
only one eyebrow, three inches of lip, a twisted eye,
and a forehead like an ape’s, was a Park Howler i the
heavy indentations in the skull were made by opposi-
tion religionists as he was leaving the district. The
fifth is a very low order of skull, and there are doubts
whether it is not a bab con’s. The probability, however.
Is that it is the skull of oue of the reverend men who ob-
jected to tho Cairo M iseum being opined on Sunday.
The sixth skull is a gem. It evidently belonged to an
civic contractor. It is a judicious blending of Hie
saintly impostor and the Brigham Yoang. The man
apparently bad very little to eat in his early days,
having no doubt been for a time studying in the
Abyssinian highlands. 'J his skull is thick, and flat on
top—depressed probably by a fall of plaster. The oars
appear to have been moveable, and are very leathery.
What may bo called a face, is all choek-bono. The
lipu are thick, but the mouth is disproportionately
large—about eleven inches—the result of continue!
rehearsal and rendering of psalms in tho great Jors
House, The loft eye is slightly open, showing that ho
long expected the police. His right ear is partly
destroyed—tho result of the bad adjustment of tho
hangman’s knot, which was unfortunately applied long
after its proper time. The other skulls are of very low
order, showing that both missionaries and aldermen
are a long-tailed family.
• » *
Is it not true that a member of the present
Ministry now is, and has do facto for the last two years
been, a mail oontraotor f
* • *
At the opening of the railway from Brisbane to
Bandgato (Q ), the other day, the Mayor of tho latter
charming seaside resort, after the luncheon which
formed part of the 11 ceremony," called for a volunteer
to propose the toast of " The Ladies.” An aristocratic
Brisbane oitisen, who occupies a high position in the
Queensland Volunteer Force, with that gallantry which
forms so conspicuous a trait in his character, at once
offered himself as the ladies* champion. Ho said he
thought that tho seaside was a particularly appro-
priate place to propose tho health of tho Ladies,
"because at the seaside yon saw more of them
than anywhere else,” Having got thus far, tho worthy
officer was interrupted by a general titter all round the
table. Some of the ladies present tried to look un-
conscious, some blushed, while others hid their faces
in their handkerchiefs. The speaker, without tho
movement of a muscle of his face, continued —" I hope
this interruption is not to be taken as an indication
that those present do not like to see much of the
ladies. For my own part, the more I can see of them,
the bettor I like it.” Whereat there was general confu-
sion. By the way, the arrangements connected with this
luncheon, at which the Governor and Premier were
present, were very “ rough,” and the chairman (Mayor
Deagon) got rather 11 mixed ” in some of his speeches.
In exoasing shortcomings in the opening ceremonies,
he said he had been like " Balaam and his ass; he hod
tried to please everybody, and had pleased nobody.”
To make matters worse, one of the aldermen (the
irrepressible Cooksley), whoso scriptural knowledge
was no better, thought tho quotation so appropriate
that he repeated it. Suck occurrences only tend to
show tho lamentable ignorance which exists in other-
wise good society concerning the interesting quadruped
referred to, the Daughters of Moab, and other things—
an intimate acquaintance with which alone can give
one a double-sized harp and a front seat in Heaven.
• • •
It may interest people in general to know that
our acting Premier, Sir John Robertson, regards Tenny*
son's "Hands All Round” as a piece of "adjective,
blank, dashed, sanguinary, absurd, idiotic condemned
drivel.” And so say all of us.
* • «
Every tram extension is a nail in the coffin of
the Licensing Act. Last Sunday, 14,003 patriots visited
Botany to plant flowers on tho spot where Captain
James Cook first lauded, after which they adjourned
to Frank Smith’s hotel and drank Jimmy’s health
with such enthusiasm that each patriot felt as if ho
could All tho whole of the return oars himself. Tram-
oarring from Sydney made them bonajldo travellers, of
course i and it is said that no loss than seventeen of the
•• fooroo ” were found hanging to tho trees in the
Botany neighbourhood. Their occupation was gone,
and so they followed it.
* • •
The Marino Board, Adelaide, has decided to
prohibit all vessels clearing from that pious port on
Sunday. All hens found laying on the Sawbath morn
are flayed alive and tho owners boosted up for two
years. It is also said that a baker who pat yeast in his
dough, and allowed it to work on the 11 Looard's day”
has been arrested, and tho authorities are now busy
discussing whether he is to be tom to death by wild
horses, or sent over here to be tramoar’d,”
• • •
Mount M‘Donald ia a gold-field of over twelve
months' standing. It has neither court-house, watch-
house, school, church, coffee palaoe, amateur brass
hand, nor skittle alley. 200 children are being raised
up there in blissful ignorance of the Bottomless Pit and
Balaam’s talking jackass; whilst tho unfortunate devil
who has been on a "bender,” and sees pink-headed snakej
in his boots, is chained to a stump until such time as ho
can bo hauled along to Carooar. And so, from Mount
M’Donald comes the yell "what is the Government
doing f“ Wo can toll them in one word— Nothing.
• * *
Up North. Greasy J.P. to gentlemanly Police
Magistrate on summons day; " Shuro, ye didn’t need
to bother yerself about cornin’ to the Coort this morn.
inf, as I intend to settle the case meself. The plaintiff
buys his goods at me store ! ” P .M. looks aghast, but
takes the hint, and clears. And it’s net the first time
such a thing has occurred in that Court, either.
* • •
All the papers have lately published a long list
of the ‘'last dying words" of eminent men. Here are
a few, now printed for the first time: —
“ To succeed in life one must
Either ad-var-tize or * bust.’"
John Bunyan.
“A good fat ad. is a thousand crowns to the man who
runs a circus."
Solomon.
•• Had I but ‘ soaped * the local editor half as much as
I did my king, I would now boa C.M.Q. and ride in the
trams on the free list."
Carmnal Woi.skt.
m i have gained more real benefit from an inch ad. in
the columns of the local rag than from all my legions.”
“ Mr. Qaunson— Get at the Press and toll them to
say I died respected by all who knew me."
Ned Kelly.
Julius C.esar.
•'lam dying, Egypt—dying—tell the Penny Papyrus
to ray my death has cast a universal gloom over the
whole settlement."
M. Antony.
•• Hero lies one whose name was writ in water.
And who cheek’d the Press when he didn’t oughtcr."
Keats.
•' I’m monarch of all I survey, but I’d give the lot
for a brevity par. in The Bulletin.”
hys
A. x Selkirk, Governor-General,
marke
«• There are throe ways of ensuring a decided success
in all ranks of life, and these are advertise—advertise
largely—and pay in advance.”
Confucius.
“If I had had a level head, I’d have kept that snake
yarn out of the daily papers.”
Adam.
“ A good advertisement placed just above a * leader ’
will draw better than a Zig-Zag motor, or an opera-
boufte. My son—paste that on your boots—and-don’t-
you forget-it.”
Cato the Elder.
*• Are all the posters out, and the reporters ‘ squared ?’
Then I die in peace."
W. Shakespeare.
•« i believe in prayer for rain ; but for success in biz.
gimme a two-column ad, and a * we-beg-to-draw-atten-
tion * par. These would raise speculative desires even
in the breast of a New Guinea mummy, or iu the heart
of a specked cabbage."
Pontius Pilate.
'* Alphonso—let that bullet-headed young man in the
oorner help himself. He’s on the Holy Howl, and
he’ll say I died after a long and painful illness, which I
bore with a Christian spirit. Kiss me, Alphonso—
you’ll find the rum in the pantry.”
Lucrezia Borgia.
And when Charles the First laid his head on the fatal
block he sighed, and said : “ This comes of not adver-
Using in the weekly papers.”
We quote the above to show that our ancestors were
fully alive to the advantages reaped from a liberal
system of advertising, and that—unlike some of our
would-be Solons now— they did occasionally read the
papers. The above are genuine, as we hold the manu-
scripts, obtained from relatives of the deceased.
Occasionally Australian geographical nomen-
clature is overhauled and revised, in order that political
magnate? and yokel monarchs, whose memory would
otherwise fade, may live tor ever in the minds of
posterity, even as do Balaam’s asa and the daughters
of Moab. When the next batch of changes takes place
we may expect to And “ Parkes* Mouth” substituted
for “The Great Australian Bight.” Vide Evening
News and the “tomahawk gash in a bladder of lard.”
• • #
It’s a pity to hear that subscriptions for Mrs.
Watson’s monument at Cooktown have not been liberal.
When money is wanted to daub a church with gaudy
paint, to send Bibles to little Hindoo boys who don’t
want them, or to present a diamond pin to a bank clerk,
it’s forthcoming. But it seems too much to expect
few shillings to perpetuate the memory of a woman
whose bravery ennobled her sex and whose example is
one for all Australian girls.
• # *
It was in Melbourne, and in the Sealingwax
department. An inspectorship befel this shining light.
What does he up and do ? Says he, "Hi 1 Dick, Tom,
Sammy—all you fellows—roll up a testimonial, and give
a fellah a glorious start.” They " done it.” Two bob
Afghan Albsrt—a flve-bob gold dip made it 20-carat.
But the address ! Never did the halls of the Black Bull
resound to so many feet of foolscap. And the Hon. B.G.
and Mr. 8., and the Money Order officials who knew
the familiar old H. order so well, applauded ohampagne-
ou;ly. The receiver disclaimed, with Rabelaisian na'ivetd,
all idea of accepting this hogshead of gush on account of
its “intrinsic” value. All his heart throbbed about was
that other hearts from the Treasury, and Lands, and
Telegraph bubbled unto him. Hie heart will throb more
if ever he tries to pawn the thing, and old Mo.’s file
shows him what is under the gilt.
• • •
ON COMPENSATION VOTES.
In compensation schemes and such-like rich reward,
The legislator’s happy hours flit fast away 5
But truth (distasteful scribe) is busy to record
The diary of their frauds from day to day.
• • *
Sydney Punch produces a dwarf cartoon in its
last issue, in which Heydon, M.F., a lame dog, Pro,
tection, and a stile are inextricably interwoven. The
moral is dubious, because one is uncertain whether
Protection is the lame dog and Heydon is lifting it over
the fence, or whether Heydon is the lame dog that
Protection is hoisting over the Parliamentary stile, or
whether the stile is lame—bub there 1 Being a Punch
production, we incline to the opinion that it’s the style
that’s lame.
a • •
In consequence of some jocular remarks let fall
by the Acting-Premier at the picnic on the Blue
Mountains, a bibulous tournament has been arranged
for JEIOO a side, between Sir J—— E and Sir
j h . Sir J M 1 has consented to
act os bottle-holder, and will match himself afterwards
against the winner. The triangular duel between the
three Jays is likely to lead to unlimited betting, but
the veteran knight is the favourite at short odds. The
whole of the Evening News staff are to act as referees.
Some Dailt Telegraph myrmidons offered their
services, but it was feared they would not be able to
stand the strain. The curse of Kishogue on him who
first cries “ Hold, enough 1”
• • •
A certain knight yearns in vain for a small
bundle of letters, now jealously guarded by one of our
C.M.a.’s.
* # •
An enigmatical contributor has, of malice afore-
thought, endeavoured to jolt our serenity of thought
by inviting us to solve what he calls a kunundrum.
'• What is that animal which is all belly ard no trains,
all wind and no wit, big blubber and little heart, much
mischief and small sense?” We can’t solve it all at
once, but wo would, on a guarantee cf our lease of life
being quadrupled, consent to try and worry out the
solution piecemeal by sheer dint of technical logic. To
hazard half-a-dozen guesses, we should conjecture that
the octomiraculus is either a porpoise, a polypus, a
peacock, a Supreme Court judge, a Clontarf larrikin,
or a bellicose Synodite.
There is a certain judge who, whenever ha
doesn’t know anything abont the law of a case, and it
is shown him, invariably says “ just so exactly
what I said." The lata Mr. Isaacs once amusingly
utilized this. He said: “ Your Honour, with that legal
acumen which is so famous, that discrimination which
is familiar to all who know you, that intellectual
capacity which shatters ignorance like a goblet, will
see that this case is settled by the well-known one of
Begiua v, Smith, so unique and standing all alone.”
His Honor made the expectant court shriek with his
“ Just so."
• * •
It is well for onr public men and society frauds
that New South Wales justice is non-Viennese. The
director of the Bing Theatre, Vienna, has been
sentenced to a lengthy term of imprisonment for
criminal negligence in connection with the late
calamitous Are. In this colony, when an appalling
catastrophe, begotten of culpable carelessness, is inves-
tigated, the verdict is, ** nobedy to blame.” They
manage things better on the Continent. When any-
thing goes wrong, they punish somebody. The com-
pensation frauds in our Parliament should go down on
their marrowbones, and vent their fervent gratitude
that Vienna is a long way from Sydney—in distance
and in so-called civilization.
« • •
A canvasser who arrived in Adelaide some time
ago brought with him a one horse-power phonograph.
This instrument was exhibited on all occasions in the
oanvaster’s office. He, in order to be prepared for his
audience at any moment, generally sang into the phono-
graph a verse or two ef some popular song beforehand.
Ho was in good voice one day, trolled a verse of
•* Alice where art thou ? ” and shut the instrument up
till the next visitor should be shown around. Tho
offioe-boy wss a wag. One night he took out the plug
and 11 Alice ” drifted musically into space. The boy
then yelled into the machine a verso ho hod composed
about his boss. A few days after “ the boss" was
showing some ladies and gentlemen over his offices,
and coming to the phonograph, he treated at length on
the wonderful uses to which It could be put. “For
instas oe,” said he, “ about a week since I sang a verse of
•Alice where art thou ?* in this room. We shall now
here how the sound has beea retained.” He withdrew
the p’.ng and tho machine gouged out —
There was once a bow-legged little devil,
The devil you say 1
He used to tell strangers that his head was level,
So it was—Just as flat as a tray.
But this was his hanky-pank way.
For his ways they were all hanky panky.
And his eyes were bloodshot
When he got in a soot.
He was always so damnably cranky.
• # *
It ia to be regretted that tho infamous charac-
ters of Scriptural history are not allowed to rest or rot
in their graves, instead of being resurrected at short
intervals by men in need of a pointed illustration that
will sharpen the lance of their technical logic. Old
Judas hanged himself on the eve of his suocesses, and
yet in his grave he knows no peace, for Judge Docker
occasionally Burkes him as a beacon for reoalcitrant
jurymen. Then Mrs. D raised the ghost of Samson,
and browbeat him till an adverse Judicial verdict again
depressed hie spirits. Saul, too, is among the prophets,
or rather, among the condemned men, waiting in
Grafton gaol for hangman Howard to officiate as the
Witch of Endor, i.e ,to raise him. And, lastly, divers
injudicious members of tho Synod have dragged from
obscurity Balaam, the ass, and Moab’s feminine olive-
branches. Poor Balaam shonld be better treated in
theatrical and (which, by recent examples, seems
synonymous) religious circles. With no a< cessory but
tho ass, Balaam was the first one-horse show on record,
and went through the performance without a hitch.
The Synod has the advantage as regards the multi-
plicity of Balaam’s auxiliaries, but not in point of
success.
• • •
They made a great fuss when hia reverence,
Father Leeming turned actor and played Romeo. But
nobedy seems to mind when Sydney priests or
parsons not only find time to g® into management
(Fancy Fayres and Punch and Judy) but to play
Borneo too.
* # *
A new horror is added to the perils that beset
life in this scientific age. A Woolloomooloo man and his
wife narrowly escaped being killed the other day by the
leakage of a defective chandelier—
A correspondent tells ns that a certain illustrious
statesman, recently presented to Her Majesty, was once
“cockatoo man’’—that’s to say he was employed in
hnating cockatoos off the corn—at Eegentville, the
estate of the late Sir John Jamison. By the way, it is
the chief boast of the other mushroom statesman with
whom he is associated, that he (Sir John) has been the
means of placing the cockatoos on the land.
• • «
Said a mildewed and multy ccathete to the only
conceivable Smythe : “ Forbes is sublime. I love to
languidly listen to him going into raptures over
■Kings I have seen.’That’s nothing,’’ said
Smythe, *• to witness his rapture at perfection’s pitch,
you should see him afterwards in connection with the
Sovereigns he has taken.’*
• # #
It is now assorted that the assassins cut
Cavendish in mistake for Forster. Let us hope the
murderers will be caught, that the common hangman will
reward them with the genuine oriental twist, and that
the Land League’s panacea for Irish troubles will be a
more pacific mixture than buckshot and butchery.
• • •
Scene before the wedding of a real slap-up
“ Qeebung.” Old woman : “I'm going t® arkse Missus
M. to come to the wedding, G.: “ Oh; she muat go to
the kitchen; she can’t mix up with our lot, you know."
Yet it is not many years ago since ’’ Missus M." and
the “old woman" were cook and scullerjmaid respec-
tively at a hoUl, and both boosted over the same wash-
tub for a living. The scullery-maid filled her stocking,
and her family has long since cut the old connection
By-and-bye, they will become Cabinet Ministers, go
homo, and dine with the Secretary of State for the
colonies.
• • *
The New England blacks affect politics. A little
while after Parkes and Bobertson were knighted, a
lubra complained to her spouse that she hadn’t got her
Government “bhuegey" as usual; and upon her lord
and master asking whose fault that was, she replied:
“ Mlttah Parkes, I s’poao," whereupon Combo looked
at her contemptuously, saying—“ Shows what a lot you
know 'bout Mlttah Parkes—why, Mittah Parkes is Sir
John HobetUcn now.” And off he went for a 'possum
From gas we coma, to gas we go.
And then right round again;
But still we want to know, you know.
What gas-works get the gain.
They wait for us on every hand.
And round us draw a chain;
So if we are not slain on land.
They fetch us on the main.
And then they use our gases up
Through their damn pipes to buzz—
If this don’t brim the bitter cup
We want to know what does ?
MR. ALFRED FAIRFAX.—(See Page 10).


BRIEF MENTION.
Assassins’ tobacco —Rough-cut Cavendish, dag-
ger brand. 8
“ The invasion of Rockhampton by the Goths.”
That e how an alderman put the goat-plagne.
Hands all Round ” will continue to be sung
as usual by members c£ Parliament. The hands are in
the public purse.
The secretary of a certain city musical union
paradoxically sajs that there ate some persons who
can t sing and yet they do.
A Mudgee paper says that there is a carrot in
Mr, Bird s shop: it is so many pounds weight, and now
lies mere. Red-headed reporter.
Rival editors in Washington lately shot at each
other with revolvers. Heavier missiles are need here.
they have to read one another’s articles.
Rockhampton (Q.) water supply is a lagoon just
out of the city. People and aldermen bathe in it; this
gives the fl lid a body, and mattes it fattening.
Lamson was the son of a clergyman, and
Qaiteau’s father was a local preacher. This was very
hard on them—we mem the culprits. It wo* not a fair
handicap.
Sir Arthur Palmer is afraid that some “ sort of
newapaper-fellowis going to write a colonial “ Peerage,’*
and trace the lineal descent of all the scions of Austra-
lian aristocracy.
“There is room here for legitimate business,”
says the Hbrberton Advertiser, giving aa aeceu-
onense a par. on her arrival. We should hopa there
was no other hind of business.
A leading Qundagai resident is said to have let
out at a tree, under the impression ho was bashing up
an enemy’s left eye. With all his dogged revenge, his
knuckles slow he barked up the wrong tree.
The local Mercury rejoices over the fact that
a new sausage-machine has just been imported to
a « ' Quite natural. Whai’a the good of printing
the Mercury unless there’s something to put in it?
Archdeacon Hayes offered up a thanksgiving
service f.»r the safe passage of the Te Anaa from Raw
Zealand. So would we if we could afterwards " scoop
’ n ” a pool of £l5OO for seven sermons, as his reverence
did.
An every-day affair—Per-
jury.
Upon what grounds might
Sir Henry Farkos be called a
self-educated man ? Because he
has made a fool of himself.
A barman in a hotel at Ade-
laide has died of alcoholic poi-
soning. This should prove a
warning to ehemiste’ assistants.
One of the new appoint-
ments can’t spell ordinary Eng.
lish, and speaks of gettin* out
a naybyassl Riader, ha means
a habeas.
The assassinations of Ca-
vendish and Burke are a gory
proof that the Fenian Brother-
hood are imbued with a spirit of
Guiteaucracy.
Up in Northern Queensland
they gauge the importance of a
town by the number of Circuit
Court cases tbst are tried there
in a year. In NS. W., too.
It is considered the meanest
thing on record for one man to
get so speechlessly drunk at a
banquet that he cannot pro-
pose the toast entrusted to him,
and then on the following day
charge an absentee with his own
off :nce.
The Chief Justice of Vic-
toria tells us that increased
prosperity means iucrean«d liti-
gation : that unavoidable dis-
putes crop up out of the larger
extent of business done. This
amounts to saying that lawyers
are the hobnails on the liver of
this fat country.
An outcome of the drought.
At a negro-minstrelsy entertain-
ment, up-counlry, the following
conundrum brought down the
house—and the poundkeeper:—
“ Why are onr lean and vagrant
horses like disconsolate cre-
ditors ?” Because they get
“ notbiag in the pound ”
The Supreme Court has
just ruled in the Fullfoi d versus
Bag ford case, that, under the
Municipalities Ac’, “Member of
the 1 egislative Assembly ” Buffi-
ciently describes a man’s “occn.
pation.” Wo are happy to con-
cur. Such a description in some
cases amply explains how a man
gains a living.
A country paper takes about
a quarter of a column to explain
how to measure a tank. We can
do it in three lines. Fill your
tank full of whisky, and then
ask the local editor and the per-
son to eome round and sample
it. If it is not empty in a week,
yon can let it out as a *• sheep-
wash ” or an aqueduct.
They wouldn’t give Gus. Wangenheim any
musical accompanimeut to his sketching at Bt. Mary’s
Fiiyre, though he pleaded hard for the “ Marsaillaite”
when drawing Marie Antoinette. This was bad, but
doing him out of his screw was even worse. Qua, has
since been subjected to another cruelty. He sketched
at a Woollahra tea-fight and his promised refection
consisted of— tea. 0 shades of Wangsuheim’s hotel
and iced lager 1
A gentleman went to look at lodgings in a house
in Crown-street. The landlady showed him upstairs.
• Is that lady I saw in the parlour a boarder P’* '‘Yes.”
"Is she a widow P ” “Oh yes, but she’s engaged.”
“Indeed, have you any other lady boarders ? ” “Yes,
two; mother and daughter, both widows, but the
daughter is engaged.” “ Hear me I And is the mother
engaged too ? ” “ Well, I don't know, but lam a
widow." Fact.
The Express, re the Synod and the Fayre, says
that Mr. G. R. Dibbs' “ zeal for the glory of God appears
to have eaten him up.” Twelve months in gaol didn’t
eat up the tough Q.B D., and it would tike a lot of zeal
to perform that feat. We saw the redoubtable one only
yesterday, and can assure the reverend writers for the
Express that we would plank onr uttermost dollar that
Q.R 1). could, figuratively speaking, eat the lot of them
up in any convenient backyard—as for as onr judgment
goes.
George Coppin is about to take positively his
very last farewell of the stage once more, as his health
is not so good now as it was ia the days when John
Kemble used to hold a banner whilst George used te
strut his hour as Richard, “ that bloody and devour-
ing chief,” who framed our present law of libel.
George was all at home in “Milky White.” Let ns
trust that when his time does come he will tread the
Milkv Way with equal confidence, and find a full house
and Gabriel’s best b&nd to greet him.
Another “ last of the Tasmanian aboriginals ”
has just turned up. and rejoices in the antediluvian
name of Smith —plain Smith, with never a “y,“ nor
an “e,” nor a Burdett. This knocks all the poetry
associated with Campbell’s “ Last Man " as high as
the price of land in George-street, and it is not at all
improbable that when the Day of Wrath does come
one of these irrepressible Smiths will be found amidst
“ the wreck of matter and crush of worlds” feeling
about in his boots for the price of a *' long sleever.”
The Warrnambool (Vic) Racing Club have pro-
jected a bazaar. Oysters in one nail—flowers in the
next. We object not to the fishy conjunction, after our
own experience here of the fleshly. All the clergy cb-
jset to hors*-raeing, and now, it seems, an immoral
racing club is to run, in the interests of Hell, a show
which in Sydney would appear to be the principal
property of the land of wings, trumps, and halos Let
ns, however, trust that our souteern brother will make
the best of a tad job, and that while 01 during the
oysters he won't forget the porter.
Now that fire-picnics are becoming popnlar, the
following anecdote may prove useful. Au alarm being
started in a certain theatre, the manager, a dapper little
Frenchman, came cn and said: “ Ladees and sheutle-
men, be composed to yourself. Zaie eea no dahnger.
My verd of zia, X gif you wis ail my honour.” The
audience teamed res.leis, however, and many were
striking out for the door, when the excited frog-eater
screamed : *• Ladees and shentlemens, zare , ees no
dahnger—dam« f your stupid souls, eef zare vas, do y..u
link I stop here of miuosels ?—ny gar, no." ' That
squelched the panic flat.
’Way up North there’s a hand who is a card in
his way. He’s from north of the Tweed, and likes a
drop of usquebaugh at times. One time he was sent
into town to get the supplies, and, besides fortifying
himself during the day, he wound up with a doch-an-
durris strong enough to lift an anvil. Well, he didn’t
arrive home, so a conpleof the other hands were started
off to find him. They did so. He had capsized the
spring-eart, and the horse had got away. He was just
coming te, and was sitting up saying, “ El A'ra Qeordie
Wracht, A’ve lost a pony, an’, ef A’m no Geordie
Wraoht, A’re foond a cairb."
Maryborough (Q.) is noted for its pianos, buggies,
and Kanakas. The first two are right enough, but the
latter sometimes lead to unpleasant results, as the fol-
lowing fact will show. A certain local leader of fashion
recently made an afternoon call (being driven by her
Kanaka servant) on a lady newly arrived from England,
who soon gave signs of irritation of the nasal organs.
To her the visitor: “Oh, you needu’t loor under the
sofa. It's me. That’s the worst of those Kanakas. If
you sit beside them, they do envelope you in such a
disagreeable odour.” Which shows how difficult it is
to be high-toned up North.
A fellow was walking up Wee Waa street,
Campbelltown, when he saw what he thought was a
round bill of mud about the size of a cianon ball, and
being an old Rugby football mar', he gave it a kick. To
his surprise, a yell of pain was the result; and, on
examining the object, he found it to he a man’s head—
alive, too. He remarked to the head that he was “in it
np to his neck.” “ That’s nothing," replied the man,
who was whole in body. “My horses snd buggy are
underneath.. I fell asleep in the buggv two miles out
of town, and you just woke me up ’’ As the correctness
of this story is vouched for by iir. Herbert Dillon, it’s
bound to be true.
A correspondent in the Daily Telegraph
writes: " That Sir Henry Parke* is not the sort of man
to be intoxicated by the very flittering receptions ha
has mat with on his tour everybody will a< knowledge.
.... Sir Henry is the statesman, par excellence,
of the colonies, and N.B. Wiles, in according him ‘a
hearty welcome homo' would perform an act both
grateful and graceful. Let us show that we are proud
of the man whom, though risen from the ranks, ‘Kings
delight to honour.”' This is decidedly jammy—jim-
jammy. What a pity that the man that “Kings
delight to hononr,” and the man that “bankers delight
to honour ” aren't always identical I
This ia the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth, so help our John Davies. A certain legal
gentleman, whose thrift by far exceeds his beauty,
attended a recent banquet in company with a large and
valuable overcoat. It he left the latter in charge of the
caretaker in the festive hall, he knew he would he ex.
peoted to ante-up at least a saxoence. The knowledge
of this fact caused him to enter into h’mself, and the
resnlt of this remarkable anatomical operation was that
instead of taking the coat to the hall, he pawned it at
an adjacent “pop-shop” till HSOp.m, and then re-
deemed it at an expense of threepence interest. He
started home. If that man doesn’t die rich, and be
Gehenna’d, we’ll begin t« loosen our grip of “ Britain’s
bulwark."
Some Sydney barbers have been fined for shaving
customers on Sunday. This reminds ns that some
months ago Mr. Beddome, tbs Adelaide (3.A ) P.M.,
tried a man for a similar offence, on the complaint of
Mr. Shakespeare, general Corporation lynx of that city.
YUleneuve Smith defended the case, and based his
remarks on the text that •* cleanliness is next to godli-
ness." With this as a starting point, he “enthused”
until Beddome dismissed the information on the ground
that shaving was an act of necessity. Previously to
that, however, this same Beddome had fined barbers
charged similarly. In Sydney., the man who’s very holy
generally shaves his upper lip. It will, therefore, be
necessary for the Sabbatarian members to introduce
next season a bill making it legal to shave the upper
lip on the Sawbath.
“ Heard the news?” enquired Copeland, the
critical, of Forster. the cynical, *• What news?"
queried Forster “ Why. Parkes has been to Cjurt ?”
—*• Any assets this time ?’*
A scribbler to the D.T. calls himself ‘‘Fathers
of a Family." How many of him are there ? Is one
of him responsible for the lot of him ? We suspect
that he is a coalition of the whole delirious staff of
some drunken newspaper or other, for he writes
Those whose vocations compel thorn to be out at
night, such as reporters for the Press, doctors, clergy,
men, and ethers, must feel grateful to Dr. Ellis for
his plain, outspoken warning, from the pulpit to
parents, on the danger of allowing their daughters to
be out at night without proper protection." Now,
we can’t get the hang of this at all. Why should
reporters, doctors, and clergymen be afraid to meet
at night unprotected daughters ? Whence this solici-
tude ? Is “ Fathers of a Family " afraid of being
transmuted into “ Father of Families ? " We wish he
would divide his sorrow with us, and confide his burden
to our sympathetic tympanum. Italics ours.
Sir Samuel Wilson can’t think what English
nobs can see in that. Parkes fellah, who never endowed
a university with 1130,000, or had a son who broke a new
seven-and-sixpenny umbrella over the head of an
arrested lunatic, and who never even bought a dead
Lord’s estate, or put a stained-glass window in a
church in honour of himself and his sovereign, or ran
for a seat in Parliament and got beaten. Sir Samuel is
scornful, and says that people ought to draw the line
somewhere. He thinks that being presented at Court '
really signifies nothing now-a-days, except that it is a 1
token that a man or woman has never bean divorced
The delicat e question of the design of the stained-glass
window took time to consider. According to Melbourne
Punch, Sir Samuel’s idea was to have his own portrait
on the top, while underneath should appear his son
leaning on a shivered umbrella and affectionately re-
garding a portrait of the Qoaen. For true simplicity
such a picture would crash creation,
Mr. Matthews’ historical butcher has a rival in”
Brisbane. Historical discussions fire his bloodf
Another weakness of his is the indiscriminate use o
polysyllabic words. During a recent visit to Ipswich
(Q.) he worsted all the Athenian literati anont the
late Czar of Russia, by his profound knowledge of Bus-
sian politics, and the unmeaning magniloquence of his
grand words. A wag. determined to overawe him, got
up and said: “ Look here, my friend, the brilliancy,
luminosity, and coruscating fnlgnration, not to say the
effulgent nitency, of the late Czar's illustrious, imperish-
able, and honorific reign, wore ineffably and incalcul-
ably sullied by a heterogeneous, variform mass of in-
compatible, multifarious and epicene component
elements indissolubly interwoven with the opposing
exigencies of the broad basis of national and fundamen-
tal liberty." The butcher stared aghast at the speaker ;
then, with a sudden impulse, rnshed over to him,
seized his hand, and exclaimed: “ Put it there; you’re
a young man <*f great intellectual promise. Where’s
the quotation from ?”
“ All mankind,” says the editor of the MudtoWn
Moralist, “ have in their very nature the elements of
mvrderera, and hatred and vindictiveness are potest
levers of the evil passions of our nature.” Snrely there
is something wrong about this statement. All mankind
don’t take the MudtSwm Moralist.
The season is now approaching when the bank-
dark stretches his limbs before the glowing grate the
better to display the peculiar beauties of the black and
gold dippers, scarcely a week old, which cost him
nearly three hundred and sixty-five nights of severe
hugging to earn ; and his girl lays the solitaire diamond
close against the pink and white of her beautous
cheek, sighing wearily as ahe thinks how soon she may
have to sacrifi ;e it for the sake of a new bean.
A certain bush township, away down in
Riverina, is the latest thing in railway termini. It
consists of the usual smithy, stire, hatchery, and
hotel, surrounded by the tents and gunyahs of the
nomads of railway construction. The hotel was only a
shanty before the Hact, bat has now been Dilionized.
The proprietor gave a grand ball and sapper lately, to
celebrate the conversion of his premises. It was largely
attended by the beauty and bravery of the camp.
Chief among the fashionable ladies who graced the
scene were “ the Tasmanian Devil,” the “ Red Streak,”
the “ Hobarton Cuttlefish,” the •’ Fiery Cross,” and.
others; and the fights were as free as the victuals,
there waa a charming absence of conventional stiffness
about the entertainment, and the stars of morning
looked dowu on the cloutarfy scene ere the happy
revellers wended their devious ways home to hut and
gunyah. It’s a glorious place for freedom, this new
township. There’s not a tree in the district si rung enough
to chain a man to, with any prospect of finding him
again, so the zealous officer who represents the fooroe
never arrests a man for any less serious a crime than
murder, or taking the name of Fosbery in vain. It’s a
pleasure for a man with a mind well stocked with pro-
fanity to get int« the open air down there—a paradise
for any A 1 blasphemer whose genius has been cramped
by the fetters of church fairs and King-street morality
in Sydney,
Quiteau says he will die without flinching.
He was a lucky man he didn’t die without lynching.
Late cablegrams tell us that his petition foe a new
trial, upon the success of which he buoyed up hia
craven soul, has been refused.
The idea gathers ground that it is better to
succour the living than to honor the dead. The living
we know, the others:—, doubtful
characters. But, an exception might well be made in
favor of the heroic Mrs. Watson.
Schoolmaster Plomer, who has just retired on a
gaol pension for life, could show a most gashing
“character” received trom his District Inn pec tor.
So could Satan—before ho fell. It is the good men
always who go wrong the quickest.
Onr late esteemed subscriber, Mr. Charles
Darwin, ones said—” Highly-scented flowers in rooms
are very dangerous.” Our equally respected friend, Mr.
Inspector Seymour, says—“ Highly-scanted backyards
and lanes are very common ” in Sydney.
One of the best “ whips ” up north is a
certain curate, and it is said he invariably drives with
one arm. Now and again a lady panistiiouer sits on the
same seat. We don’t know where he rests the other
arm them, but it we can find out at ail we’ll print it.
A Telegraph man went over to North Shore
the other day in company with a Howl reporter, to
look at a house ho thought of renting. The house
pleased him well enough, but when be came away ha
found himself covered with bugs aad fleas. He blamed
the house for it.
An Irishman is evidently running the Campbell-
town Herald, which says:—“The abominable stench
■ that exists at the Council Chambers, especially on nights
when the aldermen are sitting, is becoming so intolerable
that something mast be speedily done to remove it.”
Italics ours.
Scene Queensland. Male aristocrat to his
coachman;—“John, you can leave the room, I am
about to change my clothes.” “Oh if that’s all **
replied Johu cheerfully, “ don't mind me—'it doesn’t
matter a eopp°r. I of e i stop when the Missis is ohaug*
iug her dress." That case comes off next term.
A four-foot bobby the other day said to a six-
foot member of the Permanent Force: “ Move on, or
I'll run ycz in.” The militia man saluted, and bringing
his arm back to position, he included in the embrace of
his armpit the pigmy bobby, and started off at “ quick
march,” the hobby howling “ Let mo down, or be me
sowl. I’ll tun yez in.”
Not one divorce case for
trial during the present sittings
All the matters set down are
mere motions.
Albnrygaol prisoners emu-
lating Dr. Tanner. The m< at
allowance has been stopped, and
hominy substituted. They re-
fuse to eat the hominy. This
looks hominous.
When a Queensland civil
servant, who travels for pleasure
with an inspector of police, wonts
a bit of feirying with a Chinese
Charon, he ge’s the reply, “Me
no chargee plisoner.”
A correspondent asks ns :
If the original St. Andiew weie
to appear, to which church
would he go—the Cathedral in
Gcorge-str*et, or the PresbyU-
rian behind it ? Thi j oouun-
drum cun only be an* wired by
application to Cyril Havihmd.
The only M'Elhone is once
more in the City Cornell, and
has waxed boi tereus in defeu. e
of the peculiarly aldermaniu
privilege of fhiujhtering in the
city. The best place to hear
John when he “speaks” at
council meetings in the Town-
hall is Redfern railway station.
An aldermanio M.P. in a
Northern Town tried to lobby the
Town Council into laying water
on to his house. He had to ex-
plain that it was for mixing with
whisky, or be would have lost
his seat at <he next election.
People up that way don’t care
for those who wash themselves.
Such persons are considered al-
together too high-toned to be
heneet.
At a concert in Windsor,
last week, the arrangement of
the programme was left to the
local hot - saveloy man. The
names of the composers and
vocalists, consequently, got a
little mixed, and Verdi, John
Bushelle, Beethoven, Haydn, J,
H. Flynu, Wallace, Fred. Les-
ten, and Mazzinghi, are indis-
criminately handed down to pos-
terity as the performers.
Molloy, the Blayney insol-
vent, was to have run the gaunt-
let at the last Criminal Court,
but he mahooded before the
trial. A few years ago, before he
risked his barqne upon the
treacherous eddies of commerce,
Molloy was in charge of a coun-
try denominational school.
We know not what was the
character of his tuition, but his
commercial transactions appear
to have been godless enough to
satisfy a M’Quven or aM’Beath.
The Bev. G. Woolnough preached at Yass that
the pit into which Joseph was thrown by his brethren
is still to be seen. We have information that Mrs.
Potiphar’s ghost has been seen there lately holding on
to a coat —with a man inside.
To-day 10,000 Jews are starving in Gallicia.
In twelve months time 9,000 of these will be lending
thsir oppressors “ de monish at sheventy fife per sbeut,”
whilst the remainder will be yelling their heads off
endeavoring to lay hundreds to two on the “ Cup-au-
Durdil.” It’s as hard to “ squelch ” a Jew as it is to
kill a oat, or a book-hawker.
At the close of a lecture at Wellington (N.Z.),
Mr. Denton was exhibiting some diagrams of inverte-
brates, and remarked than they reminded him a good
deal of man at the present age. Man appeared io nave
no backbone. There was too much be wing, ducking,
cringing, and lying; but he hoped that at no distant
period man would develop a backbone.
Scene: The Dead Finish Hotel, on the back
blocks. Enter sundry customers, demanding glass of
ale, 40. Landlord : “ 'Ow much can you go, -med nm
glass F ’Cause I never like to see it tasted, an’ yon
chaps don’t care to diink what’s left, you know '
Indignant ebo us : “ We should rayther think not 1 ”
Landlord: "Ah 1 well, I never lets it get wasted 1 "
Fact.
A Melbourne musician has been rushing into
print and lambasting “ merely literary men " wuo date
to criticise such “ delicately superfine work " as mu-ical
performances. He has raised a hornet’s nest about his
ears, ho wever, having had bis attention gently called to
bygone matters, winch it were well the recording angel
had blotted out. And he feels sorry he spoke snout
newspaper men.
Mr. Bryant, of the match-manufacturing firm of
Bryant and May, ia going to have erected in Fast London
a colossal bronze statue of Gladstone. A Sydney Fenian
hymns it out in this way:—
Sure bronze is better far than bad stone,
A fitting wreath’s a blue zephyr ;
Who builds this monument of Gladstone ?
His bosom friend, Old Luoiter I
Queensland man whose breath was odoriferous
of cl vee, and whose gait v«s fashioned, on an intr,ca«a
knowledge of the spiral curve, was conspicuous tip
north just previous to the lace drawing for a valuable
reserve. He was flashing fivers and offering wagers alt
round that he would be tne winner out of the flity
odd who went for it. And he kept his word. People
are now asking who did it —Providence, or the ot> e
fellow.
THE INSURANCE AGENTS “BROOK.”
I am an agent, knowing too.
Whose name no one diskivers j
And you're a doctor, tried and true.
To blink at lungs and livers;
We creep, wo dodge, we slant, we slide,
We do our best endeavour;
For men may come, and men may go—
But we’ll go on for ever I
HUNG OUT TO DRY-TILL OCTOBER.


DE. J. SIMMS, the unrirallod Physiognomist
and Popular Speaker, will deliver splendidly-illustrated
and amusing LECTURES at TEMPERANCE HALL,
Pitt-stroot, on Practical and Soientiflc Physiognomy, as
follows:— •*Hand-Shaking, Walking, Langhtnr,” May
28th : “Lips, Mo«rh, Teeth,Bars, Mntlo," May, 28th
« Skis, Fsrehead, Memory,” May 20th; “ Hair, Vasds,
Hand-writing.” M«y *Hh; Phyik*so*y, it* applies-
ti*a,” May Slat; "Bysa, Evelide, Eyebrow*, Junelat;
" Nervous hyatf m, and Mtsd,” Jose 2nd; " Barth,
rta past aad preeeat changes." June »th; •• Lovf ,
Courtship, and Marriage,” Jnno Bth. Admission—One
Shilling and Two Shillings j Course Tickets 10s and
20i. Each Lecture will commence at 8 p.m. Enter,
t lining Public Character-readings at the close of every
Lecture. Written and Oral Descriptions and Charts
of Health and Character given daily, during the
Lecture Course, in the Ante-room of the Hall, from
9am. to 5 p.m., except Sundays. Dr. Simms’ vast
galiery of Portraits in Oil is open FREE to the public
daily at the Hall. “ Let the physiognomist examine
bis features."— Pope.—Advt,,
Roll up ; roll up! Bishop to be consecrated.
Admission one shilling-
The Nihilists complain that at Gats°Wna the
proper sort ot ices aro not placed on tbe Czar s table.
They want to serve up bombs a la Ru*se.
There is a photographic group of 50 bawl club
men in George street. I'he combined agss of the
cracks give a total of about 50,000 years.
Alwavs he prepared for death. The devil called
the other day for tbe soul of a sinful polioe-magistratej
and found him working at a new fire-escape.
Plomer, the arch-ravisher of the age, reprieved .
Tbe heathen of Sooratic days could not
Produce a judgment rummer ;
E’en though baroarians, they would knot
The judgment line a little plumber.
Ee that she is "an elderly woman I The boss
mnßt have read this paragraph himself, end as ms
Johnson had been sent to the milkman to prove that
nnarts was not spelt with az, it passed muster. Is
?Cho 6 rever designated ? Wo think ••yes." but oh I
The Melbourne Herald recently owned to a
wonderful telegraphic feat. A message despatched from
London at 10 a m. was received in time for PubhcaUmi
in a Melbourne “ Extraordinary at noon on the same
dav Even allowing for the difference of time, this
menage was published in the Melbourne Hf-Hald eight
hours before ft was written in London Such a remark
able feat redounds with credit upon the re-liar-bil y
that enterprising journal.
There was mourning in a Northern township not
, _ t+. w ag thought that the editor of a local
p°aper was dead A orowd had gathered round the door
of hia office, and one of them wan pointing out the
marks on the lintel, where the peer old pressman's
Sains had been dashed out by some midnight murderer.
Rut the ancient journalist was very far from being a
corpse Somebody had thrown a mashed turnip against
the door. and it Had stuck. That was all. _
“ Parcoar Mary” repudiates the insinuation ot
"the learn*d and erudite editor of a contemporary”
that the loss of a tripe and champagne supper would
influence her opinion upon any subject, and in turn
.. . .t . knows some one who gets in such a pro-
found state of ?hat whin lifted on horse-
back from one side he is apt to toll off on the other. It
is a sweet and pleasant thing to see country editors
and editresses living together in peace and unity.
There has been trouble in the Tonga lslands
lately Some of th. Joujig chiefs petitioned the King
+ „ rpinove the Premier (the Rev. W. Baker). _ Jne Ring
thr 'ateiicd to hang some of thorn if they said another
word agat.st his® Prime Minister There is some
deeper reason than mere rev.uue for this. We cannot
Bhn? our eves to the fact that missionaries wax notably
fatter after a few months' residence in these islands.
Can ft bo that the King is stall-feeding his reywond
Premier°with ii view to serving him up on the half-
shell one of these days I
A Melbourne visitor to Charters Towers N vi,
has been trying his hand
W' •‘distin-
guished man” and coufrere in theback P“ rl “
tho Koval, and that, as a consequence, the latter
caused a writ to he served on a shareholder, claiming
all liis right, title, and interest in the Day Dawn
Mining tfo , limited, on the gronnd that the
had no miner’s right. But it was ac'
He had a right, and tho proceedings were withdrawn.
Langley, tho elder of the medical quaoka who
have just been potted in Melbourne practised anda-
ciously upon people's credulity. He gave out that
ho had attended personally on th. ,^ u , ee “, an ? h t, I L^
Royal family, had cured cases despaired of by the most
eminent oculists, and palmed off for ns. Gh a lotion
which would make an incurable oataniot roll aown
the eve like grease, provided it was mixed with half a
ptet of water in a’ ginger beer bottle, andnotexpoeed
to the balefnl rays of the sun. He told one fool that
ho had cured the cataract of Niagara. and that, in con-
sequence, America was too hot to hold him.
One squatter demands from the Government
£lO,OOO for permission to take from his run the neoes-
_„rv gravel required lor some railway ballast; he paid a
fow\irnidreds to tho Government for his land. Another
for nermission to taka stone off his land. In this ease
the contractor had to erect huge
the quarry, and run the metal <m l«» ■
TtiilAß The colony was put to some tfiu.uw ewa
expense, because the Government were green (?) enough
toalienite this land without stipulating saving clauses
to cover such contingencies. This is Home Rule with
a vengeance. ,
R. Burdett Smith, Esq., M.P., K.C.M.G., is
triumphantly processing the Macleay. A programme
for his reception is out and fills eleven columns of to
local rag. Burdett is to plant a memorial tree with the
undertaker's daughter; and it is hoped that the under-
taker may yet be prevailed upon to dig a memorial
grave and erect a memorial tombstone Inscribed with
the name of Smith. It is expected that the dinner will
last eight and-a-half hours, as on last occasion, and the
ptenfoa week. Burdett ought shortly to get a baronetcy
or he made a Book. Apropos to nothing, it was a Hcoteh-
man who, when thinking of ducks and fowls, spoke of
** Docks and fools.”
The amorafcive apple-women, the lewd larnkins,
and. in fact, all true sportsmen, will regret to learn that
Frank W the original Hyde Park Antichrist, is laid
bv in lavender for afew months. Fra .It hasbeen a true
evangelical knight-errant, whose whole life has been an
unceasing crusade against Beelzebub. So far. the dark
•nnhas had the best of the running. He wreattledwith
Frank, overcame him, and left him burgling. When
Mr W— expiated this exploit in Darhnghurst (whose
hollowed groves are sacred alike to burglars and press-
man) Frank resigned the “ Jemmy for St. Judo, and
acknowledged that none of his skeleton keys was the
key of Heaven. After a short season at Hyde Park,
when the same hill ol fare ran for one hundred days in
rmocession, Frank removed his sacr«d Lares and secular
Penates to Melbourne, where he .xpeotf-d a fortune to
flow from the sale of his small-p.x disinfectant But
the fates were adverse, and variola was fickle. Frank
subscribed hfs name to a cheque, which was not the
caligraphio double »f sterling coin i and so, hio small-
pox disinfectant falling, ho is now content to undergo
two months' quarantine, mercifully allowed him by the
Melbourne “ beaks ” by way of a till of atom ment.
In a country paper last month appeared the
following advert i.-einont: —‘‘Warned at once, lo 1 young
men. of all shapes and sizes, fr >m the tall graceful
d indy with enough hair on his upper works to stuff a
barber's cushion, down to tho liuinp-ba iked, freckled
face, bow-leegod, carrot-headed upstart. Jhe ot jeot is
to form a gaping corps, to be in attendance at tv e
churo™doors on each Sabbath before the commence-
ment of divine service, to store at the females a 8 jhey
outer and make remarks on their person and dress
In Sydney, the style is different. The gaping corps do
not arrive early enough to e*e the Indies enter. J hoy
get there just in time to form in line on the kerbstone
as they come out.
It was at a church in a fashionable suburb on a
Sunday not long ago; a small hoy bad te. n taken to
neryicu for the first, ti-ne, bv his lady-mother. He was
a wicked little boy who had learnt very rude language
from his father. VVheu the minister sud Let us
pray,” the infant sinner yelled out What for f The
minister -passed'' and the boy shortly after went to
sleep on his mother’s knee. When he woke up the
minister had left the pulpiL The tsUnd
this style of doing things. He ] umped off his mother s
knee, looked all around for the missing clergyman, ftud,
not finding him,ho finally roared out to his elder brother
on the other side of the ehorch, * Willie, where s that
d— —d ole fool gone,” Fact.
The Rev. Mr. Blank dropped in, promiscuous-
like, upon a class of pupils being exercised in Biblical
legends at a Denominational school in the vicinity of
North Shore, The clergyman proceeded to interrogate
the pupils, and elioited satisfactory replies bearing upon
the career and political manoeuvres of Arahom, Isaac,
Jacob, and Sarai. Then he asked, ••Who was Rebecca ?
And one bright-eyed urchin immediately replied, She
was one of the daughters o£ Moab, who had charge of
a stall at the Fajre ” It afterwards transpired that
Rebecca was a daughter ot a neighbouring pastor, and
had officiated in the capacity of assistant-stallholder.
The reverend gentleman hastened elsewhere in quest of
spiritual consolation, and the head-teacher talked to
the impulsive lad in Fay re Old English.
A Murrurundi Times man, writing ofone of
the families of that district, saysis- I
the old lady had a rery ntoe daughter, I should tm
about 21 or 22 years of ace ; I also t*ro younger
rmflH beloo*uiK to the same family. There were awo
three sons, pretty well grown up, one a young man.
Now! n s far as thl nice daughter is concernedl pu us
down for two chances ; and as far as the to
young man is concerned, we have nothing to to
him! except to advise him to stick to his sex; but with
regard to the other two sons, who are goats or bull-
dogs they can hear of something to their advantage if
thfv will call round at this office We think of travel-
ling the country districts with ii menagerie one of these
daye-Maof these dars when, the 'BusCompany will
lend us a horse to exhibit as a. libel juryman.
A country telegraph official, after smiling at a
sonatter’s handsome daughter for some months,
through his pigeon-hole, at last was invited to tea by
her fifther. His vanity led him to mistake the young
lady's civility for something more, and he asked her to
meet him. au olair do la Inn o. next e*emi»* £h« “laiden
promised. Next evening, Jncky. the black boy, was
dressed as a female, and posted at the corner of the
stockyard. with instructions to make a target of the
first “ swell” who showed nn. Jackv grinned de-
lightedly. A.t the exact hour of aupointment, the
««lightning dodger." in his bestest apparel cautiously
trooped up to the trystiug spot, and catching sight of
tha muslin, rushed eagerly forward. Jn ky had ool-
lected a supply of such ammunition as can be readily
obtained near stockyards, »nd at about six yards range
opened fire with deadly accuracy. The ammunition
was soft, and every shot told. The low fled. An hou
later he was seen sneaking mt* the .. ™V a 0
through the hack door, and as he scraped the mia-
placed matter” from his Sunday suit, he gently
muttered: • •
The Altar and Gallows.
The holy E.C. Fathers who run the Express
want to see the unfortunate mad I' a _ v ®*
who murdered her boy in a fit of homblo gloom,
hanged. That Marie Laye was mad no one can doubt.
The Express thinks that never did anv
less she was mad. murder her own offspring, and thou
It immediate!? advocates the hanging of every lunatic
murderer as a warning to other mad people, and an in-
dncsment to respect human life. Can t the rever nd
gentlemen leave a condemned woman aldne? Are they
in a hurrv to administer extreme unction to poor Marie
Laye P Will they tell ns where lunatics go to when
they die? And if they ever get put of Purgatory ? One
wen Id think that a hangman’s interests were Identical
with th >se of a Pri*sfc. I* Noser Bob a paid hireling
of His Grace's paper P Or, woa't th* people send for a
pri.st till Jack Ketsh’s knot is about to be flx * d ™ d ® r
their left ear ?! W* lift up our voices and weep for the
depravity of mankind; and. as our pearly tears mop up
the mouldy literary dust around us. the ghost of
Jeremiah (sent'by Cyril Haviland) appears before us
and trolls out this mournful ditty
Mr. Andrew Fairfax.
We give on page 8 a portrait of Mr. Andrew
Fairfax, a gentleman who haa been prominently
associated, for the past sixteen years, with the
musical art in this city, and who, for the same
period, has consistently lent valuable artistic aid
to our innumerable charitable undertakings.
Mr. Fairfax was born in Warwick, England, in
March, 1834, and is a son of the late William
Fairfax, a lineal descendant of the man of the
Commonwealth. Mr. Fairfax was put to mer*
cantile business at an early age, and in 1851 was
induced to come to the colonies. He occupied
himself here for a time in mercantile work, but
forsook the business for a position in the public
service. He entered the Education Department
in 1861, and has for eleven years occupied a very
responsible position. Mr. Fairfax, from boyhood
even, felt the aspirations of a musical artist,
but it was not till his marriage with a
lady of cultured musical taste that he developed
the faculty for song which has since won him such
prominence. The result has been that for over
twenty years almost every charity and church in
this city has had his valuable and gratuitous aid.
Ho was the life of the “ People’s Concerts given
in the metropolis for years, and most of the Public
Schools’ prize funds were largely the gift of his
artistic talent. Mr. Fairfax, as might be expected,
received many tempting offers to go to England.
He was semi-profeasionally associated with such
artists as Madame Anna Bishop. Sara Flower,
Arabella Goddard, Camilla ITrso, Charles Horsley,
Farquharson, Packer, Cordner, and David Lee.
For twelve vears he gave absolutely gratuitous
aid, but trials of no ordinary character,
in the way of ill health, etc., compelled him
afterwards to require remuneration for his ser-
vices ; nevertheless, his ha* d has been ever ready
to needy or struggling artists. Mr. Fairfax suffers
now from an hereditary rheumatic affection, and
after 21 years’ uninterrupted service, is well deserv-
ing of the brief relaxation he is about to take.
Mr. Fairfax has been for 15 years leader of the
Pitt-street Church choir, and an efficient member
for just double that period, and well deserves the
testimonial now proposed to be given him.
A black gin is like a prophet. She has little
on her in her own country.
Enah won the big event at Grafton Eegatta
yesterday, in 34 min.j Power second.
“ My daughter,” exclaimed a fashionable mother,
•is innocence itself. You can’t say anything in her
presence that will make her blush.”
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club was
unfortunate in weather. After postponing from Satur-
day, and expecting a large gathering on the holiday, It
seemed a hard fata that prevented the stand being half
full. Pew ladies were present, and although the pro-
gramme was fully carried out, even to the band playing,
it was a damp affair. The boys’ race was capital. The
bicycle race resulted in a most exciting finish, though
the favourite, Moyse, was out of it from the start.
But the hearty applause was some consolation to the
plucky, though small rider. Most of the competitors
got uncomfortably wot. The only ray in the gloom
was the man in the havannah suit. Ho was decidedly
funny.
WOMAN ITEMS.
An old maid is a woman who has been made a
Ion? time. . ,
When you see a girl drowning, seize her by the
the clothes, not by the hair, which generally comes off.
A Rockhampton lady named Button who had
twins called one Pearl and the other Opal. How pretty.
Mrs. Langtry, it seems, hovered between tragedy
and comedy. Before she took to the stage, she contem-
plated editing a society paper.
Adelina Patti lately said: “I am a *
Madame Nioolini as George Eliot was Mrs. Lewes, and I
am prond of my choice.” Terse, this.
“ Whatever shall I do ?” said Ethel, “ tbOHO
shoes make my feot appear so large Ko one, rnt
in Flo “will notice yonr feet a bit after looking or
your face.” Ethel was deeply pockpitted, and squinted
horribly. .
From home papers w 6 leam that the lAtest
fashionable craze is for mothers of the flr ®*
wheel their children along the public parks,
letting the nursemaids do it. We infer from this that
the soldiers across the pond are now of a particularly
fine description.
Thus the World (a fashionable London paper,
mind yon) I—" Says Lady Herberton, •Ne ene see*
thing objeotlenable in a leg being ahowm nytc the knM
in setting into a carriage er crossing a atwet,jprerldea
it is covered by a stocking.' This, nv ,7 #uld
say, depends upon the leg and upon the stocking.
Miss Hermann, of Jeffersonvillfl. Indiana, tow
completed the lengest fast on record. Bke
denly insane, and as no one would kill her U ot«diei»ee
to her wishes, she started to "tar™ herself, dronk
a little water enoe a day, until the fl«ld
remain on her stomach. She fasted sixty-two uays
before dying.
Countess Josephine Mastai, niece of Pope
Pins IX. has gained her suit against the three car-
dinals. executors of the late Pope s will. The Cos
has decreed that she alone is heiress of the property,
which is to be immediately-delivered overOs> har^
presence of the notary. The cardinals are also saddled
with heavy expenses.
The crime of concealing arms, "Wj*
common In Ireland, has been brought to a lady of
fashion there. In London, ladies of
be charged with concealing arms. They
anything in soeioty now. " INvelattons wwld be a
by ne means Inappropriate heading to a chapter on full
evening dress In “ Sassiety."
Mrs. Langtry, in her new public tSU, captivates
and bewitches the men as muoh as ever. The last
silliness of one of her captives, a yonng jiaeounl la *Be
Guards, is that he paid her a hundred apjsoe
for the pair of blue stockings she wears in bhe •eooud
not of “ Ours," the same to be worn throughouti the run
of the play and delivered to the purchaser when Jl in
over.
A N.Z. settler who had been married to a half-
caste Maori for seventeen years was recently, while in
hospital, deserted by hie spouse, who eloi«>d with a
wandering gum-dlgging Lothario. T h« hushan
tracked them from HeUier’s Creek t« H from
Hokiauga to Auckland, and thence baek
Creek, and, while they were temporarily absent from
home, ho burnt their residence to the ground.
Here is a letter addressed te tte editor of the
Caecoab Chronicle :— ** Sir,—l see by the W*” If?
a man at Bathurst got it heavy; tot
his wife; ean't a man do what he likes with hm own f
If a man nint allowed to thrash his own te »
the poor woman to look for chastisement when she
requires it P Answer that, some of ye law.teeMersMat
want to do away with the liberty of a free-boni subject.
Yours, &0.. Boar M'Tatibh,’*
From the Dmbbo district comes the news that
a rash young man np there, who wan his
•• soul's adored” to a Sunday Jwgw topop the
question just as the horse took the bit tn hi* ana
bolted. Being determined, hewever, to have l lti sottted
one way or the ether, the young mani kept <on,, ana
finished just as the buggy struck a ” blue gam and
the party scattered. The lady was shot atmut TOO feet
high, hut when she earns dewu she firmly said
•* George 1 I’m yours,” and then fainted.
The “ British Woollen ” preferential movement
initiated in England by a Royal Princess, doesn t gee.
It appears that ladies go to a shop, inspect the whole
stock of woollen fabric*, and. after . X
most admire, express a hope that it is of British make 1
Then the shopxeeper says it is, anand the
sees home with as clear a conscience as an Australian
bishop starting on a trip to Europe, because he s got all
his work done, and can't get his lawn sleeves nearly
well got np here as at home. But, we forgot. Heaven
is every Bishop’s home, withbut exception.
Damali. Sara Bernhardt’s husband, is fine-look-
ing. middle-aged, and tolerably rich. The marriage
was sudden, no notice being given to the officiating
clergyman till the important morning The div ne
Sara wore a close-fitting sealskin cloak, trimmed with
fur A French lady and gentleman and the church
officers wore the only witnesses. When DamaJi sets
foot in England he will probably be confronted by a
stern officer of the law. He made far too much haste
to get married, and there is good reason to believe h«
told a "whopper” in order to get the license which
tied him to the Divine Sara.
Mrs. "Bonanza” Maokay is indignant at the
gossip coupling her daughter’s name with Don Philippe,
a Bourbon solen. She says she is pestered with fortune-
hunters and that "If a monarch were to propose for
Mian Maokay, he would be refused.” It must not be
forgotten, in connection with Don Philippe, that that
gentleman waa morganatieally married on the 18th Feb
to Widow Bordse. Miss Maokay will have £200,000 a
year—eo her father says, anyhow. Mrs. Mackay asserts
that the report about Prince Philippe was maliciously
circulated by a lady on the Fisas,o staff, because she
asked to be invited to Mrs. Maeksy’B halls and was
refused.
A Moroo (N.S.W.) girl of the first water has
lust married a Chinamen named Ah Low, She has been
attracting notoriety lately. Her foster parents wanted
her to marry another Chinaman at first, so she started
a report that her fester mother had smothered ene
child with a pillew, and that her foster father hod
roasted another child at Bathurst. A lew days after-
wards she eloped to Mndgoe with a white man named
Joshua, and the pair would have been married only
Joshua couldn’t plank the necessary coin at the Regis-
trar’s Her foster parents took her back, and she was
married to Ah Low. The happy couple were wed in the
Mndgee Wesleyan Church, she having to be unwillingly
marched to the altar by her guardians.
The French idea of women i—Women have no
worse enemies than women. One must be a woman to
know how to revenge. Woman conceals only what she
does not know. Woman is a creature between man and
the angels. Woman is more constant in hatred than in
love. Most women curse sin before embracing peni-
tence. Women who have not fine teeth enly laugh with
their eyes. Friendship between women is only a sus-
pension of hostilities. Women ask if a man isdlaeroot,
as men ask If a woman is pretty. When a woman is no
longer attractive she ceases to bo inconstant. Women
never weep more bitterly than when they weep with
Spite. The most chaste Woman may be the most volnp-
tnous, if she loves. When women cannot bo rovongod,
they do as children do; they cry. A woman and her
servant, acting in accord, would outwit a dozen devils.
A woman forgives the audacity which her beauty
prompts us to be guilty of. Women like balls and
assemblies as a hunter likes the place where game
abounds. Woman is a charming creature who changes
her heart as easily as her gloves.
From Ottawa, the polar capital of Canada, comes
the following giggle. Bet long ago a fascinating
young lady called by herself Miss Romaine (by her on.
charitable friends Nolan) burst npoa the world
of the Upper Ten, like anew star of the first
magnitude ( Ministers of the Dominion were enrap-
tured it they received one smile per week, and it Is
even said the Marquis of L , but no matter—suffice it
to say that she had the entree of Government House, and
was the belle of many a fancy ball. That’s aet the Ist.
Three months ago this lady stood at the hymeneal rails
in company with one McLean, a prominent member of
the six-and-eight-penny fraternity, and the knot was
almost tied when a man crept stealthily np the aisle to
slow music j whispered a word in the bridegroom’s ear.
upon which the gallant McLean said " he'd pass,*’ and
taking up hia cady, left hie Ber-ride and the Kirk for
ever. Tableau—hmolling salts, shrieks, and general
stage rally. That's ae* the 8nd. Act the Shd opens
with the Aaaize Court : Eomaine v. McLean—
lOO.OOOdols. damages, and it is said in the last pert of
this act (which is at present unfinished) Lord Lorno
and the Ministers of State will be called upon to tell
all they know.
The W6bld thinks that professional beauty-
dcm is declining, and must die out. It is the climaterio
of a pagan growth of taste, which has held that, so long
as people are outwardly decorous, and nothing flagrant
Is proved against them, it is no one’s affair what they
do. Society will tolerate anything but open scandal.
Liaisons may go on, but so long as the parties go in and
out by the “side door, hid by the laurel,” nothing is
said. Fie 1 Ouida, to expose such things I But epi-
sodes of a oertaln kind hate become so frequent of late,
the “ side door ** has been so imperfectly hidden, that
the veneered classes of society dread discomfort and in-
convenience. So society is putting its foot down. For
this, professional beauties themselves have not been
much responsible: they have been, in their way seep-
wed mpnarshs, hat they have not sought (their crown.
They have (Imply been voted to places which a woman
would scarcely he a woman if she refused to occupy.
What was a novelty at first, has grown a great evil at last.
The first and greatest beauty retired just In time, in her
zenith of power. The position of the Lily has been, for
years, one of meridian brilliancy ( it could not last for
over, and she willingly, and perhaps sensibly, reliu-
Snished it before its lustre began ke dim. But while to
e the one reee in a garden—the one professional beauty
el society, was one thing j a multitude of buds, pos-
Bibljr beautiful, but not pr®-exnino*tg !■ quit© another
thing: and shows hew undesirable it Is that there
should be a number of candidates for tho dietdnctioii.
Drawing-rooms are split into oumps, men launch their
individual ideal beauties on the sea of public opinion,
and burning jealousy and unbecoming coquetry ani-
mate numberless female bosoms. Society is agitated
by oooflloting claims, until it is tired of hearing them.
Every clique has a beauty unto itself, which it eeeks to
thrust on ethers, and the rivalry becomes a bore. The
whole thing is overdone, and professional beuntydom ta
on the doonne.
• • •
A New York farmer wooed and won a seemingly
pretty woman. The pair were married in grand style,
every local notable being present. After the breakfast,
every young man of the gnesfce insisted on kissing tho
bride, who, of course, was glad to escape Into an adjoin-
ing room. Since then the bridegroom cannot find her.
She was, in reality, a smooth-faced boy in disguise,
and the whele affair was an atrocious sell
An American, who offered £8300 prise lor the most
beautiful woman, has selected from the photographs
that ol Miss Annie Pauline Scott, of Monongahela, who
Is credited with “a tall, symmetrical figure, rounded
efaonlders, full, undulating bosom, filling her bodice,
and seeming superlatively huggable.” A rival showman
read tho deecriptien down to 41 undulating ” He
stopped there, because, said he, that was leaving
nabuie and going into art......Old Langtry, thot is, the
legal proprietor of the fashionable beauty, lives on
the income from the sole of her photographs Mrs.
Jacques Bolduc, aged 85, died at St. .Raphael, County
of Belleohaese, Canada, last March. O —— she leaves
818 grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Her eldest
daughter has children and grandchildren. At a
high-close wedding lately, tho bride discarded the
usual erange blossom wreath, and wore a tiara of
diamonds Instead A lady who was reasoned with
about tight lacing, and shown a thlok-walsted Venus of
Milo, naively said, 44 AK I well, no man eeuld get hia
am reund such a waist as that i tho ancient Greeks
didn't watts, yon know, like we do.” 44 Wo woman
is worth looking at after thirty,” said young Mtp. A.,
a bride with all the arrogant youthfulno9s of
twenty-one summers. 44 Quite true, my dear,”
answered Lady D., a very pretty woman seme ten or
fifteen years older, " nor worth listening to before
At Bury Parish Chureh, Mr. Leo was married to Miss
Barrett by interpreter. Both wore deaf and dumbj
tho words were road by the clergyman, and interpreted
by tho Superintendent ef the Asylum, and responses
given on the fingers. Kearly half the spectators were
deaf and dumb persons The wealthiest English
ladles now wear moleskin cloaks, and meleeatohcrs are
employed to procure the small varmints. The cloaks
are enormously expensive, and Lady Brassey’s, with
1000 skins in it, is valued at 800 guineas, which she has
refused for ft In Mew York, breast bouquets are the
O.K. thing to wear. Eleven girls, who, with their
eleven beaux formed a theatre party, entered the dress
circle one evening, each with a breast-plate of flowers j
ef which the smallest was the size of a seap-plate,
while the largest reached from tho waist to tho chin
At the Roman Carnival balls, the committee give
prizes for tho best fancy dresses, and ladies of high
society do not disdain to compete The
King of Slam has 8,000 wives, all living under the same
roof. Whenever he wants to pass an hour or two in re-
pose and qnie'.jhe eteals off by himself and secrets him-
self in the royal blaok-smithery, where 200 anvils are at
work all the time.
An nnole of Miss Maynard, the great heiress,
who was married aomo months back as Westminster
Abbey to Lord Brooke, is a fencer up North, James
Hennessy. Another uncle is a well-to-do raiser of jam-
backs, and his daughter is the most aristocratic-looking
girl in the district. The brother of Jean Ingelow, the
poetess, sleeps in the city of the dead at Eandwlok. No
loving hand tends that grave, which is allowed to re-
main nnoared for.
A physical and muscular phenomenon has been
exhibiting himself to the medical men of the Glasgow
Eoyal Infirmary. Charles H. Warren, an American
acrobat, showed the medical staff of that institution
that by voluntary muscular action he could dislocate
and reset bis hip joint, shoulder blades, jaw, knee
joints, ankle joints, wrivt joints, and indeed every joint
m his body. He drew in his abdomen so far os to expose
the beating of one of its blood-vessels. He waggled
his ears, and performed other extraordinary feats, in-
cluding that «f bending backwards till his head touched
his feet, and then passing, In this doublod-np position,
through a ring 14 inches in diameter.
A parson recently delivered a Temperance
Berm on. After commenting on the debasing vileness of
drunkenness, ho took back some of his remarks in this
•way t—' " Bat the abuse of wine does not shat out its
legitimate use. The Lord has graciously conferred
upon me, hia servant, the faculty of drinking twelve
bottle* of wine at one sitting, without being afterwards
impelled to jump on toy wife and strangle ray children.
Therefore, brethren, join me in singing the doxology.”
It would have been more candid if the reverend gentle-
man had acknowledged that the reason Iwhy he never
went mad drnnk was because he obtained all his wines
from the Coolalta Wine Bodega, Mort’s passage, back
of Paling and Co.’a, Sydney.
Here are some ingenious anagrams:— New
South Wales —Uses wealth won ; Lo 1 we shun waste.—
United States of Araoriea—A famous race tested in Ik—
Groat Britain—I bring a treat.—Saint Petersburg!*—
Brats's reign post.—Novaya Kembla—Balmy az a even.
—Tasmania—I am Batan —Van Diemen’s Land—And
men slaved in.— Scotland—Old ©ants.—Waldeok and
Pyrmeat— Wedlock, party-mann’d.— Ancient Home —
Oman entloert—Old Ireland—Lo, dire land ; Or idle
land.— Province of Leinster—Police rife v. ne rente.—
Constantinople—Pontic Loan nest; I* pot it, non-eloon.
—Northampton—No; nor that M.P ; That’n, or no
jf.p—Westminster—rests man’s wit; write sent mo.—
Westminster Abbey—Be my best, win a rest.—The
houses of parliament—Some rule in paths of hate.—
THE PRIEST AND THE HANGMAN.
It was a friar of orders grey,
Who preached of worldly revel.
These folk.” he said, “do what wo may.
Are going to the devil.
The Chnrch is void, while madding crowds
Infest the halls of Mammon ;
Onr ‘ Jacob’s -ladder’ to the clonda,
They look upon as gammon.
«• It, gives ns priests a griovons twist
To witness such transgression ;
They won't come to the Eucharist,
And fall off from Confession.
•» Thov’d sooner go to worldly shows
Of Tom-Thumb-man or Chang-mau 5
To Priests they n»ver tell their woes
Till • collared ’ by the hangman.
•• Aha Ift happy thought—no less—
Is in my brain-pan banging;
That mighty organ, the Express,
Shall play low down on hanging.l
« a victim P—Tes. There’s Mario Lay®,
WeTl start the rope npon her,
And froth, and spout, and whang away,
TUI she’s a ‘ dead-and-goner.'
Therepe, the rope for this poor wretch
Whose soul's not worth a stiver:
And when she’s passed on to Jack Ketch,
She’ll send for priest to shrive her.


DR. STANICH desires to a:
parsons suffering from Eye, Ear, N
eases will receive hla valuable serric
Gratis, every THURSDAY in the v
square, Sydney. To prevent disnp
applicants must be provided will
mendation under seal from sou
municipal authority, otherwise the
—Advt.
Paddy Boyce Coglin, whose we;
long words, which neither he nor ai
stand, and who was left out at
Assembly election for Flinders, S
date for the S.A. Legislative Cou
ii a stamp of the raal olwd Irish br
male his pile, and knows only too v
His only dissipation is horse-racing
speculate much on the events. H
liamentary reporters is that the;
speeches. In fact, he is a perfect
hack, because, whenever Paddy g
sweeps his “rigorous eye” aroun
other eve is game, and he covers 1
the gladden* d reporter puts down 1
on his arms, and goes to sleep,
plains," he always elucidates
•* perambulates,” or " circumnambi
his volitive pedal extremitiesn*
always •* hallucinates,” Ac.. Ac.,
made a tremendous set at the go
night, and wound up by the e:
“ These peripatetic, literary sori
tiferous manipulators of st;
ments, may be excruciatingly
their transcendental capabilities, b
Paddy Coglin oaoophononsiy an<
Paddy Coglin is too smart for ’em.
backed out of a wager with a sho
in Adelaide and now in bydney, '
copied a bet of a £5l gold watch
•• graphically and exactively rep_
nambnlatory phosphorescence of
oratorical spontaneity of the ho
member for Flinders.” Paddy wai
ministers, as, at one time, no deput
sidered complete without his presei
the days,” Ac.
Frederick John Cobb Wildas
the other day by Mr. Gresley Lul
in bis room at the Union Club, Bn
owner of Canning Downs Statii
Queensland. He bought the rur
Uilbert Davidson, and during the :
aged to get it oncurabored_withji n
THE NEWSLETTER.
Marie Laye not to bo hanged.
Sydney Post Office disorganised by official
thefts.
1115 candidates for Gehenna at the Musenm on
SundaV*
A case of typhoid has arisen within the walls
of Sydney hospital, the patient being a nurse.
Frank Warden, the Domain preacher, has been
sent up for two months for passing valueless cheques.
This only shows how different the practice of the
Gospel is from the profession.
More embassies. Three Maoris have gone
home to interview Her Majesty and make speeches in
Willis’s. These savages pay their own expenses. The
race that is supplanting them don’t.
Tamworth people recently viewed the spectacle
of a prisoner, handcuffed and leg-ironed, being con-
ducted down Peel-street by a stalwart bobby. The
police cart is supposed to have been in use at the tune
at a swell funeral.
Miss Southon, the Victorian small-pox patient,
says she was kept on the cold deck of a steamer for
seventeen hours without any attention; remained an.
visited by a doctor for three days; and was provided
with a drunken nurse.
Some sugar cane of seven months’ growth was
produced at the Boyne, near Gladstone (Q.), thirteen
feet high. Mr. Harbottle, the planter, says that the
only reason sugar-cane won’t grow in that district is
because it is not planted.
An armed bushranger, apparently a hard-np
hushman, badly clad, has commenced business up
Tingha way. He stuck up the mail, and the driver,
after a short barney, handed him the mailbags and
drove on. Not yet arrested.
William Carlisle, of Melbourne, interfered
between his two sons, who were engaged in a drunken
brawl. He was knocked down, and died— owing to the
rupture of an aortic aneurism. Coroner said the
medical evidence; alone saved the sons from being
indicted (or murder.
Minister of Justice has decided against the
interpretation which Mr. Fraser, the Inverell P.M ,
put upon the accommodation clause of the new Licens-
ing Act, and holds that only four sleeping rooms and
two sitting rooms in each hotel are required to have
1200 cubic feet of air space.
Mans Follet, the wife of a Molonglo farmer,
had a tiff with her husband as to whom one of their
daughters should marry. To mend matters generally
she removed herself to a better land by taking a oup of
cold poison, and dying in the arms of her son and hus-
band. Verdict—Temporary insanity.
Shepherd, the pious lay-preacher, who recently
levanted from Timaru (N.Z.J, with £lO,OOO, has made a
clean bolt. The police traced him to Anekland, but
there lost the trail. A cablegram has now been
received to tho effect that he left by the Ban Francisco
mail steamer, and landed at Honolulu.
An Echuca Company has been floated to pur-
chase the lower Moira estate, and to convert it into an
immense vineyard ; capital £50,000,in £1 shares. The
estate comprises 4000 acres freehold and 23,000 acres
leasehold. Of a 12,000-aore ridge of good land, 10,000
acres are to be at once planted with vines. The
company will also breed sheep.
George Byrne, who, by-the-way, was closely
related to some of the oldest, wealthiest, and most
influential families in Queensland—a cousin of his was
once Premier —was hanged at Brisbane, on Monday, for
rape. He admitted the justice «f his sentence, and
died quietly. Plomer, meanwhile, is hugging his soul
thankfully because he didn’t do his soheolmaatering np
North.
Mr. Purves told a Melbourne jury, recently,
that there is a worthy oysterman living in that city
who has only learned to sign his name ; that when he
has signed it he cannot read it; that if yon interrupt
him in tho middle of it he has to commence it again;
and that the officials at the bank know his signature by
smelling it, because he peppers It instead of using blot-
ting paper.
When the convict Plomer, whose sentence of
death was commuted by onr wretchedly weak-kneed
Executive, was being conveyed from the local gaol to
the railway station, cn route for Berrima, in irons, some
idiots hooted him. “It would bo much better," re-
marks a contemporary, “if they hooted the Execu-
tive—but tho canaille always do revile the rat and
applaud the dog.’*
William Grant, sailor, shouted for his room-mate,
Victoria Holm, in a Pyrinont boarding-house, on Satur-
day morning. It was brandy. The two drank half-a-
crown’s worth between them. Then it was light.
Grant jammed Holm against the wall, and stabbed him
with a sheath-knife in tho side of the head Then it
was hospital for one, and look-up for the other. Grant
has been committed for trial.
The London Times was said to be about to
reduce its price to one penny, but tho report has
been denied. There are just as good dailies in the
world as the Times, which for n long while has, like
many other venorable fossils, traded on its name. This
fact has commenced to dawn on the public, and the
Times will soen And itself in the position of the ooon on
the reof, which said: “ Don’t shoot, Colonel —I’ll come
down I’*
John Warren, the insolvent produce merchant
of Geelong, started business fifteen years ago on a
capital of £220. Ho filed his schedule for—liabilities,
£32,794; assets, £7OOO. Twenty thousand pounds of
his liabilities were incurred within six months of his
insolvency by credit purchases, and ho had also ob-
tained advances upon the same purchased goods from
Connell and Hogarth. Warren himself is his own
principal asset.
Dynamiteists have been Fenianiaing at Prahran,
Molb. The greater part of large stables belonging to an
omnibus owner were Wown down. and many vehicles
wrecked; the windows of all adjoining houses were
broken. It is believed that the outrage is the result of
spite on the part of a business rival. The Government
has offered a reward for the discovery of the per-
petrators, and residents in the neighbourhood have
supplemented this offer.
Dr. Lamson is dead, having paid the legal
penalty of his horrible and mercenary crime. The
American Government can’t bo congratulated upon its
efforts to prove him insase. American justice has
itself been debauched by the stereotyped insanity plea,
but England objects to importing such a peculiarly
Yankee “notion.” In the States, many people who
have murdered helpless cripples, have neither been
hung nor sent to a lunatic asylum.
A bushel of misfortunes. A farmer at Plou-
gnenal, near St. Briens, France, threw what ha
supposed to be a lump of soft olay at his son. A atone
embedded in tho soft mass struck tho boy on the temple
and killed him instantaneously. The father, wild with
grief, went and hanged himself on the nearest tree.
The mother ran out to tho scene, leaving an infant she
was nursing on a heap of manure. When she retained
the child was torn to pieces by pigs. The mother has
since gone mad.
Further light has been thrown on the death of
the Kanaka who recently leaped overboard at Bowen
(Q ) from a steamer. It was not a case of nostalgia.
The poor follow had been separated from his wife by an
employer, who had both under a labor agreement, and
removed to a distant plantation. He escaped, and
made hia way back to his wife, only to be arrested.
He was a prisoner when he jumped overboard. The
Premier of Queensland is going to enquire into the
circumstances of tho case.
A Charters Towers man sent round to all his
neighbours to eome and assist him to despatch a mon-
etrous snake, from whose scales'phosphorescent sparks
and a horribly sulphurous odour were emitted. Ha
said the monster had threatened to swallow him, and
-that it had all the appearance of the fabled dragon.
The crowd armed themselves with shotguns, revolvers,
and axes, turned the house upside dewn, and finally
routed out and triumphantly despatched a snake of the
carpet species, exactly Ift. BJin. in length. Fighting
earn again!
The intercolonial fire brigades held their annual
•torchlight demonstration in Melbourne, on Tuesday
evening. May 23. Over 2500 firemen and 32 bands, con-
Bisting of 600 performers, took port in the procession.
N.3.W. sent 23 brigades to the competition. These
•brigades are primarily divided into two sections—those
I connected with the Metropolitan Association, and the
United Volunteer Brigades. The former are under the
general direction of Captain Tanks, the latter nnder
the superintendence of First Lieut. J. W. Batcher.
N.B.W. competing firemen number 302.
At Chicago, works have been erected for the
purpose of extracting sugar from maize. Wh*n com-
pleted, 12,000 bufhels will be operated on daily, each
bushel yielding n quarter of Sugar, or a total per annum
of 60,000 tons. The building* will occupy 25 acres of
ground, and will cost £320,000. A similar industry
might fee profitably started in Queensland; indeed, Mr.
Robert Tooth, sugar manufacturer near Maryborough,
has promised to tackle It whenever maize can bo sup-
plied regularly in sufficient quantities; and he guar-
antees that 2s. 6d. per bushel shall be the minimum
price given.
On last Monday week, so the telegrams tells us,
the till of the Wakefield Hotel, Wakefield-street,
Adelaide, 8,A., was rdbbsd of £ll7, In cheques, notes,
gold, and silver. It may be interesting to our readers
to know that the landlord of this hotel is Mr,
Landvogt, father of John Landvogt, late clerk in
the Mutual Provident Insurance Society, who gave
evidence in the recent insurance conspiracy cases, and
confessed to having written the friend’s report ■on
Weatherhead, ‘ out of friendship” to Hicks, and under
the influence of a small bottle of fizz. A married
couple have since been arrested for the above till
robbery.
A Sydney “ sixpenny boarding-house” consists
of four rooms, a garret, and kitchen. Yet the owner
used to knock up 28 beds, and a dozen or so shake-
downs. His den was a sepulchre of filth, and he has
now been fined £lO for the second time on a charge of
creating a nuisance. What Sydney wants is a model
lodging-house worked on somewhat similar lines to
those ef the Melbourne Institution, which, in addition
to pleasing quaei-phllanthropie speculators, yields the
handsome dividend of 10 per cent, per annum. Such an
institmtion is nearly built, and will be opened in about
a month. It will cost altogether £15,000, and accom-
modate 280 men nightly.
Up Bundaberg (Q.) way there is much excite-
ment over the disappearance of a man named Dawson.
His brother, John Dawson, gives vent to his feelings in
an advertisement in a local paper against another man,
whom he charges with having heartlessly deserted
his brother. Dawson also hints at foul play and
demands a full enquiry. It appears that the other
Dawson and his companion left Bundaberg together and
started to explore for pine sorah country. They
reached Mr. Robinson's station, Baffle Creek. Dawson
went across the creek one day, so his companion alleges,
while the latter returned hastily to Bundaberg. Daw-
son has never been seen or heard of sinee.
This little wharf matter wants attending to.
Certain wharves, mostly round by Miller's Point
and Darling Harbour, are in the hands of men of
political influence, several owners being In Parliament.
Now the Circular Quay is Government property, and
these gentlemen, to drive ships to private wharves, put
on, through the Treasury, a charge of id. a ton per
day for berthing at the Circular Quay. The private
wharves are free j and more than than, the owners allow
ships h rebate of £4O or £5O for discharging these.
Now for the point. Consignees pay through the nose.
Charges for landing, storage, Ac., give a pretty neat
fortune. It is this kind of free trade that brings about
howling protection.
Wild Harry, the Queensland aboriginal who was
tried some time ago at the Dubbo assizes on a charge of
murdering a police tracker, and who escaped punish-
ment on a legal technicality, has been up to his fiendish
tricks again. He new stands committed for trial on
the verdict ef a coroner’s jury, for having murdered at
Weemabah, in the same district, a black glm, called
Kitty Brandy. The evidence is elear, and consists of
the statement of the dying woman, and of his own con-
fessions bo other blaokfellowa named Tommy Kinshela
and Soldier George. Wild Harry, it is said, deliberately
attempted to outrage the deceased gin, and, failing in
his attempt, seized a firestick, and held it nnder her
clothes till she woe in flames.
It is always easy to get up sympathy for con-
victed criminals. In Adelaide, influential friends of
Dr. Morrison, one of the insurance conspirators, have
presented a petition to the' Governor for the remission
or mitigation of the sentence passed, en the ground
that he signed Weatherhead’s report under the belief
that the man had been passed by Dr. Thomas. The
petitioners have confidence in Morrison, and believe he
weuld not injure any one. Yet, an anecdote we gave
of insurance hanky-panky in Adelaide, when the first
telegrams about the insurance frauds came to hand, re-
ferred to Barker and Dr. Morrison and, as far as we
know, Morrison was not then even suspected by the
general public ef being implicated in the Weatherhead
case.
A horrible tale comes from a N.Z. country dis-
trict. It appears a Maori woman gave birth to a child,
which, of course, was claimed by the husband as his.
There was another Maori, however, who was reputed
to be the father of the child, and who, when the child
was born, claimed parentage. Between him and the
husband a quarrel ensued as to ownership, and in the
squabble each seized the unfortunate infant by a leg,
and did not desist until they had succeeded in pulling
it completely in halves. The remains of the child were
afterwards buried privately, and the horrible deed was
kept quiet until the other day, when a Maori police-
man succeeded in bringing it to light. There is also
some talk about the grandfather of the infant having
shot himself on hearing of the deed.
Sheriff William Estes, of Stokes County (N.C.),
left home in March last to be absent some days, and
directed his wife not to allow anyone to stay all night
in the heuse, at the same time giving her the safe key.
On the night of March 30th, a neighbour came to the
house, and was accommodated with a bedroom. Soon
after, two men came and asked leave to stay. Mrs.
Estes objected. The men then demanded the safe key.
Mrs. Estes ran up and told the lodger, who advised her
to give up the key and say nothing of his presence.
Mrs. Estes obeyed, and, while the men were robbing
the safe, the lodger shot them both dead. The robbers
were found to be Sheriff Estes himself and a neighbour.
It has since transpired that a liaison existed between
the shootist and the wife of the shootee.
Mr. Robert Ramsay, M.P. for East Bourke,
Victoria, died on Tuesday from inflammation of the
lungs, after a short illness. He arrived in Melbourne
in 1847, being then five jeans old. He was educated at
the Scotch College and Melbourne University, and
passed as a solicitor in 1801. He became an M.P. in
1870, and in 1872 accepted a portfolio without office in
the Francis Cabinet. InlB74he wasPostmsster-Qeneral
in the Kerferd Ministry, and, under Sir James M’Cul-
looh’s Premiership, he acted as Minister of Education
as well. In the Service Government of 1880. Mr.
Ramsay was Chief Secretary and Minister of Educa-
tion. Victorian Parliament adjourned on Tuesday as a
mark of respect to the deceased gentleman. Mr, Ram-
say visited Sydney but a week or two ago.
A correspondent of the Brisbane Courier
ouggests that the murderers of Lord Frederick Caven-
dish and Mr. Burke probably escaped to France. Ha
writes " In old times escapees have shown the way.
The tide runs np the River Llffey to within less than a
mile of whore the murders were committed, and
nothing would be more feasible than to have a boat in
waiting well manned, to carry dewn the culprits to a
smart veisel in the Bay, and a couple of days’ sailing
would land them in France. Kilmainham Gaol, whore
Parnell and the other political prisoners had been con-
fined, stands a short distance across the river, and no
doubt the crew of the boat and of the vessel were led
to believe they were assisting prisoners to escape, a
very different thing from helping assassins.”
The following, if it were not actually a portion
of the evidence given by a revenue officer at Mary-
borough (Q.), might be supposed to be something like
the truth with respect to certain proceedings that have
lately taken place in Sydney in connection with the
new Licensing Act: — 11 Presented defendant with a
written list of the artieloe I wanted i he said that ke
had no spirits in the store, and offered to get some for
me; told him my father was ill at the Immigration
barracks ; my father was not there; it was a lie j it is
my duty to tall lies for the purpose of catching people.’
The defendant was a grocer’s assistant, and swore that
he bought a bottle of rum from a neighbouring hotel in
order to serve the disguised revenue officer. Yet he was
fined £lO and coats. The lying revenue officer will
probably get the first promotion available. Virtue is
its own reward in these colonies.
A crowd assembled last Thursday to witness
the departure of the City of New York, which takes to
America, among other celebrities, " Ted" Lee (other-
wise Edward of that ilk, esquire, Crown Prosecutor,
thorough sportsman, and good fellow all round), Miss
Ada Ward, Mr. L. M. Biylese, of the Gaiety Theatre.
Mr. Daniel Cooper, and Mr. Donald Mans on, of Waltham
Watch celebrity. There was a great gathering of the
fair. Deputati'm proceeded on board to say good-
bye to Mr. Lea and Mr. Munson ; and though few
who have left these shores have so many sterling
friend, as the former, or so large a number Of friends
and acquaintances as the latter grntleman, it was easy
to see on Thursday that there was many a sad parting,
and many a fond farewell between men and women who
had in Sydney but few to hold them dear. Ads Ward wept
in private; “Ted” Lee leaned over the bulwarks with a
teir as big as a horse-bean in bis right eye, and a copy
of The Bulletin in his left hand; Dan. Coiper looked
pensivelv over the sea, evidently deep in opera boutte;
D anald Manson waved his hit; ihe “ American Eagle "
flourished his scarlet “wipe;” the beys yelled
“hoora);" the girls silently waved thnr handker-
chiefs. and away the big steamer scudded towards the
city cf the Golden Gate.
Hare is a medical item of interest to everyone.
Beef-tea, says The Australian Medical Gazette, is a
stimulant, not a tood; but of this fact the laity, and to
a considerable extent the profession, are slow to be con-
vinced. That patients fed on beof-tea slowly starve is a
fact which the analysis only too conclusively supports,
and which is sustained by actual clinical observation.
Analysis shows that beef tea has a chemical composi-
tion similar to urine. Beef-tea, most carefully prepared,
taps Dr. Neale in a recent issue of the Practitioner
(November, 1881), does not contain, including alkaline
salts, more than 1.6 to 2.25 per cent, of solid matters,
and such matter is mainly composed of Urea, Kreatin,
Krcatiuin, Isolin, and decomposed Hromatin. As a
stimulant, be«f-tea may be, and often is, highly ser.
viceable, but as a means of support daring the exhaust-
iug drain of a leng illness, it does uot eompare in nutri-
tive value to milk. Dr. Lauder Bruntou raises the
question whether beef-tea, a produet of muscular waste,
may not, under some circumstances, be actually
poisonous.
It is hard to understand why Qympie attracts all
the Sydney capital to the exclusion of Charters To wers.
Here is a comparison of the half-yearly report published
by the crock Gympie claim, the No. 1 North Phcemx,
and the leading Charters Towers claim, the “Day
Dawn:”—
BAT DAWN. PHCENIX.
Tons crushed 7036 ... 2J-18
Average per ton 2oz. 9 dwt. Bgr. ... 3oz. 16 dwt.
Dividends for iyear... £33,000 ... £19,500
Total Divs. since start £103,599 Bs, ... £71,000
On Charters Towers there are lots of other splendid
claims besides the Day Dawn —for example, the Kain-
bow, a mine which hsa crushed 6000 tons for a yield of
over 8000 ee. It has thousands of tons in sight, and
only requires a moderate capital for appliances to make
It as safe an investment as consols. The tributors in
the St. Patrick block made fully £lO9O a man out of last
crushing after paying the percentage. By the way, from
the first Day Dawn Brushing, in 1878, to 11th October,
1881, the date when the company was registered, 11,669
tons of quartz were treated, producing a return of
28,784 oz. 16 dwt. Sgr. gold.
The survivors of the Jeannette, fitted out by
James Gordon Bennett of the N. Y Herald, to find
the North Pole, when last heard of, were at the mouth
of the Lena Kivor In North-eastern Siberia. From
that spot to St Petersburg they must travel one of the
most terrible journeys on the earth, The route is
via Yakutsk, Irkutik, and Perm, a total distance of
more than 7500 miles, nearly all of which is over the
treeless plains of Arctic Asia : great desolate steppes
(called tundras), that in summer are almost impassable
wastes of saturated moss, and in the winter, trackless
deserts of snow, formed by polar gales into long, hard,
Anted waves. All the year round, the substratum to
the depth of several hundred feet is permanent and
Impenetrable ice, while en the surface, the grey Arctic
moss, growing out of its own decaying debris century
after century, forms a kneedeep spongey kog, for thou,
sands of miles. The landscape is inconceivably
desolate; above the horizon, all grey sky; below it,
all grey moss; nothing else; a dreary, weird expanse
of desert, with ne inhabitant save solitude and horror.
Even at noon, when the sea-like eternity of storm-
drifted snow is flushed by the lurid light of the low-
hanging sun, the mind is chilled ; but at night, when
even the horizon disappears, and the pale rays of the
aurora sweep to and fro in the north, lighting up the
white world with ghostly weirdness,—then the great
moss tundra, of the Siberian wild* is the meat awful
scene of desolation on which the human eye can gaze.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Nearly every run recently sold in Queensland
has been purchased by Melbourne or Sydney capitalists,
and if thirgs 001 tinoe the same, half of the Queensland
pastoral country will belong to abiemee proprietors.
Four Chicago inquisitors have started off to
Piria to hunt up P.'.t Egan, the Sybaritic treasurer of
the American-lrlsh Land League, for the purpose of
squaring ac iftunts with bim, or knocking spots out of
him.
Tom Bent boldly braves the Select Committee
enquiry into his railway management, and retires tem-
porarily from administering his department pending
the result of investigation. He has, however, applied
to be allowed counsel to watch the proceedings. What
for? Mr. J. Nimmo, M.P. for Emerald Hill, is the
chairman.
The landlord class in England and Ireland
seems to be the most impudent clique in the world.
After grinding the faces of the Irish poor until they
have brought about a revolt and can’t get their
ordinary plunder, they coolly turn round and demand
that half the deficiency be made good to them by the
English people.
N.Z, House of Representatives opened on Fri-
day last. The Vioo-Regal speech congratulated hon.
members on commercial prospects and public works
development. The volunteers were thanked for their
conduct in the Parihaka dispersion of natives. Te
Whiti and Tohu are not to bo tried, but a Bill will bo
brought in to restrain them from returning to tho
disturbed King district.
There is a witchery of language and a pathos in
the following beautiful extract from tho New York
Herald en the subject of England's doubts on the
wisdom of the channel Tunnel i—“ We have long seen
clearly enough that ear old grandmother's {England
is that relative) teeth were loos# in their sockets, her
eyes dim, and her arm feeble, and that she oonldn’t get
far without a crutch, yet we liked to see the old girl’s
mettle. We give her up now. We disown her.”
As regards granting Home Rule to Ireland, it is
said that thelilrish would make bad laws. This is
begging the question; but, granting it, how does that
affect England ? If Irishmen make bad laws for
tnemselves, that would bo their affair. English people
might fancy New South Wales laws to be utterly
bad, but the supposition wouldn't worry them much.
What inherent peculiarity is there in Ireland to make
such a difference as is alleged to exist between it and
the colonies P
This is how the great Liberal party of Victoria
used to confer patronage. Daring the eight months
before August last, when political appointments ceased,
24 teachers were placed in opposition to the recom-
mendations of the officers of the Department, Major
Smith appointing 20, Mr. Berry 3, and Mr. Grant 1.
Daring the Isame period, 160 teachers were appointed
without any reference to departmental officers ; of these
the gallant major appointed 154. This is the kind of
thing which enables scoundrels like Plomer —of whom
the Victorian (and the N S.W. service, too) has not a
few—to outrage children entrusted to their care.
The S.A. Legislative Council is getting popular.
For six vacant seats there are fourteen candidates
P. B. Coglin, Q. W. Cotton, T. English, W. D. Glyde,
H. A. Grainger, A. Harvey, A. Hay, M. H. Madge, A.
B. Murray, J. M. Miller, W. R. Ridgway, M. Salom,
W. Timms, and J. F. Wigley. Of these, only Alexander
Hay and Murray were in the last Council. Cotton,
Glyde, and Harvey are men well known In commercial
circles; English is an architect i Madge is a retired
baker turned alderman, who rules teafigbtn. and has
written a diary which he calls a book; Wigley is a
lawyer, and ex-Mayor of Glenelg; while the othora
have been more or lees prominent In outside political
movements.
In Victoria, the question of the Embassy
expenses has been dragged up again, and Professor
Pearson hag rnshed into print to explain. He denies
that the Embassy cost £5OOO. Mr. Berry certified on
the 3rd of March, 1880, that tho total sum expended
was £8561 10s., and ihat £lOO5 10s. of the balanos bad
been paid in to the Treasury, and £370 was “in
transitu" from England. ihe auditors general in
their reply say they nave verified a payment of £6lO
16s. 61., and will do the same in respect of the other
portions as soon as the accounts come to hand. This
was Professor Pearson's small share in the swag His
passage to England was paid, be drew £5) for outfit,
two guineas a day for personal expenses, and £lOO for
his passage back. It suited him to live apart from
Mr. Berry, on whom devolved the whole ordinary and
extraordinary charges of tho Embassy, except Pear-
son’s personal expenditure. Pearson alone was respon-
sible for the sums he drew
The Berlin National Zeitung howled over
, General Hkobelofl’s celebrated Paris speech to tho
Servian students, as contemptuous of tho Czar and his
sovereignty, and as explicitly stating that the Rus-
elan’s enemy is the German. Nevertheless, Skobeloff’s
•• roughness and boastfalness of barbarity ” seemed to
the Zeitcng “more ridiculous than terrible,” which
says : —“ This general, who has not proved that ho Is
capable of commanding an army corps, threatens tho
two first military powers in Europe—and that is pure
madness This chasm (that between
Skobeloff’s wish and his elocution thereof) will not
be bridged by big words, and those of the general do
not impose on us. We threaten no one in Europe,
but have still loss cause to fear any one, and we are
strong enough to cope with the most avi-ldisposed.
skobeloffs speeches give Europe the impression that
he is offering himself as a general to the Russian
revolution It (the Russian Government) is stamped
thereby either with duplicity or complete powerless-
ness.” This is talking back with a vengeance.
• • •
Over <£49,000 paid for land afc the Dubbo office
lost quarter. Only £2OOO was for genuine settlement;
tho remainder represents the extent of dummyism in
all its phases Squatters’ dummies will hold three
parts of the Tanko agricultural reserve Liberal
Mass meetings in Ballarat are generally held opposite
the Courier) office, and Bateman, the editor, looks out
over the crowd. After the Aoe, the Courier wields
more weight with the Liberal Protection party than
any other paper in Victoria, and the circulation stands
third in the colony Maurice Salom, Hebrew auo-
tionrer, of Adelaide, and the self-styled man of "no
prejudices,” stands for the S.A. Legislative Council.
So does David Murray, the popular head of tho firm of
D. and W. Murray, Adelaide. The latter is a man of
broad Conservative principles, and honest and un-
assuming tastes Re Brodlaugh’s difficulty, tuere are
members in the British House of Commons now who
have taken neither oath nor affirmation. When the
House met, in its first session, there were several tables
with a number of Testaments on them (there are over
600 members), and as many members as could, at once,
put their fingers on cne of them, while the Clerk ret d
the oath, and than they signed the roll. Some fingers
never really touched the books while the oath was pro-
nounoed. While other members, again, in ignorance,
actually signed before swearing, and thought the least
troublesome way out of the mistake was to keep silent
about it Fincham,one of the Ballarat M.’sL.A., who
has moved for a Select Committee on Bent's manage-
ment of the railways, made his Ballarat seat shaky by
assisting O'Loghlen to put out Berry. His present
efforts are believed to be an attempt to conciliate Boss
Smith, the wire puller of Ballarat, who openly brags
that he carries twelve electorates surrounding his
district...lt is rumoured that Mr. W. OHudgkinson will
relinquish hie appointment as goldfields warden with a
view of contesting the Cook electorate (Q.) in the Oppo-
sition interest. It this Is correct, Mr. riodgkinsou is
the very man to supply tho deficiency of forensic
ability and northern experience iu the Opposition ranks,
and both miners and settlers will rally round bim to a
man S.A. Government have agreed to subsidise the
Orient Co. to the tune of from £25,090 to £30,000 per
ainum to undertake the mail contract They say
Hicks, the Insurance swindler. Is about to run for »he
S.A. Legislative Council. Hs wonld make a master
politician Natal colonists, by their verdict at tho
recent Legislative Council election, have expressed
their aversion to autonomous Government Mr.
Forster addresses his constituents at Qundagtu in
the last week of June What is the difference between
the House of Commons and the House < f Lords ?
Answer: One; has ability, and the other nobility.”
Apropos to a discussion re the proposed abolition of
prayers at the opening of Parliament, it has been sug-
gested that the proper form of prayer for use by the
present British Ministry would be that for "those at
sea.”


Tobaoeoniete
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS T<
AMEKICAW TOBi
THE following facts are conn
resources, and, therefore, sh
SONS paid duty inl
All Che others pnhl duty in 1880 on
DIXBON AND SONS in 1
Alltbe others paid dnty in 1881 on
imported Husnufaetwed tetaooa p.\i
On lor the two years wos-0n1y...
DIXSON AM)
SON’S BEA
YANKEE DOODLE. CO
SIB BOOED, GOLD
OUT BUST. OEIBNTAI
Yankee Doodle end Conqueror are
genuine "TinTas," each plug
Bound Single Tin Tag, ate
<JUEROB " or ** Y AKKEB 1
ALL TOBACCONIST*' GOOI
NOTHING SUCCEEDS 111
AND the enormous success of t
has not escaped the usual r>ei
universal popularity has excited the
of speculators who trade upon1“0 c
of r borrowed name. My Tobacco
and counterfeited, and although I h
able means to guard the public agai
te punish fraud, both Foreign and
Mona bearing my brand, but lacking
the ever * nA well-knowi
have been imposed upon the puMie
AMERICAN WEmH Now. to
numerous Customer* in bote town 8
as the Smoking Public from all
arranged with the American Manu
my Tobacco bo branded r
ng the device thus s
P •'
without which none is genuine. 1
genuine Can't B Beat are teo well 1
comment. But in justleo to the
mvsolf,! urgently request- my oust or
selves that the arttele tb*y pnroh
that each plug bear the above devl
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B
Heartily thanking the public for t
and determined to deserve a ooniii
by keeping a first-class article at
priee.
MICK StM
Bole Wholesale Agent in the C
Can’t E Beat To
COEN EXCHANGE I
CORNER OF GEORGE and CAMI
HAYMAEKL’
NB—NO BRANCH E
READ THIS I REA
'Business Annianc
Australian “hoiv
SEWING MACHII
Unprincipled Dealers —to make
lings profit—ore offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
<ptgggESg|
'p.
&
THE HOME SHUTTLE Lt
Manufactured for us, has the abc
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHi
We solicits* formation of the ntt«
tcrfeits of tW above Machine, whi
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our gaunt
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
W£ HAVE MOW SOLD (
HAND MACHINE, COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLE
Do., WITH COVER COMP
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
M. MOSS~ANt
WYNYARD LANE, 8
AND
LL
CHES
FFE
NO
ENM
DRUNK
e
r»1 will toe paid
&IUU case tliat tlu
Chloride of Gold
" DRUNKENK
will not permanen
V It Is recoinmendei
lending I»tayslclan(
less cases invited
stamp for book a
monlals from pec
IfillOW.
——>-s—«§
LESLIE E. KEELI
S FRESH
Hotels, bo.
JOHN A. WIL
COOLALTA WINE C
119 PITT STREET
VINEYAED-COOLALTA, BE
SOUTH WALE
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality..,
No. 1 Coolalta Ked
No 2 „
Burgundy
Port ...
Yin Ordinaire
WHITE WINE!
Muscat ...
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2
Vlu Ordinaire
HONESTY IS THE BI
\m
OB.K£
ORN£
WD
It la of the utmost importance tl
bottle should bo carefully compare*
are being imported into Now Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beven
LOKNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands* when they will find
least 10 per cent. In favour of L(
W HISKY.
VIRGOEj SON, AND i
AGENTS.
THE PAINLESS COR]
Price 2-. Gd.
A Certain Relief, and in numberU
plete cute for corns.
9 Stanler-stroe
Mr. Clowes, —Sir, — I w«s favour
the offleo of the Sydney Bollstin, i
Painlesi Corn Reliever, which I
with the following remits i-Ai bd
it simple, painless, and »» far aa
speedily removed the soreness and
ablud mo to w.lk with perfect wa
been able to do for many yeara. A
that, If I had used another bottle, 1
a complete cure. Sir, I have mm
hesitation in s'ating the a'evo, whi
to nso as you think fit. Yours trnl
(Signed) Win,]
Prepared onlv bv John Clowes
Queensland. SoleiProprietor of *
Remedies.
CBOWES' UNFAILING RlNG-
completely eure the most obstinate
dant personal references. —Price, 2.
will guarantee a cure.
CLOWES' "RED GUM OINT
Healing Wounds.
CLOWES’ "COMPOUND LINI
and CAJUPUT," combined with
from the formula of the late Williai
&c. For Soie Throats, Biuises,
Rheumatism, and Pains in the Join
CLOWES’ "STYPTIC OOLL(
able for Stopping Bleeding and Pro
Small Wounds —Price 2s 6d.
ELLIOT BEOS. 4 0
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FR.
PIANOS.
Hotels, 3*o.
Q. U N S L E E'S
NORTH TERR
ADELAIDE.
BO BE E T BUT C I
(Late William Lo
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
634 GEORGE STRI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL
COTJHTST OBDDEB RECEIVE PRO
JULLON’S PEIZE AL
J, T. FALLON in asking pnhli
WINES, and to the awards gain*
intimate that he holds very large si
and the public may tely upon gettn
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot
01 PITT STREET, 81
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStiwiuiant
Tht Nun* of M. MO3S & CO.
erer y Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER'S JBuGLti Brand.
*
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANTS
VIRGOB, SON, AND
AGENTS.


The Referee.
SPORTING PIXTURBS.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries I
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general,]
bacing.
Adelaide E.C May 25,27.
Balranald •«"'oi 4 *-? 0, 3 i‘
Manning River J.C* May 3I # June 1.
Victorian Trotting- Club (Elsternwick) June 3.
Northern J. C. Meeting? Jane 6, 7.
Coonamble J C * June 7, 8.
Wnrrnanaboel Winter Steeplechase Meeting?... June 7, 9.
Brewarrina J.O June 8, 9.
Hay .....July 6, 7.
Bockhamptsn, ...July 6, 7.
Clarence R.J.0,. ..-July 12, 18.
V.B.C. Grand National .75..>. July 22.
AQUATICS.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs .....May 26, 27.
Bargain ▼. Pearce. £2OO aside, Thames June 17.
Hanlan y. Boss £2OO aside -...June 20.
Layoook v. Boyd, £2OO aside, Tees July 3.
PEDBSTBIANISM.
Hunters Hill A.A.C. Sports, Association
Ground t .... May 27.
Sydney Grammar School A.A. Club Sports..,,...May 27.
Stettler r. Ponno. at Burrows, £49 „ rt ... May.
Spring v. Byoe (2 yards), ISO yards, £59 at _
lithgow ~...,..,.n....'Vi...'...i.iJeae 1.
Wallaroo Football Club's Sports ...July 88.
FOOTBALL.
Glenhead y. University ....^„,, r May 27.
Olenhead v. Wa11ar00...... - B,
Carlton v. Hotham, Association Ground....„„..,Jnne 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Edwards and Clifford have arranged a six-days
contest for £lOO aside, to commence ea Srd July, at
Geelong (Vie).
Sixty-four all-aged dogs, at .£25 each, have been
nominated for the Waterloo Cup, to come |ofl at the
Tiotorla Coursing Club meeting.
Frank Hewitt, who was reported dead and who
actually was in the hospital, is backed to run Farrell
fifty yards on the Aseooiatioa Ground, on June 10th.
The Sportsman states that .£20,000 have been
refused for Bruce, the favourite for the Derby. It
would he interesting to learn who made this insane hid.
In consequence of the death of Mr. D. Lord, the
N. 8. Wales Rowing Association have postponed the
banquet in honour of the intercolonial crew till Satur-
day May 27.
The Hillsdale crew wore to hare left Phila-
delphia for England on May 20, and they will compete
in all open crew races for amateurs excepting at the
Henley regatta.
A six-days’ bicycling tournament, for the
championship ef Australia, is to be commenced at
Adelaide on June 4. The orizes range in value from £5
to £7O. Entries close on Jane 1.
At Adelaide, on Saturday, the Norwood Football
Club defeated the South 'Adelaide by oue goal and 11
bchinds to three behinds. The Tiotorians beat the
South Park Club at Adelaide Oval, scoring 8 goal* 4
behinds to one goal 11 behinds.
Messrs. Peapes and Shaw intend to present a
** Consolation" Cup to the losing olub in the present
and final contest for the Thomson Junior Club Trophy.
Lieat. Mnlholiand offers a second trophy, a hat, for the
highest score in the dual innings.
A Now Zealand M sport ” offers to back four men
In New Zealand to rew any four Australians in four,
oared out-riggers for £5OO a side. Let's see. Triokett,
liHyoook, Pearo© # and—Beach. Just bold oh to that bet,
Mr. Pakeha, and we’ll make it thousands.
On Thursday, Friday, and Saturday the Austra-
lian Eleven m.et the Surrey Eleven on the Kensington
Oval. On Monday, the great match against the
Cambridge University will be commenced, and It is to
be continued on Tuesday and Wednesday.
The English Football Association players have
organized a series of cup matches this season fora
handsome trophy. The clubs competing have formed
themselves ihto an association, of which Mr. J. W.
Fletcher is treasurer, and Mr. J• A. Todd, secretary.
The handball m*teh for £5O a side and the
championship of Australia took place on May 18, at the
Rising Sun bolloourt, between W. Langan and J.
Keenan, and resulted in an easy victory for Langan,
who won the Ist, 2nd, 4th, and 5 h game-*. It is
probable that another match will be arranged between
the same competitors.
The wet weather on Saturday prevented the
various sporting fixtures from eventuating. The
Hunter's Hill Amateur Athletic Sports were postponed,
and the Thomson Junior Cup players have a further
week’s suspense. The footballers were to have some
scratch matches, but next Saturday they will have to
put on their war-paint for some serious contests.
A handsome silver oup, valued at £25, has been
presented by Mr. John Hurley for competition for
the championship of the Mary Elver (QJ, in flat-hot-
tomed outrigger skiffs, distance two miles; to take
place on 24th June, and on the last Saturday of sue
oess 1 vo months. It has to be won twice by the same
eonller before it becomes absolutely his property.
It is thought Mr. Walters’ 3-year-old, Tatter-
don—Peeress oolt, dropped in Sydney, will not stand
another preparation. This Auckland sport has an
18 months' old colt by Musket out of Tattenna, nearly
15 bauds, powerfully built, and with a great set of legs.
He is noted on all sides to be a superior oolt to
Martini-Henry, for whom the Hon. J. White gave 12SJ
guinoae.
The Ballarat Hunt Olub have arranged an old
English steeplechase of five miles, oyer country sur.
funding the city. The Ballarat club is one which has
a history to be proud of. Borne of the finest, most
daringly-contested, and best-riddan steeplechases ever
“a took pl»oe on its course, and
by euoh grand horsemen as Messrs. Lindsay Gordon,
Mount, Power, and Brlstowe.
The Intercolonial Eight who brought the N.S.
Wales eolomrs to the front in the late Bight-oar race,
KeVltob'r recognized the serrieesofkb. Jm.ee
Oatley ae honorary coach by presenting to him a
handsome silver salvor with an »^ r
The Eight attribute a great deal of their success to the
untiring efforts of their coach, who spared ne pains and
care tobring the crew fit to the post. Altogether, the
combination was a happy one, and the reault squally so.
A little episode transpired at Graftonon Safcnr-
dav on the occasion of the race between Chaplin and
Ronthion it appears tbit a coin wm nsod in tosiinjf
which 1 hod two hells, or. as Box remarked to Cox, "it
hod no tail." The start was mulled, and Chaplin went
off with several yards’ advantage, and he won by five
yards Michael Kush, who was starter, declared it ne
start and a disturbance ensued, and it was arranged
factually that the race should be run again.
The Intercolonial Bowling Match took place on
Mav 17 on tho Cook Park Green, and resulted in » win
Victoria by 34 points, the scores being Victoria,
Twew South Wales. 101. In the evening a oomph-
-135; «ew oout eiven to the Victorian team. By
tWwaf/ enthuse much about bowling, which
enliwd Uy«. and
a ninety-seven-inoh waist.
The important aquatio event of the year for
ine impoi v for the Krng Champagne Cup,
on Friday and Saturday. The following
will take place on x « y Bennett, C. C. Metoolfe, D.
are the entries. Messrs. J• » • j. Arthur. C.
Middieton. E. £. F. Ives,
*Sr&tr The latter is the only representative
Sii'vfotori* and has been training en the river since
his arrival. The trophy, the design of which is unique,
has been on exhibition in Messrs. Thompson and Giles’
window during the past week, and is, as a work of art,
perhaps the handsomest prize which has as yet been
given in this city. The first heats of the contest will
be rowed on Friday. On Saturday the first and second
in the two previous heats will row oft, the course being
from Eyde to Gladesvllle.
There ia in Albury just now a man who is sadly
wanted in Sydney. His name is Conrad Ten Brink, and
he is local agent for the A.M.P. Society. Conrad used
to live at Smythesdale, Victoria, and while there had
annually for a series of years the biggest athletic meet*
ings yet seen in Australia, £5OO or more being given in
prizes on each occasion. We hear that he threatens to
revive his Isthmian carnival in the Federal City, and
shall be glad to find that he has succeeded in waking up
the border people athletically.
Roma (Q.) Races, May 17 and 18. Pastime won
the Hurdle Baoe; Three Star the Flying Handicap :
Garryowen the Prince of Wales Stakes, and Mirabeau
the Town Plate. On the second dsy the Steeplechase
was won by Toung Banana; Pastime, Flinders and
Banker fell; the latter, breaking his leg, had to be
shot. My Love and Mi*a Medora ran a dead heat for
the Maiden Plate, and My Love won in the run-off.
The Turf Club Handicap was won by Eclipse, though
Mirabeau was firet past the post, as the latter was dis-
qualified for jostling.
The Adelaide Race Club opened their Birthday
meeting on Saturday. Triplet won the Handicap
Hurdle Baoe; President, at the third last jump, fell
and broke his neck, giving Chifney, his rider, a severe
shaking. Storm Queen, after a good race, won the
Trial Handicap bv a short head. Darebln cantered
home a winner of the St. Leger Stakes, Dutchman
being his only opponent. Footstep won the Sires
Produce Stakes hv a short head. The Count won the
Totallsator Handicap, Storm Queen and Pollio running
into places, and the favourite, Lady Melissa, being no-
where.
Mr. J. Miller, who owns the trotting horse Con-
tractor, ia going to have a tilt at some of the late im*
portations to Victoria. A match hae been made be-
tween Contractor and Boooaoio, owned by Mr. Boberts.
They are to trot mil® heats, the beet three out of five,
and what will give an innocent interest to the event is
the fact that £9) mast be paid by the loser to on# of
the Melbourne charitable house*. Boccaccio beat Von
Moltke recently, and hi* beet time is recorded at 2 mine.
89* see*. Thie is a long way behind geed time in
America. Maud 8., the crack trotter, can always
break 2.13, and she has done it in 2.10.
The Hawkesbury Coursing Club bold it* first
meeting on May 15 and 16, on Mr. MoQuade’s estate at
Windsor. Hares were plentiful, and the course# were
got through very successfully. Many of the dogeeuflered
owing to the hardneee of the ground. The Hawkos-
bury Cup was won by Mr. F. M’Quade’s My Lord, with
Messrs. Lambs’ Wyadham as runner-up. Mr. A. L.
Park’s Palmflower worn the St. Leger, with Mr. J. Lee s
Lldd as runner-up. For the All Comers’ Stakes Mr. J.
Patterson's Snowfllght beat Mr, Lee’s Kettle, and won.
Mr W. R. Hall’s Handsome Girl won the Hawkeebury
Purse, with Mr. A. Towns’ Tangle as runner-up.
Tatteraall of Clithoroo (England) denied having
ever issued a challenge to run any man in the world
440yard* level. Bat, by latest English files, somebody,
name unknown, is prepared to mateh somebody else,
a native of Notte, also name unknown, to run Hub.
ebvaa 300 yard* level. The latter is as good a man at
300 yards os he is at a quarter, and he is better at a
quarter than he is at 130. Hutchens professes to do
(and does ) the 150 in 14 see., the 300 in 30. and the
quarter in 47. He recently ran 131 yards at the rate of
100 yards in 9* see., and can give to a man capable of
running 100 yard* in 10 see. a start of eight yards.
Christchurch (N.Z) Exhibition athletic sports ;
Three Mila Bicycle Handicap: Norris 1; time, 12mln.
4seo. One Mile Handicap: Hancock 1, O Connor,
champion, 2. Vaughan 3. Wrestling : Soott 1, throw-
ing O’Brien, The 100 yard* Handicap was won by
Hnlstene (scratch) in 10 I-sseo. Half mile race, from
scratch, caused great excitement. Scrimshaw beating
O’Connor in 2 min. 6soo. Two-mile walking race was
won by O’Counor, from scratch, after a magnificent
race. Some of the men had a long start, and the way he
overhauled one after the other evoked cheers from the
spectators. Pieree, the last man overtaken, wo# enly a
few yards from the winning-post when O’Conner sought
him.
Thus a correspondent“ In last issue of The
Bulletin I notice that you publish some facetious
remarks by Monte. Arnold, delivered at the Bngby
Union meeting, in reference to an " exhibition' match
at Maitland. I admit that the fan Is there, but he
allowed his imagination to get the better of his early
religions education. Monte is not a carmine perverter
of the truth, as ia another eminent footballer, and he
disarms an opponent and puts down rising resentment
by his quaint turn of humour It is a eunons
thing that, although the Bugbv Union may have eon-
sidered a veto of thanks to the Press out of place, they
had not the courtesy (shall I say the courage f) to pro-
pose the toast, formally, in order to give any football
soribes.who may have been present, an opportunity of
replying to the attaoks made upon them.
Mr. William Gardiner has offered eight cups in
all for competition, four to bo competed for by ware-
housemen and mercantile men, one for ladies in lawn-
tennis, and three for all amateurs. Of the latter, one
ia for four-oared races in outriggers, one for cricket
(the competition for which took place last season be-
tween olubs represented in the Association not taking
part in the Holdsworth-Gardyne challenge cup
matches), and the third is for football competition.
Concerning the latter, there is likely to be a hitch. The
Southern Rugby Union claim the trophy, so do the
NSW. Football Association, and doubtless the Lng-
lish Association will assert their right to bo considered.
The cups are of solid silver* and are valued at over
£4OO. Each oup has in bold relief figures of the games
for which it is presented, and is surmounted by a player
in costume.
We have the particulars of the Hanlan-Boyd
race to hand, and find that Boyd dashed away with a
start of half a length. Hanlan got level immediately
and the raoe was over. The Canadian went through his
usual pantomimic trioks, which seem to be so objec-
tionable to the English aquatic critics. Ha rowed hand
overhand, waved his handkerchief, and perhaps turned
a double somersault in his boat, and still kept ahead.
Doubtless, he played these same tricks with rrickett.
When England or Australia can get a man to go through
the same antics in front of Hanlan, perhaps we *ban t
see so much harm in them, but while the Kannok de-
feats our men in this Christmas clown fashion, it is an-
noying to us and shows bad taste in the champion. It is
said that nearly 100,000 people assembled on the banks of
the Tyne to witness the raoe. What a shame to annoy
so many people in that manner I
At the annual dinner of the South Melbourne
Cricket Club, Mr. Bndd, of the East Melbourne Club,
■aid, in replying to a toast, that the frequent visit* of
colonial teams to England were inlmieal to olnb enoket.
There is no doubt of that, but we are of opinion that
the fostering of olnb orioket ia not more important
then intercolonial or international contests. By send-
ing onr best eleven to England, we are merely paying a
debt of gratitude. The first English Eleven taught us
a deal of orioket, the second more, and with every
succeeding visiting team fresh "wrinkles were im-
ported into the Australian play. Now we ore giving
English cricket a fillip. Gregory e team taught
them something new in fielding and bowling, Murdoch ■
team showed them how to play an up-hill game; but
this present team seems bent upon a mission fer the
subversion of tbs supremacy of JCnglish cricket. Clnb
orioket certainly does suffer, but the game improve*.
The S.M. Herald of May 19, devoted a sub-
leader to a paean on the victory of the Australian
cricketers, and this is what is said about Jonee s Of
Jones there was, and perhaps advisedly, some doubt.
He has played well, but ogam he has had misfortunes,
and prior to the present toer had not perhaps that
unmistakable record of prowess which could justify
his being chosen among the eleven best of all Austra-
lia." Of course, this is simply ndioulous, Jones
being considered to rival Garrett as the best all-round
man of the team. For his olnb during the past season,
his batting average is something near 100 runs per
innings, and be scored over a century three times, one
being in the great Intercolonial Match, where he and
Murdoch stonewalled and pasted the Victorian bowling
tor a whole day. If this is not an “unmistakable
record of prowess ” we should like to know -bat more
The Herald want#. Jones would not have been put into
the team at the lost moment, but that the public, both
hero and in Victoria, declared that no team would be
thoroughly representative without him. The Herald
shouldn’t ever touch on Cricket —anyhow —In Its
editorial columns, which are much better and more
readable when devoted to dissertations on mothers
meetings, and two-column yarns about Hardshell bun-
feasts. Judged,by recent colonial performances, it was
Massie, and not Jones, who should have been left ont.
The second match of the Australian Eleven was
against the Sussex Eleven, and the colonials again
startled the Englishmen with a demonstration of their
prowess, Murdoch being this time the hero. Sussex
in the first innings scored 95— Greenfield, 23 j White-
field, 13; Humphreys. 13; Ellis, 10; Bettesworth, 10.
The Australians then went to the wickets, ana
before they were disposed of, reached the magnificent
score of <43 j Murdoch playing a not-ont innings for
286; Gillen coming next with 74; Bannerman, 60;
Horan, 51: Massie, 45 ; Palmer, 23 j Blaokham, 27 j
McDonnell, 11. The Sussex did better in the second
innings, scoring 215—Lucas, not out, 54 j (he was
bowled for 0 in the first innings); Bettesworth, oi;
Charlwood. 31; Ellis, 27; Humphreys, 15; Payne. 13
The Australians thus won in one innings by 333 runs,
Palmer and Garrett came otf in the first innings in the
bowling, the former taking three wickets in four overs
for 1 run.
Thus an English writer on the Boyd-Hanlan
race;—“ln my opinion, the Canadian never sculled more
beautifully than on Monday. That there is no man now
living who is capable of extending him over a four mile
course I firmly believe, but I am sure that Boyd could
and would haye made a far better fight of it, had he
not been trained on those idiotic old-fashioned
principles which pay no head to anything but reduc-
tion of weight. The way poor Boyd was sweated, and
physicked, and worked, to get him down to list. 21 b.
and keep him there was simply nonsensical. It tno
man had boon a stone heavier than he was I am con-
vinced he would have made a fat closer straggle with
hin invincible opponent. It was impossible for the
most casual observer nob to notice tno stale nno
attenuated look there was about Boyd's frame. He is
as finely-made and powerful a man as one could wish to
see; but though the muscle was there on Monday,
there was no spring and go left in the fibre and sinew,
A melancholy picture of an overtrained man.
Boyle is reported to have said that Massie was a
weak man in the team before they left for England.
Boyle was correct, if performances are to be the criterion.
Massie wao bowled first ball in one mateh h«e, and in
ethers he scored 1 and I. Then, again, he fielded badly,
miming not very difficult catches. Biill# Boyle is mot
the man to speak about weak points in the team. We
should like to ask oat cricketing readers a conundrum:
There are thlrtaen Australian players in England we
oast ont Beyle and Bonnor as the weakest players, and
we have left BAnsermaa, Mtssie, Murdoch, Jones,
Garre‘t, Spofforth, Horan, Palmer, Blaokham, Gillen,
and M'DanneL 1 . Supposing Allan and Evans had gone,
what two in the above formidable team would wo pnt
eat for them f Gillen, probably, for one, as auantried
man i but the other, who P Te inelnde Allan and Evans,
weshoald have to sacrifice a flrst-olass man; and there-
fore we look upon this team, even without those cham-
pion bowlers, as a perfectly representative team. it
All-England beat this team, we shall be quite satisfied
to admit England’s supremacy in orioket.
The Australian Eleven have opened their cam-
paignin England auspiciously,and Massie, as 11 to omm*
Sat the opinions of those who pronounced him ont or
form during his last matches here, eomes off with high
honours. The first match was against the Oxford Uni-
versity Eleven, which, though considered a fairly strong
eleven in England, wae weakened by the abeeaoe of
their captain. Mr. Evans, who it the fast bowler of the
team. The Australians went first to the wiokots and
scored 362. the performers being Massie 206, Garrett 41,
Jones 39, Gillen 19. Palmer 18. Bannerman 14, Bpefforth,
not ont, 14. Murdoch. M’Donnell, and, of course,
Boyle, got " duok-eggs.” The Oxford team made 189.
and, taring to follow up, scored 235 in their second
innings, the scorers being Shaw, not out, 78, and 9,
Robinson 28 and 0, Kemp 23 and 0, Walker 71 and 1,
Leslie IS and 59. Peate 0 and 28, Whitting 1 and 65.
Thornton 2 and IS, Hamilton 6 and 37, Harrison 7 and
25. The Australians requiring 61 runs to win, obtained
them with the loss of one wloket, Bannerman 6 i
Massie 45, and Murdoch 15, being the not out men.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Bicycle Club formed at the Glebe. Twenty-
four members. Sir George Allen, President .v. A.
Booth, the noted American bicyclist, has been grantee
the Melbourne Exhibition Building for an international
bicycle tournament, to take place on June
for the Northern Jockey Club Races : —Bnckenfield
Park Stakes, 24: Maitland Handicap, 20; Flying
Handicap, 16 ; Northern Jockey Club Handi-
CftPe 19: Epsom Handicap, 23; Grand Stand Handi-
cap, 21; Substitute Handicap, 21 'Hie smallness
of the entries and the hardness of the i ground
hare made the N.S.W. Coursing Club decide
to abandon the intercolonial meeting for the present.,...
The stewards of ths S.A.J.C. hare decided to pay the
stakes of the Goodwood Handicap to Mr. Finlay s
Result At the Auckland Park (8.A.1 coursing meet-
ing, Mr. Stanbury secured both prizes in ths Bn okland
Park Stakes with Flora and Turpin. Messrs. Blinman
and Pearce divided in the St. Leger with Bashful and
Prairie Bird... The late Mr. E. Holland’s Turrotfleld stud
was sold by auction at Adelaide on May 16. Yearlings
realized from 150 to 315 guineas, mares 240 guineas and
upwards. Zephyr brought 370 guineas, Tmfluder 560
guineas, and Englishman 260 guineas A porridge.
eating challenge to all comers comes from N.Z.
Man and money at Jones’ Wharf Hotel, Qreymouth......
The annual prize meeting under the auspices of the
N B.W. Rifle Association is to be held in the week end-
ing 14th October The annual football match between
the Prince Alfred and St. Peter’s Colleges, Adelaide,
teok place on May 17, resulting in favour of the former
by two goals and ten behlnds On May 18, a pigeon
shooting 8 match took place at the N.S.W. Gun Club
grounds. Botany, for a handsome gun trophy, pre-
sented by Mr. G. B. Modini. It was won by Mr. Steins,
Mr. F. Thomas obtaining second prize for the sweep...
Previous to the Two Thousand Guineas, it became known
that the Yankee favourite Gerald had taken to bolting.
His temper was never any of the best, and he has to
sport blinkers at his exercise. This fact materially in-
croiatd tho odds aflfaiiißt him, for both that raco and
the Derby On 19th April, at the Domain Cricket
Grennd, Auckland (N.Z ), O’Connor walked a mile in
6min. 455e0., the fastest tims on record in the colony
At South Canterbury (N.Z.) amateur athletic sports,
F. N. Robinson, of Christchurch, won both the Cham-
pion Cup and Challenge Cup Mr, Lee, of N.Z., has
been offered £6OO for Emir Bey, the Tubal-Cain—Acs of
Hearts oolt. He promises to be & hot ’nn In the
course of a letter to the N.Z. Sporting Scribe, “Sir
Lancelot," Mr. F. Dakin, the trainer of Darebm, says :
—At and up to a mile and a half, Darebin can give
71bs to any horse of his year; after that he deterior-
ates rapidly, and the fact is he has grown into snoh a
huge boast that he will require a year or two
more before he can stay.” Mr.. 0 - Dodges
Lily won the All-aged Stakes of the Camara
(N Z) Coursing Club A salmon trent, 18
inches leng and 8 inches in girth, has been caught in
the Sturt river, near Adelaide, 8. A A number of the
N Z bett'ng ring, as is their custom iu winter, are
striking lent for Australia The N.Z. “ clever party,"
Hon W. Robinson and H. P. Lane, intend nominating
some of their horses for the Melbourne Cup. Mr. Q. G.
Stead will also enter Betrayer, by Tradaoer—ldalm.....
Two football clubs have been started in Rockhampton.
. Reform, the winner of the last Steeplechase at
Caulfield, was formerly a confirmed baulker, but teems
te have msnded his manners since ha has bsen under
Corrigan’s tuition, as in his hands he went straight as
an arrow and fenced beautifully. He is trained by T.
Wilson, at Dowling Forest A kangaroo battue com-
menoed at Weetalibnh, near Cooval, on the 9th instant.
On the first day 432 marsupials were yarded ; on the
second, the 10th, 630 ; and on the 11th, 810 more,
making a total of 1672 in the three days.
This Is real sport, and purely Australian
A salmon trout, 18 inches long, and 8 inches in girth,
was taken in the Sturt River (S.A.) on Friday 1a5t......
Mr John Mayo, who is said to contemplate retiring
from the turf, has sold The Gun to Mr. Benjamin Hart
for £4OO The handicap at the Row (Vic.) races on
Saturday was won by Westbnry Foxes are on the
warpath at Hamilton (Vie.), and the neighbouring
gentry are organising a pack of hounds. The Victorian
foxes are a cute lot, and are not too proud
to take shelter in wombat or rabbit holes.
Mr. A. K. Finlay, one of the proprietors of the Glenor-
miston estate, is going on a continents! trip, and will,
no doubt, speculate in some horse-flesh ih England
From Forbes comes a rather good yarn of horse paint-
ing. A local bonifaoc who prides himself on being a
good judge of a horse, resolved to treat himself to a
couple that were offered at auction a few days since.
The nags were a beaatifully-matehed carriage pair,
blacks, with one white leg each. The proud and happy
purchaser had a turn out of them, and when washing
thdr legs after his drive found that one of them had
three white legs. He washed the black legs white and
the white legs black Sheppard intimates his willing-
ness to pull Solomon for £5O aside in skiffs at Raymond
Terraco,
• « •
In ths match against time, for which Mr. W.
Hoyle, of Manchester, backed his mare Black Bess to
trot 2J miles in one hour, which came off ■ over the
Abbey Hay Park, Manchester, on the 27fch February,
the mare won in 59 min. 40 sec A twenty-mile race
held in connection with the Surrey Bicycle Club took
place at Surbiton, Eng., on February 13. W, Bowdon
(6 min. start) was the winner, in 1 hr. 17 min.; G. B.
Orr (4 mia. start) second At the last annual Saudown
Bacas, one of the most aristocratic gatherings in Eng-
land, all the waiting at luncheon was performed by
pretty waitresses in Watteau costumes. They did not
understand much about the different brands of cham-
pagne; but then they had such lovely silk stockings
that they were forgiven all blunders The Isthmian
Club is the newest English club enterprise. It is to
have a tent and a boat-house at Henley, and is specially
intended for gentlemen interested in rowing and other
sports George Hazael, in addition to tho money and
whip which became his proparty when he finished first
in the six days’ race at New York, won a handsome
easy-ohair, ond a pair of shoes which were decidedly
more ornamental than useful.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Flat Falsehood—Lying on yeur back.
When a pretty Irish girl is stolen, they always
suspect soma boy cotter.
When an undertaker asks for his daily bread,
ha wants somebody to die.
The man who makes us laugh and doesn’t make
ns think, is cousin to the monkey.
“ Even a king can be a nuisance.” Yes, indeed.
Many's the time we've wished a king were an aee.
“Blood and thunder!” roared an Irishman, as
he smacked his nose in a storm, and found the mosquito
gone.
Old gentleman: “ How old are you, my little
bovP" Little Boy (indignantly) : “I ain’t old—l’m
quits new."
Grog-blossomed Bacchanalian Uncle: “ I was
stung on the nose by a bse." Jocular nephew : 11 Yes,
Ssda-and-B."
Hogan, the " converted” pugilist, is spoken of
as the ex-pounder of the prize-ring and the expounder
of the Gospel.
“0, Pat!” “What, sorP” “ Did yon ever see
a Winter like this P" “ Yis, sor." •’ When ?" *• Last
Summer, sor."
An eminent historian traces cricket to the time
when Bebecea went down to the well with a full pitcher
and Isaac caught her.
“ Take back the heart that thou gavest.” Ha
was a batcher, and she, Bridget, wanted liver. They
now meet as strangers.
The expression, “ kick the buokst,” is merely a
slight alteration of an old saying. When a man died
he was said to "turn a little pall."
Before the Venus of Milo.—Little Boy: “ What
did they out her arms off for f" Mother : " Because
she put her fingers in the sugar-bowl."
Great truths are often said in the fewest words.
For instance, when the Darling Point curate sat down
on the soldier-ant, he remarked: “ Hell 1"
Artificial flowers are coming into vogue for
funerals. The fashion was set by a widow, who has
made the same wreath do for three husbands.
A beautiful example of the force of habit is to
see a teetotaller fill a enp at a drinking-fountain, and
dreamily blow the froth off the innocent water before
drinking.
It is pleasant to remember that not an hour
passes in the increasing march of time that there is
not a half-dressed man somewhere on the face of the
earth calling for a shirt.
It is the suffering soul that breathes the sweetest
melodies, said a German-bandsman as he put another
piece of raw beef to hia left eye and took down his
trumpet (or a fresh blast.
Putting it Mildly.-—Jones (pouring out his sor-
rows to his bachelor friend). —"The fact is, Mrs. J. is
a very strong-minded woman; in short, I may say, she
wears the * divided skirt.’ "
A mother advised her daughter, who was going
to a party, to oil her hair, and fainted away wbsu that
candid damsel replied: "Oh, no, ma; it is so apt to
spoil thelgentlemen's vests."
What makes a man’s heart glad is to wake up
on Sunday (morning and find a drizzling rain falling,
Just enough to prevent his wife from going to church
and to make the fishing good.
“ Let us play we are married,” said little Edith,
" and I will bring my dolly and say, * See baby, papa I’"
" Yes 1" replied Johnny, “ and I will say, * Don’t bother
me now. I want to loos,through the paper.’ "
French professor (to young miss, angry at in
attention): " Another minute, moes, and 1 shall go
■peak to your mamma." Pupil: "Well, take care pa
don’t catch yon at it, that’s all. He’s awfully jealous."
“ Never leave what you undertake until you oan
reach your arms around it and clinch yoar hands on the
other side," says a recently published book for young
men. Most excellent advice; but what if she screams I*
A new-ohum asked a Palmer Elver landlord if
they ever had any case* of sunstroke in Maytown.
"No, ■ir," said the landlord; “If a man gets drank
here he says he is drank, and never calls it by any other
name."
iEsthetio wife (sobbing): “ Dearest, I’ll see
that your grave is kept green—but not one of those
horrid bright greens. A nice olive grey green, with an
old bronze tombstone, will look too awfully lovely for
anything."
“ Why do good little children go to heaven when
they dieP" askei the Sunday-school teacher, “Be-
cause," answered the bright boy at the head of the
class, "it’s unsafe to trust children in a place where
there’s a fire."
Jones and Brown were having a wordy warfare.
Brown said: "A fellow who talks like that must be
next to a foel." "Of course he is," retorted Jones,
" and must therefore talk down to the fool’s level in
order to be understood."
Corsets are now made with clock-work attach-
ments, which, when wound up, are warranted to gently
squeeze the wearers from one to two hours. This is to
enable the girl without a beau to enjoy one of the sen-
sations of being courted.
The friends of a wit expressed some surprise
that with his age and fondness (or the bottle, he should
have thought it worth while to marry. “ A wife was
necessary, ’’ he said, •• They began to say of me that I
drank too much (or a single man."
Lord Elienborough onoe said to a barrister,
upon kis asking in the midst of a boring harangue: "Is
it the pleasure of the court that I should proceed with
my statement ?" " Pleasure, Mr. , has been ont of
the question for sometime, but you may proceed.”
Teacher having been asked by the new Vicar to
inquire of the children if they had all been christened,
dess so with the following result: Teacher; "And how
do you know, my dear, that you have been christened ?"
Scholar: "Please, mum, 'cos I got the marks en me
arm now, mum.”
Some time ago a very innocent young lady paid
a visit to a lady friend who a few days before had pre-
sented her good man with a son. She hud, of course,
to see baby. After looking hard at the little stranger
for some time, she remarked: •• Dear me, Maggie, how
sunburnt it is I’*


RILEY BROTH!
386 GEORGE STREET,'
600 GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STREET,
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
newcas:
r *7
r.f
r. 3
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET,
THE CHEAPEST D
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COL(
THE OEIGINATOBS
NOTED £& BA]
£B Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blanket#
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
6 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men's Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
16 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2i yards Gombroon for
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
2 large size Bedroom
Towsls
8 yards strong Oanaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Corer
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women s,
or Child's Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
I doz. Pocket’kerehlefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. *«.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Blurts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Streng Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &e.
JES Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies' Camisoles
2 Ladies* Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
8 Night-gowns
3 Pettieoats
The above are mode of
good longoloth and nieely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
RILEY B
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Nightgowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Pud Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
Or Steamer
Mot!
2 Ladii
2 Ladii
2 pair'
1 Ladii
1 pair;
1 Ladii
2 pairs
1 Ladii
4 Infar
2 Infar
2 Infar
1 Infar
Me
2 Infai
1 Infai
i doze
Sq
Puff bo
1 Plan:
2 Bibs
1 pair
1 Infai
1 Inf
Sq’
?m
a(
Ho
£5
I pair
1 larg
10 yarc
20 yarc
12 Strc
20 Wit
10 gooi
6 yarc
All
wearin
£6]
1 pail
1 whi
6 yarc
10 whi
Ca
6 whi
13 yari
12 yari
4 pair
1 paii
1 Dai
6 strc
6 Bro
4 larg
Th
£« 1
25 yds
3 yari
1 doz
1 Bla,
1 Lad
1 Trii
1 paii
Ca
r'ot
£2 1
•i
1 Ham
Lon|
rich
1 Infai
Sqm
silk
1 Infai
Silk
Cai
£2 Stookman’i £2
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Troi sets 2 Nigl
1 Crimean Shirt 3 Chei
i r* x. O Poi'k
SOCIAL.
At Lady Loftns’s last reception, a great variety
Of toilets was visible, from Japanese silks and light
sateens to velvet and warm plush. Some were very
handsome, notably a grenat velvet, with tabher and
onfifs of rich brocaded velvet on a foundation of gold
satin, velvet bonnet j while, as a light dress, there was
a pretty bine watered sateen, trimmed with cream lace.
A young lady wore a costume of cream cashmere and
deep sultan plush, over a plain skirt of plush j collar and
cuffs of plush, also hat, with long cream feathers.
There were two cream Chinese brocades with velvet,
tight-fitting, and underskirts of crimson velvet.
Maroon, myrtle-green, seal-brown, dark blue and black,
were popular j terracotta and deep red were seen in
some instances.
'« * *
An “At Home” was given at Toxteth Park by
Lady Allen, on Thursday evening, the 18th inst., about
120 guests being present. The amusement of the
evening consisted principally of music, singing, &c,
varied by a young lady’s violin performance. Miss
Mabel Allen was very successful in her artistic render-
ing of classic music, accompanied by Herr Kretchmann
on the violin. Dr. Ellis, who was in good voice, sang
“ I arise from dreams of thee.” The verandahs were
closed in by flags, and made cosy retreats for promen-
ading couples during the intervals. On approaching
Toxteth Park the scene was exceedingly pretty, the
spacious gardens being lit up with Chinese lanterns,
which cast their soft light over the walks; whilst the
house, with its pillared halls, enlivened by the multitude
of handsome costumes, made it most picturesque.
Guests departed about 12.
• • •
The Herald Club. Sydney, remarks a Mel-
bourne paper, has immortalised itself. It lias within a
fortnight entertained Archibald Forbes and the
•• drummer ” of the Waltham Watch Company.
• * *
Last night the Tamworth Athletic Club had a
ball. It one might judge by the grand gatherings at.
the Association Ground, a ball under the auspices of
the Sydney A A. Club could not be anything but a vast
success. Why should not the feet that speed or saunter
over the grassy sward also tread their rhythmic mea-
sures on tho polished floor P Beauty would not bo loth
to go.
• • •
On Saturday week, an afternoon danee was held
on the Nelson previous to her departure. The party
was large, and dancing was continued till sunset, when
the ship's boats carried youth and beauty back to shore,
and all was Over but sighing.
* • •
There was a very pleasant Bachelors’ assembly
on Friday night, 19th instant, at Needs' rooms, when
some thirty couples carried out a programme of fifteen
dances. Dresses were not pretentions, but pretty;
and there were no wall-flowers. Tho guests were all of
that interesting age in which the antagonistic sexes
specially admire one another; hence, joy. Between 11
and 12 the party broke up.
• • •
Tho “ upper ten ” ladies of Maryborough (Q )
a short while since attempted to “do the grand ’* by
setting aside a certain day in the week for being "at
home,” and had it put on their visiting cards thus: —
"Mrs. Saccharine Kanakam—at home on Fridays." It
answered very well for one week, after which the ladies
found, visitors arrived in the proportion of one friend
to eleven creditors.
• • *
Last Wednesday week, Mr. and Mrs. T. C. Robin-
son entertained a party of ladies and gentlemen at a
private excursion down tho harbour. The guests ast om.
bled at Weolloomooloo Bay, where the steam-yaoht
Emily May was in readiness to convey them to the
appointed rendezvous. After steaming round, the yacht
went to Mosman's Bay, where the party disembarked
and partook of luncheon. Dancing followed, and about
six o’clock all went home, well p.eased with tho hospi-
tality of the host and hostess.
• • •
Tho Mercantile Rowing Club announces its
annual ball —plain and fancy drees —for July 6, in the
Exhibition Building in Prince Alfred Pork. As it is
under the patronage of the Mayor and merchants of
Sydney, and as an energetic committee and secretary
ore working it up, the ball promises to be a decided
success.
• • *
The North Shore Rowing Club, following in the
wake of the North Shore Anglicans, wants to give the
•‘Moabitish Women" another chance to masquerade
their beauteous forms. The Club intends holding a
plain and fancy dress ball in tho Sydney Town Hall on
Wednesday, Juno 7. An Influential committee has been
secured, and the ball should draw like a linseed poul-
tice. His Excellency Lord Loftus is patron of the
affair. Tho Secretary says he won’t have anyone
there. This is ambiguous, but you see what we
mean: put any in italics.
* # *
At the concert in Petersham Town Hall last
week, Mr. Hnenerbein did not turn up; but Charles has
a wife now, you know. However, some members of the
Bimonsen troupe played 'collo and violin solos. “ Child-
ren’s Voices." by Miss Marie St. Clair, was a gem.
Mias Clara Whomes, 8.A.M., was the pianiste.
# • •
A party of seventy, at the invitation of Messrs.
O. Carroll, Piper, Bimey, and other gentlemen, had a
capital night's enjoyment in Glammis Hall on the 23rd.
The music, supplied chiefly by a young gentleman,
assisted by two ladies, was unusually good, and as the
floor had been carefully prepared, and refreshments
provided, the guests were not inclined to separate till
far in the morning. An exceedingly handsome Hebrew
lady in pinky salmon satin, and a lovely American lady
in all white, were belles in every way. A pair of blue
satin dresses, with silver bullion fringe, as well as
several ether light blues, were pretty. One qf the best
costumes was of two shades of pink satin, with floral
designs in coloured silk exquisitely worked upon it.
A black velvet, with large white necklet of lllies-ef-the-
valley, showed well. Peeping over a bine satin with
black stripes was a face ef fairy beauty, and the fine
fig ure of its owner’s sister was tastefully attired in a
white sleeveless satin, with black sash beautifully
(trowelled. The health of the promoters of the party
was proposed and responded to, and the ladies repre-
sentative, as usual, was more willing to speak for them
than eloquent in doing it.
• w *
Glebe Rowing Club Ball takes place in the
vestibule of Sydney Town Hall on Ist June. Com-
pagnoni eaters.
• * *
A floral concert by the Bourke-street choir was
given to a crowded audience in the Congregational
Church, last week. The solos for the different flowers
were rendered by the singers who took part on a similar
previous occasion. The young ladies were all taste-
fully dressed, and the platform was artistically deco-
rated with evergreens. It was generally thought that
the distinction of belle lay between a young lady from
Orown-street, nicely dressed as the Snowdrop, whose
nolo “ Welcome, gentle Spring-time," sung in a pure
ioprano, was tho success of the evening; her sister,
vho again appeared as the Forget-me-not; and a
i’oung lady from Eiley-street, as the Primrose, who, in
■ dditlon to censiderable personal attractions, wore a
iress exactly matching the flower. A tall, handsome
ady, as the Croons, also gained many admirers. In
r,he floral solos, tho Bose was again first in excellence,
vith tho Heliotrope land Cowslip next; and all the
Rhers, having lost the nervousness of theirflrst np-
, oaranco, sang better than on the former occasion. The
uocompanist and chorus were efficient; while to the nn-
wearied efforts of the gentleman from Oxford-street,
vho acted as eondnetor, and to his lady, who took the
eort of the Flower Queen— debarring herself from the
nost telling part of the music to render the reoita-
ives In tho Cantata—may bo principally attributed the
.access of the concert.
• * •
MademoisellelCharbonnet, the popular pianist*,
was the recipient last week of a handsome pair of
iamoud earrings, a token of esteem and admiration
uom Mr, and Mrs. Montague Levy.
Events of more or less importance t—Only a
short day, but a long joy on the 21st June. Two
daughters of a Government contractor at Newcastle
are to diffuse themselves among a Sydney Survey omoa
gentleman and an overseer of the Newcastle fortifica-
tions.... The remaining daughter of the wealthy tannery
proprietor of far Bourke-street was married to the Bon
of a well-known Wesleyan minister on the 4th. A
grand party is to commemorate the event in Needs
rooms on 2nd June...A newly-formed “ gang,' desig-
nated Sunflowers, talk of a ball shortly 3rd June,
the managing member of a shipping Arm, enters into
bondage, for weal or woo ■, lady from Five p0ck......
Petersham loses a daughter and gains a wife to-day
(Thursday). All Saints' the scene of sacrifice. Throe
bridesmaids for luck Paterson lady goes to a Darling
Point home same day.
• * •
Mr. W. G. Murray’s large picnic excursion on
Monday afternoon was a grand affair, more especially
as he had thoughtfully included ladies. When the aun
smilss, and the daughters too, the mixture ought surely
to melt anyone. Broad Scottish accents were borne on
the breeze as the Indignant steamed away down to Iron
Cove; rippling laughter as she skimmed, thirteen knots
an hour, up to Lane Cove; and all was merry as a peal
of bells as she headed again for Darling Harbour. The
Victorian bowlers must have greatly enjoyed the trip.
Drinks and speeches were indulged in at Mossman’s
Bay, and then the party returned home.
* * •
To-night (Thursday) the quarterly sociable of
the Sydney Gymnasium takes place. It is oomplimen-
tary, and the German Band attends.
* • •
The first ball of the Woollahra Private Assembly
eventuated at Nithsdalo on Tuesday last, and was en-
joyably successful, though the next one will. It is ex-
peoted, be more largely attended, as other engagements
Sreventod some guests being present at the inaugural
anoe. Where all were so charming, no one but a
Forbes would dare to designate a belle; wo could if we
would, but eur discretion says, better not. The damo-
ing was fair, showing a tendency to valsify everything.
Refreshments were well supplied by the City Catering
Company; music emanated from a capable string band ;
and the dances were commenced promptly, not too
protracted, and all was finished by the reasonable hour
of one a.m. Very few ladies were wall-flowers: Weol-
lahra girls never are. A special tram conveyed visitors
to Eastern Suburbs. General flare-up at the finish with
« Qod save the ’* No, hang it, we don't mean that
stupid thing, it’s out: but with that sublimely swipy
balderdash, “ Hands all round 1"
« • «
Next Tuesday, the Shakespeare Dramatic Club,
assisted by Miss B. Clifton and Miss Clara Wilson, will
perform “Our Boys** in the Oddfellows* Hull, Manly,
for the benefit of the local Rowing and Sailing Club.
Late steamer back to Sydney.
• * •
The installation ball in connection with the St.
George Masonic Lodge, HC., No. 19t3 was held in the
local School of Arts, on Friday evening last, and was a
brilliant success. The room was tastefully decorated
with banting and floral devices, a choice assortment of
pictures graced the walls at intervals, the spaces being
filled with greenery; the whole looking very pretty.
About 120 visitors attended! not very many from
Sydney. Hodge’s string band supplied music, which
did not elicit excessive admiration. Costumes choice;
cream silk and satin seemed to be in high favor. A
lady recently married looked charming in a sweet pretty
dress of white satin and pearls, with cape to match. A
young lady hailing from Blacktown in cream satin and
cardinal was much admired, as was also a blonde
attired in cream cashmere. A married lady In blue
satin trimmed with silver, attracted much attention.
A brunette dressed with charming simplicity In white
torlotan and satin was mueh|sought after, and had no
reason to complain of lack of partners. A black velvet
dress looked exceedingly handsome, worn by a Sydney
married lady. Another costume that was particularly
striking was worn by a lady hailing from Melbourne ;
it consisted of rich cream satin and ruby. A recent
bride, whose dancing was the theme of admiration,
looked remarkably well in white tarletan and satin;
whilst a petite brunette from the metropolis was
bewitching in cream mnslih and bine satin. A young
Parramatta lady wore blue llama with satin bodice
which was very becoming, The trains of the fair ones
in some instances were very long, so were some of the
gentlemen’s feet, and these circumstances combined
caused a few falls, but only in one instance were any
ill-effects felt, and in that not for long. The Sydney
Catering Company supplied a recherchl supper. Break
up about four o’clock.
• m m
The chief families of Marriokville have an average
of four daughters each. There are two eligible men in
the district, of whom one talks of leaving. If he does,
the other will be placed in a glass case. This will
prevent the girls gadding about.
* * #
Upwards of a hundred guests, fully one-half
of whom were ladies, accepted Mr. John Young’s invi-
ation to Kentville, Annandale, on Friday afternoon,
and though the time of year is rather chilly, the extra
fine weather, and the knowledge that a dance would be
hold in the evening, induced many ladies to don light
toilettes —consequently the display in this line was very
showy. A Victorian lady, wearing black and cardinal,
with plush bonnet to correspond, was especially admired.
A Newtown lassie, in blue and cream j a Balmain
matron, in brown velvet and satin bronze beaded
bonnet, and a study in brown and old gold, with sweet
violet eyes silken fringed, were admirable. While the
gentlemen exerted their skill at bowls, quoits, and
athletic exercises generally, their fair friends promen-
aded the grounds, exclaiming “how pretty,’’“charm,
tug,” &c , at every other step. Following the example
set by the Mayor of Sydney, Mr. Young allowed hi* lady
guests to be present at the banquet, and though some
elderly gentlemen hold very decided objections to this
course, it was not apparent that the general hilarity
suffered in any way from the innovation ; oA tho con-
trary, an extra charm seemed to be thrown over the
party. Allowing a reasonable time for rest, the next
move was made to tho dancing room, where the younger
members, and some who could no longer be called so,
capered, twisted, and turned bo their infinite satisfac-
tion and tho strains of music. Cards, billiards, and
the merits of the respective colonies engaged the
elders’ attention.
« * •
About 500 attended the complimentary ball
recently given to Dr. Baaney, in Melbourne. Mr. M. Moss
proposed the health of the Dr. who suitably responded.
Hoelsken provided supper, and Butch supplied music.
Tho band adopted the sensible course of playing extra
waltzes and galops during supper, so that some guests
could refresh while others danced, without breaking
engagements. Evening dress oaly was worn, and all
varieties of colour were represented.
* • #
The friends of Mr. William Cook gave him a
Garden Party on the 17th May. It seems that William is
an industrious son of toil who has made so much
money in building that, like Parkas, he feels obliged to
go heme. No doubt he’ll get a reooption that will
make ’Enery feel like a peanut beside a pie-melon.
The garden party consisted mostly of oysters, dancing,
and an 8 o’clock dinner. About 200 of William's
admirers spent the evening alternately mixing in the
maxy whirl, and weeping over bis unfortunate depar-
ture. The Sir Joseph Smith pavilion—which t* the
biggest place in the warld, except the School of Arts
at Parrasratta— was decorated with flags and enormous
quantities of Frank’s own flowers j and when the gas
was lit and the door shut, and the garden party sa
down to dinner and speeches, they were so happy that
they’d listen and clap, no natter what anyone said.
Mr. Evan Jones, as chairman, had little to say, and
said it pithily ; bat it was a cose of Jones first and the
reet nowhere. It appears that our Governor is the
best we have had for a long time, (yes ; since Herky
went), and that, though he hasn’t dose much yet, it is
calsulated he will be found voxy effective if anything
ever wants to be done. This is consoling; but im-
probable. When Mr. William Cook monnted his chair
to return thanks, it was at once seen that, though
gojd-looking, he oouldn’t orato. He’s better at build-
ing houses than sentences ; in fact, he’s the man who
built Ultimo. A small individual toasted the ladies
very well; and as the band tolled out “ Dear Little
Butteronp,’’ the audience reluctantly left the tables.
It is fair to say that Sir Frank Banks spread a banquet
of the A-one-est kind, and the waiters were jewels in
their line; attentive, but not fussy. Most of the
company were dressed like human beings, but the got-
up of one swarthy swell, with anointed curls, kid gloves
and gold eyeglasses, who “ wore a penny flower in his
•oat, lah-di-dah 1" was so elaborate, that he was mis*
taken for an archangel, and he is merely an’,agent,
home of the garden party returned by bus, some by.tne
Juggernaut.
** * *
We forgot to say last week that the Annual
Kaco Ball at Cunningham Plains was a brilliant success,
some of the Nelson's officers being present, and causing
a flutter among the Yass girls. A well known Yass
gentleman, a direct descendant of Rufus the Bed, was
abseni, oonseqntnt on an accident The marriage of
the Earl of Motmtcharles with the Hon. Francis
Elizabeth de Moleyns was eelebrated at All Saints
Church, Eutlnnd Gate, in the last week of March.
The bride looked charming in her wedding-gown of the
orthodox white satin, and her eight bridesmaids in
dfeSseS and hats of white surah, relieved by brown
marabout trimming, clusters and bouquets of daffodils,
brbnie shoes, and brown stockings, made a harmonious
picture. They wore the fashionable tan-oolourod
inousquetaire gloves The return ball to the Mayor
and Mayoress of Christchurch, N.Z., at the Exhibition
Building, was attended by about 850 couple, among
whom were Sir Arthur, Lady Gordon, and suite ..In
the Langham Hotel, London, there is this notice: In
case of the death of a visitor, the hotel charge, in
addition to that for damage to linen, &0., is £s.’ In
Sydney it’s £5 a week to be put to death slowly.
Only the hurdy-gurdy man’s bill and fleas are a first
charge on the estate Bachelors of Maryborough (Q )
had a ball in the Town Hall lately, 200 dancers present.
There’s an intention in Maryborough to inaugurate
an Old English fair, funds to go to a Girls’ Grammar
School The crew of the Egmont (s.s.) gave their
friends a ball in the Hibernian Hall, Rockhampton,
last week : all went well Skating opened at Armidale.
Skating starts at Glamis Hall, Paddington, next
Thursday. Wednesday-night Emk opened at Newtown
at the beginning of Mav......At a ladies' meeting in con-
nection with tka Ho.pital Ball in a country town, a, lady
proposed a resolution that double tiskets should be ais.
and single ones 4s Od. It was pointed out to her that
people would be mean enough to buy two single ones
rather than one double. She hadn’t thought of that 1......
There was an Old English Fair at Dunedin this month.
Bishop Neville opened it with a poetic effusion. Many
*>-uiA Soots" are scandalised Invitations were
issued for a grand state banquet last night, by the
Marquis of Normanby, at Melbourne......On Tuesday
week. Mr. Edward Dee was banqueted at Oompag-
noni’s by the N.B.W. Coursing Olnbt England......! 1 . J.
Thomas was farewelled before starting on a similar trip.
He has been Hon. Treasurer at the School of Arts for
a long tine, and is a sound man Acorn Lodge of
Druids, Parramatta, held Its anniversary picnic to
Fern Bay on 17th. 400 persons, Cumberland Band,
J. T. Green caterer..** Annual demonstration of the
Adelaide Gymnasium took place on the 10th May ; 40
members performed. All 5urvived.......... A Maitland
correspondent of a veracious evening contemporary
states that at a fashionable marriage in Bt. Mary’s
Church there (Mr. W. Brenghton of Newcastle and
Miss Amy Qorriok) the spectators numbered 8001
That’s good for a Maitland Chnreh... Mr, Donald
Maaaaon, representative of the Waltham Watch Com-
pany, was entertained at the Athenmam Clnb last week.
United States, per ’Frisco boat Mr. B. Lee suffered
similarly at the Reform Club, same night, Acting-
Premier in the chair, Headquarters Band. He also
went by the City of New York Osborne Cricket
Club annual corroboree last Saturday at Correy’s,
Botany. Dancing, and about twelve speeches. The
Osbornes used to go down the harbour; but they're
moral sow.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Governor's Levcio May 25.
Gymnastic Sociable, 6tk quarterly May 25.
Sydney Private Assembly.. May 2b
Eaoe for Krug Champagne Cap May 2t>
ana *7.
Sydney Grammar School A.A.C. Sports May 27.
Glebe Bowing Club Ball, Town Hall June 1.
Complimentary Ball to Mrs. Martin June 1.
North Shore Rowing Club Ball June 7.
Return Ball bo Mayor of Petersham June 7.
Owl Club Ball -
Mercantile IE C. Ball i u \ y £
Wallaroo F o ° tb all Clnb s Sports July 29.
*' The Australian Eleven, in the match witti
Orleans Club at Twickenham, look like getting Uokedj
The Englishmen made 271 in first innings; Australians
75 only.
“I wonder,” groaned the fat old gentleman, as
he was pulling on'his left boot. "I wonderwhjonearth
—Ed-i-son or somebedy d-o-n t bring out—an invention
—oh, hid 1 oh, lad I—that would be of realserviceto-
mankind—a b-o-o-t-j-a-e-k—that could jack a boot on
’swellas-jaok-itofit I—whew I ’tis on at last-gimme a
chair, Moriah."
A fond father once gave his son on the latter’s
first birthday, a farthing, promising to double the
amount on each successive , of his birth.
The son lived till he was sixtyvfour, and the amount he
should have received between the 24th and 64th year,
from his father, was the very unreadable sum of
£10,215,358,410,079,163 14s. 84. He could not have
counted it in sovereigns in 2,000,000 centuries; in £5
bank notes it would have weighed two thousand
millions of tons.
Professor W. T. Harris, in a lecture delivered
at Boston recently, made a viry happy remark. He
said “ the newspaper is the most terrible engine for the
punishment of crime yet invented. Certainly—some
papers. We are nothing ourselves in that line, but the
Dailt Telegraph is a terror. We have known
hardened criminals, whose hands were red with
slaughter, and whose hearts were relentless as the gas-
man, fall on their knees and pray for mercy when
threatened with being compelled to read through those
charnel-house columns. It has been proposed to abolish
capital punishment, for certain crimes, in N. 8. Wales,
and substitute this instead. But reasonable fears are
entertained that if this were done the condemned
would evade the law by suieide.
Everyone knows that Barnum bonght the
largest elephant in the London Zoo. for £2OOO,
and that for a long time every possible effort
to get him leave his home and his Alice,
failed. Six tone of live animal can’t be moved
hy main force, and "jumbo” won’t listen to reason.
But to Australians, the fuss raised about Jumbo, old
favourite though he is, seems supremely ridiculous.
One daily journal actually announced that the children
of England would break their hearts at the removal of
their pet 1 A wealthy lady wrote a pathetic letter to
another paper saying she was "deeply moved.” It’s a
Eity Jumbo could not be as easily " moved.” While a
>ondon clergyman solemnly called on Londoners "to
rise as one mau and protest I” But the fun is, that the
£2OOO having been duly paid, the Superintendent in the
Zoo. now allows the truth to leak out, that Barnum
has been the victim of very sharp practice. Male
elephants cannot be kept beyond a certain age; they
have become, in every instance known, unmanageable
and mad, and have had to be shot. Jumbo has reached
the critical time, and is already showing signs of dan-
ger, so he—as well as Barnum—was sold.
TO UNEMPLOYED CIVIL SERVANTS.
Have you plenty of ch«ek, and a small store of brains.
Although with your schooling’s been taken no pains ;
Can yon sleep every night in a caae-bottomed chair,
And at mom like a lion leap out of your lair 5
Can you fetch, can you cnrry, or come at a call.
Can you wheedle the great and flatter the small,
Gan yon part with your beer, can you give up the
Stick fast to the •' epons ” and collar the " greed
Know every man’s secrets, and yet never tel I,
And wake at the touch of a hand on the boll r
If all this you can do, why then be a “ boots.
Take the tips of the swells, and wear out their old suits.
For there’s money in boots and silver in blacking™ -
Of a hundred or two Boots never is lacking;
So if you would silver from blacking transmute.
Lay hold of the brushes and pick up the boot.
And if, after years of blacking and “ banco
Your health ’gins to fail, then knock oil at once;
Having saved all the cash of your wildest desire.
To a mansion at Manly or Eandwick retire.
Tour fortune well-known, all the world at your foot,
They may knight yon Sir Thomas von Blucherde Boot;
Then morn, noon, and night in gratitude pray
To your tutelar saints, Messrs. Martin and Day.


T
HBA T R E
La«Me..Ka«u... fa
Treasurer
CONTINUED SUC
of
BLAND HOLT’S NEW
Received nightly with the same
greeted its first production in Bv<
TO-NIGHT. thur
and for ONLY ONE NIG
NEW BABTLO
will bo repented. embelli
MAGNIFICENT SCI
_ depicting
THE COLLISION in the
TATTBRSALL’S, CRI
„ with ita Ton Thousand
THE ELECTRIC WITNESS, S
BLAND HOLT’S NEV
on corod again and a
THk GREAT STAR
Including all the ORIGINAL -
Prices as naual. Tickets for all i
next the theatre. Child
Business Manager for Bland Holf-
JAMES AL
YICT O E I A
Lessee M
Musical Direetor ... B
_ TO Under the patrons
HIS EXCELLENCY THE
ENTHUSIASTIC AUI
nightly testify to
„ UNDENIABLE BUC<
HART'S OPERETTA
Grand Double 811
SATURDAY EVENING,
COME AND SEE "IRISH
Box Offiee at Mr. A. Hnenorboin 1
Admission : 35., 25., Is.
R. E. ROPER,
TO THB OPBEATIO ANI
PROFESSION
NEW OPERA »
WELLESLEY STREET, AE
Sele Pmprleter, H. N, .
fTIHIS Magnificent Building Is n
X THE MODEL Opera Eon*
the Largest and Meart Oemmodle
Erected on lastent models, It win t
■every Modern Comfort and Lnrnr
the Curts in > appertaining te
Theatres In the Old and New Wert
is perfect. All parts of the How
and egress from broad, light, and a
precaution ban been taken te sarf
«ase of Are, and the Auckland City <
inspected and highly commended t
to that end. Magnificently and
its Luxnriens Private Baxes, Di
chestra Stalls, together with its i
Stalls Accomodation, are features
Colonial Theatres. The Opera H
by the Williamson Opera Oompt
commencing from 88rd May next,
and Agente r " *tars," and Com bin
to the Proprietor for terms
M*
AND MRS. JA
(MISS MARSTON I
Arrangements completed for one
Jane Ist, 1838, under them:
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMS
fJIHEATRB EOT A]
OPEN FOR ENGAGI
Win seat seven er eight hnndi
?tth Sas; lately patronised by the
erms moderate. Apply te
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, <
dating 1800 people, is now a’
and other performances. The sta
depth, ana has a neat prosceninn
DAVIT
fTTHOMPSON’S COLOSSAI
J- ZULU WAR
Publie Hall, Greymouth, 24th M
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
Abbott’s New Theatre, Auokli
weeks.
Houses packed te snffoeath
LLOYD’S
HOWICK STREET, B
Offers Superior Aecomodation tc
lers. Visitors, and Protessi
ABTL £ M 1
THIS WEE!
and
FOLLOWING FOE!
OLD EXHIBITION I
THIS FAIR
RENEWAL IN THIS (
Of the
FAIR THAT RAN IN SB
a*
OLD baetle:
for
SIX CENTUEI
differing only that
AFTER THE SHILLING ADM]
ALL S]
Inter alia, there w
RICHARDSON’S SHOW,
THE ASHTON CIRCUS TROT
THE WEST BROTHERS,
KENNEDY AND M‘C/
MISS TEEVANIC
HARRY
BECKFORD’S PUNCH AND JI
THE AMAZONIAN BA
88 MAR]
PRO
THE MARIONETTES,
THE TALKING HEAD,
EUGENE THE BEN!
MERLIN THE
PRO
DANCING
in the
CROWN AND ANOHO
ZABINGA, THE GIPSY QUBI
will give
‘ her private insights to the
Rossany Tent,
HUN WEED
The Stella tor Fairings win cental
Pah-mas will eent&l;
at armeles at Fair I
MERRY-GO-ROUNDS, SWING
and " All the Fan of tl
The TOLTOTTHHR ARTILLES 1
dicestien of M. Ht
This fair is a purely aeenlar on*, wh
kites, and Roshabites may meet
There will be Temperance Stalls
Tea Room, and Sac
BAR frem the POST OF:
The WOFUL EXAMPLE will sil
the eare of
BUMBLE the BB>
GOOD-LOOKING YOUTH
in the
HORSE-COLLAR GRINNING
DANCING DAT and EVENT
Quadrille Banc
THIS WONDROUS SHILUNGI
been equalled here of t
DOORS OPEN at
WATERLOO AND BOTANY 1
THE DOOR
ONE SHILLING ADMITS 1
N ORTH SHORE BO
PLAIN AND FANCY D
TO BE HUD IK
SYDNEY TOWN
ON
WEDNESDAY, 7th J
Under the Patronage of His Exoc
Stewards :
Sir Patrick Jennings, Hon.
K.C.M.G. Hon.
Hon* John Laekey J. S. ]
Hon. J. B. Watt Willi
Oarl L. Sahl, Esq., Consul T. Th
for Germany W. S]
R. G. Valla ok, Esq. John'
C. J. Roberts, Esq. David
S. M. M. Dennis, Esq. Thou
T Aai-Hirna IWi B A
'ISIT E. BUEGIS’ NI
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 I
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and W(
Diagrams for self-meagnrinjc forw
the Coiony,
S TU
Have yo
re.o
Parasol
et,
J. £
*4l
Brick
Liverpoc
Parasc
turn or, B
JUST PUBLISB
THE CROWN LANDS ACTS
WALES.
[EDITION OP 1
CONTAINING the Alienation
of 1861; the Amendment A
Farther Amendment Act of 188
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
w. H - p A
PIANOFORTE WARE
352 George-stree
■
fSiPSfctes
litegp
jPWBasSS&s*.
sss&
PIANOFORTES, PIAN(
JUST EECEIYED. JUST :
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE
A splendid stock to select
EVERY RENOWNED 1
AMERICAN ORGi
By the celebrated ma
W, BELL AND
Which gained first and sp
)VER ALL OTHI
at the
LATE STDM NTERNATIONi
HA MO NI U
BT
ALEXANDRE and then RENOY
in all the various mot
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HA
at low prices, now in e
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hunt
fortes.
W, Bell and Co.'s, Horace Waters
and Warren's, and Smith and C<
W. H. pT t
352 GEORGE STBE
OPPOSITE WYNYAE
SYDNEY.
CROSS’
INDIGIH'
482 ..,.484 GEORGE STREET
I- / \ ’ ■ I \LU
ir . * MAR KF T m OTM man
So****,
v % MARKET CLOTH HALL,
OPPC3ITETHE FRUIT MARKETS, O
ESTABLISHED IPGA .
A LARGE And well selected qocK
WOOLLENS, new pat i erms,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
FASHIONABLE
V\
Sh A )
. J
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
vVOOL TWEED TROUSERS. TO ORDER
, 12/s.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, In white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
Trade MARK BROOK'S CROCHET AND TATTINC COTTON.
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
TTie following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES Is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS manufactured h
them Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal) London, 1851, Only First-class Prize Medal, Paris, 1855 Prise Meda
London, 1802. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal South \frica 187'
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for Variety and general excellence. tjpecial First Sydney 189*.
} Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Warehouse
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.


ÜBL I C
N 0
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPIN
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosecute
endeavours to deceive the public by
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to a
boating;
*' THE TAEPINQ MIXTUBE."-
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature
thus —
Clifford, Love, & i
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, must be certain that every
SIGNATUBE of the IMPORTERS,
to take inferior leas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE AN
MIXTURE ABE OUAEj
PUBB TEAS.
WhoflAsile Agents
P. BUTCHI
WHOLESALE GROCER ANE
YORK STREET, STI
JOHN D
** IMPORTER 01
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brassw
Gaefittmgs, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, <5
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L SUMKEI
235 Pitt Street, £
THE PEOPLE’S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO
H. L. SUMMEI
SPECIALITY SUITS TO O
THE PEOPLE’S
GUARANTEES A PBEF
H. L. SDMME
HAS ALL GOODS THOEOUG:
THE PEOPLE’S
Sends Self-measurement form
INFORM
READ i
FOR THE PLOUGiNG SEASON OF 1882.
We ore pleased to be advising oar uuwomora and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to nil the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie's ISB2 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OTHEE SYDNEY
HOUSE.
PAEMEES NOTE THIS VEEY CABEPULLY.—
OUR B(
Before Orde
send foi
Our Price I
AND
All Particul
MARTIN
-»• P/
389 Georgi
SYDNE
Intending Pure
Cutlers offered tl
INE BUNGLE
John Bundle, C
his Chaff Cutters
oast on fly-whee!
tactnre.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN. 389 BEOPGE S
rme*
SILVER WATCHES
p ROM £.4.10.
*a Nuc
jvnzu-V
9. gc. 11. HUNTER ST
-ches SYDNEY.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REA
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syd
THJST ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TEY ONE.
E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
?OVv
TAC
*0
SYDNEY
And
Orn
MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OF T
WHEN PUECHABINQ YOUI
ask for
PANTER AND PA
new EXTRACT 01
AND SEK THVT YOU GB’
SUPEEIOE TO ALL 0
BE=T Washing' and Disinfe
tion known, for Clothes,.
Crockery, Paint, Gla*s, and eve
purpose. Used and recomm
Laundry at Government Ho
tHOur (Inspector of Nuisances
(Orient Laundry), and by i
judges to be the best article mi
EEMEMBEB t
Washing and cleaning don
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Health
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HA
TO BE HAD OP ALL 0
WORKS, 700 GEOEGE-S1
IN THE WORI
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
*
V
£
£
*
o
c
o
c
drinl
liquid yield
ORDINARY
«3T SOLD BY ALL G
A NEW DEPART
HATS.
EDWARD HORDERN f
668 BEICKFIELD:I
HATS.
the attention of their pati
ofNew South Wales generally, to
have this week OPENED their
NEW HAT ANI
DEPARTMEI
SLOPS.
Which will be found stocked with i
Goods. Everything will be FEE SB
be NEW 1 Everything will be CH
body will be politely served by polit
STANDARD
READY WADE SUITS
jo a
Business
PRO MEN ADE
Tr£vellm§
QU ALIT Yyacht in G
BiirSiufy Picnicin^
UNSURPASSED Cricketing
•' Standard ” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto. Extra long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
PEAPES and SHAW,
PES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
