

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 120.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1882.
Price—3d
SATUEDAY, MAT 13, 1882.
Sir James Martin as a Libeller.
His Honor the Chief Justice, in defending him-
self from the imputation of hostility to the Press,
and of an inclination to establish a Supreme Court
despotism, took occasion to remind the public that
he himself had once been a journalist. At the
same time he indicated that there is journalism
and journalism, and that the kind of journalist he
used to be had nothing in common with the sort
of writers who scribble offensive personalities in
these degenerate days. Upon the hint thus thrown
out by his Honor, in the triple character of Chief
Justice, ex-journalist, and censor, we have be-
stirred ourselves. We have sought to sit at the
feet of this self-disclosed journalistic Gamaliel,
and to profit by the lessons derivable from a study
of the methods and system to which his memory
returns with so much virtuous complacency,
• * *
Were we to-day to refer to the highest per-
sonage in the colony in terms of contumely, how-
ever deserved —were we to go back in his genealogy,
and, in censuring his personal shortcomings, to
suggest that they were in some degree due to
hereditary taint transmitted from the harlot ol a
monarch —a sort of regal Susan Fisher —would
that be endorsed by his Honor the Chief Justice,
speaking from the Judgment Seat, as respectable
journalism, and open to no adverse imputation?
It was thus that a certain Mr. Martin as-
sailed His Excellency Sir Charles Fitzroy.
Were we to say that His Excellency Lord
Augustus Loftus is either so disabled by
valetudinarianism as to be incapacitated for due
performance of hia duties, or else deliberately
shirks the discharge of all but the obligatory
department of them—would this pass current as
reputable journalism? Suppose we were to go
further and allege that for any man—noble or
simple—to come out to this colony under pretence
of occupying the position of Governor, while
merely designing to find an augmentation to his
income, and repose for his invalided frame, is to
palm off an imposition upon the people of the
colony ; for a oham- Governor is as fradulent as a
spurious sovereign ! Let it be supposed that we
ffirm that Lord Augustus Loftus has sought
here no more than an asylum for hia infirmities,
and a hospital for his fortunes; that he habitually
neglects all the social functions which attach to
his position ; that he omits or refuses to undergo
the small inconveniences of attending in person to
give £olat to banquets, receptions, and other
celebrations which it has been customary with
previous Governors, to attend:—Suppose we
were to remark that his lordship conducts him-
self towards the people of the colony with a con-
temptuous hauteur which he is scarcely ever at
the pains to veil, and which has, on occasion,
broken out in his own house—that is to say, [the
house provided by the colonists —and to his own
guests, with an emphasis which has been no less
insulting to the guests in a body, than embar-
assing to those specially singled out—would that
be “ respectable” journalism, and would there be
no opening for an appeal by fashionable and in-
fluential leaders of the bar to a popular flunkeydom
of reverential feeling ?
• • ♦
Is it not the case that “ respectable” is
altogether a social distinction, and that nothing
can pass current as respectable which sets
itself in opposition to the oracles and pro-
fessors of social shibboleths ? Respectability
has little to do with virtue. Preacher Cocks is
virtuous, but he is not respectable His txcel-
lenoy the Governor would not, for example, ask
him to dine at Government House to meet Dean
Cowpkb and Sir James Martin. No man can
set up in antagonism to recognised social organi-
zations, or challenge the sacred alumni who have
passed within the charmed circle, and be re-
spectable. John Milton was decidedly not
respectable during his latter years. In that regard,
My Lord Viscount Rochester had a distinct
advantage over the discredited sectary. No
man can expect to be regarded as respectable, no
journal can pretend to pass muster as reputable,
who assails constituted authorities —persons or
institutions —no matter how corrupt, how incom-
petent, how contemptible these may have become.
It is eminently respectable to assail persons who
are so humbly circumstanced as to have no means
of hitting back. The journalist who is very
severe, in England, upon the rascally self-seeking
of Parnell and the ruffianly conduct of Brad-
laugh may rollick in imputation, and fling about
exaggerations at discretion, and bo the more res-
pectable the more he exceeds the bounds of truth
and propriety. ‘But let the same man venture
to suggest that that H.R.H. the Duke of
Cambridge is a pompous old fool who would be
outgeneralled in actual warfare by any smart
sergeant in H.M. Service, he becomes dis-
dinctly disreputable. Or let him, like Mr.
Labouchbbb, toll a true story about the
marital arrangements of a daughter of the Queen,
no language is too strong to denounce him. In
the first case the style of journalism is approved,
because, although its language amounts to out-
rage and its affirmations are lies, these are to the
caste who give and hold the social stamp, welcome
outrages, and acceptable lies. It is not indeed
“respectable” to say “you are a welcome out-
rager” or “an acceptable liar.” The modus is
less shameless, and more shameful. Society
quietly adopts these outrages as just vindications,
and those lies as undoubted truths, and embraces
the bully and falsifier in the entirely ideal charac-
ter of champion of virtue and right.
* * •
So in these colonies Government House is the
centre of respectability. It is the temple of social
fame. A man may achieve political distinction, or
mercantile prominence, and be yet scarcely respect-
able in the eyes of society. He must be initiated
into the charmed circle whose opinions rule so-
ciety, and stamp men and ideas with values arbi-
tarily fixed by totally incompetent persons. Still
there is no denying the potency of this vehrm-
gericht. It is absolute master of the stamp of
respectability—blasts with the flicker of an eye-
lash, and ruins with the curl of a lip. At least it
so blights and destroys weak or ordinary oppon-
ents. There has been no time during our history
when a feeble individual could with impunity defy
a governor and snap his finger at the clique which
apes the role of society. Who ever did so, was,
for the time, socially damned, and the fiat went
forth from potent drawing-room that he was not
respectable, and “a low fellah.” We propose to
show that the present Chief Justice, Sir James
Martin, was in his time regarded as a very ill-
conditioned fellow, quite the opposite of a respect-
able journalist We call as a witness two Gov-
ernors who have successively ruled in this colony;
and we likewise adduce the opinion of every per-
son of such standing as entitled them to enjoy the
personal friendship of their Excellencies the two
Governors referred to, or as to give them the
entree to the distinguished circles at Government
House. We appeal to Sir George Gibbs and Sir
Charles Eitzroy ! We appeal to the per-
sonal friends of both these Governors —that is
to say to the majority of the gentlemen
occupying in those days official positions of
importance and emolument, and also to the leading
members of the mercantile community—that is to
say, men recently become very rich and very in-
fluential in commercial affairs, and who desired
to have their new eminence hall-marked at Govern-
ment House. Think what an array for any man
to face! The Queen’s representative, her
Majesty’s judges, the beads of departments—
mostly appointed by H.E., or fearful lest H.E.
should wish to displace them. The leading mer-
chants and bankers, and the entire Amazonian
phalanx of the ladies who visited at Government
House. Now, we are not able to adduce a single
record of the opinions held by any of these dis-
tinguished persons regarding Sir James Martin
at the time when he was engaged in journalism.
We admit that at once, to avoid all misunder-
standing. But we have very conclusive record of
the terms upon which Sir James stood with refer-
ence to the influential persons of his early days,
and are justified in assuming that as he assailed
them with vehemence, they were not sparing in
reprisals.
# * •
We present our readers with a few sentences
illustrative of Sir James Martin’s style of
journalism, extracted from an article of which he
is the author :—“ He invented prerogatives before
unheard of Placed over a community
of British subjects, he acted with the arbitrary
spirit of a Turkish bashaw, and denied to his
fellow-subjects here the possession of rights which
the meanest man in England enjoys. He collected
a horde of wretched sycophants and time-servers
around him, for the purpose of obtaining for him-
self the most miserable semblance of support.
. . . . He never retracted a statement or an
opinion, however false or erroneous—he never
admitted the impolicy or impropriety of a measure,
however ridiculous, unconstitutional or unjust.
His own will was always his law — .... In
short, he showed himself to be possessed of every
quality necessary for a bad —But it will be
as well to break off here, and offer a word of ex-
planation, lest any confusion arise in our readers’
minds. These sentences are indeed from Sir
James Martin’s pen. But it would bo an error
to imagine that they are autobiographical, or have
reference to his Honor’s refusal to reverse his
first decision when sitting to hear the appeal in
The BuLLETiN-Clontarf case.
• • •
The expressions above quoted were levelled at
no less a person than the Governor of the colony.
But they are mild compared with other passages.
The young journalist wrote of this exalted per-
sonage, that, among his aims was “to level all
social distinctions, and reduce to the same degra-
dation, the educated and the ignorant, the elegant
and the vulgar, the honest and the dishonest, the
moral and the depraved. ... To accomplish
this, he invited to partake of his a d his lady’s
hospitality, people of all classes and every grade
of immorality, and insulted such persons of social
consequence and refined habits as he persuaded to
visit him, by admitting to the same room with
them, people, of whom Cicero’s description of
Catiline’s associates presents a strictly accurate
idea—or, if it does not exactly correspond, it is
only because it falls short in comprehensiveness —
because the associates of the abandoned and pro-
fligate Roman were more respectable than those
of His Excellency Sir George Gipps !”
* * •
. Mr. Martin, it will be seen, was not a journal-
ist who minoed his language, and would scarcely
have succeeded in obtaining for his articles publi-
cation in any of the “ respectable newspapers ”
which he distinguishes by that appellation to-day.
No stretch of imagination will suffice to conceive,
for example, the Sydney Morning Herald, as
at present conducted, publishing an article of so
“personal” and pronounced a tone —especially if
emanating from a man who had no social standing,
and had yet achieved no reputation save for the
vehemence of his attacks upon persona who occu-
pied—even if they disgraced—elevated positions
in the community. Probably, The Bulletin is
the only journal which to-day would, under
similar circumstances, open its columns to articles
of equal trenchancy. Mr. Martin was, in these
days, of a temper very much in accord with our
own disposition of to-day. When he saw a condi-
tion of affairs which sapped the foundations of
public morality, he smote it again and again. He
had cherished a hope that when that “miserable
tyrant,” Sir George Gipps, had departed from
our shores “ the reign of swindlers and demireps
would come to an end.” Being disappointed, in
consequence of the predilections of Sir Charles
Pitzrot, he resumed his parable, and delivered
himself as follows : —“ Sir George Gipps, with all
his faults, drew some distinction, however flimsy
it may have been —but Sir Charles Pitzrot
draws none. Nobody is too ilow —nobody is too
ignorant—nobody is too degraded for his most
familiar intercourse. The most shameless prosti-
tution —the most abandoned profligacy—the most
notorious immorality—oppose no barrier against
admission to his house. He recognizes no beauty
in virtue—no deformity in vice ; but treats them
both with an equal share of his regard. He intro-
duces the one to the society of the other, and does
his utmost to degrade it by the unaccustomed and
repulsive contact. The most irreproachable he
has invited to meet the most abandoned. In
short, he has commenced a career which, unless it
be at once checked by the powerful voice of public
opinion, will upset the morality and decorum of
the land!”
• • •
Such, then, is the style of journalism to which
this censer of “personal and sensational publica-
tions ” looks back with affection. It does not
appear to us that it will be requisite, if this be
the approved model, to alter our present style very
materially. Mr. Martin merely anticipated the
verdict of posterity. Everyone will agree with these
strictures now. But how must they, and he, have
been regarded then ? That the articles are fright-
fully libellous, according to present views, goes
without saying. They were criminally actionable
on the face of them. One can readily conceive
how a leader of the bar would have handled the
publisher and the author, and with what seriously
laboured grimace of impartiality the Judge would
have charged the jury had there been a trial.
How counsel for the plaintiffs would have exerted
his eloquence to characterize these as the utter-
ances of an obscure scribbler attacking the
reputation of the highest personage in the
land, and scattering aspersions broadcast
upon the character of the wives and daughters
of the most responsible officials and most
distinguished citizens, merely because they
were accustomed to pay their respects to the
representative of the Sovereign and to his most
amiable and virtuous lady. It is easy to conceive
the stress an adroit pleader would lay upon these
points—how he would dwell upon the wholesale
and reckless attack upon innocent women, the
invasion of domestic life, and the disregard
of the most sacred feelings. How effectively
the contrast would be drawn between the
grovelling publisher, seeking his sordid gain
in sensational and personal attacks, supplied
by any hireling who would prostitute his pen to
ignoble ends—and the dignified knight, the respon-
sible officials, the virtuous matrons and innocent
maidens who enjoyed the honour of admittance to
his Excellency’s society ! But let us suppose that
the evidence were overwhelming; that the articles
were true in every particular, that they were not
overdrawn, and that the vigour of the language
was merely commensurate with the greatness of
the abuse dealt with—let us imagine that public
interest were pleaded, how would Sir James
Martin then have regarded a decision which
permitted extraneous matters, written by men he
had no association with, to be placed before the
jury, as evidence that his purpose could not have
been single ; and how would he then have been
satisfied to find that upon such a plea the
privilege of doing the community good service was
barred, and his publisher ruined i
* • *
Sir James may well look back upon the jour-
nalistic epoch of his career with pride, if these be
fair samples of his work. Everyone now knows
MR. THOMAS ROWE.—(See next page.)


HOP BIT
ABE
THE PUREST AH
MEDICINE EVER
They are Cempounde
Hops, Bnchn, Mandrake
The Oldest, Best, most R(
Valuable Medicines in the
in addition, contain all i
most effective curative pro
other Bitters, being the g
Regulator, Blood Pdrifi:
and Health Eestoring Age:
Ask your Druggist 01
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, and
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bittei
drugged, drunken nostru
Purest and Best Medicim
and no person or family sh<
out it.
VALUABLE TR
If you are suffering from
Or languishing on abed of e
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will C
If yon are simply ailinj
Weak and Dispirited, wit
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will XL
If yon are a Minister, ai
taxed yourself with your pa
or a Mother, worn out w
work.
Hop Bitters Will He
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the i
every-day duties, or a mi
toiling over your midnight
Hop Bitters Will Stre
If you are suffering fron
or drinking, any indiscreti
tion, or are young and groi
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Be
If yen are in the work
farm, at the desk, anywlu
that your system needs Ch
ing, or Stimulating, with
ting,
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your b
impure, pulse feeble, you
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give To
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an eleg
and refreshing flavouring f
drinks, impure water, &(
them harmless, and swe
mouth, and cleansing the s
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENI
with
HOP BUT
and you will have no sickne:
MONTEriOHE, METC.
65 PITT STREET, STDN
General Agents for Ai
ODIC FORCE IS LIF
H. G. W T
PATENT PEEFOR
MAG N E [
that his articles were true, were bold, and were
calculated to work a reform much needed. But
can he not recall also how they were then re-
garded—how he and the journal which gave an
avenue for his protestations were denounced as
ontragera of everything which it behoves a. decent
man to respect constituted authorities, the
character of women, the reputation of men of
position ? There is a moral in the review which it
were well Sir James Martin should not overlook.
Comparatively ©bscure, struggling to achieve
fortune and reputation, he had opposed to him
the full weight of official power and the condem-
nation of social influence. Yet this generation
■can see how he, by mere force of a good cause,
wielded by a powerful mind —not then recognised
by the many—most effectively seized two Gov-
ernors by the throats and knocked their heavy
skulls together in presence of the entire public.
The dignity of Sir James’ present position, and
the things he has accomplished since the days
when he, as an obscure attorney, grappled with
Viceroys and their sycophants, have helped people
to comprehend that even then he was a stronger
power than his magnificent adversaries, despite
their intrenchmenta of official position and the
support of their hordes of official and social
mercenaries. Can he not comprehend that events
perpetually repeat themselves —that as generous
impulses die out, and advancing years and
elevated station carry in their train enfeeblement
of mental vigor, aud encourage a diseased growth
of arbitrary maxims, the successors to his youth-
ful labors must be already in the field, as strong
as ha was twenty years ago, as fervidly burning
with the sense of a career ahead, and as fully
charged with the instincts of a new era, yet to be
realized P Sir James has lived to see himself
justified, and the arbitrary methods of the giants
he assailed recognised as mere subjects for execra-
tion. Is he desirous of emulating the “ detestable
tyrants” whom he once assailed, and of leaving
behind him—after all —a similar record ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Church-building Craze.
A eRAzH. This is the unfreseoed Saxon for it. Sydney
is studded over with churches to sueh an extent that
from a bird’s-eye point of view it must look like a bride-
cake. And yet wo axa told that more are
Everybody wants more. If this city were swallowed
by an earthquake to-morrow, the first man to crawl out
of the eracks would start around with a snbsaription-
list for funds to build a flew church. The parson
agitates. The priest agitates. The Salvation Army-
sponter agitatee. The people pay. As soon as a dozen
worshippers are gathered together in any place the
pastor unanimously concludes that “the timehas come
when a structure should be raised such as shall be
worthy of resounding to the praises of,God.” The con-
gregation acquiesce, and tho foundations are laid. The
meney in hand is generally about sufficient for tho erec-
tion of a seeond-class cow-house. What of that ? Can-
not faith move mountains, and are wo not credibly in-
formed that Jehovah will provide P But the funds run
out, tho building has to be stopped, and Jehovah
doesn’t provide. Then the pastor [and the deacon and
the committee-men rush about the country making
piteous appeals for more money. They get it, start
again, run short again, and then da capo. We don’t
want any more churches. Those that we have—with
one or two exceptions—are never more than half filled.
What we want is preachers. The sanctity of tho Divine
Word alone is not sufficient to fill the pews. The staple
of most congregations consists of old men and women—
Simeons and Annas, as Bishop Moorhonse once desig-
nated them—and children. But the men—fathers of
families, and grown-up sons, where are they? Any-
where but in church. And knowing all this, we are a sked
te melt into generosity when the subscription-man
cemes round. We want no more churches. We want
preachers, impassioned preachers, who are able to think
and clothe in effective language what they do think —
men who are not afraid to grapple with the questions of
the age, and who can, with certain finger, touch every
chord in the hearts of their audience, and not content
themselves from year’s end to year’s end with iterating
the same weary moral from the same threadbare text.
Until such men appear in every pulpit we must expect
to behold half-filled benches listening to the old plati-
tudes, and the pith and intellect of the people forced
into the ranks of scepticisrp and irreligion. We can do
without pomp and “ stately edifices.” But we cannot
do without brains in the pulpit, or the pulpit must do
without us. Make wide your foreheads, gentlemen, and
net your phylacteries.
Unhappy Ireland.
Ireland is truly an unhappy country. At the very
moment when that party in the British Government
which has viewed with repugnance the violent
measures practised to repress the aspirations of
her people, has succeeded in obtaining the mastery, a
senseless and dastardly outrage is perpetrated under
circumstances certain to check the favourable tide in
her affairs, and to hamper the designs of those who
had cherished towards her [the friendliest intentions.
Had the murder of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr.
Burke been specially plotted by the enemies to per-
sonal freedom and agrarian reform in Ireland, it would
have been a master-stroke. The people of England—at
least the intelligent among the commonalty—have
never approved of the high-handed methods which have
been intended to play the game of the landlords.
But if there he one thing which is more
than another revolting to English feeling, it is the
murder of innocent and defenceless persons. Lord
Frederick Cavendish and his fellow victim do not, so
far as is known, appear to have been guilty of any crime
against Ireland or the Irish people, even in the abstract.
Lord Frederick was, in fact, ns we understand his
position, a representative of the new and more humane
system of administration which was to replace the dis-
gusting “coercion” of “Buckshot Forster”—the
Quaker politician whose conception of tenderly deal-
ing with a people smarting under centuries of admitted
■wrongs was to substitute buckshot for bullets when
shooting at them. We have no sympathy with the
drivellers who go into mournful convulsions when a
personage is killed, yet present an insensate callousness
when old men and infants are assassinated by being
evicted from their homes amidst torrents of rain to
perish frem exposure by tho Queen’s Highway.
There are perfectly legal, formal, and “proper” pro-
ceedings of that kind ore murders as foul and as
cowardly as any done with a Ijnife-thraat on defenceless
men. It is not because the o^such deeds is
the opera in London, while his lawful agents, the
process-server and the constabulary, do his
is less a vile and detestable monster. And, inverse!^
there are sudden dealings of deadly blows which are as
strictly acts of the justice of God as any solemn execu-
tion ordered by judge and conducted by sheriff. But
the assassination of the two unfortunate gentlemen in
the Phoenix Park does not come under that category
It has been an atrocious act, perpetrated by villains,
enemies alike to society, to their God, and to their
most uahappy country.
Every Inch a—Skulker.
His most potent and Imperial Majesty the CzAR of
Russia, the surviving type in Europe of the irrespon-
sible despot, is in a sorry plight. He isn’t crowned yet,
and can’t see his way to get that, from his point of
view, rather essential, ceremonial effected. Although
he claims to be a monarch by the Grace of God, that
sort of authority for sovereignty, ho has ascertained by
the fate of his father, is only to be regarded as effective
in the broadest sense. It did not prevent his revered
parent’s earthly diadem from being blown off his head
and replaced—according to Piddinqton and others of
that kidney—by a crown of glory, that is to say, a
martyr’s crown. Alexander HI consequently finds no
assurance in his divine right, that it will afford any
guarantee whatever that he will not have to put up
with the one honour while striving for the other—in
fact that if he attempts to assume the earthly
crown, Providence —working in the " mysterious way”
of dynamite bombs—may not improve the occasion
by substituting martyr’s head-gear. This is a very
embarrassing position for an absolute monarch. It
is even ridiculous. So groat, ard no donbt (wo refer
to Piddinoton for full particulars) good, a monarch
cannot but feel aggravated when compelled by his own
subjects to choose between taking the risk of being
blown np with extreme magnifleence, and being crowned
stealthily in his own back parlour with a select hand-
ful of trusty, but sniggering, sycophants for witnesses.
It cannot but bo annoying for so very mighty a poten-
tate to reflect that, although his people would still
obey were he to order the regimental and liveried
section to (in the language of the Queensland native
police) “ disperse ” all the working and tilling sections,
or to march out and cut the throats of any Turks or
Germans or Austrians they might fall across, yet his
devoted subjects would be only to happy to “ disperse ”
him and his minions, [or to cut his divinely-graced
throat without any orders at all, and merely as an
indication of national regard.
Emerson, Carlyle, and—the “Evening
News.”
In n suh-leadcr the other day, the Evening
News asserts that Emerson had outlived his influence,
basing its judgment, apparently, upon the statement
that, whereas many years ago most educated Englishmen
knew something of his writings, such a knowledge is
now the exception. But our contemporary does not
judge Emerson’s influence and work by the most ap-
propriate standard. In the case of men who devote
their energies and faculties to the interpretation of
abstruse or commonly-negleeted subjects—such as the
mind and its faculties and organs, er the nature of man, 1
its development and manifestations—the Indifference ,
and neglect of the multitude are not the surest signs of :
failure. For education must proceed from the higher
to the lower levels of human intelligence, and hoi polloi
often nay, almost always—representing the lower
levels, take much educating. The standard by which \
we may judge of the success or failure of such a man as i
Emerson was, must he his own standard. We cannot
and must not allow the noise of the market and the
street to deafen us or frighten us away from that serene
height where the highest problems of life and mind are *
investigated, and their applications to matter shown, j
The silence of the Press and public opinion enly pro. ;
claim the indifference of the multitude—not rejection ‘
by that audience to whom alone the scholar speaks.
Paul op Tarsus is a man vastly spoken of in tea_
meetings, leading articles, and elsewhere, hut his
influence is passing away, and the stamp ho impressed
upon the nascent Christianity is being effaced with a
speed proportionate to its quietness. Fichte, the
German philosopher, is a man whom no one of our
agoi troubles himself to speak about, hut Fichte’s j
influence is in cultivated natures a very real and living ’
thing. Another matter in connection with the article
under review—the writer states that Carlyle was at
heart a cynic. None but a man who had not studied
Carlyle’s writings, and who had gained his impressions *
of that great character from public gossip and chatter,
could make any such statement. “ No, verehrtester
Heir Herausgeber, in no wise.” f
Higher Education for Women.
That two of the other sex have applied for the “Walker
Bursaries,” at the same time signifying their intention
of going np for matriculation in June, is a cheering thing
for those who believe that a competent preparation for
the study of the great problems now agitating mankind
—at least that section of it which we Eur-Australians
represent—should be imparted to women, and not, as
heretofore, rigorously conserved for men. It is an
experimentum cruris, this opening the University lectures
to women; for it depends upon their own conduct and
application, not whether the privilege shall be with-
drawn, but whether it shall be extended. At this time
of day it ia too late to hope to keep women in that
seclusion and subjection which barbarous traditions and
Hebraic custom, ingrafted upon our English nature,
have condemned them to suffer. Under the fierce glare
of nineteenth century light, the old injnstic is expired :
no sorcerer so cunning that he may conjure back their
old strength and security to the broken bonds. Every-
one who studies the question must regret that women
are so far behind in the intellectual race, but at the same
time all must admit that woman is not to blame. If
she had enjoyed these last few centuries an equal cuL
tivation to that of men, how changed the world would
be I—how much would that wonderful feminine nature,
with its graces, its tenderness, and its subtle strength,
have purified and influenced its companion-nature 1 As
we pointed out some time since, in order that the
University may perform its functions rightly, there
must be provided an institution where secondary
instruction shall bo given thoroughly. There ie no
sphh school at present. The girls in some of the private
•chools are prepared for the junior and senior examina-
tions; but, except in the case of some of the Queensland
•iobools, the girls do not come up well in their sections.
Che they are not prepared—they are “crammed,”
and the examinations being searching, the candidates so ‘
'kprglared " fail. -..
Mr. Thomas Rowe.
Oub portrait this week is thatof Mr. Thomas Rowe,
the well-known architect, who is so intimately asso-
ciated with new Sydney—with the marvellous archi-
tectural changes which are altering the face of our
metropolis. Mr. Rowe was born at Penzance,
Cornwall, in 1829, and at an early age, his father
being a builder and contractor, he commenced to
acquire a sound and practical acquaintance with
the profession he was afterwards to adopt. _ In
1849 the family emigrated to this colony, as a wider
field for enterprise, and eventually Mr. Rowe
devoted his entire attention to the study and
practice of his profession. Few men struggled
harder —few men earned success with greater cer-
tainty. The first important architectural compe-
tition which he won was that in which his designs
for St. George’s Church, Castlereagh-street, were
adopted. In 1864 Mr. Rowe was a very heavy loser
by fire, which destroyed the result of many years’
professional labour; but this adversity was really
only a test, and he resumed practice with greater
ardour than before. Some of the most important
buildings in the city are the results of Mr. Rowe’s
artistic and constructive talent, notably Vickery’s ;
C. Newton and Co.’s; Bull, Price’s; the great
Synagogue, Stanmore College, Catherine Hayes
Hospital, Sydney Arcade, &c. It is from his
designs also that the splendid new Sydney In-
firmary is being built. Tne other important works
he has now in hand are Hoffnung’s colossal ware-
houses, Wright and Heaton’s new premises,
Harris and Ackman’s extensive stores, the Royal
Arcade (for Messrs. Withers and Co.), and the
Young Men’s Christian Association Institution,
for which last the designs have been prepared
gratuitously. Whatever leisure he has had, Mr.
Rowe has devoted to the moral advancement of
the youth of the city, and to the work of muni-
cipal improvement. As an alderman, Mr. Rowe
was an independent and capable reformer. He
has command of the Engineer Corps, the most
useful, as well as one of the best drilled, and best
instructed body of men in the Colonial Volunteer
Forces. He has risen from the ranks to the position
of Major. Mr. Rowe is a man of unusual energy
and sound judgment, and exhibits great capacity for
the conducting of large works and the manage-
ment of labour employed thereat. He has
married twice, and has a large family. Our
engraving is from a photo, by Boyd.
POLITICAL POINTS.
r It is said a redistribution of electorates is con-
> templated.
Payment to members is an institution in France ;
£4OO per annum is the present figure, aud the Freycinet
Government contemplate to increase the honorarium.
“The Australian committee of the Irish
National Land League ” —a Melbourne institution—
has passed a resolution expressing detestation of the
recent murders in Dublin. The committee repudiate
■ political assassination as a weapon of offence.
I Cape Colony offers to English farmers 500 acres
of good land at 10s. per acre, payable in ten annus 1 in-
stalments. This concession is expected to divert the
tide of emigration which has again sot in for the
United States. How long will N.B.W. continue out of
the race I
John Lucas has thrown all his weight into the
scales in favour of protection. He says the country
i wants protection. J ast so. We’ll perhaps show next
week.in a playful picture from whom it most wants to
be protected. We have our eye also on another occur-
rence of the day. We’ll try what we can do next issue
to let in a little Daylight.
Here's the English cUture in a nutshell. The
Speaker or Chairman of Committees, acting on the evi-
dent sense of the House, intimates that it ia desirable
that the question under discussion be now put. If a
motion to that effect be made, the Speaker or Chairman
puts it, and, if carried, no further discussion is per-
mitted on the question before the House, and a division
proceeds. But the first proposal must be supported by
more than 200 members, or must be opposed by less
than forty members, and supported by more than one
hundred members.
* • •
A wealthy Forbes politician talks of goin “ agin ”
the Government J. J, Casey funked on the Victorian
N.W. Province election for the Legislative Council
Melbourne Punch, in last week’s cartoon, enunciates
the opinion that Victorian matters political will
eventually be enlivened by a "No Popery" cry
That mean-souled politician, W. M. Clark, M.L.A. of
Victoria, wants to know the religion of all civil ser-
vants. Perhaps he desires the establishment of a new
Test Act ?
A lunatic was arrested the other day, cutting
off, with a tomahawk, the ears and nose of the statue of
Queen Anno, near St Paul’s Cathedral, London. When
arrested, he professed not to know that Queen Anne
was dead.
In the great conspiracy case, the jury only re-
tired to compare Weatherhead's signatures on various
proposals so as to make assurance sloubly sure. Before
leaving their box they were thoroughly convinced of
Barker and Horton’s guilt.
Renan has been dissecting the Jewish character,
and says: “In spite of persecutions the Jew will be
here money-lending in 2co years time." What’s the
«ood of telling that to us ? We want a bit of paper
done now, aud only wish to arrange that it shall fall
dtfeabouc that date. We don’t stickle about interest
Two Sonnets of Death and Life.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
DEATH.
The awful seers of old who writ in words
Like drops of blood great thoughts that through the
night
Of ages burn, as eyes of lions light
Deep jungle-dusks; who smote with songs like swords
The soul of man on its most secret chords
And made the heart of him a harp to smite,—*
Where are they, where that old man lorn of sight
The king of song among these laurelled lords ?
But where are all the ancient singing spheres
That burst through Chaos like the summer’s breath
Through ice-bound seas where never seaman steers f
Burnt out. Gone down. No star remembereth
These stars and seers well-silenced through the years—
The songless years of everlasting death.
LIFE.
What know we of the dead who say these things
Or of the life in death below the mould.
What of the mystic laws that rule the old
Gray realms beyond our poor imaginings
Where death is life ? The bird with spray-wet wings
Knows more of what the deeps beneath him hold.
Let be: warm hearts shall never wax a cold
But bum in roses through eternal springs :
For all the vanished fruit and flower of Time
Are flower and fruit in worlds we cannot see.
And all we see is as a shadow-mime
Of things unseen, and Time that comes to flee
Is but the broken echo of a rhyme
In God’s great epic of Eternity.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Sydney, 7th May, 1882,


RILEY BROTH
886 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, S
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NBWCAS
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET
THE CHEAPEST E
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COL
the originator!
NOTED £5 BA
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White Of Bed
Flannel
12 yards Winoey, Print, or
other Dress material
8 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Werner's Stockings
3 pairs Men's Books
Ipair of Whiteer Oolortreel
Stays .
16 yds. Strong Cotton Tiek
2J yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Coyer
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
J doz. Pocket’kerchiefa
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooka
and Eyes, &o. &c.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large siao
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
else
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
0 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
J 25 Ladies’Bale,
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
8 Children’s Chemises
5 pairs Drawers
8 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
Mol
1 Lad;
2 Ladi
2 pair
1 Lad;
1 pair
1 Ladi
2 pair
1 Ladi
4 Infa
2 Infa:
2 Infa
1 Infa
M
2 Infa
1 Infa
} dose
Sq
Pnff b<
1 Flan
2 Bibs
1 pair
1 Infa
1 In;
8q
Qt
1 la
H<
£5
1 pah
1 larg
10 yari
20 yan
12 Stri
20 Wii
10 goo
6 yar<
All
wear in
jes:
1 pair
1 whi
i yar<
10 whi
Cal
6 whi
12 yan
12 yan
4 pair
1 paii
1 Dar
6 stro
6 Bro
4 larg
8 yan
Ti
Th
£5 B
25 yds.
8 yard
1 dozi
1 Bla<
1 Lad
1 Trii
1 pair
Cai
RILEY BROTI
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 I:
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hand
2 Infants’ Long Flannels Long
1 Haireord Monthly Oowh riehl.
2 Infants’ Rollers 1 Infan
4 dozen Diaper Squares Squa
Puff Box, Puff, & Powdeif silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infan
2 Bibs Bilk 1
1 Pair of Wool Boots Can
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
JB2 Stockma n*i £2 ]
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trv sera 2 Nigh
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chem
mm
jf^jar^a^dwlßS
■PS
£9!
3*
i
H
=r» s#
&fo
M
'f . C\
m
.
VIRTUTIB GLORIA MERGE
COALCLIFF C<
ONE OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
TN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Trickett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
“ I have found St. JACOB’S OIL a sura and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex-
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.”
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about; and now ha says
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, are
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PRICE HALF-A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFFNUNO & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George-street.
I. JACOBS & Co., Hunter-street,
PERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
ft—-
COLLI*
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
BON -ACCOR
„ WORKS,
SELF EALING FLOUR
rr
TRAD
MARK
4-
YEAST POWDEE.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Count
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with ]
This GASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga*, and, wl
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity ol
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic fe
T ALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAE, CHANDLEES,
ders them completely impervious to UAmrJNhiss. can De a
Particulars on Application to
PINDLAT So BAYNES, Bell’s Chau
wOOD W A R D’S 0Y S T
Medalists and Special Prize holdei
Patentees for the Celebrated MAESHALL WIND
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
hnildinp use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumi
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than SI
DAMP RESISTING SOL
[f yo"" bo_Tm TUMP WALLS in vour house, use CALLENDER
(
/
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT ’
f
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEG
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE Fi
H
Every
M ANUFA OTOE'S
Georqe-strekt West,
fESTABLISHED 30 YEA]
ODGS O N ’ S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Goulbura-etree
E. EODBSI
Wholesale and Rets
WHIP THONG MANUFACI
Description of Kangaroo and C
Made to Order.


Chemists and Dr
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GREAT LITER
And Successful substitute for <
Podophyllum, and all N<
Famous as a Restorative to Hes
Famous as an Invigorator of th
Famous for the Cure of all Disc
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Toni
gives cold, and
Thb most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE I
Invented and Prepar
J. S. ABE.
At the Lahorat
454 GEORGE STREET
COUGH WHILE YOU Cj
taking Dr. Thompson’s Am
Linctns, you will net be able t;
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 15
Punch's Hotel.
Tickle tour appeti
tralian Relish, made by
177 Pitt street, price one shilling
OF GOOI
We beg to draw
PARTICULAR ATT
to the
ASIATIC TEA
PACKET TI
Packed In pounds and bs
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2j. and
PURE INDIAN TEA,
2s. 6d.
PURE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d.
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d,
Special Quotations given to IV
Country Orders promptl;
ASIATIC TEA CC
279 PITT STREET (next
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U
182 PITT STRI
from
D. JONES &
Respectfully invites an inspecl
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTI
BEDSTEi
BI
All of the best quality, and sel
RELIABLE MANUFACTURER
Furniture re-covered and carpe
charges.
George
(Formerly of Geo
IMPORTER O
CHINA GLASS AND EA
Begs to announce that he ha
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC
where every article in the above 1
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERS J
SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a
at the
SYDNEY A»(
SINGER'S SEWING !
ARE MADE ONLI
The Singer Mannfhctnr:
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUABS, NEW
Chief Office in Eur
39 POSTER LANE,
Depot for New Sonth
NO. 1 DARLING STORES, HA;
BTDHET.
SINGER’S SEWING 1
HAYS
All the Latest ImproT
SINGER’S SEWING A
FOR
Largest Variety of i
SINGER’S SEWING 1
FOB
Strength and Beauty o
SINGER’S SEWING A
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, ar
SINGER’S SEWING J
FOX
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SEWING A
FOB
Kilting, Cording, and
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TEEMS—2a. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERT
Offices in Sydne
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
stores, harbour i
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., C
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR
NARANDERA. PARRj
227 QUEEN STREET, Bi
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
gINQER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED I
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MAN!
TIME PATMEN’
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week
And ho ihterest cl
10 per cent, off for <
BEWARE OP I MIT
Agehts for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
S
I
N
Gr
E
R
THE ONLY " SING
TURNER k
Opposite
JOHMSTOI
SEWING MAOHII
HATMARKE'
n
Maefa /
Public Compaz
|IHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN!
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Fum
Directors ;
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; \
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J<
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrooht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Boxwood
London Office: 18 King Willii
BEANCHES IN NEW SOL
Albnry, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bourke, Bundarra, Csssilis, Com
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulb
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, ]
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Heckle
ton. South Grafton, Temora, T«
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wall send,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Wood bum, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE:
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravens wood, Rockhampton, Stant
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Color
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BT ACT OP 1
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Pond.
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.IM
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wb. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Soroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BEANCHES:
687 George-street, Brickfield 1
Girilambone; Goaf
LONDON BANKE
The National Proyinoial Bar
London Office: 15! Leader
Director: Edward Chapi
Agent: G. H, Alex and
This bank transacts all usual Ba:
Agency Business on the most favor
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
Other produce shipped to England i
T GRAHAM
** • IMPORTER AND GENES
17 BRIDGE STEI
Chief Agent foi
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSUEi
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBAI
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELE:
SCOTCH WHISE
AITCHISON’S PALI
THOMAS WEBB
269 GEOBGE I
Business Announcements
i
527STEAMBEDDING MANUFACTORYS27
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
and
FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £lOO
T. WRIGHT, 629 Georgs.street, Brickfield Hiil,
SYDNEY.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 236)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evknino
News Office.
READ THIS ! f
THE BAKING- POWDER
MANUFA C TU RED. BV US AND KNOWN
AS DOCTOR
has a wide Reputation for
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
AND THE CHEMiCALJUDGES OF THE
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST:AND
BEST IN THE WORLD
BY AWARDING TO US THE
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAK ING POWDEf? SECTION
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER'PACKETS
OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
WILLIAM S "DAVIES &, COY.
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-sheUers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wiunra
Wood,
fto., Ac., ho.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T. WIMBLE I CO;
STEREOTYPE,
AN D-
Fonndry
v
—AND —
P
IRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St„ Hunter St,
SYDNEY.
'Also at 70 LITTAC COLLINS STEZET, MZLBOUEITE.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER h lEONFOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE GIRDERS.
AND STOVES,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF OVENS,
safes deed
AND BOXES,
DOORS.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUND:
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STEEE
T


w.
HOWARD SMIT
STEUTH’S WHARF and j
(Foot of King-str
Offices : 7 SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and F
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARTBOROUGB
and
EOCKHAMFI
On TUESDA
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITE
o
E I
The following Steamships.
ORIENT CO., and the PACIF
SYDNEY at noon on the nndert
LONDON, via Melbourne, AdeJaid
steamer’s option), the Suez Canal,
and fortnightly there
SALOON PASSENGERS allow
journey.
ORIENT PARCELS EXPRESS
or 6d. per lb.
PASSAGES FROM LONDON
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDON :-F.
and (ANDERSON, ANDERSON a
Avenue, E.C.
PASSAGE MONEY. 15 to 70 (
tioulars on application to
G. S. YUILL,
General Man
267 George-street.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY A
The fresh food and ice
to inform the public that tl
pleted arrangements which will ena
a REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY
and are in a position to take on fresh
may be given to men on carts, or sei
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARL
CASH PRICE LIST OF W
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
FOREIGN WINE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There has been a miserable response to the
appeal for funds for a monument to the brave Mrs.
Watson.
Sir W. F. Stawell, Chief Justice of Victoria,
resigns bis posiiion as Chancellor of the Melbourne
Univirsity.
Colonel St. Hill, of vice-regal private-secretary-
ship notoriety, is about to become a candidate for the
Tasmanian Parliament.
The Mr. J. E. Kelly, whose letters to the Herald
on Water Storage have attracted so much attention, is
the Mr. Kelly who formerly ran Stockwhip.
Seven natives of New South Wales recently met
by accident on the verandah of the Boyal, Charter*
Towers. The lightest in weight turned the scale at 13
stone.
Mr. T. P. De Conroy Browne, who, at one time,
was, like ourselves, “jugged” for opinion’s sake, has
commenced business as a mining expert, arbitrator, and
agent in Sydney.
Garnet Walch is to edit a new magazine, to be
yclept United Australia, and to be published simul-
taneously in the four principal cities of Australasia.
Let us hope it will “ gee.”
Lieutenant-Colonel Pitzroy, the dashing blonde
of Adelaide, has resigned his office in the S.A. Volun-
teer Military Force. Fitz. will now bend his whole
intellect to his legal duties.
Archibald Forbes says that if he were a general
he would shoot every war correspondent who came
within 50 miles of his army, but not being a general, his
ideas don’t turn towards suicide.
Among the distinguished Victorians who have
of late visited Sydney is Mr. E. Wallen ('* Angles ** of
the Australasian, and editor of the Australasian
Banking and Insurance Eecord.)
It is said Archbishop Crete’s visit to Australia
is at the Pope’s request, and his mission is to get the
size of somebody’s head for a red hat, and to heal the
differences among the R.C.’s of Queensland.
Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, is
63 years old, and is still as game as a bull-dog, as bitter
as gall, as relentless as a garage, and as truthful—well,
as truthful as it’s possible to be in NorthjQueensland.
The biggest little man in the North of Queens-
land is that well-known man of commerce, Isidor Liss-
ner. He is only about 4ft. 6in. high, but his heart weighs
more than the whole bodies of half-a-dozen other men.
Epigram by the late Mr. Charles Whitefoord, of
the Victorian Railways Department: —
“ O that my past time to pastimo all were given 1
My past sports here I fear will ne er
A passport be to heaven 1"
Professor Pepper has opened a laboratory in
Queen-street, Brisbane, “ where he intends holding
morning and evening classes for teaching practical
chemistry and physical science. Analyses will be made,
advice given, &c.”
Awkward enquiries connected with the election
of a successor to a colonial bishop have elicited the
somewhat startling fact that only one of a certain set
of clergymen is a University man. All the others have
shoddy degrees, or none at all.
Hugh Moaman, one of the prospectors of
Charters Towers, who recently had his left hand shat-
tered by an explosion of dynamite, is a native of New
South Wales, and was the Adam Lindsay Gordon of
Queensland in a steeplechasing sense.
Mr. W. A. Guesdon.the owner of Darriwell and
Dorebin, who stands for Central Hobart at the ensuing
election?, has pluokily announced publicly that he will
not permit his agents to bribe the electors, and will re-
sign the seat if he finds his orders disobayed.
This is what Victor Hugo regards as a poetic
synthesis of a Briton’s life and. sentiments :
“Pour chasser la spleen,
J’entrai dans une inn,
Ou j'ai bu dn gin.
God save the Queen!’’
Captain Amora, who while in charge of the
steamer Llewellyn, so distinguished himself as to
obtain at the hands of the Insurance companies a sub-
stantial recognition of his pluck and seamanship, was
formerly shipping reporter of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph.
Old John Woodcock Graves, author of “ D’ye
ken John Peel,” the most celebrated and inspiriting
hunting song ever written, is still living, an octogena-
rian, at Hobart—and (alas !) in very impecunious cir-
cumstances. Wealthy Australian huntsmen should
note this.
W. 0. Hodgkinson, who was once one of the
jolliest of Bohemians, and is now Gold Warden of the
Palmer, is not as strong as he used to be; neither is his
liquor. He has had a mortal quarrel with James
Hennessy and Walker and Sou, and now revels in flagons
of Adam’s ale.
A certain newspaper man who was once im-
prisoned in Darlinghurst, got out on habeas and went
with his keeper the rounds of the eity caravanserais.
At closing time the warder was thoroughly mellow, and
was safely handed by the “prisoner” over to the
custody of the gaol authorities.
Hicks, the Insurance conspirator and traitor,
likes to vary his occupations. He had, at latest, been
arrested for indecently assaulting a little girl, named
Anne ..iymonds, aged 11 years. Perhaps he'll be sorry
now that he didn’t get “ over the border" without wait-
ing for his lather’s bail to be squared.
The result of the Tasmanian Rifle Regiment
row is that it has been decided to accept the resigna-
tions of Major Fysh and Captain O’Boyle—rather a Sill
for those gallant warriors, who resigned in a tiff. Cap-
tain (“Swankey") Smith, the bona at the quarrel, is
to be “ put on the ‘ unattached list.’ ”
Young Forbes, son of the District Court Judge,
once of the world-renowned “Eomanys” (N.S.W.),
is a member of Harkins’ “Colonel" company, and
plays an aesthetic youth to the life. They expect to do
a big season in Sydney, and why not, with the legal
sunflower gloater ? We shall be glad to see Mr. Forbes
prosper.
H.R.fl. the Prince of Wales gave his auto-
graph to Sir Samuel Wilson in a letter re the proposed
Eoyal College of Music. Sir Samuel, who isn’t of
Eoyal extraction, tut has a fiery complexion, and isn't
hadf so well-bred as hia own stud rams, found it neces-
sary to balance matters by writing his autograph on|a
cheque for £lOOO.
Mr. Hugh Kennedy, for many years registrar of
Sydney University, not being well enough to resume
work, Mr. Bartf, his locum tenens, has been permanently
appointed to hia office. It is greatly feared that Mr.
Kennedy, for whom much sympathy is felt in literary
and scholastic circles, will never recover; he is the un-
happy victim of deep-seated mental disease.
John Macrossan, the Queensland Minister for
Eailwaya, is about to visit Sydney. John was nearly
tortured to death by the stinging.tree while going
through the scrub between Cairns and Hcrberton by
way of Kobsou’s Track, the other day. He is a little
man, pretty ugly, but bard-working and intelligent, asd
was, not so many years since, engaged in reefing.
A Mr. Stone died some time ago in America
worth £6,000,000, and it has only lately been found that
he has eight relatives alive to claim the sum. Three
are resident in New South Wales— two of them, pretty
girls, living within a quarter of a mile of The Bulletin
office, and one is a postmaster on the Murray (Tom
Stone), who now thinks of asking for half a day’s leave
of absence.
Despite all his plotting and scheming, turning
and twisting, Sir Charles Cavan Duffy is stilly poor
man He is disposing, or has disposed, of haft place at
Hawthorn, Meluourne. By the way, a Sydneyite
who has just returned from the old country, tried to
buy from him the Australian right of his forthcoming
volume of “ New Ireland,” but C Q. D. declined on the
score that he intended running it himself.
Why the Fenian assassins should have murdered
poor “Cut Cavendish” is a mystery. The Devon-
shire family, up till vary recently, owned large estates
in Ireland, and were rich and generous enough to treat
everyone well. The Cavendishes, all through, are noted
for nothing if not for their thorough good-nature—
much of which, perhaps, descended to them from the
pretty Duchess who bought with a hiss the hatcher's
VOte.
It cost .211,000 in medical expenses to put Gar-
field into hia grave.
Herbert Spencer is about to publish another
volume of his “Principles of Sociology."
Lord Huntley’s recognizances when admitted to
bail, after surrendering himself, amounted to £36,000.
The handsome Mr. Gerald Bailey, equally well-
known in Tasmania as a beau and a gentleman jock, has,
to the great sorrow of womankind in general, got mar-
ried to the younger daughter of the late hon. Captain
Langdon, B.N. There has been some of the usual “ cut
off with a shilling” and “ never-darken-the-doors-
agaia” business, in connection with this marriage.
Gerald is a clergyman’s son, his father being a Canon of
St. David’s,
C. H. Herrington, who has been “ existing" on
the Poet Adelaide News —a penny weekly—for years,
and who, at one time, was a South Australian Minister
of the Crown, has purchased Adelaide Punch. It is to
be hoped ho will improve it a few. By the way, Sowden,
the S A, Register special to the Northern Territory,
recently graduated with Derry. The amount of bonus,
received by Derrington in the present transaction is
carefully concealed.
Queensland has its type of the Sir Joseph Porter,
K.C.8., breed. He once hawked hairpins and shoelaces
on the Bar coo, but now is an Aldermanio magnate of a
thriving town and a member of the 'Ouse. The “ higher
walks ” of drapery are now hia biz., and he tacks on
J.P. and M.L.A, to the end of his name. His last caper
was to challenge a brother alderman to come out in the
back-yard and see whether or not he was a spindle-legged
hairpin. No blood drawn yet.
Mr. Jardine Browning, son of Robert and Eliza-
beth Barrett Browning, the poets, has now settled in
Sydney, with the intention of practising his profession
(that of a barrister), and has taken chambers in Went-
worth Court. Mr, Browning, we hear, at first thought
of locating himself in Melbourne, whither ho proceeded
a month or two ago; but like many other new-comers,
he has finally decided in favour of Sydney as a con-
genial and profitable sphere of action.
Dr. Lewis, formerly assistant-surgeon o£ n.M.S.
Cormorant, and well-known in Sydney and Melbourne,
has been appointed medical officer in charge of the
Rotorua hot springs establishment, N.Z. The Aus-
tralasian Medical Gazette, in congratulating those
patients who may visit Rotorua upon their probabilities
of improvement under his treatment, says that it is
led to believe that the mineral waters of New Zealand
equal in quantity, quality, variety, and temperature
those of Iceland, the Himalayas, Germany, and England
combined.
Eight months have elapsed since the schooner
Southern Cross, which is believed to have foundered in
a gale that succeeded her departure, left Sydney for the
South Seas, having on board, among others, Mr. F. P.
Fairfax, a member of the staff of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph. The insurance companies have now settled
with the owners of the vessel. Mr. Alex. Bnrgoyne, a
well-connected young fellow, who, from letters received
since the sailing of the Southern Cross, would appear to
have succeeded to considerable property in Canada, was
also a member of the erew of the ill-fated vessel.
If H. E. Downer had not called witnesses, Dr.
Horton would probably have been acquitted. This is
what legal experts unite in saying, and, for the
matter of that, so did one juryman whom we happen to
know. It was amusing to watch Pater on seeing that
Downer would persist in this foolish course. He was
universally angry, and muttered to the reporters,
“Downer is a fool.” Pater’s profile, whan in repose,
resembles nothing so much as a notched meat-axe.
When the learned gentleman is cross it seems nothing
bat oblique angles. His complexion suits his profile.
Here is a sharp epigram from an Ultra-Conser-
vative home paper, on Greece sending marble for a bust
of Mr. Gladstone:—
“ While Woolner’s hand in classic mood
Carving the Premier’s pate is,
Hellas, to show her gratitude.
Sends us her glad stone gratis !
Oh I could this country stone for stone
Return the gilt genteelly.
And from Britannia send her own
Gladstone to H-lle as freely 1”
Mrs. Marcus Clarke, widow of the gifted author,
will shortly resume her old profession, the stage, on
which she was popularly known as Marion Dunn. The
last engagement, prior to her marriage, which the little
lady filled was with poor Walter Montgomery, whom she
supported as Ophelia, Desdemona, Mrs. Mildmay, Ac.
But it was in comedy and burlesque that her charm
especially lay. By the way, it is reported that Coppin,
the ancient and clever, is about organising a splendid
company for a farewell tour throughout the colonies,
and that with him will go Mrs. Clarke, who will make
her bow of re-appearance, while the “ Artful Dodger ’’
makes his salaam of exit.
Prom the style of the Rev. William Henderson’s
speech at the Melbourne Presbytery, and his well-known
repudiation of the harsher elements of his Church's
creed, it seems probable that another Strong case will
be heard of before long. In his church in Ballarat
there is far more Carlyle talk than Catechism, and
venerable sna filers would like to upset “Wally,” as his
people call him. Wully is master of all the European
languages, except the Sclavonian, and is the most
learned man in Victoria. When he wants a drink, he
walks into a bar and takes it, and will not hunt around
for a side door. He has sixty-seven pipes, but favours
a black clay.
A curious case—in some respects almost parallel-
ing, in others outpassing, that of “ Ouida’s" Bertie Cecil
in “ Under Two Flags ’’—has just ended. Capt. Dudley
Fieschi Heneage was, fifty years ago, one of the most
fashionable men of fast society in London. He flattered
the wings of pleasure till his fortune flitted away; then,
broken .md bankrupt, heretired from his'regiment (10th
Hussars), ard took service under the Turkish Govern-
ment. For years be was ene of the hardest and most
dashing riders between Belgrade and Stamboul, gallop-
ing to and fro across Servia with despatches. After a
brief return to England, iiß arried a native lady, settled
in Belgrade, and ended his romantic career there a few
months back.
Norman Taylor, of Yicfcoriau, geological cele-
brity, who is now in Queensland, objected to some
remarks made in the Northern Miner in reference to
him, and interviewed the editor, the : redoubtable
Thadeus. Having scathingly glanced at the time-wem
sexagenarian and contemptuously addressed him, the
disciple of the author of “ Footprints of the Creator ”
stepped into the footprints of the Devil and atnaored
the newspaper man across the face with a copy of hu
own publication, whereat the Kerry blood in the old
man boiled, “and he went for that”—civilised geolo-
gist. Having succeeded in flooring his man, Thadens
grasped his blackthorn, and blows fell thick and fast on
the body of the unfortunate Norman, who beat a hasty
retrest from the premises of the Miner, and left his
grisly enemy in proud possession of the situation.
Mr. Alfred Tennyson’s new national song is of
the Rampantest-most-Jingosome-Ashmead-Bartiettest-
down-with-everybody-else— one-jolly-Englishman-can-
whack-’em-all order. “ Hands all Round ”is simply a
beer and blood drinking song. The patriot is urged to
steal and to swig, and to slaughter without intermission,
ter the greatness of England. The sentiments of the
■ong would go down admirably in a thieves’ kitohen.
The captain could roar it, while his •* pardners ’’ who
had helped him to burgle raised the tankard and swore
to defend the booty concealed on the premises. The
traitors to be confounded would naturally be the con-
verted thieves who might want to restore some of the
swag to its original owners. Strange how that which in
the individual is loathed as murder and robbery becomes
in the nation glory and patriotism. Tennyson’s latest
will take equal rank in years to come with Mr. Blue-
skin’s “Nix my Dolly, pais, fake away.”
With respect to the case of Dr. Lamson, the
Wimbledon murderer, who was known to be poor, a
home journal remarked that it was surprising how well
off a man suspected of murder suddenly becomes. One
moment he is without the means of getting a night’s
lodging or a loaf of bread, the next it is found that
three or four eminent counsel are “retained on his
behalf.” However, Lamson’s life was insored for a
considerable sum, and on tho payment of the last pre-
mium a few weeks before the trial express inquiry was
made aa to whether capital punishment would prevent
the sum insured for being paid, and the company replied
that it would not. So that there was ample security for
the solicitors to work upon. If Lamson were condemned,
there was the insurance money; if he were acquitted
well—there was the money coming to him from hia
dead brother-in-law, though this laiter sum would in
any case go to Mrs. Lamson, who will probably, by the
time the lawyers have been paid, get little of the life
assurance. Lamson confessed his guilt, but the evidence
against |him was not nearly so conclusive as it was in
the Sheffield poisoning case against Kata Dover; and
in her case it was not satisfactorily shown for what
purpose she wanted the arsenic which it was proved she
had purchased—a point mode a great deal of in the
Lamson case as regards the aconitine.
All who are familiar with Washington Irving
will be : interested at hearing that the great block of
grey granite erected the year before last by Cyrus W.
Field on the spot at Tappan where Major Andr 6 was
arrested as a spy in 1780 has been fearfully mutilated by
some unknown person, who replaced the inscription
bearing the name, “ Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, Dean of
Westminster,” by soma doggerel of his own, written
on a sheet of paper and pasted over Dean Stanley's
name. Here is one verse—
Too long hath stood the traitor’s shaft
A monument to shame;
Built up to praise a traitor's craft.
To sanctify ill fame.
Are freemen bound to still forbear.
And meekly still implore.
When conquered foes their altars rear
Within our very door f
Father Eoche was quietly buried in the Adelaide
cemetery, the other day. Rounsevell and others who
should have known better, lent the recreant priest
money, and he posed as the manager and “editor"
of the thing which imitated this journal so far as title
is concerned. Roche was as competent for aorobatism
as for literature. Hirvie Linklater and other scribes
slung mud for him, a wealthy old maid became platoni-
cally infatuated with him—and was spoken of by him
in public as an “old hen." Yet he condescended to
thrash a rhymster who printed some verses detailing
the affair, he also condescended to accept financial
subsidies from his mature inamorata and other
feminine fools. Roche's co-religionists stuck to
him manfully; yet when he threatened to curse
the crops of the poor Irish farmers in the North
unless they would subscribe (payments in advance) to
his mean rag, the Vicar-General was forced to issue an
advertisement warning the flock against his quondam
associate. Roche’s “immoderate excesses," backed up
by paralysis, killed him. He was for a time ill
at a Qlenelg hotel, the landlord whereof got Roche’s
admirers to guarantee the bill. Roche greatly admired
eertain frisky actresses, and gushed about them in his
paper in a most nauseous style. He died in the Nor-
wood Convent in the V odour of sanctity.”
Archibald Forbes met face to face is not exactly
the man he is painted. His eyes ate not always
looking into the midmost core of the world, his (lips
are not always set as an iron vyce, nor does his chin all
day long overhang the colnmn of his throat as a visible
symbol of determination. There is at once a kindliness
and a raggedness about the man which the artist
utterly fails to depict. His eyes of clear steel grey, are
bright as stars, but convey an infinitude of varying
expressions, tho whole face in fact is exceedingly
mobile, and lights and glooms with every change
of thought. His manner is distinguished by per-
fect self-possession and courtly ease—no man could
carry a load of honour more lightly. He speaks
of kings, princes, and generals as equals of the men
who sit in “ the gallery" at home and make copy
by the light of midnight oil as friends. “If I
am anything,” he says, “I am a journalist.” He
claims no oratorical gifts, is, in fact, a poor speaker,
talks with difficulty, and would bo lost without the
printed words before him. He began to lecture because
ho thought he had something to say—something that
the world had not read, but might with profit and
pleasure hear. Having begun to lecture it was a neces-
sity of his nature to lecture well; he put the labours of
a life in the crucible, and brought out nothing but
ingots of retorted gold. The narrowest light and
deepest shadows of all the wars that have ravaged the
world through the last ten years are seen and realised
while he stands at his desk and reads, or speaks,
from memory. Ha cannot do a talking lecture like
Sala, or Labouchere, or Charles Dickens, the best
talker of any who tried both to talk and
write. The accent of his mother tongue creeps
lovingly in as ho becomes familiar; it is quite
unknown when, in fierce, fiery Saxon, he tells of the
screech of shells and the whistle of balls. In years he
has not yet reached the meridian of life, but he has
rammed tho labours of ten foil lives into his forty years,
and it is not a matter of surprise if the magnificent body
has felt the strain. Ho has tried every limb and every
vital organ to the utmost—has incurred debts to each ;
and now they have become to him not claimants only,
but creditors who will dun him till the end. He is a
man to greet with a ringing cheer, to bid farewell to with
an earnest sigh, to make us feel that Britain yet
brings forth men, and that brotherhood with such a
man is something whereof to be proud.
• • •
Tennyson’s “ New National Song,” one of the
greatest pieces of drivel ever written by anybody in any
tongas or at any time, is an old friend in new attire.
At least twenty-five years ago, a poem by Mr, Tenny.
son, containing several of the lines to be found in this
recently issued effort, appeared in the Examiner,
signed “ Merlin," a nom de plume which it was under-
stood masked the nominal identity of “ Miss Alfred,”
as the then Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton called him
Sir Sydney Waterlow, ex-Lord Mayor of London, who
was a widower, and has several grown up daughters,
was married on 28th March, at Paris, to Miss Hamilton,
a very young American lady; and a noble lord of 72 is
going to marry a young lady who was bom but 18 years
ago Five new baronets in England, and Sir Samuel
Wilson not included; says tho Melbourne Herald
Prince Leopold’s wife, Hilena, is of medium height,
beautiful figure, dark hair, and charming face and
manners Sir George Bowen is likely to be the next
Governor of Ceylon General (U. 8.) Grant has been
pensioned; £2OOO a year Earl of Mountcasbel, 89, is
the oldest peer in existence A Rockhampton doctor
is sueing for libel a local alderman who is alleged to
have said that he (the doctor) sent patients suffering
from loathsome diseases *to bathe in the lagoon
whence tho town| derives its supply of water
Ruzicka, of Nundle, has fossicked 830 ounces
gold since Dec. 3. That will keep him in rations
Tennyson has just recovered from a sharp attack of
gout in the right arm. It is the first time he has ever
suffered from this painful complaint Don Philippe
de Bourbon, second son of the Count d’Aquila, is about
to marry Miss Mackay, the American heiress, daughter
of the Nevada “ Bonanza King." Cardinal Manning
will be presented at Court this year, also Cardinal How-
ard. It’s not known what Mr. Newdegate will say to
this Mr. Labouchere was one evening asked in the
Commons what he thought of the oratorical powers of a
member who was speaking. “He always makes a good
speech when ho is drunk," was the reply Tho Earl
of Shrewsbury, who eloped with Mrs. Miller-Mundy,
is still unmarried. It appears that the Queen’s Proctor
has had something to say in the matter
Dr. Tanner, tho once well-known faster, is living in
Buffalo, and occasionally delivers lectures upon the uso
of alcohol It was not Ashmead-Bartlett-Burdett-
Contts, but his brother, tho member for Eye, who was
“ pilled ” so ruthlessly at the Oxford and Cambridge
Club The late Earl Wilton left hia sort£6o,ooo a year.
Lord Winchelsea was asked to become patron of
tho Northampton Horticultural Society. Ifi reply he
wrote: —“ Sir, —I think that the City of Northampton,
having been fortunate enough to secure the flowdss of
Mr. Labouohere’s eloquence and the fruits of Mk.
Bradlangh’s philosophy, stands in no need of any other
horticultural exhibition.” Neat, very The action
brought by Mr. Belt, the sculptor, against Yakut
Fair, was to bo tried after Easter Mr. Robert
Laurence Conacher, lately manager of Terang (Vic.)
branch of Colonial Bank of Australia, has been
appointed managing representative at Levuka. Fiji, of
the Mortgage and Agency Co. of Australia, capital
£500,000 Tho proprietors of a Christchurch paper
particularly announce that Mr. M. Mosely, “ who be-
came notorious by the many thrashings he received
while editing • Liberty ’ ” is not on their etaff A. P.
Martin went to N.Z. direct, and will not visit Sydney.
The matinee and presentation were fizzles Y.M C.A.
of Adelaide has asked Archibald Forbes to lectors
under its auspices Monsieur Guette. acting director
of the telegaph and postal services of New Caledonia*
has died at Noumea...FrederickSzarvady, an old friend^
of Kossuth, has died in Paris at the age of 89 year?. 1
Levy Lawson, the deceased proprietor of the London
Daily Teliobaph newspaper, left two millions sterling.
But what's the good of two millions sterling when you
are “lately deceased ?" C. £. Jonea lecturing in
the Western district of Victoria.


ELYSIUM ELYSIUM ELYSIUM.
ENFIELD HEIGHTS.
AT LAST. AT LAST.
NEARLY 100 (ONE HUNOEED) AGEES,
subdivided into
VILLA SITES,
BUSINESS SITES,
MECHANICS’ HOMES.
Immense prospective value, in view of the
projected
Tram Extension to Canterbury and
Bankstown.
SALE DAY,
NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 13.
at 2 p.m. sharp,
ON THE QEOUND,
and
POSITIVELY WITHOUT THE SLIGHTEST
EESEEVE.
JUST NOTE THE TEEMS.
They are the easiest ever offered in Sydney.
£3 DEPOSIT ON EACH LOT purchased; the
balance by 21 equal monthly instalments
WITHOUT INTEEEST,
or
10 PEE CENT. DISCOUNT POE CASH.
Elysium.— Every lot for UNRESERVED SALE.
Elysium.— Every ROAD 66 FEET WIDE.
Elysium.— PUßLlC SCHOOLS. CHURCHES,
BUSINESS PKEMISES close by.
Elysium.— HEATON PARE, the residence of
W. SMITH, Esq., and those of
HODGSON, Esq., HoOKEE, Esq., and
Captain BEEMNEK, adjoin the estate.
Elysium.— ALL GOOD HIGH LAND.
Elysium. — ln the Vicinity of CLAREMONT and
ADELAIDE PARK.
Elysium.— For the WORKING MAN, either as
an INVESTMENT or for HOMES,
because it offers cheap land at a fraction
of the price asked for LAND in the
other suburbs.
Elysium.— For the SPECULATOR, because here
they can obtain CHEAP LAND which has
an IMMENSE PKOSPECTIVE VALUE,
in view of the projected tramway from
CANTEBBUKY to BANKSTOWN.
Elysium.— For the CAPITALIST, GOOD
BUBBOUNDINQB, WIDE STBEETB,
DELIGHTFUL DEIYES, UNBIVAL-
LED VIEWS, BBACING ATMO-
SPHEEE.
Elysium.— FOß EVERYBODY, BUSINESS,
VILLA, AND BUILDING SITES,
BLOCKS, or Allotments, GOOD SOIL.
MAGNIFICENT VIEWS, TOBEENS’
TITLE, and EIDICULOUSLY EASY
TEEMS.
Elysium.— NOTE THE TERMS'LAGAIN: Only
£3 DEPOSIT per lot; the balance by 21
equal monthly instalments, WITHOUT
INTEEEST, or 10 per cent, discount for
cash.
Elysium.— TlTLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
Elysium.— NO RESERVE. NO RESERVE.
Elysium. —FßEE PASSES for TRAIN and
BUSES now Eeady.
Elysinm.-«r PLANS ON APPLICATION.
Elysium. —Remember THE DAY of SALE,
NEXT BATUEDAY, 13th MAY, at
S p.m., ON THE GEOUND.
BAIT, ROOD, AND PURVES.
AUCTIONEEES.
BOOMS, 88 Pitt-street.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
EEPOSITOEY,
COBNEE CLAEENCE AND MAEGAEET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING. IMPORTER.
VC
iuvSt)
/AY/
NO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS,
rn- PREPARED ONLY BY * ... '
Thomas in«ham
Wa
ENNESS
GORED
.D 1 will toe paid for any t
deIUU case that the Double 1
Cliloride of Gold Cure for |
DRUUKEMESS I
will not permanently cure.
4> it Is recommended toy ttoe r °„
I leading rtoyslcians. Hope-
t lees cases invited. Send
( stamp for book and testi-
monials from people you
* know.
——«i2l
LESLIE E. KEELEY, M.D.
S. FRESHMAN,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE,
359 GEORG& ST.. SYDNEY.
Mr. T. P. DeCOURCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
Author of the " Miners’ Handy Book,” &0., &0.,
MINING EXPERT,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISEB, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
126 PITT STREET,
{Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also, „ , ,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &0., &o.
JAMES S. BRAY,
(Late Secretary Intercolonial Life and Fire Assoon.)
Bogs to inform his friends and the Public,
that he has commenced business on his
own account as
INSURANCE BROKER, ARBITRATOR
and
ADJUSTER OP FIRE CLAIMS.
House, Estate, and General Agent,
ACCOUNTANT, &o.
•3- OFFIG
KET CHAMBERS,
472 George-strcet.
CROSS’S W
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will- CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Sold in bottles, 2a. 61. and 4s. 61., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee :
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viet. ; M.H.P.5.,Gt.8.,
GAWLER, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNQ & CO.
VISIT
(Late Newman),
THE POPULAR
PHOTOGRAPHER
374 late 392 George Street,
Next Post Office.
For those ENAMELLED BOUDOIR CABINETS
and Cards, so much admired at this ESTABLISH-
MENT Especial Attention given to BABIES and
CHILDREN. OLD P BOTOGBAP HS copied, enlarged,
and finished in OIL, WATER COLOUR and INDIAN
INK.
SPECIMENS ON VIEW AT THE DOOE,
PRICES MODERATE.
car Note the address
374 late 392 George street,
Next Post Office.
BARTLBMY PAIR
COMMENCES QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY.
BARTLEMY PAIR
OLD EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
BARTLEMY PAIR
This will be a REAL revival of an English Fair.
BARTLEMY PAIR
A THOUSAND AMUSEMENTS
for
ONE ING.
BARTLEMY FAIR
TWELVE HOURS’ AMUSEMENT.
MIRTH, FUN, AND JOLLITY.
____
BARTLEMY PAIR
Four distiuct entertainments always going.
NO EXTRA CHARGE after the first shilling.
Tram open to the door.
' s ~’:
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and yonr
Parasols Be-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Sullivan's
6-tl George-strcet,
Brickfield-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
THE NUMEROUS AND WELL STOCKED DEPARTMENTS of our PALACE EMPORIUM,
contain almost Every Article Eequired, either by Lady or Gentleman, for Personal Adornmen
or Household Requisites, all under one roof; and are kept up by regular and constant shipments from
England and the European continent, where our Mr A. HORDERN is ever on the look out, deter-
mined to procure, at the Earliest Moment, any of the varied novelties in Styles and Materials con-
stantly being placed on the London, Paris, Berlin, and Continental Markets. Knowing this to be the
case, we say, with confidence, that no other Establishment in Australia can offer their patrens any-
thing like the advantages te be derived in purchasing at THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HATMAEKET
(only), where all goods are NEW. because of the quick turn over for CASH, where all goods are of the
LATEST STYLES, owing to tne constant supervision in buying, and close communication with the
BEST MANUFACTURERS, and whore goods are from 30 to 40 per cent, cheaper than elsewhere, be-
cause of our OLD, and WELL-ESTABLISHED CASH SYSTEM, in addition to the above.
LADIES HATS and BONNETS.—Latest Novelties
and Newest Styles, comprising hats in Plush,
Velvet, and Beaver. Hats and Bonnets in Satin
and Plush, Chenille, Beal Sealskin, Imitation
Sealskin, Bussian Seal, &o. ho.
MILLINEET.—Choicest and Best Selected Assortment
of French and English Millinery in the
Colonics. .Ladies Bonnets, trimmed Flash and
Feathers, from 15s 61. Ladies’ Bonnets, trim-
med Satin and Plush with tips, from 21s. Also
a large variety of Children’s trimmed Hats, from
5s 6d each.
FEATHEEB, &c.—A Large and Well-assorted Stock ef
White O.S. Flats, 2s lid to 30s. Coloured O.S,
Flats, 2a 6d to 255. Shaded O.S. Fiats 3s lid to
25a. Coloured 0.8. Flumes, Hackle-Coque
Ostrich Plumes, Jancer Ends. Aigrette Tufts,
Princess Tufts, Marabout, Coque Chenille,
Birds. Ac., ho.
OENAMENTB, Ac -Silver, Steel, Gold, Jet, ho. Hat
and Bonnet Ornaments in great variety of tha
latest novelties.
PAEACHUTES, Ac —Ladies’ Black Satin Sunshades,
Trimmed Black Lace, Ladies Lustrine Sun-
shades, and Black Satin Sunshades, frilled,
Twill Silk and Levantine Parachutes.
MANTLES AND JACKETS.—Ladies’ Jackets, Man.
ties, Ac., in unequalled variety, from 5s lid to
8 guineas. Beautiful goods for stylo and quality
—creations of English, French, and German
artists. The beautiful Military Jacket, the
perfect Velvet Brocade Jacket, Silk Brocade
Paletots, Satin de Lyon Mantle, Merveillenx de
Soi Mantle, Eich Corded Silk Mantle.
CHILDREN’S JACKETS.—In all sizes, materials, and
shapes.
COSTUMES.—The Leading Novelties, as worn in Lon-
don, Paris, and Berlin, in French Cord, Cash-
mere, Bective, Tweed, Ac-, Ac., from 21s to 50s.
Also, a splendid stock of choice Costumes,
from li to 16 guineas.
ILKS AND DEESS GOODS.—A really Immense
Stock of these Goods, recently augmented by
large purchases effected during the late mone-
tary panic in France, and now offered to the
publie at prices very much to the advantage of
purchasers. Cashmeres, Merinos, Ac., all the
new shades and colours j Silks, Satins, Velvets*
Ac., In black and every shade of rich colour for
which the French are so noted.
VELVETEENS.—These goods have recently found
great favour with the Ladies of these colonies;
in fact, they recommend themselves for beauty,
style, and durability. About 1000 pieces in
stock to select from.
HOSIEET.—AII the new goods and latest novelties in
materials and shades. ladles’ and CMjJren’s
Cashmere Hose, in Navy, Prune, Seal, Marone,
Cardinal, Qrenat, Lonted, Brown, Ac. Ladies’
Merino, Gauze, and Bilk Under Vests, in all
makes. White and Fancy Cotton. Hose for
Children, Girls, and Ladies.
EIBBONB.—The Largest and Most Varied Stock of
Eibbons in Sydney, Plush, Satin, Moire, Vel-
vet, Terry, and every other novelty in Eibbons.
All the leading colours, Sash Eibbons, 6 to 9
inches wide, as above.
LACES.—Antique Laces, New Designs, in all widths.
Black Beaded Spanish Antique Laces, the only
fine in Sydney showing the beautiful trimmings.
Florence Lace, 3to 9 inches wide. The now
Bead Collarettes.
GLOVES.—The New Gants de Suede, all eolours and
sizes. Tha Most Sellable Kid Glow, 2 buttons.
Is 9d, 4 buttons, 2s «d. Josephine Kid Gloves,
all sizes. Fabric Gloves—Thread, Taffeta, and
Cashmere. Plain and Fancy Lined. Children
and Ladies.
SPLENDID Assortment Ladies’ Wool Goods, Curtains,
Linen, Damask, Table Covers, Sheeting, Cre-
tonnes, Ao. Ac.
PLEASE CAREFULLY NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
T2iS VEEY SUPEEIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OE SMELLs
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Noz'des, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels,
1\ LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
Mark
Trade
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOR ISON WO E AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHBTANDSHE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEV EE
BLIBTEE CEACK, OE FLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DUEABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST,.EVEETTHING CONSIDEEED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPI F,
S 3 CLAEBNOB-STEffiT, BTDKET.
SOLE AUBTEALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TOEBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
We w> walking up and down our haunted
chamber t i (morning searching for a conceit with
which bo i utroduce these “Shows.” We searched in
our trunk, and found unpaid bills. We searched in our
souls and found nothing. We wanted something that
should combine amusement with subtlety, pathos with
persiflage. At this moment we saw a lady walking along
the other side of the street at a brisk pace. She had a
small reticule in her hand. Presently she met a gen-
tleman with a shaven face, who stopped, saluted her,
and then joined company with her. By the lady's car-
rioge and the gentleman’s gait we judged them to
belong to the profession. They were going to rehearsal.
To us, who knew that they were doing the work of
artists for the pay of bricklayers’ labourers, there was a
piteous undermeaning to the cheerful smiles they wore
upon their faces. It sot us thinking.
• • *
This is what we thought. It is written for
those who have eyes to see and sense to understand.
We need not remark that judges and jurymen are not
addressed. For years and years the “ poor player ” has
been looked down upon. For years and years his feel-
ings have been lacerated, his position as a man ignored.
He depends upon the Press to plead for his art. Ha
leans upon a rotten reed in most cases. Whom do the
daily papers send to criticise him when he is doing
his level best P Curds of asses’ milk as a general
thing; callow-headed critins or venerable imbeciles
who are capable of nothing beyond comparing this play
with that, and underrating to show their ability to
judge at all, or overrating because others have done so
somewhere else. Actors and actresses are men and
women. They are not sticks and stones to be flung
aside with a schoolboy’s quip or an old man’s snarl.
We ourselves have had a gibe at tbeir expense now and
then, but, now and then, have we not had cause ? "We
are not cavilling, however, at our friends of the daily
Press in this city. We speak of averages, not of indi-
viduals. All over the world it is the same. Only here
and there can be found the critic with the heart and
the head to understand what he criticises, and to feel for
the criticised player. A poor little devil mates her
(bftlU one night, like a small rosebud that blossoms
shyly forth among the full-blown roses of the garden.
A fool comes by and plucks the bud before its time.
The critics take down their bludgeons and bruise tbe
poor little devil to death before she Ims had a chance
to live.
• • •
The hard-working and conscientious actor must
not sweat blood because fatuity can be got at so much
a week to malign him. He is a vagabond and a pariah,
but a true man. We have always thought that the tea-
derest-hearted creatures of both sexes we ever met
were poor players.
* * «
Poor player, say you? Thera is an epic of
blood and tears to be written about the poor player
yet. We shall not writs it just now.
• • •
Ladies of the profession, let us be merry for a
moment. Wo are lonely. If yon could resign your-
selves to the Aztec architecture of our face, we would at
once go and lay our heart at your feet. But alas, we
are ill-favoured. You cannot conceive how ill-favoured
unless you think of her who took the part which should
have been given to you in the last play, or the night-
mare you had after that injudicious little supper at
Oompagnoni’s. Whenever you are playing a tragic
part and you feel a shudder in the audience, don’t flatter
yourself that it’s caused by your genius. It simply
indicates that we’ve come in.
* # «
Just as the mention of the Nichomachean ethics
of Aristotle shatter the jaws of the speaker, so does
the everlasting “East Lynne” bring wormy thoughts
and grisly visions to the soul of a man who has to watch
the actor strut his hour upon the stage. An actor
must live, but, dammit, there are times when we wish
him dead.
* * #
We may remark that “East Lynne” is being
played at the Gaiety. Probably it was in view of put-
ting this piece on, that the management printed upon
their programmes that “the chances of getting out of
this building are more reassuring than in any other
place of amusement in the city.” This was thoughtful
and nice, and has no donbt been appreciated by the
audience. The plot of “ East Lynne ” is tame and
threadbare in the first acts, absurdly improbable in the
concluding ones. Mr. Leake is as well aware as anyone
that the play is as much an appeal to that portion of
an audience which craves sensation, as are the dead-
house dramas and family-vault tragedies that nightly
shake the souls of ’Arry and Mariar in the pit of —
well, another city theatre.
# * *
We have no feud against tbe actor, poor devil;
his life is>ough enough. Not one in fifty is as well off
as a trained mechanic ; and he is looked upon as a fair
butt by every mud-headed scribbler whom a Frogtowx
Chronicle or Swamp Flat Herald chooses to send
round with a free pass and to label “ critic.”
• • •
Not against the actor, but against the playright.
Not against Crimean veterans, but against a vile com-
missariat. Why should a man of the stamp of Leake,
a woman of the style of Ada Ward, he compelled to
spout the turgid impossibilities of “ East Lynne ?”
What man who has loved a woman, and trembled with
delight at her every phrase, would be imposed on with
a pair of goggles and the steamy, soupy French of a
French restaurant ? Must a hero or a heroine be both
idiots before an English-speaking audience can melt at
the exhibition of maternal love, and revile the heart-
lessness of low cunniDg ? It seems so.
* • *
Since Mrs. Wood scrawled that legend for the
delectation of slatternly housemaids, a dramatiser has
found that there is enough of skeleton and cross-hone
in it to appeal to a large audience. The thing has been
played and played, and the key of its success is found
in the fact that the dramatiser onee read the story of
that man possessed of devils who sat among the tombs
in Palestine; and he decided that in all communities
there are so many of such Gadarencs, ready to find
amusement in the clatter of bones, and pleased to spend
an hour peering into the eye-sockets of the dead.
“ Bast Lynne” is a coffin comedy—the actors should be
the sheeted dead, and not living, breathing, men and
women, such as we have mentioned. Art should be
turned to the delineation of lusty and hearty life, not
tk« caricaturing of corpse and ghoul.
* # •
It goes against our grain to criticise the per-
formance of this play. We are mad that it should have
to be performed at all. As we must say something,
however, we admit that Mr. W. H. Leake made as much
out of “ Archibald Carlyle” as can be made out of a lay
figure. The hero of the novel is a phlegmatic prig, the
hero of the play a total dummy. Mr A, W. Booth-
man’s “ Captain Levison” was not what a critic with any
lingering respect for the lessons of his early chee-ild-
hood wouldj call an enthralling dramatic study. Still,
A. W. i,is a; good-looking fellow, and a painstaking.
Perhaps, after all, he is about the most realistic repre-
sentative of the character that could possibly be
obtained. Ho seems to be just the man that such a
woman as Lady Isabel would leave her home for. Miss
Ada Ward as Lady Isabel and Madame Vine was always
the graceful houri of our dreams. Ada, in her wildest
grief, never throws herself into any pose that is not
picturesque, fcihe struggled to be as soul-harrowing as
might be, but she is too sweet to bs a success in this
sort of thing. You can never mistake molasses for gall.
The rest of the characters do not stand out prominently
enough to warrant mention.
• • "
The Gav’nor’a misery is nightly repeated at the
Opera House, and a heartless generation beholds it with
uproarious laughter. Marshall’s two small ponies are
the only Sydneyites that sympat hise with him, and,
failing the corporation carts, water King-street daily
with their tears Mr. Jellicoo’shoad and Mr. Jellicoe s
gibe come over the wall every night as of yore, and the
brickbat of the (distracted confectioner has bulged up
the back scenery instead of Mr. Jellicoe’s head.
* * *
The boat-builder’s pipe has not gone out, and
Professor Stanichhas not attended to his ears. Mr. Mac-
clesfield, sen. (Mr. made up his mind as
to the price of his boat, and is going to Lave it in spite of
the wretched stupidity of his wife and daughter, who
would, if let alone, ruin the whole business. To what
purpose does a man build good boats and write expen-
sive advertisements if meddling and intriguing women
are to upset things ?
• * •
To what purpose is soon shown. Did Love ever
draw a long bow and not score ? If Love did. Miss
Carrie Macclesfield and her lover do not. Deaf, or
dumb, the miserable Marshall has to fall in with the
plans of the little winged god; and Miss Carrie will
oarrio off the stammering lover.
» V «
But not without the boat builder’s striped
waistcoat and four-and-ninepenny scarf. Oh, no. If a
boat-builder has a daughter, and that daughter loves a
stammering lover, it stands to reason that that boat-
builder should come up in baggy trousers and Free
Trade bluchers, and air his nautical frame in.the draw-
ing-room of a wealthy sugar dootorer.
* m m
Old Macclesfield enters and clamours about the
settlement. Butterscotch tries to persuade him that
the drawing-room is not the hall of his sires, and the
old man prowls into the next room for corned-beef and
carrots.
• * •
Every other impracticable calls on the distracted
confectioner, and is, in turn, referred to the adjoining
room. A nice congerie. An intriguing second wife
(Heaven send us a first), a powder-headed lawyer, a deaf
boat-builder, an ultra-vinegared pickle-maker, a despair-
ing lover, and a clamorous Scot—all supposed to be
arranging matters in that room, hut in reality, saith
the green-room sage, harkening to the voice of the
prompter.
•
The “ Mohawk Minstrels ” open at the Victoria
Hall on Saturday night. They have just arrived from
several quarters of the globe in three ships. They are
natives of the great continent of Africa, where their
fathers were k ings who used to stalk up and down the
hanks of the Senegal in stove-pipe hats and huttonless
red coats. These were the times that the Mohawks
now mournfully allude to, as they blow the top off their
long-sleevers, as the “glorious days of old.” Never-
theless, it is useless to conceal the fact that there has
been a ready sale out around Wooloomooloo and Surry
Hills way for pots of black varnish and paper cuffs
during the last few days.
* * * *
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Hart’s “ Happy Honrs ”
show follows at the Victoria Hall on Saturday week.
The company is clever, and the entertainment a bright
melange of songs, dances, dialogues, lightning trans-
formations, and so forth. Little operettas and domestic
comedies with Irish, Spanish, Gorman, Kamsehatkan,
and Surry Hills sketches, make up a kaleidoscopic
show, that sends each man in the audience home so
pleased with himself for having gone to see it that he
only kicks two dogs on the way, and drops a bad penny
softly into the hand of the blind fiddler on the Park
steps instead of swearing at him as of yore. Mr. Hart
has done well in all other places he has played in; the
pity is that he could not get some other house than the
Victoria Hall in which to open here. A faw good en-
tertainments of the “ Happy Hours” class might, how-
ever, change the character of this hall for the better.
* * **
The amateurs of Sydney have not as yet fol-
lowed the example of those of Newcastle in attempting
“The Pirates of Penzance.” We are informed that
this attempt is likely to be a success—good scenery,
dresses, and orchestra. A yearning public cries out,
“Where are the Eomanys?” Mats ou sont Lea nciges
d'antanl
* * * *
We have only met one man, although we have
questioned thousands, who thinks nothing of “The
Guv’nor.” But then he is running a rival show.
* * * *
At the Queen’s on Saturday night, “The Shaugh-
rann ” was played to a well-filled house and much music
in a minor key. Plays of this class seem to be interest-
ing to a large section of the theatre-going public. This,
and not their abstract merit, is the cause of their
existence. But they must always be put on in a first-
class manner and with a fair caste, or else they fall as
flat as the dinner beer in a Wyuyard-Square hoarding-
house. This is about the level of “ The Shaughraim ”
at the Queen’s.
» # *
Con is the central figure of the play. Not to
put too fine a point on it, we may say at once that we
cannot congratulate Mr. Burdett Howe on the manner
in which he took this character. This is not because
Burdett isn’t dear to us, hut because terewth is dearer.
It is the fair thing to add that though we laughed
wildly in onr sleeve, the audience applauded him to a
degree that must have been soothing to a noble heart.
This might, however, have been a tribute to Dion
Boncioault and not to Mr. Howe, for the piece is like a
Coffee Palace beauty’s back hair bristling with
“points.” Besides, his brogue is soulless. Throughout
both seemed to be permeated with a deferential apology
for the palpable defect. People look for something
more distinctive to proceed from the mouth of the
rollicking Con. than an occasional “ shpake ” and
“ belave.” The support accorded Mr. Howe was just
about up to the level of his performance, and this was
not higher than the bald eagle of the Rocky Mountains
can soar for a bet. Most of the members of the Com-
pany—which seems to have been recruited in Thibet-
had to wrestle painfully to give their utterances an
Irish flavour. They succeeded as only hardy natives
of the tablelands of Central Asia can. But it was a
terrible struggle.
» * *
Misa Julia Hayward made the moat of her part
as Mova. Miss Marion Willis was worth seeing as
Clare Ffolliot. And then a kind of muffled roar full upon
the ears of the audience, and strong men trembled, and
women fainted away in their arms. They thought it
was au earthquake. But it wasn’t : it was Mr. Charles
Burford coming in as Richard Ffolliot. Charles is
au actor wo admire and love, but when ho tears about
the stage like an elephant full of arrack, wo begin to
wish that he had never left his father’s halls to go upon
the boards, or that he had been a contemporary of the
cave-men when he did. From indifferent to middling
is gorgeous flattery regarding the performances of the
remainder of the cast.
# * •
They seem determined to make use of all
Burdett’s dazzling talents at the Queen’s. “Rip Van
Winkle” and “ Richard III.” are billed for this week.
But ;he hasn’t given n» a trapeze performance. And
then we want to see him eat fire, and take pennies out
of his nose. Until he does these things, we shall, regret-
fully, have to consider that he is nob the Admirable
Crichton the bills announce.
* * * *
The Sydney Liedertafel premises an enjoyable
evening’s entertainment at the Protestant Hall, Castle-
reagh-street, on Friday night, 12th May, under the
homely title of a “ Social Evening." Sociality is to be
promoted by the consumption of ices, tea, and other
fight refreshments during the intervals between the
porformance of the items on the programme.
» * * *
A concert was held in Ashfield last week, in aid
of St. John’s Church Organ Fund. It was a success.
Madame Rosaly Merz and Signora Fabris sang. So did
Dr. Ellis. This reverend vocalist sang one of Sims
Reeves’ songs. It’s a good while since we heard Sims,
hut from what we can remember,wo are almost certain
he was the better singer of the two. Miss H. R.
Woods was the pianiste. Several gentlemen sang three
or four glees. Mr. H. R. Woods sang Giro Pinsuti’s
“ Roll Call” with fine effect. Au instrumental quintette
by Spohr, played by Mrs. Woods, Messrs. T. andj.
Hermann and C. and H. Deeue.is said to have been much
appreciated.
* * * *
The audiences at the Royal are beginning to
thin out a bit on account of the other attractions in
town just now. The jewelled daughters of Judah are
seen no more in the front seats of the circle. Bub the
stalls and the pit are still well patronised. And wo go
into the circle occasionally, and. shine like a baleful
star of desolation upon the pit and the stalls. This
harrows up the hearts of the children in arms down
there and we are happy. Now and then the critics of
tne daily papers burst in, their upper mascillarius
champing upon the lower like the “ fanged jaws of
r ate. This signifies that they have just come out of
the corner bar. hook you, a critic must live.
* -)r -Jr
P n Thursday last, Penrith had a concert, to
raise funds for the Mutual Admiration Society. The
funds are to be expended in increasing the library, and
paying a perpetual subscription to the Bulletin. After
the rev. chairman had explained this, agony com-
raenced. A banker sang “ Captain of the Pinafore,”
with his month so shut that if yon had held a pin afore
his mouth it wouldn’t have found room to get between
his lips. The ellipse was too small. Two inspectors
contributed efforts of genins; and "Trusting" was
sung by a maiden, who after all mayn’t believe in it.
The best song was “ Very improper indeed.” A pretty
schoolmistress presided at the piano, and, after “ God
Save the Queen" had been sung, to the tune of sheaves
going through a threshing machine, the audience es-
caped.
* * * *
Walter "Reynolds is in town. He intends to open
in the Gaiety after "Oblivion” swallows its Leake. We
shall always be glad to see Mr. Leake again, though we
have said one or two hard things about him. He is a
good actor, and a good fellow.
* * * *
Here is a welcome piece of news. The late
Emilie Melville Opera Company was. when the mail
left, being re-organized in New York, and will here-
after be known as Haverly’s Melville Opera Company.
After a short season in the blast, the company comes
to Australia, leaving San Francisco about August.
* * * *
Louise Pomeroy reappears at the Royal, Ade-
laide on the Bth in “Led Astray.” Bho has played
Armande there several times before, and people in the
wheat-producing colony would much prefer a fresh
play with less phlegm in it.
* * * *
Professor A, E, Rice beats everything in the
show business at present in Adelaida. Houses have
fallen off muchly at the Boyal, people getting quite
sick of the Pantomime. Bice, however, obtains decent
houses at Garner’s ; his “ mind-reading ” is simply
wonderful. There is no trickery in it. The audience
choose a committee of from four to eight or nine well-
known perrons. Bice takes each of his committeemen
in turn. He asks him to think of some article in the
theatre and its locality—to keep the picture clearly
before the mind’s eye. Then Bice brings his mind into
a receptive state by seme occult power process, re-
ceives an impression of this mental picture on his
own brain, and finds the object. His partial or com-
plete success evidently depends much on the power of the
committeemen to think clearly and continuously. Bice
says that this faculty become known to him some 13 or
14 years ago. He then taught in a Sunday school, and,
by way of varying proceedings, used to let the children
question him. Involuntarily he began to astonish them
by answering their questions before they wore audibly
put. One day a email child noticed this, and said
“ Mr. Bice, why do you answer my questio before L
ask them?” This set Bice thinking, ana degrees'
ho worked the thing into its present - n pe. He can’t
explain it himself; but many eople • neve that Bice’s
mind-reading is a practical demonstration of the “brain-
waves” theory. With Bice it a Miss Sarah Lewis, a
girl barely 16, a native of Stawell (Vic ), who possesses
an extraordinarily powerful voice. It is full and sweet,
and she can almost lift the roof olf without an effort.
If her people are able anyhow to manage it, they ought
to have her properly cultivated, not only in vocalism,
but as regards general education. At present she is a
very rough diamond—yet a diamond, nevertheless.
Alice Bees, too, came from Stawell, and was less than
16 when she appeared. Thus writes out Adelaide cor-
respondent.
* * * *
To “ Sandy” Gordon, treasurer at the Adelaide
Theatre Royal and secretary of a Jockey Club, was
entrusted the delicate task of choosing “ shapely young
ladies " for the revival of “ Tambour-Major.” Gordon
enjoyed himself thoroughly. The neophyte would enter
and say " Please, sir, I’ve come in answer to the advt.
for shapely young ladies.” If she were a hag, or
scraggy, or particularly iU-built or bad looking the
treasurer would swear all places filled. If otherwise,
Sandy would stroke his auburn board and enter into
pleasant converse concerning the applicant’s experience
and aspirations. The symposium invariably terminated
follows. Sandy would say: “Eh, lassie, I think
ye’ll do, but, before I can make an actual engagement,
ye must just show me your ankles—they’re a vera im-
portant point. They’re everything in our show ” The
shapely young lady would incontinently obey, and
Sandy would proceed; “Eh, vera guid, Miss So-and-so,
vera guid—if it continues. But ye’ve now got to retire,
and re-appear in stage costume so that I may have a
guid look at ye. It’s vera important. I really must
obey instructions." And so on, etc. Our Adelaide
representative is responsible for this, too.
* * * *
Ructions down at a N.Z. theatre. The boss of
the “ pub," has 11 chucked out” the bosses of the show,
who in return have closed up th« windows of the pub
looking into the theatre. The owner of the pub. has
now let the rooms olf the stage to a boiler maker. We
decline to give the name of the woman.
* * * *
Ada Ward goes to America by the first boat.
* * * *
Another theatrical action is pending. Cirks
understood to be as follow; —Proprietor, who has clause
in renting lease that ha shall at all times have access to
theatre, enters the Frivolity, with wife and party—the
latter paying. Proprietor is summarily stopped, he
protests, and is threatened with lock-up by lessee —
then hastens off to lawyer, who notifies lessee of action.
Defence will be that proprietor is always welcome to go
in—the upper circle Adelaide Theatre Boyal once
had a Hebrew proprietor, and one night he wailed out,
“ You vant to drive me mad I First you put up * Shy-
lock,’ with * Pork Chops ’ as a hafter-pieca, and now bill
‘The Floating Bacon’ (he ifieant Beacon).” Monto
Brown says “ The New Babylon ” is a much hotter piece
than “ The World." They call Archibald Forbes and
R. S. ferny the ” Wars and Rumours of Wars." and
Brown and Holt “Childlike and Bland”
The great Maceabe and the equally great Hiscooks are
doing North Eastern Victoria with great success
There is another tailors’ strike in Adelaide. Hurry up
Allisen, aud earn another locket hy arbitrating
Johnny Hall, who is ever on the alert to perpetrate a
joke, got off a splendid one on leaving Brisbane. The
four basket horses he had made for the “ Field of Cloth
of Gold ” proved utterly unsaleable, so he concluded to
bring them with him. and notified Smith of the that
ho wanted four stalls, which were accordingly fixed.
The animals were received in due form as real steeds,
tackles being need, and the seamen patting them and
standing out of reach of their heels. Placed in tho
stalls they were secured in the orthodox manner, and
on arrival the beach combers were informed that there
were four horses on board to land. They were disgusted
on finding out the class of an unite they had to deal
with The most noticeable of tho arrivals of the week
have been those of Johnny Hall from Brisbane, and
Walter Reynolds from Melbourne. Johnny goes to the
Royal to play the inevitable Jew, and Waiter is looking
around.
• * *
Melbourne theatrical news is that at the Royal
“Youth” gave place on Saturday to Dampier's piece,
which turned cue to be “Michael Strogotf,” disguised
and dilated. Prom the Monday’s notices wo are not
prepared to hear of it running many million nights
“ The Colonel,” too, commanded audiences for the last
time the same night, at the Opera House, and “ Money ”
was substituted. We can predict a short life for
“ Money," which doesn’t contain so much as a murder,
or even an abduction, let alone an explosion or a ship-
wreck. Bah! “ Faust,” at the Bijou, we learn, “is
nut amongst the operas in which tue excellent Mon-
t gue-Turner Company can achieve meritorious distinc-
tion”—apparently a polite way of saying that Gounod’s
famous piece was a bit of a frost. "Faust" intro-
duoed Me. Qaiuor to a Melbourne audience, aud
“Tahite” says that ha “means well.” So does
a lady who played Martha, hut “they have strong
imaginations.” Sultry Jennie Lea’s notices, the
great critic gays, “read like instructions to Aus-
Italian critics.” Nevertheless, he praises her highly,
and {renounces her “Jo” “congruous, consistent, tnd
uniform, *’ Our “special's” opinion is endorsed, snd
the part of the piece pronounced to be Solange Navaro’k
Hortense. The stage is to be congratulated on her
rehrn to it—we quote the great “ I Am " of dramatic
O ’iticism KeMar, the magician, opened on Saturday
ai St. George’s Hall The place w: s packed, and tha
eattrfcai iment allowed to be the very best of its kind ever
s ien in Melbourne,—and they have had Heller there
B ■; latest dates we learn that the houses at the Princess
(“Jo”) had dropped down and were bad J. J. Walsh
has completed his 30th year on the stage Tom Mar-
gots is singing with Doran’s Miniatrels in Auck-
land Mace did a big business in Auckland*
and announces that Miller is to join him.
A fo oad theatre for Wellington is in con-
templation Harry Eastwood is agent for Zulu
Thompson Morns Greenwall is awaiting the airival
of a new company from ’Frisco called “ The Spanish
Students,” forty in number, including twelve pairs of
fine! legs Haverly “ sools ’’genuine Siberian blood-
hounds on Elisa in his new version of “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin" Theatrical parties era the latest Yankee
novelty. The guests are driven to the theatre, and on
their return to their ho*t’s there is a spread L’ddy
heralds Macoabe in New Zealand Dunning, the new
leasee of the Melbourne Opera House, (met with an
accident at Galle when on his way to England, and had
to remain there Bunthorna’a knee breeches cost
£i 18s. in Dunedin... Harry Power’s Esthetic Party have
disbanded...N.Z. papers declare Mrs Williamson to bo
the best bumboat woman who ever went on the stage...
Mr. Williamson has cabled to his solicitors here to
collect evidence with a view to bringing about a reckon-
ing with the slanderers who have been busy with his
name and affairs during his absence in New Zealand.
He avows the scandalous reports have not the slightest
foundation in fact Old Benham “suped” in Opera
at Covent Garden forty years ago Sheridan oomea
from 'Frisco by the March steamer Pettitt is en-
gaged to write for the Qattis Bret Harte’s son goes
on the stage Blondin goes to London this summer.
Thatcher’s is the best Minstrel company travelling
in America. Not our Dick's.
• * «
The multiplicity of our extracts referring to the
movements and doings of professional people, and the
wide range of our observations, precludes the possibility
of anything like order or method of arrangement. It
looks queer, for example, to see Adelina Patti alongside
the Dwarf and the Magnetic Lady, but we can't help it
this time, so here goes :—Harry Shepperson is attract-
ing large houses and “unusually lavish praise” in
Brisbane, and are expected in Maryborough—a town
noted for sugar, which may Harry collar Steve
Byrne, we see, has gone on the road again—as agent for
Benhamo, and, at Rockhampton, was offered 40 gaineaa
for a pair of pug degs. He was about to accept when
he woke up...... The “Gem Excelsior Company” com-
menced business at the Varieties’ Theatre, May 4th.
Opening piece, Wybert Reeve’s “ Sin and the Shadow,"
called in the bills his " popular drama." Ahem I
Hudson is evidently on the wallaby, as he’s billed for
Temora by the end of the month Madame Eistori—
the Bra notwithstanding—is to appear at Drury Lane
as Lady Macbeth, and Qua Harris promises all the
luxe that money can command. Colonial managers
must import some luxe Notwithstanding that South
struck Toowoomba “when it was in the throes of
expiring agony, caused by a circus troupe, and
in spite of rain that had fallen in the fore-
noon” (we quote the local George Washington),
the audience was large and fashionable. “Mnritana”
was the opera, to be followed by “ Qirofle Girofla,”
“ Pinafore,” and the “ Grand Duchess.” The Waeb-
nambool Standabd records the triumphs of the Ireland
Dramatic Company, headed by G. R. Ireland—leading
Indy, Kate Vinson; company noticed, Messrs. Barry,
Forde, W. H, Manning, Miss Josephine Ireland, and
“Little Harriet." Piece preteated: Another “popu-
lar" drama, “The Orange Girl.” No locks under
any circumstances on the doors of the new Koval
Avenue Theatre, London....... William Oliphant, the
eminent dramatic critic of the London Dispatch, died
lately “ Babil and Bijou ’’ is to be revived shortly at
the Alharabra....George Grossmith met with a domestic
bereavement, and Frank Thornton played Bunthome
during his absence from the Savoy Kyrle Bellew has
been compelled to relinquish his part in “ Mankind ”
through sore throat “Moths"—an adaptation of
Onida’s novel, of course—is to be a great piece: the
creme do la crime of London talent is engaged. Juicy
developments must eventuate Lots of weeping on
and off the stage in Mr. Him s’ “Lights o’ London.”
Grattan Riggs is in the Western district of Victoria
“Generallyincoherent but lively and amusing,” is the
verdict of a N Z. critic re Harry Power’s “Bustle and
Bounce” entertainment. Some of the company jump
through fire, and all of them have about twenty parts
each Woodyear, so long with Burton, has a circus
in Christchurch, N Z The parsons have already in-
oculated N.Z. with the Old Bnglyshe Fayre disease
Barry O’Neil is at Hokitika. Another Westphalia
At the celebrated Marlborough House jdinner to the
dramatic profession, the literary guests were: Sala.
Burnand, Caloraft, Charles Hall, and D. Russell—and
the players: Irving, Toole, James, Hare, Kendall,
Bruce, Hollingshead, Coghlan, Vezin, Bancroft, Neville,
Grossmith, Cecil, Wyndham, Brough and Clayton.
Byron was too ill to attend Sam Howard crops up in
Freeman’s Opera Bouffa Company at Wilcannia; Miss
Alice Johns is also a member A writer in the S. A.
Advebtiseb explains away Maggie Oliver’s extremely
scanty dress in “ Sinbad,” to which a correspondent
took exception. Sinbad, he says, was shipwrecked, and
could have had but a poor wardrobe; besides, ho was of
Scotch extraction, and therefore discarded breeks.
That, he contends, accounts for Maggie being s» much
“on the leg” On the outbreak of a fire at Toole’s
Theatre, the audience behaved remarkably well —kept
their seats, and accepted the assurance that there was no
danger.. .The Tam worth Amateur Dramatic Club has pa l d
all expenses of the current, financial year, and cleared
£6 6s. 43. There’s “millions” in amateur perform-
ances The Empsom family date from Booligat
(where’s Oscar Wilde ?), April 29, and report themselves
(through their business m mager) as from the Lower
Darling, and en route for Melbourne, after an absence of
four years —thensc (backwrods style of spelling) to Tat.
mania—pioneers, they deserve this notice Mr. Hard-
csstle’s decision in the Resident Magistrate’s Court,
Wellington (N.Z,), April 29, re the liability of every
member of any company appearing in or assisting at
the production of a copywright play or opera, if sue.
tained, will greatly affect piratical manager and xrtrUites.
Oue Cervino was merely the pianist at an unlicensed
performance of the “ Pirates of Penzance,” bnt Mr.
Hardcastle, after hearing counsel, mulcted him in forty
shillings: holding that there was an additional remedy
against the master, bnt still one against the servant.
Whoop for Jemmy Williamson and Giilon I Josh,
Pickersgill has arrived. He stays here a few days, and
then goes to Brisbane as pioneer for Leuise.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Keller, the illusionist, opened at St. George’s
Hall, Melbourne, last Saturday night “The Inimit-
able Barlow” was playing at Perth, Western Australia,
in the middle of last month Carrie Godfrey, late of
the Froliques, is going to Italy for a two years’ course
of musical study. She eau do very well with it. W.
A. Thompson, the coruetist, who at present is Mr.
Carrie Godfrey, is also going to Italy The report of
the Mayor and City Architect on exits from theatres is
so manifestly absurd and inaccurate, that the Govern-
ment have appointed a Royal Commission. They must
cert? inly reverse the order in which the Mayor rated
the theatre3 as to means of egress We have received
amther long communication from Ben. A. Greene, the
Charters Towers campanologist. Benjamin still wants
Maggie Olivet’s photo., and will be obliged to anyone
who’ll send him Bessie Royal’s likeness Miss Lily
Marsh’s “Pinafore” Company did good business at
Armidale last week. Little Buttercup astonished both
herself and the audience by exclaiming that " she had
gipsy vein* in her blood ” and Captain Corcoran made
a new departure by singing
• If your soul isn’t fettered to a golden rule.
Be careful to be guided by this office stool.”
The audience was not well up in the text, and didn't
hurt him The Southern Queensland Amateur Cinb
concluded a very successful entertainment for tie
school at Beenleigh, on 2tth ultimo, with the “ Lithe
Sentinel,” which the Qcbenslandbk says was played
first-rate A London theatrical paper pats a manag' r
on the back for his forethought in printing omnibi ft
routes and time tables on the back of bis programme s«
qut Norman Vane has done .this for months past. '


PEPPER AND SALT.
The daggers which struck down Lord Cavendish
and Mr. Bnrke ripped up for a generation the heart of
British sympathy with Irish wrongs.
• • •
The Rev. Mr. Lamson, father of the young
doctor who was hanged the other day fer poisoning bis
half-brother, in order to obtain the reversion of the
poor paralytic youth’s little fortune, has frequently
got himself into trouble. A few years ago he obtained
considerable funds at Ventnor in aid of the afflicted
Bulgarians, or some such kindred object, and then he
left in order to see the money “ properly administered.”
There may be a hereditary continuity in the case.
Apropos, when the Supreme Court delivered itself of
the “ continuity " doctrine with respect to newspapers,
did it never strike their Honors that this theory might
one day, and.with terrible effect, be applied to judges ?
It is permitted for one to hold, and to express, on
puhlio grounds, theories with respect to what should be
he origin of those who hold the reins of Government
r balance the scales of Justice.
• # «
The Lancet, in ita last number, considers that
it is a mistake to boro the ears for the sake of the eyes.
Luscomhe does not.
« • •
“A daily newspaper is a spiritual breakfast”
road out a Parramatta] editor the other morning. And
then his hand stole lovingly towards the sideboard
where he keeps his intellect. He always keeps his in-
telleot in bottle, never in cask, in consequence of the
want of faith of a cold world—and mnrmnred softly "it
would be ram if it were not.” Then there was a pause,
filled up by a gurgling sound that rolled out upon the
night like the trickle of the brook Kedron at the hour
when the harp of Israel’s daughter is tuned to melody
and old man Israel wishes to thunder he had charged
fifty per cent, more for that little bit of “ stiff.”
• • •
“ Heller’s gone,” gasped out Father Mahogany,
rushing excitedly np to the Head Shepherd. « That’s
a Hellerveago," replied His Grace. Then, after a pause
“ Has he collared all the raffle money;?/’
• • •
A minister was called in the other day to see a
dying man. The man had led a very wicked life. He
had been a judge or something of that sort. The
minister found the nurse reading out of the Protestant
Standard tolhim. “ Very good," said that holy man,
“ bnt don’t yon know that it is highly probable, con-
sidering the life yon have led, that when you die you’ll
go to Hell?" “D—d sure of it,” was the cheerful
reply, “ that’s why I want to read up the local news
beforehand.”
• • «
The Forbes Times gravely accuses the Even-
ing News of sending “a woodon-legged special commis-
sioner to accompany the Premier on his travels round
the world, report on the most trifling circumstances
of his every-day life, and then hold him np to public
ridicule and contempt.” The Forbes Times has got a
bit mixed. This comes of drifting away from the sub-
jects of the local pound and the big pumpkin. The
Evening News man is not wooden-legged, though he
may be a bit wooden-headed.
• • •
“A. H. G."
Some say that a Parliamentary pal
Was the writer who scarified absent Hal,
That though the initials were A. H. G.,
The writer possessed only one of the three.
The first you may drop out, the second may lose,
’Twasthe third vented spleen in the Evening News.
# • «
Everyone recollects the charming nun whs, some
years since, eloped from a certain southern hospital with
a fascinating foreign medico. Dr. —— now states that
it came abont in this wise. Said he to her one day :
“ Tell me, Sister , why do you wear such hideous
boots ? I’m sure yon must have pretty feet.” “ Oh,
doctor, we should not talk about such things, but you
knew it’s intended as an act of mortification.” “ Dear-
est, I am, as you know, a surgeon. You will believe
me when I say that there is absolutely no hope for her
who has mortification in both feet.” And, finding that
her feet were in danger, the sweet girl took to her heels.
That’s the whole drama in one act, and if yon don’t
believe us, ask Doctor .
* • •
Gus. Wangenheim was, the other day, standing,
wrapped in admiration of the additions to the Church
(of England) at Manly. A friend asked him what
meant the patchy appearance of the building. “ Veil, I
don’t ekseckly know,” said Gus., “ hot I spozo it’s de
extra accommodation required by de new Act."
» « •
The Sydney Presbyterian says that many
an honest farmer has personally proved that rain can be
got by prayer, Moorhouse’s unbelief notwithstanding.
Ergo, instead of expensive irrigation schemes the Gov-
ernment should he on the look-out for devom farmers.
They can be got for £2 a week, and applications accom-
panied by testimonials from the Manse are invited in the
Government Gazette. None but experienced and suc-
cessful water-dervishes need apply.
» • •
She was a soft-spoken woman with mild grey
eyes and a pleasant trick of rolling them at the person
she addressed. It was in a police court in the North.
Her hnsband had bronght her before the bench for break-
ing his head with a crowbar. She stated that it was all
a mistake. She had read a paragraph abont the beauty
of perseverance, and how a Chinese woman had rubbed
a crowbar on a stone till she made a needle of it. So she
got a crowbar and went out one night to mb it on the
threshold. Her husband happened to be lying there at
the time. She did not become aware of this till she had
rubbed the top of his skall down to a level with his eye-
brows. Assault was the name they gave her offence. Anri
the bench, feeling a sectional furrow on the crown of its
own bald head, winked sympathisinglyand murmuring: “a
good woman is a broken crown unto her hnsband,” dis-
missed the case. In the chat with the Clerk of the Court
afterwards, it transpired that his household sunshine
always used apick-handle, and the hearth-brightener of
the Bench a fire-shovel, for the same purpose.
• • •
The “ throe tailors of Tooley-atreet ’ ’ rule Milton
and Ulladnlla, where a public meeting, described as
“ influential,” was the other day convened by the
Mayor to protest against—what! The continuance of
the present libel law, or the prospective long absence
from the colony of the Premier ? No. The inhabitants
of Milton and Ulladnlla mot, under the legis of the
Bight Worshipful the Mayor, to protest against an
alarming confederation on the part of the three 100 [
smiths. These poor, hard-working devils had been
expending tissue beneath the spreading chestnut trees
of Ulladnlla, and had for some time been cutting each
other’s throats by shoeing the horses of the local
yokels at 4s. per set. Finding that they could not ex-
-Ist under such a tariff, they very sensibly agreed among
themselves to charge 55., toe price which obtains in
Sydney. Hence the fury of the Mayor and J.P. of the
village. Milton may be inglorious, but it’s evidently
not mute. When wo have made a fortune and been
rejected by the girl at whose feet we throw our wealth
and onr bleeding heart, we shall retire to the sylvan
solitudes of Ulladnlla, and dream our life away among
that sweetly primitive people whose greatest sorrow
is that horse-shoes have risen a " bob a set.”
• mm
Montmorenci Jones, of the Lands, got home at
9 a.m., and while finishing his cigar with a henpecked
friend who lived close by, and had also been at the
lodge dinner, he proudly exclaimed: “Thank Heaven,
In my own house I am Julias Csesar.” It was then that
Mrs. Montmorenci Jones put her head over the bal-
cony and sternly said: “ Julius Ceeaar, come to bed at
once I”
* « •
A Hobart “Figaro” —of the disconsolate
widower order—lately coalesced with number two, but
before the happy day he sold the tombstone of No. 1
for the modest sum of £lO. Matters will be bad enough
when he meets the old lady (and the Old Gentleman)
ovah theah on the Golden Shoah, but the trouble in
that direction will be mild compared with that which
awaits him when No. 2 shall have heard of his bargain.
By the way, what is this story about the man out
South Head way who has outlived five wives and buried
them all in his garden in a kind of oorpss-store,
through which it is his wont to promenade with his
present young and pretty partner in life ? The Blue-
Beard of Botany Bay I
• • •
There has been a deuce of a fuss about Lord
Howe’s Island in the daily papers during the last week
or two. Where is Lord Howe’s Island ? If any more
massacres have taken place there, why doesn’t the
Government put John Davies (C.M.G.) in command of
the Wolverene, and send her to avenge them ? This is
the way to stamp out cannibalism.
The way to do it. Buy land, don’t pay the
balance, and keep it all dark—oppose any idea of a rail,
way through that land, say it won’t pay, and those who
fcnotd you will be convinced that it will pay—give in to
“popular opinion,” and “reluctantly” consent to the
line, Ipay up, and there you are I Talk about honest
politics, that’s what it is—in Victoria, you know.
* * #
The example of the metropolis has already
borne fruit. The other day in a South coast town a
concert was given in aid of a recently-erected local
church. To save expense, the entertainment took
place in the sacred edifice itself, instead of the local
hall, which, by the way, could have been secured for
the occasion. The'pieces were arranged as at an ordi-
nary place of amusement; the bashful man in all toe
glory of fonr-and-sixpenny white kids and a four
pound ten “ faatail banger,” tried to hand his blushing
maid on and off the—ahem—stage, with the air of a
Beau Brummel; front seats were two shillings, and
back seats one, and nobody could get inside this lively
place of worship without either presenting a ticket or
planking the equivalent. Inside the building, applause
was given to the singers just as at ordinary places o
amusement. And so oh. The affair was a success, the
receipts having been considerable, and the expense
small. The churches are trying to popularise themselves
with a vengeance. We may yet see the day when
St. Andrew’s and St. Mary’s will enter into serious
competition with the Theatre Boyal and the Victoria
Hall, and when the pions church-goer will find himself
entitled, in exchange for two shillings wrnng-from him
at the door of the place sacred to Him who was often
hungry and never had a second suit to his back, to a
Manilla cigar and a “ John Cellins” in the middle of the
sermon. We have already seen drinking-bars and gam-
bling stalls and drinking and gambling—besides which
the typical racing sweep was a paragon of rectitude-
carried on for church purposes. But then swindling in
the name of the Lord— “ saving your soul in Pitt-street,
and your money in King-street”—seems indigenious to
N.S.W.
• * •
Owing to recent persecutions, 7000 Jewish
families are leaving Eussia to go to Palestine. An order
for 21,000 gilt balls has been sent to England, whenoe
2,100,000 borrowers will in due course go to H—ades.
* * #
This is truer than a lie. One of the j&WMtse
dorfa, of this city, is in the habit of getting drunk.
On these occasions he is subject to strange hallucina-
tions—his ideas of locality also become painfully mixed.
Once in wandering home he got upon the Parramatta
road, stopped when he was a mile or two out, and,
thinking he was in his own bedroom, undressed himself,
and hung his clothes on the branches of some trees. Ha
was found about five miles away from them
next morning, still pottering along, with nothing
hut his shirt on. It was a Sunday. Two Parra-
matta pressmen, who had started to walk the number
of miles necessary to entitle them to a drink, caught
sight of him. They stalked him cautiously, and finally
got hold of him. Then they roped him with one of
their suspenders—the one that was finished off with
string—and led him along. On coming np to his clothes
they went through them, but finding nothing in the
pockets except a broken-bladod penknife and a toothpick
dressed him and let him go. This was yery good of them
because they might have pawned the clothes had they
been dishonest. The next escapade of this young
man occurred a very short time ago. He had been on
one of his habitual “ tears.” On the way home he
went into a hotel, walked np-stairs, and sailed into the
drawing-room. Then, as nsnal, the old madness came
over him, and he undressed. After hanging his clothes
up on the corners of the pictures he lay down upon the
sofa. Entered the Boots. The Boots shook him
by the shoulder, and tried to convince him that he had
lost his bearings. In vain. Then the Boots went to
find the landlord. In the meantime the barmaid
entered. Tableau! After she had been restored to
consciousness, and the naked aristocrat had been
dragged from beneath the sofa, matters were set
straight, and he was sent home.
There has been a land agitation in Skve Which
seems a bit paradoxical —
We cannot get the hang of it,
No matter how we try.
That they should agitate for earth
Whose dwelling is in Skye,
« # •
Another kind of sharks has come into being in
our moral city, i.e.. agents for the saleof businesses and
furniture. At least we are only just learning how
these, usually pious men, manage their nefarious trade.
A man or woman, of shady reputation, getting in-
to difficulties, visits this “agent," puts his or her affairs
in his hands, and he forthwith advertises, hiding the
locality, &c. When a purchaser offers, ho takes the,
poor fly to the web, and gums him or her all over
with glowing descriptions of the business—a boarding-
house, for instance. A bargain is struck, and the pur.
chaser pays, and takes possession, only to find half the
furniture removed, and the place one of unsavoury
odour. And such men we have seen praying hard (for
it is their proper adjective) to be made unlike al l
others!
* * •
A marble statue of Sir Redmond Barry in
judicial robes ;is to grace the front of the Melbourne
Public Library. The statues of some other judges
would grace the entrance to—a gaol.
* • •
“ Sir Bryan O’Loghlcn is complimented on his
known benevolence and his great liberality with the
public funds." Who compliments him? There is a
pretty tough psychological problem involved here. Let
us try to state it. Whether it is possible for the human
mind to be biassed for er against a certain policy by the
gain to itself from the adoption or non-adoption there-
of. In other words, how much of the plunder—ahem!
* * #
Mr. Arvid Nilson, of Sydney, writes on
in the Victorian Review, and informs us
that “ Form is not only the form of matter—it is matter
itself." Now, if Mr. Nilson is not in better form than
that, it doesn’t matter.
Several of the Jolimont railway accident
“If?* I*™ 1 *™ ha , ve brought a portion of their compen-
fitV™ ney . to s y d . ne y» a nd invested it in riotous
living. There’s good in everything.
The Lancet attributes the excitability of
fi to the high temperature of the
Chambers, and calls on surgical instrument makers to
invent a nagometer, or some such thing.
Mr. C. T. Pierce is a candidate for the vacant
Newtown - If integrity, ability, and
unceasing activity are any recommendations, Charles
ought to be, like a barber, at the top of the poll.
rJww in K ister f ? r Works mi K ht lo °fc «o™d
Darling Harbour, and see what it would cost to continue
i?. burn-street to that great new business centre. An
obstruction of 40 feet causes a detour of half a mile.
Our publication of statements supplied to us
recently respecting the death of an inmate of the
Sydney Infirmary, has led to the good result of
reporters being now admitted to all committee meet-
ings.
When old Archibald Johnson, the paralytic
Toorak squatter, died, every shilling of his property
was left to his bouncing forty-flve-year-old widow, who
has since taken to her arms a sprightly bank clerk of
live and twenty summers. It is now stated that the old
man swill, which was proved at £158,200, will occupy
toe attention of the law courts at no very distant date.
Much dissatisfaction is felt by sundry members of the
family at the disposition of the property. The at pre-
sent happy couple are on a tour in the western country
prior to their visit to Queensland, and ultimate
departure for Europe.
Writes onr Melbourne correspondent The mystery
of the wily Frenchman who, under the patroriymio of
Bryant, courted a Eussian Admiral with a torpedo and
then placed the Aoe in advance of its time, is as follows,
according to one who knows him wisely but not too
well. Henry Fitzeerald de Beaumont is of French des-
cent by his father’s side, and by his mother’s, lays claim
to be a Fitzgerald. His assumption of Comte is gratuit-
ous. He was educated in Paris and is a member of the
Institute of Engineers in that city. After distinguish-
ing himself in his collegiate career, as a linguist
and chemical analyst, he commenced life in the
latter line in his native Paris. Nothing exceptional
occurred to bring out his talents till the Franco-
German war of 1870. When his chance arrived
it was seized; and he became known as an in-
genious maker of explosives. When the siege of
Paris occurred and Communism became rampant, the
astute son of France went to the front. He proved so
dangerous a subject that when Eochefort and his col-
leagues were sent for change of air to New Caledonia,
it was thought advisable not to leave the man of ex-
plosives behind. In his new home he soon got a practice
as a mineral analyst; and, when his pardon was granted
to him, he went over to Sydney with elaborate
analyses, plans, &j., of a cobalt mine. Those
who interested themselves in this speculation ought
to remember the Eussian Admiral’s confidant.
Coming over to Melbourne, the hitherto self-possessed
dabbler in dynamite and so on fell in tow wjth a fair and
gay deceiver, who was supposed to be possessed of coin
—at least so her father said, believing himself that
the French count was monied, and not expecting
that so distinguished a furriner would ally himself
to a penniless girl. However, the wedding-day was
settled, the agreement being that the father of the
future countess should pay into the prospective hus-
band’s account £lOOO, Thinking that this contract
had been duly performed, and desiring to show the
expectant bride how doting a lover she had secured,
the gay bridegroom indulged in the luxury of purchas-
ing some choice jewellery as a preseat for his inamorata.
In payment of this a cheque was given on the bank
in which were supposed to be the £lOOO. But, alas! the
money had not been paid in, and the too-confiding
Frenchman was made to answer the why and wherefore
by the jewellers, who deemed themselves duped, albeit
the goods were returned. Since then, on becoming
free, the ingenuity which manufactured murderous
weapons devoted itself to befooling toe Eussian
Admiral and increasing the circulation of the Aoe for
a consideration of £5O. What the next move of this
talented and fearfully linguistic (ha speaks English
French, German, Italian, and Eussian) scientific indi-
vidual will be time can alone prove. Sir 'Enry Parkes
ought to have taken him home as private secretary, for
then kings, emperors, and czars would have been his
daily companions instead of ordinary noblemen.
AN INSURANCE CONSPIRACY,
OR
THE SPIDER AND THE FLIES.
“ Will you taste my gold-elixir.? ,** said the spider to
the “ fly,”
Smart canvasser James Barker,—“it will act well by.
and-bye—
You’re only to procure reports on David Weatherhead,
Eight thousand pounds we’ll handle when that dying
man is dead."
*' Will yon join us, Doctor;? ” then said Hicks to B. P.
Morrison—
“ A hundred pounds you’ll pocket when the rotten life
is ‘ done.* ”
But Morrison, more cautious, shook his head and
answered “Nay—
That is—perhaps you’d better call again another day.”
“ Prescribe my gold-elixir ? ” said the spider to the spry
Yet impecunious Horton—“you can see ‘the risk’
will die,
My pal, Forsyth, is wealthy, and the A.M.P. so rash,
That sans the slightest danger we can bag a heap of
cash.
" We’ll do your little bills, no matter what may bo the
snm,
If, Doctor, to ‘Board Meetings’ you will regularly
cone;
Believe me, Morrison is ‘in the swim,’ and he’ll, in
short, —
Supposing yon decline—sign any medical report.”
So this donble-venomed spider devised his subtle plan
Played off against the other each half-hesitating man;
Within his nets had all fast bound, and then to Mel.
bourne sped
In charge of drunken, phthisical, compliant]) Weather-
head.
But there, unspider-like, exposed, he left his pocket-
book.
Through which a prying landlady would naturally look;
It happened, then, that very soon she went to Mister
Main,
And said, “ This telegram is cheap at fifty pounds it’s
plain.”
No need detail the story—keen Forsyth went “on the
slide,”
The others stepped, sous surveillance, to be by Bousaut
tried;
They thought no jury oonld convict with any fair pre-
tence—
Their secret kept. Mistaken knaves! Hicks turned
Queen’s evidence.
Found justly guilty, now they bear the felon’s odious
brand.
While, worst of all, the spider, free as air, pollutes the
land;
The flies too late discover degradation follows close
On their swallowing of assurance, HelUHicks, sir, such
a dose.
A SHINING LIGHT.
Time—11.30 p.m. AGGRIEVED PARTY (loq.) :
Whash use keeping light burning front Public
House. Only aggravation (hic).
A Lawyer’s Love; or, The Lament of a
Special Pleader.
FOR THE BULLETIN.
Say, Emmie, canst thou sympathize
With one whose heart is bleeding—
Compelled to wake from “ Love’s young dream,”
And take to special pleading ?
For since I lost my suit to yon,
I care not now a fraction
Abont these tiresome “ suits at law,”j
These senseless “forms of action."
But, in my lonely chambers oft.
When clients leave me leisure.
In musing o’er departed joys,
1 find a mournful pleasure.
How well I know the locus where
I saw that form ethereal;
But, ah 1 in transitory things.
The venue’s not material.
Whilst reading “Archbold’s Practice” now.
And Knox’s volumes, too.
It “ knocks " me when I recollect
An arch-bold girl like you.
But, then, that bright blue eye sent forth
A most unerring dart.
Which, like a special capias, made
A pris’ner of my heart.;
And in the weakness of my soul,
One fatal long vacation,
I undertook to prosecute.
And filed my declaration.
At first your “ taking time to plead”
Gave hopes to my felicity;
The doubtful negative you spoke
Seemed “ bad for its duplicity.”
I demurr’d. That blush so clearly seemed
T P ar “ on My transgression,
I thought I was about to snap
A “judgment by confession."
But soon I learned—most fatal truth !
How rashly I had counted ;
For “ non assumpsit" was the plea
To which it all amounted.
Deceitful maid I Another swain
Was then beloved by thee:
The “preference” you gave to him
Was " fraudulent" to me.
we l° v e (so Shakespeare says)
Bad luok is sure to have us;
The course of true love never ran
Without some “ special traverse."
My rival I was doomed to see
A husband’s rights assert.
And now 'tis wrong to think of you.
For you’re a feme covert,
When late I saw your son and heir,
Twas wormwood for a lover.
But then the plea of infancy
My heart could not get over,
I kissed the little brat, and said
“ Much happiness I wish you!"
But, ah! I felt he was to me
An “immaterial issue.”
Emmie, adieu! I’ll mourn no more
Nor pen pathetic ditties;
My pleading was of no avail.
And so I’ll stick to Chitty’s.


BRIEF MENTION.
Most gold-rushes occur on flats.
Where is the Church of the Holy Swindle?
(Yice-regal) Court news. Eggs three bob a
dozen.
Poet-laureate—Tennyson. Poet lower-rate—
Parkes.
A branch of the Female Rechabites has been
Opened in Sydney, We shall not join.
“ Howard’s string-binder, special prize at the
Orange Show.” Surely the hangman hasn’t——.
Water struck at Randwiok Asylum on Friday.
This doesn’t mean that an idea struck John Davies.
Forty thousand criminals expected from France
at New Caledonia. What enormous material fer juries
and —ahem I Seven weeks.
Memo, for those who drink at public fountains j
Children have been brought to the Infirmary suffering
from syphilis thus contracted.
Madame Rosalie Merz writes to the Echo say-
ing she is a stranger in Sydney. None but a perfect
stranger would write to the Echo.
“ Give us yesterday’s issue—one copy’s no
use,” said a Parramatta woman as she plastered np her
boy’s out nose with the Evening Fergt,
The Hon. Thos. Norton has presented the
museum with a file of the S. M. Herald. We presume
it will be placed among the other fossils.
“The shoemaker should not go beyond his last.”
This was what Sir George Innes said on circuit when he
gave a cobbler-bigamist two years for wife-desertion.
Can poor Hume’s story have been true after all ?
Is it possible that (we don’t venture to give names)
stole the papers that the ex-conviot alleged he found r
It is the fashion to hang the portraits of aider-
men in the Town Hall. The time is evidently approach-
ing when the city fathers will be hanged—but not in
eflgy.
Hie Cooma butchers are going to charge shortly
for the offal they have hitherto given away. This shows
the sort of encouragement there is at Cooma to mn a
newspaper.
It was a man of the world who put up, in the
lane leading through from Pitt-street to the Post-office,
a mirror bordered by advertisements. Every woman
will look at the—mirror.
A leading publican whose grog has prostrated
several of those who have partaken of it, has had the
option offered him of paying doctors* bills, to,, or being
prosecuted as a poisoner.
Two horses that were pronounced unfit for work
were discharged from the Omnibns Co.’s service the
other day. They were drafted on to the literary staff
of the Daily Telegraph.
“Every woman is at heart a rake,” quoted a
visitor on the concluding day of the Fayre, as a Fancy
Fairy raked in the last threepenny-bit he had, for a
bunck of withered marigolds.
“ Segenhoe is said to be the coming equina
wonder," says a country paper. There is no show for
asinine wonders. That claim is already pegged out by
by tbe editor of a certain journal.
The latest way for a constable to arrest a blind
man is to give him a knock-down blow on the face, and
then, with the aid of a big water-polioeman, lift him up
and drag him off to the nearest lock-up.
John Smith writes saying that it doesn’t look
well to see a load of pumpkins driven up to the kitchen
of a first-class hotel. It makes one conolnde that there
are many hogs among the commercial public of Sydney.
“ This is to signify that I have taken possession
of these lodgings," said a Sing-street reporter to his
landlady, as he deposited a paper collar and a tooth-
comb on the wash-stand. He called them “my pro-
perty.’’
It has been publicly stated by a leading solici-
tor of Hobart that a local Government department is
drunk. The lawyer is, however, not believed, inasmuch
as the Department in question is always “getting
sober.”
Henri de Beaumont, Russian spy and cool liar,
it appears from police enquiries, was not in Sydney at
any time, mixing in “high circles" here. So there
was nothing bad about him, after all, so far as Sydney
is concerned.
Barker used to pay a real living diplomaed doc-
tor £lO weekly to pass people for a«snrarce. He
pocketed the Society’s gninea-fee to doctors himself,
and, doing a big business, made a handsome profit on
his iEsoulapian investment.
At the “ Guv’nor ” performance at the Opera
House. Sedate party, who cannot see the jokes, to
hilarious gentleman, who roars at every point: “ I wish,
sir, you had left your Inngs at home." Reply; “ Tes,
Sir, with yonr brains." Fact.
A certain Tasmanian Lothario, who, thanks to
lucky tin ventures, can do his £lO,OOO cheque with ease,
left her pretty nearly starving. After his child was born,
he gave her two pounds and told her “ to be a good girl !*’
She is, God knows where—h« has just made a grand
match.
The Tamworth News gives a detailed list of
the Tamworth institutions. By an extraordinary over-
sight it omits the gaols—and this with two newspapers
in the town. However, onr contemporary makes amends
by classing its member, Mr. Levien, among the institu-
tions.
A country paper observes :—“ The Sydney
Daily Telegraph, the Tork.street placard, has again
been at the Water Scheme.” There's a covert double
drive here. First, the Telegraph is now in King,
street; second, the water scheme reference is merely
something neat.
It came out in court the other day, that there’s
a Northern family, consisting of eight members: the
father and mother, three grown-up sons and three
daughters, and among the lot they have only one pair
of boots to go to town in.
“ The reaper Death has been casting his fatal
sickle pretty thick about Narandera of lats, to our
mutual sorrow and loss." So say the local papers. We
should think so, too, seeing that three out of the four
principal residents who were hanged last week, owed
two years’ subscription.
Our Melbourne imitator, which still continues
to inform the public that “Mr. Jones has a new hat,”
and to enquire "what that sly dog Tom was doing
down in the paddock on Thursday night," now
Sublishes two editions —ene, we presume, for the
lundry, the other for the kitchen.
The latest telegrams announce that General
Skobeloff has inflammation of the longs—caused, no
doubt, by his recent inflammatory speeches. The next
cablegrams, perhaps, will inform us that Sir Henry
Farkes has knocked his front teeth out, in a desperate
attempt to say “ Her Royal Highness.”
The Manning River Times says that a
number of crabs have been caught as far up the river as
Taree. It was probably from one of these strangers
that the Editor received the information that Berry is
still the Premier of Victoria. Graham is so written of
in an editorial in the same issue as the crab-item.
An Ipswich clergyman preached a powerful dis-
course, and had just explained haw people who forgot
to put anything in the plate are cast into outer dark-
ness, where there is weeping and wailing and gnashing
of teeth, when some humorous friend pnt the gas out.
Then there was hugging and straggling and pressing of
lips.
Since the Melbourne Hospital Board resolved to
decrease the quantity of stimulants dispensed to
Patients, there has been a marked difference in
the conduct of the latter. Not more than three
times has there been a desire expressed to “ bash the
noses" of the wardsman or “ knock the stuffin’ ” out
of the doctors.
Speaking of the removal of the local telegraph
operator from Armidale to Launeton, the paper says:
“ the position is one of responsibility. A message to
Launeton is as important to the sender as one from, '
Sydney." Now, as Sydney folks have abandoned the
telegraph, in favour of sending by the milk cart, and
thus avoiding tbe risk of being ran over by the tele-
graph hoys, who go the farthest way round, wo think
she paper might even go farther, and impress on young
Tiok-tiok the fact that his coast station entails far more
responsibility than if he sat in the head office in Sydney.
His responsibility is his own. Here, nobody is res-
ponsible.
A post down at Young prepared a translation
of a classical work, and declares in a letter to the local
Szper that ha will “ bring his labors to the bar of pub-
o opinion." A neighboring publican was heard to re-
mark that he might just as well do so, as the “ labors”
referred to were in his opinion nofequivalent for a long
beer at the bar.
A cold-blooded miscreant has destroyed a
quantity of type in the Parramatta Times office, and
walked off with Pergy’s last leader. The police have
orders to arrest on suspicion the most miserable-look-
ing manitkey can find, and ail the shining literary lights
of the town are hiding until the storm blows overi This
is a crime of the meanest type.
Tka latest thing in tram management is to get
passengers who are making for their train as far as
Qeorge-street W, siding, and stop there, the people
having to walk up to the railway station. The excuse
is, “We can't get iu till that there other tram comes
out." As If departing passengers were not of more
importance than arriving ones.
The match-holder to Servetus (Sydney Pres-
byterian) has a selected poetry column, and last Satur-
day he gave us “ The Young Smoker
“ The school-boy who begins to smoke
Will soon begin to drink."
If he reads this he really enght to.
We are to hare Federation at last. J. Henniker
Heaton is the donor. Speaking at the Colonial Institute
recently, Henniker said Federation would come about
only through the presence of a hostile sqnadron in
Australian waters, or by the Imperial Govt, making it
oompulsery. Henniker admits that the latter method
might be like physic, and taken with a wry face by the
colonials, but he believes it would eventually be con-
sidered a prescription from a physician for the common
geod. No; what we want here is a Republic, that’s to
say, if Henniker can spare time to act as President.
When tbe churchwardens of Armidale presented
the Rev. James Rose with fifty sovereigns (O, memory I
—but no, no, the vision is past), he said that he hoped
“ the satisfactory relations between him and his con-
gregation would long continue." Which being inter,
preted means : “ I thank Thee, Lord, that thy servant’s
crook has a geod grip on the legs of my floek."
Our friend of the Tamworth Observer pro-
mises to publish under the heading. “ The Short and
Simple Annals of the Poor,” the names of all who have
not paid their just debts to him for the last two years.
Very shortly after that appears there will probably
come out in the Observer a series of sketches, entitled
“Prison Reflections: A Study of the Libel Laws."
A Barcoo gentleman, who never washed himself
except for a wager, received an envelope by post con-
taining a small piece of soap, and the funny fellow who
sent it was of coarse near him when the postman ar-
rived with the parcel. The gentleman looked at it,
turned it round, and said: “ What awful rot to send
me this. Why, it’s a thing I never use, you know.”
Hicks, the Insurance frauds accomplice, who
turned Queen’s evidence, stated, in course of examina-
tion, that “he always observed religion outwardly."
We’re surprised then that he was not long since run-
ning a big morning newspaper, or conducting some large
eon tracts. He also said “he often went to the theatre
with a priest." This was enough to damn any man.
We have received about a dozen letters com-
menting on the present management of the Harbours
and Rivers Department, but as we haven’t the slightest
intention of allowing any old gentleman to make a
small independence out of a libel action by promising
the jury he’ll “ give to charities ” any damages which
he may be awarded, we calmly allow things to go on as
usual.
Morality is on the increase in the Far North.
A man who keeps a rookery which he calls n " saloon,"
recently sold a plate of oysters between 7 and 8 p.m.
on Sunday, for which grave offence he was Sued £1 by
two God-fearing and Sabbath-preserving beaks. We
have too much respect for the town where the Towns
Police Act is so religiously observed to mention its
name.
Tom Slattery has turned wit. In the court, the
other day, somebody said, with reference to a publican
who couldn’t get his license renewed, “ Othello’s occn-
nation's gone.” “Ton mean hotel-o’s,” said Thomas. If
Moor of this sort of screaming waggery eventuates our
occupation’s gone. If Tom will call round at our office
we can offer him a lucrative literary engagement—as
machine-oiler.
Licensing Boards are very often composed of
men whese decisions are as erratic as their knowledge of
Lmdley Murray is limited, which is saying a good deal.
At a recent sitting of a Board in Queensland, an appli.
cation by a holder of a license for a renewal was refused
“ because ha had not taken the pledge." The Board
evidently wanted that man to cry “ stinking fish" to
his customers.
A Victorian paper hails Dr. Quick, the young
member for Sandhurst, “ as a beacon light to guide and
encourage every Australian youth who feels the proud
weight of that national development which is fast
falling exclusively into their own guardianship and
direction.” This sentence in somewhat mixed, but the
editorial whisky seems to have been pretty straight
when it was written.
Last week’s Presbyterian says, “What would
be serious in ordinary places of worship are in the
Mormon meeting-houses loose attacks upon Christi-
anity and eulogies of Salt Lake City and Joe Smith.’*
And yet we have it on good authority that the Mormon
elder sleeps it through, and drops his three.penoo in the
plate as regularly as the wealthy old elects who follow
the preacher’s crook.
There was a groat rat-hunt at the corner of King
and Pitt-streets the other day. A dog had chased the
rat under the footbridge. There the rat remained. A
crowd of yelling Noozx boys gathered round. They
tried to coax the animal out with sticks. No use.
Then a boy, forgetting pecuniary considerations in hig
enthusiasm, wrapped a copy of the Nooie ronnd a
st ick, and rammed it under the bridge. This brought
the rat out. It was dead.
Recently at Rockhampton a man named Ford
was put upon his trial for arson. The principal wit-
nesses against him were married women. The whole
case was a complete expos# of the abominable lives ltd
in some parts of the bash. With those wretched
women their “marriage-vows were more false than
dicers’ oaths " —they were the living types of the
hideous yahoo. Although the evidence seemed pretty
straight against the prisoner, yet the jury acquitted
him.
“Will Honeycomb ” says a jury was locked up
one night, at Bathurst, because they could not agree.
An honest Hibernian, directly the door was closed the
second time, stripped oil his coat, and addressed the
juryman who had “ stuck out" thus : “ Look here, you
d scoundrel, what do you mean by keeping eleven
gentlemen in here all night ? Take that for your con-
founded obstinacy.” That consisted of a series of argu-
ments delivered straight from the shoulder. In the
morning. Sir Alfred fined the Cork man £5O.
Everyone will regret to bear that the Editor of
the Bligh Watchman doesn’t lie nearly so well now as
formerly. His latest is a weak little statement about a
mild little whirlwind which swept over the plains
recently, taking up into the trees a waggon and a team
of ten bullocks, several small children, two tons of flour,
a Wesleyan Missionary and other station appurten-
ances. The painful part of the story is that the Mis-
sionary had not come down again. This is pretty con-
clusive evidence that there is no bottomless pit.
In the Domain, on Sunday, a Freethinker made
light of the Old Testament stery of the bears being
handy and coming out of the wood to scoop up a number
of children who scoffed at the prophet Elisha, calling
him bald-head, and desiring him to “go np.” Another
spouter essayed the following unique explanation—to
justify the bears He said the word in the original
translated in the “authorised version" as “children"
equally applied i o persons of 30 years of age. Had this
been fully realised before, many an orchestral leader
might (in view of the shocking example) bavc been
saved from an equally celebrated cry from the pit, of.
“Play up Baldy.” But the terror of Bruin doesn*
seem to " obtain ” in Sydney these times.
What enables Parkes to open his month so wida
in England just now, is his early and long-sustained
habit of eating with his knife.
Although an uncertificated insolvent may legally
be re-eleoted to Parliament, it doesn't alter the fact
that he is an uncertifioated insolvent 1
At last the news has come, A breathless pnblio
can breathe again. The vacancy for a letter-carrier in
Queanbeyan has been filled up. A young man by the
name of Cave is the successful candidate for that in.
fluential position. We are informed that there was a
lot of lobbying carried oa at the election, and that prior
to the state of the poll being declared intense excite-
ment reigned in every house, from the tan-pit at one
end of the village to the cow-shed at the other. Twelve
of the first families of the plaoe are now at deadly
enmity with each other.
A friend peeped into the office of the CoojcTOww
Courier and saw S)t. Just Mackay perched on the office
stool and driving a six-inch wire nail into the celling.
He then got down, looked at his bandi.work, swore a
fearful Cooktown oath, gnashed his teeth, and bran-
dished a tomahawk. “ What's the nail for F” Mackay
was asked. Making six fiery circles reund his head and
yelling the warwhoop of the Comanchea—“ That," he
roared, “is the nail on which ere long shall bang the
bloody scalp of the fiendish idiot who edits the
Herald.”
Scene— Melbourne County Court. Coram Cope,
J. For plaintiff. Hood. For defendant. Do Yerdon.
The plaintiff is seeking to compel the defendant to
transfer a piece of land. The defendant’s counsel is
objecting that the thing is an impossibility, inasmuch
as there is a fatal incumbrance on the title. Then
De Yerdon, solemnly; “Your Honor therefore sees
that with an incumbrance such as this on it the plain-
tiF’s title would be damned." Hood; “Well, then,
why don’t you let us have oar damned title p" Cope,
J.; “Yes; surely the plaintiff may damn his own title
if he likes."
Some amendment in the law of landlord and
tenant is badly wanted.—A woman takes a boarding-
house, buys and pays for her predecessor’s furniture.
She is no sooner in the house than the landlord demands
£29, arrears of rent due by the predecessor, and
threatens to distrain on her furniture unless it is paid.
Three solicitors have told us that it is the law, and we
don’t doubt it; but it is infamous. Here is a woman
of respectability, who seeks to raise the character of
the house she has taken, and her desire is encouraged
in this abominable manner,
A man employed as porter by a pious Queensland
firm heard, while delivering some geods in the town,
that his son, of about eight years old, had just been
thrown from his horse. He reached home. His son
was dead, and his wife in hysterics. Being, unfortu-
nately, a human being, the porter stayed in the house a
little while to do what was absolutely necessary. When
he returned and explained what had happened, he was
censored for being absent, and on Saturday night was
flnsd half a day’s p»y for the hour he had taken. On
remonstrance, the firm told him, “We don’t feed our
horses when they don’t work, and we won’t pay our
servants when they don’t.”
There is a German navvy in Townsville whom
the publicans refuse to allow at their table on account
of the enormous quantity he " puts away.” The other
day, some larrikins supplied him with the following
ammunition:—Four dishes vegetables, 101 b. beef, three
loaves new bread, a plum and a rice pudding, and a
gallon of beer. He consumed the lot within five hours;
then he lay on the ground and commenced to groan.
They started rolling him about, whilst one of their
number went for a doctor, who on arrival said that the
beer and new bread had done the mischief, and that
most likely he’d die. However, he didn’t, and since
then the larrikins have let him feed himself.
At the top of Deuham-street, Rockhampton,
there’s a ditch about four feet deep and parallel with
the pathway. In wet weather the bottom of it is
muddy. A woman's husband remained out late. She
became alarmed. She searched for him high and low
without avail. At last she gave it np In despair, and
was returning home along Denbam-street, when, as she
neared the labove-mentioned ditch, she heard a groan.
She looked over and beheld her revered spouse's heel-
tips glistening in the moonshine, while his beloved head
was stuck fast in the mud below. All the time he kept
singingl out, “ Mariar, ’ow the 'ell is this 'ere piUer so
sorft au’ sticky—ehF”
When a Sydney firm offers a hundred guineas in
prizes for Australian pictures, it seems to innocent
people strange that an evening journal boasting a large
circulation shonld give no notice whatever of the fine
collection of paintings now exhibited. It is not modesty
that prevents criticism. Some months ago Gibbs,
Shallard'-and Co., so the legend runs, were about
to publish in the Illustrated Sydney News, a copy of
Chevalier’s picture “ A Bace to Market." The pro-
prietors of an evening.ioumal were also about to publish
the same picture in their weekly paper. Of course, on
hearing this, Gibbs, Shallard ought to have stopped
their picture at once. But they didn’t. And so the
milk got into the cocoanut.
This is from the inspired Age. Last week “the
Secretary for Harbours and Navigation recommended
officer M’Kie for promotion on the grounds of extra
work amounting during the year to three months’ over,
time. The Hon. Mr. Graves thought the matter worthy
of his serious consideration, but two clerks waited on
him and said they objected to Mr. M‘Kie, who was
their junior, being placed over their heads, and they
preferred to resign rather than to submit to it. Mr.
Graves pointed out to these clerks that it was scarcely
judicious for them to resign at the present time, as
they would in a few years be entitled to pensions. They
afterwards stated they intended to remain in office."
These disaffected old war-horses clearly took the maxim
that “ A wink is as good as a nod,” <fco., to heart. It
doth not appear that M‘Kie’s promotion was in any
degree delayed by their mild protest.
What a pity it ia that somebody who has been
in Australia, or some Englishman who has lived next
door to a man whose fifty-second cousin—Aunt Billy
once heard of a man who went out to the diggings,
doesn’t take in hand those venerable, ponderous, fossil-
ized publications, the Home News, European Mail-
Colonies and India, et id genus omne. This is what
appears in the Home News of 10th March, 18e3:
“ The growth (of the eucalyptus) there (in California)
is extraordinarily rapid. Twelve years ago a Mr.
Collins planted a number at the rate of sixty-eight to
the acre but eight feet apart. In a year they had
grown one hundred feet high and had a proportionate
diameter, and from a plantation of twenty years he
cleared a profit yearly of some four hundred dollars.
Cannot something like this be made out of the cultiva-'
tion of blue gum in its original home P "
The Presbyterian is anxious to know whether
Forbes, “the son of the Manse," is as unsound in
doctrine as are Denton and Proctor—both of whom had
their fling at religion and the Bible. Smythe called
around on Calvin, and explained that Forbes never went
forth to war without a copy of the Westminster Con-
fession in his pocket, and at the conclusion of each
lecture he will exhibit ihe talisman to the audience.
It contains three pounds of Turkish bullets, five assegai
points, and a splinter of torpedo seven inches long.
The latter would have spoilt the book, and killed
Forbes, but that it came against that article referring
to the eternal damnation of nou-eleot scoundrels.
The assegai point was deflected at the word
elect, and Forbes has noted in the margin a defi-
nition of that term. “The elect are those Scbtoh.
men who drink whisky and get rich, or who
don’t drink whisky and lay Town Hall foundat ons."
Let’s see—lie’s—ahem I—au1 —au elder, isn’t he ?
It seems incredible that such a scene as the
following could happen in a town where a great con-
spiracy case was being tried, aid in the office of a com.
pany not entirely unconcerned in the case :—Casual
Agent: “ I’ve called to see if tbs risk I brought yoster-
day was accepted." Youthful Clerk •• It wasn’t quite
in form. See, here’s this friend’s report unsigned."
C.A.; “Oh, Bobinaon’s? Just an omission—you can see,
he’s filled in particulars. You know hia place of bnsi-
ness—send it down to him, he’ll sign it at once, lor he s
an old friend of my client." Y.U. (languidly) : “ Oh,
bother! I’ve really no one to send, and I shan’t go
myself. Yon sign a triend’s report.” C.A. (astounded);
"What, IP and in the face of these cases now beiig
tried? A friend’s report ? No, thank you—not for my
dearest friend 1" Y.O. (also astonished); “You wont?
Why, yon know the fellow. Eeally? Well, I’d sign
twenty thousand.” Yet that youthful clerk’s employers
lay considerable stress on certain friends’ reports con-
cerning the late lamented David Weatherhead. Fact.
A FAYRE EXCHANGE NO ROBBERY;
OR,
THE RECEIVES WORSE THAN THE THIEF.


The federal bank op ;australia
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Capital, £1,000,000.
Subsciibed, £650,000.
Directors:
Hon. J. J. Casey, C M.G., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq., Vice-President.
John Robb, Esq.
John Whiltingbam, Eeq.
William M'Lean, Esq.. J.P.
Hon. James Muuro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
Temporary Banking House, Sydney:
257 Gsorge-fctreet, North.
Francis S. Macdcrmott, Esq.,
Manager.
John Docker, Esq , Accountant.
Messrs. Robertson and Fisher, Solicitors.
THE FEDERAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA (Limited)
offers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Require
Banking Accommodation.
1. Interest will be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
rates.
3. Every branch of banking business transacted.
4. Bills will be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
6. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
HEAD THIS! HEAD THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET.
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, Sec.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Tho Drapers’ Association has proved a great
success, good sound rules are being made. More anonl!
Mr. James Mills. General Manager of the Union
S.B. Co., of Now Zealand. arrived in Sydney per
Orient.
An action at law, heavy damages, has been in-
stituted agaitigfc the Manly Corooration for a nuisance
created by that body in their official capacity.
George Bibbs says that if things go on as at
present, the Church of England in N S W. will yet be
bossed by a theatrical manager, instead of by a bishop.
Can it bo true that one C.M.G. wrote the thing
about Parises, and that another C.M.G. in revenge got a
scribe to butler Robertson? That’s what it comes
to.
Tho “ Daughters of Moab” would like to see
the Rev. Evelyn Hodgson upon the North Shore on an
early day, as each of them wishes to have a lock of his
hair.
It was the Grocers’ Picnic Committee who an-
nounced in their advertisement —“ No running costume
allowed on the ground." The simple nakadness of the
announcement no doubt drew crowds.
A very handsome and valuable gold medal by
Bart, of George-street, and a parse of twelve sovereigns,
have been pre-ruted to Charlie Cavill for raving life in
his father’s baths. The letter accompanying the presents
is worth both.
“Day of rest!’’ said a selector, arriving in
Sydney last Sunday. “I think as the churches work
so hard to make you come ‘down with your dust’ on that
day, they might also give the Corporation watering
carts a show.”
The Atjstbalasxan Medical Gazette might
be excused for a bit ot technicality, but that is no reason
why the much-degreed University men who write for
it jhould sprawl about sentences that would disgrace a
Herald reporter.
A country official wrote to ask if he might
accept tho Secretary.-i‘up of the Pastoral Association in
his uistrict. Tho implant head ef his department re-
quested him to supply information as to whether the
said Society was of a political nature! Pact.
It turns out after all that Heller didn’t attach
any money belonging to the St. Mary’s Fayre; but
making him out a bad lot enables the authorities to
repudiate all engagements made by him. although
approved by them. Gus Wangenheim intends to test
the question by seeing the Archbishop.
Rev. Jefferis relates how a sacred animal called
the mole-eyed Hama sent a message to Mahomet, ask-
ing him to share the world with him. The Koran
editor replied that Allah had given him the lot, and
blessed be Allah 1 History repeats, itself tho names
only being changtd to John and ’Euery.
Who’s tho soldier cove?” asked a precocious
young Australian, as two gentlemen walked out of a
large establishment in tho city. “ Hush 1 you shouldn’t
be so rude. That gentleman is Archibald Forbes.”
“And,” continued die uusnubbed irrepressible, “who’s
the bull-dog cove that’s with him P” We dare not re-
cord the answer. Nothing on earth shall drag from ns
who was the “ bull dog cove” that was with Mr. Forbes.
The Friendly Societies’ Commission appears to
be composed of heads of the various orders, who each
in turn run amuck at all other societies. Not a man
of figures ot medicine among them, but they draw their
honorarium like martyrs, and the secretary has taken
a lease of the room at the Colonial Secretary’s office.
A Royal Commission is wanted to enquire about the
bogus clubs managed by publican*, and paying no
license. There are lots of them in Sydney, and while
Justice is having a lark, give her also soma work.
Last Sunday, three young fellows started walk-
ing from Manly. When near Narrabeen Beach, one of
them in crossii g a fence feli and broke his arm. One of
his companions, fortunately, was a medical student,
who, alter improvising a splint and sling for the brokan
limb, made bis way to a house near by, and explaining
the circumstances, asked the loan of a vehicle to take
the sufferer back to Manly. The inmates of the house
didn’t lend the vehicle, but they kindly read the mis-
guided youth a lecture on the sin of desecrating the
Sabbath by pedestrian excursions, and concluded by
the charitable remark that his friend was served right
for climbing fences on the Holy Day. Somebody who
was not pious drove by shortly afterwards and took the
injured youth into Manly.
A dapper, and, to use a phrase of Wordsworth,
“fair and very fair,” cleric in a certain Southern
suburb gave a garden party, last week, when some of
Sydney’s youth and middle aged beauty, in fashionable
robes and bonnets, and a small modicum ot its chivalry
were present. In its prominent features, the party was
a success: weather bright and bracing, and refresh-
ments in much request. However, there were one or
two drawbacks tq perfect peace, for the rev. gentle-
man’s “ lady helps ’’ from Ireland are in an overdue
emigrant vessel, and, being short-handed on the gala
day, he had to borrow not only domestics, but various
articles of cookery and crockery from his friends. It
wasn’t his fault, of course, and he did his best; but
since the story leal ed out, his kind friends are doing all
they can to secure for him the administrative help of a
lady at the head of his house. His parish contains a
rich choice readv maidens, who only wait till
“ Baikis is willin’.” It can’t be long, surely.
Our Teutonic friends at Albnry are under a
religious mania. Hera is how one held f> rth to a body
of countrymen :—“Moses ish dravelling nut i?h baople
by Canaan on the blains, ven all mit vonce he see
him a buth all mit Die burning. Moses tought
vender vat dat ish, und he say by himself, ‘ I go
me und have a look vat dat ish.* Und brosentiy
ven he come near by dat bush, a lerson sgream
oud mit a lend volte —’Auf you come near dat bush
you got a licking, I tole you.’ Und Moses, he got
so frightened by tarn; he run him avay. Und all mit
vonce he stop, und he scratch him his head, nnd he say
to himself. ‘lgo me back a liddle closer, und take me
anoder look.’ Und ven he come back a voice more
louder dan before sgream oud—‘ Auf you don’t bull off
your boots you got anoder licking.* Moses shoomped
him down und bulled off his boots, und vash daking off
his drousera; van a voice moremilder dan before sgream
oud, * dat vill do —come over here, I vant to speak mid
you a liddle, aboud dnt vilderness by Australia. Mind
don’t you send yonr children by dem Egyptian schools
eider’ Mein frens dat’s all vat dis person said. I tole
you dat vas somedings."
A Good Idea. —Aa the hotels are now closed on
Sumiavf, (the immy thousand consumers of Wolfs’s
Aromatic Schnapps should all purchase a bottle during
tho week day?.—Advt.
Little girl: “Papa, what do yon call it when
three babies come at once ?" Little girl’s sister (who
has heard much about the small-pox), with animation :
“ I know papa; it’s an epidemic, isn’t it ? "
“ There’s one thing I envy a hog for,” said
Spencerton, to the barber. “He don’t have to be
shaved till after death.” "Some hogs does and some
doesn’t,” rep u d tbo artist. There’s no use arguing
with a barber while in his power.
“Want any cloves?” asked a hawker of a
Teutonic publican last week. "Vat for I vaut urn?”
asked the proprietor. “T o take away the smell of beer
from the breath," exclaimed the pedlar. “ Take away
dat smell ov beer! ” cried the man behind the counter.
•• You got somedings vat makes der smell s f ay on, I
buys him.”
A drunken man went into a snake-charmer’s
menagerie. "So trgt ’ere’s a snake?" he scornfully
asked ; “I calls it an eel!” “Eel. is he, urn F” replied
the showman, “by Elysium, see if anyone can’eal bis
hum on you now,” and even as he spoke a pet boa
crushed the doubter into an osseous jelly, and swallowed
him, boots. whi*ky and all—quite a nauseous dose, you
know. This little incident alone prevented the bibulous
fool from attending Batt. Rodd, and Purves’ Elysium
land sale, which takes place on Saturday, May 13th >
under wonderfully advantageous terms to pucehaeers.
“ Have a cigar, Hal? ’’ exclaimed Sir John Pal-
atnff to the young prince. “Thanks, my generous
benefactor," sobb- d the madcap youth, throwing him-
self upon Hie burly knight’s bosom, bt fore taking the
proffered weed; “ I’ve not had a smoke for a fortnight.
The Olde Engh she Fayres rooked mo, and I’m sav'ng
up my spare shillings for the Bartlemy Fair on May
241 h." " Pish," replied Sir John, “ a bob ’ll take you
in to that, be.-ides every side show being thrown in
gratis; stand me a quartof sack.” It was shortly after
this episode that Hat. got run into the lock-up for being
seen in a pub. after 11 p m.
Hay railway to be official 1 pened on July 4th.
Cairns expects to beat Par Douglas in the race for
the Harbcrton trade We i.-gton-Manawatu (N Z.)
Railway Co. has appointed Mr.Higginson, formerly in
the Goveraneut service, as its chief engineer; salary,
£1259. Shares ot the company were eagerly grabbed
up; £40,000 in excess having been applied for The
ebon Johnny Wide Biy, of that Bay, saved a lady from
drowning, and had a handful of silver for bis pains.
Johnny solaced his great heart with Rvd Hirfc and
opened his dusky eyes on the walls of a cell next morn-
ing “ Captain " Swann is about to build a first-class
caravanserai at Georgetown, Etheridge river, and means
to pull down the price of drinks from Is. to 6d. He
says the tariff has been a shilling for twelve
years, which is considered a very fair thing
The “disease” which is carrying off many valuable
horse* in the Dabbo district is believed to be caused by
the presence of wire filings in chaff A Parramatta
paper says that a recent local death resulted from
injuries received during a fight between two young men
but that the matter was concealed and never reported
to the coroner 642 people at the Australian Museum
on Sunday afiernoon—dusty day There are thirty-
six prisoners awaiting trial at the approaching Quarter
Sessions at Bourke; some of them committed on three
or four charges. The chief offences ara horse-stealing,
manslaughter, shooting with intent, prison-breaking,
indecent assault, perjury, etc ......The friends of
the prosecutrix are petitioning the Crown for
a commutation of the death sentence recently passed
on Joseph Saul for rape at Grafton, Clarence River
Edrop’s paddock at Burwood has been resumed by the
Government for a park. This is right enough. Will
they resume that land at Ashfield ? The tender of
Mitchell, Newell, and Daglish, £24,983, for the con-
struction of the Wodorga and Albnry railway has
been accepted by the Victorian Government. This
work is to be finished by 22ad Oct, next, when railway
communication between Sydney and Melbourne will be
completed Warrenheip is the most popular town in
Victoria with country visitors. Seventy-two thousand
gallons of whisky are turned out there annually
Watson, the late bank manager, of Dunkeld (Vic.), was
sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment for his crime
of embezzlement. His friends refunded the amount of
his defalcations, and counsel for the defence urged that
he had already been suffioiontly punished The seed
wheat fund, Adelaide, for distressed S.A. farmers,
totals £2315 Tb« South Australian branch of the
Russian Jewish Relief Fund closed at £lO5B
The Sydney baker’s 21b loaf often weighs 250 z An
Adelong sou of temperance decided that schnapps is
a temperance drink, and got drunk on it for three days
before he discovered his mistake. The lodge got in a
bottle to test, and they agreed .John Brown’s body
is not allowed to moulder near Uairns, N.Q., because
tbq blacks dig him up to see if he had any bacca about
him. However, John’s soul marches on as u5ua1......
Four hoys, all under ten, stole a horse and van in
Sydney and took to the Parramatta road cn route for
Dubbo ; but before they had time to reach the Strath-
bogie ranges the N. S. W. polio* made a “clever
capture,” and the Victorian foorce planted some seven-
teen pounders around Glenrowan Daniel Spain, tho
Newcastle hawker, who gave evidence in the recent
enquiry at Sydney Infirmary, has been found dead
in tho bush In Rockhampton, th» city of sin,
sweat and sorrow, there are no public baths
A certain Victorian legislator doesn’t think much of
Mr. M‘Coil’s capacity for speaking the truth. Perhaps
not. “ Canawl” men lie ?...Tho Todd's Flat Terror is
the name of a new paper. At least, it should bo tbe
name, but, wo believe, it is to be called the Intelli-
gence. There is a mournful paucity ef inveution in
these country districts A new coroner has been ap-
pointed at Rockley. Tenders for homicide should be
sent in early New Masonic Hall to bo built in Sydney
on a central site of land to ba purchased Qoondi-
windi has never had a paper. Tho Goondiwindi
Herald, MHntyee River and South Western Ad-
vocate now fills the hiatus, and so long as they stick to
that title, they’ll never be short of matter Dan.
Donovan has dropped on a 320 z. nugget at Cow Flat
Creek At Cuba Station, near Wagga, a kangaroo,
which was being chased by a dog, collided with a young
colt, and it was afterwards found that the marsupial’s
front teeth and lower jaw were imbedded in the equine
forehead A canary breeder up at Mndgce lost
fifteen canaries in one night, the birds having bam
sucked of their blood by a snake A lawyer, a doctor,
and two parsons are expected on the Wild River —to
bleed, kill, and bury the diggers When M'Cudgeon,
of the Back Blocks, came in to the homestead after a
long ride, his aboriginal servant, Jacky, said: —“ A man
was here inquiring after yon.” “ What sort ot a man,
a gentleman P" “No.” “ How do you know?" “Oh,
too much dirt along a’ nails I” Preliminary arrange-
ments have been completed towards forming the River
Darling Navigation Co. (Limited), with a nominal
capital of 000 in £1 shares. The object of the
Company > -.sure tho continuous navigation of the
river bet- . vVilcannia and Wentworth by means of
locking. A provisional directorate has been formed,
over 15,000 shares have been applied for, and 50,000
more are already in the market. Mr. Chambers is act-
ing as hon. secretary. A preliminary survey will cost
about £4OOO An Auckland (N.Z.) doctor found a tad-
pole in milk delivered at his house by a dairyman.
After interviewing his milkman, the medico is fully
convinced that the lacteal fluid was not watered, an
that the cow must have imbibed the tadpole Th)
Hodgkinson paper has been compelled to hold over
(make par. till next issue. This is a piece of self-denia.
which few Northern editors could survive The
Attorney-General of Queensland has filed no bill against
Richard Taylor, the alleged Burdekin Bridge murderer.
William Cavanagh was charged at Townsville with
the rape of a Kanaka girl, named Madowa, on March 9.
The prosecutrix and two other Kanakas, summoned as
witnesses, didn't know the nature of an oath, and
couldn’t say what would happen to them if they lied.
The prisoner was discharged William Lee has been
acquitted at Townsville (Q.), on a charge of feloniously
shooting an aboriginal boy named Ralph. The evidence
for the defence was that another black boy, named
Louey, was the offender Extensive steam scooping
machinery imported for Burrawang Station (MessiK.
Edois’), Forbes Good water struck by diving rods in
the Bar won pastoral districts Mr. T. R. Hunter is
the new proprietor of the Pastoral Times, Denihquin,
which has long sadly wanted a change somewhere
Up at Mount Konsbla, the other day, some unknown
miscreant stuffed the pices of a locomotive with some
explosives. The trick was prematurely discovered,
Inckily Barque Olivia Davis, 590 tons, loaded with
60) tons potatoes, wrecked at Warrnambool Senior.
constable Long, of North Shore, having winged a gal!,
went down on the rocks after it. A second sportsman,
named Miller, saw the wounded bird rising, and fired,
hitting the constable in the hand and stomach
The Newcastle strike costs £5OO a week...... The Her-
berton blacks recently speared Mr. Mazlin’s piebald
horse, and went in for a “siege of Paris orgy.” They
afterwards returned the animal’* shoes to a black
tracker Rich tin lode discovered between Normanby
River and Byerstown (O ) Bird-in-Hand Co.’s (Wool-
side, S.A.) third crushing of 297 tons yielded 3lSozs.
Johnson, ot Adelaide Punch, is heavily in this... Michael
Foley, altos John Fitzgerald, arrested at Natalia,
charged with having murdered a man named Clark, at
Sydney, on April 10th last.
* * ♦
Debating societies in England take sometimes
the form of amateur parliaments, and two of these
societies actually have their Hansard staffs attached,
who take the speeches verbatim, and they are after,
wards printed Strong efforts will be made in Eng-
land to pass a bill for the abolition of imprisonment by
inferior courts for debt.
A filter Mrs. Johnston bought her.
Which beer would strain to purest water—
How much increased would be its sals
If water it would turn to ale.
Tbo ladies of St. Mark’s congregation. Darling
Point, who take in the Protestant Standard as a sort
of Sunday Punch, have been complaining very much
lately of its dullness. The appointment of the Kev.
Mr. Kemmis to the vacant oanonry at St. Andrews has,
however, had a revivifying effect upon our contempor-
ary, and its last issue is really quite comic. Wa would
suggest, aa a protest agaiust this appointment, that at
tho installation of the new canon, tbe rev. and eniagf d
editor of the Protestant Standard should appear in
his orange ribbons and sashes and all the elaborate
paraphernalia perteiaing to the high office of Hereditary
Denary Grand Chaplain! Surely no future Bishop
of Sydney would ever dare to make a similar appoint-
ment again!
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Michael Davitt released from gaol on a ticket of
leave Stated in Parliament that release of suspects
was part of compact under which Land Leagnerswere
to use influence to restore order in Ireland! Homo
Balers deny the existence of any such compact .Lord
Frederick Uavendish, sucoesso. to Mr. Forster as Chlei
Secretary for Ireland, and Mr. Thomas Uaviland Burke,
Undersecretary, were murdered in Phoenix Park in
broad daylight on Saturday last. Five assassins leaped
from a cab, and with daggers stabbed the two gentle-
men after a violent resistance; both victims were
aarfully mutilated Earl Spencer made Lord-
i ieutenant of Ireland; Lord Carlingford, Acting
ord President of tho Council...... Hon, Joseph Oham-
Derlain, President of Board of Trade, declined Chief
Secretaryship of Ireland At trial trip, new Orient
steamer Auilial, steamed over 16 knots per h0ur......
Russian officials say that the Czar had better be
crowned privately 7000 Jewish families emigrating
from Southern Russia to Palestine Capo Colony
Legislative* Council favourable to Basuto*and being
directly under Imperial Government......Parkes to visit
Belgium Empress Eugdnie seriously ill at Paris...-.
Selby denied reports of fraudulent collusion with book-
makers by members of the last English Eleven-....
Australian cricketers arrived Chester Cup
results —Prudhimme 1, Pilgrim 2, Retreat 3
Anti-rent agitation in Isle of Skye terminated.-.
Triekatt returns to Australia by the Garonne......Pope
Lto sending Archbishop of Cashel and Emly (Dr. i. W.
Croke) on a special mission to Australia......bir Michael
Hicks. Beach challenges Gladstone on his Irish policy.
Riots at.Ballina, Ireland; the mob stoned the police.
King of Greece turned the first »od of Corinth
Canal Frantic revolt in Soudan; 8000 armed men,
headed by a prophet, advancing upon Khartoum, Nubia.
First prize at the International Shipwrights Ex-
hibition, London, awarded to the new Orient liner,
Austral The Quean has opened Epping Forest with
ceremonious magnificence A large London firm
the wiae trade faile i for £300,000— Colliery accident at
Herstal, Belgium; nine colliers and eight members of a
rescuing parly perished Signor Depretis, Premier of
Italy, ill Mr. Forster offerrd to resume Chief Secre-
taryship of Ireland; offer declined -Sl* Michael
Hioks-Beach withdraws his resolution so that the Gov.
may not be hampered i - a action dealing with Inin
crisis Conservatives offer to support the proclama-
tion o£ martial law in Ireland.-Believed that assassians
intended to murder Mr. Burke alone Gladstone pre-
pared strong measure against Irish secret societies......
Parnell issued manifesto to Irish people, and called tor
delivery up of murderers. iXwo men and a cabman
arrested on suspicion of being implicated in the crime...
Sir Charles Wentworth Dilke declined Chief Secretary-
ship of Ireland unless accompanied by a seat in Cabinet.
......Man named Moore, lately from America, arrested
on suspieiou of complicity in the Cavendish and Borko
murders Suspected that murderers are Irish Aiuen-
caus, and British Consul-General in New York offers
reward to informers Mary Jana imper-
sonator of the late Lord Arthur Pelham Clinton,
sentenced to seven years; her ailoged accompUco
being acquitted The Soudan prophet has been
killed; bis army was defeated.-..........Pre5ident
Arthur has assented to the Chinese Exclusion 8i11......
Dublin murders ascribed to Fenian a g«“ c Js
spreading Anti-Irish feeling provoked throughout
England Gladstone recasting Irish policy repres-
sive! v Parnell asserts that enemies to his policy and
to Ireland devised the late political murders ; his section
promise to assist new policy-..-Meetings held in.lre-
land to express sympathy with Jovernment Lord
Mayor of London petitioned to convene pnbhc meeting
to prepare petition to her Majesty, praying for a dis-
solution of Parliament A fire at Cardiff, South
Wales, destroyed a large flourmill and contents; loss
sustained is £loo,ooo.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, May 9, 1882.
On the Wharves, to-day, prime
at £6 15 s to £7. other samples £6 to £6 10s per ton,
maize, firm at 5s 61 per bushel: oats, seed and feed. 4s
to 4s 3d per bushel; Warrnambool potatoes, £5 5s to
10* per ton; Victorian onions. £4 to £4 10s per ton;
Victorian chaff, oaten, £8 10s to £9 per ton, bags 'nclu-
siveT butter. in keg. Is 61 to Is 9d per lb.; eggs. 2s 61
to 2s 91 per dozen; bacon, 81 to 91 per lb. , cheeso, 7d
to 91; ham, 131; honey, 41 to 51; lard, 81 to 91 . bees-
wax 8d to 91; millet brooms, 7s 61 to 10s per dozen.
Fowls brought from 2s to 4s 61; ln°ks, 2i to 4s 81;
geese, 5s to 6s; turkeys, cocks 6a to 12a 61, hens 4s 61;
pigeons, Is Id to Is lid per pair.
Fresh Meat.—At the Eiverton Meat Co.’s sheds,
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country-killed
meat take place daily, a good supply arriving and selling
freel7. Prices for prime bodies ot beef—2Jd to 3d per
lb. all round: medium quality, 2JI to 2id per lb. ; prime
mutton also sells at 2* ; medium quality, 2* per lb. all
round.
Fat Cattle.— At the Homebush sales, yesterday, the
market for fat cattle ruled firm ; best bullocks reahsed
from £7 to £8 lls 6d.
Fat Sheep are somewhat easier, 'principally for
medium qualities ; prices all round averaged from 6s 3d
to 18s 61.
Flour —This market is well-stocked at present, and
purchasers are holding off expecting lower rates; prices
are—for Sydney mill lour superfine, £l5; household,
£l4; second. £l2; New South Wales country brands
£l4 10s to £l5; Victorian, £l4 lOi to £l5; Adelaide, £l4
IJs to £l5 per ton. Bran and pollard. Is 6d to Is aa per
bushel*
Wheat—There are large supplies to hand from
Adelaide, San Francisco, Tasmania, and New Zealand.
Prices are—Adelaide wheat, 6s. 2 h to 6s. 61; New
South Wales, ss. 91. to 6?. 61.; Victorian, 65.; New
Zealand, 5 3. to 6s. 61.; Launceston, ss. 41. per bushel
The grossest slander ever promulgated is that
to the effect that Dick Thatcher has left the
Bulletin Hotel. Not only is Dick still the landlord,
but orr namesake continues to be the most popular
home of call in all Sydney, and a rendezvous for talent
of all kinds—from Forbes to Smith.— Adtt.
The following is given as a cure tor gout. Take
enough celery to fill a stew-pan, cleanse thoroughly,
and bail in filtered water. When the celery is done,
drink the water. Then add to the celery a little new
milk, flour, and nutmeg, cook, and eat onoe a dar.
Cures by this means of rheumatism and gont have been
authenticated.
A medical man who sends distasteful circulars
round, offering to cure people of all sorts of diseases
was surprised to receive from a lawyer he had
impertinently pestered, a reciprocal offer, thus: " Sir,
I offer you my services to defend von when placed on
trial for murder, arson, larceny, malpractice, indecent
assault, and obscene communications. Atrial solicited."
It is necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverave. Be sure that yon get CAD-
BURY'S COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by speeial appointment
to the Queen. —(Advt.)
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 49, he knows about as much ns those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this npper-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-s-hops. If you want
anything in the boob-line, fr*m a patten to a dancing-
pnmp, you had better call at 584, and “ gee what is the
matter with Hannah.” The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sola. Boots ought be in great demand
now, if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
If yon want a really palatable pleasant cup of
tea, of acknowledged purity, strength, and excellence,
ask your grocer for Ths Calcutta Tea Association’s
Pui e Indian Tea. Our only Wholesale Warehouse in
New South Woles, is at 28 Charlotte Place. We have
no retail establishment whatever, and employ no
hawkers. All the leading tea dealers and grocers in
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
“Calcutta Tea Association" on the labels in three
different places. The teas of the Association are ac-
knowledged superior to any packet teas ever sold in the
Colonies,
VANITY FAIR.
The Toting Women’s Institute in Auckland
spends £440 in “provisions,” and £165 Is. Bd. in “re-
freshments." Our Union Clnb— but that is their affair,
Etiquette is a funny thing at Eton. A boy who
had to leave suddenly, went to say good-bye to the
Head Master; but was told that that great man never
said good-bye to boys except at the end of the term, or
by special arrangement! It wasn’t etiquette Ladies
of Albany bazaar not prosecuted for raffling Th®
Earl of Shrewsbury, it ia now positively announced,
will marry Mrs. Miller, with whom ho recently eloped.
He has settled on her £12,000 a year At Monte Carlo,
recently, a young English officer, who commenced with
exactly £ICO, won £12,000 in three nights’ play—and
cleared out with the money Foppery is "the egotism
of clothes," The Supreme Court ot Rhode Island
recently granted a divorce by consent of the parties......
There is a rage among English ladies for moleskin
oon.bg. Lady Brassey possess the largest and most per-
feet moleskin garment ever made. Over one thousand
skins, all collected by herself, were employed in its
manufacture. It is worth hundreds of guineas The
Tarpoeley Club, with whom the Empress of Austria
hunts ia England, have the rather curious rule that
members of the club who married a second time should
give two pairs of leather bieeches to each member of
the hunt No one begrudges the Duke of Cambridge
his “Order of the Thistle," but when it comes to the
country having to pay £5 K) forjthis weed being conferred
upon him, it is a very different matter The H win ton
Park estate, which has just been sold f.r £400,000, went,
by Mrs. Banby-Vernon-Harcourfs will, to some distant
relatives of her first husband, who were settled in Aus-
tralia In the London Gazette’s list of bankrupts,
appears: “William Henry Shadwell, Norfolk-terrace,
N otting-hill, and Grange, Ealing, Middlesex, milk dealer,
dairyman’s agent, and General in her Majesty’s Army.”
Mrs. Fox, for many years matron of Christ’s Hos-
pital, and well-known [to generations of Old Blues,
has died of hydrophobia. £She was bitten by an
Englishiterrier in September, and died in March
Madame de Banska, c»e le Countesse Rzewuska, the
wealthy Polonaise whom Balzac married but five
months before his death, has been sold up for rent in
Paris A London medical journal says that are in
that city 20 physicians with professional incomes of
from £5OOO to £20,000 a year A claimant has arisen
for the Scottish title and part of the Scottish estates
of Lord Lovat in the person of Mr. Fraser, a builder
and architect in Dublin The Marquis of Anglesey,
too, is “up a tree,” and is selling Beaudesnrt, his
princely mansion A feud exi-ta between the Astors
and the Vanderbilts, of New York, arising out of social
jealousy. As the original Astor traded six-bladed
jack-knives to the Indians for furs, and the original
Vanderbilt sculled people across the East River for 25
cents, the claims of both families to a place among the
aristocracy of the country seem to be equally slim
The S.P. Examines says there were 364 divorce cases,
or nearly one each day, granted during 1881, against
315 for the year 1830. There wore 203 women who ob-
tained divorces from their husbands, and 71 men who
obtained divorces from their wives Patti’s magnifi-
cent dresses have to be carefully managed, and she uses
a train-trolly. It is a wire frame eighteen inches wide
and thirty-six long, on wheels with noiseless rubber
tires. When the trolly is not used, the Queen of Song
hauls it up with a silken tape which hangs from
the waist Every guest’s finger-bowl at
some dinners contains a small live goldfish
Tho celebrated gay Mabillo Gardens of Paris are no
more. As a dancing resort, it was the moat rc.
nowned place in the world, and very olontarfy
The fortune of Miss Lelia Vanderbilt, who has just
married Dr. Webb in New York, was a million and
a quarter sterling. 2,000 persons were invited to tho
church, and 2,000 to the wedding breakfast. It took 2
days to classify and arrange the present s for exhibition
When the sou of Lord Napier of Magdala was
married to Miss Beech in February, the train of her
white satin bridal dress was carried by four children in
Watteau costumes. Two little maids-in-waiting (of
Louis XVth’s time) wore bodies and panniers of blue,
with pink quilted skirts and powdered hair— precisely
similar to the dresses of a bevy at the Garden Palace.
Two diminutive pages wore dark blue velvet jackets and
breeches with steel buttons, pink satin waistcoats,
perukes, 3-cornered hats, buckled shoes,...Mr. Treves,
F.R.8., recently lectured at Kensington Hall, London,
on the “Dress of the period." He contrasted, using
statuary, real humanity with a “fashionable figure,"
and said that tight lacing 'pressed the five lower riba
into the liver, displaced the heart, and annihilated the
diaphragm, bringing on indigestion, spasms, faintness,


CITY CATERING COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STEEET.
A NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and nrne,
tical experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B. —Since opening, on 27th April, 1681, we have
snccessfelly catered THE LARGEST, MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE undertakings that
have taken place here to the present time, viz.:—
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
tainod their R H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE,
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officers of the Detached
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1253, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinner d la
Basse, for 60, in Government Palace Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—ro
Queen’s Statue Demonstration —under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to be
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THfilß E.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay Picnic luncheon and refreshment, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9 30 p.m., to bo ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress' reception. Town HalL
The (Union Clnb) “ Bachelor’s Ball," at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windoyer, in our new
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Room
Dinner d la Russo at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Eusse to the Intercolonial Rifl> Teams,
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of *• Hudtou
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock Works," at Gran-
ville.
The Lnncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkeslury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Randwiok
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englysbe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
limners, i easts, &c., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let out on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crocker/, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, &c. &•.,
and will bo glad to send out the smallest (Older for
Pastry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, &c.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
servio >s required.
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting u.j on tic
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
CHAS. K. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co.),
Masagbk.
THE NEWSLETTER.
New Caledonian oranges are now being sold in
Sydney.
Sugar land is plentiful on the Lower Burdekin,
and is being rapidly takes up.
The Western Railway will run sixty-four miles
beyond Dubbo, 16 ck October 5 and one hundred miles,
Ist February.
Blenoowe, a Carlton resident, suicided and blew
his brains about his yard. It’s almost unnecessary to
pay the dan was not a juryman.
The Echo one day recommends emasculation
for violators, and on the next publishes a letter from
“ A Matron" approving of the suggestion.
Another mailman drowned between Georgetown
and Junction Creek, in the Einsleigh Bivar — making
the third mailman drowned there this wet season.
The Melbourne Argus is to be 2d. instead of
3d., and the Eve»iN9 Mail is to be Id. instead of id.
This is a savers cut at the Melbourne DiiLt Tele-
graph.
For the half-year ended 13th April, the Day
Dawn G.M. Co., Charters Towers, crushed 7030 tons of
quartz, which yielded 13,412jz. 12 dwbs., valued at
£i1,793 6s. sd.
John Alexander Dowio sues Thomas Walker,
the spiritualist, for libel, damages £250. It appears
Walker prejudiced Dowia's chances of Paradise by
Bsying he was looking out for a Government billet.
Herberton, the latest centra of attraction in
Queensland, is fabulously rich in minerals. The popu-
lation is increasing at a great pace, and the settlement
bears upon it the stamp of permanency and prosperity.
The re-organised Victorian Volunteer Force is
to be subject to the Discipline Act. Thirty daylight
drills pec year compulsory; cost, £30,0 0 per annum.
Torpedo Corps to bo properly organised; Permanent
Artillery to consist of 160 to 200 men.
Ravens wood ailror mines are commanding at-
tention. Largo areas of land are being leased, and
several companies on a comparatively extensive scale are
projected. Eavenswood is generally recognised as one
Of the richest mineral spots in Queensland.
The Palmer River goldfield population are still
groaning for a railway between that place and Cock-
town. “ Ask, and ye shall receive," is all very well as
au aphorism over eighteen hundred years old, but
Colonial Governments don’t think much of it.
In Sydney many chemists’ assistants (whom
Heaven help !) are on their feet at work from 7 a.m. to
10 p.m., and are liable to be rung up at any hour of the
night. They are paid 30s. to 50s. weekly, or (not count-
ing Sunday work) at the rate of from 4d. to 6Jd. pet
hour.
Dr. Stanich, the eminent oculist and anrist, is
always winning fresh laurels. The Cedfern and Water-
loo Municipal Councils have just each passed resolu-
tions thanking the doctor for the eminent success of
his labors amongst eye and ear patients in those muni-
cipalities.
The Northern Railway is within fifteen miles of
Charters Towers, and a great portion of the work on
the last section is finished. In a few months’ time
railway communication between the capital of the
North and the richest goldfield in Queensland will be
an accomplished fact.
Up Townsville way, Michael Mullane, in August
last, went on the spree, chased his wife around, throw a
bar of iron at her head, and caused her death. A jury
found him guilty of manslaughter, strongly recom-
mended him to mercy, and Judge Paul has dished him
up with 4 years aud 4 months. There’s nothing like a
free (and easy) country.
Emily Waite, of Coburg, a suburb of Melbourne,
has been arrested on a charge of abandoning her illegi-
timate child. The infant was found on the bank of the
Yarra, weighted with a heavy stone; a snag saved it
from being drowned. Waite at first denied all know-
ledge of the crime, assorting that she put out her
child to an unknown baby-farmer, but afterwards
** owned up."
The ship Bulwark has foundered between Yoko-
hama and Puget Sound; 18 lives lost. In June last
this vessel turned turtle in Hobson’s Bay under a sud-
den change of wind, but was afterwards righted, docked,
audrepaired. Then she proceeded to Newcastle, N. B W.,
whence she toak a cargo of coals to Yokohama. This
matter should be enquired into from a Plimsollian
standpoint. '
A Queensland judge has just given a jury hi?
opinion about libel costs. The ease was Woodyatt v.
Keith, of a Maryborough paper. The jury a
“ verdict for plaintiff for the lowest amount that - aid
carry costs.” The judge said they must n"mn the
amount. The j . y named a shilling, and the j > ge re-
fused costs. Tua jurors have since sent a lo.ber dis-
claiming the ■; -idiot.
Two boys named Boatwright, of Red Creek,
Sngowra, Forbes, went into the bush tf> work. In the
evening the younger returned home, r ymg his brother
was dead. On the parents repairing to the spot, they
discovered the brother hanging from a sapling with a
strap round his neck, quite deal. The simple verdict
—died from hanging—was returned at the inquest. A
most extraordinary case.
The Cooktown Herald accuses the Queens-
land Govt, of having first pampered the Nortn Shore
blacks with civilised food, and then left them to starve,
thus inciting them to prey upon the live stock of the
settlors. Though these blacks are dying out fast, yet,
says tho Herald, “in the meantime it is impossible for
thrice the number of police at the disposal of the
ofilaers to thoroughly protect the wide area which is
being settled on by Europeans."
During the recent floods, an overlander and his
men were literally “up a tree” for forty eight hours.
Whilst camped on the Belyando, with over 100 horses,
the waters came down so rapidly that in a very short
time the surrounding country was nothing but a sheet
of water. No food was at hand, and during eight days
three small 'possums were all that three men had to stay
their stomachs with. For forty-eight hours, to save
themselves from drowning, the men had to seek the
kindly assistance of a big gum tree.
The establishment of a line of coaches between
Charters Towers and Hnghenden has proved very bene-
ficial to both places, to the latter especially. Hughen-
dea is fast becoming a town of importance, and is
losing no time in going in for indieatious of civilization.
The foundation-stone (a block et wood) for a hospital
has been laid, and money has been collected for the
erection of a Church of England parsonage. In
speaking of the ‘’indications of civilisation,” it is
almost superfluous to mention that Hnghenden already
boasts the possession of several pubs, and a lock-up.
The chief steward of a Northern steamer who
tried to land a parcel of jewellery at Eockhampton
without paying duty, got two months’ hard labor. A
local firm tendered the duty, but the authorities refused
to receive it, and prosecuted them for complicity in the at-
temptedfraud. However, the case was dismissed, though
the P.M. appeared to have no moral doubt about tne
matter. When the next steamer came along a passen-
ger, with a view to having some fun, made up a parcel
and carried it ashore. He was duly bailed up by the
Sub-collector, who, however, found that the parcel con-
sisted of an old book and sundries.
On the 19th ultimo, a meeting was held in the
Braidwood Mechanics’ Institu’e to consider the advisa-
bility of opening the reading room on Sundays. On a
ballot being taken, it was found that 17 were for and 14
against the opening. Another meeting was called by
the defeated party, when it was moved that the resolu-
tion in favor of opening be rescinded. Lengthy speeches
were made on both sides, and a clergyman lent his
assistance to the non-openers, who, hewever, were again
defeated. Another meeting has been called for the 12th
instant to finally tost the question, in which'great in-
terest is taken by the members, who number 70,
Plomer, the “ well-recommended ” schoolmaster,
convicted of rape, is not to be hanged, despite the fact
that Judge Wiudeyer told him he’d inevitably shake
hands with Howard. Neither i* he to be prescribed
for by the editor and “ Matron" of thaEoHO. No, it is
imprisonment for life this time, with three years in
irons. It’s quite plain, from this, that capital punish-
ment for rape has been abolished in N.B.W. without
Act of Parliament. Perhaps Sir John and his col-
eagues, remembering the trouble there was in June.
1879, about a little matter of this kind, have abstained
from doing something which might possibly—we don’t
say such a thing would be^probfible—get the Ministry
into trouble during the Greitt Mogul’s absence. Up
North, they’ve jhst decided to hang Mr. Byrnes for a
similar Offence; and if any man in the whole wide world
deserved hanging for criminal assault, it was Plomer,
whom the Ministry have decided to keep at the expense
of the State for the next twenty years or so. Either
the law is a farce or the Ministry don’t do their daty.
One or the other should be wiped out.
The wire-drawn trial at Adelaide of the Insur-
ance conspirators has come to an end. The arch-
villain Hicks has escaped justice, and, as be himself
said during his trial, he counts himself as filling out the
position of, —“ Him that fights and runs away, will live
to fight another day.” Judge Boucant was very severs
on Hicks, saying that he had known his real character
before, he would not have permitted him to turn
Queen’s evidence. Hicks lied all round the compass,
and his Honor said that he would not hang a mad dog
on his uncorroborated |testimony. Unfortunately for
the other conspirators, Hicks’ evidence was circum-
stantially substantiated, and even Hicks’ lying powers
wore not considered big enough to give them the
benefit of any doubt. Dr. Morrison made an appeal to
the jury, protesting that ha was innocent of fraud, and
had been basely betrayed by Hicks. The other prisoners
followed similar lines of defence. Dr. Horton saying
that he had on one oocasion thrown Hicks out of a
window, because the latter dared to tempt him to com-
mit crime, aud that then and there Hicks had sworn to
ruin him. Barker also blamed Hicks as the inspirer
and manager of the whole scheme, and asked that his
family might be eonsidered. Barker got two years for
each offence—or four years all told { Horton|was sent up
for two years, and Morrison for twelve months. The
third charge will hang over until Forsyth is brought
bask. Should the escaped be “ nabbed,” many people
think that Hicks will be non est as a witness when the
trial comes off. They say he always “ cottoned ta"
Forsyth, and could hardly lie so freely against him
bacaueeof but we won’t anticipate. Anyway, Hicks
has over-reached himself in betraying his colleagues.
The counsel for the prosecution—including that astute
lawyer, Charley Mann, Q C., and C 8. (who is up to
every dodge in criminal practice), and Soapy ”
Symon, the latest-made South Australian Q.C., and a
great legal gun—have admitted, that without an ap-
prover’s tale-boaring, they oonld not have produced
evidence enough to convict the prisoners of conspiracy.
It would have frizzled off, as Mr. Pater, one of the de-
fending lawyers once boasted, in a “mere misde-
meanour.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
There is down South a little man who responded
to the toast of “The Queen," and who, before intro-
ducing' a stranger to hi* wife, assures him that she is
quite a respectable person J
The Eev. Isaac Eooney, missionary in Duke of
Tori Island, off New Guinea, describes the get-up of a
Duke of Torker when ho stalks the boulevard “ A
necklace, an armlet, and a streak of whitewash, and
daintily twirling a light spear, while his women follow
behind with loads heavy enough for eamels."
In Zion, Salt Lake way, druggists have to sell
vaccine by the barrel. A prolific old polygamist will
sum up hi* wives by logarithms, calculate his children
to the fourteenth decimal, and whack down the green-
backs for a waggon-load of vaccine with the homely
aspect of a man who is only doing a customary bit of
shopping.
Apropos to the late attempt on the Queen’s life,
it is now recalled that, years ago, Prince Albert wrote
that “these outrages will always be perpetrated so
long as criminals are indicted for ‘ high treason ’ —"
in other words, so long as such crimes are invested
with political importance, and cracked-brained enthusi-
asts hunger for notoriety.
Arthur M‘ Donald, Esq., C.M.G., of Bathurst,
charged with pickhandling his wife, has bean sent up
for three years. The jury recommended him to mercy.
Arthur, it seems, only broke her leg; if he had smashed
her skull he might have been acquitted, for Martha Ah
Hock, charged with killing William Maher, has just
got three months, and she wasn’t recommended to
mercy at all. Sir George Innes was Judge, and the
jury are ready for more work.
She : “ I feel it due to you who have honoured
me with the proffer of your hand to explain why the
engagement, of which you were aware, between Mr.
and me was broken off.” He (agitated and excited): “My
darling girl, I don’t seek to know now. I have no doubt
you had good reasons for giving him up, no doubt at all."
“ But,” she answered, “ I did not give him up—he gave
lie up.” “ Well, well, it’s all the same. I have no doubt
he had good reasons for giving you up, no doubt at all."
It was a very Jong time after when they were married.
M. Blanc started the Monaco gambling hell. He
lived with a woman (his servant) many years, had a large
family by her, and at last reluotantly made her Madame
Blanc. He died, and Mdme, conducted the hell, even
better than he had done; then she followed Monsieur.
It is uncertain where he has gone j hut it is quite cer-
tain they have bothgone to the same place, this preoione
couple. Her personal jewels, silks, laces, etc., are alone
worth ever £1.000.000, and the sales attracted all the
great buyers of Europe. The display of jewels was
wonderful. “The wages of sin” are—millions, in
Mdme. Blanc’s case.
While the tongues in a pretty Southern town
were wagging about a fashionable wedding, an undercur-
rent of plot rippled to the surface. Taking advantage
of sweet woman’s innocence, the gay bridegroom had
not limited his favours to one maiden only. He was a
beau of two strings; and these two strings got en-
tangled. When the second trusting maiden found she
enjoyed only an outside show, she waited for her
whilom lover one evening behind a corner, and caressed
him with a portion of fencing material, lie suffered
much from her marks of affection, but they were
nothing to what he received from his best girl when
she heard how things had been going. That is all at
present. Wo would not have said anything, would not
have invaded the privacy of domestic life—because it is
vary wrong. Only, dear reader, you, whose life is made
glad by his presence, who thrill at his voice, and blush
when his footstep comes—how would you like to be a
toything, wLot yea thought to be a wife ?
The lady who caused a sensation by visiting the
Ballarat Fancy Pay re habited as a nun was Mrs.
Hamilton, the well-known leoturess on "Conjugal
Love” and wife ef Mr. Hamilton, the phrenologist.
There has been a fieree correspondence in the local
papers about the matter —so fierce, indeed, that words
and phrases such as “physically loathsome,” •*syco-
phantic slanderer,” “ depraved flunkey,” etc., appeared
in one of the moat recent letter* on the subject. It was
at first thought that Mrs. Hamilton’s motives in attir-
ing herself asalfithcentury religieuse wereof ansesthetia
and archaeological character, and that she intended to
enact a part without which no re-production of ancient
fair or festival could bo considered complete. For
there was a time when these fairs were “run” by the
ecclesiastical establishments of the neighbourhoods in
which they were held, and so strongly regarded was
the right of the prior or abbot of the adjacent monas-
tery tnat ordinary tradesmen were compelled to cease
business during the fair’s continuance. Of course
such a fair would include a large proportion of nuns,
monks, and other belongings of tha church. But, at
the Ballarat fair, though they ware intolerant of the
presence of a bogus nun, they didn’t object to the com-
pany of real swindlers —people who not only gambled,
but gambled unfairly. It now turns out that Mrs.
Hamilton’s attendance as a nun was the result of a
splenetic impulse, and intended to serve as a rebuke to
those who organized the festival.
Mr. Treeves’a lecture on the “ Dress of the
Period,” delivered to a crammed audience in London,
was interesting. A woman will wear, he said, any
dress, however uncomfortable or hurtful, if it is only
fash enable. The jersey is detestable; «a some women
it it positively immodest; and the tightly tied-back
skirts are objectionably. Mr. Treeves said that dress
was for two objects: ta cover, and to maintain, au
even temparature, yet w6men lightly covered or left
bare the delicate shoulders and chest, while a super-
abundance of layers of raiment was used below the
waist. The lecturer, however, showed himself behind ,
tha fashions. The superabundance of pettieoats h*a
bean so reduced of late that the rule is—one in winter,
none in summer. The oomolnacionigarmeat, of chamois
or silk crapo, according to season, supplies the place of
almost everything else. A statue of Venus, with a 29
inch waist, was on the platform as a model, aa well as a
*ire figure, and the lecturer made at rang remarks
about tight-lacing, wicked dressmakers, and foolish
wearers, Ha produced a crinolette, amid much
laughter, and asked his audience if they considered
such an appendage would improve his Venus The
ladies present were amused by the lecture, and did not
seem offended; but most probably every individual
female, as she passed out of the door, made a firm
resolve that her waist should not bo one bit bigger,
whatever the horrid man might say—so there !
* * *
A young gentleman has lately been pat in gaol
for the heinous offence of sending a valentine to a ward
in Chancery Mias Braddon’s new novel is “ Mount
Koyal’' Bismarck mortally hates the Crown Princess
of Prussia, Queen Victoria’s daughter The Duchess
of Edinfeurgu is a good linguist and musician, and of
very firm character, having on several occasions dis-
tinctly refused to obey the Queen. She is simple in her
tastes and manners, and is often seen in the London
shops making her own purchases without ceremony
Queen Victoria faints in a hot room very easily, or after
a prolonged ceremony. Cold suits her Deceased
wife’s sister Bill just passed in Canada Mr. Barstow,
a London Magistrate, has decided that presents given
to sweethearts are not recoverable in a court of law,
even if the girl backs out of her promise, to gain which,
of course, the presents are generally given. Not always,
though A lady in London brought an action against
a eosmetiqxie vendor, whose nostrums had changed her
face from a mere pimply condition to a mass of con-
fluent scars. She lost the case The ex-Empress
Eugenie’s malady is of a bronchial character Nady
Lytton, wife of the groat novelist, and mother of the
present peer, wnose death has just been announced,
ouoe asked her son not to write magazine verses about
her when she died.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[we shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
Thero are at present three bishoprics vacant in
Australasia.
A member of a Queensland branch of the
Salvation Army has been committed for robbery from
a church, a steamer, and from business premises.
Dr. Vaughan says : “ We approach the Book
with our religion, our church, our creed, out and dried
and ready made for us.” That's how the circle is
squared.
Probable candidates for the Bishopric of Sydney ;
—Bishops of (ioulburn and Newcastle, Canon Barry of
Westminister, Kev. W. Boyd-Carpeuter, Rev. F.
Head (Vicar of Charles, Exeter), Rev. Sir Emilius
Bayley, Bart, M.A. (vicar, of St. John’s, Paddington).
Rev. Mr. Jefferia must imagine his hearers have
very short memories. On Sunday ho said that the
Parseo Bible! derived all its morality from Christianity,
and half an hour later he ingenuously stated that the
Parses Bible (the Zend Avesta) was written 600 years
before Christ 1
Thus the Express:— “ln consequence of the
illness of the Bishop of Bathurst, the consecration of
the Bight Ear. lira. Dunne and Cani, bishops-elect of
Brisbane and Rockhampton respectively, is postponed.’*
This reads as though the Irish protest against Dr.
Cani’s appointment were to be disregarded.
It is believed that the Archbishops of Canter-
bury and York, and the Bishops of London and Qoul-
burn, have appointed the Rev, C. S. Isaacson, M A.,
late Fellow of Clare College, Cambridge, to be the first
Bishop of Eiverina. Mr. Isaacson is at present Rector
of Haidingham, Norwich, a living worth £B5O a-year.
The Sydney correspondent of the Brisbane
E.C. organ, the Australian, gravely observes that: —
“The sentencing of Plummer, a - public schoolmaster,
to death, for rape on one of his pupils, has given
another kick to the secularists. They already sea their
favourite system tumbling to the ground, and ‘ payment
by results’ established on its ruins.”
“ Now that the public-houses are closed on Sun-
day many a young fellow will have to spend his evening
in the street,” was one of the arguments advanced by
a Braidwood adolescent daring the debate as to the
proposed opening of the local Literary Institute on
Sundays. It is, however, considered that in justice to
average Braidwood tastes the speaker should have
spoken for himself only.
Bishop Moorhouse has been preaching tolerance
at Huntly (Vic.). Christians, he saiv, should not patro-
nise tradesmen or vote for politicians simply because
these happened to worship in the same church as they
did. His advice in respect to business is to buy goods
in the cheapest and best markets, and in respect to
political candidates, to choose a man for his politics
and not for his sectarian proclivities.
“ Demortuis nil nisi bonum’ ’ maybe charitable,
but to replace banana with veritas would be more honest.
Some years ago, when in Synod, a high ecclesiastic was
urged to do something for the poor ill-paid curates in
the interior. He replied that when the tower of the
Cathedral was finished, he would give attention to the
matter. So the count.y curates had to fall back, for
their necessities, on —the. mysterious ways of Provi-
dence.
At a meeting of tho Melbourne Presbyterian
assembly, last week, the Kev. Murdoch M’Donald gave
it as his opinion that it was not possible to save any
more souls than those that were the eleot of God. By
inference those must be Presbyterians, and Murdoch
will, of course, take a front seat amongst them. The
rest of the human race —a trifle of 1350 millions or so—
will be damned off the reel. Call out for the mountains
to fall upon you, gentlemen 1
The Victorian Presbyterian Assembly is keeping
up its reputation for fiery and unamiable controversy.
The Rev. W. Henderson is puzzled about the Declara-
tory Act, and wants more light on the subject of pre-
destination. Any dim religious moaning supposed to
appertain to stock phrases will not suit Mr. Henderson,
and he asks what is the good of preaching and praying
if only the elect can possibly be saved. What with
Bishop Moorhouse’s theory of the uselessness of prayer
under certain conditions, and the Rev. M. Macdonald's
rigid exclusion of outsiders from salvation, a would-be
Christian now-a-days has very little substantiality to
hang on to. “ The gate is ajar”—only to a select few.
A “mission” is just now being carried on in
the Newcastle district by the Redemptorist Fathers,
who have just arrived from England. One of these
clerics, daring an impassioned total abstinence dis-
course the other evening, is reported to have thus apos-
trophised his hearers: —“To Irish Catholic women in a
strange land, amongst strange people enemies t« your
race and to yonr creed, etc." This looks like a very
bad beginning. English and Scottish men era not
enemies of the Irish Catholics, and the sooner his
reverence finds this oat the better will be the chance of
himself and friends staying in the colony. A time will
arrive when Australians will deal very summarily with
the useless firebrands who seek to further acclimatise
here the bloody quarrels of old-world superstition.
The Y.M.C.A. of ’Frisco occupy rooms worth
£25,000, open day and night for all worthy persons irre-
spective of creed or nation. Included in the member-
ship of 1000 are all shades of faith, Jews and Catholics
amongst the rest. (It will bo seen that the constitution
mast be much more liberal than in Sydney.) It is dis-
tinctly a rule that idlers are not tolerated in or about
the institution. The rooms are open from 8.30 a.m. to
10 p.m. Library contains 4000 voU, and all leading
newspapers and magazines. A well-eqnipped gymna-
sium is opan twelve hours a day und>r an instructor.
Fifteen services are held per week, besides lectures,
concerts, and classes. There is an employment bureau,
finding situations for about forty young men a week.
Subscription is £1 a year; those unable to pay that
sum are welcome to enter free. The Association is not
entirely self-sustaining.
Laafc Sunday week, Rev. J. J efferia, of Pitt street,
gave his fourth lecture on the Bibles of Asia. Seldom
have such research, broadmindedness, and scope of iacts
been evidenced in addresses from Sydney pulpits as in
the series of clever sermons j ost conclud id. Mr. Jeffcris
is a man whose every word is weigLel, and his every
sentence weighty—whose manner is an exhibition of
i culture, earnestness, and power. It was impossible to
! listen to his sermons on the Asian creeds without feel-
ing, however one might differ on any point, that a man
was speaking whose Christianity was in his heart and
whose courage was in his tongue. No mincing of un-
pleasant truths, no bending to conventional and respect-
able hypocrisy, was there; and yet not a word that
could hurt, or was harsher than needed, ever leaves his
lips. Talkers in the pulpit are plentiful; preachers of
the Jefferia stamp, rare.
Up at Bur ran gong there’s a row on amongst
Episcopalians The dread serpent of Mammon is the
disturbing element. The last Easter meeting boiled
over on the £ a. d. question. The Eev. Mr. Ware and
Mr. S. Bell did not seem to know who was to take
charge of the collections, the latter thinking
that churchwardens should be the custodians,
and the former holding that the offertory was meant
to pay the butchers’ and bakers’ bills of the clergy-
men. Mr. (Jordon protests against clergymen “ appro-
priating church funds,” and says it is “dishonest.” The
Bev. Mr. Ware has stated that he has only received
£9l “since April last, and a clergyman must take care
of himself in some way.’’ An item charged for “ com-
munion wine” should have been, as Mr. Ware naivalv
said, “kerosene,” because he holds no license to sell
wine, and it appears that a publican was so ashamed of
the scandal that he came forward and paid the amount
claimed.
Pending tie election of a new Bishop of Sydney,
the Bight Rev. Dr. Mathew Hale, Bishop of Brisbane,
ns senior Bishop, acts as Primate of Australia. Dr.
Hale is something like a bishop. A more consistent
Christian man never wore priestly robes. Bishop Hale
was transferred from Perth to Brisbane on the resigns,
tion of the Pev. Dr. Tuffnell, first Bishop of Brisbane;
a man very similar- both physically and otherwise, to
the late Bishop Barker. Bishop Tuffnell was a long
figure of a man, was over-fond ef leaving his diocese
and starring as a Colonial Bishop and ecclesiastical
beggar—in the old country Ho brought out a good
deal of plunder, collected in that fashion, and also a
young wife. The money he settled upon the Bishop or
spent upon a fine “ Palace.” The church in the colony
was little better for his beggings. At length, during
one of his trips home, a comfortable English rectory
was offered Dr. Tuffnell, and he resigned the Colonial
Bishopric with a promptitude which showed how little
he relished the duties attaching to it. Dr. Hale proved,
to the great joy of the Anglicans of Queensland, a very
different sort of man. For a considerable time he let
the “ Palt.ce” to a tenant, and lived in a modest
economical fashion in a bouse in town. Every penny
he could save, spare, or collect, was laid out in
essentials for his work—the cure of souls. He
started off. very speedily, on a tour round the
interior settlements, where often no parson—except
perhaps, Peter Campbell, with his subscription list for
that mysterious chapel—had ever before been seen.
Although an elderly man, Bishop Hale never flinched.
When he put up at a station, he was down among “ the
huts” quite as much as at “the house." The bush
hands saw the genuineness of the man, and where a
more lardv-dah cleric would have inevitably been
“ Joed,” Bishop Hale received respect and attention.
On returning to Brisbane, after a journey, all on horse,
back, of over 2000 miles, the Bishop did not pause in
his labours, but set to work with all the earnestness
and eloquence which was in him, to try and get up a
fund for the proper carrying on of the work he had
seen to bo altogether neglected. His own slender
means were constantly drawn upon to give a fillip to
this or that good work. Dr. Hale is probably, in conse.
quence, the poorest Bishop in Australia, but we should
say he has considerable property slyly laid by in the
very best securities; in fact where no thieves will be
likely “to break through and steal.” Dr. Hale is dis-
tinotly low-church, and is often to be seen on the pi in-
form cheek by jowl with Mr. Griffith, the Congrega-
tionalist minister, and other ministers of Evangelical
denominations.
• * *
Eev. Father Eoberts, nephew of Cardinal Man-
ning has returned to the Anglican Church, and is mai-
ried.....The report that Brigham Young is not dead, has
created much stir. However, it’s not very probab'o
that Brigham’s still alive According to the census,
Victoria possesses 1 Sinkevite, 1 Millerite, 1 Druid 1
Theosophist, 1 Mosaic Dispensator, 1 Immateria-
list, 2 Eclectics, 1 Man of God, 5 Nothing Par.
tioulars, 3 Saved Sinners, and 1 Silent Admirer
Says the Express: “About eight years ago, a who.o
convent of Anglican sisters entered the Catholic Church,
in Hackney, London. They were baptised by the pre-
sent Bishop Vaughan, of Salford, then a simple priest.”
The Bishop of Melbourne holds that the best proof
ot a miracle is that there was a worthy occasion for
its performance. He recently prayed that Doan
Macartney might be enlightened, and within
two hours the Daan was actually talking sense
Archbishop McCabe was to receive the rod hat after tLo
Consistory’hold on the Tuesday after Easter . . . .
Cardinal Howard (who is an ex-lifeguardiman) is to
represent tho Vatican at the coronation of Czar
Alexander 111 At a meeting held on Saturday
in aid of the St. Mary’s Cathedral Building Fund
£1,206 6s. was received Foundation stone of Bt.
Mary’s Chnrch, Granville, laid last week by Doan
Cowper; church will ultimately cost £7,000; portion to
be immediately erected, £2,000.


Hotels, Ac
£jj_ U N S L E E’S
NORTH TEE!
ADELAIDE
3 0 BEET BUTC
-W (Late William L
WINE AND SPIRIT M
631 GEORGE STI
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL
COUHTBT OBDSKB RECEIVE Pi
J. T. FALLON in asking pat
WINES, and to the awards gaii
intimate that he holds very large
and the public may rely upon get!
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depo
91 PITT STREET, £
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY
NEW SOUTH W.
These Wines were awarded fira
following Exhibition*
London International
Paris „
Vianna „
Philadelphia ~
Also at the various Intercolonial
toria, New South Wales, Queei
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLf
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBI
Verdetlho Brown Muscat I C
Tokay I B
Champagne, Medium Dry. C
HONESTY IS THE B
It is of tho utmost importance f
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New So
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevei
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will fim
least 10 per cent, in favour of L
WHISKY.
VIKGOEj SON, AND
MASON BROj
JlAIi£N’S PEIZE A
WHITE.
Reisling Aucarot
S
frOßfr-S
AGENTS.
& 16
S
Have always i
to the TEi
SALE BUY
lEONMONGI
Hotels, &c.
JOHN A. WILKINSON'S
COOLALTA WINE ELL 3,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINEYAED—COOLALTA, BEANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Tobaooonia
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS
AMIBIOAN TOI
THE following facts are coi
resources, and, therefore,
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid dntr i
All the others paid duty in 1880 01
DIXSON AMD SON*' paid dnty i
All the others paid duty in 1881 01
Imported manufactured tobacco p
on for the two years was only..
DIXSON AND SON'S BB
YANKEE DOODLE, C
SIB ROGER, GOL
CUT RUBY, ORIBNTA
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror a
genuine “Tin Tag," each ph
Bound Single Tin Tag, s 1
quehoe" or “ Yankee
ALL TOBACCONISTV GOC
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LI
AND the enormeus success of
has not escaped the usual p«
universal popularity has excited th
of speculators who trade upon the
of a borrowed name. My Tobaco<
and counterfeited, and although I
able means to guard tba public aga
to punish fraud, both Foreign and
tions bearing my brand, but lackin
the ever popular and well-know
have been imposed upon the publii
AMERICAN WEeo. Now, to
numerous Customers in both town
as the Smoking Public from all
arranged with the Amebic an Mani
ping of my Tobacco be branded
bearing the device thus:
without which none is genuine.
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well
comment. But in justice to the
myself, I urgently request, my custo
selves that the article they pnrcl
that each plug tear the above devi
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B
Heartily thanking the public for i
and determined to deserve a conti
by keeping a first-class article at
price.
MICK SIM
Sole Wholesale Agent in the (
Can't B Beat To
CORE EXCHANGE 3
CORNER OF GEORGE and CAM
HAYMARKV
I N.B.—NO BRANCH I
H, A R
Annjani
A us
TEA LI AN “HO]
SEWING MAC HI
Unprincipled Dealers—to mak<
ling’* profit—are offering for sal
Machines that will not stand a yea
express
o
A
</
6l\l
THE HOME SHUTTLE I
Manufactured for us, has the ah
name on the work j
PUECHASE NO OTH]
We solicibfe'ormation of the att
forfeits of tcW above Machine, wh
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genui
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE KOW SOLD <
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TEEADLE MACHINE. COMPL]
Do., WITH COVEE COM]
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular pos
m. moss Tani
WYNTAED LANE, i
p E. la:
Wholesale and Be
PEODUCE MEE<
Comer
GEOBGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEI
18 Qeorge-street West (late Pai
And
Dorlinghnrst Boad, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed am
P. E. LAEK
Wholesale and Eetail Wine aki
778 and 780 GEOEGE STE]
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE OBDEBS payable at Hay
FIRE WO]
THE ROYAL ATLAS Pi
FIRE WORE
as used by the Public of New I
the past 26 yean
NOW ON SALE
100,000 gross of the besi
works, at Is 9d and 2a (
BEST teeble ceackees,
(40 packets in bo;
BOXES containing a SPLENDID
7s. 6d , 155., 80s , and 40s
Cases containing every 1
CHINESE FIREWORKS, to
display, £3, 10s., JBS, £7 ]
and £2O, per case.
Serpents,
Bine Lights,
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThlPurestStimuiant
WORV^
lb* flam* ot M. MOSS & CO.
la on every Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER’S Bugle Bra.ni)
n
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPEES AND WINE)
MEECHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
AGNIFICENT IRON-FR
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, JRosi
Imported by us direct, and mai
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WAKE
YE AES. They are of v* ry bandsc
are most sensitive, sweet, and pow«
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS cf TIME PATE
Examine and test them before pi
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheaj
BEALE and COMP
1, Oxford-stree*; 612, George-
Buildings, Sydn«
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Hig
Howick-street, Bathurst; A
burn; Church-street, Parram
Brisbane.
No matter where yon live we wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
P
LATE
AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPEEHANGHN
(a really splendid s
BOOTS.
PRIZE
PEIZE
mo PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
, Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re-
ooTer your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this inden posted up by secretaries
oj racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general,]
RACING.
Western Queensland J.C. (Roma) Mar 17.18.
Adelaide R.C May 20, 24. 25, 27.
Bligh A.T.C. Mudgee .May 22.
lllawara J C May 24.
Danedia (N.Z ) Winter May 24.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Mudgee Turf Club May 24.
Melbourne Hunt Club May 24.
Copeland J.C May 24.
Orange Jockey Club May 34.
Inverell ;;" Ma y 34
Murrurnndi J.C May 24, 25.
Queensland T.C..... May 24, 25.
Parramatta J.C Mav 24. 25.
Balranald May 30. 31.
Manning River J.G May 31. June 1.
Victorian Trotting Club (Elsternwick) June 3.
Coonamble J C June 7, 8.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... Jane 7,9,
Brewnrrina J.C "...June 8. 9.
gV/V July 6, 7.
Eockhampten ....July 6, 7.
Clarence E.J.O, v-jy 13.13
V.E.C. Grand National . ’.’.V.......Ju1y 22.
AQUATICS.
Krag Champagne Cap, Amateurs ....May 27.
Maryborough (Q.) Regatta May 24.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Ross, £2OO aside Jnne 20.
PEDEBTEIANISM.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports, Association
Ground May 13.
D’Arietta v. Wilson, 125 yards, £2O May 13,
T. Collins v. T. AUen, 100 yard*, £lOO, Home-
T _ „ bu *k May 13.
J. Farrell v. E. Hicks, 200 yards, £lOO, Home-
_ bush May 13
Hunters Hill A.A.C. Sports, Association
Ground May 20,
Carooar Athletic Sports May 21
Tamworth Athletic Club May 24.
Narrabri Athletio Sports !!May 24.
Riverina (Hay) Athletic Club .'.'..’....’May 24, 25,
Htettler v. Penno, at Borrows, £4O May.
Spring v. Eyce (2 yards), 150 yards, £5O at
Lithgow Juno 1.
FOOTBALL.
Victorian Match (Association Ground),..May 20, 2i, 27.
COURSING.
Hawkesbnry May 16,17.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Mr. Frank Reynolds’ well-known sire, Kelpie,
died at Tocal on the 6th instant, at the advanced age of
27 years.
Hutchens, the English champion sprinter, pro-
fesses to do lOOHyards in 9J sacs, and the quarter-mile
in 47 secs.
Queensland Turf Club Meeting. Ten accept-
ances for the Railway Handicap, eight for the Shorts,
and eleven for the Brisbane Cup.
The deciding race for the 50 gninea enp given
by the Victorian Yacht Club was won by the Taaiwha,
beating the Janet by 15min, ISsec.
The St. Alban’s mare, the sensational Duohess,
ha* broken down, and Progress has become so infirm
that it is improbable that he will ever race again.
The Chester Cup was run for on May 3 with the
following resultPrudhomme, 5 yrs., Bst. 41b., 1; Pil-
grim, 4 yrs., 7st. 111 b. 2; Retreat, 5 yrs.. Sat. 111 b. 3.
Footballers have now starched and ironed their
noses for the coming fray, and onoe more the dear old
familiar braises tinge with azare the lilied shins of
youth.
Melbourne Hunt Club meeting, May 24. Handi-
cap Hnrdle Race, 11 entries; Queen’s Birthday Stakes,
27; Open Steeplechase, 18; Selling Race 7; Flying
Stakes 26.
Wellington J.C. Races, May 4. Flying Handi-
cap : Dispatch 1. Selling Race : Trump 1. Handicap t
Vulture 1. Monteflore Gift: Attila 1. Forced Handi-
cap: Rosebud 1.
On Saturday week, the match for the Tamworth
Gun Club trophy came off at Glenarrou, and was woh
by Mr. J. Bryant, jnn., who killed every bird in 20 shots.
Where is Dr. Carver now P
A day’s racing will take place at Inverell on the
24th May. The two principal events are a Maiden
Plate of £lO, and an Inverell Midwinter Handicap of
£2O, with a sweep of £2 for starters.
At the Kensington Park (Vic.) Races on Satur-
day, Redlight won tha Hurdles. Eebeccajthe May Handi.
cap, and Jane the Free Handicap Only three started
for the last event. Th ere was a poor attendance.
The Australian cricketers arrived in England
safely by the Assam on May 3, all well. Percy M’Don-
nell had quite recovered from the effects of the sun-
stroke received daring his last match in Melbourne.
Mr. Whittingham’s stud of racehorses was
offered for sale in Melbourne op May 2. Riverton
brought 250 guineas; Chatterer, 220 guineas; Nantilus
was passed in at 390 guineas; and Prince George at 210
guineas.
The London Sportsman offers its new Cham-
pionship of England Challenge Cup, valued 200 guineas,
for competition on the Thames, on June 19 and 20. £lOO
will be given In prizes. This is a chance for Layoock
and Pearce.
It is stated that the French pedestrian known
as the “man steam engine," who recently ran round
Paris (27t miles) in less than three hours, contemplates
issuing challenges to the chief pedestrians of England
and America.
The fourth international football match between
England and Wales was played on Wrexham race-
course on March 13. and resulted in a victory for Wales
by five goals to three. The play was under English
Association rules.
The Australian Coursing Club meeting was
concluded on May 8. The St. Leger was won by Swift
Wing, with Farderrugha as runner up. The Shrews-
bnry Plate was won by Go-as-you-please, with Werribee
Hope as runner-up.
Mr. John Conway has organised a very'attrac-
tive programme of sports to take place on Queen’s
Birthday on the Agricultural Society’s Grounds.
Bicycle races, pony races, and trotting races, and a 2GO
yards’ handicap for amateurs, are the principal events.
Rowell, the long distance walker, will race
no more. He had to retire in the late great six days'
contest, “ borated.” He went into the race to win, and
did not expect to race again. His physician says he
was trained too fine, and he could not stand the
strain.
S.A.J.C. Meeting. First day, Saturday. Handi-
cap Hurdle Race : Stag won comfortably. South Aus-
tralian Stakes : Bastanio won by half a length- Novel
Handicap Selling Race; Oremorne won easily. [St.
Leger Stakes : Topaz, ridden by Hales, won by hal(-a-
length. Flying Handicap was won by Baron Von
Mueller.
The Marine Board have directed that the regu-
lations in farce at the races on the Parramatta River
shall apply at the Grafton regatta on Qneen’s Birthday,
Additional regulations limit the number of steamers
following any|race to.the umpire’s and press-boats, for
the Government launch, Nellie, baa been
It is satisfactory to learn that Mr. W. H. Kant,
who purchased the stud of the late Sir Joshua Peter
8011, intends to carry it on. W« hail with pleasure the
advent to the turf of a gentleman whose character and
integrity are beyond reproach, and we hope to see the
new colours flaunting gaily to the front in some of our
big races.
The Newtown Foolball Club did a “ hare-and-
honnds " chase by moonlight, on May 4. The distance
travelled was about twelve miles, and Mr. F. W. Sharp,
the bicycle rider, caught one of the hares just before
reaching the goal. This admirable system of training
for football contests ought to become popular during
the winter evenings.
The second heats for fonr-oared gigs for the
Joseph Wood trophies were rowed by the Newcastle
Bowing Club on May 3. A splendid race took place
resulting in a win for Graham, Smith, Leverne, and
Smith. Both crews were rowing well together, when
one of the bows caught a crab, and his crew never
regained their position.
Warwick (Q.) Races, May 3 and 4. First Day—
Members’ Cup : Silverhair won by a length. Produce
Stakes: Maybe 1; bad start. Club Handicap : Proctor
won easily. Flying Handicap : Rioter won by a length.
Second day—Maiden Plate: Goldflnder won by a length.
Rioter bolted. Turf Club Handicap : Proctor again won.
Voltaire bolted. Mares’ Produce Stakes : Goldflnder 1.
Consolation Stakes: Nancy 1. Forced Handicap :
Cocoa 1.
The Australian Eleven commenced practice last
week, and a cablegram tells us that they showed very
poor form. A week’s practice will get rid of the sea
motion, and wo shall donbless hear well of them in their
first match, which is to be commenced on Monday,
against the Oxford University. The two days following
are allowed for this match, and on Thursday, Friday,
Saturday following, they playjSussex County Eleven at
Brighton.
Mr. Edwardea-Moas coached the Oxford Uni-
versity crew. To most of the crow he was a stranger;
by all, however, his instructions were implicitly obeyed.
He is an unquestioned authority on the essentials of
homogeneous action. There is a good deal in a first-
class coach, and so the Victorian and New South Wales
eights will admit. We are under the impression that
the ooaoh had a great say in our victory on the Yarra
the other day.
The Glebe Football Club held its annual meet-
ing on May 3. Eleven matches were contested during
last season, of which six were won, two lost, and
three drawn, and the trophy for the season was won by
Mr. W. Mihell. The playing members number 26
The “ champion footballer ’’ was there, and endeavoured
to enrol the club under the Sydney Football Associa-
tion rules, but the Glebe footballers preferred to adhere
to the Rugby rules.
The Marquis of Queensberry wrote a letter to
the London Times in which he incidentally referred to
himself as a “thinker.” The comps, accidentally left
eut the *• h” and the Marquis was self-displayed as a
“Itinker." The Marquis wrote more than once without
eliciting a reply, and now he wants the name and
address of the Editor. We should suggest a box with
skin-gloves under Queensberry rules as an admirable
way to settle the matter.
Some gentlemen were bringing some live carp
from Blayney to Carooar with the inteurion of stocking
a dam with them. They were slung in a 'arge can
underneath the coach, and on the road the can was
lost. The fish were found by the occupants of a bnggy
which followed the coach. The can was capsized and
the finny ones were flapping about in the dust. They
were brought on to Carcoar and placed in a glass globe,
but they all died in a week’s time.
The “books’' are dealing liberally with the pub-
lic on the coming Victorian campaign, and those who
risk backing a doable before the nominations can get
unusually long cdds. Mr. J. Steenson of this city, has
opened a £5OO book, and will lav anything, “ if not” to
a sovereign. This is regarded by the ring as a bad-pay-
ing price, but we have no doubt that Mr. Steenson sees
his way clear to a marginal profit when the events are
concluded. He deserves support for striking out in a
new line.
The fifth Intercolonial Bowling Match takes
place in the Cook Park green on May 17. The Victorians
leave Melbourne on Saturday, the 13th instant. Follow-
ing are the players selected to do battle for New South
Wales: —Messrs. T. E. Alit, J. W. E. Baillie, J. Beve-
ridge. W, Cruickahank, W. Dryden, U. W. Carpenter,
H. Hughes, W. Edmunds, J. Forsyth, A. Johnson, F.
Ryan, J. Toohey; captains, Messrs. T. C. Hincholilfe,
A. Payten, N. Payten, J. Young : emergencies, Messrs.
H. S. Bird and J. R. Hamilton.
The Eedfern Cambridge club went to Macdonald
town on Saturday week to play the United Club. The
Cambridge C.C. got 47; Davidson 16. The United C.O.
lost nine wickets for 30. The match was, therefore,
drawn, though the Cambridge players say that their
opponents insisted upon hanging out the time, disput-
ing the decisions of the umpires and trying to foment a
quarrel, so that the last wicket should not be lost. But
we need not go outside of Moore Park or even the
Domain to see that game played.
The following entries hav® been received for the
Krug Champagne Cup:—J. Bennett, of Rydo, C. C.
Metcalfe, D. Lord, D. Middleton, E. P. Simpson, W.
Cope, J. Arthur, G. Gaden, M. Zollner, S.R.C.; C. A.
Bros, W. G. Brett. F. Ivoe, M.R.C.; Mr. A. Stocks, of
Wellington (N.Z) was desirous of entering, provided
he could name the water for the second contest in the
event of his winning the first race. As this was
contrary to the rales, his entry was declined. Mr. J.
Pittes, of Victoria, has not yet entered.
Viewing the growing importance of our athletic
meetings, it would be well if strict attention were paid
to time records of the races. In England, the best re-
cords ar jealously guarded, and no performance is
accepted unless the time be well authenticated. We
may yet produce an amateur sprinter to beat best
English records, and wo should be chagrined had we
our time-taking questioned. At many of our sports, the
official time recorded has been disputed by men who
ought to know, and who possess good chronometers.
The Echo says that Ned Trickett “ had better
come home and settle down as a fisherman." The
Echo means "a quarryman,” only they don’t know.
There never was much encouragement given to sporting
by the conductors of the Echo. They only refer to
sport at all under compulsion. There was a tinte,
within the memory of some of the present staff, when
horse-races weren’t noticed, and theatrical advertise-
ments refused. It is just in keeping with the spirit of
the rag to say something malevolent about a game man
who’s down on his luck.
A rifle match was fired on May 2 at the Pad-
dington Rifle Range, between a team selected from the
Royal marines at present in harbour, and a team of the
Grammar School cadet corps, ten men aside, seven
shots at 500 and 600 yards, resulting in a win for the
cadets by 180 points, the scores being:—Grammar
School, 463; marines, 283. The prize given by Mr.
James Marks for highest individual scorer on the
cadets’ side was won by Lance-Corporal Marks, al-
though the Sergeant-Instructor made the highest score
bat he declined to compete.
The Petersham Football Club held its annual
meeting on May 4. Following are the office-bearers for
the ensuing season :—Patron : Mr John Gelding, Mar or
of Petersham ; president, Mr. V. R. Smith, M L A. ;
vice-presidents, Messrs. E. Fowler, J.P., S. A. Stephen,
and J. Coates; hon. secretary, William Druce : hon.
treasurer, William Audsley; general committee, Messrs.
W. Gibb, F. A. Chapman, J. Inglis, E. A. Vallack, J. T.
Seale, S. Kirke, and S. Gelding; captain, P. Wedd:
delegates to the association, F. Wedd, J. T. Seale, and
W. Druce; selection committee, J. T, Seale, W. Druce,
and W. Gibb.
The Southern Rugby Football Union held their
annual (meeting on May 5. Matches will probably take
place this season with a New Zealand team. The
Carlton, Parramatta, Berrima, Camperdown, Liverpool,
and Royeton College clubs have joined tbe Union.
Following are the office-bearers for the ensuing year
President, Mr. J. J. Calvert; vice presidents, Messrs.
R. A. Arnold, W, R. F. Burkitt, £. J. Raper, and W. C.
B. Tiley; Committee, Messrs. M. Arnold, Allen, Brodie,
Butler, Eobberds, E, Thallon, and Waldron; auditors
Messrs. Taylor and G. A. Thompson; hon. secretary
and treasurer, W. H. Fletcher.
The Carltons, seven of them, went to Campbell-
town on Saturday week to play the team that did the
University’s. The local team scored 126. Copeland
topped the list with 50, T. Rudd played a careful innings
for 33, Jones got (15, and Mansfield, of 122-not-eut
notoriety, was bowled for 11. W. Harley succumbed to
a “sugar doodle” from Nunn, who with Mitchell did
the bowling (or the visitors. The Carltons made 140
runs in 1 hour ana 10 minutes: Mitchell 48, Davis 47,
Nunn 14, being the double figure scorers. Davis was
missed when he was 10 runs. The Campbelltown field-
ing was very loose.
So confidently was a victory expected for Vic-
toria in the Eight-oar race that the jewellers who had
the order for the silver sculls, to be presented to the
yi_ c "prs, sent for the names of the Melbourne crew so
that the inscription coaid be completed in time for pre-
sentation at the banquet on the evening of the race.
Very wisely, the inscription was delayed, and the jewel-
lers were duly furnished with the names of the Bydney
men. It was amusing, during the progress of the race,
whenever the Victorians seemed to gain, to hear the
patriotic exclamations. “ Now then. Upward knows
W j r? e ' s about—weight must tell." But it didn’t tell,
and Upward didn’t know so much about it after all.
Referring to the condition of the men after the
mill, an Associated Press dispatch says:—“ Ryan and
Sullivan were visited after they had gone to their
quarters. Ryan was lying in an exhausted condition
on his bed, his upper lip being cut through and his nose
disfigured. He did not move, but lay panting. Stimu-
lants were given him to restore him. He is terribly
punished about the head. At the conclusion of the
fight Sullivan ran to his quarters at a lively gait, and
laughing. He laid down for awhile, as he was a little
out of wind, but there was not a scratch on him. He
chatted pleasantly with his friends. The fighting was
short, sharp and decisive on Sullivan’s part throughout,
Ryan showing wearinesj after the first round."
On May 3 the match between the Warwick and
University Clubs for the Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup was
concluded, resulting in a win for the Warwicks by ten
wickets The University in the second innings scored
92—Metcalfe being top with 20 (not out), the other
double figure scorers being Wilkinson 19, Coates 18,
Powell 11. The Warwicks obtained the required
number of runs without tha loss of a wicket in the
second innings—Hidde'.ston (not out) 16, and Downes
(not out) 9, being the batsmen. This is the first time,
during the series of matches for the Holdsworth-
Gardyne trophy, that the Warwicks have won a match
and that the Universitys have been beaten. Well,
J ones and Garrett do make a little difference.
The race in light skiffs between W. Beaoh and
C. Reynolds, for £lOO, which was declared by the
referoe to be no race on Saturday week, came off last
Saturday on the Parramatta River, and resulted in an
easy victory for Beach. Reynolds took the lead and at
one time was three lengths ahead. When they had
gone a mile and a half Beach collared him, rowing
better and perhaps faster than he did at the start.
Reynolds struggled hard to keep bis position, and when
Beach passed him, he fell exhausted out of his boat and
was picked up by the occupants of an accompanying
skiff. Beach’s style was much admired, and many of
the rowing talent predict that our champions will find
him a hard nut to crack when he perfects his style in
outrigger rowing.
The attendance at Eandwick on Saturday to
witness the trotting match for £l,OOO between Mr. W.
Kelso’s New Chum, and Mr. W. Gannon’s Paddy,
was almost as large as that usual to one of the
off-days of an A.J.C. Meeting. The race was for
three miles. New Chum being allowed 200 yards
start. The betting was brisk, Paddy being tbe
favourite up to the time of starting, when New
Chum’s splendid condition and style gained him
many friends, and he started at 5 to 4 on him. He
justified the opinion of the talent by winning easily,
allowing Paddy to gain any of the start he had
allotted to him. New Chum's time was 8 min. 47 secs.;
Paddy’s, 9 min. 3 secs. Paddy was ridden by W. Yeo-
mans, and New Clinm by his owner.
The 150 yards’ race for .£4O between Ryce and
Spring came off at Lithgow on Saturday week, and
caused great excitement in the valley. A deal of money
changed hands, one of Spring’s backers claiming £228
as his share. There was some doubt among Jlyoe's
backers as to the individuality of Spring; some said he
was Byrne; others Rogers, but still they stuck to thbir
man and planked their 13s. to 10s. till they had to cry
“Hold! enough." Spring got the best of a bad start
by two yards, and improved his lead up to 80; then
Eyce began to gain, though be failed to catch his
opponent, who breasted the tape two yards ahead in
15 6-10 sec. A fresh match for £25 a side has been ar-
ranged to take place on Ist June, the distance to be 150
yards, Spring conceding two yards’ start.
Mr. Selby, of Shaw’s team, repudiates the alle-
gation that the match in Sydney was sold. Notwith-
standing, an inquiry is to be made into the matter by
the English cricketingl authorities. Nothing can be
elicited by an inquiry. Opinions may bo right or wrong,
and they may be taken with tbe usual modicum of salt.
The match did not look like a swindle. Massie was
bowled first ball, and Horan and Murdoch ware added
to the dismissed batsmen for less than 20 runs, yet
M’Donaell was missed several times for his 143. Barlow
caught a ball and dropped it most unaccountably, and
Ulyett lost his wicket in the second innings by slogging
at a short-pitched ball on the log in a most unscientific
manner. But these are the accidents of cricket, and
it is only the outsiders who can see their bad form.
The bicyclists were conspicuous by tbeir absence
from the S. A. A. C. Sports on Saturday. We learn
that the bicycle races, which have proved so attractive
at former meetings of the S. A. A. C., have been (or
prizes always given by the Sydney Bicycle Club, and
the latter this time declined te| be “ allowed" to com-
pete at the S. A. A. C. sports at th'eir own expense. The
S. A. A. C. declined to give a prize, and so tbe visitors
were deprived of the enjoyment of probably witnessing
such another close finish as took place last year be-
tween Messrs. Sharp and Hilliard. However, the
Bicycle Club intend at a not distant date to hold a
meeting themselves, and they are determined to give
a good afternoon’s sport. They have arranged a pro-
gramme of Saturday afternoon rang, up to September
30, which unattached riders are invited to attend.
Troy has two new candidates for fistic honours,
one of whom is to challenge John L. Sullivan, for
and the Championship of America Hts name is Richard
Egan, and he works at stone-cntting on the Albany
capital, walking down and back, twelve miles in all,
every dav. Egan is 5 ft 10 in. high, measures around
biceps 16J in., calf of leg 17|iu„ thigh 29 in., hip 45in.,
waist 42 in., and chest 43Un. Ha is 29 years old, and
weighs 2281 b. A prominent brewer is said to be his
backer. Egan has never used liquor or tobacco. The
other candidate is John Fox, of West Troy, a black-
smith’s helper, 25 years old, weighing 2151 b., and os
temperate as Egan. There is talk of Egan and Pox
meeting, and the best man challenging Sullivan, but
Egan wants to challenge Sullivan independently.
The final contest for the Thomson Junior
Challenge Cup attracted a great crowd on Saturday,
when tha Surry United decidedly placed a lien on
the trophy by their splendid stand, having occupied the
creases during tha whole of the afternoon, and obtained
139 for the loss of tevtn wickets. J, Searle played a
splendid not-ont innings for 46, the other double figure
scorers being C. Jess p 15, R. Croker 19, J. Beveridge
33, Watkina 14. The full bowling strength of the Our
was tried. Thongh the Surry United have made
a good stand, it must not be hurriedly suppose ! that
the match is all over. The Our Boys are bound to do
well in their batting, and there is a second innings to
be played. A very creditable and hononrable act was
performed by the Our Boys in allowing Searle, who was
injured, to retire and resume his innings later in the
game. They deserve to win the Cup for making this
concession, especially asJScarle’s exit was most desir-
able for their prospects. This is a lesson to cricket
clubs generally.
Nobody says this time that poor Trickett com-
mitted a swindle. He has evidently lost, perhaps not
his physical power, but, what is of even more value to
a man, his nervous force. “ Nervousness," says that
great American physician. Dr. Beard, “ is only one of
the seqnelse of civilisation." Commenting on this, the
World remarks that “a people who can afford to be
nervous must have a good deal of leisure on their
hands. They must be free from the wholesome neces-
sity of finding the wherewithal tor four meals per diem,
and are, therefore, entitled to consider what the old
dramatists call the megrims, like goat, a most genteel
kind of trouble. Until the Americans made money we
heard nothing of their nerves. They were luxuries
which, like diamonds, Saratoga trunks, and six thou-
sand dollar trotters, could be dispensed with. The man
who cleared the forest all day, and nooned with his long
legs over a log, could not pester himself with such
trifles. Nor could Colonel Hiram T. Sloggins, with a
coon-skin contract on hand, indulge in nerves, any more
than could that mother of the republic whose boast it
was that she could lick her weight in wild cats. One
cannot well imagine an Apache squaw troubled with
hysttria, or an Araphoe brave with dyspepsia; and
most assuredly tha Western governor who devoted the
morning to ploughing his prairie farm, and tho after,
noon to the affairs of State, was not a nervous man,”
Trickett, when a quarryman, didn’t know he had such
things as nerves; bat, when he emerged from the bar-
barism of a quarry, and found himself surrounded by
the high-toned civilisation of a pub. he rapidly fell away.
When Trickett “crashed” after the first half-mile of
his first race-with the Canadian it was his nerve that
failed him and not his muscle— that was just as good as
it was in the days when Plancus was consul However,
even this time Ned thought he was going to pull
through. A day or so before tho race he cabled to a
friend, “Two to one against me," and again, ‘Am in
splendid form, and must win." But the boys, though
they knew that Ned was bona fide, took warning from
previous experience, and did not put on too much
money.
The Sydney Amateur Athletic Club held its
twentieth meeting on the Association Ground on Satur-
when, as usual, the attendance was large and
fashionable, and the beautiful lawn in front of the
grandstand (was promenaded for hours by tho “blood,
bone, and beauty ” of the metropolis—chief among the
beauty being a petite fur-caped young lady, with such a
complexion and such a pair of eyes as are selu.im seen
out of Tasmania or England, Just as tho Melbourne
Cup attracts to Flemington the fair women and brave
men of the South (and, for the matter of that, the North
too), so may we hope that the S.A.A.C. sports meeting
will become asimilarinstitutionforN.S.W. Here men,
not horses, are the contestants—men who always go for
the prize, and who are above tbe suspicion of " pulling."
The sharper and “welsher" are conspicuous by their
absence, and tho sensitive feminine ear is not assailed
by the croakings of the ring. This is where we want to
see the 500-guinea dresses and the splendid equipages
that Melbourne revels in on her Cup Day. The exploits
of men are better worth witnessing than those of horses,
anf l the development of a modern Milo is a greater
achievement than the training of a Grand Flaneur. But
if our athletes are to “ waste their sweetness on the
desert air," and make their greater efforts without the
approving and cheering presence of the fair sex, then
our sports meeting will become dull It will be, there-
fore, for the ladies to bring about this revolution in
sport; and the signs of the times, judging from tho
attendance on Saturday, are hopeful. Tbe sports were,
perhaps, a little better than at previous meetings.
Prizes were offered by the committee for best
records, and many of the winners ran their time
out with that object, the successful ones being—o. T,
Metcalfe, who did the 440 yards in 51 2-10 sec., and the
half-mile in 2min,sl-ssec.; andE A. Grainger who ran the
150 yds. in 15aeo. Followiugaretheresultsof the various
events :—l5O yards: E. A. Grainger 1. Zollner 2; a des-
perate race; won on the tape. Mile walk, handicap :
vV. C. Shipway 1, J. A. Buckland, scratch, and W. E.
Jack. 15sec , tied far second place. 103 yards’ fl it race:
F. W. Bayhs got away two yards at the start, and Rush,
though he made a gallant effort, could not pass his
leader. Schools’ champion half-mile flat race : J. Parker
(Sydney Grammar School) 1. Maiden 150 yards’ flat
race F. Russell 1, E.|A. Grainger 2. Half-mile flat race
for the challenge cup : D. D. Middleton led the pack
till within 100 yards from home, when C. T. Metcalfe
went through hia men, closely followed by J. Ferris;
Metcalfe won by About eight yards*, and Ferris beat
Middleton by a yard; 120-yards’-hardle.race challenge
cup: Bowman won easily, Hughes second. Wide jump •
F. Russell 1. Strangers’ 120 yards’ flat race: A. O.'
Logan won easily, A. P. Phillips being second. Walking
match, two miles : Shipway took the lead immediately
and when the first mile was done, it looked as if he was
going to beat club record, but he eased off at the finish,
though he won easily in 16min 412-10geo; a great race took
place for second honours, and Bnckland, who had tried
to pass Jack unsuccessfully during the progress of the
race, showed his rare gameness in the last lap by stick,
ing to his opponent and defeating him on the post.
440 yards' flat race, handicap: Metcalfe was scratch,
and when 100 yards had been covered he had not im-
proved his position, At the trainer’s cottage he, in fine
style, darted up past bis men, and led them past the
grand stand, winking by five yards ; A. H. Macarthur,
14 yards, was second. tMile flat race challenge cup : J
Ferris wJh easily, defeating the redoubtable Middleton;
220 yards' flat race: W. C. Rush, profiting by his former
experi lice, got tbe start this time, and, of course, be
won the race rather easily. Consolation 150 yards’ han-
dicap : G. Stephens, 8 yards, 1.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A B 0, the fast little mare which performed so
well at Eandwick a few seasons back, died last week
rom lockjaw......Spinningdale and Primrose have been
consigned to the stud An athletic club has been
a* Bombala... Balmain Undaunted v. Carlton.
C.C C., 32 and 56. U.C.C., 29 and 50 Nelson Club
v. Corona Club. C C.C., 21 and 42 NC C 45
and three wicketa for 25. Saunders got 15 rims
and Costello secured seven wickets for 6 runs
Mr. Charles A. Booth, a prominent American bicyclist’,
and who was some five year.? ago a very prominent road
nder in England, has arrived in Melbourne, and will
shortly give a sample of bicycling in the Exhibi-
tion should his application for the i;:.ii!ding be granted.
...... The floods in February sank the 2’oatoon of the
Rockhampton Rowing Club, and it is now .at the bottom
of the river. Though the finances were not in a pros-
perous condition, £9O was expended for a gig from
Edwards of Melbourne, and now the difficulty isfo find
a member of the club who can sit it, The S.A. foot
bailers inaugurated the season on last Saturday. All
of e TT P ™?r lP f al clubs played matches. The new pavilion
at Kensington Oval was opened by the Mayor of Ade-
laide. ....Miss Angler. by Angler colt, from Old Joseph-
ine. bred by Mr. Charles Guy, of Brungle, has been
scooping: the pool in the far-off West. At Wilcannia.
on New Year s Day, she won the big handicap; at tha
Menindie annual races she won the Cup, Menindio
Handicap, and Forced Handicap; and at the Wilcannia
annual meeting she won the two principal handicaps.
This is a mare worth her training Blackall, tho
champion stmk-horse at the late A. J C. meeting, was
bred by Mr. W. P. Tozar, of Blackall. He is by
1 K t pie ' kd J Ripou, by Rubens....„
On April 22, on the old course, at Adelaide, the horses
in the Selling Race were started from the five furlong
post, although the advertised distance wai half a-mile.
The Stewards ordered the race to be run over again
A magnificent perch, tha largest 3eb taken from Lake
Wondouree, was captured on April 28. The fish was in
splendid condit on, and turned the scale at 51b..
was Bittin ff wi th his trainer in
tha litt.a balcony of his quarters on the Thame , when
the cry arose man drowning." In less time than y.
tafces to write, the ‘ cornstalk" was propelling a skiff
r* nt n d l f hr ! e “ en struggling in the water through
Trickett securing oneof them,
whilst the other two were rescued from a watery grave
by the occupants of another skiff The cricket match.
Ready F.at v. Tumut, for the Mandelson Cup, resulted
in a dnw greatly in favour of Tumut. The scares were ■
Tumut first ,usings. 45; F. Smiles, not out26?Seco ß< l
TWne W , 60 - : Lovett * 35 ; F. Smiles. 28
Tne n V* dyFiat.flrst lunaings, 29; G. Smiles 13...
Tae crew mq to bo entertained at a rowing
dinner on May 17. A presentation is to be made to
each member, as a memento of the victory The
rat o horses in Western Australia cannot be a very bright
!° ’i or Cvmc. b y Yattendon, imported from Melbourne
milSrin 6 rnTmlsec QQeen ‘ S Plate at Perth ’ tW
» • •
C f mbri <3go crew was composed of somewhat
Preabvtarf ß T ntS * J here 7“ °. ne Btreet Poacher, on..
Presbjtsnan, one Nonconformist, and one Quaker
Universitysporta, the half-mile was won i"
hffloiiV- S * by a i ong half-dozen yards, in Im. 57 3-ssec
S at sTrLaK sportsman, who had £25 stolen from
w“ d r° hr6WBbury ra ?® 8 ’ received, a tow days nftei-
vwds, an anonymous letter accompanying a £5 note,
and couched in tho following terms Dear bir, 1
i cZ. 0 ” “oney, Remorse naws at my
and I send some of it back. When remorse naws again
i7 1 ii 88I ’ d 1° me m °re-”...American dealers in swvW
goods report a very large increase of sales of “ nvttens *
I 1 th ® interest excited by the Sullivan and Ryan
One celebrated firm say -.hat the pur-
glovoS comprise rich and poor, young
and old, of all classes and nationalities An American
P a a p ® r . Btates that Bonita and Wildflower will be the two
lastast mares ever harnessed, and that either can now
riot a quarter of a mile at a two-minute gait ? Whim
will it come to ? Professor Beckwith (ex-champion
swimmer) has issued a challenge from hia son Willi*
f«* a ?i y no man^ he -7 orldtoßwim eith er one mile or 20
ronf!£? w a?ld^ e ’ °* he - wiU match his son to swim,
,w “ onil ‘ ora * a®*'*


SOCIAL.
A North Shore lady will ere long adorn the
home of an English gentleman of large fortune, who is
already here to claim his bride.
« » «
When the Zealandia dropped anchor, several
American gentlemen bearded her to congratulate a
young lady on having made a fortunate escape. She
had come all the way from the Slates under engagement
to marry a well-known individual, whom she of course
expected to meet her, but who, only three days before
the steamer's arrival, bad married a Sydney girl and
cleared out of the colony. However, it need hardly be
said that the congratulations referred to, though given
in all sincerity, were sorrowfully received by one who,
having come to meet a lover, found only friends.
• * •
Another Bartlett recently took his Burdett to
the holy altar. It was in the heart of the mountains
down south; she was a governess lately from a Sydney
“ Point," with silver threads among the gold; he, a
pupil, and 19. But it was love, not lucre, mind you.
# • *
A very enjoyable dance was given by Mr. John
Young, at Kentville, last Thursday, to commemorate
the anniversary of Master Harry Young's birthday.
About 50 were present, the collection of pretty faces
being great; a Ballarat visitor received lots of atten-
tion. During the evening, the health of Master Young
was proposed by Mr. T. E. Smith, M.L.A., and the
health of the host by Mr. Jennings. Guests disap-
peared with many regrets, about 2 a.m.
# • *
A romantic double elopement occurred at Pon-
sonby, N.Z., lately. Miss Moore, aged 16, was at a
boarding school; Miss Murray, aged 20, lived with her
mother at home. Both ware lady-like, well educated,
and indulgently treated, and any motive for running
away is a mystery. Taking advantage of Mrs. Murray’s
absence, for a few hours, the two charming damsels
sold her piano for £2O, annexed £7O in cash and some
jewellery, proceeded to Onehunga by train, and took a
steamer to Christchurch. The strangest thing is, there
is not even a “ lovier ” in the cose.
• • •
A few days ago the nuptials of the third daughter
of the late Mr. James Eobertson. Struan House
(younger sister of Mrs.T. N. Fitzgerald, Melbourne) and
Mr A. P, O’Connor, of Denham, were celebrated at
Launceston. Tho bride, who was given away by her
brother-in-law, Mr. T. N. Fitzgerald, the eminent Mel-
bourne surgeon, looked admirable in a dress of cream
corded silk, satin train, richly trimmed with Valen-
ciennes lace, beaded fringe, and orange blossoms, with
wreath and veil. The five bridesmaids were. Misses
Kathleen and Alvie Rjbertson, Ethel Fitzgerald, Katie
and Daisy O’Connor; dressed in cream cashmere and
watered silk, each with different coloured bow, cream
Batin Eubens hats, and gloves to match. Breakfast at
residence of bride’s mother, and then a start for E van-
dale, en route to Hobart.
• • •
A ball will be given at Armidale on the 23rd
May, in aid of the local hospital.
• • •
Harberton, N.Q., had a fashionable dance on
Easter Monday, and this is how the far-north reporter,
on recovering from the sight of the IHite in swallow-tails
and kid-gloves, dished up the affair for next issue. The
company, he says, consisted of a mixed lot of males and
females, ranging from the age of 6 to 60; all the old
men looked like crosses between Isaac the First and
Eip Van Winkle, and all tho old women were ugly
enough to stop a clock by looking at it. All the young
men had long hair, big feet, and that peculiar, melan-
choly, patient ’.look about them whioh seems to be
always associated with sanctity, and which outsiders iu
their ignorance are apt to attrate to indigestion.
The girls were very thin, very prim, and very flat-
chested, and their toilets impressed one with the/
idea that they hadn’t seen a fashion plate sii <e the
days of Mother Hubbard, or the good Queen Ain el
The M.C was a fat elderly gentleman, with a face l-yt
unlike a Guy Fawkes mask, and from the stiffness of hi a
collar, or the stiffness of his neck, or the stiffness c.f
his religion, he seemed compelled to keep his head at
an angle of forty-five degrees during the whole of tb/ a
night, which gave one the idea that he was Captaii a
Cook just sighting land, or a small boy in his first pantfg.
The belle was a married lady ; and the supper was « 0 t
down much better than it was got up. /
• * * /
Sydney is becoming famous for a nowygort of
crime. The recent International Exhibi,e 10aB imve
brought into colonial existence a number o'Twell-drossed
foreign loafers—counts in disguise, pr. chevaliers who
speak airily of their paternal estates ( and the large firms
in—Potocapetl or elsewhere—tfeey represent. These
gentlemen get on 'terms with respectable
people, do the “ lardy-dab* - ' on mysteriously-acquired
capital, and finally wind marrying the “ daughter
of the house.” If tbv ra > 8 money in it, they ate set up
for ever; it there j s n ot, they are missed some flue
morning at an,^ ar i y date after the bliss of the honey,
moon is getting washed out and the bills are floating
in. Fareijta' should take a good-natured hint, especially
as seyg; ra i heartless casts of wife-desertion under such
have recently come under notice.
• • •
The return ball to the Lithgow ladies came off
on Wednesday, last week, and was very pleasant. Two
exceedingly handsome dresses that attracted attention
were—a splendid robe of pale green satin, puffed, and
decorated with immense lancifloras, the owner’s brun-
nette beauty being also much admired; and a pirk
satin dress, trimmed wish white Spanish lace and dark
green leaves, which showed off an elegant; form to
advantage A very pretty girl in white skirt and pale
blue bodice, with the French colours in ribbons ; a tall
young lady in white grenadine and white satin b dice ;
a blonde in blue; and a Sidney girl in white and blue,
who danced most gracefully, were conspicuous. Two
oouains were attired in blaek skirts and white satin
bodies. A married lady wore a rich dress of cream and
brown satin, and a widow in black velvet and pearls
looked dainty. The belle not decided. The room
was tastefully decorated, the music, by the Eskville
Quadrille Band, good; the supper excellent, and the
guests dispersedat a little after four o’clock, thoroughly
satisfied with tho evening’s entertainment.
• • •
The new Town Hall, Petersham, was the scene
of an enjoyable re-union on Thursday evening, when
guests numbering between sixty and seventy assembled,
aud indulged in dancing, to the strains of a plane, till
respectable hour of half-past ten. Ladies were in
semi-evening costumes, pink, blue, cream, and white;
fl iwers in hair aud dress, daintiest ganta and bottines ;
and their cavaliers in the orthodox funereal suit. A
similar affair in Ihe same building in two months' time.
• • •
•Twas at a ball, lasfmonth, in Golconda, but
the Vision is be'ore us now. The fun waxes fast and
furious, ginger-beer corks are popping, and buns die-
appi ar—
“ Now, softly slow the Lydian measures more
And breathe the pleasing pangs of gentle love,
In swimming dance, ou airs soft billows float,
Sots heave the bosoms with tho swelling note ”
wbnu suddenly a female form rushed frantically to the
<1 oi- away from the encircling arm of her partner,
w „y from the giddy throng, into the darkness. He,
: f. r weeks before had been dreaming of this happy
, , h now stauds with his eyes disconsolately fixed on
tu o flier. What is it that thus rivets his gaze?
B eathe it gently. Only a wig! His fair partner, it
pe«.re, had been denied
“ The robe which curious nature weaves
To hang upon the head,”
o "he had recourse to art; but art, unfortunately, did
n t or .vide fastenings sufficiently secure—hence the
r ■ nit.—
•• Sue sraole a kind of sickly smile, aud made straight
for the door.
And the snosequent proceedings interested her no
more."
• • •
Touching the Ashfield Corlette Concert of last
week, the Evening Lyre, in its dulcet but deceiving
strains, says ” Mr. Jones accompanied." Now, why
should “ Jones ” be immortalised in this manner ?
Why ? by the living Jingo, why ? We were there, and
tho only dsxtile manipulator of the ivories that we
could discern, without the aid of oar double-barrelled
sight enlarger close handy, belonged, with the excep-
tion of three occasions when petticoats held the boards,
to our own particular Mac, T.C.L We’ll swear no
Jones was in it; therefore we ask, oh! Lyre, why hast
thou thus immortalised this innocent Jones ? Again,
the Daily Tel. sais “Dr. Ellis and Madame Merz
made a hit in the duet Parigi, 0 cara." Now, as it is a
fact this delicious moroeau was not performed, or any
other duet, during the evening, we imagine it to be a
case of not only seeing but hearing double, hardly to be
expected (a-hem I) before eleven o’clock under existing
arrangements, &o. &c.
• • •
On the 14 th June, a Society is to have a
“shivoo" in the Town Hall vestibule, and there are
great expectations of jollity.
• • *
Some beautiful dresses were worn at the fashion-
able Ashfield concert the other night. A handsome
white silk, richly braided with gold, was perhaps
the most uncommon dress in the hall, and it needed
more than a casual glance to see how handsome the
dress really was. The wearer also wore white and gold
and pearls twisted in her hair. Two sisters wore white
silk skirts, with plush bodies laced up the hack, one
cardinal and tho other white, tha cardinal being the
most effective. A dress composed completely of ruby
satin looked handsome. Very pretty were two tall, fair
sisters, seemingly twins, in pale blue, relieved hero and
there with cream trimmings. The Garden Palace
Payre beauty was there with her slater, dressed eom-
pletely in black, both wearing enormous trains. There is
a certain kind of beauty which looks best in black; it was
so in this case. A large crimson fan, however, helped,
along with the beautiful face, to relieve the sembreness
of the attire. A tali young lady looked well in oream
dress with cardinal bows and handsome sash to match.
* # •
The bachelors of Blayney gave one of their most
successful balls on the 3rd instant, in the Advocates'
Hall. As the floor was polished up like “ the handle
of the big front door,” it would, perhaps, be correct
to say that the rest of tha hall was decorated “up to
the knocker.” About 70 guests appeared, and the
ladies, regarded en masse, were charming. Whether
this was because the Blayney girls weren’t there, or in
spite of it, would he hard to say—and perhaps danger,
ons. But the fact, remains, that Bathurst, Carcoar,
etc , sent most of the beauty, while Blayney proper was
almost unrepresented. The honours of the evening
were divided between a fair, but not fragile, young lady
in navy blue silk, trimmed with shaded (canary and old
gold) satin, cream lace and roses; and a tall young lady
in black silk and silver fringe, with artificial flowers.
As was remarked, with a sigh like a sighraoem, “if you
don’t admire that, what Moore would you admire?”
Jt Bathurst belle looked bewitching in pink satin and
Madras muslin; and a dark little hearty, also hailing
from the City of the Plains, in black with cardinal
plush trimming, and with roguish black eyes, was very
pleasing. Music and catering good.
• * •
After Saturday’s sports, two sweet girls met in
tke train, and when thev had said, both together three
times, ’"wasn’t it just lovely?” Araminta wondered
how it was they had not met before. Dolly wondered,
too, and suggested several reasons to her dear friend,
who at last remarked in a careless tone, “ It was awfully
hot in the sun, don’t you think P" Dolly incautiously
said " Yes." Then pretty Araminta smiled like a sugv(r
cane, as she said, “Oh, I see, now, you only had-bought
tickets, and had to sit on the grass!” Crushes! j
* • *, /'
A fashionable gathering some 200, chiefly
elderly gentle nen andpr«tty-sirls, witnessed the opening
of tha new Ui.ion Recreation Club premises, on Saturday
afternoon. The are close to Esdmyrs Station,
and Provide f° r lerijqnet, lawn tennis, billiards, bowls,
quoiVg an (i gymnastics. The buildings are most taste-
fj’aly finished, %hd the painting shows the members’
tastes to be (esthetic, as well as athletic. The smoking,
ohesa, bath, and ladies’ and gentlemen’s retiring rooms
are luxurious. A little after 3 o’clock, Mr. John Daw-
son, president, declared the grounds open, and some of
the company indulged in sports. Ef freshments were
liberally provided, and the Bnrwood Brass Baud blew
music at intervals. During the afternoon, Mr. D’Har-
court and half a dozen of his pupils, gaily attired, per-
formed in the Gymnasium, which is fitted up with the
usual apparatus; in a manner, however, which indicates
that tho architect’s knowledge of gymnastics is limited.
Tha simple exercises shown pleased the suburbanites
very much. The popular idea of a gymnast is that of a
weird, wondrous sort of being, who spends most of hta
time either standing on his head, turning himself inside
out, or hanging by one toe from the top of a theatre.
Prof. D’Harcourt, who is to initiate some of the mem-
bers of the Eedmyre Club into the simplicity of physi-
cal education, hopes In a few years to loosen their grip
on these primitive ideas. One elderly lady, who was
much relieved when the young men ceased tempting
Providence, innocently inquired of a curly-headed
young athlete “ Does it hurt you very much ?”
• * *
On Wednesday, last week, St. Peter’s Church,
Cook’s Eiver, was the scene of a pretty wedding—that
of Mr. A. P. Skerritt, of George’s River, and Miss Ada
Porter, of Newtown. The bride —a vivacious blonde—
was attired in a rich toilette of white satin, the body
and sleeves of which were handsomely puffed and
gathered, orange blossom wreath and tulle veil. Her
maids adopted flesh-coloured satin polonaises, over
Madras muslin skirts, finely knitted, draperies and
wreaths corresponding. The ceremony was witnessed
by a number of spectators, aud breakfast was held at
the bride’s lato residence, and followed by dancing.
• • •
The Newtown Private Skating Eink opened
their season on Monday night, at the Oddfellows’ Hall.
There was a large attendance for the first gathering,
including gues’s introduced by members, and from 3
till 10, the monotonous roll of tho noisy skates con.
tinned without cessation. Anon, the whistle signalled
“ reverse," and then a mad revolution to >k place, and
the long-leggrd youths and the pretty girls chased one
another round the wrong way, with renewed vigour and
increased row ; and bumped and tumbled and clattered
on their rambling wheels, until they achieved noise and
knocks enough to satisfy any human being with a rem-
nant of sanity left. The skaters were all young, mostly
lanky, and some of the young ladies exceedingly charm-
ing, especially when, as they fell, their colour rose, and
half-a-dozen gallant cavaliers rushed to pick them up,
with goodwill if not skill. On Tuesday, arnica aud
sticking plaster sold readily in Newtown. The chief
advantage of the roller-skating is, that it brings young
people together—violently.
• * 9
Events of more or less importance;—
A Hebrew gentleman of Pyrmont made captive by an
Albion-street belle A gentleman is the A.J.S. Bank
is going to cross tha river A rising yomsg engineer
from Botany will shortly marry an ornament of Bonrke-
street Two fashionable marriages in Camden shortly.
Son of a respected J.P. (all JP's are not re-
spected, yon know) of Clarence Town asked a Gloucester
vocalist to sing him the old, old tune; and she sang it.
An ex-Mayor in the Lismore district soon marries
a lady connected with the family of a Knight
A lawyer of more ability than size, sighs
not after the 25th instant. The youngest
daughter of her father named that, day
We are asked whether the marriage of Mr. King with
Miss Barber can be called a regal wedding. Don’t
know. And we are equally puzzled whether to expect
“ little princes ” or “ young shavers,” in the sweet by-
aud-bye A clergyman’s son, and the daughter of a
well-known Surry Hills resident, to oe yoked to-day
(Thursday) Elder daughter of an ex-builder of
Upper William-street and a young man in leading mer-
cantile house An only daughter (Woolloomooloo)
and the son of a Surry Hills merchant, wealthy
Grand Jewish wedding shortly, second pretty flower in
a Darlinghurst garden.
♦ * *
The eldest daughter of Mr. James Wilson, tho
great trainer, of St. Alban’s stables, was married
at Geelong, a few weeks back, to Mr. E. E. Sparrow.
Sydney for honeymoon At Braid wood (where a
young Adonis in the service will shortly assimilate
with a charming widow), there was a ball the other
night. Several gentlemen went to supper first, leaving
the ladies to find their way down as best they could.
This is the custom which obtains among the Queens-
land blackfellows From the manner in which the
navy men were run to death at Hobart one would
imagine that the modest virgins of the upper ten had
sever sees a mas before. Ou the whole, however, the
poor, “ common Jack tars " managed their petitcs amours
rar more decorously than did their superior officers
At a recent wedding at South Yarra, the idea of a
chrysanthemum wedding was fully carried out. In the
aisle a large arch was composed of chrysanthemums
and evergreens, on the steps were two similar arches,
ths railings of the altar were dressed with the same
flowers, and a magnificent cross and two wrsaths of
them lay en the altar table, while the bride (daughter
of the Belgian Consul) was a perfect flowar-stand
Tbres weeks ago, a well-to-do Sydney tradesman adver-
tised for a tntor, Thf re were three children, from seven
to fifteen, the eldest very bsckward; and for instruct-
ing them three nights a week, two hours a nirht, the
tutorial applicant asked 2s. 6d. an hour. His expecta-
tions were just five times too large. Ha was oSersd 3s.
a week I This is a George-Washington par Last
week, Mr. Eochford of the Lands’ was united to Miss
Hnbner, at Summer Hill. Mayor Archer, of Bnrwood,
gave the lady away, and subsequently proposed her
health at the wedding breakfast. Large party in the
evening at the residence of the bride’s parents The
members of the Ballarat Bowling Club showed their
appreciation of the hospitality accorded to them by
the young hostess of Annandale (daughter of Mr.
John Young), by pretesting her, on Saturday, with a
handsome gold bracelet Mrs, Hezelton's impromptu
dauca at “ Edithville," Balmain, on Tuesday week, was
much enjoyed A dance given by Mr. and Mrs. John
Kayner, of Granville, on Friday night, was attended by
sixty guests, for whose benefit a marques was specially
•rested in the grounds, and supper served therein.
Hostess’s costume of sream carded silk, brightened
with cardinal broohl, very much admired. Many
handsome toilettes worn. Testimony to the enjoy-
ableness of the sSair was given by visitors
declining to make their adienx till 5 am
Apropos to the Mayor’s Ball at Petersham, the de-
mocracy are to have hops, too. The Town Hall is
sought by a “ select ’’ quadrille party, once a fortnight,
who will charge the exclusive price of Si. a double
ticket, including a sumptuous supper I Eheul That
the gilded halls once graced by the uppah ten should
bo used by the lowah million for quadrilles that are
“select!” Victorian society greatly disturbed by
big scandal affecting a family in high circles. The lady
found proofs of her husband’s attention in an unauthor-
ised quarter ; her complaints were met with threats of
personal violence Eastern Suburbs Amateur
Athletic Club's (autumn) meeting at the Association
Ground on Saturday afternoon.
* • «
An evening party on a large so lie was given by
Mr. and Mias Young, at Annandale, last Thursday.
Excellent music, hosts of pretty toilettes, fair faces,
and agreeable partners, were details calculated to afford
every enjoyment. Dancing was kept up with vigour for
sevei a' hours.
# # *
Even more crowded than on the previous Monday
was the Botanic Lawn this week, and richer, still and
handsomer were the speoimens’of milliners’ handicraft
displayed. Vice-royalty appeared in the persons of
Lieut enant and Mr. A. Loftus, and Sir Alfred Stephen.
One feature was missing, no blue and gold uniforms
vied with feminine toilettes in lightness, but the
Nelson’s band tried to make up by extra sweetness for
their officers’ absence A Balmain lady’s toilette of
brown cashmere trimmed with plush leaves, and large
brown hat, much admired. A brown satin and
cloth cojt.tjme showed off to advantage; a fine form and
a broiTn Enbens hat gave a sort of picturesquely rakish
fur to the face underneath. A peacock blue dress and
enormous Leghorn straw hat, covered with drooping
grey feathers, made its owner conspicuous. Miss
Augusta Macarthur’s blonde prettiness was even more
apparent than usual, in a becoming bonnet decked with
peacock green feathers; black oostums. The youngest
Miss Monteflore’s dress of dark blue, fastened with
silver buttons, and large fur hat, was remarkable for
simple taste. Black satins, silks, and velvets were to
be counted by the dozen; next in popularity came aeil-
brown and myrtle-green, in both of which colours
several very handsome dresses were seen. A claret
velvet skirt, cashmere bodice, and velvet toque, orna-
mented with cream feathers, looked charming on a
brunette; and gracing an elegant figure was a gorgeous
combination of red and gold brochb.
* # *
Messrs. D. and W. Eobertson were entertained
at a picnic at Sandringham on Saturday afternoon. At
the festal board, Sir John Eobertson occupied the
chair, and Mr. Daniel O’Connor the vice-chair. Toasts
were drunk, speeches delivered, and a return homemade
about dusk.
# * »
About 120 guests assembled at the Mayor’s Ball
at Bourke, on the 20th April. The dancing was not
what the “only West" calls “refined and poetic,” but
It was vigorous, and every man present did his earnest
best to keep as near level with the “ pianner " as possible.
In the Mechanics’ Institute—the large hall was well
ornamented —there was a proper proportion of ladies
(which says a good deal for the progress of Bourke),
and a programme of 22 dances was completed by the
bucolic beaux and the blooming belles of the far interior,
without a single accident of a fatal nature. A Com-
paguoni named Carney prepared a feast fit for the gods,
and at supper the Eev. E. H. Wright (fancy, dear reader,
reverend 1) proposed the health of the Mayor and
Mayoress. A heroic townsman proposed “ The Ladies,”
but the bashful bachelors were so dilatory in screwing
up sufficient courage to respond that the fair ones
retired without anyone conveying their thanks, and
firmly convinced that unless the young men can say
more to them than they can for them, their hymeneal
prospects will be very doleful.
* • #
The Shipmasters’ and Marine Officers’ Associa-
tion held a picnic down the harbour last Saturday.
The attendance was not large. Mr. Alexander Kethel
was chairman at the luncheon, and Mr. Angus Cameron
proposed the toast of the Association. H.M.B.
Nelson’s band attended, and all sorts of amusements
were carried on.
« * *
It was rather bewildering for a spectator to try
and study detail at the amateur sports on Saturday.
The mind grew confused by ths cro»d, and too over-
whelmed by the quantity of costumes, colours, faces,
and styles in the moving kaleidoscope that shifted and
changed each moment, to make sure of seeing all that
was worthy of note in the fashionable mass on the
lawn. But, what we saw, wo’U say. Imprimis, His
Excellency was present. Lady Loftus, also ; who wore
a quiet co-tnme of black Pekin velvet, black satin
dolman, bordered with sago green seaweed fringe, and
deep red velvet bonnet. Cavaliered first by an athletic
Civil servant, and afterwards by the hopeful son of a
Paddington divine, was the wearer of the most conspicu-
ous dress on the ground; it, all rich, warm colour; she,
a tall, auburn blonde. The drees consisted of a crim-
son satin skirt, with crimson velvet overdress, the neck,
sleeves, and hem heavily trimmed with broad gray fur:
crimson plush toque, similarly ornamented. Here is a
good-tempered face, whose owner is a popular favourite,
and who, even while her appearance is being mentally
sketched, is making a crowd of admirers laugh at some
humorous story she tails. In black satin and velvet
robe, and block velvet toque, her attire is very
quiet, but few obtain more glances of recognition
than Barbara, in the *1 Gnv’nor," Miss Annie
Taylor. Here strolls a reverend, wrapped up in his
“ krect card," and, by his side, a tall legal gentleman,
from whose thin, set lips, one would not expect much
leniency to flow. Passing, is another man of law, of
totally different aspect; ruddy cheeks, full round eyes,
and genial jollity written all over his face—ho is an
M.P. Tho fairest milkmaid from the Silver Churn
looks even more picturesque in her soft clinging robe of
pale blue aud white lace, with shaded gold satin tcaue,
than she did in her chintz Rnd muslin while dealing
sweets and smiles in the Palace Payre. Another sales-
woman looks prettier here in myrtle green velvet, and
large green hit with cords and tassels, than in powder
Rnd frippery at Ye Unioome stall. In warm woollen and
velvet attire of myrtle green, a fair Eaudwick belle is
admirable} and we notice a fine black velvet with
broad sash of black lace, and white daisy-dotted veil 5
two young sisters, with coal black eye* and hair, one in
alive green with striped sash, the other in wine-coloured
velvet with striped saah, and rakish hats to match;
Mr i. E. Teeee, in peculiar bronze satin, with gorgeous
flowering on the skirt, a very rich costume; Mias
Eenwick, in a well-fitting dark brown, dress, trimmed
with flashing beads, and plush lined hat; a stout
lady in magnificent peaoock-greeu satin; the
chubby little daughter of a Wynyard Square
M.P., in all skyblne; and the fall handsome figure and
merry face of a lawyer’s fair sister from Paddington, in
purple. Queen Elizabeth’s page escorts a lady of suffi-
cient proportions, in a handsome dress, black brochd
dolman, and headdress with nodding crimson plumes-
Two Puritan sisters, in soft grey gowns, drew attention
by their interesting faces, and their spicy poke bonnets
of vivid red velvet from under whieh gleamed eyes of
softest black, and pretty Irish grey. The “ most
popular” is here, and beyond him is a young girl in
bright bine vslvet, with long blonde curls falling from
under a blue plush Gainsborough hat, with enormous
white feather. A charming ycung face—a face of witch,
ing beauty, with tangled dark hair 'soaping from the
jockey-peaked hat, and eyes whose every flash bespeaks
how well tneir owner know the power of their play—
flits by. She is in a close-fitting prune dres», with black
sable mantle, contrasting against the perfect complex-
ion. There is a round-cheeked, careless lassie, with
laughing blue eyes, and a navy bine frock, set off with
lace flounces, a black straw sailor hat on the dark hair,
with scarlet blossoms. Edgacliffe read this choice
specimen of Australian girlhood. Miss Want’s handsome
combination of brown velvet and grey ish cloth and velvet
hat tipped with a grey plume was much ad ired; and so
was a very young brunette in deep red velvetrohe, shaded
satin scarf, and red velvet hat. dla Eubens. Miss M.
Barnett’s slight form was clad in peacock-bine with
steel buttons princess bonnet to correspond; quaintly
demnre, as befitted a Canon’s dsugh e", w»s the littla
lady from Darlinghnrst in maroon aim black straw hat,
with large brown wondering eyes. Miss Underwood,
in black satin and white roses, with one of those very
big hats which girls who are not very big always seem
to wear, was charming. Peculiarly noticeable was a
fashionable dress of grsy cloth with maroon sleeves,
and s mantlet and muff of platypus skins. Several
blaok grenadines were wem, and a few oream and
lavender dressea,b«t the majority were decidedly dark —
prune, peaeook-blne and green, crimson, maroon, brown
and black predominating. A dark yonng lady from
William-street was exceedingly pretty in a grey polon.
aise with maroon velvet underskirt and stylish hat to
match; and a blonde belle, daughter of a leading book-
seller, in plush bodice of mjrtle green and birds*
feather hat, was a contrast in beauty. Mrs. Purvea
wore a beautiful ivory satin, and ruby velvet bonnet,
and must have been pleased at the splendid running of
her pedestrian brother. Miss M’Elhone’s pretty figure
was adorned with black satin, and the piquant faee and
dark eyes wei e shaded by a black plush Gainsborough
hat. Several costnmes, equal to any menti med, flashed
through the gates as the sun went down, but were not
seen on the lawn. The German Band played, and all
went well.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Lady Loftus’ Exception, 3 p.m J May 11,
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Atlneti ) Sports.... May 13.
Banquet to Hon. Charles Moore. Exchange... May 16.
Masonio Ball. Parramatta May 19.
Hunter’s Hill A.A.C. Sports May 20.
Hymnaatic Sociable, sth quarterly May 23.
Bartlemy Fair May 24,
Governor’s Levde M a ?
Sydney Grammar School A.A.C. Sports May -7.
Glebe Rowing Club Ball, Town Hall June 1.
Complimentary Ball to Mrs. Martin June 1.
North Shore Rowing Club Ball Juue 7.
Return Ball to Mayor of Petersham
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports July 29.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-phume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Select”: We may yet find a place for it, or
for something like it “J. J.G.”: Will read and polish
them up “S. W. Kingston Libel “F. 8.8 :
Will keep for a week “Athens”: Thanks; a little
warm, however “The Count": Much obliged
“CM.” (Thornborengh); Thanks; will look it over....
“1.J.”: Yon shouldn’t couple the name of a man like
Thadeas O’Kano with the others you mention. One of
them is very clever, hut we’re not going to advertise
him “Emilie": We cannot pay for manuscript
which is not original...Bing-np ”: Splendid.
However, we've previously had the story about
the—hie! piebald. It appeared in ©nr own
second number, two years and a half ago
“ F.S.H.”: Much obliged “W.C.”: We don’t under-
stand yonr paragraph; and we never publish anything
which we do not ourselves understand “John Do
Smythe DrinkallSpace limited this week; may give
you a show next “Traveller”: When we have
time we’ll go through your statement of griev.
anee. We notice theie’s something in it about
a glass of beer. That makes it interesting
« Schorum” 1 We have regulated your metre a little
“ Kappa" : Glad of item ”Q 8.D." : Send us a lot
like that “A Constant Eeader”: Certainly, very
glad to hear from you “ H.C.J." : Very good, indeed,
but here is a better :—An attractive bill! for a theatri-
cal benefit—” Sweethearts,” “ Engaged,” “ Married,”
“ Baby,” and “ The Great Divorce Case/’ “ Tnron-
ville " (Manning): The subject is a forbidden one. You
are evidently thinking of the S.M. Herald’s famous
sketch, published about 20 years ago, of an amorphous
cave-organism, a burrowing protoplastic creature.
The familiars of the sanctum, of course, didn’t know
that they were being humbugged by the malignant
drollery of a ” scurrilous ” scribe from Eoekhampton.
•• Moatyn ” : The Wilde Eiver is very healthy. The
place is 3Cooft. above the sea and 90 miles inland
Though there is a tolerably large population, there
was not a single death—bar those of the men
sneared by “ niggers during many months......
•• Q F.” : Glad you directed attention to the matter
“Critic”: Very acceptable information “W.H.”: A
good joke “Wonderful’: A welcome extract
"Outrigger”: Glad to hear from you regularly
“Junta": There are 926 hotels within the Sydney
licensing district “ Justitia” : Will see what can be
done with it “Mimia”: Thanks ,“W.JB.”;
Eight you are “ Observer” : Shall endeavour to give
effect to vour suggestion “1.C.U.": Old as Noah.
“ All”: Of course there isn’ t. A man, merely
by advertising that a certain thing is for sale, doesn’t
bind himeelf to sell it to you. He might demand a
thousand milliards for it, and then where would be your
right to compensation P “John Wilkinson": Eieht,
but we like fuller particulars as to parties “ PS”
(Broughton's Greek): Don’t you think, now, that the
verses were “picked up” by the same man who
dropped them ? We do. Anyhow, they’d take up six
inches. They're not worth one “ Kappa ”: Obliged ;
kappatal “EC" (Darlinghurst): Thank you: some
items taken, others left as being of merely of private
interest “A Friend” (Balmain): Thanks for your
kind sympathy in our “ignominious incarceration.”
We called it “ jug," and it didn’t seem so bad then
“ Cynic": Doesn’t appear to be very funny “Q E
Fattie Laverne has gone to San Francisco “A. 0.”;
When our aunt leaves us a million, or our uncle agrees
to advance that amount, repayable at convenience, oq
personal security, ws’ll deal with the matter. Mean-
while, devote your energies to brimging about a
under which white men will have a fair show in the
Supreme Court “Signum” (Victoria): We have
alluded to the matter: are much obliged for your letter
and the clipping, and shall be glad to hear from you
frequently “ Micalago "; Yes, but shocking to state
the Daily Telegraph is an even weaker paper than tho
SM. Herald.,..” Subscriber ’’ (Wollongong): Thanks ;
will use in a future issue “J.B. ” (Gundagai): Wo
can’t sling around your rhyme, though Parkes might,
It’s rougher than a Balmain footpath. Wo like your
**. servant gal ” though, “ with a waist so slender and a
heart so tender." “ Ham,phery Clinker ’*: Crowded^
0ut...” Salvo” : Agoodidea. Will polish it np, perhaps,*
“ E.H.F.”: Esther old now; we notice, however
“ T.C.B.”'Clarence Heads: You are wrong; tho Major
is strongly opposed to females J.S,” Penrith:
Space very scarce, item briefed “ Suhrcriber” Glou-
cester: Thanks “T.McM.” near Orange:] Certainly
the lines possess merit. We are sorry that they are not
suitable for ns. ’lhe “Eitooral” refrain after each
yorse looks foolish in a newspaper, though it often
sounds well from a good comic singer. You have
ability. Try a better style “W.J.8.” Carrathool:
Rhyme iadiffafcnt. Carrathool item good. In this
week, or ne*t. Thanks, send any time “J.J.”
(Biayney): Certainly, keep it up “The Orphan”
ana ” Heulip mutton-eyes”: Next week “j.T.P.”
(Kingston); Very good, send more “James Guy”:
Will attend to the matter “ Wittong”: A good joke,
but slightly too Rabelaisian “Cnandos”: Sorry
that they'll have to stand over “0.K.”: Next
week.
While Jemmy Williamson and Maggie Moore
were walking in a Dunedin-street, the other day, the
latter picked up a horse-shoe. It is now expected that
J. C. W. will next year buy New Zealand.


A .fi
i lin
Ml
‘iSHPWS
(U 1 ■H ,1
y
Ml
iB
wfs'CjV
•fr:ri
B U f=* C, /
r ISIT E. BUEGIS* NE
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 P!
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WC
Tnaanmfl oal# rwAnamrinn
H. PALI
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-streat-
N Q,
J'-j
mm:
-mm
1 ':!
(fm
'.~t-.Tr I* |p
i:v f
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By the celebrated makers
W, BELL AND CO.,
Which pained first and special prize
VER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY NTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HA MONIUMS,
ET
ALEXANDRE and <her RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various module.
A FEW GOOD SECOND HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Sonfleto’a, Kirkman’s, and Huadt aad Sons Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
W. H. P A L I 2T Q,
352 GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
gn h
Lessee.
EAT E E
Treasurer..
FIFTH WEEK and CONTI N
of the
MOST SUCCESSFUL
ever produced in the Souther
BLAND HOLT’S Picturesque 8
THS WORLD. THS
THE WORLD. THE
THE WORLD, THE
The Blowing 1 up Of the Steamer.
Scene. The Aqua’-ium Scene.
Ooeration. The Escape from t
Masquerade Ball. Porminsrthe £
of scenic effects in the world.
Prices as usual. Box Office
Tickets for all parts of the h iuae
theatre. Children in arms not ad
at 7.15.
Buslnes Manager for Bland Holt-
JAMES AL
P E R A H
Leasee and Manager..
ME. FREDERICK MA
and his
COMEDY COMPA
Every Evening until fur
GUVNOR I GUVNOR I
GUVNOR I GUVNOE |
New Boenerv hi
ME. GEORGE GO!
Prices of Admission: ss, 3s, Is.
Box Office at A. Hueaerhein’s, Q
open at 7. commence at 8; Oarri
bonnets not to be worn in Dress
arms not admitted.
NO FREE LIS'
Acting Manager far Mr. Marsha
VICTORIA
(Castlereagh-strflf
Manager Mr. Gi
GRAND OPENING I
SATURDAY, MAY
First aonearanca in Svdi
MOHAWK MTNST
MOHAWK MINST
20 STAR ARTISTS
8 CLOG DANCE
4 GREAT COMED
DOUBLE QUAETE
FULL AND EFFICIENT (
NEW SONGS, NEW DANCES,
Million prioaa ! Gallery sixpenc
2s; and a few reserved seats 3s.
Commence at 8 o’clock.
Carriages may be ordered f
-yICT 0 E I A
Lessee •
Musical Director ... Mr. W
Properties and Effects by ... Mi
“HAPPY HOUEB,” and “ MEB
Mr. and Mrs E. A. HART'S Ml
OPERETFA and BURLETTj
GRAND OPENING 1
SATURDAY EVENINC
In their Roflned and Charmin
“DIAMOND CUT DIA
and
« MY WIFE’S RELAI
Replete with Beautiful Vocal and
Character Songs. Duets, Dances, ar
Read *' Opinions of the
Admission: Chairs, 3s; Second
Beats, Is.
Q
U E E ITS B I I
21th MAY, 188!
GARDEN PALAi
ANNUAL GATHEI
UNITED TEMPERANCE 01
SPORTS, SPORTS, S
P. E. hol:
■OETURN BALL TO JOHN
MAYOR OP PETER!
and
MRS. GELDINI
The above Bill will taka place o
7th June, at
THE PETERSHAM TOV
Tickets can be obtained on appl
LL 0 YD’S
HOWICK STREET, Bi
Offers Superior Accomodation to
lers. Visitors, and Professii
PRANK LL 01
Comique and Buffo V.
Pbophibtob.
Department of 5
Sydney, i
LIST of Applications receiv
ment of Mines, for permis
roads, &o. &c., under the Mini!
tion 28.
AETI
Date of Application, April 3,188
Land fronting Jerusalem Bar, pftria
of Cumberland, portion of resorri
mine for gold.
Department of IV
Sydney, !
LIST of Applications receive
ment of Mines, for pormiss
roads, &0., Ac., under the Minin
tion 28.
ASTI
Date of Application March 24, ll
Portien of eserva No. 19, parish of
Cumberland; 640 acres; To mine fc
Date of Application March 24, 181
Portien of roeerre No. 19, pariah ef
Cumberland ; 640 acre*; To mine f«
Department of Min
Sydney, l
LIST of Applications receive
ment of Mines for permiss
roads, <te., &e., under the Mini
tion 23.
ASTI
Date of Application, March 22,
Portion of reserve No. 34, Naiioni
Ing ; 640 acres; To mine for ooal sn
Data of Application, March 32. 18
Portien of reserve No. 34, Nations
ing; 640 acres ; To mine fer cosl an
Date of Application, March 22, 18
Portion of Esserve No. 34. Nationi
ing; 640 acres; To tnino for coal an
Date of Application, March 24,1
Portion of reserve .No, 34, National
640 acres; To mine for coal and she,'
Date of Application, March 28.
Portion of reserve No. 44, parish cf
To mine for coal.
Department of W
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS ]
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given th
sees execute and take deli
mentioned Mineral Leases withii
this date, they will be declared
ARTI
No. 1244; James M'Clean andothc
Conntv at Bardinire. narish of Cone
FOR
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCKAS
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWER
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS
Wfl have a large stock Of the above in onr Stores and to arrive, an
and other particulai 8 on receipt of yonr i
H. P. GREGORY
ENGINEERS AND MACHINED
17 PITT STREET, SYDS3
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE
„ The Uni vers a lTe win
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and
Sold on easy terms. Can bo seen working at the Depdt,
68 KING STREET, S 7
NEXT TO 'BUS OPPOE.
r '.-;
‘-V 1 ' . “ ‘i' < • v>'' : V/.'
462 ~..,484 GEORGE S
V . marke t cloth h
J OPPOSITE THEFRUiTMARt
ESTABLISHE DIBE4 .
-•*"> ■. ■ y . .
A I ADr P X * ,w— . . „
DIRECT FROM THE MAN UFA
OVEE 5) YE AES.
GRESYAST
LINIMB
None Genuine Without the Abo
The GEEATEST OGRE ON EJ
MATIBM, EAW COLD-J, SOEI
LIMBS, ASTHMA, &c„ & u
This is the same Liniment as usi
miners of Cornwall, who have to woi
nee* of the bowels of the earth, anc
being used all over the world, and
nish Cure.
Price, ss. per Vottl
Those who carry out the directi
every label and wrapper, cannot but
the greatest remedy ever brought be
Sold by the following chemists am
ney: W. H Douglas Mitchell, 127 K
Abraham, 431 Gaorge-street; E.
Qeorge-street; W. D. Eames, 14 Ox
TEY IT AND JUDGE POE Y
your Chemist and Druggist has uot
he can have a supply by applying to
WHOLESALE AGE]
. ME"3ES. ELLIOTT BEOS,.
BATUBDAY, 20th 1
nw rntrin annrrwn


INFORM
READ A
OUR BL
FOR THE PLOUOIN6 SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be aavising oar easiomers and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMEEI
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS POE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PAEEAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie’s 1888 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OTH£B SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FAEMEES NOTE THIS VEST CAEEFULLY.—
Before Ordei
seed (er
Our Price I
AMO
All Parti cull
MARTIN
-SMHB PA
389 George
SYDNEI
Intending Pure!
Cutters offered tb
INE BUNCLB.
John Bnnele, ol
his Chaff Cutters,
it on fly-wheel
tore.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE S~
WATCHES
FKOM X-4.10-
(f t i'- i)
A c TURING
9. & . II HUNTER ST
ches SYDNEY.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE .
mSE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REA
None better than VVIGZELL’ S OXFORD RATH in Sydi
THEY ABE IN EVERT WAY COMPLETE.
ONE.
TEY
WIGZELL
V*
Oxford
street
SYDNEY
Orm
And
*
STAG
ÜBL I C
N (
IMPOSTERS of the TAEPII
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosecni
endeavours to deceive the public bj
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thei
BRANDS Of PURE TEAS*
The public are CAUTIONED to i
bearing
•• the TAEPINQ MIXTURE.”
mixture.
Every packet bears the signatur
thus—
Clifford, Love , & <
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, must be certain that everj
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TABPING MIXTURE Ah
MIXTURE ARE GUAR.
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH 3
WHOLESALE GROCER AN!
TORE STREET, STI
JOHN D
IMPORTER 01
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brassw
Qa*fittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, i
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L. SUMKEI
235 Pitt Street, S
THE PEOPLE’S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO <
H. L. SUMMEI
SPECIALITY SUITS TO O!
THE PEOPLE’S
GUARANTEES A PEEP
H. L. SUMME
was AT.L goods thoeoug:
THE PEOPLE’S
Sends Self-measurement form
MOST PLEASANT
A
N
D
8
A
F
E
8
T
HOUSEHOLDEES,
TAKE NOTE OF THIS.
WHEN PUECHASINQ TOUE GROCERIES
ask for
PANT EE AND PAEBY’S
NEW EXTRACT OP SOAP
AND SM THAT TOD (JIT XT.
SUPEEIOE TO ALL OTHEES,
BEST Washing and Disinfectant Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Crockery, Paint, Glass, and every Household
purpose. Used and recommended in the
Laundry at Government House, Mr. Sey-
mour (Inspector of Nuisances), Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and by all competent
judges to be the best article manufactured,
REMEMBERI
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OF ALL GEOCERS.
WOEES, 700 GEOEGE-ST., SYDNEY.
D
I
S
I
N
F
E
0
T
A
N
T
IN THE WORLD.
A NEW DEPAETMENT!
HATS. SLOPS.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
od3 fIRICKFIELDIHILL.
HATS. SLOPS.
ALL the attention of the r patrons, and the public
South Wales generally, to the fact that they
have this week OPENED their
NE
GLOPS.
W HAT AND SLOP
DEPARTMENTS,
Which will be found stocked with all New and Fresh
Goods. Everything wiU be FEBSHI Everything win
he NEW 1 Everything will be CHEAP t And every-
body will be politely served by polite assistant*.
Remember 1 SLOPS,
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
663 BEICKPIELD HILL,
HATS.
Hatters, Men’s Mercers, Glovsfs, Hosiers, Haber,
dashers, Softgoods-men, Faney Warehousemen,
Corset Manufacturers* Agents, Dressmakers,
Ac., &o.
HATS. SLOPS. HATS. SLOPS. HATS. SLOPS.
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s CathedraL
MWinla of every Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Man and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1887.
Tj) O W L E E’S P O T T E B Y
AND
BEIGE WOEKS,
AMPBRDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List oa application*
STANDARD
RF/VDY MADE SUITS
.70 1\
iB it st ness
PRO ME MADE
Tr-fiVflllm£
QUALIT Y yachtin G
BurJ/m^ipnicm6
UNSURPASSED CrickGtin^
"Standard” Wintev Tweed Saits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto ...
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cat
Winter ditto Extra Lony
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
FEAFES and SHAW,
P E A P E 8 & 8 H AfW ,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
