

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 103.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1882.
Price—34
bulletin.
• SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1882.
Subject for Congratulation.
The case of Peter Buckley, who died in the
Sydney Infirmary, after a prolonged experience of
the hospitalities of a publican named Cocks, sub-
sequently tried and acquitted on a charge of
manslaughter, cannot bo entirely forgotten by
people in this colony, Wo do not exactly remember
how many drinks Buckley was sworn to have
consumed on one day. It was something
prodigious. But Buckley died. There was a
lucky man named Nolan, up at Cobar at Christ-
mas, who appears to have found in a Mrs. Hayes,
keeper of a public-house there, a hostess almost
as attentive as was host Cocks to the ill-starred
Buckley. Nolan lives.
• • •
Nolan, as we gather from the report of a case
in which the whole affair was brought under the
Cognizance of the law, is a station-hand, and
visited Cobar a few days before Christmas. He
may have been on pleasure bent, but he appears
to have had a frugal mind, for instead of laying
himself out for a reckless spree, the first thing he
did, after putting up at the hotel of the hospitable
Mrs. Hates, was to accept a job of work to dig
postholes for a contractor in the township, and at
this occupation he fairly set to work. But it had
leaked out that Nolan had a good bit of money.
In fact, he had .£l3 cash and a cheque for £ll5.
Now Mrs. Hayes, it appears, numbers among
her many virtues that of filial affection,
and among those under her roof is her
venerable father. In accordance with the
rule that devoted children mostly have worthy
parents, Mrs. Hates’ father, Mr. O’Neil, seems
to have a keen sense of duty. Here was a man
with money who perversely went to work and
showed no disposition to 11 knock down his
cheque.” Such insensibility to the duty which
every “ right thinking” bushman owes his host or
hostess appears to have disturbed Mr. O’Neil’s
nice instincts, both as a man and as a father. It
might have been indelicate to upbraid Nolan with
his deficient sense of propriety. Mr. O’Neil, with
refined diplomacy, took the very best method of
awakening in Nolan’s bosom those elevated
instincts which it was desirable should be aroused.
* * *
Mr. O’Neil, his great heart surcharged with
devotion to his daughter’s best interests, and
with a desire to see Nolan evince something of
that dashing spirit which ordinarily makes the
bushman in town so worthy of esteem, sallied out
to where Nolan was at work, and gallantly
invited him and his fellow-workmen to come in and
have a drink. We trust, for the honour of human
nature, and we are disposed to believe, that Mrs,
Hayes was too noble to charge her devoted parent
for that “shout.” Mr. O’Neil’s expedient was
perfectly successful. Mr. Nolan was not
altogether adamant. There really slumbered,
beneath the sordid appearance of habits of
industry and thrift, a lively chivalry andja gener-
ous emulation. He responded to the venerable
O’Neil’s challenge in a cordial spirit, and did all
that doth become a bushman —according to the
code of bar loafers. He was too high minded to
drink at another man’s invitation without return-
ing the disinterested compliment. So the first
drink was followed by a second, and as the con-
tractor for whom he was working was also a man
of lofty soul, another “ shout ’ by him made drink
number three.
* * *
Nolan nevertheless went stubbornly back to
his work, and Mr. O’Neil felt impelled to repeat
his diplomatic proceedings. This generosity at
length conquered Nolan. All that was grand
and superior in his nature was evoked by the
grog. He knocked off working, and declared with
a glorious independence that he did not care for
labouring. He pressed upon the reluctant Mrs.
Hates his cheque for £ll5, and received from
that thoughtful hosts sa £1 to spend, and at the
same time some sage advice and remonstrance as
to his retaining £ll2 about him, inasmuch as he
might drink and lose it. It is apparent from this
that under slightly different circumstances. Mrs.
Hayes would bo an ornament to any lodge of
Good Templars.
* * *
By evening, the worthy hostess perceived, no
doubt with deep pain, that Nolan was drunk.
He was so far gone in liquor, indeed, as to be
insensible to the promptings of her wisdom, and
was so far from doubting his own capacity to take
care of the cash he had left, that he repeatedly
asked his benefactress to return to him the funds
which he had entrusted to her disinterested care.
But the kindly dame was too conscientious to
accede to a request so ill-timed. On the contrary,
she waited until Nolan had been brought to a
better frame of mind, and was lying drunk in one
of her rooms, when she had no difficulty in per-
suading him to yield to her custody a sum of £l2
additional to the £l5 cheque she already held.
We may here remark that it is one of the mysteries
of Mr. Nolan’s conduct, that having £l2 cash in
his possession, he thought it requisite to get an
advance of £1 from Mrs. Hates at the time when
ho lodged the £l5 cheque with her. Nolan
denied in Court that he received that advance,
and no entry appears to have been made in Mrs.
Hayes’s books of the tiansaction; but as the
lady swore she gave it, and her proceedings
throughout bear the obvious impress of a dis-
interested and philantropio spirit, we have
adopted her account of the occurrence.
» * *
Mr. Nolan’s proceedings from this point must
have occasioned the keenest distress to his bene-
factress. He kept drunk. Mrs. Hayes’s barman
testified that Nolan was “ drunk, but not incapa-
ble, during the whole time he was at the hotel.”
Mrs. Hates herself, with true womanly tenderness,
softened this account when giving her evidence.
According to her, Nolan was drunk only “ three
parts of the time.” Possibly the expression was
a euphemism for three third' parts, and meant the
same as the barman did, as three-thirds make a
whole. It is painful to notice that liquor appeared
to bring out flaws as well aa merits in Nolan’s
character When an amiable weakness so far
affected Mrs. Hates as to induce her to dole out
to N OLAN small sums from his money, his conduct
was tainted with the blackest ingratitude. On
several such occasions he went off and got drunk
at other public-houses. When yielding to his
solicitation had the effect of thus evoking the
basest qualities, it is not surprising that Mrs.
Hayes should have been indisposed to subject
her feeling heart to frequent laceration, such as
exhibitions of human frailty of this nature must
have inflicted upon her sensitive mind.
* * *
Mr, Nolan appears never quite to have eman-
cipated himself from the degrading disposition
towards caution and thrift which were so dis-
gracefully apparent in his character when he first
arrived at Mrs. Hayes’s and went to work digging
post-holes. He repeatedly asked for his account.
Had he been dealing with persons of the unscrupu-
lous class, who but too often run public-houses in
bush townships, it is quite possible that he might
havo obtained his account; and, in such case,
there is no saying what might have happened to
him. But Mrs. Hayes was a person of a different
order. She testified on oath that although Nolan
asked for his account several times, he “ was not
sober enough to have it rendered.” It unfortu-
nately happened that ho never did become sober
enough for that little business transaction, until
no more money for procuring drinks remained,
according to Mrs. Hayes’s reckoning, unexpended.
Prom the subjoined account it will be seen that
Nolan started at high pressure, with G9s. for
“nips” on December 20th, and reached zero-
represented by Is. —on January 3rd and 4th.
# # #
On becoming sober, perforce, at the latter stage,
Nolan showed himself insensible to all the bene-
fits Mrs. Hayes and her estimable father had
heaped upon him. He actually pretended that he
could not have spent, as alleged, all his money in
drink, between December 20 and January 4. He
was willing to allow that hia .£l3 in cash had been
so expended, but he held that his ,£l5 cheque
must be intact. He was wicked enough to go to
a solicitor, and the lawyer had the audacity to
issue a summons, calling upon Mrs. Hates to
surrender the cheque. The case duly came before
the Police Magistrate, Mr. G. C. Thompson,
whose decision stamps him at once as a justice of
consummate merit. Mrs. Hates’ account was
produced in evidence, and ran aa follows (we copy
from a local paper):—
Commercial Hotel, Cobar,
4th January, 1882.
Mr. John Nolan,
Dr. to M. A. Hayes.
1881
Deo. 20th, 20s. 6d. 21»t, nips. 695,; cash, 45... £4 13 6
„ 22nd, nips, 355.; cash, 30s. 23rd, nips,
51a.; cash, 30a 7 9 0
~ 24th, cash, 55.; nips, 20s 15 0
~ 25th, 7 bottles stout, 215.; nips, 16s 1 17 0
~ 26th, 1 bottle ale, 25.; 4 bottle stout, 125.;
nips, 13s. 6d 17 6
„ 27th, Store account, £1 Bs. 61.; nips, 6s. j
4 bottles stout, 12s 5 6 6
~ 29th, nips, 2s. 6d. 30th, nips, 3s 0 5 6
„ 31st, cash, 205.; nips, 25s 2 5 0
1882
Jan. Ist, nips, 20s 10 0
„ 2nd, nips, 4 u 6d.; cash, 255.; 1 bottle
ale, 3s 1 12 6
„ 3rd, nips. Is.; cash, 10s 011 0
~ 4th, nips, Is 0 10
27 13 6
Cr.
By Cheque £l5 0 0
Cash 12 0 0
27 0 0
Bal. Dr £0 13 6
It will be observed that, although Mrs. Hayes
had been too generous to charge anything at all
for board and lodging, the ungrateful Nolan had
become her debtor to the amount of 13s. Gd.
• # •
After considering this document, and deliber-
ating on the facts aa sketched above, Mr. G. C.
Thompson dismissed the case, remarking, how-
ever, that “ the complainant appears to have been
supplied with more drink than he ought to havo
been, in one day.”
* « «
There is, perhaps, a soupqon of severity in the
worthy Police Magistrate’s remark. But there
is a delicacy and propriety of language in the
terms employed by Mr. G. C. Thompson which
seem to point to his peculiar fitness for some
position off the Bench. We commend the matter
to the attention of the Minister for Justice, and,
should the S. M. Herald have an opening for an
additional leader-writer, we might go so far aa to
suggest that Mr. Thompson would bo the very
man for the post. No tendency to “ word-paint-
ing.”
• • •
We regret to state that there exists in Cobar a
newspaper, styled the Cobar and Louth
Herald, which is conducted by a person so dead
to all generous instincts that he published a load-
ing article animadverting in very trenchant terms
upon the part which Mrs, Hates had borne
throughout this affair. But it is consol-
ing to know that the fair and innocent
object of those most cruel and uncalled for
aspersions, summoning to her aid all the feminine
delicacy with which she is—as the whole affair
unmistakeably shows —highly endowed, mot the
vile traducer and assailed him with a riding whip.
And it is inexpressibly gratifying, aa showing that
all conductors of the Press are not despicable
apologists for the dirtiest practices, that the noble
editor of the opposition local journal, the Cobar
AND NTMAGKE AND LOUTH LIBERAL, took Up
the cause of beauty and virtue in distress, and
published several letters and leaders, which, while
exultingly recording the physical punishment
inflicted on the rival editor, bore testimony to the
purity of Mrs. Hayes’ motives, the rectitude of
her principles, and the elevation of her character.
• * *
We feel aggrieved to some extent that this able
editor has so effectively anticipated us in a duty
which we have above faintly endeavoured to dis-
charge, that our poor efforts lose by the com-
parison. But we will not allow jealousy to deprive
our readers of the satisfaction of the Liberal’s
own words.
* • •
After narrating the case, more briefly than we
have done, the writer in the Liberal comments
thus Out of these paltry ‘ molehill’ facts,
the writer made *an enormous mountain.’
Several paragraphs in the article were grossly in-
suiting and disingenuously "worded so aa to cast a
stigma on those they were intended for. In fact,
throughout the whole wording of the effusion
diatribes of a most offensive nature were hurled.
Smarting under these slanders—albeit feeling in-
nocent of them —Mrs. Hates,” as already re-
counted, used her whip on the other editor.
* * *
We congratulate everybody. We congratulate
the people of Cobar in numbering among their citi-
zens so admirable a hostess as Mrs. Hates ; we
congratulate Mrs. Hates upon the affection of so
dutiful and useful a father as Mr. O’Neil ; we
congratulate the editor of the Cobar Herald
upon escaping with only a horsewhipping, and a
few abusive letters. In some parts of America
he would have been shot: in Sydney be would
probably have been cast in .£lOOO damages, or
a farthing damages and .£2OOO costs. We
congratulate the Government upon the effi
ciency of that admirable Police Magistrate,
Mr. G. C. Thompson. And, above all,
COLONEL J. S. RICHARDSON, COMMANDANT OF THE N.S.W. FORCES.


HOP BITTERSI
AEE
THE PUREST AND BEST
.MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, hut use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should bo with,
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if yon feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore!You.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case, s
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton.
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What You Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves uu-
steady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &0., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering,
MONTEFIORE, STUART, ft CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR,
FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK TOUR TOBACCONIST
FOR
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
MONTEFIORE, STUART & CO
B ENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a greatisaving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
Is approved by the Commissioners of tho Government
Railways,
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE. STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,)
we congratulate Mr. Nolan for escaping
the fate which befel Peter Buckley, an
escape due, by all appearance, to the circumstance
that Nolan had not so much money as
Buckley.
Which was the Victim?
Tub caw of Lioni. Ponbowby, of tho Boyal
Navy, who has boon expelled his club, cashiered
from tho service, and socially ostracised in oonse-
qnenco of the publicity (riven to his dealings with
» young woman, who, when left by him, committed
•nitride, has been fully narrated in revolting detail
by both our evening papers. Wo do not propose
to re-infiict tbo whole of the nauseating dose upon
onr readers. But. the ciaao suggests a moral, which,
while giving all the prurient details, our contem-
poraries have apparently not thought of, and
which it may be beneficial to point out.
• • •
Tho arts of tho soduoor admit of no palliation.
They oombino, in one design, all that is deoeitful
and all that is cruel. When a man sots himself
deliberately to ruin a young girl, bo abandons
©very honourablo instinct and ovory humane feel-
Ing. He places himsalf on tho level of the meanest
business cheat, and ranks himself with tho most
unfeeling torturer. The adroit and exponenoed
buftineßß adopt, who by calculated Übb uoluden a
young boginusr into contracting a bad bargain,
which effectually blasts his prosneot* at the outset
of hiß oareer, is a character for whom no execration
is too strong. Hut a man, however utterly
swindled, retains rnauy things which romlor life
endurable. Hiß reputation and tho respect of his
acquaintance remain to him ; and, above all, ho
has still hope to cheer him. But tho scoundrel,
who by lying promises and ingenious arts,
swindles a young girl of her virtue, is infinitely
more cruel. He pits bis worldly knowledge
against her unsuspecting innocence. He matches
his calculated ounning against her feminine trust-
fulness. Ho uses, as woapons for his infernal
purposes, tho very graces of mind with which Pro-
vidence has furnished hor, and which, allowed to
develops, make woman tho docile companion and
tho Nolf-sacri tiding wife. The seducer triumphs
by fraud. Knowing that ho offers only shame,
horror, and degradation, he promises joy, happi-
ness affection, and protection. Generally he
baits his hook with a promise, direot or implied,
of honest wedlock.
* * «
For Bnoh a wretch no ruin eonld bo too com-
plete a punishment, no Bhamo, no humiliation, no
despair toe heavy a retribution. In every refer-
ence we have soon to the case of 1 onhonhy that
unhappy man has boon referred to as if he had
boon a typical seducer. But wo thmk a lifctlo 000 l
reflection will show that ho did not altogether
deservo the indiaoriminating ooloouy which has
boon showered upon his wretohod head. There
are light young women as well as reckless young
men in the world, and, great as has been Pok-
bonbt'r fault, and frightful its result, his ohief
crime has been that his offence was fouud out and
received sensational publicity, in oousec|uonoe of
the young woman having committed snioido.
• • •
Now, the evidence unmistakeably proves that
Ponbonby had no occasion to employ the worst
treachery of the seducer « art. Ho inveigled tho
young woman by no false promises of murringo.
Sho was under no misapprehension as to what
was tho position she would occupy m rotation. to
him and to the world. She was no shy child,
ignorant of tho true moaning of things. Hor ago
was 2:i,audßhe went with Ponbonby deliberately,
and despite the entreaties of her own sistor, to
whom sho had communicated her purpose a week
before sho actually gave up her situation. There
is no room for misconception aa to her motive.
Sho deliberately sold herself for X 25 per month
for twelve months, and had an understanding
that a deed to that effect should ho drawn up by
a solicitor. This ia moroly what thousands of
girls do every year, or their motbors do for them,
with tho difference that the contract is made for
life, that the settlements are carefully signed be-
foro the marriage contract, and that, in dofereneo
to tho prftjudioOß of society, & Bifthop, priest, or
miniutcir is called into ° sanctify the sale by
adding blasphemy to its other attractions.
• • •
Ponsonby’s crime towards her was, at worst,
a commercial oheat. He is alleged to have gone
back on his bargain. There are reasons hinted at,
whioh may or may not havo been justification even
for that. The girl did not even love him. Another
had first place in her affections, and to to say that
suggests other respects in which she may have, on
her side, been driving a false bargain with
Ponbonby. The miserable pair, mutually
cheated, did not agree from the first. The man,
tho freer agent, left tho scene ; and the woman,
realizing that she had sacrificed her good name
for a price, and had failed to secure the money,
wont mad with mortification and wretchodneas.
Her last letters breathe more of hatred than of
ihamo. Hor last aot might have been calculation,
a despairing resolution to destroy her enemy with
herself. Ah such it has been effectual.
• • •
Ponbonby ia made tho scape-goat of society’s
hatred for seducers, although not a soduoor of the
worst typo. Ho bought ft marketable woman, he
did not delude an innocent one. What he did,
how many, even in Australia, who swell
tho ohoras of exoeration, have also done,
albeit their purchase may have contemplated
a shorter term? Amidst the chorus of exe-
cration which assails tho miserable man arc
there voices of men more guilty than he ? Men
who corrupted tho mi ad of youth, who swindled
young maids of thoir virtuo before these knew the
moaning of their advances. Men whose victims
did not die, but suffer a living death, corrupted,
sick of heart, hopeless, friendless ; at the sight of
whom their very mothers turn away their faces.
Among tho crowds of unfortunates who make
night in the metropolis horrible are there not
victims by scores oi undetected villains, victims
who arc traders in tkc streets ? Let the men who
havo suoli deeds upon thoir souls but hold their
peace, and the volurao of the outcry against the
miserable Ponbonby will be wonderfully abated.
A bushman on the wallaby adopted an ingenious
~1m to keep off flies. From the brim of his hat bong
little strings i at the end of them were light pieces of
oork. which wore in a constant sUta cl motion with
overr breezo or shako of the bead, thus effectually
baulking tho attentions of tho imseots.
A scries of moonlight concerts is being given
during the Hummer on the upland id Crickut Ground nt
Ah rh© music 1* ifood. Aim t.bo arrant-
uitints nr-, oonvwii" nt, tho gath iring* nro lamely patror .
Wo eanuot have anything of tho sort bore, owing
to oiroumstnnefcH Visitors to tho Melbourne Ground
do not have to tbrexd thrir way. at Imminent, dangor,
thro ash n. raodley of prancing carriage-hoiMes and rock-
less cabbies*, neither do thoy have to wade through six
ini'UiM of Hue white dual to get to their outran co-gates.
Wedo.
Colonel J. S. Richardson.
Our portrait, this week, is that of Colonel J. S.
Richardson, Commandant of the Military lorccs
of New South Wales. Colonel Richardson has,
after a lengthened period of service, just been
granted leave of absence, and is now on his
way to England. His visit home, it is said, is
partly official, as he is to meet Sir Henry Parkes
in London to confer with the Home authorities
on the question of colonial defences. Judged by
his administration during the last ten years, a
period of very considerable difficulty in a military
sense, Colonel Richardson’s advice will be of some
value. There has been no defined policy in this
colony with regard to military defence. Half-ana
half measures have, in this respect, been the cha-
racteristic features of each successive Govern-
ment. Sir James Martin, Sir Henry Parkes, and
Sir John Robertson, have each in turn attempted,
or promised a suitable scheme of military organiza-
tion. What Sir James Martin constructed Sir
Henry Parkes destroyed The one favoured a
permanent military force, the other a militia; and
Sir John Robertson attached himself to the idea
of volunteering. We have now a hybrid force—a
body of regular soldiers, struggling for existence ;
a paid “volunteer” array, and a naval brigade
that drills and lives ashore. The changes have
been as frequent as they have been desultory,
and the greatest difficulty has, at all times,
met the administration of the Brigade
office. Colonel Richardson has, however,
discharged his responsibilities in the most
satisfactory manner. His administration has
been firm, and has been characterised by un-
varying fairness and liberality. He successfully
extirpated the idea of making the various corps so
many political societies. He _ established and
maintained a good understanding between the
regular and the volunteer staffs —a work of some
difficulty—and there can be no question that he
raised the standard of the latter more than might
have been expected of a regular Imperial officer.
Colonel Richardson, as far as we are able to judge,
is in favour of a militia, or any regular force
that ia perfectly amenable to strict discipline the
absence of which has certainly been the bane or
the Volunteer force. He is satisfied that the
present measure, by which payment for service
has been secured, will be a great improvement,
and there are already indications in this direction.
Colonel Richardson’s career has been an active
one. Hs was educated at Rugby. In November,
1854, ho entered the army, receiving an ensigney
in the 72nd Highlanders, with whom he fought m
the Crimean campaign, and was present with
them at the siege of Sebastopol. For those
services he received the Crimean medal and clasp.
In 1857, Colonel Richardson exchanged to the
12th Regiment, and with that body came out
to the Colonies. He became adjutant shortly
after his arrival hero, and in July, 1803, was pro-
moted to a captaincy. Later in the same year he
proceeded with his regiment to New Zealand, and
was engaged in aotive service till the termination
of the war. He returned to New South Wales,
and in 1865 was appointed to the command of the
local volunteer forces, with rank of lieutenant-
oolonel. In 1876, on the formation of the new
military force, he received the rank of colonel, and
was made commandant of the Military Forces of
New South Wales. Our engraving is from a
portrait by Newman, of Oxford-atreet.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dignified Humbug.
We commented last week upon the empty and insincere
character of the Queen’s Speech (so-called) at the open-
mg of the Imperial Parliament. The corroboration
which intelligence by cable has since given to the view
wo took reflects quite a grotesque light upon the deliver-
ance. The Speech was delivered on the 7th instant, and
stated, among other farcical utterances, that “ the
relations of Great Britain with foreign countries are of
a thoroughly cordial character. Between the Great
Powers of Europe complete harmony prevails.” And,
farther, with reference to dealings with Egypt, that
it will be Her Majesty’s aim to act in complete con-
cert with the President of the French Eepublio.
As commentary upon this, we need only quote the
following telegrams of dates immediately subsequent:
—lmportant developments are understood to be pend-
ing in regard to Egypt, and some of the Continental
powers are suspected of intriguing for the destruction
of British influence in the Khedive’s dominions. It is
believed that M. de Freycihet, the new French Premier,
is willing to join France with the other great Continental
Powers in a Conference, if necessary, on the question o
Turkish intervention in Egypt. It is understood that
Germany, Eussia, and Austria are favourable to this
*• course.” A frontier treaty of some importance has
been concluded between Eussia and Persia, after a mild
protest from England.” And, again, “London, Feb. 9.
Austria and Germany have officially warned Eussia
against encouraging the Pan-Slavic insurrection, and
have demanded a disavowal of certain rumours accre-
diting Eussia with assisting the insurrectionists.”
In another paragraph, the Speech expresses satisfaction
at “ the establishment of a friendly ruler at Cabul.”
This “friendly ruler” is, of coarse, that Abdul
Eahman Khan who was sent over by Eussia to embar-
rass the English, at a time when our Government was
endeavouring to place upon the throne another
“friendly ruler,” Atoub Khan, whoso friendliness
took the direction of winking at, if not compassing, the
massacre of the British resident, Colonel Cavagnari,
and his staff. Abdul Eahman had for years previously
bean harboured, protected, and pensioned by the Euf-
sians. But admitting that he has since developed a pure
unalloyed love for the British, rivals of the Enasians
though they be in those regions, the satisfaction ex-
pressed in the Speech at his “ establishment,” forms a
very odd preamble to the cable advices one day later,
that a revolt had occurred at Herat against Abdul
Eahman. Queen’s Speeches appear now-a-days to be
meant for babes and sucklings to attend to, and to fur-
nish themes for solemnly and respectfully credulous
dissertations by conventional leader writers.
A Princely Pander.
Last week intelligence came by cable with reference
to the revolt of the Bosnians and other Slav peoples
against the Austrian assumption of Sovereignty first,
that the attempts of the Austrians to check and restrain
the insurrection had been futile: and secondly, that
through the friendly mediation of Prince Niktta, of
Montenegro, a suspension of hostility for twenty days
had been agreed upon by both parties. During the
armistice the matters in dispute were to be discussed,
and it is hoped that an amicable settlement will be
arrived at. The conclusion many parsons will draw
from this information will bo, that tno poor pat mots are
being sold like bullocks, owing to holding in too
regard the proverbial philosophy which warns mankind
to put no faith in Princes. So far as could be gathered
from preceding telegrams, the Nationalists in Bosnia,
Dalmatia, and Herzegovina, had got the upper hand of
such Austrian forces as were posted in those provinces
at the time of the outbreak. And it appeared that
the insurgents had made snoh formidable headway
that Austriaroonld not manage to gather her forces
rapidly enough to cheek their •accesses. Powerful,
but cumbrous, Austria needed time. Unless the
progress of the Insurgents could be cheeked,
there was no saying what might happen. So Prince
Nikita, whose independent, self-reliant subjects had
begun to make common cause with the rest, is appealed
to. He turns a complacent ear, and employs his in-
fluence to cozen the insurgents to pause, and let the
flush of success fade from their brows. The matters in
dispute will be discussed, and a peaceful solution is
hoped for of course. The matters in dispute are merely
the claims of the Hmperor or Austria to enforce con-
scription among his new, and exceedingly unwilling
subjects, and to exact from them as much taxes as to him
seem good. These are pretentions which an Emperor
is always willing to waive. The Hapsburg man wilj
pocket his pride, and humble his pocket. He will by no
means avail himself of the breathing space obtained
through the good offices of the other Sovereign Prince,
Nikita, to hurry forward battalions and te ready, when
uegociations fall through, to burl a few perfectly equip,
ped armies at his foes. There is of course, no such design.
We feel so confident of the Kaiser’s . single-minded-
ness, that we shall follow the course of events with
great interest, from the present hour up to the day
when the bamboozled patriots, I outwitted, tricked,
crushed and dispersed, get 'their appointed dose of
hanging and quartering, cursing the name of Nikita,
‘and invoking the vengeance of Heaven on the duplicity
of Princes. The Bo»r ians wo observe, have already
broken through the net, and set the tricky truce at
nought.
A Teachers’ Grievance.
The teachers under the Education Department whose
fortune it is to be stationed in remote parts of the
colony have a grievance, which a very small effort on
the part of Mr. Wilkins and his principal assistants
should cause to disappear. They can’t gat their salaries
in reasonable time after these fall due. Thus, in the
Northern districts the unlucky teachers are at the
present time exposed to the frowns of their grocers
and the contumely of their butchers, who, accustomed
themselves to pay their servants every Saturday with-
out fail, find it difficult to credit that the Government
which regulates the affairs of the colony is incompetent
to pay its employes with equal punctuality. Thus the
poor teachers have to submit to the mortification of
petty tradesman’s sneers. The Department of Public In-
struction has devised a system of check, doubtless ad-
mirable in its way, but which operates with merciless
efficiency in interrupting the prompt receipt by teachers
of the money they have earned. There are abstracts
and acquittances to be filled up before any payments
can be hoped for, and the least the Department could
do would be to provide that the necessary forms should
be in the teachers’ hands betimes. Theße forms have
first to be filled up by the teachers, then transmitted to
the District Inspector, and after examination and en-
dorsemant by him, sent on to head-quarters. These
processes necessarily occupy some time; and not until
all are complete are the amounts due issued to the
teachers. It happens that in the Northern parts of
the colony the teachers had not, even a week ago, re-
ceived the forms which should have been in their hands
by the first week in January. Thus all expectation is
at an end of receiving their January salaries until those
for February shall have fallen due. The average period
at which a Northern teacher’s salary reaches him or
her is about eighteen days after it has been due. Such
delays cannot be unavoidable. They conduce to a habit
of living on credit, and consequently to a familiarity
with debts, obligations, and an objectionable condition
of dependence upon local creditors, all leading to
thriftless habits and loss of self-respect. These are
liabilities which it should be the care of well-ordered
Government to protect people from; and when, in-
stead. It exposes its own employes to such influences
by its own listlessness or default, it not only fails in
its functions, but work* counter to its own raison d’Hre.
POLITICAL POINTS.
New Zealand revenue for the December quarter
was £771,780; of which the sum of £419,968 was raised
by taxation. The expenditure was £782,355.
The only public man in Victoria who holds out
against the lash being applied to larrikins is Mr. John
Quick, M.L.A., who, by the way, recently visited Sydney,
and took an ad eundem degreeiat our ’Varsity. It’s said
that John is going, at next election, for Collingwood,
where the larrikin vote is a tower of strength.
The last contest for Yass was remarkable for its
heavy polling. In comparison with the number of
electors on the rolls, it showed a larger proportion of
actual voters than perhaps any previous political
struggle, fully three-fourths of the electors availing
themselves of their privileges. At the last East Mac-
quarie election, where there were four candidates, as
against at Yass only two, the proportion of voters to
electors on the roll did not amount to much more than
one-half, in spite of the most strenuous endeavours of
electioneers and candidates to rouse the slumbering
public mind.
The cloture proposals of Mr. Gladstone are not
very intelligibly rendered by cable, either by the
spesials or by Eeuter. The former put it that on the
Speaker or Chairman of Committees intimating that,
in his opinion, the debate should be closed, the House
would divide, but the debate should not be terminated
unless the Speaker's action be endorsed by a majority of
200, or the minority be 40. This seems to intimate
that, say in a House ef 401 members, an absolute
majority of 201 could shut the mouths of the remaining
200; or that in a House of 79 members, 40 could silence
39. That this is the meaning of the cablegram is sup-
ported by the message supplied by Eeuter, which inti-
mates that the Speaker’s action must be supported by
200 members, and cannot be successfully opposed by
less than 40. The arrangement seems very complicated.
Thus, in a House of 238 members, if 198 vote for the
cloture of the debate, against 40 who desire it to con-
tinue, the debate will not be terminated; while, on the
other hand, if 199 voted for the motion, and 39 against
it, the cloture would be enforced. This is a wonderful
plan. A mijority of one is sufficient to silence 200
members out of 401, while a majority of 158 will not
have the power to shut up a minority of 40 in a House
of 238 members. Ingenuity could scarcely have de-
vised a more ridiculous plan.
| |Ref erring to Jan ' article headed “Wife and
Husband,” incur issue of the Ist. October last, in
which comments are made on a class of advertisements
common in the papers, one of which we quoted, we
wish it to be understood that the comments were
meant to be general, and were in no way pointed at the
individual, a perfect stranger to us, whoso advertise-
ment happened to be referred to.


w.
HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
STEUTH’S WHAEF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King.street).
Offices : 7 SEEING STEEET.
Steam to MELBOUBNE,
Every TUESDAY and PEIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BEISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
aud
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
AH particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON-ORIENT LINE.
1832.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
And the service will be maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a month; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching at Aden, passengers
can proceed to Suez and the Continent (the Italian
Ports included) without fear of being detained by
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
ami CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO..
Joint Managers of the line; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
267 George-street.
RIENT LINE OF STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESS*
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con-
veyance of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line of
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will be received at this office, and receipts
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date of
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For further
particulars, apply to
O. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient Line in Australia.
267 George-street, Sydney.
c
ASH PRICE LIST OP WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED,
SPIRITS.
Hennessy’a • Case
Brandy ... ... 69s Od
Hennessy’s ***
Case Brandy ... 71s Od
Good Pale French
Brandy 45s Od
Good Dark French
Brandy 4Ss Od
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky 42s Od
Vaughan Jones'
U squebaug h
Scotch Whisky 38s 6d
Imperial * Scotch
Whisky ... ... 40s Od
Imperial •* Scotch
ditto 42s Od
Imperial * •* S cotch
Whisky 44s Od
Burke’s ••• Irish
Whisky 40s Od
D’Arcy’s Irish
Whisky 38s 6d
Ram, Rod Heart... 48s Od
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz... 62s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size) 46s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (med.
size) 43s Od
Wolfe’s Schnapps 44s Od
Bull Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
„ ~ pints
„ Stout, qts.
„ „ pints
Boor's Head Stout,
quarts
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints
Biss’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts ...
ALES AND STOUTS.
11s Od
8s Od
lls Od
8s 0a
10s Od
7s Od
10s Od
7s Od
10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stont,
quarts
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Hellos Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
7s 6d
10s 6d
7s 6d
10a Od
7s Od
lls 6d
12s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts,
4 dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, qu rts,
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Foster’s
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Hoad Ale, 4 dozen quarts
in case; 7 doz. pints.
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must he for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Redfem Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Oash ©n giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
17UNE ART DECORATIONS IN HALLS AND
- .PRIVATE HOUSES.,
BALFOUR AND PATERSON,
DECORATIVE ARTISTS, 97, ELIZABETH STREET
Interiors treated in all styles. Modern and Antique,
Early English. Pompeiian and Venaisaauce. Original
Designs submitted.
WENTWORTHVILLE, next Saturday. Don’t
forget that the Sale will be on the Ground;
free railway passes.
TRADE MARK;
THEGREAT
‘E.
FOB
RHEURMTiSH,
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Backache, Soreness of the Chest, Gout,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swellings and
Sprains, Burns and Scalds,
General Bodily Pains,
Tooth, Ear and Headache, Frosted Feel
and Ears, and all other Pains
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals St. Jacobs Oil ns
a safe, sure, simple and cheap External Remedy.:
A trial entails but the comparatively trilling outlay
of 50 Cents, and every oho suffering with pain l
can have cheap and positive proof of its claims.
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IN
MEDICINE,
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-street.
C. PROSSER & Co., Pitt.strect.
MTERS and SOLOMON, George-street.
1. JACOBS & Co„ Hunter-street.
jP9nnn consultation on the
C*j£d\j\jyr SYDNEY CUP.
Subscription, 20s.
Ist) £6OO ; 2nd, £300; 3rd, £150.,
Starters (divided) £375.
Non-starters (divided) £3"”"
No. 1 now on.
Early application invited, with ret
£20.000.
LEVIATHAN CONSULTS V
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 18b*.
Subscription, 20s.
Ist—£Booo. 2nd—£3ooo. 3rd—£looo,
Starters (divided), £4OOO. i
Non-starters (divided), £4OOO.
Early application invited, with return stamps.
BANKERS—CITY BANK.
These Consultations are advertised in all the Colonies
California, Honolulu, Fiji, and Noumea
Address-'* OCCIDENTAL,”
care of
EDWARD PERKINS,
Royal Exchange Hotel, Sydney,
P.S.—AII names and results strictly private.
UUnmamiimniminTTTmnnr,inmr.mT.T...n
izn
OIJZ
670 h.HILDE R. 670
D E R. 1570
o'7 O'] H - H I
H.MILDER i
H.MILDER
6ob t
JJ A V I D M'CALL,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Bolmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Lottos.
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
band.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddlestat the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870. 1873, and 1875.
IHB BEST FILE in the WORLD is tho
I PATENT IXL AUTOMATIC,
Price, 3s. Od.
CUTMOEE & 00., 10 BRIDGE ST.,
Will wait upon business men desirous of seeing the
advantages of these files.
CALL for a Free Railway Pass, and Lithograph of
Wentwocthville. Sale next Saturday, W.
Pritchard.
VIBTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SIDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, end
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. FEB TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and fears kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS,
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
WKm 482 lat E 4B4- CEEORCE STREET
mmm
/S-. 'C-t
N. <V > . A.
XV. 'a
TO ORDER.
ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO ORD
er,
MARKE T CLOTH HALL , NiK
** OPFOSITF THE FRUITMARKFTS,
ESTAB LISHFD'iaffA .
A LARGE and WE LL SELECTED STOCK
■ OF
WOOLLENS, new patterns,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS. “
FASHIONABLE
am n ”
FIRST-CI.ASS “CARMF.NI S
DAMP G6URSE! DAMP COURSEI
w
HEN building uae CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cementt
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren*
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer#
Particulars on Application to
B. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultural
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mndgee,
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880,
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourue International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. 0. HOLTEKMANN AND 00.
Sole Agents,
074 Geerge-street.
DEPOT
ORWALTHAI
LEVERS
*
< tt
W
A. J . HUF TON
> J <3> >
i or,no ft •
•I'.HDO O A
OJQo Only
r
&
G
)/$
aß©li|V
r
633 QhOBaE 3TEEET.


Public Compan
pHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
PaiJ-np Capital, £500,000, with po
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund
DIRECTORS :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jc
" Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walti
General Manage
Vincent Wanpstrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGE ST]
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willie
BRANCHES IN NEW SOD
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulh
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Naraudera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEEi
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Color
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF 1
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.W
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L,
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER s
F. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKS
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 30, Great J
Director —Edward Chap)
Agent —G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the mostfavou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other nroduce shipped to England i
Scottish imperia
COMPANY.
CAPITAL „. ... ... ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEI
NIXON & C(
Chief Agents for N.l
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
READ THI
THE BAKING F
MANUFACTURED by us
AS DOCTOR
WAUG
SINGER'S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, axi
at the
SYDNEY AEC
SINGER’S SEWING I
ABB MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacture
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW '
Chief Office in Enrc
39 FOSTER LANE, I
Depot for New South 1
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAS
SYDNEY.
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR.
NARANDERA. PARRi
227 QUEEN STREET, BI
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
gINGEE’S SEWING
TUENEE & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED i
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANI
TIME PAYMEN'
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week
And NO INTEREST d
10 per cent, off for (
BEWARE OF IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOi
SEWING MACHII
HAYMAEKE
Business Announci
8
[Legal.J
HOETEE, FITZGERALD,
‘ SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m. £
SOLICITOR, has cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite 1
News Office.
CH ARLES
(from Messrs. P. N. Russi
Manufacturer of Cooking Stovi
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 Geo
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), S
N
OTICE OF e ;
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCR
and EARTHENWi
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVE
to
269 GEORGE ;STR
Next but One to the Merc
A magnificent selection of New C
ILLCOX
W
AND
GIbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STR
F. T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE.
n
AND-
i
o
p
R
w
2 Hamilton Si
Chemists and Dm
CAUTION.— In our style c
sudden changes of tempe
and sunshine often intermingle
it is no wonder that our chil
relatives are so frequently tat
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of B
Syrup kept about your horn
will prevent serious sickness, a
and perhaps death, by the ui
doses For curing Consumpl
Pneucionia, severe Coughs, Cr
of the Throat or Lungs, its sue
derful, as your druggist wi
Syrup is now sold in every
this continent. Sample bott
regular size, 3s. Wholesale
BROTHERS.
STEER’S EB
AND
GINGER I
FOE
INDIGEST
AND
STOMACH COMFI
They are also much recomn
tive for Females, being safe, get
their operation, leaving no dispo
and being free from any tenden
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacture!
F. E. SLO
DISPENSING ESTABLISHME
OXFORD STREET
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
* THE GREAT LIVER
And successful substitute for <
Podophyllum, and all Nc
Famous as a Restorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of thi
Famous for the Cure of all Diso
Stomach. , _ .
Most famous as the only Tom
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES. ONE £
Invented and Prepari
J. s. A B R i
At the Laborati
434 GEORGE STREET
■
Cough While you ca
taking Dr. Thompson’s Ame
Linotus, you will not be able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, IT
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle tour appeti
tralian Relish, made by 1
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
George
(Formerly of Geor
IMPORTER 01
CHINA GLASS AND EAi
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC &
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED


VISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PIT'
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WOE]
Diagrams for self-measuring forward
the Colony.
MASON BROTI
14 & 16 Sp
Syd
Have always in fi
to the TEADI
SALE BUYEE
lEONMON GEE 1
GENERA
GLASS,
Al
EAE T H E
WINES, BEERS
and g
BULK MEI
Agen
JOHN WALK
Old Highla
J. SOEIN
Cog
J. T. G
Schnapps i
A. MELYII
Edinburg!
NEW BUILDINGS. New I
Buildings, 29, 31, 33 Park-st:
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LE
draw the attention of the Public gene
stock of English Furniture just open«
for sale at their large and beautifh
Rooms, comprising Drawing and Din
Plate glass door and other Wardrobes
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and Be
Glassware, Holloware, and every rec
about to furnish. CENTRAL FU
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
A GEE AT Variety of Pianos
makers just opened at the C
NISHINQ ARCADE, and are to be s
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 31 P
NOW is your time for Bargaii
very large shipment of Austr
open, and must clear some of our la:
room for now goods. H. LEVY
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Time
£l5 up to £lOOO at the CENT
ING ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-street
£
H - p A 1
PTATKTS’rVRTE W A RETT
The medical profession order Cadbury a Cocoa
Essence in thousands of cases as the most wholesome
beverage. Be sure and get it when asked for, as imita-
tions are often pushed for the sake of extra profit.—Adv
UNPUBLISHED CORRESPONDENCE.
A SENSATION AT LAST.
If there is any man on earth for whom we feel an
admiration bordering on the hysterical, it is Mr. David
Buchanan. In the Assembly, the " Bnchanan bellow ”
arouses our most frenzied admiration. In Court, when
defending a female flat-iron fllcher, what rapt eloquence
is his I Once it was our lot to hear him defend one of
those oppressed females. She was attired in a red shawl
(highly scented with “baby”), a crunched hat, and had
a big hole in her left boot, and a black smudge over her
right eye-brow. “Gentlemen,” he cried, in a voice
which had all the timbre of a railway whistle and all the
modulations of a fog-horn, “ to the unutterable degrada-
tion of living mankind, behold a piece of the Almighty’s
handiwork—a woman dragged from her high estate —
clothed with virtue as with a garment—standing before
you, a living embodiment of the martyrs of ancient days.
Behold the glorious sunshine above, the clear blue sky,
breathe in the odoriferous ozone—list to the patter of
busy footsteps, to the sound of children’s laughter—and
ask yourselves if it is not evidence that there exist in
this beautiful land remnants of the dire and bloody
tyranny of the dark ages, when amidst all that is bright
and beautiful, you see there a chaste embodiment of
womanly innocence arraigned oh a pitiful accusation
of stealing a number of prosaic flat-irons!” Here the
learned counsel paused for breath, and the chaste em-
bodiment of innocence and virtue wiped her nose on the
corner of her shawl.
Being sensible of the admiration we feel tor him, Mr.
Buchanan, by way of securing undying popularity for
The Bulletin,
“ Where’er the sound of Saxon tongue
Does float the balmy breeze along,”
has placed at our disposal a number of letters which he
has received in reply to epistles of his own, accompanied
by complimentary copies of his immortal work, “ Speci-
mens of Australian Oratory.” Some few answers that
Mr. Buchanan has received have already been published
by our contemporaries, and much admiration has been
expressed in legislative and other circles at the skill
which the hon. gentleman has evinced in obtaining
valuable autograph letters in exchange for eighteen-
penny pamphlets. The first letter which we take from
the pile before us is from Vice-Chancellor Sir Eichard
Malins, whose death was, the other day, reported by
cable, and is as follows :
“ London, Dec. Ist, 1881.
“ David Buchanan, Esq.
“ Sir, —Years before receiving the book you have
sent me I was stricken with asthma in an incurable form.
In continual agony, I have long yearned to pass from
this world; but, amidst pain, life was strong within me,
and I lived on. This morning I perused your work.
Bless you! bless you! I shall now die soon.—Grate-
fully yours,
“Eichard Malins.
The following, which Mr. Buchanan has, with rare
but commendable modesty, refrained from publishing
until this moment, speaks for itself as to the estimation
which he is held by Eoyalty as an author.
“ Balmoral, Sept. 8,1881,
“Mr, David Buchanan.
“ Sir—l am directed by the Queen to thank you
for your work, which Her Majesty understands has been
read by her cook with considerable astonishment.—l
have the honor to be, Sir, yours obediently,
“Fred. Ponsonby,
“ Private Secretary.”
This one, now, will prove of special interest just
* “Washington, November3oth, 1881.
“ My dear Bnchanan,
“ Many thanks for your inestimable little b»ok,
which arrived, I may say, most opportunely. For a
month prior to the trial of Guiteau, I made him recite
a page of the book twice a day. I have now strong
hopes of being able to prove that he is a confirmed
lunatic.—Yours in the Law,
“ Charles Scoville.
Guiteau, himself, is not behind-hand in sending his
acknowledgments
“ Washington Gaol, November 6th, 1881.
“ Dear Buchanan,—
“ I herewith remit to you my blessing and my
heartfelt thanks both for your sympathetic letter and
your valuable work. Unfortunately for me, the latter
has arrived a day after the little affair. Had I known
of its existence before, I should not have required fire-
arms to rid the earth of the tyrant, Garfield. Your
book would have suggested a readier method. Like
myself, I observe that you hunger and thirst after
notoriety. Does the Lord prompt you ? I published a
sensational work not long ago, and shortly afterwards
was divinely inoculated with a mania for assassination.
Go thou and Go likewise. If you haven’t a ruler to kill
(which I suppose you have, for even the Cannibal
Islands boast of a King), rid your zone of the most
obnoxious creature on it. —Yours fraternally,
“Charles Guiteau.”
“ Abergeldio Castle, November sth, 1881,
“ D, Buchanan, Esq,
“Dear Sir,—l have received and read your
book. If these are, as you say, specimens of Austra-
lian oratory, how nice it must be not to live there.—
Yours faithfully,
“ Argyle.”
The illustrious autograph of Garibaldi, the hero, is
not wanting. Witness hero his hand, and take his seal
for granted
“ Caprera, November 23, 1881.
“ Brother Buchanan,
« Accept sincere thanks for the literal photo-
graph of your eloquence. I shall not be able to read it
at present, as I am most anxious to get the better of
this bout of illness. I think there is a groat future in
store for your country if the Day of Judgment doesn t
intervene to mar its effect. You are at liberty to make
what use you like of this letter.—Yours in democracy,
“ Gdisepi’e Garibaldi.”
From a great medical man
“ Great Queen Anne-street, London,
“ David Buchanan, Esq.
“ Dear Sir, —In my capacity as coroner for
Middlesex and as a physician, I have to thank you
twice for your * Specimens of Australian Oratory.’ We
have had many mysterious deaths in the metropolis of
late, and these are explained by the fact of copies of
your work having been introduced into London.
Looked at from a medical point of view, I consider
your ‘ specimens *to be invaluable as a soporific. They
should be in every lunatic asylum, and, while they are
calculated—in most cases—to goad to madness the
melancholy introspective hypochondriac, they throw
the average patient into a calm and dreamless sleep
such as can never be induced by chloral hydrate, bromide
of potassium, hypodermic injection of morphia, or by
any other sedative, direct or indirect.—Yours faith-
fully,
“ Ed. Lankestek,
“ M.E.C.S,, &c*
There are many more, some of which we may, per-
chance, publish at another time. The letters we have
printed in this issue, however, will abundantly suffice
to show the admiration which is felt for Mr. Buchanan
amongst the great and gifted. This end being accom-
plished, we, with a bow to the brilliant author, thus
conclude a task which, we trust, will turn out to be as
profitable as it has been pleasing.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
More than one half of the population of Victoria
never enter a church.
It is said that one of Col. Ingersoll’s daughters
is a convert to Presbyterianism.
Eev. James Jefferis has returned from home.
At present he is with his old Adelaide admirers.
Bishop Short, who has just resigned, is 80 years
old, and has been Bishop of Adelaide since 1817.
The Imperial Government announce that they
do not intend to make any farther appointments to the
See of Adelaide.
Dr, Farrar’s “Life of Christ,” published in
England for 155., has been reprinted in America, and
sold there for fivepence.
The Eev. Zachary Barry, LL.D., of Sydney,
was formerly incumbent of St. John’s, Church of
England, Preemantle, W.A,
Eev. Father E. F. Fennelly, of Williamstown,
Victoria, is dead. He was an old “ diggers’ ”, pastor in
the early days of the goldfields.
Dr. M'Quaid, Eoman Catholic Bishop of Chi-
cago, has made a savage attack on the Irish nationality.
His sermon on Sunday, Dec. 18, warned his hearers
against listening to a few priests with loose con-
sciences on the “no rent ” proposition.
The Victorian Government are playing into the
hands of Walker, the spiritualist lecturer, by pro-
hibiting his lectures in the Melbourne Opera House on
Sundays. Walker now considers he has been well
advertised all over the colonies. The affair is a Vic-
torian edition of the Proctor imbroglio.
A lot of Paine’s and Voltaire’s works were
recently seized by the Toronto (Canada) Customs
authorities. Freethinkers are up in arms and have
subscribed £5OO to enable the bookseller to fight the
case. The clergy respond oppositely, and have excom-
municated Colonel Bob Ingersoll and Theodore Parker,
and execrated the ashes of Tom Paine and Voltaire.
Henry Ward Beecher surely slanders his order
when he says that “no minister could write out
and deliver two sermons weekly, with profit to his con-
gregation or to himself.” It is harder to write a good
leading article (for then your audience is bigger and
more critical) than to compose a sermon, yet there are
in Sydney parsons who knock off four leaders and one
sermon a week.
The roll of the Sydney Young Men’s Christian
Association now numbers 552. They vote “ solid.”
pack all meetings where questions of a Sabbatarian
character are under discussion, and howl down opposi-
tion. They are going to erect a new hall, corner ef
Bathurst and Pitt streets. The site cost £13,000, and
the Young Men have already been promised £7060 of the
£25,000 necessary to carry out the whole work.
There are altogether in the world 6,5G8,000
Jews, of which number 5.500,000 are in Europe, 240,000
in Asia, 500,000 in Africa. 308,000 in America, and 20,000
in Australia. Taking the European countries, by far
the largest number of Jews in proportion to the popu-
lation are in Koumania, where the average is 7 44 per
100 inhabitants. Eussia comes next with 3.57 per 100
inhabitants, while Germany has 1.22, Great Britain .20
and Portugal only .04,
An English rector was sick, and supposed to be
within 24 hours journey of the better laud. The pious
aspirant for heaven determined to do one more good
stroke of earthly business before pinning on his angelic
wings. With the aid of his lawyer ho sold the advow-
son, and the next presentation of his living—which was
worth £lOOO a year—to a client, for £lO,OOO. Somehow
or other, after this little business had been concluded,
the Eector did not hanker so much after a trump and
nimbus; but struck, as the keynote of his song, a call
for bottled beer and chops. Then, even as King Heze-
kial obtained a respite, did the Eector get a new lease
of life. He lived for 25 years longer in the enjoyment
of his benefice. But the best of the joke is that the
buyer of the advowson died. It cut the holy man to
the heart to see the other Christian live.
The Church of England people, at Marybo-
rough (Q.), were badly in want of a piece of land in one
of the suburbs, for a school and temporary church. A
oet LA in gentleman, who was a large selector in the neigh-
bourhood, and|likes it to be known that he takes a great
interest in church matters, presented the congregation
with a couple of acres for the purpose. The ground
was rather out of the way, but still the authorities were
very thankful, and passed numerous votes of thanks to
the liberal and disinterested donor. Tenders for the
building were at once called, and everything went
smooth until the land was inspected, and then it was
found that to get at the site a mile of road would have
to be made right along the boundary line of the donor.
The divisional board “ don’t see ” it, and the church
authorities find that to make the road would cost six
times the amount for which they could purchase a
more suitable piece of land requiring no roadmaking.
However, the church authorities intend sticking to it,
although they are afraid some years must elapse before
it can be utilised. No one in Maryborough understands
why the generous donor now looks so unhappy.
“ The elevating influence of the churches,” is
a stereotyped expression. An ordinary’private indivi-
dual generally arranges, if he can, that places hallowed
to him by long and happy associations shall not be dese-
crated by being put to improper use. Our churches do
not seem at all nice on this point. Throughout this
colony, and in this very city, the instances are numer-
ous of church buildings being used for ungodly dance-
rooms, after the godly have no farther use for them.
It is reserved, however, for a church not a hundred
miles from Hyde Park, to permit the use of its Sunday
schoolroom, situated immediately beneath the church,
and forming in fact part of the same building, first as
a dancing-hall and afterwards for a sort of hippodrome.
Now, as Shakespeare, Moses, or Lewis Scott (wa forget
which genius) would say, this is “ rather too much of
the quadrumanous quadruped.” Churches must have
an income. All over the world impecunious religious
bodies let their buildings on week days for schools, re-
ligious meetings, teaflghts, literary lectures, &0., but
decency and perhaps sentiment mixed with some idea
of the eternal fitness of things prevent them from let-
ting their places of worship for “ Clontarflan ” dances
and acrobatic exhibitions—even though a shining saint
derive a rattling profit for himself and church thereby.
London society has adopted the word * impy ’ a
substitute for impecunious.
England growing sober, spending <£12,000,000
less in liquor now than in 1876.
The Britisher spends eight times as much on
beers and spirits as he does on churches and
charities.
Blood baths at the abattoirs are now the rage,
in Paris. They are said to cure paralysis and invigorate
exhausted systems.
In New York, a cab costs ss. for the first
hour, and 4s. 2d. for every succeeding hour. At latest,
the cabbies were on strike.
The German newspapers state that the project
of establishing a German University in America is
rapidly approaching realisation.
It is now explained that, the defectiveness of
our new Town Hall plaster is due to the fact that, by
order of somebody, .lime was mixed with the cement
used.
“They do not die on the spot,” is the re-
commendation given for a patent rat poison. It makes
the rats feel so bad that they go away and die at the
house of a neighbour.
In England, there is a perfect crowd of applica-
tions by officers of all ranks—from General downwards
—for commissions in the Army which the Borneo Com-
pany will have shortly to raise. As to the Navy, the
nucleus of a fleet has already been formed, two or
three gun boats having been sent out to Borneo.
It appears so sanguine was Lefroy that a
verdict of acquittal would be returned by the jury that
on the morning of the summing-up he wrote a note to
his sister, who was staying at Maidstone, asking her to
have a cab in readiness for him directly after the trial
was over, and saying he wished to leave Maidstone at
once, and to escape observation as far as possible. It
didn’t come off; but, anyhow, Lefroy can’t complain
now that ho hasn’t “ escaped observation.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
There is a laundress named Margaret Clark at
Wanganui, N.Z., who writes letters to the papers, and
quotes Latin, Greek, and French.
Mrs. Mortimer Collins, the widow of one of
England’s sweetest lyrists, is destitute. An attempt
was made to obtain a pension for her, but Mr, Glad-
stone opposed it.
Scene: AN.Z. railway carriage. Young lady;
“ Lot’, Mary, what a nice-looking Maori ! I wouldn’t
mind marrying him.” Mary: “No more would I.”
Maori (Kapai): “All righty. Me marry both of you.
Come along.” Tableaux.
John Smart, a clerk of public works, Melbourne,
stands charged with perjury. He married a Mrs. Lane,
of Carlton, and made an affidavit before the registrar
that the husband. Lane, was dead. Lane, who is alive,
resents this; hence the trouble.
A lady teacher in one of the Sydney schools is
extremely eloquent on the subject of early rising.
“ Such a horrid thing, my dearsshe tells her pupils
fair—“ of course, you know it was a man invented it 5
no woman ever ceuld be so base.” This is good, and
clearly proves there isn’t a woman at the base of every-
thing.
President Arthur has announced that in future
no Government appointments will be given to women.
No reason is given officially, but in private it is ad-
mitted that the reason for the new ukase is the dis-
satisfaction of “the party" at female appointments.
Women have no votes, and are sacrificed to the greedy
swarm of office-seekers whose support can be reckoned
upon at the polls. Either we ought to have more
women in the N.S.W. Civil service, or a lot of the men
who are in it should be made less “ cheeky.”
A maiden lady has just died in Massachusetts,
who is credited with having, in company with her
sister, put to flight the British man-o’-war. La Hogue,
in 1812. Eebecea Bates was then eighteen years old,
and when she saw the two boats full of soldiers close to
the shore (coming to pillage the farm for foraging
purposes), she and Abigail, with girlish bravado, seized
the fife and drum, which they could play well, and
struck up “Yankee Doodle ” with energy ahd spirit.
The soldiers hearing the sound, paused, and thinking
there was a posse of Americans coming to the rescue,
turned tail, while the girls, who never anticipated the
terror they would cause, laboured away at the fife and
drum, as if a whole regimental band were at work.
Fifteen minutes later the man-o’-war weighed anchor
and sailed away.
A prepossessing young woman, carrying a child
in her arms, made a curious application to a London
magistrate. Briefly, it was this: She and her husband,
being tired of one another, had agreed to separate, and
“ could she go and live with another young man ? ” It
had been one of those common cases of young people
marrying with scarcely any real knowledge of each
other, and getting thoroughly disgusted at their choice
ere a twelvemonth elapsed. She brought with her an
agreement signed by both, expressing willingness to
separate and halve the furniture, and seemed to think
there would be no difficulty. The magistrate undeceived
her, and explained that the little ceremony performed
in the church could not be nullified whenever con-
venient, even though both parties were willing, A
home paper, commenting on this case, raises the
question whether, after all, it would not be a wise step
to make the simple plan of these younv parties legal.
It is no argument to say, “ whom God has joined, let
no man put asunder," because wo do put asunder. Is
it the ordinance of God that mortals should crave for
love and sympathy and yet have no possibility of
getting it ? Would it not be better to have divorce by
mutual consent—without crime or dishonour—than to
wait till the crime is committed, and grant the divorce
when too late ?
THE KOOKABURRA.
The bald-headed man never dyes.
A good side show —A pretty cheek.
L’homme propose, mais chloral dispose.
The most charming bridal veils are of illusion.
Ton never saw a bald-head with a low fore-
head.
The first law of gravity.—Never laugh at your
own jokes.
No room was ever big enough to hold a fat man
and a mosquito.
A holy man ought to live on a prayree ; a bank
cashier on a slope.
One-sided views are sometimes the best. For
instance, when you’re calling on a girl who squints.
There can be no happiness where there is no
love; but it the girl is awfully rich, there can be lots of
fun.
When a man goes home full of whisky he beats
his wife, but when he gets full of beer his wife beats
him.
He sat down on a nail, and immediately remarked
that though he was on the right tack ho was on the
wrong end of it.
It is complained of Shakespeare that he un-
necessarily murdered Hamlet. But he has been paid out
for it. A great many Hamlets have murdered Shake-
speare,
In Russia, it is stated that a number of police-
men have been exiled from the Empire for negligence of
duty. Such a course of action would in this country
smash any Ministry.
Young man, never marry a lawyer’s daughter—
she inherits the habit of cross-questioning from her
father. Never marry an editor’s daughter, who is liable
to succeed to her dad’s happy knack of “ striking out.”
“ Yes,” said the editor, “1 think I must have
got out a very readable paper this morning. I’ve been
licked by three prominent citizens to-day, another
chased me with dogs and gun, and the police had hard
work to keep a a mob from wrecking my office.”
The net income of the Grand Duke Michael of
Bussia is reported to be £ 100,000 a year, while ho pays
his farm labourers 4d. a day for fifteen hours’ work.
But, then, it must be remembered that he always says
grace before exercising his molars on the pork and
beans.
Mistress (to new girl from thejcountry districts).
—“Jane, you’ve not let the bath water off as I told
you. How is that ? ” Jane (who knows what a drought
means). —“ Let the bath water off, is it ? And only you
and the master washed in it. Bedad, if you waste
water like that you’ll come to know the want of it.”
The theatrical profession is almost the ©nly one
for which, so far, no recognised public training school
has existed. There are academies and universities for
painters, authors, doctors, lawyers, ecclesiastics, and
artists in every branch but the Thespian. And there is
no other profession for which thorough systematic
schooling is more necessary. It is easy to say an actor
has only to be natural, but if he were natural behind
the footlights in the same way he would be natural in a
room, no effect at all would be produced on the audi-
ence. An academy for actors is now in formation j n
London, under the patronage of an extraordinary list
of names. This list includes barons, dukes, earls, and
lords, even the Lord Chamberlain himself. Titled
ladies are patrons and on the executive committee,
and there are many eminent professionals. A mon g
well-known names are the Duke of Westminster,
Duchess of Marlborough, Wilkie Collins, G. A. Sala,
and a Canon of Westminster. The curriculum includes
Shakespeare and good dramatic EngUsh literature, lan-
guage, elocution, French, and “ buiiness ” (t.e., panto-
mime, drilling, fencing, deportment, and dancing).
Fees are £lO for the term, with an entrance fee of £5,
from which actors’ children are exempt. Lectures are
given. Clergymen and other public speakers can come
in for private lessons in elocution. Discipline exceed-
ingly strict, and no smoking allowed. Playhouses will
always exist, and a supply of actors must be kept up.
One of the best things claimed for the Academy of
Acting is, that it will open up to respectable, middle-
class people a legitimate and honourable career in a
line that has hitherto occupied an invidious position,
and been imperfectly understood.


T
HEA T E E
Lessee
Treasurer
Stage Manager
ROYAL-
....Mr. S. Lazar.
.Mb'. G. L. Goodman.
.Mr, Richard Stewart.
LAST NIGHTS
of
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
SINEAD, THE SAILOR.
Doors open at 7.15 p m.; commence at a quarter to 8.
L L.
VICTORIA HA
CASTLEEEAQfI-STREET,
(Near King-street; close to Tramway and Omnibus,)
TO LET NIQHTLf, ON TERM, or LONG LEASE,
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS;
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for 800
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES.
WINGS, &c., and is in all respects equal to the Hall of
the School of Arts, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLEE,
107 Casdereagh.street.
T
HEATEE EOYAL, GEAFTON
OPEN FOE ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATER.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of aocommo
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSEL MIREOE of the
ZULU WAR.
Just finishing Brilliant Season of FIVE WEEKS at
the QUEEN’S THEATRE, DUNEDIN.
OPEN AT THE GAIETY. CHRISTCHURCH.
FEBRUARY 20.
THEATRE ROYAL, WELLLINQTON, EASTER
MONDAY,
Tj
LOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers, Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Yocahstj
Proprietor.
'E FAY RE OF YE OLDEN TYME.
A GRAND FANCY FAIR,
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OP
HIS GRACE ARCHBISHOP VAUGHAN,
Will be held in
ST. MARY’S CATHEDRAL
(previous to the opening thereof),
IN AID OF
THE BUILDING FUND,
In a Street and Market-place of the Old Time,
WITH THE TTPICAI
OLD CHELSEA BUN HOUSE
THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP
THE CAXTON PRINTING HOUSE
THE OLD POST OFFICE
And an artistically-executed
VIEW OF OLD LONDON.
Full particulars and prices of admission in future
advertisements.
P. J. MAHONY, Hon. Sec.
R. HELLER, Acting Sec.
JOHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES A CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, Ac.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture rc-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
gUSINESSES FOR SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS,
ffer for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO. Intending Purchasers, who favour ns with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices i 79 Pitt-atroet.
ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPORI
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
QUR GREAT CLEARING SALE of GOODS comprised in
during the week; and our Customers are reminded that th
chasing SEASONABLE GOODS and the CHOICEST NOVEL
been heard of in this city before*
BARGAIN.
40 CASES OF NEW DRESS GOODS, WORTH
B*d., WILL BE SOLD FOE 3*d.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH CHALLIS, WORTH Is 2d, WILL BE
SOLD FOR 6d.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH BEIGES, 4R, 6|d„ 7id„ 9d.; WORTH
FROM 9d to Is 2d per YARD.
BARGAIN.
HALF A MILLION YARDS OF DRESS GOODS.
MUST BE SOLD TO MAKE ROOM FOE
FRESH IMPORTATION.
BARGAINS,
60 pieces o( coloured Silk at 1814., manufacturer s
price 2s. 4d. per yard.
BARGAIN.
120 pieces of coloured Qros Grain Silk at 23®d ,
worth 3s.
BARGAIN.
40 pieces of Pompadour Velveteen, 12d. and 15d.
yard, worth 3s. 6d. and 4s.
BARGAIN.
Tinselled Tarlatans, every colour, 9d., worth 2s.
BARGAIN.
200 pieces black Gros Grain, 30 per cent, under
manufacturers' prices.
BARGAIN.
200 washing Costumes, prices from 18s. 6d, to 30s ,
clearing price 10s. each.
BARGAIN.
300 satara-clotfa Dolmans, 14s. 6d„ worth 21a.
BARGAIN.
Cashmere and Lace Capes, 2s. 6d., worth 7s, 6d.
BARGAIN.
10 Cases
BARGAIN.
1000 Gen
BARGAIN.
3000 yart
Is. 9c
BARGAIN.
10 Cases
wort
BARGAIN.
1000 pain
good
BARGAIN.
200 Men’;
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ I
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ £
BARGAIN.
LADIES
4a. 6*
BARGAIN.
LADIES
MEI
BARGAIN.
FKF.NCI
BARGAIN.
LONG, (
o*l.
BARGAIN.
Two-bnti
Swiss £i
Plain am
Lawn Te
CAUTION.—MAKE NO MISTAKE; WE HAVE ONLY ’I
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
|(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” I
MOLESKIN TR
‘ WHITE AND PRIN
WANTED, Baksts, Butchers, Grocers, Drapers,
Blacksmiths, and others to open business on
the Main Western-road, WENTWOETHVILLE
ESTATE, to meet the requirements of the workmen at
the waterworks, as also the intending residence on the
Estate. Day of Sale—On the Ground, NEXT SATUB-
DAY. Special train, at &I 0 p.m., on day of sale, free
tickets.
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Wahmt. Ebony-and-gold, Eosewood-and-gold.
Imported by ns direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of onr buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
DOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
Second-hand instruments nor cheap rubbish.)
BEALE and COMPANY,
J, Oxford-street; 612, Qeorge-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howick-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goul-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supply you with a
BIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
r
OR FOUR WEEKS ONLY,
THE SALE OP MANCHESTER GOODS ONLY.
Sheetings, Quilts, Blankets, Calicos, Towels
Cretonnes, Dimities, Tickings, Diapers, Crash
Hollands, Unions, Linens, Damask, Glass Cloths
at CAMERON’S, 82 KING STREET.
Special attention is directed to this Sale, as a similar
opportunity may never occur again. Every Article in
the Manchester Department has been reduced in price
for this Sale.
COME and SEE, and don’t buy unless the Goods
are cheap.
For instance, yon can buy S'ate Sileaias at 2}d a yard,
and Large White Quilts, worth 4a lid, for 2a lid; Glass
Cloth, 3Jd a yard; White Calico, 2Jd; White Sheeting,
6fd a vard; Towels, 2id each; Gray Calieo, IJd a yard I
Grav Sheeting, 5Jd a yard; Table Damask, llfd.
All other GOODS are equally cheap in proportion.
AT CAMERON’S, 82 KING STREET.
GALL for a Free Railway Pass, and Lithograph of
Wentworthyille, Sale next Saturday, W.
Pritchard,
DEAFNESS ! —I hare an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing: complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chia ? of the London Boyal
Ear Infcmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100). Send six stamps, for pa rticulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAF 9BD, Auckland, New
Zealand,
TO PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re.
•over your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitrt-street, Sydney.
■ ■
CALL for a Free Bailway Pass, and Lithograph of
Wentworthvillo. Sale next Saturday. W.
Pritchard.
Q.UNSLBE’S HOTEL,
NOETH TEEEACE,
ADELAIDE.
w
K I M B
• LANDSCAPE PHOTOGEAPHEB,
Windsor* st,, Paddington.
E
L,
Views and Gents.’ Eesidences taken on tho shortest
notice.
WENTWOETHVILLE, next Saturday. Don’t
forget that tho Sale will be on the Ground;
tree railway passes.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Boers again fighting with native neighbours......
Austria and Germany growling at Russia ve Pan-slavio
insurrection Dr, Kenny released on parole Sir
’Eneryin New York, and banqueted by chamber of Com-
merce Frederick Overbeck, the celebrated artist,
has died aged 93 Sir Stafford Northcote vigorously
opposes Gladstone’s eloture proposals Egypt.playing
a deep game financially Her Majesty visits Mentone
next month A fugitive balloon seen at Maritzburg,
Natal More dvnamite intended for the Czar of Russia
found concealed in firewood Sir George William
Welshire Bramwell raised to the peerage Three
members of the notorious Moonlight hand sent to gaol
for seven years Bull and Wilson, woollen manufac-
turers failed for £124,000 Now Caliph proclaimed by
Yemeninsurgents,....Emperor of Austria lost 03,000,000
by the Union Generalo Bank failure The reported
murder of Mr. Stillman, the special of the London
Times has been contradicted Gladstone holds ont
to the Irish donkey the bunch of carrots of local auto-
nomy......lrish members appear inclined to be obstre-
perous Sir ’Enery has asked the Chamber of Com-
merce of N. York to discuss the question of commercial
relations between the U. S. and the Colonies, particu-
larly wool duties London wool sales open on last day
of February Lord Algernon Percy elected un-
opposed for Westminister, vice Charles Bussell, re-
signed Expected conference on Egyptian affairs
Parnellite party said to be melting away Bussia pro-
tests against any foreign philo-Jewish intervention
Colliery explosian at Pont-y-Pridd. Glamorganshire,
Wales; six miners killed, others injured Sick list—
Sir Michael Costa, Eight Hon. C. Villiers, and Earl
Wilton Provisional Government established in
Herzegovina Professional opinions re expediency of
constructing the Channel clash ; Sir Garnet Wolseley
against, and Mr. Adye, Surveyor-General of Ordnance
in favour of, the project Sir Hercules Bobinson has
been appointed a Privy Councillor Serious railway
collision on the Oalborg railway, Denmark Forster,
Chief Secretary for Ireland, has received over 400
anonymous throats Attempted assassination of the
Bight Honorable W. E. Forster, Chief Secretary for
Ireland, by a packet sent through the post, and con-
taining iodide of nitrogen, a formidable explosive. The
stuff soiled the envelope which attracted notice, and
tho packet was detained and opened withont accident
by exports The Herzegovinian revolt progresses.
Insurgents have seized and fortified several frontier
towns. This explains what the Austrians meant by
terming the fighting thus far as “ desultory.” They have
been getting licked Austrians have induced the
Prince of Montenegro to coax the iusnrgents to a sus-
pension of hostilities for twenty days Bosnians have
discarded the truce Conspiracy in Galicia, another
Austrian , province, discovered. Mary participants
arrested The last of the Cuzco'meat shipment sold
at 51., a fall of lsd. on first sales. Some of the car-
casses were distorted by packing, and a lot were old ewes
Home-grown Scotch mutton fetched lOd, same time
Some folks want to disestablish the Church of Scot-
land. The movement grows apace At the opening
of Parliament the Irish members tried to raise the
question of privilege respecting the imprisonment of
Parnell and other Irish members of the House charged
with seditious speeches. The attempt was foiled
Bradlaugb attempted to take his seat, but on the
motion of Sir Stafford Northoote, the Tory leader, and
despite the opposition of the Home Secretary, and a
speech by Mr. Gladstone, the House by a majority of
58 refused to allow him to take the oath, and ordered him
to withdraw, which ho did under protest The now
Egyptian Ministry have approved the organic law
passed by the Notables and rejected by the ex-Premier,
Cherif Pasha. The Khedive has endorsed the law as
being in accordance with existing compacts with
foreign powers and with international contracts In
the Commons, Mr Grey, M.P. for Carlow, moved for
inquiry into the arrest of Irish members during the
recess. After a long and lively debate the motion was
rejected Kevolt at Herat against Abdul Bahman
Eolations between Austria and Bussia are strained
The Khedive of Egypt is the defendant in a
maintenance case. The Porte has instructed him to
“maintain the statu* quo" in respect of other
Powers Mrs. Fnrnieux, in Birmingham (Eng.),
has personated Lord Arthur Pelbam Clinton ana
obtained £20,000 by means of fraud and forgery
Gladstone is expected to make a Cabinet question of
his cloture proposals Sir Charles Dilke has an-
nounced that Mr. Goschen’s visit to Berlin is of a purely
private and personal character More outrages in
Ireland. An unsuccessful attempt was made on the life of
Lieut. Lloyd, temporary Eesident Magistrate of Clare ..
At Body ke, near ( Clonmel, a policeman has been shot dead
while ,on duty. The house of a farmer at Dunbeg,
Clare, has been set on fire; and two of the farmer’s
children were burnt to death. His offence was that he
paid his rent Bussia is strengthening her Black Sea
navy A movement is on foot to endeavour to restore
the House of Bourbon to tho throne of France, it, the
person of the Comte de Chambord...—ln America a sub-
scription has been started for the purpose of placing a
window in Westminster Abbey to the mexaegy of the
late Dean Stanley In Borne a tablet to the memory
of Sir Walter Scott has been erected at the house in
which tho distinguished novelist resided during his
last stay in the Eternal City .....Sir Henry Farkes has
interviewed the British Minister in America. He
explained his views in respect of the wool duties, and
the mail subsidy. Sir Henry is to, officially confer
with the United Sates Government at an early date.
He has gone to Washington. There is a strong
feeling against the Parses wool-duty proposals.!


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Miss Louise Pomeroy, who arrived m Melb ourne
on Wednesday, will reach Sydney to-morrow (Friday).
Miss Louise travels en grand seigneur— or rather en
grande dome—and has an entrepreneur, Mr. Josh. Pickers-
gill,an agent,Mr. Frank Waston.and a private secretary,
Mr. Herbert Fleming. If we can manage, either by
diplomacy or by bribing Miss Pometoy a third foot-
man or under-butler, to interview her, we shall give
our readers at an early date an effervescing column of
“ star ” gossip.
# # *
“ Cymbeline,” in which Miss Louise opens, has,
so far as we know, never been produced in Sydney.
Its representation will, therefore, be fraught with
unusual interest. The scenery for this piece has been
painted by Mr. Alfred Clint; while in “Anthony and
Cleopatra,” which will succeed “ Cymbeline, ’ the
splendid dicors painted by John Hennings, and used
recently in Melbourne, will bo presented. “ Cymbe-
line " is a beautiful play, and will be very welcome after
the big dose of opera-bouffe, pantomime, and clap-trap
melo-drama, which the public has recently swallowed.
There are many very fine scenes in “ Cymbeline,” not
the least effective being the one in which laohimo
hides himself in Posthumus's shoe-trunk, and not only
kisses P.’s wife, Imogen, while she is asleep, but is
guilty of the larceny of a ring and other misde-
meanours. Then he goes to the husband and tries to
make him believe that Imogen is a giddy girl, and gave
him the ring at the back of the Clontarf pavilion alter
the varsoviana. So things get rather mixed, but after
holes are drilled through a few of the characters, all
ends happily, and Posthuuius and Imogen retire to
their 65-acre lot for a perpetual honeymoon.
* # *
The oast of principals is settled as follows : —
Imogen, Miss Pomeroy; Posthumus, Mr. Herbert
Fleming; laohimo, Mr. H. Jordan; and Cloten,
Mr. Harry Leston; while it will please that band
of theatrical patrons, who view the drama chiefly
through the bottom of an upturned tumbler, to
hoar that Mr. Allison has engaged nearly all the
lady pantomime principals simply for spectacular
effect This is, undoubtedly, a wise step. There are,
as the Viscount, in “Martin Chnzzlewit,” remarked
to Mr. Pip—“ a lot of foot in Shakespeare s verse, but
there ain’t any legs worth mentioning in Shakespeare’s
plays.” Tho nows, therefore, of Mr. Allison s foresight
in providing an attraction for the gentlemen with the
exceedingly largo shirt fronts and tho excessively low
foreheads, will be welcome intelligence to those gentle-
men indeed. Nothing is, therefore, wanting to make
tho season a success. And no season can bo a success,
pecuniarily, without it draws all classes—from the
intelligent coster, who appreciates the dramatic poems
of the master, to the polished and cultured scions of
tho jeuncsse dorSe, whose dramatic predilections are
either centrsd in the waist of Minnie Hope or the
calves of Consuelo.
# * *
Saturday will be the last night of the panto-
mime, and Bland Holt will take a benefit. It is not
too much to say that this inimitable comedian is
thoroughly entitled, both for histrionic and social
reasons, to the honour tendered him, and, as his popu-
larity is unbounded, we bave uo doubt that the theatre
will be crowded in every part. Both Bland Holt and his
charming wife have endeared themselves to Sydney
playgoers by affording them, through many long years,
continuous and excellent entertainment. Johnny
Hall, we learn, takes a benefit at the Opera House, next
Thursday, when be plays the Butterman in “Our
Boys," A la bonheur I
# # *
The Royal pantomime has, we understand, been
a great pecuniary success, and, as so much of it was
doubtless due to the inimitable versification of Mr.
Whitetieandspoctacles, we cannot but celebrate him
for the last time in an octosyllabic farewell. Chuck
us the concertina,Marier. So:—
Wo wonder, by the way, what will become of all
the ballet girls. Some will, we suppose, go back to the
tobacco twisting, and others, being by the phenomenal
size of their feet adapted for such employment, will go
grape.ptessing up Albury way. These ladies have now
all had six or seven weeks of dancing, and yet the last
night we saw them they were heavier than ever. When
ever they prepared to jump up a foot and a half
uneasiness betrayed itself on the countenances of the
audience as to what the effect would be on the building
when they came down again. And wo have it on the
authority of Goodman, who is a perfect Washington at
telling the truth, that a fortnight ago the management
put a stop to the ballet girls taking their shoes homo,
because when they did so their little brothers and
sisters used to take advantage of the circumstance to
go out boating in them.
* * #
But while on the subject of ballet girls let us
give metrically a juvenile reminiscence:—
Fasten well the doors and windows, hirelings !
Let the butler examine the pantry, and the third foot-
man gaze carefully under the four-poster. We would
be —alone. Fair moon, iridescent queen of night, we
feel that it ought to be only when thou art at the
zenith of thy power that we should conclude our im-
mortalization of the Only Hopkins—
The drama, Michael Strogoff,” which Francis
E. S. —(for thunder’s sake don’t leave out the E. S.,
Abe)—Hopkins has written in conjunction with a Mr.
Verne, has kept the boards since we last hurst with
meteor-like brilliancy upon the world. There was a
time when the works of Verne alone sufficed to enter-
tain us. We view that by-gone time with derisive con.
tempt. Then we had only tasted Verne aw natural—
now we have revelled in Verne and Hopkins. In his
dramatization of M. Verne’s novel, Mr. Hopkins has
exhibited much originality. He has so contrived his
plot as to constantly bring the poor Czar into the pro-
fonndest contempt of even the obtusest pitite. His
Majesty, we feel from the start, is a mere driveller.
He sends Michael Strogoff, his courier, on a journey,
but somehow two crack-brained journalists, who talk
about the Sydney Domain and the Sydney Soup.
Kitchen, are always ahead of him. Then the autocrat
of Russia, with a feebleness hardly to be expected from
one of the Eomnnoff family, confides his secrets to
Strogoff, with “Dr. Julian," the Annus (poor Argus 1)
correspondent taking it all down in an eightaenpenny
note book on one side of him, and a correspondent of the
Herald —a Frenchman named Jolivet—fancy the
Herald employing a Frenchman I —industriously copy-
ing the Imperial remarks over Dr. Julian’s shoulder,
# « m
Mr, Emmett, who plays Dr. Julian, makes up
as “ The Vagabond,” and we have much pleasure in
testifying to the resemblance being sufficiently striking
to freeze the marrow of the healthiest infant. The
Herald Correspondent is enacted by Mr. Sam. Poole,
who does his best with the part; and, though his pony
is stolen at an early stage of the proceedings by Dr.
Julian, we had hopes of his turning out to be moderately
courageous, and of upholding the reputation, which the
last war Correspondent of that j ournal made for himself,
of intrepid valo or in the field of battle. But no I instead
of emulating the glorious deeds of this deathless hero
M. Jolivet conducts himself in scenes of strife very
much after the manner of Bob Acres in the play, leav-
ing Michael to throw out all tho shells and bore holes
through all the Tartars. But when a shell falls amidst
a group which comprises Dr. Julian, Michael Strogoff,
and M. Jolivet, it is clearly a monstrous absnrdity that
it should be Michael Strogoff who seizes the live shell
and hurls it out of the apartment. Picking np live
shells whenever any happen to drop about is merely an
ordinary trait of Dr. Julian’s character, and one of the
sort of things he has been accustomed to do all his
life.
# * tt
And again, when Michael presents two pistols,
right and loft, of which one misses fire and the other
fizzes like a squib, but which shots, nevertheless, kill
five Tartars on one side, and throe on tho other of the
stage, one perceives at once that tho adaptation has
boon again perfunctory, and that an exploit, which
seems extraordinary and absurd when attributed to a
Michael Strogoff, would be quite natural and in charac-
ter if performed by Dr. Julian.
# # tt
Mr. Hopkins has provided some dialogue for
the rival “ Specials,” chiefly designed to place in
strong relief tho fatuity of the Herald man, and the
overwhelming aptitude at repartee of the Argus repre-
sentative, We feel a natural hesitation in saying any-
thing derogatory to a literary man who stands on the
same level with Jules Verne, but wo cannot dispel a
feeling that we have met Argus men whoso unstudied
conversation is more brilliant than that which the
genius of Hopkins has concocted for the ideal Dr.
Julian.
« * *
When, for instance, M. Jolivet, in a moment of
irritation, declares menacingly that Dr. Julian shall see
14m again in Sydney, it needed scarcely an effort of
genius to conceive the riposta. “ I dare say I shall —in
the neighbourhood of the soup kitchen.” We are at a
loss.to understand why M. M. Hopkins-Verne should
put it as though Dr. Julian must needs think of the
soup kitchen as being necessarily the first place for a
journalistic adventurer to be discovered at in Sydney.
Vraisemblancc is a grand thing to observe. M. Verne
might preferably hare represented his journalistic hero
as landing under a literary alias, and quartering himself
at a flrat-rate hotel. The soup kitchen might come later.
# # *
This, we cannot deny, appeared to ns to lack con-
sistency—not on the part of the dramatic writers—but
with matters of history; and, under these circumstances,
the poltroonery of M. Jolivet, to our minds, appears to
be somewhat of a blemish upon a work which is, never,
theless, of surpassing genius. Why not have glorified
the Bayard who, when representing the Stdnet Morning
Herald, lgainsd, by his valour, for his journal a peculiar
reputation for bravery in its representatives, possessed
by no other newspaper on earth ? But no ; the soul of
the Great Hopkins was not attuned to this. He pre-
ferred to give all the kudos to the correspondent of an
alien newspaper. With tears we exclaim—too bad 1
* « #
“Michael Strogoff” is a terrible fellow. On
one occasion he fires two pistols right and left, and
although neither explodes properly, the stage at once be-
comes strewn with dead Tartars. He picks up fizzing
bombshells with the calmness of a schoolgirl gathering
“ winkles ” at Chowder, and indeed exhibits a composure
under a continual series of adverse circumstances,
which recalls to our mind the phenomenal phlegm of a
squatter named Job when his cattle were taken and his
boils were sent. Mr. Dampier, however, is eminently
effective in the part. It was a fine melodramatic
part, well played and excellently dressed by a
capable melodramatic actor. In short, Mr.
Dampier has any amount of fat, and, as is usually
the case with fat on a hot night, it was very satisfactorily
rendered.
* • *
Mr. Carey has but little to do in the doubled
parts of the Czar and the Grand Duke, but the sterling
actor makes of that trifle an unequivocal success. The
family resemblance between the brothers is thoroughly
preserved by his skilful make-up—an easy matter when
compared with the difficulty of combining with that
resemblance a distinctiveness of individuality. It is in
this last respect that Mr. Carey makes his mark. The
imposing stateliness of the Czar is entirely distinct
from the more energetic dignity of the Grand Dake.
Miss Adore looked charming, and Miss Melrose more
so; and the rest of the characters were capitally
dressed and satisfactorily acted.
# • *
Mr. Bayleaa has, as we remarked last week, put
the piece on with much liberality—the miso-en-scene
throughout being suoh as to create a feeling of aston-
ishment in the mind of the spectator, that so much in
the way of mounting could have been accomplished on
a stage of such limited dimensions. All the effects are
good, and all the scenes capitally set and skilfully
painted. Mr. Kinchela has, in a word, surpassed him-
self. The Ural Mountains are truly Ural; the tempest
was so realistic that every man who had a steel watoh-
ohain covered it over with his wife’s pocket-handker-
chief ; the bombardment was of very superior quality ;
and the battle was suoh that one can confidently recom-
mend it as a genuine article. It is, however, more
especially adapted to visitors from the country.
* « *
The two Hopkinised correspondents being, in a
manner, distinct from the drama proper, we will treat
of them in this, the final par. of a rather long notice.
Mr. Sam. Poole is sometimes funny as Aloide Jolivet,
but nut very often. Hopkins won’t allow that 1 Mr.
Emmett well, we will merely remark that he has
our profoundest sympathy iu his present affliction.
* * * *
At Brisbane, “ Girofld Girofla ” has been pro-
duced at Duncan Maccullum’s Theatre, by South's
crowd, with the most satisfactory pecuniary and artistic
results. Duncan is now building a house on the banks
of the river, and it the tide of success continue to flow
much longer, he may be expected to retire with a com-
petenoe from theatrical management, and set up as a
gentleman for tho rest of his days with —we are quoting
Mr. Weller —“ a pipe in his mouth, and a summer-house
in the back garden.”
* * * *
Mr. J. B. Steele, wa have T jnst|heard, has been
specially engaged to play the part of Anthony, at the
Royal; and Ikey Solomon has Just wired ns that the
dwarf is drawing crowded houses in Brisbane.
* * * *
*"”A gentleman who is interested platonically in
Mias Pattie Laverne, has forwarded ns a communica-
tion in which he asserts that she has been badly treated
by a Sydney manager, and has been put to the expense
of deferring her passage, on account of his breaking
faith with her in certain business arrangements. This
may or may not be true, but in any case, it is not our
business. Our affair with theatrical people is with the
whole profession—not with individual members of it.
We are sorry, though, we are not to have a chance of
hearing Pattie in Opera again! She will doubtless,
however, have a benefit before she leaves by the next
mail. Actresses somehow, generally do have a benefit
before they leave.
** * *
A correspondent writes us, that the rehearsals
of Mr. Ashcroft Edward’s “Pirates,” in Newcastle,
are first-class. Did he over know amateur rehearsals
which were not first-class ?
** * »
Messrs. M. J. Abrahams and Gilbert, start on
Monday next for a short trip along the coast towns—
Wollongong, Kiama, etc. They call their troupe,
11 Mimicry, Mirth, Music, and Minstrelsy,” thus ex-
hausting the alliterative. The company includes
Messrs. 11. M'Donald, Sam Keenan, Johnny Gilbert,
and Arthur Braham : also. Miss May Chapman, and Miss
Hetty Leo —in whom, wo think, wo recognise another
Hetty, who was once a Crouoher. Wo hope they will
have a good time.
** * *
Miss Theresa Horan has got a beautiful little
part in “Cymbeline." She has to open her mouth
several times but say nothing. This intelligence will
be a source of gratification only to those who like to see
Theresa open her mouth. Talking of “Cymbeline,”
Harry Leston should make a big thing out of Cloteu.
If he gave a precise order to a dramatic baker, he
couldn’t get a role that would suit him better, i
** * *
Nellie Stewart, in Melbourne, recently got a 16-
guinea bouquet from the Russian Prince Something.
Since this she will speak to nobody under the rank of a
Small Debts Court bailiff, Bv the way, Myra Kemble
recently made a splendid hit with Galatea at Hobart.
How is it we never see Myra here ? Has she no more
worlds to conquer ?
** * *
The Colonel a go in Dunedin, and the William-
sons creating a furore in Christchurch. This is good.
We hear by private letter that Maggie Moore is so
1 t ‘ 1G that all the women dress after her, and
all the men run after her. J. 0. is also much admired
of an afternoon on the block, whore ho stands calm and
beautiful iu “ statue ” quo.
** * *
Tho Lytton Amateur Dramatic Cluh’writo that
they played “ Ici on Parle Francois ” for Ada Ward’s
bonolit, and that they are going to play next at Gladcs-
yiuo. This don t surprise ns a bit. Wo arc glad, by
the way, to hoar that Ada is doing well. If she didn’t
get cm in her “ Woman in Red” wo should bo “ Boys
in Blues. *
** * *
Grattan Riggs opened in “Shin Pane,” at
Hobart, on January 21st, and the papers there tried to
give tho plot I Eloise Juno didn’t draw for penny
peaches, and she and Walter had a barney. In the
end however, they each want to their lawyer, and, in the
very end, all was sunshine again. What a sweet thing
is forgiveness I
** * *
Emma Wangenheim appeared as Stella in Mel-
bourne, last Saturday, People say she was a success.
We hope she was j and, of course, think so.
** * *
Mr. W. J. Wilson, we are glad to see, has again
resumed the lesseeship of the Opera House, and will
commence shortly to produce there a series of novelties
m every branch of the drama. Mr. Wilson is now in
treaty with several good companies, and he whispers
that we may shortly expect at his hands an announoe-
ment of a startling nature. “ This," as the man says
in the play, “is a consummation devoutly to be wished."
** * *
Mr. Harry Power, who has got his now enter-
tainment, will sail with his company for New Zealand
next week. The piece is entitled “ Bounce and Bustle,”
and though madly farcical, is msthetio in its general
treatment. The author is a Sydney writer, who is
frequently sober, and most of tho musio has been com-
posed by Professor Hughes. Mr. Power is very
sanguine about his new piece, and has written as
follows to the author of it“l have much pleasure in
thanking you for the great pains you have taken with
my entertainment. Prom a first perusal I consider it
very amusing, consistent, and likely to be a great suc-
cess on production.” We hope it will. Harry can’t go
very far wrong in New Zealand any way. Under any
circumstances he is bound to be a Power in the state.
** * *
“Ages Ago” Is still running at the Victoria
Hall, and “ Cox and Box ” was to have been produced
to swell the bill, but wo believe the plans of the manage-
ment are not quite matured so far as tho production of
this operetta is concerned. “Gilbert and Clay’s”
agent has written a letter to Mr. Maddick, requesting
a royalty of £2 10a. for every production of the
piece, a communication which has had the effect of
startling that gentleman considerably. We have, how-
ever, very good reason to believe that Mr. Gilbert’s
agent will find, at no distant date, that ho has been
howling at the wrong gate. Biz. has, up to this, been
good, and the company have, so far as they have got,
had no cause to look upon the spec. rue-Maddick-ally.
tt # #
We may mention that it is in contemplation to
produce at the Temple Scholar, on Saturday week, a
wild musical absurdity in two scenes, which, if what we
hear about it is true, is of a startlingly original char-
acter. The name of neither author nor composer is to
be made public at present, but with regard to the piece
we may state that there figure in it two doctors, two
corpses, a shrewish wife, a jealous husband, and a ver-
satile kid. The title of the trifle will be “ The Capti-
vating Corpses,” and it will, doubtless, be well re-
hearsed.
** * *
“ Mother-in-Law,” Mr. Frank Weston 'informs
ns, has just been produced with immense success at the
London Opera Comique. 11 Carados "in the London
Referee tells ns that the same piece has proved a
dead failure in New York, but he says—“has been pro-
duced by Dampier, in Australia, with immense success.”
Now, we wonder who told “Carados" thisH We
didn’t I The piece was good enough for anything, but
with a few exceptions, the members of the company by
which it was interpreted here were unsuited to light
comedy, whatever they may be to gore and graveyard
melodramas which, though an insult to the meanest
understanding, appear to find favour in Sydney with a
considerable section of the community. Asa matter
of fact, “Mother-in-Law” here was a signal and
emphatic failure. Such a fiasco, indeed, was it, that
Mr. Bay less has been afraid to put on comedy ever since.
** * *
Pearce’s troupe of juvenile minstrels and variety
performers have been playing at Tenterfleld. Another
theatrical gem of almost equal interest Is that Sara
Bernhardt’s dog Niagara dines daily on half a roast
fowl, served upon a clean plate, yet whenever it can
escape out iu the street it is always neck-deep in
the rubbish-boxes. Which reminds ua that that dis-
tinguished foreigner, Signor Verdi, has a pug so dainty
that he won’t eat anything but chicken. Alice Bees—
be still, our beating hearts!—gave ua an ocular demon-
stration of the fact. By the way, Alice, why don’t you
send us a cablegram ?
Tom Bent, Victorian Commissioner for Hall-
ways, has admitted that the protection-ridden colony
cannot compete with New South Wales in the matter
of railway-plant manufacture. Hudson Brothers score
by many chalks over any Victorian firm.
A correspondent condemns tho action of the
Government in refusing to grant the use of the Garden
Palace at night, for the proposed Fancy Fair, in aid of
the Anglican North Shore churches. It's an ill wind
that blows no one any good, and by the Government
refusal, the adroit Chief Pastor of the B. C. Church in
N.S.W, will have it all his own way. We are sorry for
the North Shore people, but we don’t blame the Govern-
ment, who have no business to give direct or indirect
State-aid to any religion. The creeds should stand on
their ©wn foundations, or fall altogether. They get
negative State-aid even now. Church property is not
taxed. It will bo one day.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
Jeasie Grey will shortly be married to J. J.
Wallace J. C. Williamson has made one or two
engagements of native talent in N.Z..,...Zu1u Thompson
took £1520 with his diorama at the Queen's Theatre,
Dunedin, for a four weeks’ season An exciting scene
opposite Dubbo courthouse a little while back, in which
certain members of the “perfesh” figured. Compli*
mentswere freely exchanged, and one young lady was so
boisterous that tho indefatigable M’Coy threatened to
enlist her in the squad which he bad that morning for
presentation to the “Binch.” Kate Foley did a bad
thing in going to America. She has begun low, and has
little better than a variety company There are
curious reports concerning a certain wull-known Aus-
tralian-kora actress, who exercises (ao report says) a
strong influence over the manager of the Union Square
Theatre, New York Craig, late of Lingard’s com-
pany, was married the other day to a Miss Emma
Clifden Fred. Lyster now writes for the New York
Mirror Mrs. J. J. Kennedy (Lily May) has pre-
sented her husband with a daughter Mr. and Mrs.
Turner, and Co., when the mail left, were drawing full
houses at Wellington, NZ. On the race nights tho
theatre was packed. Sir Arthur Gordon, wife, and
family patronised the company on several occasions.
Billy Bent had a benefit at Auckland. “An ever-
verdant nigger" is what the local Herald calls Billy.
Fancy an always-green blackfellow I Amongst
his company are Charles Hugo (banjo), Beau-
mont Bead, Rowley, and Miss Amy Rowe Mr.
Harkins opens at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, on
Easter Monday, and will be supported by Mr. Wybert
Reeve, Miss Annie Mayor, Mrs. Stammers, and others.
His Sydney season commences at Whitsuntide Theo.
Hamilton rejoins the Pomeroy Co, in Sydney. Miss
Lambert and Templeton have rejoined the Montague
Opera Co Geddes, of Dunedin, N.Z., retires
from the “perfesh,” to enter into business there
Tho Wilhelmj tour through N.Z. was satisfactory to
tho Herr and management. He did not visit Wanganui.
“ Zulu ” Thompson, at his Dnnedin benefit, gavn
away a buggy horse At Dunedin, Hamilton and
Willis sued tho Union Go. for £lOO damages for breach
of agreement in failing to land the company iu Dunedin
from Lyttelton, in time to open on tho night advertised.
It came out tbat tho expenses of the company were
£2lO por week, exclusive of arrangements with Misa
Pomeroy, who was to receive 70 por cent of tho profits.
Case adjourned Robson is travelling in N.Z. on tho
“ goody-goody ” line, but it don’t take. He prefaces
his programme each evening with a short address, in
which he describes his entertainment as one affording
to those, who, from conscientious scruples, do not caro
to go to theatres, an opportunity of becoming ac.
quaiated with the works of the great dramatists in an
attractive form. Robson, when last heard of,
was playing at Wellington, to poor houses
Our Auckland correspondent informs us by the last
mail that Cary's kids did poor business. Their repre-
sentation of “Chilperic" was decidedly queer. Billy
Bent’s Minstrels played at the Lorne-street Hall for
twelve nights to good houses, and at time of writ-
ing were “fetching ” tho gold-diggers at the Thames...,
R. B. Lewis’s Mastodons made their dihut at the Royal
on the 6th. There was a large audience. Drayton, of
minstrel fame, is agent. They have taken a lot of
money in New Zealand Jennie Nye has a Pleasure
Party travelling in New Zealand Dick Kohler and
brother, with the aid of their wax works, continue
scoop the New Zealand dollars Lyon’s Tourists ar o
playmg at Dunedin (N.Z.) Harkins is appearing at
the Princess, Dunedin (N.Z ), drawing poor houses.
He is supported by Jenny Watt-Tanner, Maggie
Knight, Ethel Adelle, Amy Clayton, Mrs. M'Gowan,
Arthur Elliott, J. P. West, Gerald Dillon, J. J. Welsh,
H. E. Jewitt, C. D. Robertson, Frank Gerald, E. J.
Brooks, and Lachlan M'Gowan Beaumont Read is
said to have been picked up in London when quite a lad,
by Sir Julius Benedict, and handed over to the tuition
of a maestro, who guaranteed to turn him out
with one of the most perfect voices the world had ever
heard. The strict rigime of the maestro was, however,
too much for Read, who rebelled against the utter ex.
elusion of jhis daily beer. Consequently, though
he became a remarkable singer, he did not fulfil the rich
promise of his youth. Read’s great season was when
be was Moore and Burgess’ alto, prime and his parti-
cular hit the well-known song, “Pleaso give mo a
Penny, Sir." The other night, at Melbourne Opera
House, Prince Michael Constantine, of the Russian
man-of-war Plastoun, throw to Mis* Nellie Stewart an
expensive tribute in the shape of a magnificent bouquet,
consisting of a cross of forget-me-nots dividing the
bouquet into quarters, the quarters being filled by
tuberoses, white roses, and jessamine. The bouquet
holder was of Vienna manufacture, and attached to it
was a broad silk ribbon, on which were embroidered
the Russian flag and cross of St. Nicholas, the whole
costing £l5. This will make a lot of Sydney young
men, who admire Nellie but aren’t princes, feel very ill
indeed George Fawcett-Rowe is about to visit Aus-
tralia Mdllo. Eugenic? Legraud made her appearance
in America at tho Academy of Mnsio, Jersey City, on
November 14, acting the title role in Camille At
the Melbourne Bijou, a young couple misconducted
themselves in one of the boxes. They refused to leave,
whereupon Mr. Lewis and one of the employes took
the male offender up in their arms, and bore him off
Madame Sibly has been performing at L.thgow
Musgrove’s “ Tambour Major” Company will visit
Dunedin at the end of May, to be followed by Bland
Holt’s Company in “The World." Mr. Raphael, the
manager of a small operatic company; Mrs. Fox, his
prima donna; and Mr. Charles Harding, the chief
tenor, were served with writs last week at Sandhurst,
Vic., for performing “Maritana” and other operas,
without paying the author’s fees. £6OO damages are
claimed It is said that Mr. Dewhurst will shortly
join the Holloway management in Ballarat It is
rumoured from Melbourne that we are to have a
divorce case in the theatrical world shortly.;
« tt •
Tilly Andrews has seceded from the Tourist
party, because the style of entertainment and the
rapidity with which the party travelled had an injari.
ous effect on her health. She has now accepted an
engagement from Havorley to appear in his San
Francisco production of “ Strogoff." She wishes a
denial to be given of her reported marriage George
Darrell gets on no better with Yankee critics, who go for
him “straight." “Lady Gay Spanker," says a Now
York paper, is to _be represented very shortly by a
violet brocaded satin, with pearl and crystal trimmings,
and with point lace round the hips, down the front,
across the side, and up tho back; square back and
front, with pearls from tho neck around the pompadour
to meet the point lace below; short sleeves, the V at
the bottom in front being filled with pearl and rubber
fringe.” It was to be worn by Miss Fanny Davenport
Madame Sinico, an English soprano of high excel-
lence, for many years associated with the great Diva
Titiens, and Signor Campobello, a loading English
basso, are about to visit Australia with a company
Fanny Davenport has fully determined at the con-
clusion of her English tour, to visit Australia Bice’s
Surprise Party go over to New Zealand very shortly.
Charles Overton has seceded from the Lingard
Company, and has joined Anna Dicknrson’s company
as old man, at a salary of £2O a week Lingard, by
himself, has been a rank failure in America, and is said
to have lost £6OO in twelve weeks Brooks and Dixon
have thrown Mrs. Lingard over, so that she will not ba
able to “ star " this season after all. Mrs. Lingard
had accepted an engagement for 'Frisco for January
Kate Putman is about to sail for Australia. She is
after the style of Lotta, and is a true artist. She has
been advised by some pro’s, who have dona
the colonies to take her principal people with her
The Drury Lane Pantomime is to be taken to Niblo’s
Gardens (N.Y.), with all scenery and effects Miss
Emma Stanley, a versatile artist, whose performances
in an entertainment entitled “The Seven Ages of
Woman," were very popular in Australia some years
ago, recently died in England Oscar Wilde post-
poned the production of his Russian drama, “Vera, or
the Nihilists." Oscar, it would really appear, is now
considered one of the European Powers, and he fears to
give offence to one of the crowned monarchs, who is
not on tho very best of terms with his people The
latest about Emilia Melville is that she had visited
Chicago and been handsomely entertained by local
society Edwin Booth has decided to play Hamlet
and Richelieu in Germany next Fall Funeral
services in memory of Mrs. Edwin Booth were held in
St. Paul’s Church, Chicago, 111., November 18. The
chmrch was crowded by the friends of the deceased, and
the floral ©fferings were magnificent,,,
Farewell, thou great dramatic gem,
We humbly kiss thy garment’s hem 1
Hush’d is thy harp, yet Lewis, yet.
Its strains we never can forget 1
And, graven on our hearts will bo
The likeness, gifted one 1 of thee I
Whene’er we hear a cartwheel creak.
Or mark a railway engine shriek.
Or dog within a sawmill growl,
Alfresco prophet gruffly yowl.
Or infant yell full many times.
We’ll ponder o’er thy melting rhymes.
When we were young we dreamed of fays
That danced in many a moonlit valley;
Fair forms bathed in prismatic rays—
Those were the sweet nymphs of the ballet I
To us those forms wore fays indeed.
By magic clothed with all the graces ;
No streaks of carmine did we heed,
'Twas “ heav’nly bloom ” upon those faces I
Wo loved—oh, how we did adore
One form diaphanously airy j
Diaphanous but to us, for
She was, of all, the stoutest fairy, 1
Of that love which upon us grew.
We yearned to give the nymph a token,
(If tales of ehildren’s hearts are true
Why many a young heart has been broken !)
The hour arrived, and we were led
Behind the stage with heart a boating;
With quickening breath and low-bent head
We did approach to give our greeting.
What!— that dull streak the silver sheen
Of bright translucent sparkling water;
What!—that fat, greasy thing our Queen,
Who’s munching saveloys and porter.
What disenchantment!—How we hid
The gift—it was a little locket I —
And clutched it as we quickly slid.
With tears of rage, tight in our pockets.
Oh, Hopkins—“ Phoebus, what a name.
To fill the trump of future fame 1”
So Byron, in immortal strain,
Once sang, and so we sing again!
And yet to think!—ah, shame to own.
Thy cognomen was once unknown I
That day has gone, great soul, and now
Is glory wreathed about thy brow;
For Hopkins is the magic name
That millions shout with wild acclaim—
“ Hopkins, Hopkins,” is the cry
That surges in a yell on high ;
“ Hopkins, Hopkins,” it is said.
Escapes through lips so ruby red;
On Fame’s apex does Hopkins tower—
He is the hero of the hour 1


PEPPER AND SALT.
They hang Guiteau on the 30th June, that being
the end of the financial year. and , th «
Audit wishing to have all
Tnlv If Guiteau were not worked off before that oate,
tffioSSSS bill would have to «tand over for
another year. That settled the date. Bed-tope is
stronger than rope.
* * * .
Cyril Haviland, the eminent spiritualistic seer,
author and lecturer, now in Melbourne, was challenged
the other day to produce any evidence of the lower
world He at once raised Hell. He is coming on to
Sydney to repeat the performance.
* * *
The Revs Gilchrist and Macartney, of Mel-
feels out of sorts and fidgetty, and can t sleep, he
debates with himself whether he’ll
frilehrist or a couple of hours under old Mac. 1 here is
a dffierencef—you can snore in Gilchrist's church, but
fn Mac ’s the Ventilation is better However Mac. s«
hymn.
* * *
A needy pressman went into the
Standard, and said: “I consider the hellish delusions
nf Pooerv are a standing menace to civilization, and
blasphemy agnnst GoAHow muchdoyou pay per
Sh delusions of Protestantism «e menace
tr> civilization, and blasphemy against God. we re
I 11 •• w« the renlv. so he button holed a wealthy
and Zid “ iZk hero, there is no God. what do
of starting a Free Thought journal? Id
dit for a pound a week.”
• * •
To the Gown and Gtjmtree poet belongs the
honour of having made a great discovery. The poet
has come across a river which flows backwards and con-
nVquentlv «P-hill. In a recent effusion on a black-
fellow's skull and a “ bobby” the poet wntes-
« Tarcutta’a stream went murmuring on
To join its parent waters, &c., «c.
tod aseeX, Tarcutta will really meet themby mur-
Sng on like any other steady-going old river it
inuring thnao narents must 1)0 somo other
KTsteeam. whtoh CoS helps to form ing
J ew event the noet has found an “offspring which
iof Sd < Tarcutta’a stream must be a river of
whisky.
• • •
Pubs, are closed as per the regulationa bnt the
. ofoika alonj? as usual. So it isn t tne
SaWS does” & Moat be »=*»«.«-
or perhaps the Gas Company or the moneylenders.
• • •
c; r Alfred Stephen is now a staunch supporter
shout ? The*oldest inhabitant does not remember?
* * *
A candidate for re-election to Cooma Municipal
Council observed, when addressing the ratepayers, that
” recapitate” all he had done during his term
Tt need hardly be added that the same gentle-
other candidates.
• • •
Tallrinff of dummyism, a Monaro squatter,
up every name locally available, found him.
he was particularly to secure a
valuable piece of groundL^onto .uext
to the family.
o!j°the land was taken up in the nama of Henry Jam-
1° LuckilVfor Henry Jumbuck, senior,
the presentation fmadeflve months after) consisted of a
ov who was named to suit the selection, and who, of
course, carried out the residence clause.
• • •
Tt was the night before his wedding, and he was
festivT to proportion to the occasion Suddenly, after
* vnrat n f fiendish gaiety, he became silent and pensive.
“ What we you thinking of Billy?” some one asked
« Wmps-some day—shall have a son-aa 'runk as I am
now.”
* * *
“ feme and sit on my knee, my dear,” said a
well-known stock-and-station agent the other day to an
Sgelof some four winters. “Please, can't, replied
the seraph. “ Your veskit's there a ready.
• * *
The aldermen of Sydney serve for the honour of
the thing; the same reason that keeps other people out
ofit. • * •
“ John’s ” simplicity is proverbial, and (whether
real or assumed) sometimes leads him into scrapes. It
hSwned totoly on one of the North Queensland
a worthy “Chtokio.” who applied to a
storekeeper for flour, was informed that the last of the
Sv had just been sold to the “Bull Pup.” who.
however, he thought, might be able to spare ah tt to
He advised “John” to step over and try. Now, the
“Hull Pun” was the pet name bestowed on a lady of
H the diggings. Johnny marched over to
the 1 ” Marble Hall” of the lady referred to, knocked at
the doo “and when the “ 8.P.” made her appearance,
pneuw t ••Missie Bully-pup t home?
Then there was a scuffle and a howl, and a Chinaman
fivo f ee t of hair was shortly seen making for the
next humpy at a pace that could hardly be termed a
“ trot ” while a fat female flourished a pig-tail, and
murmnred, “I’ll ‘Bally-pup' yon, you yellow-lookmg
son,” 4c., 4c.
• • •
As usual the mistress was doing Bridget’s work
Asnsua, , , . observed:—“There you are,
toont’ foJ the faVt long time, and you haven’t
irT thp Taste When I take the iron in my flsht
the sweat 1 of me in strames. Glory bit o’ God.”
And this occurred to Ko .^ h |.“ h pt i2oo tllo Clty ° f B1 “’
sweat, and sorrow, on 4th Feb., 1882.
• * *
Mr F Christmas, of Auckland, has, we see by
«.n advertisement, just become the proud possessor of
twin daughters. This is something like a Christmas
box ' Chris., we congratulate yon. Nay, more ; we
para the point of our pencil, and send yon a rhyme.
The old pere smiled with happy glee.
To hear the young pair cry;
Said he: this Christmas pear shall be
The apple of my eye I
• • •
At Maryborough (Q.) there is an awfully
select ’’private quadrille club, to which no one socially
seieci pri i -publican, or rather wine and
spirtt* metchautf,* is admitted. Buie No. 2 of the club
raids thus:—All members and guests attending the
dances must come in full dress. Any lady or gentleman
coming undressed will not be admitted. Fact.
• • *
The Parramatta Phrgt says I .have
v_ AWTI ivTr T Toohey, for a considerable time. We
wonX what Jtops Mr. T. will now take- to wipe out
this Insult ?
• • *
At Wauea Wagga, on January 25th, “John
Cottrell was charged with asking for a glass of hqnor at
WWa Hotel; he was convicted and sent to gaol/or one
Sh!” John Cottrell may thank his stars heimit
•• aont An wn ** for six months instead, of one. . e
to -tqfotntes so Draconic# however# that there is
thta?« - ome tow for the rich and another for
the poor? What corresponding sentence should be
sasaed* on the man who breaks his wife s legswithan
Cto!«8 did Mr. M‘Donald, at Bathurst, the other
dav ? Why, ho should lie in gaol for something like
35,000 years; his children wouldn't know him when he
came out, and the wife of his soul would perhaps,
have eloped with a circus-rider or a snuffle-bursting
parson. * * •
We are indebted to the Newcastle Herald
for the following gem, which reminds us of
houris and bul-bnls, and summer roses and other things
in “ Lalla Eookh ”: —
OFFENSIVE DEAIN.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD AND ADVOCATE.
“ SIE, (big type, Father Abe, for “ Sir.”)—You will
confer a lasting obligation upon your fellow citizens
by publishing the following observations on the un-
satisfactory sanitary conditions of our’City, an
enlisting the sympathy and co-operation ur
influential journal for abating the nmsance. Yester-
day morning, as I was passing the corner of our
respected and energetic mayor, I was almost suffo-
cated bv the stench of an open drain. AX nrst i
could scarcely believe it possible that his Worship,
who has done so mueh in ornamenting Newcastle,
could be guilty of such an offence, and that he
must be ignorant of the fact. This was my im-
pression until I was told by more t£an one gentte-
man that his attention had been called to the fMt^
The foregoing should be read carefully. It shows how
guileless is the country editor.
• * * .
For humor, commend us to the ’Oly Apostolical
Eecord. In a recent number it tells us the approach-
ing transit of Venus was foretold by th 3 lion-tamer
Daniel, and challenges any Freethinker to comeoutand
call the staff a liar. Speaking of the St. Cecilian arc,
the same stupendous mystery says :
“ The Liedertafel, or ‘ Song-Table.’ seems to
be a collection of amateur singers who write (sic)
for the purpose of rendering vocal music with all
the pleasing effect that comes from the harmo-
nious blending of many voices.’
Now. we know the editor doesn’t drink, because the
circulation of his rag wouldn’t staudit.andwealso
know he isn’t mad, because we never heard him speak
of blue-headed snakes with fiery eyes and P^P 1 ® t-u
crawling about his sanctum. What then, in thunder, is
he? We have it now. He’s about to start a daily.
Dead March in Saul. F uneral leaves at 4.
* * *
Only 15,954 persons wore hauled up to the
Central Police Court last year, whilst the Water
Academy scored 19,000. The latter seems to bo the
favourite run, probably because it has a temperance
ring about it.
it * *
“ Excuse me, Sir,” said a barmaid belle, at one
of our boss hotels to a .retiring customer, Yon vo
given me a sov. for a shilling - Miss, exclaimed the
fortunate man as ho pocketed the coin and walked
away: “You’re an honest girl, and your principles do
you credit.” “Oh it wasn’t exactly that, replied the
disgusted fair; but you see I thought it was only a try
on to have me." And then she sank down in the tub
bshind the bar, and howled her back hair off, as she
thought of the chance she threw away of getting at a
“May Queen ” tile for Easter. Virtue never brings its
own reward—except in politics.
* * •
The bolt has fallen. We are undone. Here is
the key to our sorrow. The only lady editor N.S.W.
possesses is married :
“ Garland Boyle February Bth, at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, by the Eev. Dr. Ellis,
Charles Launcelot, youngest son of Captain W.
E. Garland, to Mary, relict of the late h. H.
Boyle, of Carcoar."
Let us, however, wipe away the scalding tear, and say
something about the wedding. As we crouched in our
friend the Canon’s pew, and saw the procession wend
its way up the aisle, we wore much moved. It was an
affecting thing! The bride, who looked, lo 7 e , ly L bl
slightly nerveus, was supported by the joint staffs of
her papers, the Carcoar Chronicle, and Mount
M’Donald Miner. He (that s to say the staff)
was a man of venerable aspect, and he appeared
conscious of the honour of escorting one for
whom he had turned so long. The bridegroom
was a heavenly vision of blue frock coat and lavender
pants, and appeared deeply interested in the lining of I
his hat and the ceremony. Dr. Ellis read the service
with his customary eloquence, and not a hitch occurred
until the staff broke down when signing his name in the
vestrv He was, however, lead out by the sexton, and
shortly after the happy pair departed for their honey-
moon in a two-horse carnage licensed to carry twelve
persons inside and two out,
* • •
“ Her Majesty the Queen has been ordered
change of air and rest.” Mr. F. M. Darley has been
ordered rest and change of air Two thousand five
hundred pulpit thumpers have been advised by their
medical advisers to try relaxation and change of scene:
and Mr. Joseph Eekford has just returned from a tour
in Tasmania. Amongst the great this is apparently an
epidemic.
# • •
“A new Christian settlement at Te Aroha,
Upper Thames, N.Z., 'has been named ‘Shaftesbury’
after the president of the English Young Men s Chris-
tian Association.” Let’s see. Lord Shaftesbury is
said to have thirteen children. Very appropriate.
* • *
Here’s a good lark. There resides, a little way
up the line, a retired baker, whoso “ missis,” now that
he deals no longer in “ slack-baked quarterns, puts on
a good many more frills than the neighbours care about
swallowing. Well, the other day. the grocer’s assistant,
having a parcel to leave, knocked at the front gate.
“ What do you mean by your imperence comin round
to the front of the 'onse ?” cried the lady, indignantly.
“ Well ” was the reply, “ your old man used to come
round to the front of my house when ho was my
baker.”
• • •
The Milton Times is in a rage with its com-
posing staff. It says Apology. Wo regret being
unable to issue the extra sheet this week. Too much
grog with our compositor, Mr. , being ihe cause.
We have taken steps to prevent a recurrence, at any
rate with him, whatever our next hand may turn out.”
Underneath this dignified rebuke appears a par.,
headed, “ gross net tare,” which cannot otherwise be
regarded than as having a personal bearing upon
“oar compositor.” The N. Queensland papers are
also on the growl. They say ihat all their comps get
"on the bust" at holiday time, and when the reporter
is called in to assist in bringing out the paper, he sets
up all his mining mems. in jobbing type, and encloses
them in an American border.
» * •
The Pennt Ferguson says that “ the lead-
ing question of the day is—who is to be Mayor ?” Then,
in another“ I am enabled to state both from personal
observation and reliable authority, that the new Licen-
sing Act is being systematically evaded in Sydney.
To read your tripe-wrap any day.
This statement, John, would amply warrant;
Why take the trouble then, to say.
What must to all be so apparent ?
By The People, a new and highly attractive
London penny weekly, we get details of a most extra-
ordinary case. A man named Cooke—a “master of
ceremonies” at a dancing place—engaged himself to,
and defrauded of money (and worse), over thirty-eight
young women, varying in social rank from cooks to
governesses. The girls used to gather for “ a bit of a
dance,” and Cooke’s captivating manner used to do
the rest. Now, we know a little about the dancing-
places of Sydney, and we take this opportunity of
setting young women who are fond of “ a bit of a
dance ”on their guard. As most of the dance-houses
are conducted in Sydney at present, it would be almost
safer for a young girl to go to choir-practice, or even to
a camp-meeting, than attend a terpsichorean saloon in
this city. We don’t, however, include a harbour-picnic
in this remark, for that comprises in one fell swoop,
dance-honse, choir-practice, and camp-meeting into
the bargain. # #
We are informed by Mr. Harold W. H. Stephen
that he has caught the “ gift of healing” from his dada.
This comes of using paper collars out of the same box.
m » w
The thin? a peaceful citizen now dreads to meet
most. A policeman!
t * •
The Scott-Pendragon cause ceUhre which has
recently resulted in Loudon in Mr. Clement Scott
recovering £l5OO has been a most peculiar business.
Mr. Clement Scott is not only the principal critic of the
Telegraph, but an elegant writer of rets de societe and
conductor of the Theatre. Yet he appears to have
been awfully hard up. and to have almost begged for the
£5OO from Admiral Carr-Glyn. who, it will be remem-
bered, inherited Adelaide Neilson s fortune. inis
suggests the question—are bond fide writers in news-
papers ever well off? We don’t mean bloated pro-
prietors. but the bees of journalism. We don t believe
so. Why, it was only seen the other day that
the editor of a paper of the importance of the
Parramatta Evening Times, had nothing on him when
stuck up but the “heel" of a pipe-not even a cipy of
his own paper and a saveloy. Under these circum-
stances we are forced to come to the conclusion that
all journalists proper are poor. And if any one scribe
will come to us and prove that so far as ho is individu-
allv concerned we are mistaken, we shall be most happy
to borrow some money of him.
* * *
Said a certain monkey-faced member of the
Upper House, recentlyl see that Mrs. Langtry
has gone on the stage and achieved success. We pro-
fessional beauties have brains as looks.
So that a man may be a living illustration of Darwi s
theory of the Ascent of Man, and yet brim over with
vanity.
* • •
We understand that a change is about to bo
made in the tone of the Express. It will shortly
appear as a serious journal.
# * *
In a certain Northern township—noted more for
its stone gaol than for its pioty-the police magistrate
has an uncontrollable weakness for billiards and beauty.
Meeting Belinda coming up the steps one day with the
dinner, he placed his arm round her-no d
the view of assisting her up the steps. She (thankless
creature) responded by emptying the soup tureen ovor
his elaborate shirt-front. He afterwards endeavoured
to explain to Mrs. P.M. that “ those children have no
right to leave their hoops about the house for any one
to trip over; that poor Belinda might have hurt herself
if ho had not caught her in the act of falling. There
is now a vacancy in that house for a good sleek China-
man—Protestant preferred.
• • •
We of Australia can cap the best of the old-
world yarns. A Welsh congregation, we read recently,
was startled by a huge dog bounding into the pulpit
and defying ejectment. The parson had to sermonize
from the reading-desk, while the dog looked on from Us
pulpit kennel. But now a N S.W. country church has
gone two animals better. During service, a half-starved
kangaroo dog walked leisurely up to the altar, and took
the Sacrament—we mean, devoured the Communion-
bread : a goat explored a very fleshy part of a devout
elder's anatomy; and a female rooster laid an egg in
the vestry upon the parson’s best Sunday coat. Com-
munion postponed ; deacon embrocated ; egg oiled
(P.S.—Parson riled.)
» » •
The Queanbetan Gale has a leader labelled
a “ Prayer for Rain." which is worthy of notice on
account of being a journalistic innovation of some
curiosity. Here’s a slab of it:-’“God, the great
personal, merciful Governor of the earth, gives rain -
Shall wa not ask for it ? Are we too wicked to gam
access to Hi- enr. or do we hope to obtain it in indepen-
de c i of bim ? Or do ws intend 1 0 hold out to the bitter
end ? Far be sneh thoughts from us. We are His—
His property. His subjects His redeemed. He will
have compassion; let ns go to him We wonder who
wrote this. The local B.ptist muffin-swallower, or—
Banyan ? Ye gods what a leadir 1
* * *
At the Geelong Hospital the beds are reported
to be alive with hugs. This is lively—tor the patients.
No wonder sick people have s > little patience—when
there are so many bugs. But anything s good enough
.or the poor man ; with the tig bug it a different.
* * *
Eathbone, in the Auckland Observer, is
devoting an article a week to “ Auckland belles, and
printing their names in full. Listen to his style:
“ Not long ago Lady Gt orge Townsend was heard to
ask on one of the North Shore steamers, ‘Who is that
pret'. v girl ? * and the pretty girl turned out to be Mrs.
U. orge Graham. Report has it that she did not wish
to marry George, nor indeed to marry anyone ; that her
re’ations m-'de her marry ; and that she looked so pale
and so prettv on the morning of her wedding, that she
was called the • Marble Bride.’ ’’ We infer from this
either that George is dead, or tod-ridden, or else the
gifted editor has taken delivery of his armour-plated
continuations.
* * *
The Forbes publicans have agreed to support
the D. T. They have their own r* ic-ona for this. We
understand and sympathise with them. Pass the over-
pro f.
* * *
A man walked into a Parramatta newspaper
office, and asked for a drink. “We don’t keep diiuk
here, my man,” said the eoiintcr-ulerk. The visitor
took out tho paper, ran his eyes over the leaders and
‘•The Looking Glass,” and merely ejaculated— 1
couldn’t have believed it.” And before tho inkstand
reached him he was gene.
* * *
There is a dead body lying in our yard. He
came simpering in when we were in tho throes of compo-
sitiou, and, after telling ns that ho came of poor but
honest parents, whispered that ho was good on little
connmdrums —“wboletomo fun” being his especial
fad. He then tried to palm off on us as original the
following: “Why is a man who takes a free lunch at
an hotel a good weather indi ator ? Because he is a
bar-room eater.” So there is a man dead in our yard
His friends would oblige by removing the corpse before
it gets too high.
» * •
A Mrs. Davis, who has been tried by Judge
Forbes for stealing a cheque, at Albury, dropped into
a bit of bad luck, being a little “ on,” she addressed his
Honor by the name of “Manning.” The Judge in-
stantly committed her for contempt.
• • #
A parson, up North, was advised by his doctor
to take a sun-bath. He went to the bush to do so,
when he was surprised by a shooting party. He ran,
and they pursued him, thinking he was the wild man.
The bench, next morning, considered the rev. gentle-
man’s explanation satisfactory, but recommended hiir
never to bathe in future without giving 24 hours’ notice
to the local ladies’ seminary.
* * *
There was a muss in a Woolloomooloo debating
society the other night. The topic of the evening was
the Chinese Question, and one speaker becoming rather
too forcible in his remarks against the Mongolians was
called to order by the chairman—a gentleman who has
got about as much “reverend” about him as any non-
resident of trump and halodom. The orator, however,
retorted by telling the rev. chairman to go to some-
where, whereupon another member told him in so many
words to hold his d row. After some discussion tho
anti-Chinese speaker was voted “ a useless and immoral
member,” and it was proposed that he be expelled.
This was carried nem, dis, when, on attention being
drawn to the thickness of the orator’s boots, the
Motion was rather hurriedly rescinded. At the next
meeting a lively time may be expected, since several
members have provided themselves with block tin
undershirts, and each man will be indebted to the Cor-
poration for a pound weight of road-metal to
carry in his handkerchief. It is not improbable that
after the meeting we shall publish what Alfred s peri-
patetic stafi call “ a suckin edishun.”
* * *
The greatest author of the day, bar Hopkina
(noticed gently elsewhere) is “ Silverleaf,” author of
“ The Wheel of Life,” “ All Aboard,” and other stand-
ard werks. S. also contributes to the Illustrated
Gibbs, and is suspected by her friends of being Walter
Besant, and Charles Rice —one or both. “ Silverleaf s
style of literature is of the Berlin wool and curates
slipper order, and the dialogues of her charactersare,
as may be expected, of marvellous brilliancy. What
the world pants to know is whether “ Silverleaf is a
girl or a boy. It would not be rash to hazard the state-
ment that Mr. and Mrs. “Silverleaf” should be com-
petent to enlighten an expectant universe upon this
point. Our address is 24 Pitt-street.
• • •
When it’s very warm, the man with the ther-
mometer at Dubbo waits to see how hot it was at Syd-
ney. Then he applies his mouth —they have very
“hot coppers,” at Dubbo —to the bulb, and tops Sydney
by 20 degrees. The Dubbo men “ don’t believe in being
bested by any of your Government astronomers.
There was a man at Ballan, Vic., who was actuated by
a morbid desire to beat the rest of the colony in rain-
fall. Ellery found him out, just as ha was about to
publish a fresh series of meteorological observations.
Queensland should sack Professor Pepper and employ
the man from Ballan. He’d raise the average rainfall
16 inches annually, if paid in advance.
* * *
When Jack Woods was Minister for Railways
in Victoria, he invented a brake, tested it on the
Government lines at the expense of the tax-payers,
and himself decided that amongst brakes, there was
none like it in all the earth. But one Tom Bent, in
Opposition, was a prickly thorn in his side, and oft
upset Jack’s little game. The same Bent now reigns in
Woods’ place, and, for the first few months, Jack made
it lively for Tom. But. behold ! Tom has now taken
■’ack to his bosom. The pair were very loving when
they interviewed our Lackey, the other day, and they
have gone back arm-in-arm. Sir John and Sir Henry
and Sir Tom and Sir Jack are the four Gracchi of the
age. Drop then your rancours, Garret, and invent a
brake.
* * •
Ah Yun, Yun Seo, and Ah Cheo, have got to
give up pitch and toss on Sundays, and betake them-
selves to the club, and play Nap. Penalty if they
don’t, ss. fine at the Water Police. Ah Montgomery
lost to Ah Brown last Sunday the sum of £4O of “ the
old man’s” money. Penalty, “got to go to church
reg’lar" for two or three Sundays, and then—study
“bluff,” so as to “ have ” Ah B. next time for £BO.
* * *
Special services were held last Sunday at the
chief Joss-house. The rev. Ah Chung, assisted by the
rev. Ah Pow, went through an impressive service. The
rev. Chung preached from memory, and at the con-
clusion ot an eloquent and logical address, he remarked
that the time was come to take up a collection. The
rev. Ah Pow took round the hat, and the congregation
rapidly dispersed with what candles they could lay their
hands on. When the temple was cleared, the rev. Chung
winked at the rev. Pow, and they together turned over
the hat on the altar. No sound of metal. And, more-
over, the lining of the hat was gone. Yet, some
people scoff, and say no missionaries are wanted 1
* * #
He is a popular legislator, who is fond, amongst
other things, of an attractive Hebe at a well-known
hotel. The other morning he went in as usual to get
his sherry and bitters, he found her absent for the
I moment, but on the counter was a folded paper which
he took up carelessly and discovered was an “ ugly ”
valentine representing a portly Lothario, and under-
neath the words—in the rhythmic verse peculiar to
Valentines—
“ You think you re very killing
In your great big stove-pipe hat.
But me you wont be thrilling
You’re too bloated and too fat.”
Happening to look down, he saw an envelope at his
feet, and picking it up, he discovered in a disguised
female handwriting his own name upon it. When the
Hebe returned, she served the legislator—not the man.
* * *
Mark you how grandly, how relentlessly, Retri-
bution, like a poised hawk, came swooping down upon
the bobby—for our hero is a bobby. It was a scorching
Sunday afternoon, and our blue-coated blarneyer’s
eight hours were scarcely half spent; yet he was terri-
bly dry He had tried every pub. from the “Point”
to Egerton’s, but it was always a case of “No savee—
no havee and now he was standing, reeling, at the
intersection of George and Bridge-streets, “ swaying to
and fro like a drunken man”—for the want of it.
Warily he gazed on all sides. The streets were nearly
deserted. It was a case of Hobson’s choice, and with
one convulsive gasp he went —tor the drinking foun-
tain.
# * *
To the lovers of English opera the name of
Thadeus, of “ Bohemian Girl" renown, must be full of
pleasing recollections, but to North Queensland people
it simply sounds a terror. For example, Thadeus
O’Kane, of the Towees Herald, says:—’‘About four
or five years ago the testimonial mania came to an end
here. Before that time, every man who left the place
got a testimonial. Not a policeman nor a bank clerk
could leave the field without a champagne supper or a
watch or a pin, or some other souvenir of his friends
on Charters Towers. The finish was put to the matter
when a costly watch was prase a ted to a Civil servant
here, who, when about forty miles on his road to his
new quarters, sent back tbe watch by his wife, and
wanted something prettier.” The latest victim would
appear to bo one Sergeant Mathers, and the we of the
Miner “understands that there was a solemn gather-
ing of publicans on Thursday night, and a purse of
sovereigns, £lOO, was presented to Sergeant Mathers,
with a farewell address composed in Pearce’s best an
booziest doggrel. The man who read the address wept
plentifully on the occasion, and there was weeping and
drinks all round.” Of course, Pearce is the other local
editor. We don’t know for certain, but we’ll lay four
to one, on spec., that Thady did more weeping than
drinking on that glad occasion.
* # *
Far down in the Sunny S.S.E., by N., there is a
pslitical swell who runs a newspaper on strict LO.G.T.
principles, being himself a member of as many societies
as John Davies, and on state occasions breaking out all
over with stars and badges, besides being hung with
sashes to such an extent that he looks like the front of
a terrace, or else a barber’s pole. This able man knows
his way about without a dog and string, and recently,
while raiding his district to rally up subscribers and
overdue cash, he pulled up at nightfall at a little pub.,
and, in his most insinuating manner, suggested that
about the wisest thing the proprietor could do, short of
starting a fresh company on the Milburn Creek basis,
or running a gas-works with fast meters, would be to
subscribe to his journal, pay a year in advance, and
insert a three-inch ad. for the same period. Mr. Boni-
face at the first sight of the visitor had gone out to the
stable to give the toes of his boots a fresh edge with
the grindstone; but Mrs. Boniface, who could use her
tongue as expertly as a parson can explain away the
sense of an inconvenient passage in the Scriptures,
wondered how any man could have brass enough to
try and get mamey out of people that he had done his
best to ruin. She pointed out that next licensing day
would beggar her family, as the rooms did not contain
the regulation number of cubic feet, and pointedly
summed up with the remark that, as eleven o’clock had
passed, she couldn’t take another shilling from any-
body. “looh,” exclaimed the dignitary, with an
abandon which would have made every mouth in his
lodge water with envy—“ Pooh I you’re not in Sydney;
who’s te prevent you from serving customers at any
hour P Let's have a drink.” And he flung, with a dare-
devil rollicking air, half-a-crown on the counter, and
assumed a rake-helly style which was much appreciated
by the sergeant and constable who had been listening
from the bar parlour, and entered on the moment,
followed by the landlord with his boots in beautiful
working order. The problem now is whether the case
against the politico-literary light for drinking after
lawful hours, or that against the publican for a by no
means bootless assault, will have precedence.
BAKER'S NO QUAKER .
A Minister very quick witted,
A feeble old pal of his pitied;
And quoth he, “ Old Baker,”
Don’t you he a quaker;
A wink from me and you’re acquitted.
A RONDO OF THE RODONDO.
A matron there was who was blond o.
Whom an old chap took on the Kodondo:
The hubby came by.
And got punched in the eye.
And booted right straight on the Pondo.


BRIEF MENTION.
The king of the dangerous classes is the loose-
swearing policeman.
Now that Parkes is gone away on his “ semi-
political tower,” Billy Murdoch is the King of Sydney.
When is “ aestheticism ” mentioned in the
Bible? When Balaam’s ass was heard to(o) utterly
utter.
The Brisbane police force boasts of a member
apparently about 16 years of age, who is the butt of the
arabs.
Alderman Porter, contractor, has been elected
Mayor of Brisbane. Au alderman should be an ex-
pander rather than a eoutractor.
The Maitland Mercury prints only poetry
in its advertising columns. Some of the poetry that
comes to this office we print—our foot upon.
A certain eminent barrister is to be seen—and
it is a Q.rious O.n. —walking about Manly Beach at-
tended by seven children, seven unrses and seven
dogs.
An “Owl” Club conundrum, given the other
night by Lewis Scott: —“ Why is a young lady like
H.M.S. Nelson?” “Because she cannot get along
without Erskine (her skin).” There ia genius in the
brain which gave birth to this.
The kingly triumvirate—tal-king,
smo-king, drin-king.
The S.M.H. says Mentone is in
Switzerland, Port wine, or weather —
which?
Our Hevenin’ Nooze tells us
that Sir ’Bnry Parkes is 'omeward
hound. Which ’otne ?
So two elders have had a fight
outside church. We now solemnly en»
gage ourselves never to abuse an older
hereafter, though we confess we never
had much respect for one before.
There is intense anxiety about the
recent attempt to assassinate the Csar,
but that is no reason why the Corpora-
tion should allow dead rats to remain
in Pitt-street more than three weexs at
a stretch.
Says the Lyre : —“ Mr. Frazer is
elected for Teuterlield. We don’t know
Mr. Fraser.” After this can there bo
any reasonable doubt about the new
member being a fit and proper person to
represent any electorate ?
A Melbourne shopkeeper has
patented a new break for worthless
cheque distributors. He has had one
of these interesting documents framed,
with name and address of drawer at-
tached, and exposes it in hia window
labelled “forsale.”
He lived at Lower Fort-street,
and arrived home about three-quarters
of an hour before his usual time.
“ Good gracious I" exclaimed his better-
half, “how early you are to-day.
What’s the reason?” “I missed the
bus," was the laconic reply.
An enterprising country poet try-
ing to wed to some drunken verse, the
awkward, ill-sounding name bestowed
upon our beautiful land—New South
Wales —in a short “ poem " makes it
rhyme with tails, gaols, and flails.
Strange to say, “ales" isn’t used once.
A Maitland auctioneer interfered
in a quarrel the other day up there,
between a black and his gin. He wished
to prevent the man from breaking the
woman’s arm with a nullah-nullah. The
auctioneer’s doctor now considers there
is a likelihood of hia being about again
in a week or two should not erysipelas
supervene.
In “ The Tramp Abroad,” Mark
Twain, defining the German’s idea of
Sunday rest, says : “ if a man’s occupa-
tion has bnsied him with death and
funerals all the week, it will rest him
to go to the theatre on Sunday night
and put in two or three hours laughing
at a comedy.” What does our only
Nlnian say to this ?
They wanted to arrest a soi-
disant doctor at Wagga. But the doctor
was invisible. By-and-bye, the town
was convulsed with the intelligence that
a “shocking railway accident has oc-
curred, sir, and the sufferers are with-
out medical assistance.” Dr. Watson
came, he saw, and he —was “lum-
bered 1” The railway accident was a
myth.
The Down and Gumtree is
bringing out a series of interesting il-
lustrations of the domestic appurten-
ances of Lord Cock-a-doodle-doo’s es-
tablishment. No. 1 has already ap-
peared; No. 2 will perhaps he His
Lordship’s portable foot-bath, used by
him in Berlin and St. Petersburg!!,
from a sketch made by the aide-de-camp
on duty.
He was “stone-broke;” and ho
reclined on Lady Macquarie’s chair rue-
fully chewing the stump of a decayed
cigar. “ Things are about as multy as
they can he,” he murmured. My name’s
taken off the door of the soup kitchen,
my pants are torn and my boots is
busted. If things don’t mend before
tho week’s out, I'm very much afraid
I’ll have to turn Doctor.”
Grahamstown was the scene of
an elopement the other day. Two
labourers got “shook” on two hotel
servants, and cleared off with them in
the night, borrowing the hotel-keeper's
horse and dray. The male members of
the quatrain were arrested at some
distance from the town, and brought
hack and committed. The trial came
on in due course, and they were ac-
quitted. But in the mean time the
girls had married “ some other chaps.”
And yet there are crawlers who say
that the ago for romance is passed!
“ History-onio and professional abilities was
the graceful phrase that issued from the ruby lips of
an orator at the Manly amateur “ Pinafore ” perform-
ance.
“Wanted strippers,” advertises a tobacco
manufacturer In the dailies. He ought t« be able to
get plenty, now that the opera bouffe is waning in
Sydney.
Formerly ’twas supposed that lawyers never
took anything but fees. This is an error. Up North
there has been found one avaricious enough to take
measles.
Husbands who keep unseemly hours, and other
things, ere called by a Northern woman “Knight-
errants." She ought to know that “Hubanum (modern
Latin) est errare."
The eldest son of the Russian Emperor is in his
14th year, and of an active and lively disposition. A
fellow needs to be active and lively when he has to
dodge dynamite all the time.
A Northern Civil servant has a suit of print
for every day in the week. His greatest boast is that
the dearest “get up” in his wardrobe only cost him
four and three half-pence (4s. lid )
A horse was recently sold in the Old Bushman
yards, Gawler (S.A.), at auction, for the enormous sum
of six-pence. The purchaser declined to remove the
animal. It seems that horses are less esteemed in this
said “ Modem Athens” than asses, as the latter are
evidently thought very highly of in the district.
“I never pass Punch’s corner but I see you at
the door,” said a lady, the other day, to an Evening
News reporter. ‘'Exactly, mum,” replied the man of
genius, “ A newspaper writer is bound to ha before the
public.”
Says one ’Frisco editor of another :—“ Old
Pickering’s hair is said to be the colour of coal—after
he uses the dye-pot; and, if he did not use the dyc-pot,
it would still he the colour of the coal—that is, red-
hot coal."
The dailies record the escape of a lunatic. The
police memo., after giving a description of the escapee,
closes thus:—“ His wife lives at Newcastle, and it is
thought that he may have gone there.” He must,
indeed, be a lunatic.
The Adelaide Bulletin is dead as a coffin
nail. It was spawned in inane scurrility and swaddled
ia witless filth, and its motto was “ Let us prey ! ” It
was getting on, but two or three spasmodic attempts to
get respectable killed it.
.£lO4O 7s. 9d. have been subscribed for the
family of poor Marcus Clarke. Alive, Marcus
would have had to pay “ sheventy-flfe per shent”|to
raise the seven and ninepence. He asked for bread and
received a stone—a tombstone.
Arthur Devlin, the aboriginal convicted the
other day, for the second or third time, of criminal
assault, was, when in Darlinghurst, the pet of the gaol
chaplain, who used to hold him up to the other priso-
ners aa a model worthy of imitation.
We sincerely hope that Mr. Arthur M Donald,
who at Bathnrst broke both his wife’s legs and her arm
with an iron bar, will get at least a week. Anyhow,
we're sore he’ll be given not loss than three days.
A prominent Teuton of Tamworth is reported
as recently having observed: —“Id vill pe no goot to
make me of do down de Mayor, my dempor he could
stant not de insult, uud de Mayor must stant all in-
sults.”
It’s nice to get drowned at Mackay. When a
body is found iu the water, it is towed along to the
haunts of tho alligators, who industriously persevere
in saving all funeral expenses. Mackay saurians prefer
a stale corpse to a fresh one, it is said.
He was a cheerful black guide, who, after con-
fessing that he and the exploring party were lost in
their search for a waterhole, and being remonstrated
with, blithely said:—-‘You look along a compass and
see which way that fellow waterhole sit down 1"
Writes the Evening Mystery :—“ A dog was
shot yesterday, and part of the charge entered a lady’s
arm. The scoundrel escaped.” Everybody has been
asking which was the scoundrel—the dog, the charge,
the lady, or her arm ? We never were good at Euclid.
To the ordinary observer it looks rather peculiar
to see a woman stand up at tne Water Police Court and
swear her husband has assaulted her; and then, after
he has been mulcted in 20s. and costs, dip her hand into
her pooket and produce the money, which she has been
saving up to buy a new dress, to pay the fine. But that s
a woman all over. ,
Mrs. C. (enraged at finding the kitchen fire out,
no dinner cooked —not even a “ spud ” peeled) loquitur:
“ What do you mean by this Ah Kee—are you mad, or
drunk?" “Me no drnnkee. Tow druckee. Why you
no light um fire, cook nm dinner, sometime ? You too
muehee lazy—too muchee sew, sew. You go to—Hades,
light um fire yourself.’*
Says the Colonial Printer’s Art Journal :
—“A bookbinder in the Government Printing Office
was lately ‘ laid up ’ for kissing a pretty girl in that
establishment. It was not the actual offence that
caused his dismissal, —it was being caught at it.” We
are sorry to see sueh sentiments as these expressed by
an organ of the profession.
The only way in which a certain ecclesiastical
dignitary can now secure a congregation is to advertise
that his assistant is to preach on a given Sunday.
Then ihe expectant congregation assemble en masse,
and, at the last moment, the ecclesiastical dignitary
mounts the pulpit and doses them with something as
dry as the throat of a penitent drunkard.
The Tasmanian Mail gives two columns to a
case, headed in startling capitals, “ Malicious injury at
Franklin, the Scoundrel committed 1 “ only to allure
its readers into a one-act tragedy of stabbing a fruit-
tree with a knife, and “ ringing” a mare with an axe;
or vice versa, we can’t make out which. Seeing that
news is so scarce in the Sleepy Island, we shall take a
dose of Holloway’s ointment before we believe all the
gush about the existing mining excitement. Bald-
headed Simpson had better rub up his grease spots.
Can you fancy the feelings of Kitty -—, of
? (we conceal the samea because of the stringency
of the Umbrella Act.) The circus was there. Willy
and she went to it. A tame baboon was one of the
novelties. Willy lost her in the crowd. The baboon
found her. So did Willy at last, but how ? She was
saying to the Simian“ Dearest, my whole soul is
thine. To-morrow, as thou requested, shall see us
one.” This was years ago, and Willy is now in the
Upper House.
The Kiama Independent has a full leading
article on Dr. Leslie Keeley’s Gold Cure for Drunken-
ness. We are quite sure that the editor, who apparently
lives in Sydney, wrote the article from a spirit of pure
disinterestedness, merely with a desire to benefit —it
might be unfair to say his kind. A great many things
besides drunkenness can be cured with gold; and per-
haps this accounts for the appearance of the leader.
But while saying this we are quite prepared to believe
that the Independent is a thoroughly independent
journal.
It was a Coonamble man who refused to put
yeast in his bread on Saturday night for fear it would
work on Sunday, and his example has spread so much
that the whole of the inhabitants have now risen en
masse to protest against the sacrilegious practices of
running the mails on Sunday, and of allowing hens to
lay on the lovely Sawbath morn. Up Dnbbo way, how-
ever, the population are chiefly heathens, as the mails
have arrived on Sundays there for years, and yet the
earth never gaped to swallow a single driver. This
requires explanation.
We are told that there is a church in Glasgow,
which has appointed “ a hand-shaking committee, ’’ the
duties of which are to watch for and welcome strangers,
inviting thorn to come again to the chureh. Here’s a
chance for our John. As a hand-shakist and dealer
out of|oleomargarinic smiles he holds the belt,land there
is no more of the ’orny palm about John, than there is
about Gussy Fowlhouse. John’s hands are as soft as
felt; or the fools that grasp them.
At the recent Casino sessions before Judge
Docker, a prisoner—who, evidently was an old hand at
addressing juries, delivered himself as follows
“ Gentlemen of the jury, if yon have the least doult
about my guilt I hope yon will give me the benefit of
it." They acquitted him. Hardly had he got outside
the court when he remarked to a juryman, “By
George! What a let off 1 ” The Judge thought so too
for he remarked; “You are discharged this time, but
he careful that it does it not happen again,”
The Yankee corn-doctor is the biggest draw
ever seen in Melbourne. He fares sumptuously at Gar-
ton’s, and drives round in a gorgeous six-horse equipage
in the afternoon.by way of airing and advertising himself.
In the evening he visits the Eastern Market,where a huge
crowd as?embl3s to meet him. For (say) half an hour
he extracts corns gratis in public; after that time
he operates in private on people who pay, and who for the
most part are cleaner-footed than his public patients
He scoops in the money wholesale—is said to be making
£2OO per week. He is really clever at his business, and
can pull the biggest of corus out by the roots without
hurting this subject.
Up North one holy minister of the
Gospel went to see a ditto of the
same oil* by the coach. On his arrival
at Cobb and Co’s office, he was surprised
to be received by his rev. brother in a
bellicose manner, and to be challenged
to (hie) put his hands up. . . A few
days later the fighting parson wrote
his friend a letter begging to be par-
doned, as “ an evil spirt had got into the
Zoedone.” Fact!
The Carcoar Chronicle is
indignant with a Chinaman for spank®
ing a boy for robbing his garden, and
commends the action of a Mr. Smith,
“who made him (John) measure his
length upon the ground.” “ The
Chinaman had no right to take the law
into his own hands,” says the editor.
Nothing is, however, said about Mr.
Smith, Now, if that same boy were to
plunder that editor’s garden, we wonder
what ho would do P
Down South. Chairman of the
Binch ” prisoner (a “ lady ”) : « Tour
conduct is disgraceful, in fact, outrage*
oiis. Ton are fined £5 for your
insulting language and disgusting
conduct as a woman,” and the magis*
trate pulled out half a whisker, and
looked as intelligent as nn oyster.
Says one of the latest Justices in
an Irish whisper: “It you make
the -—’s fine two quid. I’ll pay it.”
The bargain was struck.
A European war is evidently at
hand. The Dubbo Dispatch says i—
“ We don’t see how the coalition be*
tween Austria and Germany against
Russia can last.” This opinion of our
contemporary is entitled to respect for
more than one reason. Not only is the
journal from which we quote of snffl*
cient weight to be “inspired” by
Foreign Courts, but additional impor-
tance must attach itself to the Dis-
patch's oracular observation when it is
considered that so large an amount of
European newspaper correspondence
comes from the rustic glade that jour-
nal adorns—Dubbo.
The other day the Brisbane
Week published a telegram to the
effect that Fred. Cooper—” handsome
Fwed.”—had received a vote of eonfl-
dence at Thornborough. After reading
this message, Billy Little, the king of
the Hodgkinson, sent the following
“ wire ” to the editor of the paper
named:—“ln your issue tf 31st you
report Cooper Member for Cook vote of
confidence passed here. You’re wrnog.
He came here first, left early morning
with a man and monkey that played
pool on Racecourse. His nominator
declined to speak for him for his poli-
tical treachery. He was not game to
hold a meeting here.—W. C. Little.”
He dropped across his friend,
whom he had not seen for some months,
in one of the principal streets of the
thriving capital of Flim-Flam. No
sooner did his gaze alight upon his ac-
quaintance, than ho uttered an exclama-
tion of horrer. He was pale and hollow-
eyed, ene arm was in a sling, and one of
his legs was a yard and a quarter longer
than the other. " Why, what in sul-
phur’s the matter ?” cried the affrighted
one of the sick man. “I have merely
been in the infirmary of Flim-Flam, and
have been ‘ kept under observation for
some days before proceeding to opera-
tion, for medical reasons.’ lam just
going to the undertakers to erder my
cherry case.”
At Ballarat, a little evening paper
vendor received a half-sovereign in mis-
take for a sixpence for one of his wares-
Discovering the mistake shortly after-
wards, he searched out and found his
customer, and tendered the coin back.
The recoverer of the half-sov. shed a
few tears of joy at finding there was so
much honesty in the world, and gave
the lad a copper coin in exchange for the
gold one, representing the value of a
paper. The gentle boy, being a Vic-
torian, was naturally of a grateful dis-
position, so he put that coin aside and
said a prayer for the beneficent donor,
and carried it home to his mother in
the evening. She however, was a prac-
tical and unpoetic female, and she
promptly proceeded to disinter the
money from the sundry rolls of paper
in which her son had enveloped it. It
was then discovered that it was only a
worthless token. Prayers for the wel-
fare of the generous man who gave it
were said no more, and the only sound
which broke the stillness was the wail
of the boy, as his mother whaled him
for making a fool of her.
A devil-fish with arms four feet long was re-
cently washed ashore at Timaru (N.Z.) He now ekes
out a precarious living by white-washing the Town
Hall ceilings, and chasing defaulting subscribers for
the local papers. He will also be employed as census-
taker, in order to embrace the whole of the female
population in the shortest time on record.
The Provisional School at Tweed Heads
(N.S-. W.) is not provided with a dwelling. No house is
available, and, as the schoolmaster, like most other
country schoolmasters, is poor, he has to camp out
with his wife and family of twelve children. The
attendance at the school is right up to the average of
Public Schools, and the pedagogue’s salary is £7 10a.
per month. Poor devil 1
When will people who go to poison themselves
abandon the strychnine folly ? Strychnine hurts, and
it is not so very swift, after all. Twenty minntes of
horrible convulsions are the rule rather than the ex-
ception. Now, those who like ease should choose
morphine; while those who’ro in an awful hurry should
lay their hands on prussic acid. Anyway, strychnine
is stale and ought soon to be out of fashion.
Mr. Tooth at the Gooma banquet, classified the
Chinese with the Atheists. Yet Confucius was a better
and more moral man than Mr. Tooth is ever likely to
be, which is not saying anything against Mr. Tooth’s
moral character. “The young men should be taught
to go to bed early and not drink,’’ remarked Mr.
Badgery. Now, Mr. Tooth is supposed to make good
beer, and lots of it. We wonder what he would do if
the young men didn’t drink ? And, by the way, Mr.
LOCAL OPTION.
UNITED WE STAND: DIVIDED WE-LIE DOWN. (HIC.)


Badgery admits having enjoyed himself very much
long after the hour at which, in his opinion, all young
men should be in bed. Bah to you !
Milburn Creek trial to be postponed. ‘ ‘ Exactly
so.”
Under the heading “Board and Residence,
the Evening News advertises that journalist,
is requested to communicate, etc. Who s going to
eat this journalist ?
Outside a hall on Sunday night. Ist. boy :
“Where are yer a goin , Irish? 2nd boy: JNo
veres.” Ist. boy. “Era’s old firebrand a prechin up
stairs yere. Come in an ’ear ’im ’owl."
In Victoria, Henry Down has been sentenced to
three years’ imprisonment for “setting fire to a grow-
ing crop ” Our “downy” youth says this is unju’t;
he often “ sets fire to a growing crop’ when ha burns
his moustache.
In the first row that Henry J. Jackson, a
Victorian visitor, had in Sydney, his assailant struck
him over the head with a bottle of ginger'ale. Fie now
goes about everywhere, blowing about the cordial
reception lie met witli tew.
At a walking match in Melbourne recently, one
of the competitors was “ twelve years and a-half old,
•i he went all to pieces in his training, he suffered
continually from dysentery.” and “he weighed four
stone twelve pounds 1 Hallelujah I
We have received from Mr. F. R. C. Hopkins a
book called “ The Confessions of a, Cynic. We will
tell our readers all about it next issue. It is enough
for them to learn, this week, that Mr. Hopkins u a
cynic. We don’t want to take their breath away.
At Mndgee, Mrs. M'Evoy, publican, sued an
opposition boniface civilly, for attaching one of her
turkeys Said turkey was served up by defendant for
tho dinner of his Honor the Chief Justice, Sir James
Mnrtin when he was last on circuit. Verdict for Mrs.
MTOvoy. Query—Can his Honor really have been
“ guilty of receiving ? ’’
Our old friend, Cyril Havilaud, was lately at
Alburv Thus does the Banner notice his perform-
„lce.l“lu point of fact, Mr. Haviland’s lecture is
nothing more or less than an insult to the Common-
sense of the country.” This, in some people’s opinion,
would almost amount to an unfavourable notice.
Harrison, Batson, and Attwater, printers, of
Bond-street, Sydney, have sent us tho first number of
Tup Colonial Art Printers Journal. It is a splendid
specimen of typography, and its contents arc of snr-
lnterest. Hart, as in the firm, is to the tore m
the paper. Wlvat moro can wo say this confoundedly hot
weather ?
An Auckland doctor has been awaking com-
ments in consequence of his strange behaviour m
Zard to a corpse. Struck with enthusiasm
and scientific research, he kept back certain of the
organa of a suicide for private investigation. A domes-
tto of his, however, caught him, aud-howled. All
Auckland has heard the echo of that howl.
At tho Point Nepean Quarantine Station a
delicate difficulty occurred. The partitioned off apart-
■monts for married couples were not supplied with all the
of modern life. The authorities, being
remonstrated with, telegraphed to Melbourne for 30
what-nots.” What-nots, in ev.ry variety, came duly to
hand ; yet still tho married couples groaned and grieved
in spirit 1 ,
From a D.T. leader:-” It (Sir George Innea
decision) is, perhaps, the most illogical, inconclusive,
and wishy-washy judicial ultimatum ever read by a
Judge of the Supreme Court. It is as devoid of argu-
ment as an oyster is of a backbone, and it even lack,
the mascularised blubber by means of which ***
of an incomprehensible epicureanism keeps its shells
together!” Good heavings 1
Snooka, in the Land office, was deputed the
other day, prior to the commencement of the Cricket
match, to apply for holidays. He commenced We,
the undersigned, respectfully request that the Minister
will grant the offiiersof the Department a holiday, to
sea the Cricket match. Half the office to go on Friday,
half on Saturday, and the rest on Monday. Sir John
read it carefully, and officially observed:-” The man is
a fool who wrote this.”
The Bega correspondent of the King-street
Howl spreads himself out about the importance of
SaT delightful township, declaring that every Bega
man who leaves his home “ comes back with the deep-
rooted conviction that the place is not to be beaten.
This is tall As a proof of Bega’s importance, the
correspondent adds: “An agricultural show looms in
the near future.” All right; let her loom ; and. by
and bve. when we want a cowshed, we’ll send up a small
hoy to carry away the 60 x 44ft. pavilion.
Some people have a strong objection to those
horrid Chinese making furniture. But that s nothing
the wav it’s made in the colony of Kmgsland. An
ingenious man, who runs a Government boarding house
iS a hamlet up there, gets his furniture made by his
hoarders It they make the chairs and tables nicely,
and keep it dark, they get a little tobacco on the quiet,
and occasionally some cold pastry. If they don t well,
he can make their board and lodging rather rough : and
they can’t leave. This clever man’s name Is Eobmson
or something, and he is a Greek.
Our clear old friend, the Rev. A. C. Gillies, has
bean grinding out some more of his poetry in the OtagO
Witness. Bevel, dear public in the rythmic cadence of
this mellifluous couplet
“ Why do our souls, like Pharaoh’s hungry kine.
Devour this gorgeous world, and hunger still r
And why doth naught below save things divine.
The spacious void within our bosoms nil r
We wonder how many pounds weight of •‘.things
divini ” it would take to fill ijour spacious vmd old
nn ? We don’t mean gospel but beef. E. 3. VP.
Savs a literary genius on the D.T. :— “The
of the Town Hall plastering has again cropped
nn bv reason of another large quantity of the corpus
delicti having fallen down, and of the miraculous escape
% M Woolcott. the Town Clerk, in whose room the
fal/occurred. On this occasion the quantity consisted
of several hundred-weight, and happened shortly after
none vesterday.” Keally, the id-as of Sydney scribes
noon yeste V we have a subject cropping
"° Huantity Whe corpus delicti falling down, and a
onantity of several hundred-weight “happening 1
The writer ought to put his brains in curl papers every
evening, and crimp them well out.
Sir Alfred Stephen has been flirting in Bathurst
Ho likei to got about amongst the “sox. Tho occa-
b\ou was the distribution of prizes in connection with
tho recent Juvenile Exhibition. Of course. Sir Alfred
lot off one of those magnificent speeches for which he
is so iustlv celebrated; and amongst other brilliant and
remarks. ho declared that “ many persons who
?oarned embroidery often found it useful, for in times
of trouble cbev wore enabled to provide the necessaries
nfo through having this knowledge.” Something
similar might have been said about that useful, if not
aristocratic, occupation, clothes-washing. But, of
course, the knighted nose could not approach the
plebian wash-tub.
Queensland publicans now keep their eyes
lifted” in respect of supplying aboriginals with liquor.
The latest dodge is for a black trooper, in company
with constables, all in plain clothes, to obtain a bottle
of ” from some bush shanty When prosecuted
4-Vwj mihlioan genßrally tries to get out of it by tbe
back-door pretence that inctead of “one pfella bottle
o’mm” he gave the blackfellow “bitters’ or some
other innocuous liquor. But the publican looks bit-
terer than any bitters when the bottle is produced and
its contents are ascertained definitely. Meanwhile, the
black trooper and his white comrades have had a
booze ” —at the expense of a paternal Government.
Thus ingenious merit rewards itself!
There are only two men of much account up in
Dnbbo or at any rate up to the standard of excellence
squired for the Presidency of the hospital. One
is tue re] rasentative squatter, and the other the Police
Magistrate. At tho recent annual meeting of that
i tt-tntion Mr. M. E. Maher declined to stand as
Pres dent,’because they ought to get a squatter t» flll
the office. Mr. J. Samuels, jun , pointed out the lament-
aMe fact that they could not set a squatter into the
chair - “he thought the next best thing they could do
was to elect the Police Magistrate, who was occasiona.ly
amongst squittors.” On this brilliant recommendation.
Pome Magistrate Brown was duly elected. Next year,
probably he will retire, and full private constable
Kaftery will be offered tho vacant seat, because he was
occasionally amongst magistrates.
Here is a mystery I Wo learn that, at the Red-
fern Police Court, one “ Cornelius Ahern, who pleaded
guilty to stealing a copy of the Herald, the property of
Sirs. Miholl Botany-road, was sentenced to seven days
imprisonment.” The point to be considered is, what
induced Cornelius to be so rash ? Did he wish to pre-
serve the sanity of the man on whose door-step the paper
was lying, or—but further conjecture would be useless.
There is one thing certain —he could not have wanted
to read it. The Herald costs two-pence ; a drink costs
three-pence. If you steal the Herald you get seven
days; if you neglect to pay for a drink, four months
“without the boption” is your doom. The odd penny
represents a big margin of gaol. It cannot be that the
drink is more deleterious than the paper; for while one
Herald sometimes makes you mad, one ordinary-sized
drink, unless of flghting-rum, never does.
There is a little paper called the L.V. Gazette
in Adelaide to which our attention was once directed
on account of an “original” contributor called
"Rambler” in that paper reprinting our jokes under
his own heading without acknowledgement. That
obscure ra.gr now says that recent events seem to show
that “The Bulletin had been handled rather scurvily
by judge and jur?. We have no sympathy with journals
of that clas«; (!) but fair play is bounie play, and it
doesn’t seem to have been very abundant in this
instance.** This is very funnv, though a bit cruel! We
are more good-natured. We have the utmost sympathy
for such a paper as the Adelaide L.Y.G., and could weep
for its ’readers did wo conscientiously believe it had
any. We will, however, save our tears until such time
as the editor bursts his biceps turning the double-demy,
and the two mad Kanakas who set it up return broken-
hearted to their sugar plantations. Then will we weep,
even as Niobe.
Queensland Punch publishes a lengthy
prospectus of the Great Central Queensland Leichhardt
Relic Company. The names of the promoters alone
are sufficient to guarantee its geauineness; they
consist of one person, with no power to add
to their number. The objects and advantages of
the company may he briefly stated, It is intended to
manufacture sets of relics at a cost of about £lO per
complete set, including well bleached hones, old horse
shoes, and sections of telescope. The sets would, it is
estimated, fetch ou an average £OOOO each, leaving a
profit af £5990 on each transaction, or assuming 1000
89ts ft year to ho produced, an annual incomo of
£5,990,009. A branch will ho established on the far
western outskirts, for the production of toothless roan
marcs, trees marked L overgrown with bark, and half-
caste aborigines who speak broken German. A largo
quantity of diaries and letters to people in Germany
will ho required, but thev can of course be produced on
a mnltigraph at a small cost. People who like to
possess shares in this kind of spec, should apply at
once to the head promoter, who has now bean for
about eight months on his way to Sydney with a speci-
men set of the relics.
Here ia a fine chance, now, for a pushing young
man, with, say, an MA. degree. The ad. ia from the
Herald of the 27th ultimo “ Clerk and Store Assist-
ant. —Wanted, a young man for a country store, who
can write a good plain hand and keep correct accounts,
with some knowledge of serving in retail shop; will be
required to assist about store, and not afraid of rough
work ; must be an abstainer and a Protestant, and pro-
duce testimonials of honesty, respectability, and capa-
bility. Address (enclosing references, which will be
returned). Store Assistant, General Post Office, up to
Monday morning, the 30th. Wages, £5O a year, with
board in house of proprietor.” The condition* are. it
would appear, rather rough; but what matter, when
such a princely remuneration is the question! It will
be seen that as an abstainer and a Protestant is insisted
upon, the advertiser consid.rs it necessary to r.quire
“ testimonials of honesty and respectability.” We are
glad to see the advertisement. We little dreamed
before it came under our notice that the commercial
affairs of the colour were in so flourishing a condition.
Fancy all this salary and neither a smattering of
French nor the rudiments of music required! Won-
derful! We expect, however, that as things are so
brisk in the shop line, only pressmen will apply for the
billet.
This is is from The London Figaro, and ij
points a decided moral:—‘The spirited conduct o
Miss Matilda Qantlett, of 10 Sloane Square, deserves*a
a word of praise. Miss Gantlett. whose mother keeps
a cigar shop, had been insulted by a young cad called
Seymour Browne, son of the Hon. Mrs. Browne, 6
Dean street. Park Lane; and, accordingly, when Browne
entered the shop, she refused to serve him, Browne
retorted by using abusive, and indeed filthy, language,
whereupon the young woman promptly seized his hat,
‘and smashed it over his head. ’ The cad took out a
summons against Miss Gantlett, but it was dismissed.
On the other hand, Browne, against whom a cross
summons had been issued, was convisted. Mr. Partridge
the Police Magistrate, branding his conduct as
• gross and cowardly. ’ The report says * the defendant
was removed to the cells in default of payment.'”
They are supposed to be mere conservative in England
than we are here. Yet it was only lately that a couple
of young savages who had relations on the bench, or in
the legislature—either or both—outraged decorum in
a mamisr which would defy description—and though
their conduct was decidedlv, more “gross and cowardly”
than that of the shallow little cub of the c'gar-shop,
the only punishment they received was a fat appoint-
ment each. But ihen they didn’t happen to drop
across a Miss Matilda Gantlett.
There is a bank clerk np country who is not a
“ good young man.” and was born with a total absence
of appreciation for muffins, and of veneration for
General Inspectors. He sauntered into the bank the
other day with his hands in hia pockets, and his mouth
busy with a cheerful air from “ Pinafore.” Suddenly a
thin, serious man rose from behind the accountant’s
partition, and inquired with grave acrimony, “Mr.
Jingle, is it customary with you to whistle in this
bank?” “Mr. Jingle, slightly disconcerted at this
apparition of the Inspector, replied, “ Oh, I dunno;
yes, I s’pose so.” The formidable visitor eyed him
grimly, and took his stand at the ledgers, which it was
Jingla’s duty to keep. He turned the folios steadily
with a growing air of discontent till at last ho came to
a woeful blot resembling a map of Australia done in
court plaster. "Phew!” shrilly issued from the In-
spector’s horrified lips, whereupon the irrepressible
Jingle coolly inquired, “Hello! Who’s whistling now?”
On another occasion Jingle’s manager thought it
requisite to remonstrate in a friendly way with him, for
riding into the township and up to the bank with his
groom mounted behiud on the same nag, ready to take
the horse back to the stable. It was “ not the thing,
you know.” Jingle took the remonstrance deferentially,
and promised that ho would not bring his man behind
him again. It might look odd and occasion comment,
he admitted. He kept his word, too, for next morning
when he trotted np, his man was not behind him on the
horse. He was behind the man.
Mr. John Plummer is a man of mark. How-
ever much wo may envy him his present distinction,
we are too honest to deny that he has reached the apex
of social glory. But Mr Plummer has been treated
by our contemporary, the Herald, in a manner which
arouses in our breasts feelings of an excruciatingly
painfnl nature. He sent that journal a paragraph, in
which he stated that he was “not only personally
acquainted with ‘ Earl Spencer,’ hut had sent a picture
representing the two young Princes partaking of native
refreshments at Levnka.” The Herald, however,
with appalling disloyalty, refuses to insert this highly
interesting item in its news.columns, hut prints
the invaluable communication as a letter, sign-
ing the magic name of “Plummer” beneath it.
What sort of conduct, we ask, is this? No wonder
that the soul of Plummer is in arms at this disregard
on the part of the leading journal of all Royal obliga-
tions. This to us, appears an outrage which can only
be wiped out by a complimentary par., in which the
name of Plummer shall appear as an apotheosis. Let
us anyhow grove'. The picture referred to is. we
know, by one of Mr, John Plummer’s sons, sad we
trust that the young artist has played light on
juvenile George’s potato tunnel. We congratulate Mr.
John Plummer upon having caused so mueh glory to
ha shed upon himself and thus reflected on the colony.
We have got a few things we should like to ssnd homo
to Royalty, and will do so if Mr. P. will get “Earl
Spencer" to father them. It shall never be said of
this paper that a rise in the market value of sardine-
tin* was the means of preventing it from bidding for
distinction by a pleasing exhibition of loyalty. We
are not so wealthy as we ought to be, but it is per-
mitted even to the poor and obscure to grovel. Thus
do we soar, in loyalty, above our now debased contem-
rary.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
J. J. Shilliuglaw again ill. Gout.
Admiral Aslanbegoff weighs 16st. 61b.
Admiral Aslanbegoff at Government House.
The Hon. James Henty, of Victoria, died worth
£73,000.
In Sydney there is a rich heiress of 17 years
who weighs 17 stone.
Colonel Hutton is now acting-Commandant of
Victorian Volunteers.
Sir Henry Parkes’s mountain residence, Faulcon-
bridge, has been offered for sale.
Tom Garrett, we hear, is going to England, to
place his son at Oxford University.
Mr. Henry Bonnard will represent the vignerons
of N.S.W., at Bordeaux Exhibition.
Mr. Swanwick, M.L.A., of Queensland, has,
according to a telegram, been declared insolvent.
Dr. M'Laurin resigns his professorial chair in
the Sydney University—on account of ill-health, it is
said.
Christopher Pond, of Spiers and Pond, died
worth £215,000. Out of this, he leaves his son £250 a
year.
Alderman Thomas Brookes, J.P., has been
elected Mayor of Newcastle, vice Mr. Grisdale, de-
ceased.
Prince Victor Napoleon has won his B. A. dearree
at a eontest in which only eight candidates out of fifty-
eight passed.
Mr. Ninian Melville, M.P., has been elected
Mayor of Newtown. He tied with Alder min Tye first,
and then beat the Tye. ;' ,
That well-known literary man and explorer,
Warden Hodgkinson, of the Palmer, has been very ill,
but was, at latest, better.
At the tnngi held on the occasion of Tawhiao’s
visit to Auckland, the kiug, wo read, “ wont out
between the two parties, and wept.”
Mr. M'Quade’s mansion, Potts’ Point, is to be
routed by the Government as a residence for the Com-
modore of the Australian Squadron,
Mr. Pitzwilliam Wentworth has bought Burra-
bogio Station, Murrumbidgee, for £410,000. We men-
tion this as a hint to begging-letter writers.
Captain Paul Boy ton will, it is stated in England,
leave for Australia in February next, intending to
paddle his rubber canoe down the streams of the
Antipodes.
A certain Northern editor never can write one
of his tremendous “leaders” until he has taken a hot
bath and demolished three raw rod herrings. He’s a
Caledonian “ stern and wild.”
Dr. J. J. Bleasdale, whose misfortune it was
in Melbourne, some years ago, to be known better as an
authority on wine than on theology, is, we notice,
writing about Californian wines in a ’Frisco paper.
The body of Samuel Symm, a clever N.Z. jour-
nalist, whose “Chronicles of Gotham” created much
amusement some years ago, has been found in the
Waikare Eivor. Ho had been drinking to excess for a
long time.
Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John Robertson are
both in favour of the abolition of capital punishment,
and would support a hill having such abolition in
view. They hold the views, that one never knows what
may happen.
Sir Henry Parkes, Mr. G. E. Wise, and Mr.
J. M. Marsh, S. M., have been created Knight-Com-
manders of the Crown of Italy, in consideration of the
kindness extended by them to the destitute survivors
of the Marquis de Bays’ expedition.
Dr. Badham, of the Sydney University, is one
of the foremost Greek scholars of the age. He would
probably have been placed on the committee appointed
to revise the New Testament, had he not held a reputa-
tion for peculiar, if not heterodox, views.
Poor Old William Eggers, a well-known journa-
list in Adelaide, has gone to heaven. He was a German,
and wrote for the Adelaide Zeitung, besides embark-
ing in other pursuits as precarious as slinging ink. He
was a good fellow, and trod this vale of tears with an
honest footstep.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs has arranged to release hia
estate, and pay all his creditors in full. By the way,
Mr. John Shepherd magnanimously offered to forego
the slander verdict for £2OOO obtained by him, con-
ditionally on Mr. Dibha apologising and paying costs,
but G. E. declined.
Mr. Austin Mack, who held the Temora ran,
has found bad seasons and the resumption for gold-
mining purposes of a groat portion of hia land too
much for him, and has had to leave the district- All
who know Mr. Mack will regret to hear that his luck
doesn’t match his pluck.
Alderman M‘Arthur, late Lord Mayor of
London, has apparently joined the Salvation Army.
At any rate, the worthy aldurman’s name appears
among others who are begging: for money to enable
“ General ” Booth to build a gigantic “ salvation bar-
racks” at Clapton, at a cost of about £20,000.
There is but one pleasant, episode to look back
on in the whole Lefroy business, and that is the plucky
and steadfast manner in which his relatives, the Clay-
tons, stnek to the murderer, and spared neither pains
nor money in their untiring, though sometimes indis-
creet, efforts to advance the cause of their unworthy
cousin.
Joe Jefferson (“ Rip Van Winkle ”) is not only
an actor, but an artist of much skill. He is so fond of
sketching that he always cr.Tries his materials with him
on his professional tours, and spends all his odd min-
utes with pencil and brush. One or two capital
sketches by Eip are in the possession of a Sydney gen-
tleman.
Is it true, then, that Mr. Darley has recognised
the degrading character of his political position, and
resigned accordingly? .dud is Sir John, after all,doing
on a big scale, in respect to Mr. Darley, what Sir Henry
did on a small scale with respect to Sir John—trying to
conceal as long as possible the awkward fact of the
resignation having been tendered F
George Collins Levi is over in Sydney. George,
it is understood, contemplates promoting the establish-
ment in Sydney of a Mont de Pist<s company similar to
that recently started, in Melbourne. We hope Mr.
Levi will succeed in his philanthropic purpose. Some
good Samaritan is really wanted to combine philan-
thropy of this description with not more than fifteen
per cent, interest.
George Arthur Walstab, now editor of the
Melbourne HERAL»,',once loft the* editor’s desk to go
into the Civil service. A week afterwards, a newsboy
came into his room at the Lands, and George told him
to “clear.” Gaining a point of vantage near the door-
way, the arab said indignantly; •* Well, sir, youneed’nt
be so d prond. Yon was in the newspaper line
yourself a week or two ago 1”
The S.A. Northern Territory Expedition had
a terribly rough time during their voyage northward.
The party consisted of J. L. Parsons, Minister of Edu-
cation; Mr. Turner, M.L.A.; Mr. Bagster, M.L.A.;
Mr. (“ the-lily-don’t-want-no-paint”) Bright, M.L.A.;
Professor Tate, who has persuaded the Government
that he knows all about Geology;—and Mr. Sowden, a
rising reporter on the staff of the S.A. Eegister,
Mr. Kenneth Millais, eldest son of the famous
artist of that name, and a dabbler in water-colours
himself, has been travelling round the Australias, and
is now in N.Z. He owns half the Live Stock Journal
(a London weekly of repute) and is one of the greatest
living authorities on dogs. He has formed some decided
ideas as to colonial society, -which will be embodied in
an interesting volume describing his travels, and illus-
trated with apropos sketches.
The Hon. Henry Prince. M.L.C., died on Wed-
nesday in his office chair. Mr. Prince was the leading
member of the firm of Prince, Ogg, & Co., of George,
street, warehousemen. For many years he held a seat in
the Legislative Council, but latterly has not taken any
1 active part in politics. He was 63 years of age, and
i leaves a family of five daughters and one son. His wife
1 died fourteen years ago, Mr. Prince had been long ill.
and the cause of his death was a general breaking up of
his constitution.
Mr. Raphael Senrnos, whose name will carry
many readers back into the days of the American
civil war, was recently married to Miss Marion
Adams, of Louisville. Among the decorations of
the church wherein the ceremony took place was a
miniature copy in flowers of the ship Alabama, the
famous Confederate vessel commanded by the bride-
groom’s father. The battle-flag and pennant of the
Confederacy floated from the masts.
The mansion which the Empress Eugenie has
purchased at Famborough, Hants, will cost her at
least £100,030 up to the time of taking possession. The
late Empress has assumed the title of “ Countess de
Pierrefonds, relict of his late Majesty "Napoleon III.”
By the way, wasn’t “Pierrefonds” among the titles
assumed by the parvenu Porthos, one of Dumas’ “ Three
Musketeers P” “De Pierrefonds, De Bracienx, Du
Valton; ” represented Porthos’ “ jam.”
C. E. Jones, of “ mint sauce ” and “ Bungaree
savage" notoriety, who was recently quarantined at
Sydney, has at last made his appearance in Melbourne.
Though so changed in appearance that he might be
taken for a typical “ Yankee,” he was recognised and
greeted by many former acquaintances. He means to
carry on business in the Southern capital in connection
with a Chicago house, and he brings various American
novelties and improvements in railway working.
Mr. Halliday has been elected Mayor of Bath-
urst. The voting first resulted in a tie between Mr.
Hellyer, the retiring Mayor, and Mr. Halliday, the
final result being determined by lot. The new Mayor
and Alderman Wray proceeded to make the first meet-
ing lively, each giving the other the lie in a remarkably
free and easy manner. Alderman Stewart started for a
policeman; but, as is supposed to be invariably the
the custom, the officer was not there when he was
wanted.
Dr. Brereton is, we hear, about to issue a
volume of poems. We also hear that the Dr. is a
relation of the English poet laureate ; he may, there-
fore, be supposed to have a blood affinity to the poetic
muso> Many years ago, he published a volume of
poems, which we have seen. The public generally, how-
ever, are not familiar with the doctor’s poetic creations.
Ifll\* con write poetry as well as he nan write prose, his
projected poems should, in the words of the Nooze,
"take well." >
Alderman Griadalo, of Newcastle, who the
other day unsuccessfully opposed Mr. Hungerford for
the electorate of Northumberland, died on Tuesday,
after a very short illness. Poor Grisdale I Wo havo
written many pleasantries about him, but wo never met
him except on one occasion. It was the weak before last,
when ho walked into this office to say that he was pro-
ceeding against us and the Evening News for liboU
The end of the matter was that we declined to go and
have a drink. Such is life!
When Tawhiao, the Maori King, visited Auck-
land, part of his costume consisted of a flax mat over
his shoulders, a white belltopper with a crape band
round it, and peacock’s feathers stuck in the crape
band. Ho was barefooted, wore green spectacles, and
by way of sceptre carried a long two-handed whalebone
sword. At his landing, the band struck up Auld Lang
Syne—a delicate reference, perhaps, to the good old
times when Tawhiao didn't wear even a white hat, and
occasionally dined upon cold missionary or pickled
whaler.
In one of the colonies there are two brothers
engaged in politics—both men of mark. They are pro-
minent on adverse sides of the political arena. One or
the other is always in office; and. of course, one or the
other is always in opposition. They, however, do not
allow political differences to stifle private friendship.
They believe in letting “ brotherly love continue,” for
the one in office always divides his “ screw " with his
brother on the other side of the House. This arrange-
ment* besides being eternal, is found to be eminently
remunerative.
In connection with Melbourne Exhibition, the
W. J. Clarke and the Hon. Graham Berry are to be
Knights Commanders of the Crown of Italy; Messrs.
J. J. Casey and G. C. Levev, Knight Officers of the
Crown of Italy; and Mr. J. C. Newbery, Knight Com-
panion of the Order. A public ceremonial will probably
take place when the insignia are received. These
honours can only be used, officially, by a British subject
with the permission of the Queen. Her Majesty has
not, so far, distributed any honours in connection with
the Melbourne Exhibition.
Relative to some para, lately, anent Sir James
Ferguson’s late wife (iUe Miss Richman), a correspon-
dent writes to say that “ Captain ” Hughes, her uncle,
was not captain of “ a coal mine," but skipper of some of
the largest ships, and was a rich squatter on whose run
splendid copper was discovered, adding, “ Sir James
had nothing to be ashamed of in marrying Miss Rich-
man.” We never intimated that he had. It isn’t
reasonable to suppose that a man who marries a girl
with £30.000 dowry would have anything to be ashamed
of I We’d marry any Rich-man’s daughter.
Sir John O’Shanassy, who, when in office
used to run his compa* riots into the Victorian Civil
Service by the score, recently conceived the idea of get-
ting for Mr. W. H. Archer, late of Sydney, the secro-
taryship to the Trustees of the Public Library at £7OO
per annum, or a police magistracy at £650. Sir Bryan
O’Loghlen said he could not do it, as Mr. Archer was
not liked by a large section of the community. The
Knight of Moira, however, insisted and was heard to
exc'aim, as he came out of Sir Bryan’s room, thumping
with his "shtick” on the floor: “It mast be done,
sort, it must be done.
Mr. Griffith has been making a royal progress
up in Northern Queensland. At Charters Towers ho
was enthusiastically welcomed by the miners, who
turned out to a man to do him honour. At the Queen’s
Head Hotel, a triumphal arch was thrown across the
street, the word “Welcome" being flanked by such
mottos as "No coolies,” and “No syndicates." At
the left hand corner was a representation of a coolie
hanging. The proceedings wound up, in the words of a
local paper, by the “ crowd ” having a " big drink ” and
a “ few small fights." Mr. Macrossan is also about to
make a tour of the North and try his luck.
Bribery at elections is getting to be hotter work
in England than it is out here. The persons recently
convicted before Mr. Justice Denman, were Messrs.
May and Mair, solicitors, of Macclesfield, who were
sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment as ordinary
convicts. Mr. Edwards, a solicitor, and Olds, a Town
Councillor, of Deal, got six months, while three
publicans and three boatmen got three and two months
respectively. If a few «f the gentry who stuff our
electoral rolls, and run in corpses to vote at Municipal
and Parliamentary elections were similarly dealt with,
a better class of representatives would bo returned.
Patrick Coady Buckley, of Melbourne, died sup-
posedly intestate, some years ago. A man named
Maher produced a will and tried to obtain probate, but
was ordered by Justice Molosworth to be criminally
prosecuted for forgery. Maher died in gaol before the
trial could come on. The estate was administered by
creditors, the balance being held over at the direction
of the court. Now, however, Adelaide lawyers affirm
that a will bearing date 1842, and leaving all the pro-
perty to Maher, has been discovered in the “ farinacf ■
ous village;" and all is dire trouble. The estate is—or
was—worth £90,000. What it will be worth when the
lawyers have had their innings is quite another affoit.
A heroine hag just died at Paris. Bell Boyd
was a noted Confederate spy in the American war.
She was a Washington " belle ’’ when the war broke
out, but having heard a lot of the Federal plans which
she was able to communicate to the Southern Generals,
who highly complimented her, she acquired a taste for
the campaign and followed it through, being captured
several times, but always escaping. After peace was
restored, she married in England, was left a widow,
wrote a play illustrating her own adventures, and acted
in it, married again, was deserted, wrote a book,
lectured in public, and died. A truly chequered
career.
Sydney has recently had an illustrious visitor —
yet Sydney has been quiescent, and has not paraded its
glory. No less a person than Cornelius Proud, “ con-
fidence trick editor” of the Sodth Australian Register,
has deigned to mingle amongst our giddy crowds. He
giacad the Quarantine station, as a passenger per the
Zealandia, with his noble presence, and supplied the
graphic accounts published in the Morning Muffin of
the thrilling sufferings there undergone. Corney is a
great maa. He says so himself. He was let in for SSO
in New York by a sham lottery, and he then “ lifted up
his voice and wept.” He now relates a most heroic yarn


T
10 THE PUBLIC OF SYDNEY
and
NEW SOUTH WALES.
We be)? to infofm you that our 12 th GEE AT SEMI-
ANNUAL DRAPERY SALE has commenced.
These REGULAR PERIODICAL SALES have now-
become so well and favourably known that it might
appear superfluous for ns to say anything to recommend
them ; but seeing that there has been a very large ac-
cession of population both in the metropolis and
throughout the colony since the time we started this
EXCELLENT SYSTEM (now six years ago, when we
published fully the details of it), we dsem it advisable
now to state briefly that these SEMI-ANNUAL SALES,
occurring in February and July in each year, ARE
NOT the ordinary Drapers* “ Clearing-out at immense
Sacrifice Sales,” generally of old-fashioned, soiled
accumulations, bat SPECIAL EFFORTS for two weeks
at the close of the Summer and Winter Seasons to-
reduce a surplusage of BRAN NEW STOCK, consist-
ing principally of HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY, LINEN
GOODS, &0., Ac., which, from various causes, wo gat
left on hand in our bulk stores. Take MOSQUITO-
NETS, as an instance : Last year we sold oat our full
stock before Christmas, but this siaaon, although these-
summer pests have been troublesome enough in the
suburbs, the towns hare been comparatively free from
them, and very little protection has been required
hence we have a surplus stock of Nets to get rid of. We*
could multiply instances baariag upon other Drapery
items, showing how LARGE IMPORTERS OF 1
GOODS cannot help being overstocked with some,
articles. The course usually adopted is to hold themi
over to the next summer. WE prefer converting themi
into CASH at once, and order FRESH NEW GOODS*
to be made for future requirements.
Of course, we have to submit to some loss at these
SEMI-ANNL AL SALES, but wo recoup it partly by
not having to pay heavy expenses on the dead stock for
(say) six months. As a rule, we mark the SURPLUS
STOCK at these sales a trifle above ENGLISH MANU-
FACTURERS’ COST PRICE, just to cover shipping
charges, and have hitherto had no difficulty in finding
ready buyers to clear the whole lot during the fort-
night.
RILEY BROTHERS, 386 GEORGE-STREET,
RILEY BROTHERS, 600 BRICKFIELD-HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS, OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS. GOULBURN.
RILEY BROTHERS, NEWCASTLE.
RILEY BROTHERS, BATHURST,
also LONDON, GLASGOW, and PARIS.
The Surplus Stock this year to he sold at this-
12th GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
consists principally of
12 cases Mosquito Nets, commencing at 4|d per yard l
23.000 yards Cambric Prints, 2|d per yard, worth 5Jd
480 dozen Linen Huckaback Towels, 6J each, worth Is-
-10 cases flue brown Hollands, commencing 3|d per yard'
1215 pieces ladies' Longoloth, 2|d per yard
11 bales yard-wide grey Calico, 3fd per yard, cheap at 6df
A lot of Oddments grey Calico, at l|d
Another lot of Oddments, to go at 2fd
14 bales double width grey Sheeting, OJd
123 pieces white Twill Sheeting, nearly 80 inches wide,
to be sold at Bsd per yard
A lot of Horrocks* Longoloth, very cheap
A lot of Colonial Tweeds, to be sold cheap
5 cases White Honeycomb Quilts, extra size for shrink-
ing, 3s lid each, worth 8s 6d.
About 450 Marcella Quilts, double-bed size, 5s lid, some*
of them worth a guinea
Also a few of the old handmade Terry Qnllts (wear for
ever), to go at 17s 6d eaoh, regular price 30s
There are Lace Curtains at 2s lid, 3s 6d, 4s 6d per pair,
wonderfully cheap
And some hundreds of Curtains, 25s goods, reduced to
about half-price
The remainder of the Summer Blankets at 3s lid per
pair
Nearly ahundred of the Guinea Blankets at 12s 9d per
pair
A few real Witney Blankets, AOs goods, will go at 21s.
LOCAL OPTION and the NEW LICENSING ACT
will no doubt greatly lessen the number of public-
houses, so we must sell out about
140 PIECES BAS TOWELLING, at (say) Sldper
yard, usual price 6d.
But we have large quantities of drapery, suitable for
the bedrooms which will have to be provided to meo*
tho requirements of the new Act, such as
Strong Cotton Ticking, at 3Jd per yard 0
Good Linen Ticking, at HJd per yard
China Matting, fancy patterns, li yards wide. Bid.
worth Is
Toilet Table Covers, largest size, 9d
White Towels, for bedrooms, 2s fidlper’dozea
The largest Bath Towels, each
White Twill Sheeting, Bjd per yard
The largest Honeycomb Quilts, 3s lid
Really good White Blankets, 3s lid per pair
Felt Carpet, for bedside. Hid per yard
New Yallanoe Nets, 6id per yard
Also,)
Unbleached Linen Damask, IOJd
White Linen Table Damask, Is 6d
Crash and Kitchen Towellings, &o.]&c. &o.
In DRESS MATERIALS we will offer some verv
ASi’ONISHINQ BARGAINS. Wo have no™ very
heavy quantity to sell this time, but what there is will
be found worth while coming to see.
THE TWELFTH SEMI-ANNUAL SALE.
SURPLUS STOCK of
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S UNDEBGLOTHING.-
115 dozen Ladies* Night Dresses, all at Is lid
2 cases Ladies’ Longoloth Drawers. Is 6d
92 dozen Ladies’ Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
121 dozen Indian Longoloth Petticoats, Is lid
2815 pairs Corsets, commencing at Is lid per pair
Thousands of Ladies’ Hats, half-price
Thousands of Children’s Hats— must be sold
A quantity of Infants’ Worked Robes, 5s 6d
Hundreds of Frock Bodies, from 9d each
ChUthen’s Drawers, half-price
Children’s Chemises, ditto
Children’s Nightdresses, ditto
Children’s Petticoats, ditto
Baby Linen of every description
Infants’ Merino Squares., Is lid, beautiful
Infants Embossed Cashmere Hoods.
tt
it
FROM THE COUNTRY, |
’tt
During the TWELFTH SEMI-ANNUAL SALE, w
nave the same attention as if buyers wore present,
and alllparcels of £5 and upwards will be sent
CARRIAGE FREE.
FOR MEN AND BOYS.
Wo have an unusual lot of Stock to get rid of nt fl
Sale in CLOTHING and HATS. Wo arc marking t
prices CHEAPER THAN EVER. Be anroancTooi
in the daytime, and pick tho best bargains.
If you come the first part of the Sale, you will find
Cases of Men’s Tweed Trousers at 3s 6d
Cases of Men’s Tweed Trousers and Vests at 7s fid
cheap at 15s
Cases of Men’s White Shirts at Is 6d— worth 3a
Cases of Men's Working Shirts, 1 9
Cases of Men’s Extra Large Double Backs. Is fid sc
make—worth 2s fid * *
Cases of Men’s Oxford Shirts, with collars. 2a fid
Cases of Men a Shakspeare Hats, 2s fid each
Cases of Men s Best Moleskin Trousers, 4s lid—wor
OS Oil
Cases of Men’s Summer Coats, half-price
Ca * price M e n ’ 3 Giot hing of every kind reduced to ha
We have
Thousands
Thousands
Thousands
Thousands
Thousands
Thousands
Thousands
Thousands
Ttftua+AOs
THEN FOB BOYS
of New Tweed Suits, 2s fid suit
°I Suits, 5« lid—usual price, 10)
of White Shirts, Is lid each
of btraw Hats, Is each
and a great many better,
of Trousers and Tests, fis 9d
of Tweed Tsousers, 3s fid
of Long Trousers Suits, 12g 9d'
id Felt Hats, Is fid each
oi Working Shirts, Is each.
RILEY BROTHERS,
r ’)
u
386 GEOEQB STREET,'
600 GEOSrGE STREET,
165 OAiS'OED* STREET.
Sydney;
American Waltham awarcp<l two first
prises Melbourne Exhibition, 1880.
Higher
"^ D t*
of how he ran the swindlers to earth by himself. We
hope the New Yorkers won’t diddle Alfred's commis-
sioner.
Probate of the will of the late Rev.
G. V, Barry was granted in Melbourne last
week. Mr. Barry was formerly one of the most popu-
lar of Victorian Roman Catholic priests. He was
a very handsome and highly cultivated man, of
great oratorical and conversational powers, whose ser-
mons drew crowds to St. Francis Cathedral. Some
sensation was caused by the circumstances under which
he left Victoria for the States, in 1872. In America he
married Miss Cowell, a lady who had some property in
the neighbourhood of Melbourne. He died last year in
California, where he had lived 7 years, with the excep-
tion of a trip to Europe of 18 months. In America he
assumed the name of George C. Berry. In writing to a
friend just before his death, Mr. Barry said, alluding to
his marriage. “ It was stupid, but we all make blun-
ders in our life.”
Thirty five years ago a young man in the
British Army was noted for his bravery and ability, and
won rapid promotion, but his success caused jealousy
in certain cliques, and at last juniors were several
times passed over his head without reason or explana-
tion. Such treatment elicited a manly, honest letter,
asking why ha was neglected After the usual official
delay, an answer reached him from the War Office —an
ungrammatical, silly letter, in a schoolboy’s hand, in-
timating that his offence was wearing a white linen coat
at parade in the summer. This was the reason why 35
years’ brilliant service had been ignored! Lieut-
General Stannus at once resigned, and he has since pub-
listed, under the title “ My reasons for leaving the
British Army,” a masterly exposd of the miserable
cliquism which throttles merit in H.M. Service. The
case is expected to cause trouble in Parliament.
Writes an Auckland man;—“ Why do not those
persons who are so fond of gushing about the amalga-
mation of the two races in New Zealand, try the experi-
ment of marrying their daughters to Maori chiefs ?
What a change for some of our city belles from luxuri-
ous living to a blanket and dried shark. The following
beautiful and touching lines illustrate our meaning :
Her name was Josephina, Julietta, Marianna,
She lived on tarts of real jam, and banged the grand
pianner.
But she fell in love with Jftcky, of the Ngatimani-
pouri.
And now she lives on pipis in a dirty wharo Maori.
She wishes her Alphonso she had navor thus rejected,
While she pnfts her sooty dhndeeu in a manner quite
dejected.
She sees her piccanineea, like mahogany all shining.
All sitting in a circle, on a lump of dried shark dining.
A follow prisoner of Lefroy, who was confined
with the gentle Arthur in Lewis Gaol, when he was
under committal, says:—“We wore up to all sorts of
tricks in the gaol. Ton certainly would never think
that one of us was a man who stood in peril of his life,
with a horrible charge of murder hanging over his
head. You sec this tall hat of mine with the bulges in
it ? We used to make this hat the wicket, get Morris’s
bolster for the bat, and Lofroy, taking off his stockings,
wa used to roll them into a ball, and have rare fun."
All this when under committal for one of the most
horrible crimes of modern days 1 A curious part of the
thing was that, although Lefroy never had a loophole
for escape, he made so confident of being acquitted
that he told his sister to have a cab waiting for him
outside the gaol at the conclusion of the trial. If the
lury had not found him guilty, we suppose he would
.ave returned to Australia and edited a religions
paper.
Tawhiao, the Maori king, has a half-caste
brother. Ngaehe, the youngest of the king’s sons, a
youth of eighteen or nineteen—brought down with him
on his recent visit to Auckland, his wife and child.
The other two sons are also married, and Tawhiao him-
self maintains a seraglio of four wives ; so that there is
no immediate probability c i the Maori dynasty becom-
ing extinct. Tawhiao’s retinue were so far civilized
that they used opera-glasses on the occasion of their
Visit to the theatre. The most remarkable presentation
blade to the king during his stay in Auckland, was
certainly that of the local clerk of the course, who
donated to his Majesty a well-worn official uniform.
Truly, royalty has become very lowly when it will
deign to accept a gift of a second-hand scarlet coat I
When Tawhiao was given the preference of riding to
Mangara in a cab or in Mr. Crowther’s new family
coach, he informed the interpreter that he preferred
the latter, as it was “ a new canoe.”
The Princess Hdlene is the fourth daughter of
the Ruler of Waldeck, and haying been born on
February If, 1861, is just eight years younger than her
future husband. Her eldest sister is still unmarried;
her second, the Princess Marie, is the wife of Prince
William of Wurtemberg; whilst her third sister, the
Pincess Emma, was married two years ago to tke King
of Holland On her mother’s side, she is a grand-
daughter of William, formerly Sovereign of the now
abolished Duchy of Nassau, and consequently niece of
the present Queen of Sweden and Norway. Waldeck
is one of the smallest of the German Principalities,
its area being only 466 square miles, and its population
barely 54,000. There are lots of Australian squatters
who not only own estates larger in extent than this,
but actually have twenty times as many sheep as old
Waldeck has subjects. After the war between Austria
and Prussia in 1866, Prince George Victor offered to
abdicate in favour of the King of Prussia. Bat this
proposal not being accepted, a treaty was signed by
which he surrendered his chief sovereign powers to the
King of Prussia, retaining merely nominal authority.
This is the greeting extended by an American
paper to Oscar Wilde" Oscar Wilde has arrived. A
healthy sylph this poet, in his bottle-green overcoat,
bis £ids, and his six-feet form in his stockings.
£rise, ye of America, and fall into the latest
British Though ’his pgmplexion be as yellow as
his favourite sunflower, s»*av, Wakens Qt |few York,
that it is a blending of the pgacfl flnd tfle l(ly. Make
room for his feet in your drawing-rooms, road up
Patience for the correct attitudes, and fall into fine,
as is your wont, to worship everything odd, English;
and incomprehensible. Keep your lamps burning, oh !
Virgins of Gotham, and give Oscar a right hearty wel-
(Mn,e, jor, by the bones of Diogenes, his father was
«n ojTi-doctor in Dublin, his mother wrote ringing
Verses for the N+T l !)** and he himself is the founder of
I school wherein 'flawPhffolory is the only wear, and
Uterary emetics the omy meaicfflS. B'ft keep him not
too long, for the jingle of the hells op Ins ppp have
already echoed across the Continent, and Nop Hill
yearns for his a 1 on gated anatomy,"
Mr. J- G. Thurlow, Clerk of Petty Sessions at
the Central Police Court, and lately Under-Sheriff,
coimnitttd suicide on Friday night by poisoning him-
self with strychnine. He was present at the inter,
colonial cricket match in the afternoon, and said he
meant to go home, but in the evening he was found on
Moore Park Road in a dying condition, and expired
before he coif Id bo got to the Infirmary. Much com-
ment has beqn pvofeed by the alleged refusal of a
medical gentleman in flojlage-streot. to whose house
deceased was brought, to attpud to the case. Many
rumours have been afloat as tq the vhicfl jndqcpd
Mr. Thurlow, who was generally regarded ag u cool-
headed, common.sense, and to ip potato man, to take bis
own life • the theory accepted by those ipogt competent
to judge is that ho thought h„ had made a mistake in
WGceptitt* the position he had Just assumed, and that
he suneuwhed to worry. The position of Under-Sheriff,
as compared with the Clerkship of Petty Sessions, was a
ginecnreTand Mri Thurlow, who had for years occupied
Lhp former easy post, perhaps found that he was unequal
ffco the studies of his new sphqrg. Many rumours, too,
S-re in rirculation as to the cireumswupgs under which
B£r Thuttow was induced to leave the U ndev Shpjevaltv
and accept a fictitious promotion. A relative of one of
the Ministers has, WO ore told, been thrust, over the
heads of officers senior to himself, into the position
which Mr Thurlow was persuaded to vacate. It may
t* mentioned that when, some weeks ago, a Dubbo
wapor stated that dissensions existed between the
Sheriff and Mr. Thnrlow, Mr. Cowper wrote amphati-
cally contradicting the assertion.
Of the ex-Empreaa Eugenie, a correspondent
Bav3 «< ghe wrecked her eon as well as her husband,
and her pilgimage to Zululand was in the light of con-
fession as well as atonement. It was perhaps natural
that she should never forget that she had been Empress,
and that her son might be is the future an Emperor.
Very early every art had bean used to gain the esteem
Ini favour of Queen Victoria, for the dearest wish of
the Empress Eugenie’s heart was that her son should
pgtablisb his claims, and .consolidate hers, by an
alliance with the greffl, reigning bouse of England; and
Princess Beatrice* mi nq unwillingness to look
qipon herself as Ifia bjride, shipajd tye be good
of regaining what his father had lost. Bat, alas! he
was only a boy j a good time and a pretty face, were
more to him than a Kingdom and a Princess. He fell
in love with a pretty daughter of a brewer in Chisel-
liurH, an innocent attachment enough—one that he
would have been likely to outgrow; but it made his
mother frantic. She could never get rid of the idea
that military fame is the foundation of all greatness, and
she urged him to become a soldier, and show the world
a hero—a man destined to fill a great place. He yielded ;
and the Duke of Cambridge yielded to what he re-
garded as an ‘ unmitigated piece of folly *; and the poor
boy took bis last walk with the brewer’s handsome
daughter, and went away, not caring much what became
of him. He was a nice young fellow, with more of his
father than his mother in him; and he died possibly
with less unwillingness and fewer regrets than might
be imagined of one who bad a possible Kingdom in
prospect, and an illustrious Princsss as a possible
wife. ’’
THE NEWSLETTER.
Measles on the Potosi.
Gold dreamt of in the King’s country, N.Z.
More variola at Melbourne Qaurantine Ground.
The Orange Society has been declared illegal in
the Canadian Dominion.
A monument is to be erected at Cooktown to
the memory of the brave Mrs. Watson.
I ITho three senior wranglers at the Cambridge
University last year were total abstainers.
Edward Hassett, of Cobar, has appealed against
a three months' sentence for “ gambling at two-np.”
The Victorian Statutes are to be consolidated by
Dr, Hearn, M.L.C., with the help of junior barristers.
Tynan’s washing-up at Temora gave, for 4000
loads, 4000 oz. gold, apart from nnggets picked from the
heaps.
Packed benches in Queensland! Luckily, we
never—well, hardly ever—hear of such thiugs in N.S.
Wales.
The huge business of Hudson Bros, is to bo
taken over by a limited liability company, capital
£300,000.
N.Z. Licensing Act, is causing trouble, among
other thiugs. Government tried to stop sale of liquor
at Wellington races.
An old man named Henry Matthews has starved
himself to death near Caulfield (Vic.) while posjessing
a bank credit of £l7B.
Constable Smith, a native of Victoria, acts as
Chinese interpreter in Melbourne. Ha studied the lan-
guage in Maryborough.
The use of opium is increasing in Victoria at a
terrible rate. In 1880, the opium duty collected was
£65,000; in 1831, £95.0001
The erysipelas inquiry at Melbourne Hospital
shows the coroner to have been right. The place is n
mere barracks for pyesmia.
In Melbourne, it appears, the Russian sailors
delight in “ getting drunk and insulting females, even
going to respectable houses demanding admittance.”
At Melbourne, George Gilbert and John M'Der-
mott personated Customs officer*, and routed out the
Chinese quarters for “ smugglee cigars, John.” They
are now in gaol.
Libel action against Ballarat Courier. A
correspondent accused a Mr. Hughes, of Sebastopol, of
keeping a gambling den, and the Courier refused to
disclose the writer’s name.
A gentleman, the other day, offered to the
Forbes butchers 200 head of cattle, guaranteed over
6001b5., from the best ground on the Lachlan, at £2 15s.
per head. The offer was declined.
A Blayney storekeeper stands charged with
having fraudulently mutilated his hooka. There are
six warrants out against him. Bail has been fixed
equivalent to £2400 in the aggregate.
The proprietors of two Melbourne restaurants,
the Maison Dor6« and the Elysde Private Family Hotel,
have been fined £25 each for supplying spirituous
liquors with their excellently-served dinners.
While N.S. W. village parsons have been praying
for rain, Queensland has had too much water. A
Thargomindah telegram tells of the drowning of 2000
sheep, a stud horse, and (last and least) a blackfellow
and his gin.
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. purchased
during the last six months, 64,398 sheep, 2427 cattle
and 378,7001 b of beef. The credit to profit and loss
account was increased by £3500 and now stands at
£23,768, 16s 9d.
Mr. Henry R. Holt, an old Palmer resident, has
been drowned. His body was found hanging by the leg
to a branch in the centre of Sandy Creek. It was in an
advanced stage of decomposition and the face was
neatly eaten away.
Melbourne Customs officers are making it pretty
warm for John Chinaman. Cigars, tobacco, tea, and
spirits have been seized during the past fortnight, upon
which John had forgotten to pay £15,000 duty, and
every day brings for forth fresh hauls.
The matron of the Geelong jail, Vic., having
quarrelled with a fellow officer, was afterwards adjudged
insane and was looked up. Two doctors certified that
she was insane, and now six doctors are certifying that
she is in fall possession of lur faculties,
A publican at Maryborough, Q , sued an unsuc-
cessful candidate for Parliament for 1135 drinks and 92
dinners, supplied on his account. Twenty drinks were
served on the day before, and the rest on the day of the
election. Verdict for 10s. That publican feels mad.
Recent registrations of the thermometer ;—Mel-
bourne, 116.5 deg. in the shade; Kerang and Mansfield,
110 deg. in shade; Tmnut, lit deg.; Grafton, 110 deg.;
Mudgee, 111 deg.; Casino, 113 deg.; Walgett, 118 deg.;
Gunnodah, HQ deg. j and Tamworth, 1$) deg. in the
Bh($ e ;
Suicides of daily occurence in N.Z. lately. At
Dunedin, a builder named Finlay attempted suicide by
hanging. He had three-inch rope, specially bought,
round his nock, had made his wi 1, and completed all
preparations. His wife found him, and his attempt was
frustrated. Whisky,
William Stanley, who had just been discharged
from gaol, was, the olhor day, again “ sent up” for two
months on a charge of having no visible lawful means
of support. Ho said, as hundreds of others do, that
the police gave him no chance. The Prisoners’ Aid
Society here is a mere shatp.
\yr|tea £(, Dpbhff correspondent to a Sydney
gentleipan There are on this day (in December)
60(4 Irish ladies in the workhouses in consequence of
non-payment of rent. They are making subscriptions
in England, not oply of money, but of clothes for them,
th&y are in such a state of destitution."
A lunatic named Thomas Dargue escaped from
the Braidwood gaol, and attacked a storekeeper named
Cobb, of Major’s Greek. The lunatic had Cobb on the
ground and tried to strangle him. An inmate of the
house handed Cobb a revolver, nad Cobb fired at the
jhnatic under the ear. Dargue is in a precarious con-
dition.
Thomas Osmond, a St. Kilda chemist, was
charged with stealing a purse from a lady in an omnibus.
He was seen to take it, “ owned up ’’ to it; but said
h» wag waiting for the owner to turn up. Still, he was
old In years and in colonisation; he averred he was a
man of honour; and a majority of the St. Kilda bench
acquitted him.
Tommy Bent, the Victorian railway Czar, and
“Emperor of all the Rushers,” has vetoed Mooney,
an aboriginal, from marrying the girl of his heart—a
damsel on the Coranderrk mission station. Mooney
wanted a free pass; Bent never unbent; Mooney got
drunk and looked up; and the marriage is still only a
future possibility.
The prospective results of the Smith-Afflanon-
lunatic case cannot be accurately guessed. Any way, an
Eaglehawk medico point blank refused to examine and
report to the local court on the condition of a supposed
lunatic, because he hadn’t got £5OO to spare! By (ha
way, Dr. Iffla was pretty well struck by the verdict.
His house had to change hands.
The wife of Matthew Hamilton, of Illabo, near
Cootamundra, tried to cut her throat, failing which
she drowned herself in a dam. The son of James
Jamieson, a neighbour of Hamilton, was also found
drowned in a tank. A woman named Jamieson, the
wife of a farmer residing near Juneo, jumped with a
child is her arms into a dam, and both were drowned.
Mr, Broderick, a farmer residing in the Goor-
noiisr district, had a bullock bitten by a snake. The
animal died, and the owner skinned the carcase, giving
the flesh to two pigs. The pigs, after eating it, sickened
and died. The mhtter occasioned some surprise, as it
has hitherto been thought that snake-poison whs
innocuous except when introduced into the system
hypodermically.
A lad of sixteen was charged at Lithgow with
larceny. There was no doubt of his guilt, but the P.M.
had to commit him for trial and bind over seven or
eight witnesses, whoso expenses will be £5O at least, to
appear against him. For six weeks the boy will be shut
up with the combined villany of a big gaol. Then he’ll
be sent to gaol for another month or two; and—this is
how we manufacture our criminals.
Johnny King, an aboriginal, killed his nncle,
Charley Toogoom, in a fight, at Maryborough, Queens-
land, during a drunken orgie. Johnny King has taken
to the hush. However, the real murderer of Charley
Toogoom was not his nephew, but the avaricious wretch
who, in defiance of law, for the sake of a few paltry
shillings supplied the niggers with their “fighting
rum,” or “ strike-me-dead-firewater.”
At Queenstown, N.Z., the police and insurance
officers, on visiting the scene of a fir*, found that an-
other conflagration had just been “readied up” in an
adjoining cottage. Doors and windows had been
screwed down, and corrugated iron nailed over them
inside, floors saturated with kerosene, candles burning,
Ac. The man who did it was arrested at Christchurch,
and a verdict of incendiarism given against him.
A horrible tragedy at West Eyreton, Canter-
bury, N.Z. The wife and six children of a farmer
named Henry Simpson were burned to death in their
own house. Simpsou was assisting his neighbour t >
got in his harvest, and how the lire originated is a
mystery. The mother’s limbs were burnt clean off the
trunk, and her head was completely destroyed. The
charred bodies of the children presented an awful
spectacle.
Denny, the absconded secretary of the Fonrih
Building Society, Melbourne, has once more eluded the
vigilance of the law. He was traced to the United
States six months ago, and a Victorian constable was
detailed to go ovoi and arrest him. But the Auaus
befriended the far-away escapee by publishing this fact
to the world, and Denny again made himself scarce.
The constable is still having fine times of it at Govern-
ment expense in Yankeeland, and the majesty of the
law is being vindicated.
Assays from the Colorado No. 1 prospecting
claim, N.Q., show that the lode, which is of great
thickness, will give from 83 to 470 oz. silver to tho ton,
and 60 per cent. lead. The general averag* upon which
the owners now base their calculations is 193 ounces of
silver per ton. Seven tons of ore were sent to England
by the Durham, and twelve tons follow by next mail
boat. There are at tho present time seven men engaged
developing the mine, and latest accounts say that a
fresh lode has been opened up, far surpassing in rich-
ness anything yet discovered on the field.
The newly-registered Western Queensland
Pastoral Company has a nominal capital of £350.000 in
700 shares of £5OO each. The stock to be handed over
to stations comists of 130,000 sheep ; 30,000 cattle ; and
1000 horses.. Mr. W. R. Stuart, of Mitchell Downs, is
the general manager. This is an attempt to overcome
the difficulties of pioneer settlement on the limited
liability principle; and to avoid individual bankruptcy
which has so frequently in the past handed over land
to banks and companies who appoint a nominal
manager, bide their time, and let squatting go to the
real squatters.
The Victorian Honrs of Labour Commission
has elicited evidence that grocers and butchers sales-
men and saleswomen were required to stand for 14 hours
per diem; drapers for 13 hours; sellers in bootshops
from 13 hours upwards—all these, with a short interval
of respite for dinner. Many employes were forced to
work till 12 o’clock on Saturday night, and others until
1 a.m. on Sunday. Salaries of men ranged from £2 10s.
to £3 10s.; of women, from £llos. to £3 10s.; of boys
and assistants, from 10s. upwards. The scope of the
enquiry being made by the Commission should now bo
enlarged to those objects of compassion—barmaids and
waiters.
William Crook, a hoary-headed man of nearly
80, who had long exhibited ill-will towards a farmer
named Stephens and his son, James Bennett Stephens,
the other day threatened the former with a gun, which
was at once taken from him, whereupon the old scoundrel
drew a huge butcher’s knife and stuck f\ inches of it
into young Stephens, who died shortly alter. A post-
mortem showed that the left lobe of the liver was split
and many blood-vessels divided. After his arrest, the
murderer said that the “ whole lot of the Stephens
should have been murdered and settled for long ago.”
He wanted, however, to shake hands with the dying
man. Crook stands committed for wilful murder.
The botanical examination held by Mr. Charles
Moore has brought blushing honors to tne Sydney fair
sex. Tbe prizes were presented on Monday by Lady
Augustus Loftus. Miss Chadwick, who secured 310
marks out of a possible 340, carried off the first prize ;
Miss Leonara Gordon, with 280 marks, was awarded
the second prize ; while Miss A. Gordon “ tied" Mr. J. H.
Maiden, with 267 marks, for the third award. There
were 18 competitors, and, of the unsuccessful ones.
Miss Fletcher was highest with 241 marks. Dr.
George Bennett, F.L.S., delivered a sensible, pertinent,
and often eloquent address on the occasion. He asked
the students who had studied structural and system
atic botany to bend their energies next to the more
fascinating; knowledge of the physiology of vegetable
growth and reproduction. He eulogised the students
for the assiduity they had shown, and the high stand-
ard of excellence which they had attained.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, Fob. 14, 1882.
On the wharves, ta-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at £3 15s. to £4 ; medium samples, £2 15s. to £3 ss. per
ton; —a fair supply of hay arriring, and moderate de-
mand. Maize, ss. to si. 3d; oats (feed), 35.; do. tar-
tarinn seed, 3s. 3d. per bushel. Victorian chatf, £5 15s.
to £6 per ton, bags inclusive. Butter, in keg, lOd. to Is.
per lb. Eggs, Is. 6d. to Is. Od. per dozen. Bacon 7d. to
9d., cheese 4d. to Bd., ham lid. to Is., honey 4d. to 4(d ,
lard 4d to 5d., beeswax 1)J. to lOd, per lb. Millet
brooms 7s. 6d. to Bs. 6d. per dozen.
Fat Sheep—At Homebush sales, a good supply of
fat cattle was forward, and (market about the same,
except for prime, which was a shade better. Best heel,
18s. per 100 lb.: 56 hi. wothars, 10s. to lls.
Poultry.—At the various auction marts, poultry was
only iu moderate supply, and sold fairly. Fowls, 2*.
to 4s. Od.; ducks, 3s. 6a. to ss. 6d.; geese, ss. to6s. 2d.;
turkeys, 4s. 6d. to 18s.; pigeons. Is. to Is. Bd.; parrots.
Is., per pair.
Wheat.—The wheat market is still active, any coming
to hand is readily quitted. Best millers enly buy at
these prices sparingly, as they look for lower rates, and
upon present rates as speculative. Prices are for Ade-
laide wheat, ss. 6d.; New South Wales, ss. 3d. to ss. 6d j
Victorian, ss. 4d.; Launceston, ss. 3d., and New Zea-
land, ss. per bushel.
Flour.—There are fair stocks of flour on hand with
large parcels arriving per steamers, also by rail.
Business during the week has been better. For fairly
good brands Sydney mill flour is selling at £l3 ; super-
fine, £l2; household, £11; seconds, £l2 to £l3lo*. ;
Victorian, £lllos. to £l3; Adelaide, £l2 10s. to £l3
per ton ; bran and pollard at Is. 4d. per bushel.
HFkesh Meat.—At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s sheds.
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country
killed beef take place daily, a good supply arriving and
selling freely. Prices are, for prime bodies of beef,
l|d. per lb.; medium quality, IJd. to l(d. per lb. All
round, muttoa sells at IJd. per lb. for prime; and 1( to
lid. per lb. all round for medium quality.


Hotels, fee.
Kiama hotei
G. TOEY, Piion
Commercial Travellers, Excur
seekers, and persons travelling gem
hotel the best and cheapest on the
splendid table kept, and every conv(
travelling shows, &o. Sample roo
Travellers. „ ...
The “ Laycock” Coach meets the
passengers, luggage, &c..toand iron
part of the country. Baggies ano
hire. Billiards.
I
ICE ICE
E
The city ice company,
ADDITION to thoir WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TON
are prepared to Supply the LUKU
PEOACHING SUMMER, at a lov
For prices, &c..
Apply to
3 WTNTAED STEI
GB TO VARIC
R
OBEET BUTCE
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME!
534 GEORGE STEi
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Proi
USTRALTAN “ROM
SEWING MACHIN
A
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
lingo proiit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year'
l
OSS
&
&
cl/v
THE HOME SHUTTLE LC
Manufactured for us, has the aba
name on the work pli
PURCHASE NO OTHE
We solicit information of the atte
terfeits of the above Machine, whe
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuir
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE KOW SOLD C
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLE
Do., WITH COVER COMP
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
M. MOSS~AND
WYNYAED LANE, S
w
H. A E
PROVISION MERCI
AND GENERAL COMMISSI
343 AND 345 Kent-street, near
SOLE AGENT for the undermentk
R. Whittiugham and Co.’s Lond
■Rxcelsior Mill’s nrize Victoria
Tobacconists
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS T(
AMERICAN TOBi
THE following facts are coint
resources, and, therefore, shi
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1
All the others paid duty in 1880 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid dnty ini
All the others paid duty in 1881 on _
Imported manufactured tobacco pai
on for the two years was 0n1y...
DIXSON AND SON’S BRA
YANKEE DOODLE, CG
SIR ROGER, GOLD
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are
genuine "Tin Tao,” each plug
Bound Single Tin Tag, stai
queeoe ” or “ Yankee I
ALL TOBACCONISTS' GOOI
Vi >
.EVE . TOBACCOP
JAMES El
No. 149 KING S r
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars oi
Pipes mounted and amt
149 KING STEEI
"NDIA AND CHINA T]
705 GEOEGE ST
Hatmarkft.
OUR "STAR OP INI
Have been proved 1
SUPERIOR TO ANY
FOR
PUEITY, FLAVOR, AND E
Sold only at our Establi
705 GEORGE S
lIAYMAEKEI
OPPOSITE HORDERN’
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
BOBINSON’S fitzeot hotel,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
AT.T. THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE. Tw^-rimr-ci
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockhum's Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
The compagnoni cateeing company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
, c-nlpTima
want oi space tu , —. *
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
, s +Vlia TlftW 51(1 flltlOil LO tuG
which is now open, aim Va-I-
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
with a superior “ Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
City CJateeing Company.
315 GEOEGE STEEET,
(late Harris’ Cate, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous coleuring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us. ,
The CATERING and management undertaken tor
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
CHA s. e. Smith,
MANAGER.
WATEES
SCHWEPPE’S MINEEAL vv-a-x-oxto
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
■an be obtained of the principal hotelkeepers, wine
nerchants and chemists throughout the colonies.
10DAWATER, LIT foiStf.
LEMONADE,
UNGER ALE,
POTASS, '
SELTZER,
TONIC,
MAGNESIA
|S||| Waters.
i!ii
51 Beenees-street, Lohdok,
and
58 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
GUINNESS’S EXTBAQTOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BES'f ALE and STOTJI
SOLD BY ALL STOKE KEEPE
MERCHANTS.
VIR6OE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BI
It is of the utmost importance ti
bottle should be carefully compare!
ore being imported into New Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevera
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
MARTIN i
AUSTRALIAN WINE Ml
AND BEEE BOTT
105 PITT STEEE
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN !
Prices from 12s to 42s p
ALBUEY WINE
EED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUN TEE EIVEE W
Claret
Lambruscat
POET MACQUARIE 1
Burgundy.
riOOLALTA WINE
■ i -i-irt T>rmm OdlOinmi
HE CELEBRATED
_i_
The PurestStimuiant
woßV^z
The sam« of M. MOSS & 00.
Is on ere ry Genuine Bottle.
Tj E. LA
* "Wholesale and E(
PRODUCE MEE
Corner
GEOEGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOE]
43 Qeorge-stroet West (late Pa
And
Darlinghnrat Eoad, near Yi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an
P, E. LAEK
Wholesale and Eetail Wine an
778 and 780 GEOEGE STE
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is repletj
stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N B.— Orders by post punctually
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Hay
gMI T U AND
PEOPEETY SALESMEN, LI


Dr. Stanich desires to announce that poor per-
sona, suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Dis-
eases, will receive his valuable services towards their
cure gratis, every Thursday in the week, at 50 Wyn-
yard-square, Sydney.
We have just been informed that the “Sik-
andar Kama E Bara of Abu Muhammend Bin-Yusuf
Bin Mu, Ayzid-I-Nizamu-D-Din is just out,” but
whether it’s a new style of egg-hatching machine, or a
Chinese translation of jokes from the Sydney Mail,
we cannot at present say. Buy a copy, and then please
“ yusuf aboud id.”
Christina Allbrant, of Melbourne, has “ found
the Lord," and swears he is her brother, and that ho
has taken upon himself the personality and individuality
of Mr. MTvor, of the firm of MTvor and Lincoln. Mac.
didn’t seem to think the thing good enough, for ho
dragged the Lord-finder before Mr. Call, P,M. Tho
husband swore to his wife’s sanity. (Devoted man !)
The bystanders doubted. Mr. Call tried to extract a
promise from Christina to leave ‘‘the Lord” alone;
but Christina was obdurate. Her “ brother " still
suffers.
Of British armoured vessels, the Minotaur cost
£*180,000 to build, and £170,000 has been already laid
out in repairing her; the Black Prince cost £380,000
to build, and has since cost £213,000 to repair; and the
Warrior cost £380,000 to build, and £205,000 to repair.
Of unarmoured vessels, theHimalalaya cost £130,000 to
build, and her repairs and alterations have since cost
£327,000; the Antelope, built in 1817 at a cost of
£40,000 has since cost £80,000 to repair; the Salamander,
built in 1833 at a cost of £35,000 has cost £106,000
in repairs; while the store-ship, Industry, built in 1851
for £23,000 has since cost the disproportionate sum of
£61,000 to repair.
They had a Coffee Palace in Adelaide once,
formed on a 11 philanthropic ” and a not “ commercial"
basis. A few benevolent, bald-headed, and receding,
foreheaded, spectacled gentlemen met together, and
devised the eternal salvation of the horny-handed son
of toil, who was to be weaned from beer and bagatelle,
and coddled on coffee and buns. Tho novelty of the
thing struck a few at first; but the palace didn’t draw
for long. The “ cornumauous ” one was darned if he
was going to be patronised; he simply meant to pay
his money and take his choice. He objected to have
benevolent spectacled gentlemen like the aldermen (on
the look-out for a fat dividend), overlooking his plate,
as it he were a wild beast feeding in a menagerie. He
didn’t like the cheap-restaurant-cum-bonevolence style,
so he returned to his beer and bagatelle. The Coffee
Palace directors then tried to affiliate to their business
the “ boarding-house ” dodge, and found that they had
small dens sufficient to accommodate about six lodgers.
Loss followed upon loss, till the institution passed in its
checks. Yet private establishments, like the redoubt-
able Gustave Kindormann’s, now of Quarantine noto-
riety, flourished then and flourish still.
“ Can You Swim ?” —Professor Cavill, the world-
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and he back within the hour. Ketum boatfare,
including bath, 6d. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5.—
Advt,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall he glad to have this index posted up hy secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
E AGING.
Inverell February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24,25.
Victorian Trotting Club March 1.
Hawkes Bay (N.Z.) March 1, 2.
Wentworth March 8, 9.
Carcoar. March 8, 9.
V.B.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting .....Mar. 11,12.
Orange March 16, 17.
Albnry March 16,17.
Oamarn (N.Z ) March 16,17.
Gundagai March 16, 17.
Wagga March 22.
Corowa March 23.
V.A.T.C ....March 25.
Adelong March 28.
Great Northern E.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
Bala Turf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
Canterbury, J.C. (N.Z.) April 10,11.
A.J.C. Autumn April 10, 12,14,15.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
Wilcannia April.
Deniliquin April.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton May 2,4.
Lachlan E.C May 4, 5.
Adelaide Eacing Club May 6,11,13.
S.A. J.C Mav 24.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
AQUATICS.
J. C- Laycock v. Elwardv February 25.
Boich v. Solomon February 25.
Woodoomooloo Bxy Amateur Eegatta March 11.
Haulan v. Boyd, on the Tyne April 3
Kooky Mouth Eegatta .....Easter Monday.
Intereolonial Bight-oar Eaco April 29.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Eegatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Boss, on the Thames June 20.
PEDESTEIANISM.
J. Assenheim v. W. M'Laren (100 yards
start), 7 mile walk February 25.
CEICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven:— February 17, 18, 20, and 21, against New
South Wales Team at Sydney; against Hawkesbury
Twenty-two Feb.; Victorian Eleven, Feb. 24,25,27; Aus-
tralian Eleven, Sydney, March 3,4, 6; Australian
Eleven, Melbourne, March 9,10, 11.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Eegatta at Watson’s Bay, in March.
Somnua and Idaliuin havfl been scratched for
the V.B.C. Leger.
The principal event at the Vegetable Creek races
was won by Blue Tom, a hurdle horse.
The secretaryship to the Canterbury jockey
club, (N.Z ) is vacant. £250 pet annum.
Dr. Carver was defeated by one bird by Mr.
Gordon in their second match on Dec. 22.
A cable of the 10th states, that Hanlan con-
sents to row Trickett on the Thames for £2OO aside.
Dr. Carver v. Mr. Graham on Dec. 29, at
London. Carver shot 76 and Graham only 63 out of 100
birds.
Fuller, of Melbourne, is building a boat for
the Victorian Eight, who use last year’s boat for
practice.
The owner of First Water offered to back him
against Savanaka, Bst 71bs. up each, for any sum up
to £lO,OOO.
The race between Boyd and Hanlan is for .£5OO
aside, Hanlan to receive £5O expenses for coming to the
Tyne to row.
The S. A. authorities propose that the Inter-
colonial .Rifle Match with N.S.W,, shall take place on
the 12th August.
“ Pendragon,” of the London Eefebee, openly
challenges Myers’ claims to be considered a real and
undoubted amateur.
The Adelaide Eacing Club have revised their
Autumn programme, £lOOO being added to the Cup.
There will be no entrance fee.
The first race for the 100-guinea Cup, the gift of
Messrs. Krug and Co., will be rowed on the 27th May
by amateur scullers. It has to be won twice.
At Wellington, N.Z., Woods, a local man, con-
ceded to Selby, the English cricketer, two yards in 80
for £25 aside. Woods won easily by three yards.
Adelaide Park Eaces, Monday—Hurdles: Triplet
1. Handicap: Home Rule 1. Selling Eace: All Smoke
1. Handicap : Mina 1. Steeplechase: Charley 1.
Mr. Andrew Town has accepted the position of
judge to the Australian Jockey Club. Applications for
the post of starter will be received up to the 18th inst.
Frank Oliver, the Victorian pedestrian, who
ra-es Hill, of New Zealand, on the 22nd instant, did 121
yards in 121 secs, on 3rd January, and 330 yards in 36f
secs.
The race for second-class yachts, in connection
with the Eoyal Sydney Yacht Squadron, on Saturday,
was [won by the Oithona, Sirocco second, Guinevere
third.
The first-class yacht race for Vice-commodore
Want’s trophy is to be sailed on 25th inst. The yachts
are to bo handicapped and the crews limited to five
hands.
Eoberts and Cook signed articles in December
for a billiard match of 5000 up for £5OO aside. Cook
getting a start of 500 points. The match was to take
place in January.
Young Mr. Causdell, the well-known Sydney
amateur gymnast, can lift Professor Miller’s big weights
with the greatest ease. Mr. Cansdell is not much more
than 21 years of age.
Paddy Eyan and John L. Sullivan, the pugilists,
with their backers, and trainers, met in New York on
December 5, and posted the final deposit of 1000 dols.
a side for their coming fight.
Mr. S. Franck lectured at the Athenaeum Hall.
Melbourne, last week, on the totalisator. He exhibited
a model, explained its working, and claimed that it
was free from possibility of fraud.
The Woolloomooloo Bay Amateur Eegatta is
fixed for March 11. Mr. J. E. Myers is secretary, and
the committee includes some good working patrons.
The affair is sure to be successful.
“ None o’ yer Murdochin’, now ; none o’ yer
Murdochin’,’’ is what the ten-year-old bowler yells to
the boy with the pick handle in front of the kerosene-
tin, when his score goes beyond three.
At the Burrowa races, on the 10th, Pardon
won the principal event, the Members’ Cup, a trophy
valued at 50 guineas. Minnie Warron won the Jockey
Club Handicap, and Pardon won the Members’ Plate,
V.A.T.C. Eaces, Saturday. Selling race:
Langulec 1. Hurdles: Jack 1. Oakleigh Handicap:
King Lud 1. Severance Stakes: Soipio 1. Steeple-
chase: Hieroglyphic 1. St. Valentine’s Handicap;
Cremorn 1.
The Eussians did not win in Hobson’s Bay, not-
withstanding their light boats. What excuse have we
left ? The Cerberus iwon the six-oar and twelve-oar
races, and the sailing 'race was won by the Harbour
Customs crow.
At Otago, lately, John Callaghan, a shoemaker,
jumped 4ft 10-Jin. on a metalled road, for a wager of
£3O. This is the champion standing high jump in the
Australian colonies, being half-an-inch over any
previous record.
Hunter R.J.C. Races. Hurdle Race: The
Buck 1. Maiden Plate ; Eosefcta 1. Flying Handicap:
Maid of Morpeth 1: Jockey Club Handicap : Maid of
Morpeth 1. Hack Eace: Limerick 1. Forced Handi-
cap : Little Nell 1.
Dr. Carver offered to shoot Captain Bogardns a
match at 109 pigeons, 30 yards rise. Gun Club rules, for
any sum from £2OO to £lOOO a side, and allow him £5O
for expenses, the match to be shot in February. The
challenge was accepted.
On Saturday week, on the Geelong Cricket
Ground, the Ballarat team lost six wickets for 473
runs, out of which P. Lewis made 215, and J. Lawler
190. This was considered phenomenal before the Inter-
colonial match took place.
At the Armidale sports, held on Anniversary
Day, the Cap was won by C, Bray, a lad of sixteen.
Soma of the best runners in the district ware behind
him, but he won each event by as much as his start.
He promises to become a flyer.
Sydney racing men are anxious to know when
there is to be another day’s sport up Parramatta way.
When they receive a reply they intend to cart up a pro-
per course and so remove certain very remarkable diffi-
culties. Parramatta papers please copy.
Prank Davis, a Victorian pedestrian, has been
matched against William Hill, of New Zealand, to run
a foot-race of three distances—loo, 150, and 200 yards—
for £lOO, at Dunedin, on Feb. 22. Hill gets three yards’
start in the first distance, four in the second, and six
in the third.
Frank Allan, the well-known Victorian bowler,
played on Saturday week in a match, Warrnambool v.
Camperdown, which was won by the latter in the first
innings by 7 runs. Frank bowled 93 balk, for 9 wickets
at a cost of 31 runs. He was very much wanted at the
Intercolonial match here.
Myers has a decided advantage over the English
amateur runners from the formation of his legs—he being
very short from the hip-bone to the knee, and long from
the knee downwards, which accounts for his very easy
action and labour, also long stride, ns compared with
other athletes when running at top speed.
In a match recently played at Dungog between
an eleven and eighteen, A. Bignell (who played with
the former) took fifteen wickets for two runs ; twelve
of the wickets were obtained in the first innings for
one run, and seven of the batsmen were disposed of in
succession. Bignell is said to be a good all round
player.
O’Brien, the celebrated Hamilton (Vic.) runner,
can be backed to cover a mile in 4 min, 20 secs. In a
private trial, made the other day in the presence of
trustworthy witnesses, O’Brien did his mile in 4 min.
19 secs. He says that it the money be found for him
to go to England, he will lick any ped. who may there
bo pitted against him.
The 48-hours go-as-you-please between Clifford
and Swan, at Geelong, was won easily by Clifford.
Swan, when about half the time had been completed,
was seized with a severe attack of illness. At the pay-
ing over. Swan offered to walk Clifford for a level £5O
or a 48-hours’ go-as-you-please for £25. Clifford wanted
the latter event to be for £5O aside.
Navigator was informally nominated for the
V.E.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, with others of Mr. De
Mestre’s stable. The sire is given as Crusoe instead of
Eobinson Crusoe. This comes, no doubt, from the
habit of the ring of familiarly abbreviating horses’
names. “What about this ’ere Flanwre ?” “Who
backs the Maid ?’’ “ Five ponies against Gipsy.”
The presentation of prizes to the successful
competitors in the N.S.W. National Eegatta, took place
on the 9th. Solomon andLaycock wereeach accorded a
round of applause as they received their prizes, and the
Nelson men were similarly complimented. Mr. Garvan
spoke highly of the conduct of Mr. Brett, who declined
claiming a foul in the Laidley Sculls, though he might
have done so.
Handicap flutters are very much in favour at
Cobar. Lately, Mr. Monaghan’s Whynot was backed
against Mr. Stiven’s Veno, for £lO, to run a quarter of
a mile, the former to carry 9st. and the latter 6st.
Veno won easily. The winner had another quarter of a
mile race, with same weights up, with Mr. Hassett’s
Three-up, and again Veno won. Then Veno and Ned
Kelly, with equal weights of lOst. up, ran a furlong,
Veno winning by a neck.
A sculling match that arose out of the late
Chinuery competition took place over the Thames
Championship Course, on the 19th Dec., between Alfred
Eolfe and Henry Turner, the prize at issue being a cup
added to a bet of £25. Both men took part in the
“Fifty,” but neither ran near to the finish, although
Turner succeeded in doing far better than Eolfe.
Eolfe won by eight lengths.
The English cricketers arrived from New
Zealand on Saturday morning. They were present at
the Intercolonial match in the afternoon, and saw
Murdoch’s innings, which is certain to bespoken of,
years hence, as one of the greatest performances in the
annals of cricket. Shaw say s that he will have to bring
out fifteen Englishmen to play our team next time,—
but, of course, Shaw was only joking.
How is it that the authorities of the Cricketing
Association allow women of bad character to walk
about in front of the grand-stand and flaunt the bedizened
aspect of prostitution before the admirers of the manly
(not womanly) sport ? Can it bo that the members of
the Association are so Josephly virtuous that they
knew not vice when it is paraded under their nostrils ?
Or, are they gone on anything and everything wicket ?
“ Bail gammon,” as the niggers say in the Gulf country.
Royalty and nobility must be getting into their
dotage in England. On one great estate where royal
popguns were expected the pheasants were so tamed
and trained that they came and perched on the shooter’s
gun. At a recent “ grand shooting party” the number
of victims was kept dark. The noble entertainer of
distinguished sportsmen forbade his keepers to give
information to the Press, because he didn’t want “ those
confounded newspaper rascals to begin howling about
butchery.”
On the 13th July, 1881, a rare day for heavy
scoring (very dry wickets), two marvellous matches
were played:—(i.) Cambridge University. (Emmanuel
College Long Vacation Club (with two men given) v.
Cains College Long Vacation,Club : 708 for four wickets
only—Mr. W. N. Eoe 415 (not out); when in with Mr.
C. H. Allcock scored 157 runs in an hour and a quarter,
(ii.) Mr. Fellowes's Eleven v. Huntingdonshire scored
667 ; 404 runs before a wicket fell —Mr. W. F. Forbes
331, and Viscount Throwley 123.
In an Otago (N.Z.) township, recently, a sport,
W. M’Kay, backed himself to walk any horse in the
district one mile. The oiler was taken up by J.
Culling—on behalf of an equine. A good start
being effected, the pedestrian gained at least 40
yards in the first hundred, after which the horse
—an 18 years old one—gradually diminished the dis-
tance, till at the finish there was only half a dozen yards
separating them. The time is given as 10 min. 27 sec ,
according to which there can’t have been much excite-
ment over the affair.
Under the heading “Britisher Boyd’s Blast,”
the Canadian Sportsman, published at Toronto, says:
—“Eobert Watson Boyd, the Courtney of English
aquatics, a man whose whole career has been a ccnun-
drum, and who shows * wonderful speed ’ when there is
no first-class sculler near enough to force him into a
match, has been making an exhibition of hi nself the
past week—talking loudly of arranging a match with
Hanlan for £lOOO aside. It is more than likely that
Boyd never had any idea of rowing Hanlan, and issued
his * offer ’ for the purpose of gaining cheap notoriety.”
A great billiard tournament at the Palais Royal,
London, for a prize of 50 guineas, and a handsome
silver trophy valued at 50 guineas, presented by the
London Sportsman, was concluded on December 19 in
favour of J. Eoberts, junior. The last game was
between Eoberts and Mitchell, the former winning
easily by 318. Eoberts won 6 games and lost 1; Mitchell
won 5 and lost 2; F. Shorter (third) won 4 and lost 3.
W. Cook, who started with Eoberts, won 2 and lost 5,
The handicaps were J. Eoberts, junr., owes 120; W.
Cook, owes 120; W. Mitchell, owes 10; F. Shorter
receives 40; T. Taylor receives 40; S. W. Stanley re-
ceives 40; W. J. Peall receives 75; J. Lloyd receives
140. The heats were 600 up.
Seven horses faced the flag for the Wellington
(N.Z ) Cap, 2 miles. At the start, all the horses got
away in a cluster, except King Quail, who lost two or
three lengths. In the straight for the last time, The
Poet (6st. 121 b.) gave way to his stable companion,
Hilda (6st. 41b.), who came up fast, and challenged the
favourite, Salvage, at the distance. From this point a
magnificent race ensued, both jockeys rfding with
great determination. Salvage had the best of the
struggle until 20 yards from home, when Hilda get
level, and getting the stride at the post just secured a
head verdict. Poet nearly two lengths away, 3rd, and
Lady Emma 4th. Time, 3 min. 45 sec. There was 13
in the totalisator on Hilda (who was thought to be lame
by the unfortunate public,) The dividend being
£36 12a. OJd.
Dr. Carver received a challenge for trick-shots
from the agent of Otto, a young Indian chief. The
agent described minutely Otto’s marvellous feats, and
the Doctor wrote back:—“ln reply to the circus-
inclined individual, I will sboot his nursery production
for §lOOO aside, at twenty glass balls, from the back of
a horse running at full speed. I will either use saddle
or ride bare-back. Of course, I won’t object to the
infant prondigy assuming any position he may see fit.
He may hang on the horse by his heels or his eyelids,
or get inside if he likes to shoot out. Anything will
suit me so long as he does not swallow the horse. If
the gentleman who represents this wonderful infant
will accompany his remarkable propositions with a nice
deposit he would lead those who read his articles to
believe he is in real earnest, and not trying to gain a lot
of free advertising,’’
“ Pegasus,” in the News of the World, gives
the following extract from a letter he received on
December 29 from Hanlan at Toronto :—“ I am in the
best of health, and should like very much to come over
to old England, if you can arrange a match with Boyd,
whom I will show ‘ How it is done.’ Trickett is a big
man in Toronto this fall, and * Poor Hanlan ’ has had
to lock himself up in his island home, so as to keep out
of his way. A variety of reasons prevented me accept-
ing Triokett’s challenges, and I certainly thought he
had had enough of me, but he shall see who is champion
next spring—if he has a doubt." Writing about Boss,
Hanlan says:—“Ross wanted to win another match
that he had arranged (his wedding), before he rowed
me, so of course I could not refuse, and then Trickett
appeared to be more anxious than ever, I never could
win a race in the newspapers—mine have all been won
in the boat.”
Messenger, the well-known oarsman, has, it is
said, been competing in several aquatic events at Auck-
land for some time, under the name of Carter. He
defeated Albert White in two matches, and with Floyd,
of Sydney (who is also somebody we know, with an
assumed name) won an important double-scull match.
Carter went to Wellington to make a match with Hearn,
but the affair was blown, and the boating club there
refused all intercourse with him. We saw in a N.Z.
exchange, some weeks ago, that Carter had been
amateur champion of Victoria, and had lately distin-
guished himself in Sydney rowing circles. For
“ Carter,” we read—and wrote—“ Messenger,” and pos-
sibly onr hint on the matter opened the eyes of our
Wellington readers. The only “Carter” who has
shone in the Victorian aquatic world is Mr. P. J.
Carter, the well-known amateur, who uaed to stroke
the Civil service crews.
Northern J.C. meeting. First Day: Verdict
won the Plying Handicap comfortably at the finish by
two lengths. The Substitute Stakes was won easily by
Little Nell, the favourite. Comet, never being in the
race. Seven started for the N.J.C. Handicap, Cres-
wick, who had been heavily backed by the public since
the weights came out, having been scratched. Lochin-
var, the favourite, lost his chance by stumbling, and
Hawthornden won, beating Hypatia by two lengths.
Woodlands won the Prince of Wales Stakes, and Little
Nell pulled off the Epsom Handicap. In the heat for
the Prince of Wales Stakes, Lady Isabel stumbled, and
her jockey, Albert Kenny, fell and sustained severe
injuries. Second Day : Maitland Handicap—Dagmar.
Lochinvar won the Grand Stand Handicap by half a
length. Twilight defeated Hawthornden in the Duck-
eufleld Park Stakes. Woodlands won the Novel Race
easily, and Queensberry the Forced Handicap, after a
great race with Hypatia and Bulgaria.
A scheme is on foot to have a glove-fight between
a well-known ex-champion pug., and Tom Sayers, the
comic singer, and son of the late champion of England.
We don’t know anything about Tom Sayers’ pretensions
as a fighter, but we do know that if he’s any good, the son
of England’s champion and the man who bears a name
that all Englishmen speak of in terms of pride, could
make plenty of money by a public exhibition in London,
The affair has an unpleasant music hall flavour about it,
and it is safe to say that though it may draw a crowd
and make money as a fight, it will be beneath criticism.
The only place in which the son of the conqueror of
Boh Brettle, Tom Paddock, and all the other champions
in the days when the prize ring was in a blaze of glory,
and to be a champion meant hard knocks, should ever
fight is in the open air on a turf floor, in a 24-foot ring,
and with bare knuckles. A glove fight in a hall is un-
worthy of a man whose father was England’s proudest
boast, and whose deeds in the ring are to-day the theme
of millions, while the acts of his noble patron, Lord
Palmerston, then England’s Premier, are forgotten.
The Intercolonial match lately played on the
Association Ground will be always remembered for its
phenomenal scoring, the first innings of the N.S.W. team
(775) being the highest number of runs ever obtained in
any innings on record. The previous highest scores were
as follow :—1876, Royal Engineers v. Zingari, 724 runs
for eight wickets. 1879, East Melbourne v. Tasmania :
East Melbourne, 742 runs. 1881, match at Derby:
Derbyshire team scored 742 runs, the first two men
scoring 406 between them. Murdoch’s score of 321 has
been beaten as follows ;—Roe, 415 (not out), Cains v.
Emmanuel Colleges, in July 1881. Tylecote 404,
W. G. Grace 400 (not out), United South English
Eleven v. Friendly Twenty-two, in 1876, W. G. Grace,
344 (not out), M.C.C v. Kent. Collins 338 (not out),
Northwood v. Freshwater, in 1874. Forbes 331, Hunt-
ingdonshire v. Fellowes, in 1881. E. M. Grace, 327
(not out), Thornbury v. Chewlin Keynsham. Mur-
doch’s score is the highest obtained in the colonies, —
the previous highest being that of T. Horan, 250 (not
out), East Melbourne v. Tasmania, in Melbourne, 1879.
Murdoch’s score ranks eighth on the list.
The Turf, Field, and Farm remarks: —“ If
Boyd keeps faith with Hanlan and faces him in a boat
for a race on the Tyne, as proposed by himself, he will
find Hanlan a perfect master of the sculls, but hardly
the strong sculler of two seasons ago. The high style
of living indulged in by the champion during his period
of rest has, in our opinion, somewhat softened his
muscles, but while he may not exhibit all his old time,
speed, and strength in a race, we have no doubt of his
success over an oarsman of the Boyd calibre. Aquatic
followers are wondering how Hanlan can arrange for a
race with Boyd, to be rowed in England in April next
when he has promised to give Ross an opportunity to
row him a month later. That he will not, after an
ocean voyage, be ready and in condition for a hard race,
such as Ross’s friends believe their man is able to give
him, must be admitted, Ross is not willing to declare
the proposed race off, and is yet of the opinion that he
can beat the champion. At present Ross is enjoying
the honeymoon with his young wife, but at the first
sign of spring will take to the water and undergo ’a
thorough preparation for the race with Hanlan. In
view of this many look with disfavour upon the pro-
posed Hanlan-Boyd match, and the Boston Herald
goes so far as to say:—‘The proposed race between
Hanlan and Boyd cannot be looked upon otherwise
than with suspicion.’ The writer has English advices
which show that the mooted match has already been
carefully considered on both sides, and that Boyd has
absolutely refused to make a match with a sculler con-
fessedly interior to Hanlan, who would row on Boyd’s
own terms, the refusal having been given three or four
weeks ago. Unless Boyd accepts the challenge of this
second-rate sculler (and Boyd certainly cannot be
classed as first-rate), the suspicion of jobbery in the
Boyd-Hanlan race, on Boyd’s part, at least, will
be entertained by those conversant with the facts ”
In reply to this the Toronto Mail says:—“lf solid
beef and plenty of plain food, with neither cigar nor
intoxicating liquor, is high living, then Hanlan is a
high liver; but if not, then he is not. We are afraid
our contemporary is like many of its fellows, and writes
what it thinks, and not what it knows. A look at Han-
lan would convince the most sceptical that he is taking
the greatest care of himself in anticipation of the
future. In fact, he himself acknowledges that he never
wintered better than he is doing now, and that he is
keeping himself in fine trim for next season. He spends
I nearly every day over at the island, where he is engaged
1 building an ice-house, and what with out-door work.
rowing 1 to and from the island to the mainland, and
plenty of walking exercise, he finds himself in rugged
iealth, and ready to stand any amount of hard training.
Our contemporary speaks learnedly of Hanlan’a
muscles, but what it knows about them, we would wager
anything, could be written in one word—nil.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Bristow Neal, of Sandhurst, wants .£5OO
damages from Goodison, draper,[of the same city, for
defamation of character, Neal wss accnsed of cheating
with dice, and is in his dies iva The English trout
liberated in the Watts River, Vic., some years ago have
thriven, and specimens are frequently caught which
turn the scale at 31b, In theSelwyn River, N.Z., there
is now very fine trout fishing. Roddy M‘lvor, the
N.Z. jockey, has come in for a legacy of £7OOO, so it is
said Louis d’Or, Grip, and Libeller were scratched
for the Wellington (N.Z.) Cup “Beacon,” of the
Otago (N.Z.) Witness, is informed that Mr. W. Weston,
the bookmaker, has commenced an action for libel
against Mr. Rathbone, of the Auckland ,Observer.
Damages laid at £5OO A cricket match took place
on Saturday week at Manly between the crew of Mr.
F. Robinson’s yacht. Undine, and the Manly Beach
C.C., resulting in an easy win for the yacht’s crew
A cricket match—Surveyors and Bankers v. Civil
Service—was played in Dubbo a short time back, and
won by the former. As, however, the latter were
represented by men, who, at one time or other, had held
contracts under the Government, it can hardly be said
to have been a representative match, and the cbainmen,
&0., have little cause for crowing. The highest scorer
was the youth who supplies firewood for the gaol; and
who succeeded in accumulating something under a
century The third match for the trophy presented
by the Mayor of West Maitland was won by Private
Feran, 59 Mr. E. K. Cox has purchased the blood
sire Paris, for £2OO The racehorse Doncaster was
burnt to death lately at a fire at Morton’s Plains, near
Ballarat Two races came off, last Saturday week, at
Parramatta. J. M'Cue v. Barney, 130 yards, £lO aside,
won[easily ny M'Cue. T. Gagen v. Sutherland, 150 yards,
won easily by Gagen The Wellington (N.Z.) sweep
appeals were dismissed At Auckland regatta, on Jan.
80, the champion schooner race was won by the Transit.
Morpeth appropriated the amateur sculls; and Albert
White (much to the disgust and astonishment of all)
beat “ Carter,” of Sydney in the all-comers’ sculls
In consequence of the nrserable handicap, only eight
horses accepted for the Wanganui (N.Z.) Cup Sir
Modred and Somnus each ran in one event at Wellington
(N.Z.) meeting, but were never in it The Auckland
cricketers, in their first innings, made the highest score
(122) and the best stand against the Englishmen in N.Z.
The fielding of the English was splendid, while the bowl.
ing was dead on There is likely to be a law suit at
Napier (N.Z.) over the disqualification of the jockey
Murtagh.
** * *
John Bowen (the Chatham Caulker) died on
Deo. 6, at Limehouse, aged 90. On 25th March, 1819,
Bowen met and defeated Josh Hudson, in 17 min.; but
on Feb. 5, 1822, Hudson had his revenge in battle for
£lOO, at Wimbledon, the latter having meanwhile fought
ten times The other day, Mr. Leeke, a Markfleld
(Leicestershire) farmer; now in his 78th year, walked a
mile on a turnpike road against time, for a wager which
he won. He got over the distance in 13m. 30sec A
horse named “Trickett” won the Elmbridge (Eng.)
Selling Hurdle Race, from eleven oppenents
Punchestown race meeting, the most popular gathering
in Ireland, will not be held next year, in consequence
of the withdrawal from Ireland of the landlords, who
chiefly supported it George Tarryer, the English
sculler, has received an oiler from a wealthy German
boating association, which will probably induce him to
settle permanently in the land of Kaiser Wilhelm
Williard D. Doremusof Washington, D.C., has patented
a slide for shell row-boats, which is stated to be a vast
improvement A brace of thoroughbred English bull-
dogs fought for two hundred dollars near Leavenworth,
Kan.„Nov. 13. The fight lasted two hours, and was
won by Walker Porter’s Gib Mr. James Watson, a
well-known English sporting writer, has been appointed
sporting editor of the New York Herald Hanlan,
before he left for England, gave Warin, of Toronto, an
order to build him a shell G. H. Hosmer, the
Boston oarsman, has improved in health At a
wrestling match in the “French style ” at London, on
December 6th, between J. Acton and T. Cannon, f he
former won the first fall in 7 min. 15 sec., and in the
second dashed his opponent with such force on the floor
that he had to be taken for treatment to an hospital
Robert the Devil’s fee for the coming season is adver-
tised at 50 guineas Ephraim Lockwood, the English
professional cricketer, was married on December 12 to a
daughter of the late William Pilch, who was once a
famous cricketer On December 26, at Stamford-
bridge, G. A. Dunning beat all records by bicycling 25
miles in 2h. 33 min. 44 sec Cook v. Mitchell, County
Hotel, Diversion, December 22, afternoon, 500 up. Cook
giving 100 spot barred ; Cook won, making all-round
228. Best seven pyramids. Cook giving one ball; Cook
won four to three. Evening, 1000 up. Cook giving 200
points; Mitchell won. December 23, St. George’s Hall,
Nottingham, Ccok v. Mitchell, 500 up, spot barred.
Cook giving 100 points; Cook won. Ordinary game,
500 up, 100 points; Cook won.


1013 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
In Victoria last year two girls were married at
14 years of age, eight at 15, 46 at IG, and 146 at 17 ; 263
youths under 21 were also married in the same year.
Professor D’Harcourt’s gymnasium being twelve
months old will celebrate its anniversary next Thors,
day, when there will be a distribution of three gold,
and two silver medals for the most proficient gymnasts.
Competition will be keen, as the young men for some
time past have been leading straight lives, wearing a
serious look, and measuring their biceps every morning.
Every accommodation will be paid to ladies, the German
band will play, “ an influential man ” has been captured
to take the chair, and a doctor will be in attendance.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U.S.A,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass , is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against any persons copying or
Smiting same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any
way infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, Waltham Mass.—Any.
During the past year you have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good cup of tea.
You have heard that the last season’s China crop was
poor in qnality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in hond. Will yon
please aak your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas ? —s blend of the moat famousland purest teas in
the world; kept by all thefleading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 23 Charlotte-
place,— Adyx.
SOCIAL.
A squatter from the Upper Hunter, very
wealthy, will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar, ayoung
lady residing in William-streat.
tt * «
A fashionable wedding at Lochinvar, last Wed-
nesday week, created a sensation in that usually quiet
Kittle town. Miss Clara Clift, daughter of Joseph Clift,
lEsq, of Clifton, was married to Mr. Milton Capp, of
•Grassybrongh, Lochinvar. Bride elegant in white silk,
’wreath and veil, and the four bridesmaids charming.'
Host man from East Maitland. “ Wedding March ” by
local organist. Breakfast at Clifton, Ball at Winder-
mere House (the residence of the bridegroom’s parents),
and honeymoon in Sydney*
• « •
In a certain colony, a ball Was githn to some dis-
tinguished naval visitors* one of whom was of good
lineage and a thorough gehtleman. A committee of
management had atraiqpid fer each officer to have a
certain lady for his Companion at supper. The plan was
well intended, hut carried out too inflexibly. When
Bupper-time vame, the officer in question was enjoying
an animated, conversation in French with a charming
married lady, one of the belles of the city, and he
naturally offered his arm. While in the act of taking
Beats, the lady saw a committeeman making violent
gesticulations to her, but of course took ho notice, and
With composure kept up a smiling conversation. With
singular want of tact, the bltte-rosette man excitedly
stepped up and told her that another lady had been
selected for the honour of being the distinguished
officer’s companion, and she must retire. With gleam-
ing eyes, the indignant beauty turned to her cavalier
Wud explained that she was in effect being ordered away.
All his gallantry rose at the insult; and straightening
himself up, as he drew the lady’s arm more firmly
through his own, the guest turned his hack on the
supper room, escorted the lady to her hnsband, and
then left the building*
• * *
lieutenant Lonergan, of the 66th Foot, has
heen committed for trial, in London, for stealing Mr.
Weguelin’s jewellery, and the Marquis of Hnntly is
Wanted for defrauding a money-lender. We also learn
that. 11 at the Brighton Police Court. Mrs. Cissy Wilton,
of 12 King-street, Bt. James’s, London, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Maitland, her sister, were summoned for being
drunk and using obscene language in a carriage upon
the Brighton railway." All those people were (or are)
in society t How nice It must be to he in society I
* * #
A certain Oriental institution, having numerous
branches In the Southern hemisphere, has never been
tamed, notwithstanding its canny Northern origin, for
bating within its ranks many very brilliant financiers.
The handsome, and always decorously-conducted
manager of the Sydney branch has, however, just
proved the exception, having recently concluded a
really grand financial operation.
# * *
Magnificent as was Murdoch’s display of bat-
ting, our duty to society would be ill done, were we to
Suppose that all the visitors to the Association Ground
thought only of Cricket. Perhaps, with some of the
fair sbS. at any rate, even the unprecedented score did
not entirely absorb all interest, and it would be ungal-
fent to think that even the most ardent lovers of the
game did not occasionally have their glances arrested
by these many-hued costumes that graced the stand
and the lawn. Although yet in midsummer, light sum-
mer dresses were scarce, heavy materials being mnch
Worn, while dark shades were plentiful. Several of the
tnost noticeable were dark green, red, prune, purple,
and brown; and parachutes were almost entirely dark.
An exquisite cherry red was worn by a charming little
vocalist* who is as popular as she is pretty. Very hand-
acme were a brunette in cream oatmeal cloth and violet
Underskirt, and a lady in a rich myrtle green satin with
.Blivet bead fringe. A silk with slate-oolored flowers on a
Bllvor ground was nice, so was a plain blue serge, worn
with blue velvet bonnet. A blood-red satin, shirred and
close-fitting, and a rakish black hat; a fine brown satin,
the gathered arms and trimmings of which were shaded
to gold; and a pale blue India muslin with fiern torchon
lace, were noticeably good. “By sections of three,"
seemed to be the idea of the ladies in light mvthetio
raiment, who adhered to one another with such good
effect on Saturday: one exhibited large blue flowers on
Cream groimd, another a light fawn dress with flesh-tint
bablier, and the third white and light blue well blended.
These three dresses alone would almost make a summer.
And yet, this trio came out in a complete change on
Monday. Luoky girls 1 Two young sisters wore in short
dresses, nearly white, perhaps with the faintest tinge of
medusa bine, whit* bows, sashes, eyes and tresses,
large tilted hats; stockings and gloves were all black.
The amount of promenading there youthful maidens
performed must have been highly beneficial to their
health, not to mention the pleasure conferred on their
cavaliers. The sister of a medical M.P., was in fawn,
trimmed with the same coloured satin, and wore a
Gainsborough hat. Combinations of brown and ecru
seemed much in favour, and were decidedly effective.
Black satin was also much worn, a specially handsome
dress (wearer of course included) appearing on Monday,
of rich fabric and splendid maxe, puffed in front and
trimmed with black beads. There were several pure
white costumes, unrelieved. Sulphur yellow slashed
with shaded sttiu; dark navy blue satin, with brochd
and birds* feather hat; and a figured bronze with
maroon underskirt on a theatrical star, lately arrived,
■were all charming, so was a fawn cashmere, set off with
brocaded satin and long fringe of the same colour.
A dork claret, elaborately puffed, worn with a stylish
Gainsborough of the same material, and light pink
feather and gloves, made a complete picture, and a rich
brown satin, shirred and flounced, trimmed with brown
lace, was admirable. A myrtle green cambric was as
simple as its wearer was graceful. Two or three grey
dresses were trimmed with silver satin, and in each
case looked well. The daughter (one of many) of a
late shipping official was in light blue. One of the
richest dresses was a green bronze satin, beantifnlly
made. On Monday, proinenadors were not so numer-
ous ; indeed, for a considerable time, one enterprising
conple monopolised the lawn entirely, and the pink
dress of the courageous young lady was decidedly pro-
minent. A little brunette in flowered polonaise, with
blue underskirt and puffed shoulders, was admired ;
and especially so was a vivacious beauty, whose raven
hair contrasted with her snowy dress and its golden
sash and bows. The blonde of the flagship in filmy
bine was decidedly fair, while a pretty girl was dressed
in pure white, daintily made and quilted, with large
white hat. One of the best dresses was a cream-
brocaded satin, heavily trimmed with ecru lace, while
an airy lavender costume was also very nice. Some
drosses of the plainer materials were deservedly ad-
mired for their excellent make; sunflowers were scar-
cely visible; paraohnt.es were adorned with all sorts of
devices, mostly hand-printing; coloured silk flowers
worked on black silk, &c., were seen all round. The
Military Band played popular music on each day, and
were it not for the abominable entrance, everything
would have been comfortable. The entrance is dis-
gracefully bad—ankle-deep in sand and dnat, and to get
through the mass of horses, vehicles, and other oh-
etaoles, without accident, requires almost the activity
of a torreador in a bull-fight.
• • •
The “ St. James’ Club” —so called, partly after
the London Club of that name, and partly because its
proposed locale is near St. James’ Church, King-street,
—has been formed, and will shortly begin operations.
It will be a mau-about-town kind of affair, and already
has on its roll the names of many good fellows and
true.
• • •
The example set by some of H.M. ships in
Portsmouth Harbour, last Summer, of having daylight
dances, has been followed here. Last week there was
an afternoon dancing party on the Nelson. The spa-
cions deck afforded good room, and there was excellent
music, and a fine display of local beauty. Invitations
were confined to a limited circle.
• • •
The concert at Manly, last Thursday, went off
quite satisfactorily, a young lady from Glebe Point
being very successful in her songs, and obtaining
encores. Scarlet and black (the colours of the Manly
\ Kowing Club) are now favourite colours there.
The Hon. George Coppin ia one of those men
who are never too old to learn. When they talked about
opening the Melbourne Exhibition by night, no one
was more indignant than the whole-souled George, who
was then running a theatre. But in a short year, George
has seen the folly of his ways, and now thenoctnrnalism
of the English fair is advertised as one of its chief
attractions. The fair opened on Saturday last, and is
a big success.
• • *
Roman Catholic BaSaar, at MudgeO, last wflek.
in the Town Hall, fair attendance and good show or
articles Annual picnic of Mr. John Hardie’s em-
ployes, last Thursday, at the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel,
Botany. About seven score present, dinner and speeches,
sports and dancing filled the day. Young Australian
Band supplied music, and Mr. F. Smith catered
Parramatta Half-Holiday Society’s annual picnic comes
off shortly Booksellers’ fourth annual picnic next
month The Opossum Club has been formed. Its
object is to give amusement by periodical dramatical,
social, and musical reunions. Strongly supported by
Civil Service There are to he great doings on the
opening of the railway to Narrabri—dinner and ball,
racing, pigeon and cricket matches, public picnic and
kangaroo bunt On 2nd inst., the Parramatta Possum
Club took their first outing this year. Started at 8
o’clock, in ihe direction of Toongabbie, and went two
miles before they found any 'possums ; 25 altogether
were bagged. The best shots biased for half-an-hour at
a sheepskin dummy, which was securely tied to a
branch by a wag, and wondered why it didn’t come
down. At 2 a.m. the billy was slung, and the " prog ”
despatched, and a return homo was made shortly after-
wards.
» • *
Last week, the daughter of the Hon. John
Marks, M.L.G , missed her footing while stopping out
of a Woollfthra tram, and had a disagreeable fall.
Though her injuries wore not dangerous. Miss Marks
suffered some severe bruises.
* w ~
The bachelors of Armidalo have seen so little
sitrn of reciprocity for all their liberality in the way of
giving balls, that they propose to drop the practice.
Not only have the benedicts omitted any return com-
pliments, but even from the maidens themselves has
base ingratitude come; because, forsooth, somedidnt
get as much attention as they would have liked. Of
course, the ladies in question were pretty ones; they
are always neglected.
« * *
Miss Lucy Caroline Jervois, second daughter
of his Excellency Sir W. F. D. Jorvois, Governor of
South Australia, was married on Tuesday, at Adelaide,
to the Eev. W. M. Gust, M.A.. of Christ Church, Ox-
ford, and son of the Dean of York. The ceremony was
a brilliant one: and many costly and beautiful wedding
presents were presented to the bride.
* * *
The Olden Favre in aid of St. Mary’s building
fund is being carefully nursed in its youth, A circular
issued on its behalf (in black and red, olden type) is
one of the most perfect specimens of printing we have
seen. But it is the wording of this elegant production
which arouses our admiration to its fullest extent the
delicately ingenious way in which the “ Hon. Sec.”
sidles up to the individual whose patronage is desired.
“ Ton are invited kindly to take an interest in thm
Fair, and to use your great influence in favour of it.
Fancy the delicious tickling sensation that creeps over
the frame of the person who is attacked in this respect-
fully suggestive manner 1 How lovingly and long his
©ye lingers over that masterpiece of insidious phrase-
ology, •'your great influence 1” No man with an acces-
sible spot in his heart could receive one of the»e cirou-
lars and refuse his “ kind co-operation." The Imperial
Band, under Mr. Smith, has bean engaged to supply
music, and the City Catering Co.’s tender has been
accepted for refreshments. In the evenings there are
to be concerts, lectures, and other shows. In the
Cathedral itself, the scene-painting is now going on.
on a large area of canvas. The Fayre will consist of
two streets in the form of a cross, the top stories of the
houses being painted, but the shops underneath being
real. At ono end is the Chelsea Bun House, and at the
other the village green and maypole. Over 180 fair
ladies have already been secured to sell the wares in the
Fayre, and Gonlbnrn has made application for a special
stall, offering to fill it with merchandise and send down
ladies to conduct it. The opening ceremony takes
place, in the presence of the Archbishop, on Easter
Monday, when Mozart’s Twelfth Mass will be per-
forate I in a way befitting the occasion.
VANITY FAIR.
Eight American ladies were staying at a
Saratoga Hotel last season, whose husbands are
estimated to be worth £75,000,000 Eight girls in
pretty water costumes, swam through a quadrille in
Dexter’s baths, New York, the other day, to the music
of a band, played slew Many of the best dresses
for street wsar are now tailor-made —twseds, vicunas
and serge being the materials The most valuable
diamonds ars those known as blue-white. The well-
known “ Hope” diamond, is of sapphire tint and worth
£30,000. There is is a red diamond in London, valued
at £BOO though weighing only 3 grains. A green o«e
worth, £lOOO is also held by a*London merchant At
a fashionable wedding in England, (Captain Grey snd
Miss Knollys) the bridesmaids departed boldly from
custom, by wearing dresses of red plush and ssnh,
trimmed with brown fur; their bonnets, muffs, and
stockings also were all red Oldham velvet is a new
fabric, with a very line nap, and it drapes with
particular grace. It has a rich surface, and though
substantial, is extremely light Striped goods are
very various, the stripes being from a hair-line to the
width of the hand. Pompeian red is perhaps the chief
colour Winter parasols ar* used im England and the
Continent [to shade the eyes from the reDeetion and
glare of the snow A novel and beautiful costume in
George-street last week, was a short blask satin, the
skirt nearly covered by throe rows of white lace, each
a foot wide; white lac* bat A sot of jewels just
brought to California, by Mrs. Governor Stanford, is
one of the most magnificent ever got up in
Paris, and that is saying a good deal. Governor
Stanford’s brother is the general agent at Mel-
bourne for Singer and Co. the sewing machine men
The Warwick breach of promise case, has been eclipsed
by a Lands Office clerk, who has written 1305 letters to
the lady who now sews his buttons on. Nor was it an
unfrequent thing for that severely overworked official
to indite a love-letter of 46 pages! It may be added
that he saw his " on an average of
about once a month A far-sighted widow—in
purchasing an outfit for her second marriage, in-
eluded the item of a tombstone for her second
hnsband She was evidently a killing creature
The latest from Paris; A young gentleman of birth and
position recently lost his whole fortune, eighty thousand
pounds, in four nights at one of the most notei Pariaian
gambling clubs. The winner of the money gave it to a
hospital. The loser enlisted, wa s severely wounded, and
is now an incurable patient in the very hospital which
he indirectly endowed with his fortune The Villon
(“the Princeof Balladmakers," Swinburne calls Villon)
Society have issued proposals for translating th* entire
series of the “ Aralian Nights,” two-thirds of which
have hitherto besn wisely allowed to lie in the congenial
easing of their native nastiness. Printed on that un-
sightly paper which is the solace of testhetea, and bound
in nine volumes of vellum and gold, the book will be
issued, numbered and registered, to the five hundred
subscribers. The price is very large; but as an induce-
ment to subscribe, the Villon people assure us that the
“nakedness" of the hitherto snppre*sed passages is
something “ too utter,” and that, altogether, for nine
guineas, you may wallow in Oriental bestiality
A breach of promise case heard in Liverpool against a
curate revealed the fact that the lady had received 900
love letters, which if pasted together would have
stretched out to two milas and three-quarters. It
appears that the curate want to this length and no
further with his love; and was then determined to go
to any length to back out of it —
Ho loved her little, though he loyod her long,
And yet his love was short;
She longed for love, but as he took too long,
She took him into court.
Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson have offered a cash
prize of §20,000 for a “beautiful lady from the private
walks of life,” and of undoubted respectability, and
another of $lO,OOO for the “handsomest man in the
country,” both persons to constitute the preeminent
attractions of the greatest show on earth, &c., the one
to be dubbed the Queen of Beauty, and the other the
Emperor of Comeliness. Good hearings! A board-
ing-house at Floyd, Ind., is kept wholly for the accom-
modation of persons temporarily residing there for the
purpose of obtaining divorces. It now has twenty-nine
inmates. In several instances marriages have grown out
of companionship in this house. A wedding was lately
held an hour after the couple concerned had received
the decree legally separating them from their former
marital bondage The St. Hilda (Melb.) ladies now
object to a little boy two years of age bathing without
a gown A young lady, while quarantined on the
Garonne, was engaged to be married. Ought she to be
pitied? The two most conspicuous dresses ®n the
cricket lawn, Saturday, were light and dark blue, with
gigantic sunflowers. However, cavaliers were absent...
Some sportive young ladies of Sydney have started a
new pastime, namely, ringing doorbells without waiting
to ascertain the result. Two of these vivacious maidens
wore caught by a bachelor the other night, and ha was
as much perplexed what to do with them as the old
gentleman who won an elephant in a raffle. The proper
punishment would undoubtedly be to ring the belles’
ears—or fingers Despite the gags and jokes that
have been rife ever since the Bartlett-Coutts marriage
took place, the old lady really is— ahem! The fact is,
this year seems to ho unusually prolific in this respect,
among the upper circles in particular, for it is whispered
that, beside* the Duchess of Edinburgh, the Princess of
Wales will, duriag the coming yeir, contribute another
member to the Koyal family; while, as lesser
lights, may be added Lady Dudley, Lady Rose-
berry, Lady Lonsdale (again), and Lady Brooke (M;s«
Maynard, the bride of a few months back)
At a recent hal masque, given at his country palace by
a grandee of Spain, the other night, the hostess
was in the costume of “ Night.” The dress, which in
the daylight seemed a simple composition of black net
and ivy leaves, presented, after dark in the gardens, a per-
fect blaze of light, waves of reddish-yellow flame seemed
to move over the entire garment, while on the wearer’s
head gleamed one great fiery star. The cause of this
illumination wa« the phosphorescent light of five thou-
sand fire flies. For weeks before the ball, the costumiers
had been storing away these insects, so that on the day
of the fete they were especially put on the dress, each
fly being arranged in position by a fine silver wire, so
that it could not turnover or be injured In India
Mrs. Grant, wife of Major Grant, of the Duke of Corn,
wall’s Light Infantry, has eloped with her coachman.
The lady is three-and-twenty, and her companion much
about the same age, and is said to be “ a good-looking
man." The lady has been married five years, and has
left two children behind her. She lately came into a
considerable fortune in her own right. The elopement
took place whilst Major Grant was out cub-hunting......
At Prague, ladies are now prohibited from wearing
long dresses, on the score that they raise the dust.
At Ballarat last week, a man of 78, who had been four
years a widower, married a blushing bride of 74.
** * *
old Zurich style of divorce had its merits.
The quarrelling couple were looked up for three days
and nights in the same scantily-furnished room, and
then food was passed in by attendants who “ spake
unto them never a word ” They generally came out
cured Some very pretty petticoats are made now for
lawn tennis players. They are of quilted satin, and
from the bottom are cut up about nine inches m tri-
angles at equal distances all round, and the triangles
are filled with black lace, plaited, with silk or satin at
the back. They are intended to be visible, the over-
skirt being looped up while playing Dressing gowns
are extremely elaborate. It is so fashionable now for
ladies to meet in their rooms, after having ostensibly
“ gone to bed,” that very dressy garments are brought
into use. Only the best flannels aro worn, of delicate
shades, trimmed with lace and foulard Diced hose,
with large black, or red and white checks, aro used,
also beaded hose Jetted and beaded bonnets very
popular The “ Princess Alice" is a pretty new hat,
in seal-brown velvet, with brown ostrich feathers. This
colour (seal-brown) is very suitable to blonde com-
plexions, and is a change from the everlasting blue and
ci earn, to which fair women so generally pin their
faith.
LATE SPORTING.
The All England Eleven commenced a match on
Wednesday against a Staumore Eighteen. The scores
on the first day were:—All England, 110—Midwinter,
28; Ulyett, 24; Selby, 22; Shrewsbury, 13. Stanmore,
10 wickets for 65—Cleove, 17; Roberts (not out), 10.
So Elias Laycock is off to England again, by t* l ,®
Liguria, to “ help Trickett in his match with Hanlan;
The wily Elias must have something very attractive m
his eye to induce him to undertake such a journe?-
Some big events in the aquatic world may be antic 1 *
jilted. Possibly we shall hoar of Trickett rowing
Hanlan and beating him, and then of Laycock indulging
in a flutter with the Canadian champion.
The Intercolonial Cricket Match terminated,
after five days’ play, in favour of Sydney, in one innings
with 138 runs to spare. The scores were as follow
N.S. Wales, 775—Murdoch 321, Garrett 163, Jones 109,
A. Baunermon 30, D. Gregory 28, Hiddleston 27, Massie
17. Victoria, first innings, 315—Palmer (not out) 76,
Baker 50, M’Dounel 48, Bonnor 41, Cooper 29, Slight 26.
Second innings. 322-Horan 102, Blackham 96, Turner
(not out) 45, Baker 18, M’Donnell 11. The N.S. Wales
batting was grand, but their fielding was disgraceful.
The Victorians must be congratulated for the noble way
in which they played an uphill game. Spofforth bowled
remarkably well, but he was not supported. It was
rumoured that he was not going to play, but he “vowing
ho would ne’er consent consented.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Veto.”: First-rate “ A B.” : Good
“A.H.G.”: Verse not up to the mark. Try prose
“ Grey Gum": “Baby’s dimple” is too lively. It
might do for a religious paper. Try the S.M. Herald.
“ G.P.” Always glad to hear from y0u.....
“T.W.N.": Thanks “Burlma”: Thanks M B.B.
(Bathurst): If you read The Bulletin you should
know that what you send is exactly what we try to
avoid. If you do not read the paper, wo can confidently
recommend yon to do so. It is 3d. per copy
“ G z ” (Glen Innes) i Thanks. Send us a few more
of the same sort “Anchor”: Made use of. Very
funny. All yonr stories wash. So, while we have this
anchor, what we shall never lack is soap “ Omikron
Thanks “ P.J.": We know no earthly reason why
Mr. Cracknell should boss the proposed telephonic
exchange. But for the hideous red-tapeism of the
Post-office authorities, there would have been such an
exchange in Sydney long ago. There are. in N.S.W.,
electricians quite equal in ability to Mr. Cracknell
“Moke”: Received “Cigarette”: Thanks, you’ve
just put it in our style “E.G.” (Surry Hills):^Tou
ask us to make enquiries why a certain boy didn’t get
a certain prize at Newington College. Most happy;
call in about the end of December, and we’ll let you
know how the enquiries are getting on “J. James”:
We read your rhapsody, and have had to wear cold
water bandages on our head ever since. Our advice is,
to “ egnore the spirritual intelligent personallitey out-
side the unoverse,” and buy Butter’s spelling
“ W.E L.” (M'Donaldtown): We have received your
essay on the maltreatment of “ m'xed young bulls” on
board ship. We’ll be there directly “ Well-wisher":
So glad yon admire ns “J.W.S.”: Kindly send the
key to yonr cipher writing, and we’ll set the boy to
work to hammer out the meaning " J. V. Davies ”
(Dunedin); The extracts corroborate what you say
“A.N.” (North Shore): Thanks. Held over “A.
Macdermott” : We don’t know who was the gentleman
on board the Nelson with red socks on. who danced so-
well, and had a partner wearing &c., &o. We hadn’t
time to go round pulling up gentlemen’s trousers to
learn the colour of their socks, and besides our taste
doesn’t ran exactly that way “G.P.”: Very good.
Send us some more small grocery chronicles
“Nemo": Do write again—something else. Try prose.
We are curious to see whether it can,by any combination
of circumstances, be better than yonr verso.... 1 ’ Eadar”:
Before yon find fault with the literary style of
you should learn to write yourself “ Tin Tin” : No,
no; never heard of the occurrence before “Bine
bottle": Tour interesting item would bo thrown away
unless copiously illustrated by woodcuts. We’ll put
them in when our front page is at liberty ’* C.E.M.”
(Casino): It is net’good enough; send us something that
will interest more than you two “T.P.W.”; Eight.
“ G.” (Chatsworth): Tour letter is far too long to
insert, hut is by no means inferior, and we are sorry wo
cannot spare the space. We will say as much as we can
next week “TomySister" (Poetry): Notnearlyup
to our mark ; you’ll have to try ever so much harder.
Write to some other fellow’s sister. It’s the best way
to get the afflatus up “A.M.”: Tou’re a broth of a
boy “E.L.S.”: “To Russia” is miles below your
usual standard “ D.D.”: Will keep for a week
“G.T."- When it does, let us know “Newcastle :
Thanks. “Woollahra.”: All right; send us a line
when it comes off “ Walter D.”: Ton are a woman
•< H.T.H.": Thanks “ X.T.Z.”: We don’t know
why fhe publicans of Forbes should have agreed to sup-
port the Daily Telegraph. Perhaps their fondness for
the D.T. is of a paternal character “ J.S.D.’ : “ Dipso-
mania ”is not a neuralgic affection. It is not a disease
at all. but a title conferred upon Baptist clergymen for
distinguished services by the heads of that religious
body, and the degree in initials reads D.S.M. They
dipsomania man and woman in the course of their
ministrations.
The Albury Election.
Sing the song of the Election! tune the sounding
To measure, half of tears and half of Are.
Tongue of lyre bv Truth’s tongue wakened, held twixt
Joint Stock Corner lips,
Thrill the joy of light arisen! wail the sorrow of
Eclipse.
Eed above Mongabareena rose the sun at morning tide.
Took his way due west down Dean-street, and beyond
the Nailcan died — ,
Died enwrapt in smoky luridness, with face of haggard
Diedasmen will die whose lungs inhale the breath of
Dean-street drain.
Never since that Eastern morning, which arising soft
furies shrieking o’er the shrines of lost
Ne'er” sineo the fiery Mussulman incarnadined the grass.
And gashed his heathen figure on the steel of Schipka
Pass—
Never since the same bright Phoebus mounting upward
Saw^nr^saijfnt ’take the bellman, to the glory of the
Did he look on scenes of agony, of splendor, of dismay.
Such as Albnry could furnish on that incandescent day.
Seven fierce champions rose at sundawn, glaived and
eager for the fight, . . ,
Knowing well that four among them would not look
upon the night, , ,
Glaring on each other fierce-eyed, thirsting for each
other’s blood, ... . ~
Heeding not what fate befel them, striving for the
public good.
From whore much imported glassware overloads each
groaning shelf,
And the blushing Jeremiah hides behind the decent
Rushed the local correspondent, helmed with cork and
mailed with cheek.
Conning o’er his speech oL thanks, whose composition
cest a week.
Next the “ towney” of Disraeli’s, who erates r,gainst the
Mayor, . .
And never asks for interest that he don't consider fair.
And, unlike ancestral Shylock, never wants his pound
of flesh, ... .... ... ,
Cantered out to face the music, looking .frisky, fit, and
fresh.
Lamport, from the eastern mountain, large of con-
fidence and cash;
Ten Brink from the tile-roofed.villa, with the tile and
the moustache:
Jones, the mild, oft-chosen tribune, came; and Joskson
came, and Frew
Walked full meekly up the street, behind the Mugmau
and the Jew.
And around the stony Courthouse surged the ever-
gathering crowd.
And the chters, and groans, and “ chiaks ” still grew
louder and more loud.
But the Seven were all undaunted. Clad with safety as
a robe
Frew and Lamport did a “ perishor ” with Ten Brink in
the “ Globe.”
But, before the suu fell westward, when “ the common
sense of most”
Had securely landed Lamport’woll beyond the winning,
post;
When the bulletins grew fateful, and the town began to
think
That the only chanoethat Jones had loft was trembling
on the brink.
Then the visage of “our local” grew with sorrow’s
cloud o’ererost.
And he felt, like Buzzy’s Ada, he was high among the
“lost;"
And among his importations he sits now and sadly
sighs.
And pours out his jeremiads into listening jero mys.
H.M.
When a woman loves you, she will pardon all-
oven your crimes; but when she no longer loves yoo,
she will not forgive you even your virtues.
It’s given us many a jar and jam.
But, *h! we must allow,
The horrors of that cursed tram
Have reached their aomd now.
An alderman, or stray M.P.,
We very well conld spare;
But, oh, it grieves our heart to seo
It spoil a face so fair.
Oh! tell us, Fate, in heaven's name.
If cruel stones must braise.
Why could they not some other dame—
Less lovely maiden—choose ?
Oh! tell ns. Fate, why fix upon.
To give a horrid shock,
The brightest star that ever shone—
The lode-star of Glenrock ?
With arnica and glycerine.
Oh, heavens!—to anoint
The matchless face of beauty’s queen—
The belle of Darling Point 1


GOOD NEWS FOE WOEK]
«■ MECHANICS’ COTTAG
WOEKING MEN’S HC
ON EASY TEEMS, AND NO
CHIPPENDALE LEASE
Clevcland-street Leaseholds, Bow
bolds, Eveleigh-street Leasehold
Leaseholds.
GEEAT SALE
ON THE GBOUN
SATURDAY, FEBRU
at 3.30 p.m.
24 HOUSES, COTTAGES, 8
2 roomi, 3 rooms, 4 ri
BOWMAN STEEL
Nos. 1, 6,8, and 10. Each two rooms
brick on stone foundations, ga
and in good repair.
No. 12. Corner House, containing s
kitchen, brick on stone founc
roof, and in good repair.
Nos. 16,18, and 20, each two rooms
on stone foundations, galvanize
repair.
No. 48. Cottage containing 3 rooms
house, brick on stone foundatio
small garden back and front, r
in good repair.
Nos. 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, and 62. E
rooms and kitchen, trick on
galvanized roof, and in good re]
CLEVELAND STEI
No. 150. Corner of Cleveland and
containing shop, 3 rooms and
stone foundation, galvanized ro
Nos. 156, 153, 160, 162. Each contai
kitchen, brick on stone foun
roof, in good repair,
EVELEIGH STEE
Nos. 39, and 41. Two Weathorbo:
containing two rooms and kite!
in;moderate repair.
VINE STEEET
Four-roomed House, unfinished.
•8P The houses are in GOOD El
sold on EASY TEEMS and CHEA
determined to realize.
The IEOPEETIES are held i
residue of 21 1 EARS in EOWM.
are let at 10s, 11s, 15s, and 20s per i
W The terms of sale for these
will be as follows £50 deposi
quarterly WITHOUT INTEREST
purchase is paid off.
HARDIE AND G(
W IL GEora publio •'
at 3.30 o’clock,
SATURDAY, 18th FE
LEASEHOLD DWELLING
as above.
SATURDAY, FIERI
ON THE GEOUI
GEEAT CLEAEANCI
ANGEL INN ESTATE,
BUET
•*" 96 LOTS were sold LAST
week realizing £l2
The balance 55 LOTS, v
next SATUEDAY, a
ON THE GEOU
SECTION I
SECTION 2
SECTION 3
SECTION 4
SECTION 6
SECTION 7-
55 LOTS i
—All sold
1 Lots 10 to 21, inolusi
’—All sold
r— Lots 7to 10,15t01l
sale
SECTION s—Lots 1 to 5, 7 to 15
are for sale
Lots 8 to 13, inclusi’
—Lots 2 and 3, 14 j
. inclusive, are for sa
in all FOE SALE, NI
The terms can be quarter cash, bal
cent, or cash if prei
The title is under the Eeal I
WANTED, Bakers,?Butchers,
Blacksmiths, and others t
the Main Western-road, WE
ESTATE, to meet the requirement!
the waterworks, as also the intend!
Estate. Day of Sale—On the Grou
DAY, Special train, at 2.10 p.m.,
tickets.
NDEE SECTION
U
AET-UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAR]
ESTATE
by Subscription
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS ol
120 PRIZES of the full vale
117 lots guaranteed cash i(
Lot I. Ist prize £lOOO I Lot 3.
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4.
Lot 5 to 9, 5 Prizes of £
Lot 10,1 Prize of £56.
Lot 11 to 20,10 Prizes o
Lot 21 to 120,100 Prizes
The management have increased t
and thereby increased the chances i
to win a substantial prize, if not a la
fortune, for £l. Drawing on the 21
Unsuccessful applicants will have tl
per return post. No commission wi
after this date.
Address-SETH R, PEESSE, N
European Chambers; Box, Post OfE
READ PRO SPEC!
OP GOOD
We beg to draw y
PARTICULAR ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEA
Packed in pounds and half
BROOK’S SEWING- COTTON.
MELTHA M
F|OAE
HUDDERSFIELD,
MILLS,
ENGLAND.
T
Trade mark
[HE following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of tho COTTONS
manufactured by them
THE ONLY PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1851.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS PRIZE MEDAL, PARIS EXIBITION, 1855.
PRIZE MEDAL. LONDON EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1867.
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OF HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873.
MEDAL AND AWARD, PHILADELPHIA, 1876.
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA, 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD. SYDNEY, 1880.
ASK FOR BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
+-
enuam
£) MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
This is tho most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o. 5 is
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for tho furnace,’;
iu some cases almost nil . Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 °* 5f as ’ . „ . ,
TALLO W GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting tho Governmeutßailways in perference
and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS. &o. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER,
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the Now Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms.
Can be seen working at the Dop6t,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEAT TO ’BUS OFECE,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At Dubbo, the other day, & tall youth with a big
head undertook to chastise a newspaper correspondent
ol tiny proportion*. The “ little ’un" hit out in such
surprising style that the long gentleman was forced to
find shelter In a neighbouring office from the gibes of
the crowd, which had assembled The mystery of the
disappearance of Mr. W. Smith from Euthven Station,
4* November last, has bean solved. His corpse has
been found in a hut. He lost his road in the bush and
left a memorandum which barely stated that his horse
had caused his death The St. George birds get very
tame in het weather. Laughing jackasses and dollar
birds perch around the domestic table and drink colonial
ewankey with all the vim of a Sussex,street larrikin
Matthew White and wife, of Spring Creek, were burnt
to death in their hilt a few nights since. Cause: A
bottle of rum—... Thomas Floyd, of N.Z., who ones had
the felicity to String up the Maori rebel, Kereopa, is
missing ROm a camp in Mohaka.—D.T. vagaries
William. Thomas, alias “The Brusher,” says his lot Is
bald. Since 1816 he has spent only two “ merry Christ-
mases” out of gaol. He has been dosed altogether
With 39 years and 7 months Newcastle men are
talking of forming a ** vigilance society” to tar and
feather the skunks who inflict their presence during
bathing hours upon the beach reserved for ladies
Mr. Hunt, of Samoa, is proceeding again at Sir Arthur
Gordon, High Commissioner of the Pacific, for false
arrest....A Melbourne gentleman who has just returned
from a solitary toUr round the M’lvor, says that for
sugar and other tropical productions the soil is un-
rivalled..,...The Great North Tasmanian, Beacon* field
{ formerly the Ophir), has struck gold boring at 226 ft.,
proving that there is a deep lead. There are 200
Igtrla m the Melbourne gaol. No wonder the Colling-
Wood larrikins haunt the walls of the edifice, and try
to convey “swags” to their “lumbered donnas.”
Can an iguana swallow a snake? Twelve good men and
true, who travelled on a coach sear Braidwood, have
sworn, a mighty oath In the affirmative. They “ swal
low the fact, we “pass ” the story...... Bushmen have
great faith ia emu oil for rheumatism, and pay very
high prices for it...... Blaokfeilows in Kiverina will
Supply any number of emu eggs about July for a
Shilling a piece, often for less than that In some
parts of Victoria and in New South Wales, blaokfsllows
will sell good clean honey in the comb for a shilling a
bucket.,....Many men in the bush make a Comfortable
Snaring ’possums and making skin rugs. Squatters
like to see the ’possums exterminated near the home-
steads; they play the mischief with gardens There’s
a price on dingoes tails, as there once was on wolves’
in England. Many runholders gladly give 10a , some-
times Si, for a wild dog’s tail Minnia, the supposed
ftlUrderel' of William Pillinger, at Mount Gravatt, near
Brisbane, is likely to be tried again next March, before
Mr. Justice Harding Mr. Robert Cross, a Scotch-
Mian, died at Daylesford, Vic., aged 100 At Darling-
hurst Gaol last year, 600 cases of delirium iremens were
recorded Mrs. Watsbn, the heroine of the Lizard
Island tragedy, is to hate a monument erected to her
memory The skeleton of an old man, 70 years of
age, Who was lost on 10th February, 1878, in the Warra-
berry Rangeß, near Parkes, and apparently died of
Starvation, has been found A new paper called
BoViStS, to take the place of the defunct Liberty,
has been published at Christchurch, N.Z. The editor
Of the Liberty got flogged so often, and got his type
upset by an incensed public so frequently, that he had
i o up '!! despite the fact that he kept a man
of b ft. 6 in. at the office as a kind of guardian angel
Ihe telegraph and post office ftt the Tweed River are in
Gia same building, yet they are named differently,
which loads to confusion. The post office is named
Kynumboon,” although Kynumboon is soma miles
j the telegraph office ** Murwillumbah
vr D d (Vio.) is shortly to have a penny daily paper,
tne Mirror, which is now published tri-weekly A
woodman of Hexham (Vic.) 18 said to have established
his right to property in Chancery worth £2so,ooo—the
ownership having been pending for 138 years The
stray stock recently noted in one day as wandering at
* n Maryborough (Q.) streets were—ll 7 horses,
.103 cows, 7406 goats, 3211 dogs, 217 pigs, and 1 donkey.
Duly three goats are registered The engine-driver of
h mixed” train from Dubbo to Orange thought he had
fnghtto be "mixed” himself. Ho was “pulled up” and
let down” with three months’ hard labour... A swagman
at Charlton (Vic.) has hanged himself on a pump The
Federal Bmk of Australia (Munro’s new spec.) has
arranged te take over the assets of the Sydney and
County Bank. By the way, the manager of the latter
institution is the tallest man in Sydney......A case of
Imned-tongue poisoning has occurred at Maryborough
(U ) The tin had been open three days. Hallelujah I
......Another voyage overland. The steam yacht Helen
has gone ashore on the S. Australian coast near the
site of the Admelladisaster—the locale of A. L. Gordon's
Stirring lyrio, "From the Wreck." At Melbourne,
a drunken Frenchman named Louis de la Croix leaped,
daring a fit of delirium tremens, from a top story hotel
window. He and a compatriot named Laville were on a
drinking bout, and had retired to a double-bedded room
to rest. La; Croix is still resting A Ounnedah man
tried to out his throat with a scythe blade. Next time
he trios to shuffle off he will probably experiment with
h Plough share Large fire, caused by gas explosion,
at Napier (N.Z.). Several buildings destroyed; damage
*15,000......The Express having set its face against
Mbotrio l|ghting, the question is settled once and for all.
More light” isn’t the Express ticket The niggers
have been spearing cattle at Palmerville (Q.J. They
were tracked for 10 miles, and discovered feasting on
the booty secured, but succeeded in making good their
escape, minus their gins, who were interviewed and
Some brought back to the camp. One of these dusky
ladies kept repeating the words “ white Mary.”
It is thought that these raids have been
Incited by soma escaped black trooper
Sugared arsenic is now replacing kerosene and carbolic
acid as a remedy for white ants The certificate of
the Fiona’s master has been suspended for three
months A picture supposed to have been painted by
Sir Joshna Reynolds has been rooted out from amongst
a lot of mouldy works of art in the shop of a Pitt-street
furniture dealer Bit hurst burr is getting trouble-
some at Qympie Iu the Gatton district 200 acres are
this year under cotton. Crops look well At Sand-
hurst, a notorious thief who was being sent up to the
gaol for three mouths “in the buggy,” leaped
out and escaped. He has been recaptured
Mr. James Petrie ♦ has been found dead in
the bush on Vandyke run, Springsure district. When
discovered, his clothes and face were much burnt,
evidently by a bush fire Reports from Woolgar
diggings are very encouraging An anti-shouting
society is to be formed on the Manning Another
Ned Kelly has turned up. He has been fined at Ade-
laide for riding along the Henley Beach sands in puris
naturalibus. He pleaded the extreme heat of the
weather, and was sent up to cool off ia a cell
Maopherson, who so foolishly put his arm in the lion’s
cage at Albury recently, and had it eaten off, is now
getting all right again, and is able to walk about. He
is spoken of by th<? hospital superintendent as being
the most jovial patient ever taken into the institution.
The man is about 50 years of age, and considering the
extent of his injuries, it is really wonderful how he got
over it Matthew Sedgeman, of Brunswick, Vic., and
Charles M'Qill, of Hobart, were drowned at Corinns,
Tas., on February 5; capsize of a dingy A Murray
cod, weighing 120 ft., has been caught near Albury
There is trouble between the superintendent and the
head nurse of the Bathurst hospital. The latter has
resigned The Bathurst School of Arts now has 514
members. During the past year, £llBO has been paid
off. A technical college is to be affiliated to the insti-
tution The Fiona’s wreck brought £440; her cargo
£135 Mr. W. W. Ewin. eldest son of Mrs. Ewin, of
Woodstock, Milton, accidentally shot himself dead on
Saturday last, while riding in a dray which contained a
loaded gun Ten publicans have been fined at Forbes
for keeping their houses open after eleven o’clock on
the night of January 2nd last A Gulgong youth,
Charles Morris, eloped with a Miss Mary Ann Judd, in
a buggy drawn by a draught horse which he had unlaw-
fully appropriated. Morris got married and six months.
A mau who helped him got three months Sunday
evenings, when the holy have gone to prayers, is the
only time when Maitland doctors can find leisure to
shoot flying foxes Mr. Alexander Gumming, re-
cently chief clerk to the Sydney International Exhibition
Commission, has been appointed Secretary to the now
Board of Health Messrs. Siemens’ scheme for light-
ing Lyttelton Harbour by electricity, will cost £3522 12a.
for 22 lights, with a total candle power of 33,700; also,
£45 a month and passage money to the erecting
engineer Samuel Lowe, the Lancefleld Bank robber,
of 1579, has died in Pentridgo The porch of the
Methodist Church, Cootamundra, has been converted
into a dog kennel, and the owner of the doge sleeps
with them At Sandhurst, pigs are dying wholesale of
diphtheria.,. ...To travel from Wilcannia to Mount
BroWne there are three styles, viz.:—First-class, you
walk only half way; second, you walk all the way; and
third, you push the coach. They are all the same
price..,. ..The proceeds of one of tho many robberies
committed by the Clarke gang were found planted in
the bush, last week,
* *
Frederick Palmer, city auditor of Newark (N J ),
has been found a defaulter for 300,000d01. He has been
arrested, is ill of brain fever, and it is feared that he
will become insane. Many other people would be glad
of a chance to become insane at the same price At
Woodstock, Ontario, a part of the skeleton of a masto-
don has been found. The jaw is two feet four inches
long, and the teeth weigh four pounds. Kind of
grinders an alderman should have Thirty United
State towns are heated by steam by the Holly atmos-
pheric radiator Colonel Cavires, a Bavarian officer,
shot himself dead with a revolver, in the Forest of
Hirschau, near Amberg. His suicide was prompted by
remorse at having acted as second in a recent duet
between Reserve-Lieutenant Schauer and Lieutenant
Schadmer, on which occasion the latter was shot dead.
....Under a glass case in Windsor Cast'e, is an enormous
punch-bawl, which was made to the order of George IV.
It is Of beautifully chased silver, and cost (the country)
over £lo,ooo At a sale of books in England, the
utmost amazement Was Caused among experts by two
bidders running up a Valuable book to about thirty
times its value. Their wonder was turned to amuse-
ment when they found out the reason. A bibliomaniac
had been so eager to secure the book that he had
inadvertently given separate commissions to two
agents; his blunder cost him £l2O A good authority
says the Queen is not so wealthy as supposed. She has
discharged debts left when Prince Albert died, and has
given, it is said, £lOO,OOO to each daughter on marriage,
.„.,.The missing balloon has been seen near Maritz-
bnrg, Africa. Supposing Mr. Walter Powell, M.P , not
to nave voluntarily thrown himself out of the car,
he must hate died of starvation long ago
On the day on which Lefroy's execution was described,
the London Daily Telegraph was out of print be-
fore noon. 300,000 to 100,000 copies had been sold,
and the other dailies were well nigh exhausted, too.
The reason of the D. T.'s popularity ? Because it had
two columns and a quarter of detailed description of
the execution I and no other paper had so graphic an
account Two ladies of position got drunk and fought
in the Brighton (Eng.), express so fiercely that tho
alarm-bell was pulled, and the engine brought to a
standstill. At the terminus these ladies of position
used such horrible language that they had to be brought
before a magistrate.... The nineteenth-century develop-
ment gave England in the same week a sweet English
boy of fifteen who murdered his papa, and a journalist
and dramatic author who was hanged for killing an old
gentleman in order to pick his pocket......A yovng
aristocrat who died some years ago, just when
death seemed the only way of avoiding a remarkably
disagreeable investigation, has been seen in London
several times lately, and contemplates coming to lito
again at no distant date. As there was a funeral, the
question naturally arises—who or what was in tho
coffin ? Mr, Archibald M‘Arthur, said to be the
oldest man in Scotland, just died at 105 A man in
Colorado died, and the coroner’s jury said diphtheria,
but six months afterwards, he was dug up and again re-
examined. He had died from a bullet-hole in his head,
which had been cleverly plugged with wood A man
named Aspinal Simpson, “ well educated,’’ took a girl
he got tired of, and who wanted him to marry her, into
a public-house, Preston (Eng.), and cut her throat. He
killed her because he couldn’t make her rob her father
any more for him. After this, who wouldn’t be “ well
educated”? China has started a line of carrying
steamers to Great Britain. The child of the sun is
coming out of his shell A curious accident happened
at Paris. In opening a sewer, some strong gas fumes
escaped, and ignited the inflammable covering of the
telephone wires which were alongside. The attendant
at one end was much astonished to see the smoke and
flames which burst in a volume from the end of the
tube. Most likely he thought it was a massage from
well, not heaven. The fire burned most of the
room, and several sets of apparatus When the
Emperor Francis Joseph visited the exhibition of the
Russian painter. Vereschagin (who is a Nihilist, dyed
in the wool) at Vienna, Vereschagin not once addressed
the Emperor as “Your Majesty,” but always with a
simple “Monsieur.” Nay more: Twice or thrice the
artist took the Emperor’s hand, and, leading him up to
one or the other painting, pointed out certain details,
saying; “Eegardez Men, Monsieur!” The Emperor
merely smiled, but the Court officials have not yet re
covered from their disgust at the artist’s boldness......
At West Point (U.S ), Lieutenant Archibald Gibson
could not, while on parade, lift his hand to remove a
spider from his ear for a whole hour. When parade was
dismissed his ear was full of bleed. _ The insect was
taken out only two days later, and Lieutenant Gibsen
ultimately died of inflammation of the brain The
French people are declared to have trusted the Union
Qenerale with £50,000,000 A medical man is said to
have offered §lOOO for the dead body of Quiteau.


FOR THE FLOURING SEASON OF 1882.
Wo are pleased to be advising our customers aud the
Farmers of N.S.W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK 1
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well known ENGLISH and AMEEI
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
of Parramatta,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie's 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OXHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAEEFULLY.—
MARTIN<fc PAIN
nTfriinrrr^ , ' i
Before Ordering,
send for
Our Price List
AND
All Particulars*
389 GEORGE-ST*
q Sydney.
INFORMATION *■ CHAFF-DEALERS
*• — Owners of Horses, &c.
READ WHAT PRACTICAL ;cCN iflY ABOUT /
OUR BUNGLE’S
k
i'Ul'
MARTBN^
-£>-AHO
389 George St,
SYDNEY.
Intending Purchasers should be oerofal to see
Cutters offered them os Buncle’s pattern axe THE GE-N U-
INE BUNGLE.
John Bunole, of Melbourne, has been 26 years perfecting
his Chuff Cutters, and any machines that have not his name
cost on fly-wheel and mouth-piece, axe not of his mairu.
facture.
THE DEPOT FOR BUNCLE’S MACHINES.
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
• **> WIINC JFWf
mm
9 A ll HUNTER STREET.
SILVER WATCHES
c£ .4.10.
SYDNEY
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
GO.L D WATCHES
■■£-.3.10.
fTIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE. FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair W ork.
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE
awarded
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
hermitage.
FIN ORDINAIRE
8/6
per gallon.
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen.
\ Fruity ] u/ .
J Wines S 1
SHIRAZ
MADEIRA
Wines } 2l/
BURGUNDY
RIESLING
0. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
wines.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
Ac., Ac.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PEE GALLON.
pUBLIC N <
The IMPOETEES of the TAEPII
MOGUL MIXTUEE will prosecut
endeavours to deceive the public bj
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thei
BRANDS ct PUEE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to
bearing
„ THE TAEPINQ MIXTUEE.”
MIXTUEE.
Every packet bears the signatnr
thus—
Clifford, Love, &
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, must be certain that ever:
SIGNATURE of the IMPOETEES
to take inferior teas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A 1
MIXTUEE ARE GUAB
PUEE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
p. butch:
WHOLESALE GROCER ANI
YORK STREET, SY:
JOHN D
IMPORTER O:
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brass*
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine E
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe, J
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L. SUKER
B
R
ECONOMY IN CLO
—o—
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUE GOODS FEO
DIRECT IMPOE’
THE PEOPLE’S ‘
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SBLF-ME A
sent to any part of the
9T The particular attention i
dents is requested to tl
Any style of Garment made
summeefiel;
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
nnc niTT OT
MOST PLEA
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO I
that the best clean
TANT and Deodoriser fori
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS Dll
can be found by
PANTER AND J
which not only contains t
dients for the greatest cle:
ever yet introduced to txj
composed in its manufactn
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM
v PLANTS)
known, and admitted in a
throughout the globe. Com
it is free from all injurio
pie ng smell, will not injv
»a>,e Lands, is the greates
laoonr, rendering any artic!
with o th .purest wlutei
marvellous sliort space of tE
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crocl
Paint, Floor
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which
from all Grecers and Store
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORG
SYD N E
IN THE WO
Dispense Prescriptions che
other House in Sydney. All
M -Heines at less than English p
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spo:
ALL KINDS Of DRUGGISTS 1
So id for a Price List. Count]
>lly attended to. Don’t forge
oa cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New
W. KEF
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOC
664 GEOEGE STEEE
Opposite St. Andrew’]
Haflilg of every description, Ma
eentation Trowels designed
Premises,
DIAMOND SET
A now And Choice Assortmen
Mail and always i:
■Waltham Watches, fro
118
KING STREET J
s
STAM
UITS
EADV
38
s
usines
'lk*?.
E
P
T
k veil m
UALIT
IN
YA
S
Pic
ici
ml
ty
Du
Cnc
ASSE
UNSU
'
r
: "Standard” Summer Tweed Suits 5 O
) “Standard” ditto ditto, Extra Quality ... ... 112 6
i “ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality... ...220
i " Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
“ Standard ” Superior ditto 115 0
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
' Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
I Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
FEAFES and SHAW,
PEAP IS frd £FA
P E A P E S & SHAW.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DRUNK Cured.
Book free by post.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS
. S. FRESHMAN,
359 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
GOLD CURE.
GOLD CURE.
